

!'- n
V
mmm
y r,:
mm
ik
m.
m
ggSggy- ;;^ v '.i. . * x
IgBlI: Jill
Jfci,
Mi
»
88888
m-
yx&Z'y.'
;• -V
;
: \'.v
:
■ :
'
- : ? X’ 'V
vm
■"••• ••■;
S:--
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
DF
brings welcome LASTING RELIEF to sufferers from
WAS STRICKEN DOWN
WITH ARTHRITIS....
can now walk without a stick
ST. MARYS., N.S.W., Bth September, 1937.
Rear Sirs, —
Shortly after l turned 60 years of age I was
stricken down with ARTHRITIS in a very
severe form. To-day I AM OVER 83 YEARS
OF AGE. During the time I have been suffer-
ing I WAS A MARTYR TO PAIN AND IN-
SOMNIA. I was unable to do anything for
myself for seventeen years. I have spent a
fortune trying to get some relief. Nothing
could be done for me. I tried every medicine
I heard of, but never obtained the slightest
benefit until 1 was recommended to take
Hutuwai a few weeks ago by a friend I have
known for over 50 years.
Everyone knows how bad I have been; and
to-day all my friends and acquaintances are
absolutely amazed at the wonderful improve-
ment since I started on your Hutuwai
Remedy, for I CAN NOW WALK WITHOUT
CRUTCHES OR EVEN A STICK.
This amazing improvement is due entirely
to the wonderful Hutuwai Remedy and the
very helpful advice contained in your valuable
Diet Chart. I can even WALK UP STEPS
WITHOUT A STICK, and am exceedingly
grateful to your Hutuwai treatment for the
wonderful restoration of my health. I have
recommended scores of others to take Hutuwai,
and I am quite certain it will help every other
sufferer just as it lias me.
Yours thankfully.
(Signed) C. A. HACKETT. Snr.
LARGE
BOTTLE
4^6
ALSO IN
3/- SIZE
INCLUDING VALUABLE DIET CHART FREE
J.J* f^P sp j t , a i .bottle contains five times the quan-
tity ot the 4/6 size, and costs only 18/-. SAVE 4/6.
n;«tr!h?.tinl na r e send direct to Hutuwai
Distnbuting Co., 210 Geor°e Street Sydney * or
Hutuwai Tonic 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
HUTOWAI IS obtainable from stores
AND CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
D
FD
F
NERVES, ARTHRITIS,
RHEUMATISM
BLOOD PRESSURES KIDNEY TROUBLE
HUTUWAI helps to drive out the injurious acids and
poisons fropi the system, and eradicates aches and
pains. Hutuwai will give you steady nerves and an
excellent appetite, and you will sleep well. Headaches
disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your friends
will tell you how well you look, and you will take a
renewed interest in life. Hutuwai is different ... it is
genuine. Hutuwai contains the LIVE JUICE of Herbal
Plants . . . this is why Hutuwai must do you good!
Get rid of your aches and pains...drink
HUTUWAI
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
NATURAL
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 3: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3060.
Wednesday, October 5, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIANA AND SOUTH SEAS.
New Catalogue of 1000 Works now ready:
post free. Many scarce items.
H. A. EVANS & SON,
358 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA AS A NATION.
The Sydney committee in charge of the 150th
Birthday jamboree did its darnedest to have the affair
patented and recognised as a nation-wide celebration.
But somehow the idea didn’t take on. Melbourne
had recently had its 100th birthday ; so had Adelaide ;
and they and the other capitals and States with them
insisted on viewing the N. S. Wales proceedings as
purely a Ma State, if not just a Harborside, junketing.
So now that an enormous portfolio volume has
come along titled Australia, 1788-1938 (305.), and
acknowledged to have been produced under authority
of the 150th Anniversary Celebrations Council, it needs
saying that it is vastly greater in scope, more embrac-
ingly national in contents and altogether a more
thoughtful, interesting and beautiful production than
its official associations might be likely to suggest.
A misleading description is given by Mr. Lyons,
who in his first introductory sentence calls it a
“valuable souvenir,” and makes no further reference
to it. This Page suspects that the P.M. hadn’t seen
the completed volume when he penned his introduc-
tion. Otherwise he would not have signed his name
to a page of rhetorical generalities and cliches touch-
ing on noble forefathers who braved the perils of a
strange land and days of strenuous endeavor that lie
ahead. He would have expressed some appreciation
of the beauty of design, photography and printing,
and might even have grown lyrical over the scenic
variety presented in the finest pictorial survey of Aus-
tralia ever achieved or attempted in a single volume.
The photographs—many of them excellent color
jobs—are representative of all States, picture the pass-
ing race and the one replacing it, all primary and
secondary industries of any note, all capital cities
and some lesser ones, sports, transport, the sea, the
timberlands, the grasslands, fruitlands, sheeplands,
cattlelands, wheatlands, mining, beaches, mountains,
defences, commerce—all that goes into the picture
when Australia is thought of as a whole.
It is a big tome—approximately 18in. by 12in. by
2in. thick —and it may serve the purpose, which badly
needs serving, of giving a conception of Aus-
tralia as an established, distinct nation. Every un-
necessary appointment of an overseas individual to
some position that any of a number of Australians
could hold down is an assault on that idea. Without
the conception of it Australian writers must dither
along in that mental state of subservient obscurity
which every such appointment implies for Australians
as a whole. Denial of this conception, prevalent at
the moment, is a curious backsliding to the colony
outlook, which had to be shaken off before anything
Australian could be written.
It is on record somewhere in the letterpress that
accompanies these mostly pictorial pages that in the
early days of the wine industry two Frenchmen were
brought here as experts, the official view being that
just because they were Frenchmen they must know
all about vinegrowing. After a couple of years it
transpired that they were sailors or something of the
kind and didn’t know a vine from a beetroot. The
present spate of experts are no doubt not in that class,
but the official state of mind responsible for the
appointments is the same —the failure to grasp that
Australia is a complete and distinct nation, not in
the making, but arrived.
Some of the very people who seem most obsessed
with the colony outlook contribute glowing praises
of Australia and Australians to the letterpress columns
of this volume. They, and all others interested, should
find in the work as a whole ample evidence that there’s
nothing wrong with the initiative, enterprise, ability
or achievement of the race in any sort of under-
taking. Even in the building up of a national litera-
ture —the most tardy, because the most complex,
arduous, unprofitable and difficult of all enterprises—
they have done considerably better than is conveyed
by the brief paragraph given to this branch of effort.
One of' the striking things about the huge tome —
giving it its own character of unity—is that its pro-
ducer quite evidently doesn’t contemplate the Aus-
tralian scene with either ultra-superior feelings or feel-
ings of colonial inferiority. A Victorian, Oswald L.
Ziegler is not bound by the Cabbage Patch or any
other part. He sees Australia whole and sees it well.
It is a big and varied place; all the better: he will
try to convey its size and its variety. It is still only
a youngster among nations ; well and good: he will
indicate that, and elaborate on what, in its very brief
time, it has already accomplished. It has had plenty
of disparaging critics and will have plenty more: he
will be, instead, an appreciator of its best.
He is guided by much the same feeling as
inhabits Jack Moses. Jack acknowledges that
economic worries, political ropewalking, international
crises and so forth are all right for those who
like them. For his part he feels it a privilege to be
alive in this country, at this time or any other time.
He moves about it a jot, and comes into The Bulletin
every now and then to mention the sunshine he’s been
soaking up, and talk about how, when he contemplates
the countryside or the cities, he thinks all the better
of men and women for what they have done here in
the time.
On that sort of basis Mr. Ziegler has put together
this notable pictorial record. The volume opens with
a message from the King, a decorative color page
embodying portraits of George 111. and George VI.
Mr. Lyons’s introduction, table of contents, a fanci-
ful map of Australia with a ghostly ship coming into
it, and then a word of explanation by the book’s pro-
ducer :
To deal with every phase of activity in each State
would result in much repetition and inevitable boredom.
We have, therefore, viewed Australia in the light of a
continent, and have taken our illustrations aijd descrip-
tions as typical of the best, irrespective of their locality.
In this way we hope to have achieved the production of
a volume that will prove not only of absorbing interest,
but of considerable value to all those who would know
more about this great and still undeveloped “Terra
Australis.”
Chapter 1 opens with an outline of Australian
history by K. R. Cramp, president of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society. It goes on then to give
arresting color and black-and-white photographic de-
pictions of the flora and fauna and the natives. Like
each other chapter it is decorated with a design based
on abo. symbols, a thoughtful idea which serves to
bind the contents into a definite unity and helps to
convey the impression of a national conception of
Australia. In its letterpress the reader will come on
such phrases as “notorious kookaburras” and “frogs
of ancient design” ; they give it a flavor.
The pastoral scene is the next dealt with, the
camera here depicting general scenes, homesteads,
prize stock and the like, typical of the best. The
chapter deals with sheep, cattle, pigs, draught horses,
poultry and the meat industry. It mentions that the
biggest individual poultry farm in the world is in Vic-
toria, so that is where the camera turns for that par-
ticular section. Many of the pastoral-scene photo-
graphs, as in all chapters, afe in color, by such crafts-
men as Frank Hurley.
Next chapter is a beautiful pictorial parade of
agriculture, sugargrowing, fruit, wine and timbers;
then gold-, coal- and other mining; transportation,
with color photographs which show how Victoria is
leading the way in railways ; then the sea, its pearls
and fishes, with letterpress by lon L. Idriess and T. C.
Roughley.
Mr. Roughley—one of Australia’s foremost
authorities and a great barracker for the exploitation
by Australia of the deep-sea fish that swarm in season
off the coast, especially the tunny —advances statistics
to show, as Bulletin writers from time to time
have also stated, that Australians are among the
smallest consumers of fish in the world, the annual
consumption per head amounting to only 131 b. com-
pared with Great Britain’s 421 b. Where do people
get such statistics? Here in Australia most of the
people live along the coastal fringe, with innumerable
rivers and sundry oceans right at hand. They can
hook their own fish without buying it, and a good
many of them are doing so all the time. How then
can anybody arrive at the per-head consumption of
fish in a country like this?
Succeeding chapters lavishly picture the cities
and the more interesting towns, with their cathedrals,
theatres, gardens and so forth ; then the leading sports ;
the Blue Mountain, beach, tropical and other scenery
from Tasmania to Darwin ; then commerce and the
more outstanding manufactures. Finally there is a
chapter putting the 150th Birthday celebrations on
record. Apart from some letterpress which reads as
if it was paid for at advertising rates, the least impor-
tant section is this of the celebrations. Still, its pic-
tures are interesting.
A striking absentee, especially just at the present
moment, is the name of Germany from a list of
nations which sent national flags and goodwill mes-
sages to the N.S.W. Premier in recognition of the
birthday occasion. All the other great nations are in
the list, and most of the sprat and tiddler ones as
well. Unless an eye surfeited with the whole lavish
pictorial display overlooked them, beehives and row-
ing are omissions from their respective sections. Also,
though there are fleeting individual appearances, there
is no attempt to deal pictorially or statistically with
the interesting and numerous stock inhabiting the poli-
tical scene. As previously stated, the big book deals
with the bright and sunny side of things.
As a production it pays its own tribute to all
concerned in the making of it, including, in addition
to Mr. Ziegler as producer, Gert Sellheim as designer
and Simmons, Ltd., as printers. It will have a special
appeal to Australians who are interested in their coun-
try, not as either a colony or as a scattering of com-
partmented States, but as a single and clear-cut nation.
It would be a national service to add a copy of it to
the library of every school in the land, and the people
interested in the good work of the Free Library Move-
ment could not do better than make it a foundation
volume in every free library they get established.
Cheerful Satire.
Marmaduke Dixey’s Tight Little Island (Faber)
is a riot of humor, but with as many stings as a nettle.
It begins in a chapter called “Young Love,” with
a South Sea cruise on the super-luxury liner Carthage.
David and Angela, swooning with love, long for soli-
tude and live in a crowd. David is “a peculiar and
rather distressing combination of timid aggressive-
ness and simple-minded sophistication,” but manages
to appear very dashing. Angela, at nineteen, is three-,
parts make-up, even to dyed hair. Both are gener-
ousl-/ afflicted with mothers.
One day, without much fuss, the Carthage hits
a coral reef and sinks, mothers and all. David and
Angela, who had retreated into one of the boats to
be alone, float safely off with the regulation supply of
water and bully beef and —David’s habitual com-
panions—a wireless set, a cricket bag full of hors-
d’oeuvres and Jevons’s Political Economy.
They land on a desert island. They are alone, but
love is quite forgotten in the struggle for existence.
They suffer the final anguish of boredom, and Angela’s
hair begins to revert to its original uninteresting
brown. At last a canoe arrives from an adjacent
island, and David recognises in the dark men’s leader
a former Oxford friend called Robinson. Robinson
is king of the archipelago and his subjects are the de-
scendants of a boatful of white men —escapees from
Botany Bay, it is suggested—and South Sea island
women.
He welcomes David and Angela to his earthly
paradise, where all is singing, gaiety, flowers and end-
less spring. Everyone is young, handsome, fit. Gradu-
ally David and Angela discover the foundations of this
Utopia. They are two: the segregation of middle-
aged women and cannibalism. As Robinson points
out, nearly all the trials of modern civilisation are
due to middle-aged ladies with not enough to do.
They are irrepressible correspondents, they write most
of the novels, they make everyone uncomfortable by
taking up good works, and they poison home life
with good advice and patent medicines. So the Mana-
livers dumped them all into a separate island where
they could convert one another, write and indulge
in good works to their hearts’ content.
Cannibalism was not only the solution of all
economic problems —disposing of surplus population,
making hospitals unnecessary ; it also supplied a sport
which took the place of war, litigation and kindred
amenities of modern life. Unfortunately David did
not come up to the standard of physical fitness de-
manded by the Manalivers, and was set aside to be
fattened for the pot, His surprise When he learned
that the old school tie wouldn’t save him was
painful. Angela was to be added to the royal harem.
Their escape, with the help of the island’s chap-
lain, who has fallen in love with Angela, is a grand
burlesque of the adventure story. The savages are
tricked by the wireless set much as Allan Quater-
main tricked them with the eclipse of the moon. In
the moment of triumph the faithful chaplain is speared
and dies—in quite the best romantic vein, so that the
white refugees won’t be embarrassed afterwards by
having to be grateful to the native for saving their
lives. Such was the end of Mr. Wynyard-Chamber-
Jain. David and Angela are picked up by a cargo
ship and brought to Sydney. The last seen of them
they are returning to England in a luxury liner, and,
Angela having been restored by the ship’s beauty
parlor, David has fallen in love with her once more,
and they are sighing for solitude.
The style of Tight Little Island is the last word
in brightness; the dialogue is musical comedy:
“Is a surveyor a sort of solicitor? I’ve often won-
dered.”
“No, darling. Utterly different. A surveyor takes out
bills of quantities. A solicitor only sends in quantities
of bills.”
A Striking American Novel.
One of (he pleasantest things—and there are
plenty of them—about the younger American novel-
ists is that they don’t despise any aspect of life. They
write about life when and how they find it, and with-
out waiting to trim or polish it or snip off the rough
ends. Dorothy Baker’s Young Man with a Horn
(Gollancz) is one of many novels of the kind, but it
has its own sharp individuality.
Rick Martin, bom an orphan, was brought up
by an aunt who worked in a pants factory in Los
Angeles and by an uncle who took no notice. So
he always had nice pants and very little else, and
managed his own life from the time he was eight.
The only thing he cared much about was music.
He discovered a chapel with a piano and a hymn-
book in it and set out to give himself some free tuition.
When the congregation discovered him after three
months and wanted to make him their mascot he fled.
Then he left school without permission and began
work in a bowling alley with the object of saving
enough to buy a trumpet from a pawnshop.
At work he met a black boy, Smoke Jordan, who
introduced him to a jazz band. Then there was no
holding him. The band, five negroes, accepted him as
a man and a musician from the first, gently repairing
his adolescent pride and putting his life in his hands.
He got his trumpet and he learned to play it with a
concentration that would have amazed the school-
teachers —who had now recaptured him —had they
seen it.
At 20 he was “hot trumpet” in a crack jazz band.
He could do things to people. “The creative urge is
the creative urge, no matter where you find it. Rick
did what he could do so well that I, for one, won’t
be able to hear his name without feeling my hair
rise.” He was famous; his world was all music, with
the good companionship of his fellows to keep it
sweet, till he married. Then his gifts didn’t help much.
The shipwreck which came suddenly and soon
didn’t hurt his music ; it didn’t even damage Rick
much, though the way things fell out it looked as if
it had. What did ruin him and kill him at 30 was his
own power, the music in him. It grew and grew till
his little world of jazz and trumpet wasn’t big enough
to hold it. He outgrew himself, and something had
to happen. He started drinking heavily, but that
didn't slow things down for him. He was trying to get
impossibilities out of his trumpet. A very trifling
matter finished him. He was making a record; he
tried for the impossible and, unheard-of thing for
him, spoiled the disk. “Jeff said: ‘He hasn’t got any
call to take it so hard. We can make it over.’ ”
They waited a minute, and Jeff went on almost
as if he were talking to himself, “I don’t know what
the hell that boy thinks a trumpet will do. That note
.he was going for, that thing he was trying for —
there isn’t any such thing. Not on a horn.”
Rick snapped off short. It was the eternal tragedy
in little of genius trying to destroy itself. Smoke put
o Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— always.
“THE SENIOR STORE."
Slip i
■
;v “
rQ.
ofoS®
V
ll>
••>
*
r
4k ';r
mm
■
■ - -
!
C; : ’
X : m y
/ A
1
'* /' "■ y'&J ' ?S''
*
/ .^Sjfev
U 'X
\ m V'
\ vs
.
•■• • ■ •' •'•
L .....
/
is
2v
{■K
m
v/"h“
SUEDETTE
Here are ihe Pyjamas for the utmost comfort and
wear Made of Striped Suedette in a medium
weight ' Colourful designs. Small, medium and
outsizes. ..
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price - IU/b
SALE PRICE. Suit .-:~ rv --- - «/*
Also in Horrockses Suede finish. Price lu/b
SALE PRICE. Suit •• 9/6
m
POPLIN
Just the right weight for summer wear Mens
Striped Poplin Pyjamas in various striped designs.
Small, medium and outsizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 10/6
SALE PRICE. Suit - 8/11
'PHONE M 2401, DAY OR NIGHT
Here is your opportunity to buy Pyjamas for the summer
months at genuinely reduced sale prices. These Pyjamas
are made in our own workrooms from reliable materials
with a degree of fullness that comfort to. the
wearer. " '
DF
D
FD
FD
F
DF
D
FD
Poplin
Men’s Striped Poplin Pyjamas
Smart and colouriul effects in a
light weight material. Small,
medium and outsizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price,
suit - B'®
SALE PRICE, Suit 6/11
• Mercery — Grout’d Floor — Gcor'ic St.
l-rcu/ht Mid to nil railway stations iu
t\ : S'.IV. and seaports in the Common-
wealth.
n-jnei
Iwmit i UVE i'U CROW
CEYLONETTE
Save 2/- per suit on these long wearing striped Ceylon-
ette Pyjamas. A medium weight for present wear and
they are made in small, medium and outsizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 9/6
SALE PRICE, Suit - - 7/6
t
SL
3
ii
ii n mi in
Art. Silk
To ensure a night's rest wear comfort-
able Pyjamas. These are cut and made
in lull fitting proportions of long wear-
ing Striped Art. Silk. Blue, Fawns and
Green tonings. Small, medium and out-
sizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 13/6
SALE PRICE. Suit !2/6
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


"The World Ends To-night”
THE
STARS
IN
THEIR
COURSES
HIGH PRIEST AND
CONGREGATION BY UNK WHITE
By H.C. McKAY
A PALLID, woebegone man pushed past the atten-
dant who opened the observatory door to him,
and strode straight into the office of the Govern-
ment Astronomer. “Are you the head man
here?” he demanded.
“Yes —what is it?” replied Nancott, not looking
up.
“Somewhere within me I have a feeling or inner
vision of Mercury swirling faster and faster towards
the sun!”
Nancott threw down his pen im-
patiently. Another crank! He looked up
and saw a miserable-looking object, with
clothes creased and stained as if he’d slept
out in them. “Very interesting, I’m sure.”
He recited his usual formula. “No doubt
you have a novel theory, but I’m busy just
now. Your best plan is to go home, write
it out in full, post it to us, and it will in
due time receive attention.”
“Don’t I get a reading?” asked the
visitor peevishly.
“Yes, yes, it will all be read when you
send it along to us. And now we’re just
going to check the sun —get the time, y’know
—so thanks for calling, good-
bye!”
The man did not move. In-
stead he seemed to swell with
inward indignation, which sud-
denly erupted in an irate roar,
“What about the four pounds!”
“Black!” shouted Nancott.
But before the doorman could
arrive the visitor made a series
of clumsy leaps and was gone.
Nancott soon forgot him, but later, when a news-
paper reporter rang him about a newly-discovered
comet, he casually mentioned his queer visitor and
his idea that Mercury was falling into the sun. That
started all the subsequent trouble.
j N a city pub that afternoon a bunch of reporters
* yarned with their feet on the rail.
“Are your crowd using that story of the crank
who called up at the observatory?” asked Wiles of
young Titchell. “Says the planet Mercury’s going to
crash into the sun. I’m doing a funny par.—it might
get into a ‘box’ on the leader-page.”
Titchell stiffened. A par.! Why, this could obvi-
ously be worked into a smashing front-page story for
the “Daily Screamline.” He rushed back to the office
and got the Government Astronomer on the ’phone.
“What’s all this about Mercury falling into the sun?”
“Oh, just the mad notion of a crank.”
“How do you know it is?” demanded Titchell
truculently. “Have you checked up on the planet
since?”
“No, no —our time’s fully taken up with routine
work. Nobody looks at planets except millionaires’
observatories and a few amateurs. It’s of no import-
ance, anyhow. We get cranks pestering us every day,
and if we listened”-
“See here, if Mercury fell into the sun there’d
be trouble?”
“There’d certainly be violent disturbance of the
solar chromosphere”
“Chromatic spears! I see! Great spears of flame
sweeping and blasting the earth! How long before
the blast swept over us?”
“I didn’t say anything about it sweeping”
“But how long, if it did?”
Nancott, hot and bothered, figured with a pencil.
“Travelling at solar eruption speed, it would reach
the earth in 25 hours.”
“You guarantee that?”
“Yes —er, that is, I guarantee the figures!” shouted
Nancott in panic, but Titchell had slammed the ’phone
back on the hook.
He propounded his Great Idea at the paper’s after-
noon conference. It took on with the heads, and,
after the sub.’s trimming, made a fine splash next
morning.
WORLD ENDS TO-NIGHT, SAY SCIENTISTS.
NEWS OF DISASTER KEPT FROM PUBLIC.
GOVT. ASTRONOMER SAYS CRASH IN 25 HOURS.
CHROMATIC SPEARS TO WIPE OUT ALL LIFE
IN ONE AMAZING SMASH.
“Tick-tock-tock” booms the mighty master-clock up
at the observatory, crashing out the last life-moments
of our earth and every living creature on its surface.
A mighty planet, while the world stands numb, is
zooming its way to the fiery shell of the sun, dooming
civilisation to an amazing cataclysm, a stupendous and
final baptism of fire.
This remarkable story is corroborated by the Gov-
ernment Astronomer himself. Last night Mr. Nancott,
in an exclusive interview, stated that within 25 hours
huge flames—“chromatic spears”—-will envelop our
planet in a stupendous holocaust.-
For obvious reasons this amazing news has been
withheld from the human race till the final 24 hours.
The truth of this cataclysmic story would appear to
be beyond cavil, but it hinges on one vital issue, “Where
is Mercury?”
Mercury, we find by ringing the chief observatories
of the world, is invisible, being in conjunctivitis, which
in itself is a significant fact.
From this point Titchell had gradually edged off,
giving leading authorities’ opinions on the end of the
world, following with solid chunks of information on
Mercury from the Encyclopcedia Britannica, and end-
ing with a comforting assurance that the “Daily
Screamline” had the matter in hand, having engaged
the mightiest telescope in the world to search for
Mercury at fabulous cost.
'T'HE response of the public to this journalistic clap-
* trap was curious. Nobody as a rule paid any
credence to the “Daily Screamline’s” “sensations.”
Within the past week the paper had started two Euro-
pean wars, discovered a mythical mother of septuplets,
foiled a plot to restore the Duke of Windsor to the
throne, reported a Japanese fleet off Darwin and found
crocodiles in the Yarra. The average reader usually
gave a perfunctory glance at the headlines, then turned
to the racing, sports, comic strips or other feature
that interested him. But this time, for some extra-
ordinary reason, the “Screamline’s” scare-story made
an immediate impression.
Perhaps the nerves of the people, jittery and
kept constantly on edge with newspaper “sensations,”
combined with genuine stories of havoc and destruc-
tion in Spain and China, were close upon breaking-
strain. Whatever the reason, Titchell’s crass hotch-
potch started the most remarkable case of mass-
hysteria on record.
The first hint came in the “Screamline’s” own
office. The entire edition sold out; people clamored
for more. A skeleton staff was mustered, the printers
recalled, and another edition was put out. It sold
almost immediately. If Block, the editor, had not been
so jubilant over the sales that fact should have warned
him, and still more the character of the crowd that
was beginning to filter into the city streets. Nervous
mothers were worrying the staffs of big buildings
with inquiries if it were possible to shelter children in
basements “till the flames passed over,” and from
such slight beginnings a wave of fear grew that swept
the city from end to end.
The conservative morning
paper, which had not even men-
tioned the observatory incident,
at once rang up Nancott, and
got an infuriated denial of the
whole story. Nancott himself
had been inundated by nervy
visitors and frantic telephone
calls since eight o’clock, and
was almost incoherent with
worry and exasperation. But the conservative paper,
though it placed placards outside its office denying the
truth of the scare story, did not issue a special edition
till too late.
By eleven o’clock the mass hysteria had so spread
that the streets were full of people drifting aimlessly
around, exciting themselves with rumors that grew
more fantastic from hour to hour. Work in shops
and offices began to be abandoned. Extra police
were called out; but the crowd had already developed
a dangerous temper.
At 10.30 the “Orb,” the evening paper, held its
morning conference. The news-editor, a young English-
man who had recently stepped into the position, pro-
posed a smashing attack on the “Screamline” in order to
allay the growing panic. A detailed statement by the
Government Astronomer could be given, exposing the
origin of the . story, with reassurances from
astronomers in other States and overseas. The staff
smiled at his innocence. Fake attacks on the “Scream-
line” were sometimes made ; a genuine one was un-
thinkable. The “Screamline” was cross-trenched with
“Orb” shares, and vice versa. So the midday edition
of the “Orb” merely reprinted the “Screamline’s” story,
with an addendum, “The Other Side,” giving weak
criticism and denial by some local university pro-
fessors. The “Orb” had been unable to get in touch
with Nancott, for the good reason that a mob had
attacked the observatory and smashed everything in
sight. The Government Astronomer had been forced
to flee for his life.
The mass hysteria had now developed a destructive
mood. The mob became obsessed with the idea that the
world would be destroyed by solar flames at 5.45 p.m.,
and that this had been known all along by the Govern-
ment. Fiery young Communists addressed the crowds,
telling them that capitalists, faced with the world’s


destruction, had kept the masses in ignorance. Offices
and shops were abandoned ; drivers and guards quit
trams and trains; the police fought desperately to
stem attacks on banks and Government buildings. A
little later the police themselves became infected with
the mass hysteria and joined the crowds. The city
resembled an infuriated ant-hill.
The other Australian cities, like the country dis-
tricts, were not affected by this unreasoning frenzy.
They could not understand it. The “Screamline’s”
story was such a crude fabrication that no person in
his senses could be affected by it. They watched, like
the rest of the world, a city of a million and a quarter
inhabitants possessed by a group-insanity that spread
from mind to mind like a bushfire.
There were the usual symptoms of all end-of-the-
world panics. Side by side with the destructive trend,
religious and pagan elements emerged. Vast crowds
thronged, churches and cathedrals, or were addressed
by religious leaders in the streets; they joined in
massed hymns and prayers with the uncontrolled
fervor of the old-time revival meetings. The fatalistic
elements, faced by certain death in a few hours, chose
to celebrate it by a gigantic “blind.” Hotels and wine-
bars were broken into, casks were broached in the
streets, and, to an accompaniment of frenzied singing
and dancing, men and women gave themselves up to
orgies reminiscent of the last days of the decadent
Roman Empire.
But the strangest side-issue was the astrological
one. For some time the public had been absolutely
obsessed by this pretentious cult. Most of the news-
papers retained astrologers as “features”; in their
special columns these diviners daily poured out the
“stars' ” advice, giving favorable dates for every pos-
sible contingency, from backing horses to cutting
corns. The astrologers had been taken aback by the
crisis. Not one had predicted the Mercury-sun crash.
They determined at least to be in at the death.
From high platforms, set up in various command-
ing positions, the leading astrologers issued the latest
“readings” of the battle fought for the life of the
earth by good and evil principles in the zodiac. Back
of each platform was a blackboard, with the usual
horoscopic diagram. From time to time each
astrologef would figure on a scrap of paper, then add
another symbol to the board. This, they told their
vast believing audiences, was the latest score in the
celestial battle —Jupiter was afflicting the ascendant,
Mercury had entered the eighth house. And the
crowds hung upon their words, repeating at command
the mystic formula “All lost, save souls and the
stars! ”
FOR a few hours that morning young Titchell had
strutted around the “Screamline” office, a little
tin god among his fellows. But his triumph was short-
lived. At noon the managing director sent for him.
“I’m standing out for twenty-five pounds a week and
a contract! ” shouted Titchell to his pals as he followed
the office boy.
But his boss seemed to have gone insane. “Are
. you the thrice-blasted idiot who started this end-of-
the-world story?” he shouted.
“A marvellous scoop, Mr. Crate,” simpered
Titchell.
“Marvellous be damned!” screamed Crate. “The
crowd has just broken our plate-glass windows, and
is socking away at our press and lino, machines with
hammers! You’re sacked! Fired! Clear out, you
baboon, or I’ll knock your grin down your gullet!”
Foaming with fury, he made a rush at Titchell,
but slipped on the polished floor, crashing heavily.
Titchell departed quickly.
A city of a million and a quarter inhabi-
tants possessed by a group-insanity that
spread from mind to mind like a bush-
fire. Side by side with the destructive
trend, religious and pagan elements
emerged; and, to an accompaniment of
frenzied singing and dancing, men and
women gave themselves up to orgies
reminiscent of the last days of the
decadent Roman Empire.
He pushed his way among the seething crowds in
the streets, bitter thoughts surging through his soul.
“Best scoop of the year,” he muttered ; “the dumb
crowd goes mad and believes it —then the boot for the
scapegoat.” He had to fight through a rabble of in-
toxicated dancers on a lawn at Hyde Park to a seat in
a quieter corner. A solitary figure was occupying it.
A miserable-looking object, with clothes creased and
stained as if he’d slept in them. Titchell recognised
him as Paul Rhone, a hairdresser whom he’d taken
to the All Sports Club the night before. He glared
dully at'Titchell. “You’ve ruined my life. I’ve been
out all night.”
“Oh, go and cut your throat!” growled Titchell,
full of his own magnificent troubles.
“You took me to a club,” persisted Rhone feebly.
“1 don’t drink ; I can’t stand it. But you started me
off, and I broke into the rent money. You said we’d
make it up on the poker-machines. I lost the lot.”
“Aw, don’t moan about it!”
“But I’m a married man,” maundered Rhone.
“How could I face the missus short of that four
pounds? I didn’t dare go home without it. After
you left me I crept away down to Double Bay, half-
crazed, and dozed away the night under a tree.
“At daybreak I was frozen and cramped, so I
walked right across the city to get warm, and ended
up on Observatory Hill. You know the wife’s mad
on astrology. She holds horoscope circles in the house,
and she’s got me half-believing in the stuff myself.
All night at Double Bay I’d been worried by a dream
or vision about Mercury and the- solar system. 1
thought there might be some tip in it from the stars
as to the best way to face the wife, so 1 went into the
observatory and put the matter before the head
astrologer himself.”
“You darned fool!” shouted Titchell. “He's an
astronomer, not an astrologer!”
“Well, that explains why the old messer was
useless. He didn’t even give me a reading. He kicked
me out. All the same,” mumbled Rhone, “that Mer-
cury vision was genuine. I was repeating it to myself
when I woke up.”
A sudden light broke in on Titchell. He col-
lapsed on the seat.
“Good Lord, Rhone!” he cried in dismay. “It
must have been what you were muttering over and
over again when you left me last night. All those
cocktails you swallowed at the club, you said, had
formed a heavy weight, like a sphere of mercury, cir-
culating round your solar plexus!”
“Well, so they did,” said Rhone defensively.
“But, heavens alive, man!” shouted Titchell.
“Don’t you understand? What you said up at the
observatory started the story that sent the city raving
mad about the end of the world!”
Rhone blinked. The whole thing was beyond
him. “I don’t care if the world does go smash! I
can’t face the missus without that four pounds. It
was the rent money!”
A pitched battle between police and intoxicated
revellers had been fought around them as they talked,
but now it swept past, only to be replaced by another
section of the crowd, somewhat like a swift change of
scene in a nightmare. A tall, ungraceful, middle-aged
woman was performing extraordinary vertical leaps,
waving a hat and squeaking shrilly like a tormented
mouse. Titchell recognised her. “There’s your wife
now!” he shouted to Rhone.
Rhone made a desperate rush forward. “Amelia,
Amelia!” he yelled. “I’ve lost the” But another
of the incalculable waves in the human frenzy around
them swept Titchell and Rhone away from the spot
like leaves in a hurricane. Caught in the human whirl-
pools they were helpless. They spent the rest of the
hours till the imagined zero at 5.45 p.m., unwilling
participators in similar scenes. They kept continually
making momentary contact with Mrs. Rhone in phan-
tasmagoric settings. The woman was indefatigable.
Once as they swept past a drapery store window
they caught sight of her inside it wrapped in a spotted
veil, performing an astrological whirl. A little later
they found her juggling school globes on top of a
motor-car and writhing symbolically about. She even
recognised her husband in the crowd, and gave him
a smile. Rhone started forward, but the whole circus
was swept away like a vision in a soap-bubble. They
did not meet again till zero was at hand.
AS that mystic hour approached the frenzy of the
now quite insane mobs reached a climax. All
attempt at keeping order had been abandoned. The
Commonwealth Government, appealed to by the dis-
tracted State authorities, had landed sailors from the
warships, but these had simply absorbed the mob
hysteria and helped to swell the riot. The Common-
wealth, however, still had control of a body of militia
outside the city area, and reserved it for a final card.
As the witching hour of 5.45 approached Rhone
and Titchell were swept into a dense crowd gathered
in Martin-place. It was an extraordinary sight. The
individuals in the crowd were now pressed too closely
together to leap, dance or express their hysteria by
muscular movements. But from time to time waves
of shuddering would sweep down the human mass, as
if it formed one sentient being. At times the crowd
would sing, groan or howl in unison like some afflicted
beast. Nature seemed to have joined in the conspiracy
to afflict humanity. As zero hour approached heavy
clouds massed in the sky, lightning flashed, thunder
rolled, and the end of the world was preluded by a
gathering storm.
The astrologers were already entrenched in
Martin-place. A big platform in a central position
held the leaders of the cult, dressed in star-spangled
gowns and other fantastic trappings, and surrounded by
witch-bowls, stellar globes, wands, horoscopes and
everything that a hasty round-up of looted shops could
gather, to impress their importance on the hysterical
masses. They knew well enough from their newspaper
contacts the unreality of the whole story. They had
jumped at the glorious chance of superintending the
crisis in a blaze of popular limelight. At the psycho-
logical moment they intended to announce that the
good stars had conquered the maleficents, that Mer-
cury, the villain of the piece, had been sidetracked by
astrology, and the fate of the world had passed to the
sway of beneficent signs and stars.
The Post Office clock was right on the tick of 5.45
as the aged Mr. Zadkiel Jones, doyen of the cult,
tottered to the edge of the platform and held up his
frail hand for silence. It was a solemn, awe-inspiring
moment. The crowd froze into immobility.
“Friends” began Mr. Jones, but he was not
allowed to finish. An extraordinary figure, a tall
middle-aged woman holding a large ostrich-feathered
spray in front of her, pirouetted absurdly across the
platform and pushed the protesting astrologer aside.
Mrs. Rhone had long lost all idea of time or space in
her pursuit of corybantic expression. Nothing existed
for her now except the urge to perform her mystical,
lopsided dances. Some strange inner repression
seemed to have found vent, like a volcano, through
the crust of her suburban life.
There was a rush of outraged astrologers to pull
her down. It was an absurd, an extraordinary scene.
The crowd yelled in surprise and perplexity. The
giantess fought like a tiger-cat. The melee swayed
up and down the platform. Time ticked on ; Mrs.
Rhone still fought the opposition. Ordinarily she
would have been more than a match for a few
shrivelled astrologers, but she had been performing
for hours on end. The struggling combatants swayed
to the platform edge and hurtled over. Mrs. Rhone
sprawled unhurt at her husband’s feet.
Then high over the confusion a vast voice sud-
denly blared. It came from the bank of megaphones in-
stalled in the G.P.O. tower by the Commonwealth
authorities, in anticipation of the climax at zero.
"Look at the time!” it roared.
All eyes sought the clock dials. The hands regis-
tered ten minutes to six.
“Zero hour has passed!” blared the voice.
“Nothing has happened. The predicted calamity was
a gigantic hoax. Go to your homes quietly, or the
military will sweep the streets!”
The effect was magical. For a full minute the
crowd stood motionless, as if petrified. Then a gigantic
sigh rose from it, as of a giant waking from a night-
mare. One by one, each avoiding his neighbor’s eye,
individuals turned away, and began slowly to filter
off into the side streets.
Paul Rhone had also turned to go j but Nemesis
was upon him. His wife rushed him, collared him,
shook him as a terrier shakes a rat. She flamed with
the outraged sobriety of a housewife awakened from
an incredible dream.
“You worm! You deceiver!” she hissed. “Where
have you been? Where is my rent money?”
“All lost —bar souls and stars!” mumbled. Rhone.
Then it rained in torrents and everybody went
home to bed.


Lives, Present and Previous
THE IMMIGRATION OF SOULS
By HAROLD MERCER
DRAWING BY ARIA.
*4 rv IRECTLY he started to talk about the immi-
j gration of souls,” said Mrs. Parsley, “I told
I J him I was full.” Interrupted in her work in
my flat, Mrs. Parsley had returned after inter-
viewing an apparently discursive prospective tenant.
He had remarked that he seemed to have seen her
somewhere else, “or perhaps it was in some previous
life,” he had added ; and had then revealed his belief
in transmigration.
“He seemed a nice, quiet gentleman until he said
that,” said Mrs. Parsley with that pensiveness she
shows whenever she has sacrificed the prospect of a
tenant on the alter of her principles. “But I have had
quite enough trouble with immigrating souls, as it is.
They’re not the sort of things I like to have in my
residential.
“Mr. Rattray, who was Number 9, was the first.
He said, when he first came, that his dear wife must
have a quiet flat where she wouldn’t be interfered
with by other people. My private opinion was that
he wanted it away from others so that he could roar
at her. For roar he did. And I daresay she deserved
it, for she only smiled and did what she liked.
• iDUT you could have knocked me flat with the
L-' last straw the day I first heard about them
immigrating souls. Mr. Rattray was sitting in the lobby
at the top of the stairs looking substracted, when I
asked him if he’d been for a walk, thinking he was
just resting. He seemed to wake up.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘I have been far away
over the burning desert sands. I’ve been by one of
them oozes,’ he says ; and then, when I was wonder-
ing whether he’d got a touch of the sun, he asks me
if I believed in immigration of souls.
“ ‘Most certainly I do, as long as they’re British,’
I says.
“He sorta smiled.
“ ‘You don’t quite understand me,’ he says, ‘I
mean the passing of souls from one existence to
another. Have you never felt in your mind vague
memories of a past life, when perhaps you kept an-
other residential in the days of, say, King Charles?’
“ ‘l’m sure I haven’t,’ I retortoised. ‘I never kept
another residential in my life, and I’m sure that, even
if I had, I’ve enough to think of about this one, with
the queer things some of the tenants do.’
“ ‘Or perhaps in some previous state you were
a queen?’ he says.
“That gave me a shock. When tenants try to
flatter you, it means they usually want to owe the
rent, and, although Mr. Rattray was supposed, es-
pecially by his wife, to have plenty of money, you
never can tell till the numbers go up, as the Bible
says. So I told him flat that I never was a queen, and
never expected to be one.
“ ‘You never can tell, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says.
‘There must be something in these memories that
come to us. Since Mrs. Romaine came to this place
I’ve had the firm conviction that I’ve met her else-
where. And yet I certainly never met her in my
present life. She was part of my life in some former
existence. She has the same feeling.’
“It so took me aback that I told Mr. Slompack
about it; but he had heard already. ‘There may be
something in that, Mrs. Parsley,’ he laughed. ‘A lot
of people believe in it. That Mrs. Romaine is a weird-
looking woman —a very fine-looking woman, too. You
can understand her having such ideas. But it beats me
why she should pick on little Rattray. He doesn’t look
like a man who’s' inherited a hero soul from the past;
I don’t believe he knew he had a soul until Mrs.
Romaine came here.’
“'T'HE Romaines when they had come had asked
1 me whether they could have cycle circles in
their flat, and although I had told them that a flat
was no place for such things, and certainly I would
not permit it, knocking my furniture about, they took
Number 3. I kept my ears open, but they didn’t ever
bring any cycles. As a matter of fact, they were very
quiet, seeming a bit foreign to me, and they had a
lot of people coming to see them. She was a tall, dark
woman, very handsome, and she said that her hus-
band lived on the aster plain, though how that could
be with him in there in Number 3 I couldn’t make
out.
“Quite soon a lot of people in the flats seemed
to know about Mrs. Romaine and Mr. Rattray hav-
ing immigrating souls, and made a joke of it; but it
wasn’t any joke to me having immigrating souls
meeting in my corridors and talking together in a way
that some people who didn’t know the facts might
think was scarcely respectable. So one day when I
heard them talking together—right outside my flat,
if you please!—l asked them in.
“ ‘The Nile is rising,’ I had heard her say. ‘Does
that mean nothing to you, Tom?’
“ ‘Why, of course, it does! ’ he said after a while.
‘I can remember distinctly, now that you speak. The
Nile, of course!’
“I told them as nicely as I could that I didn’t
want to protrude on my tenants’ affairs, but there was
a limit.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, we have felt before this that we
owe you some explanation,’ said Mrs. Romaine. ‘Mr.
Rattray and I are both convinced that we have met
before.’
“ ‘lt’s very nice for old friends to meet’ 1 T
began.
“ ‘I mean in our previous lives,’ interrupts Mrs.
Romaine ; the way she spoke you almost had to think
“I won’t have murder done in my establishment,” I
said. “And I don’t like having immigrating souls
about the place.”
that what she said wasn’t as mad as it seemed. ‘There
can be no harm ; both of us are tied —Mr. Rattray
to his wife and I to my husband. It always seems
to have been like that; and, of course, we can’t very
well let them know. There can be no harm in our
just meeting in the corridors ancf trying to compare
our memories now and then, seeing that we have
known one another at least two thousand years.’
“‘Two what?’ I almost screeched. But she went
on as calmly as Horatius playing bridge. ‘Two
thousand years ago. The first time we met I was a
slave girl, and Mr. Rattray, who was a captain of
soldiers, slew my master. We both remember that,
don’t we, Tom?’
“ ‘The story of our lives is as enduring as the laws
of the Medium Persians,’ says Mr. Rattray, a little
proud of himself about having killed that man, even
if it was two thousand years ago.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, you may find it hard to believe,
but I distinctly remember my grief when my hero
was tortured to death.’
“I noticed that Mr. Rattray didn’t like that quite
so well.
“ ‘Then we have livid memories of another part-
ing. It was in Rome. I was extracted with grief as
the man I loved was taken from my arms. He had
to go to face the lions in the area.
“ ‘You can’t wonder at us wanting to meet—just
as we may meet —and piece together the vague
memories that linger in the back of our minds. But
we are tied —it has always been so with us. We can
only hope that in some future existence, when we
meet again, we will be free. I am just telling you
these things so that you can understand.’
“It sounded like a bedlam let loose to me, and
yet the way Mrs. Romaine spoke she seemed to be
quite sane and yet believe every word she spoke.
All sorts of things seemed to have happened to that
poor Mr. Rattray ; and you’d think that he would
have been glad enough to take his wife and get away
without me giving him notice, before anything else
happened. But, somehow, I didn’t give notice to any-
body. They didn’t seem to be doing any harm, and
although Mr. Romaine lived on the aster plain, where
they can tell your future, he didn’t seem to know any-
thing about his wife having met a man she knew in
her previous life —a whole lot of previous lives, it
appeared. As for Mrs. Rattray
“ ‘Oh, I know all about my husband and that
Mrs. Romaine. Let them have their immigration of
souls ; I got this out of him after I’d caught them in
the passage last week. It’s a nice gown, don’t you
think, Mrs. Parsley?’ She was a coldblooded little
gold-digger, that one!
< < A LTHOUGH it was a worry to have them two
talking in the corridors about their past lives,
which they didn’t do so often now, I might have for-
gotten about it if that Mr. Romaine, who I only saw
now and then, hadn’t stopped one day and started
talking about the immigration of souls.
“ ‘Anyone who doesn’t believe in it is foolish,’
he said. ‘There is nothing else to explain the memo-
ries we have of things that happened long ago —dim
they are, but they are there. And it’s a strange thing,
Mrs. Parsley, but I have a feeling that somewhere in
this building there is a man
whom I knew in a past exist-
ence, and who was an enemy
of mine. I have been study-
ing the people who live here,
trying to make out who it
would be. Someday I may
recognise him.’
“If ever there was a bolt
from the balloon that was!
It gave me quite a shock.
“ ‘Supposing you recog-
nised him, what would
happen?’ I asked, trying to
be just a casualty, as the say-
ing is.
“He smiled in a funny
way. ‘Well, I don’t know.
In our former lives I killed
him. I can remember that.
He might be my enemy again.
I have a theory, Mrs. Parsley,
that there are spirits that are
always antagonistic. I might
kill him again.’
“He spoke like the calm
before the storm, as the say-
ing goes ; it gave me quite a
turn. It was so mysterious,
too, him saying something
that fitted in like that to


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin's” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
what his wife and Mr. Rattray were saying. There
seemed more than a chance of there being murder on
my doorstep. I was all hot and bothered wanting to
warn them two people.
“They come in together, which explains why I
hadn’t seen them talking in the corridors so often ;
but that made matters all the worse. Mr. Rattray
went quite white.
“ ‘Well, he doesn’t realise that you are the man
yet,’ says Mrs. Romaine. ‘He just feels that a spirit
he knew before is near him. He may never find out
it is you.’
“ ‘I don’t want to give him a chance,’ says poor
Mr. Rattray.
“ ‘I won’t have murder done in my establishment,’
I said. ‘And I must say I don’t like having immigrat-
ing souls about the place. One of you couples Will
have to leave. I don’t care which.’
“ ‘lf I suggested to my husband that we should
go, he would want to know the reason,’ said Mrs.
Romaine. ‘Apparently he doesn’t suspecLyet; but he
might guess.’
“‘I will try to get Mrs. Rattray to move,’ says
Mr. Rattray. ‘Perhaps that would be the best.’
“ ‘ls it to end like this, after ail the lives we have
lived in vain?’ asked Mrs. Romaine. ‘I didn’t think
it possible! Always in our other lives you stood
beside me, Tom. I remember how bravely you went
to the torture.’
“ ‘They don’t have things like that now,’ says
Mr. Rattray, not looking very comfortable.
“ ‘lf we were brave we would cut the Gordon
knot that has kept us apart in life after life,’ said
Mrs. Romaine, dramatic like. ‘You are tied to a wife
who only thinks of your money, and I Why
shouldn’t we go away where my husband and your ,
wife would never find us?’
“‘Oh, this is terrible!’ I says. ‘You can’t do
anything like that!’
“‘ls it so terrible?’ asked Mrs. Romaine. ‘Do
you realise that we have waited for two thousand
years? And at last’
“Well, that sounded like madness to me ; but 1
felt I would be glad enough to get rid of them, one
or all of them, whatever they did, what with the talk
of murder and all that; and I left them alone in my
flat to make up their minds what they were going to
do.
“"THE next few days I was on the horns of a tender-
* brook, feeling that something terrible was going
to happen ; but, although it was quite a relief when
Mr. Rattray came and paid me four weeks’ rent
and handed me a letter to give to his wife in the
morning, which showed that he was going, I had to
tell him he oughtn’t to leave his wife like that.
“ ‘But I must,’ he says. ‘She’ll be provided for ;
I’ve arranged that.’
“I saw him slipping some of his bags out the
back way, and, although there was giving that note
to his wife in the morning, that seemed to be the
end of the trouble. From what I had seen of Mrs.
Rattray she wouldn’t worry much, I didn’t think. And
as I didn’t see Mrs. Romaine, I judged she had gone,
too.
“But that wasn’t the end of Mr. Rattray ; it wasn’t
the end otherwise, either; such an upsetting night as
it was you never saw!
“First there was Mr. Rattray ringing up on the
’phone several times to know if Mrs. Romaine was in
her flat, which she wasn’t. And then he came back
himself, looking wild and talking wildly, too.
“He had arranged to meet Mrs. Romaine at the
railway station, but she had not arrived, he said. He
would have her arrested, he said, roaring as if I was
his wife.
You can’t have a woman arrested for not meet-
ing you,’ I says.
But she has my money, Mrs. Parsley—five
hundred pounds I drew yesterday for expenses! She
fooled me to let her take charge of it. She’s got my
money!’
“He seemed nearly mad about it.
“‘Who has your money?’ And there was that
Mrs. Romaine in the doorway! She was angry, too.
‘Have you seen my husband, Mrs. Parsley? He was
to have met me, but I’ve waited for hours. He’s
slipped me up.’
“ ‘So you arranged to meet me, but you were
going to meet your husband! Making a fool of me!’
roared Mr. Rattray as if it was his own flat he was
in, not mine.
“ ‘lf you want to know what’s become of your
money, he’s got it,’ she yelled back at him. ‘I gave it
to him. It was his scheme to fool you with all that
immigration of souls business, and we were to go away
together to-day. Mrs. Parsley, have you the key of
my flat? I can’t get in. I left my key on the mantel-
piece. My husband may have left a note.’
‘ ‘ L_f E had. We all went up together ; and when
Mrs. Romaine opened the note that was lying
on the table she went on so that I thought she would
smash all the furniture in the room.
“ ‘He says he is tired of being mesmerised by me ;
he’ll leave me to go on mesmerising that fool Rattray.
As if I would be bothered with a man like that! I’ll
make him pay if I have to follow him half round the
world. I will! I will!’ Mrs. Romaine went on raving
like that. Then she turned sharp and savage on Mr.
Rattray. ‘There’s something in it for you, fool! It’s
your wife he’s taken with him.’
“And that is just what had happened, which I
say blunders will never cease. Anyway, I’m not taking
any more risks with having immigrating souls in these
flats,” concluded Mrs. Parsley, resuming her dusting.
“It’s bad enough having people with pasts like a lot
of them do haVt' who come here. I don’t want them
going back twcl thousand years.”
BIG LUGS
BY CON DREW
VOU bump some peculiar birds in the boxin’
game ; that big-eared, sceptical bloke I struck
in Durrandoon, for instance. I was out on
the road with a boxin’ show at the time. Our
heavy was a bloke we called Basher O’Brien, after
a pug who had been makin’ a name for himself in
Melbourne. Basher could punch like the kick of a
horse, and you can take it from me that none of the
come-ons collected the fiver I had on offer for stayin’
three rounds.
In addition to the team we had a tattooed man
and a bloke who sang “Here’s a bob and I wish you
good luck, old chap,” and everything was going as
sweet as the smell of grease-paint to an actor till,
after bein’ six weeks on the road, we pulled into
Durrandoon.
I lined the team up on the board that night and
opened the ball with the usual introductory remarks,
but no one came forward to take a glove with Basher.
“A fiver’s well worth havin’, gents,” I told them.
“It will buy you a saddle and bridle, give you inde-
pendence for a fortnight or take you to Sydney, where
the gulls fly backwards so that their eyes won’t be
dazzled by the diamonds on the harbor. Now surely
there’s a sport in the crowd who feels like earnin’
five frogskins.”
Still no one made a move, so I says: “If no one
is game to take on Basher he’ll give you an exhibition
with one of the team.” I’m about to order the boys
inside when someone at the back of the crowd yells
out: “Where did you get that stuff about your bloke
bein’ Basher O’Brien? He ain’t no more like him
than I am.”
“What’s that?” I says, lookin’ over the crowd.
“Don’t hide yourself behind your mates. Come for-
ward and let us have a look at you.”
The bloke took a step or two forward. He was
a square-shouldered chap with big prominent ears,
and I judged him to scale about twelve-stone-ten.
They told me afterwards that he was working in a
survey camp outside the town, and was considered
pretty handy with his fists.
“That’s better,” says I. “Now we can talk to
each other without usin’ the telephone. What was
that remark you made?”
“I said that that bloke ain’t Basher O’Brien,”
replied Big Lugs.
“I see,” I says. “How do you know he ain’t
Basher O’Brien?”
“Because I saw the dinkum Basher box in Mel-
bourne,” Big Lugs come back.
“Oh,” says I. “Do you think you could get into
the ring with my bloke and convince him that he ain’t
the dinkum Basher?”
“I could convince him if it was made worth my
While,” answered Big Lugs.
“Ain’t a fiver worth havin’?” I asks.
“A fiver for gettin’ meself knocked about an’
fillin’ your tent for you!” snorts Big Lugs.
“All right,” I says. “I’ll make it six quid. That
runs into two pounds a round if you can stay the
journey.”
Big Lugs seems to be thinkin’ it over, and I says
quite polite: “The gent, don’t seem too anxious. He
ain’t got the wind up surely.”
That brought him. Shovin’ his way through the
crowd Big Lugs came over to the board and looked
up at me. “I’ll show him that he ain’t Basher O’Brien,”
he said. “Bring him inside.”
O HADES of the great Peter Jackson! Maybe the
crowd didn’t make a dive to get inside and grab
a good position. In no time the tent was as full as
it could hold. In fact, at least a dozen blokes were
left to cool their heels outside.
Big Lugs didn’t take long to get ready. All he
did was to strip himself to his waist. While I was
fixin’ the gloves on him, I said: “You’re still certain
that my bloke is a ring-in?”
. “Absolute certain,” he come back. “I’ll prove
it to him directly.”
“See here, my boy,” I says, “I felt inclined to
slip the word to Basher to let you down a bit light,
but I’ve altered me mind.”
“Let him go his hardest,” says Big Lugs. “I can
look after meself.”
“All right,” says I. “Don’t forget you’ve asked
for it.” I wasn’t worryin’ about how the affray would
go. I’d seen Basher skittle better men than Big Lugs
appeared to be.
1 was ref., and we appointed a local sport as
timekeeper. When everythin’ was ready I moved
back to a neutral corner and sent them into battle.
Sufferin’ snakes, I never seen a man begin quicker
than Big Lugs did! With a bound he was across the
ring and was attacking Basher like an army of tiger-
cats. Basher looked a bit surprised, but he steadied
Big Lugs with a wallop to the head. Big Lugs was
soon well into the affray again, and he kept my bloke
busy for a time, let me tell you. Most of his punches
went wide, but there was plenty of steam in every
one of them.
Of course, it suited us down to the ground. To
my way of thinkin’, Big Lugs should have stalled and
wasted time. His friends went wild with excitement.
“Give it to him, Harry!” they yelled. “Show him
he’s a mug.”
Big Lugs did his best to carry out their instruc-
tions. A couple of times, with mighty right hooks
to the jaw, he would have rattled Basher if he hadn’t
backmoved out of danger. Still, I knew that Basher
had matters pretty well in hand, and was only waitin’
for a chance to plant his right. It was a bobby-
dazzler, and I knew it could fix this bloke.
The chance came sooner than I expected. Big
Lugs was followin’ Basher round, sendin’ in punches
for all he was worth when, in the excitement of dealin’
out wallops, he left himself wide open. Woosh!
Basher banged his right agen Big Lugs’s jaw, and
he flopped to the floor, out to the world.
I thought that Big Lugs would take some bringin’
round, but he came to sooner than I expected. When
he had inserted himself into his duds, I said: “Well,
do you,still maintain my bloke ain’t Basher O’Brien?”
“I do,” says Big Lugs.
“You’re hard to convince,” says I.
“I’ve a right to be hard to convince,” says Big
Lugs. “If I hadn’t been out of trainin’ I’d have con-
vinced that ring-in of yours, too. I’m the dinkum
Basher O’Brien. I’m up here on a spell more than
anythin’ else.”
Stookers.
In the hot, drowsy noon sun-steeped
Lie fields where hay in stooks is heaped,
Where, lolling in the binder’s shade,
Men rest with heads on stubble laid,
And talk while blue smoke drifts away
And horses champ the scented hay.
When next the binder on the long,
Wide cut begins its harvest song,
Stookers will wake, and heap again
The new, ripe hay, heavy with grain,
Through the hot afternoon, until
Dusk finds them darkly stooking still.
Then home with dragging feet they’ll come
Wearily, leaving far behind
Yellow stooks, shadow-stained and dumb,
And wheat fields talking to the wind.
N.S.W.
T. ROSE.


Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and
a 24-hour hot water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via The Cape and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
V>
/=z r
V.
V
A
&
<is
%
him into a hospital that claimed to cure drinking.
Rick got pneumonia instead, and when Smoke came
to fetch him the hospital wanted to get rid of him
as soon as possible. It wasn’t a place for pneumonia
patients.
“He looked down and saw Rick’s face. He
watched, stunned, and while he was watching Rick
died. He could tell when it happened. There was a
difference.”
The prose, the treatment, everything is terse, and
that because it is too sensitive to be anything else.
Domestic Light Comedy.
There is nothing in Martin Boyd’s Night of the
Party (Dent) in the least reminiscent of Australia. It
is English light comedy. Remembering The Mont-
forts, it is disappointing, though among its compeers
it is very acceptable.
It tells the story of two days, twenty years apart,
and does it with great skill, so that in the two groups
of events the reader learns the whole history of the
six principal characters.
It opens on the day of Lucinda’s party. Lucinda
is a rich widow of forty with one beautiful daughter,
Verona, aged 21. The party looks like being one of
those trying affairs when everything goes wrong.
Verona, obviously in love, can’t bring herself to take
an interest, and Lucinda discovers that their oldest
friends, Ella and Gavin Leigh, have by accident been
left off the list of guests. She goes to their house to
invite them and arrives in the midst of a domestic
situation.
The reader’s curiosity is piqued by a quarrel
between Ella'and Lucinda about something that had
happened twenty-two years before. Ella is full of
inhibitions and repressions, and she has done her best
to bring up her two children, Daryl and Pippa, to
have them too—but without much success. Gavin,
her husband, is an artist, inclined to believe he has
missed the best of life and to blame it on her.
Lucinda after her quarrel with Ella encourages
Gavin to kick over the traces, and suggests her willing-
ness to bolt with him. Gavin shows an extreme dis-
inclination to remember the past. At this point the
book switches back to the day, twenty-two years
before, when Ella became engaged to Gavin and
Lucinda took Gavin’s friend Freddie as her lover.
Ella and Lucinda were on holiday in Cornwall.
Lucinda was poor, but Ella had a comfortable income
and was paying for the holiday, a fact which Lucinda
was never allowed to forget. They met two young
artists, and the four went for picnics and sketching
parties together. Gavin teased Ella with mock gal-
lantry, which she took too seriously, and when he
found himself penniless he realised fie could have a
comfortable income for life by marrying her. Though
he was twenty to her thirty, he proposed and was
accepted.
Freddie had been making vigorous love to Lucinda
and had also been accepted ; but that night Gavin
and Lucinda discovered that they both had made a
mistake. They loved one another. Ella overheard
them talking in the moonlight and was filled with
rage and jealousy, but determined not to give up
Gavin. They were married almost at once. Then
the war came and Freddie was killed. Lucinda
married a vague person called George to give Freddie’s
child a father, and all the excitement died down into
outward calm for twenty-two years.
Then came the day of Lucinda’s party and Gavin’s
determination to break free from his stifling life with
Ella. Lucinda is all for it till she discovers at the
last moment that he is proposing to run away with
her daughter Verona. While the guests are waiting
the four principals have a fine scene. Lucinda finds
that she is not the broad-minded mother that she
thought she was ; Ella offers to give up Gavin with-
out a struggle ; Verona finds that she is not a heroine
of romance but only a frightened, miserable and un-
important little girl; Gavin discovers that he does
not love Verona at all —the only thing he cares about
is his painting. An unexpected ending resolves the
problem in the simplest way. At last everyone is
settled if not happy.
The plot is that of a novelette, the treatment is
bright and modern, the characters lifelike.
Recipe for Riches.
Napoleon Hill, writer of the latest American con-
tribution to go-getting literature, was a friend of
Carnegie (not Dale Carnegie, author of How to Win
Friends and Influence People, but Andra o’ that ilk),
and in Think and Grow Rich (Angus and Robertson)
Mr. Hill expounds not only “the Andrew Carnegie
formula for money-making” but a complete “philo-
sophy of individual achievement,” to use his own
phrase.
It is an empirical philosophy, based on Mr. Hill’s
interpretation of the personal experiences of those
whom he assesses as the world’s most successful men?
His paramount heroes are Emerson, Paine, Edison,
Darwin, Lincoln, Burbank, Napoleon, Ford and Car-
negie. “Every night, over a long period of years, I
held an imaginary council meeting with this group,
whom I called my Invisible Counsellors.” That touch
is typical of the mingling of the metaphysical with the
practical that pervades the book.
The recipe for riches? It’s simple. Cultivate a
tremendous burning desire to obtain a set sum of
money (apparently the amount is immaterial. Make
it £lO,OOO, £1,000,000 or £1,000,000,000,000). Fix a
time limit in which this amount is to be amassed.
Convince yourself that you are bound to get this
money; can’t possibly fail. Envisage yourself hand-
ling and enjoying this money. Presently along will
come a plan for getting it, out of the blue ether.
It may be objected that a terrifically strong urge
to make money may express itself in unlawful expedi-
ents. Mr. Hill says no. You daily recite to yourself
a written statement of your aims which contains thci
clause:
In return for this money I will give the most efficient
service of which I am capable, rendering the fullest
possible quantity and the best possible quality of service
in the capacity of salesman of (describe the service or
merchandise you intend to sell).
When you’ve made your ten thousand, or million,
or billion, or as part of the plan of making it, you
ought to form a Master Mind —a group of like-
minded associates, each capable of specialised skilful
service.
You may laugh at all this ;• reckon that it presents
a curiously immature and unsophisticated outlook on
the complicated processes of human life. But it isn’t
as naive as it looks, and there’s nothing new about
it. The hardest thing in life is to concentrate com-
pletely on a single purpose. It may be doubted
whether a really well-balanced brain could achieve
-it. Fanatics are rare. But history is dotted, not to
say scarred, with their achievements. The simple old
truth Mr. Hill expounds is that it is only the individual
with a definite aim in life who is likely to achieve
distinction through achievement.
Hill’s total lack of humor is symptomatic. A
sense of humor cushions life. Hill is all for the hard
road, the strenuous, desperate endeavor, the fight with
no quarter to the enemy. His converts (he won’t have
many) will quite conceivably be vastly successful, and
vastly envied. But there are philosophers (not of the
Hill brand) who, while not despising money power,
recognise other values, and they won’t be envious.
They may even say : “There, but for the grace of
G0d....”
Legend in Cornwall.
The 125 pages of Mary Ellen Chase’s Dawn in
Lyonesse (Collins) give full scope for her smooth and
elegant prose, her flair for description, her tender
romanticism, and the book ends before it is over-
taken by the insipidity that is the failing of her full-
length novels.
The theme is the interlacing of the past and the
present in the life of a fisherman’s daughter. Ellen
Pascoe was born in a fisherman’s hut in Cornwall, and
for a time lived on Bodmin Moor beside the pool
from which King Arthur drew his magic sword
Excalibur. Hers was a hard and bitter life, all work ;
and although she was soaked in the superstitions ot
the countryside she knew nothing of the legendary
history of Cornwall until she went as waitress to the
King Arthur’s Castle Hotel at Tintagel.
There she heard for the first time, from a friendly
scholar, the stories of the lost kingdom of Lyonesse
and the legend of Tristram and lsolt. There was, too,
a book in the hotel that told in poetic prose the story*
of the doomed lovers. Ellen read it over and over
again until her outward life became a dream and
the old Cornwall of the legends more real than the
dark, sad country of her present.
In a few months she was to be married to Derek
Tregonny, a fisherman, dour, anxious and good ; and
her greatest wish, which she made at one of the
wishing-stones, was that he would come to share her
enchantment. News came that he had been drowned.
Gradually she learned the truth. He had killed him-
self in remorse because in a madness that had sud-
denly come upon him he had been unfaithful to her
with her friend Susan. They had wandered through
the flowering land, dreamily happy, spending the little
hoard he had saved for his marriage ; following, only
they did not know it, in the footsteps of Tristram
and lsolt.
Ellen’s wish had come true; the enchantment had
fallen on Derek, but he had shared it with Susan, not
with her.
Some of the descriptions are very fine:
The silence was increased and deepened, made more
soundless, by the very presence of any number of sounds.
There was the wind, for instance. It had a hundred
voices. It sighed through the stems of the bracken,
whispered through its feathery tops, then in a sudden
mad gust sent its widespread fronds with a whir and
swish to the ground, or hurled them with a tearing sound
among the interlacing black stalks of the gorse and
furze; over the spiny surface of the furze itsell
it rose and fell, now a hum, now a whistle, now almost
a cry. Yet above and below and even through the wind
was silence, older than the moor itself. And in the
silence when the grey dawn at last came stealing slowly
over the wavelike expanse of the black hills rising and
falling, the plaintive cry of the curlews and the scream
of a raven were but gashes of a tiny knife and the cruel
gash of a sword in the engulfing stillness.
Four Women.
Requiem for Idols (Methuen) is the arresting but
not particularly apt title of Norah Lofts’s new novel.
It is an exclusively feminine book, being the life
stories of four women: Dahlia, a beautiful quadroon
from Jamiaca whose singing voice has been destroyed
by diphtheria ; Polly Field, who has songs in her head
but can’t write them down ; Polly’s sister Pen, devoted
to good works, and a third sister, Meg, a fading
beauty.
These four meet in the Fields’ childhood home,
which Polly has just bought back and refurnished as
nearly as she can remember it, for a week’s holiday
that proves crucial in all their lives. Polly first meets
Dahlia in a teashop trying to commit suicide with
poisoned coffee. They were both broke, but Polly
discovered that Dahlia could write down on paper
the haunting tunes she had never been able to convey
to anyone else. They went into partnership and made
a fortune out of popular songs.
This enabled Polly to buy her old home and set
about living what she fondly imagined would be an
idyllic life of gilt-edged rusticity. Dahlia comes to
stay with a sick monkey in her arms. The dogs tear
it to pieces, and Annie, the old family retainer, also
resurrected, gives notice because she won’t wait on
a nigger. Dahlia is in despair because the man she
loves, and whom she thought loved her, had told her


YOU GET THE VALUE...
AUSTRALIA KEEPS THE PROFITS
A
HI
y\
1 1
a'
WITH a combined investment of £3,000,000 owned by Australians in Australia,
big modern plants in every capital city throughout the country, employing more
than 5,000 Australians, a dealer organisation second to none, the members of
Chrysler Dodge Distributors (Australia) Pty. Ltd. together constitute the largest All-
Australian organisation in the Motor Industry. When you buy their cars and trucks you
have the satisfaction of knowing that they are as Australian as they can be. Only the
unassembled chassis parts that cannot be economically produced in Australia are imported
from overseas. In this way car and truck buyers obtain fullest possible value, at the
same time ensuring that trading profits justly remain within the Commonwealth.
The distributors of Chrysler, Chrysler-Plymouth, Dodge and De Soto
cars, and of Dodge and Fargo Trucks in every State in Australia, are
the members of the Company named Chrysler Dodge Distributors
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. which has been established as an All-Australian
enterprise to co-ordinate the interests of its members so that they are
able to offer the public the greatest All-Australian motor car and truck
value. The Company is financially associated with the extensive
bodyworks of T. J. Richards & Sons Ltd., and Richards Safe-T-Steel
Bodies are fitted to all units these members distribute.
CHA
T
SAFE
STEEL
BODY
So that the public can identify the genuine
Richards Safe-T-Steel Body made expressly
to the order of Chrysler Dodge Distributors
( Australia ) Pty. Ltd., this seal is affixed to the
safety glass windscreen. You will recognise it
as a mark of the All-Australian Organisation.
CHRYSLER DODGE DISTRIBUTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Distributor Members for Victoria:
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd.,
Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd.
Automobiles Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members for Queensland:
Austral Motors Pty., Ltd.
Stradbroke Motors Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members for tiew South Wales:
Harden & Johnston, Limited,
York Motors Pty., Ltd.
Buckle Motors (Trading Co.) Pty., Ltd.
Distributor Members for South Australia:
Waymputh Motor Co., Ltd.
Flinders Motor Company.
Distributor Members for Western Australia:
Winterbottoin Motor Co., Ltd.
Wentworth Motors, Limited.
Distributor Members for Tasmania:
Co-operative Motors, Ltd.
Metro Motors Pty., Ltd.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd.
P.A.S.
bluntly that he couldn’t afford to be seen about with
a colored woman. Meg arrives and is also in despair
because her beauty is fading and she has nothing
else ; the very fear of death is upon her. Pen arrives,
and her despair is revealed as permanent because as a
girl during the war she had driven a car over a cliff
to save a nerve-wrecked boy the misery of going back
to the front. Her body had survived, but her spirit
had died with the boy.
The idyll is now pretty completely wrecked.
Dahlia finds a way out, a very unsatisfactory one, by
marrying a coal-black pianist. Meg takes a lover, an
anodyne for the time being, Pen goes disconsolately
back to her good works, and Polly decides that she
does not care for the ideal life. She returns to a
former lover, the same gentleman who could not
afford to be seen with a colored woman.
The book is short and, because so much retro-
spective narrative is crammed into it, rather con-
gested. It is well and wittily written in a light collo-
quial style with some beautiful descriptions of the
English countryside. Polly tells the story, or rather
stories, in the first person, and her unsympathetic
personality is at times burdensome.
Reviewed Briefly
Fiction . . .
A Guest of Life: Nelle M. Scanlan (Robert
Hale). Before the development of indigenous litera-
tures in the lands where British people have settled it
was the fashion in fiction for the English hero to
make a pot, collar the prettiest girl and go home. Miss
Scanlan, one of the last remaining exponents of the
“colonial” school of fiction, compromises very neatly
with changing times. Her English heroes marry and
settle down in the land of their adventures. A Guest
of Life is turned off with the same glossy competence
as its eight predecessors.
A Rope for the Hanging: Nigel Morland
(Cassell). Again featuring Mrs. Pym. Besides having
some gift for characterisation the author gives the
reader-detective a good run for his money.
General . , .
Shadows on the Hills: Nancy Price (Allen and
Unwin). An actress’s holidays afoot in the Cumber-
land Fells. First-class—except for slabs of dialect
that make rather heavy going. Illustrated.
Forest News: Vitali Bianchi (Allen and Unwin).
For children. Follows the Russian seasons round
with news items from the world of animal, plant and
insect in town and country. Illustrated.
Lilian Baylis: Sybil and Russell Thorndyke
(Chapman and Hall). Biography of the woman who
took over the Old Vic. in war days to provide the
working class with “pure entertainment” sans intoxi-
cants. Interesting, but the authors gush.
In the Steps of Moses the Conqueror: Louis
Golding (Rich and Cowan). Takes off from Mount
Sinai, where the same author’s In the Steps of Moses
the Lawgiver ended. Golding evidently believes that
a studied brightness of style never comes amiss. Well
illustrated.
Public Library Finance: Duncan Gray (Allen and
Unwin). The ninth book of a series covering the main
problems of public-library management. This author
is city librarian of Nottingham, and writes with a view
to managing on a restricted budget.
Verse . . .
The Song of the Happy Warrior: Mary Bright
(Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne). Begins with
Gallipoli; ends:
It is coming! I can see it!
I can feel it in the air!
The great Douglas Credit System!
It is spreading everywhere!
“The Southwellian”: Verses from the Catholic
Poetry Society of Queensland.
Rhymes and Reveries: Four “Barrier Bards” send
the booklet from Broken Hill. Some faithful land-
scape, though Aurora, over “mulga and saltbush,”
doesn’t look happy.
Later Poems: John L. Glascock (Paterson’s Press,
Perth, W.A.). Songs and moralisings, with an intro-
duction by Professor Walter Murdoch.
The Plumed Voice: Leonard Mann (Angus and
Robertson). Twenty-five poems by the author of
A Murder in Sydney. They’re up to date without
being eccentric, and he thinks. An image of summer,
when everything sleeps in the heat:
Only the tiger-snake
Chilled by its blood’s own cold
’’''lows slowly through the dust
From its innermost fold.


A gift in keeping with Yuletide...sena your friends
in England a case 0f...
DFD
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY... No freight charges to payJ
*,* 41 i
fir**.
** "- '•' .
.....
Houses of Parliament, London.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.
For full information ring or write to '
B. SEFFELT& SONS LTD.
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenham Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London Office: Australia House.


NOT THIS TIME, WAR GOD!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings. 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Staie cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months. 11s.
TOWARDS THE HORROR.
Last week human destiny went perilously close to the
catastrophe of war. Wherever the news could reach,
men were excited, talking in groups about the preli-
minary moves and countermoves, picking the sides,
fighting the battles in advance. All realised that this
was not just another of the false crises so often
exploited, and so successful in keeping people in a
state of war expectancy, the world in a state of
neurosis. Those capable of getting to grips with reali-
ties through the welter of alarms and pronouncements
were appalled. A halt was called right on the brink.
In many ways it recalled 1914, but with striking
differences. In 1914 the public was not exposed to the
inflammatory urgings of university professors, radio
commentators or Communists. And war broke like
a snap of doom : it was preceded by no press cam-
paign of half-lies, whole lies and wholesale vilification.
Belgium invaded, the Empire was in danger, The
issue was plain, and plain people saw it for what it was.
Through years widely dedicated to stirring up
hates and playing upon fears, The Bulletin de-
nounced war as the certain road to the lowest depths
of human depravity and suffering, and the last dread-
ful resort of civilised people. It was disgusted by the
performance of those who paid hypocritical lip-
service to peace while counselling courses that led
directly to war. Almost alone in Australia, it opposed
the alienation of Italy’s traditional friendship with
Britain, that appalling blunder for which Mr. Anthony
Eden was principally responsible.
The Bulletin has insisted over and over that if
Britain became involved in war there could be no
question as to what Australia’s position would be.
Australia would be in it, too. That is not merely an
admission that this country has now no national
foreign policy formulated on a consideration of its
geographical position and its other separate problems.
C. J. Dennis wrote of an Australian in the last war
that he went because he “damn’ well had to go.”
That is still the last word on Australian national senti-
ment where the jeopardy of Britain is concerned,
whether it should come to the matter of going or not.
* There is only one thing to do about war once that
horror is let loose, and that is win it. There can be
no patience with the breed who see the opportunity
whe» a country is desperately pressed to start up
internal strife. That is the frequently-stated and never-
once-denied scheme of Communism, the fountainhead
of which was last week especially glorified as a power-
ful and dependable ally.
With a clear view of war’s indescribable vileness,
with some steadying thought for victims of the last
shambles enduring their living hell in military hospi-
tals, this paper watched the nightmare proceedings of
early last week, hoping against hope. No good pur-
pose, as far as it could see, was to be served by turn-
ing away, or attempting to turn people in Australia
away, from a realistic view of a prospect the details
of which were being more and more obscured as
approach to the chasm was brought closer. This
was no time for glossing over unpleasant facts or
being misled by falsehood. The deafening and blind-
ing of censorship and propaganda would descend soon
enough to obscure reason.
As the week went on the resemblances to 1914
stood strikingly out, but no more strikingly than the
differences. That diplomacy was then secret has been
blamed by wiseacres as one of the causes of the world
having been dragged into that slaughter. That criti-
cism could have no validity now. Diplomacy has
never been more in the public view than it was during
last week.
The public mind had previously been buoyed with
hope by the statesmanship and the great bid for peace
displayed in Mr. Chamberlain’s two visits to Germany.
The first of the succession of shocks came on the
Monday, when the virtual ultimatum of Herr Hitler’s
memorandum insisting on the withdrawal by October
1 of the whole of the Czech armed forces, police,
Customs officials and frontier guards from the Sudeten
area of Czechoslovakia was published. The handing-
over of this area had been proposed by Britain and
France, and agreed to, under protest, by the Czech
Government. That was the basis of Mr. Chamber-
lain’s bargaining for peace with Herr Hitler. A com-
mission was to supervise the fixing of the new boun-
daries; the non-German residents of the area were
to be safeguarded in the change-over; so was the
national establishment of Czechoslovakia.
That was the apparently accepted arrangement
when Herr Hitler delivered his surprising ultimatum.
Germany was to get by amicable arrangement prac-
tically all it now proposed to have by force. On that
precarious point of balance the matter rested until
the next shock came in Mr. Chamberlain’s world
broadcast, which was heard in Australia at daylight
on the Wednesday morning. Meanwhile, through the
new open diplomacy, it was known that British and
French Ministers had reached full accord on all points
raised by Herr Hitler's ultimatum, and that an explicit
note had been sent to Germany. There was also,
preceding Mr. Chamberlain’s broadcast, a broadcast
by Herr Hitler in which he reiterated his ultimatum,
and not only attacked the Czechs generally, and their
President personally, but fulminated against “the
democracies” as “bloodthirsty monsters.”
Those who could feel themselves being rushed
headlong towards the catastrophe of war could get
such comfort as they might from the hope volunteered
by President Roosevelt on behalf of “130,000,000
Americans” that “the controversy would be settled
without resort to arms.” Some professed to see in
this oratorical gesture a promise of United States
support, for Britain in the threatened hostilities. This
was another enthusiasm which The Bulletin could
find no reason for sharing. Moral curtain lectures
delivered to the world by U.S.A. statesmen have
become notorious. On every occasion that they have
been uttered there has been the addendum that the
United States was prepared to go so far and no
further.
Then came Mr. Chamberlain’s momentous broad-
cast. Long before Mr. Chamberlain took control of
Britain’s foreign policy, the drift towards war had
set in. He had heard the clamoring for it over Abys-
sinia, over Spain and over China; he knew when he
took control how seriously the drift was on, and he
determined to stop the madness if at all possible. He
knew the value, if it came to the worst, of the former
friendship with Italy ; he sought to regain it, and was
traduced and maligned by the fools who have raged
openly for war. Not until last week, when it appeared
that averting catastrophe had got beyond his power,
did they begin to see in him the signs of a great states-
man. The Bulletin has had that opinion of him from
the moment he applied himself to the enormous and
difficult task set for him by his muddling predecessors.
It has believed all along that if in the end he failed
no other man could have succeeded.
In Mr. Chamberlain’s broadcast voice there was
a note of weariness and disappointment. He still held
out hope and counselled patience ; but to those who
heard him it seemed a slender hope. He spoke words
that came as a greater shock than Herr Hitler’s ulti-
matum, for this speech was not fanatical, but grave,
weighed and understandable. And ominous.
However much a man may sympathise with a small
nation confronted by a big and powerful nation,
we cannot in all circumstances undertake to involve
the whole British Empire in war simply on that account.
If we have to fight it must be on larger issues than that.
I myself am a man of peace; but if I were convinced
that any nation had made up its mind to dominate the
world by threats of force, I should feel that it must
be resisted. But war is a fearful thing, and we must be
very clear before we embark on it that it is really great
issues that are at stake, and that we should risk every-
thing in their defence.
No such appeal to reason and reasonableness was
made in 1914. Nor can it be maintained that the
horror towards which last week’s momentum headed
was something wholly forced on the people of the
Empire by armament manufacturers and other
popular scapegoats of the last war. War on behalf of
Czechoslovakia was in fact preached by the same
people who demanded war on behalf of Abyssinia,
on behalf of Red Spain and on behalf of China. And
the noisiest demonstrations and utterances were made
in the name of those who in war are the least likely to
gain and the certain first to suffer.
In Britain last week the loudest insistence that
“Britain must unite with France and the Soviet” in
“a stand against aggression” was uttered by Mr.
Attlee, claiming to speak on behalf of “the Labor
movement.” At the pinch it was different in Aus-
tralia. Here Mr. Curtin was heard insisting that “no
men must be sent out of Australia,” that “the wise
policy for this Dominion is not to be embroiled
in the disputes of Europe,” that “the wars
of Europe are a quagmire in which, we should not
allow our resources, our strength and our vitality to
be sunk.”
There was no such enormous difference of out-
look between British and Australian Labor in 1914.
Such differences are not dissolved by a plunge into
the shambles. As a sign of possible dissension ahead,
they have to be taken into account as of the utmost
importance. Only a close-knit, united Empire could
hope to be successful in war.
There are other differences within the Empire.
From India there was the ambiguous assurance of the
Governor of the Punjab that the Punjabis “would
rally if the need arose.” But the Manchester “Guar-
dian” had published a letter from Mr. Jawaharlal
Nehru concluding:
The people of India have no intention of submitting
to any foreign decision on war. They only can decide,
and certainly they will not accept the dictation of the
British Government, which they distrust utterly. India
would willingly throw her entire weight on the side of
democracy and freedom, but we heard those words often
20 years ago and more.
Neither that nor any other indication of the Indian
discord found its way into the enormously enlarged
cables. Nor was the feeling in South Africa or Canada
or the state of affairs in Palestine put before the Aus-
tralian public.
On the other hand, there was the closest resem-
blance to 1914 in misleading assessment of the strength
of the opposition. A great amount of whistling in
the graveyard came from professors. Professor
mern “pointed out Germany’s lack of allies.” “Russia,
declared this authority, “will be with France and Great
Britain.” In that event it would appear conclusive
that Italy and Japan would side with Germany. The
professor doubted this of Italy. Yet Signor Mussolini
had on September 25 stated clearly where he stood,
and that was with Germany. Japan the professor
overlooked, though that country, as the third member
in the Anti-Comintern Pact, automatically ranges
against any combination which includes the Soviet,
and though the stand to be taken by Japan must, be
of the utmost importance to Australia more im-
portant than any other consideration whatever.
Japan was not overlooked by another of the tour-
ing internationalists. Captain Cazalet, M.P., com-
mitted the sickening gaff that “Japan will certainly
make ugly faces at you, but I don’t think she will
actively join in in the initial stages.” The Bulletin
wishes it could regard Captain Cazalet, M.P.,
as either an authority or a prophet, and hopes
Australia may have no occasion to wish him
and his flippancies to the devil. It could not
see, taking a realistic view of last week’s trends
and events, any cause for hoping that the ultimate line-
up would not include Italy and Japan and Poland, at
least, with Germany.
That is a very different prospect from 1914, to
say the least of it. Another vital difference lay in the
ability of France to wage an offensive war. The much-
advertised Maginot Line is purely a defensive measure.
The central idea in France’s war preparations since
1918 has been that they were for defence. In that
France is no doubt as strong as it has been represented
to be. But this prospect differs from 1914 perhaps
most importantly of all in that what was now called
for from the old reunited Allies was an offensive war.
No other sort of war could be of the slightest service
to anywhere else. Counting Czecho-
slovakia out as a matter over which the British Empire
could not be risked —as Mr. Chamberlain did count
it out —and sticking to Mr. Chamberlain’s definition
of a war to resist a nation determined to dominate
the world by threats of force, the prescription for an
offensive war remains.
On the outcome, or on any other matter in such
a prospect, prophecy is worse than useless. When
war is declared the lid is off, and there is no
saying to-day in what part of the world there will
not be fighting to-morrow. To hold out hope that
the war which the world all last week was approach-
ing would be a short war was to be foolishly mislead-
ing. .“The question then arose whether Germany
could stand the strain of a long war.” (Professor Zim-
mern speaking.) That was one of last week’s clearest
echoes of the old, worn-out 1914 twaddle. It is
paraded before all wars, and all wars prove it a disas-
trous fallacy.
Along with it goes the suggestion of dissension
inside Germany. The mind with which this country
faces up to the horror of war should be clear of all
such humbug. If there is one thing that should by
now be painfully clear it is that the great body of
Germans are solidly behind Herr Hitler.
Other resemblances to 1914 in last week’s out-
pourings were legion. Even “der Tag” had its place ;
London “Daily Mail” was first in the field with “the
last penny and the last man”; London “Daily
Herald” (Labor) proclaimed that “the fight will
be against tyranny and against injustice, and
we will be victorious” ; London “.Daily Telegraph”
reported sabotage and “growing resistance” in Ger-
many, with “serious explosions in armament fac-
tories” ; Herr Hitler and the Czech Minister in London
invoked the name of the Deity. From some unnamed
source came the palpable lie that Jews in Vienna
had to pay 50 marks for gas-masks which cost Ger-
mans five marks. The atrocity stories were yet to be
invented.
One further thing was new, as compared with
1914, and appalling in its fearful implications. In
Britain “gas-masks” were “handed out everywhere” ;
“the Home Office” appealed “to every available man to
enlist and help the thousands who are already digging
trenches in London parks” ; “plans have been com-
pleted for the evacuation of half a million London
school-children within a few hours.” The same story
was told of Paris. “Neither France nor Britain is
likely to take the initiative in the aerial bombardment
of civilians.”
■ When it was a matter of reading moral lessons
to Spaniards and Italians it was not admitted that we
could consider using their methods even in retalia-
tion ; many were thereby deluded with the hope that
such methods could be outlawed and eliminated ; that
war could be in this and in other respects civilised
and run according to rules. The Bulletin has
opposed war because it knows there are no limits to
horror and suffering that must ensue once war has
broken loose. It avails nothing to be appalled at such
things after the event. In the test they have to be
faced and endured.
During last week’s sickening glissade up to Herr
Hitler’s invitation to the Munich conference, which
called a halt and gave hope back to the world, no
voice, other than Mr. Curtin’s bewildered utterance,
was heard speaking with any real regard for Aus-
tralia’s peculiar danger in the prospect opening out
The exposure to raids, if not worse ; the absence of
even a gas-mask issue, though half the population
is concentrated in coastal cities ; the wretched paucity
of trained troops; the certain disruption of trade-
no such considerations entered into the balance.
Australians are not easily scared, but it was
impossible for them to feel enthusiastic about the
war to which newspapers and Communists summoned
them. They were dourly conscious of the fact that
not only preparedness but leadership was lacking. Mr.
Lyons spoke, and said nothing, except to make it clear
that this country had all along been committed in
advance. Even that, in the circumstance of Britain’s
unwilling involvement in war, Australians were pre-
pared to stomach. But if they have profited at all by
this experience they will insist that in future there
must be a more evident regard for this country’s vital
interests. Australia should be the last place in the
world where sabre-rattlers can henceforth be heard
with any patience.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No War.
Only twice in its history has the British nation been
stirred as profoundly as it was stirred last week ; and
the supreme confidence with which it prepared for
the Napoleonic invasion that never came, and for
the war which began on August 4, 1914, was absent.
With nearly all the people digging trenches, trying
on gas masks and improvising or testing gas shelters,
and with millions of Londoners of all ages under
orders to leave by train, with rations for two days,
supreme confidence could not be felt.
There was the old faith in the Royal Navy, now
being mobilised —and no longer H.M.S. Unriskables
to pacifists and editors of the new bellicose breed —
but the Royal Navy was no shield against the peril
that can fly by night. Every mother must have been
a prey to alarm and anguish when she gazed upon
her children and wondered what was in store for
them. And from beyond the Channel came the voices
of French Rightists demanding the conscription of
British manhood as the price of full French interposi-
tion in the war that was timed for the week-end.
Hence the unprecedented scenes of emotion with
which Parliament and people heard from their old
Prime Minister that he and the leaders of Germany,
France and Italy were to meet at Munich. The sug-
gestion was Mr. Chamberlain’s ; the invitations were
issued by Herr Hitler.
In the meantime, Mr. Chamberlain had taken
advantage of the Anglo-Italian agreement, so roundly
cursed by Reds and parlor Pinks, to urge pacific
intervention on Signor Mussolini. President and Pope
were active in the same cause. Save for a striking
message of encouragement from Mr. de Valera to
Mr. Chamberlain, the League did nothing but gather
round Litvinoff to hear him snarl.
The Munich discussions took place on Thursday
and lasted beyond midnight. Then, to the unmeasured
delight of all except Reds, Pinks and League of
Nations Unionists, the world was informed that agree-
ment had been reached on all points. The Czechs
were to honor their undertaking to withdraw their
forces from the Sudetenland. There was to be gradual
occupation by Reich Germans during the first ten
days of October, the conditions being laid down by
an International Commission ; then plebiscites in de-
batable districts, to be determined and policed by
“international bodies.” Occupation began on Satur-
day, and on Monday all was quiet on the front where,
but for Mr. Chamberlain, the storm of war would
have burst.
Before Fiihrer and Prime Minister separated they
signed a paper which is of greater moment to the
world than the Sudetenland decision:
We, the German Fiihrer and the British Prime
Minister,. recognising that the question of Anglo-German
relations is of the first importance to the two. countries
and to Europe, have agreed to regard the agreement
reached last night and the Anglo-German Naval Agree-
ment as symbolic of the desire of our two peoples never
to go to war with each other again. We have resolved
that the method, consultation, shall be the method
adopted to deal with any other question concerning our
two countries. We are determined to continue our
efforts to remove possible sources of difference and thus
contribute to the assurance of the peace of Europe.
History will say that it was worth while going
through weeks of anxiety and peril to gain that
declaration alone.
Mr. Lyons Sees It Through.
“El Verdugo’s” first-hand evidence:
In the course of a week Canberra has experienced as
much excitement as can come to a community isolated from
metropolitan newspaper offices by 200 miles of bush and sub-
jected to a sort of internal quarantine, achieved by parcelling
up every family in a separate wrapping of Mexican shrubs,
European conifers and Spanish bungalows.
On September 23 the House had risen. In the lounge of
the Hotel Canberra Canadian professors jostled Australian pro-
fessors. A few marooned lobbyists sat over their coffee. Voices
rose as the professors warmed to their work of explaining just
what was wrong with the world and Australia. When you have
been in Canberra a week you can spot a professor 100 yards
away. Now and then a figure in evening dress drifted by.
All Canberra knew that Mr. Keith Murdoch, of newsprint-
bounty celebrity, was giving a dinner.
About eight o’clock there was a lull. Then a grey, tired,
worried-looking man limped through the lounge, his tie awry.
He went down the steps in a hurry, the Government-built
double doors closing behind him. The professors all paused
long enough to whisper: “That’s Joe.”
A few minutes afterwards Parliament House was a blaze
of light. Powerful Ministerial cars emerged at high speed's
from the ordered scrub which surrounds the Heart of the
Commonwealth. Anxious-looking civil servants hurried in,
leaving their penny bridge. The bush telegraph passed the
word that Cabinet was meeting. Terrible news had been
heard from London .
Recourse to the radio confirmed the worst suspicions.
Canberra depends largely on radio for its news. There are no
special editions. And it is not till you have lived in Canberra
for a little time that you realise the mischief which can be
done by the rantings of irresponsibles alleged to be experts on
foreign affairs.
The week-end was one of suspense. Ministers mostly
remained in Canberra till Sunday night, when some of them
left for Sydney. Mysterious comings and goings lent a Gun-
powder Plot air to the capital.
But on Monday it seemed that the place had been
evacuated. Most of the professors had gone. Not a soul was
in sight round Parliament House. Save for an odd tourist
the roads seemed to be empty. No flags flew. The only sound
was occasional shooting from the direction of Duntroon.
Tuesday dawned with a cheerful influx of members. The
refreshment-rooms and the post office did a roaring trade.
When all else fails, members write letters. Some of them were
observed leading little flocks of tourist constituents through
the hall and galleries.
The House met in the afternoon. Immediately the
P.M. announced that he later hoped to make a statement
on the international situation, “probably at 8 p.m.” His
demeanor presaged the worst. When Mr. Curtin obtained leave
to state the Labor party’s attitude and handed a copy of his
words of wisdom across the table, Mr. Lyons was observed
to be trembling so much that the paper shook in his hand.
Mr. Curtin said his say in an atmosphere of hostility.
Government benches and galleries glared at him as if he were
selling up the old home, though, to tell the truth, there was
nothing much in his statement to inspire either hostility or
enthusiasm.
Then Dr. Page rose and read a long statement about his
travels. When he finished nobody seemed to be quite clear
what it was all about, least of all Dr. Page. His dreariness
set the keynote for the rest of the day’s ordinary business.
Everybody was waiting for eight o’clock and “Joe.”
As the dinner-hour dragged nearer it was something like
being in the anteroom of a palace during a royal accouche-
ment. Ministers went by with worried faces. There was a
general whispering hush. In Canberra, where you cannot blink
an eyelid without the most remote office-boy knowing it, all
were aware that Joe was talking to Stanley on the radio 'phone.
Until you have experienced it, you cannot know what your
spine feels like when you are stopped in the dark in the middle
of a kind of Botanical Garden, hemmed in by bare hills, while
a private secretary whispers in your ear that Joe and Stanley
are communing through 12,000 miles of ether, with the
Pharaoh-like form of Billy Hughes standing by in a black
morning coat. It makes you pull up your coat collar with
a shiver and glance furtively behind the American oaks in
search of pickelhauben.
Eight o’clock came. No war and no Joe. A few
members read or licked stamps while Mr. Curtin thundered
about income-tax machinery. Abruptly Mr. Casey and Mr.
Mcnzies had the House adjourned till Wednesday morning.
When it met again there was something like a full
attendance for once. Mr. Lyons immediately rose and moved
the adjournment till not earlier than 2.15 p.m. The fact that
all ordinary business was shelved and that members were
to be kept waiting at call suggested final disaster. At 2.15
it was known that the P.M. would make a momentous state-
ment at 8 p.m. It also leaked out that he proposed to have
his speech broadcast from the floor of the House. Such a
departure from precedent without consulting the House itself
was enough to suggest that a state of war already existed.
At 5.45 messengers went hurriedly through the lobbies.
The statement was deferred till 11 p.m.
Every few minutes a new courier trailed in with further
news from the Ministerial lobbies. You could not have got
six to four against war from any Canberran at 9 p.m. on
Wednesday unless you had taken it off him with the aid of
a yard of iron pipe and a knuckleduster.
At 11 p.m. both House and galleries were crammed. Even
the Ministerial bench was full, but it was observed that its
order had been rearranged for the moment. Dr. Page had
moved from his scat in the centre of the Treasury bench to
sit next to Mr. Menzies at the end. They both looked as if
they were listening to a burial service as the Prime Minister
read his long, wearying statement, which was not broadcast
after all. He read with about the normal ardor and speed of
an auctioneer rushing through routine conditions of sale. The
Lang section kept up a hum of private conversation with an
occasional audible interruption. The general air was one of
deflation, of weariness and of disappointment. Keyed up by
three days of waiting, the audience jumped as flashlight bulbs
went off. At the end, near midnight, nobody knew anything
more than anybody had known before.
Members adjourned at lunchtime on Thursday and set
out for Sydney and Melbourne. Mr. Lyons and Mr. Casey
wanted to talk to some State Premiers for a couple of
days; hence, another Parliamentary holiday.
On Friday morning Parliament House was deserted, save
for secretaries, tourists and messengers. About noon a civil
servant in a sports suit appeared in King’s Hall and said
“The War is Over: The Four-Power Pact is Signed.” There
were no members left to cheer.
No Bolshevik Alliance, Thank God!
It was reported in Sydney on Friday, on authority
as “reliable” as that of the “Cronk-News” and
Madame Two-Blues, that after reading the “S. M.
Herald” leader that morning the oldest member of the
Union Club had gone out and cut his carotid. This
was the concluding paragraph:—-
The real heart of the Labor movement lies, we may
feel, not in Mr. Curtin’s vain cry for a stay-at-home
policy, but in the attitude of the Labor newspaper in
Sydney, whose “reply to Fascism’s threat of war is to
offer wholehearted support to Great Britain in a stand
for democracy, liberty and collective security.”
Not even in the Great War did “S. M. Herald”
view any extract from a Labor paper with anything
but Horror and Alarm. The paper it now quotes
with approval changed hands not long ago, and its
foreign policy is dictated by Reds. “The whole-
hearted support” it offered to John Bull, unasked by
that party, was really support for Moscow—as Mr.
Hughes, the president of the Labor Council, elaborated
the following day: “If there must be war, it will be
war against Fascism, and in this case war to the
death.” The “Labor Daily” is crazy about Moscow,
and the “Herald” is crazy about Geneva.
To the chagrin of these extraordinary associates,
Mr. Chamberlain left Moscow out of his negotiations.
He refused to touch Moscow with a forty-foot pole.
One of his reasons was that, if he tried to bring
Moscow in, the Munich agreement would not have
been reached, since no discussions would have been
held. Another was that, if the worst happened and
Moscow came in as an ally, Italy and Japan would
be on the other side, with perilous consequences for
Australia and Maoriland. But other reasons there
were in plenty.
After the Armistice a Royal Air Force detach-
ment was, very much against its will, ordered from
the Levant to South Russia for service against the
Bolsheviks. There it perforce made the acquaintance
of Tartars, one of whose practices with prisoners was
to disembowel them, tie the entrails to posts, and stab
the agonised victims with bayonets for the pleasure of
seeing them move round.
Two R.A.F. men fell into the hands of these
demons. Though the ruins of their machine was seen
the bodies were never found, but their fate was ascer-
tained after the capture of two Bolsheviks by some
of Denikin’s men. These prisoners confessed that
a saucepan, with a huge rat in it, had been pressed ,
against each airman’s body; and, “liberated” with a
blowlamp, each maddened and famishing rodent had
eaten his way through.
After that, R.A.A.F. orders were that airmen
and aircraftsmen falling into Bolshie hands should
follow Kipling’s advice to captured redcoats:
When you’re wounded and spent on Afghanistan’s plains,
And the women come out to cut up wot remains,
Just crawl to your carbine and blow out your brains
And go to your Gawd like a soldier!
The fearful facts are preserved in the records of
the Royal Air Force—if “S. M. Herald” is interested
they will be certified to by a Sydney citizen of good
repute who served at Baku —and the sentiments of
that body have to be considered.
The thanks of all Australians are due to Mr.
Chamberlain for having, among other things, spared
them the danger and infamy of a Bolshevik alliance.
What the Mighty Soviet War Machine would have
amounted to as an ally was shown when it couldn’t
stop the Poles from grabbing Teschen.
Mr. Stevens and Mr. Spence.
Mr. Stevens, the Sydney Premier, reports that his
1937-38 operations gave him a surplus of £53,875,
and he expects one of just on £BOOO this year. So,
from January 1, 1939, employees with dependants and
recipients of “unearned” income—so called because
in 90 p.c. of cases it is the fruit of laborious years
and of thrift —are to be exempt from wages tax and
“special” income-tax —both are alleged to be for
unemployed-relief—where exertions or investments
bring in less than £4 4s. a week. Government railway
fares, freight-rates (on power-kerosene) and harbor-
bridge tolls (though not for motorists) are also to be
cut a bit.
The population of N. S. Wales at the end of 1937
was estimated at 2,710,000. Mr. Stevens admitted
in his Budget speech that on June 30, 1938, the gross
State debt amounted to £354,000,000, but he explained
with gratification that it is “not wholly a burden on
the State finances.” People who think that Govern-
ments ought to pay their way, as they themselves have
to do, will not share in the gratification when they read
that interest amounted to £12,868,000 and that “assets
acquired from Joans” yielded only £8,430,000.
“Interest on only the remaining 35 per cent, of debt,”
the gratified Mr. Stevens went on, “was a charge on
ordinary Governmental revenue”—that is, taxes. Those
who have to pay the taxes have been assured by a
long succession of Treasurers that all the interest, and
sinking fund, too, would be provided by “assets
acquired from loans.”
There is, of course, a sinking fund, and the
Premier dwelt complacently on it: “nearly” £1,400,000
went into the sinking fund last year. Includ-
ing “repayments to credit of votes,” “gross loan
expenditure on works and services” amounted to
£8,110,700, and that was exclusive of £3,000,000
spent by the Water Board, whose loans and finances
the Sydney Government guarantees.
In addition to the £354,067,200 for which the
State is liable to the Commonwealth, Water Board,
Rural Bank, advances to settlers and other loans have
been guaranteed to the amount of £54,000,000.
Mr. Stevens did not mention this, but the
Auditor-General did in his annual report, presented
to Parliament a few days before the Budget.
The A.-G.’s analysis of N. S. Wales finance differs
remarkably from that of Mr. Stevens. He coldly
declares that there was no real surplus last year, and
that there hasn’t been one since 1928-29. Certainly
“the Consolidated Revenue Fund showed a surplus
of £178,670” —not £53,875 —but “this was insufficient
to meet the net sinking-fund charge of £597,226.”
Taking this into account, there was “a deficiency of
£418,555 for the year.” On June 30 there was an
accumulated deficiency of £30,643,900 ; it had been
accumulating for ten years, during which payments
to sinking fund amounted to £8,010,400. And “since
1931 the loan liability to the Commonwealth has
increased by £66,058,500.”
The A.-G. is Mr. John Spence. He deals in facts,
eschews fantasies and never bids for votes.
Queensland's Tax-juggle.
In the seventh State Budget under the Forgan Smith
regime, Treasurer Cooper blandly announced a
£266,600 increase in rail freight-rates and fares, an
additional impost of £120,000 on motor-vehicle regis-
trations and a brand-new income (State Development)
tax of unknown possibilities. This measure is to
replace the unemployed-relief tax, and the long-
promised twopence is to be taken off when it does.
Unfortunately, Mr. Cooper did not say when.
Mr. Cooper omitted to mention a lot of other
things. He did not explain why, with an
increase in ordinary direct taxation of £263,951
more than last year, and £638,663 more than
the previous one, it will be still necessary to have a
deficit of £215,744 for 1938-39 —only £12,718 less than
last year’s. Nor did he explain just why rail fares
and freight-rates are up p.c. While he was announc-
ing this increase, the Railway Department was admit-
tedly unable to supply even skeleton transport on
account of its own crass stupidity in failing to provide
itself with coal reserves against a long-foreseen strike.
It was, indeed, crying for help from the same motor-
vehicle owners whom it has done its best to hound
off the roads while Mr. Cooper was telling them they
are to pay another £120,000 in increased registration
fees.
Mr. Cooper did not promise any reduction of
company or industrial taxation in aid of the appeal
which his political chief made for the absorption of
unemployed men in private industry. About 8300 are
to have full-time jobs on new Government works,
leaving about 11,700 on rations. Private industry has
expressed its inability to do anything real in that line
until the tax stranglehold on it is relaxed or conces-
sions are made on an employment basis. However,
a “small committee” is to be set up to investigate the
incidence of company taxation.
It is impossible to find in the Budget any evidence
of intention towards economy. The ordinary, hard-
working, unsheltered citizen foots the bills for political
extravagance, and he is now to foot more.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“V.E.”: A nefarious story' in which
there is not a word of truth is going the
rounds in the capital of Barataria. A
dear old lady met the Oldest Minister
hurrying into the House. “Oh, Mr.
Oldun,” she cried, “the Prime Minister
looks so tired. Can’t you persuade him
to take a holiday? So very tired!”
“Tired, eh?” said the Oldest Minister
briskly. “No need to worry. P.M.’s
quite normal —quite normal. Fertile, but
futile! ”
*'* * *
“Dhas”: This is a hygienic age. For
quite a while they’ve been wrapping up
cigarettes, toothbrushes and chorus girls
in transparent tissue, and now a Sydney
shop window displays a skeleton arrayed
in the same glittering material. It’s an
odd way to spend eternity, gazing sar-
donically at the traffic in George-street;
but I suppose, if one has to do it, the
covering—failing kilts —is not unwelcome
to a modest skeleton.
* * * *
“S.”: There is a mellifluous serenity
about the trade of the bottle-oh that
I’ve often envied ; either to
float down London’s Thames
in a barge or to glide through
Sydney’s suburbs to the musi-
cal tinkle of glass should woo
any man to calm. Yet bargees
are notoriously men of war,
and the other day, out Rand-
wick way, I met the Dis-
illusioned Bottle-oh. He was
crying “Any bottles? Any
bottles? Any snakes ?” And then again
“Any bottles? Any bottles?” and, in a
tone of utter weariness and scorn, “Any
snakes ?” Apparently one can get tired
even of the beautiful word “bottles.”
H: * * *
“Tuart”: Down to the beginning of
last week Germans in Sydney were in-
credulous of what they read in the papers
about the European situation ; then all
at once they became very serious. When
they were in the mood to laugh the whole
thing off, a brewing scientist from
Saxony, of immense celebrity, arrived on
his way to Maoriland, under engagement
to a concern there, and they entertained
him at lunch. With pride they invited
him to sample a kilderkin of Sydney
stingo, kept at a certain temperature, and
poured out in a particular way so that
a cauliflower froth would settle on the
top —points to which, they aver, Aus-
tralians do not give proper attention.
Speaking, of course, in German, the
great man pronounced the beer very
good, but the cooling and pouring-out
defective. Then the oldest member
of the party spoke up. “Going
on to New Zealand, are you?” he said.
“Nein, nein —stay with us and see the
war through. Internment was a terrible
thing last time, but I’d go back to Ber-
rima cheerfully mit you!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: St. Paul’s Anglican Church,
Broadmeadows (Vic.), well known to
Diggers, has been the scene of a histori-
cal battle. Matter of dispute was 47
ancient pine-trees which had been the
pride of the churchyard for generations.
Vicar announced one day at service that
as the roof was falling in, the gutters
leaking and windows threatening to col-
lapse on to the congregation he had ap-
plied to the diocesan authorities for £3O
to repair the damage, parishioners not
having come up to the scratch when the
plate was passing. Authorities had re-
fused, so in desperation he got an offer
from a local sawmiller for the old pine
plantation, his action being endorsed by
his ecclesiastical superiors. Before the
axe could be laid to the roots, however,
public opinion, mostly of the lay per-
suasion, got on its hind legs and pro-
tested. Result was State-wide interest in
the proposed act of sacrilege, subscrip-
tion lists were opened, and up to time
of writing upwards of £65 had poured
into the parish exchequer. Moreover, a
hundred fresh trees were planted by a
donor. Most of the money came from
outside the parish.
* * * *
“Pawang”: There is a simple expla-
nation of the fact that twins usually live
together (B. 28/9/’3B). Twins are accus-
tomed to attention on account of their
“What makes it so natural is that he got me unawares .”
twinship. If they live apart they miss
this attention. A pair of Melbourne
twins have occupied the same house for
60 years. They are careful to dress alike,
and each has the other’s mannerisms.
Each grows a beard of the same luxuri-
ance, although only one has a good
reason for doing so ; he belongs to a
sect that bans razors.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The Italian cruiser Monte-
cuccoli, here for the 150th anniversary,
was in the news again last week —at
Canberra, because a Labor member per-
sisted with the idiotic demand for com-
pensation of the Italian whose skin and
feelings were lacerated by Montecuccoli
men at Port Melbourne ; and at Shanghai
because she lit out suddenly for an un-
known destination with half a crew. I
was one of a party at a luncheon aboard
the Montecuccoli when she was tied up
at Woolloomooloo. The conversation
turned to British naval history, on which
the commander —a middle-aged, well-
nourished Latin, quick on the uptake—
expressed unusual views. He said he
thought Blake greater than Nelson be-
cause Blake had to make, as well as lead,
his navy, whereas Nelson’s was made for
him by St. Vincent; and he held it a
calamity that Jacky Fisher hadn’t himself
taken command of the Grand Fleet in
August, 1914. “Ah!” he said, “the
gr-reatest seaman of the age, and yet not
employed in his ra-eeght place because
he is supposed to be too old. True, he
is seventy-three, but he will not have to
spend munce at sea, as Blake and Nelson
had to do, or live on salt meat vit little
vegetables and fruit —not he! He can
spend half hees time ashore, and still be
ready for any emergency in the North
Sea. A genius, gentleman, and vasted,
lost to hees country in the first year of
the war for which hees measures are so
vast, so gr-rand! ” It was on the tip of my
tongue to point out that Fisher’s resigna-
tion was Winston Churchill’s doing, but
I thought it better not to start an argu-
men. That Italian knew too much for
me.
* * * m
“Erua”: An elderly Maori was respon-
sible for what might have been an up-
heaval in the M.L. tourist centre of
Rotorua, where Nature usually attends to
such happenings. After a convivial time
in the town he sauntered into the council
yard and rested there until such time as
the evening picture sessions began. Then,
picking up a trifle as a souvenir of his
visit, he went forth to see what the screen
was offering. In leaving after the enter-
tainment he left his parcel behind, and
the horrified finder discovered its con-
tents to be 69 live detonators. Luckily
nobody dropped, kicked or otherwise
excited them, and a fine, plus prohibition
order, satisfied the Bench later on.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The U.S. regulars are to
be equipped with an automatic rifle in
place of the Springfield, which, in various
guises, has been the regulation issue
almost from the days of the Civil War.
In the hands of the average soldier the
new arm, the Garand, gets off 50 aimed
shots a minute, and with an expert
marksman from 80 to 100. Without
bayonet the Garand weighs 91b., and the
life of the barrel is from 8000 to 10,000
rounds, while the bolt and action body
can see out 100,000 rounds. Our own
small Lee Enfield is acknowledged the
fastest bolt-action rifle in any service,
and a first-class shot is expected to pay
out 30 aimed shots a minute, though this
figure has been beaten on occasion. The
old problem of keeping the ammunition
up to front-line troops becomes more
difficult. The aeroplane will probably
have to come to the rescue, as it did
towards the close of the 1914-18 dis-
turbance.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Ido wish that
the present-day issue of nice girl would
do herself up to her own final satisfac-
tion before she sits down to dinner in
public, even with her elderly uncle. I
felt quite proud of Susan last evening
until she dropped some clip concern out
of her hair into her soup and had to
fish the dripping object out. Sorry for
the kid, I thought of creating a diver-
sion by allowing the old monocle to take
a similar soupy dive, but she didn’t bat
an eyelid. Just dipped the gadget in the
finger-bowl, wiped it dry and stuck it
back again, prattling cheerily the while.
Then she hauled out a mirror to make
sure that it was in the right place, added
a touch of lipstick to her already ade-
quate supply, and tucked in a curl. Before
we got up she had to reach half-way
under the table to retrieve one of her
shoes, kicked off for coolness. Yet, I
don’t seem to notice the young male of
the species combing its hair or recreas-
ing its trousers at table. Why not?
* * * *
“Dinornis”: My mates and I set out
to sec how many times music can be
reproduced. We started off with a piano
solo, making a roll from it ready for a
player. Then we took a record of that
and put it over the microphone. One
of the fellows with a radio transmitter
picked it up and rebroadcast it, when it
was picked up and recorded once more.
We played the record and put it over
another microphone. There was a fellow
at a receiver who fed it into a gadget that
perforated another player roll. After-
wards one of the lads played it through
on a pianola—the seventh reproduction
—and you wouldn’t have known it from
the original, save that the original
“Melody in F” had become a “Medley
in L.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: There are only two art knights
in Australia, and when Birthday honors
are announced leader-writers deplore
the fact that painting, sculpture, etc.,
have been neglected in favor of science,
politics, hardware and haberdashery.
But what good is a knightage to an
artist? It does not improve his painting,
and it doesn’t even increase his fame
among the more unconcerned classes of
the laity. A friend was struck by
certain features about a home and garden
in Toorak (Melb.), and asked a trades-
man who was emerging from the gate:
“Does an artist live here?” “Lord,
no! ” replied the tradesman ; “that’s Sir
Arthur Streeton’s house.”
* * * *
“Jachris” attends a demonstration:
Pity the hard lot of the political demonstrator
in Australia. He—or more often she—finds it
practically impossible to persuade people to
take his or her high-minded championing of for-
lorn causes seriously. Even the police, “those
bludgeoning tyrants,” are apparently unable to
realise the gravity of the situation; there’s no
persecution, no chance to figure as a martyr
for the cause, just a half-amused tolerance.
Small boys may try to tear pieces off the
placards, but that’s only only because it’s part
of the game; occasionally, if the demonstrators
are lucky enough to hold a tram up for a few
minutes, one or two may be marched off to
a bed in the lockup and a five-bob fine, but
that’s all.
Seven or eight Czech sympathisers chose Syd-
ney’s late shopping night and the front of a
newsreel theatre advertising glimpses of Hitler’s
Nuremberg Rally to stage their show. It
wasn’t a good one. The gags were old: “Down
with the Fascist warmongers,” “Down with
the Fascist murderers,” “Poor little Czecho.,”
this last in a feminine shriek. The owner of
the feminine shriek was the most successful
demonstrator. She was a young woman just
out of the flapper stage, and in a few weeks
when the days get warmer she’ll probably give
up her demonstrating to get down on the beach
in the sun.
Some of the shoppers were slightly inter-
ested. Some wanted to know the
demonstrators warmongers, too. Wasn’t it
a war they wanted? One young man was more
interested in personalities. He reckoned “It’s
a pity, isn’t it? She’s not a bad-looking girl,
either.” The demonstrators had nothing to
say save their catchcalls.
The crowd about enjoyed things impartially.
One of the demonstrators climbed up on some-
one else’s parked car the better to be heard.
A policeman asked him to come down; he
wouldn’t, so the policeman lifted him down.
The crowd cheered. It cheered the policeman
again for the neat way he caught the fellow’s
arm as he tried a swing at him; cheered an-
other John for the casual way he took the arm
of another demonstrator attempting a rescue.
Then it cheered the vociferous young woman,
who had climbed on the back of the P.D. car
yelling her “Poor little Czecho.” piece while her
cobbers were bundled inside. The Johns calmly
ignored her till they were ready to go, then
took her down and drove off without her. The
crowd gave them a smile, stayed a few minutes
laughing at the still-yelling young woman, then
as it began to rain they silently vanished away.
There’s nothing like a little rain for damping
demonstrations.
WAR PAINT.
“The bridesmaids came to the church armed with •
a little beaded bag. It contained their cosmetics,
which they applied before walking down the aisle. 7 ’
—“Sydney Morning Herald."
What little ice it cuts, scouted and scorned
By all the modern fashionable host,
The wild idea that beauty unadorned
Is (in the poet’s phrase) adorned the most!
Of all the arts endearing belles to beaus,
The adventitious aids, the helos synthetic,
What’s quite as indispensable as clothes?
Cosmetic.
What makes complexions radiantly glow
Until they reproduce the color scheme
Of blushing roses set in satin snow
Or tempting plates of strawberries-and-cream?
Out on the Eve-and-Adam complex! Out
Upon that quoted paradox poetic!
Since Eden, where would woman be without
Cosmetic?
I sometimes doubt if Venus would have
whacked
Juno and Pallas on Mount Ida’s top
For Ate’s apple, had she not been backed
By some astute Olympian beauty shop.
“Naked they came” —three goddesses arow,
To press their claims upon the tastes aesthetic
Of Paris —but I hardly think with no
Cosmetic.
Still, Millie, Margaret and Maud and Mary,
No matter in what ways your webs are spun,
There’s something in the saw Ars est celare
Artem —you needn’t tell us how it’s done.
When altarwards behind a bride you hie,
’Maids in yourselves sufficiently magnetic,
Why, in the name of all that’s holy, why
Let it be known your charms are heightened by
Cosmetic?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nakh”: I was recently in Yea (Vic.),
one-time centre of Ned Kelly’s horse-
thieving industry, and after many years’
absence found that “Hellfire Jack” was
still a local legend which overshadowed
the alleged magnificence of the Kelly
tradition. Jack was a local engine-driver
celebrated for his courage and his devo-
tion to the bottle. On one occasion,
after a long day’s driving and shunting,
mingled with potations at various hostel-
lies between Melbourne and Tallarook,
he thundered into Yea so far
ahead of time that the local
bars emptied to investigate the
phenomenon. Jack tumbled
off his engine, and was making
off into the township for a
well-deserved refresher when
somebody noticed that he had no
carriages behind him. They were still
sanding at Tallarook waiting to be
coupled.
¥ ¥ * *
“Nagheer”: A feature of the approach-
ing Clarence River centenary will be a
representation of the small schooner
Susan, in which John F. Small and his
sons made the long voyage from Parra-
matta to the Clarence entrance in 1838.
Cedar-getting was the objective of the
first visit, but the pastoral possibilities of
the then virgin country so impressed
them that cattle were brought up later,
and a settlement formed on Woodford
Island. The Small family played a major
part in pionering the Clarence, and de-
scendants are still there. One of John
Small’s sons was the original lessee of
the whole of Woodford Island, and
others, with the husbands of his daughters,
look up extensive holdings and grazing
rights at Ulmarra, Swan Creek and else-
where in the district.
¥ * * *
“R.F.”: “Splodger,” who was told
that his sons couldn’t expect promotion
in the militia if they signed on as dairy-
farmers (B. 21 /9/’3B), must have struck
a particularly snobbish O.C. Generally
speaking a commissioned rank is attain-
able by any man whose ability and ser-
vice qualify him for it. Among the
many officers with whom I have come
in contact are policemen, clerks,
plumbers and carpenters, and one of the
best signal officers I know is a casual
laborer. But I have heard of a battalion
that draws the line at tram-conductors.
¥ * * *
“T.”: The last Queen of Bohemia was
a Scotchwoman : Elizabeth, daughter of
James Saxt and First, born at Falkland
Castle, Fifeshire, in 1596. She was the most
beautiful princess of her day, and all the
eligible European princes were “after”
her, among them Gustavus Adolphus of
Sweden. Frederick, the Elector Palatine,
on whom her hand was bestowed, must
have looked the best prospect of all to
calculating old James, but his reign in
Prague lasted only a year, 1618-1619.
The pair had left England for Heidelberg
in 1613, and it was 1661 before Elizabeth
saw it again. In the meantime she had
lost her brother the king—on the scaffold
—and her English pension, which was
cut off by the Commonwealth ; and had
borne 13 children. One of them was
Prince Rupert, whose dashing cavalry
tactics did a lot to lose the Civil War
for Charles ; the youngest was Sophia,
who married the Elector of Hanover and
from whom the present royal family is
descended. I daresay the Duke of
Windsor often muses on the career of
his ancestress, who was a queen for a
year and an exile for 48 years. But,
after all, his second year of absence has
still two or three months to run.
“Toe-clip”: "Mipo’s” yarn about cross-
ing a Maoriland railway bridge on foot
reminds me of the palmy days of the
Timaru-Christchurch cycling road race.
At a point on this 100-mile course the
racers could take the choice of a 20-
mile detour to cross the Selwyn River
by an ordinary bridge, or chance the
perils of crossing the railway bridge. In
the early days of the race (the bridge
was made a bit less terrifying later) all
there was to ride on was a couple of 6in.
planks laid over the sleepers, and for a
hundred yards or so in the middle of
the bridge, 40ft. above the shingly river-
bed and the fast-flowing torrents that
threaded it, there was on at least one occa-
sion only one plank. But not one of the
iron-nerved lads in the race seemed to
have the slightest qualms. They all sailed
over without mishap, whooping up the
“Better put one foot on this' un as Well, mum."
pace a bit on the theory of the faster
the straighten In all the years of the
race I can remember that difficult passage
was a feature —it may be yet for all I
know —and there never was an accident.
« ¥ * *
“Exdig”: A lady who was a Waac
in the Great War is helping a church in
my suburb to keep the wolf from the
door by a series of lectures, silver coin
admission. On the church notice-board
the affairs are announced as “A Series
of Chats —My Experiences in France.”
Mine were like that, too.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Hotel-emptying slogans
(B. 21/9/’3B), is it? The best I ever
met was the one used in former days
by the ex-pug who was chucker-out
for the Empire, Wellington (M.L.). Ten
o’clock was closing time. “Ten o’clock,
gentlemen! It’s much better to walk
out,” was the ex-fighter’s paternal re-
mark. After he’d proved his statement
on half a dozen obstreperous customers
he was generally believed.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Although some
of the flapper press came all over a-
tremble about the grim, silent mysteries
attending the recent R.A.N. court-martial
at Sydney, it is in reality the cleanest,
fairest and most sensible sort of spin that
anyone could wish for. An N.C.M.
can’t be held unless at least two ships
are in company, so the accused is pro-
tected against prejudice among his own
ship’s personnel. The Deputy Judge-
Advocate ensures that all points of law
and procedure are strictly observed. The
accused has the right of challenging any
member from the president down,
although the Court decides by vote
whether or not it will be upheld. The
accused or his “friend” may give evi
dence, and may cross-examine the prose-
cution’s witnesses. Civilians may be
subpoena’d equally with service witnesses,
and come equally under the Court’s con-
trol. All evidence is on oath. Decision
is by vote, behind closed doors, the most
junior members voting first in order to
avoid any possibility of influence by
senior officers.
¥ * * *
“Hamer”: Nothing so mutable as
slang. Time was in N. S. Wales when
“Jersey” was as plain an indication of a
redhead as “Bluey.” That was when
the ginger-haired Earl of Jersey was
Governor of the State. Now the Ameri-
can term “Red” is supplanting “Bluey.”
Same thing with policemen. They used
to be “traps,” then “John Hops” ; now
the fashion is “flatfoot” —an American-
ism. Flappers, skirts, diners, peaches,
or whatever they may be called, have lost
more nicknames than any others. Who-
ever hears a girl called a “clue” nowa-
days? Yet that was one of the most
appropriate dl' nicknames, a clue being
something that a man follows. In cheap
dance halls of long ago the M.C. called
upon the gents to “Grab yer muttons.”
“My bit of fluff,” which once had a wide
popularity, has vanished utterly, but
“tabby” survives.
% * * * *
“Spare Corp”: Despite hundreds of
official denials, the A.I.F. did pay rent
for some of the trenches it occupied in
France and Belgium. When it was decided
(because of spies, among other things)
that all civilians should be evacuated
from an area three kilos, behind the line,
compensation to dispossessed farmers
was improvised. There was a French
or Belgian “Mission” in each area to
count the heads of the soldiers, that
being the basis on which the rent was
assessed. The payment caused boiling
indignation in some bosoms, but Private
Snowy in our divvy, standing alone,
reckoned it was a fine idea. “Some day,”
he said hopefully, “we may fall back in
the rent and them Froggies’ll give us
notice to quit.”
* * * *
“Polonius”: Years ago the N.S.W.
Government Analyst was summoned to
a country town to help locate the cause
of an outbreak of typhoid or diphtheria.
In his grey topper and grey frockcoat he
was a resplendent figure. On the morn-
ing following his arrival he was out be-
fore breakfast poking at the refuse in
the street gutters with his stick. Presently
a tall figure hailed him from the doorway
of a neat-by newspaper office. “What
are you doing?” “Fossicking.” “Who
are you?” “Hamlet.” “Oh,” said the
big man after a moment’s disconcerted
silence, “I’m Shakespeare.” This was the
first meeting of just-dead Thomas Mitchell
Shakespeare, doyen of country pressmen,
and William Mogford Hamlet, Govern-
ment Analyst for many years, and a
familiar figure in both criminal and civil
courts.
¥*¥ * \
“Harold Hardupp”: A rush of boys of
school age for the privilege of selling
newspapers (they have to be registered,
so that Authority can be sure they miss
no schooling) has been noted in Sydney
during the last couple of weeks. A
curious result of the war scares; if war
comes, papers will sell like hot cakes, and
juvenile Australia is in for its cut at
what may be a profitable business.
* * * *
“Col. B.”: Good-looking young
chaps with a desire for social better-
ment will be interested to hear that
there is a heavy shortage of husbands
lor European princesses just now. Sixty-
four princesses, archduchesses, grand
duchesses or duchesses, all of royal blood
and over 16, are unmarried, whereas the
ranking marriageable men over 24 num-
ber only 42. None is British, and very
few of the lasses can bring much of a
dowry towards the housekeeping. The
Empress Zita has three daughters on
her hands, and King Zog of Albania
three sisters. The catch in the Zog family
is that the ladies are of the Mohamme-
dan persuasion. Princess Antoinette of
Monaco, granddaughter of the present
ruling prince, will have a share in the
casino revenue, and her husband will
eventually become at least prince-con-
sort. The widest selection is from the
little Court of Liechtenstein’s four royal
girls.
;|c * *
"Sir Spen”: W. M. Hughes’s eyes will
glisten when the worthy record of Mrs.
Janey Peasley comes under his notice.
This lady, who lived at Bedgerabong,
near Forbes (N.S.W.), for 61 years, lei t
behind, when she died the other day, 224
descendants, comprising 14 children, 72
grandchildren, 124 great-grandchildren
and 14 great-great-grandchildren. Any
advance on this as an Australian record?
* * ¥ *
"Clio”: A Sydney suburban parent
who has musical ambitions for a young
son was deploring the youth's disincli-
nation to practise, and at length elicited
that boys who play the piano are “sissy."
“Well, I’m surprised at that,” remarked
Mum, “when you admire Bradman so,
and they say he plays splendidly.” “What,
Don?” exclaimed the youth, overwhelmed
with amazement. A tremendous spur
was thus applied to a hitherto unwilling
student.
* * * *
“Brix”: A Sydney citizen interested
in child welfare took his five-year-old
son along to the opening of the new wing
of an orphanage. It was a gala day for
the youngsters, who were plied with
buns, sweets and gifts, and looked a
happy and hearty throng. They roused
the deepest envy in the breast of the dis-
tinguished visitor’s son, who turned to
his sire and remarked: “Gee! I wish
1 was an orphan. Can’t you do anything
about it, Dad?”
“Its only my HUSBAND. He’s been there all the time trying to pick up
a few Words of English .”
UNDERPAID.
“It i.» understood that N. S. Wales Assemblyman
are pressing for a return of their salaries to the
pre-depression figure of £875 a year.”
1 ell me, what figure would you estimate
To be an equitable quid pro quo
For those who serve us in the halls of State
And for your sake and mine must undergo
The dreary toil of tedious debate
And framing laws —and voting Aye or No?
How, were you asked, would you appraise it,
eh,
The money value of an M.L.A.?
Would you admit, my son, to all intents
And purposes, the thesis that a berth
For our provincial legislative gents
Should carry with it more than twice the
worth
Of one within the Mother of Parliaments
Owned by the greatest Empire upon earth?
Fell me impartially. I’m quite aware
You’d find no fault with it—if you were there.
Tell me—but what’s the use, when long ago
We had the lesson given us to learn
I hat the precise equivalent in dough
Our legislators reckon that they earn
For running the deliberative show
Is primarily their (not our) concern.
’Tis wc must pay the piper, late or soon.
But they assert the right to call the tune.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


TWI .
m
El 868
CRAVENA
i
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
7 U**
F
DF
DF
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Two Great Authorities were in conflict
as to what the Czechoslovakian army
amounted to. Madame Two-Blues had it
that “2,500,000 effectives could be mobi-
lised.” Professor Roberts maintained
that the Prague Government called up
“700,000 men, while behind them again
are thrice that number of older reserves.”
As for aircraft, 500 was the lady’s number
and 1500 the professor’s. Madame gives
the German army “13,000,000” effectives,
and the air force “2600 machines” ; the
prof, was positive that “the available
German forces” were “only twice those
of the Czechs,” and that the latter were
“in a position to resist any invader.”
The Czechs wisely decided not to try.
Perhaps they got word that Roberts was
backing them.
“L’CEuvre,” which “presents” Madame
Two-Blues, explains why Mussolini sud-
denly turned pacificator.
The King of Italy threatened to abdicate
if Italy fought as Germany’s ally.
How did the astonishing woman get to
know it? Simply enough: The King
told the Duce, the Duce told the Fiihrer,
and the Fiihrer told Madame. And
Madame told the world.
To the Agrarians in conference at
Sydney, J. P. Abbott, who is chairman
of their central council, said that, “as an
old soldier who spent four years in the
last war,” he was “amazed at the way
many people and great newspapers advo-
cate with all their might a policy which
would bring about almost immediately
the bloodiest war the world has ever
known.” This was reported in Sydney
“Sun,” and “S. M. Herald” had it in an
early edition, but omitted it from a later
one. It was a hit at Granny.
Two N.S.W. royal commissions had
birthdays last month —Fruit, which has
entered upon its second year, and Chain
Stores, which is rising three. Fruit has
been continuous, whereas Chain Stores
has been desultory; but “nothing-over-
2s. 6d.” concerns complain that there is
nothing desultory about their expenses,
which are approaching five figures. In
ordinary affairs of life Australians are
rather taciturn, but in royal-commission
matters their longwindedness is amazing.
In three years of Labor rule, the
Maoriland Parliament has passed 121
Government Acts, and Mark Fagan, who
leads —or led—for Savage in the Leg.
Council, thinks this sets a record. Judged
by Australian standards, it is a very
modest achievement. Any tinpot provin-
cial Government would back itself to
average more than 40 measures a
session.
Alleged that “much interest was taken
in the ballot” which was to decide
whether Broken Hill unionists would
rather have Heffron Labor or Lang
Labor; but a mere 1601 voted, although
there are nearly 14,000 electors in the
State electoral division. Horsington, the
member, who was a Lang Minister once
and is Heffronite now, must have felt
seedy when he looked at the figures, for
only 811 were for Heffron and 765 for
Lang ; the remaining votes were informal.
If Heffron and his Red friends can’t
carry the Barrier they can’t carry any
district.
The crazy coal strike has done what
years of political agitation failed to do —
loosened the N.S.W. Government rail-
way stranglehold on commercial road
transport. Because the hitherto almighty
department has had to cut services, the
road transport tax of 3d. per ton per
mile has been removed. This enforced
concession coincided with a compulsory
levy of 2s. per head on Government
railwaymen, proceeds to go to the miners
who are wrecking railwaymen’s jobs as
well as their own.
Dr. Morris, the N.S.W. Director-
General of Public Health, in a fed-up
mood:
Boards are set up for this and for that.
I deplore it, 1 regret it and fight against
it, but I can't hefp it.
Farmers on whom boards have been
thrust are getting fed up too. Following
the example of the egg-men, the N.S.W.
banana-growers have voted their board
out of existence.
Melbourne “Age” has been at Argyle
again—this time because he described
State politics as “abnormal.” “Sub-
normal” is, of course, the proper term.
Clothier, one of the new Senators
from Westralia, arrived at Canberra with
“You people lost anything ?”
“Yes; a war."
the brilliant idea that “the Common-
wealth Government should appoint a
Minister to travel between the States and
meet the Ministers there.” Another Min-
ister, and poor old Australia has 73
already!
The two Agrarian groups, the U.A.P.
and Labor may run candidates for
Gippsland North, the late Jimmy Mc-
Lachlan’s Assembly seat. The “Worker’s”
Victorian correspondent gives the
Agrarian factions a certificate.
The Dunstanites are accused of being
Radicals, but Opportunism, with an occa-
sional mixture of Labor reform, would cor-
rectly designate their policy. The C.P.
Liberals are hopeless Tories.
The writer’s party has kept the Oppor-
tunists in office for three years and six
months.
Not only pro-war papers, but papers
that feed the astrology craze, suffered a
jolt last week. A mug-catcher who
advertised “astrological readings” was
grabbed by the Sydney police and haled
before Atkinson, S.M. He said “he was
engaged in the scientific occupation of
astrology.” The S.M. said the law’s
name for it was fortune-telling and the
penalty was gaol without the option.
Having thus issued a warning to all con-
cerned, he bound the scientist over.
If Stevens’s estimate of £260,000 for
N.S.W. is correct, State Governments, as
employers, will have to find over a mil-
lion for Casey's health and pensions
scheme in the first full year, and “there
are likely to be increasing costs for some
years without any compensating saving
in expenditure.” Casey never thought
of that.
Curtin’s non-participation speech (“no
man must be sent out of Australia to
participate in another war overseas”)
synchronised with a London “Daily
Mail” assurance that the Dominions
would be in a war for pore Czecho. “to
the last man and the last penny.” Be-
fore Chamberlain went to Berchtesgaden
for the meeting that was friendly on
both sides, the same paper discovered
that Midnight Cabinet Meeting at which
it was decided to Warn Germany. Of
recent years it has been reasonably sane,
but it returned to hysteria and sensa-
tionalism as a dog to its vomit.
Something will have to be done about
this wireless business. Chamberlain's
address to the Empire showed what a
great instrument wireless can be in the
hands of men who love the people and
hate war, but during the events which so
nearly culminated in another catastrophe
that note was seldom struck. On the
other hand, there was an incessant chorus
of ignorance, misinformation, malice and
uncharitableness, all calculated to inflame
receptive minds against “the enemy.”
When the Commerce estimates are
debated, there ought to be some remarks
in good Australian speech about the
£20,000 granted to the “National”
Travel Association, and the additional
£21,340 it has been promised for pre-
paring “the Australian exhibit at the
San Francisco Exposition”—the exhibit
that was to have included live koalas.
Items of £39,780 for “Representation
New York Fair” and of £47,020, “Over-
seas Trade Publicity,” should also receive
attention. A representative of Lord
Nuffield has testified that “all the time I
was in England I saw only one news-
paper advertisement about Australia, and
that was badly presented.” And Mulcahy,
the member for Lang, has said:
I have never seen photography of a worse
type than in some advertisements in a maga-
zine bearing the name of the National
Travel Association.
Mulcahy added unanswerably that all
such expenditure should be controlled by
“a responsible officer of the Common-
wealth public service.”
Taxation Commissioner Ewing is in his
last year of office, and the Common-
wealth will miss him, for he has been the
means of collecting a pyramid of taxes
on “omitted income.” The Abrahams
case was his greatest coup, but he has
tracked down many other plutes who
have been evasive or forgetful. Recorded
on his latest list are a bus proprietor who
was charged £5OOO “additional tax” on
£25,942 of “orrtitted income” ; a doctor
(deceased) whose estate had to pay
£3301 on £17,771 ; a doctor-grazier (£1638
on £36,597); a bookmaker (£2287 on
£19,211); a bookmaker - and - farmer
(£74 on £3817); a “dance palais” (£237
on £4741); a cash-order man (£4lO on
£17,506); a hotelkeeper (£431 on
£6054); a paper-pattern cutter (£5l on
£2785) and a herbalist (£73 on £3993).
Westralians will get a laugh out of
John Ewing’s last report, if they ever read
it. One line in it notes that a hotelkeeper
had to pay £431 in extra tax on income
“omitted” for seven years. Nothing un-
usual in that, but there is in this: part of
the time he was a licensing magistrate.
Whether Government-controlled or not,
broadcasting, as we know it, is rankly
partisan. Australians who tune-in to
8.8. C. heard isomeone say the Anti-
Comintern Pact was a fraud, it being
really directed against Britain. Yet even
then Chamberlain was asking Mussolini
to intercede with Hitler, and Mussolini
did.


ESCAPE.
“Victorian women suggested a labor colony for erring husbands.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
INVESTIGATE BEFORE
INVESTING
/~\BVIOUSLY, this is the logical procedure when
your money, no matter how much, is involved.
Therefore, you owe it to yourself to investigate
immediately an investment considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to be of the soundest.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
n*s t
ySTRA
WV#T
t ßust
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Eife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Dr. R. A. Pellew, though only 27, is
to be brought back to Adelaide Chil-
dren’s Hospital as superintendent, to re-
place Arden, moved to Brisbane. He
did good work at the Adelaide main
hospital before getting further experience
in London, where he is now registrar of
the children’s section of Westminster
Hospital. All the Pellews are sportsmen,
and this one played basebell for S.A. and
is in the Australia House cricket eleven
in London.
Though the sole proprietor of the
visage here somewhat violently attacked
by Frith is Victorian by birth (1899),
S.A. is more his native State and stamp-
ing ground. His name, Oswald L.
Ziegler, makes its latest appearance in
Australia, 1788-1938, the big and very
striking pictorial presentation of Aus-
tralia which he produced under authority
of Sydney’s 150th Anniversary Celebra-
tions Council. Both his father, Otto
Ziegler—also a topnotcher in the pub-
licity line—and his mother are S.A.
natives, and he had his education at St.
Peter’s College and Adelaide Uni. before
taking to the Inky Way. Work on
OSWALD L. ZIEGLER.
“Dalgety’s Review,” “Shipping and Com-
merce” and “Australasian Manufacturer”
led him to take a comprehensive view of
Australia—what the continent as a whole
looks like, the people that inhabit it and
what’s being done here. It was capital
training for his latest big job, prelimi-
naries to which were three small volumes
on the pastoral industry, agriculture and
fruit- and winegrowing in S.A., and the
official record of Vic.’s Centenary jolli-
fications. The Sydney Celebrations
people showed a rare streak of good
sense in allowing him to make the vol.
now produced under their authority Aus-
tralia-wide in scope. Result is the tome
reviewed on this week’s Red Page.
McNess, the Westralian philanthropist,
left estate valued at £270,000-odd, and
churches, hospitals and charities will get
most of it. A bequest of £2OOO goes to
Shapcott, who has been secretary to all
the Westralian Premiers for upwards of
20 years. Shapcott (affectionately known
as Snapshot) knows all there is to know
about publicity, and saw that McNess got
his full share. For want of a Shapcott
Westralians didn’t learn of Septimus Burt’s
good deeds till he was beyond reach of
their praise. Burt was Attorney-General
in John Forrest’s first Ministry, and
towards the end of John’s days he pro-
nounced Burt the equal of any man he
had met.
For 34 years a member of the N. S.
Wales Assembly, Mark Morton started
his long political innings by being
returned for Shoalhaven to the 1901
Parliament, of which he was the only
surviving member when he passed on at
Nowra last week, ' a day short of his
70th milestone. A seat for the South
Coast district had been in the family for
nearly half a century. A brother had
held one there for 10 years when, in
1898, he lost it by 185 votes, by which
margin exactly Mark Morton brought it
back into the family three years later.
From then on, save for one break—
-1925-2B—he8 —he represented that section of
the South Coast. Of the old school of
big, bluff, hearty politicians, he had a
personal background of woolbroking and
stock and land auctioneering to fit him
as a country representative with first-
hand knowledge. A grant of land near
Fitzroy Falls (N.S.W.) for a bird sanc-
tuary, obtained a week or two before his
death, will be a lasting monument to
him.
Alfred Stephen Henry (46), killed last
week in a motor accident at Stroud
(N.S.W.), was a lawyer by profession
and a politician by disposition. He in-
herited much of the literary ability and
eloquence of his father, Dr. T. J. Henry,
and from school days (Grafton Public
and King’s) was an able and vigorous
debater with a constructive mind. After
three years’ service abroad with the
A.I.F. he set up in practice as a solicitor
in Sydney, and succeeded Alf Pollock
(junior partner of McGurren and Pol-
lock, the Grafton firm of solicitors to
which Henry was articled) as Country
Party member for the Clarence. An
opponent of Cabinet domination of
Parliament, he was against Australia
being implicated in any further European
war, and advocated reform of the lunacy
and divorce laws. At the last elections,
an erstwhile school companion, Wing-
field, defeated him at the polls. In the
legal sphere A. S. Henry prepared the
important case for his brother Goya, the
aviator, who succeeded in the courts
against the Federal Government.
At 76 the record of knight James
Barrett, Chancellor of Melb. Uni., is im-
pressive. He has been a lecturer on
special senses and oculist to the Royal
Australian Navy, was consulting oculist
to troops and director to A.M.S. in
Egypt, and is consulting surgeon to Vic.
Eye and Ear Hospital and Vic. Blind
Institute. The alphabetical tail he has
grown since he got his M.D. from
Melb. Uni. in 1877 includes K.8.E., C. 8.,
C.M.G., M.S., F.R.C.S. (Vic.), C.M.Z.S.,
etc., and he is entitled to wear the Order
of the Nile, third class. He holds the
local record for sitting on committees,
has no serious rival as an art-show opener
and is always ready to be chairman of
debates or lectures at the University or
outside it. As musical dictator of Mel-
bourne he holds a dozen more appoint-
ments, but finds time to listen to all the
important musical pies in which he has
had a finger. He has published half a
dozen works on army medical matters.
Dr. Keith Sweetman, who takes the
flying doctor’s joystick over from Dr.
A. J. King this month at Wyndham
(W.A.), has acted as locum when
King has been away in Perth on official
business. Sweetman is Westralian-born
and got his medical grounding at Melb.
University.
The proudest man at Randwick on
Saturday was Charlie Kellow, owner of
Nuffield, the A.J.C. Derby winner. “As
good as Hall Mark,” is jockey Munro’s
opinion of the chestnut; “better,” says
Kellow—-“better! ” The foundation of the
Kellow fortune was laid when he won
the Austral Wheel Race at Melbourne
iu the early ’nineties from a back mark.
C. B. KELLOW.
Cycling and punting were the Victorian’s
passions; punting, cars and racehorses
have absorbed him this present century.
Dr. F. R. E. Mauldon, who becomes
economist and research director of the
Commonwealth Census and Statistics
Bureau’s research division, commenced
his working career with 12 years in the
N. S. Wales public service. He was born
in Sydney 46 years ago, graduated at
Sydney Uni. and acquired his Litt.D. at
Melb. Uni. Served in the Great War as
a Y.M.C.A. officer, and was wounded.
Post-graduate study at Harvard and
London Uni. added to his degrees, and
he has done a great deal of lecturing and
administrative work for the W.E.A.
Latterly he has been prof, of economics
at the Tas. Uni. and Economic Adviser
to the Tas. Govt. Is author of a dozen
books and brochures.
Present-day Adelaide had forgotten
Mortimer Muirhead, who is dead there
at 81 after a long illness. But when John
Robb was a power in Melbourne as a
contractor, Muirhead, his son-in-law, was
prominent in Adelaide as a commercial
lawyer, acting for the Federal Bank, and
at one time as lessor of the old Stock
Exchange, till his health broke down
some 30 years ago. His son is a police-
magistrate in Adelaide, and other sons
are in Melbourne and Brisbane.
Dr. Samuel Alexander, passed on at
Manchester (Eng.) at 79, was an
Australian (born in Sydney) whose
labors in the philosophical field
earned him the Order of Merit,
which is limited to 24 members through-
out the Empire. Educated at Melbourne
and Oxford Universities, he was Gifford
Lecturer at Glasgow Uni. from 1916 to
1918 and Herbert Spencer Lecturer at
Oxford in 1927. These appointments
occurred during his long tenure of the
Chair of Philosophy at Victoria Uni.,
Manchester, which lasted (latterly in an
honorary capacity) for 45 years. His
first book, Moral Order and Progress
(1889), made a big splash in philosophical
circles, and it was followed by others
nearly as important.
Prof. Norman Bentwich, of the Uni-
versity of Palestine, has been learning
the Australian idiom. In a speech to the
International Relations Society in Mel-
bourne he remarked that he was getting
accustomed to being invited to eat before
he spoke. “One bloody meal for one
bloody speech, as you Australians put
it,” said the Jewish savant.
Furled sail at 79, John Allen, of Nhill
(Vic.). He was the last surviving member
of the complement of the ship Ferret,
which sailed out of Cardiff in 1881 and,
after loading up or selling cargo at Con-
stantinople, Rio, Cape Town and Mauri-
tius, was recognised as stolen property by
a retired naval officer when it steamed
through Port Phillip Heads. In the subse-
quent trial Allen and his fellow-members
of the crew were exonerated from any
knowledge of the theft, and the pirates,
Henderson and Wright, got a stretch.
Allen settled at Nhill in 1883, and his
family has farmed there ever since.
“C. 8.”: Touching Victorian twins (B.
28/9/’3B), Fitzroy’s Monassa and
Ephraim Field can beat Mark and James
Turnbull, the Elwood fancies. Their
combined ages total 178 years, 174 of
which have been lived in Australia. Mon-
assa, a carpenter and coachbuilder, is
a vegetarian and non-smoker, and still
does heavy work about the house.
Ephraim taught the cornet, violin and
piano until lately. Their father was
killed in an accident at the age of 100.
Both Fields live in the same street in
Fitzroy.
Passed over in Melbourne, Catherine
Curtin, mother of the leader of the
Federal Opposition. She was born in
County Cork, migrated as a girl and
settled in Creswick (Vic.), where her
Parliamentarian son was born 53 years
ago. She had an Irishwoman’s interest
in politics and gave Jack his set towards
the Labor side of them. She was 81 at
the finish.
Just returned to Melbourne in the
wake of the Russian Ballet, Daryl Lind-
say, younger brother of Norman. Daryl
became interested in the ballet during a
previous season in Melbourne. He has
been drawing backstage studies of
dancers at rest and in motion in London,
and will hold a show at His Majesty’s
during the current season.
Llewellyn Henry Griffiths, S.A.’s new
deputy-director of posts and telegraphs,
is a native of the State, and joined the
engineering section of the postal service
in 1880. Has watched the telephone ser-
vice grow from its inception ; wrote an
account of it, History of the Telephone
in S.A., and for the last 28 years has
been superintendent of telephones. In
L. H. GRIFFITHS.
his young days he was a noted cricketer
and footballer, and captained a S.A.
baseball team against N. S. Wales.
“C.Q.”: Henry Charles Dod, of
Geelong, Vic., claims to be the world's
oldest artillery officer. He was a lieu-
tenant in the Queenscliff (Vic.) Volunteer
Artillery in 1874. Robert Jordan, then
Geelong’s town clerk, was his captain.


w
\o\
fr
&
o
\\
oC
/ Ok
G
o(
pi
&
&
$
<
y
c
ffi
/>,
o
<£
a
\-
*&
s£,
(////////////'"""
U
i
. ,///<
<_?
W//w" m
P
////////
03
y
V i
\
~,,//////MM
Q>
)4‘
%%
PP«
*r
?Si
PP»
M
p*
&
am
.„///M
w"":
Belter buy Capstan


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Three Little Pigs”—
Moulamein Monty’s version: “We shot
the sow on the Murrumyarram, and
made up our minds t’ fatten up the three
suckers f’r a Chrismus treat. Me an’
Lofty made a pen f’r ’em, nice an’ cosy;
an’ Mick used to ride four mile over t’
the station every night f’r milk. Strike
me, they got as tame as kittens. Cute
little codgers, too. Mick reckoned one
of ’em wus the dead spit of a girl he
knew on the GwydirJ Many’s the night
we talked about the feast we’d have when
them pigs wus right. Well, time went
by an’ we’d given ’em names, Pete, Poll
and Punch. That Punch was a born
comic; ’struth, he’d make y’ laugh.
We got t’ hangin’ round the pen
an’ watchin’ their antics. Mick used
t’ poke borak at us; reckoned we
thought more about them than about our
dorgs. But Mick was a cow of a bloke,
anyhow. You know what he did? Sharp-
ened up our butcher-knife one day an’
wanted t’ kill them poor little pigs an’
eat ’em! Me an’ Lofty had t’ go him
scone-hot t’ stop the murderin’ cow.”
"Boop-a-Doop”: The best dog I ever
had was old Soolern, who had a derry
on crooners. To see him in action against
any of the booping fraternity was a joy.
He overdid it a bit at the local movie
house when he charged Bing Crosby’s
yawping image, but a highly-delighted
audience clubbed in to foot the damage.
It was even worth it when he did in a
few gramophones and a sixty-quid wire-
less. But 1 could never convince him
that the baby was only howling for milk,
so he had to go.
* * * *
"Onam”: Read with interest the story
of the swallows which were imported to
the Pontine Marches in Italy and there
wiped out the malarial mosquitoes (B.
21/9/’3B). Were those swallows crossed
with owls? Because, from all I have
read and from bitter personal experi-
ence, Culex anopheles, the carrier of
malaria, only starts on the job when
darkness sets in, while the swallow goes
to bed at sundown. In malarial parts
of the U.S.A. congregations of bats have
been encouraged by special buildings and
have done great work in thinning out the
poison-carrier. Possibly the writer of
that par. got the swallows mixed with
bats.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The excited interest and
activity which early spring is creating
just now among the free folk of the bush
make one envious of their total lack of
conscience, morals, fear or worry about
anything at all. Any peaceably-minded
small or medium-sized bird, say a
warbler or a ground-thrush, leads a life
of high adventure which makes that of
Francis Drake or one of Mr. Hoover’s
busiest G-men seem like armchair doz-
ing, so far as enemy risks are concerned.
For others who fancy murder, robbery
or cannibalism —a butcher-bird, for in-
stance —there is nothing to stop them,
neither police, public opinion nor re-
morse. After all, if a goanna or a crow
gets the kids, the missus doesn’t worry
“The old nark only comes with us to Watch us work!"
but just has another honeymoon and
starts a new nursery in a safer place. If
it gets the missus as well, and there is no
unattached lady about, the wholly un-
bereaved husband vamps a neighbor’s
wife or girl-friend at the first oppor-
tunity, and the only costs or damages
accruing are those which the neighbor
can inflict personally.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: A level-headed type of
young Australian is 14-year-old Tom
Hartly, of South Australia. After being
bitten by a snake he outed his assailant
and carted the corpse along to the doctor
so that the latter could see what brand of
poisoner the beast was. After treatment he
soon recovered. No doubt the wise youth
habitually reads The. Bulletin, which,
alone of Australian journals, periodically
puts it on record that the anti-venine
serums turned out by the Walker and
Elizabeth Hall Lab. in Victoria are only
efficacious if prepared from the poison
of the particular snake administering the
bite.
* * k
“L.1B.”: “Hanko” (B. 21/9/’3B) must
have struck poor-quality stuff if he
couldn’t stomach the fresh dates off the
trees. The L.H. regiments in Sinai, fol-
lowing the example of every invading
force since Sennacherib, made their entry
to the graveyard desert just as the fruit
was ripening. While still green, the dates
were stewed without sugar into a deli-
cious “fool'’ which made a splendid top-
off for everlasting bully. When ripe the
big golden-brown honey blobs were
scoffed by everyone, while the horses
were almost ready to climb the palms
for them, green or ripe. Further —but
this is a secret —if half a dozen handfuls
were stipped into a stolen dixie when a
day or two’s spell in Romani Camp made
this possible, boiled and the liquor left to
stand for 12 hours or so, the drinker of
a pint or two was ready and willing to
take on the entire Turkish Army with
old Von Krassenstein at its head.
* * * *
“Bray Rock’’: Everyone who has
handled seacraft, size from lobster-boats
to liners, knows that they possess indi-
vidualities of their own, good or bad. A
19ft. fishing boat working from Ardros-
san in St. Vincent’s Gulf (S.A.) is a born
escapologist. Twice she has bounced her
owner overboard, obligingly waiting until
he clambered aboard again. Last Easter
she broke away from her moorings in a
gale and did a 60-mile voyage on her
own, subsiding undamaged on a beach.
Her latest feat was to roll the dinghy
grapnel overboard while her owner was
aboard it getting some gear, and cruise
away under a throttled engine. As she
was. heading for a shallow sandy bottom
in calm weather he pulled after her some-
what leisurely, but the lady suddenly
altered her mind and made out to sea
before- he could intercept her. Two days
later she came ashore on Semaphone
Beach, on the other side of the Gulf, and
was got off undamaged.
* * * *
“Prickly”: Don’t know whether it was
introduced to Australia as spinach (B.
21/9/’3B), but I can vouch for it that a
plant measuring exactly up to that de-
scribed by “Sou’-west,” bearing a large
three-spiked prickle the size of a pea and
hugging the soil with many side-runners,
flourished on bare or lightly-grassed
country on the Barcoo over 50 years ago.
As “S.-w.” says, when dry the thing was
of steel-like hardness and confined bare-
footed folk—like station children—to
clean footpads. When extra-dry it split
open and was full of closely packed burr
which looked exactly like what is known
now as bindi-eye. One comfort, it
was a favorite food of the vast flocks of
galahs that then used to haunt the downs
and plain country to feed on it.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Very few living Austra-
lians have ever seen a bullock-dray,
although bullock-wagons are still
common enough in timber country and
are often wrongly referred to as drays.
It required a wide search to locate one
for display in the coming Darling Downs
centenary pageant. This particular two-
wheeled, heavily-built, springless survivor
of a long past day carried stores between
Maitland fN.S.W.) and some of the
earliest stations on the Downs long before
anything better than the roughest of
tracks crossed the main range from New
England. Loading and driving them was
expert work, but, given that, they could
be taken anywhere that bullocks could
reach, lowered down rock-faces by ropes,
hauled across rivers, navigated through
axle-deep bogs or across boulder coun-
try that no other type of vehicle before or
since could negotiate.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Is there a museum in Aus-
tralia that does not sport a collection of
australites, those strange globules of vol-
canic glass that are to be found thinly
scattered anywhere on the plains of this
continent? Not unlike a solidified spill-
ing of dark bottle-glass, these australites
have, since their first discovery, proved
a fruitful source of argument between
the ’ologists—some believing that the
globules were of volcanic origin, erupted
ages ago and preserved, indestructible
on account of their natural hardness and
resistance to all forms of chemical
action ; others maintaining that they
were a form of meteorite, originally
buried by the impact of the initial fall,
but brought to the surface in numbers
by the slow but constant attrition of the
soil of the plains. W.A. has now been
able to settle the question. Working on
his gravel tennis-court at Cottesloe, a
resident was startled by a sudden thud,
followed by a thin cloud of dust rising
some 30 feet away. Digging down
through several inches of gravel and a
foot of sand he unearthed a rounded
stone, still too hot to be held in the hand.
An australite, soz. in weight, without
question fallen from the skies. Now the
’ologists can discuss just why these
globules of glass do not take fire and
burn as do the metallic meteorites.
* * * *
“Ebba E.”: Race suicide is not so
much in evidence in our outback Vic-
torian district. On Genoa River three
families, whose properties adjoin, have
39 living children between them: two
twelves and a fifteen are the numbers of
the descendants of these sons of the soil,
and a fine, vigorous-looking lot they are.
Billy Hughes would be gladdened by the
sight of them playing cricket on Sunday
afternoons.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: A ringbarked eucalypt
which takes 12 or 15 months to relinquish
the ghost dries from the bottom up, and
may be burnt off at ground level while
the topmost leaves are still green. The
lower part of the trunk (above the ring)
will cross-burn before the upper part, and
the branches last of all. The foliage of
a tree ringbarked through the sapwood
begins to wilt the same day, and the
whole tree (above the ring) dries gradu-
ally from the top down. Why?
“STIMMERLANT.”
We’d a horse, meself an' Joe, one time when
we were young an’ keen —
Bred be Carbide out o’ Gasbag—that we called
Acetylene.
You’d ’a’ backed him on his pedigree in any
sort o’ race:
He had ev’rythin’ a champion wants except —
we found—the pace.
When we ran him his performances became the
distric’ joke.
An’ our firm belief in breedin’ kept us per-
manently broke,
Till at last I said, “He’s hopeless!”; but, "1
reckon not,” says Joe;
“When you can’t depend on pedigree, give
chemistry a go! ”
So he comes one day triumphant, almost
burstin’ into song,
An’ he yells “Eu-flamin’-rcka! ” —which is
Greek f’r “Rung the gong!”
“It’s the real Mackay, be crikey! I’ve sur-
passed me wildest hopes
With a concentrated essence of a hundred
diff’rent dopes!
See this bottle? Here’s the winnin’ o’ the
Bungawallah Cup!
It’s the sting of all creation, f’r I’ve tried it
on me pup!”
Yairs, in order to discover what the stimmerlant
is like,
Joe has doped his dog, a sickly, superannuated
tyke
That’s been pensioned off f’r dyin’ an’ is practi-
cally dead.
But a jolt o’ sting so livens him he bounces
from his bed.
An’ he sets himself to musterin’ the rabbits on
the place,
An' displayin’ in the process such astoundin’
turns o’ pace
He runs rings around the cottontails, an’
drafts ’em through the gate;
An’ he holds the mob together while he keeps
’em headin’ straight
Down the highway, like merinos, an’ he follers
on their tails
An’ returns ’em at the border to their native
New South Wales!
Well, to shrink a lengthy story, when the big
event comes round
We have borrered, begged an’ battled till we’ve
raised a hundred pound;
An’ the bookies make it willin’, so we give the
roll a spin,
At a price that made us dizzy, on Acetylene, to
win.
It was Joe himself that rode him, since we
wouldn’t trust a hoop;
An’ we pumped him full o’ stimmerlant an’
counted on a scoop.
I’m so giddy with excitement when the starter
lets ’em go
That me eyes are sort o’ blurry when I come
to look f’r Joe,
An’ it seems as though Acetylene’s got
smothered in the pack;
F’r I can’t pick out our colors on the fai
side o’ the track.
Then they rattle through the furlongs, an’ they
swing into the straight—
What’s become o’ Joe? What’s happened? Has
he left his run too late?
Why the blazes Then 1 see him; an’ lie’s
cornin’ wide an’ clear
Where I never thought to find him—half a
furlong in the rear!
Joe was silent as a tombstone when I met him
later on,
An’ 1 guessed he wasn’t broodin’ on the money
that was gone,
But the rotten sort o’ showin’ that the stimmer-
lant has made;
So to cheer him 1 remark: “Too bad its action
was delayed! ”
“Yairs,” says Joe, “that’s how you saw it;
how the judge would see it, too;
But the trouble was me stimmerlant was better
than we knew:
From the take-off old Acetylene was travellin’
so fast
That he even beat your eyesight!—he was
never running last;
But when you an’ all the punters laid your
blinkers on the horse
He was naturally slowin’ —on his third time
round the course!
Yairs, me stimmerlant was perfect, an’ me
prophecy was right;
F’r he won the Cup, twice over! —but he won
it out o’ sight!”
QUEENSLAND.
SANCHO.


“Goolagimbi”: Ginger was one of the
hardest cases in W.Q. He followed the
country race meetings, and he had a
much-battered nose, the result of many
a racecourse affray. A squatter, not
wishing to acknowledge he knew him,
remarked to Ginger, when accosted, that
he seemed to have seen his face some-
where ; “but,” said he, “I can’t get over
that nose.” “Course yer can’t, you goat,
said Ginger; “the bridge is broke!
* * * *
“Heretaunga”: A one-legged seagull
on the beach at Napier (M.L.) provides
the children with much amusement. One
small boy who is particularly fond of
feeding the bird is also a champion at
cursing. Hoping to frighten the boy out
of the habit, his mother asked a police-
man to speak to him. “Who told you I
swear?” asked the nipper when the lec-
ture started. “A little bird told me,
replied the policeman. “What kind ol a
bird?” On the spur of the moment the
cop said it was a seagull. The youngster
was suddenly impressed. “It wasn’t a
one-legged one, was it?” he inquired.
“Yes.” The boy shook his head in dis-
gust. “Well,” he declared, “I’ll never give
that lousy another —— bit of
broad! ”
* * * *
“O’Heck”: It has always puzzled me
why poets and authors stick to that hack-
neyed and inaccurate expression “the
eerie silence of the bush.” I’ve lived in
the bush for many years in various parts
of our continent, but have certainly not
found it silent. Throughout the year
myriads of small birds are calling,
squeaking, chirruping and fighting,
assisted ably by Jacko and Maggie.
Added to this racket in summer is the
deafening noise of the cicadas. Most of
them are going from before daybreak till
dusk, after which the night birds, possums,
squirrels, etc., start.
* * * *
“Ladbrog”: “Forking a horse” (B.
7/9/’3B) might possibly be an American-
ism, but its origin cannot be attributed
to Hollywood. In Central Queensland
in the early ’nineties there was a poem
one stanza of which went as follows:
I can strike a line through scrub or pine
Or play a hand of poker;
] can ride a black or fork a hack —
I’m just the blinkin’ joker.
It is customary to credit the U.S.A. with
any phrase whose source of origin is in
doubt, the bush bard thus losing a lot
of just fame.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Far from being the in-
strument of frightfulness alleged by
“Valencia Creek” (B. 14/9 / ’3B), the
jew’s-harp, in the hands, or rather mouth,
of a competent player, bewhiskered or
otherwise, is capable of giving out melo-
dies of the most melting and pleasing
nature. Tom Collins, in his Such Is Life,
described with unstinted praise his own
virtuosity on the instrument, and de-
picted the miraculous change which a
tendre capriccio knocked out thereon can
produce on the most eccentric hatter.
Hardened cattlemen whom I have met
up in the N.T. swear by the double-
tongued variety as a sure means of sooth-
ing restive cattle in the night watches,
while numerous acquaintances in the
outer parts of the Victorian hill country
claim that its melodies are unfailing aids
in the wooing of the feminine heart. I
spent an arduous fortnight with an addict
up in the Vic. snow belt recently, and
am prepared to swear that it is the pos-
session of false teeth and not side-
whiskers which characterises the more
expert players. Unlike the natural article,
which tends to muffle the whine of the
instrument, false teeth serve as an effec-
tive sounding-board, enlarging the
volume and giving to the noisy passages
a penetrating timbre calculated to pierce
the vitals of even such inveterate music-
haters as “Valencia Creek” and his
school.
* * * *
“Lazy Bill”: Foxes and native cats
don’t have poultry-killing on their own.
In our mid-north district of S.A. escaped
ferrets come down from the hills and
wreak havoc with young birds. Have
also seen a large polecat hop through a
2|in. netting mesh.
* * * * .
“Cooralco”: “Puffinus” (B. 14/9/’3B)
misses the mark when he blames the
mistletoe-bird for the ever-increasing
amount of mistletoe in dry country.
There has not been any great increase
in the mistletoe- and other birds that
spread the parasite. In the mulga coun-
try and other areas of low rainfall, young
trees used to replace those killed by the
mistletoe, and so a nice balance was
maintained, but since the advent of the
sheep and rabbits young trees are eaten
out before they reach maturity. In large
areas of western N.S.W. there has not
been any regrowth of mulga for the last
20 years. The present scrub is facing a
rapidly-increasing deathrate due to old
age and the concentration of mistletoe on
"Who did ’ee vote for, Wilium John?”
“Ha, Silas, that be 'tween me an Cod, but I dedden put cross agin that
old Trevarrack .”
its branches. Remedy: Light stocking
and systematic destruction of the rabbit,
especially during the dry times when
these rodents are comparatively scarce.
* * * *
“A.V.0.”: Walking along a bush road
I saw in the timber what I took to be a
crow and a magpie fighting. Getting
nearer, I saw that the crow and magpie
were allied in hopping into a fair-sized
goanna. The birds had the best of the
fight, and the go. could hardly move an
inch without a terrific onslaught from
both enemies. Sensing my presence, the
birds flew away, leaving the goanna to
feebly crawl up a tree.
* * * *
“T.T.”: When “Cam Cove” (B.
17/8/’3B) gets one whiff of black wallaby
with the pelt off he’ll have found some-
thing Binghi omits from the menu. The
beastie is a fair-sized scrub hopper,
smoky-hued above and around, bright
yellowish to neutral under. Was skin-
ning one when an abo. stockman rode
up. “That pfeller no good. We don’t
eat him.” Like “C.C.,” I was assailed
by doubts, and presently —I must have
uncovered a gland or something—by
that which disposed of ’em.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: The Coolangatta (S.Q.)
water authority has been much worried
by surreptitious water-wasters during the
recent dry. spell, but one thoughtless law-
breaker has been detected. One of the
town’s own aldermen actually saw a cow
turn on a tap in a municipal reserve in
order to get a drink. He considerately
explained that he thought the animal had
made an unsuccessful attempt to turn it
off after she had refreshed herself; but
as a good deal of dairying is done in
the district this may have been mere tact-
ful palliation of public sentiment. Local
suggestions for getting over the trouble
range from locking taps to the importa-
tion of those trained police dogs in Vic-
toria which have acquired the art of turn-
ing off the tap after getting a billy of
water to revive a fainting man.
* * * *
“Copper Jacket”: In his dissertation
on rifle velocities and shocking power
“Elfir” (B. 14/9/’3B) confuses the two.
It is not so much muzzle velocity that
counts as the energy developed and the
ammunition used. Modern big-game
rifles are made with muzzle velocities
ranging from the 2600 ft. per second of
the Holland .375 express, with
its striking energy with a soft-
pointed bullet of 4060 foot-
pounds, to the 2150 ft. per
second muzzle velocity of the
.500 Holland express, which
has a striking energy of 4850
foot-pounds. I quote these two
as average examples of their
type. The small-bore German
Mauser of the type “Elfir”
extols, the .311, has a muzzle,
velocity of 2075 ft. per second,
but a hitting energy of only
2168 foot-pounds. Queensland
has just afforded an interesting
example. Operated on for a pain in
his back a patient was found to have
a Mauser bullet embedded near his
spine. During the Landing, he felt a
slight tap on the chest but, as he was hit
on the foot in much more painful
fashion, forgot it. In the mad rush, to
get the wounded on board the hospital
ships no one noticed the tiny scratch in
front, but concentrated on the foot.
Twenty-four years after, the first bullet
came to light in Brisbane. If the lucky
lad had been hit by a bullet from the
Holland .500 express, the burial party
would have had to collect the remains
with a shovel.
* * * *
“Langshan”: Old Charlie pitched his
tent by the creek, and stubbornly refused
to get drinking water from the house
tanks. “Bonser water in that hole,” he
said. “Why, one of the cows always
comes there and stands lowing, just as if
she wus sayin’ how good it is.” A few
days after Charlie came to the house for
water, more emphatic than polite. Went
with him to the creek. There was the
cow sure enough, and, as our noses testi-
fied, there was her calf floating in the
water.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Whatever their ad-
mirers may say for them in Australian
trout waters, black shags are specialists
at destroying trout in M.L. From 1582
shot and examined from 1921 on, 7694
trout, from 2in. to 19in., were taken. One,
shot on the nest whilst feeding its young, ‘
yielded 150 trout and salmon fry from
l|in. to 2in. each. Another contained
105 of the same fry, and a third 88. A
well-grown nestling contained 15 trout
averaging Bin. A large adult was seen
to tackle a 71b. trout in deep water, pick
both its eyes out and drag it towards
the shore. The gun prevented more, and
both bird and trout were secured. From
607 specially examined for other foods
the yield was 2523 trout, from 2in. to
26 perch, a common fish in those
waters, four eels, 12 lampreys, 25 bullies,
five frogs, three shrimps, 47 flounders
and two mullet. The same species of
shag occurs all over Australia and Tas-
mania.
“Ellenvale”: “Had to git rid of that
black dog of mine,” Long Bill told me ;
“the cow had no brains. A few weeks
ago I comes out one
mornin’ an’ finds .him
cornin’ home with a white
leghorn chook that he was
carryin’ carefully by the
head. Seein’ that all my
fowls were blacks, I knew
it musta belonged to some
neighbor who hadn’t sense
enough to look after his
poultry, so I gives old
Nigger a pat. This went
on for a fortnight; every
mornin’ he had a white
leghorn waitin’ for me to
shove in the pot, an’ me
butcher’s bill was down to
practic’ly nothin’. Sud-
denly I finds out that me
own fowls is disappearin’,
but I never wakes up to
what’s happenin’ until
one moonlight night 1
catches Nigger at his little
game. Hanged if he
wasn’t killin’ me own
chooks, carryin’ ’em over
to old Johnson’s an’ takin'
one of his in exchange.
A flamin’ dog what can’t
reason things out better
than that is no good to
me.”
“Wil”: After giving the cat a hefty
kick in the midriff for killing a young
swallow that had been reared around
the house, I noticed that the bird had
quite a number of flies stuck under each
wing. Apparently these are to provide
food for thg j migratory trip made
eacb y ear> Any other guesses?
*** * *
“Wang”: “The worst disappointment I
ever fi a d,” said Dan, “wus one time when
wus humpin’ me bluey ’way back in
s ou t b One afternoon 1 struck a
f a j r _ s j ze[ j township, an’ wus makin’
across the road to the nearest pub when
1 hears excited yells an’ a loud drum-
mm sorta no.se I turns round an sees
comm at me with h,s head down a bull
as big as an elephant, about 30 yards
away. I slips me swag off me shoulder
th'nkin t make a lun >
on me in a tick. In a sorta frenzy 1
chucks me swag m h.s face rhe
shoulder-strap catches in oneof his horns,
an the rest gets him across the knees,
an down he goes, head oyer heels an
stays there. Hed broken his neck. Next
thing I know 1m the middle of a ciowd
of people, pattin’ me on the back an’
tellin’me what a hero lam. Saved little
Andy McSporran’s life at the risk of me
own, they sez. Then I see a red-headed
nipper bein’ slobbered over be a fat
female. It turns out he’d been crossin
the street behind me ; but I hadn’t seen
him. But I didn’t let on ’bout that. Then
a long, lanky cove ’bout 50 comes tearin’
up. It’s the kid’s father. I find out after
he’s a big pot in the place, ownin’ three
parts of it. The crowd starts yappin
’bout what I’d done. He grabs me be
the hand, an’ starts pumpin’ it up an’
down. ‘Eh, mon,’ he sez, ’tis a verra
brave thing ye done. Frien’s,’ he sez,
addressin’ the crowd, ‘we canna let this
brave feller go without showin’ some
appreciation!’ I stand there, lookin’
modest, an’ waitin’ fer the hat t’ go
round. ‘Yes,’ sez McSporran, ‘we canna
let him go without givin’ him some recog-
nishun. Now then, all t’gether, frien’s,
let’s give him three hear-rty British
cheers’”
“ 'Oo goes there?”


Booms e/-™ 8/ T ne E r E Ja SY B DNEY ’ 484 GEORGE "sTBEe£ ' " "
Single and Double Rooms dHote ° r a la Carte *
Intercommunicating Bedrooms foT^amme!^ 63 available *
£2*k* c dining rooms.
T,bl “ ” *•“ »•»
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Inr.nmrvrnioA •« \
SYDNEY
(lncorporated, in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLF
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available
ABSOLUTE SECURITY EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
oi /r(Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon EBP jjt n rv m. •
" r0 “ to “ys;!
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Gr.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED IST2.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net r- DivideniN N Toll’- R e ~
J,me * 1 rotit. Prt>f. Old. Total, serves, serves.f
£ £ c .e
41 388
1929.. 10 p.c. 10 p.e.= 443,322*106,009 147|997
Share premiums, £376 .. .. 148 373
ioQ?"?l2’o?2?A P ' C * 6 P- c -= 318.939 1,761 160j134
TnoJ"HS’ 319 10 •’ ’> » 187,141 138,312
193^..207, 340 10 „ 3 „ „ 206,970 1,370 139,682
1933.. 241.919 10 „ 1 ~,,243,626 137 976
1934 287,929 10 „ 6 ~,,281,283 0,646 144,621
unexplained reductions, £37,392 .. 107 229
1225" 12 2 >01e 10 P >o - 93,000 27,016 134’, 246
1936.. 183 10 „ 6 p.c. = 281,283 26,900 160,146
1937"410,409 10 „ 7 ~ ~366,696 63,814 213.969
1938.. 414.702 10 ~ 7 ~ „ 360,696 58,100 272,066
* Includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co's
shares t (loodwill (£864,377) not treated as an
asset herein.
Last week fear of a major war in
Europe, where the international stage was
strewn with dynamite, overshadowed
security markets everywhere. Locally,
as nervous tension developed, buyers
almost completely withdrew, and the
smalt parcels of scrip that came on to
the market sharply depressed prices,
which, though still very sensitive to over-
seas developments, recovered as tension
relaxed, following the Four-Power agree-
ment.
Dunlop-Perdriau’s capital is in 930,000
10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 3,765,655 ords.,
which are among the most actively
traded industrials on the inter-State
’Changes. A year ago the ords. fetched
225. lid. After reaching 245. Id., the
figure eased to 21s. at the end of August ;
it was at 20s. 7d. on Sejlt. 24, fell
sharply to 18s. 3d. four days later, and
then recovered to 20s. last week end
The return at 20s. is 7 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s distribution. The prefs. at
38s. 3d. they have been fairly steady
round this figure—yield 5.2 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £5 6s. lOd. prefs. and
21s. sd. ords.
Tyres account for about half the co.’s
turnover, rubber footwear comes next,
and a large variety of rubber goods
makes up the balance. The raw materials,
mostly rubber and cotton tyre-cord, are
bought overseas, and this makes earn-
ings subject to the interplay of a wide
lange of factors. Internally the organi-
sation has been strengthened by adop-
tion of a rationalisation plan following
overhaul of the buying, manufacturing
and selling sections of the business about
three years ago, when a substantial part
of that year’s earnings, together with a
windfall of £147,576, and more besides,
was used to write down the book value
of plant and recondition equipment. The
figures since suggest that good work has
been done in this connection.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a steep fall
in the price of raw rubber, and the figure
tor tyre-cords fluctuated, too, while wages
and other costs continued to climb. But
a fight hold was kept upon outgoings,
and there was a substantial increase in
the number of motor vehicles on the
roads in Australia, which totalled 863,000
units at June 30; new registrations
amounted to 83,000 units. Turnover in all
the co. s main lines increased, the spring
J il g ™ ss T ea f n L ngs (£1,051,792) being
t. ,657. Including “heavy rationalisa-
'o7nsProv,,s,+(? n ”. e xes. (£637,195) took
increase ’ having the net
result £4293 better at £414,702, or enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 8.5 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 8.4 p.c. and 5.6
p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div. was kept at 7 p.c.
The co.’s plan for local manufacture
of wheels and rims for motor vehicles
has been suspended, because it has ben
unable to secure a supply of suitable
steel from Australian mills, and the pro-
posal to make tyre-cord material here
will be reviewed by the board when the
Government decides what it will do with
the tariff. The co. has pioneered the
manufacture of tyres here, as well as
many of the other lines in which it now
trades, and has strong connections with
the English Dunlop Co., which subscribed
a substantial part of the capital.
Finances are very comfortable, as the
following comparison of consolidated
balance-sheet figures for the parent and
its subsidiary shows:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
Paid capital— 1935. 1937. 1938 _
Dunlop interest £4,895,665 £4,690,555 £4,695,505
Outside interest* 198,314 222,478 222,491
Reserves! .. . . 490,661 572,264 63V),389
Liabilities.. .. 239,467 139,277 183,431
Freeholds. etc. .. 1,297,271 1,259,342 1,217,452
Plant, etc. .. 1,147,825 1,073’,383 1,070,164
Stocks . . . . 2,032,480 1,681,165 2,145,679
Debtors .. .. 616,696 730,352 781,252
Investments, etc... 22,940 30,114 9,930
Cash, etc. .. 20,178 453,091 101,447
Rationalisation ace. 43 ci9 50 507
Goodwill .. .. 601,477 630|096 0321237
* Includes undistributed profits, f Subject to goodwill.
The outstanding feature last term was a
growth of £464,514 in stocks, due to
bigger turnover, inroduction of a third
line tyre, and larger-than-usual purchases
of raw rubber goods fom Europe as a
?!^ a iwv 0n - aBa ’ nsl war - The growth of
£44,900 in debtors’ balances and of
£44,154 in outside liabilities reflect the
yeai s brisker trading. Cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £352,244. The move-
ments illustrate the co.’s need to carry
a laige cash balance. The improvement
o ™ ore or l ess liquid surplus
(£2,854,877) was £92,832.
As lor the current term, new motor
vehicle registrations are expected to de-
cline, but replacement sales should con-
tinue to expand, and maintenance of
turnover in the co.’s other lines is looked
lor. Extra taxation and the bleeding
on account of National Insurance, will
ot course, make unit costs difficult to
restrain. Still, the co. has a wide good-
will and an able management, and 7 p.d.
to the ords. may not prove to be beyond
reach.
F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
/ ———Dividends- — v
•Net -Pref. To Tio-
June, Profit. Spx, Ordinary, serves, serves.
192 h. . 14,41 y 4000 8 p.c. = 7,423 2992 51^00
1929.. 14,590 4000 8 „ „ 7,467 3123 ’54 893
1930.. 14,409 4000 8 ~ ~ 7 s‘>6 2883 r 7'7nr
m» ( «, "nil v -‘ *Jg gs{
1932.. 9,602 6.2 p.c.* 5,878 399 58,578
1933.. 10,800 3100 6.2,, 5 878 1899 rn ano
1934 11 Q9U on i\ n 60,400
• <>.2„ „ 5,878 2942 63,342
193.5.. 17,342 4000 8 „ „ 7 584 7
Employees’ bonus, £3OOO ’ l 2758 66,100
1936.. 21,617 4000 10 p.c. = 9 775
Employees’ bonus, £3OOO ’ ' 1 4842 70,943
1937 U 2K24fi ain !oAO dd i t . ionS ’ £9497 •• 8 <>,440
ij.it.. 38,246 4000 ly p.c. =l5 070 7
Employees’ bonus, £3OOO ( 017 G 86,616
1938. . 30,934 4000 15 p.o. =15,515 7 0 „
Employees* bonus, £3OOO J 8459 95,035
Wimbles supply the trade with all kinds
of printers’ requisites, including their
own good Australian-made inks, and have
done so for nearly three-quarters of a
century Branches have been established
m all the Australian States, and a sub-
“£ary °P erate d in Maoriland since
J 928. Finances are thoroughly sound,
and the co.’s performances during the
slump and since suggest that it has strong
and expanding connections, and that the
board has stated profits with care. For
! he , s Q e7en y ear s to the close of accounts
in 1930 aggregate net earnings approxi-
mately four times covered the pref. divs.
after deducting which enough remained
to show 11.6 p.c. on ord. capital. Then,
owing to slump and its concomitants the
ords. were shown an empty basket in
1931 but they received 6.2 p.c. for each
of the next three years, followed by 8,
10 and then 15 p.c. for the last two
terms. The only interruption to the flow
of pref. divs. was the statutory cut of
22+ p.c., which applied for 2| years to
the close of accounts in 1934, since when
they haye received their full contract
rate again. Also, the business is now
more robust than ever.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover at all branches
increased, and new lines were added to
the list of manufactures, while the Maori-
land offshoot continued to earn “satis-
factory profits,” which it used to finance
further expansion of its business, no div.
being paid. After allowing £4157 (up
£1055) for depreciation and providing for
taxation and other contingencies, the
board figured net earnings £2688 better
than the previous year’s at £30,934, or
enough to pay the prefs. their 8 p.c. and
show an attractive 26 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal, compared with 24.1, 18.5 and 14 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. The dis-
tribution was maintained at 15 p.c., and,
unless something very unexpected
happens, looks like remaining there —for
the present, at any rate.
The £153,435 of capital is in 50,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs., put up by the public
in 1924, and 103,435 ords., which were
listed for the first time a year or so ago,
following the death of F. T. Wimble,
founder of the business, in his eighty-
ninth year. On the market 545. is offered
for the ords. without attracting sellers.
At this figure the return is 5.5 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 30s.
yield 5.3 p.c., and their full annual re-
quirements were covered nearly 7} times
by last year’s net earnings. The net tan-
gible cover is £4 19s. 4d. prefs. and
38s. 4d. ords.
Assets can be taken as well worth their
book value:
_ 1932. IW3O. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £144,800 £ 147,775 £150,405 £153,435
Mortgage .. 10,000 12,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. ■ ■ 20,027* 29,390* 21,128 24,737
Freeholds, etc. 00,170* 72,014* 97,3G4 95,304
Plant, etc. .. 21,788 10,880 10,300 14,299
Shares in other
«>«• • • 25,090 25,109 24,999 24.999
sto< * 07,083 01,723 50,103 00,809
Debtors .. 40,920 58,242 49,202 01,899
O as h . . 14,374 34,890 51,247 48,353
■ After deducting mortgages.
To carry an extra £12,637 of book debts,
acid £4706 to the stocks item and
clip £4OOO off the mortgage, the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc. —
the etcetera is an unspecified provision
for taxation —was increased by £3609
and 2970 new ord. shares were issued.
Excluding shares in other cos., the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£134,324) was £14,840.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
, „ . To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ & £ £
1927.. 08,572 11.1 p.c. 50,250 12,322 90 120
1928.. 70,074 71 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134.094
1929.. 53,914 10 „ „ 60,000 3,914 138,608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 60,000 34,303 172,911
1931.. 53,471 8i „ „ 43,750 9,721 182,632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 21 „ „ 12,500 35,261 235,700
1934.. 52,105 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,605 250,365
1935.. 69,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
1930.. 67,710 14.5 „ „ 43,750 23,900 302,717
1937.. 62,937 20 „ „ 50,000 12,937 315,644
Reserves disappear, £20.308.. .. 295.276
1938.. 81,070 221 p.c. = 50,250 25,426 320,702
For over half a century now this co.
has been hauling, concentrates, mining
requisites, passengers, etc., between
Broken Hill and Cockburn, where its 36-
mile track links up the S. Aus. Govern-
ment system. Some juicy returns were
won from the business in the past—
capital grew to £500,000 by the issue of
£437,000 of bonus scrip, then, during the
two years to the end of 1935, £250,000
was returned to those on the register.
The future of the business depends
upon the life of the big silver-lead mines
at the Barrier, and this is wrapped up
with the world price of lead, zinc and
silver, development of fresh ore, and
costs. From 1929 to 1935 6d. per share
(£12,500) was annually set aside for re-
demption of capital. Then the alloca-
tion was reduced to 3d. per share (£6250),
because developments on Zinc Corp.’s
leases and those of New Broken Hill
Consolidated greatly lengthened the life
of the Barrier —the diamond drill has
repeatedly postponed demise of this field,
thundered by the profits since pre-war
days. Present allowance for amortisa-
tion aims at repayment of capital within
the next 30 years.
The quantity of goods hauled over the
co.’s line during the last three years and
in 1933 is as follows:
1933. 1936. 1937. 1938.
floods Carried. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Coal, etc. .. 8,692 10,360 11,497 13,655
Lead con’trates 228,456 258,331 292,454 320,678
Zinc con’trates 203,484 290,205 228,278 257,784
Other goods.. 67,329 98,466 10fi’793 150,295
Total .. 507,961 657,362 639,022 742,414
The extra 103,392 tons carried last term
is reflected in a growth of £25,695 in
gross earnings (£174,645), and in a drop
in running exes., etc., from 9s. Bd. to
9s. 2d. per pound of traffic revenue.
Before allowing for depreciation (£17,116,
up £11,185) and leaving out of the
reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£20,368 in the depreciation reserve
(£83,899), but including other minor
reserve adjustments, the net result in-
creased by £18,739, reaching £81,676,
equal to 32.6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 24.3 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was lifted from 20 p.c. to 22}
p.c., and a distribution has been made
since the close of accounts at the rate of
20 p.c. p.a.
I ne market prices the lOs.-paid shares
at 355. 6d., at which figure the immedi-
ate return is 5.6 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div.
basis, with possibilities later. The net
tangible cover is £2 ss. Bd. per pound
of paid capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
„ 1936. 1937. 1938.
1 aid capital.. £350,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Sun d r y
creditors .. 33,799 50,830 67,905 59,853
Fiwd assets.. 483,069 478,967 479.228 461,976
iMiel and stores 23,316 19,537 20,000 20,957
Sundry debtors 38.934 54,718 71.241 66,610
Cash, etc. .. 89,887 51,182 63,940 81,011
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£87,768) was £20,492.
The net reduction of £17,252 in the book
value of fixed assets appears to have
some connection with the unexplained
reduction of £20,386 in the depreciation
reserve.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd. (Syd.)
, r- 1 Dividendst Ke-
June. Profit. Prof. Ord. Total. Off. serves'.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 39,831* 171 p.c. 30 p.c. 20,000 8250 69
1921.. 17,821 121 „ 16# „ 13,333 4000 557
1928.. 20,830 121 „ 16# „ 13,333 3000 5,051
1929.. 10,548 121 „ 16# „ 13,333 4000 3.26!)
1930.. 19,096 124 „ 16#., 13,333 4000 5,032
1931.. 9,242 21 ~ Ail 2,000 2750 9,524
1932.. 11,188 81 ~ 8# p.c. 8,313 2500 9,89!)
1933.. 6,345 5 „ Nil 4,000 2500 9,744
1934.. 10,982 7$ ~ 7# p.c. 7,750 2500 10,476
1935.. 9,781 7J „ 7J ~ 7,750 2500 10,007
1936.. 7,491 6 ~ Nil 4,800 1750 10,948
1937.. 6,903 6 „ Nil 4,800 2000 11,051
1938.. 8,085 6 ~ Nil 4,800 2000 12,336
* Includes £24,619 surplus on sale of Victoria Arcade,
t Allowing lor 22# p.c. cut on both classes of scrip
since October, 1931.
Tormed in 1920 to build the Prince
Edward Theatre, Sydney, this co. has
been one of the most successful in the
motion-picture section of the entertain-
ment field, where the two big groups
(Union and Hoyts) and others have for
many years found it difficult to squeeze
reasonable profits out of the business.
There is £lOO,OOO of share capital to be
fed in 80,000 prefs. and 20,000 ords. The
prefs., in which the public is interested,
carry a non-cumulative 10 p.c., and have
priority as to capital. After an all-round
10 p.c. has been paid, any remaining
surplus, whether distributed or not,
belongs 60 p.c. to the prefs. and 40 p.c.
to the ords. Before the boom the prefs.
and ords. enjoyed a run of 12} p.c. and
16 2-3 p.c. divs. respectively. Also the
co. got out of its property investment, the
Victoria Arcade, with a profit of £24,619,
and lowered the mortgage from £161,793
to £60,000-odd, since reduced to £50,000-
odd. During the eight difficult years to
(Continued on page 24.)


SPLENDID ACHIEVEMENT
GAINS WIDE PUBLICITY
; *<■■■' ■- - -
•feaSaHN i£2r.7*i-
jr V'A \ HUGE ASSETS
A < HANDED OVER
,as> 'j&* \
.—....
*** r* .
vi
«35
fe
w.
aT--
’ • ‘.- ,J '<1.400.000 /*
'*•»*«*»■*«*».. 'temxttxiinij
jfflw
'V<y, . *•>..
«*» NMate lafc. <^N#^a^»
*ct»v»
a»,
ffihe
<V<W
11 l)c .<£*»miner
. *
fyjC}* r, r(ii tl>s-
-
DAMAGE
SUES
Sfe* Cst
,^ c< -
'
'.. •• w .«'"
r
ROBB®
<2*
mm tm*M
«.% VAN
*“•&* btfi*
<*»n fw?*
(£
sssgf>*
i’lin
n
it!,
S(c/ r
&7
4/*
v *V£>
Che
THE SUN
J3»3ta»sttato»-
•■>• ;<S5r
• --v ■•' /r *A,.,
Elliotts
71r a« 5 - U
BRITAIN'S POLICY
APPROVED
O' SUDETK.I WSPUTE
>tMK
‘ Jgj mass Ms
tCih
Australian
and
New
Zealand
Leading newspapers in Australia and New Zealand have given
prominence to the work achieved and the
Huge Assets Handed Over by N.Z. Perpetual Forests
Ltd. to the Bondholders’ own Company, N.Z. Forest Products Limited.
The Facts are: N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. will now transfer
a planted area exceeding 170,000 acres established with over 100,000,000
trees in a vigorous, healthy condition, and in addition, other assets exceeding
£1,300,000, of which approximately £1,000,000 is in cash and liquid assets.
N.Z. Forest Products Limited assumes complete control of the forests with
ample funds, not only to continue maintenance and development, but also to
commence cutting and marketing these valuable forests.
Further particulars obtainable from:
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Registered Office, Auckland, N.Z.
Head Office for Australia, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
And at
Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane; Yorkshire House, Queen Street, Melbourne;
Claridge House, Gawler Place, Adelaide; Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth. Agencies at London, Bombay, Singapore and Shanghai.


FD
INVESTMENT PLUS OTHER
SHAREHOLDING ADVANTAGES
Post the coupon for Prospectus giving full details of the advantages
to you, as a car owner, of shareholding in Hastings Deering Service
Limited. A new issue of 45,000 7% Preference Shares is available
at par, half of which has already been subscribed. This additional
capital will be profitably employed in financing terms-sales and
insurance t new departments of this Company's expanding business.
Minimum subscription £5, maximum £5OO payable in full or by instalments.
To HASTINGS DEERING SERVICE LTD.,
P.O. Box 4333YY Sydney. 'Phone: F 0446
Please send me Prospectus giving
particulars oj the 7% Investment.
NAME
ADDRESS
2),
eerina
SERVICE LTD
OFF WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
82826.
s' -a
. K Il
ESS
//NV
7^ —^
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart from looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked in full and
half sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
IVrite for a Catalogue.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Ilounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * *
For all Puiflp Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with W illiam Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
/'SVHOQ
J PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE....
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
VVingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
the close of last accounts, the prefs. have
never failed to receive a div., the average
being 6.1 p.c.; the ords., which have
been passed by five times, have had an
average of 3 p.c.
Although broadcasting is making itself
felt as a competitor in entertainment and
competition among picture theatres con-
tinues to sharpen, while in the supply
section of the industry kissing goes by
favor, the management has been able
to make satisfactory contracts for film
supplies and other attractions, the theatre
has been kept up-to-date—renovations and
improvements are hungry animals in this
class of business —and it continues to
attract its full share of public patronage.
After paying all exes., including an
unstated amount spent on repairs, main-
tenance and decoration, the board figured
net earnings for the 12 months to June
30 £llB2 better than the previous year’s
at 8 p.c. on capital, compared with 6.9,
7.4, 9.7, 10.9, 6.3, 11.1, 9.2 and 19 p.c.
back to 1930. That leaves out of the
reckoning provision for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, the
total amount being £33,230. The pref.
div. was kept at 6 p.c., and the ords.
were passed by again.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1028. 1935. 193(5. 1937. 1938.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Mortgages 00,350 58,253 07,201 06,257 50,209
Sundry
creditors 610 716 653 2,230 4,233
Property,
equipment.
etc. .. 174,084 192,800 192,231 192,218 192,070
Cash, etc. 15,013 11,823 11,120 11,349 10,739
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(up £2003), which includes provision for
taxation, was more than twice covered
by cash alone. The mortgage was re-
duced by £6048, the principal sum being
£50,000, the term of which has been “ex-
tended at a reduced rate of interest.”
On a still nervous market, which is
doubtful of the future, the pound prefs.
fetch 15s. 4d., at which figure the return
is 7.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging
Acquisition last year of two adjoining
areas —Northern and South-east Exten-
sion, paid for out of liquid resources—
has given this Siamese producer a new
lease of life. At Dec. 31 total dredging
areas, with approx, metal content, stood
as follows:
r~* Contents Av. T. 0.,
Property. Cubic Yards. Tin Oxide. C.y.
Takuapa .. 22,032,000 4717 tons 0.481 b.
Han Pru .. 10,915,000 3958 tons o.Bllb.
Northern .. 35,000,000 8203 tons 0.521 b.
S.E. Extension 4,300,000 840 tons 0.431 b.
Total .. 72,247,000 17,718 tons 0.551 b.
Treating 4,000,000 c.y. annually, that lot
would provide 18 years’ digging, with
possibilities of further ground being ac-
quired. Exclusive prospecting licenses
over areas at Sakom and Nakon have
been taken, while “other likely areas are
also being investigated.”
The newly-acquired Northern area, on
which the future of the co. mainly hinges,
was bored by Y. Tecpik, who reported
average values of 0.511 b. t.o. C. C.
Liddelow, on checkboring, estimated the
average at 0.531 b. Altogether, 185 bores
were put down, giving mean values of
0.521 b., the oxide assaying 72 p.c. metallic
tin. The wash is free-dredging, compris-
ing mainly coarse gravels and sand, with
a little clay but few stones.
At present only the old Takuapa and
Ban Pru properties are being worked, the
former by two dredges, the latter by an
American Spud-type plant, because of
the hard and clayey wash. About six
years’ work remains here, and returns
can be expected to fluctuate, tin content
of the ground ranging from 4oz. to 13oz.
per c.y.
A programme of expansion rendered
divs. intermittent up to 1932, but regular
distributions have been maintained since,
and the present position is encouraging.
Last term quota releases, plus bonus
additions, were equal to 90.3 p.c. of the
combined Takuapa-Ban Pru assessments
(968 tons and 247 tons t.o. respectively),
and, thanks to the better-grade wash en-
countered, the co. earned more for less
e ff or ( .
'„ „ „
1935.. ( 84,476. c 5,672 15,803 1/3 3/- 4i,056
IM6 ” 27,401
1937.. 140, 185 88,436 51,749 4/1 3/9 50,795
* Including (lepreciation: 1935, £16,747; 1936',
’. “ ,
After allowing a practically unchanged
amount for depreciation, the year’s net
earnings were £16,952 better at £51,749,
or . 4s* per share. Total divs. were
raised from 10 p.c. to 18£ p.c. (3s. 9d.
P er share), and further distributions of
Is, 9d. per share have been made since
the books were ruled off.
f u | [P er oimances compare as
‘ ’ Takuapa s Ban Pru,
1936. 1937. 1937.’
bic -7f rds , du £-- 3 > Bo0 > 3,464, a!?2 780, ? dd
Tin oxide, tons .. 829 837 156
Recovery per c.y., ib. 0.49 0.54 0.45
Costs per c.y., pence 2.53 2.96 5.38
Working- profit per
c .y. f pence .. 3.81 4.99' 1.51
Av. price realised
t. 0., toil.. .. £l2l/1/9 £137/2/6 £143/3/11
r, . , ■ ,
The lift in working costs reflects higher
labor, stores and repair bills. At Taku-
apa Nq> j p j ant worked almf)st entirely
in tailings. Both plants have had the re-
maining buckets required to complete
the new bands fitted, and attention is
being given to improving recoveries.
Alterations and improvements to the Ban
Pru machine, including installation of a
clay-extractor, have already increased
both digging capacity and recovery fac-
tor of that machine.
Quota releases give the co. a permis-
sible output of 716 tons of oxide for the
current term, plus whatever bonuses may
be allotted. At the end of August all
plants had produced 705 i tons from
2,817,000 c.y., an average recovery of
0.561 b. Working surplus for the eight
months was £32,163.
At balance day the co. had liquids, in-
cluding stores, of £98,056, and owed out-
siders £10,248. The £250,000 of capital
is in £1 shares, valued at a 3s. discount
by the sharemarket.
Last quarterly report of Gold Fields
Australian Development (W.A.) indi-
cates that values in the bottom workings
(from 800 ft. down to 1000 ft.) are tarred
with the low-grade brush, like those of its
neighbor Wiluna. The figures range from
2|dwt. to 9dwt., but would barely bulk
4£dwt. During the quarter 5741 tons
of s.Bdwt. ore, mostly from higher levels,
was treated for a yield of 56410 z. bul-
lion. In addition there was 6380 z. in
antimonial concentrates and 184 oz. more
in similar lower-grade stuff. The co.
also got 24000 z. from old concentrates.
Working profit for the quarter is esti-
mated at £14,200, excluding the return
from treatment of old concentrates, the
major portion of expenditure on which
was incurred prior to the beginning of the
quarter. Net value of the output from the
co.’s second string, the Kintore at Kun-
analling, was £5228. The co. also holds
a ninth interest in the Comet and a fifth
share in Yellowdine Investments, Ltd.,
which holds all shares, except a small
parcel of vendors’, in Yellowdine. The
quarter’s working profit of these two ven-
tures is estimated at £7324 and £49,357
respectively.
* =k * *
For the first eight months of 1938
Boulder Perseverance’s working profit,
with cost of diamond drilling and de-
velopment chipped off, amounted to
£A112,000. It also had something to come
from the Enterprise, in which it holds
a 70 p.c. interest. Perseverance’s ac-
counts for 1937 showed a net profit of
£S 127,826, and £577,000-odd was distri-
buted in two divs. Broken ore reserves
were then estimated at 116,700 tons of
7.Bdwt. value. No estimate of proved but
unbroken ore was given.
* * * *
During August Hill 50, Mt. Magnet
(W.A.), treated 2250 tons for 560 fine
ounces gold, an average of sdwt. per
ton, aggregate gross value £5074. Overall
mining costs were 245. sd. per ton, as
against 335. for the 12 months to the end
of May last, and 355. 2d. for the year
before that. Ore reserves are estimated
at 46,000 tons actual, averaging 5.4dwt.,
and 20,000 tons probable, average value
not stated. Nothing worth mentioning has
yet been struck in the 110 ft. winze sunk
from the 200 ft. level. Pending installa-
tion of the new £l5OO engine, expected
to be ready any day now, development
work has been suspended. A diamond-
drilling campaign has been decided upon.
Jji
Latest gamble of Western Queen
(W.A.) is an option on May Bell gold-
mine, near Norseman. The price is £4OOO
cash and £1250 worth of paid shares if
the show, which has been little pros-
pected, suits. The co. previously
searched for gold in a show at Warda
Warra, in the Mt. Magnet district, on
which a new manager proposed to make
a comprehensive report after he had
“studied the situation.”
* * * *
Guided by results from development
and borehole prospecting, some of
the De Bernales Commonwealth and
Boulder Mining and Finance groups
(W.A.) recently pegged goldmining
leases on areas previously covered by
reservations, and abandoned the re-
mainder of the country held. Beryl,
Gladiator, Emu, Riverina and Southern
Cross are among the concerns which
have done this. Other cos. controlled by
De Bernales in the West are preparing to
do the same.
* * * *
Yellowdine’s and Comet’s June quar-
terly reports read well. At Yellow-
dine further exploration of a new lode,
recently struck 350 ft. west of the main
shaft, is officially reckoned to be of
“exceptional importance.” Comet is
credited with a sulphide lode 32ft. wide
and of 19.8dwt. value at the 170 ft. level.
* * * *
Enterprise, Good Hope and Adelaide
Mines Development, three Westralian no-
liability goldmining cos., issued state-
ments of account the other day which
show each to be almost financially
featherless. In May last Enterprise didn’t
bother to oppose a successful application
for forfeiture of its Callion lease, near
Davyhurst. Good Hope has done no-
thing worth recording since it abandoned
operations at Ora Banda in 1935, while
Adelaide Mines Development, after
failures at Bullfinch, Marie’s Find and
Kulyannobbin, all on the Yilgarn field,
is lying low.
* * * *
New York-controlled Big Beil Gold
Mining Co. (W.A.) is reaching out. Some
months ago it became interested in a
molybdenite venture near Yalgoo, and
later took an option on the old Corin-
thian group in the Bullfinch district. Now
it is reported to have got hold of some-
thing auriferous in the Labouchere
Range, beyond Peak Hill.
* * * *
“Throgmorton”: Backed by three of
the biggest S. African corporations—
Anglo-American, Central Mining and
Union—and identified with other promi-
nent interests associated with W. S.
Robinson and his friends, Gold Explora-
tion and Finance, which failed to
back a winner at Bendigo (Vic.),
is billed in London as something
better than usual in the goldmining
line. In addition to a substantial poten-
tial profit from its 72 p.c. share in Vic-
toria Gold Dredging, there is a prospec-
tive revenue, principally from other gold-
mines, of about £40,000 sterling. This,
it is claimed, should be largely augmented
when the Central Norseman (W.A.), in
which a large interest is held, reaches the
dividend stage. The co. has issued
£500,000 worth of notes, the redemption
of which, if effected in 1939 instead of
the latest due date (1942), would call for
£575,000, toward which the co. has over
£150,000 in hand.
* * * *
Excluding Russia, New York “Engi
neering and Mining Journal” estimates
the world’s January-May gold production
ac 12,516,000 fine ounces. Principal con-
tributions in ounces are: South Africa
4,934,000, Canada 1,831,000, United States
(including Philippines) 1,792,000, Mexico
370,000, other N. American 356,000.
Westralia 459,000, rest of Aus-
tralia 194,000, Asia 454,000, Rhodesia
336,000, Japan 300,000, British West
Africa 298,000, Europe (chiefly Sweden
and Rumania) 225,000, Colombia 205,000,
Belgian Congo 191,000, other African
174,000, British India 134,000, Chile
114,000, New Guinea 83,000, New
Zealand 66,000.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ifitt $
itK
■ • •
m.'l/L * ar
Jp
v ...
■
“II
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
-—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Danger!
“The red-headed girl invariably gets her man.”
— Women's paper.
This points a golden truth to all
Brunettes or blondes who don’t enthrall:
Viz., if they’re keen on being wed,
They ought to have their heads well red !
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Said that the green grass-snake in the
banksia coastal country of W.A. can cover 10
yards in about two seconds.”
Just fancy what speed a ripe grass-
snake would attain!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Steady growth of canned-fruits trade in
Britain is expected.”
Our growers will be selling all they
can.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Corsets Sacrificed!” — Advt.
Figuratively speaking, of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Has Not Eaten For Eighteen Years.”
—News heading.
Isn’t this carrying the dieting craze a
bit far?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In Brisbane a man, mistaking a woman for
his wife, knocked her down; then, finding out
his mistake, picked her up again and humbly
apologised.”
Who said the age of chivalry was
dead?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A mere attack of indigestion makes some
people think they have serious heart trouble.”
—Medical journal.
Naturally it would make them a bit
windy.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Funny how such a lot of weakness can
be attributed to strong drink!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Paint adds years to woodwork, but has
the opposite effect on women.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Undoubtedly conditions were against them,
find the raw material available was not of the
“ Don't he so impatient, Clarence; the gentleman
hasn't finished yet!"
right quality, for the beer would not keep and
was used as blacking.”— “S. M. Herald.”
They were determined to get a kick out
of it somehow.
4* + + 4 1
“Many women have helped wayward men to
turn over anew leaf.”— Women’s paper.
Especially in their chequebooks.
4* 4> 4* 4*
“One drink is not sinful.” — Sydney parson.
It’s a skinful that’s sinful!
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“The first wrestling match took place be-
tween Jacob and the angel.”— Sydney paper.
We understand the angel won with a
flying tackle.
“Profanity must be banished from the
theatre,” says a reformer.
Putting on a decent play now and then
would go a long way towards it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Glass Costumes for Women.”
—Fashion note.
Frosted, we hope.
4* 4* 4*
... * Th e latest society craze is the giving of
handkerchief-teas.
The forerunner of a successful bawl?
Dry Reflection.
We can thank all the powers that this
fair land of ours
Isn’t cursed with some tyrant who
loves to dictate ;
It’s a very poor joke, for I find myself
broke
And in a teetotalitarian state.
Leon.
4* 4* 4* 4b
“Fat men are more straightforward than
thin,” declares a writer.
Strange! We always thought they
were more round forward.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This spring two birds built their nest in
the open-shelf bookcase of a library.”
—News item.
Well, birds usually build among the
leaves.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“War Clouds Still Hang Over Central
Europe.”—" Daily Telegraph.”
In fact, the hangover’s been there ever
since 1918.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“While leaving the wedding-breakfast a bottle
was thrown at him and he was injured."
— “S. M. Herald.”
Perhaps that’ll teach him not to leave
the price-ticket on the salt- and pepper-
shakers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Memoirs of a Detective (Retired).
My most famous case —and, appropri-
ately enough, my last —was that of Mr. X.
Called by wireless patrol at the out-
rageously early hour of 8 a.m. to ah
empty house, 1 discovered the remains of
a man bludgeoned to death. This, I real-
ised, was Mr. X.
Swiftly I built up a mind-picture of
the frightful crime. Cleverly and cor-
rectly deducting that Mr. X had been a
vacuum-cleaner salesman, I reasoned that
he had been lured to this lonely spot by
the husband of one of his victims, and
then bashed on the occiput with the very
instrument he’d sold to the lady.
It was at this point of my investiga-
tion I made one of those psychic deduc-
tions for which I am renowned. Within
an hour I had placed myself under arrest
for the murder of Mr. X. The third
degree through which I put myself was
so severe that I crumpled up and made
full and frank con-
fession. Incidentally,
it was my wife who
bought the vacuum
cleaner. She has
learnt her lesson.
At the trial his
Honor congratulated
me on the masterly
manner in which I
had marshalled the
evidence. My cross-
examination of my-
self, he also averred,
was one of the
subtlest attacks ever
witnessed in a court
of justice. There
was, he summed up,
no need for the jury
to retire.
Nor did they.
They brought in
their verdict there
and then, and his
Honor had no option
but to sentence me
to death in the first
degree.
As it happened I
did not hang. Be-
fore making the arrest I had promised
myself a free pardon for turning King’s
evidence.
Turoar.
I Was a Legionnaire.
III.
At first I thought, when we were
paraded before the fourrier-sergent, that
we were to be shod like mules, but the
non-com. turned out to be the equiva-
lent of what in civilised countries is
called a quartermaster, for he was smok-
ing an expensive cigar and had a look
of general opulence.
When it came to my turn to go in for
my kit I stood there with my arms raised
waiting for the regimental tailor to take
my measurements, meanwhile instruct-
ing the sergent that I wanted the tunic
shaped to the waist, rolled lapels, inside
button-up pocket and no buttonhole. A
few seconds later a heavy bundle landed
with a dull thud on the back of my neck,
and in a short time I had almost dis-
appeared beneath a lot of stuff which, I
)
was bad-temperedly informed by the
q.m.’s offsider, was to last me the five
years’ term for which I had joined.
To my indignant protestations that I
had never worn slop-made clobber before
he rudely replied that if I happened to
be too big for them I could get ampu-
tated at either end until they fitted, or
if I was too small 1 could be stretched,
and that it would be a good thing if I
was pulled apart in the process.
I staggered out under an enormous
armful of gear, and after about four
more trips I got it all together and started
sorting it out. There were two cloth
uniforms, two white fatigue uniforms,
boots, linen spats, a blue woollen cum-
merbund, an assortment of cleaning
materials, several underpants and sing-
lets, apparently made of soogee bag
lined with steel wool, and a kepi. In
addition I had a rifle, bayonet, ammuni-
tion, dixie, camp oven, a supply of fire-
"Hey, chief — I've located that anti-aircraft gun!"
wood, A frying-pan, an axe, a boot de-
sander and several other items of impedi-
menta which a legionnaire must carry
with him on desert campaigns.
While sorting it all out, I noticed that
there were no socks.
Now, I had been told all about quarter-
masters, so, dashing back, I hotly de-
nounced the fourrier-sergent as a traitor
to La Belle France for dishing an honest
legionnaire out of a lousy pair of socks
so that he could wax fat by flogging them
to the Touregs, and that if he didn’t
hand them over and sling across another
six pairs to keep me quiet I would write
to Madame Two-Blues and tell her of the
graft that was rampant in the Legion ;
then the whole of North Africa would
ring with, a scandal that would shake the
French empire to its foundations.
Apparently the fame of the brilliant
diplomatic writer had not yet penetrated
to the Sahara’s fringe, for the fourrier-
sergent, a long, thin, nuggety fellow with
a bifurcated beard and one eye that
looked S.S.E., evidenced not the slightest
interest in the influential lady. Instead
he leaned against the ceiling and partly
looked at me witheringly.
“Listen, pollution,” he said calmly as
he lit another double Corona, “if there
was a fly-swat around this forsaken hole
your tainted carcass would soon be
poisoning the vultures. Get out before
I kick your ribs clean through what you
flatteringly term your backbone. The
Legion never wears socks!”
To say that I was staggered was to
put it mildly. Let impecunious peers
wear spats to cover up their sockless
condition, but for me —never!
Then I remembered. In civvy life I
was wont to keep on wearing my socks
until the feet were completely worn out,
after which I used to pull the leg parts
up and use them as underpants. Why
not, then, reverse the procedure and pull
my underpants down sufficiently to allow
my utilising the ends of them, tucked
under, as socks?
This I did, so successfully that my ruse
thereafter remained undetected despite
the eagle eye of the terrible Sergeant Vin-
blanc. The one drawback was that, in-
stead of the top of my underpants fitting
me tightly under the armpits, it was now
caught around my legs midway between
waist and knees, causing me to affect a
gait like a septuagenarian flapper in a .
hobble skirt. However, one can’t have
things both ways.
The man who had the bed next to
mine in the barrack-room was a hard-
ened old campaigner named Xenophon
Popodopoulos. I promised him half a
day’s pay if he would give me the oil
about how to do the Christmas-tree act
with the various gadgets I had to wear.
The uniform, I found, fitted me to
perfection, with the exception of the
tunic and trousers. I could wrap the
tunic around me twice, but this, Xeno-
phon assured me, was an advantage in
that it would keep out the cold. The
sleeves, too, were about a foot too long,
but when I mentioned this Xeno ques-
tioned it. How could they be a foot, he
contended, when a tunic made no pro-
vision for feet? For the next hour I
tried patiently to explain the vagaries
of the English language, and we got into
quite an argument. It was when he
started to do his block that I was com-
pelled to bounce the blunt end of the axe
on his dome to clinch the argument.
S. W. K.


ANYWHERE
• • •
ANYTIME
Whether business dr pleasure be the- motive,
whether the journey be long or short, at home
or abroad, all your arrangements can be made
through the special Travel Service provided
by the Union Bank.
By availing of this service, for which no charge
is made, both your travelling and financial
arrangements are made at the one time and
place.
Letters of Credit and Travellers' Cheques in
Sterling and United States Dollars, negotiable
throughout the World, are issued. These
Travellers' Cheques are particularly convenient
for incidental expenses.
%In addition, Italian Tourist Lire and German
Registered (Travel) Marks are available for
bona-fide visitors to Italy or Germany.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established 1837.
Incorporated in England
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
Slow to Recover.
Castlemaine Perkins shares were
still going in Brisbane at 225. late
last week, returning £4 11s. per
cent, with good prospects. Mauri
Bros, and Thomson ords. (Sydney),
at 605., returned a juicy, well-
protected 5 p.c.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Now What?
Agreement having been reached be-
tween the British and Continental leaders
at Munich, Australians will be turning,
not unwillingly, to other problems now
confronting them. Clearly, Hitler was
not speaking with tongue in cheek
when he said in his Nuremberg
speech that Germany never wanted
to cross swords with England again.
The world has been as near to
war as it has ever been ; largely by fine
statesmanship on the part of Neville
Chamberlain war has been avoided.
World emotions have run their full
gamut, and a psychologist might be ex-
cused for thinking that the world is in no
mood now for more hysteria. The whole
ghastly prospect became too real when
the show of hands was made.
In Australia it is spring, and the new
season’s wool has made a ddbut at the
sales in trying circumstances. War-risk
insurance difficulties brought friction be-
tween buyers and sellers, and then war
possibilities caused a suspension of sell-
ing early last week. After resuming on
Wednesday, towards the week-end buyers
were operating much more freely, with
good clearances, although prices were
still down by last year’s standards. Wheat
is still a real cot-case.
The gloom of threatening war having
been removed from the Stock Exchanges,
the war factor in market fears was dis-
sipated to a large extent later last week.
At least, market leaders in many cases
on Friday last had recovered to the point
at which they stood a week earlier. But
even standards of a week, a fortnight or
a month before were adjudged to include
reservations on account of war risks. If
peace is reasonably assured now, to what
extent may the sharemarkets be expected
to recover when they get properly into
gear again?
Here the question remains clouded by
reason of our internal economic condi-
tions. Wool, wheat and some other ex-
port values are down. We have a coal
strike on our hands, and costs have been
rising. Butter is selling well overseas, on
the other hand, and metals have im-
proved in price. Wool prices, however,
taken in conjunction with ttye general
level of production costs, remain the key
to the situation. Any tendency for the
one to rise and the other at least to cease
rising would be distinctly encouraging.
Our strong points are increasing indus-
trial efficiency, the still-high buying
power of our currency, and the room for
general expansion that still exists in Aus-
tralia. Principal weaknesses are the way
in which Government finances are ad-
ministered, the tendency to inflation in
costs and the definite inflation in taxes,
our unhealthy trade balance (only partly
due to low export prices) and a tighten-
ing credit position.
On Tuesday of last week Sydney Stock
Exchange was the scene of wild-man sell-
ing. There seemed to be a line of action
on the part of some brokers to sell any-
thing at any price. The result was that,
in an already very nervous atmosphere,
shock followed shock in an absurd
"Leave three pound fifteen an six, Bert—I want t’ close me account
in the mornin'."
' fashion ; the absurdity was demonstrated
when quotes from Melbourne came
through a few minutes later and showed
Broken Hill Prop, shares at 2s. higher
than in Sydney, British Tobacco at 2s.
higher and Aust. Glass at 3s. higher.
By the noon call Sydney and Melbourne
quotes had come nearer together ; but in
Sydney slaughter of local stocks like
Tooth (465. 6d., down 3s. 6d.), David
Jones ord. (305., down 65.), Burns Philp
(48s. 6d., down Is. 6d.), Sargents (235.,
down Is. 6d.), Kandos Cement (235. 6d.,
down Is. 9d.) and Australian Gypsum
(18s; 6d., down Is. 6d.) continued.
Electro.-Zinc ords., an inter-Stale counter,
flopped 35., to !355. 6d., Henry Jones
3s. 3d., to 435. 9d., North B.H. 2s. 6d.,
to 41s. 9d., and South 2s. 6d., to 265.
The first blow naturally fell on widely-
held market leaders like British Tobacco,
Australian Glass and Broken Hill Prop.
In a general, pronounced decline that is
always the case, and less active stocks
follow the leaders at a distance. But
popular low-priced issues suffered just as
severely as the front-rank stuff on Sept.
27. Anthony Hordern (Sydney) ords.
fell Is. 4jd. to 145., a bigger propor-
tionate drop than that in 8.H.P.; Marcus
Clark, another Sydney retailer, saw a
20 p.c. fall in its ords., from ,3s. lid. to
3s. 2d. T. J. Richards, the S.A. motor-
body building co., registered a drop of
Is. 9d., to 255., in its scrip ; Associated
News ords. declined Is. 6d., to 18s. 3d.,
Port Jackson Steam eased Is., to 155.,
and Cash Orders (Amalg.) Is. 3d., to
13s. 9d. Alongside some of these falls
the recession in Colonial Sugar (455., to
£43) was a trifle. A progressive decline
in G. J. Coles ords. finished up with a
chop of 3s. 3d. in the price, leaving them
at 725. 6d. at the close of dealings on
Sept. 27.
Except in regard to those stocks which
were also listed in Sydney and were
therefore subject to that city’s extreme
selling pressure, sellers on Melbourne
’Change didn’t “do their blocks” to the
same extent as Sydney brokers and in-
vestors. A slip of 6d. (to 275. 6d.) in
Myer ords. contrasted with the flop of 6s.
in David Jones ords. ; a drift of Is. in
Australian Cement compared with a
sharp cut of 2s. 3d. in Kandos Cement.
Australasian Paper ords., in which no
Sydney dealings had been registered for
some time, were marked down only 3d.
(to 275. 6d.) in Melbourne, and at that
they looked a bargain. Melbourne
“Herald” scrip fell Is. 6d. (to 545.), com-
paring more than favorably with the pro-
portionately big slide (Is. 6d., to 18s. 3d.)
in Associated News ,ords. in Sydney.
Carlton Brewery, though a higher-priced
issue, wasn’t slaughtered to the same
extent as Tooth shares.
Melbourne’s idea of things received
endorsement from Sydney in its calmer
and more regretful moments on Wednes-
day morning (28th). Tooth, 8.H.P., British
Tobacco and most other issues showed re-
covery, even though the international
situation looked no better. Why good
equity stocks should be sacrificed in order
to change into money or bonds that may
lose value in the event
of a strain to finance
a war is beyond this
page’s comprehension.
Certainly trade might
fall off for the time
being ; but the general
experience of war-
time is abnormal ac-
tivity of industries.
Even the Douglas
, Credit crowd have
pointed that out —as
an argument in favor
of doing with industry
in peace-time what
can be done during’
the regimentation fol-
lowing national con-
flict.
By noon of Wed-
nesday a furphy be-
came current that
Hitler was going to
march at two
o’clock on some day
or other, and a second
dose of jitters started.
Howard .Smith faded to 15s. 6d. in Mel-
bourne, Myer to 265., Dunlop Perdriau
to 18s., Yellow Cabs to 7s. 6d., British
Tobacco to 425. 6d., and G. J. Coles to
71s. 3d. In Sydney the rot recommenced,
and Bank of N.S.W. dropped to £29 55.,
Assoc. Pulp to 19s. 1 2d., Cash Orders
(Amalg.) to 135., Fairymead Sugar to
295. 6d., Felt and Textiles to 275., J.
Fielding to 775. 6d.j Kandos Cement to
225. 6d., Mauri Bros, to 605., Millaquin
Sugar (down 45.) to 335., Peters to 455.,
and Sargents to 21s. 6d. Little Peterkin
might well have been informed that it
was a famous victory for the jitters.
The sharemarket panic threatened to
become a national calamity on Black
Wednesday. In Sydney, Consols col-
lapsed, falls ranging from 3s. 9d. per
cent, in the case of 4 p.c. 1938’s to 755.
per cent, in the instance of 4 p.c. 1950'5.
In Melbourne the slump was rather more
general. The 4 p.c. 1938 issue crashed
435. 9d., 4 p.c. 1944 355., 4 p.c. 1950
625. 6d., and 1961’s 655. The debacle
was prompted by the announcement that
the Loan Council had postponed its dis-
cussion regarding the forthcoming con-
version and new “works” loan. There
was talk about war-time interest rates
superseding present cheap money. So
in the same panic that had slaughtered
equity share prices, Consols were brought
largely to an above 4 pic. basis and the
national credit position was assailed.
On Thursday morning, following news
of the proposed meeting of four Euro-
pean leaders at Munich, Australian in-
vestors didn’t wait for London ’Change to
open in order to get a lead ; they flooded
brokers’ offices with buying orders. They
were generally 100 late. In Sydney,
Tooth shares leapt 4s. 6d. overnight,
B.H. Prop. 45., British Tobacco 45., Cash
Orders (Amalg.) 25., Sargent’s 3s. 6d.,
Kandos Cement 25., Howard Smith Is.,
and a number of other stocks in pro-
portion. A jocular mood prevailed in
Pitt-street, and jokes and quips were the
fashion.
Consols shared in the buoyant re-
covery on Thursday, regaining most of
the ground lost on the preceding day.
On Friday and Saturday there was
further improvement.
* * * *
Subsidiaries of United Provisions,
which earned £46,856 in 1936-37, have
disclosed earnings of £69,343 for 1937-38,
the best result since 1930. The ord div.
of 3 p.c. on U.P. ords., together with
8 p.c. to the prefs., calls for £64,500.
After payment of the best ord. div. in
eight years the organisation as a whole
has also been able to improve its financial
position- slightly.' - -


Vickers
ORANGE COCKTAIL
Here s a new and delicious
appetiser - try it tonight.
Take one-third glass of
Vickers Gin, two-thirds glass
of Italian-type Vermouth,
one slice of orange, then
shake well and strain into a
cocktail glass.
ICKERS
GIN
om unce 7/70
V
AMERICAS
LANDMARKS
... iMlt tinqeA/ m ijeu/t/
n wmoiAj aS lemlnde/vi of-
a aloiwuA ex/i&iwnce /
.. • i
Tower, on San Francisco’s famed
Telegraph Hill, bids you welcome to
America ... a reminder of other land-
marks, of both history and nature: the
Angel Moroni, atop Salt Lake City’s
Temple . . . Old Faithful Geyser in the
Yellowstone ; . . four sculptured presidents on
Mt. Rushmore’s rocky face . . . the slim grace of
Kansas City’s Liberty Memorial . . . the Alamo,
in San Antonio, where heroic Texans fought to
immortality . . . the Washington Monument, ris-
ing above the patterned beauty of the nation’s
capital . . . the Goddess of Liberty, majestically
dominating New York Harbor, bidding you on
your way to England ... a symbol of the vast,
peaceful and absorbing continent you’ve crossed
in such smooth luxury!
A reminder, too, of the South Sea voyage that
brings you to America. Of New Zealand, Fiji and
Samoa, and Aloha Tower in Honolulu Harbor.
Of the white Matson-Oceanic liners Mariposa and
Monterey, whose swift grace and palatial comfort
make this 18-day cruise an epic! . . .
... and of the splendid railways which, ribboning
America, make all her landmarks so accessible!
Swift, safe trains of matchless luxury . . . svelte
Streamliners whose course is as smooth as flight
. . . a continent crossed in as little as 60 hours
(you need change cars only once) with low fares
and travel-costs and no extra charge for stopovers
wherever you wish. All-weather, air-conditioned
travel that has no counterpart!
Aboard these trains, every essential convenience
and modern device to make you comfortable.
Every diversion, including games and library and
radio, to keep you entertained. Every artistic con-
ception ... in club and observation cars, diners
and Pullman sleepers ... to enhance sociability,
sightseeing, and a sense of hominess. Every man-
ner of efficient, unobtrusive service ... to lift
care from your shoulders, giving all your time
for pleasure!
All these things feature an incomparable three-
part journey from the Antipodes to England . . .
the short, swift, up-to-the-minute way, allowing
the greatest latitude in choice of trans-America
and trans-Atlantic routes, in side excursions, and
last-minute changes in your plans. To thoroughly
understand the many advantages of this direct
Matson-Oceanic way to England, via America,
write for our free illustrated booklet, containing
every detail, England Across America'*
DF
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
(Incorporated in U. S. A. Limited Liability)
12 Bridge Street • Sydney • Phone B-7981-3
10R-1A
In a review of the influence of inter-
national affairs on market prices, in B.
21/9/’37 the following opinion was ex-
pressed :
In regard to the affairs of anyone who
can afford to hold his or her investments,
it is good advice to do nothing in a panic •
or a hurry. To have sold out of most
things in March, 1937, would have been
good business. That was when everyone
was optimistic. Trying to change gear at
the crossroads now probably wouldn’t be
so successful.
Those people who were panicked into
selling out their holdings of good stocks
on Tuesday and Wednesday of last wee’
lost heavily in the process.
* * * *
North Kalgurli, was the steadiest mining
stock of importance on Australian
'Changes last week. Gordon and Gotch
ords. were the most unruffled industrial.
The latter, with a highest quote of 555.
lid. this year, changed hands at 525. 6d.
and 535. on Wednesday. Both North
Kals. and G. and Gs. have found con-
siderable favor on this page in the past.
* * * *
Heaviest fall in Sydney last Friday (the
market by this time being buoyant) was
in Meggitt ords. ; 28s. 6d. was taken,
down Is. 6d. on the preceding sale.
* * * *
It is a great pity, really, that the con-
tested election of directors to the Mt.
Morgan board this month has developed
into a more or less “party” vote. Among
the retiring directors, for instance, Frank
Wolff, a Sydney sharebroker who has
spent much useful time in the service
of the co., might ordinarily get a lot of
votes from people who would be inclined
to vote also for Malcolm Newman, one
of the representatives of the dissatisfied
body of sh/ireholders. Those personally
present at the meeting may actually vote
lor both, or any other two nominees in
opposite camps. (Three directors are to
be appointed.) But votes by proxy are
likely to be “block” votes for one side or
the other, and to be no particular
respecter of persons.
* * * *
In its placid “no decision” policy Can-
berra perpetuates many petty (and not-
so-petty) injustices and tyrannies. Take
sales tax, just increased from 4 p.c. to
5 p.c. Structural steel bears tax in full;
reinforcing steel, cement, bricks, tiles and
a number of similar items do not bear
any. It is claimed by manufacturers
that the sales tax payable on the struc-
tural steel used in an average 150 ft. city
building would be enough to finance an-
other storey. Many representations have
been made by the victims of the very
apparent anomaly, but always it is “no
decision.” In June last Mr. Casey, when
tackled in the House, said that any
further criticism of sales-tax measures
might embarrass him, or words to that
effect:—
In dealing with every sales-tax exemp-
tion introduced since 1933, members have
been good enough to take my word that
experience in the early years of the sales
tax proved that the acceptance of re-
quests for exemption on the floor of the
House was fraught with too much danger
to be politic.
Heavens above! Injustices mustn’t be
discussed in the House lest the future of
the baa-jambs at Canberra be “fraught
with danger”!
* * + *
North Broken Hill’s profit of £475,153
for the year to June 30 last was down
£435,474 compared with the preceding
year. Measured in percentages, the fall
was 471 p.c.; that is exactly the same
ratio of drop as in the case of B.H. South,
which published its figures some weeks
back. North has cut its div. (60 p.c.
now) in halves, leaving £55,153 for
reserves. It needs its cash for develop-
ment more than does South.
* * * *
Leading banks stood by sharebrokers
in a sane manner during the worst period
of last week. A member of Sydney
’Change approached one institution with
which he had an account and mentioned
that his 50 p.c. margin was in
danger of being assailed by the
market collapse. He offered to sell a
swag of the shares held, and his car,
if necessary. The bank manager asked
him if he wanted to keep his car.
The broker said yes. “Well, keep it,”
said the banker, “and don't sell any of
your shares. You’re not the only egg in
our basket. The pressure of your selling
might affect the security of a hundred
other clients of ours. So go home and
have a good night’s sleep.” And the
broker would have slept soundly only
for the fact that he listened to Joe Lyons’s
speech before turning in. His stomach
was out of order next morning.
* * * *
Australasian Paper (B. 28/9/’3B) has
maintained its all-round div. at 8 p.c.,
payable on Oct. 24. At 295. 6d., cum
9.6 d. div., the return to present investors
is a shade under 5.6 p.c. With its pew
pulp mill in Gippsland nearing com-
pletion, the operating co. (A.P.M., which
has just shown record earnings) should
become more independent than ever of
overseas raw materials, and that should
be of great help in the event of any pos-
sible interference with shipping. But
let’s hope shipping risks are now all over.
* * * *
Airlines of Australia, which conducts
a service between Sydney and Brisbane
and Brisbane and Townsville, is still
losing money. P. and 1. debit for
the year to June 30'last was £9017, after
providing £23,097 for depreciation.
Though the co. is meeting competition
from subsidised services, trading results
are said to be improving. Paid capital
is £1 14,937 and intangibles, including
£16,447 accumulated losses, total £29,292.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Man of the Hour.
[Most Australians and Maorilanders, including those
previously misled by pro-Eden, pro-Churchill, pro-Attlee
and general Left propaganda predominating in cables as
representative of British public feeling, to-day share the
appreciation of Mr. Chamberlain expressed by J. B.
Firth in the article here condensed from London “Daily
Telegraph.”]
The world still responds with a shout to a stroke
of signal moral courage directed to a noble purpose.
That is how it interpreted the news of the British
Prime Minister’s dramatic offer to start off at once to
visit Herr Hitler.
Mr. Chamberlain is a man of plain speech. His
“yea” is yea and his “nay” nay. There is nothing
subtle about his methods of approach. He is not
suspected of finesse or of equivocation. His word is
his bond. It is not designedly phrased to leave either
window of escape or loophole of evasion.
Mr. Chamberlain has been little more than a year
Prime Minister of Great Britain. When he succeeded
Mr. Baldwin he lost not a moment in defining his
attitude to the major problem which required his
immediate and personal supervision—the problem of
the Peace of Europe.
The first time he spoke in the Commons upon
foreign affairs he compared the international situation
to the familiar conditions in high altitudes when an
incautious movement or even utterance may start an
avalanche. The snow, he said, was perilously poised,
but had not yet begun to move. With caution, patience
and self-restraint he believed that the peace of Europe
might be saved.
The occasion was the end of June, 1937, when
the civil war in Spain was causing renewed anxiety.
In the intervening 15 months, the Prime Minister has
not swerved from his course either to right or to left.
With the co-operation of France he succeeded in avert-
ing a European war over Spain. Partisanship has
from time to time bitterly taunted him with cowardice
for not “standing up to” the Dictators, but such
taunts are soon forgotten even by those who utter
them, and the sober opinion of the British public has
approved the Prime Minister for his continued refusal
to be drawn into a European “War of the Spanish
Obsession.”
Great Britain was not prepared for any sort of
war in June, 1937, least of all for a war in which there
would have been no approach to national unanimity.
The Prime Minister’s policy, therefore, has been to
repair our defences, to make Great Britain strong,
both for peace and war, and to work steadily towards
the removal of the causes which make for war. The
second part of that policy meant entering into conver-
sations with other nations even though we did not
like their politics. Mr. Chamberlain prepared for the
eventuality, and lost no opportunity of arriving at new
understandings with other Powers.
With France our relations have never been more
intimate and cordial, and there is full agreement on
all matters of vital concern. That is no less true of
our relations with the United States and with Turkey.
The conflict in the Far East has been disastrous to
British interests, but it has not spread, and in the final
settlement between Japan and China other Powers,
including the United States and Great Britain, will
doubtless make their voices heard.
What Mr. Chamberlain has stood for above all
else is the principle of settling international quarrels
by negotiation and not by force, and he has unremit-
tingly exerted all the influence of Great Britain in
that direction, first, because that is the only course
approved by the best conscience of mankind, and,
secondly, because “Great Britain cannot divest herself
of interest in world peace.” For, while it is an exag-
geration to say that peace is one and indivisible, the
consequences of a general conflagration are so appal-
ling that all Powers which are genuinely devoted to
peace have the duty, and the right, to protest against
the use of force and even in some cases to threaten
the intervention of their own force to prevent an im-
pending stroke which must involve them all.
U.S.A. Looks On.
[ln the article here condensed from London “Daily
Mail,” Negley Farson, for years a leading American
foreign correspondent in Europe and author of The
Way of a Transgressor, seeks to clarify for the benefit of
British readers the possible attitude of U.S.A. towards
war in Europe.]
If you know anything about Americans you will
know that you would never find us on the side of a
war against England. Whether we could remain
neutral or not is a point for argument—perhaps even
an object to be attempted. We tried it in the last
war —and then, as you all know, we came across and
took part.
The same sympathies, deep down around the
cockles of our hearts, that brought us in on your side
the last time will probably do it again—if we can't
stay out of a war. You have been steadily gaining
our sympathies since the World War. Your recent
agreeable settlement with De Valera over several im-
portant differences on the Irish question has turned
many an Irish-American from hating your country
into at least being neutral towards it.
You did not solve your Indian problem, but the
Hindus bored the United States with their organised
effort to outrage American opinion regarding British
domination.
Your conduct about the war debts seems, to us,
unethical —but we Americans are full of admiration
(and envy) of you British for the cool, competent
way you sailed your ship through the world slump.
You’ve done nothing but gain.
On the other hand, we like the Germans very
much. The finest type of farming in the United
States is in the Pennsylvania country, and the great
farmlands of the Middle West are dotted with the
white silos and red barns of German farmers. The
German colonies in our big cities, like New York,
Philadelphia and Chicago, make the rest of us jealous
with the amount of solid joy a Fritz can get out of lile.
We like the Germans, we admire them (the same
as do many people in England), and, in spite of our
views on the recent treatment of refugees, we are
interested in and admire many of the things Hitler
has done.
Most Americans, if there was a war to-day, would
feel that it was simply due to rotten world politics,
and they would die dismally if they had to fight,
simply because they would still be wondering what
they were fighting for.
English readers make a mistake if they think that
the American in New York, Kansas City or Newt’s
Tooth, Texas, thrills to the magic word “Democracy”
any more. It has been worn threadbare.
The primary thought of nearly 11,000,000 people
who are out of work in the United States is how to
get a job. For that reason, instead of hating Hitler,
a lot of them might be interested in him, simply be-
cause they know that he himself was faced with the
problem of finding work for 5,000,000 unemployed
five years ago. Communism is more easily organised
in the factory and mining districts than on the farm-
lands. It can be taken that the conscious feeling
against Hitler would be stronger there than on the
land. But in the cities the lines of unemployed are
wondering whether Fascism, Communism or National
Socialism could put them to work.
There is not a Fascist or Nazi movement as such
of any size in the United States —although our Left-
Wing intellectuals and political writers use these catch-
words to lend the air of erudition to their arguments
and articles. Anti-Semitism is, however, on the in-
crease in the United States. Put to one side, therefore,
all the expected effects of Hitler’s anti-Semitism as
being the deciding factor that would bring the United
States into a war against Germany.
If my countrymen go into a war now it will be:
First, because we admit we cannot keep out; finally,
it will be in self-defence. Germany may have an
ally in Japan, in the Rome-Berlin-Tokio axis. It
might be that this thought of Germany and Japan
will make the American mad enough to go to war.
His personal feelings would be aroused. But it is a
safe bet that the average American won’t go in from
emotionalism or even display the unthinking heroism
with which he went out to make the world safe for
democracy last time.
Our chief emotion will be horror if any conflict
breaks out, and we should feel dismayed to be caught
up in a havoc that will bring civilisation to its end —
unless by coming in we can help to stop it. Other-
wise, we will stay out.
John Bull’s Palestine Handful.
[ln last week’s spate of sensational cables the
Empire’s private troubles —of which the clash of Arabs
and Jews in the Palestine mandate is the worst at the
moment—were kept well in the background. The very
awkward Palestine problem, further developments of
which are dealt with in this condensed article by London
“Times” Jerusalem correspondent, is just one of the
matters never for a moment considered by professorial
and radio oracles in their voluble babbling on imaginary
international obligations.]
Amid the recrudescence of murder, guerrilla war-
fare, rapine, brigandage, theft and arson which has
followed hard upon Mr. MacDonald’s visit to Jeru-
salem the one consoling and encouraging fact has
been the definite official assurance that at long last de-
cisions upon the fate of Palestine will be taken with-
out delay.
The sum of moral, physical and economic suffer-
ing inflicted upon the inhabitants of this land, parti-
cularly since the disturbances became more or less
continuous after April, 1936, cannot easily be esti-
mated.
Among the Jews there is an almost unanimous
conviction that Great Britain is deliberately not
attempting to stamp out disorder with all the thorough-
ness that she is capable of exerting. Why, it is in-
quired, is the Secret and Intelligence Service still so
largely manned by Arabs, when there is strong reason
to believe that many of them are actively disloyal and
that many others are too frightened of the terrorist
gunman conscientiously to do their duty?
The Jews contend that Great Britain has her
own grounds for not suppressing the disorders as
thoroughly as she might. It would obviously be easy
to reply to these superficial criticisms on technical
grounds. It should suffice here to point out that, dis-
passionately considered, they are fundamentally ten-
dentious and are based upon the twofold assumption
that the mere restoration of order is an end which
justifies the adoption of all conceivable measures,
however ruthless, and that the case between Arab and
Jew has already been decided, right and justice having
been found only on the side of the Jews.
But what is curious is the extent to which large
sections of Arab opinion share the Jewish belief
that Great Britain is lukewarm in stamping out the
terrorist campaign. There is an undoubted conviction
among many Arabs that the influence of Jewry is not
so all-powerful in London as it was. It might be urged
that Arabs outside Palestine, whether or not they are
political refugees, have just as good a right to cam-
paign in favor of their brethren as have the spokes-
men of international Jewry. Be that as it may, the
simple fact remains that the toleration of these in-
trigues and manifestations in adjacent countries either
allied to Great Britain or governed by Great Britain’s
closest friend has caused widespread and profound
astonishment and has heartened the Arabs to redouble
their campaign in Palestine.
The main movement is inspired by Arab patriot-
ism, which cannot in these days be condemned any
more severely than other brands, however much one
may deplore the methods it has adopted. The leaders
such as Abdul Rahim are recognised as enthusiastic
patriots who are making a desperate stand to keep
Palestine for the Arab peoples. But, as is always the
case with a revolution, many of the underlings are
bad hats long wanted by the police. They find guer-
rilla warfare a congenial occupation. Apart from
these there are unmitigated brigands whose existence
has troubled the patriots, for it has hurt their prestige
with their own people as well as abroad.
The preparedness of the rebels to enforce dis-
cipline is almost daily illustrated by the finding of
dead Arabs with placards stating they have been shot
for some action contrary to the national cause.
Thus the “Government by night,” which parallels
the civil administration, is setting about the task of
organising its followers. Much of it may be bluff,
to make people think they are stronger than in reality,
but it would be stupid to ignore the fact that in cer-
tain districts the authority of the bands is more re-
spected, because more feared, than that of the Man-
datory Government. The Arab Command at least has
no hesitation in enforcing its will by shooting down
obstructionists. What wonder that even Arab patriots
lament the inability of the Mandatory to make life
and property safe for those many people who —eager
as they are for recognition of the Arab claims —would
be content to further their demands in less violent
ways?
Aftermath of “Collective Security.”
[Condensed from an “Evening Standard” article by
Frank Owen reviewing Sisley Huddleston’s book In
My Time, not yet available in Australia.]
“When there is again strife it should be Eng-
land’s duty —and America’s —not to pitch everything
into the flames. It would be a betrayal of mankind
to plunge, in the name of ‘Collective Security,’ into a
devastating conflict. Let us preserve as many points
of sanity as possible, so that we may start civilisation
again. I can only regard as sheer lunacy the doctrine
preached by the belli-pacifists that we should all
perish together in battle.”
In these powerful words Sisley Huddleston,
famous correspondent, author of many books on
This Incensed Sudetens!
On Monday of last week, when war
appeared to be looming ominously up and
people everywhere were in a state of extreme
anxiety, Sydney “Daily Telegraph” published
the picture here reproduced from its pages
and printed beneath it this legend: —
Sudetenland.
At Eger serious rioting
followed the posting of
this martial law proclamation by the Czech
Government. The notice was written in
Czech and German. Incensed by the pro-
clamation, Sudetens have obliterated the
Czech portion.
Here is a translation of all that can be read
of the notice on the board: —
MUNICIPAL PAWNSHOP* EGER
Auction Sale
Monday, 10 October, 1938
From 9 to 12 a.m. and from 1.30
Will take place in the small
FRANKENTAL HALL
(Schiller Park )
The Unredeemed pledges which fell due up
to July 31, 1938.
The articles are on view on every Saturday
before the auction sale.
The Manager.


LET
r ATLAS i
CARRY THE
BURDEN t
h
so!k
uv-Wi.
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. \. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St.’, Melbourne
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New ’ Zealand.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
A glimpse oj historic Port Arthur.
TASMANIAN
TOURS
for UTMOST
VARIETY
Enjoy a happy sea voyage by
overseas or interstate liners.
Beautiful scenic trips and visits
to historic sites in Tasmania
and accommodation while in
that State. All inclusive costs
are moderate, call or write for
descriptive booklets.
• TAKE YOUR CAMERA ana enter for
Tasmanian Photographic Competition.
CASH PRIZES. NO ENTRANCE FEE.
TASMANIAN GOVT.
TOURIST DEPT.
SYDNEY: 4 Martin Place.
MELBOURNE: 286 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 196 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 12 Pirie Street.
PERTH: A.M.P. Building:, William Street.
HOBART: Macquarie and Murray Streets.
LAUNCESTON: St. John and Cameron
Streets.
Europe, sums up the learning of a lifetime spent in
war and on the battlefields of post-war conferences.
He pleads for a “partnership of power between the
English-speaking peoples.” Especially he lashes the
"poisonous propagandists,” “that foul press which
presumes to put itself forward as the successor of
the old Liberal press, belching its vulgar challenges
to other countries every morning, breathing daily
vituperation, systematically circulating lies, hysterically
producing the war psychosis, disguised under fright-
ful peace masks.”
He apportions equitably the blame for Europe’s
present nightmare between the “democrats” and the
dictators, and points out that up to 1931 Germany,
Italy, Japan and Russia spent considerably less on
arms than the “peaceful” Powers. The dictators took
to blows, according to his version, only when it was
plain that words would get them and their countries
nowhere.
Now the League of Nations, which Mr. Huddle-
ston saw born with such splendid hopes, is dead,
criminally killed by those who tried to make it a
weapon of war with their “sanctions.” “It may not
know it is dead ; and the burial may be indecently
delayed ; but dead it is beyond redemption, dead with-
out hope of resurrection —it is dead and damned!”
And who were the moral assassins of what had
been a great moral idea? Mr. Anthony Eden and
Lord Baldwin. They insisted on using as a sword
to enforce peace by coercion an instrument whose
design was to bring peace by conciliation.
Mr. Eden, he says, filled Genevans need for a
new “lead” (for Briand was dead, and Hoare and
Simon had not measured up in violence to the anti-
Fascist, belli-pacifist, pro-Communist requirements).
Soon, therefore, we got the strange spectacle of the
young Tory leading a new Children’s Crusade against
ogres ol their own creation. The terrible young man-
who-so-desperately-wanted-peace (grotesque phrase of
the phrase-mongers) led his country steadily towards
war with Italy, and then ignominiously halted on the
edge of the crater.
Lord Baldwin, of course, was the Premier at the
time, and must bear the supreme responsibility for
the event. But for that nonsense the Negus might
still be on his throne under the protection of the
Italian eagles, as the Sultan oY Morocco is under the
flag of France.
It was not as though Mr. Eden had no warning.
Twice ‘since the war sanctions had been applied, and
military sanctions at that. The first were against
Soviet Russia at the time of the Allied Intervention,
the next in the French occupation of the Ruhr. Both
abysmally failed.
What flowed from it all? (1) We alienated Italy.
(2) So Germany reoccupied the Rhine and built her-
self an iron curtain of defence. (3) Arab-Jew hate has
been exacerbated. (4) So has the fury of Spanish
Civil War. (5) The Rome-Berlin-Tokio Axis has
been forged. (6) The White Powers, divided, are
helpless against the Japanese aggression against their
interests in the East. (7) Austria has fallen to force
in the heart of Europe without a protest. (8) Czecho-
slovakia is now on the slab.
Germany Gathers in the Shekels.
[The ingenious scheme described in this condensed
article by the financial editor of London “Daily Express'’
provides one answer to the plain man’s question, How
does Hitler get the money to do it all?]
The German Government has launched a savings
scheme which is without parallel in the history of
public finance. By this scheme the German Govern-
ment will be able to extract something like
£100,000,000 a year out of the pockets of the German
working class to pay for public works schemes and
rearmament.
The plan centres on the proposed people’s car.
First deliveries of this car are expected about the
beginning of 1940. But German workers are to be
encouraged to begin buying these cars now on an in-
stalment system.
Car wardens are to be installed in every works
in the country. They will encourage workers to enrol
in the scheme. Once enrolled, the worker receives a
savings card, for which he pays one mark. There-
after he must each week pay not less than five marks
either to his warden or to the local office of the
Strength-through-Joy movement or to the local office
of the Labor Trust.
In exchange for the five marks he will receive a
stamp, to be cancelled in his own handwriting and
fixed on his card. A worker may not withdraw from
the scheme once he has enrolled. He may not sell
or transfer his card. No interest will be paid “for
reasons of technical progress and cheapening pro-
duction costs.”
When the full amount of 990 marks has been
paid, the worker receives a car letter, which entitles
him to a car when one becomes available. The
German authorities tell him that this car will be in-
sured for two years, that it will be colored dark-
greyish blue, but they don’t tell him when he will get
delivery.
Out of a total population in Germany and
Austria of 75,000,000 there are some 18,000,000
insured workers. Allowing for those workers who
already have cars and for those who are members of
the same families, it seems fair to assume that about
5,000,000 will come under the scheme. These
5,000,000 will have to pay a minimum of 260 marks
a year each, making a total each year of 1,300,000,000
marks, or more than £100,000,000 at the official rate
of exchange.
Payment of the whole sum at this annual rate will
take nearly four years. During that time the Gov-
ernment will have, free of interest, huge sums of
money which they will be free to devote, at least for
a time, to purposes other than those for which they
are intended.
Japanese Control in China.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by a corre-
spondent in China.)
During the hostilities at Shanghai last year the
Japanese Navy in particular took pains to avoid
damage to foreign property by shellfire and aerial
bombing, but since that time, both in North and
Central China, there has developed a policy of defi-
nite prejudice on the part of the Japanese against long-
established foreign rights and interests.
In North China an attempt is already being made
to establish under Japanese control a virtual monopoly
of the export trade in wool and other commodities
previously handled to a great extent by British and
other foreign firms. A large share of the commercial
navigation along the China coast and up the Yangtze
River has until now been in the hands of British com-
panies, but obstacles are being raised to the free move-
ment of British ships. At the same time the Japanese
authorities are engaged on ambitious plans to develop
their own shipping services and inland navigation in
Central China.
The Shanghai-Nanking and Shanghai-Hangchow-
Ningpo railways, in the successful operation of which
British bondholders are directly interested, are still
under Japanese military control, and, though passenger
traffic has been resumed under close Japanese super-
vision, the British officials of these lines are denied
access to the railway property and are unable to take
any part in the administration.
The way in which Chinese undertakings in the
occupied areas are treated is crude but effective. It
is based upon force majeure, and shows no respect for
Chinese ownership. While permission to visit the
shell-torn northern district of Shanghai was still
severely restricted on military grounds, parties of
coolies under Japanese control were busy stripping
machinery and metals frotn the premises of many
Chinese industrial undertakings, the scrap so obtained
being shipped to Japan probably for conversion into
munitions of war. Chinese industrialists whose plants
in the northern area of Shanghai remain intact after
the hostilities and such looting are unable to safe-
guard their property, and have the greatest difficulty in
getting permission to resume work. It is therefore not
surprising that some of these undertakings are being
reorganised as “Sino-Japanese” concerns on terms that
avoid further damage, permit a resumption of busi-
ness, but at the same time give Japanese businessmen
a majority control in exchange for the “protection”
they alone are able to guarantee.
The Chinese are under no illusions about the
conditions under which they will be permitted to carry
on business in areas under Japanese control, and are
already working on plans for the rapid development
of those provinces in south and south-west China
where Chinese control is most likely to be maintained.
On May 31 the new Governments established in
Peking and Nanking as the stalking horse for Japan
announced drastic changes in the customs-tariff rates.
Ihe removal of import duties on mining, agricul-
tural and other machinery, ostensibly designed to
facilitate the rehabilitation of war-devastated areas,
will enable the Japanese to import such capital goods
as cheaply as possible in furtherance of their ambitious
schemes for the economic exploitation of China. The
removal of the export duties on ores, iron, scrap iron
and steel, and on raw cotton, will of course be wel-
comed in Japan.
China’s total daily expenditure on the war is
probably much less than Japan’s, though she is more
dependent on foreign countries for the supply of
engines of war, heavy munitions and certain essential
supplies. There is also probably a wider margin in
China by which Government expenditure can be
reduced before a cessation of hostilities is forced upon
her by financial considerations. Chinese troops are
not unused to the experience of finding their pay in
arrears, and, provided they are fed, make little trouble
on that score. If the people’s morale is maintained in
the face of continued reverses in the field, and no
political dissensions disturb the existing feeling of
national unity, China may be able for some consider-
able time longer to continue her resistance to Japan,
either with or without aid from abroad.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Randwick has never looked better than
it looked on Saturday, nor has it ever
held a happier crowd. “I’ll lay four to
one agin war,” a bookmaker shouted,
putting into a sentence what was ?n every-
one’s mind. The attendance was reckoned
at 60,000, up 10,000; the totes held
£61,082, up just on £lo,ooo—the increase
would have been greater still but for a
ten minutes’ failure of power before the
Trial Stakes. A tramway blowout was
responsible.
Most of the races were singularly in-
teresting, notably the Epsom and the
Colin Stephen (formerly Spring) Stakes.
The one conspicuous exception was the
Derby, in which Nuffield made his five
opponents look the commoners they are.
Not for many years has Sydney been
represented by so poor a lot of three-
year-olds. 'ln the circumstances it was
picking up money to back C. B. Kellow’s
Heroic colt, but many small punters
were shy, though the price (5 to 4 on)
was the same as they had to take about
Avenger in a field of nine in the Colin
Stephen Stakes, and on his form this
season Avenger looked no certainty.
Nightguard opened at 5 to 2 for the
Epsom and came down to 7 to 4. Neither
on performances nor weight of money
was that price justified, and the Ring
would have profited on the race a lot
more had it been less cautious. As it
was, it had the satisfaction of seeing a
comparative outsider, King’s Head (16
to 1), beat all the better-fancied horses ;
and it was. plain a furlong from home
that he would have to fall down to lose.
King’s Head was second, to Syna-
gogue, in the 1935 Epsom, and second
to Hamurah in the last Doncaster. Owned
by E. A. Haley, who bred him, he is an
aged stallion, by Bullhead-Fern Tree,
and is trained by E. F. Walker at
Hawkesbury. Considering all the racing
he has had, he is a bit of a marvel. No
horse in the field of 18 was in superior
condition.
King’s Head cut the race record for
the Epsom to lmin. 36sec. Exactly 12sec.
to the furlong.
A month ago McGrath was convinced
that Publicity was a racecourse certainty
for the Epsom ; and perhaps he would
have been but for the Tramway Handi-
cap accident which resulted in the chest-
nut’s being off the tracks for a fortnight.
As it was, he ran a creditable race, finish-
ing eighth. There was a lot of money
on the course for Rodborough. Still
awkward in a big field, Rodborough got
into a spot of trouble and was never
really dangerous.
King’s Head’s owner, whose stud is
Wimbledon, Bathurst, saw his old horse
compensate him for many disappoint-
ments. Bobby (33 to 1) was second,
beaten a length and a half, and St. Con-
stant (12 to 1) third, half a neck away;
they would have been closer to Haley’s
horse if St. Constant had not tried to
savage Bobby in the final furlong;
but neither would have defeated him.
Stretto, Young Idea and Nightguard fol-
lowed St. Constant; then came the pace-
maker, Thurles Lad. The Queensland
chestnut is fast, but can’t run a mile.
Nightguard was going well in the early
stages, but when McCarten drove him
along near the three furlongs he failed to
respond. He was definitely beaten at the
home turn. The Victorian, however,
Jugged badly.
In the Derby, Sir Harold made the
pace, and made it fairly warm. This
suited Nuffield, who after pulling hard
for a few furlongs settled down; he
went past Sir Harold at the three-furlongs
pole, and from that point the result was
not in doubt. In the end it was Nuffield,
Aeolus (8 to 1) and Respirator (6 to 1);
2 '2 lengths, three lengths; 2min. 22sec.
Royal Chief again proved Avenger’s
master. He beat him for speed in the
Chelmsford Stakes and outstayed him in
the Colin Stephen Stakes, for which the
Maorilander’s price was 2 to 1. Royal
Chief was kept on the rails. Avenger, on
the outside, was in command approach-
ing the final furlong, but Royal Chief,
taken from the rails to the outside, flashed
through and won, running away, from
Avenger. AUunga and Perimond ran
a dead-heat for third. A capital perform-
ance on Perimond’s part, for he was
always in the front line and he carried
the same weight as Royal Chief and
Avenger.
Another worthy Metrop. trial was that
of Bachelor King in the Trial Stakes.
Favorite at 7 to 2, Bachelor King was
taken to the front and stayed there.
Oration —a little unlucky at the start —
and Braidwood Boy were in the places.
Will Rogers bled badly and was pulled
up.
Horses trained at Warwick Farm won
both divisions of the Kensington Handi-
cap. In the first division Nebraska (7 to
1) set up a commanding lead in the
straight, but, tiring, she just beat a 33-to-l
chance, Morning Gift. Fearless, the
favorite, had a bad run early, but was
going on strongly in third place at the
finish.
Sedunum (7 to 1) made no mistake in
the second division. He is a stablemate
of Syntax, winner of the Hurdle Race.
Sedunum appeared to be hopelessly
placed at the top of the straight, but he
ran past Fakenham near the final fur-
long and won very easily. Mildura,
looking burly, finished strongly and got
third.
Successful jockeys on the first day were
Gollop (Syntax), McCarten (Bachelor
King), Darby Munro (Nuffield), Shean
(King’s Head), Bartle (Royal Chief), Knox
(Nebraska) and Billy Cook (Sedunum).
The Queensland sprinter Thurles Lad
(Saltash-Hostess) confirmed his sound
Epsom run by carrying top weight (Bst.
81b.) and winning the 6fur. Shorts Han-
dicap on Monday from start to the judge.
The scratching of King’s Head„ Jeft 12
starters, and, drawn towards the outside
of the small field, Thurles Lad was a
couple of lengths out when they’d gone
a furlong. After that Keith Cook kept
a good hand on him and let him just
hold his place in front till turned for
home, where he quickly opened up the
stretch of daylight again, to win comfort-
ably from Delmestor, who came home
with a promising run, and Bonheur de
Pere.
Brazandt jumped into the barrier and
took no serious part in the race, and
Arabia also struck a bit of trouble at
the start. Betting was 7 to 2 Bonheur
de Pere, 4 to 1 Thurles Lad, 12 to 1
Delmestor.
Beau Pere’s high standing as a sire
was given further excellent advertisement
in the Breeders’ Plate. The 16 acceptors
included two of his sons —Beaucaire
(from Timid, imp.), trained by Nailon at
Randwick for “Mr. Constable” and W.
J. Smith, and Beau Mari, trained by
Jamieson for W. S. Glenn. Both were
in the race all the way, and finished up
in the first three past the post, Beaucaire
(piloted by that excellent handler of
youngsters McCarten) being caught right
on the post by Royal Sceptre (Hickey)
for a dead-heat decision, with Beau Mari
third. But Royal Sceptre (Excitement-
Carefree), trained by B. R. Payten for
P. H. Osborne, was most unlucky. Rival
Chief —a Manfred-Scotch Song colt, also
from the Payten stable —made the early
running, but was passed by Beau Mari
and Beaucaire with a furlong to cover.
Beaucaire soon had charge, and looked
the winner till Royal Sceptre came with
a great run over the last little bit, after
having had a check at the turn.
The Maoriland invaders had their best
win of the meeting when, pijoted by
Bartle, the four-year-old Royal Chief
(Chief Ruler-Modiste II.) capped his
w.f.a. performances by splendidly win-
ning the Metropolitan. Favorite for
weeks past, and 4 to 1 at barrier-rise, he
was kept fairly handy to the rapidly-
changing leaders in a pretty well bunched
field for the best part of the lm. sfur.
journey, and was lying fifth when the
consistent Buzalong took charge, with
three furlongs to go. Buzalong led round
the turn from Billy Boy and Perimond,
and was two or three lengths clear a
furlong and a half from home; but,
straightened up for the run to the judge,
the Maorilander left no doubt about his
quality. Overhauling Buzalong in a great
sprint, he led by a length and a half
inside the distance, and won comfort-
ably by a length and a half, running
away in 2min. 42fsec., a race record.
Cooranga, after tailing the field most
of the way, finished on well to take
third place, with Gold Rod, who had
been with the early leaders, a close
fourth.
It made Royal Chief’s Randwick wins
three in a row, and in none had his
quality been better displayed. It was
the performance of a really good horse.
Buzalong also handed his backers a great
run for their money.
Talkalot (Constant Son-Chatterbox)
won the Centennial Park Handicap for
three-year-old fillies over the mile journey
in the closest of finishes from Bonnie
L. and Eclogue, after June had made
the most of the running.
Counting the Breeders’ Plate dead-
heat as a win, Micawber gave the Payten
stable a double for the day by leading
all the way in the Grantham Stakes
(nine furlongs, for three- and four-
year-olds) to win from Oration and
Fearless; and Highborn nearly made it
a treble in the Squatters’ Handicap* be-
ing just not quite able to overtake the
all-the-way topweight Speardale. Jocular
—still doomed to fill places—was third.
* * * *
Ajax brought his stake earnings to
£21,000 by winning the Melbourne Stakes
at Flemington. With the exception of a
Newmarket and one handicap at Caul-
field early in his three-year-old career,
this money has been derived from weight-
for-age and set-weight events.
Victorians are asking whether Ajax is
really invincible up to a mile. Ena,
like Frank Musgrave’s champion, carried
a 51b. penalty in the Melbourne Stakes.
She made a great race of it, and Ajax
was thoroughly extended to score by a
length in lmin. 35fsec. —only fsec. out-
side the course and Australasian record,
which Ajax shares with Peter Pan, Ram-
din and Sarcherie.
Supporters of Ajax were required to
lay 4 to 1 on, Ena being 10 to 1 against.
Over a journey far too short for him,
Aitchengee put in a characteristic finish-
ing run and narrowly defeated El Golea
for third.
Ena and Aitchengee each have 7st.
131 b. in the Caulfield Cup. They must
be hard to beat. Elliott, who has headed
the list of winning jockeys in Melbourne
for two seasons, is to ride Aitchengee at
Caulfield. He has been engaged for
Kingdom in the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup. His first experience with
Kingdom, in the Stand Handicap, wasn’t
encouraging. Equal second favorite with
The Trump at fours, Kingdom kept near
the rear of the field throughout and ran
second-last. No apparent reason existed
for this wretched display.
Backed from fives down to 7 to 2,
Footmark ended up favorite for the Stand
Handicap. Lady Kooringal snuffed out
in the straight after holding a lead of 20
lengths. The Trump, Footmark and
Temple Coyn, in turn, then looked likely
to win; but imported Plectrum put in an
amazing run on the rails and beat Temple
Coyn by half a length, with the other
Westralian, Footmark, a long neck
farther off.
Plectrum had on the previous Thursday
run third in a event at Ascot.
This emboldened followers of the Or-
leigh Park stable to throw in for a good
win over the longer distance, and Plec-
trum firmed from 20 to 1 to twelves at
one stage, easing to 15 to 1. He did not
survive first forfeits for the Caulfield Cup,
but remains in the Melbourne Cup (7st.
71b.).
With ordinary luck Ortelle’s Star prob-
ably would have won the Stand Handi-
cap. Once clear of the ruck she put in
powerful strides and wrested fourth place
from The Trump. Last-named improved
somewhat on recent efforts, but wasn’t
within coo-ee of his 1937 spring form.
Ortelle’s Star, trained by C. T. Godby,
has 7st. 71b. in the Caulfield Cup and
21b. less in the two-miler. Her granddam
is a half-sister to Duke Foote.
Oaks aspirants were tested over a mile
in the Edward Manifold Stakes at even
weights. French Gem (6-to-4 favorite)
was beaten half a head for second place
by 100-to-l chance The Decoration. The
winner, Lady Montague, showed a lot of
stamina by cutting down The Decoration
in the last 50 yards and scoring by more
than a length. Gay Romance, from
Sydney, was galloped on and had a leg
rather badly stripped.
The first juvenile events of the season
in Victoria were staged. Very attractive
was the display of Limerick Lace (Gay
jLothario-Mitzi) in Ihe second division
of the fillies. Trained by H. Freedman
for Rupert Watson, who won the Aus-
tralian Hurdle of 1934 with Laniroi, she
never gave the favorite, Riviera, a
daughter of Portofino, a look-in.
Mars Flight, by Pantheon from the
Spearhead mare Fleet Arrow, led all the
way to win the first division of the fillies.
She belongs to “Mannie” Lyons, the
bookmaker.
There were 29 runners in the event for
colts and geldings, which went to Xavier,
a Maoriland-bred colt in the stable of
George Jones. Quoted at 50 to 1, he paid
£39 13s. for a win and £7 Os. 6d. for a
place on the tote.
* * * *
Pamelus returned to his best form by
annexing the Superior Handicap at Ascot
(Vic.) on Thursday. Favorite at threes,
he easily vanquished Judean and Othello,
who dead-heated for second. Evening
Mist finished only a head behind the
place-getters. The distance (six furlongs)
was too short for her.
After Regular Bachelor failed in this
race R. F. Trihey decided to put him
away for two months. Regular Bachelor
had been suffering from shoulder sore-
ness, and his near fetlock showed signs
of filling. Trihey attributes all this to the
railway journey to Adelaide in June.
(Continued on page 32.)
Nineteenth Hole
“Baffy”: Bobby Locke’s opening game
in Sydney was a foursomes at the Lakes
club, where he partnered Waterson
against Von Nida and Tanner. The local
men won 1 up, Locke and Von Nida re-
turning approximate 72’s. Locke was
handicapped by the strange course, but
his showing left no doubt of his ability.
The ex-Queenslander is to meet Locke
for £5O a-side to-morrow, and Locke is
hereby warned that Von is a tiger when
the money is up.
* * * *
Locke’s statement that he would forego
all money he was entitled to if he met
amateur Jim Ferrier in a match, coupled
with a pretty evident feeling on the part
of the public that it was up to him to
represent Australia against the South
African champion, has led the Australian
to change his mind. He will meet Locke
over 36 holes of match play to-day at
Manly. There will be plenty of money
to say-the Australian will come out on
top, if Locke’s Australian record up to
Sydney is any criterion.
(Continued on page 32.)
“The Gaffer”: Timekeepers’ watches
bolted at the State schoolboys’ champion-
ships on Sydney Showground. A 19-
year-old, C. J. Sefton, won the 100 in
9 9-10 sec., the fastest time recorded by a
N.S.W. schoolboy and a fraction better
than Carlton’s long-standing lOsec. In all,
22 records were beaten, but, as a strong
shoulder-wind was helping, the new
figures are not worth the trouble of
writing down. Most of these surprising
performers will turn out for the
events at the Cricket Ground on Satur-
day, and we shall see what we shall see.
* * * *
“Yarra”: The McConchie cricket club,
of Kew (Vic.),- has elected a new presi-
dent. Councillor A. J. McConchie takes
the place of the late Joseph McConchie,
foundation president, who held the office
for 31 years. The family arrived from
Scotland in 1871 and has fielded a Mc-
Conchie eleven in competitive cricket for
30 years.
FOR RANDWICK.
Craven Plate: Stretto; next,
Allunga.
Suburban Handicap: Rodborough ;
next, Coronation Day.
Members’ Handicap: Mosaic;
next, Petruchio.
Sydney Handicap: Highborn ; next,
Silver Standard.
Randwick Plate: Allunga.
Waverley Handicap: Young
Crusader.
Final Handicap: Publicity.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Guineas: Nuffield; next, Lady
Montague.
Toorak Handicap: Ena; next,
Temple Coyn or Pamelus.
1010 Welter: Temple Coyn or
Othello ; next, Beaustone.
Herbert Power Handicap: Foot-
mark ; next, Desert Chief.
Caulfield Stakes: Ajax.


The Finest MANTEL RADIO
EVER OFFERED IN AUSTRALIA!
.,• gMj t . :■*
s -A S
'<*:■,. v.-x
wi
: * .< . - ? ' V: '..
: /
1
IV
*>X<^
i -' v & < ,
':' ;, . :
/ f| '
Mil?
<=*-
■M
zm
Wm.
■ •:•
mm**"-.
The BRITON
“THEATRETTE
In the "THEATRETTE," Briton Radio have produced a
new design that is entirely unique. This design is
fashioned after the proscenium of a theatre and will add
an unusual smartness to whatever room it graces.
• The “THEATRETTE” is but five inches in depth and
is therefore truly a MANTEL model. Imagine its com-
pactness ... a depth equal to the width of an ordinary
novel.
• The “THEATRETTE” is a radio engineering triumph,
for, whilst achieving the compactness of the “THEA-
TRETTE,” the Briton engineers have maintained all the
essentials of the console models. A full Bin. console-sized
speaker is incorporated. This is a revolutionary advance
in mantel radios.
9 The “THEATRETTE” has NO chassis. This remark-
ably-designed set has all component parts mounted
direct on the bakelite cabinet, eliminating unnecessary
weight, thus enabling this model to be much more easily
handled. Among the “THEATRETTE” models, there are
both broadcast and dual-wave receivers.
FOR COUNTRY LISTENERS.
For country listeners the “THEATRETTE” battery-operated model
is available. This is highly powered, gives excellent reception and is
specially designed to provide ECONOMICAL operation.
to
Messrs. BRITON ELECTRICAL & RADIO PTY.. LTD..
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM. N.S.W.
KINDLY SEND ME FULL
PARTICULARS OF YOUR
SPECIAL OFFER
ON THIS UNIQUE RADIO
NAME
ADDRESS
NOTE—THIS COUPON MUST BE
ATTACHED WHEN SENDING FOR
PARTICULARS.
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO PTY. LTD.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


LUCAS
Ai
KING THE ROAD”
■jflmitiHi
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave .-
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor—
guaranteed and kept in order for . >
free of charge. , ... 12/6
Selected steel, black handle 15/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 21/-
Superfine steel, ivory handle ••••••
Guard to
3/6 extra. Fits f and 4 blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
m
M
*
<554 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Under the Whip
At Woodend (Vic.), with its sunken
straight and background of hills, where
golfers wrestle with nature-fashioned
hazards, punters had a bad time last
Wednesday, after favorites had rolled
home in the first two events. The biggest
surprise of all was in the middle-distance
Campaspe Handicap, won by Whitford
(Whittier-Lady Swynford), who is owned
and trained at Bendigo by Sutton. Whit-
ford started at 25 to 1. He paid £l4
for ss. on the tote. The third horse.
Royal Huzzar, had a solitary supporter
for a place; the solitary one received
£36 16s. 6d. for his “dollar.”
The late Ben Chaffey won two Caul-
field Cups and a Doncaster Handicap
with Whitford’s sire. He had more affec-
tion for Whittier than for Manfred, won-
derful galloper though the latter was.
Whittier proved somewhat of a stud
failure: Manfred has sired a number of
good winners, without however rising to
the heights of Heroic—another son of
Valais—in that direction.
Fred Foulsham credited his patron,
Woodmason, with another small stake
through the agency of Iconium (Mar-
conigram—Barbette) in the Trial Handi-
cap. Iconium cost 1100 guineas as a
yearling, Marconigram having sired a
Melbourne Cup winner and Barbette
being an Oaks winner. Despite his at-
tractive make and shape, Iconium is a
galloping washout. He was entered for
the Cups, but has been withdrawn.
Ins and Outs
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A.
is tying itself into a fresh tangle. This
time it is coaching. Redgrave, an old
reliable, has retired to a better job and is
being replaced by a semi-amateur system
of coaching which will mould promising
lads into half a dozen styles and finish
up by making them a mob of nonde-
scripts. Brown will return to his job as
“coach,” but actually will be confined to
lecturing, which is as much use in teach-
ing a lad cricket as a correspondence
course. Tallon is also to do something,
and Curator Farquhar, of Brisbane C.G.,
and Bensted, who resides at Windsor,
will also do what they can with any
material they may gather. An odder idea
never emanated from the wooden conk
of the Q.C.A.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Though most of it is to
hand, the Board of Control will not con-
sider the manager’s report of the Aus-
tralian XI tour until the next meeting in
Melbourne on December 30. Prior to
that the match between teams led by
Bradman and McCabe to celebrate the
centenary of the Melbourne C.C. will
be played—it is to start on December 9.
The Sheffields are to begin with the
match between Queensland and N.S.W.
at Brisbane on November 25 ; the last
will be the South Australia-Victoria
clash, commencing at Adelaide on
February 24.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: How rapidly cricket
is becoming a money-making racket
like American baseball is seen in the
tone of most of the English press rav-
ings over the Australian visits. Most
of these openly advocate the throwing
over of West Indian, Indian and South
African tours as redundant and time-
wasting shows which add no appreciable
shekels to the locker, whereas the Aus-
tralian tours are meal-tickets to the coun-
ties and also good for the Marylebone
bank balance. There are other sugges-
tions, the least absurd of which is that
counties which decline to enlarge their
grounds and lose revenue regularly by
having to close their gates and leave
thousands outside be refused the right
to stage Tests.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Marrickville, one of
Sydney’s district clubs, has some enthusi-
astic supporters. They have raised £lO,
which is to go to the player scoring 100
“ Doesn't she take these hills nicely?"
in the fastest time this season. One
would rather have seen the guerdon be-
stowed on the bowler skittling the oppo-
sition in the shortest order, but the idea
is a good one. In the Lancashire League
a batsman or bowler who has done some-
thing special walks round the ring with
a pal or two and collects the “shower”
thrown in. This was not uncommon in
Australia years ago. Writer can recall
a ground collection being taken up on
Sydney C.G. when Syd Gregory made his
201 in a Test against Peel, Briggs, Lock-
wood and Richardson. What wouldn’t
England give to field four such bowlers
to-day?
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Claude Jennings, who
has taken Clem Hill’s place on the Board
of Control as one of the South Austra-
lian representatives, was a more than
useful ’keeper for South Australia and a
fair bat. He went to England as second
’keeper to Carkeek under Syd Gregory
in 1912 —the year of the big strike —and
played in three of the Tests. In all
matches that tour Jennings just topped
the 1000-runs mark, averaging over 22 for
51 innings, with a top score of 82. His
Test average was 14.66 for four innings,
and top score was 44. For his 31 Shef-
field knocks for South Australia his aver-
age was 20.54.
* * * *
“Miaow”: Queensland cricketinas are
sharpening their nails in anticipation of
an attempt by the Sydney-Melbourne
crowd to pinch one of the women s Test
matches from Brisbane when the Eng-
lish girls come along next year. Insult
has been added to injury by the hint
that the match may be given to Adelaide,
a dorp which can support only six
women’s clubs while Brisbane has 12. A
levy will soon have to be made for funds
to keep the visitors going while in Aus-
tralia and to pay their fares. The quota
is £l4O for each State, and the Queens-
landers threaten that before they hand
over the splosh they will require an
undertaking that Brisbane keeps its Test.
Footbrawl
“Old Q.”: The N.S.W.R.U. has com-
pleted details of the tour of Britain next
year. The manager will be backed by a
secretary, and nominations for these have
been invited from all the States. The
manager is to be allowed £7 a week for
expenses, and the secretary will rank as
a member of the team, with all expenses
paid and a small allowance for pocket
money. Matches will probably be played
at Colombo and in Canada on the way
home.
Trial matches will be held, four in Syd-
ney during June, and there will be a
series of country matches from which a
number of players will be chosen to
play Newcastle ; a team from these two
will tackle a city team in Sydney.) The
usual inter-State matches will be held in
Sydney and Brisbane. Victoria is to be
asked to hold a couple of trials in Mel-
bourne on May 31 and June 3, Westra-
lian, South Australian and Tassie players
being invited. Any of these deemed
worth consideration will come to Sydney
for the final look-over and the grand
wind-up, Australia v. The Rest and Com-
bined XV v. Combined XV. It promises
well.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Rugby
season is over; the premiership went to
Power House, which downed the formid-
able Footscray by 16 points to 8. Foots-
cray had long been top-dog in Mel-
bourne Rugby, and no one will grudge
Power House, the team with which Car-
penter plays, its victory.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: At a wind-up meeting of
the Preston (Vic.) club the president
made a remark which is interesting to
N.S.W. Rugby players in view of recent
happenings. He referred to the great
improvement in the V.F.A. game owing
to the adoption of the hand-pass ; this, he
said, “had stopped putting in the knee
and the boot and elbowing in crushes.”
Had the worthy president been in Syd-
ney recently he might have changed his
outlook.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The European crisis
did not bother the sports in Melbourne
on football-final Saturday. Over 4500
motorists paid £225 in parking fees
outside the M.C.C., and 93,000 fans
12,000 more than the law allowed —were
packed inside. In addition, there were
81,000 at the Show, and approximately
80,999 of these were found listening to
the broadcast of the football game.
South Adelaide took that city’s pre-
miership 23-14 to 15-16 against Port.
“Inshallah”: The Indian Soccer
players were not allowed to escape
from N.S.W. without earning their oats.
After a hard match in the fourth Test
in Sydney they had to meet the strong
Granville club two days later, when they
were beaten 6-4. The next day they
faced a Sydney team, and were then
mercifully permitted to escape to Mel-
bourne. There they engaged in a fifth
Test and were beaten 3-1.
Unfortunately, the mid-week match
against a metropolitan team was a wash-
out, about two men and a dog attending.
As the fagged-out Indians only played
in order to raise a few pounds for the
flooded Indian districts from which most
of them come, the casual lack of pub-
licity given the match by the Soccei
heads of Australia does the latter no
credit. They did open their bulging
pockets a bit though: they let the Indians
—after they were asked —travel to Mel-
bourne first-class and by sleeper.
Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”: St. Andra’s is as long
in making up its mind about anything as
a Scotsman is in deciding whether he wili
have lemonade or juist watter. For three
years it has been considering limiting the
numbers of clubs to be carried by
players, and has now finally decided it
shall not exceed 14. Few Australian
players carry more, though mug players
ran to extremes after the visit of the
Yankee professionals with their 20-27
kits. The increase in number of clubs of
late years has largely grown out of’the
ingenious urgings of manufacturers, who
first evolved the numbered club. The
idea is that if you use the correct club it
does what is wanted, making little de-
mand on the player, beyond a certain
correctness of stance and swing. I
wonder how some of these 17-club
players would fare with the bag of the
old-time champions, even players as
modern as Harry Vardon? Two woods,
one a brassey, a cleek, a lofter, a niblick


MADE FOR EAC H OTHER
m
The accuracy with wkichfGillette
blades fit Gillette razors makes
these two together the finest
shaving system in the world.
All day long the Gillette factory concentrates upon
the scientific production of Gillette razors and
blades. Blade and razor are made side by side.
Both are made to the same fine limits of accuracy.
Both are made under the same strict supervision.
Obviously they should always be used together.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLUE GILLETTES : ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR 5
Mick Simmons’ 1
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
■:• '. ••
sm
HH
LIONEL UUiISY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority oil Firearms and
liallistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of Iris expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
D
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight;
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, I Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; __ .„
weight, about 3Jlb. £*Cts D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front ._ . _
sight; weight, about 47/0
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
—.22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
2 7in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead /\r\ f
front sight; weight, 61b. 4U/“
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/0.
No. 46.—COOEY RE-
PEATER.— . 22 Cal.,
Bolt Action, holds 10
Long or Long Rifle or
12 Short Cartridges..
Double Safety features.
Walnut Stock, Pistol
Grip, Steel Butt Plate,
Adjustable Rear Sight
and Bead Front Sight.
Length overall 41 in.
i Barrel 24in.
Weight, 4jflb.
Carriage Paid.
67/6
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 4—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
about 7ilb. £l3/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 FOX STERLINGWORTH
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12C.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top
lever; walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2|-in. cartridges. . .
Weight, about 7£lb. £ll/15/“
Carriage Paid.
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
—12 G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
choke, 32 W.C.F. rifle barrel, three-leaf
rear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip:
weight, about 8-|lb. jg%
Originally £l2/1 2/-. Now dt / ' 1 / |0
Carriage Paid.
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN —I 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for 2 fin. cartridges;
weight, about T\
Originally £22/10/-. Now.. <&lo
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
and perhaps a faced mashie to make up
the lucky seven, with the putter, were con-
sidered ample in Vardon’sdays. How many
Australian players can use a cleek? Like
the French horn, it is one of the most
effective instruments in the orchestra
and the hardest to play. The late Michael
Scott was a master of it.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Canberra has a youth
of promise in D. Bachli, a 17-year-old
golfer who has already proved himself
one of the best players in the Territory.
He played with Locke in an exhibition
game against two other locals, and the
South African predicts a future for him.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Locke’s matches in
Victoria did not show him the world-
beater the British press has made him
out. True he defeated George Naismith,
H. L. Williams and one or two less-
notable players; but he was downed 2
and 1 by the next ball of W. A. Edgar,
Victorian amateur champion, and F.
Gluth at the Commonwealth course.
Edgar, in fact, won off his own stick. So
far, Locke’s much-advertised deadhness
on the greens has kept out of sight.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: All going well, Eddie
Cremin will go with Von Nida in Decem-
ber to the Philippines, where the latter
will defend his title as champion of the
Islands. The quaintly-named Wack Waclc
club, which conducts the contest for the
£lOOO prize, has guaranteed both Aus-
tralians appearance money.
In November Von N. and Cremin will
compete in the Maoriland champion-
ships, in which they will meet Locke.
* * * *
“Brassey”: N.S.W. golfing heads have
at long last followed Queensland’s lead
and resolved to pay expenses of players
representing the State away from home.
But, whereas Queensland parts up with-
out question for each player, Ma will
only do it when satisfied the player is
too hard up to go along at his own cost.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: This is the
season of the year when the world’s
tennis experts issue their “ranking lists”
of the first ten players or so. These are
distinguished by the fact that no two
experts agree on the placings, though it
must be said all are unanimous in plac-
ing Budge first. After that it becomes
a matter of national preference. The
women also have various admirers. While
many place Helen Wills-Moody at the
top of their list there is a strong vote
for Alice Marble. Australians included
in the average ten are Bromwich —gener-
ally second to Budge—and Quist at No
5. Nancy Wynne is the only Australian
woman player named—she is rated No.
6 or 7.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A striking instance of
American humor was seen at Detroit
when Bromwich defeated Budge in two
straight sets, though the Yank had driven
him otf the courts in their Davis Cup
meeting. And at Los Angeles Quist
beat Budge. This sort of thing seems quite
in order at tennis. In horseracing it
would engage the attention of the
stewards.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Hitler's account
of what the Czechs have been doing* to
the Sudeten Germans pales beside the
way in which the Australian tennis heads
treat their unhappy tennis peons. The
M.L.L.T.A. asked that the return route
of our Davis Cup players be altered to
permit them making a short tour of M.L.
This has been refused, but the team is to
play exhibitions in Auckland during their
steamer’s stay there. Budge and Mako
demanded, and got, £4O each for one
afternoon’s show at Auckland.
* * * #
“Cut Shot”: R. O. Cummings, who
has been playing of late years in Queens-
land as a professional, has applied to the
Australian L.T.A. for reinstatement as
a lilywhite. Cummings says he has not
taken money for playing or coaching
since 1936, and he is anxious to return
to the fold as an amateur because he had
received requests from N.S.W. northern
centres to play in exhibitions. It seems
to be only in LJ.S.A. that the professional
can make a crust, and then he has to be
a champion. In Britain, on the other
hand, the amateur playing six days a
week rolls in comparative affluence,
though he follows no trade or profession.
Miscellaneous.
“Blue Chalk”: Bob Marshall, the West-
ralian, retained his amateur billiards
championship of Australia in Brisbane,
but had to gallop hard to do so. Cleary,
of Victoria, held the lead, with 1800, the
last night; then Marshall forged ahead
with a break of 212, and ran to the 2000
points with an unfinished 68. Cleary
was 1889.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: One of the best profes-
sional cyclists of modern days, Cecil
Walker, is back to stay in his native
Australia after years of absence in the
LJ.S.A. Walker was a great all-rounder,
from six-day goes to sprinting, and was
all-round champion of Yankeeland from
1924-1932, when Dempsey, also an Aus-
tralian, dethroned him. Ice hockey has
practically finished cycling in America,
all the great indoor arenas having gone
over to the ice game. As it is suicidal to
attempt races on the roads in view of
the car traffic, there was nothing more
to be done. Walker is going into busi-
ness in Melbourne, but may race there
during the track season.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: Returned from England,
where he has been a delegate to the
annual conference of the Hurlingham
Polo Association, Irwin Burges, captain
of the Irwin (W.A.) polo team, reports
that chief consideration was given to the
new rules making for greater safety. The
abolition of the height limit for ponies
some years ago permitted the employ-
ment of clumsy thoroughbreds whose
pace was their chief recommendation.
Accidents have become too common, and
the new regulations are now going the
round of the various polo-playing coun-
tries for approval.
* * * *
“Spike”: Sydney High won the N. S.
Wales Combined High School sports at
Sydney C.G. with 251 points, North Syd-
ney High being a poor second with 139.
The star of the meeting was F. Kaad, of
S.H., who won his divisions of the 100,
220, 120 hurdles and long jump, and was
in High's winning relay team. His
hurdles time, 14 9-10 sec., was a record
for the High Schools.
There were some good performers
among the juniors, Fagg, winner of the
quarter, equalling the H.S. record with
53 7-10 sec., and also taking the junior
220. The juveniles produced a 13-year-
old, Frank Morey, who won the 100 and
220 in 10 9-10 sec. and 24 3-10 sec. Time-
keeper Wally Kerr, of many years’ ex-
perience, could not recall any lad under
14 breaking llsec. for the 100.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: K. Davies, of Kew (Melb.),
holds the height record for gliders in
Australia. Launched by shock-cord from
the summit of Mount Fraser, Beveridge,
he soared to 3700 feet and then made
tracks for Essendon aerodrome, 17 miles
distant. He was in the air 2hrs. 15min.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd,, Melbourne,
FD
FD
i.'.HtMihnj
Twice. Daily-230-6
AT THE
twoli
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-3
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
ROY
RENE
And 10 Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
WILL MAHONEY,
l'amuus
Comedian
and New Stars in
“WHY BE SERIOUS?”
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables; Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Dad and Dave Come to
Town.”
Bert Bailey, Shirley Ann Richards, Etc.
This latest Cinesound production is an
uproarious hotchpotch of damnfoolery,
fallabout, occasional burlesque and good
honest fun.
Present film-taster can’t decide whether
each of the series shows a definite im-
provement or whether the damn’ things
just grow on an audience after a while.
Anyway, hearty gusts of ha-ha from the
crowd at Sydney Capitol nearly shook a
brace of plaster pigeons from their perch
on the ceiling.
Dad and co. inherit a fashion salon on
Sydneyside; on the strength of that
they go to town. There’s a wisp of plot ;
the manager, a ballay out-and-outah, is
displaced by the honest young advertising
manager from a dir-r-rty rival concern
who supplies heart interest for the dutiful
daughter, and so on, etc. It doesn’t
matter much. It’s just a laugh rack on
which are hung guffaws for pretty near
every foot of the running-time.
Witness, for instance, Dad and his
bucolic offspring set loose in a modern
bathroom with 976,847 taps, and the
same pair doing their inimitable worst
with a microphone.
Bert Bailey and his facial mat is by
now an institution, also Fred MacDonald
as Dave, though there is a tendency to
exaggerate the latter character even be-
yond burlesque. Shirley Ann Richards
improves with each showing, and is cer-
tainly a cure for tired eyes. Also well up
in the proceedings are Billy Rayes, Mar-
shall Crosby, Connie Mertyn and Alec
Kellaway, the last - named having a
humorous but not-over-pleasant role.
Conclusion of the film produces a
mannequin parade showing what the
ladies, Lor’ bless ’em, will wear —if their
better halves can afford it —when ski-ing,
surfing, riding, dancing, etc. If they do
wear ’em it’s a pretty fair bet that
half the male population of Sydney
will be found ski-ing, surfing, riding,
dancing, etc.
“Professor, Beware.”
Harold Lloyd, Phyllis Welch.
While the exploits of Dad and Dave
are raising a hurricane of ha-ha that
threatens the foundations of Sydney
Capitol, this offering is wreaking havoc
on seats, ribs, vests, belts and ladies’
what nots at Sydney Prince Edward.
Lloyd is one of the few vaudevillians
of the silent films who have carried on
successfully into the present day. Reason
probably lies in the fact that, unlike
Chaplin and others, he has not been
measured out as a standard personality;
a pair of horn-rimmed spectacles are his
only permanent feature.
Present offering finds him a benign,
unworldly professor in company of
mummies and sundry hirsute, scholarly
gentlemen snooping, with reverential
awe, about the innards of a sarcophagus
in dusty crevice of museum. His life’s
task has been the translation of hiero-
glyphics on eight and a half tablets, in-
scribed somewhere about 3000 b.c.
Translation reveals that Prince Bunk Um
became interested in daughter of King
Tut-Tut Tanked A Gen, and, after several
adventures, was entombed alive by his
Majesty. His eventual fate—presumably
sticky—is lost on other half of ninth
tablet.
Into Prof. Harold’s hitherto placid and
musty existence crashes Miss Welch.
Chasing a role from a fillum magnate,
she finds her chances dimmed by her well-
and-truly-sozzled escort, who has dis-
pensed with and lost all garments save
underpants and singlet. Prof, makes
opportune arrival, and ensues a swap of
apparel in rear seat of car, during which
he is liberally showered with whisky.
Exit Miss Welch and escort, enter police
to nab barely-clad prof, reeking of spirits.
Good stretch this, with plenty of light
exercise for ribs and diaphragm.
Prof. Harold, now due to face his
Honor and dismissed in disgrace from
museum, what time arrives invitation to
join other professorial gravediggers in
Egyptian jungles, all exes, found. No-
thing else to do but make a bolt across
Amurrica to reach N’Yark in time to
join expedition ; police in pursuit, also
goil—now repentant and determined to
assist prof, clear himself. Trans-Amurri-
can tour entails rattler-jumping, cop-
dodging by a dozen different devices and
the acquaintance of rogues, Raymond
Walburn and Lionel Stander. Goil also
well in the proceedings, but, unfortu-
nately, prof.’s and her association is
working out along lines identical with
those of Prince Bunk Urn’s affair. Lloyd
naturally very worried about it and the
other half of the ninth tablet. Hard work
“Woodman, spare that tree” item (with Eugene and Willie Howard variations )
in the “Hollywood Hotel” revue at Sydney Royal.
on the diaphragm and ribs this bit.
Continent just about covered when
prof, and goil find splicing matoh neces-
sary to avoid stretch behind bars. Enter
goil’s parent, wealthy tin-magnate, ab-
ducts daughter on to yacht, leaving prof,
at mercy of lawyers, cops, crooks, etc.
Prof, now badly wants wife, and turns
hell inside out to get her.
A guaranteed gloom-chaser.
“The Baroness and the
Butler”
William Powell, Annabella.
Sydney Regent lets loose this lightly-
entertaining Ruritanian romance, with
Powell in a role he could act in his sleep,
and the bewchus Anabella pouting her
lovely lips most prettily and taking it all
so seriously that she can’t possibly have
any sense of humor whatever.
Powell carries further than it had ever
been carried before the proverbial butler
business of never letting your face show
what your mind is thinking. Buttling in
the house of the Prime Minister, he
stands for Parliament as a Socialist
in the general election, and the first the
P.M. or any other member of the house-
hold knows of it is when the results are
broadcast!
They are at dinner, and everybody
is most surprised, none more so than the
P.M. Still, being that proficient poli-
tician Henry Stephenson, he enjoys the
most extraordinary situation that has
come his way in a lifetime, upset only
at the prospect of losing his butler’s ser-
vices.
But no. Johann proposes to buttle on,
and does so. So we have him in the
household the perfect butler still, and in
the House the P.M.’s most* trenchant
critic and opponent. Add that all the
time he has kept suppressed a most un-
butlerish pash for the bewchus Anna-
bella, and that, with her cold-fish hus-
band an ambitious timeserver in the
same Parliament, this pash now comes
to the surface, and the set-up is com-
plete.
With the exception of lovely Annabella
all act it on its frothsome merits. Anna-
bella is too superior and precious a
being for such a job. Powell always acts
well, and this is the sort of thing he does
best of all. Stephenson beats the lot of
them.
Of its lightly entertaining kind it’s well
enough sprinkled with comedy touches
to make it amusing.
“Letter of Introduction.
Most Sydney film fare at the moment
is of the light and fantastic variety, this
example at the State splashing its
fatuous doings with a couple of quarts of
weep.
It’s about a young goil who comes to
the big city with a letter of introduction
to the Great Film Actor, who, in the
luxurious Hollywooden spirit, has had
some four official wives and is about to
take unto himself another.
Film opens full of excitement, with a
house alight. This is to enable goil to
go heroically in to rescue letter of intro.,
and be followed and herself rescued by
bloke, total stranger, who then takes her
to the vaudeville-artists’ hash foundry
where he temporarily resides.
From there fair maid sallies forth to
meet Great Film Actor. For reasons best
ascertained by readers of this note who’ll
want to see it all for themselves the goil
and Great Film Actor can thenceforth
be to all appearances on most intimate
terms, while being really completely inno-
cent. But, of course, the ensuing situ-
ations make goil’s bloke dead sore; they
also peeve Great Film Actor’s prospec-
tive bride. One word, which there is
no reason whatever for not uttering,
could put all this right, but the thing’s
allowed to jolt along from misunder-
standing to misunderstanding till the
allotted time for a Main Feature Attrac-
tion has run out.
Adolphe Menjou manages a senti-
mental stretch of acting passably well,
and those who can accept such people as
George Murphy as actors won’t fault the
other histrionic triumphs.
The best thing in the film —the only
excuse for it, and quite a good excuse
—is Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy,
as one of the best ventriloquist combi-
nations ever witnessed calls itself. Ber-
gen’s humor and other attributes are right
at the top of the tree.
“The Crowd Roars ”
Robert Taylor. Maureen O’Sullivan.
Viewing this offering at Sydney St.
James is not unlike driving through a
stretch of empty desert scenery in a
super-limousine. The ride is comfortable
enough, but there’s not much to see.
M.-G.-M. made the film on a generous
scale and with customary thoroughness,
incorporating an excellent cast and sound
directing in a generally well-constructed
production. All that, however, stag-
gers under the plagiaristic and shopworn
nature of the yarn.
Taylor is a pug brought up from the
gutter and bent on gathering enough oof
to escape the game before someone ser-
rates his pearly molars or spreads his
pretty nose fanwise. By various familiar
devices he lines up with a large-scale
bookie, rises pretty near to the top of the
game and meets betting gentleman’s
daughter, who has been sequestrated
from unsavory atmospheres of sporting
circles, educated in an air of refinement
and kept in ignorance of poppa’s means
of livelihood.
Poppa is all snooty on proposed alli-
ance, but stands to lose heavily if pug
doesn’t win next fight. Rival s.p. gent,
kidnaps daughter and threatens her with
sticky end if pug doesn’t lie down in
eighth. Does goil escape in time to reach
ringside at end of seventh, does pug —
by then nearly licked —make miraculous
recovery and whale daylight out of
opponent in eighth, and do they make a
twosome down the aisle to be spliced
under the benevolent and forgiving eye
of poppa? Hollywood wouldn’t be what
it is if they didn’t.
Taylor makes a reasonably creditable
pug for the purposes of the film, and Miss
O’Sullivan certainly isn’t hard to watch,
but characterisations by supports outclass
the main players. Frank Morgan as a
thriftless and blarneying old parent needs
no recommendation, nor do Edward
Arnold as the gentleman who lays the
odds and Nat Pendleton as his rival.
William Gargan as another exponent of
leather-slinging and Lionel Stander as a
trainer turn in nice jobs.
Some of the stoush business had a
kick in it for present commentator —not
an authority on the fistic art —but even
with that the film rates as average Syd-
ney Capitol melodrama done up in patent
leather.
“Crime Ring.”
This support at Sydney Century is by
way of retort to an opus screened a few
months back at the other Hoyts house
opposite. The latter film was a senti-
mental glorifying of fortune-telling hocus-
pocus ; this is a debunking of same, with
a racketeering motif thrown in.
It’s modelled on the “Crime Does Not
Pay’’ films, but rather as a straight piece
of credible fiction, without the all-this-
actually-happened set-up.
To catch the racketeers, who take a
cash-down payment and percentages on
business from astrologers, globe-gazers
and the like, smart young reporter, in co-
operation with attorney, establishes girl
in fortune-telling business, with surround
of secret cameras, dictaphones and so
forth. Then it’s only a matter of waiting
till the racketeers call for their cut, with
a few complications worked in to eke the
doings out to the length of a support film.
Best feature of it is its attack on the
fraternity who batten on the superstitions
of weakminded people. That’s unusual
coming from Hollywood, which mostly
favors battening on such people itself for
all the racket’s worth.
Russian Ballet.
The Russian Ballet burst upon Mel-
bourne last week at His Majesty’s. The
opening programme was quaint and fan-
tastic rather than natural and barbaric.
No expense had been spared to make
the occasion magnificent. The music
of Tschaikowsky, Chopin and Rimsky-
Korsakoff had been requisitioned and
put into the hands of Antal Dorati
and the best local orchestra brought to-
gether for a long time. Fokine and
Lichine had attended to the choreography
in person, the famous Bakst to some of
the scenery and Prince A. Schervachidze
had gone to the exalted Muse of Corot
for a backcloth.
The ballerina’s shoes make her feet
look ungainly, but Irina Baronova tran-


m
■ ■
*i' >.v
■
r?«
• ■
♦ ♦ ♦
Kosciusko Trout Streams
tor BIG FISH/
Trout Season Alow Open
There are 100 miles of well-stocked streams within a 10-mile
radius of Hotel Kosciusko.
The Hotel Tariff is 19/- per day, £4/18/- per week; 17/- per
day, £4/4/- per week.
Join the Angling School
Ask for Descriptive Folder
N. S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY
LIMERICK
COMPETITIONS
Fifth Competition
£5O Prizes
The advertisement announc-
ing the Fifth £5O Limerick
Competition appears in this
issue on Page 41 (Radio
Page). Details of the
Fourth Competition are
repeated in the same adver-
tisement.
THE PRIZEWINNERS.
Third Limerick Competition.
FIRST PRIZE £4O.
Miss Peg McNamara, 7 Royal
Arcade, Melbourne, C. 1., Vic.
TEN £1 PRIZES.
Wallace Johnson, Box 174, Ingham,
North Queensland.
Ruby D. Eve, No. 2 Tudor Court,
Merthyr Road, New Farm, Q’land.
Walter M. White, Box 20, George
Street North P. 0., Sydney.
Mrs. A. M. King, P.O. Box 21, Berri,
River Murray, S.A.
James Brown, Coleman Street,
Wagga Wagga, N. S. Wales.
J. C. Morrison, Middle Road,
Maribyrnong, Vic.
Miss Betty Easson, c/o Golden In-
vestments, Adelaide Street, Bris-
bane, Q’land.
R. Byrne, Ellon, via Beckom, N. S.
Wales.
R. Keenan, 33 Franklin Street, Mel-
bourne, Vic.
H. McMartin, Pullen Vale, Indooroo-
pilly, Queensland.
scended that appearance with the grace
and swiftness of her movements in “Les
Sylphides,” and the sturdy Roman
Jasinsky ran her a good second. In “Les
Sylphides” the corps de ballet are dressed
in white and gyrate before a dim land-
scape of trees and water to Chopin’s
music. The general effect was lovely.
The language of the leg is more limited
than the language of music, sculpture,
painting, poetry, literature and the speech
of the man in the street, to which Shak-
speare went for his inspiration, and in
the second item it was set the task of
telling the familiar story of Cinderella.
The result was a Christmas pantomime
carried to the nth degree of refinement.
Melbourne’s old friend Algeranoff and
Marion Ladre gave humor to the roles
of the ugly sisters, the lithe and slim
Tiabouchinska was Cinderella and the
Prince was in the hands of Petroff, a
magnificently proportioned man and an
extraordinarily skilful dancer with a long
jump in the championship class but
strangely becoming. The changes of
scenery proceeded like a flower unfolding.
“Le Mariage d’Aurore,” set to
Tschaikowsky’s music, concluded the
proceedings and brought the house down.
The variations on the theme introduced
five excellent dancers in Tresahar, Neli-
dova, Volkava, Razoumova and the
Dresden-china-looking Baronova. The
Three Ivans gave a remarkable display
of Slav gymnastics, and a beautiful en-
semble wove a complicated pattern over
the stage at the final curtain.
Lisa Serova seemed to the present
writer the daintest of the dancers, and
Riabouchinska was also charming.
Tiv.
A bright show at Melbourne Tivoli has
been made brighter by the advent of
Emile Boreo, a swift French comedian
with an unusual repertoire of gestures
and a good voice which fills the audi-
torium and nearly bursts it when he
drapes himself about the microphone and
serves up songs of love with Parisian
mustard.
Also on the bill are Peg-leg Bates, a
one-legged negro, whose acrobatics
would justify the adjective “amazing”
even if he had the normal number of
extremities; Jesse Cryor, the singing
bootblack ; the Three Ernestos and the
inevitable Mo, who plays the part of a
doddering policeman involved in sundry
amorous difficulties and gets his laughs
as inexpensively as ever.
A frequent and pleasing interruption
is provided by the Famous Tivoli Ballet,
which seems to have been handpicked by
a physical-culture expert.
lan Hay Comedy.
lan Hay’s “Housemaster” had a long
term on the London stage, and as a
bright comedy, excellently presented, it’s
a pity that Sydney Independents had to
tuck it away at the Conservatorium
among the palm-trees. Though it’s
awf’lly English, it’s close enough to Aus-
tralian school atmosphere to get plenty
of rises to the dear old tie ; and though
it’s aw’fully piffling in a way it’s also
awf’lly jolly.
Three nieces come to stay with the
housemaster, and everyone falls in love
and smokes cigarettes and wars against
the clerical headmaster till housemaster
loses his job in Act 11. Then in Act 111
everyone lights another cigarette or gets
married, and housemaster gets head-
master’s job.
O. D. Bisset, though he forgot his lines
more often than is wise, made the house-
master amazingly real; Howard Craven
made the headmaster amusing. Clive
Coppard’s assistant-master had the
authentic flavor of chalk, and Francis
MacDermott as the vague music-master
was extremely vividly vague. Schoolboy-
in-chief was Summer Locke-Elliott; he
was so entertainingly in character that it
took a strong sense of the proprieties not
to slip him a cigarette in the intervals.
Robert Montgomery made him an ap-
propriate uncle, and probably gave him
one.
Melbourne Banquet.
“Belshazzar’s Feast” didn’t stick in the
throat of the audience which packed
Melb. Town Hall on Show Night, as
William Walton’s compositions have
stuck in hundreds of British and Ameri-
can gizzards.
Malcolm Sargent was chief chef, choir-
master George English was his
lieutenant, the Philharmonic Society was
in its highest fettle, and the Symphony
Orchestra was up. to the knocker, so the
banquet of sound was swallowed without
the slightest signs of indigestion.
Although the two brass bands de-
manded by the author were lacking and
in their place was a handful of trumpet
blowers posted in the gallery, the Town
Hall has never resounded to such bar-
baric clamor. The richness of the dishes
was only equalled by the speed and
deftness with which the stewards served
them—the Lud Mayor’s annual orgy
wasn’t in it.
As the only soloist, Raymond Beatty
declaimed, rather than sang, his descrip-
tion of Babylon, the great city; but
possibly that was what the composer
wanted. After the final “Alleluia,” the
house fairly rose at Dr. Sargent.
Sydney’s Chemical Show.
“Stinks” is the hard word applied by
boys to H2SO4 and all that, owing to a
habit of pedagogic demonstrators of
bringing sulphuretted hydrogen on the
scene with indecent haste. But if there
were any chemicals in the Chemical Ex-
position which has been occupying
Sydney’s Town Hall and basement they
had been very efficiently deponged.
The organisers of the show must have
been perturbed, once they began to go
into it, by the fact that chemicals inert
are only powders in packages and liquids
in bottles hard to make interesting.
That trouble was got around by bring-
ing metallurgy, some branches of
pathology, instrument-making, and even
plain engineering under the chemical
mantle.
First impressions were a bit gloomy ;
to the right an array of illuminated
X-ray photographs of the human in-
nards ; to the left a gaily-enamelled
model of the same, headed “The most
marvellous chemical laboratory known
to science—the human torso.” All pipes
and valves, and it made one realise that
a medico’s job is very like a plumber’s.
Interesting enough to those who work
with machine tools was a display of
fractured ingots of high-carbon and tung-
sten steels. The tremendous strength and
hardness of the high-speed stuff, demon-
strated by the nature of the break, was
heartening to see. This part of the show
seemed to fascinate most unlikely people.
Old ladies loved it.
Down in the basement there was a
demonstration of steel-cutting with a
blowpipe. Half-inch stuff was shorn
through as if it were paper, the cut no
wider than a hacksaw blade would
make, the flame so firmly directed that
complicated patterns were made accu-
rately to size. Very educational this, as
also a section model of a sugar factory.
An electroplating plant was popular with
youngsters, who saw at once the possi-
bilities that lie inherent in giving a penny
a silver coat.
But the two most interesting features
so far as this commentator was con-
cerned were the loudspeaker (which,
when not reciting foxtrots in a voice like
a 400-h.p. frog, did imitations of a zoo)
and the beautiful exhibit which showed
How Beer Is Made. From humble be-
ginnings of muddy marshes the glorious
fluid progressed from height to height of
sparkle and limpidity, finally reaching a
receptacle that had a tap. But nobody
turned it on. That was a pity, because
after reading all about the ph test
on another stand this commentator de-
sired to ascertain if it were an acH or
an alkali. Now that will never be solved.
THIRD LIMERICK RESULTS.
There’s an old and pleasant ballad
which begins “I know two things about
a horse” ; apparently most Australians
know them, too.
Starters in the third Limerick stakes
were a record. Scores ambled in with
that cheerful chariot the hearse behind
them, and about two hundred drays are
at present parked in George-street out-
side The Bulletin office. The line
about “backing it still—in a dray” might
have been in the prize-money, but it was
a mass brainwave.
Two of the dray lines took £1 prizes.
H. McMartin, of Indooroopilly, Queens-
land, put it with a certain sprightliness:
Holy smoke! what a moke—for a dray.
Wallace Johnson, of Ingham (N.Q.),
sent the pathetic picture:
It was shy, though, unhitched from its
dray.
One of the most popular rhymes was
bray. A fair number of entrants sent
in a zoological monstrosity in the shape
of “a cow with a bray,” and there were
sundry impolite references to the animal’s
breeding. Ruby D. Eve, of New Farm
(Q.), took a £1 prize with an image that
would bring tears to any punter’s eyes:
But it stopped at five furlongs to bray.
A still more vivid picture, out of the
usual run of entries, won £1 for Walter
M. White, of George-street North, Syd-
ney: —
That ran like a fat M.L.A.
Mrs. A. M. King, of Berri (S.A.), sent
in the simplest of lines, but a highly-
appropriate one:
But it just wasn’t feeling that way.
James Brown, of Wagga Wagga
(N.S.W.), voices the complaint of thou-
sands :
My astrologer led me astray.
There was a lightheartedness in a pun
from J. C. Morrison, of Maribyrnong
(Vic.), and a Lear-like lunacy in a sug-
gestion from Miss Betty Easson (Bris-
bane) that scored them each a £1 prize.
Mr. Morrison submitted:
My roll was just gambolled away.
Miss Easson’s line was: —•
But it ran back to front all the way.
Another £1 prize went to R. Keenan
(Melbourne) for the thought:
He could go—but the cow couldn’t stay.
And R. Byrne, of Ellon (N.S.W.), took
£1 with the joyous exclamation:—-
The rent’s gone, the wife’s gone, hooray!
The winner of the £4O first prize was
“Milk-oh!”
Miss Peg McNamara, of 7 Royal Arcade,
Melbourne, C.l. The complete Limerick
with her last line reads:
The reason I’m stony to-day
Is not just the taxes I pay:
They called it a “horse”
Oh, “a dead cert.,” of course—
But someone cried “Milk-oh!” half-
way.


Te
es
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
(Jill I ELU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an
A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager.
Australian Institution.
T. G. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
f
At
/II
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
Tlie Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS. PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Color was all at Randwick last Satur-
day. It seems at last as though Sydney
women have broken away from black,
which was becoming almost a uniform
with them. How the bright blues, the
cyclamens, the yellows, the pinks suited
our summer sky! The stands were as
gay as a garden bright with flowers.
The color note, too, had slipped down
to the feet, and plain black shoes had
an almost monastic appearance. Popu-
lar vote seemed to be for the two-toned
sandal. Every second pair was of the
toe-cooler variety, with the little opening
where the toecap used to be.
Hats? They were the most fascinating,
fantastic and futile Randwick has prob-
ably ever seen. It might be said that
Sydney women have taken the veil.
Ninety-nine out of every 100 wore one.
They were of coarse mesh, they were of
fine mesh. They were tied in bunchy
bows at the back of the crown of the
hat; sometimes they were brought round
the back of the hat and knotted under
the chin, an attractive mooring.
Early in the afternoon, forsaking the
blazing heat at the back of the official
stand and the cold wind that smacked
its face, this Letter strolled around to
the members’ stand, passing the vice-regal
box, which bloomed with grey toppers
and feminine millinery. Top place among
the lailter went to Lady Wakehurst’s
yellow Breton sailor. Jocund, but not
giddy, it was worn with a grey suit and
a matching yellow blouse. One lady
in the vice-regal group was talking
earnestly to her companion, illustrating
her remarks with a gesture or two. A
man on his way to the tote glanced up,
saw her and muttered to his companion :
“That settles it, we’ll stick to Oration.”
The Mayoral Nocks were in the Gov-
ernment House group. Her frock and
halo hat were white. Mrs. Dutton and
daughter Helen, who are staying at G.H.,
were others in the rather large party.
Mrs. Dutton’s black hat wreathed in
white ostrich is among the remembered.
New Lieutenant-Governor Frederick
Jordan and his lady were also guests of
the vice-regals; so were the Colonel
Bruxner couple.
The Pat Osbornes had 100 to
lunch. There were Dangars, Horderns
and Osbornes here. Knight Fred Mc-
Master and his wife were among
the champagne-sippers. Wife of the
A.J.C.’s chairman, George Main, greeted
the blue of the sky with a blue ensemble.
Mary Hordern’s navy broderie frock was
sashed with cyclamen. Cyclamen and
blue are distinctively the 1938 colors.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s pink broderie frock
had a bolero. Her small pink hat was
tricorne, and a triumph. Mrs. Elink
Schuurman’s headgear suggested a bunch
of cornflowers wrapped in blue. The
crown might have hidden the stems, the
heads of the flowers showed over the
forehead. Then, of course, you simply
had to notice Robin Eakin, whose in-
finitesimal pink hat with its straight brim
was something a Lenci doll might wear.
Claudia Beazley and mother were a
good-looking pair. Mrs. Beazley’s suit
was of softest turquoise. Her cyclamen
hat wore little plumes in its facade.
Claudia’s toque was mostly a huge black
velvet bow. Her black frock was festive
with white-and-red braiding. Joan
Hodgson’s sky-blue hat had a medieval
touch in its upswept front. Her veil was
a deeper shade of blue, and her gloves
carried on the contralto note. Her frock
was cyclamen. Dr. Weston Maher,
sister Eve and Mrs. Forest Hughes were
a knowledgeable trio. Mrs. Walter Bur-
fitt was with the wife of Dr. Walter,
Junior. Delf-blue-and-white was Mrs.
Walter’s color scheme. Her daughter-
in-law brightened her beige suit with a
saffron and black scarf and a penny
bronze hat.
Mrs. Marcus Marks had bright-faced
Nerida Cohen and large - eyed Betty
Ginsberg with her. Barbara Knox’s
navy-and-white outfit was among the
smartest. Joan McGrath’s narrow-
brimmed sailor with its high crown. Jean
Kennedy’s wistaria-blue hat with its
three or four plumes bunched and erect
in front (they were in palest to deepest
lilac), Marcelle Bishop’s blue and mauve
patterned sheers, and Mrs. Lauri Foster’s
dusty-pink frock with its matching cape
were among things noted.
Mrs. Lionel Dare comes into the com-
mentary. Her frock and coat were blithe
with red, petunia and blue tonings. Her
hat was wide and blue, its veil was
red and it wore a knot of field flowers.
Barbara Lothrington’s leghorn hat was
large and brown. Mrs. Harry Meeks’s
hat was wide, tangerine and coolie-
shaped. Frances Angus, unusual as ever,
and newly-engaged to Alec Binnie, of
Singleton, had a perfect day, finishing up
with a dance at Romano’s.
Mrs. Clement Chapman, a great
worker in the interests of Prince Alfred,
was the designer of the amusing Welsh
table in the table-setting competition in
aid of that immense hospital. Music and
riding are two of Mrs. Chapman’s
recreations. She is constant in her attend-
ance at concerts, and is able to enjoy
her riding every week-end, when she and
the doctor go to their farm at St. Mary’s.
Montgomery Dunn photograph.
The Independents’ production of lan
Hay’s “Housemaster” was one of the
attractions that put the last bit of glitter
on the first day of the spring meeting.
The Conservatorium was crowded in the
reserved seats, but more thinly populated
in the back rows. Marguerite Cullen-
Ward, Margaret Ruthven and Audrey
Cunningham were very natural in young-
girl parts. The audience found the play
really funny, and seemed to enjoy the
touches of sentiment. The Derby Ball
filled the Australia ballroom with pretty
girls in chiffons, organza, crepes and
sheers patterned in multicolored hues.
People danced at Romano’s, and there
were innumerable private parties.
“I have never in my life been to such
an adorable party!” almost reverently
breathed one girl to her friend as they
came down the steps of the Australian
Club last Saturday. If president W.
Deuchar Gordon and his hospitable
members could have heard the heartfelt
voice they would have been repaid for
all the thought that had gone into their
elaborate afternoon party. The flowers
were a glory, and expressed every mood
of spring from waratah to daffodil. There
was even a large bowl of spotless white
lilies.
Within the door a small page boy with
a large tray received the cards. That
was to the right, and to the left trays of
orchids were offered to the women guests.
Just in the curve of the mellow old cedar
staircase daffodils, roses and sweet-peas
bloomed profusely in a neat enclosure,
and all the way up the stairs waratahs
stood scarlet sentinel.
The hanging gardens of Babylon
couldn’t have gone much better than the
greeny shoots and flowers that trailed
from the ceiling of the big billiard-room.
Here on the centre table stood a flower
shoe of great dimensions —tulips, stock
and sweet-peas in its fragrance. On the
tables, too, were standards of roses.
White pottery window-boxes made sills
brilliant with the wine of tulip, the gold
of daffodil. On one table a bass viol
of spring flowers drew murmurs of
applause. So did the huge golden bon-
bons and the drinks —amber, pale green
and white.
There was music. Lord and Lady
Wakehurst came on after the races. Mrs.
Gordon wore the trigness of navy and
white, her small hat trimmed with the
fashionable white hyacinth. Helen Max-
well was having her first grown-up
party. The Garnet Hallorans, Mrs.
Lawrence Osborne, Linda Paul, grace-
ful in navy and white, Mrs. Sep Levy in
black and smart from the flower-trimmed
hat to toe, Mrs. John Faviell, Mrs.
Killen, the Kelso Kings, Miss Agnes
Williamson, Helen Dutton of Adelaide,
the Bertie Kellys, Suzanne Rankin and
Morna Mackenzie were among the
chosen 500.
The Big Dowling-Blakc Pelly wed-
ding party happened two days before
the knot was tied, when the Governor
and Lady Wakehurst invited 300 guests
to Government House. The wedding
itself was a quiet morning affair, and St.
Michael's, at Vauclusc, the chosen
church. The bride's frock was a filmy
flutter of white lace and finest white
organza. It had the new square neck-
line. The veil was tulle, the flowers
white azaleas. A good diamond here
and there semaphored the sun. Just
the vicc-regals and the family were at
the after-wedding lunch. Lord and Lady
Wakehurst beamed congratulations on
the popular A.D.C. A primrose Breton
sailor and a primrose blouse brought
spring to Lady Wakehurst’s suit of oat-
meal cloth. Summery blues were worn
by Mrs. Dowling in coat, frock and hat.
Her flowers were orchids. Mrs. Gordon
Brady brought daughters Felicia Garvan
and Mrs. Stewart Jamieson, who has just
returned from her honeymoon tour.
Mr. and Mrs. Blake Pelly left for
England by way of the U.S.A. in the
Niagara. In England they will visit the
'groom’s parents, the Reverend D. R.
and Mrs. Pelly, of .Somerset. In the
Niagara, as far as Maoriland, went the
John Halls. Until the day before sailing
she was Joyce Beazley. The William
Arthurs were other honeymooners in the
same ship.
Herewith popular Nuttie Mackcllar,
one of Sydney’s clever dancers, who
reaped the bronze, silver and gold medals
at the examinations of the Imperial
Society of Teachers of Dancing. Phyllis
Haylor was the examiner, and the Sydney-
ite was the only girl in Australia to win
the gold medal. Partnered by Bob Brad-
ley, Nuttie gave an exhibition dance at
the Pink and Black Ball last night.
Photograph from Le Guay.
Banker-knight A. C. Davidson must
have been pleased with the total of his
mental arithmetic as he counted heads
at the Lewisham Jubilee Ball. Nearly
one thousand present, somebody had
donated the supper, and tickets were half
a guinea. Doors were timed to open
at 8.30, but it was nearly nine before
the crowds began to arrive. The medi-
cals came even later. Super, of Lewisham,
Dr. McGlynn, presided over three
tables of 16 each. At one of these sat
Dr. Tom Burfitt. Still another of the
same family who is taking up medicine
was there. Barbara Burfitt had her
slinky black satin skirt topped by a
blouse of shirred silver lame. This was
finished with a tiny basque entirely
covered with Lend flowers. Over her
frock of black lace Mrs. Walter Burfitt
wore a coat scintillating with black and
orange sequins.
Just in the right color scheme was Miss
Kate Egan’s white frock with its
Madonna-blue shoulder scarves. On her
president’s table was a model of the
Liguria—innumerable small blue flowers
in its make-up—in which the first com-
pany of this nursing sisterhood arrived
in Sydney. A small doll, dressed in the
blue-and-white habit of the Order,
marked the place of each guest. Mayor
Nock and his Mayoress were in this
group. Carnations sold for the cause
were briskly exchanged for shillings by
a group of girls, one of the vendors, in
hyacinth-pink, having the uplifting name
of Happy McPhee. In an aura oi
emeralds, pearls and silver fox, Mrs.
Reggie Stafford hostessed a party.
Reggie, too, was there, sunbrowned to
a turn. Mrs. Guiney, Mrs. M. J. O'Neill
and Mrs. J. D. Herlihy, the secretaries,
each brought a flock of friends.
A good story was told at the
party given in honor of visiting speech-
examiner Reginald Besant. This was at
the Carlton, and the hosts were the
teachers of speech. Lawrence Campbell
told, speaking of gesture, that when
Judith Anderson did her Lady Macbeth
in London she had wanted, in the sleep-
walking scene, to do without the candle
in order to leave her hands free for some
special gesture. But the English pro-
ducer was adamant. She must have the
candle. Judith, in conversation with the
Queen, told her Majesty of this differ-
ence. “J think, perhaps he was right,”
said her Majesty. “If you knew Glamis
as well as I. do, you would realise how
very necessary a candle would be!”
Then Mr. Besant made a shrewd point
when he said that drama-lovers would
never be satisfied with film plays alone
—too much like a continuous diet of
tinned foods.
In the shade of an expansive garden
sunshade, vivid red against the green of
tree and hedge, Papal Delegate Dr.
Panico, in company with Dr. Giles and
Father Hehir, received the delegates to
the Catholic Women’s Association con-
ference. The setting was the afternoon
party at Mrs. Greg McGirr’s home in
North Sydney, at which 200 or more
women guests walked and talked once more
in smiling peace. The strain of the week
had passed, and their mental sky was as
cloudless as the afternoon’s azure tent.
As well as the delegates to the confer-
ence, the many guests were presented to
Dr. Panico by Mrs. McGirr. Her long
axTernoon frock was grey, flower-
scrolled in deep red. Miss Kate Egan’s
blue-and-white spotted frock was covered
by a dark-blue redingote. Dame Con-
stance Darcy wore grey, and the wife
of Japan’s Consul was very smart. Mrs.
Coen looked cool in blue-and-white. Kit
and Helen Barlow brought their niece,
Patricia Lonergan, from Mudgee.
The McGirr family, even to baby
Noni. who stood by the Papal Delegate’s
chair, has a genius for hospitality, and
Beatrice, Gwen and Trixie helped in the
entertaining. A word must be said about
Beatrice’s hat. Its color was Mexican
gold, its straw Baku and its brim swept
to heaven. Gwen was smartly tailored
in grey. Another attractive girl was
Angela Lysaght. There were two ladies of
the Grail ; Mrs. Regan, of Tamworth, and
Mrs. Regan, of Kirribilli, were there.
There was music in the lounge, which is
hung with a collection of Australian
artists—Lambert’s last work, an un-
finished painting of a horse, among
them. The afternoon’s singers were Mrs.
Victor Conrick and Jeannette Rooney.
A good Australian at the party was Dick,
the pet kangaroo.
Over the Bridge to St. Philip’s on
October 12 will drive an attractive bride
from Neutral Bay. She is Margaret
Jean Mclntosh, formerly of
(N.S.W.), and after giving the usual *
pledges to ’groom Frank Hamilton
Doyle, of Glen Innes, the two will
take the road out to Elizabeth Bay
House, the scene of the wedding
reception. Mrs. Mclntosh, with her
girls, has lived at Neutral Bay for some
time.


WORLD PREMIERE LAUGHTER SEASON
NOW...CAPITOL THEATRE...sydney
“Dad”
knows all
about
“Founda-
tions” and
Dave is the
answer to
the Man-
nequin’s
Prayer.
m
M W
li
wm
&
.WfW^i
:<,|p
■•&..,r~s*
•• ■!
tf
WL
\W
v
U'-'V \
'N
a:
A
vV
IP/
%
m
W
;T i
r~<
K
Vw
m
\
\
i IS
m
A
# #
I N
COME TO TOWN
Ik
'Vs?
Ai
fPNKOUHO
FRED M/uDONALD ..
With Shirley Ann Richards, Alec
Kellaway, Sidney Wheeler, Billy
Rayes, Leila Steppe
directed* fctj KEN G HALL
THE ORIGINAL
•DAVE*
«4
Australia’s
Favourites in a
Merry Modern
Comedy laden
with Laughs.
Imagine the Fun
when the Rudds
inherit a Ladies’
Lingerie Salon —
and Dad and
Dave come to
town to run it!


BRANDAEER’S
n—in
Us
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER h CO., Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
'PENS
Missing Beneficiaries.
IF GEORGE WILLIAM POULTER and JOHN
CHARLES POULTER or the latter’s next-of-
kin communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Greymounth, New Zealand, they
will learn information to their advantage.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re Mrs. Mary Bowen (formerly Brinn).
INFORMATION is desired in regard to
MRS. MARY BOWEN (daughter of Abraham
Brinri), born near Tenby, Pembrokeshire, Wales,
who came to Australia about the year 1876, or
her children.
CHAMBERS, McNAB & CO.,
Solicitors,
Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, Brisbane.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE JOYFUL DELANEYS
Hugh Walpole
(Overseas Library.)
“One of the liveliest, most attractive and
most affectionate novels about London I have
ever read.” —“ News Chronicle.”
“Easy and lively reading from the first page
to the last.” — “The Times.”
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
OF A CAD
A. G. Macdonell
(Overseas Library.)
“Extremely funny all through.”
— “Times” Literary Supplement.
“His scaring, scathing satire is quite the
best in contemporary writing.”— “Daily Sketch.”
THE COMMONWEALTH
OF GOD
Lionel Curtis
(Overseas Library.)
The three volumes of "Civitas Dei” in one
volume.
“An historical study of unusual scope and
variety of interest, which touches on almost all
the chief problems of politics, ethics and re-
ligion, and touches on none of them without
illuminating power.”— “The Times.”
NATIVE TRIBES
OF CENTRAL AUSTRALIA
Sir Baldwin Spencer and F. J. Gillen
New Edition. With a Preface by SIR JAMES
G. FRAZER, 0.M., F.R.S., and 133 Illus-
trations and two Maps.
Sir James Frazer writes: “It is a very important
volume, for it contains a detailed account of the
Arunta Tribe, of which both authors were fully
initiated members; it also comprises the description
of other important tribes, which description was not
afterwards reprinted by the writers. From the
nature of the case, in the present decadence of the
native tribes, the book can never be superseded. It
is an anthroipological classic, a possession for ever.'
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Melbourne
Chatter
Not since the Pioneer Ball of the cen-
tenary year and the first International
Club Pageant has Melbourne seen any-
thing as spectacular as the Show Week
Ball in aid of the Victorian Society for
Crippled Children. Practically every-
body was in fancy dress, and the decora-
tions were the culmination of the com-
mittee’s originality. The biergarten in
the Lower Hall was an excellent idea ; a
second band (alternately professional and
spontaneously amateur) played there-
abouts, and couples danced merrily in
between buying their bar tickets and
blowing the froth from their glasses at
numerous small tables near by. Mel-
bourne is not yet tired of tripping over
wSnow White and her Dwarfs (the film
only opened at the Plaza on Saturday),
so that their adventures prancing in a
color frieze round the balcony in the
main hall were all part of the general
good humor. On the tables were stand-
put balloons in a variety of quaint shapes,
more balloons in lavish bundles swayed
in the breeze and in the pathway of the
Dwarfs, and still more were placed row
upon row along the edge of the stage,
where there was a picket fence of masks
lit up from behind through their eyes,
ears and mouths.
Escorted by Mrs. Russell Grimwade,
Daryl Lindsay and Arnold Shore, David
Lichine, of the Covent Garden Ballet,
arrived to assist with the difficult task of
judging the sets and single fancy cos-
tumes. He seemed to take a genuine in-
terest in the proceedings, and appears
to be vamp-proof (for the competitors
who made the biggest eyes were not
assisted thereby). Lichine is of medium
height, slim and dark, with hair growing
a little long on the back of his neck
and his expression suggestive of a sense
of humor. Among others who portrayed
a similar characteristic for comedy were
members of the Gerald Pattersons’
“Sports of the ’Eighties,” containing “lady
golfers” who swept the grass seeds from
the fairways in bustles and gem hats, and
specimens of the gentlemen who padded
after them in stiff collars and loud plaids.
A prize was bestowed upon Mrs. Patter-
son and Dr. Alan Mackay for their
tandem cycling effort round the room.
There was only one tandem, and they
were chosen as the safest cyclists to per-
form among their contemporaries, Mrs.
Mackay, Shirley Tolhurst, Gerald Pat-
terson and Ivo Whitton.
Ena McNamara now has a new pet
in her back garden, the small woolly
lamb she bought at the saleyard to ac-
company her as 80-Peep. Rufe Smith
was a Chinese with a Chinese-white face.
Kevin Gibson went as a sheik, a cos-
tume that gave him no trouble —two
sheets from his own bed. Lynette Dick-
enson was a Georgian lady in the white-
and-silver costume and white wig she
wore on a Gregan McMahon stage as
Lady Teazle. Among the 50-odd Scot-
tish dancers organised by Captain Moffat-
Pender were Judy Webb, Gordon Ross,
Jim Paxton and Vaire and Dudley Wil-
kinson.
Dallas Croft in a monk’s gown
went as a large type “Vote No.”
Everard Baillieu tricked his friends and
relations into emotion for a poor old
match woman with protruding slip-in
teeth (which proved awkward in the
matter of supper and visiting the bier-
garten), a black bonnet and shawl and a
businesslike safety-pin securing volumi-
nous skirt to tight-waisted blouse. Mrs.
Gordon Johnstone also had everybody
guessing with her sense of comedy as a
harlequin, for her head was completely
hidden under a giant mask. Valerie
Crowther, who was hon. sec. of the ball
committee (and who in her spare time is
a sympathetic worker for the Crippled
Children), went as Jane Bennet from
Pride and Prejudice in flowered muslin
and cherry-colored hair ribbon and sash.
Jeanie Bell, also a committee member,
won a prize as a Balinese dancer.
In Spencer Shier's portrait is Mrs. Bill
Paterson, who before her all-white
afternoon wedding last week in St.
John’s was Noel Frankenberg. Subse-
quent felicitations took place at No. 9
Darling-street, with sherry, a tea party,
champagne and oratory of a brighter
order from several spokesmen. Among
them were the bridegroom, the officiating
padre, the Rev. J. H. Allen, of Geelong
Grammar School (who was the ’groom’s
chaplain during his schooldays), and the
bride’s father, F. E. Frankenberg, who is
lively company in all places, including
the tennis court, where he can still make
the younger folk do most of the running.
In the stack of telegrams and cables read
to the guests were good-luck messages
from the Bob Lintons (Bob is doing a
locum’s job in Manchester), and from
the Harry Grieshabers in Baden Baden
(he is in the American Express. His
wife before marriage was May Middows
of Melbourne).
For the first n : ght in Australia of the
Covent Garden Russian Ballet, the well-
dressed audience (white ties and boiled
shirts were even seen up in the gallery)
arrived well before eight o’clock and
mingled in the foyer, where the feeling
was a pent-up mixture of tensity and
anticipation. This function was on
Wednesday evening, a date that many
people feared might 1 ave been the be-
ginning of the end of civilisation. Gradu-
ally the tensity relaxed, and from the
moment the curtain went up on the poetic
picture of the romantic ballet “Les Syl-
ph ides” to the last mazurka in “Aurora’s
Wedding” the audience forgot its fears.
Even during Victor Dandre’s first-night
speech the artists were artists, far re-
moved from the mixture of nations
represented on their passports. It was
just eleven o’clock when the curtain went
down, an hour that had been announced
as one of ultimatum in Europe.
Neither of the male stars, Anton Dolin
and David Lichine, danced-at the open-
ing performance, but the feather-footed
individualist Riabouchinsia and the steel-
muscled technician Baronova were to
the “Les Sylph ides” and “Aurora’s
Wedding,” both well known, were
greeted as old friends, and the lavishly
staged newcomer “Cendrillon” is sure of
a place among the favorites (children
will love it as much as they did “Petrou-
schka”). “Cendrillon,” with its several
scenes, must be the most expensive ballet
produced here. There are the house of
Cinderella, the Ugly Sisters and the Cat
(who afterwards unties the ribbon of
Cinderella’s shoe), a change to the pump-
kin and the magic coach, further
changes to the ballroom and the court-
yard with claimants for the lost slipper
and two additional drop curtains, one
a picture of the coach and its winged
horses flying high above the clouds.
Costumes and scenery are well executed
in the matter of color and composition.
The first-night audience hung itself
with pearls and diamonds and smothered
its shoulders in orchids. (War or no
war, there’s nothing like a hothouse
bloom or two to keep the head held
high.) Hubert Wilkins’s auburn-headed
wife wore an ermine coat and sat with
a party containing Mrs. Reg Baillieu,
in a blue gown. Blue was a favorite
choice among womenfolk. Mrs. Jim
Fairbairn wore it for her frock with its
silver traceries; so did Mrs. Gordon
Chirnside, for both her gown and velvet
coat, while for accessories she clipped
pearl grapes to her ears. Blue predomi-
nated also in the figured design of Mrs.
Nevil Hollinshed’s gown. Nancy
Hewlett’s black dress was sprinkled with
sequins, and Mary Sheehan was a slim
wraith in blue tulle.
Mrs. Spencer Harper hid herself in a
fur wrap, and Mrs. Eric Mcllwraith was
submerged in blue ospreys and red roses.
Mrs. Bob Lawrence’s white frock was
elaborated with many buttons and wheel
motifs of lace. The night was an exciting
occasion for Mrs. Erik Fischer, otherwise
Helene Kirsova, who sat in the front
row of the dress circle. She came over
from Sydney especially for the Ballet.
Sheila Helpman was present in white
chiffon with trails of black lace inlet into
the skirt. Noticed also were Jennie and
Eileen Brenan, Florrie Green with her
sister Mrs. D. S. Rolls, her niece Mrs.
Furze Morrish and her small daughter
Honour. Honour was seeing her first
ballet and wearing a charming little red
cloak, of affectionate memories. In their
early girlhood it had. been worn by
Honour’s aunt, Mrs. Derek Pierse, by
her mother, Mrs. Furze Morrish, and
later still by their cousin Valerie Purves.
“Nonnie” was a bride of regal carriage
as she walked up the aisle with eyes
demurely lowered and down again with
her head up and her back beautifully
straight. She and her ’maids, Margaret
Leary, Betty Pleasance, Margaret Heath
and Joan Kernot, were part of an all-
white picture and they carried all-white
flowers. It was left to the guests to
provide plenty of color and, incidentally,
a wide variety of imaginative hats. Joan
Ramsay’s was a flat dish over one ear
and its contents were four full-blown
roses. Mrs. Alan Nathan’s “doll’s hat”
of black crinoline straw was overgrown
with white violets. The ’groom's mother,
Mrs. A. B. Paterson, chose an inspiration
of pink straw secured down over one
ear, in color matching her rose-dust pink
frock and coat with its cuffs and hem
of fox pelts and dangling tails. The
honeymooners are off to Brisbane by
sea, and on their return will settle in
the new house they have built in Sargood-
street, Toorak.
In the Spencer Shier photo, is brunette
D’Arcy Lawry, whose wedding day is
October 12. The ’groom is Alan Bragg,
second son of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Bragg, of Landgrove, Cootamundra.
Following on the afternoon ceremony at
St. John’s, Mrs. E. L. Lawry will hold
a reception at No. 9 Darling-street.
Melbourne Grammar girls made up a
large percentage of the audience in the
school’s Assembly Hall for Sonia Revid’s
farewell dance recital. Miss Revid is off
to M.L. on October 10 in response to an
invitation from the Auckland Y.W.C.A.
Helping at the recital were Iris Green-
ham on the door, Kathleen Kenny
guarding the moneybox, Doris McKay,
May Morris, Betty Ratten ushering and
behind the scenes at panatrope and cur-
tain ropes, Roma Bottomley and Jocelyn
Perkins. Part of the proceeds will assist
Miss Revid’s adopted family, children in
the slum areas, through the jurisdiction of
the Mission of Streets and Lanes.
Among women riders at the Show there
is a bloom of special interest attached
to the Garryowen Trophy, a fixture of
the public holiday of Show Day. This
trophy for the best equestrienne turnout
is a memorial to Mrs. Violet Murrell,
who lost her life while trying unsuc-
cessfully to save her favorite, Garryowen,
and other horses from a stable fire.
This year’s winner brought a spot of
honor and glory to Gippsland ; she was
Kathleen Donaghue, of Caleron, Nam-
brok, who has had considerable success
riding in country shows and is women’s
tennis singles champion of Gippsland.
For the Garryowen event she wore fawn
breeches, black coat and bowler hat and
rode Sovereign, a bay hack belonging
to H. and M. Bourke. Garryowen
winners of other years, Kitty Sutherland
(who had two successive wins), Phyllis
Bray and Mrs. H. Coffey, were also com-
petitors.
By her charm of manner as much as
by her violin Guila Bustabo made the
large audience at the last symphony
concert of the season hers to a man in
the Town Hall on Saturday evening.
This 19-year-old violinist plays like an
angel and carries out the idea of express-
ing her identity with the Old Masters'
ideals by wearing dark hair long on her
shoulders, a thick fringe and quaint con-
cert costumes. For her ddbut in Mel-
bourne she wore hyacinth-blue organza
with a high and severe “dog-collar” neck,
the whole impression softened with
rippling frills upon the bodice and flowers
scattered over the skirt. Her stage
manner is one of youthful and lively
anticipation, joy in her work, not a shred
of nervousness, trusting smiles for Mal-
colm Sargent, the orchestra and the
audience, and a refreshing all-my-drcams-
come-true reaction to her gift of a kan-
garoo, accompaniment for her flowers.
Guila’s mother, wearing black velvet, a
scarlet coat and diamonds, sat with
Marshall Sumner and Elizabeth Halkyard
during the first half of the programme.
After the interval she listened from the
balcony.
Among those who enjoyed the pro-
gramme were Mrs. George Armstrong
and Pamela, who entertained Malcolm
Sargent, Guila and her mother at
Coombe Cottage. The Raymond Lam-
berts were there, Mrs. Lambert wearing
silver foxes and black chiffon showered
with sequins.
R. D. Elliott declared the Victorian
Artists’ spring show open without
plagiarisms or platitudes. He men-
tioned that in London recently he
met Epstein, who informed him that he
is now living “like a respectable human
being.” (Mr. Elliott did not ask for par-
ticulars, but he imagines that it is no
longer a fashionable affectation to keep
the coals in the bathtub.) The speaker
went on to give “The Vies” and their
friends some statistics, among them the
fact that it costs the country Byd. for
every person who visits the National
Gallery, and that last year the Gallery
sold 2000 postcards of Phar Lap, 75 p.c.
more than its sales of reproductions from
the walls.


The new
GOLF
SHIRT
13/6 each.
iKCn
MOTHERS LTD.
QUEEN /I. BRISBANE
New Starchless Everfirm Collar
attached ; two Military Pockets:
Good Quality English Cotton
Twist Broadcloth; fancy slub
finish. In Blue, Grey, Fawn and
Green. Tie of same material.
:
i : &
m
X
ItMFXiIaJ
not
— e&STi
AUSTRALIA TOnAY
~ Sweden a few days later l
Great ’planes to-day are sweeping across the skies,
annihilating distance and making a thousand miles
but a few hours’ journey. This new factor of
speed is all important to the business man, racing
against time to close a deal —it may be in Sweden,
Canada, anywhere, and to the traveller anxious to
reach a holiday destination. The National Bank’s
Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques con-
tribute directly to speedy travel. Funds can be
carried with maximum safety in forms which
expedite conversion into overseas currencies and
enable hotel bills and other travel costs to be
paid easily and quickly. Ask at any of the
Bank’s Branches for the booklet “World Travel
Service.”
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (.Incorporated in Victoria)
58-16-38
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
In Reply to Fairbairn, M.P.
H. T. Allan, president of the New
Guinea Mining Association, writes:
Touching the road from Salamaua to Wau.
Fairbairn, M.P., has stated that, because of
the rainfall of 200 inches per annum, mainten-
ance will cost £lOO,OOO per year.
Maintenance figures in respect of present roads
in this district, including cost of bringing in all
supplies apd tools by air, £2l per ton, are:
(1) Edie Creek road, 12 miles long (and country
more rugged than anything likely to be found
on the Salamaua-Wau road), £165 p.m. p.a; (2)
Wau-Bulolo-Bulwa road, £lOO p.m. p.a.
This association has among its members con-
tractors who have built the roads existing in
this district. It states definitely that the pro-
posed road can be built for £150,000, and
that members will tender at that figure. It
states also that maintenance cost will not ex-
ceed £lO,OOO p.a. If the new route through
the Bitoi Valley, now being surveyed, proves
feasible, maintenance costs for the 48 miles
should not exceed £7OOO p.a. If the road is
properly constructed in the first place they will
be lower still.
The saving in freight by Diesel-engined road
transport, as against present air freight, will be
at least £l6 per ton, and saving to the mining
community at least £150,000 p.a. More goods
will be brought in at the cheaper rate, and the
money saved on air transport will be available
for the working of big low-grade deposits and
alluvial deep leads, which are now being
opened up.
Mr. Fairbairn arrived in Wau accompanied
by air co. officials. He stayed only two hours,
went to Lae and Salamaua and did not return
to Wau. As far as we know he did not obtain
the views of any of the mining representatives
in Wau, although this association had been in-
formed that its officials would b(j. given an
opportunity of meeting the flying member of
Parliament. On the appointed day Mr. Fair-
bairn did not come to Wau.
“Unification and One Capital”
“Vision” favors it:
The Bulletin’s suggestion that the two
territories, Papua and New Guinea, should be
united “to make one respectable dependency”
has much to commend it; especially from the
viewpoint of eliminating the unnecessary and
expensive duplication of Government services.
The journey from Port Moresby to Wau takes
little more than an hour, and this time could
be greatly reduced. Therefore, to provide
Port Moresby, which has an excellent harbor,
with a water supply and a speedy aeroplane
or two to carry mails and officials across the
border, would cost only a small portion qf the
sum required to establish a new capital in the
Mandated Territory.
The Mandated Territory is subdivided into
a number of districts, based on the Papuan
plan, each complete with administrative services
which could in these days of radio and aircraft
communication be controlled from Port
Moresby as readily as from any part of the
Mandated Territory. So why squander good
money in making two capitals? Far better to
scrap the Rabaul Administration altogether and
make one capital and one administration do the
job ; especially as the law is almost identical
in both territories.
Wau is the centre of a thriving goldmining
industry and is already nearly as large as
Rabaul. It has all the necessary facilities for
making a health and tourist resort, but, in order
to prolong its usefulness as a mining centre and
to extend the life of the goldfield, a road is
essential. We liave more than paid for that
road, but are still waiting for it.
The Commonwealth Government lost
the case of the second lugger, heard at
Darwin. Plaintiffs were the owners of
the Tokio Maru ; they claimed £20,000
damages and the return of their lugger,
which was arrested by Captain Haultain,
of the Larrakia, and confiscated in Sep-
tember, 1937. The charge was that the
boat had trespassed within territorial
waters adjacent to an aboriginal reserve.
The explanation was that she had ex-
perienced engine-trouble, and that a light
wind made it impossible to prevent her •
from drifting towards Bremer Island.
Said Judge Wells:
Captain Haultain estimated that the
lugger was within half a mile of Bremer
Island. The accuracy of this statement has
been challenged, but the exact distance is
not material. Captain Haultain’s evidence,
even if accepted as accurate, does not estab-
lish that the Tokio Maru was at any time
within three miles of the mainland.
His Honor ordered the return of the
lugger, and awarded £l2OB damages and
general costs.
* * * *
“P.D.”: Xavier Herbert, the novelist,
describes J. B. Cramsie’s assertion that
“Must be a hole in the nettin', Ma; they seem to be gettin through .”
Melville Island would accommodate
100,000 Jewish refugees as ridiculous:
the island is “a barren, low-lying area,
almost a desert in the dry season, and
waterlogged during the wet.” Cramsie
replies that he prefers the reports of men
like G. E. McMinn and W. S. Campbell:
McMinn avers that the place is well
grassed and capable of producing any
of the tropical fruits, Campbell that the
soil is good and water plentiful. Minister
McEwen weighs in with a contribution
that ought to close the argument: the
proposal to settle 100,000 refugees on the
island is “fantastic and misleading,” also
dangerous, since it might give rise to the
false belief that the N.T. can carry a
tremendous population. McEwen is
right.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The old schoolbook
gag about Australia being a country of
paradoxes is well illustrated by trans-
port conditions in the North. Camel
trains are disappearing, and mobs of
wild camels are to be seen at times by
the passengers on the big luxury ’planes
which pass over head at 200 m.p.h. or
so. The motor-truck has replaced them
and most other forms of goods transport
on ground level, but Bert Drew still
holds off all mechanical competition in
carting stores along the Victoria River
track with his two 45-donkey power
teams. Donks don’t get cracked cylinders
or seized bearings, and even if they did
there are lots of spares handy, only need-
ing hitching up. If a truck breaks an
axle or a main spring-leaf it means a long
wait, but if one of Bert’s carts has a
similar misfortune a sapling and a few
lengths of fencing wire will get him
safely home.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: With Mrs. Sweersena
Perrot, dead at Haroldstown (N.S.W.),
there passed the last direct link with the
earliest days of white settlement in
Queensland’s Gulf country. She was a
daughter of William Landsborough, the
explorer. Mrs. Landsborough accom-
panied him on some of his journeys, and
it was during a visit to Sweers Island, off
the mouth of the Gregory River, on which
Burketown stands, that the first white
child to be born there made her entrance
to the world and acquired her unusual
Christian name.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: P. A. Macqueen, dead
at Townsville, came to it from Mel-
bourne in 1882, and. joined the Cruick-
shank-Love firm as junior partner. He
played a leading part in those heroic
days when Burns, Philp was still a
mostly-local concern, and Ferdinand
Sachs fought a historic fist-battle on the
beach near the Queen’s Hotel in order
to prove to a disgruntled client that his
bank was not the Shylock outfit which
the other had stated it to be. Sachs won
the argument—k.o. five rounds. Fifty-
six years in the Awful Climate didn’t
make even a dint in P.A.’s tough vitality
up to the last few months, when, being
96, he admitted to feeling a trifle tired
now and then.
* * * *
“Philp”: If Mr. Thorby deigns to
approve Darwin will have a new air
base. The Works Department has drawn
up plans for a £7OOO project, to include
an all-weather and -tide shelter for fly-
ing boats and a passenger-service building,
waiting rooms and bathrooms. Darwin-
ites will not be able to complain that the
thing spoils the beauty of their town.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Cairns (N.Q.) people point
with pride to the up-to-date sugar con-
veyors on their wharf, and speak of their
loading rate, 35-45 tons an hour, as a
marvel of speed. An old-time wharfie
pricks that bubble: “Bulldog Chapman
expected a sling a minute from his load-
ing gang, and God help them if it wasn’t
forthcoming! A sling held a ton of
sugar—6o tons an hour from bottom
of lighter to ship’s hold. And that was
at Flat-top, outside Mackay, where a
calm sea is unknown. Bulldog (a How-
ard-Smith skipper) stood, watch in hand,
on his bridge and saw to it that the pace
never slackened. Fifty years ago that
was —seems to me for speed you’ve gone
the way the hen scratches!”


Bund. Plate.
Grid.
Grid.
Cathode.
160 26 turns
22 D.C.C.
elosewound
15 turns
26 D.C.C.
elosewound
85 turns
26 cmim.
closcwound
9 turns
26 enam.
elosewound
80 .. .» .. J7 turns
20 D.C.C.
1 in. long
9 turns
26 D.C.C.
closewounu
40 turns
24 D.C.C.
IJin. long
7 turns
26 D.C.C.
elosewound
40 104 turns
20 D.C.C.
1 in. Jong
6 turns
26 D.C.C.
elosewound
21 turns
22 D.C.C.
Hitl. long
5 turns
26 D.C.C.
elosewound
20 .. .. .. 5 turns
20 D.C.C.
lin. long
41 turns
26 ‘ D.C.C.
{in. long.
10 turns
20 D.C.C.
1 iin. long
3 turns
26 D.C.C.
{in. long
10 . .. 2 turns
' 18 enam,
Vin. long
2i turns
26 D.C.C.
iin. long
4 I-3rd turns
18 enam.
|in. long
li turns
26 D.C.C.
{in. long.
All above coils start
at end ot' tuned plate
coil winding.
All above coils start
at end of tuned grid
coil winding, opposite
winding direction.
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands ana
nerves function well you will be vigorous anu
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia,
CERAMIC COIL FORMS.
Ceramic grooved
and libbed coil
forms, 1 Ain. dia-
meter with a 2Jin.
winding space.
Type BTX.
List Price .... 6/9
Call in and inspect,
or write for full
particulars of the
FD
Raymart “Craft a Creed” Short-wave and
Ultra-short-wave equipinent.
E.0.l Cable Now Available.
“The Friendly Wholesale House” stocks every-
thing radio and electrical at the Lowest
Prices in the State.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines').
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
6J8G SUPERHET RECEIVER.
A superhet receiver of simple but efficient design, the 222, was introduced
four years ago in “Radio,” U.S.A., by Frank Jones. The design was the
forerunner of a lengthy list of regenerative-type superhets, more recently
known as Super-Gainers. They have given the results desired with a
minimum of fuss or complication.
A modified version of the simplest of the Super-Gainers was described by
the writer in B. 15/4/’36 as the Ideal Amateur Superhet. With only four
valves, this gives excellent performance on the amateur bands from 10 to
80 metres, and has proved one of the most popular receivers with Australian
amateurs. With the introduction of new and improved types of valves,
particularly with the converter types, even better performance can be obtained
from a comparatively simple form of superhet. Jones recently described the
1938 Model 222, using the new 6JBG hexode converter valve. Details are
given here. #
Although this is primarily an amateur-
band receiver, there is no reason why it
cannot be modified for wide-frequency
coverage to take in the whole of the
short-wave broadcasting frequencies in
Circuit diagram of the 1938 “222” superhet receiver by Jones, using the new 6J8G hexode converter
valves. Resistor and condenser values are as indicated.
Ci —3-30-ppfd. mica trim-
mer
C 2, C.t —Rebuilt condenser;
approx. 15 and 30 tipfd.
respectively
C.j—2o-|xpfd. midget vari-
able
Cs—lOO-ppfd. midget va-
riable
Cb —.01-pfd. 400-volt tu-
bular
C7 —.005-pfd. mico
Cfj—o.l -pfd, 400-volt tu-
bular
Cy—.oooos-pfd. mico
ClO— .002-pfd. mica
Ci 1 —0.5-ptd. 400-volt tu-
bular
C12 —.25-iifd. 400-volt tu-
bular
Cm—2s-pfd. 25-volt elect
Ci4 —8-pfd 450-volt elects.
Ri —300 ohms, Vi watt
R 0—50,000 ohms, Vi watt
R,!—50,000-ohm potentio-
meter
R4 —25,000 ohms, 1 watt
Rr, —50,000 ohms, 1 watt
Rii —300 ohms, Vi watt
Rt—so,ooo-ohm potentio-
meter
R,.j—100,000 ohms, 1 watt
Ry—lo or 2 megohms
R iu —1000-ohm potentio-
meter
Rii —50,000 ohms, 1/2 watt
Rj2—25,000 ohms, 1/2 watt
Rl3— —500 ohms, Vi watt
Rh—250,000 ohms, Vi
watt
R 15—50,0005 —50,000 ohms, Vi wott
R i<; —1-megohm potentio-
meter
Rn— -400 ohms, 3 watts
Ris-—3O ohms, 1 watt
Rio —25,000 ohms, 10 watts
Si —A.c. line switch
Sj—"B" voltage on-off
switch
L| ( L 2, L3 —See text
IFT—I6OO lie. iron-core
i.f. transformers.
T, —Primary of p.p. pen-
tode-to-voice coil trans-
former
T-_—3:l audio transformer
T3—6V6G-to-voice coil
transformer
T4 —650 volts c.t. 65 mo.;
6.3 volts, 1.6 amp.; 5
volts, 2 amp.
CHi —30-hy. 65-ma. filter
choke
CH'i—2soo-ohm speaker
field
-Phone jack
the usual manner. It is claimed that the
new 6JBG hexode converter valve is,
similarly to the new 6KBG, much more
sensitive and stable at higher frequen-
cies than valves of the 6A7 or 6AB types.
As an oscillator-mixer valve the 6JBG
is more sensitive than a 6L7-6C5 or
6J7 combination.
Integral Noise Silencer.
A new noise-suppressor circuit, using a
6H6, is included in the receiver design.
It is one of the most effective circuits
developed for the reduction of motor-car
ignition interference in the short-wave
bands. The 6H6 twin diode is connected
in push-pull across the headphone and
first audio amplifier so that it suppresses
both negative and positive noise peaks.
It has a tendency to knock a “hole” in
the signal during the short period of a
strong noise peak, but this is entirely
automatic, and thus has no effect on
moderate-strength speech or C.W. tone
signals.
The circuit can be applied to almost
any existing receiver by means of a
centre-tapped choke, a 6H6 valve and a
volt or two of cathode delay bias. The
delay bias is necessary to allow the
desired signal to pass on to the head-
phones or final amplifier stage without
attenuation or distortion. The diode
centre-tapped choke can be the primary
winding of a push-pull pentode-to-voice-
coil output transformer, and the delay
bias can be taken from the self-bias re-
sistor as shown in the circuit diagram,
or from, a dry cell. The usual 400-ohm
resistor has an additional 30-ohm wire-
wound resistor connected in series to
earth, and the bias of a volt or so across
this 30-ohm section provides the delay
bias for the 6H6.
Receiver Circuit.
This receiver consists of a regenera-
tive first detector-oscillator, a 1600 kc.
I.F. amplifier, a regenerative second de-
tector, a noise suppressor and two stages
of audio (1600 kc. I.F. transformers are
now to be manufactured by the Radiokes
Co. in Sydney, and will be available
shortly). A high-C oscillator provides
good frequency stability in the H.F. os-
cillator, and a low-C first detector pro-
vides high gain and good signal-to-noise
ratio.
It was found that the cathode of the
6JBG valve could be connected through
a regenerative feedback coil coupled to
the first detector circuit in order to obtain
very high gain on 20 and 10 metres.
There is a small interlocking effect on
10 metres, but this is not troublesome,
and the regenerative gain offsets this
slight disadvantage. Another advantage
of regeneration is that it nearly eliminates
image interference, and the 1600 kc. I.F.
channel, also helps in this respect. Re-
generation is controlled in the usual
manner by varying the screen grid volt-
age on the 6JBG valve.
H.F. Oscillator Circuit.
A reversed-feedback oscillator circuit
is used, as the valve-makers state that
better results are thus obtained at higher
frequencies. The plate of the oscillator
is tuned 1600 kc. higher in frequency than
the incoming signal, the oscillator grid
being connected to the usual untuned
feedback coil. This is a reversal of the
usual connections for oscillators. The
two windings are wound in the same
direction for the oscillator coils, with the
grid out one end and the plate out the
opposite end on the coil forms. The
cathode coil on the detector coils must
be reversed from the
usual tickler direction
of winding in order to
obtain regeneration.
Oscillator-detector
Ganging.
The High-C oscil-
lator and Low-C de-
tector circuits are
ganged together and
track well over the
relatively narrow ama-
teur bands. The oscil-
lator padder is a
lOOmmfd. condenser
set on all bands at
about two-thirds full
capacity. The
20mmfd. detector
trimmer condenser is
controlled from the
front panel, as this is
necessary for regen-
eration adjustments.
The gang consists in
the original receiver
of a Hammarlund
MCD-35-MX double-
spaced midget two-
sec ti o n condenser.
Plates were removed
until the rear section
(detector) had five
plates and the oscil-
lator nine plates. The
oscillator thus has
twice as much maxi-
mum capacity as the
detector section, and
so it tracks 1600 kc.
for the detector over
the whole of the tuning range.
The preliminary oscillator padder con-
denser setting and the coil inductances
must be correct for proper tracking.
Small errors can be corrected by manual
control of the detector trimmer, though
this isn’t necessary if care is taken in ad-
justment of coil-turn spacing before
cementing the turns in position on the
forms.
Absence of an R.F. stage simplifies
construction of the receiver and elimi-
nates ganging problems, but a separate
R.F. amplifier-preselector can be used
ahead to advantage.
The I.F. Channel.
Iron-cored 1600 kc. I.F.Ts. provide
enough I.F. gain and selectivity in one
stage, since the second detector is re-
generative. The 6FBG valve is some-
what similar to the 6N7G or 6A6 except
that both cathodes are brought out
through separate leads. These separate
connections permit the use of self-bias
on the audio section, and grid leak detec-
tion on the other. A 6A6 valve can be
used in this circuit by eliminating the
500-ohm cathode resistor (Rl3). All
other resistor values will remain the
same.
Detector regeneration is controlled by
a 1000-ohm variable resistor across a
small cathode coil. The latter has 30
turns of 26 D.C.C. wire jumble wound
on a lin.-diameter dowel, fastened to, the
underside of the chassis near the 6FBG
socket. The second detector is made to
oscillate for C.W. reception, and can be
made highly regenerative for greater
selectivity in ’phone-signal reception.
There is the advantage with 1600 kc. I.F.
of little image interference trouble, and
it gives better oscillator-mixer action in
the first detector circuit on the 20- and
10-metre bands. A 465 kc. I.F. has a
closer relation between the oscillator and
detector, so there is more interlocking
and noise generation in the first detector
circuit at high frequencies.
Constructional Points.
The original receiver was built on a
chassis measuring 15 by 7 by 3 inches
with a 44in. by 4|in. partition of alu-
minium acting as a support for the de-
tector trimmer, and as a shield between
the oscillator and detector coil and con-
densers. The shield is slotted to fit over
the tuning condenser. The lOOmmfd.
condenser is mounted on a separate
bracket near the tuning condenser, and
should have a lock-nut to insure reten-
tion of the setting at all times. A vernier
dial is connected to the tuning condenser
through a flexible shaft coupling, and the
audio transformer and centre-tapped
choke are mounted along the rear edge
of the bottom of the chassis.
The aerial is capacity-coupled to the
first detector grid through a 3-30mmfd.
mica trimmer condenser, and too much
capacity here will prevent the full bene-
fit of regeneration in the 6JBG detector.
The latter should never oscillate. Simi-
larly, lower values of plate resistor will
result in greater oscillator R.F. voltage,
but will prevent first detector regenera-
tion.
The accompanying coil data chart
covers all amateur bands from 10 to 160
metres with coils wound on l|in.-
diameter formers.
D. B. K.


ikjfcidfeti'a
FOURTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes of £1 each.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the purpose,
cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
“Limericks No. 4” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than October 14.
Results will be announced in “The Bulletin” of October 19.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she wishes, but
each entry must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to
compete. Otherwise these competitions are open to all, free of any
entrance charge.
FOURTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A rebellious young person of Bright
Flung his ledger and pen out of sight,
Saying “Ah ! it’s the spring !
I could dance, l could sing —
Fifth Competition: £5O Prizes.
Prize-money for the Fifth Limerick Competition is the same as for
the preceding ones: £4O First Prize and ten other Prizes of £l each.
It will close on October 28, and results will be announced in “The
Bulletin” of November 2. Conditions are the same as stated above for
the Fourth Competition.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of October 12
and October 19, and coupons may be filled in from those issues or
from the present one.
For the Fifth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick in the coupon
below, cut out the whole coupon and post to reach
“Limericks No. 5,” Box 252188, G.P.0. , Sydney.
not later than October 28.
FIFTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
ADDRESS
(In biock letters)
An old person who surfed at Dee Why
Wore his hoots, plus a collar and tie.
When they mocked him he’d say
“It is warmer this way —
The Third Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 35.
, O lt - ,
O
y v \
/■ *
0 Jm
\
"icioiitsmrt
c?• H m *
■* l
'J- V \ A VA M E S ||il
/}» '1 * & * llPfil
ißiiSli,
r ' r*
m,
mmm
W
N o
REP R° 0 jJk
FD
The same valves that protect life at
sea give longer life to your radio set.
A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better and brighter programmes.
See your local radio supplier
• • •
and be sure to Re-valve with micro-sensitive
RAOIOTROMS
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: The Austrian amateur
OE3AH, the Archduke Anton of Habs-
burg, supplements his denial of the
“reliable” report of his arrest (B.
27/7/’3B) with a letter to “QST.” He is
“grieved that much incorrect news which
has, alas! been published in many news-
papers for the purpose of anti-German
propaganda should also have been repro-
duced in ‘Q.S.T.’ ” He describes at
length what transpired during the DX
contest he was engaged in, and goes
on: “Soon afterwards, foreign news-
papers published untrue reports about
my imprisonment, and I was not able to
stop entirely these invented stories. To
convince even my relations that I was
a free man was sometimes difficult, and
therefore I drove with my car again to
Italy with my wife, passing the frontier
Engineers of the B.B.C.’s Research De-
partment carrying out aerial experiments,
with the aid of a balloon, on the roof of
Broadcasting House. Aerials are sus-
pended from the balloon, which is then
allowed to rise to the required height.
in less than three minutes, without hav-
ing been stopped a single time during the
journey. It was funny to hear during
my drive on the motor-car’s receiver from
a station about my arrest and so on!
The incorporation of the Austrian ama-
teurs into the D.A.S.D. (German amateur
organisation) was accomplished in the
friendliest manner and with great con-
sideration towards us. I myself, as ex-
president of the Oe.V.S.V., have been
entrusted with the reorganisation of the
ex-Oe amateurs, and have been named
‘Leader of the Association of the Danube
district.’ I hope that this letter will
correct the bad impression made by false
reports.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Cable views with the world
on the edge of another Great Unpleasant-
ness may be found in quantity in the
dailies; but for the facts give me the
short-wave dials. Both sides can be
listened to at first-hand from Daventry
and Berlin. The news session from
Berlin, given in English, was noteworthy
the other day for the very cool and calm
manner adopted by the announcer there.
A 8.8. C. announcement was to the effect
that news to follow might be rebroadcast
in all parts of the British Empire by
broadcasting organisations, with the ex-
ception, for the time being, of Australia.
Seems as if the 8.8. C. has been listening
to the blatherings of “foreign news
specialists.”
* * * *
“Enno”: How many amateurs in this
country are equipped to operate stations
from emergency sources of power should
the occasion arise? Probably the country
districts could show a few, but it is
certain that in the metropolitan areas,
if the 240 volt A.C. supply should fail,
most stations would be off the air. It
wouldn’t be a bad idea to organise an
emergency scheme of amateur stations
prepared to operate from small petrol
engines and suchlike non-electric power
sources.
National Short-wave
Schedules.
The A.B.C. short-wave station VLR
operates daily on a wave-length of 31.34
metres (frequency 9.58 megacycles).
Location is Lyndhurst, near Melbourne,
and the times given are Australian
Eastern Standard Time, which is 10 hours
ahead of Greenwich Mean Time. Hours
are: Sunday morning, 8 a.m. to 9.30
a.m., 9.50 a.m. to 12.15 p.m.; Sunday
afternoon, 1 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., 5.30 p.m.
™ P-m ‘ ; Sunda y night, 7 p.m. to
0.30 p.m.; week days, 12.25 p.m. to
11.30 p.m., with brief intervals.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland ;
receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver,
described B. 28/4/’37.
GSG, HPSF, Colon, and, on the 19-
metre band, DJR, DJQ, DJB, DJL,
TPA2, WBXK, Russia, JZK, YDC and
GSF have all been good at night recently.
OLR is frequently quite good on 19
metres. W3XAL has been fair, PHI
medium, DIE good, and 16-metre signals
strong on headphones.
Madras on 60 metres has been the best
of the Indians in the band. Callsigns of
Delhi, Madras and Calcutta are not avail-
able for this band, but one of the sta-
tions heard seems to be Bombay. The
band is less affected by static than 49
metres at present, and signals are strong,
increasing later to very powerful.
W3XAL on 16.87 metres can still be
heard at 11 a.m. ; by this time even the
19-metre stations are failing. The best
morning stations are 12R06 and OLR4A
on 25 metres and, on 31 metres, TPBil,
GSB and CSW. At lunch-time YDC
and Delhi are the only 19-metre stations
worth listening to, and the 31-metre
stations are useless.
Night reception is now all that can be
desired except that VLR and VK3ME
are up to their old tricks and blot right
out occasionally. KZRM, VPD2, ZBW
and YDB are very strong. Delhi opens
at 10.30 p.m. on 31.28 metres, and is
much stronger than VK6ME on the
same wave-length. After 9 p.m. RNE is
much improved, but there is still some
interference. This station is very strong
between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. OLR4A is
interesting between 7.30 and 7.50 a.m.
Daventry, Berlin and Prague news-
sessions have all been of interest, and
coming in well.
K. B. G.
Trade Notes.
Illustrated is an aero-type dial, obtain-
able from Price’s Radio Service, Angel-
place, Sydney, at 3s. 6d. The dial is
free from slip or backlash. Scale reads
0 to 100 degrees. It will be found very
useful by the constructor.
* * * *
The current issue of “Australasian
Radio World” is of interest to the con-
structional radio reader. As a battery-
type receiver the Atlas All-waver pro-
vides something different in the way of
design ; it is assembled in three separate
units comprising R.F., detector and
audio. Two-volt directly-heated valves
employed are IC4 and ID4, and
the receiver should find a ready
use with country short-wave enthusi-
asts. A comprehensive receiver is
described for high-fidelity reception of
local stations, using a tuned R.F. circuit
with two R.F. stages and diode detection,
followed by a push-pull audio channel
with 2A3’s in the output. Another con-
structional article describes an eight-valve
superhet with a push-pull 6V6G audio
channel. “A.R.W.” is a bright radio
monthly, edited by A. Earl Read, B.Sc.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
/ have a circuit of a three-valve short-wave
receiver for battery operation, designed to use
a PM 12 valve as R.F. amplifier, with PM2DX
detector and PM2A audio stage. I have on
hand a 32, PMIHL and a PM22A. (1) Could
these be used in place of the original valves?
(2) What alterations would be necessary? —723.
(1) They would be more suitable than the
original valves. (2) The PM 12 has the plate
terminal on the top of the valve, and the
wiring would have to be altered for the 32 valve,
which has the grid cap on top. The PM22A
uses a five-pin socket in place of the four-pin
socket for the PM2A triode. Connections for
the PM22A are the same as for the ID4 pen-
tode in the valve charts, and connections to the
PMIHL correspond to the type-30 valve.


JOOMd
- V
SJUHSVSAI
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
Ji
w SIS
-■• ■ V
* -
xmw*
SPECIFY
"IYSASHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING TO
GRAZCOS."
Crow Peck.
“Bungaree”: The crow is up to his old
tricks again, attacking ewes while lamb-
ing, and picking their eyes out. Sheep
die, not so much from shock or the loss
of the eye, but from blood poisoning set
up by germs from the crow’s beak.
They can be saved if treated before
the poison has had time to spread. Treat-
ment should aim at cleaning the wound
thoroughly by exposure to the air or
by killing the germs. First, trim off any
lacerated tissue, then fill the cavity with
hydrogen peroxide.
Follow with an antiseptic and healing
dressing. Glycerine diborate is good, but
expensive. Good results have been ob-
tained with Eichorn’s. Don’t aggravate
things by using sheep-dip containing
arsenic. Many people are under the
false impression that an arsenic dip is
a disinfectant and healing agent. Filling
the cavity with powdered charcoal helps
if applied in time, but the germs must
first be destroyed by exposure to air or
cleaning up with hydrogen peroxide.
Worms and Condition.
“Corriedale”: Bluestone and Black Leaf
40 are only partially effective in ridding
young sheep of trichostrongyles. Trouble
occurs when food quality
falls away and lambs lose
condition, and at weaning
time or after marking
upsets. Maintaining good
condition over these
danger periods is the best
treatment.
Young sheep fed well
the whole time will de-
velop immunity. Simi-
larly with lungworms.
Take the existence of
lungworms as a sign that
the flock’s condition is
falling away. Raise the
level of nutrition and
lungworms will go in a few weeks with-
out other treatment.
Controlling Black Disease.
“Corriedale”: Vaccination for black
disease is only palliative treatment. • If
the property is bluestoned efficiently each
year there is no risk of b.d.
Real control involves only fluke eradi-
cation and burning of b.-d. carcasses or
burying them with lime. Fluke have to
be killed in any case. The aim in blue-
stoning is to destroy snails when they
have the maximum infestation of fluke
about 40 days after the first warm
weather of spring, when fluke eggs shed
on the pasture hatch out.
If 201 b. of bluestone an acre is applied,
finely ground up over springs, water-
courses and damp land, no snails will
survive. With fluke out of the road b.d.
is impossible.
Sheep cannot be prevented from con-
suming b.-d. spores, which finally lodge
in their livers. But if b.-d. carcasses are
always burnt or buried, the spores on
pasture will slowly die out and eventu-
ally the disease disappear.
Oats for Grazing.
“Yarrunga”: The palatability of oats
as green feed for sheep has been ques-
tioned lately in several districts where
generous rains have been experienced.
I he subject is of special interest to fat-
lamb breeders, who have come to regard
oats as the best winter pasture.
Farmers have complained of their
sheep not taking readily to oat crops or
doing as well as usual on the feed. Oat
crops got a late start this year consequent
upon the dry autumn, and the quick-
growing early varieties have been the
offenders. The more vigorous and rank
the growth the less palatable the crop.
The variations are due to seasonal
eflects and crops not coming away in
April-May. It has been found that by
putting in temporary division fences and
"What is the population round these parts?”
“What do you mean by population—sheep or sheilahs?”
crowding sheep on smaller areas the
stock did better than when wandering
over large paddocks.
M.L. Beef Breeds.
“Hortus”: The Aberdeen Angus is
growing in favor among Maoriland beef-
men, while the Shorthorn is steadily los-
ing ground. The A. Angus can graze
on steep and difficult hill country, and
his superior beef qualities give him a
high value for crossing purposes.
A cross of good Aberdeen Angus on
Hereford or Shorthorn produces a
rapidly-growing, early-maturing polled
animal, very useful as a vealer or chilled-
beef carcass. An Aberdeen Angus bull
on Hereford cow gives the best hill-
country cattle.
Herefords are still holding their own.
They will recover more rapidly and com-
pletely from checks associated with
seasonal food shortage than will the
Angus, and in bush country they do not
tend to stray.
On the lowlands the Shorthorn still
has its place. The Red Poll has proved
a successful dual-purpose breed, and
some good Devon cattle have been
brought in. The Devon’s tendency to
mature at relatively light weights makes
it less popular.
Irrigation at Hay.
“Yanco”: The scheme to improve con-
ditions for settlers on the Hay irrigation
area (B. 14/9/’3B) does not solve the old
problem of inadequate living areas.
At the outset in 1892 the blockholders
were allowed five acres of irrigable land,
with the right to lease dry country. The
conditions have been liberalised, areas
being increased and rentals and water
charges reduced. Fruitgrowing failed,
and dairying petered out. Settlers have
not established any permanent or profit-
able industry. The fat lamb apparently
is the new objective.
The Irrigation Commission now has
about 60 settlers on the area, which is
subdivided into 107 irrigated holdings,
totalling 1022 acres, and 5060 acres in
68 non-irrigated holdings. This, includ-
ing dry areas, averages only 100 acres
per man. The maximum area for irri-
gated holdings is 40 acres. Even with a
full share of non-irrigable lease attached,
a man would be hard put to make a live-
lihood.
Compared with the “large-area”
farms of 500 to 600 acres and the better
conditions on the Murrumbidgee irri-
gation area, the Hay settler would be
handicapped out of the race. Designed
and improved on the M.I.A. basis, the
whole Hay area would not make a dozen
sheep farms, with a sufficient quota of
land that could be irrigated for pasture
and fodder production.
Early Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Claimed to be the earliest
and most forward N.S.W. wheat crop, a
field of Geeralying on E. Townsend’s
property at Gilgandra was well out in
head in mid-September, with every pros-
pect of a 10-bag yield. It was sown
early, in April—normally too soon for
the variety.
Geeralying comes from Westralia. Its
early maturity makes it particularly
suited to the drier districts of the
northern belt for late sowing (end of
May), where it has won favor in recent
years of low rainfall.
Although classed as a weak-flour
wheat, under dry conditions it has an
attractive vitreous grain. Last harvest
millers paid a premium for it in the
Pallamallawa-North Star area. It is resis-
tant to the major diseases, stem-rust and
flag-smut, and crops in the field-wheat
championships have yielded 12 to 15 bags
per acre. It is officially recommended in
N.S.W. only for the north-western slopes
and plains.
Handling Silo Wheat.
“Nabawa”: Demand for flour for
Asia has meant more steady selling by
farmers than market reports have dis-
closed. During August and September
millers drew upon the silos for a total
of 2,722,000 bushels of bulk wheat, at
the rate of 340,000 bushels per week.
Shipments in that period amounted to
only 769,000 bushels.
The 51 N.S.W. mills grist approxi-
mately 12,500,000 bushels a year for
home consumption. The whole of the
wheat held at country silos is booked
for delivery direct to mills in time to
permit of all plants being cleaned up by
mid-October.
About 80 p.c. of the 3£ million bushels
in the Sydney terminal is still owned by
farmers. Unless sales are speeded up the
major part of this grain must be carried
over to next season, causing a recurrence
of last year’s congestion and holding-up
farmers’ deliveries at the peak of the
harvest.
Hard Work Did It.
“Yeno Ham”: Harold Wiles, of
Radium Ridge, Candelo (N.S.W.), has
shown what can be done with second-
class country. He bought 233 acres
heavily infested with rabbits and covered
with bracken. The whole area would
not carry ten head of stock for a year.
For working capital, wattle-bark was
stripped, returning £270. With this the
place was netted and divided into two
paddocks.
Rabbits were dug out, logs burnt. A
heavy road plough, drawn by bullocks,
was used where burrows were on level
ground. Wiles killed 5983 rabbits. Skins
paid for wages, and carcasses were fed
to pigs. Burrows were left open for six
months to make sure.
Wiles gave the place a year’s spell, and
then tackled the bracken. When cut, the
fern grew thicker than ever. A hillside
disk plough couldn’t cope with the pest.
Next, a mouldboard plough was tried,
furrows being a foot deep. The land
was harrowed five weeks after plough-
ing, when the roots were showing signs
of decay. A triangular harrow, weighing
3cwt. and with heavy spikes, was drawn
by bullocks to pull out the bracken roots.
After the land had been twice har-
rowed, and the roots burnt, it was sown
with cocksfoot, rye grass and red clover.
Similar methods were used on other parts
of the farm, and the bracken was re-
placed with good pasture.
To-day Radium Ridge compares favor-
ably with pasture on much better coun-
try. The grass is topdressed annually
with superphosphate. The farm now
carries 55 dairy cows, five horses, a bull,
ten bullocks and a piggery. The herd
produces well during the winter, when
pastures still carry a good bulk of feed.
Collar Galls in Horses.
“Bundalinga”: Collar galls and sores
are caused by friction or pressure—in
young and unfit horses by sweat scalds.
Scalding is likely, even with a perfect-
fitting collar, if the shoulders are not
looked after properly. Wash the sweat
off and sponge the shoulders with salt
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


• i.
m.
•■- r y
Wii'f
W
m.
*3
STffi'
a-j
i.k'' irf
'4*«
rip
"\<S
®a
m
iVi
M
m
S'
fMi
1,1
vr^infe.
fa
A.J,
i-.'v* • % '-’r *V-'
;■■ •••'>.'"-
XtV';. *•>.•.
••;*v<
iffS
TTOd
aii^
,#4i
• } v V., : f VI\.Y /'
ft.**
. ... ,»4
\ ■ *... ft
i ’W***
K
S*i
;v • %.. J
", : :•; s /
' v
r "i
' V
ft/-
t i
*4s
Brl
4. ,;A CJW
' W,
f AM
fa
•6
If Vfft‘ «K<.
& „
feViffiS
PP©P
!K3
v JMJ
saWRS^
XlpMllllll
SH&i
i*iiSi
v\j£
mmMmm
.mmst
m
c*
$ H
■. <i
R3O
'S •&
V-/i
llfM
ii n
>J sW.',v
I
aSgSll&flSr '' #
WmS^M>;•,: ■>• -’ •'
' v '••• ■■;•■ .;•» jaJ'C'-l ~ - |
Aiii
spy#
a®
*BiW*SSBIS'
14 -"V
■•;. / ; 5 y;y' :
\m
fty-'i
m
4. I'—^
rafetm-
XJ' 1 IV Vi '• •'•ivj
r’/ .'-'.v-V
."•’ • V - -^f*”’■ ’*.’ *«.*;• • ''• ; '- k '*"ivV..„;;, ; ,..^.'i.'.!«>iV:y
• ■ '- ; -'-^:’s ; ' ; ’ ;y’:;sv'’’ '";' ' ■ ..:v:" : ;/'s
dBEm 4:. v/'Vi'l’R^SWa
.^i:>
jagf^SS
>‘«J/
i Aiiv
yyi-.i: «
.'t 1 V .
■ f fet#4?^:
■v'/
■wawi
«fe'”
S-SKK
,w
,:-'V
'.Vy.
.’ Jr:V<i
v ... .
y-L' s ;:>.
t/V,?
i
4< j
SOU
mgsso** -, €$&&» -WL
o&*g, ..
:i c vv
' E >4
S
sscTß^awa
. ■-' SmMtyxSi'<■'*£&■ * .4rv
y r*
S'*#* .4
\ ..
Ji
WmmmM
&&r >
cyj?
*
-4
iiifc
3»
irS
at
4.J
fcfcw*
5
i®
»jS
;. aafiW^WS
je^jSlS
*{•'»-<
£«wS3Bkr&
ABSOLUTELY PURE NO PRESERVATIVES WHATEVER /
WHATEVER THE ROAD
• • •
... be it red dust or wood
blocks we tread along the
highway of life, Tooheys
Pilsener will smooth the
bumps and give joy to
our journey.
A delightfully light lager
that sponsors radiant
health and mental
alertness.
■J-
■X
m
fit
•I*
TQOHEYS
'J
Si
JLAGfE
Joom c j v AT ?..«
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH
THE YELLOW LABEL


§
«
■A*
£
A
Y
Jt
#
mm
: :
4
// /
WUM
HOW LANZ CUTS
DOWN YOUR FUEL
costs to ONE THIRD
Think of it! Even with wheat prices down, the Lam
makes sure you work at a profit! By doing 40 °fo more
work per gallon than an ordinary tractor, and run-
ning on the cheapest crude oil fuel, it is saving
farmers anything from £lOO to £l5O a year on fuel
alone, according to the work it does.
Here is a farmer's typical experience:—
"My Lanz tractor has terrific power; it has done more
than I really expected.
"The Lanz is so simple and easy to operate I would never
consider another make of tractor. Once a Lanz—always a
Lanz.
"It costs me only 4£d. per acre to run under all condi-
tions. I must sincerely say that I am very pleased and proud
to own a Lanz."
( Signed ) G.G. (Name on Application.)
Write for booklet "How Angus Saved £l5O on His
Tractor Costs." It gives some amazing but true
figures.
FD
BULLDOG
Caaaj&> (y^L
DISTRIBUTORS:—
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria 4 S. Riverina:
Geo. W. Kelly 6 Lewis
Pty. Ltd..
304-308 Spencer Street.
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William and Forbes Sts.,
Perth
ffi/T&htZZeZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Be Your Own Agent!
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These Empire-grown Tobaccos are of high quality
specially blended —aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch.
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add fid. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL R.D.. VALLEY', BRISBANE.
and water when the collar is removed.
Wash the face of the collar, clean and
dry it. Keep the sun off the shoulder
while it is sweating.
A collar should not wobble about on
the shoulder, nor ride on the top of
the neck or pinch it. If the face is
dirty, cracked, caked with sweat or
damp it is almost certain to cause a
gall or sore.
See that the collar lies close to the
shoulders, is wide enough not to com-
press the neck, and will allow the hand
to be placed between it and the front
of the neck and windpipe.
Hames adjusted too low, so that
the pull is on the point of the shoulder,
may cause galls or bruises.
Galls and sores will not heal until
the cause is removed. Unless the collar
is properly fitted, trouble is inevitable.
A horse with sore shoulders should be
rested. Best treatment is white lotion,
made from loz. of acetate of lead, six
drachms of sulphate of zinc and a pint
of water. Dab it on the sore shoulders
three times daily with a small sponge
until the sores dry up. Then rub daily
with zinc ointment.
“Sambo”: In eight days I’ve lost nine
breeding ewes on my property at Gun-
nedah (N.S.W.). The flock had been
running on river clover for about six
weeks, but a week ago was turned on to
wheat. Those affected water at the
nose and mouth, become sluggish, and
die in about 48 hours. So far only
ewes with lambs have suffered, the lambs
remaining healthy. There was some rain
followed by cold weather, but the sick-
ness had appeared before that. The
sheep are unshorn. Anybody know what
the trouble is?
“Win”: Age-marks in sheep are
often misleading (B. 20/7/’3B). At a
Manilla (N.S.W.) sale sheep were yarded
from the herbage flats of the Liverpool
Plains, the sour grass hills of the New
England “tops,” and the moderate coun-
try of Manilla. Sheep of the same age-
mark were worn in mouth and constitu-
tion or as sound as a bell, depending on
where they had grazed. A sheep’s mouth
is more important than its age.
“E.E.”: This winter at Buchan (Vic.)
700 sheep, 500 lambs and 50 cattle were
fattened on 18 acres of land yielding a
prolific growth of swede-turnips. The
tops as well as the turnips were fed to
the stock. As the only other land avail-
able for them was another 18 acres of
poor pastyrage, the result of the swede-
turnip diet is all the more remarkable.
“F.J.8.”: If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment gives assistance to the wheat-
grower, why not let it take the form of a
cheque for his superphosphate bill? The
poorer land needs more super., and it
benefits the ground permanently. The
clean up of lien finance, too, would give
most of us a lift.
“Valerin”: Prussic-acid poisoning may
account for stock mortality in dry
periods. P.a. does not develop to any
serious extent in healthy growing plants
but does occur in useful forage and
pasture plants when normal growth has
been retarded by drought or late frosts.
The poisoning can be cured by a vet.
using sodium thiosulphate—if the vet.
isn’t handy don’t bother ; it’s a waste of
time.
“Booraby”: Farmers should benefit
from the canning of sweet corn, which is
being taken up in Sydney. The difficulty
has been to keep up supplies, but farms
on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) are now
devoted to growing the special kind of
maize required, and there is room for
development to supply local demands
alone. Less than 10 years ago white
maize for the manufacture of meals and
breakfast-foods was hard to get in regu-
lar quantity, till substantial yearly prizes
were given to induce farmers to grow it.
“Jayem”: Carrot-weed, which flavors
milk and cream, causing grading down,
threatens to be troublesome again this
spring in N.S.W. coastal dairying dis-
tricts. Best way to beat it is to graze
cows for a couple of hours imme-
diately after milking on pastures
which contain the weed, and then put
them on a clean area before the next
milking. Where the weed growth is
heavy in lucerne cut the crop at a height
to miss the pest. Cutting and hand-
feeding of lucerne is the only way to
avoid taint when carrot-weed is present.
It is difficult to eradicate, but spring-
toothing in winter helps.
“Snowy”: Pasture improvement is
planned on Kosciusko at an altitude of
6000 ft., the point at which a small herd
of registered Jerseys from Illawarra has
been located for the daily milk supply
to the Chalet. The cattle are housed and
entirely stall-fed during the snow-bound
winter period. Summer growth of snow
grass provides some little grazing. Last
summer white clover was tried with
satisfactory results, and experiments are
to be made with red clover, rye grass and
phalaris. The soil, a strong black loam,
promises well.
“Jayem”: A serious deficiency of pas-
tures on the poorer N.S.W. coastal soils
is the absence of clovers. Trials in the
Wyong district have shown the value of
lime. Best response was to an appli-
cation of a ton of lime an acre, in con-
junction with super, topdressing. Un-
limed control strips carried very little
clover, but the limed areas produced pro-
lific growth.
“Yeno Ham”: Feeding a ration of
301 b. of maize silage, 121 b. of meadow
hay and 21b. of pollard to each cow
in two feeds daily enabled J. W. Henry,
of Bolong (N.S.W.), to increase the
winter production of his A.I.S. herd
to a gallon per cow less than in the
peak summer month. All except the
pollard was produced on the farm.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: Prepare land now for cow
cane in warm coastal districts. Plough
drills 9in. deep and 4ft. Gin. apart. Drop
plants lft. apart and cover with 3in. of
soil with the hoe. As the cane strikes
and begins growing the soil is worked in
the drills by scuffling and chipping. Deep
planting gives a more vigorous and
drought-resisting plant. Late planting is
better for cow-feed, as there is more
“cabbage,” or leaf, on the cane, and it
is softer. Early Mature and Ambling’s
Chance are two good varieties.
“Bluey”: When lopping white-box for
sheep I’ve noticed that the woollies
readily eat good, soft chopping trees.
“Sandy”: When growing maize for
cow feed never plant in drills as if for
grain. Plant every second furrow, and
heavily, too. Then the stalks are thin
and all leaf. The maize cobs just the
same, but with very little grain. The
cows can chew everything if paddock
fed. When the maize is 6in. high millet
can be broadcast and harrowed in. As
the stalks are thin the scythe or mower
can be used.
“Sucre”: Young cane put through the
chaffcutter and lightly sprinkled with
molasses is a fine, fattening food for
stock. Cows show a marked increase in
milk flow and pigs thrive on it. “Chop-
chop,” as it is termed, is cheap fodder.


Famous ARTIST
Offers Startling
FREE BOOK
on DRAWING!
IT is now possible to try Ilrodio Mack’s
famous Correspondence Art Course in your
own home, under any conditions you like, and
if, afler 30 days, you are not perfectly satis-
tied that this wonderful short-cut method will
develop your talent, reveal to you the secrets
of black and white illustrating, cartooning,
etc., IT COSTS TOC NOTHING—not one
penny, but you must hurry. This offer is
for a limited time only—post the coupon
below to-day.
LET BRODIE MACK
Teach YOU at HOME!
r I 'HIS course will amaze you with its possibilities and
the vast field it opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the black-and-white art
under the supervision of Brodie Mack. This amazing
short-cut method simplifies art. You learn at home,
if you have an inclination for drawing, an inclination
that many of us possess, then why compete with the
crowd in ordinary occupations? Brodie Mack can develop
vour ability for this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every year for drawings, fashion
illustrations, advertising, catalogues, pamphlets, books, comic
strips, cartoons, etc. Many have developed this fascinating
hobby into a highly remunerative profession, embracing magnifi-
cent opportunities to those people possessed of the enterprise to
lift themselves put of the bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of factory, shop or office routine;
in addition to its lucrative achievements it will lift you from
comparative obscurity to a position of importance in the public
life of the community.
MAKE MONEY IN
YOUR SPARE TIME!
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means of this
remarkable course for you to earn money In your spare
hours. He shows you bow to “cash In” on his experi-
ence. He teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce striking
illustrations and art work. The fact of you reading
this announcement points to you having a desire to be
an artist—then send for this amazing book and let us
prove that we can make you a skilled artist.
This FREE BOOK is for YOU!
Never before has a book of this nature been offered
free; that is why you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you how to draw—
develop your talent—how to cartoon, the- secret of
illustrating, and how money can be made even while
learning. Fill In your coupon and get it into the post
now—at once, before you forget.
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
RUSH
the
COUPON
ALONG
NOW!
SEND NO MONEY!
it
is
IS
If
§
/"m
VOj
Si
SIHj.
7he Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
5/10/’3B.
85,000
ANOTHER 1500 TRIAL
Treatments to be Distributed
This Month! (Use Coupon Below.)
-.-. V
m
NEW HAIRS
GROWN IN JUST 2 MONTHS
STUPENDOUS SUCCESS OF
MARVELLOUS NEW TREATMENT
WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS,
HAIR NOW GROWING!
“Hair liu« started to grow over
parts which liuve been bald for
l(t years.”
(Signed) O. Jj. Horton, 0., S.A.
Tlie secret causes of hair decay, and a
wonderful new treatment, have been
discovered by the well-known Hair
Specialist, who has spent 15 years in
practice.
J. Kelso Murchison has established a
sound .reputation in this special
sphere of work; his many hundreds
of voluntary testimonials from grate-
ful users of his treatment more than
bear this out.
In one ease Mr. Murchison Ims
treated recently, lie estimates
Hint the treatment has grown
fully 85,000 new hairs in less
than two months. The average
head of dark hair contains 110,000 hairs, the average head of fair
hair 150,000 ;in this ease tlie person who was using the treatment was
practically totally bald. In less than, two niontlrs he had a head
of strong, healthy hair—after being bald for 10 years 1 It will be
seen, therefore, that Mr. Murchison's estimate is well within lire mark.
GREAT DISTRIBUTION
of HAIR TREATMENTS!
MOW, you can test it yourself—
try this famous treatment in
your own home —under any con-
dition you like, and if it doesn’t
grow new hair, rid you of dan-
druff or any other hair trouble
you suffer from within 30 days it
COSTS YOU NOTHING !
not one penny! But you must
hurry; this offer may never be
repeated, it places you under no
obligation ; all you have to do is
to post that coupon NOW!
WHAT MURCHISON DIS-
COVERED ABOUT HAIR.
JT does not matter if your hair
is falling out, if you are fast
going bald—or what you have
tried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! Mur-
chison’s own hair fell out in hand-
fuls until he fast began to go
bald. He tried everything; but
now has acquired a thick, lus-
trous growth of hair—thanks to
the important discovery that—
IT DOES NOT MATTER.
IT does not matter how long-standing
your hair or scalp trouble may be,
it does not matter what you have tried
—J. Kelso Murchison is prepared to
TROVE to you beyond all doubt, and
without you risking one penny, that
YOU CAN DEFINITELY CROW
NEW HAlR—if you send the coupon
NOW!
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR.
’J'HEY never have—because
it is impossible! There is
one underlying principle that
stimulates New Hair Growth
—that principle is involved
in the New Kelso Murchison
Treatment! It’s a new way
—entirely different and suc-
cessful. It approaches bald-
ness, falling hair, etc., from
a new angle. With it you
can si op your hair troubles
overnight.
Don’t waste more time and
money on worthless “tonics"
and “hair restorers"! but
accept my great offer and
watch yonr hair grow! Get
this special offer coupon in
the post to-day!
TEAR COUPON
POST NOW!
Dormant hair root. The
papilla is no longer
giving sufficient nourish-
ment to the hair bulb.
Ordinary measures tail
to improve condition of
undernourished papilla l .
Hair root takes on new
strength and vitality to
function normally after
the J. Kelso Murchison
treatment.
m
The J. Kelso Murchison
Method is to send new
blood into papillae, en-
abling bulbs to be fed.
KKJ.SO MURCHISON, lABORATORV Jj,
I.oinhard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
5/10/’3B
N
Q
£lOOO GUARANTEE
These testimonials are all genuine
extracts from letters sent by satis-
fied and grateful users of this
wonderful Height Increase System,
and are unsolicited.
MAN ADDS 3 INCHES
> TO HIS HEIGHT!
3 INCHES GAINED IN
DOUBLE QUICKTIME!
“I am writing this letter in order to let you know
that I hare gained 3in. since taking up your Course
of Height Increase, and can say I am very pleased.”
L. D. LUCA,' S„ N.S.W.
TT is now possible to add to j-our height! With this
remarkable method. Hundreds have increased their
height and at the same time improved their health
and appearance. Without the use of drugs or un-
natural methods this Home System will add to your
stature 1
How Is Your APPEARANCE?
A the social and business advantages of a com-
manding figure can be yours. You can stand up
lo your fellows and command the attention and respect
which only tall people receive. Nothing aids you more
to social and business success than a tall, command-
ing appearance; nothing will add more to your per-
sonality—and yet all this is within your grasp! You
can NOW get this extra height, or it will cost you
nothing!
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
BOX 3573 RR, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
500 TREATISES
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
THIS MONTH
FREE!
to all “Bulletin" Readers. (Use Coupon Below.)
BECOME TALLER AND DEVELOP
PERSONALITY
D Y the use of this system height can be increased. People
■will respect you more—you will be sought after more
than you are now. Why should you remain snubbed and
jostled when it is now possible to increase height! Added
height means extra personality! The system is based
entirely upon Natural Methods. There is no risk or
strain. Its effect on you will aid you considerably in your
success.
FREE!
TO ALL “BULLETIN”
READERS...
“STARTLING SECRETS OF HEIGHT”
By special arrangement, we are distributing FREE
to all readers of “The Bulletin” who enquire some
literature that will amaze. It will show you the
short,cut to a tall, commanding personality. Through
reading this wonderful treatise hundreds have already
increased their height, hundreds are doing so at this
moment. For a short while you can get one of
these treatises absolutely FREE—if you send at
once. Get the Coupon in the post NOW!
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE, Dept. 94,
Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney.
BEAD THIS GENUINE
POSITIVE
PROOF!
GAINS 21 INCHES!
“Your course has increased my height
2iin. I am feeling much better also.”
—lt. CRESWICK, M.A., N.S.W.
‘•I have improved in health, as well as in
height. 1 have already gained 2in. It
is a splendid success, and I am very
pleased I went in for it.”
—M. ARCHER, L., Tas.
“I have grown 2in.”
—K. NEWTON, 1., N.S.W.
GAINED 2 INCHES IN 2 WEEKS!
“I have added 2in. to my height.”
—H. MOSCHETTI, 1., W.A.
Tear and Post NOW!
The Principal,
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
Dept. 94.
Box 3573 RR, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me your remarkable
Free Treatise, “How to Increase My
Height.” This obligates me in no way
whatsoever.
NAME
ADDRESS
5/10/’3B.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time! Course of Training ever written t
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers ... You learn
now to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I«C. S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Every Razor
Fully Guaranteed.
“BENGALL” RAZORS
Will Last
for Years.
5410
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-ground Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable from All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. ’
1764
Combining:
all the latest Improvements.
Specially File-cut anti gimpted f or firm handling.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (24), N. S. Wales, wants work
of any sort. —1068.
Words and author of Persian poem beginning:
You niay give them your love, but not your thoughts,
For they have their own thoughts;
You may house their bodies, but not their souls,
For their souls dwell in the house of to-morrow.
—984.
Photographs of the Torrens, vessel in which
Joseph Conrad visited Australia in February,
1892, and January, 1893; also would like
to hear from any of the crew who sailed in the
same ship.—lo 32.
Information Sought.
(1) Whereabouts in N. S. Wales are the Aber-
crombie Caves? (2) Who discovered them, and
when were they opened to the public ? (3) Do
they possess any distinctive features which make
them worth seeing? —lo97.
(1) Close to the main road between Bathurst
and Goulburn, 26 miles southward from New-
bridge railway station, and eight miles from
the old goldmining township of Trunkey Creek.
(2) They were discovered in 1830 when horse-
men from Bathurst were hunting bushrangers.
(3) The main feature is the superb Abercrombie
Archway, varying from 100 ft. to 200 ft. in width,
60ft. high and 700 ft. long. It is the largest
and most beautiful limestone arch in the Com-
monwealth, and possibly the world, and remark-
able for its exquisite coloring. The caves also
contain many beautiful limestone formations.
* * * *
Significance of the figures in the Archibald
Memorial Fountain in Sydney? —llo2.
The central figure, Apollo, represents the arts
(beauty and light). At his feet the star of day
is indicated by a semicircle, of which the rays
spread out in jets of light (the rising sun).
The horses’ heads represent the horses of
Apollo’s chariot. The large basin is divided
into three groups. One represents Diana, god-
dess of purity and of all that stands for poetry
and harmony. The second group symbolises
the good things of the earth—the young god
of the fields and the pastures. The third group
represents sacrifice for the public good; Theseus
delivers his country from the ransom which it
had to pay to Minotaur.
* * * *
(1) Advantages of the autogiro over aero-
planes? (2) Is the axis of the rotor fixed in
relation to the body or can it be readily altered
by the pilot? (3) Is there more than one type
of autogiro ? (4) Progress made since their
invention ? —1036.
(1) These include greater safety because its
control is not dependent on forward speed; low
minimum flying speed, some 30 m.p.h.; it can
descend almost vertically and can land safely in
a very small space. In its latest form it can
rise from the ground with a run of only 36ft.,
climbing steeply away at 900 ft. per minute. (2)
Not in the most modern machines, which are
flown entirely by the adjustment of the rotor,
and make no use of any other steering device.
(3) Yes, but they all work on the same principle,
which must not be confused with the helicopter,
whose rotor is power-driven in flight. (4) It
has definitely emerged from the experimental
stage, and its future may see development
similar to that of the motor-car.
* * * *
It has been put to me to devise a means of
handicapping for a group of schools participat-
ing in sports meetings for shields. There are
about 50 events, with points for first, second
and third, with two entrants from each school
in each event. The attendances of the schools
concerned are respectively 90, 90, 84, 45, 31,
18, 12, 14. What I should like is a system
rather than the actual handicaps so that we can
arrive at handicaps for future years when con-
ditions may vary. —983.
Presumably the aim is to give an advantage to
the smaller schools as against the larger, on the
theory that the greater the attendance the
better the chance of putting the best athletes
into the field. Afraid you will find it impos-
sible to devise any logical method that will
prove fair in practice. If you stipulate that
the points earned by the school of 12 shall
count times as much as the points earned by
the school of 90, 7 times as much as the school
of 84, and 1£ times as much as the school of
18 you will be logical, but all the schools but
the smallest will be rightly indignant. Adopt
some arbitrary arithmetical compromise, and
it will be difficult to defend it on logical
grounds.
* * * *
(1) What is the “legitimate” succession to the
British throne since James 11., as recognised by
present-day Jacobites? (2) Name and address
of the present king? (3) Are there many
Jacobites to-day? —lo4B.
(1) James 11. 1685-1701, James 111. (son of
James II.) 1701-66, Charles 111. (son of James
III.) 1766-88, Henry IX. (brother of Charles
111. 1788-1807, Charles IV. (great-great-grand-
son of Henrietta, daughter of Charles I.) 1807-
19, Victor I. (brother of Charles IV.) 1819-24,
Mary 111. (daughter of Victor I.) 1824-40,
Francis I. (son of Mary III.) 1840-75, Mary IV.
(daughter of Prince Ferdinand, brother of
Francis I.) 1875-1919, Rupert I. (son of Mary
IV. 1919. (2) Rupert I. is ex-Crown Prince Rup-
precht of Bavaria. Munich, Bavaria, would
probably find him. (3) Very few. A small
group in M.L. publishes a paper, the “Jacobite,”
and there are groups in the United States, Eng-
land and Australia.
(1) Brief particulars of the origin of auto-
matic weapons? (2) Who invented the first
practical machine-gun ? (3) When was the
Maxim-gun introduced, and what advantages did
it possess? —lo7o.
(1) They have their origin in the carts carry-
ing a number of hand guns in the sixteenth
century. A harquebus having four chambers,
but only one barrel, soon followed, and in the
eighteenth century a revolving block contain-
ing as many as nine chambers was invented.
(2) Dr. Gatling, of Chicago, invented the first
practical machine-gun about 1862; this consisted
of a number of barrels arranged round a central
axis, the reloading and ejecting mechanism
being behind the barrels. (3) In 1883, the ad-
vantage being that all the operations of extrac-
tion, ejection, feed and firing were performed
by the action of recoil. Later the expanding
gases were employed to work the mechanism.
The Maxim was first introduced into the British
Army in 1891, but the Vickers gun is the
pattern in use to-day.
* * * *
What is an echo meter? —1066.
A timing device for measuring the period be-
tween the passage of an original sound and any
definite reflection (echo). The timing base may
be provided by a rotating cylinder, the paper
on which is marked by a travelling stylus actu-
ated by some form of microphone. The cylin-
der may be started by the same mechanism
which originates the sound. The distance be-
tween the echo marks on the paper are related
to the distance travelled by the wave in the in-
tervening time and its velocity. It is used for
depth-sounding and gun-ranging.
* * * *
(1) What led to the abdication of King
Prajadhipok of Siam ? (2) If the rubber-tree is
indigenous only to Brazil, what was the rubber
—presumably wild —mentioned in “Trader
Horn” and other African stories as being a
common article of trade on the Ivory Coast ?
—1022.
(1) On June 24, 1932, Phya Bahol, heading
an army faction, seized power. The king was
invited to form a constitutional monarchy.
Subsequently Bahol forced through the
National Assembly amendments to the criminal
code which would have made courts the agency
for legal execution of his political rivals. The
king, then in England undergoing operation
for cataract of the eye, announced that he was
unable to contend with a dictatorship, and
abdicated in April, 1935. (2) The only refer-
ence in the recognised authorities to wild
rubber in Africa is that M. Coffigny, in 1765,
obtained a resin similar to the Brazilian from
a different kind of plant in Madagascar. This
may have been the common article of trade
mentioned by “Trader” Horn.
* * * «
Details of the Marie Celeste mystery, and
what are the most popular theories regarding
it?— B97.
On December 5, 1872, the British barque Dei
Gratia, in lat. 38.20 N., long. 17.15 W., near
the Straits of Gibraltar, found the American
brigantine Marie Celeste deserted. The ship
was sound, and no boats were missing. On
the table in the main cabin was a half-eaten
meal. The ship’s papers were missing, and the
log had not been written up during the previous
10 days. The tragedy has been attributed to
sea serpents or giant squid; another explana-
tion is that the captain, while mentally deranged,
put the watch on deck in irons and threw
them into the sea, and that he then, sword in
hand, chased the rest of the crew overboard and
followed them with his wife and child. But
25 years ago documents allegedly written by one
Abel Fosdyk appeared in the “Strand Magazine.”
Fosdyk claimed to have been steward in the
Marie Celeste. He said that the ship’s car-
penter had rigged a wooden platform in the
bows as a playground for the captain’s child.
On the morning of the disaster the captain,
who was unbalanced, attempted to swim fully
clothed round the ship, accompanied by the
mate, while all on board watched from the plat-
form. This structure collapsed, and those on
it fell into the sea. Meanwhile, while sharks
accounted for some of those in the water, the
ship’s sails filled, leaving the rest to drown.
Fosdyk alone managed to cling to the float-
ing platform, and struggled ashore on the
north-west coast of Africa.
* * * *
Meaning of the following expressions, as
applied to gases: (l) Critical temperature, (2)
critical pressure ? —1064.
(1) In 1869 it was proved that when liquid
carbon dioxide was heated to a certain tempera-
ture it passed from the liquid to the gaseous
state, and that no additional pressure was able
to condense it again so long as the temperature
remained at or above that point. This particu-
lar temperature is called the critical tempera-
ture of the gas, which in the case of carbon
dioxide is 31.35 deg. C., and in order that this
gas be liquefied by pressure the temperature
must be below this figure. (2) It is the particu-
lar pressure that is required to liquefy a gas
at its critical temperature. In the case of carbon
dioxide it is 72.3 atmospheres, meaning that at
a temperature of 31.35 deg. C. a pressure of
72.3 atmospheres will be required to liquefy
carbon dioxide.
* * * *
Meaning and origin of the custom of burying
a suicide at a crossroad? —873.
A famous jurist has suggested that the bar-
barous practice originated, like gibbeting, in
circumstances now forgotten; others state that
it is probably a survival of the vampire super-
stition. Although countenanced by common
law, it seems never to have been sanctioned by
statute, and the custom was formally forbidden
in 1823 (4 George. 4 c 52). This Act set
forth that it should not be lawful to issue a
warrant for the interment of a felo-de-se in any
public highway ; the coroner was to order the
body to be buried privately in a churchyard or
other burial-ground.
* * * *
(1) Does ventriloquism call for any special
physical condition in the performer or could
anyone learn? (2) Any books on the subject?
—964.
(1) Success depends upon no peculiarity in
the structure of the organs of voice, but merely
on practice and dexterity. The word itself is
founded on the mistaken belief that the voice
proceeds from the belly (Lat. venter ); all the
ventriloquist does is to take a deep breath, and
then allow it to escape slowly, whilst the
sounds of the voice are muffled and modified
by the action of the muscles in the upper
part of the palate and throat. Anybody can
learn, but it takes a good man to hold his
audience. (2) Whole Art of Ventriloquism, by
A. Prince.
* * * *
A few details concerning Mother Shipton,
the prophetess ? —997.
Mother Shipton was a reputed prophetess, but
may have been a mythical character. She is
supposed to have been born near Knares-
borough (Yorks) in 1488, and is first men-
tioned in 1641 as having foretold the death of
Cardinal Wolsey. She is also said to have pre-
dicted the Fire of London in 1666 and the
Civil War. There is evidence, from a prophecy
in doggerel, that she foresaw that the world
would end in 1881, an announcement which
caused great anxiety in many parts of England.
* * * *
(1) Upon what principle does gas refrigera-
tion depend? (2) Textbook dealing with this
subject ?—1049.
(1) Heat is applied to a boiler containing a
solution of ammonia in water, the ammonia
being expelled in gaseous form and condensed
by external cooling. The liquid ammonia enters
the evaporator located in the cabinet and then
evaporates to reduce temperature. The now
gaseous ammonia passes into the absorber,
where it meets the water coming from the
boiler. It is again absorbed by the water,
which is returned 16 the boiler. (2) Modern
Electric and Gas Refrigeration, by A. Dv
Althouse and C. H. Turnquist (The Goodheart-
Willcox Co.); 325. 6d. from Dymock’s, 426
George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
What is the difference between a duodenal
and a gastric ulcer ? Symptoms of each ? If
curable without operation, do they usually last
long ? —932.
Gastric ulcer occurs in the stomach itself,
usually on the upper (or lesser) curvature of
that organ, or in the terminal portion.
Duodenal ulcer is commonly found in the first
part of the duodenum, the digestive tube lead-
ing from the stomach. The symptoms of both
are very similar in nature —pain, indigestion
and vomiting, sometimes of blood. Many cases
are curable by diet, especially those of duo-
denal ulcer, but every case has to be judged
on its merits. If there are repeated haemor-
rhages or if signs of obstruction are apparent,
operation is often imperative. Competent X-ray
examination is essential, since the gastric
variety often becomes dangerous.
* * * *
Treatment and diet for chronic colitis ? —940.
As regards diet, the best is one of eggs,
pounded meat or fish, mashed potato, rusks or
biscuits, macaroni, vermicelli, pur6e of apple or
prunes and milk in small amount. Butter in
small amount is sometimes recommended.
Patient should rest in bed if the condition is
severe. Pain is relieved by the use of bella-
donna or morphine if necessary, of course
under medical supervision. Aperients (usually
liquid paraffin) are necessary, but must be
used with care.
* * * *
The Buchanan coat-of-arms bears the motto
“Clarior hinc Honos,” and above the crest the
words "Clar Innis” enscrolled. (1) Is “Clar
Innis” the war-cry of the clan? (2) English
translation of the motto? (3) Is “Clar Innis”
Latin or Gaelic ? —BO4.
The motto below the coat-of-arms is a Latin
one meaning “Brighter hence the honor.” An
ancient motto formerly placed above the crest
was ‘‘Audaces juvo,” also Latin, and meaning
“I help the brave.” The words “ Clar Innis”
are Gaelic. There is an island of this name in
Loch Lomond, and the words, which form the
war-cry of the Clan Buchanan, are said by some
authorities to signify the “Island of the Harp.”
Another story is that the war-cry was adopted
after a certain Sir Alexander Buchanan, fighting
under the Constable of France, slew the Duke
of Clarence at the battle of Bauje-en-Anjou in
1421.
* * * *
(1) How many super, feet will I require to
timber a well 4x3 x 65 feet, using 2in. thick-
ness timber? (2) How is this figure obtained?
(3) Effective method of eradicating bugs from a
wooden building ? —1045.
(1) 1820 super, feet, excluding struts. (2)
A super, foot is equivalent to a sq. ft. of lin.
thickness timber. Therefore, ascertain the area
of the four faces of the well by multiplying the
height (65ft.) by the length of the four sides
(14ft.) and multiply by two, as 2in. timber is
used. Thus, 65 x 14 x 2 gives 1820 super, feet.
(3) A thorough fumigation of the house with
some poison gas, such as “Calcid Dust,” is
suggested. For particulars, write Houghton,
Byrne, Ltd., 2 Bridge-street, Sydney.
• * * *
What kind of winds are the following: (1)
Bisc, (2) harmattan, (3) mistral and (4) simoom ?
—llOO.
(1) A keen, dry n. or n.n.e. wind prevalent in
Switzerland and neighboring parts of France,
Germany and Italy. (2) A dry, parching land-
wind which blows during December, January
and February on the coast of Upper Guinea in
Africa; it obscures the air with a red dust.
(3) A violent cold n.-w. wind experienced in
the Mediterranean provinces of France and
neighboring districts. (4) A hot, dry suffocating
sand-wind which sweeps across the African and
Asiatic deserts during spring and summer.
Brief Answers.
L.M.: (1) Sydney gunmakers are of the opinion
that rifling in a barrel causes no variation in
the spread of the shot, as against a smooth
barrel. (2) Have never heard of any rifle having
a choke bore; (3) and (4) Know of no firm
in Australia manufacturing .22 rifles. (5) Rifle
with an 18in. barrel should be most effective
with any type of shot cartridge at the distances
mentioned by you... .C.H.A.: Brown dyeing
of furs is usually achieved with tincture of log-
wood, procurable from paint stores, with in-
structions for use. You would probably waste
a good deal of it before striking the right
color, and the results would be very doubtful in
appearance... .8.W.: The Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Act provides that a pensioner’s income,
including pension, shall not exceed £B4 10s. per
annum. A pensioner in receipt of the maximum
rate of pension, £52 per annum, may have an
additional income of £32 10s. per annum (255.
per fortnight) without affecting his rate of pen-
sion. Any income in excess of £32 10s. per
annum will necessitate a corresponding reduc-
tion in his rate of pension... .A.A.: For a
third-class passage to Victoria (8.C.), £A34 is
required; from Victoria to Seattle, the fare by
steamer is $2.50 or, at the current rate of
exchange, 13s. Australian... .J.0.N.: Spavin is
generally regarded as a hereditary disease.
When it is well established there is no definite
cure. Treatment is only palliative and consists
of either blistering or firing the affected part,
followed by a long rest in a well-grassed pad-
dock. .. .C. 8.: It will be necessary to lodge an
application on a form which may be obtained
from the Public Service Board, 21 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney... .W.J.S.: On the meagre
details given it appears that fits are due to
worms and/or improper feeding. If these
details are not attended to the trouble may
prove fatal. The remedy consists of removing
the cause... .B.B.: (1) No. (2) Yes....
J.M.K.: He is looking at a portrait of his son.
.... W.J.T.W.: Paragraphs are not acknow-
ledged in the Answers to Correspondents
column G.C.: Figures are not available
0.L.8.: Yes, inquire from Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney T.C.M.C.:
There is no fixed price. The matter is one for
agreement between the parties. (2) In cubic
contents. (3) The council is bound to pay for
all the soil removed in accordance with agree-
ment F.C.: You may sue him for the total
amount due to you... .G.W.T.: Information
furnished too vague for reply. It is neces-
sary to know the trading conditions prevailing
in the district and the type of plant installed.
W.G.S.: If you are insurable you will be re-
quired to make one contribution only and will
be eligible to receive the benefit resulting there-
from. This benefit will be a free insurance
period which will continue until the end of
1940, and will entitle you to free medical
treatment and medicines from the time that
this benefit becomes available W.G.: (1)
No. (2) She would have no legal status as his
wife in Australia, and he would run the risk
of a charge of bigamy J.J.: Write Miss
Merle Harvey, hon. sec. Anzac Festival Com-
mittee, N.S.W., Scot Chambers, Hosking-place,
Sydney... .C.W.: Write direct to the League of
Nations Union, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...J.C.: Lines will be found in the poem
“What I Live For,” by C. Linnaeus Banks....
E. (1) There is nothing better than kerosene
alone ; it is penetrating and sufficiently heavy to
remain effective for hours. (2) The insects have
a life cycle of three weeks, so not less than this
period would be necessary to catch all the
hatchings; longer time would be safer. (3)
Very unlikely, as they can endure for long
periods in unoccupied places; further, they are
very active at night, and would soon forsake
an empty room for the inhabited parts of the
house. Plenty of kerosene will make a clean
sweep of the pests, but beware of fire in wooden
buildings... .J.M.: Can find no reference to the
name “Desert Acacia” being applied to any
particular species of acacia. Many species of
this genus occur in the dry inland and desert
areas of Australia, and all might equally justify
the term. Of the inland species, the wood of
the mulga (A. aneura) is best known, and is
used for many ornamental purposes, the con-
trast of the dark heartwood and. pale cream
colored sapwood being very pleasing... .M. 8.:
From M.L. Government Agent, 14 Martin-
place, Sydney... .8.8. W.: Following are the
approximate mileages by water on the Darling
River: Wilcannia to Menindie 190 miles, Men-
indie to Pooncarie 180 miles, and Pooncarie to
Wentworth 140 miles H.H.S.: The dry-blow-
ing process is used in Queensland on the gold-
fields in the dry western country rather than on
the tinfields, dryness of the material to be
treated being essential. Full particulars of the
machines with sketches and plans are published
in the “Queensland Mining Guide,” obtainable
from Mines Department, Brisbane; Is. 3d
J.J.O’S.: The union representing goldminers
in N.S.W. is the Australian Workers’ Union
(N.S.W. Branch), 238 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney. A miner’s right costs 2s. 6d. for six
months, and ss. for 12 months... .D.V.: From
N.S.W. Government Printer, Phillip and Bent
streets, Sydney... .K.W.C.: From Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney
F. : Forward your request to the Secretary
for Defence, Defence Headquarters, Pretoria,
S. Africa, and the Under-Secretary for Defence,
General Headquarters, New Zealand Military
Forces, Wellington, M.L., respectively. It
would be necessary for a resident of Australia
to pay his own fare to either Dominion and
lodge an application for enlistment W.S.H.:
Quick Service Stencil Cutters, 80 Bathurst-street,
Sydney. Enclose diagram of brand required
and state whether you want it made on light
or heavy zinc plate or on copper. Latter is
best job, but more expensive. For a small
clip, former is cheapest, and gives good service.
Letters of brand should be at least 4in. high.
... .V.J.C.: Unable to discover anything of either
the man or his book L.P.N.: Baldness of
the hereditary type cannot be prevented, but
by cleanliness those infections of the scalp
which encourage its spread may be kept in
check. The scalp should be well washed twice
weekly with soft soap (any chemist) and
thoroughly dried. Frequent scalp massage is of
value. Brushes and combs should be scrupu-
lously clean.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and'
original suggestions accepted.
92 YEARS OLD —AND
FIT AS A FIDDLE
Takes Kruschen Every
Morning.
“I feel in duty bound,” writes Mrs. A.J.W.,
“to express my gratitude for the marvellous
results my father has obtained from Kruschen
Salts. They should really be called ‘Miracles.’
He is ninety-two years old, and is as fit as a
fiddle. He can nip about, and run up and
down stairs. His friends marvel why it is he
is always alert, and never feels slack. He
always tells them the reason: ‘my regular daily
dose of Kruschen Salts in my first cup of
tea every morning.”’—(Mrs.) A.J.W.
Most people grow old long belore their time
because they neglect one vital need of health
—the need for internal cleanliness.
Eventually they start the healthy Kruschen
habit. Then, probably for the first time in their
lives, they start getting rid every day of all
waste matter from the system. Instead of being
clogged the intestines are clean and clear. In-
stead of liver and kidneys being sluggish they
arc active and efficient. New, healthy blood
goes coursing through the veins—carrying health
and strength and energy to every part of the
body.
D
The “ARIZONA”
COWBOY SADDLE
£ll/5/-
(COMPLETE).
Has I2in. bulge, high cantle, and the rig-
ging is Cord cincha and wood stirrups.
Freight paid for cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSON "o:
39S CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
7
TRAVELLING ANYWHERE?
JUST PACK YOUR RAGS'
Leave your tickets, reservations
and similar tiresome details to
the Bank of New South Wales.
Travel arrangements can be
made through any branch of
the Bank, and there is no charge
for its service.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTMENT
399C.1938
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.O’S.: No; off our beat. Everyone “wel-
come to submit copy”... .P.A.D.: Missed....
R.G.D.: No enthusiasm for Mr. Philpopp and
his liver pi11....J.H.: Still just misses
R.T.W.: None of that batch... .C.J.R.: Try
it on a film co D.M.; Nearly; keep
trying A.C.; It should go, elsewhere....
P.M.: Slight H.H.H.; Earned a second
reading... .E.D.: Not that one... .Z.V.W.:
Nor that G.G.8.: No W.J.; It’s not for
u5....W.K.: Bury it before it’s too late....
W.S.L.: Try another address... .K.A.8.; Not
enough body.... R.A.M .: You’re high up on
a shaky perch.... M.W.P.: Very pretty....
C.N.: Nice typing... .A.W.T.: Still on its
travels... .L.G.8.: Dunno what you could do
with that one T.E.P.: Neatly done, but it’s
very slight J.L.: Not for us A. 8.: Still
doesn’t make it... .W.E.A.: Somewhat point-
less... .G.L.: Going home... .H.E.W.: Don’t
like idylls J.D.S.: Gloom E.F.: Neat
but wispy F.R.F.; No, thank you
R.K.T.; Something there, but different treat-
ment needed E.V.: You’ve got us beat, any-
way.... D.W.: Doesn’t make a yarn....
N.H.T.8.: Very little to it....R.J.: Why?....
J.N.N.; Close G-.T.5.: Nothing there
W.J.H.: Should find a home elsewhere
M.R.: Beyond us M.G.W.: Homeward
bound E.S.: Not much... .A.E.H.: Doesn’t
get there N.G.H.C.: Where did you exca-
vate that skeleton?.... R.C.: You’ve a lot to
learn.... A.M.: You, t 00... .A.R.G.: Corre-
spondence course in bushranging returning.
S.S.B.: “The Brigalow Track” not for us.
.... D.A. and G. 5.8.: Not here L.T.N.:
“Pay Dirt” isn’t H.N.: Little man, what
now?... .F.G.8., G.T., D.S.C. and R.P.:
Missed... .W.J.W. and D.R.: Spring!... .J.W.:
A grin... .J.M.: “Shocking?” As verse, yes.
.... 1.C.E.: Call again... .G.E.T.: Little by
little we liked it,less... .G.M.T.: Many thanks.
C.S.: Two lines:
Food for the mind wc need, good censor,
Unless you wish us to grow denser.
N.K.McL.: A good grouch, but it’s crudely
told W.J.N.: Muse seems to be on strike,
t00....J.C.: A rickety shack... .H.P.: Un-
suitable J.H.M.: Leave it to Macaulay
F.MacD.: No thunder there P.T.: Flying
fish should be less laborious M.F.: It’s been
said so often G.R.: Demented indeed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: Somewhere between hopelessness and
dull mediocrity... .A.MJ.: Must you go to
American magazines for your ideas?... .K.D.:
All right so far as the drawing goes; but we’re
still searching for the point... .P.R.: You’ve
got a sense of humor, but you don’t know
enough about art... . F.N.: Can’t make head or
tail out of that mix-up... .E.L.: Not this time;
perhaps not next time; but keep on A.J.8.:
Any youngster could dash off better samples
than the ones you sent... .N.T.; You’re poach-
ing on Oswald Pryor’s preserves R.W.:
Strongly suspect that your friends were pulling
your leg W.H.: Needs more polish L.L.:
Surely, you don’t claim that well-known “Hop”
gag as your own? .... M. 8.; Figures well posed
and balanced, but the linework is harsh
F.T.C.: No bid for those freaks... .A.S.D.:
It should have been kept within the family
circle... .B.B.: Joke is a featherweight G.N.:
Those propped-up corpses look like a “morn-
ing-after” effort A.J.: From Aberdeen.
E.C.: Don’t attempt to draw if you can’t;
we’re in the market for gags alone... .H.J.8.:
Not quite sure what it is all about; anyhow,
the drawing is dreadful A.L.G.: You have
still to learn what to put in and what to leave
out S.R.: Sketch feeble and joke an echo
... .F.W.: That craft ran aground on the w.p.b.
... .S.T.P.: Not a glimmer of merit in any one
of the six J.G.8.: Declined with haste large
and untidy collection of “Smart Sayings—lllus-
trated” T.M.: Some vigor in the carica-
tures; pick subjects in the public eye....H.5.:
Cartoon too local in subject N.L.8.: The
week’s worst and in the running for the worst
this year.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Peduc”: “Jimmy O’Goblin” is rhym-
ing slang. As a lad, in the mid-nineties,
I was employed in the vicinity of the
Borough Fruit Markets, London, and
heard the term often. It was supposed
to rhyme with “sovereign.” “Rogue an’
a villain” represented shilling, and
“touch me on the nob” went for bob.
* * * *
Four of the big Rand gold-producing
cos. have announced their latest estimate
of ore reserves. Consolidated Main Reef
has 11,184,000 tons of 4.ldwt. grade;
Modder East, 6,329,100 tons, 4.3dwt.;
New Modder, 7,308,200 tons, 3.Bdwt. ;
Nourse, 3,852,000 tons, 4.4dwt. Stoping
widths are: Consolidated Main Reef,
58 inches; Modder East, 43; New
Modder, 49 ; Nourse, 47. In addition
there are the following tonnages locked
up in shafts and safety pillars which will
not be available for extraction until the
end of the various mines’ lives: Con-
solidated Main Reef, 1,079,900 tons,
4.6dwt. grade; Modder East, 434,300
tons, 4.6dwt.; New Modder, 688,400
tons, 4.3dwt.; Nourse, 310,600 tons,
4.2dwt. Of Australian goldmines Mt.
Morgan, with 7,303,329 tons of 4.6dwt.
grade, and Lake View, with 3,414,600
tons of 5.68dwt., possess the largest
reserves.
* * * *
“Surviving Pedestrian”: The regret-
table delusion that motor-cars gliding
along the public highways at 60 to 80
m.p.h. are dangerous to the public, per-
petuated legislatively by a N. S. Wales
ordinance limiting the speed to 30 m.p.h.
in busy thoroughfares, has spread to
London. So far from recognising that
such interferences with the march of
progress .are wicked and futile, London
pedestrians are imploring the L.C.C. to
do likewise. Finding the council very
rightly impervious to such reactionary
twaddle, the misguided agitators or-
ganised a demonstration of jay-walking.
For hours a procession of men, women,
children and babes in perambulators
bearing inflammatory placards filed over
a crossing on the busy Kingston By-pass,
ignoring the genuflections of the cop
on point-duty. Instead of repressing
this lawless rebellion with machine-guns
or. gas bombs, the police apparently did
nothing about it, and a queue of petrol-
driven vehicles miles long was formed
before it dawned on the drivers that
anarchy was afoot and they must seek
another venue.
* * * *
“K.N.”: Mrs. Eugene Howard, of the
Hollywood Hotel Revue co., has been in
Sydney before —nearly 30 years ago. She
then appeared as one of the six Empire
Girls at the Tivoli when Harry Rickards
was its director. “Thirty years in America
and she hasn’t lost her English accent!”
said one old friend admiringly.
* Jjc * *
Sydney-born W. E. H. Stanner, who
recently received his doctorate in philo-
sophy from London University, and who
has been sent by Oxford University to
Kenya to investigate native problems,
was originally a journalist. It was whiie
working in that capacity that he gradu-
ated at Sydney Uni. with honors in eco-
nomics and anthropology. Later he lec-
tured on the latter subject at Sydney
Uni., and spent some time in northern
Australia on a mission for the National
Research Council. He was for a while
economic officer in the Premier’s Depart-
ment. For the last two years he has been
in London, engaged in post-graduate
study. He’s 31.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Commenting on the
transfer of Queensland Rugby League
secretary Sunderland to Wigan, where he
will hold a similar job, a Lancashire
sporting paper congratulates the club on
getting his services and says that a
dynamic personality like Sunderland will
buck up others and compel them to
launch out on enterprising lines. It
adds: “A few more like him and there
will be no cry of decay in the air.” This
is news indeed. For close on 50 years
since it was founded the League has
stuck with a following of about 30 Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire clubs. Jt has no
reserves like the big schools and uni-
versities to draw from, and cannot even
attract players by the thousand from all
sorts of classes, as Union and Soccer
clubs do. Only importing players from
Wales, Australia and M.L. -has kept it
alive. Sunderland left Queensland
because he realised the game was going
to the pack there, as it is showing signs
of doing in N.S.W,


A MESSAGE
TO INVESTORS
For persons of moderate means,
as well as the wealthy, a Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is an ex-
cellent form of investment. Interest
is paid half-yearly at a definite
rate and the money invested is
repaid in full at the end of the
specified time, or the deposit may
be renewed. Amounts from £5 up-
wards are accepted at all branches.
And an interest-bearing Fixed
Deposit in the Rural Bank is a
lawful investment for trust funds.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE • - - MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank—Serving you, Serving the Stale
FOLLOW THIS
LINE OFH
REASON Bui
1
*S*
>*>
«<X
£\l ,/y LONDON.'*j£
I
n
UK
&
"'#r
lil
rati
KL4
'•ir
r-
ife'G
-m
IN
xz
©M
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon's
Gin
IS DISTILLED
It mai| cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
Sta
supW>*
THE H EART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO .
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
Jhe Uomil gin dMIkU In the ivoUd
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXVII.
Early in 1920 Mr. Winston Churchill
discovered what he called “a sinister con-
spiracy of international Jews for the
overthrow of civilisation.” By way ot
retaliation, - Mr. Winston Churchill de-
manded a holy war against the Bol-
sheviks ; and it was understood from ad-
mirers who “dined at Blenheim once a
week” that Mr. Winston Churchill was
ready to lead the holy war.
Mr. Winston Churchill’s leadership
was declined, but Mr. Lloyd George
recognised that the Russian situation
called for half-measures, and half-
measures were applied.
British loans and left-over guns, rifles,
shells and all manner of stores were
placed at the service of unemployed
Tsarist generals, who collected bands of
patriots and vagabonds and struck out
for the interior. One collection aimed at
Moscow, another at St. Petersburg and
a third operated, in a disorderly fashion,
in Siberia, making for the Urals.
In their proclamations, these generals
differed gloriously from one another as
to what they would do with the land and
the forms of government they would im-
pose when they beat the Bolshies. Partly
on this account, and partly because of
their foreign backing, such national senti-
ment as existed was ranged against them.
In a series of alleged battles that were
just hideous butcheries, the invaders
were defeated. The conquerors avenged
themselves horribly on cities and districts
in which the Tsarist generals had found
support, and those who fell on the
stricken field were the lucky ones.
The hero in this contest of armed mobs
was declared to be Mr. Bronstein, alias
Trotsky. He was promptly by
British and Australian socialists as “the
greatest military organiser of the age.”
Mr. Bronstein and his legions, among
whom were thousands of commissars
with the gift of the gab, tried to justify
the flattering remarks of their British and
Australian admirers by effecting a Red
conquest of Poland. In that country,
however, they met grim men with arms
in their hands whose notions of warfare
were as savage as their own, and who
were better led. After a few initial suc-
cesses, gained by force of numbers, the
Red Army got a dreadful doing. Com-
missars found among the hordes of
prisoners were shot,
In revolutionary Russia, as in revolu-
tionary France, the English Government
had backed the wrong horse, but Mr.
Winston Churchill was in no wise de-
concerted, nor was Mr. Lloyd George,
Mr. Lloyd George decided, indeed, to
put the nation’s money on the Greeks,
who had begun to carve out an empire
for themselves in Asia Minor at the
expense of the Turks. The Greeks also
flattered their backers for a few furlongs,
In the United States the Senate repu-
diated its President’s arrangements tor
the settlement of Europe “in the interests
of all,” and refused to have anything to
do with the League of Nations. A mor-
dant Australian writer considered the
case of the unhappy Woodrow Wilson,
his conclusion being that “as the prime
mover in the Peace Treaty, and the rep-
resentative of the one defaulter to the
Peace Treaty, he occupies the rare posi-
tion of the who deserted his wife
before marriage.”
In Australia, Mr. Pew, having won the
war and the general election, continued
to attend to the peace. Mr. Watteau,
who had gone to England, fell out with
him and resigned by cable ; but, after a
few racy remarks, Mr. Pew carried on.
With the cordial concurrence ol his
old Labor friends, now on other sub-
jects his implacable enemies, Mr. Pew
introduced an Iricrease of Salaries Bill
which went through flying. This measure
provided something substantial for every-
one concerned: another £4OO a year for
each member, another £6OO for each Min-
ister, each officer of the House and
the leader of the Opposition in the
Senate, and another £BOO for the leader
of the Opposition in the House. As the
Opposition in the Senate consisted of
one (1) member, its leader got another
£5O a month for leading himself,
Some of Mr. Pew’s subjects murmured
that this distribution of their money
hadn’t been even hinted at during the
election campaign. There were sugges-
tions that before it took effect it should
be put to a referendum. # .
“Referendum?” cried Mr. Pew mdig-
nantly. “Why, a referendum was taken
in South Australia, and the small increase
proposed was rejected by two to one.”
That settled the matter to the satisfac-
tion of Mr. Pew, his friends and enemies,
and the South Australian experiment has
never been repeated.
In Sydney little Paddy Moymhan let
out a Secret.
Speaking at a public meeting, he said:
“Arrangements were made by a section
of the people to defeat the enforcement
of conscription if either of those referen-
dums had been carried. Those in charge
of the movement were relying chiefly on
Queensland. Let me tell you that if
conscription had been carried there
w'ould probably be a republic in Aus-
tralia to-day.”
A few weeks afterwards, Mr. Moym-
han declared that there was nothing in
his alarming revelation ; “It was only
me little joke.” He was a Labor M.L.A.;
Mr. Wholeman, the Nationalist Premier,
had announced the date of the general
election, and such jokes were Inopportune.
As Labor man and Nationalist, Mr.
Wholeman had been Premier for seven
years. . He was the only orator in the
House, and his colleagues and followers
proclaimed him generous to a fault. But
some of his friends were queer birds, and
people were sick of them, and tired ol a
coalition which had itself grown tired.
In an evil hour for himself Mr. Whole-
man accepted the counsels of friends who
suggested to him what they described as
electoral reform, with three- and five-
member constituencies and proportional
voting. They said their plan would save the
Government and save Mr. Wholeman.
Mr. Wholeman represented a country
district, which, in his devotion to affairs
of State and the cause of the Allies —he
had gone to France during the war and
seen an officer friend struck down by his
side—he had neglected. As in Common-
wealth politics, a Country party had
arisen, and it was bitterly reminding
farmers that after the drought of 1914
Mr. Wholeman’s Government had com-
mandeered their wheat at a price which
didn’t compensate them for drought losses.
“Remember Edmund Barton?” Mr.
Wholeman’s friends said. “When he
stood for a single electorate he was licked
by David Storey, the hatter. If it had
been a three-member or five-member
electorate, with P.R., he would have got
in. And so will you get in—so will every
other party leader —under P.R.; it is a
sure safeguard for men in your position.”
Mr. Wholeman swallowed these repre-
sentations whole, had the electoral system
altered and contested a three-member
division on the Nationalist ticket. There
were two other tickets, Labor and Coun-
try party, and his Nationalist ticket lost.
Except in old Liberal strongholds, the
Nationalists polled poorly everywhere.
So the eloquent and goodhearted Whole-
man had to give up his Premiership, and
State politics knew him no more.
Terry Mac Sherry was among the
winners.
He had come out for a Sydney division
which his own district dominated, had
been placed first on the Labor ticket, and
was the first man to be elected.
Among his helpers on election-day had
been a band of shopgirls, with Miss Finu-
cane at the head. That young lady sat
behind him on the Town Hall platform
when he returned thanks for his election,
and had a leading part in the “victory
social,” to which came Mr. Morey, Mac-
Sherry’s leader, and Mr. J. D. Bang.
Mr. Morey beamed benevolently on
Miss Finucane when introduced.
“Glad to see politics isn’t the only
thing Terry’s interested in since he has
given up boxing,” he said archly.
“He has given up betting as well as
boxing,” Miss Finucane replied.
“Betting too? Good on the lad! And
I know he doesn’t drink. As for me, I
have never been off the wagon and I
never miss a race meeting. A queer com-
bination, I suppose.”
Here Terry came up and joined in the
conversation.
“Congrats, on your good taste, Terry,
me lad,” Mr. Morey. “You’ll have
to bring her to the opening of Parlia-
ment. Although we haven’t an actual
majority, perhaps I’ll be Premier then.”
“I’m sure you will. As sure as I am
that she’ll go as Mrs. Mac Sherry.”
So Terry married his Molly, and, like
Mr. Winston Churchill, lived happily
ever after. More happily than Mr. Win-
ston Churchill, for Mr. Mac Sherry never
yearned to be another Marlborough, nor,
when he had hung up his gloves, did he
ever want to be another Fitzsimmons.
o Conclusion .)


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a Westralian for a topical proposal, not exactly original,
but treated in a racy style.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraph, submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin promises a sta
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
A Motor-cycle Militia
In every Australian city there are thou-
sands of motor-cycle owners, most ot
whom would never consider enrolment in
existing militia units, applying their spare
time to touring the roads with a long-
haired mate precariously supported by
the carrier.
If our Defence Department, which re-
quires volunteers, went about the thing
properly it could turn a road menace into
a powerful defence force.
Thousands of young motor-cyclists, all
experienced and capable riders, would
enthusiastically join a militia motor-cycle
force. Special carriers could easily be
made to fit the ordinary motor-cycle rear
carrier, and each section of, say, six
cycles could be equipped ; one, or per-
haps two, carrying a light machine-gun,
others ammunition, rations for the section,
spare petrol and oil, spares and tools,
the sixth cycle being mounted by a man
specially skilled as a motor-cycle engi-
neer. That is based on a conservative
estimate of the percentage of skilled
mechanics in the ranks of motor-cyclists.
Nothing is more untrue than the as-
sumption that motor-cycles can move
only along roads. Pastoralists who use
them know that, except in the heaviest
sand-drift country, they can be ridden
anywhere a horse will go and get there
a great deal quicker.
In Australian conditions such units
would be invaluable. And a volunteer
force would mobilise machines and riders
against the day they might be needed in
a hurry. —X. R. I. (W.A.).
“X.R.1.” is D. D. Mackinnon, of Pin-
nacles station, Leonora, W.A. He gets
the prize of £3 35., and 2*d. per line
as well.
Unemployed Youth
As one strolls along the main streets
of our cities and large towns it is sad
to see so many able-bodied youths idle,
lounging in groups at street corners or
hanging round billiard-saloons; it raises
the query of whether their idleness is en-
forced or just natural.
Away up here in North Queensland
there is room for many young men who
desire work. I don’t mean that there are
plenty of wages jobs; but there is scope
for young fellows possessing grit and
some of the spirit of their forefathers
and of the old men on the mining fields
to-day. It won’t be all smooth going,
but for the fellow who is prepared to
work and learn from the older ones on
the spot there is a living to be made,
plus a feeling of independence.
Men now working on our wolfram
fields and tinfields are contented and
happy. They have their wireless sets,
they hear the news, and they can enjoy
the many musical items that are broad-
cast.
My duties take me to a number of the
mining fields in N.Q. Gold, silver,
copper, tin, lead, wolfram, molybdenite,
bismuth, scheelite and tantalite exist over
a very wide area, and for the man of
small means, and even the man without
means, there is a living to be made,
especially at the price of metals to-day.
Already there are young fellows on
some of the fields gaining experience
and becoming real men of worth; they
don’t like the idea of the dole or relief
work, and are steadily gaining an in-
dependence. —C. C. Boulter (N.Q.).
High Rents
Rents of houses, cottages and flats are
still soaring, and nobody knows when
they will stop. High rents have become
a racket because landlords realise that
they are allowed to charge whatever they
like for rentals, whilst the good fellows
in Parliament sit back and twiddle their
thumbs. The only real benefit which
could be accorded the wage-plug and his
family—a fair rent—the Government will
do nothing about.
This year, when the question of reintro-
ducing a Fair Rents Court was brought
forward, the N.S.W. Government said
that it was not necessary. Why? Is it
that our politicians are blind to the fact
that the ordinary basic-wage earner
spends nearly half his wages on rent, or
is it that they just don’t care?
Raising the basic wage does not appear
to help, as for each shilling added cost
“'S my fault. Met a lot of old frierr’s up town I'd never seen afore an'
'ad nine or ten too many."
of living goes up proportionately. We
are told by the Arbitration Court that a
cottage can be rented for 16s. or there-
abouts. Yes, by all means, let us rent
a hovel in an area where decent people
cannot possibly live. Elsewhere this
rental is impossible. Nowadays the
usual cottage rent is 355. to 40s. per week
(flats dearer, of course).—N. Jeffery
(N.S.W.). _
Housewives
“Sago’s” prize-winning outburst on
“Rural Workers” (B. 14/9/’3B) touches
me. Re-read his par.—but substitute
“housewives” for “rural workers.” H.ws.
“are classed as unskilled labor.” A really
good h.w. “can turn her hand to any-
thing”—washing, ironing, cleaning, wise
shopping, cooking, catering, dressmaking,
home-decoration, nursing, husband- and
child-psychology, entertaining, being baby
attendant and much more. In this line also
“it takes a few years” for a raw girl “to
attain this desirable degree of pro-
ficiency” ; she also “must have aver-
age intelligence to start with or she won t
get far” ; and also she “must have a
keen liking for the life to offset the hard-
ships, long hours, hard work and monot-
ony that will certainly fall to her lot. ’
“During apprenticeship he will re-
ceive 10s. to 20s. per week and keep.”
Ah! there’s a difference; we get our keep
—granted —and it’s our own fault if it
isn’t good; but where’s the 10s. or 205.?
We get the few crumbs that are over
after Dad and the kids have had their
bit, and then only if the “rainy-day box”
looks healthy. But who said we were
grumbling? Are we downhearted?
Speaking for myself, no! — Lemon Sago
(N.S.W.).
Soldier Preference
, why not a Preference to Any Soldier
Act, to remove an anomaly in the Pref-
erence to R.S. Act, so often cited as
being unfair to the younger generation?
The militia should be given more
encouragement. We owe these lads some
recognition in lieu of the “raspberries
and lesser rebukes they have to contend
with on our behalf. —W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
The Diet Craze
Even the greenest medical student can
correctly answer the question “How does
a person first know he is out of sorts ?
He will reply: “When he is aware that
he is breathing and when he is aware
that he has a stomach.”
It is with the latter of these two aware-
nesses that lam concerned—that wave ot
stomach-consciousness that is all about
me. How often does one overhear scraps
of conversations such as “Oh, yes! Shes
on the Blank diet now ; never had a day s
indigestion since I started it.”
In every bookshop one can now buy
works encouraging stomach-conscious-
ness and containing lists of meals with
cunning little omissions and substitutions.
Few of these sprats catch a mackerel for
less than seven and sixpence.
The other 'day I told someone I was
thinking of evolving a diet and writing
a book about it just to make some
money. “But you know nothing about
diets,” I was told. I explained that it
was a simple matter to obtain a list of
foods and their corresponding calorie
contents, to enumerate some meals add-
ing up to 3000 calories (or what you will)
per diem, fill up the other 399 pages with
’orrible examples and warnings about the
dangers of costiveness, and there you
have a 1938 best-seller.
The advice I received was, “Why not
rather write a book about the fallacies
of food obsession and do some good?”
“Oh, no,” I retorted ; “I’d much rather
write a book that people will buy.” —
P. S. W. (W.A.).
Public Exams.
In Tasmania the intermediate and leav-
ing exams., as public exams., have become
things of the past. It is more than likely
that other States will follow the lead in
this matter. Many parents are perturbed.
When the question of public exams, is
brought up people argue that one exami-
nation is not a full test of the child’s
ability and knowledge—that nervousness
will play its part, and that the child will
not do itself justice. Granted ; this does
happen. It is not a fact in the majority
of cases.
The public exam, method may not be
perfect, but it is, as far as we know, the
fairest way of judging the student’s
knowledge. The entrant is known to the
examiner by a number only. This is in
itself a safeguard.
There are many fine headmasters and
headmistresses, but the personal element
will creep in, wittingly or unwittingly.
A brilliant child who has not pleased
the teacher may suffer. The public
examination by numbers has its parallel
in our political secret ballot. Both are
the best possible. I should like to see
the public examinations remain.—Vic.
(S.A.).
Outpatients—and Others
For what does the outpatients’ depart-
ment in a public hospital stand? Here
are two instances from Adelaide, for the
truth of which I vouch, the applicant in
each case being well known to me. The
first is a woman living in a country town ;
her only trouble was varicose ulcers, with
which any medical practitioner can deal.
Although in 35 years of marriage her
husband has never lost a week’s work,
and with a family of six sons and four
daughters only the two youngest are not
earning a living, she had no difficulty at
all in receiving treatment at a shilling a
time.
The second is a widow whose husband
for four years before his death had
through illness been unable to work.
The house was under mortgage; the
family consisted of two sons at work
and a third son at school. She applied
for treatment for her eyes, which were
in a serious condition, and was refused
attention on the grounds of having a
house and two unmarried sons. — Powell
(S.A.).
“Extravagance”
Economies practised by older countries
in manufacturing from what we call scrap
should be a lesson to us. Not that we
should attempt to compete against them
in similar enterprises; but we should
make an effort to eliminate extrava-
gance.
The first example that comes to mind
is the selling of tobacco and cigarettes in
tins. The tin is much more expensive
than a cardboard carton, and must,
therefore, increase the price to the buyer.
Another case is that of milk bottles. It
was reported in one of our newspapers
the other day that a ton of bottles was
broken daily. In the course of a year
this amounts to a lot of waste. Could
we not use a carton similar to those used
by ice-cream manu-
facturers?
The same extrava-
gant theme is being
adopted by magazine
publishers. At con-
siderable expense
(their own admission)
they instal three-color
printing machines and
fill pages with glaring
pictures. The quan-
tity and often quality
of the reading matter
are reduced, and again
we pay for some-
thing we did not want
and something that
we could well do
without.
There are innumer-
able examples of
this extravagance —
cushion-heels in shoes,
free tumblers with
toot hbrushes, the
sumptuous lounges at
picture - shows (used
only during a 10-
minute interval) and
vacuum cleaners with a host of unneces-
sary attachments are only a few.
Unnecessary costs will drive anything
from the reach of the greater part of a
population.—W. H. W. (N.S.W.).
A Road from Bourke to Burketown
A military road that would have con-
siderable economic value would be one
from Bourke in N.S.W. to Burketown in
Queensland.
Such a road could be constructed at a
reasonable cost by cutting two channels
a foot square at standard track width
down the present roads and filling them
with concrete. This road would con-
nect the end of a N.S.W. railway with
the ends of all the western Queensland
lines, and with 10-ton lorries and trailers
would be of considerable value in shift-
ing wool into railheads and moving
sheep in times of drought; and if war
did occur the value of such a direct in-
land route would be incalculable. —J. R.
Lewis (Q.).
For a Real Commonwealth
Our grandfathers worked for a united
Australia and thought they had gained
it in 1901 by the establishment of the
Commonwealth. To be sure, we have a
Commonwealth Government, but with it
a medley of' State Parliaments which
place State before country.
About the time of the last Federal
election campaign I overheard in a Syd-
ney tram a discussion between two
young men. One finally said he wished
a referendum would be taken on the
question of abolishing State Parliaments
so that he could vote “Yes” with 95 per
cent, of the Australian electors. Since


listen. m..&&tu6lkt/td
„, cA USE Of 18l Hoa ts «'£
BEC pepSodent »?s£;r»pi»* “ °*S
lZi-'^ e3d °I ifuftouqU
.ySE OF ,R SOAP
® resumes N, °
WiSST '***'
BECAOSeOfJfXSu^
srr
Good brushing is important
but teeth can’t really
sparkle without the right
tooth paste. End Scrub-
Hard disappointment! Get
real results by daily brush-
ing with Pepsodent con-
taining IRIUM. Irium'wins
flashing natural lustre for
your teeth. Dingy film
loosens and floats away like
magic. Try it today!
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentilricts CONTAI NS
IRIIPM
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (auST.) PTY.
LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
158 /6*
11l
• •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
then I have sought opinions from many
sources —in buses, trams, suburban and
country trains, at club meetings and on
the beaches; from Queenslanders and
Victorians, farmers and bushmen,
staunch Nationalists and Laborites, and
supporters of the various “isms.”
A storekeeper on the Queensland bor-
der answered simply: “We get our Bris-
bane papers two days before southern
ones, yet we are governed from Sydney.”
The reply of a Riverina farmer was that
his produce, ultimately bound for Lon-
don, had to be sent to Sydney, hundreds
of miles wasteful in time and money.
The young tram passenger was wrong.
His 95 per cent, should have been 99
per cent.— Muff (N.S.W.).
Women in Jobs
Do those people who are constantly
urging an increase in the birthrate ever
look around them? If so, do they see
the women employed in banks, other big
enterprises and, yes, Government de-
partments who are drawing salaries big
enough to keep a man, wife and family?
Do they see the married women who are
holding down jobs although their hus-
bands are earning enough to keep them,
and a family, comfortably? Women
will not marry while they can earn big
money in “positions,” and married women
who work will .not have families. While
women are in jobs that men could do,
fewer men will get the work that would
enable them to keep a wife and children.
I know of six married women who are
working, although their husbands are
earning up to three times the amount of
the N.S.W. basic wage.
It should be declared an offence for a
woman whose husband can keep her
to hold down a job. More men in jobs
will mean more marriages and more
christenings.— James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Inter-State Travel and Legislation
Recent years have brought an enor-
mously growing development of inter-
state travel by land, sea and air. It is
time the Commonwealth authorities took
stock of their obligations in this regard.
In 1904 the Federal Parliament passed
a Sea Carriage of Goods Act, which pro-
vided that, in respect of inter-State and
overseas water carriage of goods, no
shipowner could contract himself or his
ship out of liability for loss or damage
arising from his or his employee’s negli-
gence. fault or failure. An ampler 1924
measure replaced that earlier Act. Among
many other advances, it brought within its
scope live animals, which had been ex-
pressly excluded. Neither Act applied to
sea carriage within a State. But after
1904 some of the States passed similar
legislation in respect of intra-State water
carriage of both goods and passengers.
An intending inter-State traveller by
sea is asked to sign a cbndition exonerat-
ing shipowners from liability for damage
that may arise to him or his dependants
from the neglect or default of such
owners or their servants. The Common-
wealth should legislate in respect of inter-
state travellers on the lines of its Sea
Carriage of Goods Act.
Problems of air transport also should
be considered and dealt with, in relation
not only to passengers but also to mem-
bers of staffs of airlines. These latter
should be at least as well provided for
legislatively as are workers under the
Workers’ Compensation Acts of the vari-
ous States or seamen under the Seamen’s
Compensation Act of the Common-
wealth, which covers masters, officers and
all others engaged in any capacity on
board a ship.—K. (Vic.).
Australian Authors and Education
Being of a generation grown up since
the war, I knew nothing of C. J. Dennis
—not even his name. But since reading
words of praise in the papers at the time
of his death I took the trouble to get
as much of his work as possible. Now
it seems to me that those contributors
to The Bulletin who complained that
educated youngsters had no use for
classical literature might not have had
to complain if the youngsters had been
started aright. If the works of Dennis
and Paterson and more like them were
part of the English course in the schools,
many of the scholars would acquire a
liking for poetry, and later on read it for
its own intrinsic beauty.
Incidentally, in his book Ginger Mick
Dennis foreshadows the policy which
The Bulletin alone seems to be urging
on the Education Departments:
Teach ’im the talc uv wot the Anzacs did.
Teach ’im ’e’s got a land ter love an’ hold.
Now, after 20 years, the school histories
contain little or nothing about the Anzacs.
Perhaps it is because there is no Aus-
tralian Education Department. — Admiral
(Q-).
Know Australia First
Joyce M. Skinner (B. 14/9/’3B) com-
plains, “Ask any schoolchild under the
age of 13 where Palestine is. He won’t
know!” What’s Palestine got to do
with Australia, anyway? There’s too
much ancient-history bunk pushed into
the receptive minds of young Austra-
lians as it is. They can fire at you the
list of ancient kings of England, com-
mencing with Hengist and Horsa, down
to the Georges. Ask them who was the
first Australian Governor, the names of
the mert who discovered the Brisbane
River, the Murray, the Fitzroy, the Mac-
intyre, the Burdekin and other big water-
ways of Australia, and you get an
owlish stare of queere! Ask them what
was the Eureka Stockade. It’s a hun-
dred to one they’ll say it was a fence
to keep stock from straying. I know
they couldn’t tell you the name of the
first paper printed in the colony, or
who was the first editor of The Bul-
letin. There’s too damn’ much know-
ledge of things overseas and not enough
about early Australia, and, in this
respect, politicians are just as ill-
informed. It should be the job of the
Australian Natives’ Association, when-
ever it is hibernating, to see that Aus-
tralian history, early and late, is pushed
into the craniums of schoolchildren
Australis (N.S.W.).
Let’s Go Whaling
Federal politicians who profess con-
cern at the persistent unemployment
(especially of young, unskilled men) in
this country could well turn their
thoughts to the sea. Right at our doors
a vast and wealthy industry that would
give employment to thousands is cry-
ing out for exploitation. There is a
world market for products of the whale
—a market that Norwegians and Jap-
anese see fit to travel thousands of miles
to obtain the means of catering for. It
doesn’t stop at catching the big sea-
mammals, for factories are needed to
process the oil, blubber and bone. Aus-
tralia imports annually thousands of
tins of edible fish while her coasts
swarm with live fish of the same kind.
The home market alone is capable of
absorbing sufficient cured and tinned
fish to provide many Australians with
permanent jobs. Australian businessmen
are not sea-minded yet, but if special
inducements in the way of cheap land,
tax concessions, and perhaps financial
assistance were offered local enterprise
could be depended upon to do the rest.
The Commonwealth has subsidised less
worthy objects. Thar She Blows
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Libraries
The Sydney Municipal Library, the
only free lending library in N.S.W., is
rendering fine service, despite being han-
dicapped by inadequate income—for that
reason it cannot compare in size with
corresponding libraries of English cities
with half Sydney’s population.
But for it, however, the mass of Syd-
ney people (N.S.W. country folk are pro-
vided for by a special section of the
Public Library) would have no means of
studying in their homes books of high
cultural and educational value which the
private subscription libraries will not
stock owing to their cost and the limited
demand for them.
Unfortunately, because it has no
branches, many residents of the outlying
suburbs of Sydney who can’t afford the
time or money to visit the city regularly
are unable to avail themselves of the
library’s facilities. Their counterparts in
England (and, for that matter, in many
other countries) suffer no such depriva-
tion. There, not only do the great free
lending libraries have numerous branches,
but more than one minor municipality
support a library of this type that can
rival Sydney’s.
Government aid should be provided
to enable the library to extend its service
to the most important Sydney suburbs.
Successive N.S.W. Governments have
squandered millions on doubtful develop-
ment schemes or in winning the support
of clamant organised minorities. But
when it is a question of providing the
thousands that would give Australia’s
largest city a free lending-library system
as good as those enjoyed by the citizens
of many an overseas provincial capital,
not a penny can be spared.— Den
(N.S.W.).
Flats of the Future
Although the general prophecy seems
to be that the flats of to-day will be the
slums of to-morrow, these “future slums"
are springing up everywhere like mush-
rooms, and they are preferred to the
modern bungalow with its high rent.
There is much to be said for flat life,
and the chief attraction is that one can
live closer to the city, thereby escaping
the high fares one has to pay when living
away from the crowded areas. But re-
cently, whilst looking for a flat to suit
my purse and requirements, I was
astounded at the lack of judgment and
imagination displayed by architects and
builders in the planning of interior con :
veniences. Mostly, except where very
high rentals were asked, the buildings
shrieked, “Designed by man, built by
man —to suit man.”
In my opinion, it is about time woman
took up the cudgels and tried her hand
at indoor planning—for woman.
Lack of daylight, incorrect placing of
windows and ventilation (more necessary
in flats in congested areas than in homes
farther out) seem to be the chief faults
of these man-designed apartments; but
cooking arrangements (stove and sink,
etc.) are fitted just where it suits the
builder to get them in conveniently —to
themselves. Only the woman in the home
all day has to suffer the inconvenience
of these handicaps, but man does not
think of this. Up-to-date fittings lose
their appeal when so placed, and as home-
planning progresses the mistakes of the
builders now are going to help to make
“modern flats” slums in years to come.”
—Zooaster (N.S.W.).


\Jhis masterpiece is „
J 7 {he spirit he always serves
11 <
w
4
9
m
H
fit
\m
ZZi
sgS
<S£iS
tSt 1
m
tr
W
r
in.n"■■■•—“roo*** 1 ." V<'*<ni|ilnl>>Mm»tm^H.i.U»>M»U
(DCaUums
tfhjtJiSß-
Scots (Übisky
(IrGxllum's
yAo WA/sAyJs-
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
FD
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
PAGES
&
from
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti- .
fujly printed in sepia-tone. .1
Price 1/6 fr c °>
(Postage 2d. extra) tS '
Obtainable -
only
"
&
#‘ s '
o'
\* s
oO^
<sP-.
.a. VV*
- sV V O'
o$ VO \& < bT^


i
»
»
l]!<|
:
<
' "<a
% W
' „ n
''&■ & -•’• i |sg| p|
pj£i
eat and sleep well-
\' s .
■ :
Here are the facts on Bidomak, the wonderful modern mineral
food supplement that’s working wonders for run-down, nervy,
cranky youngsters.
In thousands of homes the daily struggle to “coax or com-
mand” food into children has ended.
Where the night’s sleep was often broken by night terrors,
children now rest in dreamless, reinvigorating slumber. Thin,
nervy youngsters have been calmed and are putting on plenty
of firm, muscular flesh.
And the REASON
simply this!
Bidomak Gives Benefit
Nerves, lack of appetite and
“pep” are due to the lack of
sufficient vital mineral elements in
the diet. So when you see your
youngster'tire easily in play, pick
at his food or spend nights in
disturbed, irregular sleep, get him
Bidomak. When he is not gaining
weight as he should, get him
Bidomak.
An Amazing Improvement
You’ll be amazed at the differ-
ence that will be made by the
iron, lime, sodium, potash, phos-
phates, glycero - phosphates and
sucrose which Bidomak provides.
In fact, we guarantee that you
will see benefit to your youngsters
within a fortnight or you can have
your money back.
Children Take Bidomak's
Safe Foods Readily
Bidomak is no old-fashioned medi-
cine with a nasty taste. Modern
research has enabled the discov-
erer to provide a palatable tonic
which ends the emotional “scenes, v
at the time of taking, which, auth-
orities say, often lead to serious
digestive disturbances destroying
the value of the mixture. Bidomak
is pleasant and contains no dan-
gerous drugs, opiates nor narcotics. It is safe
for even the youngest children, who learn to
ask for it because they like it. So get some
to-day and give it to all your family if
you want them to be fit, vigorous,
happy and well.
Money Bock Guarantee
So many nerve, sufferers have obtained immedia
relief from BIDOMAK that, if you do not benefi
by taking the first bottle, we will refund yoi
money, within 14 days of purchase, on retur
of the nearly empty bottle to Douglas Drug Co
Goulburn and Pelican Streets, Sydney. Thus, w
guarantee you positive relief or you pay nothing
Get a Bottle of
BIDOMAK TO-DAY
SCIENTIFIC
CONTROL
Attached to the Laborator-
ies of the Douglas Drug
Company are three fully
qualified chemists and a
doctor of Medicine who
graduated at the Univer-
sities of Edinburgh and
Glasgow.
UM
m
U
$
?Jhs*
!
sm
m
■
; a
‘V
■ - «i
*****
;«**•
5*S §
V
*■*&**
*****
?**&
31-
for a Large
Bottle
(all Chemists
and Stores).
New Zealand,
3/6.
/
t
f
/
t
