

Life
Assurance
The Balance Wheel of
Life.
For the
BUILDING OF
YOUR HOME,
EDUCATION OF
YOUR CHILDREN,
LIQUIDATION OF
THE MORTGAGE.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
CITY MUTUAL CORNER,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY,
Life
Assurance
The only Business
Certainty
For the
PROTECTION OF
ESTATE OR
BUSINESS,
FAMILY INCOME,
SALARY CON-
TINUATION.
Full particulars will
be forwarded on
application.
U/>e
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Purely Mutual, All Profits Belong to the Policy Holders.
Operates only in the Commonwealth of Australia.
Unsurpassed Reserves. Pays the Biggest Bonuses.
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
REPRESENTATIVES REQUIRED.
The Bulletin
J&rtT'tmf (UyuMto, •• £*/<>.
Vol. 59.-No. 3071.
Wednesday, December 21, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for 1 ransmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S ILLUSTRATED CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE
of Books and Stationery will be forwarded to
any address post free on application to
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HAPPY THOUGHTS ON COMING
WAR.
Captain Liddell Hart, the war historian and
military authority, is editing and Geoffrey Bles,
London, is publishing a considerate series of books
under the general heading “The Next War,” with
such pleasing titles as Gas in the Next War, The
Civilian in the Next War and so forth. Girls, give
one to the Boy Friend for Christmas. Better still,
everybody have family reading bees of them to help
keep up the right spirit of brightness over the festive
season. Unfortunately, the two mentioned are not
yet available, but they may be along for the New
Year. Meanwhile, there’s a merry time to be had
browsing over the first four to hand in what promises
to be a delightful series.
While a dreadful lot of mush and sentimental
guff is being written about “No more war” and
“Down with slaughter” and that sort of thing, the
authors in this series start off and keep on with the
assumption that the next war can be taken for granted.
If they didn’t accept that, there’d be no purpose in
their books, and nobody will accuse the series of being
futile. In it the next war is contemplated calmly,
without fuss. No false heroics, no extravagant sensa-
tionalism ; merely a matter of the effluxion of time.
Such works as seedsmen’s catalogues are wild and
highly-colored flights of pure fancy compared with
the reassuring sobriety of these engaging authors.
They not only charm us by the outlook with which
they consider their next war, but they awaken in us
the alluring anticipation that when their war comes
it will be a corker.
Major E. W. Sheppard pictures in his Tanks in
the Next War the exciting spectacle of tank duels, not
of isolated tanks against each other, but of small
groups of tanks having at each other in dingdong
grapple. Indeed, Major Sheppard as good as promises
“land fleet battles” between opposing ranks of heavy
tanks, “in which such will be the potentialities of the
contestants for mutual destruction” that crippling or
decimation of both sides might be the joyous out-
come.
An aside by Major Sheppard—what happier
name could have been picked?—makes his book per-
haps one that should not be left about in the way of
anyone who pins his faith to that noble engine of
destruction the Great Russian Steamroller ; we beg
its pardon, the Great Red Army. Not questioning
for a moment that this is the fine fighting instrument
it’s cracked up to be, but merely being so out-of-date
and reactionary as to form judgment on historical
record, it seems to us that no true believer in the
Great Red Army will accept for a minute that “Good
men in good tanks will drive the less good from the
field, and the best men in the best tanks will win the
tank battles of the future.” According to the Stunt
Press, to say nothing of Australia’s stunting
politicians, machines are everything, and the fight-
ing quality of men no longer matters. Still, if there
are any bright young gents at Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” “S.M.H.” or “Daily News”—marvellous
bedfellows, indeed! —who’d like to have a bet against
Major Sheppard’s conclusion, we’re prepared to
chance five of the best (shillings) and await events.
Not that Major Sheppard is there referring speci-
fically to Russia. That is wholly our own original
idea. But elsewhere he does so, to the effect that there
is a good deal of disturbing evidence to show that
Russia’s industrial progress has been superficial, and
that that country’s manufacturing and munition
resources might find themselves “strained beyond their
somewhat limited efficiency and capacity by the exigen-
cies of a prolonged and intensive campaign.”
The Major is a bit inclined to talk in mouthfuls
like that, and he’s also prone—a horrible word to use
of a sxddier, we know; but we were there ourselves,
and the word is prone—to break into the fiction
device of dialogue and telling a little story to bring
some obscure matter to our intelligence. These
chapters and passages we skip without a blush, because
we feel that books of this nature should be in their
statement as exact and precise as a brand-new fiver,
not that such documents are exceptionally familiar
to us.
In the main, however, Major Sheppard writes
intelligently and pretty exactly on what those who go
down to the next war in tanks may reasonably expect.
Soldiers of our mechanised units should find the work
thrilling and instructive. The Major, like the other
authors in the series, knows what he’s talking about.
Commander Russell Grenfell, R.N., author of
Sea Power in the Next War, offers such pleasing
opinion as that, whereas for Great Britain “invasion
is an academic rather than a practical subject,” for
“more self-supporting countries who might be also
inferior at sea, such as Australia and New Zealand,
invasion is a more real possibility.” In reading
Commander Grenfell we are reminded of the state-
ment made the other day by Mr. Chamberlain to the
effect that, whatever individual Dominions might
think about a one-for-all-and-all-for-one policy for
the British Commonwealth of Nations, Britain
wouldn’t hesitate for a moment about going to the
aid of any Dominion in trouble. To which Com-
mander Grenfell adds the comforting reflection that,
though Britain’s inclinations may be all in favor of
hurrying to the aid of any threatened portion of the
British Commonwealth, Britain ought to be quite
certain that it is fully able to honor that undertaking,
and is not merely allowing Imperial enthusiasm to
run away with judgment.
The Commander has a good historical sense, and
writes directly in honest language, as understandable
in the drawing-room as on the quarter-deck. He
believes in small ships and plenty of ’em, conjuring
up a picture of fleets of tough little fighters putting
up an all-in battle every bit as promising from the
spectacular or movie-rights point of view as the tank
battle envisaged by Major Sheppard.
For a real Christmas thriller, however, we would
specially commend J. M. Spaight’s Air Power in the
Next War. This is so good—so directly to the point,
packed with most interesting information and lively
in its discussion —that the temptation is to quote the
lot of it. It is recommended to the consideration of
every thinking person in the community, as are all
the books in this excellent series. It studies objec-
tively and calmly the part aircraft will play not only
on the fighting fronts but in the backyards. People
who like to turn such thoughts over in their minds
should skip and dance at the cheery idea that if enemy
’planes come and blow us to bits we’ll be quite big
bits compared with what will be forked up when our
’planes have responded in like manner, only more
so. It seems quite evident, anyway, that a good time
will be had by all.
There is another book to hand in this series—
Sidney Rogerson’s Propaganda in the Next War—
something of the quality of which has been indicated
by extracts published in “Uncabled Additions.” It
is a first-rate job.
The manner in which this rapid consideration of
Captain Hart’s excellent series is done will not, we
trust, give an impression that the series is anything
but good. The trick of regarding the whole filthy
and revolting business of war in a spirit of the lightest
levity possible is one that enabled us to retain what
we are pleased to call our sanity during the last pretty
chaos. If the next war all these people write so
competently about duly comes along we recommend
the useful virtue of a little levity to those who will
be wallowing in the slaughter. And don’t tell us
that these times and these issues are too serious to
be treated like this, or we’ll be tempted to say things
we haven’t said with proper emphasis since some wit
put petrol in our rum at Passchendaele.
Frozen North.
Two books making pleasant literary refrigerators
in the present state of the Australian climate are
Frank Wead’s Gales, Ice and Men (Methuen) and Paul
Emile Victor’s My Eskimo Life (Hamish Hamilton ;
translated from the French by Jocelyn Godefroi). For
its compact, colorful and odorous description of the
life of the Eskimos, Victor’s book is the more interest-
ing of the two ; Wead, nevertheless, makes a good
adventure story of the career of the steam barquentine
Bear, which (or who) is his heroine.
Maorilanders may recall that the Bear called at
Dunedin when she was associated with the Byrd
expedition to the Antarctic. Until that time, from
her launching in 1874, she was in far northern waters,
engaged in sealing, exploration, coastguard work and
rescue work. Wead tells dramatically of the rescue
of the explorer Greely when a ship which was to
have taken the party home failed to reach the rendez-
vous in Lady Franklin Bay.
The Bear pushed through the pack ice nearly to
the spot, and found a note saying that the party of
25 men had gone into camp a few miles away with
food for forty days. Since that note had been written
nine months of Arctic winter had passed. The search
continued:
On a promontory they came upon one of Greely’s
men, Sergeant Long, vainly trying to lift an oar with
three signal rags tied to it against' the howling wind.
Long was too weak to hold the oar upright. He dropped
it and staggered towards them, falling twice. He was
thin, emaciated; his eyes glittered wildly.
“How many left?” asked Colwell, sick at heart.
“Seven left,” said Long, and sank to the rocks and
cried.
The seven, among whom was Greely, were
rescued. For days before the Bear arrived they had
had no food but a few seal thongs. They had eaten
their sealskin clothing, eaten lichens from the rocks,
netted sea-fleas—thirteen hundred of which were
required to fill a gill measure; in the end they had
been forced into cannibalism.
After that, Gales, Ice and Men has stories of the
Alaskan gold rushes and of sealing, northern versions
of the yarns Professor Dakin and Will Lawson have
told of whaling in the south. The gold-rush activity
culminated in another epic of rescue in which the
Bear took part. Nine whalers, with crews totalling
265 men, were fast in the pack-ice near Point Barrow,
with winter upon them and the nearest food supplies
hundreds of miles away. The Bear worked as far
north into the Bering Sea as possible, and landed a
party to drive a herd of reindeer 800 miles over the
frozen tundra to the whalemen. Despite blizzards
and stampedes and all the difficulties and dangers
of the trip, the herd reached Point Barrow in 55 days.
The great fault of Wead’s book is that sentimental
vaporings about the ship and a too-meticulous account
of her voyages slow the pace of the narrative. In
My Eskimo Life there is no padding. Victor, who
spent over six months in a hut with 26 Eskimos,
enjoyed or endured the tragedies and comedies, the
consolations and the crudities of the time in the cause
of science, but he writes a human story, not a scientific
one. The book reads like a novel, with himself and
an Eskimo girl for the chief characters, kindly or
hostile Eskimos in the minor parts, and storms, bears,
seals, dogs, witch-doctors, children and puppies for
decoration.
Explanations of why and how he came to be
living among the natives of Angmagssahk nearlv
always a tedious beginning to a travel book —are con-
fined to the briefest of forewords; scientific notes are
in appendices. There are excellent drawings and
photographs and, curiously effective, press extracts
about European crises inserted at the head of each
chapter to emphasise the isolation in which he lived.
The story is of the simplest: hunting a bear
among the mountains, harpooning seals, spearing
salmon ; a child is born, an old woman dies; the
Eskimos feast tremendously on raw seal “higher”
than the highest pheasant that graces English tables;
the puppy killed by the older dog is thrown to the
sharks ; Doumidia, seeing a photograph of a French
girl, remarks how ugly she is. Interspersed with this
living picture of the Eskimos by day and night are
their myths and superstitions. There are the Krin-
garanguitsek, giants without noses who live under-
ground, and the Yaywetsiet, miniature Eskimos, also
living underground. They hunt ptarmigan with lances,
as Eskimos hunt bears.
Outside the hut was the snowy wilderness, the
cracking of the ice and the occasional thunder of an
iceberg crashing in ruins. Inside the hut:
Seated round the meat spread out on the skin
stretched upon the muddy flagstones, Yosepi, Gaba,
Tekri, Kristian, Odarpi and Mikidi were cutting up,
carving, drinking large handfuls of sticky blood, shout-
ing, licking their fingers, masticating, swallowing,
stuffing themselves with meat and fat, sucking at frag-
ments of intestine, and handing warm, steaming frag-
ments to their respective wives. And the whole scene
was played in the shadows thrown by the ounakrit, with
a kind of feverish intensity, in an atmosphere that
suggested some strange ritual.
The whole atmosphere of My Eskimo Life,
indeed, suggests “some strange ritual.” Such is Vic-
tor’s talent that the Eskimo in his hut becomes primi-
tive man crouching over his fire. There is this poetic
quality, and there is also a complete and authoritative
picture of the Eskimos as they are.
Bruce Lockhart in Europe.
In Norway it was put to R. H. Bruce Lockhart,
as he records in Guns or Butter (Putnam), that every-
one in that country wanted Britain and Germany to
come to terms (this was before the achievement of the
Munich Pact); also everyone wanted Britain to be
strong.
Lockhart was to hear this wish reiterated by nearly
every politician not only in Scandinavia, but also in
every other European country. Other of his findings
on the Scandinavian countries may make many feel
that if Australia wants a model —and especially that
part of Australia which is so strongly infected by the
cheapest of American influences —it would find a great
one in the lands from which its tent-born Lawson was
only one remove away.
Norway spends more on books per head of popu-
lation than any other country in the world except Den-
mark, and authors, artists and composers are honored
above all other men. Sweden has a model social legis-
lation ; “throughout the whole country social hygiene
has been developed to a higher point than anywhere
else in the world.” The Swedish Minister for Social
Welfare, a Socialist, told him that Swedish Socialists
“had been disillusioned by recent events in Russia.”
They were worried about Britain, whom they regarded
as the main pillar of European peace. Lockhart tells
a curious little story touching on a great industrial
firm, making ball-bearings, which has branch factories
in the leading countries of the world.
For the tiny ball-bearings, which demand agile
fingers, the French women came first. In the other
categories the Swedes just beat the Americans. Very
little behind came the Germans.
“And where do we come?” I asked.
“Easily last,” said the manager. “I’m afraid the
British won’t work or have forgotten how to.”
Modern Sweden strongly impressed him.
She has made immense strides since 1918, and has
to-day reached a higher standard of civilisation than
any other country in the world. She has a finer concep-
tion of life than either Britain or France, or, at least,
she has been more successful in realising it. She is
industrially as efficient as the United States and a hun-
dred years ahead of that country in social legislation.
Her youth is, I think, without any exception the
healthiest and, in the most comprehensive sense of the
word, the best-educated in the world. For the harassed
peoples of Europe, for all pessimists and defeatists,
Scandinavia is the finest tonic I know. If there were
50 million Norwegians and Swedes, there would be
peace in Europe. Unfortunately, the combined total of
the two populations is only nine millions, and their
prosperity and their progress must be ascribed mainly
to the fact that for more than a century they have been
spared the horrors of war. It is a blessing which small
nations are not prepared to exchange for the risks of
collective security.
It would seem that others besides those mainly
interested in cultural matters in Australia and Maori-
land have something of the highest importance to
learn from the Scandinavian countries.
In Yugoslavia and adjacent countries, with which
the greater part of his book is concerned, Lockhart
notes striking improvements in the general mode of
living and national welfare of the people. He com-
ments pungently —as he does again when he gets to
Germany —on the lately enormously and dangerously
increased predilection of Britain’s busybodies to
deliver moral lectures to various Continental peoples.
Naturally this sort of interference, with its implied
sense of lofty superiority on the part of the lecturers,
is strongly resented. The pretence of the Stunt Press,
in which most of it, of course, is perpetrated, is that
the only country resentful on the point is Germany, and
that country only because it can’t stand criticism. To
read Lockhart should open the eyes of anyone who
accepts that nonsense. Lockhart found the resentment
very strong through the lower parts of Central Europe.
The chapter in which he lashes Britain’s almighty busy-
bodies is one of the liveliest in his book, the general
f Continued on page 8.)


tfour (jift Problem A
ARE QUICKLY & APTLY SOLVED HERE!
:3m
<&&****
V
3*V*S
For "Him" . . . why not a Military Hairbrush? Let
your choice be an American Prophylactic Military
Hairbrush with pure white bristles set in Chromium,
and with walnut lacquered back. Complete with comb
in neat gift box. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE 7/3
Another appropriate suggestion for one of the
men on your gift list 1 Shellonite Shaving Set.
Carried out in Tortoiseshell Xylonite. Good
bevelled mirror. Complete with shaving brush
and mug. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE 14/3
r rr: '*
/V
T.---• •
m
Another good gift! American Prophylactic Brush Sets
as illustrated. In ebonized black wood. Pure white
bristles set in Ivory Metal base. Sets comprise each
one military brush, one clothes brush, one comb.
Complete in gift box. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each - H/9
m
we
mi
-C
<J
A gift for a lovely ladyl American brush sets featuring chromium
frames, with Pink, Blue or Green backs. Each set is complete in a
charming gift box. At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, set :.... 25/-
A scintillating gift to sufficiently inspire the recipient with all the glamour
of the festive season! Lead Crystal Manicure Sets, in a very brilliant dia-
mond hand cutting. Complete in presentation box. At Anthony Horderns.
PRICE, complete - 43/11
m
s~
"His Master's Voice"
Portable Gramo-
phones. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE,
ea.. £7/7/- and £9/9/-
Columbia. PRICE,
each £4/10/-
m
,/MtiA
Hohner's 3 - stop
Accordions. At
Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, each, 65/-.
Hohner's 3 - stop.
PRICE, each, 75/-
Novelty Jug with
bird handle. In
Orange / Green.
Would make a
very acceptable
gift. At Anthony
Horderns’
PRICE, each, 1/11
Hanging Vases,
are now very
popular. In beau-
tiful Beswickware
in delightful tint-
ings and various
shapes. At An-
thony Horderns'.
PRICE, each, 5/11
Stationery and
Writing Case.
Attache shape
with lock and key.
A useful present.
At Anthony Hor-
derns'. PRICES,
ea., 23/6, 26/6,
31/6 and 49/6.
Gift Department—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered Free only within our Delivery Area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O*
'Phone: M 2401 (Day and Night)


We All Know ’Em
BUCKS’
PARTY
by Gavin S. Casey
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
WHEN the showroom shut at half-past five, Joe
and I got into my car and drove around to
the City Hotel, where we had to meet the
rest of the boys. Jim Tancey had got a job
in another State. He was leaving next day, and we
were going to spend the evening wishing him luck.
We were going to have a few drinks together and a
meal, and then perhaps we’d go to the fight, and after
that we’d have a few bottles and some supper. I’d
been looking forward to it, and now the weather was
warm, but not too warm, and I should have been in
a good humor, but I wasn’t. Things had been going
wrong for a week,' and I didn’t have too much money,
and I knew pretty well that it would be an expensive
night.
“How did you get on with Slater?” Joe asked
as we rolled down the street. “Did you sell him the
truck?”
“Sell him nothing!” I said. “How the hell could
we sell him anything after what the firm did to him
last time?”
“Well, you thought you could talk him round,”
said Joe.
“I thought!” said I. “But I should have known
better. I’ve worked in the lousy dump long enough
to know you’ve got to fight the office, and the old
man, and the workshop, and Johnson with his valua-
tions, all the bloody time, and you can’t beat the lot
of them. Not with a bloke like Slater, anyway.”
“We’ve got the stuff, anyway,” said Joe. “If we
didn’t have the right lines, we’d go under.”
“We’ll go under as it is,” I snorted. “The old
man’ll lose all his agencies, like he did the Dentons.
He’ll lose me, too, if I get half a chance at another
job.”
We pulled up at the City, and though I thought
there was no need to rush the liquor, as there’d be
plenty of it later on, I needed one, and we had a
couple. Then Jerry and Sid arrived from their rag-
shop, and Jim himself came in, and we had a shilling
in. The beer was fresh and cool, and everyone was
starting off merry, except me.
I was disgusted with the firm, and worried because
I mightn’t have enough money, and I was thinking
about Mary, too, and how she’d pleaded with me not
to be home too late, and said she always worried when
I was drinking and had a car. Mary wasn’t as bad
as some, I thought, but all women were the same
on certain points. Then the mob decided that Jim’s
car, being bigger than mine, would be best for the
five of us, and we took mine
back to the showroom and
put it inside.
Driving out to the
suburb where we were going
to eat it was better. The
beer was starting to work
in me, and it looked as if
the night would be good
fun. When we got to our
suburb, we had another
shilling in, and bought some
bottles to take to the restaurant.
Tony, the Dago, was all smiles, as
usual, and he got out some glasses,
and we put a couple of tables together
and settled down to eat.
We all had steak and eggs, and
mine tasted good. It was good—men’s
tucker, I thought—and it tasted a lot
better than the dainty arrangements
Mary usually put on the table. I
began to feel all right.
“Well, here’s to old Jim,” said
Jerry Frazer, lifting his glass. “A
good trip to him, and when we read
in the papers that there’s an industrial
depression and a crime-wave in Vic-
toria we’ll know he’s got there all
right.”
“When you start wondering
what’s gone wrong with business here
you’ll realise I’ve gone, you mean,”
said Jim.
Sid and Jerry started talking about rags, and Joe
began to tell Jim the best way to sell his car,
and the best way to get hold of another good one
and show a profit on the deal when he got to Vic-
toria. We all began kidding ourselves that we were
pretty shrewd heads and pretty smart businessmen,
though we were really only a bunch of tinpot sales-
men, and we’d probably never be anything else in all
our lives.
We told each other how good we were, and I
got confidential enough to make a bit of a speech
about how impossible it was for even a man of my
ability to sell cars if the firm’s workshop did nothing
but disgust customers, and the office and the valuator
did nothing but crab deals. For a while, we were all
pretty serious and pompous, though quite happy,
and then Joe started the laughs again with some wise-
crack or other, and we trooped out, full of food arid
friendliness.
We went to the pub and settled down to some
steady drinking. We were all congratulating Jim and
envying him, not because the job he was going to
was so much better than those some of us had, but
because he was going to have a change and a trip
to Victoria. We were all imagining trips to Victoria.
But when it was eight o’clock someone remembered
the fight, and. we had a debate as to whether we’d go
or not.
“"T'HIS’S better than any blasted fight,” said Jim,
* who was drunker than the rest of us. “Stop right
here, that’s what I say.”
“Aw, hell! ” said Joe. “Don’t be a bunch of fools.
Ginger Sayers an’ Jacky Coleman’ll put up the best
show for years. For Christ’s sake, we don’t want to
miss it.”
“We can stop for a while, anyway,” said Sid.
“We’re only missing the prelims. We’ll see the big
fight if we get there by nine.”
After a while we agreed with that, and we kept
on lapping up the liquor, and arguing in a friendly
way, and getting confidential about our troubles, and
finding things to laugh about. It was nine o’clock
very suddenly, and Joe started to moan that we’d miss
Ginger Sayers and Jacky Coleman, so we got some
bottles and piled into the car and set off for town.
Jim drove like a lunatic. My own waistcoat was
tight, and I was laughing easily and making a lot of
noise, but I wasn’t too drunk to wish I was at the wheel
of my own car instead of being a passenger to Jim. He
had his tyres screaming round the corners, and he made
the engine roar wherever there was a little stretch of
straight road. We yelled and swore at him, but he
took no notice. 1 wasn’t frightened for myself, but
it made me remember Mary and how she was always
terrified of drink and cars together. For a few
minutes I hated Jim, because' he had no sense and
might smash us up.
I was in the back seaJ, and I couldn’t do anything,
but I’d punch him on the nose as soon as we got out,
I decided. I wouldn’t let him drive the car again
that night, even if it was his. Then we were at the
fight, and everything was all right, and I realised
that Jim was a good fellow in spite of
being a bit cranky, and we all realised that it was
the fourth round of the main bout and that
something exciting was happening because the mob
inside was yelling its head off. We rushed the ticket-
box, and when I ladled out the money 1 found I was
pretty near the lining of my pocket and would have
to borrow a few shillings from Joe before the night
was over. But I didn’t care, because there was some-
thing exciting inside and because I was full of beer
and feeling grand.
We got inside just in time to see Ginger Sayers
go to the canvas and stay there, and when we came out
we nearly got into an argument. There was talk
among the crowd, of course, and Joe couldn’t keep
out of it.
“What a bloody washout! What a bloody ref-
eree!” one of the crowd said to the man he was with,
and though Joe hadn’t seen the fight and didn’t know
what he was talking about he had to put his spoke in.
“Don’t you worry,” he said ; “Jacky Coleman didn’t
need any help from the ref. to knock that slob over.”
“P’raps you could knock him over?” said the man
straight away. “I daresay you could, too, if you used
your fat head like Coleman done.”
“I couldn’t knock Coleman over,” said Joe, “and
lemme tell you that there’s not a welter in Australia
that could, either. But by hell I could knock you
over with the end of my nose, never mind about my
head.”
We walked a couple of blocks away from the
stadium and the car with Joe and the stranger threat-
ening each other, and then we went up a lane and
kept on arguing. I felt a bit disgusted with Joe, who
always gets a bit quarrelsome on a skinful of beer.
I didn’t want any trouble, but I hung about and looked
as large and grim as I could, and I could soon see
that, as there were four of us and only two on the
other side, their enthusiasm for trouble had dried
up, too.
It finished up all right, after a lot of words,
with them coming back to the car and drinking a
couple of our bottles. Joe was pretty pleased with
himself, because he really thought he’d bluffed the
other bloke, and the stranger was pretty pleased
with himself, because he thought he’d got out of a
nasty situation in a very honorable way. So every-
thing was lovely, and when we got going again we
had two more in the car.
But before we got going something happened
to make the rest of us fe?l pleased with ourselves,
and pretty superior, too. Jim had sort of been
keeping his teeth clenched when he talked, and not
talking much at all, and he had a sweaty look. After
a drink of the beer he tottered into the darkness,
up a lane and was sick. We could vaguely see him
along the lane with his head against the wall and
his feet as far as possible away from it. I felt, like
the others, that I was a pretty good drinker, and
that poor old Jim wasn’t up to our standard.
“Can’t your cobber take it?” asked one of the
newcomers pleasantly.
“Never you mind about him,” said Joe. “We’ve
had plenty to-night, see? Maybe you’ll be getting
a load off your stomach before you’ve had as much
as him.”
“It must’ve been the tinned salmon I had for
lunch,” said Jim pretty feebly when he came back.
“Or perhaps one of those eggs was crook. I can’t
understand it.”


IT was getting late and I didn’t know whether or
1 not I wanted to go home. Mary would be expect-
ing me soon, I thought, and then I thought damn
Mary, and that I might as well be hung for a sheep
as a lamb, anyway. I borrowed half a note from
Joe, who had a pound he’d taken with an order and
had tactfully forgotten to hand in to the office in case
he needed it. The pubs were all shut, but Jerry was
a member of the Sportsman’s Club, and we all
trooped in there and got a few more bottles.
We had supper in an all-night place full of
louts and peroxide blondes, and, being older and
more sure of ourselves than most of them, we pretty
well took charge of the room. We were all very
drunk, and when Sid found that his teacup was
cracked he smashed it on the floor and told the
proprietor to go to hell. The proprietor shut up,
but he charged us three and six each for the meal.
It didn’t taste fine, like the first lot of steak and
eggs had, either. When it was over, Sid and Jerry
both dashed up the nearest lane and were sick, which
left only Joe and me out of the original party with
anything to be proud about. We felt pretty pleased.
We went out to one of the beaches. I’d for-
gotten all about taking the car away from Jim, and
he drove. He didn’t go as wildly as he had earlier
in the evening, though he swooped off the road into
the sand a couple of times. We bawled and sang
and swore, and told stories and limericks. We
stopped by the roadside a couple of times for drinks.
We lurched about all over the place when we stopped,
and the bottles took a long time to empty. We were
all full of beer. I guessed that most of the others
were just holding the bottles to their mouths and
waggling their Adam’s apples without swallowing
any. 1 resented this, and I was drunk enough to
be reckless. 1 drank as much as I could every time,
and then I had a wretched, miserable period of sweat-
ing and clenching my teeth to keep control of myself.
It would have done me a lot of good to have been
sick, but I was determined not to. Not until after
Joe had, anyway.
Sid had unexpectedly passed out in the back
seat. Jerry had discovered that both the men we’d
picked up at the fight had been born and brought
up on the goldfields, and the three of them were get-
ting sentimental about it. Joe and I danced in the
sand at one stop, and 1 got a suspicion that Joe
was throwing away bottles that were pretty nearly
full because he couldn’t drink any more. I went
after one of the bottles he threw to make sure, but
I couldn’t find it.
When we got to the beach it was nearly three
o’clock. The sand was deserted, and there was soft
surf rolling over it. It was dark and cool, and the
air was fresh and clean as good milk. We lay on
the sand, and I remembered all the bright summer
days and cool summer evenings Mary and I had
spent on the beaches before we were married, when
we’d been just a couple of kids, and I’d been full
of great plans and hadn’t had any thirst worth talk-
ing about. I remembered them as happier times
than any I’d had since, and I wondered why I (and
Mary, too) had changed.
I decided that it was a rotten world, and that
everyone who was born into it got cheated. I wanted
to bury my face in the sand and cry for all I’d had
and lost, but I knew that if I did the rest of the mob
would just think I was crying drunk. I wished that
they would all go away. I wouldn't care, I thought,
even if they took the car and never came back for
me. •
We got undressed and went for a swim in the
nude, but when you’re as drunk as we were even the
cold sea doesn’t do you any good. It doesn’t sober
you up. It only makes you wish you were sober
enough to enjoy it, and wonder why you never visit
the beach in the early hours of the morning except
when you’re drunk. I’d bring Mary out here in the
car one evening soon, I decided. But I knew I
wouldn’t because nobody but drunks visits the quiet
beaches at that hour.
NT ONE of us had much to say as we dressed,
1 except some grumbles at the sand in our shoes
and underclothes. We trailed back to the car, and
when we passed under a big light that they keep
burning all night near the pier I looked at my
cobbers. It was four o’clock. Their whiskers had
grown stubbly through the night and the color had
drained out of their faces. They looked rotten. They
didn’t have much to say. The fun of the party was
all over.
At the car we drank more beer and it did us
good. It made even me feel better, and it made the
rest get noisy again. We zoomed back towards town
singing.
• “What a night! What a night!” roared Joe. “1
reckon you’ll remember your send-off for a while,
Jim.”
“It’s all right for Jim,” said someone. “He
hasn't gotter go t’ work to-morrow —to-day, I mean.”
That made us all feel a bit gloomy, and we
drank the last of the beer. We dropped the two
strangers where they lived near town and went on
out to my suburb. Jim wanted to drive right to
my gate, but drunk as I was I wouldn’t let him. I
grabbed the wheel and wrenched the car off the road
and nearly smashed it up.
“Y’ bloody fool!” yelled Jim. “What y’ do
that for.”
“You can go to hell,” I said. “You come down
waking the wife and all the neighbors and I’ll poke
you in the eye.”
“He’s right,” said Joe. “Give him a bit of a go.”
I got rid of them and lurched off down the road.
Daylight was on the way. I was twitching with nerves
and the drink. I got into the house and went to
the bedroom. I switched on the light and was glad
that Mary was asleep. I wondered how late she’d
stayed up waiting for me. She was fast asleep now,
and she looked fresh and sweet snuggled under the
blankets, though there were lines under her eyes and
at the corners of her mouth that hadn’t been there
five years earlier when we’d been married.
I felt dirty and stale and shaky. I looked in the
mirror, and my eyes were red with salt water and
lack of sleep. My hair was all over the place. My
skin was dirty grey and I needed a shave. My clothes
were creased and soiled, and I couldn’t keep my
hands still. I didn’t like the look of myself much,
and when Mary stirred I felt pretty panicky. I’d
been worrying about work, and how I’d feel next
day, but when Mary stirred I forgot all that. I only
wanted that she shouldn’t see me. I snapped out
the light and dived into the passage. I went straight
to the bathroom and was sick at last.
So we stayed there for a while, lapping up the
liquor, and arguing in a friendly way, and getting
confidential about our troubles, and finding things
to laugh about.
MUGS
BY G.C.B.
•
1 | A HEN McNeil, the publican, goes round the
\ A J bar ’andin’ out the usual free-drink tickets
Vv for Christmas Eve he overlooks me com-
plete, and when I reminds ’im he tells me
quite calm that I ain’t gettin’ none.
“Sorry, Raggles,” he ses. “Wot with Miss Pilk-
ington’s milk bar right next door takin’ ’arf me female
trade, business ain’t wot it was. I got to economise,
so I’ve made a strict rule this year not to give no
free tickets to customers wot ’ave outstandin’ debts.”
I tries to show ’im ’ow foolish that was, pointin’
out that only good customers run up outstandin’ debts,
but he ignores me complete, and I goes ’ome at last in
disgust, where I gets another surprise from Mrs.
Raggles.
“I ’ave a little job for you, Ernest,” she ses. “It’s
for to-night and every night till Christmas. Miss Pilk-
ington’s short-’anded at the milk bar and you’re goin’
to give a ’and cleanin’ up and makin’ yourself useful.”
“I ain’t keen on workin’ of a night after a ’eavy
day’s rat-catchin’, Emma,” 1 ses. “But I don’t mind
doin’ it just now seein’ that the few extra bob will
be ’andy on account of McNeil’s extraordinary”——
“There won’t be no few extra bob,” she ses
sharp. “You’re goin’ to ’elp Miss Pilkington volun-
tary. You should be only too glad to do your feller-
creatures a good turn and ’elp them to ’ave a ’appy
Christmas.”
D UT is wasn’t so much to ’elp a feller-creature
‘— J ’ave a ’appy Christmas as to stop meself from
’avin’ a extra-special miserable one wot sent me up
to the Good ’Ealth Milk Bar that night. And a ter-
rible unpleasant night it was too.
It was bad enough cleanin’ up the place till me
arms ached, and packin’ the storeroom with big mugs
wot give me a tremenjous thirst just to look at, but
wot was a ’undred times worse was the way Miss
Pilkington keeps lecturin’ me. She ’arps and ’arps
all night about the poison wot’s in beer and the
vitamins wot’s in milk, and every now and then she
points to ’er great fat cat, wot lives on a diet of milk
almost, as a example.
I was sick of ’earin’ about that cat, but she
mentions it again next night, remarkin’, surprised,
’ow fond it was of me, follerin’ me about and meowin’
and clawin’ at me legs very friendly and earnest. I
could ’ave made ’er look a bit silly by explainin’ that
that cat was fed up with milk and was cravin’ for a
change of diet; but knowin’ ’ow nervous wimmen is
I didn’t mention one of me pet rats wot I ’ad found
asleep in me pocket before leavin’ ’ome and ’adn’t
liked to disturb.
’Owever, when I gets ’ome I finds that me rat ’ad
disappeared complete, and as I ’ad a pretty good idea
of where it ’ad disappeared to I promises meself a
few words with Miss Pilkington about that meat-
’ungry animal of ’ers ; but, as it ’appened, I ’ardly
’ad a chance to open me mouth when I sees ’er again
on account of the un’appy tale she pours out.
“It’s terrible, Raggles,” she moans. “Poor Tibby
got locked in the storeroom last night. The first I
knows of it is a terrible smashin’ and crashin’, and
before I could get ’er out ’arf me mugs was smashed.
She must ’ave ’ad a fit or some-
thin’.” And she goes on. moanin’
abqut ’er mugs and ’ow she won’t
be able to keep up with the
Christmas rush without ’em and
’ow it’s too late to order no more
before the ’olidays.
She seemed so upset that I
starts thinkin’ ’ow I could ’elp
’er, and after a bit I suggests bor-
rowin’ some from McNeil.
“Wot!” she ses. “Me borrer
from that low publican! Never!
I couldn’t think of it. And be-
sides,” she ses, “I’d be the last
one he’d give any ’elp to.”
“Quite right, Miss Pilking-
ton,” 1 ses quietly. “But there
ain’t no reason why he should
know he’s ’elpin’ you. Seein’ that
I visits ’is storeroom regular in
the course of me duties I might be
able to borrer some of ’is mugs
for you and leave these ’ere
broken ones behind. He’ll think
’is barmen broke ’em and said
nothin’ about it. And then after
the ’olidays you can ’and ’em
back and ,thank ’im polite for
’elpin’ you out.”
“McNeil ’elpin’ the Good
’Ealth Milk Bar!” she ses in a
’ushed voice. “It sounds too good
to be true, Raggles. But isn’t ’is
mugs branded or somethin’?”
“Pints only,” I ses. “McNeil’s
mugs is as plain as your own,
Miss Pilkington.”
She gets real enthusiastic then,
but I points out that there’s a big
risk in it for me and that I
wouldn’t be &oin’ it only it’ll be
a sort of Christmas present for
o Continued on page 7.)


SKINNY HAZLITT, FIGHT-FIXER
by A.C. Headley
DRAWING BY LOCK.
I KNEW something was coming when Skinny got
into the habit of shaping up at me, leading out
his left, chopping it short, and ducking so much
that his chin kept bumping his knee.
“Scut,” he said, when I hooked a nice open-
hander on to his ear, “there’s money in the fight
game.”
“Sure,” said I, “and there was money in the horse
game, and the astrology game, and the racin’ game,
but we didn’t get it.”
Skinny ducked- and stabbed a couple of punches
at the air. “Scut,” he said, “we was the victims of
circumstances.”
“What we want to do,” said I, “is find a couple
of victims like us.”
“This,” said Skinny, breathing as if he had
asthma, “is diff’rent. Accordin’ to Mimi this boy
can fight. All ’e does is wait for the travellin’ boxin’
shows to turn up an’ then ’e starts to lay ’em out so
he can ’elp pay the mortgage on the farm.”
“Mimi?” said I. “That name sounds as familiar
to me as the losin’ of a packet of dough. Forget it.
We’ve got no money to waste buyin’ chaff for fighters.”
“It ain’t a matter I’ve overlooked,” said Skinny,
“an’ that’s why I let Jimmy Hood in on it. He’s got
the dough if I perduce the fighter, an’ t’-morrer Jimmy
is gettin’ ’old of a good boy an’ we’re all goin’ up to
give the boy from the bush a try-out.”
1 T didn’t seem so bad considering that Jimmy Hood
1 was forking out the cash and carry. And the next
morning Jimmy brought this pug with him ; from the
look of him I could see the fighting yokel was in for
a tough time.
The one good thing about the town was that the
pub was near the station. We stepped off the train
and went in to see Mimi. She was twisting a bit of
rag in an empty mug and talking to a feller who was
trying to get drunk on a glass of lemonade. She
gave a little yelp when she saw Skinny, and slid down
the bar.
“Skinny,” she said, “you couldn’t have come at
a better time.” She called down the bar to the
lemonade drunk. “Willie, these are the gents I’ve been
talking about. These are the gents that will put you
on the road to fame and fortune.”
Willie moved along the bar and looked at us.
“Aw, I dunno, Mimi,” he said. “I been thinkin’
about it. I don’t think I oughter, seein’ as it would
draw the barrier of many miles between our love.”
“Absence,” said Mimi, “makes the heart grow
fonder. I would carry a picture of you in my heart
until you made good and our two happy hearts was
united.”
Willie looked at us. “Don’t she speak beautiful?”
he said.
Skinny was staring at Mimi as if he was wonder-
ing whether she was mad with the drink.
“Mimi,” he said, “is this the fighter you were
talkin’ about?”
Mimi looked up from pulling our beer and
nodded.
Jimmy Hood hitched up his trousers. “I’ve got
a feelin’ we’re bein’ robbed,” he said, “but we came
down for a test and try before we buy, so we might as
well have it.” He turned to Mimi. “You got a place
where we won’t be int’rupted for ’alf ’n hour?”
Mimi smiled. “There’s a place out the back.”
The place was a bit of a square where the two
buildings of the pub joined. There was plenty of
room and it was pretty private.
“This’ll do orright,” said Skinny. “Where’s the
gloves?”
“Gloves?” said Willie. “I thought this was jist a
tryout. I didn’t know we was gonna dress up.”
“Ho,” said the boy we’d brought with us, look-
ing at Willie and licking his lips, “it’d be such a pity
t’ disappoint ’im. I’ll make the great sacrifice an’
do wivout the gloves. It’s me good ’eart.”
He started to take off his shirt, but Willie was
satisfied just to tie up his coat with a safety-pin. “You
on’y goiter put it on agin,” he explained.
They shaped up then, and I’ve never seen any-
thing like it. Our pug moved out as though it was a
good idea to get it over in a couple of punches, and
that was exactly what happened— two punches, and
Willie was helping to pick our pug up and saying
how sorry he was to hit so hard seeing that it was
just for fun. Jimmy Hood was dancing around as
though he’d found a goldmine.
“Skinny,” he said, “you’re me pal f’r life. Ain’t
it wonderful? Did y’ see that cross? It was like
Les Darcy, on’y quicker. Skinny, we’re on our way
to clean up the shekels.”
With Mimi helping we kidded Willie that his
destiny was linked up with ours, and with his personal
property bulging out of a handkerchief he climbed on
to the seven o’clock train for the city. Jimmy Hood
was so excited that he didn’t want to play cards with
strangers.
“Skinny,” he kept saying, “our fortunes is made.”
When we got back he rented an old shed and
started looking around the pawnshops for anything
in the way of old punching-bags, and got down on
Willie seriously.
t l I ISTEN,” said Skinny to Jimmy Hood, after we’d
*— l had Willie in hand for a couple of weeks,
'“what’s the sense in stackin’ the kid in preliminaries.
It’s like this, we stick Willie in the four-rounders and
before ’e’s ’ad ’alf a dozen fights someone’ll start
talkin’ about how good he is. Then when he gets a
decent fight we won’t get no odds ’ardly worth
bettin’.”
“Maybe you got an explanation?” said Jimmy. -
Our pug moved out as
though it was a good idea
to get it over in a couple
of punches, and that was
exactly what happened—
two punches, and Willie
was helping to pick our
pug up and saying how
sorry he was to hit so
hard seeing that it was
just for fun.
“It ain’t an explanation,” said Skinny, “it’s a
solution. I was talkin’ to Donavon yes’d’y. ’E’s got
a stadium down the coast and a boy that the coal-
miners think could give Jack Dempsey ten stone and
a hiding. This Micky Jukes fills Donavon’s stadium
every time he fights, so Donavon is on the lookout for
a couple of boys who are willin’ to lie down in the
fourth round for the sake of board, lodging and beer.”
“Listen, Skinny,” said I, “I thought the idea was
for Willie to win his fights.”
“It is,” said Skinny, “but we ain’t tellin’ Donavon,
and think of the dough we can rake in from the
coalies.”
“Yes,” said I. “Donavon won’t be pleased.”
Skinny grinned. “It’ll serve ’im right f’r bringin’
dishonor on the pugilistic art.”
Jimmy Hood was lapping it up. “Skinny,” he
said, “you’re right.”
So Skinny went ahead and got the match fixed
up. Willie’s end of the purse was going to be pretty
short, but we weren’t worried about that. With the
coalies so strong for their Micky Jukes, we could pick
up easy on the betting.
A COUPLE of days before the fight we stepped off
** the train and, sending Willie along for a lemon-
ade, started to find out how hot the coalies were for
their Micky Jukes. From the way they looked at our
money when we said we wanted to back Willie you’d
have thought we were a bunch of counterfeiters.
Skinny stood up in the pub and started to take
their bets. We had to hold him up when the rush
set in after he started offering six to four about Jukes.
He was taking money so fast that I took on the job
of stacking it into his pockets.
When the rush died down a bit, the coalies went
into a meeting at one end of the bar, and when they
broke up to go back to their beer a big feller dropped
off the mob and came over to us. He must have been
one of those fellers who work on the top, because it
didn’t seem like there was any hole big enough for
him to go down. He had a schooner of beer in his
hand, but you couldn’t even see the glass.
“Ha,” he said, looking at Skinny, “it’s pretty
dangerous goin’ about with all that money.”
“I’m with friends,” said Skinny.
“Me mates,” said the big feller, “ ’as elected me as
y’r bodyguard. If I was you I’d be very careful about
gittin’ on trains till the fight is over.”
It didn’t mean much to us because it was Jimmy
Hood’s money we were using to cover the bets, but
it took Jimmy a while to get used to the idea of the
big feller trooping along. “It’s a slur on me honesty,”
he said.
Then the night before the fight Donavon showed
up. We were all in the room talking about all the
dough we were going to make when someone seemed
to get the idea they ought to knock our door down.
“Come in,” yelled Skinny, trying to raise his voice
over the row.
Donavon came in. He was a big feller, and he
stood looking at the lot of us as if he was wondering
which one had stabbed the princess in the ruined tower.
Then he pushed his hat back on his head and said:
“There’s a rumor goin’ round that someone is wastin’
money on the chances of your boy.”
Skinny gave a little cough. “It’s scandalous,” he
said, “the way some people bet.”
“You don’t know anything about it?” said Don-
avon, looking hard.
“Donavon,” said Skinny, “would we be so foolish
as to bet on a fighter who is on his scout’s honor to go
to sleep on the canvas in the fifth?”
“Ah,” said Donavon, “hearin’ you say that makes
me very ’appy for your sakes. I thought you might’ve
been thinkin’ that Micky Jukes suffers from faintin’
fits. I’m glad that ain’t it, because a lot of me friends
would like Micky to win. Funny blokes, too. I seen
’em ’alf kill a feller that used a double-headed penny.
They’d be very vexed if Micky was to fall accidental
in the ring and stun ’imself.”
When he had gone Jimmy Hood looked at Skinny
as though he wanted to cry. “What are we gonna
do?” he asked.
“What can we do?” said I. “It looks like we
better kiss our coin good-bye an’ tell Willie about
the new rule that y’ get ten extra points by fightin'
with your back on the canvas.”
“What about police protection?” said Jimmy.
“Yes,” said I, “what about it with the cops
betting their uniforms on Micky Jukes?”
Jimmy slumped down in his chair, and then all
of a sudden he brightened up.
“Look,” he said, “we ain’t frightened of a couple
of threats. Tell you what we’ll do —we’ll go through
with it just like we said. Yes,” he went on, “we
oughter do that; and, by the way, I just got a ’phone


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for "The Bulletin’s" Short Story
Competition are:—
First . £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story . . . £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
’er; and after we ’ad chatted a bit about presents
I shoves the little cash one she forces on me in me
pocket and then goes and fills two bags with them
smashed mugs and shoves ’em down by the fence
where I could ’aul ’em into McNeil’s next mornin’.
| DIDN’T ’ave no trouble gettin’ the bags into
* McNeil’s storeroom, and after I ’ad laid the broken
bits out artistic I fills the bags with nice new mugs
and shoves ’em in the passage beside the fence.
If I ’ad gone straight into Miss Pilkington’s and
’auled ’em over there wouldn’t ’ave been no compli-
cations, but as it was, bein’ conscientious as usual, I
sets a few urgent traps ’ere and there and then comes
back to refresh meself. And I wasn’t in the bar long
before I ’ears McNeil complainin’ very bitter about
sneakin’ barmen wot smashed mugs and ’id ’em in
the storeroom.
“Losin’ all them mugs is bad enough,” he growls ;
“but the trade I’ll lose over the ’olidays is wot’s worry-
in’ me. I won’t be able to serve all me customers in
the rush hours.”
I starts to worry meself then, not because of wot
McNeil might lose, but because me feller-creatures,
wot I should be ’elpin’ to ’ave a ’appy Christmas,
would be losin’ their ’ard-earned drinks. I tries to
think of a way of givin’ McNeil ’is mugs back with-
out causin’ no trouble, and at last I sees ’ow I could
do it, and after I ’ad took ’im aside and put it to ’im
he was so pleased I think he’d ’ave kissed me if ’is
missus ’adn’t been in the bar. Instead, he starts forcin’
free-drink tickets on me.
“No, thanks, Mr. McNeil,” I ses dignified. “You’ve
made a strict rule and I ain’t goin’ to make you
break it. I can’t accept no free-drink tickets while I
’ave a outstandin’ account.”
’Owever, it wasn’t long before he sees a way of
gettin’ over me objections, addin’ that it’s worth me
outstandin’ debt to ’ave the pleasure of servin’ beer
out of Miss Pilkington’s mugs, and then he gives me
a couple of bags wot I fills up with them broken mugs
to take back to their rightful owner.
Still, I didn’t like the idea of tellin’ Miss Pilk-
ington that I ’ad changed me mind, even though I,’ad
popped in a few of McNeil’s good mugs to make up
for ’er disappointment, and I goes into ’er place very
slow and thoughtful, tryin’ to think of a nice tackful
way of puttin’ it.
Matter of fact I was so thoughtful that I didn’t
notice the step at ’er back door, and when Miss Pilk-
ington comes rushin’ out to see wot the smashin’ and
crashin’ is she jumps to the idea that I ’ad broke pretty
near all the mugs I ’ad got for ’er.
I picks meself up and tries to explain, pointin’
out about McNeil losin’ trade, but she don’t seem to
understand; and when she says very fervent that
she’ll spend a ’appy Christinas knowin’ that McNeil
was losin’ trade through them smashed mugs I lets
it go at that.
message to say that I’m wanted urgent on business
in town. I better take the late train to-night.”
“Ain’t that lovely?” Skinny came into the con-
versation. “All we gotter do is get cleaned up tryin’ to
make money for you.”
Jimmy Hood stuck out his jaw. “You git your
share, don’t y’? Besides, it was your idea.”
“What hurts me,” said Skinny, “is ’ow I was took
in by ’avin’ you as me partner.”
“Yes,” said Jimmy, getting red in the face, “an’
what about me bein’ took in—a hundred and fifty
quid? That’s what I got covering the bets on Micky
Jukes. Ain’t that bein’ took in?”
“You got a ’alf share in a good fighter,” said
Skinny. “It’s bad luck, that’s what it is.”
“Listen,” said Jimmy, “I could buy a dozen good
fighters for a hundred and fifty.”
“Jimmy,” said Skinny, “if I had a hundred and
fifty I’d buy your share orf you.”
“What’s the nearest you got to it?” asked Jimmy.
“I got a tenner tucked away for stormy weather,”
said Skinny.
“Pass it over and the share is yours,” said Jimmy.
I looked at Skinny diving in his pocket. “You’re
mad,” I said.
Skinny shrugged his shoulders. “It’s my sense
of honor. I’ve had it since I left Sunday school.”
After our bodyguard had run through his pockets,
Jimmy Hood caught the late train.
“Orright,” I said, when we’d seen him off, “there
goes a wasted tenner.”
“I never did like partners,” said Skinny—“it re-
dooces the income.”
“Yes,” said I, “what income?”
“The dough that’s ours when Willie wins the
fight.”
“The rumor,” said I, “is bruises, not dough. You
ain’t gonna tell Willie to win?”
“You guessed,” said Skinny.
"P HE time for the fight came round, and we tore
Willie away from his lemonade. Skinny pushed
him into the ring.
“Listen, Willie,” he said, “finish it as soon as
you can.”
In the second round Micky Jukes walked into
Willie’s right hand and the fight was over. We had
Willie back in the dressing-room before the crowd
got used to the sight of Micky Jukes taking a sleep
on the canvas.
“Yes,” said I, “an’ now the fun oughter be
startin’.”
Just at that minute in walked Donavon, and I
got ready to dive under the rubbing-table. I had to
look twice before I could see that he was grinning all
over his face.
“Skinny,” he said, “that kid of yours has
certainly got a punch. He oughter go places. I’m
glad he knocked the tripe out of Micky. It’ll knock
Micky’s idea of wanting bigger purses.”
I came out of my daze.
“Listen,” I said, “I thought the idea was for
your boy to win.”
Donavon stuck out his chin.
“ ’Oo tol’ you that,” he yelped. “Let me tell you
Tim Donavon ain’t run a crook fight in ’is life. You
don’t find no stews in my stadyum.”
I went back into the daze. “Yes,” I said, “but
what about that stuff you were telling us the other
night?”
Donavon gave a laugh.
“That?” he said. “Skinny put me up to it. He tol’
me about that crook you ’ad with youse who was
gonna pay Micky Jukes to lay down. It was Skinny
who tol’ me how to put a scare into him. Though
I don’t know what he wanted to pay Jukes to lay
down for. Your boy could put him on the canvas
any time. He can fight, Skinny. He can fight.”
EDDICATION
BY CHARLES SHAW.
I ’M sendin’ me boy to college,” says old Mat.
Me and Mat had been mates in the days
■ when he was prouder of his ability to swing a
five-pound axe than he is of the general store
that came to him with Mrs. Mat, so I doesn’t waste
words. “What for?” I says, eyeing the youngster,
who’s got Mat’s shoulders and Mrs. Mat’s black hair.
I never had any eddication,” comes back
Mat at me, “an’ eddication is a great help to a young
feller these days. Yair,” he goes on, “without an
eddication no young feller’s got a chance.”
“Remember T.D.,” I says. “What good was
eddication to him?”
“Ah,” murmurs old Mat thoughtfully, and there’s
a light in his eyes which has a message for me. So
we falls silent, thinking of the old days on the river,
and I had thoughts of eddication and what it done
to T.D.
\\J AY back about fifteen years ago me and old Mat
was young fellows in a surveying camp down
the Murray. Our boss surveyor went sick and they
sent us a long, healthy, hard, serious bird, a Mr.
Thomas Devoncote, who could work like a navvy all
day and spout about birds named Homer or Livy
or some such by night.
Well, short of the fishing, there wasn’t much to
keep the gang amused in camp after the day’s work.
The new boss used to retire and leave us to ourselves
by the fire, and we’d talk about pugs, and racehorses,
and beer, and women, and then we’d go to bed. Then
a fisherman came down the river and camped on the
opposite bank. We saw his tents and boats and drum-
nets, his gear and his missus, and took little notice —
and then we saw his daughter.
Have you ever looked at them girls’ pictures on
magazine covers and said it was silly because no girl
ever looked like that? You were wrong. Alongside
Bonny Taylor the magazine covers looked like bits
of newspaper after the fish and chips has been eaten
out of ’em!
Mat was away at the time, striking a line through
a patch of timber up on the Wakool, but there was
three of us, including me and T.D., young enough,
and free of conjugal hobbles, in the camp, and we
all made the early running.
Her father was a sort of fisherman by habit, what
T.D. calls a dilletantey. Seems he owned a store down
in Barham, but was a fisherman before that, and every
once in a while the old river puts the hooks into him
and he gets his gear and family together, shoves ’em
in a couple of boats and makes for a favorite bend.
Pretty soon T.D. has the inside running with the
female offspring. He tells me she has been to a school
in Melbourne and she is all worked up to find a cul-
tured fellow like him in this river bend ; she’d sooner
.talk about literatcher with him than indulge in the
rough horseplay with us broken-nailed chain-draggers
and tree-murderers.
Well, the pair of ’em go walking among the gums,
and lie on the sandspit, while the jackasses laugh and
the old Murray goes whispering and chuckling by. We
see a lot of their courting, but there’s precious little
holding hands or canoodling. That, says T.D., they
leave to what he calls the hoy polloy. From what he
tells me they talk about dam’ funny things—about the
second Pewnic war and a bloke named Bernard Shaw ;
and T.D. says they can’t decide whether D. Annunchio
is a fool or a patriot.
'“THEN Mat comes back, gets an eyeful of Bonny,
* blinks his big blue eyes and loses interest in his
tucker.
He couldn’t get near her for a week ; not till one
night when the boss has to go to Barham, and was
silly enough to tell Mat to go over and tell Bonny
he wouldn’t be there. Mat must have told her some
more, because he spent a lot of his time over the river
after that.
“Listen, you,” I quizzes him, “who is going with
the skirt, you or T.D.?”
Mat grinned. “Let him go,” he says. “They talk
a lot of highfalutin stuff, and he pokes borak at me
’cos I don’t know what he’s talkin’ about half the
time. But let him go, I’m doin’ all right.”
He must have been, for one night about a month
later he bobs into my tent and whispers, “She’s jake,
boy. The old man’s sweet. We’re gettin’ married in
Swan Hill next Saturday month.”
“Fast work, son,” I says, sore because I’m losing
the best mate I ever had.
“Him!” says Mat in disgust. “Cartin’ a bobby-
dazzler like her round the river and spoutin’ about
dead poets and cranky philosoffers! ”
T.D. was clean bowled over —couldn’t make it
out. You see, them fellows whose books he’d read,
poets and great thinkers and so forth, had given him
a headful of all sorts of wisdom. All of them must
have known that a woman likes a man of action —
but they thought every other man must know it. None
of them ever thought T.D. would be silly enough to
be always spouting about them and their works
among the gums in the moonlight, with the river
singing its cunning little song, and the warm air full
of the smell of water and dead leaves and damp
mould, and a girl’s heart hungry, no matter how much
her mouth talked about buried poets. No, they never
thought of that.
*‘YAIR,” I said to old Mat, jerking meself back
* to the present, “that’s what eddication did for
T.D. And you, y’ slimy old catfish, you’d fill your
kid up with”
“Mat Brooks, have I got to call you again?”
comes a dominating contralto from inside the house.
“Sitting out there, loafing and talking rot with good-
for-nothing swaggies”
“I better drift along,” I mutters, elevating meself.
“Yair,” says old Mat sadly ; “yair, I’m sendin’
that younker to college. Can’t y’ see, y’ old fool,
what eddication did for T.D.?”


fine quality of which will be evident from this further
extract describing Hitler’s entry into Vienna:
Presently his open car comes into sight. He stands
bolt upright, like a dummy figure, holding the windscreen
with one hand. His face is almost hidden beneath his
clumsy uniform cap, and all the power and the might
and the glory seem to be concentrated in the grotesque
Charlie Chaplin moustache. Behind him sit the
unpleasant-looking Himmler, the Derjinsky of the Nazi
movement, and two generals.
The car crawls at a snail’s pace. There may be scores
of Gestapo agents among the vast crowd. But they are
not visible. There is no double cordon of troops or
police to overawe the would-be assassins, or even to keep
the straining mob in its place. Anyone could have
thrown a bomb with almost certain success. From the
windows of the houses anyone could have fired two or
three shots with an odds-on chance of killing his man.
I am impressed almost against my will. Even the
bitterest anti-Nazi, 1 say to myself, must admit that
Herr Hitler has courage. And if the Fiihrer thinks,
as think he must, that all Austria is on his side, he has
some justification for his belief.
As he passes, the crowd surges forward in an ecstasy
ol emotional fervor. The women beside me at the open
window spring to their feet. Their breasts are heav-
ing. Their eyes are wet with tears of excitement.
Thousands of hands shoot out at a rigid right angle, and
to a series of roars of “Sieg Heil! Sieg Heil!” as rapid
as machine-gun fire, the little man passes on his way.
Lockhart’s closing chapters on the New Germany
are puzzled and troubled. He does not like the
swagger and violence of the upsurge of Youth. He
is troubled about Britain, doubting its people’s capa-
city for preparedness and willingness to make, in time,
“those personal sacrifices which are the real strength
of a nation.” All this, however, is pre-Munich ;
unaware, also, of Britain’s national firming since
Munich ; even more importantly, it does not take into
account such then-still-unattained achievements as the
Franco-German No-war Declaration, the great signi-
ficance of which would not have been lost on one with
Lockhart’s historical nous.
At a Mallee Pub.
In verse and short story Myra Morris has used
a gift for bringing detail into focus with remarkable
clarity and investing it with true poetic significance.
This faculty informs her novel, The Wind on nhe
Water (Thornton Butterworth), and lends to all its
moments something that is a little more than mere
reality. Here is a typical passage:
Fran watched Sam peeling the last of the season’s
mushrooms, sweet pearly things with their gills like
little folds of pink chifl’on. She had picked them out
in the paddocks under the white tussocky grass, and
there had seemed to her something ruthless in her
act of wrenching them from their damp, dew-watered
place.
The story deals with the tragedy of Fran, a
woman of natural refinement married to the pro-
prietor of a fifth-rate roadside pub in the Mallee.
Sam is good-natured, crudely affectionate, promis-
cuous, and given to dabbling amateurishly in farming
while his business steadily declines. In the early days
of the story the household is dominated by his force-
ful and eccentric old mother, who resents the younger
woman’s presence.
Fran is slowly devoured by the pub and the
demands of her loved but quite unsympathetic hus-
band. Her first plans for freshening up the musty
establishment dwindle at length to a few geraniums
nursed about the back door. The inevitable other man
turns up in due course, but when it comes to the point
she isn’t that sort, and neither is he. At the end the
license is withdrawn, and Fran follows Sam to a
tumbledown farm that a returned soldier had recently
abandoned by committing suicide in the lake that
separates the two places.
The end strikes home ; particularly when Fran
rushes back to the pub to scratch up a Lilium auratum
that she had almost left behind. Her tragedy is in
some measure relieved by her having been able to
save Mary, her 20-year-old daughter, from a fate
similar to her own.
The book is not quite as powerful as the narrative
in outline might suggest, for, while the detail is always
credible, directly related to the theme and mostly very
vivid, some inner urgency in the story is missing. The
reader is not made to feel emotionally involved in
Fran’s difficulties ; not to the extent he would like to
be, or feels he should be, the facts being what they are.
But The Wind on the Water is pre-eminently a book
to be taken for what it brings rather than for what it
lacks. Of the former there is an abundance.
Poignancy is in the simple incident of Fran’s visit
late one evening to a little patch of bush—the Rabbit’s
Place —where she and her two young children were in
the habit of going sometimes by day to escape the
heat. She is standing enjoying the enchantment of
the night when she is startled to blundering flight by
a thin repeated cry of pain. She is brought to a halt
and set to fumbling in her cardigan pocket for matches
by a wild flurry at her feet, and a moment later is
looking down at the “drowned, terrified face” of a
trapped rabbit and “its writhing furry body.” Her
own foot springs a trap before she can get away and
she is held there, forced to listen to cries near and dis-
tant in the dark, “like taut strings touched by a blun-
dering finger,” until the scalper, Sam, comes on his
night round of the traps.
Myra Morris’s interpretative range is wide and her
hand sure. She gets that quality of the utterly absurd
that dogs tragedy when she notes that Parker, the
returned soldier, jambed his hat firmly on his head
before going down to the lake to commit suicide.
Penetration is shown in the remark by one of the char-
acters, “Shell-shocked he had been, poor Joe, but in
spite of that you’d think to hear him talk that the war
had been the best part of his life.” There is beauty in
a night-piece, “There were swans flying so high that
their crying was like an eerie fluting on the edge of
another world.” Nor is The Wind on the Waters
lacking in humor.
Grim Gangsterdom.
Graham Greene, who has the persistence of Liam
XYFlaherty and some of the tragic midnight poetry of
the Franco-American Julian Green, chooses to write
about gangsters.
His new novel, Brighton Rock (Heinemann), is
the story of an underworld war, but it runs counter
to all the traditions of its species. It belongs neither
to the objectively adventurous nor to the tough-yet-
tender school. It is as hard as obsidian, without an
ounce of sentiment, crassly ugly but beautiful, too.
Its beauty comes neither from compassion nor the
universal touch, but straight from the writer’s ability
to achieve an immaculate design with no better raw
material than the mind of the gutter.
The book deals with a gangster feud, a murder
and its far-reaching consequences, its repercussions in
violence through a dozen lives. The central character
is Pinkie Brown, called The Boy, aged 17. He is the
leader of a gang working the “protection racket,” i.e.,
blackmailing s.p. betting men, and he is being forced
out of business by a more powerful rival.
The Boy murders Hale, a journalist who knows
too much. The coroner brings in a verdict of death
from natural causes, but there is a 16-year-old waitress,
Rose, who knows the truth, and a' friend of. Hale,
Ida Arnold, who suspects it. The Boy marries Rose
to silence her, and love grows up in this sour and
meagre soil. Disaffection within the gang he punishes
with death, but Ida he cannot reach, and this jolly and
tenacious woman goes on steadily asking questions
till she has Pinkie cornered. He chooses suicide on
the cliffs of Brighton.
The story is like an Elizabethan tragedy trans-
lated into gutter terms. The author indicates that
human nature is his foundation, but this is not the
impression it makes on the reader. It is an inhuman
book. The Boy is a monster. His cold-blooded
wickedness, his heart and mind full of poison, give
him an unnatural stature. In him youth is quenched
and stunted, so that when any softness shows in him
it is somehow shocking and perverse. Traces of early
piety and a delicate shrinking from gross jokes put the
last screw on his innate ugliness.
Behind the pattern of the story and the characters
there is a metaphysical pattern. The Boy is Evil, Rose
is Good, Ida is Humanity executing its rough justice
Good mysteriously loves Evil and is the purer for
existing where there was no reason for it to exist. In
this book all human qualities are shown driven to
their extremes.
Perhaps the ultimate core of Brighton Rock is in
its contradictions. It is highly stylised yet rendered
in the roughest vernacular. Of suspense in the ordi-
nary sense there is none, no mystery as far as the
reader is concerned hangs over the murders, but there
is a thundery atmosphere in the book that acts on the
nerves in the same way as suspense—a strangej un-
natural and gripping novel.
Bligh in "Everyman's."
Under the editorship of George Mackaness an
admirable Book of the Bounty has been added to
Dent’s “Everyman’s Library,” making available in
this most inexpensive form a comprehensive com-
pendium of the original records, including material
hitherto published only in very costly special press
editions and some from the Mitchell Library’s famous
collection, until now unpublished.
In his introduction Dr. Mackaness examines the
evidence which he thus spreads before the reader and
sums up against the “established custom among naval
and historical chroniclers to quote Bligh as an out-
standing example of a naval commander who, by his
tyranny, abusive language and parsimony in the issu-
ing of provisions, drove his men to open revolt.”
Dr. Mackaness’s finding is that the general im-
pression gained from Bligh’s logbook is. that he was
as efficient a seaman as the Navy could boast, that
the well-being of his men was his primary considera-
tion, and that he had a supreme contempt for those
commanders who, by neglect of duty, arrived home
with half their crew sick with scurvy, fevers and other
diseases. About the floggings of the men. Dr.
Mackaness declares there cannot be two opinions ; if
we are to believe contemporary naval history, Bligh’s
punishments were not only few, but mild compared
with those inflicted on many ships. Of the ineffi-
ciency of his officers there is information available
sufficient to condemn any set of men.
Far too much sympathy, Dr. Mackaness suggests,
has been expended on Bligh’s mutinous crew. “No
matter what crime is perpetrated, numerous sym-
pathisers with the culprit can always be found.”
Viewed dispassionately, the mutiny
was due at bottom to the contamination of the crew
by their overlong association with the delights of
Otaheite, and... .their tender connections with the dusky
damsels of that isle. Bligh, neglecting no part of his
own duty, was undoubtedly overexacting and overbearing
in his requirements. Alt the long and laborious journey
through the unexplored Torres Strait was before
them., They would soon again be undergoing the rigors
of a seaman’s life, existing on burgoo and biscuit, fear-
ing and possibly feeling the lash, while the gates of
' paradise were daily receding farther and farther into
the distance.
With the material provided by that situation to
work on, Christian applied the spark at the opportune
moment, and the conflagration at once broke out.
Contents of the vol. include Bligh’s A Voyage to
the South Sea and A Narrative of the Mutiny on
Board His Majesty’s Ship Bounty, Stephen Barney’s
Report of the Court Martial of Ten of the Mutineers,
Bligh’s Answer to Edward Christian’s Assertions and
a selection of Bligh’s correspondence.
Written by an Australian?
A recent murder mystery novel, Lament for a
Maker, by Michael Innes (Gollancz), comes enveloped
in a literary mystery, for report insists that the
author’s name is the alias of a professor in an Aus-
tralian university. Among detective stories, it is quite
a learned one.
Lament for a Maker tells the story of the mys-
terious death on Christmas night of an eccentric Scots
laird and poet, Ranald Guthrie, and through the
macabre story, like a refrain, runs Dunbar’s requiem,
“Lament for the Makaris,” written to celebrate the
dead Scottish poets when he knew that he was about
to join them. The story is told by five people ; by the
sutor, or cobbler, of the village in broad Scots ; by a
flibbertigibbet young Englishman, Noel Gylby, whom
chance brought to the lonely castle on the fateful
Christmas eve ; by the lawyer who investigated the
case, the local sheriff and the local minister. Each
knows a little of the truth. It is left to the reader to
piece the whole together. Suspense is sustained until
the very end, and then an authentic but very complex
solution is offered.
Those who like their murders served up promptly
may find Lament for a Maker rather verbose and
circumlocutionary, but the value is there for those who
have patience, and much more attention has been given
to atmosphere than is usual in books of this type.
There is no stint of dramatic ingredients: an
eccentric laird with a long and gory family history,
living alone in a crumbling castle with two retainers,
a cut-throat and an idiot, and his ward, the beautiful
and mysterious Christine; a family feud that goes
back beyond the Restoration; three possible mur-
derers ; a ghost, and a line crisscross of happenings.
The prose style is good and full of character and the
people credible and even interesting as characters. It
should interest all who enjoy detective fiction and even
some who usually don’t.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
The Immortal Road: W. E. M. Abbott (Stock-
well). Some interesting “personal experiences” to
prove that human life does not end with Death. Sir
Oliver Lodge wrote an appreciative foreword.
Farmer’s Creed: Crichton Porteous (Harrap).
Personal experience with the quality of sincere feel-
ing and the merit of novelty. By breaking with his
uncle, a Yorkshire businessman, the author cut him-
self off from a certain fortune. He went working as
a farm laborer, and much preferred it. There is some-
thing very human about his well-written record of
it all.
My Last Expedition to the Antarctic, 1936-37 :
Lars Christensen (Tanum; Oslo). Fine brochure
printing of a lecture delivered before the Norwegian
Geographical Society, the explorer and whaling-ship
owner describing the trip undertaken to improve, with
the aid of aerial photography, the mapping of the
lands he had discovered on previous expeditions.
Great , Australasian Mysteries: Michael Glenne
(Stanley Paul, Ltd.). A muster of the weird and inex-
plicable, from aboriginal totemic rites to the Easter
Island carvings, for the benefit of readers abroad. The
author trusts to industry rather than to insight.
“Life and Letters To-day”: Monthly review from
Brendon Publishing Co., Ltd., London. The October
issue tries hard, but the articles on “Ten Years of
Talkies” and “Holland Since 1914’’ are dull. There’s
a very young article about very young American poets.
A Diary of My Times: Georges Bernanos (Boris-
wood) ; translated by Pamela Morris. An attack on
the leaders of the Catholic church in Majorca for
allegedly condoning savage and unnecessary reprisals
by Franco’s Administration. Bernanos, himself 'a.
Catholic, wrote The Diary of a Country Priest, which
was considered a classic. This isn’t. Grant him his
premises and the right to indignation, 260 pages of
loud didacticism have little literary value.
A Candidate for Truth (Watts). Thinker’s
Library. Passages from Emerson, chosen by Gerald
Bullett, who comments: “It is a weakness in Emer-
son that he must always be eloquent: it is his strength
that he nearly always has something to be eloquent
about.”
This and That: John Hilton (Allen and Unwin).
That was his broadcast talks, This is talks in print.
That was all right because listeners are accustomed
to semi-humorous heart-to-heart chats with broad-
casters; This is all wrong because items that should
be essays read like sermons.
Down Mangel Street: Mabel Constanduros
(Bodley Head). ’Oo is Mabel Constanduros? A lidy
wot knows all the chars in Mangel-street and must uv
met ’Erbert Jenkins’s Bindle some time. Larf? Not
’arf!
The British Annual of Literature (British
Authors’ Press). First of what’s intended to be an
annual attempt to summarise the literary activities of
the Empire. This one has an essay (sketchy) on the
Australian novel, and an article about Maorilander
C. R. Allen. It’ll need to improve a lot' to succeed.
“Dhas”: Joyce’s stylistic innovations seem to
crop up all over the place these days. The latest
obvious imitation of Work in Progress I’ve struck is:
Most deivine and adwhorable creture, I dout not
but those lls, briter than the son, which have kindled
such a flam in my hart, have likewise the faculty of
seeing it. It would be the hiest preassumption to
imagin you eggnorant of my loav. No, maddam, I
sollemly purtest that of all the butys in the unaversal
glob, there is none kapable of hateracting my lls like
you.
This flagrant plagiarism was by some trick of the
time-machine perpetrated by Fielding, in 1743, in a
letter in Jonathan Wild.


CRANKY CHILDREN NEARLY DROVE ME CRAZY...
■: ’ :
Wffl)
' Xx ll 111
8 | C
■M
SS: xWKitt
mmSnt
s
mm.
li
* '
m
m
KM
'i
:,«S
<m
wm**
mm
WK> if f
l
I:*:*::
Wmmmk
m
m vm
m
* 8
:
:ssse
Now they
eat and sleep well*
play happily all day
mmr maM— <*x**mmm mmMM
,
“The Tonic of the Century ”
Here are the facts on Bidomak, the wonderful
modern mineral food supplement that’s working
wonders for run-down, nervy, cranky youngsters.
In thousands of homes the daily struggle to “coax
or command” food into children has ended.
Where the night’s sleep was often broken by night
terrors, children now rest in dreamless, reinvigorat-
ing slumber. Thin, nervy youngsters have been
calmed and are putting on plenty of firm, muscular
flesh.
And the REASON— simply this!
Children Take Bidomak's Safe Foods
Readily
Bidomak is no old-fashioned medicine with a
nasty taste. Modem research has enabled
the discoverer to provide a palatable tonic
which ends the emotional “scenes,” at the
time of taking, which, authorities say, often
lead to serious digestive disturbances
destroying the value of the mixture.
Bidomak is pleasant and contains no
dangerous drugs, opiates nor narcotics.
It is safe for even the youngest children,
who leam to ask for it because they
like it. So get some to-day and give
it to all your family if you want them
to be fit, vigorous, happy and well.
Bidomak Gives Benefit
Nerves, lack of appetite and
“pep” are due to the lack of
sufficient vital mineral ele-
ments in the diet. So when
you see your youngster tire
easily in play, pick at his food,
or spend' nights in disturbed,
irregular sleep, get him Bido-
mak. When he is not gaining
weight as he should, get him
Bidomak.
An Amazing
Improvement
You’ll be amazed at the dif-
ference that will be made by
the iron, lime, sodium, pot-
ash, phosphates, glycero-
phosphates and sucrose which
Bidomak provides. In fact,
we guarantee that you will see
benefit to your youngsters
within a fortnight or you can
have your money back.
SCIENTIFIC
CONTROL
. i
m
\
Attached to the
Laboratories of
the Douglas
Drug Com-
pany are three
fully - qualified
chemists and a
Doctor of
Medicine who
graduated a t
the Universities
of Edinburgh
and Glasgow.
sis
gM
zTh
l
SW.
#
f
'
S*S
§p
"?» r?
*£*«
?. , '^wi
X
fes
*«8
HS
*«»<
«>Bm/
fltva*
*»»»•-
SSS»
>K£
*a^
T**»
T*i*h ******
«NSTj
SI
. *£r
*s?
■m
**o.b
*>«&
large
bottle,
all
chemists
and stores.
New
Zealand,
3/6.
jJotjyebvet/Ptcun and t/icvt *lXe/i f te444ddeelisuf


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
''i >>' • ;r rtf.'** 1 1
i. -fc. ■PS** ,!L «yf-€ ? *d4ll' Jt.' '£, I ,2 # „
*
Wm
i
inis
< ■■ ■ ■
• ;• -
’
■S'*
.w
■
:- ; -
: : /■
4*
m
■
m
The Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace.
Tbit TTne-cfWie mellcumeuxmdtmuyuet


THE FIRE’S THE THING.
“Cables are working up for ‘another crisis in the spring,’ even though ‘there is so far no clear indication where it is to be expected.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ahs.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THIRTY-TWO RECRUITS.
By way of “inaugurating the greatest recruiting drive
in South Australia since the war,” the Prime Minister,
it is written, “addressed a huge crowd at the Adelaide
Town Hall,” and “took the salute in a spectacular
march-past of militia units.” The “enthusiasm” of
the thousands who heard him—there were two over-
flow meetings served by amplifiers—and “lined the
route of the parade”—was “remarkable.” Equally
“remarkable” was “the result of the drive, as shown
by the large number of recruits registered.”
Of the total of 32, the Town Hall depot took 22
names.
Thirty-two! On June 30, 1933, the census-takers
found 312,619 persons in Adelaide and suburbs. On
June 30, 1915, when the population of Australia, now
just on 7,000,000, was under 5,000,000, there were -
exclusive of A.I.F. men —60,500 military trainees, of
whom 4708 were South Australians. And there had
been 109,350 enlistments in the A.1.F., 10,244 in
South Australia.
As a member of the Labor party, Mr. Lyons was
in favor of the system which gave these impressive
results, the solid value of which was demonstrated
on many a foreign battlefield. As leader of the U.A.P.
and member for Wilmot, up for re-election, Mr.
Lyons declared that he would never, never reintroduce
it; and Mrs. Lyons was understood to say that she
would vote against him if he ever did. So, though
“war is thundering at our gates” (Mr. Hughes), and
“at any time in the next few years we Australians may
have to resist an attack upon our country” (Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Street), the imperilled nation is fobbed off
with “great recruiting drives,” the first fruits of which,
in the imperilled nation’s third city, are thirty-two (32)
volunteers.
During the last recorded year of militia history
the number of resignations almost equalled the
number of recruits. Recruits totalled 10,005, resig-
nations 9913 —Mr. Thorby made the record before he
handed over control of the army to Mr. Street. So
it seems unlikely that the thirty-two Adelaide volun-
teers will all stay on the strength, even if they all pass
the doctor and enter into possession of their new
uniforms and equipment. But the hope is cherished
that the whole thirty-two will become a permanent
addition to the army, for a great deal is expected of
them and their 35,000 associates by Mr. Lyons and
his associates, and by the Stunt Press.
The defence of Australia and its possessions is to
be only part of their duties. They will be required
also, the whole thirty-two, “to assist Britain.” How,
where and when Mr. Lyons finds it “impossible to
set out in precise terms” ; but “this one thing” he
“emphasises”:
Our contribution would be a hundred per cent. We
are with Britain!
The Stunt Press, for its part, expects them to fight
conscript Germans, Italians and Japanese “in defence
of democracy” and —latest addition to the list —of the
French colonies.
For eighty years, off and on, Italy and France have
been barking at one another about Corsica and Tunis.
In each instance the Italians have a case. Historically
and racially, as well as geographically, Corsica is much
closer to them than it is to the French. Complete and
unchallenged French possession of the island dates
only from 1815. Pisans and Genoese ruled it for
much longer periods ; the inhabitants are mainly of
Italian stock ; the Bonapartes themselves were Italians,
originally from Florence.
As for Tunisia, the French occupation dates from
1881, but as late as 1910 the Turks had soldiers there
and “maintained the claim that Tunisians were Otto-
man subjects.” This extract is from the soberest of
British encyclopaedias, which describes how the French
beat the Italians to the conquest.
After 1862 Italy began to take a big interest in the
future of Tunisia. When the country went bankrupt in
1869, a triple control was established over Tunisian
finances, with British, French and Italian controllers.
In 1880, the Italians bought the British railway from
Tunis to Goletta. This and other actions excited the
• French to act on the secret understanding effected with
the British Foreign Minister at the Berlin Congress.
At that Congress (1878) “Lord Salisbury agreed to
allow France a free hand in Tunisia in return for
French acquiescence in the British lease of Cyprus.” So,
In 1881 a French force crossed the Algerian frontier
under pretext of chastising the independent Kroumir
tribes, and, quickly dropping the mask, advanced on the
capital and compelled the [Tunisian] bey to accept the
French protectorate.
There are almost as many Italians in Tunisia as
there are French. The collapse of the alliances with
which France hoped to keep the Germans quiet and
its very bad internal situation have fired Italian
Chauvinists with the hope that it might be bluffed
into yielding a share in the control of Tunisia and
concessions in Somaliland. War is extremely unlikely,
for both nations depend on the tourist trade, and in
this respect the result might be as bad for the winner
as for the maddened loser ; but it has been featured
as an alluring possibility by the press which has made
war-scares part of its stock-in-trade.
Mr. Chamberlain was asked what the British
attitude would be if the Italians tried to grab Tunisia
or Corsica. He replied, as any pre-war Prime
Minister would have done, that “there was no obli-
gation on Great Britain to give France military aid.”
The French were furious, but not more so than the
“Cronk-News” and papers of that description. And
a Special Representative of the Sydney “Morning
Herald” informed the Pritrie Minister that, “owing
to the strategical importance of Bizerta,” he was
“entirely wrong.”
The tactless nature of Mr. Chamberlain’s reply is
causing considerable embarrassment to the Conservative
party.
The Prime Minister was obliged to point out that
an attack on Tunisia would violate the Anglo-Italian
agreement, which accepts existing settlements in the
Mediterranean. But Australian, as well as British
newspapers, and “Pertinax” (“Britain has no choice
regarding its attitude ”), and the rabble of French
parties—Socialists, Communists, Radicals—agree that
the British Commonwealth is bound to resist any
challenge to French imperialism, whether in North
Africa, West Africa, Equatorial Africa, Madagascar,
Reunion, Indo-China, Cochin China, Cambodia,
Annam, the West Indies or the Pacific.
The events of September made it clear enough
to men with unbiased minds that neither the Germans
nor the Italians wanted war, and that if either dic-
tator was set on it, as alleged, he could not ignore
public opinion. Commonsense, common humanity
and the lessons of history alike suggest that it is true
British and French policy to work on this anti-war
feeling ; and this Mr. Chamberlain has tried to do.
But he is an old man, his health is not good and
circumstances have been against him. He has been em-
barrassed by the anti-Semitic outrages committed by
German mobs and by the German Government’s ruth-
less punishment, not of the perpetrators, but of the
victims ; he was provoked into a protest against a
German newspaper attack on Earl Baldwin (it would
have been very proper in the House of Commons, but
unfortunately he chose to make it at a Foreign
Press Association dinner, where German newspaper-
men were to have been among the hosts and the
German Ambassador among the guests), and he has
been badgered and abused by crusaders and interven-
tionists as no Prime Minister ever was before. In news-
paper offices, radio stations and public halls the
mischief-makers of all the great nations are raging.
Passionate appeals to fear, to hate, to national pride
never cease.
In short, the situation has deteriorated since Sep-
tember, and, after talking it over with the leaders of
the great nations, Mr. Pirow, the Afrikander Minister
for Defence, set out on his return voyage a prey to
concern.
There is still time for the Munich spirit to be
restored and to become general. With the northern
winter may come reflection and reduction of tempera-
ture in minds now overheated. But if our crusaders
and interventionists and enthusiastic defenders of
foreign imperialism have their way, or if what they
fear on grounds never logically stated comes to pass,
crowded hours are ahead of our thirty-two Adelaide
recruits. Indeed, there are elderly gentlemen ready to
pass the fiery cross from failing hands to the youth
of Australia. Even Judge Nield, of the N.S.W. Dis-
trict Court, has invited the boys of the Sydney High
School, of which he was dux in the early nineteen
hundreds, “to restore us to the grand old days so that
the disgrace and the ignominy of 1938 may be wiped
out.” “Referring to the Czechoslovakian crisis,” he
said:
I feel that in 1938 we committed the greatest wrong
that has been committed in the history of civilisation.
So to the reunion of Germans with Germans —which
we could mot have prevented, any more than Ger-
mans could have prevented the reunion of Britons
with Britons had the situation been reversed —this
gentleman would have preferred a frightful war in
which he would have been too old to fight. It is an
amazing attitude for one of his Majesty’s Judges. It
is perhaps more amazing still that a man who has had
such educational opportunities, a graduate of and a
former lecturer at a representative university, should
be unacquainted with the settlements made after the
Napoleonic and Crimean wars and unaware of the
fact that they did not stand.
After the Napoleonic wars Britain was a party
to recognising the second (1793) and third (1796)
partitions of Poland —“wrongs” much greater than the
separation of dissatisfied minorities from the Synthetic
Republic, for they placed the inhabitants of a very
old European State under Russian, Austrian and
Prussian rule. Britain was likewise a party to
handing over Lombardy and Venetia to Austria,
Norway to Sweden and Belgium and Luxemburg to
Holland. Terms of the Treaty of Paris, which ended
the Crimean War, were that the Black Sea should be
closed to warships, that Russia should give up Bess-
arabia, and that the contracting Powers, Britain
and France at their head, should respect the indepen-
dence and territorial integrity of Turkey, which then
owned Bulgaria, Bosnia, Herzegovina, the Dobrudja,
Crete, Kars, Ardahan and Batum.
None of these arrangements lasted. Some of
them were upset in a few years. Did Britain go to
war to enforce any of them? It did not. Yet war
had not then become a Horror in which there are
no non-combatants, and a threat to civilisation itself.
Fifteen Thousand Refugees.
Australia is being given confident assurances regard-
ing Jewish refugees. “Careful, close and constant
scrutiny” of those to be admitted has been promised
by the responsible Minister. This will represent
an innovation in departmental methods: the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, asked for
the number of Jewish immigrants already admitted to
Australia this year, “advises” that “the information
requested is unavailable, as immigrants of Jewish
nationality are not recorded separately.”
According to Vallentine’s Jewish Encyclopaedia,
the number of Jews already in Australia, excluding
those “not recorded” over the past 12 months, is
about 30,000. By the same authority 12,000 of these
live in Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane and other cities.
Within the next three years Australia’s Jewish
community is to be increased by just about half that
present number. Assurances fall under two main heads:
(1) addressed to Labor, and the most heavily empha-
sised ; (2) addressed to those who feel that the cities
are already grotesquely overcrowded and who doubt
the likelihood of Jews settling on the land.
Mr. McEwen, the responsible Minister, declares
that the influx will be “regulated to conform to the
capacity of the Australian community to absorb it with-
out economic dislocation.” He is silent on the pros-
pects of renewed immigration of British stock to help
redress the balance. If a proposal well launched in
London the other day is carried through, Canada,
which so far has had nothing but sympathy for the
persecuted, will be receiving 10,000 British families
while Australia is absorbing its 15,000 Jewish refugees.
The Australian Jewish Welfare Society has ddded
its voice to Mr. McEwen’s in reassuring Labor. This
society, which is apparently having a big say in the
business —an Anglo-Saxon Society with half its punch
would be a godsend—feels that, “with the sa/eguards
that can be imposed, Australia will have nothing to
fear in the way of dislocation of employment.” The
society’s fixed policy is stated to be “to assist only
such types as will not come into competition with
Australian workers, preference being given to agricuh
tural workers, skilled technicians, domestics and
children.” There is mention of a training farm at
Baulkham Hills (N.S.W.) and a scheme for settling
Jewish migrants on farms in the Murrumbidgee area.
These assurances are all to the good, and, helped
by the natural humanitarianism of the people to
whom they are addressed, have silenced criticism,
except for a Lang Labor outburst. It would be better
still if there could be genuine feeling of assurance on
an aspect of this pending influx which is extraordinary
in this country’s experience.
There has been immigration on a greater scale, but
not immigration of refugees from persecution. It would
not be human nature if the great majority of these
immigrants were not filled with bitter hate for the
countries in which they have suffered. There is nothing
to be gained, either by Jewish Australians or by those
who are now deeply moved by their humanitarian feel-
ings,’in any pretence about that. Australia is about to
import for the first time in its history a very large
number of separate and individual units of hatred ; and
they will be exposed in Australia to the hate propa-
ganda of Jewish and anti-German writers, publishers,
radio commentators, film-makers and Communists.
It would be a real assurance to feel that some-
thing might be done with these unhappy people to
drive out of them the resentments the great bulk of
them must harbor. Our own Jews will need no telling
that for the great bulk of the 15,000 to become active
propagandists against the countries which have ill-used
them would be no less bad a service to Australia than to
Jews in Australia. The danger from the Jewish point
of view has already been noted in Britain, where
Captain Sidney Rogerson, in a recent book not favor-
ing Germany, comments:
The eagerness with which Jewish partisans seize
each and every opportunity to ram home propaganda
regarding their persecution is nearing the danger-line.
It is bringing the Jewish problem into prominence, always
an undesirable thing to do from the Jewish point of
view, and thereby indirectly reinforcing the anti-Semitic
propaganda put out by Germany. It is not only the
dictators who are sensitive to criticism. Already the
pitch has been reached in Great Britain where it is
considered bigoted or reactionary to do other than praise
the Jews for their industry and ability. It is an unfor-
tunate fact, but a fact none the less, that anti-Semitism
is endemic in almost every country, but it seldom breaks
out except during a period of serious trade depression
or unless driven underground. The former may arrive
in the near future, and the latter is now being done as a
result of Jewish anti-German propaganda.
It would be a wise first interest of Jews in Aus-
tralia to study that not unfriendly analysis very closely.
Australians have never had any cause for anti-Semitic
feelings. It will be an extraordinary achievement, and
one that will be especially creditable to Jews already
in Australia, if that still holds good after the coming
15,000 are safe here from further persecution. What
will certainly be needed will be a complete reorienta-
tion of these immigrants to fit them into this generally
happy Australian scheme of things. It is too much to
expect that they will be able to shed their ingrained
hatred overnight. It would be a great service to them,
as to Australia, if their fellow-Jews already here could
bring it home to them, by advice and example, that
in this country they are in a free-and-easy and friendly
land, in which there is no general deep or inborn
hatred of any other country, and where that sort of
thing isn’t wanted.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Laid on the Shelf.
One of the things which the Lyons Government seems
to have hidden away, along with the promised regis-
tration-of-aliens measure, “national” insurance, the
mortgage bank and the rest, is the White Australia
policy. It certainly appears to have been suspended
indefinitely in favor of colored boxers from the
U.S.A. and other countries.
These bruisers come when they please and stay
as long as it suits them or their managers or pro-
moters. It is quite an ordinary thing to read that they
have been in Australia long enough to fight for some
Australian championship. There are so many of them
about, and so few prospective white opponents, that
they have to be matched with one another.
One, a Jamaican, denied in court that his rela-
tions with white women had been objected to by the
owner of his flat. The black boxer whose relations
with white women are not the subject of remark in
the haunts that he affects is a rare bird indeed.
In these days of Harlem and Joe Louis, black
boxers are a much cockier breed than they were in
the days of Langford and Jackson. The same is true
of local and visiting Chinese of the Kuomintang
species. The efforts of a lot of these Chinese are con-
centrated on forcing Australians to take sides in the
war in which Chiang Kai-shek and his partisans arc
engaged—openly on their part, and more or less sur-
reptitiously on the part of the owners of the Mighty
Soviet War Machine.
Members of the crew of the Dalfram, who, it is
claimed, refused to load pig-iron for Japan at Port
Kembla, are British Indians. One illegally disappeared
from Port Kembla and turned up in Sydney at a
meeting at which “black, yellow and white men com-
bined in denouncing the Lyons Government’s threat to
invoke the Dog Collar Act at Port Kembla” (“Daily
News”). Another, admitted to the Wollongong Hos-
pital, was removed to Sydney for observation in the
Reception House at Darlinghurst. “Advanced” trade-
union bosses alleged that this was done at the instance
of the Commonwealth, by way of vengeance or some-
thing, and a forcible-feeble politician named Davies
(imp.) suggested that the idea was “to weaken the
morale of the waterside workers at Kembla.”
Reds have a vast contempt for the White Aus-
tralia policy. The Government ought to enforce it
occasionally, no matter whose corns are trodden on.
Otherwise foreign nations which object to it may con-
clude, dangerously, that the White Australia policy
is only for show.
How to Blend the New Guineas.
In planning the amalgamation of the two New
Guineas, the Commonwealth Government is running
true to form.
Mr. Harrison, the Minister in charge, announces
that three committees will be appointed. One will be
an agricultural advisory committee. One will investi-
gate the possibilities of sites for the new capital—the
recommendations of a previous expert committee on
the Mandated capital, along with the overriding de-
cisions of Mr. Hughes and the Cabinet, have been
heaved into the drink. And there will be a committee
to consider “problems arising out of the New Guinea
Mandate.”
All that is now needed to make the organisation
perfect from the Canberra point of view is another
committee to consider the problem of the committees,
a Cabinet meeting, after a hurried northward visit by
the Minister, to override all the committees, and a
change of Government to override the Cabinet.
The whole job should be handed to Hubert Murray,
an expert in New Guinea administration and on the
native question, and to Robert Garran, who is
thoroughly familiar with the constitutional side as it
affects every interest. There need be one single in-
struction: “Here, amalgamate these territories and
let us know when you want any Parliamentary help.”
Free Speech v. Furphy Screech.
The greatest immediate danger to civilisation to-day is
the so-called “free speech” which claims the right for
any crowd of vociferous asses to hurl insults at their
neighbors as the pretended expression of public
opinion. The press, the cables and the radio have
given to the trouble-making fools of the world a
range and an audience which they never before pos-
sessed, thereby intensifying enormously their mischief-
making abilities.
They have, of course, conferred similar powers
upon the wise and the thoughtful, but wisdom and
thoughtfulness are slower in making themselves felt,
and harder to understand. In a jittery, noise-racked
daily life, there is no time available for most people
to try to understand. It is enough to be told con-
stantly that the other fellow is a cruel, calculating,
murderous, deceitful ruffian to make the average
level-headed citizen wonder if there mightn’t be some-
thing in it after all.
Free speech, in its true sense of a medium whereby
appeal may be made to a national sense of decency
for the exposure of abuses, the righting of wrongs and
the fair treatment of underdogs, is the most precious'
of social benefits, and the very essence of true democ-
racy. It has been a main formative influence upon the
British character. But it is a product for domestic
consumption only, for the exposure of our own abuses,
the righting of our own wrongs, the fair treatment of
our own underdogs. What the other fellow does in
these matters is no business of ours, and if we choose
to consider that it is he has every right to tell us to
go to Hades, and to point out sundry directions in
which we might mend our own ways instead of criti-
cising his. As, indeed, he is doing.
Let any Australian visualise a city street or coun-
try town in his own land where every inhabitant is
being constantly bombarded, through loudspeakers
operated by unknown foreigners, with personal abuse,
accusations of criminal intentions and acts, urgent
warnings against hitherto friendly neighbors concern-
ing their allegedly evil and violent intent, appeals to
get the gun and out the chap across the street before
that miscreant can draw a bead through the window
on the family as it sits down to tea. Even among our
normally placid and very law-abiding people, how
long would it be before someone would be exasperated
or scared into violent action? We know that an un-
romantic policeman or two would soon locate and
lock up the furphy-screechers in that particular street
or town.
But such is the condition to-day of our alleged
civilisation —and, unfortunately, there is no police
force to collect the morons responsible for the dis-
turbance, uproar and ill-feelings, and put them where
they rightly belong. Must the world be plunged into
unspeakable horrors for want of an understanding
upon a common ground of ordinary international
courtesy? Even if the other fellow’s intentions are
bad—and the odds are that he wants peace, long life
and a steady job quite as much as we do —why allow
scaremongers to make money out of it by frightening
children and old ladies?
The expensive remains of the League of Nations
still drowse in Geneva, supported in part by a sub-
stantial annual Australian contribution. The League
was founded for the express purpose of preventing any
repetition of the 1914-18 catastrophe. Here is an
opportunity for its resurrection in an organised effort
to mitigate or eliminate the most dangerous agency
of to-day towards such another disaster. If it cannot
at least make a definite effort, then the Australian
subsidy might reasonably be diverted to Defence.
Farewell "Romance"!
“T.”: .Did you ever hear how Lascelles, who married
Princess Mary —Earl of Harewood he is now —came
into his millions? That ornament of the flapper
press the “Wimmen’s Weekly” publishes the whole
story, along with a heap of syndicated stuff, the
Movie World (five pages), Mandrake the Magician,
the Astrology column, and portraits of Neville Cham-
berlain (“Gained Time for the Empire to Rally”),
Chiang Kai-shek (“Outstandingly Great”), Hitler’s
Friend (“Hon. Unity Valkyrie Freeman-Mitford, mit
dachshund”), Hitler’s Favorite (“Romance was
Rumored but Denied”) and the Quins.
Described as a descendant of “young Captain
Picotus de Lascelles,” who accompanied William the
Conqueror to England “a little less than nine centuries
ago” and whose not-so-remote descendants “became
the Barons Harewood during the Middle Ages”
( Whitaker’s Peerage makes the Harewood barony
date from 1796), our Lascelles, it seems, “served with
the Grenadiers at Sandhurst.” There “he made up
his mind that he would enter the Diplomatic Corps.”
This “in good time he did” ; but “at the outbreak of
the World War he enlisted at once.”
On furlough in the spring of 1915, he visited
“various antique shops in Bond-street.”
In his favorite shop he asked his friend the pro-
prietor about a cameo, when a voice from the corner
said “It’s probably from Milan, about 1500.”
The young officer turned to find the owner of the
voice, and was indescribably startled to see an old man,
collar missing, his coat torn, shabby and dirty, and
several days’ stubble on his face. A beggar!
He chatted with the “beggar” nevertheless, and invited
that dingy relic to lunch at his club.
Even the famous composure of the English servant
cracked under the violent strain of seeing the distin-
guished young officer walk in with so outlandish a
companion, and the waiter dropped a plate.
Thereupon the strange visitor drew from his back-
pocket a little tube of porcelain-paste, which he prof-
fered to the hapless man with the words “Here’s some-
thing to mend it with .. . but don’t use it all. I sleep on
a bench in Hyde Park every night and I need every-
thing I can get.”
Lunch over, “Mr. Lascelles, fascinated by his guest,
walked to Hyde Park,” where he left the “beggar” on
a bench hired for a Lascelles twopence. But he “often
thought of the cultured old tramp.”
And then he received a letter from a large trust
company in Ireland, a letter informing him that he was
sole heir to the estate of his great-uncle, the Marquess
of Clanricarde, who had just died.
The young soldier remembered that he had never
met this relative of his . . . and then he read the en-
closed copy of the will.
“I bequeath my estate to him because my grand-
nephew is the only person I know whose love of art is
truly and sincerely a part of him. I met him acci-
dentally one day in an antique shop on Bond-street.”
So the beggar had been his great-uncle, the eccentric
Lord Clanricarde, one of the richest men in all Britain,
yet a man who lived in constant fear of squandering
his fortune, and consequently wandered about for years
as a beggar in London’s Hyde Park.
Two and a half million pounds in cash; his castle;
his world-famous collection of Clanricarde jewels.
All these, this man left to the grandnephew who was
practically a stranger to him, and all because the latter
had had a wordy argument on the subject of art with
an old and run-down tramp ...
“Met him accidentally one day in an antique shop on
Bond-street”? Or was it on Fifth-avenoo?
All Irish-Australians have heard of Hubert George
de Burgh Canning, second Marquess of Clanricarde,
who spelt it “Clanrikarde.” There are no doubt some
who saw him in the flesh and others who have cause
to remember him as the most implacable as well as
the most eccentric of Irish landlords. His maternal
grandfather was George Canning. The notion that his
grandnephew and eventual heir never knew him and
had to be apprised of his identity by “a large trust
company in Ireland” is as characteristic a flapper-press
touch as the allegation that the queer old bird was
“a Hyde Park beggar.” Clanricarde had a town house
(“C5, The Albany, Piccadilly”), and if he had quitted
it to “sleep on a bench in Hyde Park every night” he
would scarcely have survived until his 85th year.
This flapper-press romanticism is of a piece with
flapper-press war-scare stuff. Both appeal to the sort
of people who are born two a minute.
The Bradfield Plan.
Considering that C. Y. O'Connor and John Forrest
took a water supply nearly 400 miles from the Darling
Ranges to the goldfields when the population of West-
ralia was 170,000, and that of Australia 3,500,000, Dr.
Bradfield’s plan for Queensland should not daunt a
generation which has seen the population of Queens-
land grow to 1,000,000, and that of Australia to nearly
7,000,000.
The central idea is to link the Tully and Her-
bertori in the 200-inch rainfall country of the North
Coast, decant their surplus water into the Burdekin,
dam that river at Hell’s Gate and take water thence by
.uiinel or pipeline to the Flinders-Thomson-Cooper
system, making permanent streams all the way down
to the Lake Eyre inlet region. In the process 3000
square miles of country would be flooded, and 60,000
square miles from Hughenden to the N. S. Wales
border would have a permanent supply that would
increase sheep-carrying capacity by 20,000,000 and
cut out most potential drought losses.
According to Dr. Bradfield the job could be done
with Australian labor and material. It would call for,
among other things, 400,000 tons of steel, 360,000 tons
of coal, 20,000,000 bags of cement and 6,000,000 cubic
yards of sand and metal. Estimated cost is £30,000,000.
The U.S.A. is spending a great deal more on dams,
Germany and Russia on canals and Italy on settle-
ment in Libya.
The plan would be the means of providing a
permanent increase of population in parts where popu-
lation has been stationary for 40 years. Another
20,000,000 sheep would, on a shilling-per-pound basis,
add £6,000,000 to £7,000,000 to annual wool income.
And the intensification of population would certainly
have more effect on the development of adjacent parts
of the Northern Territory than all the changes of
administrative policy.
Still More Have Succeeded.
“El V.”: The roll of Australians who have big posts
in the R.A.F., as mentioned in B. 23/11/’3B, needs
expanding. There are six air-marshals in the R.A.F.
One is Sir Arthur Longmore, born in St. Leonards,
Sydney: he commands the Imperial Defence College.
In the little group with him is Air-Marshal Sir Wil-
liam Mitchell, member for personnel on the Air
Council: he is Sydney-born.
To neither does Australia’s Air Chief, Vice-
Marshal Williams, need to feel inferior in experience.
Williams was one of the first four Australian officers
to fly in 1914, and was one of the first four Austra-
lians to command a flight. Several times he showed
great courage. He bombed Gaza during one of the
battles for that town. Once, when a failed engine
brought him within 50 feet of the ground, he suc-
ceeded in making a fresh start and escaping under a
hail of fire from eight .machine-guns. Another time,
when A. T. Cole was brought down by a shell, Wil-
liams landed, helped Cole to burn his machine and
then flew him home. Williams was the first Australian
to command the first all-Australian air squadron.
Before the war ended he was transferred to command
No. 40 (Army) Wing. He has been connected with the
R.A.A.F. from its birth.
Any man who could in actual warfare be picked
for command from a company that included Murray
Jones, Ross Smith, Cole, Ellis and MacNamara, V.C.,
should scarcely need an imported expert or a poli-
tician to teach him his job. Some of the best of the
war-time fighters remaining, about 50 years old or
less, are with him in the service—Cole, MacNamara
and others holding senior rank.
These men all began their war-time careers in
8.E.2 machines with only 80- and 90-h.p. engines.
Their observers sat in front, so that if they met
German Aviatiks or other machines they were help-
less, since they could not fire forward. On bombing
expeditions-, the observer was left behind, and, though
the pilot had a machine-gun, he could not fly and
fight, and could not retaliate against attack.
Yet in regular warfare in which sometimes as
many as. 100 enemy raids were made over the Aus-
tralian lines, and with opponents like the knightly
Felmy, in desert conditions in which men had never
flown before, they had fewer casualties in some months
of actual fighting than the modern R.A.A.F. has had
in peace with its more up-to-date machines and
equipment.
The obvious thing is to give these men a free
hand to reorganise the R.A.A.F.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Old Q.”: Purveyors of relevant and
irrelevant flapdoodle about the Duke and
Duchess of Kent have overlooked the
coincidence that the first “Governor’s
lady” to grace Queensland was a Greek,
and, like the Duchess, a good-looker.
Old George Bowen first met his
Diamantina —that was her pet name—at
Corfu in the days when the lonian
Islands were under the British flag. He
Was a subaltern in the garrison. The lady
was a real good sort, and Queensland
showed its opinion of her on the lucus-
a-non-lucendo principle by naming one of
the most erratic and undependable rivers
in the State after her.
* * * *
“Foreign Devil”: Neville Chamber-
lain broke new ground by addressing the
Foreign Press Association in London.
Previous Prime Ministers left the job to
other Ministers, especially the Foreign
Minister ; thus Eden and Halifax spoke
in turn to the association. War Min-
ister Hore-Belisha was booked to talk to
the foreigners just before the Sandys row
about official secrets broke out. The
address was adjourned sine die, and no-
thing has been heard of it since. Cham-
berlain made another precedent when he
gave a background talk last June to a
picked body of American correspon-
dents. This experiment has not been
repeated, because the Chicago “Tribune”
made it a foreground story and put the
Prime Minister well into it. The tradi-
tional English attitude about the press
was given, on the principle of the true
word spoken in jest, by Baldwin when
Prime Minister. Told that the editor of
the “Times” would like to see him, he
remarked, “I never see reporters.”
* v * *
“Uramao” The queerest deputation to
a Prime Minister 1 know of was a Cen-
tral Otago (M.L.) one that waited on a
former P.M. The small community
wanted the railway extended to their
township. Like Othello, they were “rude
in speech' and little blessed with the set
phrase of peace.” There was a shock-
headed Irishman among them, however,
who, given sufficient lubrication to loosen
his tongue, was believed to be the only
one to put the advantages of the railway
to the P.M. Whether the deputation
overdid or underdid the lubrication busi-
ness, when the Irishman got up he com-
menced a tirade against the extension of
the railway, while his co-deputationists
stood aghast. Interrupting his flow of
eloquence, the Prime Minister asked:
“And don’t you think a railway would
pay?” “Pay!” he exclaimed. “Sure
it wouldn’t pay for the shadow of the
ingin’ flying pasht!”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Sent off a 12-year-old
to-day for iron-lung treatment for after-
effects of infantile paralysis from which
“I thought, Tummas, you might have prayed for rain 's mornin'?"
“ Wha's the good t' pray for rain with a east wind Mowin'?"
“I jus' couldn't see it trailin' in the dirt, missus."
he would five years ago have certainly
died shortly. Odds now heavily in his
favor. It looks as if we’ll have one of
our own before long, now that an Aus-
tralian prof, of physics has reduced the
thing to its elemental essentials and the
Nuffield philanthropic interest has put it
on mass-production basis. It really is
nothing but an airtight box of suitable
size, inside which the air pressure can
be increased or reduced at breathing
intervals according to age. Infantile
paralysis doesn’t damage the actual lungs
but the nerves which control the muscles
which fill and empty them. The alter-
nating pressures inside the box carry on
with the job of supplying oxygen and
removing the waste products, until the
nerves recover. Infantile paralysis is by
no means the machine’s only application.
* * * *
“T.”: Perth “Sunday Times” reports
the death of the last of the convicts
transported to Westralia in the days of
“the system.” His name was Samuel
Speed ; he arrived at Fremantle in 1864
under sentence of seven years for arson,
and was released as a good-conduct man
in 1867. He died, a bachelor and a non-
smoker, in the Old Men’s Home. From
first to last —June 1, 1850, to January 10,
1868—9721 of Britain’s erring children
were transported to W.A. Many, of
course, were bad hats, but there were
good types among them, and if their lot
had been cast in the Australia of the
nineteen-thirties probably half would
have been First-Offenders-Act cases.
Anyway, evidence of a convict strain
has long since disappeared in the West.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: An American law case
has repeated, almost exactly, the old sea
yarn about the
young skipper going
full ahead through
thick weather in
narrow waters, and
the elderly mate
who came on the
bridge to protest on
grounds of safety.
The argument ended
by the skipper tell-
ing the mate to get
for’ard and look
after his own end of
the ship. Soon after-
wards there was a
rumble and clatter
of released chain,
the ship swung off
her course and
heeled, and the
skipper roared in-
quiry through the
murk as to what the
so-and-so was going
on for’ard. The
mate’s reply came
back: “I’ve anchored
my end —do what
you blanky well like
with yours!” The
Court decided that the mate should not
have been fired, as he had acted on a defi-
nitely-expressed order from the master
of the ship in what he considered to be
in the interests of safety, and awarded
damages against the owners.
“Fiona”: Another reason for the
meagre estate left by Oscar Asche (B.
7/12/’3B) was his passion for thorough-
ness. In staging his pageant plays he
made a point of having the real thing
in decoration wherever possible, and in
“Chu Chin Chow” the smallest vases,
even some tiny gems invisible to the audi-
ence, were genuine Chinese treasures. A
fortune went in these small items that
only the players could really see and
appreciate.
» * * *
“Doggie”: The R.A.N. has forbidden
the use of chewing-gum on board, and
many are wondering if the tars will
return to the classic “chew.” In the days
when this was permitted official “spit
kids” were provided for the use of the
chewer in various parts of the ship.
Some commanders had a special cure for
careless chewers who forgot themselves
and profaned the sacred decks. Their
hands were tied behind them and a “spit
kid” slung in front. They were then, for
a fixed period, at the beck and call of
their baccy-chewing mates, who usually
took full advantage of the situation.
* * * *
“Oran”: Add to slight linguistic mis-
understandings the case of the overseas
visitor who asked the Sydney flapper she
met at a reception if people went in for
curling in Australia. The damsel had
never heard of the Scottish pastime, but
she rose nobly to the reply. “Oh, rather,”
said she. “You can get a perm, prac-
tically anywhere now.”
* * * *
“Creeker”: Brisbane’s brightest idea
for years is the revival of the old
promenade concerts. A start will be
made in Brisbane Town Hall soon in the
new year. In the early ’nineties some
genius started the “proms.” at a “recrea-
tion ground” at Breakfast Creek which
ran a very dubious brand of pony-racing
on the side among other activities, which
included rowing the girls—any old girls—
about a mosquito-infested swamp and
the entertaining of the said girls on a
switchback —Queensland’s first. The con-
certs were held on Monday nights in a
huge barn, used at other times as a
“darnce-’all”; and, since pubs were
numerous all about and never thought
of closing until sun-up if anyone con-
tinued to chase the hours with flying
feet, revelry towards early morn became
hectic. The people who attended the
“proms.” for the music soon vanished
and were replaced by imperfect ladies
and their friends. That phase soon
passed, and then the ponies held sway
for years. Finally reform breathed o’er
the Creek, and as Ascot racecourse it
became respectable.
* * * *
“F.S.”: City artists might well envy
Albert Namatjira, the abo. artist of
Central Australia who accidentally met
a Melbourne painter up that way, became
his pupil two years ago, and opened his
first exhibition at the Fine Arts Galleries,
Melbourne, the other day. There were
40 or 50 pictures hanging on the walls,
with fresh relays coming down from Her-
mannsburg Mission. Before the show
was half over every one was sold.
OUR ACCENT.
“Mr. Herman Black, Sydney Uni. lecturer in
economics, said that an inquiry into Australian
pronunciation should be instituted by the Federal
Government. The Australian accent grated un-
pleasantly on the ears of Americans, who were
curious to know how we had moved so far from the
mother tongue.”
We’re smothered with royal commissions
Empowered to examine and get
The strength of all sorts and conditions
Of problems wherewith we’re beset.
And since it’s a method of learning
How leaks in our ship we may caulk,
What price an inquiry concerning
The way that we talk?
Are we-all unwittingly growing
A brogue you could dig out with trowels?
Do we consonants mangle, unknowing,
And shamefully mutilate vowels?
Lord knows! But the lingo prolific
In this neck of the woods that we lip,
Transported across the Pacific
Gives Uncle the pip.
The accents so artlessly tossed on
Our breezes, in forum or park,
Are reckoned atrocious in Boston
And over the odds in Noo Yarjc.
It irks them that standards we wilt on
Whereto they determinedly stick
In the language of Shakspeare and Milton—
And Jefferson Brick.
Our speech—much as that of Boeotians
Occasioned Athenian jeers—
Offends their fastidious notions
And grates on their sensitive ears.
Mayhap in our insular fashion
We reckon it tol’rably good,
But it wakens smart Harvard’s compassion
And shocks Hollywood.
They harbor a scornful conviction,
Albeit from one stock we are sprung
They can furnish us pointers in diction
And tips in the use of the tongue.
Ah, brothers, how cheap of our golden
And woolly resources to bounce
When to Yanks we must needs be beholden
On how to pronounce.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kwakprak”: I've
just been chatting with
Jones about the best
way of taking a really
health-giving and en-
joyable holiday. Jones
himself began one a
fortnight ago with a
glorious day of surfing
and sunbaking, and
came into hospital soon
after, as fine a case of
sunburn as one has
seen. We were anxious
about him for a while,
but he will be out next
week without much
scarring. He’s a
healthy, fortyish city
man who, after longing
for years, sent the wife
and kids on a steamer
trip and came up our
way for the real holi-
day that he used to
have when he was
twentyish. He will go
back much more re-
freshed and recuperated
than if he hadn’t had
his spell in hospital,
but, as he feelingly
pointed out, one
couldn’t call it an en-
joyable holiday. He
was right about getting
away from the family,
but wrong on the same
subject that wrecks
many a forty-fiftyish,
sometimes permanently
—the delusion that he’s
as good.a man physi-
cally as ever. Alas!
brothers, we aren’t!
* * *
“Sally”: A girl 1
know began her medi-
cal training recently
and a retired doctor
uncle gave her a skele-
ton he had used dur-
ing his working career.
It was in good condi-
tion except for the loss
of one small bone. The
new owner went down
to a shop where such
matters are dealt with,
and asked for a bone
to replace the missing
one. “Sorry, madam,”
was the reply, “but we don't stock spare
parts.”
* * # *
“Craiser”: Queer advertising mediums?
A poster announcing a performance of
Handel’s “Messiah” at Melbourne Town
Hall decorates the front of the King’s
Hotel in Russell-street. But not so incon-
gruous, after all. The subject of the
oratorio had associations with publicans
and sinners.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Americans and Austra-
lians are not the only people who like
their own countries served up with the
sauce of romance. In an issue of the
“Straits Echo,” Penang, I read the fol-
lowing announcement:
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer presents
“LAST OF THE PAGANS,”
with MALA and Lotus.
Primitive lovers in a perilous Eden . ..
Where men capture their mates in bride
raids ... and battle man and beast to win
happiness .. . Stark drama from the last
frontiers of civilisation —made into a
screen epic overwhelming in its sweep,
pulsating with romantic passion.
In the next column the unromantic news-
paper reports the case of Ramadu, a
primitive pagan of the neighboring dis-
trict of Ipoh, who made advances to
Batchamma, a female fellow-employee
on a British rubber plantation. As a re-
spectably-married woman, Batchamma
rejected his advances, and Ramadu went
to a Chinese shopkeeper and bought a
parang. He attacked Batchamma in a
swamp in which they were working, and
a medical witness gives precise details of
the damage he did her. According to his
own account, the prisoner had been inti-
mate with the lady, she was going to have
a baby and her husband objected. He
said the husband was the murderer. The
Court refused to believe him and sen-
tenced him to death by hanging.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Lately my old dressing-gowns,
pants that have seen better days, worn
socks and other articles of apparel have
been vanishing from my wardrobe ; also
skirts and what not from my wife’s. Ex-
planation is that my daughters have been
fired with enthusiasm for the manufac-
ture of hooked rugs. Basis is hessian.
Any fragment of clothing will do, and it
can be easily stripped and shredded with
a suitable tool. The pieces are pulled
through the interstices of the hessian
with a hook and the ragged ends clipped
with a scissors. Result may be a rug as
“I bin up once, but never again! They're too flamin' rough to ride in."
beautiful to look at as the most expen-
sive Persian rug and as soft to walk on
as pile. The hooked rug goes back to
remote Norwegian antiquity. It was in-
troduced to England somewhere about
the fourth century, and from there taken
to America, where it has become a cull,
hundreds of dollars being paid for old
specimens. The possibilities of design
are unlimited, some of the early New
England examples being amazingly
elaborate and refined to an astounding
point. It is a wonder hooked-rug making
does not become a major Australian
home industry or craft.
* * * *
“De Functo”: The building of the new
arch bridge to replace the old suspension
bridge built at the Sydney suburb of
Northbridge in Lord Carrington’s time
recalls the fact that the best-known
Earl of Rosebery had property in that
district. He was only one of several
leading British statesmen and politicians
who invested in property in Australasia.
W. E. Gladstone was, at least in his
earlier days, a sleeping partner in a
sheep station at Port Phillip, and owned
property in M.L. When the late Lord
Balfour went round the world in
1880-1881 he put money into a station
in Canterbury (M.L.), which proved an
excellent investment and helped to
enable him to devote his life to politics.
On the other hand, Balfour’s uncle and
political patron, Lord Salisbury, does not
seem to have invested any money on this
side, though he visited the Victorian dig-
gings as a young man. But at that time
Cecil, as he then was, seems to have
had little money. Salisbury and Balfour
were the only British Prime Ministers,
except the late Ramsay MacDonald, who
ever saw Australia. But we have had
Mr. Eden here.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: A problem confronted he
engineers who are starting on the job of
constructing a new reservoir at Lauriston,
near Kyneton (Vic.). Premier Dunstan
was scheduled to turn the initial sod, but
the drought had hardened the soil in
those parts to such an extent that even
the burly U.C.P. leader couldn’t perform
the usual ceremonial office. So a charge
of gelignite was laid, and Dunstan was
allowed to press the button that put it
into action.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Heard the unusually loud
tones of a street singer in Sydney’s Pitt-
street the other day, and for some time
was puzzled as to the source of the
music. After a while my eye spotted a
tall, thin fellow standing leaning over
and looking earnestly into one of the
latest type of concave show windows
which a few of the shops are sporting.
Looking closer, I saw that his lips were
moving. He crooned softly, as into a
microphone, the window threw his voice
back, so that on the other side of the
road it reached a very considerable
volume. The crowd, possibly more in
appreciation of his ingenuity than of his
singing, crossed his cap with copper.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “These modern flats is only
shells,” said Ben the handyman. “The
inside walls won’t stand a picture being
’ung on ’em. I'm putting in a few days
on a block of ’em last week and the boss
says to me, ‘Go into the next room,
Ben ; I want to test the walls for sound
now the paper’s on.’ So I goes into the
next room and the boss starts whisp’ring
‘Can y’ ’ear me, Ben?’ ‘ ’Ear y’?’ I says.
‘I can see y’ shadder in three places.’ ”
* * * *
“Nakh”: The yarn told by Hollway,
M.L.A., in the Vic. Assembly about the
landlord who sent a gang to remove the
fittings from a house occupied by an
undesirable tenant and subsequently
learnt that they had done their job only
too completely on another house in an-
other street reminds me. A countryman
who had bought a block in a Melbourne
suburb during the post-war boom hap-
pened to be on a city visit and thought
he would have a look at his bit of earth
and thistles. He was astonished to find
a church school going up on his land.
The mistake, made in the architect’s
office, was the countryman’s opportunity.
Being a man of peace, however, he
settled out of court with the responsible
authorities, a cheque for £lOOO and a
hearty handshake concluding the matter.
* * * *
“Runa”: Modern art, despite asper-
sions upon it (B. 7/12/’3B), is more
adaptable than old-style. Some years ago
a M.L. artist who went very futuristic
exhibited a small picture at an art
society’s show. It won high praise from
the critics as an impression of a bus
speeding along at sunset. A month later
a rival society begged her to exhibit at
their show. She had nothing ready, but
was she perturbed? Not a bit: she just
turned the bus picture upside down and
labelled it “Bushfire.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne’s
“busiest intersection in
the world” will soon
lose the reputation
which inspired Tom
Glover to draw an agi-
tated cartoonist making
his way from the
Flinders-street station
to the old Bulletin
office via the tops of
jam b e d motor-cars.
When the City Coun-
cil’s engineers have
done their job pedes-
trians will find their
way into the city
through a tunnel which
will duck underground
at the central entrance
of the station and come
up in Degraves-street,
at the back of Flinders-
lane. The subway will
cost £lOO,OOO, and six
escalators will run away
with £60,000. The
scheme has been talked
about for upwards of
30 years.
* * *
“Tracechain”: Melba
needs no defence
against Kisch’s piffle.
She was a good
sport. After her really
ultimate farewell con-
cert in Maryborough
(Q.), a man arose and
called for “cheers for
Melba,” and, when
these were given, “And
now three for Lem-
mo n e.” L. didn’t
appear to take
his ovation, and Melba
got busy. Wailing
“John, John, John,
oh, John,” she made a
flying bound for the
wings. Lemmone
scooted for cover be-
hind the drop-sheet,
which billowed as he
ran. Melba raced him
across the stage. Lem-
mone doubled in his
tracks. Nellie did too,
still crying despairingly
“John, John, John.”
Lemmone wheeled, this
time a mighty billow coming behind him.
In front, Melba wheeled too. “John, John,
John.” Stuart Robertson ran him to earth
off-stage. Melba dived off to make certain
of the capture. Between them, the one
pulling and the other pushing, they
brought John to face the call. And it was
Nellie blowing hard, her voice vibrant
with pleasure and pride, who did the
honors: “Now, boys; hip-hip-hip.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: Died lately in England,
Colonel John Clibborn, one of India’s
most notable military engineers and a
clever sketch-artist. He was responsible
for a rare little turn-up in Service circles
because of a drawing of “The Last Stand
at Maiwand,” a tragic happening in one
of the later campaigns in Afghanistan.
Clibborn tells the tale very frankly in
his memoirs. His drawing of the cluster
of men rallying in a vain endeavor to
save some guns showed these to be
Gurkhas, as, indeed, they were. To his
disgust, when he got the London “Illus-
trated Weekly,” to which he used to send
his sketches, he found the Gurkhas had
been turned into most uncompromising
specimens of Thomas Atkins. Others
who took part in that campaign wrote
to the “Times” about it, of course, and
by the time the barge was over Clibborn
realised that he had not done himself
any good.
A DISTINCTION.
“At a meeting of the N.S.W. Rod Fishers’ Society
it was complained that no assistance for developing
trout streams could be obtained from the Goyeni-
nient because Mt. Stevens was not a fisherman.
He never saunters, with rod in hand,
By banks that the anglers halt on;
He doesn't belong to the goodly band
Whose patron saint is Walton.
He isn’t wise to the sort of flies
Which experts hold ideal ones
To dangle out to the lusty trout
Who think (poor fish!) they're real ones.
He’s never a day to spare, it seems,
From his Ministerial duties
For a picnic jaunt to the mountain streams
Where they land the speckled beauties.
He has no hooks for the rippling brooks
Where Bavin went a-swishing,
But that isn’t to say he’s not au fait
At another kind of fishing.
The creel he carries is stacked with notes
And bulging with directions
On the bait that’s needed to capture votes
And the lures that sway elections.
He’ll never shine with the rod and line
Or the gaff for the struggler chubby;
Like Peter and Andrew, who left the sea
In the olden days of Galilee,
Along with the sons of Zebedee,
He’s a fisher of men, is Tubby.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Give
CRAVEN A
tUti- XmeU-
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
2247
POLITICAL POINTS
The last session at Canberra lasted 12
weeks—at least, that is how the U.A.P.
puts it. Curtin’s version is that there
were 35 sitting days and that sittings
averaged 18 hours 13 minutes per week
and six hours five minutes per day.
And that was for the House only ; Senate
sittings were fewer and shorter still.
In fact, practically all the Senators and
most of the Representatives spent more
time in the train going to and coming
from Canberra than on their “delibera-
tions.”
Butler’s last message to the Wake-
fielders, through Adelaide “Advertiser,”
was that “their interest in national
politics” was “an inspiration” to him.
And their rejection of him was —what?
An education? McHugh, the Labor
man, beat him by nearly 7000.
It has been repeatedly alleged that the
Scullin Government scrapped what is left
of national training at the instance of
its military advisers, and it has been in-
sinuated that the present Government has
been urged by its military advisers not
to reintroduce it. That has been denied
by Tommy White, and as a member of
the Cabinet for five years Tommy ought
to know. Anyway, none of the present
Ministers contradicted him.
Robert Garran has been writing a
series of articles on constitutional reform.
He is for it, but doesn’t think “a case
has been made out for abandoning the
Federal principle and resorting to com-
plete unification,” though he acknow-
ledges that he has “always regarded” the
Federal system as “a compromise suit-
able for certain times, places and condi-
tions.” That was the general view 40
years ago. But those times are gone,
conditions have altered, and a compro
mise which, as Garran admits, doesn’t
'even give the Minister of Defence con-
trol of transport has had its day.
When Stevens was blithering about a
Drive for National Efficiency, an
Advance on All Fronts, it was taken for
granted at Canberra that he, Forgan
Smith, Dunstan and Ogilvie would trans-
fer to Commonwealth politics. Nobody
credited Butler with Federal ambitions,
yet Butler was the first to stand and the
first to fall. The other gentlemen won’t
be so ardent now. It is so obvious that
to many electors State Premiers are two
a penny.
Curtin and Forde campaigned briskly
for their man, McHugh, in Wakefield ;
but although there are 14 Ministers, two
of them South Australians, the Govern-
ment didn’t bother to send anyone.
Perkins nevertheless denies that “the
Government was in any way responsible
for the result” or that “Mr. Lyons is
losing his power as leader.”
He is just as good a man to-day as when
he first became Prime Minister.
But, after seven years, surely he ought
to be better.
In 1923-24, loan money being abun-
dant, a Sydney Government built a rail-
way from Westmead to Rogan’s Hill.
Nothing remains but the debt and the
accumulated deficit; in the record
are the words, “dismantled, 1932.”
Another Sydney Government is build-
ing a railway from Sutherland to
Cronulla, and the betting at Parlia-
ment House is that Sutherland-
Cronulla won’t last as long as Westmead-
Rogan’s Hill. The Railway Department
used to list it among the projected lines
that would never pay. By way of making
sure that it will never pay, the Transport
Department is running Sydney buses to
beaches like Coogee and Maroubra and
will doubtless run buses to the new
National Park beach.
By a two-to-one majority, the Queens-
land Full Court has upset Justice E. A.
Douglas’s judgment voiding the Ithaca
election, in which Health Minister Han-
lon defeated Protestant Laborite Webb
by a narrow majority. Webb has given
notice of appeal to the High Court.
The experiment of making a young
businessman, Norman Nock, Lord Mayor
of Sydney has answered so well that last
week he was nominated for reappoint-
ment by both Civic Reform and Labor
groups—a compliment without precedent
at what used to be known as the Town
Haul. The trouble is that interest on
“resumptions” and the transfer of the
The IVar Cod Sounds His Cong.
municipal electricity business to the
alleged County Council limit Nock’s
opportunities. If the County Council
doesn’t make a better fist of it —its latest
and very belated idea is to spend
£7,000,000 on putting wires underground
—the electricity business will have to be
handed back, Spooner or no Spooner.
Anything less like an English County
Council than the show so christened by
Spooner would be hard to imagine.
Monuments to the glory of Government
departments and banks and commissions
and boards are all over the place in Syd-
ney ; and A.8.C., which mostly hangs
out in Sydney, has caught the infection.
On an income of £642,000 A.B.C. made
last year a profit of £50,000, which
doesn’t seem much, and it wants to spend
£700,000 on buildings. It had the nerve
to ask the Government for quarter of
a million or so. For once the Govern-
ment said no.
Duchesses can sit in the House of
Commons, and one, the Atholl lady, has
resigned her seat —Kinross and West
Perth. She is contesting it again as a
"challenge to the Chamberlain foreign
policy,” and Churchill assures that her
defeat will be taken as a sign that
“Britain no longer has the spirit or will-
power to confront the tyrannies and cruel
persecutions which have darkened this
age.” The Duchess, like Churchill, used
to be as wildly anti-Russian as she is now
wildly anti-German and anti-Italian.
In the 1938 Queensland Year-Book
there is an unusual tribute to J. D.
Brigden:
His departure from Queensland is as
great a loss to the State as it is gain to
the Commonwealth.
Brigden left the Q. Bureau of Industry
to become chairman of Casey’s National
Insurance Commission. Federal Labor
politicians are now as loud in his
dispraise as State Labor politicians were
loud in his praise. The Feds, fell heavily
on a pamphlet issued by his Commission.
Frank Brennan called him “a shock-
absorber for criticism levelled by the
Opposition” ; Rosevear stigmatised him as
“a booster,” and demanded to know
“whether the fact that his photograph
appeared can be taken as an indication
that he is a candidate for a popular-
boy competition.” The question had not
been answered when, with “war thunder-
ing at the gates,” Parliament adjourned
on December 9 “for Christmas.”
Joseph Kennedy, who “represents the
U.S.A. in the U.K. and Haig and Haig
in the U.5.A.,” has let our Glorious
Press down. Revisiting his native country
he warned it against “becoming involved
in European affairs” (the Glorious Press
idea is that it is breaking its neck to
become involved in European affairs);
and, worse still, he praised the Chamber-
lain policy—“the alternative is war and
chaos.” The three Sydney morning
papers hate the Chamberlain policy
almost as much as they hate Germany
and Italy.
It appeared in the “Argus,” which
recently conducted a campaign against
Communism.
Six Australian members of the Inter-
National Brigade have reached London
from Spain. They are waiting for Aus-
tralia House to complete arrangements to
repatriate them.
A few remarks from the “Argus” would
be in order, but none has been noticed.
Yet it is an outrage that the taxpayer
should be obliged to find seven steamer
fares from London so that the benefi-
ciaries may be billed in Australia as
Red heroes.
While in Melbourne the skipper of the
Archbold expedition’s flying-boat asked
a pertinent question. He wanted to
know why there wasn’t an airport at
Fishermen’s Bend. “New York,” he
said, “is spending twenty million dahlars
for an airport on a site not half so good.”
Premier Dunstan did not reply. He was
too busy trying—and failing—to remove
the legislative barriers to night trotting.
There was another “regression” in the
N.S.W. accounts last month, and at the
end of five months expenditure had ex-
ceeded revenue by £4,025,300. The now-
familiar “explanation” has been issued,
but not by Stevens, who deposited the
Treasury baby in the arms of Mr. Mair.
In any case, Stevens has gone to Tas-
mania, perhaps to plan another Drive for
National Efficiency, an Advance on All
Fronts.
Besides boxes full of Homburg hats
and West End suits, Anthonay Eden took
with him to the U.S.A. a warning to
“the democracies” to prepare for “the
gathering of the storm.” Whereupon Sir
Thomas Inskip, Minister for Co-ordi-
nation of Defence:
It is not an expression that 1 would have
used. It suggests that wise and prudent
statesmanship cannot bring us through
even the cloud of confusion with which
we are at present afflicted. Looking for-
ward to a gloomy catastrophe is not my
mood. Hope, not fear, is the sentiment
that should actuate all our activities.
It is rare for a British Minister to pitch
into a former colleague who hasn’t
openly changed his party, especially one
who was Foreign Secretary ; but Antho-
nay was looking for it. The Stunt Press
alleges that he crossed the Atlantic, as
Chamberlain’s agent, to make arrange-
ments of the first importance with
Roosevelt.
While people were discussing Inskip
on Eden, Lord Maugham, the Lord
Chancellor, turned savagely on Churchill
and other “would-be Prime Ministers
who go about poisoning the wells
of truth.” “There is no question,”
he said, in a Constitutional Club
speech, “that but for Mr. Chamber-
lain’s initiative, coupled with the assist-
ance of Signor Mussolini and others,
there would have been war with Ger-
many.” And if war had come then, or if
it came now, what would happen?
The Germans could drop 3000 tons of
bombs a day. In two weeks they might
do £500,000,000 worth of damage to
London and other great cities, apart from
the loss of civilian lives. Anyone over-
looking this ought to be shot or hanged.
His Lordship didn’t mention that it
would be a crime against the Dominions
to drag them into a European war in
which they had not the faintest interest.
But the punishment he suggested for
“anyone claiming to be a statesman
who made war on another great country
without counting the cost” would be
sufficient, though belated.


DUMPED.


THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT!
SCHICK ELE D C R T r RIC
SHAVERS
Available in following models: 6, 12, 32
volt and 110 and 240 volt A.C./D.C.
Price £5/10/-
From all Leading Stores.
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
CHANGE OF ADDRESS OF REGISTERED OFFICE
The business of the Victorian Branch of the Company will,
on and after Monday, the 19th inst., be transacted at the
company’s new offices—
M.L.C. BUILDING,
305-309 COLLINS-STREET (Cor. Elizabeth-st.), MELBOURNE.
H. J. MAYNARD, Branch Secretary.
V'
%
c
SIZE 72x60'
PERSONAL ITEMS
In the first week of January, 1838, Wil-
liam and Sarah Head landed from the
ship Hope on a spot on the Yarra which
is now in Scotch College grounds. They
started farming at once, and their off-
spring and their offspring's offspring
began to scatter over the land until now
there is no State in the Commonwealth
without a fine sprinkling of Heads. On
the first day of 1939 a great-great-great-
grandson of the original Heads will be
christened at the Methodist Church, Haw-
thorn, which one of his ancestors five
generations removed assisted to found.
The officiating parson, Robert Little, is
connected with the family, the choir
leader, the organist and most of the choir
are descendants of the original pair, and
100 members of the family are hastening
from all parts of the Commonwealth to
take part in the ceremony.
One of the big guns of the great Boy
Scout encampment at Sydney this Yule-
tide will be Henry James Stoddart,
pictured here in full regalia by Dubois.
He’s general secretary of the N. S. Wales
Boy Scouts’ Association. Born in Essex,
England, 41 years ago, and educated at
Mercer College, London, he saw service
in the Great War with the London Scot-
H.J. STODDART
tish from 1915 onwards, and came to
Australia in 1920 to take up farming.
He joined the Scouts in 1929 and holds
the Wood Badge, one of the highest
proficiency awards of the movement.
Addicted to swimming and fishing.
“West Aussie”: A photograph in a
Westralian weekly of Mrs. Lynch aboard
a camel at the recent Kalgoorlie junket-
ings reminds that she was the first woman
to be married in Coolgardie, in 1894.
She was then Clara Saunders, and the
bridegroom was Arthur Williams. The
Rev. Thos. Trestrail tied the knot. Miners
gathered in the town from all sides for
the ceremony. Even with beer at 3s. a
bottle, "Smiler ” Hales was able to vote
the show a “howling” success in his
paper. His description of the bride’s
dress, “quartz-colored silk with orange-
blossom outcrops,” is still quoted by
old-timers. Mrs. Lynch lost her first
husband, remarried, and has lived for
many years on W.A.’s wheatbelt.
H. C. C. Woodhouse, dead at 79, was
one of the long roll of Brisbane
“Courier" employees who completed over
50 years’ service with the old company.
He was born in Brisbane just before
Queensland became a State. He joined
the “Courier” staff in 1875, and was its
publisher for 50 years—lBB2-1932.
An unprecedentedly large bird startled
the ducks on Lake Bullen Merri, south-
western Vic., the other day. It grace-
fully alighted, a man steppod from a
boat into its interior and shook hands
with the skipper, and it departed without
shedding a feather. It was the Guba,
out on a testing flight before returning
to New Guinea, where its base is a lake
11,000 ft. above the level of the sea. The
passenger was G. S. McArthur, M.L.C.,
the barrister-grazier who has extensive
grazing properties at Menincoort. He
made friends with Captain Russell
Rodgers, pilot of the Guba, while she
was lying at Williamstown, and accepted
Rodgers’s offer to pick him up and carry
him down to Melbourne for the
Tuesday afternoon’s session of the Leg.
Council. McArthur married a daughter
of the late George Syme.
J. D. L. Hood, who is going to
America as Bruce’s private secretary and
then returning to a job in External
Affairs, is a Rhodes scholar from Tas-
mania. After leaving Oxford he worked
on the “Times” and acquired an English
wife. For a couple of years he has been
in Whitehall Gardens as the Common-
wealth’s assistant liaison officer with the
Foreign Office.
John Quirk, M.L.A. for Balmain
(N.S.W.), —John Storey’s old seat —dead
at 68, was one of the large contingent of
new Labor members, including Burke,
Mutch, McKell, Davies and Lazzarini,
still in State politics, who were elected
in 1917 soon after the conscription split.
Quirk got in for Rozelle, following
Labor conscriptionist J. B. Mercer, who
had represented the electorate for 10
years ; after one term Quirk became one
of the five members for Balmain under
proportional representation. He sat again
for Rozelle seven years later on the
reversion to single seats, and, when re-
distribution wiped out Rozelle in 1930,
was again elected for Balmain.
Before entering politics he was in the
P.M.G.’s Department. Generous old John
gave a lot of his salary away to hard-up
constituents.
After eight years of it Dr. John
Ramsay, of Launceston, has resigned
from the presidency of the Tasmanian
Aero Club. He is a man of many parts,
blessed by many a war-scarred Digger
for his skill with knife and plastics, and
remembered on quite a few golf courses.
He has a say in the affairs of several
Speck enterprises, and is chairman of
Goliath Portland Cement. His sound
business head helped the Aero Club to
overcome teething troubles and weather
the Depresh.
Brisbane’s latest centenarian, Andrew
Petrie, who has lived in Queensland most
of his life, still gardens and looks after
his fowls. His one gloomy remark when
the usual reporters asked him the usual
questions about his outlook was: “It’s
a long time till me next birthday.”
The look of pleased anticipation on
the face of Herbert Mathew Hale,
Director of the South Australian Museum,
may be due to the fact that the Carnegie
Corporation has awarded him 2000
dollars, to be spent on travelling round
looking at other museums. Hale,
Adelaide-born, is 43, and most of his
life has been spent in the S.A. Museum,
which he joined as a cadet in 1914, his
upward climb Joeing punctuated by
appointments as Assistant to Director,
H.M. HALE.
1917; Curator, 1928; Director, 1931. If
he has a specialty it is marine fauna, on
which he has written about 70 scientific
papers. He is chairman of the Govern-
ment-sponsored Fauna and Flora
Advisory Committee, and was a member
of the Fisheries Commission of 1934-35.
He is secretary to Adelaide University’s
Board for Anthropology.
Dead in Brisbane at 87, Richard
Boyd Echlin, little known to a later
generation, but 65 years ago, when half
the squatters on the Downs belonged to
the peerage and the Queensland Club roll
sounded like a list of the British County
Families, he and his brother Gawne were
noted. Son of a hunting squire in County
Down, Gawne was master of the Bris-
bane hounds and Dick participated in the
fun until he got a chance to go bullock-
driving with three teams out to the
Cooper. He and his brother
gradually acquired several Mar-
anoa stations. Then, marrying a
sister of Brudenell White, Dick
settled down to rear a typi-
cally adventurous family a son,
Warren, major in the Grenadier
Guards, one daughter who served
as nurse in the Great War and
won the R.R.C., and another
daughter who is wife of a New
Guinea D.O. Dick Echlin helped
to found the Mounted Infantry,
served in S’Africa, and, too old
for active service, was a camp
commandant in the Great War.
“El V.”: Nobody can say that
John Middleton Murry has not
had a varied carer. He was known
in M.L. and Australia just before
the war chiefly as the husband of
Katherine Mansfield. He was
known in London chiefly as the
too-arty art critic of the “Westminster
Gazette,” from which he transferred to
the “Times” Literary Supplement.
There, largely through Northcliffe’s influ-
ence, he was discovered as a likely man
for the Intelligence service, and by 1919
some equally piercing military eye had
singled him out from among Britain’s
myriad journalists and literary men as
the ideal Chief Censor. Since, he has
written copiously about the decadence
of literature and the necessity of Com-
munism ; and now a glance at Hitlerism,
he says, has moved him to apply for
ordination in the Anglican Church.
John Russell, head of the Rothamsted
Experiment Station, Hertford (Eng.), who
arrived in Australia last week, is
well known to every soil student the
world over. He went to the station in
1907 as a soil chemist, and has been there
ever since, with a war-time break in the
Munitions Department. He is a D.Sc. of
five universities and an F.R.S.
Sir George Simpson, the British
meteorologist who is to visit Australia
shortly, is no stranger to these parts. He
was this way with Scott’s Antarctic ex-
pedition, is a brother-in-law of Minister
Colin Sinclair (N.S.W.), and has a son
at the University of Sydney. The visitor
will give a public lecture at Canberra
during the Science Congress', taking the
Ice Age as his subject.
Con O’Brien, the first Labor M.L.C.
to be elected in Westralia, has pulled his
last beer in Perth. Con was one of the
thousands of Ballarat men who went to
the Westralian goldfields after the land
boom burst and the banks went bung
in 1893. He made a bit of money on
the Murchison and put it into the Court-
house Hotel in Perth. Old as he was,
he enlisted in the A.1.F., and became for
a time one of its “babbling brooks” —
but not in France or Palestine.
The Muse of John Shaw Neilson, the
Victorian poet, is between covers again,
under the title of Beauty Imposes, and,
synchronising with the issuing of an
edition of the poems of late father John.
John Neilson was a farmer and contrac-
tor at Penola (S.A.), who interested his
son in poetry. Both won prizes for their
work in an A.N.A. competition when the
son, now 66, was 21. Shaw Neilson learnt
nothing about literature in schools; he
started knocking about Australia at the
age of nine, and has been a bush worker
most of his writing life.
If anything goes wrong with a fiddle
in N. S. Wales and the instrument’s
worth praying over, the first name the
owner thinks of is Smith. Arthur
Edward of that ilk has been ministering
to the ailments of the violin tribe in
Sydney for quarter of a century, and
has enjoyed the patronage of all the
great lords and ladies of the bow that
have visited Australia from Elman to
Bustabo. Born in London 58 years ago,
he served his apprenticeship as a
A.E. SMITH.
mechanical engineer, but drifted into the
less-crowded job of the luthier at Maldon
in Essex while still young enough to
make a change. Came to Australia.in
1909, and after four years in Melbourne
moved to Sydney. He has a shop in
Hunter-street, but is happier in his
private atelier at Roseville. Hobby—
making fiddles.


%
%
■v
Q
I
i
...and he
shaved happiln
ever after.
0 0
ROLLS RAZOR
—the ideal Christmas present
ONE HOLLOW-GROUND BLADE LASTS FOR YEARS
SELF-HONING—SELF-STROPPING—SELF-CONTAINED
ONE OF MANY TRIBUTES PAID TO
THIS WORLD-FAMED RAZOR
“I am forwarding my Razor for a service
overhaul after 8 years of consistent use .
There is nothing on the market to compare
with a Rolls Razor , and I have recommended
it to a number of my friends
★ * *
The quality of Rolls Shaving Soap and Rolls
Shaving Brushes are in keeping with the
quality of the Razor. The Best in the World.
* * *
ROLLS RAZOR
THE WORLD’S MOST ECONOMICAL SAFETY
STROPPED AND HONED IN ITS CASE
ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
D. REDDAN & CO..
330 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: QUEENSLAND:
CORNELL'S, HOFFNUNG’S, BUTLER BROS. AUST. (PTY.), LTD.,
COLTON’S. Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
HARRIS, SCARFE & SANDOVERS, LTD., Hay Street, PERTH.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: It’s Bill’s yarn: “I’m
camped in a hut on the Murrumyarram
one night, when up comes a howlin’ gale.
It picked that hut up like a empty match-
box, lifted it clear over the crick, made
it turn over three times, an’ finished it
up in a tangle of lignum bushes on the
far bank. When I come to, I finds I’m
trapped in the flamin’ hut, which had fell
"No pointin' no bone at me, Steve!”
with the uoor downwards. I wasn’t
worryin’ much till water starts creepin’
in, an’ I realises the pourin’ rain is bring-
in’ the crick down a banker. Just when
I’m wonderin’ whether the hut’ll float
or me be drownded like a fly in a bottle,
a flash of lightnin’ hits one corner of the
hut an’ sets it afire. I look like being
incarcerated, or whatever it is; but just
as the fire gets a good hold down comes
the juice again, puts the fire out, an’ I
find there’s a hole burnt big enough for
me to get out. We better have another
drink now.”
* * * *
“Celer”: Once a fair middle-distance
runner, I should hesitate to try running
down quail on foot, even if the sprints
were limited to 200 yards at a time (B.
30/11 /’3B). And more especially through
“knee-high grass.” Indeed, I would back
the grass alone to stop any runner living
in 100 yards, particularly if in ordinary
clothes and boots. In India they used in
some of the desert parts of Rajasthan to
run down the Indian chukka partridge
on horseback. There the going is hard
and clean, if a trifle stony, and the ponies
know as much about the game as their
riders. Incidentally, the author of that
par. and one or two others have written
of catching hares with their hands with-
out mentioning the most essential factor
in the job—the English poacher’s trick
of walking round the beast in gradually
narrowing circles. This was mentioned
in a recent Bulletin, and the writers
referred to have claimed credit for the
trick without explaining how it is done.
No human being could walk straight up
to a hare within grabbing distance.
* * * *
“Norther": Narrabri, nor’-west N. S.
Wales, recently knew a lively interlude.
Somebody dropped the reins over a
hack’s head near a bike in the street. The
nag threw up its head, the reins caught
the bike and threw it across the prad’s
back. Unused to such mechanical fami-
liarity, the prad took to its scrapers, and
the local citizenry set out after a wild
mustang galloping with a bicycle on its
back. The chase ended in a sports-
ground.
* * * He
“Puffinus": Mutton-birding at the Fur-
neaux Islands in Bass Strait must be one
of the world’s most curious industries.
Ranging the open seas up to and beyond
the Equator, the birds arrive in Novem-
ber to lay their eggs in shallow burrows.
After a strenuous three and a half
months of feeding the voracious young-
sters, the parents depart again in
March-April, 16 days before the young
birds can fly or even find their own food.
Yet they learn to do these things, and,
more remarkable still, they follow in their
parents’ wake, wholly unguided, shortly
afterwards. The stored-up fat provides
the energy for living and learning. It
also provides a valuable vitamin food
from their salted carcasses, which are
shipped in casks all over Australia and
across the Tasman. The annual catch is
about 800,000 birds, bringing in, with oil,
fat, feathers, etc., about £lO,OOO yearly
to the island industry. Careful limitation
of catch keeps the yearly supply constant,
and the parent birds are not harmed.
They are long-lived, so that the yearly
toll does not mean eventual extinction.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Despite “Ploto” (B.
30/11/’3B), I’m still astonished to think
of a 23-year-old nag going through such
a thing as the American Civil War and
then galloping home with his master
aboard. I’ve seen aged horses do things,
too, as when Freckles, at something be-
tween 20 and 22, carted off a handicap
at a Vic. Mallee race meeting (Woome-
lang or Mildura, I ain’t sure now); I
know what the Light Horse Walers did
in Palestine; and I saw something of all
kinds of prads during ten years as a
station-hand in western Riverina. Actu-
ally, of course, my par. re old Pilgrim
was a jab at Yank laxity in detail.
# * * *
“Raorut”: H. A. Mullett, Victoria’s
Director of Agriculture, has a turn of
wit that is appreciated by country audi-
ences. On one occasion, when lecturing
in a Mallee town on methods in fallow-
ing, he was subjected to a heckling barrage
from a well-oiled settler whose chief com-
plaint was the presence of bubbles in his
subsoil. H.A. took it all for ten minutes
or so, then he lashed back. “Look here,
my man,” he said, “there are more
bubbles in beer than in your block! ” A
roar of laughter shook the roof, the
pickled gent, sought the open air, and the
lecture thereafter proceeded in peace.
* * * *
“Jack Stirrup”: Old Bill and the
missus were having an outsized row.
Realising that she was not quite holding
her own Mum rushed from the house
and down to the creek. Bill got his
revolver, went outside and fired a shot
into the air, falling down as he did so.
Their daughter, who had shut herself up
while the storm was in full blast, seeing
him lying on the ground, hurried after
her mother, calling out, “It’s all right
now, Mum, you can come home ; Dad’s
shot himself!”
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: There were turtle eggs
this morning, balls of yolk only, for the
white does not coagulate on boiling.
From their number and size, the lady-
owner was a green turtle. Her tracks
up and down the beach betrayed her
visit in the night, and a stick thrust down
in each of the four soft sand mounds
above tidemark revealed the real nest
from the false pretences which her kind
makes for the deceiving of robbers.
Turtles do not usually lay so far south
as this on the Q. coast, but the sudden
summer onset perhaps deceived her sense
of latitude. On far-northern beaches I
have seen every square yard above high-
water mark undulating in the starlight
with the backs of busily-digging mothers,
heavy with the urge to lay. and sending
the soft sand in showers behind them.
They disregard all else until the eggs are
safely deposited in the nest cavity and
covered in. Then they waddle pantingly
to the water again. Six weeks later the
young ones burrow out into a world full
of enemies, and the few survivors begin
their sea life, there to meet yet more
dangers.
* * * *
“Terminal”: If the injectors carried by
a tiger snake killed up here at National
Park (Q.) are a f.a.q. sample first-aiders
will need to dig deeply and twist very
tightly. Over an inch of fang was in-
spected, after which knife blades were
examined. The usual steel blade of the
snakebite outfit is now demoted to duty
as a fingernail scraper, and stock knives
that will go in over an inch are now
favored as standard belt equipment.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ll tell “Skull
Creek” how billy-swinging originated
(B. 16/11/’3B). In the days of the great
Australian road gangs their like will
never again be seen —to each so-many
men was allotted one billy-boy. His mul-
tifarious activities included that of seeing
that the tea was brewed by noon sharp,
and the hand —and boot —of Nemesis fell
heavily on the tardy youth who kept the
droughty navvies waiting. The tempera-
ture of the water, therefore, took second
place to time in the making of tea. Water
that wasn’t boiling floated the leaves, and
it took the billy-boys less than no time
to discover the navvy's reaction to “raw"
tea and that a vigorous swinging of the
billy sank the leaves. Later, when those
boys grew up billy-swinging had become
a habit which they couldn’t shake off.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Dougal” mentions
jarrah “saplings” (B. 23/ll/’38). Even
without the locality or type of timber
I'd know he was a Sandgroper. To a
t’othersider they’d have been “spars.” I
won’t go so far as to say we speak dif-
ferent languages, but some of the ex-
pressions I’ve heard from Eastern States
bushmen have got completely past me.
Unloading some jarrah in the yard the
other day 1 struck a piece of rare stuff
and showed it to the boss with the casual
remark, “Curly jarrah.” “Mahogany,”
he corrected. I’m still wondering what
he meant.
* * * *
“Pa”: Artist Jolliffe has hit me and
my fellow-rural toilers to leg, and with
impunity, for a long time. 1 have waited
patiently to have a go at our genial tor-
mentor. Now stand up to the whip, Mr.
jolliffe. Your picture of the camel and
the car-driver (B. 23/11 /’38) makes us
quits. Have you ever seen prickly-pear
growing in an area of less than 20in.
rainfall? You put it in a dry desert. A
man steers his cafnel with a string from
a nose-pin ; why, then, the halter and
bit? And what’s the idea: of the spare
rope from chinstrap to saddle? The
flies show it’s the middle of summer, and
yet your oont wears its winter coat. A
camel, moreover, has cushion feet, not
cows’ hooves. And where, except in pic-
tures such as yours, have you seen a
camel saddled with a girth and possessing
a tail like a fox-terrier’s? And who but an
artist would ever think of putting the
things on as you have them! That pick,
shovel, billycan are abominations.
Though you’ve given the animal a thing
that looks like a breastplate, you omit
the essential crupper. No, Mr. Jolliffe,
don’t you get outback or they’ll tie a tin
to your tail. You stay in the small cow-
cocky areas; the spinifex country and
beyond it is no place for you.
“Hanko”: In his decoration to the
“Ballad of a Squatter’s Daughter” (B.
7 /12/’38), instead of the called-for
mopoke to camp beside the lovelorn
lass, Leason has substituted a frogmouth
owl. Even so, the latter bird would be
the more likely owl to perch close to
a human in daylight, for it has a supreme
confidence in its powers of camouflage.
A further quibble is that the frogmouth
isn’t properly doing its stuff, otherwise
the sheilah would have kicked off by
hanging her bag on it.
* * * *
“Danbo”: Tricks and habits of the
older generation often prove useful to
the younger folk. Know a young woman
who was taught by her gran’ma to run
her darning needle through her hair
before she started knitting, the natural
grease from the hair making it easy for
the steel needles to slip through th,e
woollen material. Recently she visited a
Victorian country town when the annual
show was on. Among the items was a
nail-hammering competition for ladies,
for which she entered. Her small, frail
figure in contrast to the buxom dimen-
sions of her competitors raised a noisy
smile, but left her unperturbed. When
the competition started she remembered
gran’ma’s knitting tuition, and ran each
nail vigorously through her hair before
hammering it home. She won in a
canter.
* * # *
“Flight”: Tell “Colly” (B. 30/11 /’38)
that there isn’t any fixed rule about how
hawks attack. I’ve seen a kestrel falcon
pick up a quail, which is against all copy-
book laws; kites close on a lark when
they were supposed to be chasing ’hop-
pers ; an eagle which refused to tackle
a turkey when it was in the air—it shep-
herded it to the ground before it was
game to dive ; another which wouldn’t
close with a similar quarry till it had it
off the ground and in the air ; an osprey
attack, and kill, a magpie—which is an
unheard-of thing to those who know
what Maggie can do ; and a grey falcon
knock a bird from a limb and finish the
job in the air. There may be some
general rules; but certainly there isn’t
one which isn’t habitually shattered in
the search for tucker.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: Country people are often
at a loss as to how to get rid of old
and decrepit pets. Drowning is regarded
as cruel and a gun is rarely favored.
Why not use a car exhaust? A box
turned over on the ground with a pipe
or hose froln the exhaust into the box
and packed round the bottom with a
bag or two will make a lethal chamber
capable of doing the job as quickly and
painlessly as possible.
IN THE HUT.
I am weary of these things,
Of moonlit stubble and the trees
That darkly face the wind to-night;
Of the grey bird that wings and sings
Above the stubble’s yellow seas,
The creek that sings on wings of light.
For over in the hut 1 hear
The sound of voices, and l know
Harvest men, in the lantern’s glow,
Are talking of some vanished year;
And one will sing, and one will say
“The Boree Log” or a crude /hyme
That, handed down from day’ to day,
Is unforgotten for all time.
I, too, shall go and hear them tell
Those travellers’ tales which still amaze
The listener though he know them well;
And afterwards find more for praise
In moonlit stubble and bird’s song,
And the dark trees in phalanxed throng;
And see nqW meaning in the night
And red road winding out of sight.
N.S.W.
T. ROSE.


“Turoar”: “This ’ere idea uv moosic
in industry’s a good thing,” Old Bob said.
“Me an’ Tarry Tom wus workin’ up on
Tumbledoon onct. Tarry’s pretty fair
on the mouth-orgin an’ I’m a champeen
’cordion player, so we useter intertain
the boys ev’ry night after tea. The boss
notices this, an’ I’m blowed if ’e don’t
put in a lot uv wires an’ a fakus ’e calls
the ample-flier ; thin ’e gits me an’ Tarry
in front uv the Michael-phone an’ tells us
we’re gotter discurse sweet moosic ter
the gang in the shearin’-shed. It suits us,
an’ we puts it ercrorss proper ; no crook
stuff, mindjer ; all good clarsical moosic
like ‘Two Little Girls in Blue’ and ‘Daisy,
Daisy.’ The result’s somethink wunnerful.
The shearers speed up till they’re all
breakin’ two ’undred. This incourages
the boss an’ ’e outfits the ’ole place with
them ample-fliers so that the shearers,
drovers, bound’ry-riders an’ babblers is
all workin’ in time ter me an’ Tarry
playin’. Soon, we’re all inthoosiastic like
the boss, but when ’e goes an’ sticks
ample-fliers in all the trees we reckins ’e’s
stark an’ starin’! But, cripes, ’e ain’t.
When me an’ Tarry plays ‘Bye, Bye,
Blackbird,’ all the flamin’ crows ’ud tuck
their ’eads under their wings an’ go ter
sleep, an’ the boys could sneak up an’
dong ’em with sticks. Ev’rybody’s mad
on moosic after that, an’ I reckin they’d
still be, only the boss wrecks it by gittin’
married. ’ls missus is moosical, too ; but
the trouble is she goes in fer this swing
stuff, an’ the boss fits ’er ’ave ’er way like
a goat. Me an’ Tarry bein’ clarsical
players, it’s no dam’ good ter us, so we
draws our cheques.”
* * * *
“Wheatbelter”: Add this to the list
of extraordinary origins of fire. Harvest-
ing his wheat crop in the blistering heat
of a Westralian summer day a Northam
farmer drove the stripping team on the
necessary detour round a rock outcrop
that stood in the middle of the paddock.
Dropping the combs in again he plodded
along for about 50 yards, then smelt fire.
It was the crop behind him. And before
it could be got under control, what with
the excitement of fear-stricken horses,
etc., it mopped up quite 50 acres. Only
explanation was that on passing over the
stony ground a spark must have been
struck from contact between the rock
and a steel-shod hoof, the tinder-dry
grass growing in the crevices of the out-
crop taking fire. The usual sirocco-like
wind did the rest.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: “Ellenvale’s” sissy-boy
bullocky who urged his beasts to do
their best in a conversational voice (B.
16/11/’3B) reminds me of “Wild Jack,”
the donkey teamster who shifted our
five-head of stamps from Broad Arrow
to Kanowna (W.A.). Jack was the
epitome of everything that looked and
sounded ferocious. His ordinary con-
versation verged on a yell, while, as for
oaths, that army in Flanders had
nothing on him —he’d been to Flanders,
anyway. But when his team of 70
“How do you do it, sonny?"
“Easy, mister; I bin studyin' their 'abits fer years."
diminutive donks was hitched to the
big wagon and it was time to go, Jack
adopted the tone of a lady Sunday-school
teacher. “Come on, little fellas, gid-up,”
he said in little more than a whisper.
With ears all turned back to catch that
whisper, the “little fellas” obeyed. In
contradistinction to this, I have watched
the donkeymen on the sands of more
than one English watering place. Their
modus operandi was yells and beating
with a stick, considered necessary to
force the “incorrigibly stubborn little
brute” to move. “Wild Jack,” a real
nature-observer, reckoned that such
treatment drove a donkey half insane.
* * * #
“Wang”: “I wus camped one time at
these showgrounds,” related Dan, “when
along comes a weedy little runt an’, after
eyein’ me over, ses, ‘You look big
enough; wanter earn a quid easy?’
‘Lead me to it,’ I ses. ‘I will, after I
explain things,’ he ses. ‘lt’s this way ;
me missus is a big woman, an’ she
knocks me about when she’s in a temper.
Now, I’ve thought if I cud put up some
sorter show in front of her it might put
the wind up ’er. All I want yer t’ do
is t’ stroll along t’ my place, an’ I’ll meet
yer outside the house. The missus’ll be
handy—she alwus is. Then you pretend
t’ say somethin’ that I take exception
to, an’ I do me block an’ domino yer.
Course I couldn’t really,’ he adds
apolergetic-like; ‘but you can make
it look real, fall over when me fist
touches yer. Now, wotcher say?’ ‘l’m
on,’ I ses, an’ he gives me ten bob,
promisin’ th’ rest when th’ job’s over.
He gives me directions where to find his
place, and toddles orf, chucklin'. Well,
when I stroll along ’is nibs is waitin’
fer me, an’ I see a huge female cleanin’
a lamp close by him. ‘Wotcher want
here?’ the runt barks, real vicious-like.
‘Cervility from you, y' half-grown mon-
key,’ I retorts. With that he gives a yell
an’ comes at me, an’ pushes a fist agen
me nose. I stagger back, holdin’ me
boko, an’ bump agen the table what’s
got the lamp on it, an’ over the lot goes,
an’ the lamp’s smashed t’ bits. The
female lets out a shriek, an’ grabs up
a great lump of wood, an’ stands over
me, wavin’ it. ‘Y’ broke me best lamp,
y’ great hulkin’ brute,’ she yells. ‘That’ll
cost yer ten bob. Come on, now, cough
up or I'll brain yer.’ An’, by cripes, she
looked it, so I yanks out the ten-bob
note her ole man had given me an’ hands
it over. An’ the last I heard wus her
orderin’ her ole man t’ clean up the mess
or she’d brain him, too.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Well, I am not exactly
an “average amateur fisherman who puts
great faith in a sinker as an essential
part of a fishing line.” And if, like
“D. Beech” (B. 23/11 /’3B), I caught a
snapper or a flathead on a floating line
I would reckon it sheer accident. I’ve
caught hundreds of snapper and thou-
sands of flathead, and it’s never hap-
pened yet. “Get your line down to the
bottom, right down!” was the skipper’s
order when I first took up the game.
And now when we go out we always
carry plenty of lead so as to put a bit
more on as the rising southerly increases
the drifting speed of our thirty-footer.
Otherwise we might as well go home,
for the moment the bait leaves the
bottom we catch no more fish. And far
up Westralia’s north-west coast, where
we had a 30ft. tide to contend with —it
raced between the islands like a cataract
—we tied on 101 b. and 121 b. sash-
weights. No use fishing for bottom-
feeders unless you get your line to the
bottom.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The old logging track
through the palm scrub is a great place
just now for those queer little insects
which naturalists call Collembolas and
youngsters springtails. Springtails they
certainly are, bouncing their quarter-inch
bodies into the air with-
out the least apparent
effort, seemingly as a
sort of game. It is done
by a forked length of
elastic chiton, extending
forward under the body,
and held at the front end
by a trigger affair. When
he wants to do his
bounce act Springtail
releases the catch, the
spring hits the ground,
and up he goes. When
he lands the body weight
slips the spring under
the trigger, all ready
for the next take-off. Insignificant
and aimless as they look, springtails of
innumerable shapes extend all over the
world, and perform a job of immense
economic importance—that of preparing
tiny particles of humus for incorporation
in the soil. The only real criminal among
them is the so-called lucerne flea.
* * * *
“Beat”: Growing trees may not elevate
wire strung on them, but a firebrand on
a young ram’s horn will have moved a
few inches nearer the tip by the time
jumbuck is a great-great-grandfather.
sje jje $ 3fc
“Key”: Dad and young Bill ran the
small farm, so when Bill went to hospital
with a broken leg Dad was glad to give
a job to the lanky youth who called ask-
ing for work. Just before they set off
for the back paddocks Dad handed Mum
two five-pound notes, telling her that
Sam Smith, who had repaired the lorry,
would probably be along that day, and
might as well have the cash. After mid-
day dinner Dad and the new hand set
out again. In about 15 minutes Lanky
was back. “The boss says gimme the
money he gave you,” he said, panting.
“Sam Smith’s down the end paddock
now.” Later Dad appeared, inquiring
angrily where his helper had got to.
“Says he’d get his hat as he found the
sun too hot. And I haven’t seen him
since.” Mum stared for a moment. “And
you won’t,” she said with a conviction
that proved correct. “I saw a car stop
down the road and pick up someone.
He’s got a lift to goodness knows where
with ten pounds to see him through.”
“Gad, Prendergast, this'll revolutionise surf-bathing!"
CASSIDY’S KANGAROO
The news came down to the chaps in town,
from up near the Lalla Rookh,
That Cassidy’d captured a kangaroo on the
bank of a Wyong brook.
Cass, brought him down from his native bush
to teach him a trick or two.
“He looks like Fred,” said one o' the wits,
“you can hardly tell who’s who.”
“I might look wild, but I ain’t that bad,
growled Cassidy’s kangaroo.
His mournful face took a jovial look as he
made himself at home;
He'd go for his pint to the corner pub, then
round the block he'd roam.
If he had to fight he would fight all day, as
the mongrel dogs found out;
When Billy the Navvy went lookin' for stoush
he copped such a whale of a clout
His wife said, “Bill, did you hit a tram? The
whole of your mug’s askew!”
“No tram did that,” moaned the battered
wreck; it was Cassidy’s kangaroo!”
When Robinson’s goat broke into a yard and
scoffed all the shirts on the line,
And somebody sneaked to the Publicans’ Ball
and pinched all the beer and wine,
And somebody frightened a milk-oh’s horse
through the plateglass front of a shop,
And somebody bounced the half of a brick
off the head of a passing cop,
They made up their minds that the only thing
was to send the brute to the Zoo;
Yes, that was the place, the only place, for
Cassidy’s kangaroo.
They found a note on the tabletop: “I’m sorry
I have to leave;
I’ve had a wonderful time down here and I
hope my friends won’t grieve.
But Murphy’s cow had a calf last night, a
calf with a baldy face;
They’re bound to shove all the blame on me,
so I’m making a red-hot pace
Back to the bush and the Wyong brook, where
the sky is always blue.
Yes, I’m hitting the track for home and peace,”
wrote Cassidy’s kangaroo!
N.S.W.
ARAGUN.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Famines.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
l unch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT
1.7.1
7W.
5 ft
SftSBB
S»ssS
if ■ M
&mM
LUDOWICI "PIONEER" LEATHER
BELTING
LUDOWICI PIVOT DRIVE
BELTINGS V DRIVES GEARS
PULLEYS SHAFTING BEARINGS ETC.
J.C. LUDOWICI & SON
LTD.,
Power Transmission Engineers.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
“QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
I6in. cut,
and u
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualoast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the ICin.
“Qualeast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West I-'ootscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
( Dividends
t Pref. N
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
79,466
1926*. 26,645 4616 —12 J =15,938 73,375
Added prelim, exes., £2227 .. .. 75,602
1927.. 40,216 6750 464 124 p.c. =21,250 63,850
Added prelim, exes., £9O . . . . 63,940
1928.. 41,140 7516 6985 12J p.c. =22,770 59,571
Establishment exes., £9466 .. .. 69,037
1929.. 33,272 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 72,765
Added establishment account, £lOBl .. 73,846
1930.. 26,298 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,548
1931.. 27,521 9000 8000 5 „ „ 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481 f 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275 f 6500 64 „ „ 13,000. 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £13,019 .. 50,627
1934.. 42,406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. t= 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation,. £4OOO .. .. 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 .. 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
(ioodwill disappears, £l67] .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. .. 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. 25,375 ( ,
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 ]
Written off, £lBB5 j- 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO , . .. j
* Nine months. f Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
Since this co. took over in 1925 the
newspaper business then carried on by
John Norton’s trustees, the management
has made the most of its opportunities.
The co. publishes two weekly journals,
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” each of
which enjoys a wide circulation through-
out Australia and Maoriland, and in
1936 it bought all the ords. in Truth
(N.Z.), Ltd. (paid capital £125,000 in
25,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 75,000
ords.). Modern plant at Kippax-street,
Sydney, turns out the N. S. Wales
editions, while those for Vic., Tas., S.
Aus. and Westralia come off the co.’s
presses at Latrobe-street, Melbourne, and
plant at Brisbane produces the Queens-
land editions. The equipment at each
centre is housed in the co.’s own free-
holds, bought shortly after it took over.
For each of the first three years the
ords. got 12} p.c. Then slump and other
difficulties brought the rate down to 5
p.c., and the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act slashed 22} p.c. off the prefs.’
contract rates, leaving them the right to
advance with the ords. from their re-
duced to their original rates. The cut
applied for only two years; the full pref.
div. was paid again in 1934, and has
continued since, the average to the ords.
over the same period being 10.4 p.c.,
with comfortable and expanding margins.
In 1937 increased advertising and cir-
culation put a sharp spring of £7701 in
net earnings. The improvement was more
than maintained during the last term,
despite higher operating and other costs
and the fact that a lot of money repre-
sented by new premises and plant in
Melbourne and Brisbane was not earning
anything until toward the close of
accounts. After allowing for taxation
and providing £9840 for depreciation, the
declared net result (up £1919) was suffi-
cient to pay the pref. divs. and show
14.4 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 14,
12.1, 12.8, 12.7, 8, 6.4, 5.2, 4.6, 8.1, 15
and 19.4 p.c. back to 1927. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. After writing off estab-
lishment costs (£1884) and making a
special further provision of £5OOO for de-
preciation, the balance lifted the lay-by
£3657 in excess of the £89,616 at which
goodwill, not treated as an asset herein,
appears.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tions for further expansion of business:
1926. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Pref. capital.. £75,000 £ 206,000 £200,000 £200.000
Ord. capital. . 170,007 230,000 260,000 260,000
Mortgage .. 37,670 37,670 } 0
Other liabilities 14,320 20,811 67,708 j ’
Freeholds, etc. 41,567 174,398 184.283 272,088
Plant, etc. .. 85,367 151,462 169,531 246,818
Investments . . 96.050 100,175 100,651
Stocks) . . 25;,507 27,628 85.485 91,177
Debtors . . 35,527 50,728 58,470 67,088
Cash, etc. . . 22,723 2,272 2,171 7,048
The growth of £87,805 in freeholds and
of £67,287 in plant reflects additions, etc.,
in Melbourne and Brisbane. Stocks (up
£5692) are over three times the 1936
figure ; the board bought large supplies
of paper, fearing that the price would
rise more steeply than it has. To meet
the outlay on capital and other assets,
£180,634 was added to the outside debt,
of which £240,077 is secured. When the
books closed, outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids, excluding invest-
ments, by £120,699.
To .ease the strain, the board has an-
nounced an issue of 40,000 new £1 ords.
at par, four for 26, to those on the regis-
ter at January 1. When all the money is
in the issue, which has been underwritten,
will make paid capital £500,000 in 100,000
first 9 p.c., a like number of second
8 p.c. cum. prel’s. and 300,000 ords.
Prospects of the 10 p.c. div. being main-
tained are encouraging.
The ords. at 255. 3d., or 245. sd. after
exercising the rights, return 8.1 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The first and second
prefs. each return 6.2 p.c. at 295. and
255. 9d. respectively. Including the new
issue, the net tangible cover is 100 s. 9d.
firsts, 80s. 9d. seconds and 20s. 9d. ords.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
Juno, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1 928. . 66,298 131 p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
Unexplained additions, £86,018 .. 343,367
1929.. 73,132 13§ p.c. = 51,136 21,996 365,363
Unexplained additions, £81,432 .. 446,795
1930.. 65,239 13J p.c. = 55,929 9,310 456,105
Unexplained additions, £35,444 .. 491,549
1931.. 43,716 10 p.c. = 42,583 1,133 492,682
Written off investments, £25,000 .. 467,682
Unexplained additions, £32,482 .. 500,164
1932.. 22,779 10 p.c.= 42,583 480,360
Written off investments, £12,435 .. 467,925
Unexplained additions, £19,434 .. 487,359
1933.. 32,266. 7.8 p.c. = 31,937 329 487,688
Unexplained additions, £34,779 .. 522,467
1934.. 43,383 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 800 523,267
Unexplained additions, £32,944 .. 556,211
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. s 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 124 p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve, £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction. £24,388 .. 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 058,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
A year or so ago the board decided to
double paid capital, making it £794,892,
by the issue of bonus scrip, free of
Federal And State income tax, to those
on the register at September 3, 1937.
To sidestep the taxgatherer it was pro-
posed to sell the freehold, plant, stock
and goodwill, etc., to a subsidiary,
Peters Ice Cream Pty., Ltd., partly for
shares and partly for cash, so that
£397,446 from the sale, of goodwill (now
valued in the books at £25,250) would
be available for distribution among
shareholders in this Delicacy Co., which
would become a holding co.
Preparatory to all this being done,
shareholders were asked on September 14,
1937, and a majority agreed, to amend the
co.’s articles so as to enable fully-paid
bonus shares to be distributed in propor-
tion to the amount paid up instead of on
the face value of existing shares—that is
to say, in the proportion of one f.-p. 14s.
share for each f.-p. share and one f.-p.
14s. share for every three contribs. paid
to 4s. Bd. each held on September 3,
1937. Some of the dissatisfied minority
took the matter to the N. S. Wales Equity
Court, which issued an injunction re-
straining the directors from acting on
the resolutions of September 14, 1937,
or making any distribution, inconsistent
with article 120 of the co.’s articles. The
co. appealed against this judgment to the
High Court, which has reserved its de-
cision ; and there the matter stands for
the moment.
The co. has a splendid record. Paid
capital advanced from £150,000 in 1924
to £425,825 six years later by par issues,
which were in the nature of substantial
bonuses to shareholders, the' scrip com-
manding a high premium on the mar-
ket. In 1932 £28,389 of capital was re-
turned, reducing the figure to £397,446
in 680,711 shares of 14s. each, of which
511,364 are fully paid and the balance
paid to 4s. Bd. each. Over the 16 years
to the close of accounts in 1937 divs.
averaged 11.6 p.c. p.a., the lowest being
7.8 p.c. 1933.
•During the last term, turnover further
expanded, thanks largely to favorable
weather, wage lifts and the high level of
employment. So, despite rising costs
and a certain amount of non-recurring
expenditure in connection with further
extension of the business, the board was
able to write net earnings £4171 better
than the previous year’s at 28.5 p.c. on
capital as against 27.8, 17.2, 14, 10.9,
7.8, 5.2, 10.2 and 9.8 p.c. back to 1930.
That was after adding £21,277 (up £1002)
to the depreciation reserve, making it
£426,990, equal to 68.3 p.c. of the figure
at which plant, etc., appears. Although
the dividend actually distributed was
lowered from 16 p.c. to 8.9 p.c., another
£35,486 (= 8.9 p.c. on capital as it now
stands), which would have been paid on
bonus shares had they been issued, has
been retained pending judgment being
delivered by the High Court. Actually,
therefore, shareholders will receive out
of the co.’s 1938 earnings an amount
equal to 17.8 p.c. on capital as it now
stands.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a comfort-
able financial position and continued ex-
pansion of the business:
1935. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. £'397,446 £397,446 £897,446 £397,446
Sundry creditors 29.522 37,271 80,841* 94,355*
Freeholds, etc. 245,645 246,740 260,838 279,008
Plant, etc... 485,495 495,510 548,540 624,804
Investments.. 152,920 152.537 14>p,300 180,802
Stock . . 19,495 20,504 25,447 39,584
Book debts. . 14,274 10,285 11,115 18,123
Cash.. .. 99,772 154.548 180,084 128,415
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £18,170 in freeholds and
of £76,264 in plant, etc., was due mainly
to erection of a dairy factory at Taree
(N.S.W.) and renewals and additions to
plant and premises, all of which ought to
mean much so far as costs are concerned.
To meet the outlay, add £31,502 to in-
vestments, £14,137 to stocks and £7OOB
to book debts the co. drew upon cash
for £51,669, and added £13,514 to the
outside debt, which includes an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation. The year’s
net reduction in the more or less liquid
surplus (£91,767) was £44,038. The sub-
sidiaries all did well.
At 525. the f.-p. 14s. shares return 4.8
p.c. on the basis of last year’s intended
distribution of 17.8 p.c. Including the
depreciation reserve (equal to 21s. 6d.
per share), the net tangible cover is
58s. Id.
Highgates, Ltd. (Sydney)
This co. got itself into deep water with
astonishing speed. Furthermore, until
the position clears sufficiently for those
now in control to see more definitely
where the business stands, it is difficult
to say exactly what shareholders’ pros-
pects are. What is definite is that those
on the register have already lost approxi-
mately half their capital. The board says
some loss on trading is still being made,
but the business has been reorganised, the
wage bill has been reduced by approxi-
mately 50 p.c. and the directors “believe
the chances of success are greater than
they have been,” but profits cannot be
expected for some time.
It was a Sydney float, registered at
Canberra, March 25, 1937, with a nominal
capital of £500,000 in ss. shares, of
which 600,000 were offered. According
to the prospectus, the promoters were to
receive no cash, but were entitled to
40,000 paids when 400,000 shares had
been subscribed and another 20,000 paids
(60,000 in all) when the subscription list
totalled 600,000 shares. Of the public-
issue 200,000 shares were underwritten at
3d. apiece, and the board could go to
allotment when 400,000 (£100,000) shares
were taken. It was estimated that
brokerage and preliminary exes, together
would take £7500, leaving £92,500 for
working capital, etc. The idea was to
build up a large retail chain credit mer-
chandising organisation throughout the
Commonwealth, and, if things went as
expected, in Maoriland, too.
Alter spending a lot of money in
preparation, the co. began trading early
in February, 1938. The net result of opera-
tions for the eight months to the end
of September was a loss of £22,705. That
was after charging everything that reason-
ably could be so charged to establish-
ment account (£9864) and preliminary
exes. (£4873), and excludes brokerage
(£6932), goodwill (£10,245) and a sus-
pense account of £BO7, payment of which
the auditors consider to be in contra-
vention of the co.’s articles and pros-
pectus.
At September 30, paid capital was
£110,731 —this includes 35,000 pro-
moters’ shares debited to goodwill, but
not then actually issued to those entitled
to them —and there was another £19,578
still to come. Sundry creditors figured
for £37,048, of which £8147 was on
overdraft. Tangible assets totalled
£92,353, of which £34,587 was repre-
sented by leasehold (£17,021) and fittings,
etc. (£17,566), and' £57,766 by stocks
(£38,919), debtors’ balances (£18,427),
cash (£140) and prepayments (£280).
Shareholders could thus see net tangibles
with a book value of £55,305, or a shade
under 10s. (6s. 3d. of it was represented
by leaseholds, fittings, etc.) per pound
of paid capital.
During the term branches were opened
at Clarence and Pitt streets, Sydney, and
at Hurstville, Ashfield, Cessnock and
West Maitland. The Clarence-street
premises are now used as a bulk store,
trading activities having been transferred
to Pitt-street, and the branches at Cess-
nock and West Maitland have been
closed because gross sales failed to bring
in enough to cover overhead.
Stocks at balancing date (£38,919) were
considerably in excess of the co.’s re-
quirements, owing to overbuying, the
board says. Also, owing to “the exces-
sive proportion of capital represented by
intangible assets, the heavy overbuying
of stock, and the slowness with which
calls on share capital were being
received,” the co. found it was unable to
meet its commitments to creditors on
due dates. In this matter extension of
lime was asked for; creditors agreed,
and also expressed the wish that all
original directors should retire. That
was after a committee appointed by the
creditors—they have 13s. 4d. at risk in
the business for every pound of net
tangibles, including leaseholds, fittings,
etc., belonging to shareholders —had in-
vestigated the business in September last.
Five of the seven'original directors had
resigned during the year. The two re-
maining ones were E. C. B. Midlane, who
was largely responsible for flotation of
the co. and who used to be chairman
and managing director, and B. Light.
Mr. Light did not stand for re-election.
The board resolved that Mr. Midlane’s
services with the co. be terminated, and
requested him to resign his directorship.
This he refused to do. He was defeated
at a poll at the annual meeting last week.
The board has been reduced from seven
to five, and now consists of H. J. Brigden
(chairman), G. H. Cruttenden. Dr. H.
Lever, E. C. Sommerlad and A. W. Uther.
Messrs. Sommerlad and Uther represent
the creditors.
{"Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


T. and Gr.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
Established 1876.
The Annual Report for the Year Ending 30th September, 1938,
SHOWS THE FOLLOWING RECORD OF PROGRESS
1918
1928
1938
INCOME
£891,249
£3,312,151
■ £5,842,940
1918
1928
1938
NEW BUSINESS
(Excluding Accident Department)
£4,246,349
—— £11,498,725
£14,661,184
ASSETS
(Held Against Policyholders’ Contracts and Other Liabilities)
1918 £3,180,378
1928 £13,417,203
£30,321,756
1938
1918
1928
1938
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
(Excluding Accident Department)
£13,269,941
■ £49,171,797
£85,092,107
THE T. & G. LIFE SOCIETY is purely Mutual, and the whole of its
divisible surplus is distributed by way of Bonus, or other benefits, to
policyholders. The Society has, by its sound investment policy, careful
selection of risks and fair dealing with its policyholders, become one of
the strongest Life Offices in the British Empire.
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual
Assurance Society Limited
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS AND RUSSELL STREETS, MELBOURNE.


mm®
**
... X#*".
m
m
$H Wmffl¥W\ '■:» S
%s£&&
*mm
mm
Mi
Living Your Life
THE SAFETY WAY
The air is being made safer by the provision of “beams”
along which the pilot can travel, even when fog and storm
blot out the landmarks. When these “beams” are available
everywhere, neglect to use them will be the height of folly.
The A.M.P. Society provides another kind of safety service.
By using its policies a man can keep along the path that leads
to financial security for himself and wife and family. On an
average, one family in two in the Commonwealth and New
Zealand uses the A.M.P. in some measure; are YOU using it as
much as you could?
Through the A.M.P. you can arrange that you shall have
a regular income when you retire, and that that income shall go
to your wife after your death; or that it shall go to her if you
die at any time before you plan to retire.
Lopk into this Safety Way of Life. Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to send a man to explain it to you. No obligation is in-
volved in hearing about it. Its cost is within the reach cf most
men. Send to-day. Even to-morrow “a storm” may overwhelm
you. Do it to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
W. aneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Officer Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
jJ; jjc jjj jjj
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
. —Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better,
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,'
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab” Melbourne.
Victorian State Insurance Office
Victoria’s State Accident Insurance
Office, now in its 24th year, is a Gov-
ernment office conducted in a very able
and successful manner. W. H. Holmes,
the commissioner, in his report for
1937-38, can point to a record year—net
premium income £200,781, exes, only 9.7
p.c. of this figure (far and away the
lowest in Australia), with losses at 60
p.c. The business is mainly workers’
compensation, and it is the economical
way in which the office is conducted that
enables surpluses to be shown.
The V.S.A. Office, after providing for
unearned premiums, etc., disclosed a sur-
plus of £35,002 for 1937-38, equivalent to
17.4 p.c. on net premium income. In
earning this surplus the office gets the
benefit of a return of roughly 2 p.c. on
its funds—the Treasury has the care of
a large portion of them, and it isn’t an
indulgent custodian, believing, appar-
ently, that the insurance offspring should
pay in full for any services rendered it
in childhood. Although the office hasn’t
to pay income and other taxes, what it
loses in interest income more than offsets
this privilege. In 1931 £50,000 was taken
from the funds by the Treasury, and it
is only to be returned in a case of
emergency—something which isn’t likely
to arise. Of this £50,000, £30,000 has
been written out of the office’s accounts
already.
A triennial cash bonus to policy-holders
totalling £45,412 goes out this year, equal
to 4s. 6d. in the £1 of last year’s net
premiums. Allowing for this generosity,
funds stood at £106,560 at June 30 last,
excluding unearned premiums. Outstand-
ing claims, etc., amounted to £270,254.
Assets totalled £321,358, including
£165,398 at the Treasury (but not trans-
ferred to consolidated revenue), £50,000
(written down to £20,000) in c.r., and
£96,560 in general reserve investments.
New office premises at 412 Collins-streei
have since been bought for £48,500.
The Cash and Conversion Loan
The Commonwealth’s £71,700,000 cash
and conversion issue—the largest thing
of its kind since the big voluntary-
compulsory conversion of 1931—closed
on December 15, the day on which the
old securities fell due. The maturing
securities amounted to approximately
£67,700,000, and cash subscriptions were
sought in order to pay off those who did
not convert and to provide £4,000,000
of new money to meet defence expen-
diture. Conversion applications totalled
£52,300,000, and cash applications
amounted to £13,400,000, of which
£3,000,000 came from the National Debt
Sinking Fund. Conversion and cash
applications together totalled £65,700,000,
leaving a gap of £6,000,000 which
the Commonwealth Bank has filled
with a firm cash subscription “in the
public interest, and in accordance with
its policy as. a central bank.”
I he fact that the sub-underwriters (the
trading banks and life offices) will not be
called upon to take up any of the issue
is important. it means, among other
things, that the central bank has adopted
a policy designed to relieve what looked
like the approach of tighter money con-
ditions in the new year. This action
was made possible by the accumulation
of funds on Australian account in Lon-
don during the fat years. In the cir-
cumstances, it is sound non-in fiationary
financial tactics. What needs to be
realised is that there is a very definite
limit, which is governed largely by Lon-
don funds, to the extent to which the
central bank can fill gaps caused by
undersubscription of public loans without
endangering the value of the currency.
At the present low level of export prices,
and with heavy defence expenditure
ahead, there is a clear call to the States
to curb their expenditure on public works
if trouble with genuine trade and in-
dustry is to be avoided.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) will begin the New
Year by issuing monthly, instead of
quarterly, production and financial state-
ments. Also, by the end of January
the co. expects to have its smelting and
converting plants ready to treat the
copper-gold flotation concentrates previ-
ously shipped to Tacoma (U.S.A.) for
treatment by American Smelting and
Refining Corp. The concentrate, assay-
ing about 60dwt. gold and 16.5 p.c.
copper, will be fed to a coal-dust-fired
reverberatory furnace. The gases from the
furnace will be passed through a waste-
heat steam boiler, and matte, containing
about 40 p.c. copper, will be transformed
into blister in a Great Falls type con-
verter. The board also intends to issue
presently a brochure to shareholders
fully explaining all phases of operations
at the mine.
* * * *
A difficult question put to chairman
J. A. Agnew at the recent Lake View
meeting in London was “What is the
life of the mine?” Speaking as one who
had had a lot of experience of Kalgoor-
lie mining, Agnew reckoned that the
minimum life of the Lake View group
would be 12 years. General manager
Joe Thorn, who attended the roll up, was
prepared to extend this period by at
least three years. To illustrate the dif-
ficulty of accurately estimating the life
of a goldmine, Agnew instanced Sons of
Gwalia, remarking that 41 years ago its
ore reserves were barely four years ahead
of the mill; now nearly six years’ supply
was opened up, notwithstanding that a
seven-figure tonnage had been treated in
the interim. Thorn cited the Boulder Per-
severance, which 10 years ago was con-
sidered to be worked out; yet it had
produced much wealth since, and was a
big mine to-day. Its admitted ore re-
serves had never been big. The latest
was 116,700 tons averaging a little under
Bdwt.
• . * * *
An analysis of costs per ton of ore
treated at Lake View and Star (W.A.)
is seen in the following table:—- '
1935-30. 1936-37. 1937-38.
s. d. s. d. h. d.
Mine development . . I 8.57 2 0.92 2 5.04
Ore extraction .. 17 0.92 17 1.99 10 7.99
Ore treatment .. 0 2.85 5 11.37 0 0.21
Ore transport .. 0 2,02 0 2.15 0 1.89
General exes.- . . o 5.10 0 1.81 0 1.94
Realisation .. .. 0 2.03 0 1.81 0 1.94
Total . . . . 25 9.49 20 6.87 20 0.30
The quantity of ore put through the mill
for the 12 months to June 30 last was
614,567 tons, compared with 581,918 tons
and 584,056 tons for the two preceding
terms. The effect of the reduction of
hours underground to 40 per week last
year was more than offset by savings
following installation of new appliances
and the co-ordination of ore passes, which
greatly reduced transport and ore-
handling charges.
* * *, *
Chairman J. A. Agnew didn’t throw
his hat in the air over prospects of re-
currence of values at depth when address-
ing shareholders at the Wiluna meeting.
He did, however, argue that, so long as
the shear continued strong, there was a
possibility of such recurrence. Enthusing
a little over recent developments on the
Bulletin and Happy Jack blocks, in the
northern part of the co.’s holding, he
said they promised substantial tonnages
of ore, above average mine grade. Fol-
lowing the lead of a London financial
paper some shareholders are advocating
the issue of quarterly instead of monthly
developmental reports. This is done by
Rand and many other mining cos. How-
ever, special cabled announcements have
always been made by Wiluna on the
occasion of a significant development.
But development trends would be dis-
closed more quickly in monthly than in
quarterly reports plus cables.
* * * *
Latest quarterly report of Gold Fields
Australian Development, Wiluna’s next-
door neighbor and associate, is cheering.
Working profit from the treatment of
26,700 tons was £A 11,700. In addition
24000 z., valued at £A21,500, was re-
covered from some old concentrates. One
diamond drill, situated close to the Wiluna
boundary in the Horseshoe Wiluna
blocks, stabbed two portions of an ore-
body some 30ft. apart, showing values
of 4.3dwt. over widths of 2ft. and 3ft.
respectively. The interesting feature of
this disclosure is that it appears to be
on the Bulletin shear, some 500 ft. north
of a recent bore by Wiluna which dis-
closed very satisfactory values. Ore assay-
ing 4.3dwt. over a width of 99in. and a
length of 353 ft. has been exposed at the
1030 ft. level, and s.Bdwt. values over
83in. and a length of 41ft. have been
met with at the 830 ft. level.
* * * *
The Christmas message of Western
Queen (W.A.) is that it has disposed of
some of the plant on its old venture at
Warda Warra, and is holding on to a
producer-gas power unit in case it is
wanted at the May Bell, Norseman field,
over which the board recently took an
option. When this option was taken
co. had £7BB in cash and shares in Hill
50, N.L., which cost £938. What it has
now is not stated. A call (the second) is
expected to realise £2411.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.R.: Co. still in development stage. Shares
a speculation... .C.L.T.: (1) Excavations
started, but things seem to be at a standstill
at the moment; making further inquiries. (2)
and (3) Doubtful... .W.P.: Write Frank Ham-
bridge, Adelaide Steamship Building, Bridge-,
street, Sydney... .H.S.W.: (1) A long-term
speculation. (2) Nothing at the moment to
indicate whether they are ever likely to be
worth much. (3) Write secretary and ask if
he can find a buyer for you.
IMPERIAL AIRWAYS
LIMITED.
A YEAR OF DEVELOPMENT.
THE GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCEMENT.
At the 14th ordinary general meeting of
Imperial Airways, Limited, in London, Sir
Jolm C. W. Iteith, G.8.E., D.C.L., LL.D
(chairman), said: In the year under review—
one of transition from one major policy to
another—the gross profit of £29(1,824 was less
by £1)7,217 than that of* the previous year.
This decrease does not represent a fall in the
gross revenue, which, including subsidy,
amounted to £1,980,000 as compared with
£1,729,000 for the previous year. The gross
revenue per ton mile for 1937-38, however, at
a figure of about 55., compares with approxi-
mately 7s. for the previous year because of
the decreased rate per ton of unsurcharged
mail carried. Expenditure on the same ton
mileage basis, but before charging obsoles-
cence, was 1937-38, 3s. lOd.; 1930-37, 4s. Sd.
The fall in net revenue per ton mile fully
accounts for the decrease in net earnings.
The total amount available for Appropria-
tions, Dividend, etc., after transfer of £OO,OOO
from the previous year’s carry forward to
Dividend Fund is £103,185. From this the
board set aside £5OOO as provision for Taxa-
tion, £lO,OOO to Reserve for Contingencies, and
they recommend the payment of a dividend
at the rate of 7 per cent, on the Ordinary
shares.
As a result of unsurcharged mail, more than
twice the capacity was operated on the Africa
route than in the previous year. Passenger
traffic increased by 28 per cent., and mail
loadings by 280 per cent. As to the India,
Australia, and Far East services, only just
over one month of unsurcharged air mail is
covered, but during the year traffic from Eng-
land to Karachi increased satisfactorily. Sixty
per cent, more capacity was operated than in
the previous year, and the same proportion
of capacity offered was sold. Passenger traffic
increased 48 per cent., and letter mail 75 per
cent. The Bermuda-New York service, which
is operated by the -company and by Pan-
American Airways, began on June 10, 1937.
The company did a considerable amount of
flying in connection with further develop-
ments, including Atlantic flights and the flight
of Centaurus from Southampton to New Zea-
land and back, 30.(K)0 miles, carried out to
schedule. The arrangements between the
Governments of New Zealand, Australia, and
the United Kingdom for the establishment of
a service between Australia and New Zealand
are now nearing completion, and the services
should start early next year.
European services have been severely handi-
capped by failure of delivery of aircraft
ordered four years ago. The completion of
the Empire Air Mail Scheme was delayed for
the same reason. Hitherto the company has
bought only aircraft and engines designed and
built by British manufacturers, but the diffi-
culties in obtaining delivery in accordance
with contractual terms may force the board to
apply for permission to adopt some variation
of this policy.
The chairman dealt with the Report of the
Cadman Committee, read the Air Minister's
announcement regarding the proposed forma-
tion of a public corporation to acquire
Imperial Airways and British Airways, and
concluded: The Minister referred to the need
in this company as well as in British Airways
for large additional capital for development
purposes. This has had the board's attention
for some time and, in view of the assistance
given the company by tyay of Government
subsidy, has necessarily been discussed with
representatives of the Government. Apart from
any other issues involved, any alternative to
the Government’s plan would entail either a
great increase in ordinary share capital or the
creation of shares with rights ranking in
front of the existing shares.
The board, whatever its legal powers under
the Articles of Association, will not agree to
any price for the sale of the undertaking
without calling another meeting of share-
holders.
The report was adopted.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SMOKE-OH!
It is strange that when a Judge’s
temper is short his sentences are most
likely to be long.
>!• »I« 4 *l*
“Lady, any area, wanted at once. Send plan,
price.”— “S.M.H.” Houses and Land column.
Does Granny suggest that the lady be
surveyed?
4 4 4* 4
“My husband drank something awful.”
—Extract from novel.
It had gone flat probably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“‘When a man has to wear an overcoat in
this hot weather to hide his pants, he feels like
a mug,’ he said.”— “D.T.”
In any case, in this hot weather a man
feels like a mug.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Should young men be taught housekeep-
ing?”—Women’s paper.
By all means. The young women
would then be certain to take their jobs
from them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Art students hold meeting to discuss
grievances.”— News item.
A real art to art talk.
4* 4* 4 4
“A Victorian politician owns an orange
grove.”
Nevertheless, he doesn’t despise plums.
4* 4* 4 4*
“Women to-day demand the pleasures of
life.” — Women’s paper.
Yes, they want a merry life, and no kid
about it!
4* 4* 4* 4
“The woman seemed thunderstruck when the
tram-conductor spoke to her.” — "Sun.”
He must have been a lightning con-
ductor.
4 4 4 4
“An ostrich egg is equal to 20 hen eggs.
It must be boiled for 40 minutes.”
— “World’s News.’’
The catch is that you have to eat it
with your head buried in the sand.
4 4 4 4
“Nitrogen obtained from sardines is being
used to make high explosives for Japanese
bombs/” — “World’s News.”
By packing delicately-timed sardines,
self-opening cans appear to be a com-
mercial possibility.
4 4 4 4
To Beat the Ban.
“By a decision of the A.F.U.L.E. and
A. in Thirroul not to handle any material
declared black by the strike committee in Port
Kembla, none of the Dalfram cargo of pig-iron
can reach Sydney unless completely camou-
flaged.”—“Daily News.”
Camouflaging pig-iron ingots! That’s
the dastardly tactics the B.H.P. is com-
ing at to defeat the loading ban. More
than ever now will the comrades need
to exercise vigilance to outwit the capital-
istic octopus.
Some of the schemes, indeed, have
already beeh exposed by Labor’s organ,
which, the better to hack off a few more
of its enemy’s tentacles, has lately pulled
a nomenclatural camouflage over itself.
Some of the ingots, it has discovered,
have been reshaped into the semblance
of all-day-suckers, which, suitably painted,
were given as gifts to the local school
kids. Finding them difficult of mastica-
tion the kids threw them disgustedly into
the gutters, from which they were
gathered at dead of night by minions
of the co. camouflaged as garbage-
men. Labelled “sweets,” they were then
secretly repacked and sent to Sydney.
Another Machiavellian idea that the
B. has adopted has been to employ
barmaids with Fascist sympathies, after
having them specially slimmed to look
like stenogs. Diabolically employing
their skill, these females wrap two in-
gots up to look like a brace of bottles
of the best. Bribed workmen then leave
clasping the disguised ingots in one hand
and waving a crayfish in the other, sing-
ing bibulously the while. Then, pretend-
ing they are visiting the crew of the
“black” ship to give them a drink, they
sling the “bottles” down the hold. It
was only when a careless workman
dropped two of the “bottles” on a sus-
picious picket’s foot that the foul plot
was exposed.
The Waterside Workers’ Committee is
now investigating a report that ingots
are being disguised as railway buns and
being distributed through the R.R.R., to
be nefariously garnered later through the
waste food bins. A sample was secured
in a railway refreshment room by a
union official disguised as a commercial
traveller, but so far investigations have
failed to reveal whether the bun he got
is a genuine or a pig-iron one.
80.
“So I played my chip shot from here and came out on the green.”
“Sydney is a city without music.”
—Alderman O'Dea.
Notes are certainly scarce.
*l*
“Baby Born in Iron Lung.” —News Hem.
In or with ?
4 *l* -I* 4
“Martians probably possess a remarkably
high intelligence.” —Scientific journal.
Well, they’re shrewd enough to keep
off this earth.
•!• + + +
“Professional tennis-player sued for divorce.”
—News item.
Love means nothing to him.
Jockeyed Out of It.
“Jockeys lose about five pounds in two hours
in the electric sweat.”
When jockeys run to flesh or fat,
Their boots and spurs and breeks they
doff
And, in a heated chamber that
Would fry an egg, they sweat it off.
Thus grimly is their weight restored
To par; the surplus dominoed.
But five pounds I could ill afford
To lose last week (including board)
I wasted on the mules they rode!
P.O.M.C.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XIV.
As the band of raiding Touregs, each
rider tugging madly in a vain effort to
restrain his terror-stricken beast, vanished
over the sandhill I examined my own
camel. The gallant animal was breathing
with normal irregularity, but I was pained
to observe that the lump caused by the
swipe over the head I had been com-
pelled to give him with my rifle butt was
the size of an ostrich’s egg.
Still, solicitude for his mount must
not be allowed unduly to interfere with
a legionnaire’s more pressing duties.
There was the Arab spy whom 1 had
brought down from the palm-tree near
the oasis. Perhaps a search might re-
veal information of inestimable value to
the Legion.
I strolled over to where he had fallen.
As 1 turned him over curiously with my
boot 1 heard the jingle of coins. Imme-
diately realising that these might form a
helpful clue to the identity of the raiders
I transferred them to my own pockets.
Also, 1 noticed that he wore a 15-carat
gold ring which might possibly have
some secret message engraved on the
inside. Unfortunately, it wouldn’t come
off, even after I had dragged the fellow
around by it for a considerable distance.
I had opened his mouth and was just
pondering the problem of how I could
extract several gold fillings—it was my
intention, of course, to hand this proof
of my capture to the proper authorities
later on —when the gate of the fort at
last opened and our escouade dashed out,
led by Lt. Bleauxflai.
It might be asked, why didn’t the
garrison sally forth immediately the
Arabs were sighted by the guard on the
roof? But things are not done as simply
as that in the Legion. There has to be
observed a rigid procedure, contravention
of which means death followed by a
posthumous court-martial.
The modus operandi for repulsing
attacks on forts is laid down in the
North African High Command’s Regu-
lations (known to all legionnaires as the
Nahc’s regs.). These specify that when
an Arab harka is sighted the man on
guard must inform the caporal, who
reports it to the sergent. That n.c.o.
then requests the adjutant to parade him
before the C. 0., though reasonable time
must be allowed the batman to waken
the officier. After that the C.O. and the
adjutant go into conference to determine
the strategy to be employed. Whilst this
is in progress, and to save valuable time,
the sergent is authorised to apply to the
fourrier-sergent for the keys of the
armory.
After distribution of ammunition the
troops are lined up, given a double issue
of absinthe,, a few “form-fours” and a
short lecture on the agreed-upon strategy.
Each man then puts a pickle-bottle cork
on the point of his fixed bayonet (this is
to ensure during a charge en masse that,
if a legionnaire stumbles
he won’t spoil a per-
fectly good man in front
of him ; 10 yards from
the enemy the corks
are removed) and the
escouade is ready for
action.
As the garrison
emerged from the fort
the 0.C., searching the
horizon under the shade
of his hand, spotted the
enemy going hell-for-
leather over a rise
about three miles away
and gave the order
“Charge! ” Only that
the troops had to run
uphill with full pack up
(including tent, camp
oven and firewood),
and that the fleeing
Arabs were mounted
on swift camels and
had such a long start, I
might have witnessed
a thrilling fight. As it
was, they gave up the
chase after only a few
miles.
Lt. Bleauxflai and
his men returned just
as I was trying to re-
move a particularly ob-
stinate and highly auri-
ferous bicuspid from
the defunct Toureg.
Rushing over, he em-
braced me heartily and,
closing his eyes and
manfully suppressing a
shudder, gave me the
traditional accolade on
each stubbly cheek.
“Mon brave !” he
said delightedly. “You have saved the
fort and the garrison. Parbleu! You
shall for this be a sergent made, no?”
“Yes,” I answered modestly.
I was certainly delighted with the
prospect. Not many civilians can boast
that, in one fell swoop, they have got a
200 p.c. rise in pay (with three stripes up
1 would be getting Iyd. per day). More-
over, I would be on even terms with my
old enemy Sergeant Vinblanc. I imagined
the look on his face when I strolled into
the sergents’ mess with a patronising
“Good day, Pointblank,” or I might even
curtly refer to him as “Mudguts.”
It was some weeks before we were
relieved. The conditions in that oven
of a fort were terrible. Several went
mad and had to be shot. Others—just
before the absinthe ran out —got shot
and went nearly mad when they came
out of the horrors to find there wasn’t
a pick-me-up left. But for me time flew
on speedy pinions. When I wasn’t
weaving rosy dreams around my new-
found affluence I was out in the desert
hills on my own out of hearing of the
fort practising parade-ground orders. So
stentorian became my voice that once I
started a sand avalanche, and only my
amazing turn of speed saved me from
being engulfed.
At last relief came, and the return
march was made without incident. On
arrival at the great barracks at Sidi-bel-
Abbes my promotion to sergent was
confirmed by the colonel commanding.
He was a large man with a face the
color and texture of a house-brick. He
also kissed me on each cheek, and this
time it was my turn to suppress a
shudder.
Next morning I took the parade of a
new batch of recruits. Imagine my
amazement when I saw in the front row
the managing director of the bank in
which 1 had been employed.
S.W.K.


GOLD MINING LEASES AND PLANT
FOR SALE BY TENDER
EDJUDINA GOLD MINING COMPANY NO LIABILITY (IN LIQUIDATION). PORPHYRY. W.A.
TENDERS are invited and will be received until noon on
Monday, 16th January, 1939, for the purchase of the Com-
pany’s undertaking as a going concern, but not including
tailings dump, for which separate tenders are invited.
MINE PROPERTY —GoId Mining leases 1126 R, 1133 R,
1175 R and water right 51R.
HISTORY OF MINE —The mine is situated in the Yerilla
district, North Coolgardie Goldfields, 97 miles n.-e. of Kalgoor-
lie by road. Good water supply. Telephone and aerodrome.
In 1934 the mine was favorably reported on by T. R. Victor
and N. S. Stuckey, and the Edjudina Gold Mining Co. was
formed. A plant was erected, and opencut mining yielded
25,000 tons of ore for 36200 z. fine gold by straking only
between January, 1936, and June, 1937. Between June, 1937,
and December, 1937, 15,100 tons was milled. During the
latter period the then manager stripped ore from the west
side of the quarry in unpayable ground, and this policy,
combined with lack of capital to carry on, caused the closing
down of the mine.
A report made at the time by Mr. F. T. M. White, 8.Met.8.,
etc., shows that the prospects of the mine were then good, and
that had additional capital been available for development
profitable returns could have been obtained. Considerable
driving and shaft-sinking has been done on the mine, and it
is estimated that 20,000 tons at approximately 44dwt. to
sdwt. is obtainable without further development. Mr. White
estimated that highly-probable reserves were 25,000 tons of
value approximately s.3dwt. per ton, 45,000 tons of value
approximately 4dwt. per ton and 10,000 tons of value
approximately 3.4dwt. per ton, making a total of highly-
probable ore 80,000 tons of approximately 4.3dwt. per ton.
Probable ore he estimates a possible tonnage of 35,000 tons
at 4.2dwt., and possible ore at an indicative figure of 65,000
tons.
COST OF OPERATING. The cost of operating should
not exceed 19/- per ton on 3000-tons-per-month basis.
PLANT— The mine is fully equipped with plant, including
500-h.p. Premier Gas Producer Engine, 170-h.p. Hornsby
Gas Producer Engine, 380-h.p. Ruston Diesel Engine, Crackers,
Drum Crushers, Marcy Mill, Classifier, Electric Motors,
Pumps, etc., and is ready to start up immediately. Reports
may be inspected and further particulars of the mine properties,
plant and equipment may be obtained at the office of the
Liquidator, with whom arrangements may be made for inspec-
tion. The Liquidator accepts no responsibility for errors of
description of assets or of the quantities thereof, and gives
no warranty in respect of any assets. All tenders must be
sealed and envelopes marked “Tender Edjudina Gold Mine,”
and be accompanied with a bank-marked cheque for an amount
equivalent to 5 p.c. of the sum tendered. The balance to
be paid forthwith to the Liquidator on his giving notice
of acceptance of the tender, unless other arrangements are
made to his satisfaction. No tender necessarily accepted.
Dated this 30th day of November, 1938.
W. HAYES, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
Liquidator,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
133 St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Time to Spend
Only a few years ago it seemed good
business for the daily papers to recite
opinions, usually those of Mr. B. S. B.
Stevens, Premier of N. S. Wales, that
prosperity was “just around the corner.”
Jt was deemed to be beneficial to busi-
ness, good for , newspaper circulations
and to have a v benign influence on ad-
vertising revenue. P'rimiiiister Joseph
Lyons early in .1936,. at the time the
Bank of New r South Wales, by raising
its fixed-deposit rates by half of one per
cent.,, torpedoed the Commonwealth
Bank’s attempt to open a public Treasury
bill market in Australia, stuttered some-
thing about “prosperity getting out of
hand like a snowball” as an explanation
ol the necessity for lifting interest rates.
Alter a while the blather about
prosperity began to assume a shade of
speciousness that stuck in people’s
gullets, especially when it was associated
with clamors for more public borrow-
ings, more taxation, more politicians’
overseas jaunts and more lifts in wages
and prices that got no one anywhere.
Fashions seemed to change suddenly,
as fashions do. Overseas the rearmaments
boom burst in April, 1937, the New Deal
in America became so rickety that even
Mr. Stevens and Roosevelt’s daily-press
admirers drew away from it in alarm,
and someone suddenly discovered that
the thing everlastingly dodging round
corners wasn’t prosperity, but war —or,
more correctly, War.
War was here, War was there, and
there was going to be the devil to pay.
Newspaper circulations rose, and a wave
of rumors, lying, hysteria and jitters
added to the confusion of what was
really a very trying situation.
Something else happened. The Aus-
tralian people started to sock their money
away into savings banks, etc. From the
end of the first quarter of 1938 onward
the additions to total savings-bank de-
posits throughout the Commonwealth
were phenomenal. Records as regards
savings were smashed in short order, but
spending naturally started to fall off.
Business began to slacken. Some slacken-
ing might have been expected with the
drop in the price of wool, but there was
more than that in it. The uncertainty
pictured in the papers created something
of a tightening-up, a “take-shelter” com-
plex, and as an illustration of this sav-
ings-bank deposits speak for themselves.
The sudden thrift on the part of wage-
earners would have been no bad thing
in ordinary circumstances. In a
boom period it would have been a very
good thing. But, coming at a time when
our national income was in for a set-
back anyway, it had a disturbing effect
on business. And so, now that Christmas
is upon us and retailers’ stocks are
inclined to be big and advertisers have
been inclined to falter, there have been
blah-blah articles in the daily papers
about this being a “champagne Christ-
mas,” and the “most bountiful festive
season since the depression”—the wish
being father to the thought.
Almost every responsible businessman
expected this Christmas to be quieter,
in the rate of increase of sales, than
last. But there is no more reason for
gloom than there is for a lot of blah
and newspaper propaganda that is in-
correct or exaggerated. In simple com-
monsense, those who can afford to spend
now would be helping employment and
themselves if they did their bit to swell
trade. It is in slack times that the “little
extra” does most good.
So Australian Glass is going to make
a bonus issue, and all those sharemarket
hopes haven’t been in vain. The
announcement, which happened the same
week as the fire at the Sydney factory,
has been made in a rather ponderous,
indefinite sort of way:
Sufficient progress has been made with
the compilation of figures to justify the
board now resolving that steps be taken to
arrange for a bonus issue to shareholders
in the form of fully-paid shares. The
extent of such issue cannot at present be
determined, but your directors consider it
most desirable that the earliest possible
notification of the impending issue be given
to shareholders.
The figures are expected to go up early
in 1939, and then, no doubt. Glass will
steady down in the market and become
"No, I can't speak to anyone just now; tell them I'm engaged."
more of an investment stock than a
speculation—there have periodically been
spasms of spirited gambling in Glass
shares for years, always on the hopes
of a bonus issue. The, formation of
several subsidiary cos. will be part of
the reconstruction scheme now in hand.
If the bonus issue is one for two to the
ords. (calling for £465,240), and the div.
stays at 15 p.c., the yield to buyers at
£5 4s. a share would be about 44 p.c.
If one for one, then the yield would lift
to 6 p.c., in which case the scrip, ex
rights, would undoubtedly rise. Some-
thing less than one for one, or something
less than a 15 p.c. div. on the new capi-
tal, is expected by the market.
* * m ...
Public support for the cash and con-
version loan fell short of the £71,700,000
required by only £9,000,000, £6,000,000
of which sum the Commonwealth Bank
has provided without calling upon the
sub-underwriters, the trading banks, and
£3.000,000 of which had already been
covered by the National Debt Sinking
Fund. Considering the uncertainty of
the times, it was a successful operation.
* * * *
Emperor shares have been fading in
Melbourne sharemarket. Last Wednes-
day’s sale at 9s. 3d. was the lowest quote
on record, beating the 9s. Bd. touched
in February, 1936. There appear to be
difficulties ahead in regard to treatment
of the various classes of the co.’s ore.
What the market wants to know is, Will
outlay on further plant interfere with
divs., or will it entail the raising of more
capital?
* * * *
The F.R.S. Ideal Spring Co., which has
headquarters in Sydney and a branch
office in Melbourne, runs a profitable
undertaking. The business was started
in Adelaide in 1926; later operations
spread east, and in 1932 manufacture in
Adelaide ceased. In April this year the
business was passed to the present co.
for £49,730 "'ash, profits as from Jan. 1
being included. On a paid capital of
£50,000 the co. showed £6024 net profit
for the six months to June 30 last; that
was after setting aside £BO4 for depre-
ciation and £1250 for taxation. An
interim div. of 10 p.c. p.a. went out on
Aug. 5. During the 34 years to Dec. 31,
1937, earnings had been at the average
rate of £6026 a year; latest result is at
the rate of over £12,000 a year, or 24
p.c. p.a. on capital. Just under 6s. a
share is represented by goodwill and
other intangibles, but the liquid position
is very comfortable. The co. turns out
all kinds of springs, motor cushions,
spiral-spring mattresses, etc. Turnover
is reported to be holding well, and at
245. 6d. (up 3s. in a fortnight) the shares
yield 8.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The scrip has attractions.
* * # *
A bunch of shares obtainable at attrac-
tive prices now are Broken Hill Prop.
(555. 6d., returning £4 11s. p.c.), United
Provisions ord. (6s. Bd., 9 p.c.), Aus-
tralasian Paper ord. (295., £5 10s. p.c.),
Melbourne Steam (275. 6d., £5 2s. p.c.),
Yarra Falls (375., £5 Bs. p.c.), Myer Em-
porium ord. (305., 6 p.c.), and Arthur
Cocks (cum rights, 255. 3d., 8 p.c.). A
good pref. issue is United Provisions 8
p.c. stock, which is not subject to in-
terest-reduction legislation and on which
in only one year during the depression
was part of the div. held back. The
arrears were cleared up within 24
months. Present yield, at 235., is 7 p.c.
*** _ *
In Britain the cement industry is now
working at only 60 p.c. capacity, and
Lord Wolmer, chairman of the Cement
Makers’ Federation, expects a further
drop of 10 p.c. in 1939.
m * * *
Australian Cement’s final div. of 5 p.c.
carries a bonus of 24 p.c., and makes
12| p.c. for the year, the same as the
last distribution of the Kandos co. in
N.S.W. .Both concerns have a million
shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., but Kandos shares, by reason of a
smaller capital, have an 114 p.c. greater
equity than A.C. scrip. A.C. £1 shares
have lately been around the record price
of 355. Kandos 16s. counters keep firm
at 265. and are the better buying.
* * * *
Drug Houses shares are staying down
in the market following Justice Browne’s
finding in the N. S. Wales chain-store
inquiry that chain-store pharmacies were
in order, so far as he could see. The
sharemarket’s reaction was to withdraw
support for Drug Houses shares, fears
being that Boots, the English chain
chemists, might enter the Australian
trade by way of an investment in
Washington Souls. When the possibility
of Boots coming out here was first
announced, Drug Houses shares fell
from above 30s. to around 265.; follow-
ing Justice Browne's finding they
slumped to 225., and are now at 235.,
returning just under 6 p.c.
Giving a return of
£4 13s. per cent., the
fully-paid shares in
W. R. Carpenter are
offering in Sydney at
435. There is great
strength behind this
stock, the manage-
ment having built
very solidly in the
co.’s early years.
Originally est a b-
lished on dealing in
copra, the co. has
now expanded to
the point where
copra is a minor
item. The New
Guinea goldfields
have resulted in a
greatly increased
merchandising busi-
ness. The rights to
W. R. Carpenter's
new issue are at
15s. 9d., and have
a particular specu-
lative market inter-
est of their own.
Rutherglen Gold Dumps, in which
Placer Development has a 64 p.c. in-
terest, operates at Rutherglen (Vic.), and
makes a profit (£27,763 last year) on
the treatment of old dumps. A 25 p.c.
div. has just been declared. Gold Dumps
Pty., another Placer-controlled show
working in various places in the Com-
monwealth, announces a 5 p.c. distribu-
tion. It earned approximately £lO,OOO
last year ; Placer’s interest is 83.3 p.c. of
the scrip. The Placer enterprise has
achieved remarkably good results from
the treatment of low-grade dump material.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Barrier stocks and Mt. Lyell improved on
Friday, helped by higher prices in London for
base metals. The general sharemarket tone
was better following closure of the loan-con-
version operations on Thursday. Australian
Glass’s bonus-issue announcement, though
rather vague, may have helped to stimulate in-
vestment interest.
Golden Plateau scrip drifted down to
7s. 6d. Shareholders are becoming impatient
with the slow rate at which the lower levels
are being proved.
United Provisions ords. continued dull at
6s. 8d.,. inviting attention.


SIMPSON LEE
INVITE THE WEST TO
JOIN THE EAST IN A
GREAT BUSINESS
EXPANSION
and
TO EXTEND THEIR
MODERN STORE
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £150,000
CONSISTING OF 100,000 ORDINARY AND
50,000 PREFERENCE SHARES.
Capital fully paid up by members of Chinese
community £43,998 0 0
Capital fully paid up by Australians . . . . £36,537 0 0
Total of fully paid up capital £80,535 0 0
The balance of the unissued Preference Shares is
21,189, and of Ordinary Shares 48,276 at £1 each.
This makes a total of 69,665 Shares, which are now
offered for public subscription at 1/- per share per
month for the purpose of extending the Simpson Lee
Home Furnishing Plan and the business facilities of
Simpson Lee and Company, Ltd.
7 2%
DIVIDEND
*
mm
W\
S&
;&«&v **'*v
£<~~ v.A->g&><&-,
;-■;
*i
;,.-..;;:/;-}vv
SIMPSON UE 4CC. LTD, i
t H ti u m: it u h I? ?,%■: $ ; a m m
Se ImM
S-SSS
@"-
iSSSttvWS
! $
*■ :
&■ !
mm
goanes
Sff?S
a
/wPlf^
*
•••*■ * >
SKETCH SHOWING PROPOSED EXTENSION OF SIMPSON LEE STORE.
HOME FURNISHING PLAN EXTENSION
WHAT THE HOME FURNISHING
PLAN IS.
The Simpson Lee Home Furnishing Plan is
designed to provide home comforts on the
unusually low terms of 2d. in the £ weekly.
This radically low rate of repayment is
regarded as a logical development of sound
credit trading. The “time payment”
system is universally practised and univer-
sally accepted as a necessity under modern
conditions. With the upward trend in
economic circumstances Simpson Lee and
Company, Ltd., decided—3 years ago —to
extend the time payment principle to a new
conclusion, i.e., to make it possible for
EVERY reputable citizen to purchase furni-
ture of quality and pay for it by nominal
instalments only. The plan succeeded
beyond all expectations. Public apprecia-
tion is reflected not only in the tremendous
response, but in the prompt and ready
honouring of all obligations incurred. So
popular has the Plan proven that the Com-
pany has found it necessary to make pro-
vision for additional funds to cope with the
ever-increasing demand for furniture and
furnishings under the easy payment plan.
Within the last two years funds available
for the expansion of the Home Furnishing
Plan have been progressively increased.
SHARES NOW OFFERED FOR
1/- PER SHARE PER MONTH
ON A CO-OPERATIVE BASIS.
The balance of the unissued Preference and
Ordinary Shares in Simpson Lee and Co.,
Ltd., are now offered to the public in order
that the successful Home Furnishing Plan
may be still further extended and, if pos-
sible, the business premises of the company
fully expanded. These shares may be pur-
chased on terms of 1/- per share per month.
(Should the investor desire, the balance due
after allotment may be paid out at the rate
of 1/- or more per share per month, or in
full as desired.) Dividends on both classes
of shares will accrue progressively as from
the dates of payments received. The shares
are offered for public subscription, subject
to the prior right of present shareholders to
subscribe for any or all of the unissued
shares referred to in this announcement.
Customers of the store, by taking up shares,
may now participate in the profits of the
Company as well as participating in the
benefits of the Home Furnishing Plan.
A SOUND INVESTMENT.
The success of the Simpson Lee Home
Furnishing Plan from the standpoint of the
public generally has been fully demonstrated.
The following figures prove that it has also
been an unqualified success from the
standpoint of shareholders in the Company.
Since the establishment of the Simpson Lee
organisation in 1 9 1 0 it has steadily achieved,
through sound judgment and efficient man-
agement, a marked degree of success.
Preference shares in Simpson Lee and
Company, Ltd., carry a cumulative dividend
of 7 \ per cent. During the past two years,
the following dividends have been paid on
Ordinary Shares: 1937, 10%; 1938, 10%.
SIMPSON LEE & CO. LTD.
414-418
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(ESTABLISHED 1910.)
’Phones: M 2374, M 2375,
M 2376, MA9051,
MA9052.
DIRECTORS: JAMES SIMPSON LEE, Esq. (Chairman and Managing Director), “Don Jacian,” 39
Bower Street, Manly.
ROBERT ESSINGTON INGLIS, Esq. (Bank Inspector, Retired), Byron Hall, Macleay Street, Potts
Point.
HARRY FOY, Esq. (Company Director), 414-418 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS: MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BANKERS: ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD., Haymarket.
SECRETARY: H. Tack, Esq., 414-418 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Up to June 30 of each of the last three
years, the rate of profits per cent, calculated
on the Ordinary Shares after dividends were
paid on Preference Shares was as follows:
Year,
1936 Percentage of Profit on
Ordinary Share Capital. . 14.95%
1937 Percentage of Profit on
Ordinary Share Capital. . 19.28%
1938 Percentage of Profit on
Ordinary Share Capital. . 32.28%
The Company has reserves of £1 7, 760 which
are wholly used in the business of the
Company.
The founder of the organisation, Mr. J.
Simpson Lee, has directed its activities for
28 years. His confidence in the standing
and future of the Company is even greater
to-day than at any time since its inaugu-
ration.
The Directors have not fixed any minimum
subscription on which they may proceed to
allotment.
The right to vote in respect of Preference
Shares is limited. In a winding up, Prefer-
ence Shareholders are only entitled to a
return of the amount paid up on the Shares
and any arrears of dividends.
A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY.
The Company has earned a reputation for
honesty and integrity. Because of this it
has grown to be one of the principal home
furnishing organisations in New South Wales.
Further expansion of trade is confidently
expected, and it is claimed that this oppor-
tunity is particularly attractive.
This announcement does not comply fully with the requirements
of Section 13 7 of the Companies Act, 1936, but a copy of the
pled Prospectus may be secured at the office of the Company
at any time during normal business hours. Applications for
shares will be received only on the Application Form accom-
panying and endorsed upon a printed copy of the full Prospectus.
PROSPECTUS & DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET
I TO the Secretary,
■ Simpson Lee and Co., Ltd., *
i 414-418 Pitt Street, Sydney. I
| Please send a copy of your Prospectus (1938) setting |
■ out the offer of Shares in Simpson Lee and Co., Ltd., j
yon the basis of If- per Share per monin.
I
I NAME ; |
J ADDRESS J


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Franco-German “No War.”
(/4s considered by Lord Elton in a London “Sunday
Times” article, here condensed.)
An agreement between France and Germany to
renounce war! What would Louis XIV. have said
to that, or Napoleon, or Bismarck? It is only necessary
to put such a question to understand that here we are
face to face with what may be one of the decisive
turning points in history.
For centuries France schemed and bled for a pre-
carious, and constantly interrupted, hegemony of the
Continent. Austria, Russia, Germany—all these the
martial French people have encountered in turn through
the centuries, sometimes conquering and sometimes
conquered, in quest of that elusive and unsubstantial
prize. For it much solid advantage was sacrificed and
all too little gained—save the shadowy harvest of la
gloire. The true primacy of France lay always in the
arts of civilisation, in which she has for so long been
an admired example.
The policy of encirclement which French states-
men pursued after 1919 was one more effort in the
grand, the fatal, old tradition —an attempt to carry per-
manently into a new age the artificial disequilibrium
of Versailles. The elaborate mechanism of this
diplomacy the ring of military alliances, in which
we were not partners but in which we might so easily
have become involved, the insistence on the sanctity
even of provisions in the Versailles Treaty which
opinion in this country held to stand in urgent need
ol revision all this inevitably bred an intermittent
malaise between ourselves and France.
Sooner or later, it seemed to many in this country,
this artificial system was bound to collapse. Must it
collapse in the incalculable catastrophe of another
world war? That was the tremendous issue which hung
upon a thread at Munich. And if peace came then,
not so much by the will of the statesmen as from the
instinctive horror with which the common folk of every
land shrank from the abysses at their feet—neverthe-
less, beneath that scarcely articulate, world-wide revul-
sion, history will learn to see first and foremost the
valiant people of France abandoning their age-long
but infinitely destructive will-o’-the-wisp.
For it was France which at Munich took at once
the hardest and the most realistic decision —France
■ which, for the sake of world peace, surrendered a
secular policy and abandoned a formal alliance. And
it has'been the principal paradox of the last few weeks
that Mr. Chamberlain’s British critics have contrived
to persuade themselves that Britain, of whom neither
of those great sacrifices was demanded, was at once
the chief victim and the chief villain of the piece.
A Franco-German declaration of amity is thus the
logical corollary of Munich, for if it holds it will
register the disappearance of an all but immemorial
quarrel. But it was also the true background of the
Paris conversations, in the course of which British and
French statesmen began their survey of a Europe in
which evolutionary forces have been liberated —with-
out war. For they could forget the shadow cast ever
and anon upon Franco-British relations by the com-
mitments for which we had not ourselves contracted
but in which we might always have had to share.
Pointing to the difficulties still to be overcome
in pursuing the policy of appeasement is about all
that some of Mr. Chamberlain’s opponents have so
far contrived to do. And the only possible alternative
to his policy which has seemed to emerge from their
spate of complaints has been the infinitely dubious
project of an anti-German alliance, over whose stark
pre-war outlines would be flung, for modesty’s sake,
some hurriedly extemporised drapery labelled
“League” or “Democratic bloc” —Russia being pro-
moted, to meet the necessities of the argument, to
courtesy-rank as a democracy.
But, in fact, the alternative to the policy of Munich
and Paris is too grim for its clearer-sighted advocates
to care to put it into so many words. For, cloak it as
you will, the alternative to the policy of world
appeasement is the policy of world war.
Vienna Since the Anschluss.
(Condensed from an eyewitness account by Ralph Izzard
in London “Daily Mail,” 21 / 111’38.)
When the Prussians entered Vienna last March
with a “Straighten up those shoulders, my lad!”
swagger, there were many who trembled for the future
of the happy-go-lucky Danube capital.
Now, after the jovial vintners of Grinzing and
the bewitching Vienna maidens have stirred the manly
breasts of the Prussian police, I am not sure that the
victory is not, after all, with Austria. At any rate,
Vienna, to me, appears to-day a brighter, more pros-
perous, happier city than in those gloomy days before
the Anschluss.
“We of the luxury trades,” said my barber as he
sharpened his scissors, “are still waiting for better
times. In our ladies’ department, for instance, there
is no getting away from the fact that our best cus-
tomers were the Jews. Now, of course, the Jews have
other things to worry about. But wait until the ball
season comes along.”
And so it is. A Vienna fashion expert tells me
that Viennese society beauties are preparing happily
for the great evening functions which are in store. The
chief grumble is at the high prices. However, no
attempt has been made to deprive the Viennese of the
thick whipped cream which they delight to take with
their coffee.
While only a little more money is being spent in
the fashionable night clubs, the more popular wine
and beer halls have not enjoyed such prosperity for
years.
The happiest aspect of the new regime is that the
appalling depression in the workmen’s districts is re-
lieved. The sombre army of the unemployed is
dwindling rapidly to a handful of ne’er-do-wells. The
Vienna workman is looking forward to a clean home,
clothes for all the family, and two kinds of vegetables
and a glass of beer to go with the evening sausage.
# # .
The British Habit of Lecturing.
(I Condensed from R. H. Bruce Lockhart's “Guns or
Butter," published by Puinam.)
Although he rarely shows his resentment, the
Serb dislikes the British habit of lecturing and of find-
ing fault with every institution and every form of
government that does not conform with British
standards. This dislike has been strengthened rather
than diminished by the few British politicians who
have visited his country. Himself a Slav, knowing
Russia and the Russian mentality, he may listen
politely while a British duchess tells him that he has no
need to fear either Russia or Communism. She has
studied the question and she knows. But when she
leaves the lecture-room, he will either curse or laugh
incontinently.
Although our prestige has not fallen so low as
that of the French, I am afraid that we have lost
ground in Belgrade. The loss, I think, comes mainly
from the new interest which the British public now
feels qualified to take in foreign alfairs. The interest
itself is a natural legacy of the Great War. It received
a powerful stimulus from the ideal of the League of
Nations, which, alone among the nations, Britain
accepted with the fervor of a religious movement. It
has been fomented and spread by the radio and by
the press until to-day it has become a national
epidemic.
To judge by the public voice or voices of England
moderation seems to be no longer a characteristic virtue
of the English people. In relation to foreign affairs we
have allowed our desires to outrun the ability of our
performance. In our striving after the impossible,
we have been violently partisan, taking sides in Euro-
pean quarrels of which we have only the vaguest
understanding. We sought to establish the millennium
through the League of Nations. It was an honorable
endeavor, even if our conception of the League was
an English conception. We set an example in dis-
armament, hoping that the rest of the world, includ-
ing the defeated and despoiled nations, would follow
our example. Then, being disarmed and almost help-
less, we took refuge in formulae like “collective
security.” There were moments when our enthusiasm
for collective security bordered on collective hysteria.
Admittedly, democracies are hampered in their
conduct of foreign affairs by the contradictions and
inconsistencies of party politics, and in recent years
British foreign policy has suffered from these defects.
I shall give only two instances. In the summer of
1938 British ships, doing a profitable and risky trade
with Republican Spain, were being bombed by aero-
planes operating on behalf of General Franco. And
in Parliament we saw at once the curious spectacle of
Labor politicians jumping up and with jingo fervor
taunting Mr. Chamberlain with his cowardly failure
to protect the lives of British seamen. Is there any
honest member of Parliament who will deny that, if
the picture had been reversed and a Spanish Gov-
ernment, holding supremacy in the air, had bombed
British ships bringing supplies to General Franco,
we should have heard indignant Tories clamoring for
the punishment of the bombers and Labor taking the
same line as Mr. Chamberlain?
The second example was afforded to me on my
return to London in April, 1938. I arrived on the day
when the result of the West Fulham by-election was
declared. In her speech the victorious Labor lady
candidate ascribed her success as a triumph for the
League of Nations and for collective security. At
that very moment the three Prime Ministers of Nor-
way, Sweden and Denmark were putting their signa-
tures to a resolution pledging their Governments not
to commit themselves in any circumstances to one or
other of the groups of Great Powers in Europe, and
on no account to allow themselves to take sides in a
possible European conflict.
In course of time our new interest in foreign
affairs will produce, 1 hope, profitable results. But
lor the moment I cannot help feeling that it has been
accompanied by a lack of expert knowledge of which
the majority of the country seems to be supremely
unconscious. In the post-war Britain it is a fact that
the average man will hesitate to express his opinion on
scientific or technical problems. He will say with
modesty that he does not understand these matters. He
does not observe the same reticence about foreign
affairs, and will lay down the law about half a dozen
countries of whose special problems and even of whose
whereabouts he has perhaps only the haziest idea.
In its callow stage this new national interest in
foreign affairs presents obvious dangers. Indeed, there
is much truth in Mr. St. John Ervine’s statement that
the world is not a pleasant place just now, “because a
lot of high-minded and sincere people have been Jet
loose on it lately, with the result that it is in an appal-
ling mess.” Idealism is a splendid thing, a goal that
we must keep always before our eyes. It is, however,
abstract, and in foreign affairs it represents the long
view. But the handling of the day-to-day problems on
which the immediate peace of the world depends de-
mands a long training and first-hand experience. It is a
technical job like any other, and, although I hold no
special brief for diplomatists, I believe that they are
better qualified to perform the job that they have spent
a lifetime in learning than others whose knowledge is
derived from books and from the daily newspapers.
New Troubles in Palestine.
[Bringing up to date these pages’ record of the rebel-
lion in John Bull’s Palestine mandate, this (condensed)
article by London “Times” Jerusalem correspondent
deals incidentally with Nazi interference there.]
Conviction is hardening in Palestine, first, that
no solution on the amicable political lines of an Arab-
Jew understanding can be expected ; secondly, that
the solution ultimately to be propounded by the British
Government will have to be imposed by the tem-
porarily continued presence in reserve of adequate
military force.
It is not disputed that the situation has materially
improved. Since the British troops were brought up
to a strength of about 20,000 men the rebels have
begun to feel that the initiative is slipping out of their
hands. • The rebel losses are known to have been
considerable in proportion to their numbers. But
when all heartening symptoms have been enumerated
the stark fact remains that the countryside is still sadly
insecure.
The rebels continue to harry the lines of com-
munication. There are ambushes and snipings. Tele-
phone and telegraph lines are constantly being cut.
Trains are delayed by the tearing-up of rails. The
Government has been compelled to close many post
offices, police stations and provincial magistrates’
courts. The collection of taxes is largely at a stand-
still. Trade is languishing. Millions of pounds are
lying idle on deposit in the banks. Many of the richer
inhabitants have fled the country. The tourist traffic,
the second most important source of revenue, has
been throttled. The courtyard in front of the Church
of the Nativity in Bethlehem is filled with armored
cars, sandbags and barbed-wire barricades; and in
the adjoining monasteries the sandalled tread of the
"Flatly Denied."
On December 8 “S. M. Herald” and other Aus-
tralian dailies that use the same cable service
published an alleged interview with the ex-Kaiser
which had appeared in “Ken,” “a new American
magazine of Left Wing views.” Under the headlines
“Ex-Kaiser on Hitler. ‘A Man Alone.’ Strong Com-
ment. ‘Mob Led by Liars,’ ” “Granny” gave the alleged
interview 11 inches of space at the top of the column
on its cable page—all -the prominence and display
that would have been given to a news story of
first-class importance from a trustworthy source.
Tlie ex-Kaiser was alleged to have described
Hitler as “a man alone, without a family, without
children, without God,” who had made the German
people “a nation of hysterics and hermits, engulfed
in a mob and led by a thousand liars or fanatics.”
Except to those who, like “Granny” in these
days, are capable of swallowing anything, provided
it is what they want to believe, it must have seemed
utterly incredible that the ex-Kaiser had said any-
thing of the kind, if for no other reason than that
bis sons live in Germany.
Sure enough, along came the fiat denial. Accord-
ing to the Sydney “Daily News” cable, the ex-Kaiser
“repudiated” the “alleged interview”; “he had not
granted an interview to any press representative.”
Melbourne “Argus” cable;—
Doom, Thursday.—The ex-Kaiser Wilhelm
denied to-day that he had given an interview > on
Herr Hitler that is published in the current issue
of the American illustrated magazine “Ken.”
He said that the report of the alleged interview
was entirely incorrect and was a complete fantasy.
“Granny”—“authoritative reports” from “reliable
sources” and “great breadth of mind”—permits the
alleged interview to stand. In reply to inquiry
(15/12/’3B) it was stated on “Granny’s” behalf
that “we have had nothing further.” There was a
time when tile publication of such a fiat denial of
a report to which it had given such prominence
would have caused “Granny” to see that there was
“something further”—that either the original report
or the denial was confirmed and the confirmation
published.
But these days, apparently, anyone who does not
want to be misled by cable reporting on foreign
affairs needs to take at least two dailies—for cheek-
ing purposes. Another recent instance supporting
this conclusion was Sydney “Sunday Sun’s” report
(December 11) under the page-wide headlines: “Spain
Again Europe’s Danger Spot. Armed Intervention
by France to Crush Franco Is Possible.” Beneatii
was published journalistic speculation in support.
The paper that the “Sunday Sun’s” readers
needed to turn to next day was the “Daily Tele-
graph.” There—obscurely, it must be admitted, but
nevertheless there in a corner—appeared the denial:
Paris, Sunday.—Reports that France contem-
plates military intervention in Spain are flatly
denied by officials of the French Foreign Office.
Not much wonder that the New Journalism’s
foreign-affairs reporting is so discredited.


monk has given place to the hobnailed step of the
British soldier who has established his billets in the
cloisters.
Argument in favor of a stricter military control
is strengthened by the certainty that, no matter how
a solution of the Palestinian problem is reached, no
immediate cessation of disturbances and acts of
violence is to be looked for. Many of the rebels are
animated by feelings, however misguided, of genuine
patriotism. But many others have found in the move-
ment an opportunity for paying off family vendettas
and personal scores, for living in luxury on the pro-
ceeds of intimidation and blackmail, and for investing
themselves with self-made haloes of spurious glory
and heroism. To crush these professional bandits,
not all of whom are under the effective control ol
the Mufti and his supporters, must take time, and
nothing is so much dreaded here as the possibility
that a temporary and even calculated lull in the cam-
paign of violence may be seized upon by the poli-
ticians at home as a pretext for prematurely suspend-
ing military activities before the fighting of rebellion
has come to be regarded as a task of pacification
accepted by the people.
It would be a great mistake to envisage the dis-
turbances in Palestine as solely an issue between Arab
and Jew. Revolutions cost money, and it is not
imagined that the “Oozlebarts” have been enabled to
keep the field solely through supplies from Arab
sources. That German moneys are passing through a
certain Arab in Damascus and thence filtering through
to Palestine is certain. Anti-Semitic, and therelore
inferentially when not directly anti-British, propa-
gandist literature is being printed in Arabic in Ger-
many and distributed in Palestine arid Egypt.• It is
known that Germans of all ranks and occupations in
Palestine and Egypt are playing their allotted parts in
the service of Nazism, and that the centre ol this
organisation is in Cairo. Herr Rudolf Hess, being
himself a native of Alexandria, is therefore qualified
to guide those Nazi activities which are developed
through German shipping agencies, commercial travel-
lers, students, business firms and subsidised, news-
papers. What is true of Palestine and Egypt holds
good also of .Syria, the Febanon and Iraq.
Sound technical opinion here is that Haifa could
be made as good a harbor for the British Fleet as
Alexandria, while the massif of Mount Carmel would
lend itself to the erection of shore batteries more
efficaciously than the sands of the Nile Delta and of
the North African coastline. So long, therefore, as the
international situation remains overclouded there is a
very strong case to be made out for the military plea
that greater attention should be paid to the strategic
importance of Palestine as a nodal point on the high-
way of British Imperial communications.
A Major-General in Spain.
[Just back from his third visit to Spain, which
included an interview with General Franco and a tour
of the Ebro front, where there had recently been fierce
fighting (very ill-reported in cables), Major-General
Walter Maxwell Scott set out his impressions in a long
letter (dated Nov. 21) here condensed from London
“Times.” The false notions Major-General Maxwell
Scott seeks to correct are, of course, the staple of
“information” on Spain’s civil war served up to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland.J
I am lost in admiration for the Left Wing propa-
ganda of the last two years which has turned the
Spanish arena into a battleground on which “Demo-
crats,” who are invariably saints, are opposing
“Fascists,” who are always sinners.
The great sin of modern democracy is self-
righteousness. The fact that the authorities in Bar-
celona and their predecessors in Madrid, Valencia and
Bilbao are responsible for the murder of 400,000 inno-
cent civilians is ignored. When faced with facts these
propagandists say it is “Fifty-fifty on both sides.”
For the moment the “persecution of Spanish
Protestants” and the cry of “Guns over Gibraltar”
have been dropped ; but throughout the campaign of
slander against the Nationalists there runs the motif
of German and Italian strategic influence in the Iberian
peninsula and the danger to France and Britain of
the recognition of belligerent rights to General Franco.
General Franco himself told me on Nov. 10 that
nearly one-third of his troops had been armed by
material captured from the enemy ; that he had 18,000
foreign volunteers left in his army of more than
750,000 men ; and that he had only 82 foreign air
pilots, casualties among whom are not replaced. These
foreign airmen number less than one-tenth of his
Spanish pilots. Of the Generalissimo’s estimate of
1000 Russian tanks sent to his enemies, his troops had
destroyed 300 and were using another 60 in their
own units.
The long-drawn-out Ebro battle has resulted in a
great success for the Nationalists. The winter will not
prevent them from continuing the campaign. State-
ments of deserters and prisoners of war point to the
fact that more than 75 per cent, of the population of
Catalonia and of Eastern Spain is praying secretly
for General Franco’s victory.
It was most noticeable last summer, when the
Republican offensive on the Ebro started, how the
handling of the artillery and the organisation for
defence in depth changed suddenly to the French
Army system. A serving French Army officer orga-
nised the Ebro crossing. Light French floating cork
bridges were used. Many Left Wing officers of the
Reserve (Anciens Combattants Republicains) assisted
the Republican units.
Franco’s Tercio (Spanish Legion) is 90 per cent.
Spanish ; the Black and Blue Arrow Brigades were
never less than 70 per cent. Spanish, the balance being
Italians with Italian officers. Now there is only one
purely Italian formation left, and the men are looking
forward to following their 10,000 comrades who have
preceded them to Italy. The few hundreds of Ger-
mans who went out to Spain are no longer required ;
they have done their work as technical instructors to
the very fine fighting force which General Franco has
built up in the last two years. Many thousands of his
Spanish prisoners of war have joined his ranks.
To travel through Nationalist territory is to get
the revelation of a people determined to build up a
new Spam on the ruin's left by generations of misgov-
ernment I have been down mines in the south and have
visited factories in the centre and north. Labor is
more contented and better paid than ever before. Nine-
tenths of the population of the whole of Spain are at
heart with General Franco and his social reforms,
Would it not be better if our Labor leaders visited and
studied the reforms already being carried out by the
Nationalists rather than pass resolutions against the
reformers? Why collect subscriptions from our own
working men to prop up the facade of democracy
which hides the tyranny of Soviet Spain?
There remains the so-called danger to France and
to Britain from possible German and Italian influences
in Spain and the Balearics. The decision ol General
f ranco to remain neutral in the event ol a European
war last September is suffic.ent to expose the baseless-
ness of these fears. How often must it be repeated
that patriotic Spaniards will not tolerate foreign control
or influence.
Repeated assurances that the French-Catalan
frontier is closed and that the arms traffic to Eastern
Spain from French Mediterranean and North African
ports has been stopped are not true. More than 80
per cent, of the ships trading with Spanish Republican
ports fly the British flag. They are nearly all of Greek,
Panama and Spanish origin.
France, if she wishes, can have a friendly Spain
to-morrow with no danger of having a third hostile
frontier, and with no risk to her communications with
Africa. Without French help to Barcelona, and with
acknowledgment of belligerent rights to both sides, the
agony of Spain would have been over months ago.
A Jewish Family Leaves Germany.
[Condensed from the regular weekly article (Nov. 27)
by London “Sunday Times” Berlin correspondent, whose
articles read from week to week for some time past have
always been restrained and not given to extravagant
statement.!
How the expropriation of the Jews is carried out
in Germany can be illustrated by a concrete example.
I have seen documentary evidence of the financial
experiences of a Jewish family which started prepar-
ing for emigration before the recent anti-Semitic
wave started. It is a well-to-do family that has been
established in a middle-sized German town for the
past three centuries.
The father, mother and two young daughters,
though they were comparatively wealthy, asked rela-
tives in Canada to help them emigrate. The father had
a prosperous factory, for which he found a Nazi
buyer. This man was willing to pay £lO,OOO for part
of his holdings. The deal had to be approved by the
local party offices. They refused the approval and
compelled the Jewish businessman to sell to another
Nazi, “whose trade principles corresponded to all
Nazi requirements,” for 25 per cent. less. -
When the family decided to leave and had sold
most of their holdings, they had a capital of 218,000
marks, or close upon £17,430. They were taking part of
their furniture with them, including clothes and some
household equipment purchased within the past five
years. For permission to take these things they had to
pay £2400. The “flight tax,” which everybody leaving
Germany must pay, cost £4OOO.
When the tax authorities learned that the family
were leaving they presented a long list of alleged
“arrear taxes” and taxes on the sale of property ; the
bill totalled £3OOO. The emigrant’s Nazi lawyer
advised him to pay extra donations for the social
insurance funds because that would make it easier to
obtain permission to leave. This, together with busi-
ness trips to Berlin, to “hasten the red-tape procedure,”
cost £3OO. In other words, the family had to pay the
Government and Nazi offices a total of £9700 out of
their £17,430.
The cost of living for eight months, after the sale
of property, while negotiating for permission to leave,
was close upon £4BO. Transport of the family posses-
sions, the family’s ocean fares, the journey to the port
of sailing and insurances cost another £4BO. Thus
when leaving Germany the family had disbursed
£10,660, and should have had £6770 left. But they
were not allowed to take even this out of the country ;
and when they left this family of four had only £473
with which to start a new life —£473 out of £17,430.
And this family were very lucky, because they
sailed two days before the recent attacks on the Jews
and their property. Thousands to-day would be
happy to leave with less.
British Foreign Policy Now.
[This digest of a London “Spectator” article by
J. A. Spender, the famous journalist and writer on
European and British affairs, has a quality of calm
and reasoned statement that compares well against Mr.
Hughes’s recruiting slogan “War is thundering at our
gates,” Mr. Eden’s “the gathering storm” and other
dire prophecies.|
The world, of course, is very evil, but I cannot
bring myself to take quite such a gloomy view about
our part in its affairs as many seem to do. They think
that we ought to have prevented Japan from annexing
Manchuria and attacking China, to have restrained
Italy from conquering Abyssinia, to have saved
Czechoslovakia, to have come to the rescue of the
Spanish Government. There are limits to British
power, and from 1932 onwards our forces have been
barely equal to the defence of the British Empire and
Commonwealth. All these causes are said to have
been our special concern and we are charged with
having betrayed them. This seems to me an
unnecessary self-abasement, and unjust to one member
and one Government among the many composing the
League of Nations.
It was undoubtedly part of the original League
doctrine that every member of it should be concerned
in any offence against the Covenant. But the League,
as President Wilson dreamt of it, embracing America
and all the great Powers, would have been in such
overwhelming force that no offender could have re-
sisted its judgment with the slightest chance of success.
To place upon the imperfect League the obligations
proper to the perfect was to make every, quarrel the
possible cause of a great war.
The imperfect League made the situation worse
by its sins of omission. I have repeatedly cited the
case of Czechoslovakia as a dangerous makeshift
which needed revision, and spoken of it as one of the
leading instances of a type of settlement which “re-
quired the maintenance of force to uphold it and
invited the recovery of force to redress the grievances
it inflicted.” If we are to wait till the eleventh hour
for treaty revision, and if all concessions and accom-
modations are to be denounced as if they were sur-
renders and betrayals of long-established rights and
institutions, there will be no peace in the world. We
must go to meet these cases and not wait for settle-
ments in panic and wrath at the last moment.
The situation in front of us needs cool heads and
steady nerves. There are broadly two alternatives —
one is the way of appeasement proposed by the Prime
Minister, the other the old way of a combination
against Germany on the pre-war pattern. The first
is undoubtedly slow and difficult; the second fits only
too easily with the emotions of the moment. The
savage persecution of the Jews in Germany makes
the worst atmosphere ; Herr Hitler’s rhetorical methods
pile up obstacles for those in all the free countries
who hope for reconciliation. If the German Govern-
ment wished to offend Liberals, Tories, .Socialists and
the great mass of simple people who hate persecution
and cruelty, it could hardly have done better in recent
weeks. Here we are up against something which de-
feats all argument, and takes us out of the region in
which sane men pursue reasonable ends.
While these passions rage, rational policy is im-
possible. But before we despair of appeasement, let us
bear in mind that the alternative method of a bloc
against Germany is a return to pre-war politics under
conditions which may easily be less favorable now
than then, since Italy and Japan will be on the side of
Germany, and there can be no certainty about Russia.
This is a course which ought not to be accepted until
all other possibilities have been exhausted, for it
means an unceasing competition in armaments, and
life under chronic threat of war, even if war itself is
avoided.
Many of the questions that the world presents
to-day can only be solved by time, and, whatever the
solutions may be, the unforeseen and the unexpected
will quite certainly play a large part in them. Yet there
is one fact which lightens the gloom and makes the
situation a little less dangerous than it seems to be.
This i 3 the profound aversion from war in all the
peoples of the world which has been jevealed by the
recent crisis. It is impossible to believe that this will
not make statesmen more prudent in handling the dan-
gerous weapons which science has put into their hands.
A P.M. in Paris.
“A mixed reception was given to the
British Prime Minister, Mr. Chamberlain, and
his party as they were leaving the Care da
Nord on their arrival from London last night.”
—Opening blast of a cable dated Nov. 24
widely published in A ustralian dailies.
Here is the version given in the Paris “Daily
Mail” (Nov. 24): —
No British Prime Minister has ever
received such a hearty welcome in Paris as that
accorded Mr. Chamberlain when he left the
train at the Gore du Nord last evening accom-
panied by Mrs. Chamberlain, the Foreign
Secretary, Viscount Halifax, and Viscountess
Halifax.
This is the Premier’s first official visit to
France, and hundreds of letters of greeting were
waiting for him at the British Embassy. The
letters all paid tribute to Mr. Chamberlain as
the saviour of the peace of Europe. Delegates
of French ex-servicemen’s organisations pre-
sented bouquets to Mrs. Chamberlain and
Lady Halifax.
Cheering crowds lined the route from the
station through the capital to the British
Embassy. The arrival coincided with the home-
ward rush of workers, who swelled the sight-
seers eager for a glimpse of the man who, they
believe, saved European peace such a brief time
ago and to whom they were anxious to express
their personal thanks.
An hour before the train was due crowds
began to gather at the station. British and
French flags appeared in the windows along
the route, and the drive was punctuated with
shouts of “Vive Chamberlain!” “Vive
Daladier !” and, loudest of all, "Vive la paix !”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Just when it seemed as if The Bulletin
and Bristol would have to part company,
the son of Pantheon and Bairn has flashed
into form again and become favorite for
the Summer Cup, to be run at Randwick
on Boxing Day.
* The black’s race in the December
Handicap at Rosehill was a most im-
pressive public trial for the Summer Cup.
Five to one in a field of nine, and last
for three furlongs, he made up his ground
steadily and was fifth at the home turn.
Unafraid (9 to 2) dashed to the front, but
Bristol challenged strongly, stayed a bit
the better and beat the chestnut by a
neck, Bringa being third and Perimond
—on whom Bartle was not seen to advan-
tage —fourth. Panrose, the favorite, broke
down.
Bristol was ridden by McCarten, who
has been more successful on him than
any other jockey, but Munro may have
the mount in the Summer Cup if well
enough to ride. The horse from Kelso’s
stable has Bst. 41b. —21b. less than his
weight at Rosehill. Unafraid comes
down from 7st. 111 b. to 7st. 51b. He is
one with a chance, and so, of course, is
Red Sails (6st. 91b.), who was scratched
on Saturday. Perimond has Bst., a nice
weight for such a horse, but the last fur-
long is likely to trouble him.
Until Saturday nearly all Villiers-
Summer Cup doubles began with Brad-
ford (7st. 101 b.) and Early Bird (7st.
131 b.), but Delmestor has come into the
picture. Her victory in the Dundas Han-
dicap at Rosehill was a sterling perform-
ance, for she carried 9st. 61b. (there was
a 7st. minimum), and at the end of seven
furlongs, run in lmin. was finish-
ing faster than any of her 17 opponents,
except perhaps Rod borough, who was too
badly placed at the home turn to have
any chance of catching her. In the
Villiers, Delmestor has Bst. 91b. and Rod-
borough Bst. —at Rosehill he carried
Bst. 51b.
Weeks ago Delmestor’s trainer, K.
Stuart, declared that his mare had too
much weight in the Villiers. He has had
to alter his opinion. Delmestor has never
won at a mile, but the trainer believes
that she will run the Villiers distance
right out.
The Polymestor mare began very
smartly on Saturday. She chased Royal
Prince and Aureus to the home turn,
and then came away from Let Slip,
Might Not and Rodborough. Fakenham
was favorite. He jumped away well, but
dropped out as the race progressed and
finished sixth. Delmestor started at sixes.
A Newcastle amateur, A. Cole, came,
to the city looking for a ride in the Corin-
thian Cup. At the eleventh hour he was
engaged for Lithgow, and Lithgow won.
Milantheon was a hot favorite at 7 to 4 ;
Lithgow had fair backing at sevens. Sir
Land looked the winner in the straight,
but Lithgow won cleverly by half a
length, One Alone being a similar dis-
tance away third. Milantheon was off
the track most of the way, and in the
circumstances found 12st. too much for
him.
Prices were pretty poor all day, but
the Ring offered 5 to 2 Reading for the
first division of the Nursery in spite of
Reading’s win at Canterbury. He led
throughout, beating Bravissima and
Jazbeau with ease. Jembra (11 to 8 on)
started from the outside in the second
division. She was on the move when
the barrier was released, and the advan-
tage thus gained enabled her to beat
Hole in One and an outsider, Mohave, in
an interesting finish.
Troy raced generously in the Carling-
ford Handicap, for which he went out
at twos in a field of six. He was kept on
the rails until near the Leger; then
Parsons pulled him to the outside. Troy
soon settled the pacemaker, Sailmaker,
and Red Rosebud. Activity, a slow
starter, was fourth.
Troy is not in the Villiers. A curious
omission, for he was a good fourth in
the Doncaster, and the three that de-
feated him were Hamurah, King’s Head
and Buzalong.
# * * *
From California, where racing is
booming—thanks largely to the preva-
lence of moving-picture mugs with more
money than they know what to do with
—the owners of Ajax have been asked
to put a price on their champion ; and
£50,000 has been mentioned. Poison,
who took Winooka to the U.S.A., says
form in California is not up to much
and Ajax, in condition, would win every-
thing he was sent for. As prize-money
is substantial, a shrewd party might show
a fat profit on even an outlay of £50,000.
* * * *
Valicare is dead after foaling a filly
to imported Cheveley Lad —the foal lived.
By Valais-Courante, Valicare was about
the most brilliant filly that ever raced in
these parts. She was unbeaten at three
years. Making her first appearance in a
Farm Stakes at Warwick Farm, she won
that race, a Randwick Flying Handicap,
the Carrington Stakes, the Adrian Knox
Stakes, the Rawson Stakes, the Don-
caster Handicap and the All-Aged Stakes.
In the Doncaster she carried Bst. 91b.,
and she was in front all the way. But
the effort took a lot out of her, and her
subsequent racing career was brief. Vali-
care wasn’t a dazzling success at the
stud ; but her daughters Care Free and
Siren were smart, and The Raider wasn’t
bad. She was owned by P. H. Osborne,
of the A.J.C. committee, and trained by
Payten.
* * * *
Elmdale’s victory in the Heatherton
Handicap at Mentone on Wednesday
took Bill Burke to the top of the list of
winning trainers in Victoria for the
present season. Both he and Frank Mus-
grave have turned out 10 winners each ;
but Burke registered six seconds and
seven thirds, as against three seconds
and four thirds by Musgrave.
Only five started in the Heatherton
Handicap, and odds of 4 to 1 had to
be laid on Elmdale. The Rossendale
gelding was all out to score by half a
head from Balmarest, who disputed con-
trol throughout. He was pulling double
on the home bend, but loafed after
entering the straight. In Burke’s opinion
Elmdale reckoned he was merely doing
an exercise gallop.
Elmdale was bred in the Bombala
(N.S.W.) district by James Chirnside, a
cousin of the late A. S. Chirnside, for
whom Ike Foulsham won the A.J.C.
Epsom of 1924 with Blackadder. When
Jimmy Chirnside sent Thicket (by
Biplane) to Victoria to be mated with
Manfred, the mare had Elmdale as a
foal at foot.
Friendship of long standing exists be-
tween Chirnside and Burke. The latter
took charge of Elmdale, weaned him and
retained possession—or, as Burke jocu-
larly puts it, “pinched him.” Several
gallopers bred by Chirnside have passed
through Bill’s hands, one of them being
Poldean.
Quite True (Winooka-Nina Blankney)
had a dozen opponents in the Juvenile
Handicap; yet odds of 5 to 4 were
demanded by the bookmakers. Even
that price was “money from home.”
Following the pace set by Snow White,
she ran to the front as soon as heads
turned for home, and beat that rival,
easing up, by 2\ lengths.
Jack Holt bought Quite True cheap at
the Easter yearling sales in Sydney, and
leased her to H. R. McCormick. The
success of Winooka as a sire of speed
seems assured. Time will show whether
his progeny possess stamina.
Another very easy victory was that of
Mystic Lady (Veilmond-Lady Nan) in
the first division of the Cotham Trial.
This four-year-old was backed from
fours down to 5 to 2, supplanting Bureau-
crat, a stablemate of Quite True, from
favoritism. She beat Bureaucrat by a
couple of lengths, but the latter had an
unlucky passage. The granddam of
Mystic Lady is a sister to Lord Cardigan.
Harry Freedman annexed the second
division of the Cotham Trial with Bird-
play (Drake-Bright Comedy), who, after
opening favorite, receded to threes, In-
tersection firming from 7 to 2 to twos.
Birdplay reached the judge a mere neck
in advance of Forthaven, with whom
Fred Hoysted should win shortly. Inter-
section was a poor third.
Well supported at 9 to 2, Miss Burn
won brilliantly from the 20-to-l chance
Benedict, a coming winner for Theo
Lewis. The result might have been far
different if Bridge Law—beaten a neck
for second—had not sacrificed ground by
fouling the tapes of the starting barrier.
Most unlucky runner of the afternoon
was Mate o’ Mine in the Warragul Purse.
Shut in on the rails to the turn, he had
to be taken to the extreme outer. Scar-
dus squeezed home by a head from
Windarvel, while Mate o’ Mine, literally
flying, was half a head farther off.
wScardus (Hebrus-Dame Lybia) started
at 14 to 1, after much longer odds had
been laid. He is raced by veterinary
surgeon S. O. Wood, a son-in-law of
A T. Creswick, the breeder. Scardus
began his career at picnic meetings in
the backblocks of N.S.W. His sire is a
half-brother to Heroic.
Racing at Mentone ended thrillingly
with a dead-heat between Shining Star
and Royal Jubilee in the Balcombe
Welter. Spectators were kept in sus-
pense by numbers being juggled over the
judge’s box. Once it was made to appear
that Great Legend (third) had won.
* * * *
Ascot (Vic.) held its second consecutive
week-end meeting on Saturday last. This
time no gale of wind blew hats from the
heads of blaspheming punters, but atmo-
spheric calm wasn’t associated with good
fortune in the selection of winners.
In six events not a single outright
favorite scored. Two practically un-
backed candidates rolled home. Nearest
that backers got to a ring decision was
when Princess Pam —equal in demand to
Beau Roi (unplaced) in the Inverness
Handicap, at fives —romped home in ad-
vance of Beaustone (twelves) and Haut-
boy (sixes).
Steel Spear, always at a cramped price
for the Trial Hurdle, struck his colors to
Reciprocal, a 7-to-l chance. Winner is
an aged mare by Devizes from Lady
Artful, running back to the dam of Paul
Pry. She had not raced for a consider-
able time, but in December, 1937,
equalled the Caulfield record for “about
two miles and three furlongs” over
fences.
Possessing all the externals of a cham-
pion timber-topper, Martial (Chivalrous-
Armature) finished nearly last in the
Trial Hurdle. Originally trained at Rand-
wick by George Price, he was passed on
to Steve Murphy for service over
obstacles, but education in that capacity
is proceeding slowly. Yet there is Car-
bine blood in the pedigree of Martial,
and he comes from the same family
as Heroic.
Erato, who belongs to “G. Ornong”
and was bought on his behalf as a year-
ling by Jack Holt, lost the juvenile event
to Harina (Harinero-Real Mirth) by a
long neck. If Erato hadn’t run wide at
the straight-entrance, positions would
have been reversed.
Odds of 5 to 4 had been laid on Erato,
while 7 to 2 was obtainable about Harina.
Latter is owned and trained by Bill
Burke, who picked her up for 120gns.
at the Easter sales in Sydney. Sire of
Harina was imported by Hugh Deni-
son ; her dam is by Top Gallant from
an imported mare.
Caeira, a sister to the Sydney per-
former Beau Ercil —himself a winner dur-
ing the week —gave O. R. Cox a well-
deserved change of luck in the Anglesey
Trial. Harold Skidmore got her home
by half a head from Prince Sardis, with
Leviathan a head farther off.
Quoted at 25 to 1, Caeira paid £l2 18s.
for ss. on the tote. Her owner-trainer
is a brother to the late J. L. Cox, who
rode with success over fences. Their
cousin raced the mighty ’chaser Grafnax,
who was trained by Frank McGrath.
Surprise occasioned by the victory of
Caeira was overshadowed by that of
Sarokos in the Sandhurst Welter. The
grey coat of this versatile old gelding
has faded into pure whiteness with age.
He won over fences on Caulfield Cup
day, but was believed to be a back num-
ber as a galloper, and 50 to 1 went
begging.
Tote div. of Sarokos (£lO 11s. 6d.) was
less than that in the case of Caeira.
Apparently some punters remembered
what a fine performer he used to be in
welter company. Heather, who served
his apprenticeship with Jack Holt and
has resumed residence in Melbourne, was
associated with the success of Sarokos.
Form in the Chesterfield Handicap was
clouded by Finch, Evening Mist and
Burdevon falling in the straight. Even-
ing Mist had unwound what might have
been a winning run when she toppled
over Finch, who had struck the heels
of another horse. Fortunately the three
jockeys and their mounts escaped injury.
The race went to Baryta (sevens), with
Crowsaint and Kanuri close handy. His
trainer, T. J. Hayes, attributed failure of
Baryta on the previous Saturday to the
gelding beginning too well. On this
occasion he came from near the rear of
the field.
* * * *
“Knowsley”: Lord Derby topped the
winning list for the English flat-racing
season with £34,187, won by 23 horses in
49 races. The outstanding performer of
the year has been Rockfel, acclaimed the
finest filly for many years. She picked
up £22,094 in six races. The inevitable
Gordon Richards heads the jockeys’ table
—for the twelfth time and the eighth in
succession—with 205 wins.
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League is in
early with its season’s programme, which
will be for clubs only, there being no
visitors save Queensland. The wearisome
“practice matches” of the past are to be
cut out, and the season starts right off
with the first round of the premiership.
There will be two rounds of seven
matches, clubs meeting each other twice,
with semi-finals, finals and, if necessary,
a grand final.
* * * $
“Cottesloe”: The Westralian Football
League has started a drive in Victoria
for star footballers, and already several
of the best have been pinched. The
roars of outraged Victorians, of course,
are reverberating in the mountains as far
as Mt. Buffalo. Of all medicines, your
own is the beastliest to take.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union has drawn up a
scheme which, while it does not contem-
plate at present actual enlistment, will
involve the establishment of auxiliary mili-
tary training units in each of the districts
of the Sydney first-grade clubs. The most
ardent supporter of the enlistment move-
ment must admit that the training system
as at present, with its attendance at
nights and especially on Saturday after-
noons, when games are played, is a
handicap. The scheme is not yet com-
pleted, but it is thought that training
evenings will provide opportunities for
military exercises and that it will be pos-
sible, if all works out well, to arrange
camps. While the idea is not the whole
hog, it is at least an appreciable portion
of the pig.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Interest in the
veteran British Association Cup final in-
creases with the years, though one would
have thought that the much more im-
portant, financially, League premier-
ship would have overcome it or at least
relegated it to the relatively low position
occupied to-day by the old Victorian
F.A. by comparison with the younger
League. The B.F.A. has contracted to
play all Cup finals till 1949 at Wembley,
which will be enlarged in order to find
room under cover for 100,000 people.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on
page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Villiers: Bradford, 1; Rod-
borough, 2 ; Delmestor, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Perimond ;
next, Unafraid.
Highweight Handicap: Troy;
next, Leeds.
Summer Cup: Bristol, 1; Red
Sails, 2 ; Unafraid, 3. '
Chisholm Handicap: Bodley
Head ; next, Might Not.
A.J.C. Handicap: Leeds; next,
Oration.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Three-year-old Handicap: Sir
Harold ; next, Gay Dell.
Fund Handicap: Jakin; next,
Elmdale.
Welter Handicap: Coronation
Day ; next, Fearnought.
FOR CAULFIELD.
. Hopetoun Handicap: Avenger;
next, Donaster.
Malvern Handicap: Evening
Mist; next, Fearnought.
Christmas Handicap: Amiable;
next, Manrico.


BOOTS!


THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY
f
dsf
THE MARLIN FIREARMS CO. of New Haven, Connecticut,
U.S.A., convey, under date 31/10/’3B, the following informa-
tion to the shooters of Australia:—
“Replying to your favours of August 31
and October 6 we ask you to please pardon
the delay, which, was the result of our
wanting to discuss in detail the contents
of your letter with the competent officials
of our Company at the factory office. The
summation of this discussion can be listed
as follows: —
“Marlin guns and rifles are superior
for these reasons:—
Ist—They are made with more pre-
cision, exactness, and under
more expert supervision.
2nd—They are designed for simple,
convenient, operation, depend-
able and lifetime service.
3rd—The finish is of higher grade
which costs more and is really
worth the difference.
4th—6B years of manufacturing ex-
perience and established prestige
that is unsurpassed.
“There is no question that our guns could
be made cheaper to meet certain competi-
tion, but we have never manufactured a
product with the idea of cheapening it
down to a price. Each gun, regardless of
price, receives the same precision care in
manufacture and inspection, and each gun
is carefully tested for operation of action,
and tested and targeted for accuracy. The
latter is not the case with the competition
mentioned in your letter.
“Each Marlin rifle, regardless of price, has
the Ballard type of rifling. The barrel of
the low-priced Model 100 is bored, reamed
and rifled with the same care and accuracy
as on the higher-priced models.
“Marlin has the reputation of making the
most accurate shooting sporting rifle, which
is due to the Ballard rifling, time and
care incorporated in the process of manu-
facture.
“The ‘new’ flush type takedown screw is
not at all new. We discontinued this type
screw some years ago because in actual
operation it was found to be very unsatis-
factory.
“After a year or two of use the customer
finds that in loosening this screw with a
screwdriver, it is very likely to resist turn-
ing and with extra pressure the screw is
likely to break off at the head, with the
result that a gunsmith is required to repair
the broken part.
“Our screw is operated by hand, and there-
fore an easy matter for the gun-owner to
take down his gun without the use of any
tool.
“You can say without fear of contradic-
tion that Marlin Rifles are always well
placed in both professional and junior
competition in this country and abroad.
The Model 90 shotgun is now being used
by some of the outstanding ‘skeet’ shooters
in this country.”
Marlin Guns and Rifles are obtainable from retailers everywhere.
dsf
Trade enquiries should be addressed to: —
HARVEY SHAW SUCCESSORS
(D. & W. Chandler, Lid.),
560-566 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l,
or
SYDNEY IMPORTING CO. PTY., LTD., 521 Kent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Miller at His Best
When Micky Miller boxes in his
languid style he is neither interesting nor
effective. Opposed to Johnnie Hutchin-
son at West Melbourne on Saturday, he
was all vigor and accuracy. Although
Hutchinson stayed the distance he never
once troubled the Australian, who came
in at Bst. 121 b., the stranger weighing
l|lb. more. Hutchinson is a coon who
came from the U.S.A. in the last crate.
A New White Hope
His name is Nova, and he is a 22-year-
old Californian. In New York on Friday
he got a 15-round decision over Tommy
Farr, after having the Welshman out on
his feet in the fourteenth. That round
settled it; previously Farr had “held his
own.”
Farr has lost every fight he has had in
the U.S.A., but none of the Americans
has been able to knock him out.
Donovan, who refereed his bout with
Louis, has since written that Tommy
took terrible punishment from the black
and the effects showed when he met Baer.
It is to be hoped that the game fellow
will retire before they make a punch-
drunk wreck of him.
McNamee’s Surprise Win
A raucous voice bellowing down from
the bleachers after the scrap was over,
“Good on y’, Jack —five to one!” put the
McNamee-Matthews affray at Sydney
Stadium in a nutshell. Most of those who
went along must have expected a mass-
acre. Matthews had beaten Henneberry.
and few could have had any hope that
where Fred lost Jack was at all likely
to win.
As it happened, Jack was to have the
same sort of victory over Matthews as
Matthews had over Fred —per a damaged
optic. The first round was a dull affair,
as rounds in which Jack figures often are.
He’s a good, clean, game scrapper, but he
has an awkward spoiling style that’s any-
thing but pretty to look at. He sidles in
on the opposition, a trick he no doubt
learnt from Carroll, but he displays little
of Carroll’s crafty infighting when he
gets there, being so interested in stopping
the other chap from hitting him that he
does scarcely any hitting himself.
This somewhat unorthodox brand of
approach bamboozled the coon, who
couldn’t get a glove on Jack as Jack was
coming in, but got plenty of punches
home while they were locked together,
which was at intervals of every few
seconds through a dull first round. In
the next round Matthews tried attacking
as Jack was sidling in, and paid heavily
for it, Jack hooking a left fair into his
right eye and closing it completely. Jack
punched him solidly about the head
before he recovered from the surprise,
and the spirits of at least one punter in
the house must have soared up to the
roof.
The third round was not of much
account, Jack on the defensive and em-
ploying his spoiling tactics to the utmost,
and Matthews trying to do something
deadly, but taking care not to run into
another woodener. The fourth was more
interesting, being mostly a display of
fairly good infighting by Matthews, but
in the fifth the local lad was well on top
again, mainly by virtue of a straight left
shot out repeatedly and unerringly as he
sidled in. The sixth round had not been
in progress a minute before the police
instructed Joe Wallis to call it a night.
Ins and Outs
The Melbourne Centenary match was
the usual farce, with a pantomime knock-
about ending. Bradman and McCabe,
helped by ragged fielding, each notched
three figures, Bradman’s whack being
118 and McCabe’s 102. Nagel bowled
Bradman and had the careless McCabe
“Who shifted those flags?”
caught in the slips by Lee. Badcock
finished a shaky start in a more confident
mood, and was 51 when all the rest save
Waite (28) had departed. Him Sievers
outed in short order, and the total was
426.
Sievers did best with the ball, 3-53.
Nagel and Bromley took two wickets
each.
A sporting win was possible had Brad-
man closed at 250, but no attempt was
made and The Rest went in a second
time. With poor fielding and comic-
opera bowlers the total was 324 for 8
when the yawning umpires pulled the
pegs.
F-Smith and O’Reilly got 2 wickets
early and were hurriedly taken off.
Thereafter the whole team save ’keeper
Barnett and McCabe, who was away
sick, had a nice practice roll-up.
The match was poorly attended and
quite barren of results save that it in-
troduced two new bowlers, Eyres, of
Westralia, and Queenslander Christ,
Bradman’s century was his 82nd in big
cricket.
* * * *
“Hotham”: McCabe dropped out of
the N.S.W. Sheffield side with gastric
’flu and was replaced by Cheetham.
The latter is a right-hand opening bat
and a fastish bowler. He has played in
lo V ur n ia S h t e^n" d ° n ‘ he SoU ‘ her "
tour last season. #
In Sheffield Shield matches this season
N.S.W. has twice had the pleasure of hav-
ing over 500 runs banged off its bowling
on good pitches. Queensland (501) began
it; then in the game which' started at
Adelaide on Friday the Bradman State
closed with 8 down for 600.
The N.S.W. bowlers were completely
bunkered. Even O’Reilly could manage
only two wickets, though Fingleton,
skipper in McCabe’s place, worked him
to death. All the same his 36 overs cost
only 99 runs. Fast-bowler Murphy had a
heavy day, ending with 2 for 126. The
rest of the nine men tried did nothing of
note.
Opening for South Australia, Whit-
ington snicked Murphy to slips for a
duck. Bradman came in and settled
down to watch O’Reilly, while William
released all the old wiles. A newcomer in
Ridings made a good beginning with 31,
and then Bradman and Badcock carried
the score to 242 before Don was bowled
by Murphy for 143. Joined by Ham-
ence, Badcock, who had begun nervously,
butchered the dog-tired bowling. Hamence
helped the ex-Tasmanian with a bright
and lively innings for 90, putting up a
new fourth-wicket record of 203 to re-
place that of Clem Hill and Fred Jarvis
made 40-odd years ago. Waite contri-
buted 21, Grimmett 35, and when Brad-
man called it a day Badcock was still
there with 271 against his name. Easton
allowed only three byes in the huge score.
With less than' an hour on Saturday
left to N.S.W. Cheetham, a last-minute
emergency, and Fitzpatrick ran up 40
without, loss.
“St. Peter”: Jack Scott ? the left-hand
bowler chosen for the South Australian
Sheffield team, played in Sydney for
Western Suburbs grade club before join-
ing West Torrens in Adelaide. The S.A.
side now includes only six South Aus-
tralians by birth.
* * * ♦
Queensland staged another of its first-
innings flops against Victoria in Mel-
bourne, collapsing for 184, after Brown
(61) and Rogers (41) had given the visitors
a first-class start. Fleetwood-Smith took
6 for 58. McCormick bagged a couple,
and Sievers and Bromley one each.
The batting catastrophe was more than
made up for, however, by the success of
fast-bowler Ellis, who skittled five Vic-
torians for 105. The young fellow only
came up from the junior grades early in
the season. He has size and strength,
with plenty of real pace through the air
and off the pitch. Hassett played a grand
shot for 104, and Rigg (36), Gregory (53)
and Sides (42) were steady ; but nine were
down for 281. Then Sievers earned his
oats by hitting hard for 67, McCormick
staying with him until Christ got him
for an invaluable 29 ; all out, 376.
Cook got 3-67, and Christ 1-47. The
Queensland fielding was better than usual,
Tallon taking Gregory and Ledward
behind the sticks.
Batting again, Queensland ran to 35
without losing a wicket (Rogers 22 and
Brown 10).
* * * *
“Old Q.”: That defeat of N.S.W.
seems to have turned the Q.C.A.’s head.
It actually proposes that Eddie Gilbert
be dug out of his spiritual and bodily
home at Murgon Mission station, taken
from the gustatory joys of burnt possum,
singed goanna and raw wood grubs to
the Capuan delights of Brisbane. There,
if his form justifies it, he may be played
against Victoria and South Australia.
* * * *
“0.Q.”: Queensland has won outright
against N.S.W. (B. 7/12/’3B) on 10 occa-
sions since the first match was played
45 years ago. Its best perform-
ance was, perhaps, in 1926, in Sydney,
when Queensland, requiring 299 in the
fourth innings, won by five wickets, the
skipper, O’Connor, scoring his second
century of the match.
* * * *
“Klerksdorp”: The first of the four
Tests between England and South Africa


Du
$
IVE°
gtomf*!;
far from Civilisaiion
•■•■ far from
Medical Aid
Hennessy's Brandy needed no advertising
campaign to take its name over the world.
Great travellers and colonists spread its
fame to the uttermost corners of the
earth. The most essential article of
luggage was to them a supply of
Hennessy's, upon which they knew they
could rely . . . that they could find
relief from disappointment, exhaustion,
dysentery, and fever.
With its flawless reputation of nearly two
centuries- Hennessy's is the preferred of
connoisseurs.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles, Half Bottles,
Quarter Bottles, and Eighth Bottles.
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY. LTD.
HARBOTTLE BROWN AND CO. PTY. LTD.
IENIIESSY’S
☆ ☆ ☆
BRANDY
JANUARY IS THE BEST TIME FOR A VISIT
TO NEW ZEALAND
Weather conditions that month are perfect. Get away from the summer heat of Australia. Visit
New Zealand and attend the great annual
1939 NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL THOROUGHBRED SALES
These combine with the Summer Meeting of the Wellington Racing Club, a.t which the best horses in
New Zealand, including two Melbourne Cup winners, will be competing.
JANUARY 18, AT TRENTHAM, NEAR WELLINGTON, N.Z.
210 YEARLINGS. 210 YEARLINGS.
A record entry, representing 44 Sires. This is the greatest collection of yearlings ever offered at the
Kales, which have a widespread reputation as providing the highest percentage of winners of any sales
throughout the world. Yearlings sold at these sales have included winners of the Melbourne and N.Z.
Cups and 3b of the principal Classic races in Australia 'and New Zealand. Despite the faert that the
percentage of winners is so high, the cost of buying yearlings at these sales is extraordinarily low,
Phar Lap realising 160, guineas, Defaulter 160 guineas, Gold Rod 460 guineas, Royal Chief 170 guineas,
Kir Regent 60 guineas, Theo 650 guineas, Waikare 650 guineas, Homer 550 guineas, Yaringa 600 guineas.
Heritage 525 guineas, Veilmond 575 guineas, Cerne Abbas 240 guineas, Elanage 275 guineas, Footmark
200 guineas, Dannevirke 350 guineas, Xavieff - 160 guineas, Normal 350 guineas, etc.
Catalogues will be available in Australia from 19th December on application to Messrs. Wrn. Inglis & Son
Pty., Ltd., 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney, or Messrs. Mackinnon & Cox Pty., Ltd., 482 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
JANUARY 20, AT TRENTHAM STABLES,
100 BROOD MARES, HORSES IN TRAINING, ETC.,
in conjunction with
DISPERSAL SALE OF MANA STUD
The Mana Stud includes the great staIIion,'SIEGFRIED, 13 years, sire of Wotan (Melbourne Cup) Essex
(G.N. Derby), Brunhilde (N.Z. Oaks) and a host of other winners; and the brood mares, LI LOCK (dam
of the two-year—old winner, Wilson), by Limond, and closely related to Wotan, PRINCESS BELL, by
Chief Ruler, and a number of other highly-bred mares in foal to Siegfried and Bulandsihar.
In addition to Racehorses in Training and Untried Stock by *Colossus, ‘Lord Warden, *Gainseourt,
Surveyor, ‘Robespierre, ‘Hunting S'ong, *Weathervane, etc., the catalogue of brood mares will include
daughters of ‘Lackham, ‘Limond, ‘Weathervane. ‘Bisogne. ‘Absurd, ‘Boniform, ‘Hunting Song, ‘Paper
Money, ‘Gainscourt, ‘Night Raid, Joculator, ‘Quin Abbey, ‘Lord Qtiejf, ‘Garter Blue, ‘Greyspear, ‘Nassau,
■'Robespierre, ‘All Black, etc., and the imported mares, MIRABELLE II (dam of Theo), MISLAID (dam
of Retrieved, Lief, etc.), MERIT (dam of Lineage), etc.; a number of the above have foals at foot
and' have been served by ‘Broiefort. ‘Colossus, ‘Paladin, Commandant, • Spiral, ‘Leighon, ‘Baffles,
Inflation, Croupier, ‘Hunting Song, ‘Bulandshar, ‘Siegfried, Bambury, ‘Theio, ‘Posterity, etc.
JANUARY 12, AT ELDERSLIE, NEAR OAMARU, COMPLETE UNRESERVED
DISPERSAL OF THE FAMOUS ELDERSLIE STUD.
The catalogue comprises the stallions, ILIAD (sire of 3 Derby winners), SOLICITOR GENERAL, by
Blandford and descending from an own sister to Cicero (his crop of yearlings will be sold at the Sales),
29 BROOD MARES, with foals at foot by above sires and served again by them, including
‘QUADRILATERAL (dam of Homer, etc.), QUIETLY- (half-sister to Beaucaire), by ‘Chief Ruler,
FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE (half-sister to Clemency, dam of the great colt Baran), by ‘Night Raid
from Sweet Charity, BLACK CAT (dam of winners), by ‘Absurd from Mascot, by ‘Martian, ILIDA
(half-sister to Dole), by ‘lliad from *Ebba, LADY LEY LAND (half-sister to Talking), by ‘Pantheon
from Society, by ‘Absurd, LADY BURLEIGH (same family as Royal Chief), GOBBLE (dam of
Litigation), by ‘Tea Tray and descending from ‘Eulogy, LYTUP (closely related to Phar Lap), CHIEFAVA
(sister to Miss Nottava), by ‘Chief Ruler, GIROUETTE (half-sister to Guarantee), PATEENA (half-
sister to Limarch). ODESSEY (half-sister to Tea Trader), descending from ‘Eulogy, DRESDEN CHINA
(half-sister to Mystic Peak, Yaringa), the imported mares, ANNE SHAKESPEARE (half-sister to
Closing Time), SKY BIRD, PRINCESS ARGOSY and a number of others; also 8 yearling and two-vear-
old fillies by Iliad and Solicitor General and the young stallion, GUARANTEE (-winner of £3OOO in
stakes), by ‘Paper Money.
SAILINGS TO NEW ZEALAND.
FROM SYDNEY TO WELLINGTON —AWATEA sails January 6. arrives January 9.
WANGANELLA sails January 13, arrives January 17.
FROM SYDNEY TO AUCKLAND —WANGANELLA sails December 31, arrives January 4.
AWATEA sails January 13, arrives January 16.
FROM MELBOURNE TO BLUFF, ETC. —MAUNGANUI sails January 4. arrives Bluff January 8, Dunedin
January 10, Lyttelton January 12, Wellington January 13.
FROM MELBOURNE TO AUCKLAND —WANGANELLA sails December 29, arrives January 4.
Full particulars may be obtained on application to the Auctioneers. Commissions for absentee buyers
will be executed by Mr. Reg. Inglis, of Messrs. Wm. Inglis k Son Pty., Ltd. ; Mr. O; E. Robertson, of
Messrs. Wright, Stephenson & Co., Ltd. ; and Mr. D. Gould, of Messrs. I’yne, Could, Guinness, Ltd.
The Auctioneers will also attend to shipping arrangements and insurance. Stock forwarded to any part
of the world.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD., 34 Customhouse Quay, Wellington (N.Z.).
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY- LTD.. 28 O’Connell Street. Sydney (N.S.W.).
PYNE GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD., 178 Cashel Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
opens at Johannesburg on Saturday,
December 24. December 26 is Dingaan’s
Day, a celebration, half-festival, half-
memorial, to commemorate the breaking
of the Zulus when they tried to prevent
the Boers occupying their territory. The
match may be postponed on that day.
The situation is complicated by the fact
that the second Test at Cape Town begins
on December 31.
S.A. has selected Alan Melville, of the
Transvaal, as skipper. Melville played
for Oxford and Surrey with distinction,
though last season, on his return to the
Transvaal, he showed loss of form. He
succeeds Wade, who captained the Afri-
kanders against England in 1935 and
Australia in 1935-36.
'** * *
The English cricketers in South AJ'rica
scored yet another easy win against N.E.
Transvaal at Pretoria. The Transvaalers’
first knock was worth 161 and the second
142; Brown, a Springbok football
representative, scored 75 and 35. Of the
bowlers Wilkinson took 5-24 in Trans-
vaal’s first innings; Verity’s 4 for 20
was the best performance in the second.
England closed at 379 with six wickets
gone (Paynter 102, Valentine 100,
Hutton 66, Yardley 42; Edrich again
missed).
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The last heard here of
Alan Fairfax was that he was to coach
at Eton. Possibly he found the atmo-
sphere uncongenial ; at any rate he has
been engaged as joint coach for Notts
county with D. J. Knight, the ex-Surrey
batsman and Test player. This Knight
is not to be confused with “A.E.” of
that label, who came to Australia with
Warner in 1903 and proved himself a
capable batsman.
* * * *
“Trundler”: The N.S.W. cricket
authorities are considering the sending of
a coach to tour the country. If this is
done, he should concentrate on finding
bowlers —real bowlers, not these news-
paper-boomed experts. He should be re-
warded as a mate of mine used to reward
his shooting boy in British New Guinea.
The coon was given six cartridges and
told he must bring back at least four
edible birds or animals. One was allowed
him for a miss and one to shoot a white
cockatoo, greatly valued by Papuans for
their feather headdresses. If there were
too many cockatoos in the bag the
offender was walloped and another
hunter appointed.
Nineteenth Hole
“Juvenis” : Youth is not always served.
Nowadays it helps itself. A case in point
is that of Pickworth, who won the
professional golf championship of N.S.W.
at Long Reef with a card of 70 —one
under par. As Pickworth won the
assistants’ championship recently, beat-
ing Cremin, last year’s Australian and
professional champion, the lad is evi-
dently seeing ’em well. Gray, Richard-
son and Cremin were a stroke away.
Pickworth is offsider at Manly.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: The Westralian Golf
Association will this year add to the £5O
fund provided by the local P.G.A. to
send two professionals to the Australian
championships each year. The associa-
tion is asking the clubs to conduct three
open meetings before June to collect
further sums. The date of the Westralian
State championships has been brought
forward from September to July 14 to
prevent clashing with the national tour-
ney. It is good sportsmanship, apart
from the fact that the attendance of
Westralians at the big shows is certain
to benefit Westralian golf, even if they
win nothing. To Queensland must go
the credit for starting the idea. First
a fund to pay the expenses of the ama-
teurs was raised, and this was followed
by one for the paid players.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. Golf Club has
made an amazing request to the Subur-
ban District Association, which controls
grade competition matches round Sydney
—it wants junior members debarred from
playing in grade games. And it defines a
junior as any player up to 23 years of
age! The S.D.A. very properly just
“received” the foolish document. If such
a rule were generally enforced, players
like Ferrier and Williams would never
have got the chance to raise their game
to its present standard. In every other
pastime it is an axiom that the only
method of bringing on young players is
to pit them against older and more skilful
adversaries, and this is just as true of
golf.
Racquet and Bawl
Quist downed Bromwich in the final
of the Victorian tennis singles champion-
ship, 6-2, 6-3, 6-3. Victoria took the
women’s singles also, Mrs. Hopman
accounting for Joan Hartigan— she had
outed Nancye Wynne for the third time
in as many tries —6-8, 6-1, 6-2. Long
and Nancye Wynne won the mixed
doubles from Turnbull and Dot Steven-
son. The defeat of Bromwich was a
surprise. During the tourney the youth
showed what tennis-players euphemisti-
cally term “temperament.” Any game
played in different climates and under
varying conditions for months on end
without let-up must become wearisome,
and this lot have been playing tennis till
they must be heartily sick of the sight of
a court. A break for a couple of months
would do the lads and lasses a heap of
good.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Quist and Bromwich
have been getting toko from Melbourne
papers because in a Victorian doubles
match they treated their opponents,
Brocklehurst and Leftley, with contempt
—at least, the spectators thought so and
handed out the bird freely. The oppo-
sition was far below championship form,
so possibly the champions felt their nicina
was threatened. On one occasion, after
being footfaulted, Bromwich resorted to
an underhand service.
* * sk • *
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis heads
had a busy monthly meeting. It was all
for open tournaments, and tipped Vic-
toria off to that effect. Unfortunately
the English L.T.A., to which Ma is
affiliated, had already thrown out the
idea. The meeting also told the Aus-
tralian body that it favored another Davis
Cup trot, and desired the team to
go to Wimbledon. Cummings, of Queens-
land, who has found the professional
game a Dead Sea apple in that part of
the world, was reinstated.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Unless Hitler
has planned a special Anschluss in his
case, Australia may gain Hecht, one of
the Czech tennis stars. Hecht has writ-
ten Norman Brookes asking for a job.
He is a fine player, and would be an
acquisition to Australian tennis.
* * * *
“St. Colombes”: France has graded
its tennis men and women. Petra, whom
our men saw in the U.S.A., and liked,
is ranked first, and Boussus second;
there follow a lot of comparative un-
knowns, save veteran Leseur, who is
labelled 7. Madame Mathieu, of the
seven olive branches, is first among the
women.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: South Yarra aspires to be
the first Australian tennis club to have
the right of prefixing “Royal” to its
name. But it will not be the first “royal”
tennis club in Victoria. “Royal” tennis
has one club and one court in Exhibition-
street, Melbourne. The game as played
there is stiff with traditional rules and
procedure, and members regard the game
favored by Norman Brookes and such as
not tennis at all, but a vulgar modern
upstart, unworthy of the name. “Royal”
tennis was originally developed in the
Middle Ages by monks in the clois-
ters of their monasteries. When a ball
hit an abutment or a column or flew
into the buttery it was still in play, and
the scoring was an extraordinarily com-
plicated affair. The Melbourne court
cost upwards of £15,000 to build, and
follows in its design the natural ground
where the game had its genesis. Lawn
tennis is strenuous enough, but it is
languid compared with its ancient pro-
genitor.
Miscellaneous.
“Splash”: Kiyoshi Nakama, of Hawaii,
that dyed-in-the-wool Yank, has been
granted permission by the swimming
heads in America to visit Australia with-
out anyone to look after him. Over
there they must hold a high opinion of
Australia’s moral outlook. Also, the
Americans ask that the visitor be not
allowed to swim in more than eight
country meetings. Nakama reaches Syd-
ney on December 26 and stays in N.S.W.
until January 14. He will be in Queens-
land January 16-24 ; in Victoria January
27-February 10; in Tassie February 11-
27, and Westralia February 27 to March
11.
« * * *
“Spike”: After some fuss because they
were doubtful if he would be properly
chaperoned, the Maoriland athletic heads
have given permission to their crack
miler, Boot, to take part in the N.S.W.
athletic championships on February 4
and 11. Boot leaves M.L. the last week
in January, quite alone and unprotected.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Times in track athletics,
as reported by the Sydney flapper press,
have been getting too good to be true.
Commenting on this, one of the delegates
at a meeting of the N.S.W.A.A.A., held
to fix standard times for the coming year,
said, and correctly, too, that there are
not half a dozen sprinters in the country
able to beat 10 l-ssec. The new stand-
ards have been fixed on that basis, stand-
ard for the 100 being 10 l-sec., for the
220 22 4-ssec., for the 440 51isec., and
for the half mile 2min.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: A section of the
N.S.W.R.U. is trying to get the heads to
import a film made for the English R.U.
This gives views of every phase in the
game, and in schools, clubs and univer-
sities its slow-motion pictures have been
invaluable aids to coaches. The cost is
£25, and there is no limit on reproduction
in Australia.
“Red Spinner”: Commenting on the
fact that low and clear water has driven
many trout-fishers to abandon bait for
the fly, a Melbourne paper says that
women are proving very successful with
the new lure. Somehow one recalls the
chestnut about the American damsel who
was staying at a Scottish country house
and insisted on being shown how to catch
a salmon. They sent her out, and after
her gillie had explained the mysteries
of casting he withdrew to a safe dis-
tance. The lady persevered until she felt
compelled to call for assistance. “Say,
waiter,” she cried, “some goldarned fish
has sucked the bug off my string!”


fds
Twice. Daily-2'30-Q
AT THE
[TIVOLI
SYDNEY
Twice Da ih/ 230-3
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-92!).
“SWING IT”
with Larry Adler
and Big New Company of Stars.
Plans T*»p«trp. , 1 >V 'ono. Ainoo*
/5
Melbourne,
six pence.
FREE £lOO PRIZES COMPETITIONS.
EVERY SENDER GETS A PRIZE.
INTERPRET THIS PICTURE, OR UNDERLINE KORRECTING
MIS-SPELT WURDS.
RE-NU LIQUID NU-METAL.
Just deposit thru thee plug oppenings. Reconditshuns any engine wile it is
runing. Saves Reboare, Nu-Rings. ens Piston Slap, Rattles, 101, Petrol
Waste, Etc. Anyone can use Nu-Metal. Trial tube 6/6. Guaranteed good
for 10,000 miles. Harmless to Finest Engine. We Bend C.O.D. anywhere.
Rite Wring, Cal four Free samples. Re—Nu Co., Oppusit Richmond *-tn.,
.14797. (Est. 3 932.) Agents required. 25 other lines. Just male reply with stamps
cost Free samples, postage, etc. This gives you opportunity to win £lOO prizes.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Pygmalion”
Leslie Howard, Wendy Hiller.
Went along to see this at the first
session of the new Sydney picture-house,
the Victory, last Friday morning, and
have to report (1) theatre very tony and
attractive in the streamline fashion, (2)
Mr. Shaw as refreshing and sparkling as
a plunge into the breakers. Served up as
in this film, Mr. Shaw may easily win yet
another reputation as most successful of
writers for the screen, and be able to
spend his old age—half a century or so
hence nibbling enough lettuce and
watercress to content a whole herd and
comparing bank balances with Walt
Disney.
The production has a number of things
to say about Mr. Shaw and other curi-
ous phenomena. Its most important
comment, perhaps, is that Mr. Shaw,
apart from the points of general superi-
ority he himself discovered, has one thing
in common with Shakspeare —he is
greatly improved by being played fast.
Both of them have suffered lamentably
through the slowness of stage presenta-
tions of their plays.
With Shakspeare, as now universally
produced, the brakes are put on by the
odd notion that the elocution and not
the play is the thing. The great passages
are the actor’s opportunities for display-
ing his accomplishments as an elocution-
ist. “In Hamlet’s soliloquy Mr. Hamfat
rose to magnificent heights.” The play
is pushed into the background, suspended,
while Hamfat in the spotlight emulates
/Esop’s frog in posture and a Big Bertha
in thunder.
It may be notable elocution, but it’s
wretched theatre. If there was one thing
more than any other that made the film
version of “Romeo and Juliet” such ster-
ling Shakspeare it was the difference of
tempo from the usual stage presentation.
The verse was finely spoken, but the play
was the thing. There were no islands
of elocution ; the verse flowed freely and
evenly as the natural language of the
characters. The result was a properly
and most effectively fast and even presen-
tation of a play ; not a jerky progress
over a steeplechase course of purple
passages.
There may be few passages in Mr.
Shaw, and none in this play, tempting
Hamfat to shake plaster off the ceiling,
but the benefit of fast presentation is
every bit as great. Mr. Shaw has him-
self, of course, done more than anybody
else to build up the legend of Mr. Shaw
the pulpiteer—the playwright with whom
the point and not the play is the thing.
Great dialectic and vigorous prose though
his prefaces are, they bolster up the idea
that his plays are first of all social ser-
mons, to be read and acted as such.
When the time for stage-edited perform-
ances of Mr. Shaw comes along—now
the ordinary accepted thing with Shaks-
peare—it will be his direct preaching that
will go west, as slabs of it go west in
this screen production.
Acted as sermons they now almost
invariably are. To make, first, the points
of wit in the crossfire of successive lines,
and secondly the moral point of the play
—that is the usual business of the pro-
ducer and actor of G. B. Shaw. The
play as a play—a piece of theatre ; a
dramatic entertainment can go hang.
By such treatment Mr. Shaw naturally
becomes pasture for highbrows. Instead
of standing out as a great playwright—-
above all, a topnotch entertainer—he be-
comes a classic in the mothball sense of
the word.
Consequently highbrows’ eyebrows
have no doubt been looking like twin
models of the Harbor Bridge since the
picture-show people began advertising
this particular production. In ads. the
play has been spoken of as the one in
which Mr. Shaw uses “that naughty
word.” It has been claimed that Mr.
Shaw “shocked Hollywood,” which seems
not bloody likely, and the ads. have asked
could he do that to Sydney, which seems
ditto, with bells on. This, in the moth-
ball view, is cheapening ; but the picture-
show people would seem to have a good
case. They are suggesting in their own
happy way that Mr. Shaw is an attrac-
tive entertainer, and that has badly
wanted doing. The intellectual appeal on
Mr. Shaw’s behalf has had more than a
fair innings ; kept on, it would lock him
up with the mothballs well and truly,
and deservedly. It was about time his
universal appeal had a bit of underlining.
Certainly in this play Mr. Shaw penned
a devastating satire on an aspect of the
English social system, and filmed entirely
as written it would be a show for the
elevation of highbrows; but he also
wrote a capital light comedy of manners
of first-class merit as humorous enter-
tainment. As ‘well as being one of the
most sparkling films presented in Sydney
this year, it is one of the funniest.
The production pace, the clear lighting
in the photography, the excellent group-
ing and detail in the scenes, and the
very fine acting of Mr. Howard and Miss
Hiller are responsible for the sparkle ;
Mr. Shaw’s quality as a humorist, with
a little improvement on him by the pro-
ducers, makes it so outright funny that the
pace of presentation, in this one respect
only, has slight disadvantages. In its
funniest stretches it so rocked the house
that a great deal of the dialogue was lost
in the hurricanes of laughter. But that was
of little account compared with the enjoy-
ment of seeing a Shaw play, for the first
time in present Showman’s experience,
presented as a play. With the process
of consigning Mr. Shaw to the mothballs
so well advanced by Mr. Shaw’s own
intellectual posturing, by highbrow
scribbling interpreters of Mr. Shaw, and
by the-point’s-the-thing brand of pro-
ducing and acting, the outbursts of laugh-
ter fairly shaking the audience through
all parts of the house seemed in a way
almost sacrilegious.
Mr. Howard helps the good work along
with one of his finest performances. Ex-
perience in one or two past films —as
Romeo, and in another in which he
wore hornrims to be an American finan-
cial genius—as well as the excellence
of his English diction and enunciation,
made him an ideal choice for the part
of the expert in phonetics who enacts
Mr. Shaw’s modern version of Pygmalion
and Galatea in taking a very live and
human piece of marble in the rough,
in the shape of a shrill and dirty Cockney
flowergirl, seeing that she has a good
bath, modelling her voice and deport-
ment so as to pass her off successfully
as a blue blood of the bluest, and then
discovering—or he would if Mr. Shaw
were not a duffer over such matters —
that he is in love with her. Miss Hiller
gives a striking performance as the girl.
It is not so smooth and confident as Mr.
Howard’s performance, but it is still a
very finely acted and memorable inter-
pretation.
“Boys’ Town ”
Spencer Tracy, Mickey Rooney.
This fine M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney
St. James reminded present exile from
Westralia that that State has a Govern-
ment secondary school which takes
youngsters from sixth standard and edu-
cates them through to their matriculation.
A few students are admitted annually
on their intermediate certificates, but
most are selected from a State-wide
scholarship held every year. On the
results of this examination 50 “scholar-
ships” are given and, for slightly older
children, 50 “entrances.”
There are no other means of enter-
ing the W.A. school, and successful can-
didates are on a pretty good wicket.
“Scholarship” students receive five years’
free education from a selection of
teachers equal to any in the State, they
are provided with free books, free first-
class rail travel if they live within the
metropolitan area, and free accommoda-
tion near the school if they live beyond
it. “Entrance” youngsters receive free
education, but must provide their own
books. They are a fairly bright bunch
all round—they have to be to get there
—and they all start off on equal grounds,
with equal chances, and most of them
shape out pretty well before they are
through.
The general idea at the W.A. school is
“You’ve got brains; use ’em, and we’ll
help you whenever and as much as you
wish.” Broadly, the aims are to en-
courage independent thought, train
youngsters to fend for themselves, and
instil into them a sense of responsibility
by giving them as much rope as they
wish. Naturally occasional advantage is
taken of these wide latitudes, but the
general result is good. The school’s name
predominates in nearly every list of
successful candidates in University ex-
aminations ; in its time it has produced
more Rhodes scholars than any other
Westralian college and its students —
scattered over Australia from Darwin to
Melbourne, and in other parts of the
world—are most of them doing pretty
well for themselves.
The logical conclusion from the success
of such a system is that, given a fair
Leslie Howard and Wendy Hiller do a job that should enrich Shaw, and might
even please him, in “Pygmalion,” at Sydney Victory.
chance, the average youngster will
appreciate it and give a fair account of
himself. Much the same statement is
made by this fine M.-G.-M. film. Of
course, it’s a good deal more idealised
—“no boy is a bad boy”—and trimmed
with a few sentimental trappings to meet
Hollywooden requirements, but it’s basic
statement, especially with regard to many
reformatories as breeding grounds and
not cures for crime, is sound.
Tracy is a priest from a slum quarter
and is striving to ease the lot of a few
deadbeats. A condemned man’s outburst
turns him from men to boys, and, be-
ginning with a small house and half a
dozen youngsters, he gradually fights his
way to a large self-supporting institution
with several hundred youngsters all
developing under his care to be fine
young citizens.
Rooney, of course, is the reprehensible
and incurable slum kid, and most of the
film is Tracy’s battle with him and
other factors which threaten to break
up the organisation. Tracy is one of
the finest actors on the screen, and
Rooney, at the rate he’s going, should
be another Tracy. They both turn in
splendid jobs, and are supported by an
excellent cast, including a remarkable
array of very competent youngsters.
The film adds a note that the institu-
tion, the man and his methods are fact
—the same theatre lately showed a docu-
mentary film depicting the original school
on which it’s all based.
Fitzpatrick’s Sydney.
The well-advertised Australian addi-
tion to the James Fitzpatrick series of
travel talk pictures was screened last
week at both Sydney St. James and
Liberty, and at the latter address was
far and away the best item on the bill.
Worshippers of Our ’Arbor will want
to take it home and live with it. Fitz
winds up his general panegyric on the
local pond with remarks to the effect that
in the course of making his films he has
seen all the great harbors of the world,
but this beautiful harbor is composite
of what is best in all of them, and
therefore he has to declare it the most
beautiful of them all.
The film is chiefly designed to uphold
that finding. There are fine glimpses of
Bondi beach, of Taronga and the Bridge,
and a little of the city’s architecture and
skylines, but mainly it’s Our ’Arbor. Of
course the real ’Arbor worshipper will
fault it on the ground that Fitz should
be here now, when the eighteen-footers
are crowding it with sail. They may
even point out that, begging the differ-
ence of not being in color, local news-
reel recordings of the Harbor under sail
beat Fitz’s to a frazzle.
The same might be advanced on
behalf of the beaches, which in Fitz are
sparsely populated compared with the
scene they provide in midsummer. But
Fitz has the advantage well on his side
with his color photography, and, con-
sidering the very brief time he was here
and the limit he fixes on the length of his
films, he has done a rattling good job.
Most remarkable of all, perhaps, is the
general authenticity of his running com-
mentary. From one who was here only
a matter of a week or so, a faux pas
or two might have been expected, but
Fitz commits none, unless it’s his refer-
ence to Mr. Stevens as a “typical hard-
working Australian,” which brought a
good-humored bellow from the audience.
Though it’s not at all representative
of Australia, and even of Sydney is
only a fragment, it should go down well
with audiences hereabouts. In scenic
beauty it’s right up to Fitz’s very high
standard.


Limerick Competitions
TENTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement of the Tenth £5O
Limerick Competition appears in this
issue on Page 41 (Radio Page).
Information concerning the Ninth
and Eleventh Competitions is in-
cluded.
" It’s in the Air.”
George Formby.
Ai, laad, it’s good picture! If you
doan believe us, go oop t’ Lyceum doawn
Pitt-street. It's rare laad is Geordie, ai.
Perhaps when we’ve seen another
dozen or so of his films, with a little
tuition on the side from Scorfield, they
might give us a job as interpreter at
Government House.
George himself looks as if he’s collared
an official job—a sort of Lord High
Funnyface employed to put a grin into
national appeals to the British race.
When the Get Fit campaign was started
a while back, there he was in “Keeping
Fit,” seeing that his fellow-countrymen
took it with a grin. Here he does the
same thing for the current drive for
recruits. He exploits the funny side of
army life, but even such accepted butts as
the sarn-major are not so much the objects
as the cause of his mirth. The prospec-
tive recruit’s reaction would be that if
army life is as represented it’d do him.
Apart from these considerations, it’s a
tiptop hilarious comedy on general
grounds, with whips of action, winding
up in a burst of burlesque ’plane stunt-
ing that combines thrill with bellow.
With his customary good intentions,
George gets into a mate’s Air Force
uniform in order to deliver what he takes
to be some overlooked dispatches, and so
finds himself illicitly in the army for a
week—taking the O.C. for a reckless ride
in a sidecar, sleeping in the sarn-major’s
twin bed, taking up a ’plane for a fan-
tastic performance, and generally falling
foul of rules and regulations, but vastly
entertaining the troops —and the audi-
ence —and doing fairly with the canteen
lasses.
Ai, laad, there’s lasses in canteen now.
An’ not so bad an’ all, either.
“The Great Waltz.”
Fernand Gravet, Miliza Ko'rjus, Luise Rainer.
Main offering at Sydney Liberty, this
is strictly for Strauss-waltz addicts.
Admirers of Miss Rainer’s fine talents
might be more inclined to weep at it.
The other lady—a new one to present
viewer—is very good in the admirable
prevailing fashion of sopranos who don’t
weigh eight tons or look like models of
the navy tub Albatross. Miss Korjus is,
instead, a rare beauty—wonderfully good-
looking, as neat as they make ’em as to
chassis, a graceful dancer, and with a
voice which itself is asset enough to
carry her to the highest places. And,
then, she can act. The Jeanette Mac-
Donalds and Grace Moores have here a
rival likely to put them right on their
toes —or right off their tucker.
Since the entire purpose of the film
is to give Strauss a vocal airing with
orchestral accompaniment, Miss Korjus
naturally runs right away with the whole
thing. The weepful spectacle is to see
one of the greatest—if not the very great-
est —of present screen actresses playing
beneath Miss Korjus’s triumph a role
that could have been satisfactorily man-
aged by a chorus girl. That Miss Rainer
does it well needs no saying, but it's
a sinful waste of talent. Of all the
twenty million women that could have
been picked for such a role, here she is
in fleeting appearances as the adoring
and incredibly self-immolating wife in a
highly Hollywoodenised version of
Strauss’s life.
The story’s as false as a bad two-bob,
which is not to say it isn’t pretty in
its artificial style. It’s as slick as Holly-
wood makes such things, and those who
may want to hear the maximum number
of Strauss waltzes that could possibly be
worked into one full-length film will no
doubt find it satisfying entertainment.
Fernand Gravet isn’t a type of the
masculine order that appeals much to
present writer, who, belonging to that
order, is probably a rotten judge. But
Fernand looks empty, his grinning
grimaces a poor substitute for acting, and
his general bustling style more appropri-
ate to shopwalking. Maybe femininity
will think differently they’re a hardy
order in regard to this sort of thing, and
can put up with much —but in this film-
taster’s judgment Fernand makes a poor
fist of Strauss as a compelling magnet
to one of the Korjus’s gorgeousness.
“Men with Wings.”
Louise Campbell, Ray Milland, Fred
Mac Murray.
This offering at Sydney Prince Edward
leans heavily on the fact that it’s the first
aviation film in technicolor. Aeroplanes
of all designs, “dog-fights,” broad land-
scapes seen from the air, clouds, sky and
sea from the same angle are constantly
exploited with novel and arresting effect.
Color, too, brings the main actors nearer
to living than their own ability could
ever do.
Taking as its background a generously-
decorated history of aviation, the film
beats around the old triangle of one goil
and two men. It begins somewhere
about the time of the Wright brothers’
experiments, and finishes with reference
to the war in China and successful flights
of 1938.
Miss Campbell is the daughter of an
experimenter killed in attempting to emu-
late the success of the Wright brothers;
Milland and Mac Murray grow up with
her from the time they send her 40ft.
above the earth in a large home-made
kite. Mac Murray is the pilot who takes
her down the aisle, then spends his time
dashing off to any country where a war
is brewing, while Milland, the ’plane-
designer, stands by with patient suffering
that should commend him at any time to
a job as a hotel doorkeeper.
The supporting cast outclasses the
main players. Walter Abel, in a brief
appearance, suggests he should have
figured in one of the main roles. Porter
Hall and Lynne Overman run a news-
paper in amusing, if incredible, fashion,
and Virginia Weidler shows herself as
one of the most pleasing youngsters on
the screen.
Japan on the Screen.
The Association of Far Eastern Affairs,
made up of members of Japanese busi-
ness firms in Sydney, gave a Sunday-
night show of travel talk and suchlike
films of their native heath at the Savoy.
One of the most interesting parts of
the show, in present onlooker’s opinion,
was an explanatory and historical dis-
course on the Japanese dance by Mr.
Algeranoff, of the Russian Ballet, with
three of the dances given by himself to
bear out his remarks.
One thing Mr. Algeranoff made clear
is the absurdity of any layman’s pretence
to getting more than a hundredth part of
the possible entertainment out of any
such stage dancing. To the initiate every
gesture, every faint movement of the
hands, how a fan is held, whether the
hands are tucked into the sleeves or are
out of them —these and a myriad other
things all have clear and definite mean-
ing. Unless that meaning is known—
and it would take years of close study to
be an adept—looking at such dance is
like reading poetry in an unknown
foreign language.
The films shown were interesting, and,
judged by remarks round about present
Showman’s pew, were evidently proving
instructive. But there was really little in
them that could not be gathered from
any one of a dozen or two good travel
books on Japan or from the beautiful
brochures issued by the Japanese Tourist
people.
These same Tourist people were re-
sponsible for the films, and they have a
lot to learn about film-making that they
haven’t to be told about book production.
Every film shown had excellent material
in it, and there were patches of beauty,
but there was much that was common-
place and of negligible interest. Also,
color in films has been brought to such
a pitch of perfection that no scenic films
of any country should be put out except
in color. It’s safe to say that in color
even those of these films which seemed
uninteresting would have held interest all
through.
One film, billed as “Tokio —Symphonic
Sketch,” was marvellous relief after the
American and Australian newsreel pro-
ductions, in which the idea seems to be
to employ a commentator to so deafen
and irritate the audience that it can’t
possibly have a clear mind for absorb-
ing what’s passing before its eyes on the
screen. In the Japanese effort the audi-
ence was taken on a rapid tour of Tokio,
the camera being left to tell its story
without a word of comment, a musical
accompaniment making the going all the
more pleasant.
Australian audiences would have some-
thing to learn from another of the films—
a depiction of flower arranging practised
as a fine art in Japanese homes. The
Japanese in our midst must weep at some
of our home efforts in that line.
Sydney Well Roasted .
Local film-makers, with the voice of
Mr. Lawrence at the top of its form,
have made a lively length of entertain-
ment out of what happened to Sydney
the other week-end. It rounds out the
uncommonly fine bill with which the Vic-
tory started business last week, and is to
be seen also at the Lyceum, newsreel
theatres and elsewhere.
Some may feel that it’s maybe a trifle
exaggerated, though their number
mightn’t include those who were really
in the thick of it, especially those in
outer suburbs where grass- and bush-
fires added their barrage of hot smoke
to the heat-wave and gale, or round about
the big factory fires at Alexandria, or
along the waterfronts witnessing the de-
struction of yachts so gustily depicted.
Taking it all through, it’s newsreel at
this somewhat abused medium’s best.
With something big and extraordinary to
work on, the makers set themselves to
show just what happened as truly as
realistic photography and dramatic com-
mentary could manage. The whole wild
scene is very well covered —a thoroughly
representative camera report of a fantas-
tic occurrence.
Australian audiences would welcome
more of such authentic screenings of
their own scene, not necessarily in this
belligerent condition, but equally full-
dress depictions of Australian, Maoriland
and general Pacific affairs and events.
As it is, these things are touched on in
the briefest possible camera reports,
present policy apparently being to show
a fragmentary bit of everything and
nothing conclusive of anything.
Purely boosting films, such as Maori-
land is turning out, become monotonous.
They may have their use and even their
merit, but audiences get tired of them.
Good, well-planned, well-edited, full-
dress objective camera reporting on events
of general importance or interest would
be certain of enthusiastic reception. Such
Australian, Maoriland and Pacific
(Papuan, etc.) films would be a notable
change, too, from the distorted represen-
tations of foreign affairs in “March of
Time” and similar imports, the apparent
general purpose of which is to stir up
feeling against some foreign countries
and, while the concocters are on the job,
imply that the British are a coward
people, the British Empire falling to
pieces and such other insulting imputa-
tions as happen to occur to the American
interests responsible. A film touching in
similar terms on America’s notable evo-
lution as a moralising gramophone record
would, perhaps, he sure of a patient
hearing in Gahd’s Own.
“The Sea Chest”
This three-act play by Nora Kelly had
its first full-dress airing at the Sydney
Con. on Saturday night. Neatly con-
structed, with an Australian setting, it
is rich in piquant situations and dialogue
which, whether it reflects a modicum of
Irish sentimentalism or the straightout
sophistication in which it mostly deals,
always has raciness and sometimes wit.
The author has been careful not to let
the few touches of heroics degenerate
into mock-heroics.
The plot deals mostly with the tribu-
lations of two grandchildren of an Irish
emigre who has settled in a coastal min-
ing town. Scandals threaten to wreck
the marriage plans of the young woman
and the career of the young man, but
salvation comes when they jointly avert
a mining tragedy. The denouement
doesn’t clash with logic.
Histrionically, the women members of
the cast towered above the men. Betty
Coller as the granddaughter gave a
highly intelligent interpretation of a role
which could easily have been overdone.
Nellie Lamport as the octogenarian Mrs.
O’Day and Gloria Neldon as her com-
panion acted with naturalness and charm.
Norma Lake and Karen Greyson also
performed capably. William Payne was
a moderately successful hero, and Doug-
las Irving as the grandson settled down
after a shaky start. Peter Taylor could
have done better with a juicy comedy
role, and John Brock with a mineowner.
Peggy Hovey was responsible for the
smooth production.
Still More Ballet.
After four weeks of the Ballet at
Sydney Royal this Showman knows
what happens to the minds of balleto-
manes. Baronova, like an irresponsible
swan, kept volplaning out of the radio
cabinet all Sunday afternoon. It hadn’t
quite reached the stage where the Sal-
vation Army band at Potts Point in the
morning could evoke images of the
dancers, but Beethoven over the air did
it, in spite of the fact that “Le Lac des
Cygnes” was Tschaikowsky’s music.
The swans make a much stricter, much
more mechanical ballet than “Syl-
phides” ; they’re birds of the park rather
than sylphs of the forest. Appropri-
ately among its ordered ways, the dance
of the four young swans, where the
gawkiness of young creatures is stylised
into a charming design, is one of the most
pleasing moments of the ballet. Neli-
dova, Razoumova, Tresahar and Wassi-
lieva would be names to remember, if
names like that can be remembered.
Sydney is getting a great deal of Baro-
nova (the more the better), but surpris-
ingly little of Dolin. He partnered
Baronova in “Swan Lake,” but with such
admirable humility that it can hardly be
counted as an appearance. Baronova,
the Queen of the Swans, really was
queen of them. It is not just that she
had the limelight; the slightest move-
ment of her hands was a thing of in-
credible grace.
Her dancing in “La Concurrence,” the
comedy which opened the programme,
lifted it from comedy to lyric. But it
was good comedy, too. To Auric’s mean-
ingless music, two tailors fought for cus-
tomers, the customers showed off in their
new clothes. It was simple, accurate
satire, and ballet can make that sort of
statement with just the delicate wit that it
requires. Lazovsky, looking first like
something out of the Domain and then
suddenly resplendent in his new suit, did
one of his excellent burlesque dances.
He was very much to the fore again
in the title role in “Petrouchka,” a ballet
that is a powerful restatement of the
tragic clown theme. Lazovsky, the
puppet in love with the puppet dancer,
defeated and eventually killed by the pup-
pet Moor, was splendidly in the tragic
tradition. When he is killed, the magician
who owns him reassures the bystanders
by proving to them that Petrouchka is
only a dummy filled with straw. Then
Petrouchka appears on the roof of the
booth, threatening him and mocking the
people in angry despair. The notion —
the weary immortality of the tragic clown
—was movingly conveyed.
Algeranoff was the Moor, and an ex-
cellent one. Riabouchinska, who can be
graceful as a bird when the dance calls
for it, showed that she can also be con-
vincing in the doll-like role of Pet-
rouchka’s ladylove.
Sydney Phil.’s “Messiah.”
Sydney Phil, first gave “Messiah” a
tussle in 1885, when Henri Kowalski
conducted in a fiery manner, and the
soprano was “a youthful and unknown
debutante,” one Mrs. Nellie Armstrong,
later to make all the music-loving world
sit up as Melba.
The society has performed Handel’s
great work many times since then, and
doubtless in many manners. Curt Pre-
rauer, the latest conductor, who had
charge of choir and orchestra at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night, holds to
a restrained, dignified view of the work,
and held band and singers well in leash.
There was a good deal of practical wis-
dom in this policy, for the band was
stronger than the singers, and there would
have been no climax about the “Hallelu-
jah” chorus had the earlier numbers been
less discreetly controlled.
Best of the soloists, because evidently
best versed in oratorio singing, was the
tenor, Godfrey Stirling. Soprano Angela
Parselles and contralto Daphne Dearin-
Hinds were 'adequate, but Sydney De
Vries’s basso was not profound enough
for the score.
Bantock with Baton.
Sir Granville Bantock’s praise of Aus-
tralian choirs was justified in Sydney
when, under the composer’s baton, the
Hurlstone Choral Soc. sang the unaccom-
panied “Golden lourney to Samarkand,”
a setting of verses by James Elroy
Flecker.
Bantock, as a composer, is an adept
at suggesting romantic atmosphere, and
in this work he has put the spirit of the
“Arabian Nights” into music. The con-
ductor, who eschews picturesque manner-
isms, had his flock in the best of control,
and the phrasing was crisp and clear,
with tone volume nicely regulated.
“King Solomon,” written for the coro-
nation of George VI., proved more
Asiatic than Anglican in its flavor. An
orchestra, strong in sounding brass and
clashing cymbals, punctuates forcibly a
recital of the 21st Psalm. Follows a pas-
sage spoken from Chronicles II (Mont-
gomery Stuart gave the words impres-
sively), and the finale is an overwhelm-
ing chorale, evidently intended to be sung
by thousands of voices. Choir again was
adequate to a highly impressive presen-
tation.
Purely orchestral items were “Pagan
Symphony,” which in parts sounds as
futuristic as Bartok, and the overture to
“The Frogs.” Both had evidently been
much better rehearsed than were the
works presented at the first Bantock con-
cert in Sydney.


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney lubes
It Is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you’ up for many months.
Don’t wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Legal Notice.
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, deceased.
PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin to
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, late of The-
barton, South Australia, Widow, deceased,
who was a daughter of William Ormsby Irwin,
of North Richmond, New South Wales, Car-
penter, and who died at Adelaide on the 4th
day of October, 1937, please communicate with
the undersigned or with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Adelaide. It is believed that the late Mrs.
Greg had relatives named Skuthorp.
SCAMMELL, HARDY & SKIPPER,
Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In 1518 the Royal College of Physicians
was founded in England. Last week
the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians flung out the banner of its
inaugural ceremony at Sydney University.
Dr. Morley Fletcher’s clear-cut voice
then showed the journey traversed by
medicine in the years between. Listen-
ing to this representative of St. Bart.’s
and of the Royal College of Physicians,
London, was like taking an aeroplane
flight over a country whose rivers were
blood arteries, whose tortuous mountains
and jungles were disease, whose intrepid
climbers and axe-wielders were the men
of science of all nations. Here were
marked the oases of clinical observa-
tion, of inoculation. Here were the fields
of hope flourishing with vitamins. The
speech was a masterpiece of condensation
and stirred the gowned company to an
applause bright and shining as the
scarlet, purple and gold of their hoods
and bands.
A thrilling moment was that of the
grand entry into the Great Hall. No-
thing but organ music could cope with
that learned and robed procession oi
Fellows and members of the college, of
the Chancellor,. Vice-Chancellor and the
Esquire Bedell. Important people were
Dr. Morley Fletcher, of London, Dr.
Noble Wiley Jones, of Oregon, repre-
senting the American College of Physi-
cians, our own Prof. Lambie, Dr. Hugh
Devine, Dr. Charles Blackburn, first
president of the Australasian College, Dr.
Ben Edye and Justice Halse Rogers, who
really must get quite an exciting quiver
of the spine finding himself Chancellor
of his own university. Lord Wakehurst
was there, and read messages from the
King and the Gs.-G. of Australia and
Maoriland. Speeches were notable —an
intense note of sincerity in Dr. Black-
burn’s, a “four-square man and his job”
sound about Dr. Earle Page’s. High
moments of the ritual were the giving of
a replica of the silver wand of Caduceus
by Dr. Fletcher and the presentation of
the 22 first members of the college to
president Charles Bickerton Blackburn.
Lady Wakehurst was one of the most
avid listeners to the oration. There was
a necromancer touch about the sweep of
her long black velvet cape. Jacaranda
blues and mauves mingled in the frock-
ing of the Chief Justice’s lady. Sir Harry
Bruce-Porter (great pal of the Diggers)
was there with daughter Mrs. C. A.
Johnston. Mrs. FitzSimons, wife of the
Minister for Health, listened in brown
chiffons. The Davidson and Reading
ladies, Mrs. Walter Burfitt, Mrs. .1. C.
Windeyer glittering in lame, Mrs. Edye’s
desert grey chiffons and jade ornaments,
and a very decorated Consular Corps
added to the night’s color.
This Letter’s old friend the Salvation
Army asks again for help to make
Christmas brighter for the many who
turn to it for a little cheering of their
sparse lot. This year the Army plans to
give presents to 2500 children, as well as
sweets, fruit and cakes, and 2500 families
will be supplied with Christmas dinner.
In addition 1500 families are to receive
parcels of food, and gifts are to be sent
to 13,000 inmates of public institutions.
Cash or kind can be sent to 140
Elizabeth-street.
The funeral of Earl Beauchamp was
attended seemingly by the whole county
of Worcestershire as well as every
member of his family. The memorial
service at St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge, was
crowded with the titled, the learned, with
writers, with artists. Lloyd George was
represented ; so was Hore-Belisha. The
University of London, of which Lord
Beauchamp had been Chancellor from
1929 to 1931, also sent representatives.
The two first babes to be born in the
new maternity department of St. Luke's
will be born under Capricorn and under
Aquarius. Two appointmerits for a
first view of Australia have been made
by beginning citizens in late Decem-
ber and in January. When they take
a look around they’ll get a good im-
pression. The rooms are dainty with
chintz hangings, with bedspreads and
upholstery to tone, with polished wood
and bright with sunshine. The new wing
of St. Luke’s was formerly Lulworth, the
Victor White famine in Roslyn Gardens.
Lady Wakehurst opened this cheery place
one day last week ; Coadjutor Bishop of
Sydney, Dr. Pilcher, dedicated it, and
Minister for Health FitzSimons pointed
out the way for Government as well as
heavenly aid. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax had
' a word to say; so did architect John
Mansfield. Retiring Matron Sheerman
and Miss M. E. Aston, who will take
over her position, were both present.
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie have chosen a Griiner picture
for reproduction on their Christmas
greeting-cards. The painting is the
artist’s well-known “Poplars in Autumn,”
and the scene is one that spreads its pen-
sive beauty from Government House,
Canberra. Opposite to the picture, under
the seasonal greetings, is a line by the
poet James the First of Scotland:
“Beauty enough to make the world to
dote.” On the outside of the folder is
a verse by Poet-Laureate John Mase-
field. It shows the sentiments with which
Lord and Lady Gowrie regard Australia.
Here now we live.
To distant parts
Though soon we roam,
Yet, far or near,
This pledge we give
That half our hearts
And half our home
Will still be here.
Christmas trees, the traditional ones,
sparkling with hoar frost, are blooming
in. St. James’s Hall, Phillip-street. They
create atmosphere for Paul Hindemith’s
operetta “The Living Marionette”
(“Tuttifaentchen”). This poetic blending
of fantasy and sentiment is just the right
sort of play for Christmas week. Elsie
Dangerfield, of the accompanying
picture, has translated all its charm from
the German to the English tongue. She
has also translated the songs with which
Hindemith has embroidered his pretty
story. The costumes have been designed
by Mrs. Dangerfield.
Canonbury, the A.J.C. convalescent
home for children stricken with infantile
paralysis, was gay with laughter, cheer-
fulness and flowers for its Christmas
party. A Christmas tree was in evidence
too, and festive food and cakes at tea
time. There was something very appeal-
ing in the fact that the nurses had dressed
many of the dolls for the small girl
patients. The pony rides for those well
enough were the highlights of an after-
noon packed with thrills. Matron S.
Colless received the guests. Among them
were A.J.C.’s chairman George Main and
Mrs. Main.
The terrace overlooking a lawn bor-
dered by young poplars was the popular
spot at the George Duncans’ party last
Saturday. The doctor and his wife have
the happiest knack of entertaining, and
their five-thirty-onwards party ended up
in a buffet supper about 10 o’clock. The
hostess had a birthday that day, and the
house was radiant with flower offerings
from the gladioli composition in the hall
to the double cyclamen on the terrace.
There were enough doctors at this party
to stock several hospitals, among them
visiting important Dr. Wettenhall, over
from Melbourne for the College of
Physicians’ opening binge. He came under
Dr. Victor Kinsella’s wing, and an-
nounced that he hadn’t enjoyed a party
so much in years. That was later on,
after Captain Patrick had sung some
dashing sea chanties and a medical trio
in a group of very, very pathetic hill-
billy songs had dissolved the company
in tears. There was an alfresco touch
about the evening meal. Half the com-
pany took their little porringers and ate
their supper on the lawn. Wistful and
haunting folk songs were sung by Mrs.
John Holmes. Mrs. Patrick did some
monologues. Good-looking Mrs. Roy
Morris and her husband, Dr. and Mrs.
Joe Coen, the Dr. John Tanseys and Dr.
Rawle were some of the many guests.
All the tones of the convolvulus were in
the hostess’s trained afternoon frock.
Bulletin readers of the ’nineties will
recall the vivid and dramatic short stories
which appeared above the name of Bar-
bara Baynton. Later this writer went to
London, published several books and
later still became Lady Headley. Now
her granddaughter, Barbara Hay Frater,
has announced her engagement to Frank
Hamilton Smith. They met at the Sesqui-
centenary Ball given by the Women
Pioneers. It was at the Women Pioneers’
Christmas party last week that they
announced their engagement. Barbara is
the eldest daughter of the A. Hay Fraters,
of Chatswood ; her young man, the eldest
son of the C. Hamilton Smiths, also of
Chatswood. Falk photograph.
Will Mrs. Larry Adler start a new
theatre style in Sydney? At the Ballet’s
first night of the “Swan Lake” and
“Petrouchka” programme, she wore wide,
wine-colored trousers, drawn in at the
ankles, a gold tunic and a little gold
turban. The cape to accompany this
outfit was of sable. Mrs. Venour Nathan,
who is a regular ballet first-nighter, had
daughter Carma with her. Mother’s
chiffons were white and flowing;
sapphire-blue were Noreen Dangar’s
laces. Mrs. E. Wunderlich, very thrilled
over son Theo’s examination successes,
was cloaked and frocked in mulberry
crepes. Mrs. E. Baume wore a gardenia
in her russet hair; her frock was of
green-and-black sheer.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s pale lilac satins
and pearls helped decorate the circle.
Mrs. Kenneth Street and daughter
Belinda were noted. Give a wave of the
best hanky, too, for little Pam Bromley-
Smith, who was exquisite as the small
girl with the hoop in “La Concurrence.”
Dolin and Baronova created the right
feeling of fantasy in “Swan Lake,” but
where is the little woman in the grey
pelisse and the tiny muff who was one
of the crowd in former productions of
“Petrouchka”? Perhaps this time she
goes more gaily clothed, but this writer
missed that grey pelisse, the unconquer-
able habit of getting in everybody’s way.
529 Kent-street is an address that per-
haps does not mean a great deal to you.
Last year it meant a free night shelter to
42,404 of the homeless ; it gave nearly
180,000 free meals to the needy. In addi-
tion there were free baths, free haircuts,
free boot repairs and free first-aid for all
who applied. For over 70 years this in-
stitution has been ministering to the
destitute and homeless of Sydney. Last
Christmas it provided 456 dinners. It
needs your help to carry on the good
work.
There’s a nice, clean, antiseptic look
about a cluster of medical men. Medical
women, though just as antiseptic, add
charm and a smack of the powder-puff.
Taken all in all, they look an interesting
set of humanity, though why even the
nobs among them persist in referring
to those who prefer, say, art to anatomy,
bricklaying to bacteriology, mechanics to
medicine as laymen is rather perplexing.
All these reflections occurred between
two glasses of ginger-pop at Dr. Charles
Bickerton Blackburn’s party to his fellow-
physicians.
Not that this was a teetotal binge.
The drinks were of all brews and
strengths, and circulated with extreme
rapidity, and everybody thought it a
grand party. Mrs. C. M. Terry, the
host’s sister-in-law, helped to receive the
guests. With her black frock she wore
gardenias and a large black hat.
Dr. Morley Fletcher and a fellow-crony
discoursed on the innate love of the male
for fine feathers, instancing his readiness
to leap into uniforms or gaudy robes.
Mrs. C. G. McDonald, whose husband
is an important of the R.A.C., sported a
doll’s hat in black. Its tiny, upturned
brim was filled with blue hyacinth. She
begged Mrs. Dettmann to bring her even
a few petals of jacaranda to show Dr.
Wiley Jones, who has never seen a blue
flowering tree. Two other smartly-hatted
were Mrs. S. A. Smith and Dr. Dora
McMahon.
Dr. Helen Mayo, of Adelaide, Mrs.
M. K. Gray, of Christchurch, Maoriland,
and Mrs. Julian Smith, of Melbourne,
were noted.
It must be said that if the R.A.C. of
Physicians was founded only to prove
how handsomely its first president, Dr.
Charles Bickerton Blackburn, carries his
robe, it would not have been in vain.
Its black is bright with red and gold,
and it toned in with the soft blue
sequinned frocking of Mrs. Terry when
the two stood receiving the 1200- guests
who came to the evening reception.
David Jones’s ballroom bloomed with tall
standards of gladioli and agapanthus, and
glowed with academic gowns for this
celebration.
Admirable was Mrs. C. G. McDonald.
Mrs. K. Hiller, of Melbourne, mingled
pink satin. and black lace ; black satin
and sequins sparkled around Mrs.
Clement Chapman’s smile. Professor
Laby, tall and distinguished in his scarlet
and grey robe, brought a daughter in
white chiffon. White was worn by Mrs.
James Flynn and Mrs. Crawford
Riobertson. Chrysanthemum brown
were Mrs. B. Latham’s laces. Mrs.
Archie Collins made glittering progress.
She wore her presentation frock. It was
trained, white, and had a design of white
leaves outlined in gold.
Dr. Kirton’s chiffons were lilac ; and
Mrs. Fawsitt’s rose-artd-silver tissue was
effective. Grey chiffons flowed about
Mrs. Joseph Coen’s pleasure in son
Kevin’s success. He telephoned from
London on Wednesday to tell the family
he had passed his primary exam, of the
R. Mrs. Lawrence Stokes was a
Melbourne visitor. Dame Constance
D’Arcy and Dr. Grace Cuthbert were
among the popular. Mrs. Reginald
Bridges’s black frock was gilded with
poppies and wheat sheaves ; Mrs. Ben
Edye’s laces were platinum grey. The
veteran Dr. Foreman was there ; so were
the Anderson lady, Mrs. Arthur Royle,
and Dr. and Mrs. Shellshear. And
you couldn’t help noticing Mrs. Walter
Burfitt’s dear little short coat in black
net and sequins which had its sleeves
embroidered in red, green and blue
flowers.
Several hundreds publicly attested their
desire for world peace by turning up at
the Conservatorium to a performance
of “The Sea Chest.” This is a new three-
acter by Nora Kelly, and had its first
presentation to aid the funds of the
British-American Co-operation for Peace.
Mayor Nock and his lady were present,
her white satin frock and the raft of pink
gladioli and roses thrust on her by or-
ganiser Mrs. D. Patrick in nice contrast.
The Benjamin Fullers, the T. S. Gurrs
and knight Thomas Gordon were
sighted. Mrs. Marcus Marks brought a
party ; so did Lute Drummond and Mrs.
S. H. Prior. Mrs. Norman Macleod
and niece Jocelyn Targett were together.
Mrs. Fitz Searight’s cape was all green
ostrich feather fronds. Ruby Adams was
with sister Anne, and Gaga Beaton came
along ; so did Mrs. Arthur Cheeke. Inci-
dentally, there was a greater percentage
of men than is usual in the audience.
There probably has never been a cast
with a better-looking bunch of girls
youth and looks persisted in showing
through the old age make-up of five or
six of them. There were some good
looks, toO, among the males of the piece.
Producer Peggy Hovey, who had worked


:*W:¥
ovSSS?
>X - S S::
X;
4
m
*
■ii-
AUSTRALIA TODAY
~ Sweden a few days later !
Great ’planes to-day are sweeping across the skies,
annihilating distance and making a thousand miles
but a few hours’ journey. This new factor of
speed is all important to the business man, racing
against time to close a deal—it may be in Sweden,
Canada, anywhere, and to the traveller anxious to
reach a holiday destination. The National Bank’s
Letters of Credit and Travellers’ Cheques con-
tribute directly to speedy travel. Funds can be
carried with maximum safety in forms which
expedite conversion into overseas currencies and
enable hotel bills and other travel costs to be
paid easily and quickly. Ask at any of the
Bank’s Branches for the booklet “World Travel
Service.”
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited ( Incorporated in Victoria)
58-16-38
i
England and the Continent
via United States and Canada
ON your trip to England follow
the Pacific Route. See the South
Seas, Honolulu, California, New
York City, and a full range of scenic
wonders en route to an Atlantic
crossing in Britain’s Masterpiece,
R.M.S. “QUEEN MARY” (81,235
tons gross), or in the “AQUI-
TANIA” (45,647 tons), "BRITAN-
NIC” and “GEORGIC” (27,000
tons), or one of the five 20,000
tonners and 10 other ships forming
the largest fleet operating on the
Atlantic and providing an un-
equalled variety of splendid accom-
modations in Cabin Class, Tourist
Class and Third Class. Sailing be-
tween British and Continental ports
and New York, Boston and Mon-
treal every few days.
The new “MAURETANIA”
(33,000 tons) sails on her maiden
voyage from New York on the 6th
July, 1939, and the “QUEEN
ELIZABETH” (85,000 tons) will
further strengthen the Company’s
fleet in the Summer of 1940—the
Cunari Centenary year.
The year 1939 offers special
attractions to this route in the San
Francisco Golden Gate Exposition,
opening 18th February, and the
New York World Fair, commenc-
ing 30th April. These are additional
high spots in the glorious, glittering,
fast and fascinating route to
Europe.
If you arc travelling via Suez or
the Cape to England, make your
return via North America on identi-
cal special rating arrangements
available per all the regular Lines
out of Australia. Eastwards or
Westwards, as part of Round-the-
world bookings, an Atlantic cross-
ing can be included at a surprisingly
low fare, and the Suez, Cape and
Pacific Lines, besides the trans-
American Railroads, accord generous
abatements throughout the /ear.
All intending travellers should in-
quire concerning this way of making
a Round-the-world circuit and ex-
periencing the standards of com-
fort and service set and maintained
by us for nearly one hundred years.
Cunard White Star
ON THE ATLANTIC—THERE IS NO BETTER WAY
Full information on application to: —
BRISBANE:
DALCEITY & COMPANY, LIMITED.
SYDNEY:
PORT LINE, LTD., AND DALGETY &
COMPANY, LIMITED.
MELBOURNE:
CUNARD WHITE STAR, LIMITED,
AND DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
ADELAIDE:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED.
PERTH:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED.
And all Travel Agents.
(Incorporated in England).
0
A Gift to
Make You Happy
A Beverage to
Keep You Fit
AUTHORISED BY
WINEMAKERS’ ASSOCIATION OF
VICTORIA
ycves
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
unremittingly for weeks, and had been
at the Con. looking after stage sets from
eight o’clock in the morning, took her
curtain calls in a chiffon frock, autumn
browns in its toning. Between acts
Andrew Vern Barnett played works by
Cyril Scott, Granados and John Ireland
with the artistry expected from one who
bears that musicianly name.
Fellows and members of the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians, their
wives, friends and visiting colleagues had
their final gambol in the Arcadian setting
of the Arthur Eedy home at Vaucluse.
Any turning of any pathway might bring
you face to face with some Sherlock
Holmes of the nerve centres:, the gland
structure or the pumping station within
your bosom. However, they all behaved
like little gentlemen, and no one drew
out a stethoscope or tapped you sharply
around the shoulderblade, saying “In —
out,” or “Say ninety-nine.” The gardens
and lawns that drop into the Harbor
waters spread in beauty despite the
handicap of the droughty weeks. Medical
knight Charles Blackburn, aided by Mrs.
Terry, received the guests, who thereafter
flitted from flower to flower, or else sat
at the brightly-painted little tables in the
shade of gaily-striped beach umbrellas.
The tennis court was decked with a
great blue-and-orange marquee which
housed long and laden tables. Mrs.
Arthur Eedy’s silk frock was patterned
in blues and yellows. John McKelvey’s
lady came and reported that her surgeon
husband was on the road to recovery.
Her white linen suit had a design in
London tan on its sleeves. Her hat was
large and white, her shoes white and
tan. Joan Tyler’s frock was like a field
in flower. A flamingo red feather waved
softly on Mrs. Joe Coen’s large black
hat. Dr. Helen Mayo was in navy and
white. Mrs. E. L. Cooper, of Melbourne,
was picturesque in ground-length chiffons
of Quaker grey. Mrs. J. Eccles also wore
a sweeping frock—hers was of flowered
chiffons.
There were two engagements announced
at the Women Pioneers’ Christmas party.
Barbara Hay Frater and Frank Hamilton
Smith and Betty Calder Lingham and
Terry Halleen Butler were the two
centres of the storm of congratulation.
Christmas-bells and Christmas carols
aided the Yuletide atmosphere, and the
party was one of the week’s gayest.
President Mrs. Wentworth Grayson
brought a touch of former days with
her spreading frock of blue moires, its
gold bertha bright with small posies. Her
cameo brooch was over 100 years old.
Here and there bloomed again the
satins and laces, many of them heir-
looms, that had been worn by many an
ancestress when the Tank Stream was
a feature of the Sydney landscape. These
had made earlier appearance, at 1938’s
sesquicentenary celebrations. Hilda
Childs, as usual, was striking-looking—
her bolero of white broderie anglaise
was a distinctive note with her black satin
frock. Former president Mrs. W. A.
Lingham wore the softness of grey. A
young visitor was Doris Taylor, of
London.
For 100 years the Sisters of Charity
have labored in Sydney. Their work in
school, hospital and prison from 1838
to 1938 was the subject of an impressive
pageant last week. This filled the Town
Hall on two nights ; and the Apostolic
Delegate, Dr. Panico, made his entry at
the opening heralded by a fanfare of
trumpets. The singing was a star item
of the programme. The combined schools’
choir, Rosa Gargiulo, one of Madame
Christian’s nightingales, Gertrude Con-
cannon and Jeanette Rooney, two
others, upheld the St. Vincent’s singing
standard.
Pupils of Hopewood House had to
give their performance of “The Princess”
on two nights because of the numbers
of their guest audiences. Principal
Nancy Jobson had dramatised Tenny-
son’s poem, and the whole was a charm-
ing idyll of the time when “women’s
rights” were still but the inspiration of
a poet’s noble thoughts. The princess
and her students, the ladies Psyche and
Blanche, were in brave array of lilac
and gold, greens, reds and blues. The
prince and his two friends were charm-
ing fellows in swashbuckling clothes if
with somewhat girlish voices. Miss Job-
son, before curtain-rise, told of the Prin-
cess Ida Club at Melbourne Uni. in her
undergrad. day. Its colors were lilac
and gold, and men, except on rare
occasions, were not admitted.


Divorce Notice*.
IN TH*. SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1784 of 1938.
BETWEEN NORA TERESA WHYMS, Pcti-
AntT’GEORGE DENNIS WHYMS Re-
TO S GEORGE DENNIS WHYMS late of
Shellharbour in the State of New South
Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said NORA
TERESA WHYMS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you did without just cause or excuse wilfully
desert the said Petitioner and without any such
cause or excuse continuously left her so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thir-
teenth day of March One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time, limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. Copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
THOMPSON, BRADFIELD & FINCHAM,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2124 of 1938.
BETWEEN WILLIAM ARTHUR LACKEY
Petitioner
And CECILIA CECILY LACKEY Re-
spondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
WILLIAM ARTHUR LACKEY has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the second day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the
event of your not so doing within that time
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of December,
a.d 1938.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. P. WHITE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2097 of 1938.
BETWEEN WINIFRED MAITLAND
TAPLYN Petitioner
And RICHARD MARK TAPLYN Re-
spondent.
TO RICHARD MARK TAPLYN late
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
MAITLAND TAPLYN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of December,
1938.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Christmas came to Menzies last week
wrapped up in parcels of odd and peculiar
shape, brought by 170 guests of Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell, and it blew out again
up the chimney and down to Frankston
to start a season of happiness for 130 or
more youngsters at the Orthopaedic Hos-
pital. Large toys, like rocking-horses
and monster teddy bears, become the
property of each ward in t*urn; the
smaller gifts provide joy of possession
to each little patient. Mrs. Mitchell, who
is the hospital’s vice-president, leaves
the allotment of the toys to the nurses,
who know the children’s tastes, but
always goes down on Christmas Day with
some of her own family to wish her
adopted children good luck and fast
recoveries.
Among those present at the tea party
were the hospital’s president, Mrs.
Edmund Collins, Dr. and Mrs. Douglas
Galbraith and the matron, Miss Laidlaw,
who motored up from Frankston earlier
in the day. Lois and June Robinson and
Pam Fleming Dunstan helped Jean and
Betty Mitchell unwrap the surprises. Lur-
line Ur win, in green-and-white printed
linen, was among the young folk who
eschewed hats for the sake of Edwardian
hair. Sonia Parrish’s hat was a border-
line between Celestial halo and Quaker
bonnet, and Mrs. Norman Spry’s was
large and white, inspired somewhere in
the Orient, and went with a figured coat
with tall, pointed Balinese shoulders. The
brim of Mrs. Alec Finlay’s raspberry-red
bonnet drooped forwards over her face
and accompanied a pavement-blue coat.
Joyce Pettitt’s edge-to-edge black coat
revealed a frock figured in colors of
riotous quality and quantity.
Merry and informal was the dance
which followed the wedding of Faith
Power and Geoff Whitehead, to which
only a handful of very intimate friends
was invited. For the reception the
George Landales lent Aroona, a perfect
house for a party, with plenty of room
for dancing, wide verandahs where a
buffet was arranged and a large garden
where a marquee arose for supper.
There were no speeches and no formal
good-byes ; just a wave of the hand and
a “Merry Christmas” from Faith and
Geoff to anyone who happened to be
standing near them when they decided to
slip away quietly. When they return from
a honeymoon trip to Sydney the White-
heads will settle into the flat in Kensing-
ton-road recently occupied by an earlier-
in-the-year bridal pair, the Geoff Dockers.
Faith’s lovely gown was of white lace
made with a very full skirt and an off-
Ihe-shoulder neckline. Another old-world
touch upon the corsage was a miniature
of her mother painted when she was a
girl. The long-ago is certainly coming
back, as with Edwardian hair. Among
the young guests present was Prudence
Fairbairn, managing with suave elegance
her swaying black crinoline.
Notwithstanding splints upon limbs
many young hearts will beat more hap-
pily this Christmas as a result of the sale
of gifts held last week at the Leighton
Galleries by the members of the handi-
craft and welfare committee of the Vic-
torian Society for Crippled Children.
Gifts were made by the children, putting
into practice the craft work taught them
through the crafts organiser, Merle
Christie, various committee members and
a large staff of voluntary helpers who
take their sunny smiles and their skilful
fingers (many educated up to standard by
Miss Christie) into after-care hospitals,
clinics and homes of the young afflicted.
They report that every child has an in-
terest in some craft. For instance, tying
the knots in string shopping bags pro-
vided a new hobby for a girl who showed
no inclination for any other type of hand-
work. Elder children produced chip carv-
ing, hand-weaving &nd embroidery, and
a girl of six made an excellent job of
bead mats, savers from hot teapots for
polished tables.
Several young patients who must work
lying down with glass trays upon their
chests had an absorbing time moulding
clay dishes (afterwards fired by experts).
One lad, working with only one hand,
spent many pleasant hours lacing leather
wallets, and a girl of 15 produced several
flower carriers like large chintz folders
lined with oilcloth, a protection from
prickles and drips on the way from
garden to vases. Comic originalities were
straw dolls destined to get thinner and
thinner as raffia layers are pulled out to
fulfil their destiny of tying up garden
plants. A boy from Stonnington, who
can now sit up if propped with pillows,
introduced carved wooden kangaroos
and rabbits with movable legs and
heads. Lady Huntingfield owns one of
the ’roos, which was presented to her
with her bouquet on the afternoon she
declared the exhibition open.
A marriage of musical and romantic
interest took place in London recently
when Peggy Glanville Hicks, of Mel-
bourne, became Mrs. Stanley Bate. Bride
and ’groom are both composers, and
both are young, each 25. They first met
at the Royal College of Music in 1932.
Both won Octavia Travelling Scholar-
ships, after which Mr. Bate studied in
Berlin, and Peggy went to Vienna. Later
they met again in Paris as pupils of
Nadia Boulanger. In addition, they both
look upon Vaughan Williams, who is
delighted at their marriage, as their
adopted uncle.
Mr. Bate, who is considered a
very versatile musician (he is, for
instance, a fine pianist), is musical
director of the Phoenix Theatre. Mrs.
Bate came to Melbourne early in the
year, but her holiday was brief; she had
to return to London for the performance
of one of her own compositions at the
International Festival of Contemporary
Music. She is continuing her work and
professionally will retain her maiden
name. She’s the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. Glanville Hicks, of Auburn.
Her photograph is by Dickinsori-
Monteath. The newly-married couple,
who had a very quiet wedding, have
taken a flat in Kensington as their first
home.
Guests at the Yorick Club’s Christmas
party said the right thing about the
clubrooms, the new green curtains and
the new burgundy carpets, for the
premises have just been reconditioned
and members are pardonably proud of
the finished article. Womenfolk were
particularly appreciative, as they always
are at parties in men’s clubs (even if there
aren’t any brand-new furnishings to
admire). Part of the decorations were
pieces of sculpture in margerine, the
club’s passport, a skull erected on a slab
of fried bread, and a swan which carried
a harvest festival of fruit upon its back.
The flowers which glowed abundantly
on billiard tables and around the walls
were arranged earlier in the day by Mrs.
John Bloomfield. At the party it was
her turn as wife of the president of the
club to receive a presentation bouquet,
which went happily with her color scheme
of pink flowered frock and small white
pillbox hat. Among large hats present
was Mrs. George Alsop’s white coolie
covering.
Several of the guests who were invited
to sample Lynette Young’s mixing of
gimlets late on Saturday afternoon went
home from her party with a handful of
Christmas wishes from their hostess in
the shape of baby cacti or succulents in
miniature rock garden pots. Instructions
were also forthcoming on how to care
for the plants, for Miss Young believes
that even the flowers of the desert prefer
to have their throats damped now and
again. She’s an expert gardener, so she
ought to know. On a visit to Japan she
discovered enough of the basic principles
of dwarfing trees to experiment with this
Oriental craft, and has managed success-
fully to produce miniature gardens of
dwarfed maples, oaks and prunuses. The
party finished up some time after dark
with everybody drinking hot coffee and
neglecting all dieting rules for the sake
of the Christmas cake made by Lynette’s
mother, Mrs. O. C. Hann.
Noel Coward was responsible for a
number of plums dropped into “Christ-
mas Pie” and cooked up for palatable
eating by Keith Macartney. This vaude-
ville show in the University Union
Theatre (in aid of theatre equipment)
had more than adequate support, so that
the overflow either stood through the
evening or went off disappointed. After-
wards supper in the downstairs cafeteria
helped along the cause still further. Ruby
May, Boneitta Freeman, Elden de Steiger,
Molly Hede and Frank Brooks put over
with good comedy the Coward sketch of
the Higgins family in rich and poor cir-
cumstances. Frances Dillon helped in
several major roles, and will long be re-
membered as the serpent of the Nile in
“Octavian and Cleopatra,” with Laurie
Thomas as Octavian and Marjorie Dyson
as Charmian, who got along nicely with
Agrippa (Colin McAlpin). Unaccom-
panied vocal duets were artistically per-
formed by Dorothy Miller and Julie Scar-
borough.
Pat Chilvers and Dr. Walter Williams,
who were married last week, had perfect
weather for motoring down to Lome for
their honeymoon; but no matter how
strong is the call of the sea and the sun
they mean to be back in town for
Christmas Day in their flat in East
Camberwell, charmingly furnished in
mahogany, with the piece de resistance
a lovely old cabinet inlaid with satin-
wood sent from England as a present
from Pat’s aunt. The evening wedding
was at Holy Trinity, Kew, where the
Rev. Roscoe Wilson officiated, and was
followed by a reception at the home of
the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. G. L.
Chilvers. Among several excellent
speeches which accompanied the healths
honored under the marquee in the garden
was an example of legal wit forthcoming
from best man Cyril Fyffe. On her de-
parture the young bride, instead of throw-
ing her bouquet into the hands of the
next bride (so the soothsayers affirm),
distributed its Madonna lilies and lily-
of-the-valley flower by flower, with a
Christmas wish for every bud.
Myra Morris (Marrietta photograph),
who for many years has been a regular
contributor of verse and short stories
to The Bulletin, has caught the Christ-
mas sales with her first novel The Wind
on the Water, published by Thornton
Butterworth. It’s an Australian tale laid
in an up-country township with the vil-
lage pub in the tracks of most of its
characters. At a party in her honor at
The Wattle last Monday, the Australian
Literature Society wished Miss Morris
good luck and many copies sold.
The University Women’s College
cleaned the last of the red rain from its
windows for an at-home in honor of the
unveiling of its portrait of Miss Susie
Williams. W. B. Mclnnes has painted
Miss Williams wearing a gown of soft
cyclamen, with her scholarly head erect,
and holding an open book upon her
knee. Professor R. M. Crawford, of the
Chair of History, unveiled the portrait
by withdrawing a black-and-gold shawl,
and presented it to the college council’s
representative, Mrs. Giblin, whose speech
of thanks was devised on the idea that
brevity is the soul of wit.
College principal Dr. Greta Hort, wear-
ing her Cambridge gown and the mortar-
board that makes her students think of
Merry Monarch hats, made an excellent
speech with the provocative beginning:
“This picture is as valuable as it is use-
less.” Present at the gathering, which
culminated with tea, was the college’s
first graduate, Beryl Donald, wearing a
grey suit and a saucy white hat, and
college students Ding Dyason and Merle
Levinson, the only two left of 24 on
vacation. When the new term opens in
March the new wing now building will
be completed with accommodation for
14 more students.
For shopping with all mod. cons, (no
digs in the ribs and no high heels right
on the toes), the Red Cross Handicraft
Shop provides toys for the young and
gifts for those a little older, and the
Arts and Crafts a variety of useful and
ornamental presents for all ages. Among
the society’s new additions are hand-
blocked heavyweight satins sent from
abroad by Michael O’Connell, which
would be perfect for quilts or curtains,
for evening wraps or house coats. To
her hand-blocked linens by the yard
Frances Bourke has added handkerchiefs
and peasant scarves. Alison Davidson’s
lamps are attractive and all her own
work, for as well as making the shades
she throws the clay upon her own pot-
ter’s wheel and fires it in her own
furnace. When Miss Davidson was in
England a couple of years ago she re-
ceived further incentive for her craft
through visiting pottery works and fac-
tories.
Wickerwork stools are made by Mrs.
J. McLeish, who combines weaving with
carpentry. As Christmas thoughts J. W.
Eaton’s photographs were a sure way
of bringing Australian gums and pad-
docks into the ken of friends overseas.
Abroad also went numbers of Edith
Roy’s hand-blocked scarves and handker-
chiefs. Of chiffon, they proved popular
with those folk who had missed the ocean
mail, ship by ship, and had a spot of
bother getting something for air freight
that wouldn’t break the Christmas bank.
Lucy Newell’s wrapping paper had charm
and personality, cyclamen lyrebirds on
a pale-blue ground being particularly
decorative in design and color. Noticed
in the street crowds of shoppers were
long thin parcels that might have passed
as fishing-rods, but their interests were
botanic and not aquatic; they were
Alfred Coleman’s garden stakes. Of
various lengths to suit each plant, they
carry as decoration giddy parrots or
little blue wrens.


Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong— return-
ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
*
m
i
s
m
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z.
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Board That IS Progressive
It is encouraging to read the annual
report of the Queensland Land Adminis-
tration Board, which controls the State’s
Crown holding of 429,000,000 acres,
looks after the development of much of
28,000,000 acres alienated or in process
of alienation, and attends to the provision
of water and sewerage for country towns.
The board prepares the rich volcanic
land of the north by systematic plotting,
road-building and removal of valuable
timbers. There is an adequate replant-
ing policy. After paying all expenses of
harvesting, marketing, road-building and
reafforestation, consolidated revenue
benefited by £335,000 from Queensland
timber sales last year.
The Queensland Land Administration
is always ready to help the lessee who is
anxious to increase the carrying and earn-
ing capacity of his holding. When
droughts and low wool prices hit Win-
ton, Hughenden and Cloncurry hard, it
called in all leases, and with no red-tape
adjusted areas, tenures and rentals over
more than 7,000,000 acres so as to put
the holders on a reasonably safe basis.
In closer-settlement grazing districts,
when land reverts to the Crown through
resumption or in any other way the local
grazier has first choice of it if he has
shown himself progressive.
In 1927 the Land Act was amended to
empower the board to stipulate improve-
ment programmes as pastoral-lease con-
ditions. Disaster for the grazier was
predicted ; but stipulated conditional-
improvement expenditures have been
exceeded over the whole of the 17,546,000
acres affected by the policy.
On 93 sample holdings on which
lessees agreed, in accordance with an
official plan, to spend £517,000 over a
term of years, £513,000 has been spent in
a shorter period. Cattlemen have in-
creased the carrying capacity of their
runs, and with the conversion of 11,000
square miles to sheep runs and the im-
provement of existing sheep properties
the jumbuck population of the 93 hold-
ings has been increased from 1,473,000
to 2,579,000, and the clip has reached
51,600 bales as against 29,460 when the
scheme was initiated. The number of
permanent employees has increased from
529 to 1029, and the number of casual
employees from 320 to 3500.
In the once-languishing Thargomindah
sub-district, west of Cunnamulla, seven
years’ development on 19 holdings,
through an expenditure of £52,400 on
labor and £62,000 on materials, has
brought the wool clip from 3800 to 7100
bales.
The prickly-pear problem has been
solved, and 19,000,000 acres of sub-
coastal land has been handed back to
production. Various districts have been
provided with studs through encourage-"
ment given in the form of lease conces-
sions ; and some of the best work of the
board has been done, with limited re-
sources, through its system of rural de-
velopment loans. This was introduced in
1932. The Government has now adopted
it as a general policy for dealing with un-
employment, and 3776 settlers who have
submitted plans and agreed to take regis-
tered relief labor have given work to
20,530 men. Jobs done include 2,500,000
acres of ringbarking, 3700 miles of sub-
divisional fencing and building of 730
station dams. At the end of 1937-38, re-
payments, including voluntary redemp-
tions, amounted to £95,000, arrears of
interest were only £2700 out of £63,000
and only £1635 had been written off in
six years.
An 80-m.p.h. gale tore the £60,000
flying-boat Coorong from its moorings
in Darwin harbor; wind and waves
carried it a quarter-mile to shore and
dumped it on the rocks. The starboard
wing and tail plane were jambed into
the cliff, one float collapsed, rocks
punched holes in the hull and water
poured into the holds. The collapsed
float saved the engine from harm, and
a rescue crew, putting up a stiff fight,
lashed the boat down for the night.
Salvage was begun the following morn-
ing, and the boat will be dismantled and
sent to England for repairs. Captain
Brain, flying superintendent of Qantas,
holds Civil Aviation’s moorings guiltless,
and says the (long-overdue) landing
facilities would have made no difference.
He added, however, that “a sheltered
breakwater within which the flying-boats
could be moored would be most de-
sirable” ; and that is letting Authority
down lightly.
* * * *
“Derrot”: Blain, M.H.R., is dis-
appointed with Minister McEwen’s plans
for “development” and has fallen back
on an alternative—that the N.T. be
divided up among neighboring States.
Blain suggests that the Barkly Tableland
be given to Queensland, the Victoria
River district to Westralia, and the Alice
Springs area to S.A. The advantages of
such a scheme are that the N.T. would
then be under experienced departments;
but the disadvantages far outweigh them.
The Kimberleys and n.-w. Queensland
“I love to feel the boat jiggling about, Basil."
"If I may say so, Mabel, ‘jiggling about' is not a nautical term."
are so remote from their seats of govern-
ment that they are not much better off
than areas in the N.T. The handing
over of the Barklys would kill any
chance that district has of finding a
northern outlet. Above all, the Blain
plan would delegate Commonwealth
authority to State Governments which
are already superfluous.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Entering its 18th year of
existence, Qantas is booming, and many
changes are being made in its Queens-
land organisation to meet new conditions,
The D.H.86 machines released from the
Singapore run are now used to serve
the inland. Increase in freight business
has made it necessary to open a special
goods department for a queer variety of
parcels—one machine left for the interior
the other day with ice-cream (in dry
ice), oysters, flowers, a wedding cake,
two casks of rum, a box of butter and
a dog. The first season tickets have
been taken out by W. G. Davies and
C. Gallagher, Blackall (C.Q.), graziers.
And a new monthly journal is on issue,
the “Qantas Inland Gazette.”
< * , _ * , * ... , * ..
“X.T. : Nothing better illustrates the
new hysteric quality of the,press than
the way Brisbane papers these days
handle a heat-wave. Turning over the
files of 35 years ago for the records ot
a certain blazing week during the 1903
drought, I found them in a corner of the
old “Courier,” packed away modestly
and philosophically under a single head-
ing: “Heat in the West.” The latest heat-
wave was greeted with great black head-
ings across the front page of the
“Courier-Mail,” yards of bold type and
meticulous descriptions of the beach
crowds. It was 116 degrees at Boulia,
114 at Cloncurry and 112 at Camooweal,
and Brisbane managed 102, with a rela-
tive humidity of 15 p.c.
Mvr , , , ,
Yarriupi : Another sub-department
is to be created in Canberra—a Native
Affairs Department, under the control of
the Interior Department, as earnest that
“the Government is imbued with the m-
tention of giving adequate attention to
the question of the physical needs and
education of the aborigines of the North-
ern Territory.” The ideal organisation
wou [ d be a few reserves with closely
p rotec t ed game—even cattle if necessary
tQ k ee p t^e stoc ks high—and a few strong
men round the borders to insist that
gj ng hi be not pestered with anthropolo-
gjSfS and people anxious to case the
savage j n trousers. Also, there should
an j nS p ec tor or two with medical ex-
perjence and somebody to make an
annual issue of flour and sugar and
blankets. Departments usually mean
com p QundSj regulations and perpetual
SU p erv j s j on of the unfortunate black-
£e j| ow> who is quite capable of looking
a g er bis own if he is given the chance,
and a better man for doing it.
A * * *
_ . , , Wimnnm
Clayfield : A 27-year-old Wyn
storekeeper, Reg lr egar , L c
woman neighbor to prepare her motor
license. She bought him a ticket in a
“certain investment.” The recipient said
thank you, but he was a member of the
Gospel Brethren and “certain invest-
ments” were against his principles. He
announced that he would not accept a
prize if he won it. He was as good as
his word —the buyer of the ticket, the
Wynnum Ambulance and the local
R.S.S.I.L.A. are sharing £lOOO it drew.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Brisbane building finance
touches the £2,000,000 mark again this
year. During the depression it fell to
£700,000. As £23,000,000 has been spent
on building in Greater Brisbane since
1926—excluding some millions expended
by the Government —they should be get-
ting a bit of shelter from the sun up that
way.
* * * *
“Yarriupi”: It took a long time to
think of it, but two youngsters have at
last conceived the idea of driving from
Brisbane to Darwin in a buckboard,
bought for seven-ten in a junk yard and
hauled by two ponies. The innocents
are worried because they haven’t a rifle
in case they “get into any scrapes with
blacks or crocodiles.” They need not
worry. Apart from income-tax collec-
tors and reserve rangers, their greatest
inconvenience will come from the hearty
welcome which the Territorians are sure
to give to such a simple old-time vehicle.
The North is heartily tired of maidens
hurtling about in aeroplanes, of overland-
ers in large cars, and particularly of the
myriad ladies beloved of the morning
press who hie them to the tropics, learn
the local language in three months, live
on abo. food and are proudly inducted as
the only white member of the tribe on
the first convenient moonlight night. I
remember on the first trip I made to the
Cloncurry region by car —1908 —whole
townships turning out to see our monster
pass. The way things are going, the next
generation up that way will be willing to
do the same to see a buggy and pair and
a traveller who doesn’t call him- or her-
self “explorer,” “commissioner,” expedi-
tioner or anthropologist.


<OR Tfff,
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
St. George's House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
I
W£AK M£N AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality ano premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIO TABLETS contaiD
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
GED
GMND
TONIC
WBLfTS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of alt
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Queensland Demonstration
of 1.4-volt Type Receiver.
The new 1.4-volt battery valves used
with dry-cell batteries put the operation
of radio receivers in isolated places on
an entirely new footing.
The first commercially-designed re-
ceiver using 1.4-volt battery valves was
the Tasma dual-wave model specially
made for the Ever Ready Battery Co.,
and reviewed on this page 14/12/’3B.
The receiver was given preliminary trials
in Sydney, and then, leaving Sydney on
4/12/’3B, the writer, in company with
G. K. Herring, of the Ever Ready Co.,
took it by car to Queensland. As a stand-
by a small American Crosley four-valve
push-button broadcast receiver, also de-
signed for 1.4-volt valves, was taken
along also.
Tests were made on the way for the
benefit of radio dealers in Tamworth,
A few members of the party previous to leaving Brisbane for Toowoomba
for the test of the new Tasma 1.4-volt dual-wave receiver on 7/12/’38.
Included are Messrs. Cantelin, Martin, Swan (Tasma representative for
Queensland), Brayne, Herring, Hart, Galloway, Percy and Barber.
Glen Innes, Tenterfield and at other
places along the Tablelands route. The
road tests provided interesting variations,
For general purposes the car aerial built
into the steel roof was used ; at other
t.mes a length of aerial wire was e.ther
Obstacle on the return trip. G.K.
Herring ponders how to circumvent a
tree felled by the great storm on the
New England Highway, five miles from
Uralla. Seconds lay between the crash
of this tree and the passage of the car!
clipped on to a wire fence by the road-
side or a steel guy wire supporting the
telephone and telegraph poles was pressed
into service. Both these makeshifts were
virtually earthed aerials, but there was
no lack of good result. Several of the
smaller stations around Newcastle
(N.S.W.) could be played at excellent
volume in daylight close to the Queens-
land border.
Most striking test was in a lock-up
garage at the rear of a Tamworth hotel.
Here thefe was a series of car lock-ups
made of wire netting with a corrugated-
iron roof, very similar to a gauze-
screened test room in a radio laboratory.
The test was made at 9 p.m., and on both
broadcast and short-wave ranges stations
were plentiful.
For all the tests a standard Ever Ready
1.5-volt dry cell provided the filament
“juice,” and repeated tests were made
with a very small capacity “pen-light”
cell to show dealers how such a receiver
can carry on with the job for a few hours
with a temporary filament supply.
In Brisbane a test was conducted by
Bert Brayne, of Tracksan’s, a compari-
son being made in the basement of this
co.’s premises with dual-wave receivers
using two-volt valves. In this poor location
the 1.4-volt valve receiver logged Queens-
land stations far and wide which could
not be picked up with the other receivers.
Next day a party of 25 or so of Bris-
bane’s leading radio dealers and tech-
nicians was taken to Toowoomba. There,
three miles out on Prince Henry Drive,
with surrounding country spread out
3000 ft. below, an aerial was slung into
the branches of a tree and the receiver
switched on. The writer had never be-
fore in any location heard so many
strong stations in daylight on the broad-
cast and short-wave bands—and all on
a single 1.5-volt dry cell for the filaments
and 90 volts of Superdyne B-battery for
the plate supply!
How soon the user can get hold of
receivers depends entirely upon the valve
manufacturers and agents. By the time
this appears in print 1.4-volt valves in
many makes should be available in
quantity.
The country radio user in a few weeks
should be able to buy the type of re-
ceiver he has long awaited. Further,
these valves offer interesting possibilities
to the home constructor. The small bat-
tery-operated plug-in coil type receiver
for broadcast and short waves gets a
new lease of life, and the design of
really portable receivers should now be
made easier. The big trouble with port-
ables hitherto has been that of filament
power. With the 1.4-volt valves this
problem has almost completely dis-
appeared.
D.B.K.
The pilot snatches forty winks during a
halt for a roadside receiver test.
Directive Vertical Array—
Further Details.
A description was given in B. 14/9/’3B
of a directive aerial system used by the
British amateur station G6DT, which
puts a particularly strong signal into
Australia on 20 metres. R. T. Dealey,
owner-operator of the station, writes:
GSZJ has sent me cuttings from
The Bulletin regarding the antenna
systems at G6DT, and the subjoined in-
formation may be of interest to VK
amateurs. Two stations are operated
under the same callsign, one in London
The Tasma receiver under test on Prince Henry Drive, Toowoomba (Q.).
The receiver was packed in a carton complete with A and B batteries for
transportation purposes.
and the other at a week-end bungalow at
Horndean, a little village 10 miles north
of Portsmouth in Hampshire. It is from
Horndean that my signals have been
heard in Australia, and the folded-up
radiator-director system (B. 14/9/’3B) is
at my London location.
The Horndean system may be of
more interest to experimental readers.
For some 18 months now I have been
interested in trying antenna systems
which would give consistent 20-metre
telephony communication with Aus-
tralia, and during that period four arrays
have been used. Observations made in-
dicate that the eight or nine weeks prior
to the autumn equinox, i.e., late July to
late September, produce optimum con-
ditions by the long route between about
5 a.m. and 10 a.m. G.M.T. During that
period almost any antenna system, how-
ever simple, will obtain VK contacts.
For the rest of the year consistent com-
munication is difficult.
All the antennae used have been
erected on a line N. 7 degrees W. ; there-
fore the centre line of any directional
array would be pointing at W. 7 degrees
S., a near optimum point for adequate
coverage of the Australian continent by
the S. American route.
Studying a Great Circle map of the
world based on London it will be seen
that Perth lies 2deg. South of East, while
Brisbane is 37|deg. North of East, giv-
ing a centre line between these two points
at approximately 19deg. N. of E., so that
a beam on this line with a horizontal
coverage of approximately 40deg. would
be adequate, using the short route over
India. By the long route the reverse
bearing of W. 19deg. S. holds good, but
beam coverage does not require to be
quite so wide owing to the greater dis-
tance to be travelled.
The first array tried was an off centre-
fed half-wave Hertz, with a parasitic re-
flector element spaced o’ne-quartcr wave-
length to the east. This has an apparent
horizontal coverage of anything up to
lOOdeg. at 7000 miles, and was excellent
during the peak period of 1937, average
reports being about R 7. It fell off badly
after the end of September.
The next array was a two-section
WBJK flat-top beam, which proved to
be much more consistent, giving average
reports of R 7 against rather less than R 6
with the first system at this period,
though with only 60deg. horizontal
coverage. As the year wore on the con-
sistency of the BJK beam became more
evident, though at times the reflector
system brought better results.
The third system was a half-wave
Zepp, with director at one-eighth wave
spacing, results being about the same as
with the reflector system. Both these
arrays were good when conditions
peaked, but at other times were not de-
pendable, while the WBJK was very
consistent, even if signal reports were
not particularly high.
On very few week-ends during the
period October, 1937, to July, 1938, were
VK contacts not made, and subsequent
reports showed that on these occasions
failure was due to the inability of the
Australians to get through, since I was
consistently heard by them,
The fourth array went into action early
in August this year, and has brought
many R 9 plus reports and complimen-
tary comments,
In “QST” for June, 1938, appeared an
article by W2NB entitled “The Extended
Double-Zepp Antenna,” indicating that
the reflector-director gave a horizontal
gain of 7.5 db. as compared with s.ldb.
for the WBJK. This was not so important


Limerick
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Tenth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 4.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 10,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 4.
Results of this Tenth Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin” of
January 1 1.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd,, is eligible to compete. Otherwise
these competitions are open to all, free of
any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin” of December 28, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
| TENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
| NAME
{ (In block letters)
J
ADDRESS
An eccentric old person named Deare
Remarked , “/ will start the new year
By giving up shaving
And cycling and saving
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Ninth Limerick Competition,
which closes to-day (December 21), will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin”
(December 28).
Also in the December 28 issue the Eleventh
of this series of Competitions will be
announced. The same prize-money (£5O)
will be offered.
as the statement that the vertical beam
was much wider than that of the
WBJK, and it was thought that this might
mean being heard in VK at earlier and
later times than with the other systems,
possibly with some loss of gain, but with
at least equal power to that recorded
for the other arrays.
Two minor modifications were made:
The matching stub to the driven element
was replaced by a 50ft. Zepp feeder, and
lift, stub of the parasitic element was
extended by about 34ft., so that a short-
ing bar could be adjusted from the
ground to make the array act as re-
flector or director at will. The para-
sitic system was placed to the east so
that the array was used as a reflector
system towards the west.
Though successful there has been a
marked falling-off since the end of Sep-
tember, and once more the BJK has
come into its own, as being more de-
pendable.
As far as one is able to form any
opinion at all it would seem that for
consistency a comparatively narrow ver-
tical beam at a low angle is the most
consistent for G-VK contacts through-
out the year, but that at the peak periods
better signal reports can be had with
other systems.
Radiotips.
“R.H.A.”: Wavetraps for the elimina-
tion of interference between experimental
transmissions and neighbors’ broadcast
receivers need not be expensive. The
average household will yield numerous
compact containers (mustard tins, small
cigar boxes, etc.), and the components
cost only a few pence. A very practical
design consists of a small coil wound on
one-inch former (cardboard tube, broom-
stick or any handy equivalent), a fixed
mica condenser of .OOOlmfd. or .0002mfd.
and one of the small trimmer condensers
used for trimming and padding superhet
coils. This design calls for a little jug-
gling with coil sizes, but has the big
advantage that it ties up no tuning con-
densers. It is well to preserve a fairly
high ratio of C to L in the circuit, and
for use on bands lower than 7mc. the
fixed condenser should be increased to
.0003 (3.5mc.) and .0005 (1.7mc.). A
further advantage is that, once adjusted
by the operator to correct frequency,
there are no knobs for the set-owner to
interfere with.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Noise in short-wave tun-
ing condensers can often be traced to the
fact that r.f. voltages build up across the
rotor section and are picked up at two
or more points. Even pigtails may fail
to cure the trouble. Condensers with
two separate and isolated end-bearings
should be insulated from earth at the
front or drive end and connection made
to the rotor plates only at the back end.
In the same way condensers with more
than one terminal or lug for either set
of plates should be so wired that no more
than one point is used for contact in each
case.
Applying the 1851 R.F.
Pentode.
.
On the higher frequency bands, thfe
gain of the r.f. stage in a receiver falls
® f 1 w
oft. As a result, the gain control is
usually run up to get a satisfactory signal
evel, but this also brings up the set
noise. In some receivers, this hiss is
anrHhlf* rm on i , ’ tI . „ ,
. metres, bad on ten and
prohibitive on “five.” If the receiver is
well designed, removing the grid clin
frnm r>f ° . i • F
va * ves or taking
tne first detector valve (mixer or con-
verter) out of the socket will largely
: overcome the trouble.
If there is some conversion gain, there
will also be a decline in hiss when the
first detector grid clip is removed, with
all valves operating properly, with the
gain high, and with no signal coming
in. But when this is tried in the r.f. stage,
on the highest frequency band, it is often
discovered that noise in the first r.f. cir-
cuit does not come in above the first
detector noise. Herein lies the sensi-
tivity limitation of the receiver.
If the signal input to the receiver is
increased by tuning the aerial, using a
good beam, or adding an “outboard”
r.f. stage that has good gain and signal-
to-noise ratio, the receiver can be
operated at a lower level and the noise is
not troublesome. But something can
be done for the r.f. stage to improve its
gain on the higher frequencies.
In order of desirability at high fre-
quencies are acorn pentodes, television
pentodes and then common valves.
Maximum gain should not be expected
of any of these in band-switching cir-
cuits, using ordinary wire coils, but, un-
less a special amplifier is built up using
concentric lines as tuned circuits, not
much can be done about that in the
usual commercially-built receiver. Sub-
stitution of an acorn pentode, an 1851 or
an 1852 (which has the grid lead at the
base, intended to replace the 1851) will
usually improve matters.
To replace a 6K7 r.f. valve, since the
input capacity of the 1851 is about five
micromicrofarads higher, the grid circuit
will have to be readjusted. If it is not
possible conveniently to reduce the trim-
ming capacity so much, the tuning range
may be changed by readjusting the de-
tector grid and the oscillator tuning.
This may require the addition of five
micromicrofarads across either of these
circuits if the present trimming arrange-
ment will not permit alignment.
For proper bias when the A.V.C. is in-
operative, the cathode resistor in the
1851 stage should be changed to about
235 ohms (200 to 250), instead of the
present value of perhaps 100 ohms. This
should be bypassed with a good mica
condenser. If the bypass condenser has
much reactance, the stage will oscillate.
The screen should be disconnected
from the present source of voltage and
connected through a 60,000-ohm resistor
to the plate supply. It should be by-
passed to ground with a good mica con-
denser.
If a high-impedance primary is used
in the transformer coupling the r.f. stage
to the first detector, the plate circuit of
the r.f. stage may become resonant
within the tuning range. In this case,
10 micromicrofarads connected across the
primary, or adding a few more turns of
wire, should move the resonant fre-
quency out of the tuning range. The
primary of the transformer can gener-
ally be moved about 5 p.c. farther from
the secondary—there is less load on the
primary with the new r.f. valve, and con-
sequently a tendency to overcouple.
With the 6K7 in a commercial re-
ceiver, there was no gain at 56mc. Using
the 1851, a stage gain of five could be
obtained in the laboratory, and a gain
averaging about three in production
receivers.
W.M.C.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write Idgibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Can a two-volt accumulator be used with
a receiver designed for the new \A-volt dry cell
valves? (2) Would it be possible to use these
valves in a receiver designed for two-volt
valves ? —740.
(1) Yes, by inserting a series resistor to drop
the voltage to 1.5 volts, but if a two-volt accu-
mulator is to be used the valves may as well be
of the two-volt variety. (2) The change can
be made with little trouble if the valve sockets
are of the octal type. Some alteration will be
necessary in the oscillator circuit. The oscil-
lator gridleak for the IA7G is 200,000 ohms
instead of the usual 50,000-ohm leak for a
IC6. Also, some modification of coils may be
necessary.
* * * *
I have an eight-valve Stromberg Carlson
broadcast receiver operating on two volts from
an accumulator for the filaments. Some time
ago, by mistake, the full six volts from a car
accumulator was connected to the receiver.
Since then two-volt operation has not been
possible, but when four volts is applied to the
filaments the receiver works well. Why? —739.
The overload of high voltage on the filaments
has resulted in loss of emission. This means
that most of the coating on the filaments has
been driven off and the valves are of little use.
They may continue to work for some little time
with the four volts. They may possibly be re-
stored by running on four volts for some time,
without any plate voltage. Better to get new
valves.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
/CO/
razz-
J,
/U>
4 QJ&&-'
aM^'
lyiM-
jQi*/^
it
’’r'V., , ;.- i
The Richardson Chain Hotel
14
il
r
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Blowfly in Maoriland.
“Ghanam”: As far as can be guessed
M.L. has had a fairly clear run with the
blowfly, but no real attempt at an esti-
mate has been made except in the Marl-
borough province, which has been under
observation since 1935-36, when there
was a heavy attack. W. V. Macfarlane,
one of the N.Z. Agricultural Depart-
ment’s zoologists, says that last year,
despite a mild fly season, 40 of the worst-
affected sheepowners lost £2OOO in wool,
sheep and labor through fly.'
The results of district classification are
worth looking at. "Marlborough has been
divided into four sections. On the east
coast the sheep are half-bred, and there
has been little trouble. In the Ward-
Blenheim region,, where, the sheep are
half- and crossbred fatteners, there has
been only moderate crutch strike. The
Wairau:and Waihopai hill country, which
has half-breds and. merinos, suffered
moderate, crutch, Cback .and tail strike.
In the western hills and sound country,
where there are half- and crossbreds
again, sheep were struck slightly in the
crutch. 1 <•
Though 90 p.c. of the strike was in
merino districts, which also had the only
hack and tail- strike, the half-breds of
the east coast suffered much more heavily
three years ago.
The main strike fly in Australia is the
small green Lucilia sericata; but the
Cawthron Institute analysis shows that
only 5 p.c. of the Marlborough-struck
sheep harbored the maggots of this fly.
Also, operation by primary and second-
ary flies on the same lesion.is rarely seen
in M.L., though fairly common in Aus-
tralia.
Maoriland investigators have come to
the conclusion that crutch strike is mainly
due to urine staining, with a little
traceable to grass scour. The lure is
perfect when both the stained wool and
the skin are wet, since damp tends to irri-
tate the skin and produce decay, with
introduced bacteria.
The investigators are also fully con-
vinced of the importance of sheep struc-
ture. In 33 p.c. of the cases examined
—mainly merinos—there were contami-
nated medial crutch wrinkles ; but greater
stress is laid on malformation in the
crutch region in ewes. With even slight
physical distortion, enough to produce
regularly the mildest spot of damp, fly-
attracting areas were found to develop.
This class of bait formation proved vastly
more important than natural wrinkles
round the crutch, since none of the
merinos were much wrinkled, and en-
tirely unwrinkled half- and crossbreds
suffered 45 p.c. of the whole of the dis-
trict’s crutch strike.
Of merinos and comebacks attacked,
26.4 p.c. showed urine stain, 50.4 p.c. back
strike, 18.1 p.c. tail strike, 3.7 p.c. head
strike, 0.5 p.c. grass scour and 0.9 p.c.
footrot.
The half- and crossbreds and pure
English types had 68.3 p.c. urine stain,
13.9 p.c. back strike, 1.6 p.c. tail strike,
6.1 p.c. grass scour, 7.7 p.c. dags, 1.8 p.c.
udder infection and 1.6 p.c. footrot.
Dag strike is explainable by the fact
that the sheep affected came from. high
country with late shearing. Trouble was
noticed after shearing and in flush-feed
periods when there was nutritional dis-
turbance ; but scouring rarely seemed to
attract fly without accompanying urine
stain.
The back-strike incidence was a curi-
ous feature. Contrary to Commonwealth
experience, it is described as the type of
“greater menace,” more difficult of con-
trol, with more widespread lesions and
a far greater dealhrate. Autumn is its
main period. The watchers decided that
it was largely conditioned by wool-type,
the heavy autumn rains which sometimes
fall for a week at a time and the tem-
perature.
Rainfall, however, cannot be the only
factor. In the Westland the strike in
merinos and comebacks was not nearly
so widespread as in the bad back-strike
districts, but the rainfall was. Where
“Looks t' me like sleepin' sickness, Ma ."
strikes did occur on a large scale it was
invariably after four or five days’ rain,
followed by a period of lush feed, high
temperature and humidity. Hoggets suf-
fered most from back and tail strike.
1 rapping gave little result, and it was
officially estimated that it would cost £5O
for trans bait and labor to protect a
ior traps, , • , • -9 iauui
300-acre block:-
Control of strike must therefore, come
from a regulation of the’condition’of the
sheep so that it acquires as few susceptible
areas of crutch or back as possible.
Crutching was advocated every two
months to be effective, and in a bad
year “it. w o“ ld have to be done every
month. A novel procedure in jetting
the backs of merino hoggets was found
to be satisfactory. The 1 pc. arsenic
suspension was applied to neck withers
rump and tail at a cost oi between £3
and £4 per 1000 sheep. Operative pro-
cedure along Mules lines to remove tail
wrinkles was commended ; but none of
the methods provides any cure for ewe
malformations which are partly a matter
of heredity.
Trichostrongyles at Weaning.
“S.J.”: Trichostrongyles do not greatly
affect sheep in good condition ; they, are
mainly a curse with lambs and weaners.
The best line of attack is to watch
the health of young stock. The worm
eggs partially hatch on pasture and
remain alive in this condition for 15
months. Where weaning corresponds to
the usual spring pasture dry-off, it often
pays to put lambing forward a month,
so that lambs may be taken from the
ewes while there is still plenty of good
feed. A plot of lucerne is very handy
for weaners.
If this scheme is not practicable on
wormy properties, hand-feeding should be
started four weeks before weaning and
continued until the weaners are well over
the break.
Early autumn, when dry feed gives out
or is spoiled by rains, is another bad
time for trichostrongyles. They can be
overcome only by hand-feeding.
Trichostrongylosis is diagnosed, from
wireworm disease, etc., by the presence
of a profuse, watery, dark and evil-smell-
ing diarrhoea- in young sheep: The eyes
show little sign of anaemia.
Toxiculture Injections.
From John Stewart and Son, yeterin?
ary surgeons* Sydney:
Experience has proved the information on
entcro-toxasrnia (B. 26/10/’3B) to be wrong.
Firstly, when an outbreak occurs, it is advis-
able to inoculate against the disease with a
single-injection toxiculture, and, although natu-
rally sojne deaths will occur, in the majority
of cases they will not. -
The shifting, of the lambs-immediately retards
their growth arid make's .them useless for ex-
port. It is far better and more economic to
vaccinate the lambs-and keep them on the rich
pastures, as single-injection ■ toxiculture sets up
a sufficient degree of immunity, within a few
days to give the necessary .protection.
Mqnth-apprt injections with D.I. vaccine
are not recommended.
Agreed that inoculation after losses have
commenced is wrong in most cases. The
correct time to vaccinate the ewe is one month
before lambing and the lambs at marking time
with the single-injection toxiculture, which will
give them complete immunity and stop all the
deaths.
When inoculation is carried out on the breast,
as recommended for toxiculture, the blemishes
are small and of no real consequence.
Good Quality Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Favored by good harvest-
ing conditions, N.S.W. has produced a
first-class commercial wheat crop—some
compensation for the probable reduction
of 10,000,000 bushels in the yield.
Pinched grain was received at a few of
the outer western centres. This has been
segregated in a second grade of 471 b.
to bushel weight. The season's
general f.a.q. is likely to fall short of
last year’s record exceptional standard
of 641 b. An early forecast is for 631 b.,
which would be satisfactory to farmers
and merchants.
Some weather and rust damage has
occurred in late-maturing crops in the
northern and central slopes, but not
enough to drop the grade below 601 b.
minimum.
Silo receipts have improved in clean-
liness as a result of the warning issued
that loads containing excessive cracked
grain and rubbish would be rejected. A
good deal was turned away, but farmers
generally exercised more care in harvest-
ing and removed a frequent source of
complaint by millers and shippers.
A Chance for Honey.
“J.W.”: Last Sydney Show attracted
a number of fine displays of honey ; so
it was a surprise the other day to find
nothing prime except the M.L. product
in half a dozen Sydney shops. One
vendor said: “I don’t stock Australian
because I can’t get continuity of grade or
type. I can’t even
get a guaranteed
grade. With every
shipment of Maori-
land honey 1 get a
Government certifi-
cate which gives an
expert’s rating on
texture, general quality, grain, tendency
to froth, keeping quality and other im-
portant factors.
“The best of my N.Z. imports grade
nearly 100 p.c. choice on every point,
and I know, once having had a line
which customers like, that I can get it
again. With Australian, I have no
grader’s guarantee and no certainty of
continued supply.
“Honey, despite boards and other
methods of regulation, is not taken seri-
ously in Australia. A few honeymen
should go to California and see what
they do there in the way of producing
special types, which could easily be in-
troduced . here, together with others
which, because of our special flora, other
countries could not produce —N. S. Wales
western honey, for instance, would com-
mand a market anywhere.
“But without standardisation, grading
and continuity of supply, the honey busi-
ness will never expand satisfactorily, even
locally.”. -
Good-bye to Prickly Pear.
“X.T.”: The just-issued report of the
Queensland Lands Administration Board
contains what. looks like a final good-
bye to pear. Since 1930 19,000,000 acres
of pear land, some of it once so densely
covered that a fox-terrier could not get
through it, has been transformed.
The results have been obtained not
merely by releasing a few tons of cacto-
blastis, but by a rigid insistence by the
department on clearing conditions.
Failure to comply is followed by for-
feiture, but last year only two farmers
(Continued on page 44.)


THE XMAS WHISKY
FOR CONNOISSEURS
" NONE BUT ITSELF CAN BE ITS PARALLEL”
THE IDEAL SCOTCH WHISKY
DIFFERENT
AND
DISTINCTIVE
ggHPi
grants
DISTILLERS
banftvJ
lv SCOTLAND^
} ir "
LIO uevjk
LIQUEUR
yin yj hioduci or sto'i»no
U l GUARANTEED BY
it
THE CtENFIOOICW ANO BalvEniC
*&TT CONTENTS - | PlN T 6 ELUID OZ£
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH
WHISKY
AGENTS:
CURCIER, ADET & CO. PTY., LTD., MELBOURNE.


82826.
\V
“ Li
n nv.
<6-V
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart lrom looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked in full and
hall sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS.” SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
iQHM BEtIBMM
LUMBY to
E
kk
Wm
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
■
""™* iji'u/h 11 j iji ji*i‘i
'
vgn m
<#
m
m
rm
Just a word about Tempered Presdwood,
one of the four Masonite materials now
made in Australia. It enables you to
achieve the ultra-modern in design
WITHOUT HEAW EXPENSE. It affords
marble - smooth surfaces of enduring
beauty. It is easy to install—by any
good carpenters using ordinary tools—
directly over existing walls, ceilings, floors
or partitions if you wish. It is easy to
decorate because it will take any finish
you desire. Srainless, moisture-resisting,
Masonite Tempered Presdwood will not
warp, chip, split or crack. Available in
boards of 1/8", 3/16", i" and 5/16"
thicknesses.
INSULATE—FOR COMFORT AND BEAUTY
For structural insulation in all types of
buildings, Cane-ite, the sound-deadening,
temperature resisting, white-ant-proof insula-
tion, is the most economical and efficient.
f' - - - - . „
I MAIL THIS COUPON for Interesting •
I facts to your nearest branch of the Colonial ■
I Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, (Building Materials *
• Division).
I I
» NAME •
I I
J ADDRESS J
I r"j Please send me full litera-
■ ture on Masonite boards.
I r~| Please send me full litera- M3O-8
I ture on Cane-ite boards. 3-21-12.
f................ _ . _ J
PRESDWOOD, TEMPERED PRESDWOOD, QUARTRBOARD, ifcMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING. CO. LTD. (BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
TJuffy-alleS/ri.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
ds
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.IV.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydnev. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., lAd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
, , . . . .
were asked to explain neglect. Cacto-
blastis has provided a fairly even and
swift method of dealing with pear;
there is many another pest which could
be dealt with just as easily if regulations
were enforced uniformly.
Maoriland Pig Census.
“Rata”: Maoriland is jumps ahead of
Australia in the production of pork ; but
there is still a great divergence in pig-
raisjng methods there,
Eight farms out of 180 se i ect ed for de-
tailed analysis recently showed an aver-
age of 100.71 b. of pig meat produced per
1001 b. butterfat. The great bulk of
farms whose figures are summarised
turned off between 31.11 b. and 47.81 b.
meat per 1001 b. b.f. The highest class
showed a considerable use of food other
than milk ; but their total use of feed
per 1001 b. pig meat was only 4391 b.
against 16801 b. in some classes.
While the worst figures in the re-
turns gave 0.31 d. as the earning value of
a gallon of milk in the pig industry,
the biggest producers per 1001 b. b.f. made
their gallon earn 1.96 d. The figure was
reached through taking pig meat at 6d.
per lb., allowing for meal and other
feed cost, and crediting the remainder
to milk.
In the best farms the production of
pig meat per sow was a quarter of a
ton, or 100 p.c. better than in the worst.
It seems that capable feeding and
exact hygienic methods are the secret of
successful pig-raising. The number of
cows per sow is dependent on feed
efficiency.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ghanam”: Calcium gluconate is be-
coming a standard remedy for milk
fever in ewes. Dissolve 5 parts boracic
acid in 100 parts boiling water. Add 20
parts by weight of calcium gluconate.
Put between 3oz. and 4oz. per sheep
under the skin in the brisket region with
a hypodermic.
“Bundalinga”: Don’t use the trocar
or knife every time a cow suffers from
bloat. A drench of Jib. of baking soda
dissolved in a quart of water usually
affords relief in all but very severe cases.
After dosing, fit a piece of wood about
2in. square in the cow’s mouth in the
same manner as a bit is used on a horse
bridle. Tie each end of the wood to the
horns with string to keep it in place.
This helps the cow to get rid of the gas.
“Gumblegubbin”: Saltbush makes an
effective firebreak. Fire won’t travel
easily through the low, clumpy species,
planted thickly; and tall kinds along
cultivation fences provide protection to
crops and fodder for stock. The old
man saltbush can be propagated by cut-
tings and seeds.
“Sucre”: A cheap farm grindstone can
be made from a hardwood log about
3ft. round. Saw off a block 6in. wide;
hole it to the width of the spindle and
attach it. Plug it tightly with wooden
wedges and Set it on the frame. Then
get a strip of aluminium Bin. wide ; bend
lin. over each edge of the block and
fasten the overlap with Jin. clouts to the
sides. It will give cane knives, butchers’
knives and other cutting tools a razor-
keen edge without the roughness pro-
duced by whetting on stone. No water
is needed.
“W.D.McC.”: .Can’t understand why
“J.R.D.,” “Murrawong” and others ad-
vocate the use of nicotine sulphate for
worms in conjunction with bluestone.
Nicotine sulphate is an irritant. All the
nicotine required can be got by simply
boiling tobacco, which, to my mind, is
cheaper and safer. It is more than 10
years since you first published my arsenic
soda and tobacco drench formula. It
has stood the test for 50 years. If
properly prepared it is foolproof. I have
cured thousands of sheep with it and I
have scores of letters from sheepmen
telling me how successful they have been
in using it. The man who gives nic.
sulphate and bluestone to his flock ought
to sample a dose himself.
“Ghanam”: One of the chief causes
of growling at sheep shows is lack of
uniform shearing. N. S. Wales Sheep
Breeders’ Association took the matter up
some time ago, and show societies have
been busily at work since trying to fol-
low its lead. A conference of show
delegates at Manilla (N.S.W.) a few days
ago decided that in open and grand
champion classes S.B.A. regulations will
in future apply. An earlier conference
before the regulations had been adopted
supported the idea that sheep should
not be shorn before April 1 and that
on inspection they must carry not more
than half an inch of wool. The S.B.A.
adopted July 1 as a compromise to suit
both the R.A.S. and country shows.
“Mookau”: Sales of Australian chilled
beef at Smithfield show little improve-
ment. In the second week of November
Argentine and Uruguay sold 16,557
chilled hinds against Australia’s 2132,
and the Argentine price was Id. to l|d.
above Australian. Our average price was
the lowest in the world, not excluding
Rhodesian. But there seems to be a
market for (free) beef literature. The
Australian Meat Board has just issued
a cheer for the fact that it succeeded in
getting rid of 275,000 folders “giving
facts and figures relating to Australian
meat production and its sale in the
U.K.” during the Glasgow Exhibition.
“Lachlan”: H. S. Henley asks why
Canimbla is excluded from the official
N.S.W. list of recommended wheats.
Usually he grows 2000 to 3000 acres of
wheat on Bassett Downs, Cowra, and
over a period of years has found
Canimbla his most consistent yielder. As
a member of the Wheat Advisory Com-
mittee he has advocated its claims to a
place with the hall-marked bread wheats.
But Canimbla is suitable only for the
tablelands and cooler slopes, where Ford
serves better as a dual-purpose and
medium-strong flour type of earlier
maturity. Canimbla has not measured
up to the high expectations with which
it was distributed.
“Observer”: The basis on which the
wheat stabilisation plan has been worked
out should be enlightening to farmer and
bread consumer alike. While 37i bushels
of wheat weigh a ton of 22401 b. it takes
48 bushels (28801 b.) of wheat to make a
ton (20001 b.) of flour at a normal ex-
traction of 70 p.c. A ton of average-
grade flour is estimated to produce 1330
loaves of bread. The whole calculation
is that wheat for which the farmer hopes
to receive £6 will cost £33 in the form
of bread by the time it reaches the con-
sumer’s table.
“Mooldarby”: What may be done in
a district with an assured though small
rainfall has been proved by Andrew
Howard, of Cuttlefish Bay, Kangaroo
Island (S.A.). His holding is 640 acres,
515 acres cleared and under pasture. This
year 1250 sheep were shorn, 260 lambs
being sold with wool. Eight milking
cows, seven dry cattle and 10 horses are
carried. About 100 acres is cultivated
every year for peas and cereals. About
70 tons of cereal and clover hay is cut.
The average rainfall is 19in., and the
rain is spread from autumn onwards,
usually with good spring falls. It is an
area for closer settlement; and new
settlers (large landholders from the main-
land) have been allowed to take up to
8000 acres!
“Yarrunga”: A more-oats-and-less-
wheat policy is expected to play a major
part in the rehabilitation of settlers in the
N.S.W. south-west. Farmers’ tests show
plainly the need for a variety suitable for
grazing, with strong straw and grain-
holding capacity that can be handled
on a large scale. The Agricultural De-
partment recommends Burke, a selection
made at Cowra Farm from the American
variety Kherson, which was of Russian
origin. It has a wide range of useful-
ness in the slopes and western plains.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
How should I begin fat-lamb raising in the
eastern States of Australia? —51732.
Advise a holding of about 700 acres in a
rainfall belt from 26 to 30 inches, conveniently
situated to market or railway, distant not more
than 24 hours from slaughter. Two-thirds
the land to be composed of good, well-drained
grazing land free from noxious weeds and seedy
grasses and one-third rich pasture or suitable
for crop production, with an adequate supply
of water. The property should be subdivided
into small paddocks, with sheep-proof fencing
and gates. Corriedales or English long-wool
crosssbred ewes should make the next breeding
flock with Southdown or Dorset Horn sires.
Breeding and feeding must be co-operated with
care and good management.
* * * m
How can I inoculate sub. clover with bac-
teria (B. 26/10/’38)? Where can the culture
be bought? —Sl9o4.
Write to W.A. Department of Agriculture
for bacteria and instruction booklet. In your
district would advise a trial with W.A. strains
of Dwalganup seed. Bacteria can also be
obtained through other agricultural departments.


£
r
A
ONUMEHfy
m
$
m
i
a
os
jU.
8
*.v,
\
s>
£
£
X
%
'SSi
A * /
2
5S
m
%
m
’ '"//r+ fv
V/a
w.
JL
f T
k/j
r.*
7£
r* f ,A
W )i
yt
m
a
32
x
<[■
9t
x-
W/ifl
'<j|}|{
xl *!
' *
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.
HERE'S TO'EE


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grim wade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
. Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To &void confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work; used to handling manu-
scripts.—l9o7.
Station-overseer, Q’land, 40 years’ exp. sheep
properties, and wife, excellent housekeeper, seek
position. Own Ford truck. —1844.
Wanted partner, N.S.W., dairying, milk zone,
40 head, object increase herd. —1906.
Press clippings regarding C. J. Dennis and
reviews of his books. —1909.
Person with intimate knowledge of Australian
literature and used to research work, to col-
laborate in writing of literary history.—l9oB.
Buyer for complete file of The Bulletin
going back 20 years—lB6o.
Words of recitation “St. Peter.”—l9oo.
Words of verses “Flying Kate” and “Bottle
Queen.”—lBll.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Charlotte Alice Me-
Gregor Chong, who is entitled to an interest
in a deceased estate. (Reply to A. S. Boulton,
Lane, Rex and Co., 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney.)
Information Sought.
H° w did (1) Sans Souci and (2) Sutherland —
both Sydney—get their names? —1913.
(1) It was at first known as Rocky Point, but
the name of Thomas Holt’s homestead at the
point was adopted later. Holt had taken the
name (which is the French for “without care”)
from one of the estates of the King of Prussia.
(2) The naming of this place is explained in
Captain Cook’s diary. The entry reads: “Ist
May, 1770. —Last night departed this life Forby
Sutherland, seaman, who died of consumption,
and in the a.m. his body was interred ashore
at the watering-place. This circumstance occa-
sioned my calling the south point of this bay
Sutherland’s Point.”
* * * *
At what height above the ground is an aero-
plane visible on an average fine day? —lB2B.
Impossible to say owing to the large number
of factors involved, but the first warning of an
approaching aircraft is usually given by sound.
Range tables for certain modern anti-aircraft
guns are calibrated up to 25,000 ft. (nearly five
miles).
* * * *
What quantity of heat does a normal man
produce during 24 hours? —1918.
According to Landry and Roseman, the
average man produces every 24 hours per kilo-
gramme of body 32 to 38 calories when at rest,
35 to 45 when in easy action, and 50 to 70
when at hard work. Translating this into British
thermal units per hour and taking the weight
of an average man at 1401 b., these figures are
equivalent approximately to a man giving off
336 to 400 B.T.U. per hour when at rest, 368
to 473 when in easy action, and 525 to 735 when
at hard work.
* * * *
Origin of the epigram:
Lord Chatham, with his sword undrawn,
S'tood waiting for Sir Richard Strachan;
Sir Richard, longing to be at ’em,
Stood waiting for the Earl of Chatham.
—1920.
The reference is to the recriminations follow-
ing the failure of the military operations of
John Pitt, second Earl of Chatham, in the ex-
pedition to Walcheren, 1809. He attributed
his own fatal delays to the dilatoriness of
Admiral Sir Richard Strachan, who retaliated
that the Earl was unpunctual in fulfilling his
arrangements, and nicknamed him “the late
Earl of Chatham.”
* * * *
it Translation of the following Latin quotation:
“Difficile est mutare animum, et si quid est
penitus insitum moribus, id subito evellere” ?
Name of author? —1911.
Author was Cicero, and translation is as
follows: “It is a difficult thing to change the
disposition, and if there is anything deeply in-
grained to suddenly pluck it out.”
* * * *
(1) What is the object of “flaps” used on air-
craft? (2) Meaning of “geodetic construc-
tion” ? —lB6B.
(1) A device used to increase the maximum
lift or the drag at the moment of landing
brought about by the demand for a high top
speed without a corresponding increase in the
landing speed. When the flap is depressed a
big drag is imposed on the aircraft, and the
fact that the top camber is unaffected results
in an increased lift. (2) A special form of con-
struction in which the stress is taken by a large
number of light frames following the surface of
the structure.
* * * *
(1) What are essential oils? (2) How do they
differ from mineral oils? (3) Their principal
uses ? —lB5O.
(1) A group of naturally-occurring, pleasant-
smelling liquids of vegetable origin. (2) Apart
from chemical differences in constitution they
differ in that they are volatile in steam. Chemi-
cally they are principally a mixture of hydro-
carbons, alcohols and aldehydes, with small
amounts of such substances as esters, ketones,
etc. (3) Essential oils are used in the manufac-
ture of perfumes and flowering essences, in
medicine, as in wormseed oil, used in treating
hookworm, and oil of juniper, employed as a
diuretic. Turpentine is an important essential
oil used in paint.
* * * *
Origin of the word “emperor” ? —lB4l.
It was a title borne by the heads of the
Roman State, and latterly borrowed by many
other monarchs. Originally “imperator” was
the title of a commanding general and of a
magistrate, and the two offices were first com-
bined by Julius Caesar, who was emperator of
home and military affairs. After Augustus, the
title was borne by all his successors, and was
taken by Charlemagne when he revived the
Holy Roman Empire. From 800 to 1806 it was
borne by all monarchs of the Holy Roman
Empire, and had a special semi-monarchic,
semi-ecclesiastical significance, since the Em-
peror and Pope were closely connected. In
1906 the Holy Roman Empire was dissolved
and the title became common, being taken by
Napoleon, the Habsburgs, the King of Prussia
and the sovereigns of England as Emperors of
India. “Tsar,” “Shah” and “Kaiser” (derived
from Lat. Caesar) all have the same meaning
as emperor.
* * * *
Ethel Mannin in "Confessions and Im-
pressions” mentions Homer Lane’s "disgraceful
trial.” Can you give me a short biography of
Lane, with particulars of the trial referred to ?
—l7lO.
Homer Lane was born Hudson, New Hamp-
shire (U.S.A.), 1876. Ran away from home at 14,
and worked in lumber camps. Later studied
educational reform at Sloyd Training School,
Boston, and psychology at Harvard. Later
started workshops for boys, and taught in
Pennsylvania State Penitentiary. In 1912 Lane
went to England and became superintendent of
the Little Commonwealth, a reformatory school
in Dorset. This was closed in 1918 in
circumstances never fully explained. Two
truant girls made serious charges against Lane,
but though their statements were proved to be
false he was never exonerated. Lane was later
arrested under the Aliens Act for having failed
to register a change of address, and sentenced
to one month’s imprisonment in Brixton Gaol.
This sentence was dismissed on appeal. Lane
was for a time lecturer to the A.I.F. at Cam-
bridge, and became a consulting psychologist.
In 1925, following police inquiry into the
circumstances surrounding a loan made to him
by an erratic female patient, Lane left for
France, intending to devote his time to writing.
While living at Nice he contracted typhoid and
pneumonia, and died in Paris on September 26.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to increase one’s height by
exercise? (2) Name of a suitable manual of
physical exercises ? —l7Ol.
(1) In children and adolescents, especially if
nutrition is good, height may be increased by
exercise. In adults, the height is not much
affected after 25. (2) Recreation and Physical
Fitness for Youths and Men, 4s. 6d., Recreation
and Physical Fitness for Girls, 4s. 6d., Syllabus
of Physical Training for Schools, 2s. 6d. —all
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
* * * *
I propose charging a wireless battery off
a six-volt car generator driven by a windmill.
How can l maintain the generator voltage while
running the machine at a reduced speed? —l6Bs.
The generator voltage depends upon the
strength of the field, the number of turns on
the armature and the r.p.m. Therefore it will be
necessary to have the armature rewound or,
if this is not practicable, to increase the gear
ratio so that the original speed will be main-
tained. In either case, a cutout will be neces-
sary to prevent the battery from discharging
back through the generator when the windmill
slows down or stops.
* * * *
(1) Any information available in connection
with any method of producing power alcohol
from grapes? (2) Quantities of petrol imported
each year into each State of the Common-
wealth ? —1766.
(1) Power alcohol can readily be produced
from grapes, and, in fact, in recent years has
been so produced to a fairly large extent in
France, but the whole procedure is uneco-
nomic. Even in a large distillery operating
right throughout the year the costs of distil-
lation without any allowance for the cost of the
grapes would be about 6d. per gallon of power
alcohol produced; in comparison, petrol is
now imported into Australia at a landed (but
duty unpaid) all-in cost of about sd. per gallon.
The power alcohol industry from grapes would
be unfavorably placed, as it would be of a
seasonal nature. The production in France was
established as a part of the national move for
self-sufficiency. Details of the technical methods
can be obtained in any textbook. (2) The fol-
lowing amounts of petrol were imported into
the various States of Australia during the
financial year 1936-37 (the latest year for which
figures are available):
Million Gals.
Victoria 86.3
New South Wales .. .. 73.6
Queensland 35.3
South Australia .. .. 28.2
Westralia .. ~ .. 22.1
Tasmania 8.8
In addition, 65 million gallons of crude petro-
leum was imported for distillation, mainly
in Vic. and N.S.W. In later years these figures
have been considerably increased.
* * * *
(1) How to remove the cylinder head from
an old Gray car engine when the bolt heads
have become badly damaged? (2) Are these
bolts threaded throughout their length ? (3)
How to remove the manifold? —1653.
(1) Shape the heads of the bolts by filing
two parallel faces so that a good purchase can
be gained with a spanner, then unscrew. The
cylinder head should then lift off without
difficulty. Kerosene applied 24 hours previously
may assist, but do not use heat. (2) They are
not threaded near the head. (3) Loosen the
nuts holding the bridge pieces. Try heating
if they cannot be removed with a wrench.
* * * *
How can I make and lay a liquid aquatint
ground, and how is the elongated granulation
secured? —l79l.
Dissolve five ounces of finely-ground resin
in a pint of spirits of wine or pure alcohol.
Shake the mixture several times during the day
and leave for 24 hours to allow the impurities
to settle. Use one-third of this solution to
two-thirds spirits of wine or alcohol. If a
very fine ground is required this second solution
is again diluted. The stronger the solution
of resin the coarser the granulation will be.
Clean plate thoroughly with whiting and am-
monia and dry. Slightly incline the plate over
a dish and pour the solution over the surface.
Wipe the lower edge from time to time to
prevent too much ground collecting on it.
Sway the plate gently with a circular move-
ment while the ground is drying. Work in a
room of medium temperature; in very cold
or very hot rooms the ground refuses to granu-
late. To get elongated granulation tilt the
plate at a fairly steep angle while pouring on
the ground, and keep at an angle while drying.
* * * *
When should native flora be pruned? What
manures are most suitable and when should
they be applied? —l79l.
Prune native plants after the flowering is
over. Cut bottlebrush limbs off behind the
spent flower-heads, and shorten the limbs on
Christmas bush, Geraldton wax, boronias and
waratahs to force new growth for next year’s
flowering. Leaf-mould and sand are most
natural helps to native flora, but a little rotted
manure spread over the soil at the base of the
stems and watered in is not injurious. Avoid
strong fertilisers and also fowl and sheep
manure.
* * * *
(I) Is there a market for fresh-cut flowers
in Sydney? (2) If so, how can I go about sup-
plying it? (3) What are the most suitable
flowers to grow? —l7B6.
(1) It will depend on the quality of the
flowers you are able to supply. Good, long-
stemmed blooms will always be accepted by the
shops. (2) Suggest you make your garden
within reach of the city, and if possible de-
liver the flowers fresh and personally. If you
rely on train delivery it means double handling
—to the station and then to the shops, in both
of which the blooms are likely to be damaged.
(3) Specialise in two or three kinds of flowers,
and make a choice from carnations (especially
white), snapdragons, Iceland poppies, small
dahlias (Charm, Pompone and Collarette), lilies
and chrysanthemums. Gum-tips, ferns, bracken
and ornamental chillies are also sought after.
Florists not attached to nurseries are always
willing to be interviewed by growers. Since
you will have to raise seedlings for your own
requirements it should pay to increase the seed-
sowing and box young plants in fifties and
hundreds. This is one of the most lucrative
sidelines of horticulture.
* * * *
A ball played by a batsman lodges in his
pad and is recovered by the wicketkeeper, who
appeals. The umpire gives “not out.” Is
that ruling correct; and what is the cricket
law on the question? —l7B2.
The batsman is “not out.” Law 33a states:
“If the ball, whether struck by the bat or not,
lodges in the batsman’s clothing, the ball shall
become ‘dead.’ ”
* * * *
(1) In big cricket matches who has the final
decision regarding the fitness of the wicket and
ground and the light ? (2) If both the captains
and umpires disagree what will be the out-
come? (3) Can an umpire stand on any side
of the wicket at the batsman’s end?—\l9A
(1) The captains shall decide the fitness of the
wicket and ground for play. If they disagree
the decision of the umpires shall be final.
The umpires decide the fitness of light for
play. (2) Should the umpires not agree play
will not commence until they are unanimous.
(3) The umpire’s place is on the leg-side of
the batsman, but if through any reason he
wishes to stand on the off-side of the wicket he
should ask the permission of the captain of the
fielding side.
* * * *
(1) Whom did Sid Godfrey defeat for the Aus-
tralian lightweight boxing championship, when,
and how? (2) Who won it from him? (3)
//ow old is Godfrey, and where is he now? —
(1) Harry Stone, on points in 20 rounds, in
1921. (2) Hughie Dwyer, on points in 20
rounds, in 1922. (3) He is now 41 and is licen-
see of the Horse and Jockey Hotel, Homebush,
N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) Has a world’s boxing championship ever
been declared a draw ? If so, who were the
boxers, and where did the contest take place?
(2) How many retired undefeated champions of
the world have there been? —1905.
(1) When Midget Wolgast and Frankie Genaro
fought for the world’s flyweight championship
in New York on December 26, 1931, their 15-
rounder was declared a draw. The Ben Jeby v.
Vince Dundee middleweight championship in
New York on March 17, 1933, was also de-
clared a draw. (2) Eight world champions have
retired undefeated, and they are: Feather-
weights, Louis Kid Kaplan and Johnny Dun-
dee; lightweights, Jack McAuliffe and Benny
Leonard; light-heavyweights, Jack Delaney and
Tommy Loughran; heavyweights, Jim Jeffries
and Gene Tunney. Jeffries retired as unde-
feated world’s heavyweight champion in 1905,
but he came back and was beaten by Jack
Johnson in 1910.
Brief Answers.
H.G.P.: Cultures of bacteria for the inocula-
tion of seed of subterranean clover may be
obtained from the Department of Agriculture,
Sydney. Subterranean clover is a winter-grow-
ing annual, and should be sown in the early
autumn months. Very little success has been
attained with the clover in Queensland....
R.L.: Australian manufacturers of agricultural
implements and the representatives of overseas
firms alike consider the idea in your letter im-
practicable, as the engine required to drive a
heavy knife for cutting scrub up to lin. in
diameter would be much heavier and more
powerful than the one suggested in your letter.
... .A.M.D.: The only method that can be sug-
gested of starting a soap factory is to engage
a practical soapmaker and set him to work.
W.J.S.: Write R. A. Taylor, secretary,
Australian Chemical Institute (Queensland
branch), care Agricultural Department, Bris-
bane....! A.: Specimen is of the same
origin as Peruvian guano, the nitrogenous
compounds having been leached out by rain.
. ...C.R.: Write N.S.W. Government Statis-
tician, Young-street, Sydney... .A.A.: Write
Cinesound Productions, Ltd., Ebley-street,
Waverley... .1.N.: H. G. Wells will arrive at
Fremantle on December 27. Dr. Walkom,
Science House, Gloucester-street, Sydney, will
be able to give particulars of his stay in Aus-
tralia... .W.S.: Write Registrar-General’s De-
partment, Sydney... .E.A.R.: Coulter and
Wastie, Ltd., 410 Elizabeth-strect, Sydney....
A.V.: Copper carbonate and moulding powders
are made in Australia by Elliotts and Australian
Drug Pty., Ltd., Terry-street, Rozelle (N.S.W.).'
The moulding powders arc made from a phenol
basis, phenol being a coal-tar derivative. The
grade of copper carbonate most generally used
contains 50 p.c. copper... .W.P.McD. : To
make cobbler’s wax, melt equal parts of bees-
wax and resin over gentle heat, and pour into
an oiled mould to set. Mixture is inflammable,
and a closed fire or a water bath should be
used. To blacken, add a little lampblack or
vegetable black. Cheaper and much safer to
buy the wax ready-made... .J.H.L.: Place fruit
in wire basket or colander and immerse for a
few minutes in boiling water. If ineffective, boil
for a while, still standing in container and
plunge into cold water when removed. If this
also fails a knife must be used.... J.0.H.: All
recipes contain oil or grease in some form. If
you cannot find a suitable one ready-made, ask
your chemist to put up a simple solution ;
home-made mixtures are rarely a success
P.J.W.H.: (1) The ball is in play when the
bowler commences his run to deliver the ball.
(2) Batsman is out. (3) If the umpire sees that
the ball is short he must call “no ball” and
the batsman is not out. (4) Four runs are scored.
. ...W.P.H.: Persevere with spirits of salt
(hydrochloric acid). It may be necessary to
use a stronger solution than that first used, and
possibly in conjunction with a wire brush or
carborundum block. Cement is almost entirely
soluble in hydrochloric acid... .C.F.W.: Write
to or arrange an interview with the Vocational
Guidance Officer at Sydney Technical College.
... .E.E.M.: (1) Three clear days’ written notice
is required for a marriage in Victoria by either
a clergyman or registrar. In the former case
notice may be dispensed with on the certificate
of a J.P. that the matter is one of emergency.
(2) Fee for marriage by a Government regis-
trar is £1 Is. (3) No residential qualification
required. (4) Further information from the
Government Statist, 295 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne... .F.T.: The single-flowering stock
should be grown in close proximity to the
double-flowering plants. Above all, you should
have a good pedigree strain which has been
selected over a number of years to produce
the high percentage of doubles as required.
The highest percentage of doubles is obtained
by saving seed from only the six or eight
bottom pods of each plant. Yates’s Giant Per-
fection strain is reliable... .A.D.: Well-grown
sweet-peas are always in demand. Get in touch
with some of the larger florists in Sydney or
in the suburbs, such as Searls and Jeans, Fresh
Flowers, Ltd. ; Reynolds-Flodst, etc. By this
means you will be able to form a better idea
as to what prices are likely to be obtained for
the blooms, also the colors that are in demand.
F.E.B.: Write to C. Starke and Co., Ltd.,
Mowbray, Cape Town, South Africa... .M.H.:
Write to Shire Clerk, Warringah Shire Council,
Brookvale, N.S.W M.D.M.: Write W. H
Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney
F.S.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .W.R.: How to Play
Bowls, by Harrison (55.), from Angus and
Robertson K.R.: The poem “Old Pardon,”
the Son of Reprieve,” is contained in “Banjo”
Paterson’s book The Man from Snowy River
(2s. 9d.), obtainable from leading booksellers.
... .F.A.M.: Write Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney C.P.: Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Syd-
ney R.C.: There would be “no bet”
W.F.T.: Sir William, by Sir Modred, won the
A.J.C. Doncaster in 1890. He was owned by
E. Keys H.T.: Cannot trace J.F.S.: (1)
No colt sold in 1936. (2) Missed in 1934 ; in
1935 brown colt called The Sultan; in 1936
filly named Plassey, by Melfort J.L.M.:
“Autarkic” is neither in Webster’s International
nor in the Oxford Dictionary. It is possibly
a corruption or phonetic spelling of “autar
chic,” or an attempt to introduce the “k”
from the Greek root “autarkeo,” meaning “to
hold out against” A.M.: If you were
a minor at the time of your father’s naturalisa-
tion and resided with him in Australia at any
time during minority, you would be deemed to
be a British subject in the Commonwealth by
virtue of your father’s naturalisation. In any
case, you would be deemed to be a British
subject in the Commonwealth by virtue of your
marriage to a naturalised British subject. You
would therefore be eligible to apply for old-
age pension so far as the qualification of
nationality is concerned... .G.G.: The particu-
lars supplied by you are rather brief. A three-
cylinder, two-stroke petrol engine of unusual
design, and which did not employ crankcase
compression, was invented by a Mr. Wege at
about that time. Experimental models were
built by Chambers Motors, Ltd., Ireland, and
by Karrier Motors, Ltd., England; but the in-
vention does not appear to have been made
use of commercially. A letter addressed to the
inventor, c/o The Bulletin, will be forwarded.


THE KING’S SCHOOL
(PARRAMATTA)
m
v
m
Extensive modern additions. New class-
rooms, laboratories, dormitories, modern
swimming pool.
Vacancies for 1939.
APPLY THE HEADMASTER
SHE FELT SENSITIVE
ABOUT HER FIGURE
Kruschen Reduced Her
Weight—Gave Her New
Vitality.
Any woman who is burdened with excess fat
is liable to become sensitive about her figure.
This woman did, and in addition she suffered
from weakness which made her feel dull and
lifeless. But there is a happy sequel to her
story:—
“I was anaemic and suffered a great deal
from weakness for which I had to have treat-
ment every six months. I was burdened with
superfluous fat. Then two years ago I started
taking Kruschen Salts. Kruschen has reduced
my weight a lot, so that, instead of being sen-
sitive about my figure, I feel quite normal like
other people. As a result of losing unwanted
fat, 1 am able to enjoy my food. From always
feeling dull and lifeless, 1 am now fit for
anything. I find Kruschen marvellous for
giving vitality.”—(Miss) M.G.
The six salts in Kruschen assist the internal
organs to perform their functions properly
—to throw off every day the wastage and
poisons that encumber the system. Then little
by little that ugly fat goes—slowly, yes, but
surely.
Sion. Writing
This Book FREE to YOU !
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 lluxsell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 638
Ideal for All the family
The Neiy No-Fricficm
5
N
ONE
DENTAL CREAM
IN-ONE for Everyone”
ryo
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
8
W/fj
fSit
kZ/1
you can dependon^%
CHAMPION 3S
for GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY A
Your car will give cheaper and
better service if you install new
Champions at regular intervals.
These plugs of improved design
will preserve power and speed
throughout your car’s life. And
they quickly pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGEaPIL
ft
ft
&
as
\['k^
sr
0^
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
G.8.C.: That little henpecked person was
pecked to death years ago... .K.G.V.: All
show slight improvement, but they’re all off
our beat... .L.P.: Dog with jam-tin on his tail
coming home for all he’s worth... .C.S.L.:
Your “Idle King” profits little K.S.: Saw
“The Old Year” out, but refuse to see “The
New Year” in... .H.T.E.: The point, if any,
is lost in a maze of words... .G.L.S.: Get
down to some solid reading and let’s hear
from you in a year or tw0....G.C.: Too late.
G.L.C.: Followed your wandering swaggie
over 10 pages and then lost him... .L.C.R.:
Too much filling in “Painless Extraction”....
N.D.C.: Is that the only reason for a four-
page covering letter? L.C.: Indigestible
“Fragment”... .L.S.A.: Cut by half and send
it in again... .V.E.W.: Suggest you rewrite
it with a fresh p10t... . P.T.8.: “Stray Dog”
impounded T.H.D.: “Hawkin’ ” might stand
revision; other two not up M.P.U.: “I know
this is no use to you.” Well, why waste our
time? ... .F.C.O’N.: Improving, but you’re
still a long way off R.C.K.: Too late
L.J.: “The Wretch” wretched... .J.W.A.: Stop
talking and send ’em in K.L.R., J.P., C.T.E.,
L.J.McC. and F.D.: Not up... .H.R.V.:
You’ve sent it to the wrong department
P.S.: “Here We Go, There We Go.” Out
you go J.L.R.: Original? 8.R.: Call
again... .5.C.1.: “Eight, Nine, Ten, Out!” is
correct... .J.S.R.: Much too long for what’s
in it....F.V.: Finish spoils it... .L.R.N.:
Characters out of key with the yarn....
H.P.S.: Too short for a story and too long for
a par P.S.K.: Send those gangsters back to
America T.C.J.: We’d almost hoped that
that chestnut was a non-starter for 1938
L.G.: “Personally I think it’s quite a passable
yarn.” Well, that’s something... .H.T.O’M.:
Always willing to consider original, hitherto
unpublished yarns with Australian or South
Sea settings... .D.R.M.: The title made us
wary and the yarn justified our fears
8.N.R.: Piffle....S.D.E.: That, t00....N.Y.:
Your conception of police methods is amaz-
ing H.T.: “Manhunt” caught nothing....
t.T.S.: You're turning over old ground....
L.T.W.: Fattening the w.p.b. for Christmas.
... .J.S.: What have we done to deserve those?
B.C.R. : We might find something in it —
if we could read it L.P.D.: “Appeal” dis-
missed... .T.W.S.: If you do that again we’ll
be really annoyed W.C.F.: “The Mechani-
cal Cockroach” crawling home in great style.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.: Idea possible, drawing hopeless....
J.H.: You appear to be working steadily
through some old book of Scotch and Jewish
jokes E.8.P.: The sort of humor one might
expect at an undertakers’ smoke-oh M.S.:
No use for dead cow, dazed owner or
swollen dog A.T.: We presented it to the
pest who runs a one-man band outside our
window K.W.: Not a smile in any of them.
. ...W.J.R.: Suggest that you take a few
lessons before releasing any more masterpieces.
. ...T.S.: Cannot recall sketch you sent two
years ago, but cannot believe that it was as
poor as your present effort... .P.D.: It took
10 minutes to unwrap and five seconds to re-
ject M.J.A.: The lad should be en-
couraged. Yes, he’ll need lessons H.W.:
Cannot imagine what we have done to be con-
tinually haunted by that nightmare D.S.:
If you must draw, get yourself some decent
drawing-paper, also a proper pen and some
Indian ink... .C.M.S.: Not enough marrow in
the bones of the gag J.S.: Can’t find any
joy in your Yuletide sketch... .A.M.: If you
must draw kangaroos you might at least find
out what they look like... .T.H.: If that gag
makes another appearance we’ll mount a how-
itzer to keep it away K.J.: Apparently
you’re learning from the feet up; the boots are
well drawn, the rest is awful... .W. 8.: For a
moment we thought that it was something that
was blown in by last week’s storm.
MYSTERY BAY
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
TEN miles above Bermagui, on the
N.S.W. South Coast, lies a little
inlet marked on the charts as
Corunna, but for many years
locally known as Mystery Bay. There-
abouts, nearly sixty years ago, four
people vanished, and were no more be-
spoken by their fellow-men.
In 1880 gold was found four or five
miles north of the little unsheltered port
of the dairying districts of Cobargo and
Tilba. There was a rush to the locality,
which lies between the sea and a long
tidal lake lapping the foot of Mount
Dromedary, and the Mines Department
sent one of its best geologists, Lamont
Young, to investigate and report upon
the new field’s possibilities.
Young arrived in Bermagui by one of
the Illawarra Co.’s steamers early in
October. He camped near the mouth of
the river. Accommodation of other sort
was unobtainable in the hamlet, which
in those days had a population of 30,
mostly employed in a sawmill. On Satur-
day, the 9th, he walked over to the dig-
gings, and started back about dusk. Never
any more did anyone set eyes upon him
who could explain his fate.
The others who went missing at the
same time were Bateman’s Bay men:
Lloyd and Towers, formerly seamen, and
an old fellow named Casey. They had
sailed down the coast in a fishing-boat
to try their luck on the goldfield, had
become fed up with poor results, and
decided to return home. On the Sunday
their boat was found high and dry on
the rocks at Corunna Bay. The three
prospectors had faded out of the world
of living men as completely as had the
geologist.
The police and goldfield officials
believed that Lamont Young chartered
the boat —it had been moored near his
camp on the Bermagui River—to carry
him to Corunna Bay whilst on its home-
ward voyage. He had been anxious to
examine geologically the coastline be-
tween that place and the diggings. Tn
the craft were found various small articles
which had belonged to Young, and on
the shore near by were a burnt-out camp-
fire and some fragments of food. An axe
and a shovel were recovered from the
waters of the bay, but no money or
valuables were ever discovered.
The boat had been loaded with stones
and a hole knocked in her bottom. But,
although filled with water, she had still
floated, and had drifted at high tide into
the position in which she was found.
What happened to Lamont Young and
the Bateman’s Bay men? One theory
is that a party of ruffians from another
country did Young in at his camp,
taking him for a gold-buyer, and
murdered Lloyd, Towers and Casey to
get possession of their boat. It would
have been easy to bury the bodies in
the sands at Corunna between high- and
low-water marks. They are not shifting
sands just there, and the incoming tide
runs very rapidly. The next ebb would
have obliterated any marks of the beach
ever having been used as a cemetery.
Plainly, the murders were committed
on the Saturday. As the theory goes,
early on Sunday morning the murderers
took the boat and the bodies out to sea
from Bermagui, and made for Corunna
Bay, the only place where they knew they
could land. There they buried the
geologist and his friends, tried to sink
the boat and took to the scrub, where
they lay hidden till dark. Thence they
made their way to some port further
north whence escape would have been
comparatively easy.
However, that is not all that South
Coast people have to say about their
cherished mystery, and anyone hankering
after such mental exercise as made Sher-
lock Holmes celebrated might do worse
than call in at the pub in Bermagui any
Saturday afternoon. Or at any dairy
farm along the coast, for the matter of
that. The Bermagui Mystery is still mys-
teriously thrilling down there.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
dsfdsfds
JOHN DANKS & SON My. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
V,
m
m
'f/*
f‘#//
Hot acid here re-
moves all grease
and scale prior to
galvanizing.
LYSAGHT
(0881
AUSTRALIA
\g(/RYtt*y
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
IN the production of Lysaght's
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, at
every stage the most scrupulous
care is exercised by skilled work-
men, for every sheet which carries
their brand is guaranteed by
Lysaght's. This is your assurance
of long service and absolute satis-
faction. Look for the Red Orb on
THE rigid roofing sheets, used all
over Australia.
FREE —a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box- 196 D.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Nothing could be feebler than
Anthonay Eden’s performances in Par-
liament and in print since he became a
private membah again, but to the flapper
press he is still perfectly thrilling. One
lipstick rag which predicts every few
days that Anthonay will return to the
Cabinet and wind up as Prime Minister
announced that he was toting his swish
tailorings across the Atlantic “to
strengthen the bonds between the Eng-
lish-speaking nations.”
He will take the strong line that the
democracies are by no means finished.
“The strong line”! Still, no doubt flap-
pers and knuts would consider it strong.
* * * *
Our Glorious Press recently an-
nounced that “before the Munich agree-
ment Czechoslovakia comprised 364,000
square miles, of which 73,000 square
miles with 3,600,000 people,” had gone
“to Germany;” and “3100 square miles
with 1,000,000 people to Hungary.” It
has had another shot at the thing. The
story this time is that Czecho-etc.
has “lost 19,000 square miles” with
“2,853,858 Germans, 591,544 Hungari-
ans, 77,580 Poles and 60,332 Jews.” It
still includes “377,830 Germans, 100,379
Hungarians, 4157 Poles and 126,310
Jews” ; and it is still a republic instead
of being a conquered province.
* * * *
The U.S.A. has a monopoly of helium
gas, for lack of which a Zeppelin blew
up when trying to land with passengers
on American soil. The Germans have
repeatedly asked for helium supplies, but,
although the military value of Zeppelins
is nowadays scarcely greater than that
of observation balloons, the invariable
reply of Mr. Secretary Ickes is that they
shan’t have any. It doesn’t seem like
the generous America of the Rockefeller
and Carnegie endowments.
* * * 3|C
“Captain Pintle”: President Franklin
Delano Roosevelt’s middle name was
prominent in early Australian sea-
history. Captain Delano, of the brig
Perseverance, was the principal rival of
Kable and Underwood, of Sydney, in
Bass Strait sealing and Pacific trading,
and none too particular about his
methods of competition. The Mitchell
Library has a letter from Captain Joseph
Murrell to the Kable firm, dated October,
1804, from the Furneaux Group, relating
in feeling terms the “unparalleled be-
havior"' of Delano’s lot towards him-
self. Finding that he had cleaned out
the seals at Cape Barren, they tied him
up to a tree and flogged him till he broke
away and bolted into the sea. A kanaka
followed him there and broke his arm
with a sealing club. Delano told him
that it was nothing to what he might
expect if an American ship caught him
at Cape Barren again. The Delanos were
an old Boston and Salem shipping family
who intermarried with the Roosevelts.
There’s a Captain Delano still in the
American mercantile marine.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: I have it on good authority
that a Great Personage uses lipstick.
This will doubtless cause a painful shock
to some of my fellow-Australians, but
it would not cause the least remark in
most European countries. The well-
dressed Parisian man-about-town has
always supplemented nature with art,
and the fashion has crossed the Atlantic.
The New York businessman paints and
powders as a regular thing nowadays,
but so deftly as never to be detected.
And so do a few businessmen in Mel-
bourne.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The latest enthusiasm in
Melbourne art circles is for child art. It
reminds me of a similar movement in
Paris. Modernists began to weep and
regret the lost innocence of eye of their
childhood. A leading modernist of my
acquaintance—a Spaniard—would stop
suddenly in the street, bend down and
look at some chalk marks on the pave-
ment. “What innocence!” he would say,
and sigh profoundly. In order to re-
cover this lost innocence, he used to
paint at night with the light off. When
this fashion became old-fashioned, some-
body conceived the idea that lunatics
retained this innocency of vision, and
Paris went mad over exhibitions of paint-
ings said to have been executed in
mental asylums. Madmen’s art also
went out of fashion. Probably the next
craze will be for drunks’ art.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Trooping the
colors is an honor paid to the King’s
color only, and the daily London cere-
mony is held at either St. James’s or
Buckingham Palace, according as the
King is away or in town. It is really
a guard-mounting ceremony, and is
alleged to have been first instituted in
1738 as a proof of the sobriety of the
officer on guard, following upon a
burglary at Kensington Palace with the
connivance of the guard while the officer
was badly under the weather. The Duke
of Cumberland in 1755 issued the first
Orders which definitely defined the cere-
mony, really as a tactical detail to show
the troop where the colors were actually
kept, should there be an alarm during
their term of duty. The drummer beat
a Point of War as they passed the colors,
and the troop fixed bayonets and pre-
sented arms. Now the ceremony has
evolved into a demonstration of loyalty
to King and regiment. In Australian
practice, the colors are preceded by a
squad of returned Diggers who were
present at battles recorded on them.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Grand Duchy of
Luxemburg is staging a trial which is of
interest to cartoonists. Under a new law
which prohibits the insulting of a head
of another State, Hubert Clement, editor
of a Luxemburg newspaper, is being pro-
ceeded against for printing a cartoon lam-
pooning Hitler. His counsel, Maitre
Giafferi, the man who is defending
Herschen Grynsban, hopes to make the
law ridiculous. It recalls S. H. Prior’s
war-time tussle with Hughes. Low had
done a none-too-gentle cartoon of Billy.
The censors passed it; but just before
going to press Prior received a ’phone
call from the Prime Minister’s office to
the effect that the P.M. had put a taboo
on the picture. Prior replied that either
Low’s cartoon appeared that week or
The Bulletin wouldn’t appear. Both
appeared.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Italy’s desire to vary
the CQnditions under which the Suez
Canal is controlled is understandable in
view of the increased tonnage of Italian
shipping plying between the homeland
and Abyssinia. Dues paid by Italians now
equal one-quarter of the Canal co.’s gross
revenue. Italy is not the first complainant
in the matter of the burden of dues.
British shipping cos., despite England’s
seven-sixteenth interest 1 in the lucrative
business, have never ceased to agitate
for lower rates, and with some degree
of success. For all that, the average liner
plying to India, Australia and the Far
East is held up for some £6OOO every
time it passes through the canal. When
dues were computed according to the
area of the upper deck, ships were built
to circumvent the company’s exactions.
They resembled (in vertical section amid-
ships) a huge Bovril bottle ; the narrow
deck ran the length of the ship like a
fore-and-aft bridge, while the bulge was
at and mostly below the waterline. Only
remember ever seeing one of the class,
and that was 38 years ago. The system
of computing dues was altered, render-
ing such unhandy-looking vessels no
longer of service.
* * * *
Montagu Norman has been “recom-
mended to the Proprietors by the Court
of the Bank of England” for the position
of governor of the bank for another
year. By April, 1939, Norman will have
been governor of the institution for 20
years—a thing without precedent.
* * * *
In a Sydney “D.T.” photograph,
“Von Rath, German Ambassador to
Paris” (he wasn’t), “lies in state at Dus-
seldorf,” and the “D.T.” asserts that his
death “released the greatest pogrom in
modern history.” Though it was a bad
business not one Jewish life was taken.
On the other hand,
Kishinef was the scene of a pogrom, April
6 and April 7, 1903, in which 45 Jews were
murdered and the Jewish quarter destroyed.
In October, 1905, 600 [Russian] places
suffered, with 810 Jews murdered, thou-
sands wounded.
There were pogroms in Galicia (1916-17),
and they reached the stage of a general
persecution as soon as the war was over.
In Lemberg a pogrom lasted for three
days, 72 Jews losing their lives and hun-
dreds being wounded.
In at least 1500 separate pogroms in
southern Russia between 1918 and 1922
the lowest estimate is 100,000 Jews killed.
These extracts are from Vallentine’s
Jewish Encyclopaedia, a copy of which
should be in the “D.T.” office. But per-
haps the idea is that any stick is good
enough to beat a dog with when the dog
is a dachshund.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
A Queenslander is the latest winner of the First Prize of £3 3s. An advocate of
national training, he suggests that we have unemployables because it was abandoned.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Yes, More Discipline!
I once saw an army exam, paper in
which there was the question “Give
notes for a half-hour’s lecture on ‘Dis-
cipline.’ ”
Before the war and up to the repeal
of compulsory training every youth from
12 to 21 had experienced discipline of
some sort or another —at the hands of
strangers. What is more, they had to
put up with it, or suffer penalties through
the police court. This usually meant a
trip to a detention camp, where they
broke their hearts and backs. The chaps
that went through those camps never
wanted another go.
They learned something—the gentle art
of doing what they were told without
any discussion on their rights.
The chief problem in Australian cities
is the unemployable—unemployable sim-
ply because from their earliest recollec-
tions they’ve never been answerable to
anybody except perhaps a mother, whom
they defied successfully owing to the
maternal desire to “learn them to stick
up for their rights later on.” This boils
down now to “the right to live without
working for the means to live.”
The majority of the unemployable are
young chaps, fellows who should have
had at least seven years in the army,
through senior cadets and then citizen
forces, and acquired an interest in life
other than themselves.
The men who enlist under the volun-
tary system are the decent, hard-working
men who want to do a bit of good for
themselves, and who have learned that
the only rights worth a damn are those
that come to them through their own self-
respect and the respect of those who
work with them.
Reintroduce compulsory training and
instil in those who need it most the in-
stinct of obedience to authority.—R. S. H.
(Q).
“R.S.H.” is R. S. Hirschfeld, of Bybera,
Yelarbon (Q.), and to him goes the £3
35., plus space rates.
Tried it
Why invite young men to go on the
land when so many families are leaving
their holdings? My husband brought
capital from England, took up a holding
in the wheatbelt, worked it for 10 years,
then abandoned it. He has been working
on a dairy farm near the city for two
years. We are living comfortably but
not luxuriously. He wouldn’t go back
to the farm if he were paid to do it.
Hard work, privation and very little
money after the banks, super, agents, etc.,
have had their share are three reasons
why / wouldn’t. The most important
reason, however, is that my children will
have~a chance in the city.— Ex-Farmer’s
Wife (W.A.).
Encouraging Marriage
The cause of Australia’s declining
birthrate has been attributed by many
Bulletin readers to the fact that the
average working-man cannot afford the
expense incurred in rearing a family. I
'suggest that if more of our wage-earners
'could afford to marry when they so
desired, instead of having to wait until
financial conditions permitted, the declen-
sion of our birthrate would be allayed.
As this is a problem of national impor-
tance, would it not be possible to impose
a levy of, say, Is. 6d. per week on all
single persons over the age of 18 years
whose incomes do not exceed £365 p.a.?
The money so collected to be repaid to
the parties to a marriage contract when
they became man and wife.
By this method the newly-wedded
couple of 27 and 24 years respectively
would collect, with even a nominal rate
of interest, a little over £6O. From the
worker’s viewpoint this sum would buy
many household necessities, and in some'
cases prevent resort to the t.-p. system.
The young couple would thereby be
afforded a start ip married life somewhat
relieved from financial worries. This,
coupled with the fact that the levy col-
lected from people who died bachelors
or spinsters could be put into a reserve
fund to further increase the maternity
bonus, should raise Australia’s birthrate.
—Rouseabout (W.A.).
Queensland Land Act
Let me register my disapproval of
“R. McL.’s” paragraph entitled “Let
Queensland Do It” (B. 9/11/’3B).
In the first place the Queensland Land
Act has not satisfied many lessees in my
“ Annie , let's pretend We didn't hear the signal for their silly boatdrill."
locality (Longreach). Would “R. McL.” be
satisfied to pay rents, etc., for leasehold
grazing homesteads in Central Queens-
land based on carrying capacity arrived at
by Crown employees who have no prac-
tical experience of the industry and whose
estimates in my own case have been
reached during six years out of sixteen?
I have paid rent on approximately 5000
sheep but have carried only 2000 per
annum.
Inland Queensland, I claim, is un-
represented in Parliament. The Land
Act does “not get there” except by un-
fair means. It certainly collects revenue,
but by very doubtful methods. —D. B
(Q-).
“Soul” and £ s. d.
A small industry, born in the depres-
sion, employed a few youths who toiled
hard, took an interest in their work and
did their bit towards establishing the
company. Though the depression grew
worse, their wages rose ; they were “good
boys” who must not be thrown on relief-
work.
Conditions at last improved but
brought new opposition to fight, which
prevented the co. from recouping even
some of the deficits of the leaner years.
The “good boys” were now married, mak-
ing it harder than ever to consider
diminishing the size of the payroll, though
each revision of awards sent the weekly
total higher.
This small industry is now paying
more than double wages for work done
I a few years ago by junior labor. It is
slugged twice as much for workers’ com-
pensation to cover them, as this is gov-
erned by actual wages paid, and it looks
as if it will also pay more for “national
insurance.” As a matter of fact, the total
amount paid extra as wages over the
years would probably have allowed some
return to the proprietors; up to the
present their share has been nil. In the
fight against competition this co. has re-
tained its soul.—W. S.W. (N.S.W.).
Self-preservation
Among the welter of comment re-
garding the safety of Australia which the
recent international flare-up evoked,
there appears to be little recognition of
the real reason for Australia’s lack of
protective machinery. Self-preservation
is the first law of nature, and it would
be logical to expect that all measures
taken to protect self —either individually
or nationally would be popular.
Strangely enough, human nature is suf-
ficiently perverse to object vigorously to
being regimented to fight for “the other
fellow.” A certain type of politician has
been preaching for so long that wars are
capitalists’ moneymaking enterprises that
a considerable section of the people has
come to believe it —and this big section
has a vote. Politicians, being dependent
upon votes, respect public opinion (when
the voting power is strong enough) and
compulsory training is not introduced —
the politician is interested in his “self-
preservation.”
The protection of Australia will never
even be seriously considered until there
is a change of heart (and head) in the
people themselves. A nation which per-
sists in electing Parliamentary represen-
tatives on a “pap and sugar” policy gets
the Government it deserves. The men at
the helm reflect accurately the mentality
of the people they govern. Chook
Cockie (N.S.W.).
National Insurance
Federal members are evidently wor-
ried about the individual action taken by
many electors to express their disapproval
of the National Insurance Act. In
a circular letter from our repre-
sentative acknowledging receipt of my
protest, he accuses me of being influ-
enced by Douglas Credit advocates to
sign on the dotted line. Now, I resent
that because I have no time for anyone
who has any leaning towards the D.C.
system, and it is a reflection on what
little intelligence I have.
He goes on to say that the Government
was given a mandate to implement the
proposal. I admit that during the past
two elections the subject was hawked by
most candidates, but even then many
were opposed to the scheme. However,
we had no way of expressing our oppo-
sition. In our case we had a choice of
one of two candidates. Personally I was
opposed to the politics of both, but 1
was compelled to use my ballot paper,
and voted for what I considered the lesser
of two evils.
Our representative offers to send me
a booklet dealing with the subject. Well,
I have read reams of matter dealing with
N. 1., and I have wearied myself listening
to wireless broadcasts, but I am still un-
convinced that the Act in its present form
is sound in principle and national in its
application. That’s what I tried to ex-
plain to our member, and joined with
others in asking him to use his influence
to have the Act repealed and the subject
decided by a referendum.
Perhaps politicians are getting windy.
This may be the end of the *-‘grin-and-
bear-it” attitude of electors. We may
even hope that very soon the people will
realise that they have a weapon to com-
pel our so-called leaders to sit up and
take notice that most of us are fed up
trying to support 13 Houses of Parlia-
ment and their expensive appendages.—•
Riverina (N.S.W.).
Freedom of the Press
A. H. Robinson (B. 16/11/’3S) doesn’t
seem to have got my meaning. I would
not suggest that official and truthful news
be censored, but that the imagined, lying
happenings described by various corre-
spondents, and their propaganda of hate,
should be kept out of our papers.
Front-page announcements in our press
during the recent crisis were sensational
enough to make anyone panicky. What
the German or other foreign press pub-
lishes or witholds has nothing to do with
us. All we want is that our Empire news-
papers be at least truthful and depend-
able.—M. K. (N.S.W.).
The Pastoral Industry
So “Jumbuck Shingler” (B. 23 /11/ ’3B)
considers the pastoral industry is “fiddling
about in a criminal manner,” and he
would put it under the control of a
national bureau! Is it “fiddling about”
to raise the merino fleece from less than
51b. to up to over 401 b. best quality
wool? (David, of Dalkeith, to quote but
one, cut that.) Is it “fiddling about” to
sustain the whole of Australia, politicians
and all, for many decades, supply back-
ing for loans, keep thousands in unpro-
ductive works and make the country
it is?
1S not fiddling to find artesian
an d su b- water, to sink dams, to make
country available, to sink millions (liter-
ally) in fencing and other improvements,
to make hundreds of thousands of square
miles available. It isn’t “fiddling” to
bring bullocks in from Westralia, to
water at lyiurrangi and follow an instinc-
tive knowledge across to the border on
the Georgina.
Pastoralists have made mistakes, tons
of them, and they’ll continue to do so.
But it is their own money they are put-
ting into it, asking no bounty, not drain-
ing a penny from any other source, and
they learn by that experience to go on to
better deeds in the future—results to im-
prove the country’s standing and financial
credit. “J.S.” would nationalise the
industry. Why? He would wipe out the
best brains, take the result of genera-
tions of work, hand them over to Gov-
ernment officials, break the country to an


extent that Humpty’s egg would be
simple compared with it. My advice to
him is to go into smoke for a few months,
grow a beard and disguise himself till he
gets a fresh focus on important matters.
—A. B. (Q.).
On Ancient Cars
I agree with “Burr” (B. 30/11/’3B) that
motor-cars and their drivers should be
periodically examined. However, to
compel the scrapping of all antiquated
cars suddenly would be grossly unfair.
To do so would stifle the enterprise of
many young fellows who are keeping
themselves off the dole and their minds
occupied by using ancient cars and trucks
to hawk fruit, ice, etc., or who do carry-
ing work of any description. It would
also deprive a large number of families
of their sole means of relieving working-
day monotony in the week-end.
The heavy taxation imposed on the
motorist in almost every conceivable
form prevents many from owning a later
model car. If it was considerably
reduced the older models would rapidly
disappear, and business everywhere would
materially benefit.— Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Mr. Savage’s Logic
Maorilanders are well acquainted with
Mr. Savage’s slogan. “What this country
needs,” says Michael Joseph, “is in-
creased production.” The idea is, of
course, to place more of everything in
the hands of more people. With this
end in view, Mr. Savage increases
wages and shortens working hours in the
one breath.
Neither of these alone can increase
production ; both together retard it. To
shorten working hours means to lessen
the amount of goods produced in a given
time. Likewise, increasing wages in-
creases the cost of production. This in-
crease is automatically transferred to the
retail price. Consequently, the goods
become less easily obtainable by the
general public, despite the fact that this
is the very opposite of the idea inspiring
the Prime Minister’s cry for increased
production.
Dodging real, issues, our politicians
talk of developing secondary industries,
but they remain undeveloped. Even
granted this development, however, the
incubus of short hours and long wages
remains.
No, Mr. Savage’s means and end are
hopelessly entangled.—J. D. B. (M.L.).
“Privilege!”
How often this cry goes up to-day, and
how few of the cries are genuine! The
older school of politicians and Judges
rarely pleaded “privilege,” as they made
no statements that needed such protec-
tion.
To-day, this “privilege” is often used
like a wall, to hide behind after throwing
a brick at the other fellow. In Queens-
land we have had such bricks thrown at
relief-workers, our womenfolk, pedes-
trians, motorists, radio commentators,
etc., and it is quite certain none of these
bricks would have been thrown if the
thrower hadn’t been able to hide behind
his wall of “privilege.”— Burr (Q.).
My Contribution to Defence
Being very keen on aviation in any
form, and particularly eager to join the
R.A.A.F., I applied to the selection board
when vacancies occurred early this year.
I was notified to appear before the board
in my State capital on a certain date.
This meant a journey of almost 400
miles, travelling expenses to be paid by
the applicant. The approximate cost
to me, including wages lost, was £l5.
A few days after my return to work
I received a letter from the board
“regretting” that my “application was not
successful,” and stating further that it was
“not possible to give any information
as to the reason for it not being success-
ful.” So far, so good. But it then con-
tinued, “Should you be desirous of join-
ing the Air Force at a later date
vacancies will be advertised about a year
from now.”
So, without telling me the cause of
my rejection, the board invites me to
spend another £l5 and take the risk of
being again rejected for the same reason.
I don’t know the reason and, therefore,
can’t take any action to remedy the
defect. But the Government appeals to
me to help in the defence of Australia!
—Mike (W.A.).
Anglo-American Trade Pact
In B. 7/12/’3B “H.A.D.” attacks a
statement on the Anglo-American trade
pact which he attributes to me. As
“quoted” by him, it is alleged that I said,
“The pact is the outward and visible sign
of co-operation between the two nations
to secure the peace of the world. In
other words, it is a sacrament of the
new theology.”
I did not use those words. As published
in the “Age” of November 1, my remarks
were as follows: “The trade pacts [be-
tween the United Kingdom and America,
and between Canada and America] were
merely the outward and visible signs of
the part the countries were to play in
keeping the world’s peace.”
While “H.A.D.” may not approve of
the Anglo-American trade pact he should
at least be accurate in quoting those who
do not share his views.— J. Hume Cook
(Vic.).
We Asked for It
A friend of mine laughs at me for my
belief in The Bulletin—calls it my
Bible.
My faith has been rudely shaken by
the editorial, “The All-Female Policy”—
at least, the part of it that refers to
women’s dress.
Has the writer never been in a large
drapery store when the autumn and
winter goods come in? Who buys and
wears the bolts and bolts of woollen
dress materials? Who wears the cos-
tumes, the coat frocks, the skirts to match
their jumpers? Who buys and knits the
mountains of skein wool? What about
the woollen vests, the dainty Shetland
nighties and pyjamas?
Bathing costumes are made of wool,
and though there’s not much of them
they are priced as high as 255. and 355.
Women also use a great deal of wool
in tapestry and rug work.
Remember, too, that the boy friend
wears his suits much longer than the
girl friend wears her frock—she has a
new one (or two or three) every season.
It is a new experience to find The
Bulletin unjust and badly informed.
I am sorry lor it.— Cubberlie (S.A.).
The Australian Film Industry
It is rightly contended that this industry
gives employment to Australians. But
when we consider the success met with
by Australian actors abroad it is a source
of amazement that it is necessary to im-
port second-rate American players to
take leading parts in our films.
It is not only in acting ability that our
films show weakness. Stories are ter-
rible. Most Australian comedies are
nothing but weak imitations of Ameri-
can efforts. Those with Australian senti-
ment consist of hackneyed jokes and
lamentably forced humor.
We have, admittedly, produced two or
three films which give promise of better
things. But after being thrilled by such
American films as “Wells Fargo,” “The
Buccaneer,” etc., we must begin to
wonder what is wrong with Australian
history, industry and life. Surely these
can provide material for films that would
fill us with sentiments of love and loyalty
for our own country.
If the Australian film industry can
portray to us our history, industry,
language and ideals, then it is worthy
of Government support. If it can assist
Australian actors, authors, producers and
song-writers it is deserving of our assist-
ance. If it cannot do these things, then
let us scrap.all ideas of Government aid,
and direct our attention to more impor-
tant matters. —G. T. Meehan (N.S.W.).
Australian Tobacco
Australian smokers, generally, do not
patronise their home-grown tobacco. I
discovered the reason when I tried one
particular brand, finding it much drier
than the imported leaf.
There is no reason why a Government
subsidy, allotted for research and experi-
ment, could not overcome this drawback.
No reason either why tobacco should
not become one of Australia’s foremost
industries. — Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Overtime and Unemployed
Brisbane City Council has announced
the dismissal of 600 of its employees
before Christmas. If the Forgan Smith
Government was to rigidly enforce its
embargo against overtime in the Govern-
ment service, part-time employment at
least could be found for the majority of
these men.
It could be done by replacing the
present permanent employees who work
on Sundays as well as week days, and at
least 75 p.c. of whom are unskilled
workers. At all railway depots within
a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane hun-
dreds are employed on Sundays at time-
and-a-half rates, averaging over a pound
a day in wages for each employee.
Mayne Junction loco, depot, the car-
riage-cleaning depot at the same place
(where a score or more females are em-
ployed) and scores of gates at level cross-
ings could all be worked by the dis-
missed men, thus practically abolishing
overtime in the railway service.
Other Government departments could
on a lesser scale have the Sunday work
allotted to unemployed workers of good
character. — Joum (Q.).
The Art of Pausing
Nervous breakdowns are often due
not so much to overwork as to the in-
ability to turn one’s back for a moment
upon the ceaseless turmoil. It may be
impossible for most of us to evade
modern life’s rough and tumble, but it
is in the power of all of us to rest briefly
by the roadside. I don’t refer to the
usual annual holiday—which often isn’t
a holiday—but to the occasional pause
upon which too few place any value.
Peace and solace can be found in the
simplest ways. To sit among trees, to
watch the-sun set or a cloud pass, to read
good poetry, to listen to a piece of music
is to escape in the truest sense. These
things we can do if we will, yet most
of us go rushing on without rest, think-
ing that a breather by the way will lose
us the race.
My practical suggestion to those who
suffer from nerves, depression and such
maladies is to forget about patent medi-
cines and acquire the habit of relaxing
physically and mentally for a lew
minutes at a time. They would thus
learn to be at peace with themselves and
consequently with the rest of the world.
—Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Register Ex-Militiamen
With the advent of this extensive re-
cruiting campaign it is surprising that
the Government does not give some
thought to the thousands of former mem-
bers of the militia who, through being
compelled to go to the country districts
to work, have been unable to continue
their military training. 1 served three
years in the artillery in Brisbane, but was
unable to continue training because I got
a job in the far west.
Surely it would be possible for the
Defence Department to register and keep
in touch with all such ex-militiamen. In
case of necessity, such men could be im-
mediately drafted back to their original
units.
I have put this question to staff officers
and usually got the reply: “In the event
of war this procedure would be carried
out,” but why wait?
Furthermore, the system of training
badly needs overhauling. Just imagine
drivers in the artillery being paraded at
night-time'to learn how to clean harness!
It is little wonder night parades are un-
popular. —J. S. Kennedy (N.Q.).
Money for Hospitals
A fair tax to supply money for hospi-
tals would be a levy on every bottle, mug
and glass of intoxicating liquor, and on
every gallon of petrol.
Drivers who are “under the influence”
are a recognised cause of a big propor-
tion of motor accidents, and pedestrians
who have been “refreshed” by intoxicants
rack drivers’ nerves.
Hospitals are crowded to provide beds
for patients, and are mostly burdened
with debt.
A tax on every gallon of petrol would
affect drivers who do not drink intoxi-
cants and yet drive in a manner that is
dangerous to the public. Money from a
tax would pay for hospital beds, ambu-
lance services' and the medical practi-
tioners who are called. Charitable contri-
butions could then be devoted to the
sick poor. : —R. R. C. (Vic.).
What Shall We Read?
Of the writing and banning of books
there is no end. Whether the censor is
always wise is still an open question, but
it is to be regretted that, while the public
is forbidden to read certain classes of
literature, there is so little guidance,
official or otherwise, regarding what
should be marked, noted and digested.
For 30 years I have been an omni-
vorous reader, and have swallowed a vast
quantity of reading matter in that time,
but find myself almost as mentally starved
as when I sat for my Q.C.
My children are following my example,
and I am unable to give them any prac-
tical advice.
There can be no doubt that a well-
regulated course of reading would greatly
benefit both the individual and the
nation, but even those who take the most
interest in our mental and moral wel-
fare leave us to pick and choose more or
less blindly from the bookstalls and
libraries.
Most of our present literary output is
as innocent and as useless as puff-pastry ;
some of it is mere garbage ; a small pro-
portion is definitely poisonous ; but there
remain thousands of books, interesting,
educational and wholesome, that contain
all the elements necessary to the growth
of a sound mind in a sound body.
Compulsion is neither necessary nor
but there are guides, philo-
sophers and friends \vho could help at
least, the rising generation to select
volumes containing the vitamins required
for the building up of brains.
Who is willing to help gropers like
myself to chart out a menu of mental
fare that will enable us to acquire some
degree of real culture and to think clearly
when confronted with the problems of
life? — Bookworm (S.A.).
Travelling Babies
Christmas train-travelling presents
many inconveniences in the way of food
and accommodation for mothers with
children. It’s almost impossible to obtain
milk at refreshment-rooms, and for hot
water one must wait, despite baby’s pro-
tests, until all tea-drinkers are served and
the train is ready to go. Surely arrange-
ments could be made for conductors to
wire ahead particulars of people with
children! They already do the same for
people better able to look after them-
selves when they inquire the number
wanting lunch at any particular place.
With regard to accommodation, I
would suggest that in every sleeping car-
riage one compartment at least be fitted
with a folding bassinet attached to the
wall in the same manner as the card-
tables now provided.—L. W. Muir (Q.).
Jews and Culture
A point worth considering about the
Jew is this: The names at the back of
the cheapest and nastiest forms of enter-
tainment are almost all Jewish. If, as has
been frequently charged, our cultural life
is being degraded by these things, then the
culprit is the man with the Jewish name,
out to exploit every base desire in the
community for profit. Perhaps Hitler,
austere and narrow celibate, with a con-
ception of a higher German life, is
actuated by this knowledge as well as
the memory of Jewish moneygrubbing
in a Germany ruined by war. — I. S.
Cariot (N.S.W.).
The City Mind
Among factors retarding Australia’s
development is the city outlook with
which most national problems are re-
garded. The country’s leading news-
papers, and most of its periodicals, are
written and edited by men whose mental
horizon is bounded by the city limits.
This is true of almost every public
speaker, leading politician, professor, de-
partmental head, big businessman —’in
fact, of practically everyone who has a
voice in national affairs. People who
come here from overseas are publicised in
press and radio —for their city-colored
views. Occasionally somebody speaks
loudly enough to be heard about some
form of rural development, but the voice
is almost immediately drowned and the
message lost to all but a hopeless few.
We have Country party politicians!, true,
but they’re hardly in their seats before
they have a city address and visit their
electorates with a sort of “old home
week” attitude.
If anyone wants to illustrate Australian
virility, he points to the beaches ; he who
would demonstrate our sinfulness points
the same way. If prosperity or the re-
verse is to be indicated city racecourses
provide the answer. ■ If Labor assails
U.A.P. it points to city slums; if the
reverse, city strikers are indicated. No-
body seems to see the great, strong,
evenly-beating heart of the nation beyond
the city gates, where hard-muscled, clear-
eyed Australians are doing the country’s
most important work, saying little but
doing a lot of dashed hard thinking.
Is it any wonder that wheatgrowers,
reading of the huge sums spent on
city railways, on city public buildings, on
city boards and commissions, on city
roads and city amusements, become re-
sentful and demand that the nation shall
pay them something, too, in a season
when world markets and weather have
combined to yield them nothing for the
very work that enables the cities to
flourish? Condobolin is the centre of
N.S.W.; why shouldn’t the Department
of Agriculture be located there?
Shouldn’t Longreach have the killing
works and tanneries of the south;
shouldn’t Echuca have the timber mills,
the canneries and the agricultural-imple-
ment works of Melbourne? Why—dash
it —we even have our military aerodromes
in the suburbs.
Australia is ruled by the city mind, and
there is little hope for her until that mind
is educated to the point where it can
grasp some idea of a vast land crying
out for development from the Timor to
the Antarctic sea. —C. S. (N.S.W.).


MBIBiHIiBIEP *''; ■ * -*
mm
wmm
&g£gS&x&
: 0M
mm
m
m
m
m
m
,c
Wm.
mmm ■
h
' V-."'::y
tfiSssa
Vi
WM : .-/:';M. IP
ill
mm
t
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
NATURAL
TONIC
brings welcome LASTING RELIEF to sufferers from
m
WAS STRICKEN DOWN
WITH ARTHRITIS....
can now walk without a stick
ST. AIARYS, N.S.W., Bth September, 1937.
Dear Sirs, —
Shortly after I turned 60 years of age I was
stricken down with ARTHRITIS in a very
severe form. To-day I AM OVER 82 YEARS
OE AGE. During the time'l have been suffer-
ing I WAS A MARTYR TO I'AIN AND IN-
SOMNIA. I was unable to do anything for
myself for seventeen years. I have spent a
fortune trying to get some relief. Nothing
could be done for me. I tried every medicine
I heard of, but never obtained the slightest
benefit until I was recommended to take
Hutmvai a few weeks ago by a friend I have
known for over 50 years.
Everyone knows how bad I have been; and
to-day all my friends and acquaintances are
absolutely amazed at the wonderful improve-
ment since I started on your Hutuwai
Remedy, for I CAN NOW VVAEK WITHOUT
CRUTCHES OR EVEN A STICK.
This amazing improvement is due entirely
to the wonderful Hutuwai Remedy and the.
very helpful advice contained in your valuable
Diet Chart. I can even WALK UP STEPS
WITHOUT A STICK, and am exceedingly
grateful to your Hutuwai treatment for the
wonderful restoration of my health. I have
recommended scores of others to take Hutuwai,
and I am quite certain it will help every other
sufferer just as it has me.
Yours thankfully,
(Signed) C. A. HACKETT, Snr.
NERVES, ARTHRITIS,
RHEUMATISM
BLOOD PRESSURE 8 KIDNEY TROUBLE
HUTUWAI helps to drive out the injurious acids and
poisons from the system, and eradicates aches and
pains. Hutuwai will give you steady nerves and an
excellent appetite, and you will sleep well. Headaches
disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your friends
will tell you how well you look, and you will take a
renewed interest in life. Hutuwai is different ... it is
genuine. Hutuwai contains the JUICE of Herbal Plants
. . . this is why Hutuwai must do you good!
Get rid of your aches and pains...drink
LARGE
BOTTLE
4/6
INCLUDING VALUABLE DIET CHART FREE
The “Hospital” Bottle contains five times the quan
tity of the 4/6 size, and costs only 18/-. SAVE 4/6
If unobtainable locally, send direct to Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 210 George Street, Sydney; or
Hutuwai Tonic, 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
HUTUWAI IS OBTAINABLE FROM STORES
AND CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
NATURAL TONIC
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
Ji
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
No. 2 BOOK NOW ON SALE
The PHANTOM
A PICTURE-SERIAL FULL
OF ADVENTURE,
MYSTERY AND
THRILLS.
68 Pages for 6d.
(Postage 2d.
extra.)
G®
Ift©
&s?',» S® (S"
fv'° ? dA s
t^ t *^
/
#•’
# s '
t^ 1
V
\s s
C*'
..*•
.•■**’ <^f c ss 0
• O vA v o


AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
“The AC.A”
ASSETS EXCEED £1,000,000
THE COMPANY THAT GIVES THE BIGGEST
FIRST YEAR’S BONUS
ANNUAL REVERSIONARY BONUS ON WHOLE OF LIFE CONTRACT £2/15/- PER £lOO ASSURED
CAN YOU AFFORD TO
DO WITHOUT LIFE
ASSURANCE?
An “A.C.A." assurance policy
provides a profitable form of
investment and at the same time
affords family protection in the
event of death. For an annual
outlay of £4/15/8 (approxi-
mately 1/10 per week) a man
aged 25 'i fears next birthday can
effect an “A.C.A.’’ policy for
£ 1 00 payable at the expiration
of twenty years, and his invest-
ment will yield a return of £137
(based on the present rate of
bonus). If the same amount
was deposited in a Savings Bank
every year the return at the end
of 20 years would be £122/3/9
(based on the present rate of
interest). In the event of prior
death the full amount of £ 100,
plus accrued bonuses, would be
payable under an “A.C.A.”
policy.
*ll
?•?
m
I *4
s
r
M
' :
•rir
I : ,:i
M
w
I
4 ft
I \
&
1 %
'W
r Mil
H
m
mw-
ml r f j
:: b
n
m
. t
fnf
II
I
SI
mt
«
‘s
W
It
if
rr
r*Bfei£
i
H*
■•*?■ ~fc;:
C*®*®
■&*.
»n>ltl4t mi
r
AV :
SAFEGUARD THE
FUTURE WITH AN
“A.C.APOLICY.
1 he following instance illustrates
the advantages of a life assur-
ance policy as compared with
any other form of saving. In
January, 1936, M R
effected a policy for £5OO under
Table B (whole of life) for a
half-yearly premium of £6/0/5,
and died in August, 1938, after
a brief illness. The amount pay-
able to his widow was as follows:
Sum Assured .... £5OO 0 0
Bonus additions to
30/6/’3B 40 12 6
Death Benefit . . £540 12 6
Premiums paid . . £36 2 6
It will be noted that, although
the policy had been in force for
less than three years, the bonus
additions amounted to £4/10/-
more than the total premiums
paid.
Head Office:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone 86381 (3 lines).
P. J. RYAN, Secretary. E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
Branch Offices:
A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.
C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street,
ADELAIDE.
F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
A.C.A. Building, 270-272 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
R. F. McHugh, Resident Secretary.
Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
B. Murphy, Resident Secretary.
