

1
i
teAt
KODAK PHOTOGRAPHY—
Australia’s best and most popular
hobby! A delightful occupation
for every spare moment. A fasci-
nating means of preserving in
picture form every moment, every
scene, you wish to remember.
Snapshots are fine, but real
movies capture the whole
of the action of any scene
—and it’s ready to spring
to life on the silver screen
in your home. There’s no
finer investment than a
Cine-Kodak Eight with
ft 3.5 fens.
Price, £ll/19/6.
fa
I
SIX-20 / SIX-16
KODAKS
Aristocrat's of presentrday camera
manufacture. Built with precision
for smooth operation and flawless
results. Regular models from 68/6.
Junior models from 39/9.
KODAK
RETINA
' 1 -
Lowest priced 36 exp. 35 mm.
camera; featuring automatic film
centring and counting, etc., etc.
RETINA 1 ; Nickel finish,
£lO/10/-. Chromium finish, £l2.
RETINA II: With built-in coupled
range-finder, shutter interlocked
with film-winding mechanism.
Dull chromium finish. With f/2
Anast. lens, Speed Compur
Shutter. Price £27/10/-.
SIX-20 KODAK
DUO
A precision miniature that gives you album-
size pictures ; its 14 improved features in-
clude Body Release, Action Front, one
Finger Closing, Die-cast Aluminium Body
with Chromium Finish, Optical Viewfinder,
etc. A brilliant example of modern crafts-
manship. With Compur Shutter. With f/3.5
lens, £lO/10/-. With f/4.5 lens. £B/10/-.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (A/sia) PTY., Ltd.,
f™ «**» xyoane; 37 Handle meet, Adelaide; *5 Elizabeth' Street, Ilob'art; 93 TtreetjYalnL
™r %> A W^H ; Rw £ ven . S f ee /; Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street , Townsville. Also stocked by KODAK
ALU ZLALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 1,0 Princes Street , Dunedin; 291, Lamb ton Quay, Wellington: 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
m
'a*#..
i mm
i ***“
f.
V'V
v :
■
m
MM
W
: v*:
&
111
?«
■
Top illustration on left shoivs the all-
moulded streamlined BABY BROWNIE
for fine Uurge pictures 2£ x If inches.
Price only 6/-.
Second illustration shows the SIX-16
BROWNIE, smartly designed in
modern style with etched metal front.
This model takes pictures 2 J x 4£
inches. Price 24/-.
Other Brownies —
-19/6, 17/6, 14/6, 7/6.
&
81
Vl
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3024.
Wednesday, January 26, 1938.
)%)
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
PHILLIP'S CHRONICLERS.
Scribes with articles to write and talkers with
speeches to make should be on a good wicket during
the 150th Anniversary celebrations as far as early-
days material goes.
Few colonising efforts have been so well reported
as was the one that founded Australia. From the
Governor down, everyone who wrote of the early
years in New South Wales did well with his job.
Captain John Hunter, R.N., Lieutenant Bradley,
R.N., Lieutenant P. G. King, R.N., Captain David
Collins, of the Marines, the colony’s Judge-Advocate,
Captain-Lieutenant Watkin Tench, also of the sea-
soldiers, and Mr. Midshipman Daniel Southwell, of
H.M.S. Sirius, have left records that are invaluable
historically and often of much literary merit.
With Captain Cook’s journal ahd that of Sir
Joseph Banks, both now in the Mitchell Library at
Sydney, the record of the settlement of the eastern
side of the continent is as complete as it very well
could be. And the Governor’s dispatches contained
in The Historical Records of Australia supplement
these earliest documents admirably.
The story of our first days has been very well
told indeed.
Verses by Nora McAuliffe.
Nora McAuliffe, whose The Song-Maker and
Other Verse has been published by The Bulletin,
is doubtless better known to the majority of Bulletin
readers by her real name as a bright and observant
chronicler of social happenings, with an occasional
sketch or short story as a side-line.
The book is dedicated to S. H. Prior and David
McKee Wright, and Hugh McCrae contributes a fore-
word, claiming that here are flowers gathered not too
high up the slopes of Parnassus, “nothing precious or
highfalutin,” but charged with tenderness and happy
fantasy, with here and there a touch of “moonlight
magic.”
The song-maker’s literary versatility is well in
evidence. She can be serious or gay with equal
facility, and is perhaps at her best with a dash of both
in her lyrics. Also she has the gift of conjuring up
a vivid picture. “The Bulletin Stairs,” obviously
referring to those at the old office, supplies a happy
instance:
When the September breeze
Sweeps fresh cold from the seas,
And the sky’s a blue feather
Worn by the ruffling weather,
1 see them come with their rhymes,
Singers of other times.
A chuckle lives in the note
From this merry man’s throat;
An epigram here has birth
That, Puck-like, circles the earth?.
A dryad with brown hair
Keeps step with me on the stair.
In the more serious pieces—“whispers of Ireland,”
as Hugh McCrae calls them —the Celtic influence is
strong. Perhaps, after all, such influence isn’t dis-
tinctively Celtic —the “wizard twilight,” as William
Watson called it, doesn’t depend on climate or race —
but Nora McAuliffe certainly owes something to the
Irish bards, though not to the more recent school
of them :
I’d be making a song for lovers of the young wind stirring
The heart of the hedge till the night was a bowl of scent,
And a moth from the green of the trees its white flight
whirring *
To the hand of the gipsying moon in her silver tent.
Or:
Light your candles and keep your wake
For the soul of her who was Kathleen Blake —
Under the Indian quilt she lies
With her sharp white chin and her closed green eyes.
There is a slightly forced or hardly orthodox
rhyme now and again or a stanza that could be
rounded off a little more artistically, but few will
fail to find the serious verses full of feeling and those
in lighter vein spiced with piquancy.
The Miracle of Hitler.
The House That Hitler Built, by Professor Stephen
H. Roberts, of Sydney Uni., was intended to be a
study of Nazism in the detached and unpartisan spirit
proper to a historian. In so far as Prof. Roberts has
been able to stick to facts and to refrain from com-
ment, interpretation and prophecy, he helps to an
understanding of the extent, if not of theinward nature,
of the miracle that has transformed the German nation
in the last five years.
What Prof. Roberts has to say of the personalities
of Nazidom- —Hitler, Goring, Goebbels, Himmler
and the rest of them doesn’t seem to matter very
much. He met them and was received very kindly
and courteously, as he testifies, but they didn’t under-
stand him and he didn’t understand them. His obser-
vations as to the machinery of the Nazi regime, the
attitude of the German people towards it, its achieve-
ments and its problems, economic and otherwise, are
of another kind.
Those who envisage the Germans of to-day as so
many millions of sullen slaves ground under the heel
of a savage autocracy get no corroboration from Prof.
Roberts. “The average German,” he writes, “would
much rather salute a uniform than have a vote. He
derives his feeling of strength and well-being from
belonging to a strong community.”
Whatever else may be said of Hitlerism, it must
be conceded that it works, and works with surprising
efficiency; that it is logical and very seldom guilty of
the cardinal sin of stupidity. In five years Hitler has
brought Germany out of bondage and poverty into a
place in the front rank of great Powers. He has
put heart and an ambition and an ideal into a crushed
people, and he has done it by an intelligent use of all
those talents of organisation, forethought and per-
sistent will in which the Germans excel. Prof. Roberts
cannot believe that Hitler is making Germans happy,
but he testifies that they are being made strong and
healthy (“The Nazis are raising a generation of blonde
physical beauties”), and that since 1933 the birthrate
has improved 23 p.c. There is very little unemploy-
ment in Germany to-day armament, vast public
works and millions of civil-service, police and military
jobs provide for that. There is a tremendous domestic
debt, mostly in short-dated Treasury bills ; the currency
has (apparently) been deflated 50 p.c. in five years,
yet under the preternaturally clever financial manage-
ment of Dr. Schacht the disasters that ordinarily would
follow such a course have been staved off, deflected,
postponed—perhaps they may be weathered outright.
To the Communist gibe that Hitler is a dummy
for Thyssen, as representing the great industrial
interests, Prof. Roberts gives no support. Those
interests may have helped Hitler, but they don’t con-
trol him. There is certainly no such enslavement of
the workers as would give color to such a charge.
The State not only fixes wages; it fixes rents and
other prices. It pays infinite attention to providing
workers with the cheapest possible facilities for recrea-
tion and travel. And in its industrial machinery is
included a feature which seems quite incongruous
with the conception of a repressed and oppressed
nation Courts of Honor, where a workman who
reckons he is being treated in a manner that offends
his personal dignity can present his complaint apd
ask for his remedy.
That Hitlerism, operating in the international
field, is frankly opportunist, no observer of contem-
porary events needs to be told. But it is opportunism
with a goal in view, and each opportunity grasped
to date has brought the goal nearer. So far as Hitler
personally is concerned, Prof. Roberts says, his
inclination is for friendship with Britain if that can
be made possible. France is his traditional enemy.
As to Russia, while Hitler fulminates against Bol-
shevism he wasn’t above copying Soviet methods when
he reorganised the government of Germany, and
trade relations between Russia and Germany continue
amicable and mutually profitable despite the unfriendly
utterances of the Fiihrer.
As Prof. Roberts sees it, if Hitler thought it
opportune he could easily tell his followers that
Russian friendship means more to Germany than even
the crusade against the Comintern. There’s no sign
of such a development, however.
Nazism’s worst danger, Prof. Roberts considers,
arises from the press censorship and the ignorance of
the German people concerning any developments
abroad that don’t lend themselves to a theory of the
imminent collapse of all non-authoritarian States. The
disillusionment that must ensue in the event of a
conflict in which Germany had to face realities might
be paralysing. But that is conjecture. The main
fact Prof. Roberts’s book brings out is a Germany
armed and strong and in good heart.
Edith Sitwell as Novelist.
Edith Sitwell’s first novel, 7 Live Under a Black
Sun (Gollancz), is a fantasia on the life of Jonathan
Swift transposed to modern times, England and Ire-
land, during and after the war. Swift appears as
Jonathan Hare, Stella is called Anna, and Vanessa
Essy Vanelden.
The general outline of the story represents the
cruel and selfish love of an abnormal man for two
women, one his pupil, bringing both to pathetic and
untimely deaths, soon to be followed by the tragedy
of his own madness. Anna and Essy might be said
to stand for sacred and profane love. Anna, who
has evidently engaged the author’s sympathy, is self-
less ; her love and loyalty never waver toward the
man who sucks her life dry because he must have
the stimulus of power over someone.
Essy is at once childish and worldly. She is at
first flattered by the attentions of a famous man.
When she finds that he does not intend to marry her
—or even to compromise her —she becomes vindictive.
But she is caught in the trap which has been baited
with her own vanity. Pitiful and desperate, she dies
a victim of her own passion. The passage which
compares her to an abandoned dog dying of starvation
is one of the most poignant in the book.
It is evident that Miss Sitwell has had three
motives in changing the century of her story: to prove
its universality, free of time and place ; to give her-
self greater freedom in handling it (to get rid of the
period fixings, which can after all be rather stulti-
fying) ; and because she felt the applicability of much
of Swift’s vitriolic satire to the present day. She
quotes from his works, as if just penned by Hare,
with smashing effect. Nor is she averse to inserting
propaganda.
The story moves smokily with many digressions:
pictures of the times half-revealed in an infinity of
toppling images; character studies executed with
exquisite feminine malice (little gems in themselves
but scarcely germane to the theme); the story of
Susan Daw, which is linked to the main story by only
the most tenuous and artificial threads; exotic
descriptions of nature ; a curious world seen only by
Miss Sitwell. Much of the strangeness of her poetry
has crept into her novel. Images recur and recur as
if part of a ritual. We read of Mrs. Noon’s face
“carved by a dark-fingered bucolic wind” and Lucy
Linden’s face “carved by some calm and dark wind
from the Pyramids.”
The book is laced over by an interplay of sun
and shadow. Shadows follow the characters not as
inevitable phenomena of light but as capering marion-
ettes mocking their victim or foretelling the future.
The sun is almost a character in the story. It is “the
lion-strong sun,” “the fox-colored jangling sun of
dawn,” “the jangling, Reynard-hued sun, that fox
with a Golden Fleece,” or “the sun, in its dirty brown-
and-white birdskin dress of cloud, hung like a skull
with a chill yellow face of clay moulded upon its
bones to hide where the real face rotted away, and on
that unreal face one red plague-spot brayed.”
7 Live Under a Black Sun is an arresting book.
It is nebulous, constantly changing form. At one
moment it seems like a cold and bitter analysis of the
decorative aspect of pain ; at another it is an inchoate
drama foundering in a mass of emotional description.
Occasionally the writing has an automatic quality—
splendid but vacant. It has moments of naturalness
and moments of estranging affectation. It ends in a
complete blackout which is like the end of the world.
“Let them fight. Let them destroy each other,
Then will come Darkness.
Darkness.”
Some Unusual Stories.
Notwithstanding a tendency to push subtlety to
the point of obscurity, Kay Boyle’s latest book of
short stories, The First Lover (Faber), is well worth
reading. If the reader is occasionally left wondering
what it was all about —and whether it was worth
while in any case—there are compensating instances
in which clarity is achieved with a striking economy
of means.
Also, there is often a rare quality of laughter in
the work, not a surface effect of quips, but nourishing
the very roots of the story. This is present notably in
“His Idea of a Mother,” in which a motherless small
boy for a little while adopts a cow as parent. He
lives with an aunt, an obviously worthy woman, but
one who has small understanding of the young. One
evening in a forlorn mood he makes friends with
some cows in a field and sits with his back against
the body of one of them when they camp for the
night. He notes with approval the full white udder,
the fragrance of her breath and its deep, even rhythm ;
he listens contentedly to “the soft humming of her
belly as it greeted and returned the food from her
fruitful jaws.” She accepts his presence after a sniff
or two at his coat. He appreciates the softness of
her skin, the warmth and quietude of her immense
body, and finds her a source of comfort generally.
The imagery the writer uses in evoking the
pastoral atmosphere is often beautiful, as when she
describes the cows going down to water in single file
and notes the movement of their heads, “hanging like
heavy copper bells.”
“The Man Who Died Young” is our old friend
Love or a Career, but it is given unusual treatment.
It is set in early-day America, and is notable for the
great sweep of historic scene and event that it gathers
interestingly into so small a compass.
“Lydia and the Ringdoves” and “The Meeting
of the Stones” are stories of disillusionment, tragedies
in little, both highly successful. The idyllic quality
of the first is particularly attractive. It centres round
a vegetable-seller whose cart is daily visited at one
of his stopping-places by ringdoves from near-by
trees and by a couple of goats which come for the
outside leaves of his cabbages. While waiting for
custom he chants the names of his vegetables “as if
he were summoning them to rise.” The catch is that
he intends the animals ultimately for the pot —and
the disclosure comes as poignantly to the reader as
to the woman who thought she had found in him a
lover of animal life.
“Art Colony” is an exposure of shoddy Bohemian-
ism in which a man’s life is turned inside out in a
conversation between two women, one the mother of
his unwanted child.
“Three Little Men” and “To the Pure” are among
those that seem to be little more than experiments
in an inverted method of narration. The meaning of
the first defied this commentator’s power of under-
standing ; the last is a tea-time conversation between
an Irish-born Italian contessa and a strange young
Englishman about the man the woman jilted—or did
he jilt her? —before she married the count. The con-
versation is studiedly unnatural. Perhaps it is an
experiment in reducing normal conversation to a sort
of shorthand equivalent. It is puzzling because it
combines things they might be presumed to have said
with others they might reasonably be presumed only
to have thought—and, in any case, we have met the
lady whose thoughts go back to an old love before.
“One of Ours” tells very amusingly of the mis-
understanding that arose between Mrs. Umster, a
suburban British matron, and a handsome Nigerian
chief at a British Empire exhibition. All the chief
wanted was the kewpie doll she was carrying, but as
an official shooed him back into his enclosure before
she realised this the agitated lady went on her way
convinced that she had had a not totally disagreeable
adventure with primitive man. This is Kay Boyle
nearly at her best.
Her top effort in this volume is “Kroy Wen
New York backwards —a satire on the distortion of
real values in the cause of popular entertainment. A
film producer on an Atlantic liner is seized with the
idea of picturing motherhood, his subject being a preg-
nant Italian woman. He watches her sitting day by
day with her husband on the steerage deck, and is
on hand when her labor begins. Though suffering, she
doesn’t “register” enough agony to suit him, so he
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the salt of business.
THE SENIOR STORE.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
A
is
L
.
. ~
. !
r
18
■
.
30/- "TREE" BRAND' SUPER SHOES 26/11
A—Whole golosh bespoke models on the “Ace” last, with wide
welts, stitched heels, in full and half sizes. Also in circular vamp
models. Price 30/-. Sale Price 26/11
CJ
Men’s High-grade Shoes Reduced
At this important luncheon . . . that distinguished dinner ... in fact, at
every function where well dressed men gather, you may be sure that, among
shoes, there are many of Anthony Horderns’ own make. Shoes of
quality, style and comfort offered to you at lower prices by Antho-ny
Horderns’ Genuine Half-Yearly Sale.
c
2ft
v im
. M
14/6
F
22'e
30/- "Tree" Brand Super Brogues 26/11
B—“ Tree” Brand Super Brogues, made in Tan Calf, Black
Box Calf and Havana Brown. Extra stout genuine welted
soles. Full and half sizes. Price 30/-
Sale Price 26/II
25/- "HORDURA" (REGD.) SHOES 19/11
C—Tan Calf, Black Box Calf, Glace Kid and Patent Leather.
Fifteen styles in full and half sizes. Genuinei welted soles.
All shapes and fittings. Price . 25/-
Sale Price 19/11
42/- "Tree" Brand Super Handcraft 37/6
D Made from genuine imported leathers in Zug, Zebu,
Scotch Calf and French Calf, Tan or Black, Brogue or
Bespoke models. Full and half sizes. Price 42/-
Sale Price 37/6
15/- "Tree" Brand Work Boots 14/6
E—Work Boots in stout Box Hide—Tan and Black. Extra
stout sewn and standard screwed soles. All sizes.
Price 15/-. Sale Price 14/6
. t» \
30/- JODHPUR RIDING BOOTS 27/6
F—Made of stout Oil-grained Leather, standard screwed
and sewn soles. Full and half sizes. Price 30/-
Sale Price . . . 27/6
27/6 "HORDURA" (Regd.) BOOTS 22/6
G—-Strong, serviceable boots in Black Box Calf. Three
styles in full and half sizes. All fittings. Price .. 27/6
Sale Price 22/6
25/- "Tree" Brand Officers' Boots 22/6
H—-In Tan or Black, with extra stout soles, sewn and
standard screwed. Full and half sizes. Price .... 18/11
Sale Price . . .- 16/11
In Tan Willow Calf, welted soles. Price . . 25/-
Sale Price . . . . f. 22/6
O Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


The Landing and Afterwards
OUT OF THE PAST
January Twenty-sixth.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
WHEN dawn came to Sydney Cove on the
morning of January 26, 1788, from H.M.S.
Supply, anchored in the mouth of the bay,
whistled the shrill piping of the boatswain’s
mates, turning out of their hammocks the advance
guard of settlement in the vast continent lying to the
westward of this lonely place.
After an early breakfast his Excellency Captain
Arthur Phillip, R.N., accompanied by the officers who
had come round with him from Botany Bay, landed
on the beach by the mouth of the little stream which
trickled into the Cove and walked along its right
bank up the gently rising valley to a point whence
they might turn and survey the foreshores. Half
an hour after they had disembarked from the gig
the remainder of the Supply’s boats began to put
ashore parties of marines and seamen and the picked
contingent of convicts chosen to clear the ground
and prepare an encampment for the people in the
rest of the ships, which were expected to arrive some
time in the afternoon from Botany Bay.
“Well, gentlemen,” said Phillip as they stood
gazing through the tall timber at the sunlit blue Cove
sparkling below them, “here we are at journey’s end,
and here we will begin our work of settlement. This
little bay I am going to call after the Secretary of
State for Home Affairs, Viscount Sydney. Maybe,
when we shall have constructed some sort of town
in the position we occupy at present, it would not be
a bad idea to christen it Albion. Well, Baron” —he
turned to an elderly civil officer standing near by—
“you are our Surveyor-General. Pray, do you think
you can lay out the lines of an encampment for us
here in this wilderness? To-night, of course, we
will only need camping-ground for such of us as are
here now ; but we’ll require a larger cleared space
before all the people may be landed. What, do you
think of this site I’ve chosen, Baron Alt?”
The old Surveyor-General, Baron Augustus
Theodore Henry Alt, a Hanoverian who had served
for many years in the British Army, took a deep
breath as he allowed his gaze to wander through the
aisles of forest stretching inland up the valley and
then down to the blue waters of the harbor.
“Ach, your Egzellenzy, I do not think, from what
I haf seen of Bord Yackson, that you could haf
made a bedder choice. The soundings in this liddle
bay are deep inshore, and here in this stream, I
understand, is the best running water yet discovered.
I think we will do well enough here, and that, with
some clearing of the undergrowth and a thinning of
the timber that will be very necessary in the first
place, I can undertake to lay out the lines of a camp
that will serve well enough for our present require-
ments.”
“Well, then, Baron, I will leave the allocation of
positions for a permanent camp to you. Lines for
the marines’ tents, a place for the stores, and separate
encampments for the male and female convicts —you
will see to all that? And now, gentlemen, as the
people are landing, we will do well to employ ourselves
busily. Major Ross” —he turned to the commanding
officer of the Marines, his Lieutenant-Governor —“I
would like to consult with you and Captain Collins
and Mr. Johnston as to our immediate needs. This
is the beginning of our pioneering, and we must lose
no time. This evening, perhaps, we will find occasion
to drink a toast to the success of our new colony.
Now, our watchword is ‘hard work’ —and I can fore-
see plenty of it for all of us. Pray follow me,
gentlemen. We will cross the valley and see what
we may from the hilltop opposite.”
The Governor led the way across the rivulet, and
the Judge-Advocate and the two officers followed
after him through the dense bush. Two redcoats
with loaded muskets brought up the rear of the little
procession. They climbed the steep stony hillside
which soon became known as The Rocks, and Phillip
halted on the crest, peering through the timber down
at the long arm of Port Jackson which, forty years
afterwards, had its name changed from homely Cockle
Bay to Darling Harbor. Westward, beyond an island
in midstream Goat Island long reaches of the
great harbor stretched away into the distant prospect
of blue-green, densely-wooded hills.
“I declare,” said Phillip, “Port Jackson looks
almost limitless! However, we must get established
on Sydney Cove before we go exploring. What d’ye
think of it all, Captain Collins, sir?”
“A magnificent site, sir,” responded the Judge-
Advocate with enthusiasm. “It couldn’t be bettered.
Some day, in the city which will arise here, its people
will bless your choice and the wisdom which has
made it. For our first encampment ashore in New
Holland we couldn’t have been more fortunate.”
“Glad to hear you say so, Captain .Collins. And
you, Major?” He turned to the commanding officer
of the Marines.
“Well, your Excellency,” answered Ross with a
grudging air that seemed natural to him and a slight
shrug of the shoulders, “ ’tis, of course, nothing but
a rude and primeval wilderness in which we find
ourselves, but I suppose ’twill do well enough. Better
than Botany Bay, at any rate. I think we may admit
so much as that.”
“Ah, well, that’s something, Major,” observed
Phillip drily. “We can’t expect too much. However,
we’ll go back to the Cove now. There is a great
deal to be seen to, and we’ve a busy day ahead. Lead
the way, Mr. Johnston, will you, if you please.”
A S they scrambled down the rocky hillside Phillip
** consulted energetically with his officers as to the
immediate business of making the settlement, whilst
Private William Smedley consulted with his fellow,
Private Isaac Cohen, both of the Marines, as they
formed a rearguard to the little expedition.
“Well, Ike, me ’Oundsditch guttersnipe, an’ wot
may be yore opinion o’ this ’ere gawddam ’ole?
Blime, I’m sick o’ ’earin’ ’is nibs a-praisin’ hup ’is
choice o’ this ’ere bay an’ askin’ that damned ole
baron an’ the hothers don’t they think ’e’s the clever
covey! Wot might be yore hidea, now?”
Mr. Cohen spat viciously at the tall spear of
a clump of what the pioneers’ children soon named
kangaroo grass and shook his head.
“Veil, now, Bill,” he grunted unamiably, “ ’tis the
werry last place on earth —that’s my notion of it.
Bob Ross is right—’tis a ’owlin’ vilder-
ness, that’s all it is. Gawd’s truth look
there! ”
A black snake slithered hastily over a
flat rock on his right and disappeared in the
undergrowth.
“Did you see ’im, Bill? Them’s a-goin’ to be our
bedfellers in this ’ere camp. An’ them nasty-lookin’
kangaroos an’ long-necked birds an’ the jack-
asses in the treetops —they’ll make life a mis’ry. An’
them Injuns! Father Habr’am! I don’ doubt but
wot there’s lions an’ tigers too in these ’ere woods an’
gullies. Not a doubt of it. ’Tis my opinion, Bill,
we’re in for a ’ell of a time of it in this ’ere Noo
Sou’ Wales. An’ not a public ’ouse this side o’ Cape
Town!”
“Ye’ve never spoke truer, Ikey, me lad. ’Tis
the last place on earth, that’s wot it is. ’Owever,
they won’t make no colony ’ere. We’ll be off ’ome
afore twelve months is hover. You mark my words!
I ’eard the Major say that, night afore we left Bot’ny
Bay. Bobby don’t ’old wi’ this ’ere ’ome for lags at
the world’s end, that ’e don’t. Sensible man’s our
Bobby. Portsmouth ’Aid or Chatham ’lgh-street’ll
do ’im, hany day o’ the veek. An they’ll do Bill
Smedley, too. Gawd ’elp me, I’d never ha’ ’listed if
I’d knowed the corps might be sent to places like
this ’ere Noo ’Olland. Damme if I would! This
’ere houtlandish ’ole, ’tis the dead-end o’ nowhere;
that’s all it is.”
FA OWN by the mouth of the stream —in the
western side of the bay it formed a V-shaped
estuary with sandy shores the Governor’s party
found clearing operations in full swing, and a few
tents stood beneath the trees on the little flat that is
now Macquarie-place. Already a guard had been
posted, and a red-jacketed sentry marched up and
down beside a sapling flagstaff outside the tent that
had been ejected for Captain Phillip’s temporary
occupation.
“Shall we hoist the Jack, sir?” asked the
boatswain of the Supply.
“No, no —not just yet,” said Phillip. “We’ll make
a little ceremony of it this afternoon when the other
ships come in.”
Throughout the long day the working parties
toiled on the banks of the little creek above the blue
stillness of Sydney Cove, and as the shadow of the
rocky ridge on the western side of the valley began
to move across its timbered bottom one by one the
ships drifted round the eastern point of the Cove
with shortened sail before the nor’-easter they were
all to get to know so well. Ten of them there were,
and the splash of their anchors and the whirring
rumble of the big hemp cables through the hawse-
holes kept on repeating until the whole of the First
Fleet rode at its moorings in the Cove, the Sirius
lying outside them all in the jaws of the little bay.
“’E was the ole box o’ tricks, was John Macarthur.”


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for it's fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit'in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
‘‘Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
As the sun sank behind the treetops on the long
level of the ridge opposite, the Union Jack was
hoisted to the top of the peeled sapling outside the
Governor’s tent and a platoon of Marines fired three
volleys, whilst the kookaburras guffawed and the
pungent smell of eucalyptus smoke filled the shadowed
valley.
“\WELL, now, Ikey,” remarked Private Smedley
as he and Private Cohen reclined in their
shirtsleeves on the bank of the little creek some way
above its outlet to the Cove, a nearly-empty rum-
bottle between them, “this place ain’t so bad arter
all —not near so bad as it looked this mornin’ w’en
we was a-crawlin’ -roun’ arter ole man Phillip. That
it don’t. Wot d’ye think of it now, Ikey?”
But Mr. Cohen slept the deep and careless sleep
of overmuch alcohol, and so presently did Mr.
Smedley; and there they were found at daylight by
the guard.
“Yes,” said Major Ross to them an hour or so
later, “you’re a pair of disgraceful scoundrels, and
I’d send you to the halberds without hesitation were
it not-for the good word of Lieutenant Johnston on
your behalf. Every possible fatigue duty shall be
yours, though, for the next week. Work ’em till they
drop, Mr. Johnston. We must teach them decency.
Get out of my sight, you wastrels. Next time you
offend ’twill be a hundred lashes.”
CTO we turn to another 26th of January, twenty
years afterwards.
Sydney Town had come into real existence by
that time, and was possibly the quaintest village in
all the British Empire. It was a prison and a barracks,
a not unimportant seaport and the administrative
capital of a vast territory, and this evening of January
26, 1808, was the most disturbed and exciting it had
ever experienced. The little township in the valley
of the Tank Stream, as its rivulet had come to be
called, was seething with sensation. The dusty
streets were thronged with people, the taverns were
full of vociferous customers, songs and choruses were
howled into the night.
From the main guardhouse on Church Hill, which
stood at the corner of the thoroughfares which a couple
of years later Macquarie renamed George and
Grosvenor streets, most of the town could be taken
in at a glance. Merchant Underwood’s big two-
storey house and the square gaunt building soon to
be occupied by the Orphan School were in George-
street, nearly opposite the guard, and down below
them an open field extended along the left bank of
the Tank Stream as far as Bridge-street, across which
was the large enclosure known as the Lumber Yard,
where convict artisans plied their various trades.
Over the water, on the other side of the stone
bridge and north of the open space of ground now
known as Macquarie-place, was- the biggest building
in Sydney, the oblong three-storeyed store and resi-
dence of Mr. Simeon Lord, and on the harbor side
of it stood about half a dozen other buildings of not
unimposing appearance. Up the hill beyond this
group was Government House. Along the bottom
and sides of the valley the town straggled out towards
the Brickfields, and where Wynyard-square is to-day
were the new military barracks.
What was soon to be named Macquarie-street
was the eastern limit of the town, and up here on
The Rocks the western. Nearly every home had a
garden, and here and there, where there were no
houses, were little square plots of vegetables.
A primitive place, this capital of the Australias, but
a great metropolis Compared with the wild bushland
scene in which Privates Bill Smedley and Ikey Cohen
had got drunk that evening in 1788. It had become
in twenty years the London of the South Seas. A
very little London, but a place of much importance.
ABOUT eight o’clock in the evening Sergeant Wil-
'Miam Smedley, of H.M. New South Wales Corps
and formerly of the Marines, entered the Jolly Jew-
boy tavern in King-street, almost on the outskirts of
the town, of which house of refreshment Mr. Isaac
Cohen was the licensee. The taproom he found
almost deserted, all the people of the neighborhood
having repaired to that part of Sydney lying behind
the head of the Cove, which had become the political
centre of interest on this momentous -evening. Mr.
Cohen, grown enormously stout and lamentably
rheumatic, sat alone behind his bar in the dim light
of a couple of tallow candles, ruefully smoking a black
clay pipe and lamenting the situation of his inn.
Sergeant Smedley was tall and gaunt, and had
to bend his head as he came in the low doorway. Mr.
Cohen cheered up immediately upon recognising him.
He stood up and leaned as far over the bar as his
immense paunch permitted.
“Velcome, me old friend—velcome! ” he cried,
“yot’ll ye take, Bill? An’ vot’s the noos? Lor’
Phillip halted on the steep stony hillside which soon became known as The Rocks. “I declare,” he said,
"Port Jackson looks almost limitless.”
lumme, I ain’t seen a soul since sunset —they’re all
down be the Cove enjoyin’ of themselves, an’ not a
word ’ave I ’eard of vot’s been a-goin’ on. Tell me,
vot’s ’appened?”
Sergeant Smedley took off his shako and placed it
crown down on the bar. His homely features shone
with excitement as-he replied. “Rum, Ikey rum.
We took ’im pris’ner, an’ now ’e’s under guard. Lor’
lumme, wot a day! An’ ’tis jes’ twenty year ago since
we come to this ’ere place—d’ye mind that, Ikey?”
“Twenty year! W’y, lumme, so ’tis, Bill. But
’oo ye bin takin’ pris’ner?”
“Why, Billy Bligh, o’ coorse. Who else? An’
Colonel Johnston, ’e’s the Gov’nor now. ’lm an’
John Macarthur.”
“Macarthur! That pasty-faced jack-in-the-box!
W’y, wot’s ’e to do wi’ it?”
“ ’E’d all to do wi’ it, Ike —’e was the ’ole box o’
tricks, was John Macarthur. ’Tis ’im be’ind all the
racket, an’ I’d warn ye to be careful ’ow ye speak of
’im for ’e’s King John to-night. ’E’d a lot more to
do wi’ the business, really, than wot George Johnston
’ad. A ’ell of a lot more.”
“Veil, then, vot ’appened?”
“Mean to say no one’s come along an’ tole ye?”
“S’elp me, Bill, there ain’t bin a soul ’ere since
five o’clock —since I ’eard the drums an’ fifes a-playin’
‘The British Grenadiers’ a-marchin’ out o’ barracks.
I ain’t ’eard nothink.”
“Well, about five Colonel Johnston comes drivin’
into barracks, w’ere the troops ’ad bin ’eld all day,
an’ a quarter of an hour arterwards the drummers
beats the ‘Assembly’ an’ the battalion falls hin.
“ ‘Foller me, men,’ says the Colonel, ‘an’ do y’r
dooty.’ So we follers ’im hover to Gov’mint ’Ouse,
an’ then breaks ranks an’ surrounds the buildin’, the
guard at the gate a-joinin’ in with us. Then some of
us is called in to search the place for Billy Bligh.”
“Mean to say the sojers forced a way into
Gov’mint ’Ouse!”
“They did that, the horficers leadin’ an’ com-
mandin’ of ’em for to find Bill Bligh an’ put ’im
hunder arrest. But there’s no sign of ’im in the
rooms downstairs. So hup I goes into the top floor,
an’, after a bit o’ searchin’, finds ’is nibs in a back
room —one o’ the sarvints’ rooms it was. I brings ’im
hout, and sends one o’ the lads for the Colonel. An’
then I gets a hinspiration—a hinspiration o’ grati-
tood.”
“Hinspiration o’ gratitood?”
“Yuss. Sudden-like I remembers ’ow you an’
me got werry drunk this night twenty year ago, an’
’ow young Johnston, as ’e was then, prewents the
Major from a-floggin’ of us next mornin’.”
“Blime, yes. We was near it, Bill—if it ’adn’t
been for the lootenant.”
“Right you are, Ikey. So I thinks if I tell the
Colonel ’ow I finds Billy Bligh a-’idin’ under the bed
’twill please ’im well an’ do no ’arm to no one. So
that’s me tale, an’ ye missed a treat not a-’earin’ Bill
Bligh a-cussin’. I done right, didn’t I, Ikey —in
common gratitood?”
“O’ coorse ye done right, Bill. Another rum,
ole friend? We howed Mister Johnston that there
good turn. I’m glad ye thought of it. A werry noble
action.”
And so was Captain Bligh, a man whom Lord
Nelson and Captain Cook had each delighted to
honor, labelled a poltroon. History can be made in
strange ways.


And It’s All
PROGRESS
BY G. MUNRO TURNBULL
DRAWING BY SHELLEY.
IT was T obia’s vanitv his colossal eeo that betraved
T was Lohia s vanity, his colossal ego, that betrayed
him, that was to make of him the joke of his
houseboy world, the butt of the gaol scum with
whom he was to eat and sleep and toil for ninety
hlond sweating davs and unsneakahle niehts
blood-sweating days and unspeakable n g .
He had drawn the mosquito-net, laid out pyjamas
and bath-towel, and was now brushing and polishing
his master’s boots with immense concentration.
It was cool on the verandah above the shimmer-
ing harbor, with frangipanni blowing its scent about.
From the yard below came a lazy drift of voices,
speaking in a mixture of Motu -and Suau, with a scrap
or two of “pidgin” thrown in as condiment. Waiters
off duty and kitchen-boys and town loafers—talking,
talking, like cockatoos. White men were strange, they
were saying, and their ways were unaccountable. Very
arrogant, they were, very scornful of customs other
than their own ; very unreasonable in their demands.
Lohia smiled with supreme contentment and
utter contempt. Fools, those chattering bushmen.
Biladi fools. White men existed only to be served,
flattered, given way to ; but, because at heart they
were simple people, having no skill in the use of soft
words, pleasing lies, they could be used by a clever
man to his own advantage, and considered not at all.
A sinabada came through the yard walking with
great stateliness and dignity. The chatter died down ;
That would be Bubuka—always to be identified by
a propensity to snuffle at frequent intervals. Bubuka
had been to Sidini. Many astonishing adventures had
befallen him there ; many rare jests he had to tell,
jests that caused his auditors to smirk secretly, jests
that bore infinite repetition—always provided that no
white man was present at the telling.
The footwear displayed in shining array against
the wall, Lohia critically inspected his chin in the
mirror. He would indulge himself in the luxury of a
shave, “white man’s fashion.” Though, secretly, he
preferred the twisted grass blades that plucked out
the hairs one by one, or the twin cockleshells that
performed a like service, there was much to be said
for brush, soap and razor.
His face horribly distorted, mouth and eyes
screwed up, he was making a preliminary pass at his
lathered chin, when a peremptory rap sounded on the
door. Lohia’s heart leapt into his throat. Momen-
tarily he felt as if someone had stirred him inside
with a stick. If this was taubada—
Then a familiar voice sang out, “Ho, Lohia, my
frien’! You stop?”
T nhia not a erin on himself The intruder was
the delivery boy from Whitten’s store ; a great, rollick-
ine lout of an Orakaiva bushman with whom, to-night,
SfwouM » pack of cards for a share® in
his dav’s thievines
“I st op Murau ” Lohia answered loftily. He
unlocked « h ; door, shu, i. after Murua, and wen, on
“l a Lohia'” Murua remarked as he deposited a
marketing basket on the table “That fashion no
good Bimeby taubada kick your backside, I t’ink so.”
Lohia allowed by his superior smile indulgence
for the shnple-mindedness of Orakaiva bushmen. He
towelled his face and powdered it. Then he cleaned
the razor and carefully examined brush and shaving
stick before putting them away.
He helped himself to a
cigarette from his master’s
case and unpacked the
basket. “For me two tin
meat, rice, sugar, tobac’.
Good! For taubada one
pair sokkis. Good! One
tin cigarette. Good! Two
bottle wisiki. Very good!”
“Wisiki,” Murua stated
after deep consideration.
“All men know that wisiki
is no good at all.”
Lohia let go a gusty
sigh. His smile grew pleasur-
ably reminiscent. “When I
was a boss-boy at the copper
mines,” he lied brazenly,
“every night I kaikai’d wisiki
with my boss, and also played
cards, so great was his love
for me.”
“You are a liar,” Murua commented calmly, not
like one in anger, but as one who makes a necessary
and desirable correction. “And also a fool, for who
but a liar and a fool would say such things aloud,
knowing them for lies for men to laugh at?”
MURUA’S unexpected sneer got under Lohia’s
skin and set it to crawling. He drew himself
up with a freezing dignity. Then Murua laughed out-
right. It went banging through Lohia’s brain, as nasty,
jeering a laugh as he had ever heard.
“Have done, little one.” Murua patted him on
the shoulder in fatherly fashion. “And I, your friend,
will say nothing to others about your childish lying.
Lohia turned away and shook, while his breath
came in noisy little grunts. Before he quite knew
what he was about he had snatched up a bottle and
filled a tumbler to the brim.
“Now, I show you, bushman!” he screamed, his
teeth chattering with rage. “I show you” ——
Murua’s tolerantly humorous grin vanished and
sheer incredulity took its place. Lohia tossed off the
spirit like spring water, though the fire of it bit his
tongue and seared his throat like living flame. The
action of the liquor on his unaccustomed stomach was
rapid. The next he knew he was sitting down, and
it seemed as though an age had passed.
Fumes were mounting into his brain ; but, instead
of crowding it with incoherencies, they seemed to
clarify it, to stimulate it, to send his imagination soar-
ing in a vast flight of fancy. There were people all
about him—waiters, bedroom-boys, a nursegirl with
her sleeping charge
gaping at him with in-
credulous bewilderment.
Lohia found his voice.
He heard himself
expounding the Ten
Commandments with
surprising clearness and
cogency. He roared a
snatch of his tribal battle
hymn. Triumph and
excitement were in his
eyes. Contempt, and the
guile of a snake glinted into them and radiated to
the frightened face of the nursegirl. He would have
leapt upon her and taken her with violence as a
warrior takes a captive maid, but something had hap-
pened to his legs and he was anchored to the floor.
Then, suddenly, as with a kind of recoil, the
liquor came back on him. The clearness of vision
went from him like a blown-out candle. The floor
heaved beneath him like the deck of a storm-tossed
canoe ; the roof descended upon him, the walls fell
in. Human faces, now large as moons, now small as
pinheads, advanced and retreated and whirled dizzily
about him.
Miraculously his legs recovered their office. He
sprang into the air, kicking his heels together, flapping
his arms, howling the war-cry of his ancestors. He
took the stairs in two flying bounds, cannoned off'the
newel-post, and sent a goggle-eyed corporal of police
sprawling into the gutter. Hoarse shouts sounded
behind him, thudding feet, a blast of profanations.
Lohia hurled defiance at his pursuers, and his
heart soared within him. His strength was the strength
of ten men ; he was fleet as the wind ; he was light as
a bird. He had but to kick the earth with his foot and
he bounded skyward like a rubber ball.
“Grab that man, corporal! ” The words came
dimly as from a great distance. “Get him, you fool!
Quick time!”
Lohia’s feet had suddenly the heaviness of lead.
Then out of nowhere came a terrific buffet in the small
of the back. He stumbled forward with a queer,
staggering run, hands clawing the air, mouthing and
yammering like a winded beast. As he floundered, a
hard fist took him neatly behind the ear. He tottered,
spun round for an instant, then his light went out in
a blaze of shooting stars.
Hours later Lohia awoke as from the sleep of
death. He looked about him stupidly until he caught
sight of the iron-barred fanlight above the door. He
sat for a space doubled up, barely conscious of the
irons that chafed his wrists, while wave after wave of
nausea turned his stomach inside out, and red-hot
hammers beat a devil’s tattoo on his cracking skull.
He rested his splitting head in his arms, and wept,
praying that his misery might soon be ended by the
soothing hand of death.
HREE months’ hard labor,” the magistrate said,
1 and Lohia was led away.
The magistrate took off his coat and filled a pipe.
“That,” he remarked pleasantly to the interpreter, is
Progress. Where it is leading us is known only to the
Almighty.” , , i
“Yessah,” the interpreter agreed heartily. i anK
you, sah.”
GHOST OF THE LADY MAY
BY PHIL DORTER.
I STROLLED into the bar to wash the dust of the
little mining town from my throat. The only other
customer, a man with one eye, focused his solitary
optic upon me as though wondering whether or
not I was a worthy recipient of his confidence. As I
called for drinks for two he leaned forward and said:
“What d’you think done that?”
Following the direction of his inverted thumb, I
observed a hitherto unnoticed figure recumbent on
the bar-room couch in a state of merciful oblivion.
I turned to my new acquaintance. “Beer, I
presume.”
“Well, indirectly,” he said. “But there s more to
it than meets the eye.” ,
“When the Lady May started unwaterin the
mainshaft,” he ran on, seeming anxious to get the
yarn off his chest, “the water they pumped out
made a fair-sized river which flowed directly across
the track we took goin’ to and from work in the
Smythe shaft, so we either ’ad to walk an extra alf-
mile around the mainshaft or find a way of crossin’
the river. So we got up a workin bee, n alf-a-dozen
timbermen from the mine built a bridge. After that
everything seemed satisfactory until Paddy Cochrane
—that’s ’im” —indicating the figure on the couch
“suddenly arrived in town.
“Paddy’s a sullen cuss ’n’ said nothin’ to any
of us, but just took a room at the pub ’n’ started
building a shanty by the creek. Even then we didn’t
suspect anything, but a few weeks later when e built
a fence around ’is ’ouse *n’ our bridge we kicked up
a row ’n’ asked ’im to leave a gap in the fence or
else build a gate for us to pass through to the bridge.
“‘Build yez a gate!’ ’e snorted. ‘Why, ye
ignorant spalpeens, Oi paid hard cash for this property,
’n’ if Oi so much as sees one of yez inside this fence
it’s filled with buckshot ye’ll be!’ ’N’ to make ’is
meanin’ clearer he stuck up a notice Trespassers
will be prosecuted.’
“We ’ad a yarn with the local J.P., ’n’ it seemed
that as Paddy ’ad bought the land there weren t
nothin’ we could do about it, so we fretted n fumed
for a few hours, ’n’ then Centre Cut Mulligan auled
’imself from ’is chair.
“ ‘Blast the man’s eyes! ’ ’e said. ‘l’ll show im
who owns that bridge. C’mon!’
“We trailed along behind Centre Cut n stopped
at Paddy’s fence.
“ ‘Watch me! ’ grinned Centre Cut, ’n’ climbin’
over the fence ’n’ tryin’ to appear unconcerned e
started to walk towards the bridge.
“Paddy came suddenly through the door,
wavin’ a double-barrel shotgun. Hoi, there get
yeself off my property!’
“Centre Cut hurled a string of pretty words at
him, but, seein’ the gun, ’e moved a little faster.
“ ‘Oi warned yez,’ yelled Paddy, so it s bringin
it on yeself ye are!’ ’N’ ’e ’oisted the gun to ’is
shoulder:
“ ‘Run, Centre Cut!’ we yelled, but ’e didn t need
tellin’. He ran like a tomcat caught in the rain, ’n’
cleared the fence with a bound that would’ve shamed
an old-man ’roo, while Paddy’s shot spattered in the
scrub. We bolted for the shelter of the bush.
"THAT night we ’eld a private meetin’ in the mess,
' ’n’ little Jimmy the toolie took the floor.
“ ‘Fellers,’ ’e said, ‘l’ll undertake to give that mad
Irishman such a fright that ’e won t stop runnin
till he reaches Erin.’
“We sat round talkin’ until midnight, ’n’ all
agreed that Jimmy’s notion ought to do the trick.
(i Continued on next page.~)


“Next day Centre Cut marched through the gate
’n’ up to Paddy’s door.
“ ‘Paddy,’ ’e said as the Irishman poked a sus-
picious face through the window, ‘l’ve come to
apologise.’
“ ‘Good,’ said Paddy. ‘Ye’ve apologised —now
git!’
“ ‘Oh, easy there, Pat. I was born in Dublin
meself —’n’ you know what day it is, don’t you?’
“Paddy softened a little. ‘Well, what d’ye want?’
“ ‘The boys agreed they were wrong ’n’ want
you to come down to the pub ’n’ ’ave a drink with
them.’
“ ‘Ah, well,’ said Paddy, ‘seein’ it’s St. Pat’s Day
I might ’ave one wit’ yez. Wait till I get me ’at!’
“Most of us were waitin’ here at the pub. Paddy
’ad ’is drink, then another, ’n’ by the time we’d all
shouted ’e seemed ripe for the works.
“One of the boys edged up to ’im ’n’ said, ‘Pat,
I can’t understand you livin’ where you do. Ain’t
anyone told you that the mine’s ’aunted?’
“ ‘Oh, away wit’ yez,’ said Paddy. ‘lt’s tryin’ to
scare me from under me own roof yez are! It’ll be
a sorry ghost that comes a-hauntin’ me. There’s a
double-barrel standin’ aside me door wit’ two shells
in it!’
“Young Jimmy the toolie sneaked away while
we kept Paddy at the bar for another hour, but at
last the Irishman confessed ’e’d ’ad enough, ’n’ swayin’
unsteadily ’e ’eaded for ’ome.
“But for the distant clatter of the treatment
plants the night was quiet when we crept through the
scrub to Paddy’s shanty. We paused for a while by
the fence, whisperin’ ’n’ ’elpin’ Jimmy to wrap
’imself in one of Mrs. Mulligan’s sheets.. When every-
thing seemed right for the last act Jimmy swayed
through the gate ’n’ floated (as best ’e could) along
the path until ’e stopped within about twenty yards
of the front door.
“‘Wooo-hooo! Yow-ow-yow!’ ’e wailed, just
like a dyin’ cat.
“For a while nothin’ happened ; then suddenly
the door flew open ’n’ Paddy leaped out wavin’ ’is
shotgun. ‘Oi’ll give ye ghost!’ ’e yelled, but
Jimmy still stood there howlin’ like mad. Paddy
lifted ’is cannon ’n’ let go both barrels, then stood
gaping like a stranded fish as Jimmy walked slowly
up to ’im ’n’ put something in ’is ’and.
“ ‘Oh, Mither! ’ yelled Paddy, ‘it’s right they
were!’ And with one long shriek ’e fled.
“As soon as Paddy had gone Jimmy nearly col-
lapsed on the ground laughin’, ’n’ we rushed up to
congratulate ’im on the good job ’e’d done.
. “ ‘Oh, hell! ’he said between breaths. ‘Did you
ever see a man run so fast?’
“ ‘What’d you put in his hand, Jimmy?’ someone
asked.
“Jimmy got his breath. ‘Only the shot I took
from the shells in ’is gun this afternoon. Did you
ever see anything so funny in your life?’ ”
The man with one eye drained his pot. “Well,
there’s the whistle. I’ll have to be off. S’long.” And
he hurried from the bar.
I turned to look at the sleeping occupant of the
lounge. He stirred and cautiously opened one eye to
see who was in the bar ; then suddenly he sat up and
looked at me.
“Arrah!” he said. “Ye see what a doity lot of
spalpeens they are in this town. It’s waitin’ here all
day I’ve been for someone to enloighten me.”
Sailors DON’T Care
GUNBOAT
OIREILLY
BY
CON
DREW
DRAWING BY LOCK.
I ONLY trained one sailor in the hit, stop and
getaway game. I was runnin’ a gymnasium at
the time, and was tryin* to build up me bankroll
by teachin’ boxin’. The game was boomin’, and
I had a fairly good connection. Thinkin’ no evil, and
havin’ done none, I’m havin’ a go at the medicine-
ball one mornin’ when in rolls a big red-headed gent,
dressed in man-o’-war rig. He. looked around for
a bit, and then he comes over to me.
“Mr. Silver?” he asks.
“That’s me.”
“They told me I’d find you here,” says he. “I’m
a sailor off a warship in the harbor, and me name’s
Gunboat O’Reilly.”
“It’s a real good name, even without the Gun-
boat,” says I. “Anythin’ I can do for you?”
“You can,” says he. “I’m matched to fight a
bloke named Barber for fifty pounds a side, and I
want you to take me in hand and train me.”
“Barber?” says I. “I ain’t ever heard of him.”
“You wouldn’t,” he come back. “He ain’t a
professional scrapper; he’s a sailor on another war-
ship.”
And then he tells me how this Barber, who is
evidently an unpeaceful sort of gent., had been
throwin’ out challenges to fight anyone in the fleet,
and that Gunboat’s shipmates had taken up the defi.
“They nominated me as the ship’s representative,”
Gunboat winds up. “I ain’t no world-beater, but I’m
the best they could dig up just now.” .
“I get you,” says I. “When is this fracas to take
place?”
“In a fortnight’s time at Solomon’s Hall.”
“You left things a little bit late,” says I, “but see-
in’ that your mates have invested fifty frogskins on
you I’ll do the best I can. Be here at ten o’clock to-
morrer mornin’.”
“I’ll be here on time,” says he, and off he pushes.
He kept his word all right. At ten o’clock to the
tick next mornin’ he turned up carryin’ his fightin’
gear in one of them black handkerchief affairs, and
we started on our trainin’.
After we’d had a spar or two it didn’t take no
second sight to see that he wasn’t a cornin’ champ.
i e ft was about as useful as a penny palm fan in
a sto kehold, and his footwork was all wrong. Try
a§ hard as j liked? j cou id n ’ t teach him to smother
up properly . He had been thrown into a ship’s riggin’
from the cradle, so to speak, and hadn’t started his
boxin , education righL If this bird Barber is any
° f a scrapper, 1 says to meself, he’ll fill Gunboat
as ' ° holes as a sponge ca e.
Now and then some of Gunboat’s mates came
ashore to watch him work. They draped themselves
around the ring and talked of torpedoes, lower-decks
and other things connected with a fightin’ ship. The
place was like a gunroom. They was good company
for Gunboat, but, although he worked like a dray-
horse, he didn’t make much progress. I did me best,
Q f course , and when we arrived at the hall on the
night of tke scrap h e was j n fairly good nick,
was q£ Gents in man . o ’.
| war £ t fllled the ringside seats , and at the back
of the hall they was packed as dose as forwards in
J / or so was hed on
A iUU i;
the ratters - , ,
I l et Barber get into the arena first, and as e
climbed through the ropes there was a wild yell of
applause from his section of the crowd. He was a
savage-lookin’ bird with ears like saucers and a nose
which looked as if it had been nailed on to his dial
with a sledgehammer. He unhinged the top of his
face and grinned back at his mates at the ringside,
My entry with Gunboat was the signal for another
deafenin’ yell which nearly lifted the roof off the
buildin’. You’d have thought the men were goin to
fight for the championship of the world.
Well, I fixed the gloves on Gunboat, and then
the referee blew in. I got a shock when I seen he
was a sailor off a neutral ship. Refereeing is a game
which calls for a big junk of experience, and I scented
trouble ahead.
“Does this bird know anythin’ about refereein’?”
I asks Gunboat.
“Not much,” he answers, “but he’s the best we
could get.”
By that time Barber’s seconds had fixed on his
gloves, and the ref. called the boxers to the usual
mid-ring conference. It was only a waste of time,
for they couldn’t have heard what he said for the
noise the crowd was makin’. After a bit, he sent
them back to their corners. Then the bell went, The
battle was on.
Although it only went about two-thirds of a
round, it was mighty willin’ while it lasted. Actin’
under orders, my bloke didn’t rush things. Barber
did. Dashin’ in on Gunboat like an unexpected hus-
band, he caught him a terrific clip on the ear with
his right. Gunboat must have thought he was stand-
in’ on a banana-skin, for the first part of him to hit
the floor was his rudder. He didn’t waste no time
there, though. Boundin’ to his feet, he let go a swing
at Barber’s jaw that would have saved him his tram-
fare to the Quay if it had landed. It didn’t, because
Barber seen it cornin’ and scuttled away like a soft-
shell crab. Gunboat went after him and sent home
a couple of snifter rights that landed on the side of
Barber’s head.
Then they loosened up in earnest. There was no
waitin’ for an openin’ to plant a punch. The pair
just stood toe-to-toe and dealt each other wallops.
Now and then they’d fall into a clinch. In the clinches
my bloke was fairly rough, but Barber was well over
the odds. Twice he put a half-nelson on Gunboat and
nearly twisted his head off. The crowd yelled to the
ref., but he didn’t take any notice. It was plain that
he didn’t know no more about the fightin’ business
than the Headless Horseman.
As far as I could make out, the battle must have
been ragin’ for about two minutes when Gunboat
straightened Barber up with a straight left to the face.
Barber rocked on his heels and left himself wide open
for a long half-second. It was long enough for Gun-
boat to unlimber his starboard gun, and he slammed
in a punch with the force of a horse’s kick agen
Barber’s solar plexus. Barber doubled up like a pen-
knife and fell to the floor for keeps.
I’m thinkin’ to meself what a solid punch .it was
when the ref. bounded over to Gunboat all excited
and shoved him back. “Stand back,” he yelled. “Stand
back. You’re disqualified for hittin’ low.”
Cripes! Before you could say Jack Johnson the
hall was full of fightin’ sailors. No one argued the
point about the wherefores or whyfores. They just
sailed in at each other as though by mutual consent.
Chairs were broken and forms were smashed.
The ref. didn’t wait to make any farewell speeches.
He dived through the ropes and made for the dressin’-
room, which was underneath the ring. It was a real
slap-up battle, and it lasted for a full ten minutes.
HEN order was restored a bit, I shepherded Gun-
“ boat down to the dressin’-room and we breasted
the referee. By that time he had inserted himself
into his uniform, and I seen by the marks on his
sleeve that he was a sdrt of petty-officer.
“That was no low punch,” I said to him. “It
landed above the belt.”
“It looked to me to be low,” says he, “and there-
fore I disqualified your man.”
“What about them half-nelsons?” said I. “If
you’re so particular about the rules why didn’t you
disqualify Barber?”
He looked at me for a bit and then he says:
“It’s evident, my man, that you don’t know what day
this is.”
“I know that it’s a Saturday,” says I, “and that’s
near enough for me. What I’m askin’ you is why
did you let Barber get away with them half-nelsons.”
“To-day, my man,” says the sailor, “is the anni-
versary of the Battle of Trafalgar. On Trafalgar Day
a sailor can put on as many half-nelsons as he likes.”


comes from behind his camera and pleads with her.
“Can’t you understand this is a really big thing we’re
doing?”
Paraguayan Wilderness.
In Green Hell and A Cloak of Monkey Fur,
Julian Duguid gained recognition as an interpreter
of the South American historic scene, but his books
left a good deal to be desired considered purely as
novels. The historian was something of a deadweight
on the storyteller. His latest, Father Coldstream
(Cape ; Angus and Robertson), is a much more suc-
cessful effort; the fusion between the . story —a very
good one —and historic happenings has been achieved
without a remaining sign of the writer’s labor.
Paraguay is the setting, and the theme is the
tripartite struggle in the 1760’s between the missions,
the Government through its agent the military, and
the planters, the last being represented in action by
the “Mamelukes,” outlaws devoted to destroying the
missions and carrying their Indian populations into
slavery.
The missions had been in existence for two hun-
dred years. Theirs had been a vast effort in colonisa-
tion and civilisation ; their word was supreme within
the bounds of the settlements they established in the
wilderness. They were governed by highly-educated,
rigidly disciplined men who derived their authority
from a body that had exerted great influence in
Europe. Duguid takes up his story at a time when
their strength at home was declining, when secular life
in South America was straining against them, two
years before Charles 111. of Spain issued an edict
banishing them from his American colonies. In effect,
the book is a sympathetic study of the last inheritors
of a power from which authority has been withdrawn.
The principal characters are Father Gaudrand,
Simon and Angus Coldstream, Aymerich, a colonel
of dragoons, and a half-Indian girl, Ana. Simon and
Angus are brothers who as boys were taken by their
father to Spain after the Battle of Culloden and
placed with the Jesuits at Loyola for training. Simon,
the impetuous, could not stand the discipline and ran
away. He comes into the picture later as leader of a
band of Mamelukes when Angus, after his 20-year
probationership in Spain, is travelling through the
interior of Paraguay to take his place in the mission
which, by the rule of his order, he will never leave
again in life.
Ana is the figure about whom the battle rages.
She is the daughter of Aymerich, whom she does not
know, a soldier’s by-blow. She is good-looking, eager
to meet life, but neither Indian nor Spaniard will
marry her. The preservation of her virginity, though
it involves lifelong imprisonment in the strictly-
governed confines of the mission, has become a major
passion with Father Gaudrand, not so much for Ana’s
sake as for its significance in the work to which he
has devoted his life. She sees the renegade Simon
during one of his raids on the mission, falls in love
with him, and from then on her submissiveness alter-
nates with periods of rebellion.
Angus and Aymerich, through force of circum-
stances, were road companions during Angus’s jour-
ney to the mission, and owe each other -a debt of
friendship, just as Angus and Simon owe each other
a debt of brotherhood. Each, whether he admits it
or not, is the subject of conflicting loyalties. Not so
Father Gaudrand —it is in this character that Duguid
has done his finest work —a benevolent tyrant, a
shrewd and desperate fighter, in the end humbly sub-
missive to a reversal of divine will. Whether he is
accepting the homage of his flock, flaying Father
Angus with his tongue, facing Aymerich’s dragoons
or Simon’s outlaws unarmed or standing by while Ana
is thrashed for an attempted misdemeanor, he is alive.
He is always understandable, and wins sympathy in
spite of himself. The situation dissolves with the arrival
of Charles’s edict as predicted by Aymerich in the
beginning. Ana gets Simon, Simon gets the Indians,
Aymerich sees the despised missions overthrown, and
the Fathers, their lives empty, leave for Europe.
Duguid conveys the general feeling of time and
place very well. Here and there occurs a lack of
naturalness. He has campfires, for instance, in cir-
cumstances under which the soldiers would probably
have preferred the cover of darkness. It suggests
a studied conventionalisation of detail at those points,
but that does not detract from the vitality of the book.
Poems by Arnold Wall.
As the part-page herewith reproduced at under
half-reduction will indicate, this Maoriland poet’s
Theme and Variations will certainly not fail to secure
attention through inability of the book to attract the
eye. Published by Whitcombe and Tombs (at 215.),
signed by the poet and his illustrator, V. Gould, it
is one of the most curious tomes ever turned out
within coo-ee of the Tasman Sea.
A thin sheaf —of only 10 numbered pages, with
a few page-illustrations in addition —it is bound in
black cloth deeply lettered in gold, encased in a dust
jacket of red printed with white lettering that a bat
could read at 50 yards. No type is used ; every page
is lettered and drawn as illustrated in reduction here.
The decorations, in addition to making the book a
curiosity, symbolically convey the general statement.
Even if it be true that, in the main, poetry is at
the present time in decline or eclipse, it must be said
that some recent poetic effort has been anything but
circumscribed in breadth and aim. Kenneth Mac-
kenzie in Our Earth made a sustained and largely
successful attempt to rise to the implications of his
title ; Arnold Wall attempts, in a theme stated in • a
dozen lines and five variations on it, to get down to the
life force itself at its job. Here is the theme of it:
I lie at life’s heart,
lam in nerve and brain,
lam the secret thing,
lam whole, I am part,
lam in beast and man,
In cell, in plant, in tree,
In leaf, in limb, in wing,
lam the pattern and the plan,
All that has been shall be
Through me again,
The breathing universe is mine,
And what I am I am by right divine.
His variations on that theme are really concentrations
of his poetic thought and output over many years.
In many poems printed in The Bulletin and else-
where his engagement with the primitive and primeval
has been evident. He likes man in man’s ancient
shaggy state. He likes nature wild and unbroken.
When it is broken, he likes the broken flint the foot
turns over wandering its cleared places: still, he
would not quarrel with a plough. He likes the forest
where he can imagine man living to natural laws, instead
of to political regimentation and regulation, and he is
held engaged by the life mystery at the back of all.
He does not see what that life mystery is, and
it tickles him that neither does anybody else, but at
least he will go down into the ocean, and among
plants and animals and man, and track it to where
VARIATION X
Behold tki i glorified, animal mart who
stands In the van of life in the
earth,
Before his God humble and. cowed yet wounduy
proud, of his noble birth,
Roud of his losses,proud of his gains, proud.
of his brains and the heights he has
climbed,
His lost lusts, his soul wort, his duties done .
and his passions sublimed
With his tube and his lens he has spied on
the ways of waves and rays , atoms
and genes ,
Part-page ( reduced) from Arnold. Wall’s “Theme and
Variations.”
it acts. Here is the beginning of the variation that
has to do with flowers:
Her millions mist the woods and banks of spring
Outrunning far the laggard oak and thorn,
While yet the black north-easters thrum and sing
In the beach-branches barren and forlorn;
And she, though she so puny is and nesh,
Herself is built up of a million chambers,
Each wrinkling leaf, each bloom so frail and fresh,
A guild of many hundred thousand members,
And here am I, in every separate room,
Warder and prisoner in a myriad cells,
I write the record, I pronounce the doom,
I sit in secrecy and weave my spells;....
That is from the second variation ; the first was the
ocean. Then, the symbol of the horse: “His blood
is a surge of glory.” Then primitive man:
Shaggy, knuckled and nailed like an ape, with jutting brow
and jaw.
Beautified with ochre and coal and teeth of wolf and deer,
Love he knows, and loyalties, and a tangle of tribal law,
He can shave wood, knap flints, has hammer and bow' and spear.
Finally, man as he sees him now:
Behold the glorified animal man who stands in the van of
life in the earth,
Before his God humble and cowed yeb woundily proud of his
noble birth,
Proud of his losses, proud of his gains, proud of his brains
and the heights he has climbed,
His lost lusts, his soul won, his duties done and his passions
sublimed:
With his tube and his lens he has spied on the ways of waves
and rays, atoms and genes,
He has puzzled out his story in stones and fossil bones, the
acts and the scenes,
He knows what money is, knows what blood is, he weighs and
studies the sun and the stars,
He has plumbed the abyss of his inmost mind only to find
struggles and wars—
Self with the mass, evil with good, mood with mood, will
with way,
The gods he made when he was young he has tossed and
flung aside to-day,
He has challenged the falcon in speed and vied with the eagle’s
pride in his own element,
Rivalled the mallard and woodland dove as he glides from
above on his smooth descent.
He throws his word to a distant goal,, from pole to pole, from
shore to shore,
And on through the deeps of utmost space it will flash and
race for evermore;
Many a time his foot has tripped on a stone or slipped on
the difficult slope,
And he has fallen, fallen back on the downward track but
renewed his hope,
And now at length in his yearning thought the goal he has
sought is drawing near,
But he is a dreaming fool and wrong, for the road is long
and dreigh and drear
That he and his earthy race must go creeping slow to the
journey’s end,
And what that end, if end, will be nor you nor he could
comprehend
Even if all that shall be there could be laid bare, finished and
won:
All he can know is the powerful surge, the imperious urge
that presses him on:
And here am I, once and again, in his seething brain, in his
nerves and cells,
Creating, stowing, storing new powers in topless towers, in
bottomless wells;
I am the part, I am the whole, he calls me soul he knows
not why.
When I lie close he does as I bid, I am buried and hid from
his prying eye.
Ages ago in the plains of Ind Buddha would find a master key,
Christ and Plato and Socrates all had keys to the mystery,
In vain they strove, strained and fought with currents of
thought, eddies of will,
They cast their plummets in soundless deeps, the casket keeps
my secret still.
Parodies by Arrangement.
Parody Party (Hutchinson) is a set of 14 short
pieces in each of which one well-known writer
imitates the style of another with intent to provoke
mirth —mostly with success. Leonard Russell is the
referee. It is very much a written-to-order book, and
with a style of humor in the “Punch” tradition;
“nice” nonsense with a malicious twist that goes on
twisting. As the idea of the volume was conceived
at a house party, each sketch includes the house-party
idea in one form or another.
The general trend of the parodies is to imitate
an author’s style closely and into this buttered mould
pour a ridiculous and incongruous content, but most
of the pieces display additional subtleties. They are
caricatures, satirising ideas and mental attitudes as
well as manners and tricks.
The gathering includes Rebecca West on Charles
Morgan, Rose Macaulay on Ernest Hemingway, Cyril
Connolly on Aldous Huxley (and how he lends him-
self!), G. B. Stern on Sir James Barrie (“The House
That Likes to Be Let Furnished”), J. B. Morton on
John Buchan (to the life), Edward Shanks on A. G.
Macdonnell, A. G. Macdonnell on J. B. Priestley (it
would do equally well for Arnold Bennett).
Variety is added by the inclusion of a draft speech
(prepared by Wyndham Lewis) to be delivered by
Mr. Baldwin to the Bewdley Rotary Club on St.
George’s Day, and a general broadside at the Russian
novel by John Betjeman called “Tomsk-Omsk-Omsk-
Tomsk.”
If one is to be singled out for the fur-lined bath-
tub it should go either to Rebecca West’s parody of
Sparkenbroke, in which, in prose of inordinate long-
linked sweetness, the Morophil peer is shown marooned
in a railway refreshment-room on his way to a week-
end party at which he will never arrive, or to Ivor
Brown’s “A Stroll to the Pole,” an incredibly non-
chalant adventure in the manner of Peter Fleming,
who wrote News from Tart ary.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Caroline England : Noel Streatfield (Heinemann).
A survey of English middle-class affairs from the
’seventies to the present day through the experiences
of the heroine. Never comes to life.
Lost Survivor: L. A- Pavey (Michael Joseph).
Troubles of a man whose incompetence and cowardice
resulted in the death of a sailing companion. There
is good work in it, but the plot moves on creaky joints.
Exit Miss Emily : Nina Murdoch (Angus and
Robertson). Apparently final adventures of the enter-
taining Miss Emily Sawkins, already known to readers
in two earlier books. This ends with her marriage.
Mary Christmas: Mary Ellen Chase (Collins).
Idealised picture of American family life in a Maine
village and of a Mary, the gipsy pedlar. Charming in a
rather studied way.
General . . .
The Royal Air Force : Air Vice-Marshal E. L.
Gossage (Hodge and Co.). Brief, interesting, though
somewhat surface-skimming chapters of the Air Force
to-day, with something of interest for the general
reader in how bombing squads of the force operate
in quelling disorder round about such places as Aden,
and in such illuminating asides as that some 10,000
people in England “are already actively concerned in
air-raid precaution measures, and some 9,000,000 gas
masks are held ready for issue.”
The Long Whip: Jane Brevoort Walden and
Stuart D. L. Paine (Chapman and Hall). An engaging
romantic account of the huskies that went along with
Byrd’s second Antarctic expedition, Paine having
been one of the dogs’ bosses. Opens with the breaking
in of a dog by whip, which the average run of dog-
lovers will think a bit too realistically cruel but which
serves the literary purpose of giving authenticity to
the account as a whole. One exceptional dog is the
leading character ; about him is woven the general
story of the part played by dogs in the expedition,
with also a good outline story of the expedition itself.
Pelicans and Penguins . . .
Pelican Books. The enormoits success of the
Penguin paperbacks, now running to a long list of
good books and selling in England at 6d. and in
Australia at 9d., induced the co. to venture into
providing more weighty literary tomes in the same
form. A batch of these Pelican Books to hand
includes A Book of English Poetry : Chaucer to Ros-
setti, edited'by G. B. Harrison; Vision and Design,
by Roger Fry (a selection of the author’s writings on
art over 20 years); After the Deluge : A Study of
Communal Psychology, by Leonard Woolf; The
Inequality of Man, by J. B. S. Haldane (chiefly studies
in how science affects human beings); The Growth
of Civilisation, by W. J. Perry (“the story of the
origin and development of civilisation and the spread
of culture throughout the world”); Medieval People,
by Eileen Power; The Great Victorians (reprint of
these brief biographies by many good pens); Liberty
in the Modern State, by Harold J. Laski (Prof. Laski
contends that liberty has visibly deteriorated over most
of the civilised world within the seven years since this
book was originally published) ; Social Life in the
Insect World, by J. H. Fabre; A History of the
English People, by Elie Halevy.
Latest additions to the Penguin books include
one singular contribution by an Australian —Horace
Lindrum’s Billiards and Snooker; shots and how to
play ’em. Other inclusions are Alexander Woollcott’s
While Rome Burns, Edgar Mowrer’s Germany Puts
the Clock Back and Seven Famous One-act Plays.


T
m
9
9
J
j
a
i
OF Ml TYREHIOOfILES
m
a si';
OF TYRE
w
The “Trouble Zone” is that last 10%
of tyre life where 90% of all tyre
troubles occur where punctures,
fractures, blowouts are an ever-
present danger.
The Goodyear “90-10” Plan will keep
you out of the “Trouble Zone.” Ask
your Goodyear Dealer to tell you all
about it, and learn how simple it is
to discard old, thin, smooth “Trouble
Zone” Tyres and ride in safety on
new G-3’s.
fit
vc
r\
■+CW -


FAMOUS
WINES
S'
mil
II
jgglgljlllf
Sill®
If; -".
:
mmh nip ii i nhmw
■HHi
*■'
WM.'+teT'&M >' , < £
ill*
&
81
Kl§§3
\ m.
! : v SUi«,a^
mm ■
m
: : I sill
it mu
i
r
Is
'
a
M
Hi
mm
m
r ;j
m
, t -
/
H :
:fi
:
;
••
■fl
1
B
I
iM
uimmU:
m
Uuu
i
■
H
II
OP*
mr
M
i ■
81:;; & <
■
i
m
m
■
HMH| 8
■
1 B
i
■ its
I ;
I
■
n
> ' v swk
, • >•■•>•■ •••.•
i :
gmsi
■ ■ ■
mmi
■P*!
*
m
Ift&fmS
Jfttc
Vi
c/fye Aad ifo
99


SESQUICENTENARY.
“Congratulations, son, on your 150th, but I wouldn’t bank so much on those things—they were out of date when you started.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
WELL WORTH CELEBRATING.
Having invited the rest of N. S. Wales, Australia and
the world at large to attend, Sydney breaks out into
its 150th birthday celebrations.
In the processions and pageantry men who had
the foresight to grow beards for the purpose will
represent the State’s hirsute historical figures. Blondes
will lend living color to the Gold float, stand on
other floats for Music, Art, Literature and the like
cultural enterprises, and illustrate the improvement
in appearances on those from whom the land was
filched, Pinchgut is fitted with mortars for sending
up the fireworks.
Parliament House has undergone beauty treat-
ment, without, however, making it seem as imposing
as cynics would consider appropriate. The Show-
ground has sprouted up a village for housing
athletes drawn from most parts of the world to com-
pete in the celebrations’ Olympiad. Game fishermen
are gathered in scores from overseas, trimming their
rods with an eye to black marlin. Poets and scribes
have sharpened their quills and called on the Muse to
help them win the prizes offered for their output. The
42,000-ton Empress of Britain takes up moorings in
the harbor, as do four American cruisers and vessels
representing other nations not too sanguinarily
engaged elsewhere.
The city’s business houses have broken out into
a burst of flags, competing with each other in special
illuminations and decorations. t There are stands in
the streets for representative onlookers; bridge,
Town Hall and warships are outlined in light
globes ; police and services are polished and pipe-
clayed ; public men and leading citizens are shaven
and top-hatted.
Governor Phillip lands at a spot somewhat
removed from where he did land, but symbolically in
order. Aboriginals—the State now has 800-odd to
choose from —ride on a leading float, cooking possum.
In these and other ways the Past is on parade.
Naturally the occasion will be taken for self-
congratulation on the growth, development and all
things else that go to make up the reality of the State
as it is to-day. It is no parochial matter. The anni-
versary of N. S. Wales settlement is also automati-
cally Australia’s 150th, and the picture of the com-
munity, the prosperity and progress which it conjures
up is representative. N. S. Wales —barring such minor
local phenomena as Mr. Lang —is very much the pic-
ture of the Commonwealth. There are points about
it well worth celebrating.
In N. S. Wales to-day 2,692,659 people, with
males predominating by about 30,000, live in varied
distribution over 309,432 sq. miles of territory, which
has the services of more than 100 rivers. Most of
these people are prosperous or comfortable, and
enjoy as liberal a form of government, as wise a form
of justice, as generous a supply of food and drink and
as temperate and uniform a climate as can be found
anywhere in the world. An all the more steadying
thought, therefore, that population increase is slowed
down to something like stagnation.
This aspect of the picture might look better, too,
if 1,235,267 of the total population (47.5 p.c.) were
not crowded in one city, with a further 563,081 (21.65
p.c.) in other municipalities, leaving only a trifle over
30 p.c. (797,460) scattered through the whole of the
rest of the State.
Also, it might be regarded as a dubious matter
for celebrating that this number of people needs a
local State Legislative Assembly of 90 members and
a local State Legislative Council of 60 members, this
governmental battalion headed by a State Governor,
Lieut.-Governor, State Premier and President of
Council, its Ministry whacking up the best part of
£17,000 a year, and Ministry, Governor and 150
members all told taking out £75,000 a year in direct
salaries —leaving out such trifles as railway passes
alone worth about £30,000 a year. /
Additionally, the State has 34 members, even
better paid, representing it in the Commonwealth
Government, at a salary cost of £32,300 a year, exclu-
sive of any in the Federal Ministry, who add a bit
more to the bill. It also requires to look after it
about 74,000 public servants, a regiment of boards
and commissions to which the Governments delegate
their work, powers and law-making functions, and
173 municipal and 139 shire councils as well. On
present performances the State and Federal Govern-
ments between them churn out about 200 laws per
annum, most of them laws amending other laws
churned out at a similar rate. It should be added for
the sake of record —nobody is unaware of it that
each State has its local Governor, its local Govern-
ment, its local Premier, and the rest churning out
laws of their own, and that each State has its
proportionate representation in the Federal Houses
at Canberra. Governor-General, Governors and 616
politicians—for the population of 6,846,398 whack
up among them £385,000 in direct salaries alone. On
top of that it is, of course, only natural that each
State must be represented in London by an Agent-
General, with a High Commissioner for the Common-
wealth to swell the horde.
These being scarcely matters for jollification, it
may be pleasanter to overlook them at a time of cele-
bration and regard the State in the light of its being
what the Israelites would certainly have called —and
what others enviously do call —a land flowing with
milk and honey. On an area which is 10.4 p.c. of
the Commonwealth total, it runs 51,936,000 sheep,
3,388,538 cattle and 542,862 horses, respectively 49.3
p.c., 24.4 p.c. and 30.8 p.c. of the totals for the Com-
monwealth. Sheep, it is true, are some 6,000,000
fewer than 45 years ago, but cattle are a million up
and horses 20-odd thousand up over the same period,
and from the fewer sheep some 250,000,0001 b. more
wool is clipped, with the 1936-37 clip—3Bo,ooo,ooolb.
—worth £26,347,000.
The wheat crop for 1937 is estimated at 54,837,000
bushels,-averaging 13.8 bushels per acre. Set against
7,041,378 bushels, averaging 10.88 in 1895, it
seems a reasonable matter for celebrating, though
it might be felt that a possible wheat belt of 53,000,000
acres in all still leaves something for future develop-
ment by the Australian or some other race.
There should be cheers also for the 125,169,0001 b.
of butter, the 22,057,0001 b. of bacon and ham and
the 7,356,0001 b. of cheese produced in the State in
1936, though the butter had been exceeded by upwards
of 20,000,0001 b. in a year.
There might be mixed feelings about what the
coal industry has degenerated into; still, 8,000,000
tons of coal, valued at upwards of £5,000,000, is mined
annually, making a fair slice of the £13,000,000 annual
value of minerals won. The total value of minerals
won is reckoned at £549,442,100; coal’s share at
£217,428,600. It is estimated also that there is enough
coal in sight for another 200 years. That, while
the coal is there, the bill for imported fuels (which
in time of emergency would probably be cut off)
mounts up to colossal figures might possibly be con-
sidered not a matter for whooping about.
A fair whack of the locally-consumed coal goes
to keep the trains running over the State’s 6124 miles
of railways, mostly at a loss, and sometimes at an
extravagant loss. Some of the lines should have been
closed down long ago ; others still provide a necessary
service. But imported fuel is latterly pouring into
railway engines, and more and more of it into the
buses planned to replace the trams, which at present
carry 300-odd million passengers annually over their
189 miles of lines (it was 210 miles 10 years
back). That every gallon of fuel imported means
coal left underground, and what use would be the
State’s 280-odd thousand motor vehicles—or the State’s
128,544 miles of roads —if the fuel imports were sud-
denly cut off, are thoughts that should not be expected
to cast anybody down during the current celebrations.
Anyway, there should be inspiration for nothing
but whooping over the manufacturing industries. A
hundred years after the landing of Phillip, N. S. Wales
factories employed 43,051 ; in this 150th anniversary
year they employ over 200,000. 8.H.P., which made
its start in Newcastle only in 1915, now makes all
but a fraction of Australia’s steel requirements, turn-
ing out over 700,000 tons a year and exporting to
Maoriland and parts of Asia. As recently as when
B.H.P. started in, textile mills, too, were of small con-
sequence. Now the Globe, Vicars and other mills
turn out a great portion of the State’s suiting and
woollen dress-material requirements, and, with such
works as the Lustre Co. in the field, all hosiery im-
ported could be carted home in a handbag.
There are many other matters fit for whooping
over. That 98.44 p.c. of the State’s population is
British-born—native Australian or in British countries
—with less than 1 p.c. contributed by the whole of the
rest of Europe outside Britain, should help the “S. M.
Herald” and its readers to take a more cheerful view
of the Italian “invasion.” Shipping warrants a cheer:
6343 vessels, 21,109,272 tons, entered and cleared
overseas and inter-State last year, an increase of get-
ting on for 20 million tons on the figures for 50 years
ago. Imports of about £40,000,000 and exports of
over £50,000,000 represent the State’s overseas trade
as in a healthy condition, unless John and Sam are
shuffling the pack to deal Joe a dirty hand.
No cheers for the State’s whack of the public
debt —£344,911,945, or £l2B 2s. per head of popu-
lation, including old-age pensioners (81,000) and babies
in arms (35,757 born last year). Nor for taxa-
tion (£l6 4s. a head, State and Federal, with the total
Commonwealth tax extortion a cool £110,000,000 a
year!). But cheers in plenty for savings bank deposits
for the State of £81,952,284 (£3O Bs. 9d. per head);
for friendly societies (anything friendly should be
welcome in these fire-eating times) with 200-odd thou-
sand members and some £4,486,000 stowed away in
the sock ; for 193 trade unions, with 300-odd thousand
members; and —somewhat subdued, for the Minister
has published a whole catalogue of imperfec-
tions —for the annual expenditure of over £4,000,000
on the education of 377,715 scholars, and for
the 3453 State schools and their 12,657 teachers.
Under the heading of education, too, might reasonably
be listed the State’s 229 licensed racecourses and
about 50 dog-tracks.
Air transport is still a youngster; even so, it flew
over 2,650,630 miles within the State last year, carry-
ing 24,699 passengers (railway authorities may with-
hold cheers about this), 234,8791 b. of goods and
22,7121 b. of mail. Possession of 32 broadcasting
stations in the State, with 358,292 listeners, is certain
to be toasted somewhere ; and for all the toasting—
which should not overlook great men of contemporary
times born in the State ; e.g., Bradman —there should
be no lack of the right accompaniment with half a
dozen breweries making it at the rate of 22-odd
million gallons a year and 2539 pubs to dispense it.
In a pick of these and many other aspects of the
general picture here broadly suggested there is plenty
of inspiration for genuine celebration by N. S. Wales
and by Australia. There is one matter in particular
which should not be left out of the celebrations: there
should be at least one round of cheers acknowledging
the extraordinary good luck attending on all this
growth, progress and endeavor.
All that this country is has been built up under
the protective wing of Britain at its mightiest. Britain
is mighty still, despite the lamentable record of its
recent Governments in foreign affairs. But the
world has changed enormously since Britain
could hold and protect Australia by threat alone.
The forces and nature of war by invasion have
changed also. More and more it needs to be the
main realisation and consideration of Australian
statesmen that this country may in a desperate emer-
gency have to defend itself —alone.
In the celebrations now on the way at least one
stick of incense should be burnt to Nemesis.
Plotting Melbourne's Future.
Though it has turned into 1938 with important civic
problems to face, Melbourne is in the happy position
that the more pressing of these problems are all
interrelated.
It has to face slum reclamation and rehousing,
it must provide cheaper transport to induce people
to live in outer suburbs, and —in common with the
rest of Victoria and most of Australia —it must do
something in penal reform. Its good fortune lies in the
fact that, if it'does a good rehousing job, the rest wilt
be well on the way to self-solution. The accumulated
problems must be tackled this year or next year if
the city is to remain true to the model that has been
an example for Australian town-planning.
Melbourne suffers from the administrative handi-
caps common to Australia, and only too capable of
blocking progress while the variety of authorities
doublebank and work at cross-purposes. It has the
general share of redundant Parliaments and City
Council, numerous suburban councils and other local
authorities, the responsibilities of which extend through
every suburb. With the big job that has to be done
it may require one compact expert body with single
authority.
City Council, Country Roads Board and Police
Department representatives have recommended two
more Yarra bridges at an estimated cost of £280,000 ;
a State Treasury committee which looked into outer-
suburban railway fares has recommended drastic
reductions for people living in a 12-mile belt round
a radius line eight miles from railway headquarters ;
one housing board has named the slum-spots, and
another has been provided with legislative authority
and £500,000 to “investigate the reclamation and
replanning of insanitary housing areas.”
According to people whose life-work entitles their
opinions to respect, slum clearance and rehousing
would have direct and beneficial effects on prison and
hospital populations ; this because slum residents are
more vulnerable both to epidemic sickness and to
crime influences than those in better areas.
On the prison aspect, F. B. Morris, until recently
in charge of the Children’s Courts in Melbourne, has
repeatedly pointed out that only one-third of the
children brought before him came from homes that
could be classed as good homes: most juvenile delin-
quency results from lack of parental control and to
children drifting into the bad company that infests
slums. J. Akeroyd, Inspector-General of Victoria’s
Penal Department, told the select committee on
widows’ pensions and child endowment that the
majority of youthful criminals were products of poor
home environment rather than hereditary influences.
And from the ranks of the juvenile and youthful
delinquents come the hardened adult criminals who
comprise the prison-reform problem.
With adoption of a sensible outer-suburban hous-
ing programme, the authorities could reserve areas for
parks and recreation: Melbourne’s parklands, though
better than those of some other Australian cities, are
becoming restricted compared with when they served
a lesser population. Such a programme could mean
a new life for youngsters at present condemned to a
slum existence.
So Melbourne’s major problems all dovetail; but
—as elsewhere in Australia —the numerous authori-
ties responsible for their solution still go their criss-
cross ways. E. C. Rigby, president of the Municipal
Association of Victoria, was right in saying that “Mel-
bourne needs a guiding hand in the planning and
development of its metropolis” ; but apparently he
cannot convince all members of his own association
that Melbourne can no longer afford to grow hap-
hazardly, for it is from the municipalities that the
loudest squeals have come when general town-planning
—likely to cost them some vague authority—has been
mentioned or reported upon.
Millions must go into any successful slum reclama-
tion and rehousing scheme ; more must be sunk in a
non-paying railway system ; still more in unemploy-
ment relief, maintenance of prisons and support of
hospitals; but there would be eventual savings in
prison, hospital and unemployment costs —to say no-
thing of human wastage.
Most of the reports have been made ; what is
needed is a body of far-seeing town-planners, with
authority—and, of course, the money.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Attempted to Kill."
If anybody these days still takes all published cables
touching on foreign affairs as gospel there should be
a profitable business for someone selling the Post
Office clock and the Botanic Gardens sundial while
the celebrations are on.
Under the scare heading “Attempted to Kill
British Ms.P.” Sydney’s “Daily Telegraph” came out
last week with this bit of reporting:
A flight of rebel war-planes, which flew over
Valencia, Spain, attempted to kill a party of British
Labor Ms.P. Their bombs fell on a dense crowd
gathered at a fete to cheer the departing Britons. One
bomb dropped near a car as it was leaving the city
with the la'st of the Ms.P.
Needless to say, there was not the faintest
evidence that this was an attempt on the lives of the
touring Ms.P. Probably there was a bombing raid
on the place before the Ms.P. beat it out of there,
though to judge by much of the stuff that figures in
cables as news” even that can be doubted. Allowing
that there was an attack, the rest of the item remains
sheer assumption, to put it politely.
The same sort of reporting is still prevalent
iegarding the slaughter in China. On January 18 the
“ DT ” ? U , 1 up the laf g e -type heading: “British Girls
Attacked by Japanese.” That is a statement as of
“D T ”^ nC * arn convinced the
Reports that two British girls were ravished yester-
day by eight Japanese soldiers have been made to the
British authorities. First news of the alleged assault
was given by two men who had accompanied the girls
beyond the barricades of the International Settlement.
They declared that they had been tied to trees and
compelled to witness the assaults on the girls. The
British authorities are investigating the story and
attempting to identify the victims.
That, on January 18—and nothing further since.
It is certain that if there had been anything in the
story it would have appeared in most papers in the
world. It would have been a shocking international
sensation. As it is, the yarn is published in a paper
which heads it as fact: it does its work—and then no
more.
Along with that sort of stuff, of course, goes the
inexhaustible supply of mere twaddle. Example:
FIVE WOMEN DIRECT WAR.
Five of the leading women of China and one man
are engaged at Hong Kong in a vital conference. Out
of it, it is expected, will come a decision to take
resolute and decisive action against the Japanese
invaders.— “D.T.,” 14/1/’3B.
Then there are such priceless discoveries as the
Amazon Brigade (Abyssinia, Spain and now China
have produced this force according to cables), the
Suicide Brigade, the Ironsides, the Crack 59th (it
cracked, unfortunately), the Invincibles (they were
going to relieve Nanking), the Death Squad, the
Doomed Battalion, the Death-or-Glory Corps. Also,
there was China’s 100-Victory General, who had hid
his light under a bushel so well that the mere act of
discovering him was a notable journalistic feat. And
there was also the Hindenburg Line and what
happened to it.
It should be patent to the poorest intelligence
that the bulk of this sort of thing, when it is not
anything worse, is rubbish that even Longreach goats
would shy at.
Other Times, Other Openings.
Though not so highly civilised as these Sesquicen-
tenary Celebrations —no radio then —nor so inter-
nationally flavored—no Empire Teams or professional
liars bearing their traditional insignia—the 100-mile-
stone doings 50 years ago had their moments.
There was a picnic of archbishops, bishops and
other select Christians, and Hayes Circus was at
Belmore Park. Eighteen brass bands with 400 per-
formers held forth ; 80 abos. of both sexes did a
corroboree; there was a rope-walking performance ;
and Bondi, Manly and Coogee aquariums entertained
such multitudes as there were with sharks and other
beasts floating around in juice.
Also, on January 26, on that occasion, Centennial
Park was opened, dedicated and made available to
the general populace of Sydney, N. S. Wales and the
Commonwealth at large.
Lest there should be people about small-minded
enough to think that nothing of like national and
lasting value will be left in the wake of the 150th-
anniversary celebrators, it needs putting on record
that, after the tumult and the shouting dies and the
bottles have been swept up, Sydney, N. S. Wales and
Australia at large will be the richer by the opening of
another incomparable picture palace.
-<J-
For Politicians Only.
It can be taken as axiomatic that pretty well every
politician subscribes to the idea that sending politicians
on overseas trips at the country’s expense is enor-
mously beneficial to Australia.
Those who have to foot the annual bills for these
increasingly popular jaunts have doubts about the
benefits allegedly accruing, especially when some
tripper or other returns to make utterances that reveal
him as more smug and ill-informed than when he went
away. But criticism is invariably countered with the
invented yarn that in these times of international
high-stepping it is necessary that ou: politicians should
be personally acquainted with the equally temporary
office-holders on the other side of the world from
whom they are pleased to take their directions.
The truth is that, except for the courtesy value
of attending certain Empire functions like the Corona-
tion, the great bulk of these trips are a shameful
waste of money. The trippers do nothing, and are
incapable of doing anything, that could not be better
done by such as Bruce, already on the spot, and paid
to do the work, anyway.
It never occurs to the political intelligence that
there is, however, one sort of overseas representation
that could be of unquestionable value to Australia
through the knowledge which it could pick up and
which cannot be got in any other way.
Last week in Spain there was an air raid on
Barcelona described as the “most disastrous in the
history of European warfare.”
The machines flew straight across the city at
about 10,000 ft., dropped their bombs and were gone
almost before the anti-aircraft batteries could come
into action. The raid lasted only 90 seconds, killed
400 people and wounded 1200.
To the average political mind that might seem
something well worth keeping away from. The
trained army man knows that it is a reality of modern
war which will be a commonplace of war henceforth.
He knows that study of that sort of thing at first
hand could be of inestimable value to this country’s
defence. Instead, he goes through with his peace-
time manoeuvres and parades, and is well trained for
taking part in pageants and processions.
There should be one or two staff officers observ-
ing in both China and Spain. Such appointments
should have been made for the Abyssinian affair also.
The fighting in each of these places shows up the
strength and weaknesses of modem war machines
and methods ; it is the sort of fighting, too, that Aus-
tralia would be involved in if it got into bother. We
have wretchedly inadequate military defence, but,
such as it is, its leaders ought to be familiar with war
as it is now being waged.
But the odds are a million to one on that no
politician in Australia would take up and father such
a suggestion as this. While the country is prepared
to stand the racket, all trips must be politicians’ trips.
More Millions for Education.
Addressing a conference of schoolteachers, N. S.
Wales Minister of Education Drummond attacked the
whole system of education in Australia.
He went for it on the grounds (1) that the system
of university education is inadequately supported;
(2) that physical education is wholly inadequate; (3)
that technical instruction is half-starved, poorly
equipped and dangerously inadequate. Other counts
in his indictment were: Lack of statistical data for
a policy of preparation for employment; pupils
allowed to leave school at too early an age ; no pro-
vision for the compulsory education of unemployed
youth.
Altogether the address sounded as if it came
from someone who coveted the job of administering
the £4,000,000 the Ma State annually spends on train-
ing young ideas, rather than from the man who held
the job.
Mr. Drummond’s remedy for the awful mess in
which he finds his department is—anyone might guess
it—a royal commission. Said commission, apparently,
is to be relied upon to goad the State into spending
whatever extra millions are necessary to put the edu-
cational picture into Drummondesque shipshapeness.
Passing over this pathetic faith in the efficacy of
royal commissions, is it really necessary to extend
the teaching business? The Minister’s first point,
regarding university training, shows the trend of his
idea of education. It is out of perspective. In N. S.
Wales, with a population of something over two mil-
lions, there are (including 15,204 schoolteachers, 3332
physicians, 2236 parsons, 1672 gents one, 1443 dentists
and 718 architects) about 25,000 members of the
learned professions plying their callings, and most of
them say their game is woefully overcrowded. One
and a quarter p.c. of the population. The rest of
the mob may be just as brainy and knowledgeable as
the professionals, but they gained their specialised
experience in an atmosphere devoid of chalk-dustings
from blackboards. The three Rs were all most of
them ever acquired at school or found in the least
degree useful afterwards.
If Mr. Drummond could look a little outside the
ambit of schools and blackboards he would be attack-
ing the conditions that curtail opportunities of appren-
ticeship and in other ways bar the necessarily humble
entrances to useful vocations. Extra millions for
education will do nothing to solve that problem.
£80,000,000 Falling Due.
On December 15 this year something like £80,000,000
of Commonwealth-domiciled loans falls due for re-
demption. Straightout, full repayment is out of the
question.
There is still a huge load of floating debt, repre-
senting mainly depression-time Budget deficits (about
£70,000,000), which is sufficiently great an eyesore to
deserve dealing with before any attempt is made to
wipe out debt ostensibly represented, anyway, by
“works” or by contribution to the last war.
“Repayment” isn’t the word to be used; it is
“conversion.” Converting £80,000,000 now carrying
mostly 4 p.c. and floating a couple of new “works”
loans for the usual £7,500,000 or so a time will make
1938 a big year for the Loan Council. If the job is
handled sensibly (which implies at least a partial
muzzling of N. S. Wales Premier Stevens), and if no
world cataclysm happens, it may pass off all right.
The last new loan was raised at a cost of £3 15s.
6d. per cent., so, prima facie, a conversion of existing
4 p.c. loans should be easy. A proportion of present
Consols-holders, however, may take their profit on
redemption of the expiring loans and put the money
into entirely new avenues of investment.
If 10 p.c. of holders did that it would mean bor-
rowing from outsiders a sum equal to the usual half-
yearly “operation” (in addition to that operation). If
20 p.c. fail to convert it. will mean extra borrowing
on the market to the extent of a full year’s operation.
The point isn’t that the debt will increase if the
£80,000,000 isn’t fully retaken by present holders ; the
debt won’t. It is that the investment market may be
asked for more new money than it is prepared to
produce at current rates of interest, and the cost of
borrowing may rise.
Governments should walk, financially, as if tread-
ing on eggshells until 1938 is out. It certainly isn’t
the time for Sydney Water Board to talk of splashing
into £3,000,000 of new loan money, £966,000 of it
“to prevent pollution of beaches.” Preventing the
pollution of our credit is more important.
They All Know Flynn.
When John Flynn started his Australian Inland Mis-
sion 25 years ago, it took as long for many settlers to
reach a doctor as it did for the Sydney or Melbourne
man to make a trip to Europe. “Hospital” was a word
not yet in the lexicon of the outback.
Flynn began with hospitals. They were usually
a couple of galvanised-iron rooms with a few beds,
a verandah, a pawpaw-tree growing in front, a kitchen
and a woodheap. Staffs were usually a couple of
nurses, who were sometimes asked to be surgeons in
urgent cases.
Sometimes an SOS came in by black boy or
mulga wire to say that there was a patient over the
horizon who was not in a fit state to attend for hos-
pital treatment. Then one of the nurses mounted the
nearest camel or clambered into or on to the nearest
conveyance and travelled night and day to give succor.
In the background all the time was Flynn, lean,
philosophical and looking anything but a meenister.
Everywhere he went he took an aroma of hope and
practical cheerfulness.
When radio began to be advertised, John Flynn
was one of the first men to seek to apply it to the
outback. He was the urge behind the inventor of a
bicycle-pedal-set which enabled the lonely settler
not merely to listen to the great world of civilisation,
but to transmit as well. Now, over 100 of Flynn’s
receiver transmitters are in use in the loneliest parts
of Australia, and most of the stations where they exist
have, largely through his efforts, been officially recog-
nised as telegraph stations.
Then came the flying-doctor era that was
Flynn’s idea, too. The first A.I.M. doctor and ’plane
were set down at Cloncurry (N.Q.) almost a decade
ago. Since then bases have been opened through the
north and north-west.
To-day the hospitals and other services cover ter-
ritory 2000 miles long and 1200 miles deep, reaching
wherever there are settlers to be served. Even so, the
organisation is far from complete. On the occasion
of the mission’s silver jubilee, the A.I.M. could do
with a long-pursed benefactor or two.
Australians as Inventors.
For a country which for most of its civilised existence
was so far away from the world’s great centres of
industry that it was almost off the earth, Australia
has a remarkable record of invention, as F. P. Knee-
shaw, president of the Australian Institute of Engi-
neers, has mentioned.
The shearing machine was the invention that did
nfost for Australia. Its early development found
scope for a young man who has since become
the father of the “baby” motor-car —Lord Austin,
whose early engineering career was begun in Victoria.
Australian strippers and harvesters have revolu-
tionised the world’s grain industry, and the stump-
jump plough has put millions of acres of land into
cultivation which otherwise would have remained
under pasture or worthless timber.
The Michell thrust-bearing, invented in Mel-
bourne, made possible the world’s biggest battleship
—H.M.S. Hood. The experiments of Hargrave made
flying possible, as the Wright brothers acknowledged.
The slotted wing was the invention of an Australian—
one Wragge. The frozen-meat trade had its genesis
in Harrison’s pioneer factory at Geelong—the first in
the world to make ice.
Julius, inventor of the totalisator, is Australian,
and son of an archbishop. The tracer bullet claims
this country as its native land. The multiplex telegram
printer-recorder owned one Murray, an employee of
the “S. M. Herald,” as father in an earlier day. Persian
roads of modern days owe something to the Australian
fire-plough.
There is, in short, not a corner of the world in
which the inhabitants do not owe something to Aus-
tralian scientific curiosity. Only the other day it was
recorded in the Canadian press that the Eskimos had
abandoned their ancient methods of keeping them-
selves in their clothes in favor of the zip fastener,
which Mr. Kneeshaw declares also claims the Com-
monwealth as its native land. Yet Australians so little
honor their inventors that probably, if Mr. Kneeshaw
were to serve a questionnaire on all his adult com-
patriots, male and female, scarcely any of them could
name the benefactor who relieved them of the need
of buttoning themselves up.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“O. de V.”: Workmen engaged in
giving Sydney statuary its sesquicenten-
ary spit and polish met with a hostile
reception when they tackled John Robert-
son’s statue in the Botanic Gardens.
Within a few seconds first one then the
entire cast of renovators went through
a frantic series of motions totally uncon-
nected with the job, and then with one
accord hurriedly lit out for the horizon.
They had struck a wasps’ nest. As the
shades of evening were falling a bee-
expert strolled unconcernedly into the
danger zone, located the point by which
the insects entered the statue, and with
a piece of gauze plugged the earhole of
the defunct statesman, after which it was
possible to scrape him clean.
* * * *
“Mak” : An unreported aspect of Vic.’s
infantile paralysis visitation has been its
effect on the holiday arrangements of
thousands of parents. For the first time
in years there are husbands who have
got away from their wives for vacations.
Excuses for this break with family tradi-
tion have been “the risk of exposing the
kids to infection while travelling, my
dear,” and the “darned nuisance of get-
ting border-permits, darling.” So Sydney
has extended its hospitality to hundreds
of grass-widowers. Of course, the epi-
demic excuse has had its two-edged
moments. There is the case of a hus-
band I know who convinced his wife it
wouldn’t do for the kids to go north—
and who was left in Melbourne to mind
the family while the missus made for
Sydney.
* * * *
“Jennie”: “Mak’s” reference (B.
29/12/’37) to the new system of operat-
ing traffic lights by means of gadgets
which mechanically “count” the vehicles
approaching an intersection didn’t men-
tion its awkward effect on the pedes-
trian. In Brisbane, where this “im-
proved” system is operating, walkers are
uncertain whether the green light will
favor them for a few seconds or a few
minutes. To ensure a safe passage most
foot-travellers negotiate the street inter-
sections at a sharp sprint. It is a fine
sight on a midsummer day to see young
and old with one accord break into a
run when the green light signals them to
cross the street. The effect is some-
what marred by the poor performances
put up by aged and crippled persons, but
these are gradually disappearing from the
streets. Give the traffic regulationists
two more decades and they’ll make the
pedestrian as extinct as the dodo.
* * * *
“V.R.”: My nomination for the best
exam, reply is that of a candidate for
Fire Brigade employment who, asked
what he would do on arrival at an out-
break of fire at 3 a.m. in the business
heart of the city, began a long and de-
tailed disquisition with “(1) locate, wake
and remove to safety all night-watch-
men in the block.”
* * * *
“Zuyder”: According to a cable,
Princess Juliana of the Netherlands re-
cently declared herself as entirely un-
concerned whether her coming child
should be a boy or a girl, as she in-
tended to have a dozen more and some
of them were bound to be male. An
admirable determination, doubtless, and
one, if carried into effect, that would
mark a gratifying reversal of form, so to
speak, in the Dutch royal family. Queen
Wilhelmina had to wait eight years for
the arrival of her one ewe lamb, Juliana,
by which time the patience of her sub-
jects was almost exhausted. Inciden-
tally, if hereditary monarchy is an insti-
tution worth preserving, it might fairly be
argued that queens make better figure-
heads than kings because they induce
more chivalrous instincts in the bulk of
the people. It is nearly 50 years since
Holland had a king—until the present
Queen came of age her mother acted as
Regent —and probably no country in
Europe has had so few internal disturb-
ances or got on so well with its neighbors.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: “El V.’s” treatise on in-
appropriate Christmas greetings (B.
5/1/’3B) recalls an epistle from a fed-up
Digger in the Senussi campaign in the
Jordan Valley, when malaria, mos-
quitoes, thieving Bedouins and other
vermin were making life sorrowful. The
“One gallon , an charge it to Rear-Commodore Peanut !”
screed ran: “Dear Mother, —I am now
in the land where the Lord was born.
I wish to the Lord I was in the land
where I was born.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Schizophrenia is likely
to be as overworked a term before long
as inferiority complex is now. It is a
comparatively new name for a long-
recognised mental disease, prevalent
among young people, and probably on
the increase in these days of hectic living
and the scare-throwing proclivities of a
hysterical press. The sufferer gradually
grows more and more moody and
“queer,” gets world-against-him (or -her)
notions, broods on them, and steadily de-
velops a completely self-centred and dis-
torted outlook on real life. If reality
forces its way into this self-made retreat
of illusion, suicide or acts of violence may
result. In any case the advanced victim
is useless as a working unit in the com-
munity, unreliable and unstable. Mental-
hospital treatment is very successful in
early cases, but the onset is so insidious
that, as yet, these seldom come under
skilled attention.
* * * *
“Xo”: There’s more Melbourne talk
of seeking Parliamentary authority to
enable the City Council to confer on dis-
tinguished victims the Freedom of the
City. Seems the subject was raised dur-
ing preparation for the 1934 celebra-
tions, but a 1932 Crown Solicitor’s
opinion held that the Hon. Freedom of
the Borough Act, 1885, didn’t extend to
the Dominions. Therefore Scott and
Black and Masefield and various other
centenary personalities didn’t receive the
old English privileges of pasturing cattle
in parklands, hawking fish in the streets
or voting in borough elections. All
the “freedom” means nowadays is
that, in the opinion of the civic authority,
the recipient is worth the respect of the
citizens. After all, you couldn’t have
people grazing cows in Fitzroy Gardens,
but Melbourne City Council could estab-
lish the precedent of giving the honor
some practical value by including, say,
a free city motor-parking privilege.
* * * m
“Jachris”: I’m willing to bet there was
a bit of a barney about the advertising
for the Carroll-Leto fight in Sydney last
week. A tobacco company provided the
cup (a handsome piece of work, too)
and the ads. acknowledged its support in
caps:—
THE WINNER TO RECEIVE THE
TOBACCO COY.’S TROPHY.
But the scrap took place at the Sports
Ground, and, lower down, the ad. hinted
at the advantages that arena offered over
rival fight emporiums:
Enjoy your boxing in the open air, free
from the fumes of tobacco.
It’d take a lot of explaining away.
* * * *
“Macann”: If road slaughter—lo
killed every week in 1937 in N. S. Wales
and 150 smashed up weekly as well—
were taken seriously, films like “The
Perfect Specimen” would be banned.
Flynn and his girl friend drive cars
through iron fences, through heavy bar-
ricades erected across roads by the
police and in similarly reckless madness
across rough country. Doing it against
actual obstacles, instead of film props.,
they’d smash their necks ; in the film
they don’t even scratch their cars. The
implication, likely to be accepted by
idiots with a few spots aboard, is that
reckless car driving is not only a fine
expression of manliness, but carries no
risks. The necks of such people don’t
matter; the risk to them might even
provide an argument for subsidising
films of the sort. It would be no con-
solation to their victims that it was all
bloodless on the flicks.
* * * *
“Krill”: The metho.-and-banana cock-
tail had been improved upon by an old
offender who appeared in Brisbane
Police Court recently on a charge of
drunkenness and obscene language.
When lumbered he had with him a
bottle of methylated spirits containing
banana peel, lemon peel and cloves. The
P.M. must have had some appreciation
of the prisoner’s inventive ability, for he
convicted and discharged him on the
drunkenness count.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Improver”: Blime, there’s
no sportin’ spirit left these days, an’ me
doin’ me best ter get a bit tergether to
’ave the boss all set wiv the ’eads fer
gettin’ a reduction uv sentence so’s ’e
can get back ter biz. W’en I ’ears about
that big Mayor bloke cornin’ down from
Brisbane ter Melbourne wiv a solid gold
chain what goes round ’im three times,
watto I sez, a man’s set. So I puts in
a ’ole flamin’ day takin’ a screw round
the Central station. This mornin’ I
lamps the paper, an’ it fair put me orf
me brekfus. Stedder fetchin’ it along
in ’is port, ther flamin’ cow’s gorn an’
give it ter ther Commonwealth Bank ter
take down fer ’im. An’, yer can take it
from me, that bloke King O’Malley wot
started that ther bank muster bin in ther
box-crackin’ line ’imself onct. Notter
flamin’ ’ope.
* * * *
“ Kwakprak ”: In the long ago
I used to do a lot of surfing and
athletics, but we never heard of
“surfer’s” or “athlete’s”. foot. Nowa-
days every second youngster seems to
either have it or the idea of having it,
and they ask pathetically whether it is
caused by the 8.0. which, according to
the fearsome ad.-strips, is constantly
wrecking bright young lives. It isn’t. It
is a kind of ringworm, caused by a
fungus picked up from infected floors
of surf-sheds and dressing-rooms. It
thrives in heat and moisture, but in its
early stages is easy to get rid of by care-
ful local drying and cleanliness, aided
by mild antiseptics. If it begins to
spread, it’s a case for a skin specialist.
* # * *
“Historickuss”: “Bathampton” (B.
19/l/’3B) must have gaps in his know-
ledge of the bibliography concerning
Governor Phillip if the allegation of
suicide is news to him. Miss Bowie,
daughter of a Dr. Bowie who lived oppo-
site Phillip in Bennett-street, Bath, moved
with her people into Phillip’s house after
his death. Miss Bowie, who was alive
in 1911, was interviewed several times
by newspaper men. She said she had
often seen Phillip’s ghost (“he was an
ugly little man,” according to her), and
added that there was a tradition that
Phillip had ended his life by an act of
his own will. The story is believable,
for Phillip, towards the close of his life,
was completely paralysed in one side.
For such an actively-minded man death
by slow paralysis would have been an
unbearable trial.
“Orwell”: It has been promised that
the little-known N.S.W. flag (blue ensign
with a star-studded red cross of St.
Andrew along the horizontal bar on
which stretches a yellow lion) granted by
Admiralty Warrant in 1903 will flaunt
itself among the rest at the coming cele-
brations. Almost the only time within
recent years when this strange device has
fluttered in the breeze was a month ago,
when two flags borrowed from the Public
Works Department graced the entrance
to Ryde Soldiers’ Memorial Hospital.
But there was an earlier flag. In 1876
the Governor proclaimed the blue ensign
with the N.S.W. coat of arms inserted
as the flag of all ships belonging to the
Government of the colony.
“Bundalinga”: As this is the year for
history, here’s my contribution. In Syd-
ney during 1817 a Government pro-
clamation prohibited the sale of bread
until it was at least 24 hours old. Wheat
was scarce at the time, and the idea was
to force people to eat stale bread. Their
appetites were thus curbed, as when
fresh bread was available the consump-
tion was much greater.
A HUNDRED AND FIFTY YEARS.
A hundred and fifty years
Since a world of wilderness woke
To the steps of the pioneers,
Since the ring of the axe’s stroke
The hush of the forests broke
On the fringe of the trackless spheres
Hidden behind the cloak
Of many a million years!
A hundred and fifty years
Since first on our southern breeze
The banner that cleaves and clears
A path over all the seas
From the Horn to the Hebrides
Was floated aloft with cheers!
And what have we built in these
Hundred and fifty years!
A hundred and fifty years!
How brief as yet is our span,
So little more* it appears,
Than twice the life of a man.
Withal, since our day began
In toil and travail and tears,
There’s a record rich to scan
In a hundred and fifty years.
A hundred and fifty years
Since our nation’s torch was lit
In a tangle of hopes and fears
And perils infinite!
But in fadeless letters it’s writ,
And in names that the land reveres,
That our forebears who did their bit
Left something to show for it
In a hundred and fifty years.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tandan”: An incident that might
have stepped out of the “Ladies’ Maga-
zine” of the ’sixties occurred at Beach-
port (S.A.). A 12-months-old baby
climbed to the sill of a second-storey
window of the Beachport Hotel and over-
balanced. After bouncing on the roof of
the verandah nine feet below, he was just
dropping the other ten feet to the ground
when a woman stepped forward, fielded
him neatly, handed him over to one of
the hotel attendants, got into a car and
drove away without revealing her identity.
* * * *.
“Wordologist”: “Philo” (B. 12/1/’37)
hasn’t quite got hold of the right end of
the • alleged Americanisms “gotten”
and “overly.” Neither is a long form
of something we have shortened. . The
tendency of English has been to let go
Yes, I'll be DELIGHTED, Mrs. Potls-Piper—six o'clock in your state-
room for cocktails
preterites in verbs, but we still
have “gotten” as. an adjective participle
in such an expression as “ill-gotten gains,”
and “gotten” still survives in English dia-
lect. “Overly” is not the same as “over,”
but is “over” (adverb) plus “ly”
(supreme), and means “excessively.”
* * * *
“Hermanicus”: Tell “Sailor Once”
that the first U.S.A. warships to visit
Australia arrived long before 1901. In
1832 Sydney awoke one morning to find
"That one doesn't come up to the standards required by the Pure Foods Act, your Majesty!”
two American frigates in Sydney Cove.
Possessed of good charts, the commander
had navigated the harbor in the dark.
He remarked that had war existed
he could have attacked and burned the
town before anyone took alarm.
* * * *
“Epee”: A curious feature of recent
Japanese military equipment is the re-
turn by commissioned officers to the
ancient sword, the historic katana of the
Samurai. Up to quite recently officers
carried a copy of the German cere-
monial sword, steel-scabbarded, slightly
curved and with a light D-shaped hand-
guard. .All the photographs I have seen
lately show Nipponese officers wearing
the weapon of their forebears with its
hiltless grip and slightly-curved blade
sheathed in lacquered wood. The genuine
katana is a cherished family heirloom.
None below the rank of Samurai might
own one; the old-time makers were
regarded as artists, and swords signed
by the maker bring far more than their
weight in gold from Western collectors.
So-called “mirror blades,” showing that
the artists of some hundreds of years
ago had known the secret' of stainless
steel, are without price.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: That Victoria, the conser-
vative, should have beaten U.S.A. by
more than four years on a point of
divorce legislation sounds incredible, but
it is a fact. A bill has just been intro-
duced in the Legislative Assembly at
Albany (U.S.A.) to enable men to sue
for alimony in the same way as women.
In 1933 the Vic. Marriage Act was
amended to place husbands on an equal
footing with wives in the matter of ali-
mony. S.A.. went a step beyond Vic.
with a law providing that husbands may
claim maintenance from wives, and last
year, doubtless to keep upsides with the
neighbor State, the Vic. Probate and Ad-
ministration Act was amended to allow
widowers to claim allowances from the
estates of deceased wives.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: How would Herr Hitler deal
with this situation? A Scottish returned
soldier at Caulfield (Vic.) Military Hos-
pital was in need of a blood transfusion
and a regular donor was hurriedly sent
for. He turned out to be a Jew furrier,
but happily he had served in the war in
the Scots Guards.
* * * j fe
“King’s Inns”: The trouble about
coroners (B. 19/1 /’3B) is that they don’t
conduct their inquiries according to the
ordinary rules of evidence. Another
fact is that the coroner’s office has really
become obsolete. In the old days the
“crowner” was an official similar tp an
Indian district magistrate. He not only
collected the revenue, but he investi-
gated violent deaths, and if the man had
committed suicide he could take his
goods and forfeit them to the Crown,
which was the penalty for suicide. If
there was a murder, and the coroner was
able to convict someone, then the felon’s
goods could be attained, and forfeited
to the Crown. But nowadays increased
police jurisdiction has brought the
coroner’s powers as a criminal court
to an end.
* * * *
“Marija”: Another chapter was added
to the long story of one of Australia’s
most mysterious crimes with the inquest
at Albury (N.S.W.) last week into the
death of a young woman whose partly -
burned body was discovered in Septem-
ber, 1934, lying half in a culvert near
that town. Despite all efforts of the
police to identify her —moulds were
made of her teeth showing the fillings,
and dentists all over the world were cir-
cularised ; laundry owners in Australia
were questioned about markings on the
towel found wrapped about her head (the
coroner determined that, although there
was a bullet wound through her neck,
death had been caused by battering);
fingerprints were checked, and investi-
gations made regarding all women who
did not vote at the Federal elections —
she is still known to the flapper press
only as “the Pyjama Girl” (the body was
clothed in silk Oriental pyjamas). The
coroner found that “an unknown
woman, aged about 24 years, had met
her death between August 28 and August
31, 1934,” but he was unable to say
“where and by whom her injuries were
inflicted.” No order was given as to
burial of the body, which is embalmed
and has for three years been kept in a
formalin bath at Sydney University. The
police are still persevering with the case.
* * * *
“Fry”: A Richmond (Vic.) wood, coat
and coke merchant invokes M. Dumas
with a signboard on which he styles him-
self a “coqueteer.”
* * * *
“Ex-Officer”: Touching the question
of hat-raising to the Cenotaph (B.
19/l/’3B), I suspect that a number of
folk are a trifle confused at the number
and variety of Sydney’s war memorials.
The other day in a Bondi tram I over-
heard a citizen pointing out the Hyde
Park Memorial to three country friends
as the Cenotaph. Question is, why not
raise one’s hat to that? And then, if one
were making a tour around Hyde Park,
there would be another hat-lift due at
the Emden gun and another at St.
Mary’s, which encloses the Lambert
Memorial. Reminds me of a little boy
whose mother noted that he raised his
cap as their bus passed the Cenotaph in
Whitehall, but she was startled into com-
ment when he dipped his lid to the
Crimean Memorial outside Westminster
School, which is close by. When ques-
tioned by his mother about this, small
boy uttered the poser: “But isn’t that a
war memorial, too?”
* * * *
“Kaurna”: It seems that, through Ger-
many’s thoroughgoing notions about the
teaching of geography, some reliable in-
formation about Australia is going to the
children of at least one European coun-
try. At present travelling from State to
State are Prof. Ernst Vollbehr, a Ger-
man painter, and Herr L. Betz, a German
high-school teacher. Their object, fos-
tered by the Nazi educational bosses, is
to compile a pictorial textbook of the
Commonwealth, for use in German
schools. After their return and the pub-
lication of their book, German children’s
knowledge of Australia will come from
a work compiled from first-hand know-
ledge, instead of from books that have
been culled from books that have been
culled from books about Australia.
* * * *
“Curram”: In Woodville (S. Aus.) it’s
no longer great fun to give a false fire
alarm and run like billy-o. As soon as
you pull the handle a voice bellows at
you, “Where is the fire? What sort of
building?” and a number of other ques-
tions, with pauses in between for your
answers. A two-way system of micro-
phones allows an operator at the fire-
station to get in touch with the person
who has given the alarm. In this way
the brigade finds out where the fire is
and some idea of what plant to take to it.
WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN.
“Not since the downfall of the Lang Government
has there occurred in the State Labor field so
sensational an event as the re-election to power in
the A.W.U. of Mr. John Bailey. Through all eastern
Australia the news that ‘Bailey is back in New
South Wales’ will prick the ears of the party’s war-
horses.’’—“S. M. Herald.”
Jonbalius topped the ballot,
But devil a word he spake;
He climbed aboard his nag once more,
He gave the reins a shake.
And off A.W.U. went
Like an arrow from the bow,
The foremost and the fleetest steed
Our Labor stables know.
Right glad were hosts of Comrades—
You should have heard them whoop,
The chaps who waged the uphill fight
Against the Inner Group,
When far and wide the tidings
Went with a mighty yell:
“Jonbalius comes! Jonbalius,
To give Jaklangius hell!”
Jaklangius spied Jonbalius
And dashed across the way:
“Jonbalius, I have downed thee
In many a bloody fray.
One of us two, Jonbalius,
Shall never more go back,
So lay you on straightway for John
And I’ll lay on for Jack.”
All round them paused the shindy
While met in mortal fight
The Big ’Un and the other
Rejuvenated knight.
Jaklangius smote Jonbalius
Fair on the point, and gaily
Exultant headlines screamed the news
Across the “Labor Daily.”
Jonbalius smote Jaklangius
A stinger on the block —
And, side by side, those chiefs of pride
Together took the knock.
They crashed to earth together
In a great lake of ink,
And still stood all who saw them fall
While one a pint might sink.
N.S.W.
MACAULAY IFORD.


j
ĵ
'\Ofor$ A
,20f0r1%
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVEN A
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
ĵ
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
The tale of the homing Minister and
Government dominie (all expenses paid)
used to be that N.S.W. had “the foinest
system of ejjication in the world.” Now
there is none so poor as to do it rever-
ence. At the Teachers’ conference in
Sydney, Minister Drummond almost
tearfully admitted its shortcomings, and
he and the delegates united to demand
a huge grant from the Commonwealth
Government, which the P.M. very prop-
erly refused. Education should be a
national matter; but Australia has had
more than enough of expenditure with-
out responsibility.
Mr. Rufe Naylor, the Master Mind of
the Turf, had, it transpires, a predecessor
in Sydney, though the previous M.M.’s
bent was for politics. Bailey is the name,
and a Sydney afternoon paper made the
discovery.
Though at one time a prominent mem-
ber of the Legislative Assembly, his
talents lay more in the direction of a
master mind than as a mouthpiece, and
he did not prosecute his ambitions in the
broader public sphere.
This is considered a ripe joke by old
Parliamentary hands, who remember
manoeuvres which preceded the forma-
tion of the Storey Government and the
chagrin of the Master Mind’s friends
when he was left out.
Bailey, who was M.L.A. for Goulburn
(1920-25), is back as State president of the
A.W.U. —he was the once-powerful
N.S.W. branch’s boss for many years. To
one of the “Tory” newspapers which are
giving an extraordinary amount of space
to the latest born-dead rebellion against
Lang and his Inner Group, Bailey’s
return is “a remarkable development,”
Bailey being “one of the most dominant
personalities the State Labor movement
has produced,” also “one of the leading
forces in the anti-conscription fight.” It
is becoming fashionable for conscription-
ist papers to go into ecstasies over anti-
conscriptionist leaders; all the same, it
will be about as easy for Bailey to regain
his old ascendancy in the “movement”
as it was to find Lasseter’s Lost “Reef.”
In its latest weekly diatribe against
Italy, “S. M. Herald” observed, with
overpowering smugness, that “the way of
the imperialist, like the way of the trans-
gressor, is not easy.” Still, our race has
been fairly well satisfied with its experi-
ences in Australia," Maoriland, Rotumah,
New Guinea, Borneo, Fiji, Tonga, the
Solomons, Bermuda, Newfoundland,
Canada, Honduras, the Falklands, Trini-
dad, Guiana, the West Indies, the Straits
Settlements, the Malay States, Hong
Kong, Burma, India, Ceylon, the Sey-
chelles, Mauritius, Socotra, Aden, Malta,
Gibraltar, Kenya, Uganda, Zanzibar,
Somaliland, Basutoland, Bechuanaland,
Swaziland, Nigeria, the Gold Coast,
Sierra Leone, the Sudan, Cameroons, the
Rhodesias, Cape Colony, Natal, the
Transvaal, Orangia and other places too
numerous to mention.
A special Labor conference, to be held
at Adelaide next Saturday, is to deter-
mine whether candidates for the new S.A.
Assembly seats are to run on the open-go
principle or be limited to one per elec-
torate, A.L.P. bosses to do the pick-
ing. Whichever way the decision goes,
trouble is gloomily anticipated. One
difficulty about turning dog on the open
go is that the A.L.P. bosses will have to
decide between Lacey and Threadgold in
Port Pirie, Dale and Howard in Adel-
aide and Richards and Pedler in Wal-
laroo. All are in the present Assembly,
and Lacey and Richards are respectively
leader and deputy-leader of the party.
Removed from the blighting influences
of Government ownership and bureau-
cracy, what a resourceful fellow the Aus-
tralian can be. One of the A.I.M. padres
down in Sydney for the celebration of
the mission’s silver jubilee mentions that
since it was decided to station a flying
doctor at Croydon (N.Q.) every station
property within ’plane range is preparing
a landing ground of its own. If they
had to wait for Government to provide
landing grounds—or what pass for land-
ing grounds in Government’s eyes—they
might have to wait 50 years.
Back from U.S.A., Australian National
Airways flight superintendent C. H. Scott
says the use of larger modern ’planes
has created an airport problem in
America; many grounds are now too
small. Which is another reason why
Melbourne should acquire the Fisher-
men’s Bend site for additional airport
facilities.
THE WEEK’S BELLOWDRAMA.
Before the latest rebel conference met Mr. Lang served notice on the enemy demanding
payment within 30 days of money advanced by him to the “Labor Daily.”
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Harti-
gan has been getting beans from news-
paper correspondents for describing air-
conditioning of railway carriages as “a
luxury.” One writer morosely recalls
that Hartigan and other railway heads
went abroad “to study modern railway
methods,” and says they should have
gone to Victoria, “where, at small ex-
pense, they could have studied one of
the most up-to-date and efficiently man-
aged railway systems in the Empire.” A
nasty one that, but Mr. Hartigan went
looking for it, especially as he com-
placently placed it on record that Rail-
way House is air-conditioned.
Sydney “Sun,” which claims to have a
million readers or thereabouts, has had
the infernal cheek to ask every one of
them “What have you done for the
Empire these serious times?” What has
the “Sun” done, beyond publishing
furious attacks on Germany, Italy and
Japan, and varying them now and again
with fantastic rubbish about the alleged
might of Russia?
One Cyril Bavin, addressing the
Y.M.C.A. board at Sydney, said that, in
the case of a British employer shifting
his factory and plant to a Dominion, the
British Government has offered to pay
“up to 75 p.c. of the cost of migration
of the workers.” This offers a new one
to Australians, but Bavin vouches for it,
and suggests the transfer of motor-chassis
plants. Migration of shipbuilders might
also be arranged for, especially if the
Governments concerned combine to place
a contract for one of those vessels that are
to keep the British flag flying in the
Pacific.
Without intending it, .Willcock, the
Westralian Labor Premier, has made the
most withering comment on the payment
of £BO4 (“for recreation leave”) to
N.S.W. Government pipeworks employees
who stayed on the job when the works
were sold —a payment to which, the
Auditor-General reports, the men had
“no legal claim,” and which wasn’t even
referred to the Minister. Willcock re-
marked that he was in the Westralian
Government railwaf service for 20 years
and retired without a razoo.
With a “considerably lower” tender,
Vic. railways construction branch has
won the State contract for building 81
grain elevators. Accepted tender,
£452,714 14s. Any loss will be (1)
shouldered by the people, among whom
are the unsuccessful private tenderers,
and (2) submerged in the maze of railway
bookkeeping until such time as it can be
lumped in with other deficits and
“written-off” by an obliging State Gov-
ernment which recently face-lifted the
Clapp concern by relieving it of
£30,000,000 of “dead capital.”
The silly old Australian Labor notion
that war should be illegal without a
referendum has been taken up in the
U.S.A. and was put to the vote in the
House. It was scotched by the personal
intervention of the President, who ad-
dressed a letter to the Speaker saying
that such a resolution would “encourage
other nations to believe they could
violate American rights with impunity”
and “would cripple any President in the
conduct of foreign relations” ; but, as the
ayes were 188 and the noes only 209,
it is sure to be trotted out again. In
these days of undeclared wars the thing
is stark staring madness.
The wool industry has an eloquent
champion in a Melbourne lady, Anne
Dyason, 'who has written an “Argus”
letter putting the case for it to her
sisters. She says truly that synthetic
fibre and rayon are darkening the out-
look for Australia’s greatest industry.
She deplores the fact that “such light
summerweight woollens as chalys, de-
laine, voile and so forth have dis-
appeared from a market swamped with
rayon.” Her plea for “a sound currency
in textiles, not debased by artificial
fibre,” should be hearkened to by all
Australian women. If wool loses its pre-
dominance, they will suffer, and part of
the guilt will be on their shoulders.
How times change these reformers!
At Armidale (N.S.W.) in June, 1923, one
Mick Bruxner was so bursting with
ardor for new States that he said this to
a New States convention:
We will have to take drastic action. I
am prepared to do my bit. If you find
you can’t get what you want from the
Commonwealth Constitution, and if you
think it necessary to open a bank account
in Armidale, Tenterfield or Lismore and
say “We’ll pay the whole of our taxes into
that account and start a show of our own
—if you are prepared to do that and you
want a man to stand up to it, I’ll be the
first to go to gaol.
Nowadays a martyr’s cell is as far from
Mick’s thoughts as the North Pole.
However, he is believed to be quite pre-
pared to stand up to the State Premier-
ship if the party organisations decide to
drop Stevens.
Sydney “Sun,” while warmly approv-
ing of Stevens’s philanthropy in let-
ting “boards and councils have the right
to float their own loans,” thinks “this
measure of autonomy doesn’t go far
enough.”
The chief trouble of the railways is that
they have never had control of their
finances. There appears to be no reason
why the Commissioner should not be
allowed the same freedom to borrow as is
now to be given to other authorities.
It might be a good thing to let
the Commissioner have this freedom for
once. Once would be enough; it
would show how much the Commissioner
wouldn’t get.
Since Anthony Eden’s foreign “policy”
shook the ages-old devotion to Britain
of the Belgians and the Portuguese, it has
been suggested that the ground thus lost
has been made up in Holland and the
Scandinavian countries. Now Holland
has recognised the accomplished fact in
Abyssinia, and the Swedish Minister of
Foreign Affairs has come out with a
demand that “the nations which adopted
sanctions against Italy should arrange a
joint settlement of their relations with
that country.”
Since the participation of Sweden in
sanctions our relations with Italy have
been irregular. The position should be
settled.
The gentleman added acidly that “it is
necessary to resist the tendency to trans-
form the League into an alliance against
non-members” ; and this will be acknow-
ledged by everybody who is not weak in
the head.


THE LANDING OF CAPTAIN PHILLIP (UNOFFICIAL).


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities?.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ACCELERATION DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
Champions
ACCELERATION can only be
satisfactory in an engine with per-
fect ignition. To get the kind of
“pick-up” that makes driving a
real pleasure, install a set of new
Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
wmm
&
****
******
111
SW
11
lllllv
'JJ7SJJJJ
'JJJJJSSS
'JJJJJJJT.
V7-V//1
?//«
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Will Dyson, gone west at 55, was one
of the great caricaturists and political
cartoonists of a generation which pro-
duced many good ones. Born at Bal-
larat, he commenced his career as a
black-and-white artist with The Bulle-
tin, evincing a genius for portraiture and
developing a strong but delicate line that
was entirely his own. London’s Labor
“Herald” then claimed him. His Great
War cartoons definitely placed him in
the front rank: he was one of the official
artists with the A.I.F. After the war he
was for a while on the staff of Melb.
“Herald,” but seven years ago he re-
turned to London “Herald.” Dyson
married Ruby Lindsay, sister of Nor-
man, in 1910. She died in 1919. One
of the highlights in Will Dyson’s career
was the opening by Queen Mary of the
London exhibition of his A.I.F. war-
zone sketches, the proceeds of which
went to war charities. Shaw, Wells and
Chesterton have written in praise of his
political cartoons, which were always on
the side of the underdog.
Uncle Sam, specialist in salesmen, has
picked G. C. Howard to represent his
interests as Trade Commissioner for Aus-
tralia, with headquarters in Sydney.
Howard has been living somewhere near
G.C. HOWARD.
the Sydney longitude for 18 years. When
he got his first Government appointment
in 1923, as Trade Commissioner in
China, he was in business in Japan. In
1927 he was transferred to the Philippines,
where he took over the additional duties
of Economic Adviser to the Governor-
General. India has claimed him during
the last seven years. He’s fond of golf
and motoring, and is a very good ama-
teur photographer.
The Inky Way will miss Claude
McKay, who has resigned from the
managing-editorship and the board of
directors of “Smith’s Weekly.” A native
of Kilmore (Vic.), he first chased news
on the “Advertiser” of that village, and
later was on the literary staffs of the
“Age” and the “Argus” of Melbourne,
the Brisbane “Courier” and the “Evening
News” and “Daily Telegraph” of Sydney.
He was at one time a publicity man for
J. C. Williamson. During the war he
directed the publicity of several war-
loan campaigns. His wife was Dorothy
Sidney, an English comedy actress, and
a son is a golf champion. A brilliant
journalist and a genial personality, he
still has six months to go before reach-
ing .three-score years.
Flying-Officer A. E. Clouston, who is
to make a flight from England to Aus-
tralia and M.L. and back in connection
with New South Wales’s 150th birthday
—the stunt was arranged by the London
“Daily Telegraph”—will use the D.H.
Comet in which Scott and Black won
the Melb. air race in 1934. Clouston,
who holds the reputation of being the
strongest man in the R.A.F., is a Maori-
lander, born at Motueka. He tried other
modes of transport before taking up fly-
ing ; went to sea at 14, and after that
went into the motor business. After
training as a flier he was for some years
instructor to the Marlborough Aero Club.
He joined the R.A.F. shortly after he
turned 21, and has done a lot of air-
racing.
Four years ago F. Downing, of Wyche-
proof (Vic.), was retired on superannua-
tion by the Railway Department on the
ground of ill-health. Thereupon he
took holy orders, was appointed to
the diocese of St. Arnaud, and a couple
of weeks ago delivered the sermon at
the Church of England, Emu. Now he’s
back again as stationmaster at Wyche-
proof. Under the department’s regula-
tions, an employee who is retired for
health reasons can be recalled if he gets
his kick back.
This week The Bulletin loses its
Oldest Inhabitant —Tom Reynolds, who
has been a feature of the comp.-room for
the last 55 years, and is going into retire-
ment. He joined up, a full-blown comp,
who had served his time, when Haynes
was manager and Archibald was editor,
in the old office which gave its name to
Sydney’s Bulletin-place. After about 15
years there the address was
changed to George-street, where
the pink-jacketed journal lived
till it moved a few doors up the
street to its present abode six
years ago. It was on the occasion
of that last move that Tom’s
patience gave way. “If I’d
known,” he said bitterly, “that
they’d be moving every two
minutes, I’d never have joined the
staff.”
A man who will have more say about
the books Sydneysiders read this year
than the Commonwealth Censors h?tve is
L. H. Barron, who has just been
appointed as Dymock’s London agent.
Though he started toil with a London
publishing firm and is in business there
now himself as a publisher of the “Micro-
scope” and director of a literary and
press agency, he knows these parts.
He had some years in Maoriland with
Whitcombe and Tombs, has been in Aus-
tralia, and has travelled widely on both
sides of the Pacific.
When 2BL decided to add a 7 p.m.
“Diggers’ Session” to its nightly pro-
gramme it didn’t have to search far
in broadcasting circles to find a good
man to conduct it. The job went to
E. V. Timms, an Anzac who sailed with
the first A.I.F. batch. Timms has pub-
lished 14 books and written several
radio serials, and other peace-time ex-
periences include farming and gold-
mining. He collaborated in the scenario
of the Australian films “The Squatter’s
Daughter,” “Uncivilised” and *“Rangle
River.”
Alan Simpson, of the old S.A. metal-
working manufacturing firm, has retired
from the directorate of the Bank of
Adelaide, on account of continued ill-
health. The bank gets in his place an
equally good man on the board,
McGregor Reid, a leading accountant.
The Ormonde on its latest visit to Aus-
tralia carried as ship’s surgeon Dr.
Philip Walker Taylor, a native of Syd-
ney, who combines medicine and the
writing of detective fiction. A son of
the late Canon H. Walker Taylor, he is
in his middle thirties. A Sydney
Grammar School boy, he took his M B.
and B.S. at Sydney Uni. There fol-
lowed appointments at Sydney and Royal
Prince Alfred Hospitals, research work
at Sydney Uni. Medical School, a few
years as surgeon with the Royal Navy
on the Africa station and private prac-
tice in London. In between times he
managed to obtain his M.D. . and
F.R.A.C.S. He has written three thrillers,
A Murder in the Flagship, A Murder in
the Game Reserve and A Murder in the
Suez Canal, and has almost finished a
fourth, A Murder in the Tai Mahal.
Latest Labor resurrection is John
Bailey. He replaces Dalton (who
coquetted with the Langites) as State
president of the A.W.U. A majority of
300 over Dalton underlined A.W.U. re-
sentment. Bailey was also elected to the
Federal executive council of the union
as a State vice-president, and with the
secretary of the factory branch, L
O’Sullivan, is one of the N. S. Wales
delegates to the A.W.U.’s annual con-
vention this week.
Harold Bartlett, H.D.A., becomes
chief experimentalist of N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department vice S. E. Clayton,
who has taken charge of soil conserva-
tion. An ex-Digger, Bartlett was sta-
tioned at Parkes for many years, and to
him is largely due the improvement in
wheatgrowing in the central west.
When he first went there, little or
nothing was known of fallowing, bunt
treatment or seed selection ; the coming
of Nabawa, Dundee, Baringa and Ford
wheats capped his service. He devised
the ’hopper-poisoning scheme now
favored by the Agricultural Department.
Everyone in Brisbane yachting circles
knows Alfred Huybers, who has been for
some years commodore of the Royal
Queensland Yacht Club, and is president
or patron of many of the smaller clubs.
In addition to the comfortable cruiser-
type Bluebird, he runs, apd skippers on
occasion, a couple of restricted-class
boats* Dolphin and Fleetwing. His in-
terests extend to Rotary, the Institute of
International Affairs, of which he’s a
vice-president, and the League of Nations
ALFRED HUYBERS.
Union. In business he’s the head of
Queensland Pastoral Supplies. Supports
charities with a generous hand and has
made a name for himself for hospitality.
Melbourne’s George Sutton, Austra-
lian rep. for the English publishing house-
of Hutchinson, is venturing into profes-
sional editorship as literary boss of the
monthly “Digest of World Reading.” An
old Melbourne Grammar boy, he was
with the Air Force during the war, but
GEORGE SUTTON.
a boyhood atmosphere of music, books
and dogs has exerted a more lasting in-
fluence. A grandson of the Sutton who
started a music house in Ballarat in 1854
and shifted Yarrawards and penetrated to
Sydney, he’s Australia’s tailwagger-in-
chief, starting the dog-lovers’ club seven
years ago ; he still talks dogs over the
radio. Allan’s Melbourne music con-
cern has just accepted one of his songs,
and he is managing director of
Featuradio Sound Productions, which
now boasts recorded sessions on most
B-class stations in the Commonwealth.
As Hutchinson’s rep., he has handled the
fiction of more than a dozen Australian
authors.
Secretary of the Vic. section and the
Federal Council of Australian Aerial
Medical Services since their incorpora-
tion, J. W. Collings, bachelor, lives in
Melbourne, which has been the home of
his family since 1842. Although he has
never had the time to get round the out-
back which he has done so much to help,
he has been hon. treas. of the Hermanns-
burg Mission water scheme, the cost of
which was collected in Melbourne in
1934. Keenly interested in art, he col-
lects pictures and china, and during the
Melbourne centenary helped organise the
Early-Victorian exhibition. Before that
he performed a similar job for the Scot-
tish antique exhibition. It was from his
Sassafras house, where A.A.M.S. sup-
porters heard a pedal-set speak with Adel-
aide and Innamincka last February, that
he learned of the latest anonymous £lOOO
donation towards the 1938 cost of main-
taining the five flying-doctor bases.
Lieut.-Col. A. R. Gordon, representing
the Northern Ireland branch of the
Empire Parliamentary Association at the
sesquicentenary revels in Sydney, is a
grandson of Edward John Eyre, the
explorer. While in South Australia
he covered, though by more expedi-
tious and comfortable means of trans-
port, some of the stages in the
historic journey made by his famous
forebear along the shores of the Great
Australian Bight to Westralia. At home
he is a member of the Parliament of
Northern Ireland and Financial Secretary
to the Ministry of Finance. His Aus-
tralian visit should give him some tips
on how much the taxpayer can stand.


>1
m
mm®
mm
\' , ''''
/
.
wwm.
- mm&m
iMr
ilmm
% mi!
i BH
I* •
llPj? J
i-i S-f
•?si
IMit
S:SSk§Si?i’
»» 8&
Mf W:
m
m
m
'' "''"":;r-K.
" * W s
•mm-. mm* '
1
mi
r*€
i\
r.
To forecast and provide for public needs in the coming years
is an important factor in every efficient business organisation.
Especially is this so in the wireless industry.
In the research laboratories of Amalgamated Wireless scientists
and technical engineers are engaged in furthering wireless
science—continually unfolding improved methods in all phases
of wireless development.
The work of the A.W.A. scientists and research engineers is
having a marked effect on the development of broadcast trans-
mission and reception, and of wireless communication at sea,
on land, and in the air, and its results will be even greater in
the coming years.
It is this spirit of progress, this far-seeing policy of harnessing
wireless to new tasks, of scientific planning for requirements
years ahead, that has built up A.W.A.’s prestige as leaders of
the wireless industry in Australia.
AMALGAMATE
W I RE L E 5
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AV STRALI A’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: ’Sfunny how one misses
things. I’ve spent more than 20 years
in the back country, from Gippsland to
Cunnamulla, and never —
heard an abo. say, “Give it tickpen’!”;
saw a snake fight a goanna;
saw a snake trapped in a netting fence;
had a snake in my bunk;
carried pups in a billy or saw it done;
met Dan Kelly;
met a newchum with an Oxford bleat;
caught a really big cod;
cut more than 100 posts in a day;
had a dog that could count sheep;
been engaged to (or even noticed by) a
squatter’s daughter;
saw a wedgetail take a living- lamb;
heard anyone recite “The Man from Snowy
River”;
had a trot of heads;
met a station cook that was not a good
cook;
wore bowyangs;
eaten emu steaks;
drank painkiller;
died of thirst;
been burnt to death in a bushfire; or
failed to buy The Bulletin.
Maybe I lived too late. But I did meet
a. teetotal bullocky!
* * *
“Lowan”: In the Vic. Mallee I at-
tended an evening wedding of two first-
generation German-Australians. After
the ceremony, performed by a Lutheran
minister at the bride’s home, the guests
—nearly every adult in the neighboor-
hood —were invited to spend the night in
festivity. Shortly the cry went up :
“Where are the bride and ’groom?” The
bride’s father explained that in the part
of Germany from which he and the
’groom’s parents had come it was a reli-
gious custom that after marriage the
bridal pair should sit side by side in
silence in a separate room for 12 hours
to meditate on the significance of the
step they had taken. This custom, akin
to the Boer “upsitting” before marriage,
seems to be quite unknown to many Ger-
mans I have met elsewhere.
* * * *
“Cootca”: Another thing Binghi
missed making, apart from wheels, was
something in which to boil his tucker.
All tucker was roasted in the ashes or
eaten raw. It wasn’t that the stuff wasn’t
there to make a boiler —there is whips
of clay almost anywhere. In any case,
if he favored boiled or stewed meat, he
could have made it in a wooden coola-
mon. Either he just never thought of
it or else he didn’t like his moondoo
cooked that way.
* * * *
“Leaf-cutter”: Birdland’s struggle to
live may be a grim business for the birds,
but occasionally it affords lighter moments
to humans. Saw a butcher-bird catch
and kill a thrush, and after a slovenly
plucking of his kill he hung the carcass
in a sapling by fastening the foot in a
spiinter and cracking its leg to make the
body hang plumb. Butcher then flew
into a neighboring tree. A jackass that
had been watching the procedure then
swooped down, commandeered the deli-
cacy and flapped back to his perch, where
he started to hammer the dead fowl
against a limb. The butcher evidently
did some quick thinking. Flying
to Jacko’s tree, he started exercising his
powers of mimicry by bursting into a
peal of jackass laughter. When the
kooka, thrush in mouth, answered, his
prospective meal fell to the ground, and
butcher had it like a flash and away to
the scrub. A number of jackasses in a
neighboring tree joined in a ribald
chorus.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: The koalas of Phillip
Island (Vic.), like those north of
Capricorn (B. 29 /12 / ’37), congregate on
the roadside where traffic is heavy.
Larger and more thickly furred than
their northern cousins, they have a lik-
ing for noise and music, or perhaps to
their ears the two are synonymous. Dur-
ing the summer months, and especially
on race-days, they will be found on
telephone-poles round the course with
not a tree within a mile. Recently,
within two days after carpenters started
work at a .guest-house, bears began to
“Mum said I didn't look decent."
congregate on a near-by tree, and before
the job finished there were 18 in the
branches.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: There’s one game in the
bush to which few men become seasoned
—splitting logs with maul and wedges.
At the end of the first day’s toil the back
is raw flesh surrounding a patch of jelly
where the spine used to be, while the
arms feel as though they’d been through
the rack. At the end of a week, the sen-
sation is the same, only more so. A
decade of it makes not the slightest dif-
ference. The reason seems to lie in the
nature of the tools. A maul, un-
like a hammer or axe, has no
natural point of balance, but has to
be both lifted and swung as a dead
weight. The muscles are dragged out of
their natural course at each blow, while
the vibration is taken up by the body,
instead of the tool-handle, when it con-
nects. There is also a moral factor.
After the first six wedges have been
driven into a cross-grained trunk with-
out result, no man ever really believes
that he will get to the end of the log in
front of him, so he just goes on working
mechanically in a downhearted way until
knock-off time.
* * * *
“O’Caollaig”: Can’t say I have heard
of rum being used to lubricate the lining
of boots (B. 5/1 /’3B), but as a footbath
it is said to be par excellence. My
grandfather, during an enforced exile
from Eire during the ’forties, lived on a
small Spanish island in the West Indies.
Climatic conditions were so torrid that
it became necessary for two nig. servants
to bathe the old boy’s feet in a dish of
rum every evening—overproof it was,
still uncolored with the burnt sugar
which helps to take some of the raw
edge off it. The spirit cooled the feet,
reduced the swelling caused by the cli-
mate and hardened the skin, and after it
had served its external purpose it pro-
vided a nip all-round for the negro
slaves on the plantation.
* * * *
“Johnhop”: After foxes had raided
his free-roaming poultry a settler in the
Adelaide hills got a pair of guinea-fowls,
whose strident cackle is reputed to give
instant warning when Reynard is on the
prowl. The first dozen eggs from these
birds were collected and swapped for
those under an Orpington hen already
sitting. Four days before hatching-time
the guineas located the nest and wore a
path by continually walking round it.
When the chicks emerged the guineas as-
sumed complete control, successfully
ousting the frantic foster-mother. As a
demonstration of highly-developed paren-
tal instinct that takes a lot of beating.
♦ * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: When we lost a
dinner-plate and a jug last week the
missus blamed the relief people, and me
for letting them camp too near the house.
When an electro breakfast-dish which
had been in her mother’s family for don-
keys’ years also went missing, she was
sure. But the camper’s a decent bloke,
and even if his wife is a bit lipsticky
she’s kept busy with their two healthy
little kids. It’s a satisfaction to a man
to be able to show his wife that, if she
hadn’t started to spoil a first-rate cattle
pup by giving it scraps of bacon and
salad dressing, the gear wouldn’t have
gone missing. A bit of Sherlock Holmes
work ended so fortunately as to allow
me to point out from the bedroom win-
dow in the early dawn Gertrude, six
months daughter of our heaven-born
cow-controller Lassie, with the last of the
Bull-ant silver-plate in her mouth, still
redolent of bacon and salad-dressing,
stealing towards her hoard. All the other
stolen goods were there.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Once horses get accus-
tomed to drinking artesian bore-water
many of them like it better than rain-
water. In one instance, when a nor’-
west N.S.W. district was flooded, two
horses daily walked up to their bellies
through the floodwater for half a mile
to get out to a bore drain.
' * „ * , * .
Gryllus : I confess candidly that
when Mr and Mrs. Koel decided after
thefi 1 annual 1 migration from the north to
include my place as part of their range
of territory I did not appreciate their
choice. Not on account of their looks,
With his glossy dark-blue and her buff-
and-white-striped stomacher, they are a
handsome couple. It is their dreadful
voices that I’ve had to get used to. Locals
call him the coo-ee bird. He fancies the
hickories at the cliff-edge for his day-
break practice of piercing “Ko-ell —ko-
ell,” and it is only a matter of yards to my
bedroom window. She sometimes visits
it to let off her four harsh semitones,
rising to a final screech. I admit I once
shot at him with an airgun at 4.30 a.m.,
but glad I missed him, for at early dawn
to-day they played the most graceful
love scene possible. If those voices sound
right to them I’m prepared to get used
to them. And, anyhow, I’m no musician.
* * * *
“Beesknees”: I noticed the rabbiter in
the next paddock get astride a stick and
ride it (as a child would) from one trap
as he set it to the next. No, he wasn’t
ga-ga, as I at first thought. He was
merely making a trail that would be
more easily followed at night than the
usual short direction mark that most
trappers favor.
* * * ♦
“R.H.D.”: On the upper reaches of
the Walsh River (N.Q.) I came across a
crocodile’s nest with 15 newly-hatched
crocs, crawling around the water’s edge.
Scratching in the sandy nest, I found one
abnormally large egg, which, upon being
broken, disclosed two fully-developed
live young crocs, apparently on the point
of breaking out. Are twins a freak of
nature or common among the saurians?
* * * *
“Groper”: If “Dolly-pot” (B.
22/12/’37) were to wander nowadays
among W.A.’s outback camps he
wouldn’t find too many empty bottles.
Motor transport, before the advent of the
Strangulation Board, attended to that.
When no wool was available as freight,
trucks backloaded with dead marines. It
was just as cheap to run such a load
either to Kalgoorlie or Perth as run an
empty truck. And at either centre dead
marines obtained merely for the taking
brought a minimum of a shilling a
dozen, and even more when they were
unbranded, as most of those ancient beer-
holders were. The commonsense solu-
tion of Darwin’s dead-marine problem
would be the starting of a local brewery.
Evidently tropical conditions must get
enterprise down ; around the W.A. gold-
fields any number of mushroom camps
sported a little brewery. Even the
Boulder Block, the Dirty Acre, man-
aged to accommodate one.
* * * *
“Dicta”: Cow-sense? I was riding
through one of the paddocks when I
spotted two milkers which had just re-
cently calved. I started to drive them
home when the older calves of those
milkers began to bawl and follow, bring-
ing with them their cobbers. Thinking
of the pickle I would be in when we
came to a gate I carried on hoping
they’d drop out. As I glanced back I
saw that another old milker had trotted
down to the older calves. Whatever the
bovine confab, the outcome was that
they followed her back like lambs.
ADVANTAGES OF URBANITY.
“Y’ know,” said Dick the Dodger as he
chewed a wisp of hay,
“It’s little bits o’ courtesy you meet with
ev’ry day
That makes a cove think better of ’is fellow-
men, an , ’struth,
That’s better than believin’ that the cows are
all uncouth!
“Meself, I reckon that to be obligin’ is a rule
That ev’ry nipper should ’ave ’ammered into
’im at school;
It corsts yer nothin’, after all, to do a decent
turn,
An’, cripes! yer never know but what some
good reward y’ll earn.
“/ ought to know. It ’appened that, some
fifteen years ago,
1 lobbed into Tangmangaroo to give a job
a go;
I’d never ’ad a steady, so I thought I’d make
a start —
Besides that, I was bein’ urged to git one by
me tart.
“Some cocky’s farm I ’ad to go to. Well,
while standin’ there
Outside the pub (I’d just come out to git
a breath of air)
I sees that some mug driver’s tryin’ to back
’is brand-new car
Between two more, so, helpfully, I sings out:
‘Right you are!
“ ‘You’ve tons o’ room keep goin’ back.’
Next thing 1 ’ears a crunch;
It’s this bloke’s mudguard all mixed up with
others in a bunch. ,
Did ’e go lousy? Stone the crows! I stopped
one on the knob,
An’ finds out later Vs the coot I’d come to
for the job l .”
Dick stopped. “But you inferred,” I said,
“you’d gained. Now, aren’t you floored?
I take it that you lost your job, so where, then,
the reward?”
Dick looked with pity. “Why,” he says, “if
’e’d not got me set
I might’ve ’ad that blasted job an’—’struth!
be workin’ yet!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“C. 8.”: Give the old-time fossicker
his due: he is tough. Here on the Tate
tinfield, 30 miles out from Almaden
(N.Q.), there are many of the breed still
battling on. Typical of these hardy
ancients is Old Ted. At 72 he works
eight hours a day in the blazing sun —
and can he swing a pick and use a
shovel! He is a beef-and-damper addict,
drinks tea that would poison a dingo and
says that if he were to eat fresh fruit he
would get sick. He’s never seen the in-
side of a hospital. The daisies Old Ted
will be pushing up some day are sure
to be hardy perennials.
Jfc sfc %
“Bundeena”: A sea - dweller with
marked suicidal tendencies is the John
Dory, that peculiar-looking fish that for
two months of the year forsakes his usual
deep-water habitat and comes in close
to the shore. Returning along Jibbon
Beach (N.S.W.) after two hours of un-
successful rock-hopping, I thankfully
picked up a 21b. John that was flounder-
ing around on the sand just a few inches
above water-mark. Twenty yards further
on I got another of the species in the
same predicament, and by the time I had
traversed the beach the tally in the bag
had mounted to seven. Any Aboliar
advance a feasible explanation?
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: “Did yer bring back
anything for marking sheep?” Dad called
to Dave, who was still in bed after a
late return from the city. “You’ll find
a marking stick in me overcoat pocket,”
Dave answered. Presently Dad’s voice
was heard again. “Why didn’t you bring
a decent-sized piece, instead of only a
flamin’ sample?” he roared. And on to
Dave’s bed he flung what the lad’s favor-
ite barmaid had mislaid the previous
evening—half an inch of scarlet lipstick.
* * * *
“Upper Sixth”: Even at the risk of
falling foul of a real pukka sahib I feel
that I must remonstrate with “Colonel
Bungstarter” on the looseness of his Eng-
lish. Neither his ancient bowmen of
Agincourt or Cressy nor his modern
"A few more of those coupons, dear, and We'll be able to send to the missionary for a
coffee percolator
S r l ffZZ
irora a bow. Certainly they shot them,
*e ,?rm arTstaf&or"he fa t iLt° h
ct ® *• m i i? u ! tact that ?•
quWei left ?he sossSlman W at n the
rl 1 ;®; at ,.f he
W,i Y wpL rf'f Arrows like-
taw never £3* OnW wtan themScf
foJ' was^ fl
charging weapons fired—the term in-
dicating the work of a slow match on
the powder with which the weapon was
loaded. So, should the gallant colonel,
translated to another plane, encounter
his prototype from mediaeval fields and
begin speaking of “firing” and “drop-
ping fire, he will probably, be referred
to the field kitchen, which was about
the only form of fire and firing that
those warriors of other days knew of.
* * * *
‘ Bray Rock”: A grey nurse shark was
recently caught at Casino (N.S.W.), 80
miles from the river mouth, in practically
fresh water. It was only 2ft. 6in. long,
but it serves as a reminder of the per-
sistence with which
the creatures will
follow up shoals of
fish into all sorts
of apparently un-
likely places.
Whaler sharks are
particularly enter-
prising in this
way; not many
years back an
eight - footer was
shot in a creek
some miles inland
from Port
Stephens, between
banks so narrow
that it could barely
turn round. Sharks
of Bft. and over
have been caught
in the Brisbane
River 60 and more
miles from the en-
trance. The only
satisfactory point
about such in-
truders is that they
are usually well fed on fish, and hence
less inclined to taking a mouthful out of
an unwary bather.
*=*-**:
“Gamawa”: Sharks and porpoises (B.
5/1 /’38)? As an old salt I never heard
that “where porpoise be sharks ain’t,”
but we always believed that the presence
of sea-lions or sea-elephants was a per-
fect safeguard. In the open roadsteads
on the west coast of the Americas, S.
and N., we swam and frolicked ad lib.,
paid visits to neighbor ships per the same
medium and once, being young and fool-
ish, for a wager of a pound of tobacco
I swam from my ship, the Yaskand,
through the surf to the beach, a dis-
tance of a mile and a half, in, of all
places in the world, Iquique—and the
surf there would make Sydney surfers’
ears flap. To the first line of breakers
I had the ship’s gig for company, and in
the surf sea-lions a-plenty. But nary
a shark, nor was one ever sighted dur-
ing our stay there. So 1 say: Import
some sea-lions as beach guards.
'** * *
“Megaptera”: Analysed records of
shark attacks in Australian waters show
Dm 'lit*™ °SF 13 °
p.m. and on dull days. This has again
filoVTb * f ?V‘.
( S ‘Q-) wherein two lads lost their
Hn m ° St S me
ls ln the early morning. The dan-
gerous months are January and Feb-
ST JT ? e " d °1 April and ,he
& &K& in Norlh
land waters. At least eight species
of sharks on Australian coasts are dan-
gerous to man, but the grey nurse and
whaler have been responsible for most
attacks. The notion that human flesh is
particularly attractive to sharks is pure
vanity on our part—they much prefer
dogs or fish, even stingrays. Sharks seek
their food mainly by smell, and it is very
doubtful if any can see more than 20
feet away.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Re shark lures (B.
8/12/’37). European and Asiatic lugger
“IF you cant keep your cold feet to yourself, Sarah, fr ’eavens sake
Wear bed socks”
crews in the hectic days of the Torres
Strait shelling fleets used to allow the
skin-diving island boys to locate lucra-
tive shell patches, then sail up to anchor
near their moored craft. A punctured
tin of bully beef would be cast- over-
board, the fatty content diffusing into the
current. Animal grease is an unfailing
magnet for sharks, and soon the swarm-
ing sea-tigers caused Binghi to vamoose,
leaving the riches for the better-protected
dress-diving Jap, Malay or, in the older
times, European.
* * * *
“Cootcah”: Apparently such a trifling
thing as a bullet through the heart has
no immediate effect on the powers of
propulsion of a plain-turkey. Several I
have bagged on the wing have flown
half a mile before nose-diving, the subse-
quent post-mortem revealing a shattered
ticker.
“Weightchaser”: The last laugh!
Mick O’Leary was from Bungaree, and
Whe " PaSSi " B throUBh Per,h M 1 vk,im
to an astute storekeeper who, among
°' her ilems > sold «"> **» «* oil®
skin overpants. Arrived at the Tarus,
dryblowers’ patch at Bulong,
Mick, with his oilskins in a place so
dry that the diggers habitually dryblew
each ° ( the / S whiskers wi,h a b ™sh-
Z
came on to rain hard. Soon every pos-
sible vessel was full—and still thousands
of gallons were running to waste. Then
Mick had a brainwave. Tying the legs of
his oilskins he hung the despised gar-
ments to the ridgepole of his tent, and
had four watertight bags holding many
gallons—sufficient at the then price of
water to pay for the oilskins half a
dozen times,
* * * *
“Crupper”: Unlike the fellows who
picked up for Jacky Howe, the number
of men who rode Dargan’s Grey (B.
29/ Ill'll) are increasing as the shadow
of the old horse diminishes. If the man
himself did not ride the buckjumper, at
least he knew a man who did do it. Lord
knows how many saw Banjo Paterson
fork the old horse ; numbers have told
me that Will Ogilvie did it; half the old-
timers who penned verse or wrote horse
stories for The B. are supposed to have
ridden the grey to a standstill. There is
one exception: I never heard anyone
rash enough to claim it for Randolph
Bedford. The verse-slinger who clid ride
him was “The Breaker” (Harry Morant).
That is unquestioned. It is open to ques-
tion if he rode him fair —I’ve heard it
claimed the grey had already slung
several men before Morant mounted
him. I saw the old horse when he was
long past his prime, and, knowing some-
thing about forking ’em, I’d say the man
who rode him to a standstill in his
prime was pretty hot stuff.
* * * *
“Vulagi”: “Quack Quack” (B.
29/12/’37) and his Muscovies (which
have no quack) make me smile. If he
visits any big duck farm on a pouring
wet day he’ll find all ducklings well and
truly penned in out of the rain. One
will never hear the old saying “Fine
weather for young ducks” during a wet
spell on a commercial duckery nor see
any pools of water except where it is
necessary in breeding pens. Incidentally,
duck-men play a dirty trick on Mrs.
Muscovy when she starts sitting. When
the first batch is four days off coming
out they take away the eggs, top them
off in an incubator and give her a fresh
lot. She will keep going for months, 25
weeks being the record on one farm.
* * # *
“Naturalist”: One of the most fear-
some noises of the bush is the roaring of
the male koala heard for the first time.
Something between the staccato grunt-
ing of a mother-pig on the warpath and
the distant stutter of an unsilenced
motor-bike, the roar develops into a re-
verberating “aw-ee” that carries for
miles on a still night. When three or
four bucks get into action together in
close company, it’s a courageous new-
chum who’ll wait to hear the end of the
concert. Knew a townie, getting his
initial introduction to the bush, who
nearly suffered a blowout trying to make
a noise on a cornet in order to scare
away the horde of wild pigs he thought
had declared war on him when a couple
of old-man koalas threw out their
throaty challenges to each other from
near-by trees. Then there was a new-
chum German neighbor who nearly died
of fright when a native bear from the
top of the tree against which Heinrich
had built his temporary shelter an-
nounced that he’d fight any blanky bear
in the bush.
AFTER PLOUGHING.
Dusk on the slopes: an amber sky
Above the sombre slanting hill;
And on the hill, grotesque and high,
And dark against the amber sky,
A toadstool house. Remote and still,
Trees, silhouetted, seem to be
Fashioned from cardboard; and the wind,
Grey sister, gropes about each tree
As though she’s left her eye behind,
Then droops and dies from being blind.
Dusk on the slopes: the pink galahs
Swoop screeching downward from the west;
And soon, beneath the first few stars,
With chinking chains and dragging bars,
The tired team plods home to rest.
Over the bristling corkscrew-grass
I saw them freed, then roll and pass;
1 saw them, shoulders streaked with sweat,
Drink deep and paw: the sudden sound
Still lingers in the silences around,
The starlight on the ripples shimmers yet.
N.S.W.
T. ROSE.


mn
'OTHER CORDIAIS
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 6.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4OOl
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Din ctors
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
npnfr tt noYT F A. E. BOND W. 0. HULL
CECIL J H-w DOY B L A E RNES. Manager. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£,£>£>£> £
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28,927 59,331
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 22a.371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.e.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 f 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 t 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 t 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 t 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 . . 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,862 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,565 90,783 153,765 f 946,439
*Net funds apart from capital.
tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
This lusty youngster is a testimony to
the care and attention that the manage-
ment has bestowed upon it. There has
been no attempt to force growth by a
rush to write large and expensive wads
of new business. That there has been
no crippling avalanche of lapses suggests
that such business as has been placed on
the books has been selected with care.
Also, discrimination appears to have
been exercised with regard to invest-
ments, chief of which are now fine new
buildings, well let, in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and a parcel of first mortgages,
which was one of the co.’s early sources
of strength.
The business was set on its feet by
E. J. Mooney, its managing director, in
1921. Ten years later bonuses to policy-
holders, whose interests have been
placed in the foreground, and dividends
to shareholders began to flow. This is a
creditable performance for a young life
office which entered an already-crowded
field. The business, which continues to
grow, is now spread throughout the
Commonwealth, offices being established
in all the State capitals. About 30 p.c.
of the life contracts are in the Ordinary
and 70 p.c. in the Industrial department.
During the last term an extra £30,385
of life premiums (£249,091) was gathered.
A small fire and accident business turned
in £2594 (up £39), and interest and rents
were £7646 better at £38,416, making the
growth in total income (£290,101)
£38,070. Despite a growth of £4693 in
surrenders (£11,532), aggregate claims
were £297 lighter. Including the tax bill
(£1553, up £6l), the growth in exes, was
£6116. Excluding taxes, exes, took 35.4
p.c. of the year’s net premiums as against
37.5 p.c. and 35.7 p.c. for the two pre-
vious terms. The div. was kept at 7 p.c.,
and £153,765 (£32,251 more than in the
previous year) was added to funds, rais-
ing them to £946,439, made up of the
life fund (£908,557), reserve for bonuses
(£12,759), provision for unexpired risks
(£1023) and reserve for property realisa-
tion (£24,101).
Policy-holders scored, actuary Bremner
recommending increases in reversionary
bonuses ranging from 5 p.c. to 11 p.c.
of the previous bonus declaration, and
making present rates £2 15s. p.c. on
whole-of-life (payable in the first year)
and £1 17s. p.c. on endowment assur-
ances. They are very satisfactory rates,
considering the age of the business.
After deducting taxes, the net return
on the mean life fund was 4.5 p.c. as
against 4.3 p.c. for the previous term.
The co. assumes that this fund will turn
in only 3j p.c. It is the margin here,
together with what look like a very
favorable mortality experience and satis-
factory expense rate, that enabled
bonuses to policy-holders to be increased.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 193 a. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. . . £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 4,935 14,999 24,368 26,955
Mortgages . . .. 207,775 309,891 301,450 368,961
Govt, securities .. 26,716 131,408 67,544 67,544
Cash. etc. .. 1,327 13,506 8,036 9,894
Debtors .. . . 1,788 2,008 2,931 3,899
Loans on policies 3,251 31,042 39,345 49,454
Equipment . . 4,696 4.668 5,526 8,050
Shares in other cos. 1,682 3,388 3,437 3,437
Freeholds .. .. 206,488 402,162 476,765
* Other than under policies.
Last year’s surplus earnings went mainly
into new premises (up £74,603), to finance
erection of which the co. did not have to
go outside, and into mortgages (up
£67,511) and loans on policies (up
£10,109). The £14,610 of capital is in
15,135 7 p.c. prefs. and 14,895 ords., all
of 10s. each paid to Bs.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends Nominal
Year to Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
1927.. 80,722 8000 lOip.c. = 50,000 22,722 168,365
1928.. 95,254 8000 11 ~ „ 55,000 32,254 200,619
1929. .102,922 8000 12 „ „ 60,000 34,922 235,541
1930.. 74,795 8000 9' „ ~ 45,000 22,795 257,336
1931.. 52,077 8000 8 „ ~ 4,077 261,413
, S'pecific reserves written off, £2369.. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 268,123
1932.. 45,800 8000 8 p.c. = 40,000 260,923
1933.. 56,958 8000 8 „ „ 40,000 8,958 269,881
1934.. 63,856 8000 10 „ ~ 50,000 5,856 275,737
1935.. 65,208 8000 10 „ „ 50,000 7,208 282,945
1936.. 79,563 8000 12 „ „ 60,000 11,563 294,508
1937.. 97*,490 8000 12 ~ „ 60,000 29,490 323,998
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074.
This co. has put up a very attractive
performance. It is in the wholesale-
newsagency and advertising business
throughout Australia and Maoriland,
where local, British and American news-
papers, periodicals and magazines are
distributed through some six thousand
newsagents, and it handles newsprint,
printers’ requisites and fancy goods as
well.
Paid capital is £600,000 in 100,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs., which are preferential
as to dividend only, and 500,000 ords. The
div. climbed from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in
March, ’27, and a 2 p.c. sweetener was
added for the 18 months to the end of
Sept., ’29. The lowest rate paid during
the slump was 8 p.c.; the figure was
lifted to 10 p.c. in ’34, and to 12 p.c.
again in ’36.
During the last term there was an all-
round increase in turnover. The sterling
value of imports was: Printing-paper,
£2,593,305 (up £561,668); fancy goods,
£512,447 (up £50,998); printed books,
£1,038,129 (down £43,730). The per
capita consumption of newsprint in
Australia and Maoriland has increased
rapidly during the last few years,
and now ranks second only to that of
Britain and ahead of the U.S.A. and
Canada. Gross earnings sprang £30,024,
reaching £170,707, which was within £3OO
of the record figure for 1929. Including
£32,757 (up £9767), which appears to be
in excess of actual requirements, set
aside for the taxgatherer, exes. (£73,217)
took £12,097 of the increase, leaving the
net result £17,927 better at £97,490. That
was enough to pay the pref. div. and show
17.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 14.3,
11.4, 11.1, 9.7 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1932,
which was the lowest point touched.
The div. was kept at 12 p.c.
Prospects of a bit better showing at
the end of September next are encourag-
ing. As for newsprint, the co.’s business
is largely with country newspapers, so
recent arrangements between the big local
dailies and overseas manufacturers may
not seriously affect earnings in this de-
partment, and locally-made newsprint is
to be distributed mainly through existing
agencies. /■
The market notes the size of book debts
(the largest item in the sheet) and prices
the ords. at 525. 6d.; the highest price
touched last year was 555. The return at
525. 6d. is 4.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 355. yield 4.5 p.c. Exclud-
ing the tax reserve (£45,064), the net
tangible backing per pound of paid
capital is 265. lOd.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Sept.,’34. Sept.,’36. Sept.,’37
Paid capital .. .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities .. . . 105,147 134,309 147,454
Freeholds .. .. 205,554 210,034 206,420
Leaseholds . . .. 19,683 17,849 17,317
Plant, fixtures, etc. .. 35,833 30,197 o?JMsIq
Stodk . . . . 193,718 170,595 212,663
Book debts .. 252,732 271,788 359,908
Investments, cash, etc. 200,439 275,692 207,107
£929,976 £976,155 £1,032,441
Last year £42,068 was added to stocks
and £88,170 to debtors’ balances. To meet
the outlay, investments and cash were
drawn upon for £68,585, and £13,145 was
added to the debt. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£632,274)
was £48,508.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Div idends \
Ist 2nd .
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 47,382 2100 4200 26,703 14,379 6,807
8 p.c.
1928.. 50,756 2100 4200 30.515 13,938 20,745
6 p.c.
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4,829 25,574
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
t 931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit.
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
5.4 18.9 2*
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
* Including arrears.
The co. is in the high-grade furnishing,
furnishing-drapery and china business. It
has £464,187 of capital to feed in 30,000
first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 381,687 ords. Under the N.
S. Wales Interest Reduction Act, pref.
divs. are subject to a 22\ p.c. cut, reduc-
ing them to 5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respec-
tively, with the right to advance with the
ords. beyond these points to their original
contract rates. For nine years follow-
ing the reconstruction of 1920 (31 ords.
were handed out for every 16 previously
held, and the pref. divs. were lifted a
point) the ords. averaged 6.3 p.c. The
next four years were dry ones. Shrink-
age of turnover and the collapse of
prices, which meant revaluation of stocks,
were responsible for most of the trouble
in ’3l and ’32. However, the first prefs.’
slate was cleaned in ’33 and the seconds’
in ’34, when the ords. got into the pic-
ture again with 2\ p.c., and earnings have
continued to expand since.
During the last term, continued activity
in flat-building and furnishing generally
put a bit more lustre into earnings.
After allowing £6690 for bad and doubt-
ful debts and depreciation, and £13,812
(up £4522) for rates and taxes, the net
result was £7317 better at £39,030, the
best since 1928. The £39,030 was enough
to pay the prefs. their full contract rates
and then show 8.5 p.c. on ord. capital.
Actually the ord. div. was lifted a point,
making it 6 p.c., the first prefs. advanced
to the same level and the seconds got
their minimum 6.2 p.c. The £11,074
that remained raised the support for
capital £10,857 in excess of goodwill
(£67,660), not treated as an asset herein.
The financial position improved:
1939. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 141,131 89,665 131,810 132,370
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 190,876 190,700 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. .. 47,521 42,827 36,573 32,568
Stocks . . 304,992 212.620 207,890 222,829
Book debts .. 85,462 92,911 84,446 88,215
Cash, etc. .. 6,047 5,975 8,511 7,522
* Including provision for taxation.
The year’s surplus earnings, etc., went
into stocks (up £14,939) and book debts
(up £3769). Liabilities (up £560) include
provision for taxation. Including stocks
(in at cost or replacement value, which-
ever is the lower, and the most vulner-
able point in the co.’s armor), the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£186,196) was £17,159.
The market, doubtful whether the
recent rate of expansion in building ac-
tivity will continue far into the future,
notes that competition is keen, that costs
are on the up-grade, and that the tan-
gible support for capital is none too
stout, and has therefore shortened its bid
slightly for each class of scrip over the
twelvemonth. Still, prospects of a further
lift in earnings during the current term
are encouraging. On the basis of last
year’s distributions the first prefs. at
21s. 3d. return 5.6 p.c., the seconds at
20s. lOd. yield 5.9 p.c. and the ords. at
16s. 9d. show 6.6 p.c. On an all-round
7 p.c. distribution, which would call for
£6547 less profit than was claimed last
year, the returns would be 6.6 p.c., 6.7
p.c. and 8.4 p.c. respectively. The net
tangible cover is £l5 16s. Bd. firsts, £8
9s. 6d. seconds and 20s. 7d. ords.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 21 p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2| „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 21 „ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 21 „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
Only once (in 1928) since the profitable
war-time contracts ran out and the
Argentine got a stranglehold on British
and Continental markets with chilled
baby beef has the co. shown a better
result than last year’s. Also, there is
more promise in the outlook than there
has been for 20 years, thanks largely to
Britain’s withdrawal of restrictions on
Australian chilled beef and to its agree-
ment not to levy import duties on beef
from the Dominions, while maintaining
levies and quantitative restrictions on
shipments of beef from the Argentine.
In 1915 the old Q.M.E., whose capital
and reserves totalled £369,862, was split
into two, with paid capitals aggregating
£873,306. The pastoral properties passed
to Australian Stock Breeders and the
meatworks at Townsville and Brisbane
to the present co. For the first five years
shareholders averaged 5.8 p.c. During
the next 11 they received two divs.,
totalling 9 p.c., and reserves were
tapped for £BO,BOl to pay them and
meet trading losses. Still, owing to
substantial allowances for deprecia-
tion, etc., the co. managed to hold
on to more money than it could
find employment for in the business. So,
without hamstringing itself, it was able
to return ss. per share (= £163,744) early
in the 1933 term, reducing paid capital
to its present figure (£491,232) in 15s.
shares.
Conditions have continued to improve
since. The slip in the ’35 profit was due
mainly to an unspecified loss on chilled
shipments ; at the same time £45,000 was
spent on the Townsville works, mainly in
connection with chilling, and the co.’s
London selling arrangements were re-
organised and strengthened. During the
year to .Tune 30 last, meat exports from
Australia were worth £A10,332,000, or
£A1,578,000 more than for the previous
vear, and hides and tallow brought in
more, too. A better season and stronger
prices helped. After striking off £12,070
(down £556) for depreciation, the co.’s
net earnings sprang £9469, reaching
£29,515, or a shade over 6 p.c. on capital
as against 4 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was lifted from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c.,
and a 1 p.c. bonus was added, making
6 p.c. for the year.
As for the current term, rains have
relieved droughty conditions in the Gulf
and northern districts, and export prices
for standard quality beef, though lower
than the June level, are higher than they
were a year ago. It seems unlikely that
the proposed trade parleys with the
U.S.A. will have much, if any, effect
upon Britain’s concessions in respect of
Dominion beef.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £654,975 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* .. 17,610 190,827 206,968 223,369
Property, live-
in other cos. 423,532 399,091 396,665 370,556
Stock. . .. 35,243 141,332 158,943 187,968
Stores .. 20,180 19,698 17,768 21,82,
Debtors & cash 244,282 185,033 195,683 214,975
* Including provision for contingencies.
To carry an extra £29,025 of stock, add
£4059 to stores and £19,292 to debtors’
balances and cash, properties and
shares in other cos. were reduced by
£26,109, and the board went outside for
an extra £16,401, of which £BO6O was in
respect of advances against shipments
(£139,662) and £8341 in respect of the
(Continued on page 24.)


I
09&
p*
\o
i
\S0^
AlAA' s
VJSTR
o
\s
*
rsan
Knnvve
\\o^° r
to
as\o^
occ
t out
fitt\n<3
o
ducts
V>W
dro^ a
the P r °
a
dr\uV
tn
dear
qoo
d
\n
ev/
ito^ se
n
a
eP
ts
m
se
tou
V>\cVa
m
\n
v*
d
dov
tou
-ro'tt
\\
w
V
%
v'
Wrttuw
*«W»*6
STi
TOO
0:
&V-A
M*Kr*“
° a Tm£
At
illll
Hi'
ST °Ur
0| sco
K
•out?**
or«
MfW
Hr
MN
*2
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
'Popula/o Siowt
Brewed and bottled in Australia by
TOOHEYS LTD.
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
JUST AS NICE
OFF THE ICE


£l6OO Paid Out
for
£576 Paid In
THE Anzac was a cheerful soul. He took life as it
came, but he had a wise eye for the protection of
those whom he left behind.
Death came last month to such a soldier. He had
become a member of the A.M.P. when he enlisted in
1915 at the age of 31. He had taken out a policy for
£lOOO for the protection of his mother should he be
killed.
All through the fighting the knowledge of that
A.M.P. protection comforted him. When he returned
he married, and his policy became a protection for his
wife.
He paid into the maintenance of that A.M.P.
protection at the rate of about ten shillings a week. Up
to the time of his death he had paid in £5 76, but his
widow collected £l6OO. Such is the value of member-
ship in the A.M.P. Such is the way a man’s money
grows when he invests in an A.M.P. policy, or policies.
What protection are you building up for your family,
reader? Is it adequate? Would you not be wise to
increase it?
Ask the nearest A.M-P. office to send an experi-
enced adviser to talk the matter over with you, or send
for a copy of “Investing in Happiness.” Do it now while
it is in mind. Even next week may be too late.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales:
HEAD OFFICE: 9jJ Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Tenders.
METAL OPTIONS (BROKEN
HILL), LIMITED.
Tenders:
Diamond Drilling.
TENDERS are INVITED, RETURNABLE
UP TO 4 p.m. WEDNESDAY, 26th January,
1938, at the Company’s offices, Collins
Court, Litttle Collins Street, Melbourne (A),
for DIAMOND DRILLING 160 acres Eastern
Lode, Barrier Ranges, BROKEN HILL.
THE LOWEST, OR ANY TENDER WILL
NOT NECESSARILY be accepted.
V. T. HANLY,
Secretary.
Melbourne, January 18th.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth. and foreign patents. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification ot
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS BSc (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIO is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
eta J For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney. Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock sind Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. M 2 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgabj” Melbourne.
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£83,707). The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£201,401)
was £35,975.
The market prices the scrip, fuliy paid
to 155., at 13s. 3d., as against 9s. 3d. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 6.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution. The
cover is 225. Id. per pound of paid
capital.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd.
J. M. Deschamps writes:
The £5OOO compensation to Alloy for loss
of trade (B. 19/1/’3B) includes not only
orders handed over, but further orders for
the six months to June 30, 1937, as well as
the benefit of contracts which Alloy had for
purchase of scrap steel and other materials.
This was particularly valuable, as Hadfields
had no contracts for the purchase of scrap,
etc. Also, practically all the jobbing
moulders and staff necessary for manufac-
turing were handed over. Approximately
30 men, of a class of which Hadfields were
short, and who were unavailable, were
transferred. Had the orders handed over,
as well as the necessary men for the pro-
duction of same, remained at the Alloy
plant the output from there would have
been considerably higher. The £5OOO fixed
was arrived at by me, as an expert, as
reasonable compensation for trade which
otherwise would have been put through
Alloy Steel.
With regard to the item £25,000, this,
in the first place, was fully discussed by
the directors and agreed to by them, sealed,
registered and a large amount of stamp
duty paid, but was subject to ratification
by shareholders. This amount included
not only the protecting of Hadfields’ trade
for five years as regards jobbing work but
the handing over of the necessary mould-
ing-boxes, tackle, gear, equipment, pat-
terns, etc. It was made up of £6OOO
for movable plant, stock, etc., £lB,OOO for
patents, drawings, blue-prints, information,
advice and assistance, and £lOOO for good-
will and the benefit of pending contracts,
etc.
What shareholders need to realise is that
the business belongs to them, that the
earning of satisfactory profits is the ob-
ject, and that too much acrimony in
washing domestic linen in public is
likely to damage the co.’s goodwill,
and therefore its ability to earn profits.
The jobbing and foundry section of the
steel trade is a highly-competitive and
technical business. Shareholders might
do worse than appoint their own com-
mittee, including one or more practical
steel men, to determine precisely what
should be done in connection with the
business.
Orient Steam
After paying taxes and charging
£241,921 for depreciation of the fleet,
the Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.,
of England, which handles a large slice
of the England-Australia traffic, netted
£109,090 for the 12 months to June 30
last. That excludes. £9450 surplus on
sale of investments. Allowing for pref.
charges (6 p.c. on £245,380 and 6j p.c.
on £1,040,880), the balance was £25,213
less than the 5 p.c. div. on the £1,040,880
of ord. capital called for. During the
year, reserves were tapped for £163,616
for improvements to steamers in the tour-
ist traffic and for equipping some vessels
for the carriage of chilled beef. With
one exception, the co. has completely re-
placed its fleet over the last 13 years,
mostly during the slump, when tonnage
costs were low. At June 30 last
£2,104,906 of the balance-sheet total of
£5,635,068 was in liquid form. Rising
costs are a problem at the moment. The
latest addition to the fleet, the 23,500-ton
Orcades, carries some 550 fewer pas-
sengers than the Orama, a 20,000-tonner
built in 1924, used to. The Orama carried
roughly one steward to six passengers
on her maiden voyage. To-day, a full
ship carries approx, one steward to each
three passengers.
Oroville Dredging Co., Ltd.
This London-controlled holding and
investment co. is Placer Development’s
partner in some big South American and
other gold ventures. The shows in which
the two are jointly interested and the
extent of their holdings, etc., are:
f— P.e. Held Last
Issued Oro- Operating
Capital. Placer, ville. Profit.* Div.t
Bulolo . .$5,000,000 30.6 1.4 $3,585,000 56 p.c.
Pa t o
Consol.. 2,900,000 31.0 34.41 244,627 Nil
Asnazu . . 1,500,000 41.0 41.0 436,000 10 p.c.
Golden . _
Queen.. 100,000 10.0 10.0 408,062 Nil
* S'ubject to depreciation, etc. t Paid in 12 months
to April 30, 1937. * Through Pato Mines (Colombia).
In addition, Oroville holds 42.4 p.c. of
the issued capital of Talbot Alluvials, a
Victorian deep-lead proposition, and is
also interested, with the Dutch Nether-
lands New Guinea Mining Co., in an
extensive mineral concession in Dutch
New Guinea, where a prospecting party
has got good dish prospects. Through
Pato Mines (Colombia), Ltd., 12,500 $1
shares are also held in Placer, while there
is a small interest in Australian Selection
Trust.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30 last
the co. cleared £46,696, and paid £74,609
in divs., equal to Is. 2d. per share. Prin-
cipal asset, shares in other cos., stands
at £417,924, down £58,914 during the
year, owing to writing down from the
share-premium account (now £186,668).
Paid capital is £250,000 in 1,250,000 4s.
shares, mostly held in London, where
they are priced at 13s. 6d. each, as against
19s. a few months back.
On last term’s div. basis (approx. 29
p.c.) Oroville’s 45.-paids yield an im-
mediate 8.5 p.c. at 13s. 6d. Expansion
on the part of Pato and Bulolo, which are
each installing three new dredges, should
give earnings a lift, while Asnazu is also
considering the installation of a unit
double the capacity of its existing dredge.
Another potential source of profit is the
Restrepo options, embracing some 18
miles of untested alluvials along the
Nechi River, S. America. If Nechi Con-
solidated Gold Dredging, formed by
Oroville and Placer to work these
options, succeeds in establishing its title
to the leases—the matter is at present
before the Court —the two vendor cos.
will split equitably 1,920,000 fully-paid
$1 shares.
Pato Consolidated, which has not yet
handed anything on to shareholders,
has financed development mostly out
of earnings.. In future it is proposed
to meet this class of expenditure by rais-
ing share capital, leaving net earnings
available for distribution among share-
holders. Apart from 37,000,000 c.y. of
25-cent hydraulicking gravel, Pato has
dredging reserves of 600,000,000 c.y.
averaging 14-15 cents, and “the chances
are that for many years the average re-
covery will be more like 20 cents.” Last
year the co. handled 3,861,700 c.y.; all-
in dredging costs (except depreciation)
averaged 8| cents.' When the three new
dredges, making five in all, and the four
new sluicing plants come into operation
shortly, 17,500,000 c.y. is expected to be
turned over annually, and dredging costs
got back to 7 cents per c.y. For the
first five months of the current term
dredge recoveries averaged 21.6 cents,
compared with 15.2 cents for the preced-
ing 12 months.
* * * *
Despite its isolation, being 350 miles
from the Alice Springs railhead, and
fresh-water problems (90 p.c. of the
sources tapped to date have been salt)
the 2000-sq.-miles Tennant’s Creek field,
Centralia, continues to make headway
as a gold-producer. Five batteries are
now at work, and crushings from the
100 operating claims are yielding about
1500 oz. gold monthly. At the Eldorado,
on the Mt. Samuel line, where there is
10-head of stamps running, the shaft is
down 140 ft. and some 60 men are em-
ployed. Deepest workings are at 180 ft.
in the Pekoe, but results of last year’s
Mineral Survey suggest that the ore-
bodies persist to at least 450 ft. Treatment
consists principally of amalgamation fol-
lowed by cyanidation ; high costs render
anything under 12-15dwt. unprofitable.
So far nothing has been done to exploit
the copper possibilities of the field. The
drill has stabbed quantities of the stuff
in association with hematite between
300 ft. and 400 ft., and as carbonates and
sulphides the mineral has been met in
some of the deeper mines, principal lode
being the Shamrock. Adequate water is
available on the new alluvial field,
situated in inhospitable country 40 miles
north-west of Tennant. Up to 16oz.
nuggets have been won, most of the
gold being found in association with
ironstone within £ few inches of the
surface.
* * * *
After charging development and
diamond-drilling, Boulder Perseverance
will show a mine profit of £A174,000-odd
for the 12 months to the end of De-
cember, according to monthly returns.
This compares with £A114,400 in the
preceding period. Bigger throughput
(110,069, up 12,343, tons) and a rise of
4s. 9d. or so a ton in average recoveries
(665. 4d.) are responsible for the better
showing. Earnings should benefit in the
near future from crushings from the
Enterprise, where Perseverance is spend-
ing £lOO,OOO and expects to make a mine
profit of £1 a ton on treatment of 5000
tons monthly. The ore will be crushed
at the Perseverance mill, which is being
enlarged.
* * * *
During December, a short milling
month, Cox’s Find, the Erlistoun (W.A.)
producer, in which Central Gold, of
Adelaide, has a quarter-interest, crushed
1610 tons for an estimated gold return
of £12,500, recoveries averaging 18dwt.
On the basis of last reported costs, in-
cluding development, continuance of that
rate of monthly profit-earning would
place annual distributions of Is. per
share within Central’s reach. Market
valuation of the 35.-paids is 2s. 2d.
Recent developments at depth read well.
* * * *
New York-controlled Big Bell (W.A.)
officially started its plant on Oct. 2. At
the end of that month 24,898 tons ore
had been fed to the mill, but a lot of
the pulp hadn’t reached the final stage
of cyanidation. Much gold was absorbed
by the plant, the return barely averaging
18gr. per ton. In November the position
improved, an average of 3dwt. being ex-
tracted from 29,849 tons. There is
talk of the co. increasing the capacity of
the plant to 60,000 tons monthly.
$ $ $ *
Transvaal claims further goldmining
and treatment records. For the first time
in the history of that country gold has
been struck by a diamond drill at a
depth of over 10,000 ft., or nearly two
miles below the surface. The bore was
put down on joint account of the New
Central Wit (African and European In-
vestment Group) and New Witwaters-
rand Gold Exploration (Central Mining-
Rand Mines Group) on a farm 40 miles
south-west of Randfontein Estates, the
nearest producer on the old Rand. Assay
values for 12in. of quartzite averaged
16fdwt. a ton. The Robinson Deep
has one shaft down 8500 ft. During the
first 10 months of the year, the field
treated 42| million tons for bullion worth
nearly £70,000,000. Profit approximated
£26| millions, and £8! millions was paid
in divs.
* * * *
Australian mining lost one of its per-
sonalities by the death in Zeehan (Tas.)
earlier in the month of A. D. Sligo.
“Archie,” as well and affectionately
known in Tas. as Cap’n Hancock was in
Moonta (S. Aus.), gave 45 years
to the rigorous West Coast, and was
as young at 70 as most men are at
50. At the time of his death he was, as
chairman of Renison Associated, en-
deavoring to persuade (by modern metal-
lurgical practice) the extensive pyritic ore
deposits around Renison Bell to yield up
their tin content. “The elements [were]
so mixed in him that Nature might stand
up and say to all the world, ‘This was
a man!” 5


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
I
Hltl
■1
(111
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
m “METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Bodyguard for Crooner.” — “S. M. Herald.”
How about a mouthguard, too?
4 1 4* 4*
“The case is recorded of a man who is able
to write legibly whilst sound asleep.”— Oddity.
Whatever he’s doing, he’s wasted at it.
He should be a “Hansard” reporter.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
The trouble is that people won’t realise
that portable radios were invented to
make it easier to take them away some-
where else.
4* 4* . <4* 4*
“NON-INTERVENTION MEETING
“(British Official Wireless.)
“? 2toNo Xzfifififfi vbgkqrattdiynn ET
SHS.” —“5. M. Herald.”
And by far the most lucid exposition
of the aims of the conference to date!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Here’s Hoping.
“Immediately prior to an important recital
a well-known American soprano found that
she couldn’t sing.”
This revelation must have grieved
The vocalist, there's not a doubt;
But lots of us would be relieved
If more sopranos found it out!
S.
“In London Anthony Eden has a home in
Berkeley-street with a velvet-draped four-poster
bed.”— “Parade.”
So that’s the source of those nightmares
called Britain’s foreign policy!
4* 4* 4* ■4*
“Her husband, an artist, declared that in a
fit of temper she had smashed every picture
in his studio.” —Divorce report.
Not the first woman to break her hus-
band’s art!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Mere Preliminary.
Two men walked into the dock at
Central Police Court swathed in band-
ages. The magistrate looked at them for a
moment, and then said, not unkindly:
“Now, tell me, what started the trouble?”
“Well., your Worship,” said the bigger
of the two, “it was like this. First, he
chucked his beer over me. Then I belts
him across the dial with me bag of tools.
He dongs me with a bottle—and the next
thing we knows is we finds ourselves
quarrelling.”
Xtif..
4* 4* 4 1 4 1
“Lantern lecture on ski-ing at Kosciusko,”
reads an advertisement.
Illustrated by numerous slides, no
doubt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Honorable Mistake.
“The Japanese War Office has ordered that
‘voluntary military training’ be enforced in
Korea.”— “S.M.H.” cable.
Admiral Suetsago, Anglophobe-in-
Chief to the Imperial War Cabinet, was
hopping mad.
He hadn’t minded so much when both
the confirmation and the denial of his
latest diatribe against England had
appeared in the same column of the
Sydney “Morning Herald.”
But here was a deliberate flouting of
his orders. He glared again at the cable
in his hand.
Yes, rank insubordination.
He had ordered that voluntary mili-
tary training be enforced in Korea, and
here were the unspeakable Koreans flatly
refusing to do anything but voluntarily
enlist for compulsory training!
80.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a woman gives her husband hell,
he should be excused for playing the
devil!
“It is believed that most of these ships have
the necessary stiffening for mountain guns.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
No doubt to be used in mountainous
seas.
•b *b *b *b
The Champion.
“Wanted, skilled men, for lagging work at
Port Kembla.” — ad.
Gentlemen, —
With regard to your advertisement,
which appeared some time last year, for
a lagger, I beg to submit a brief sum-
mary of my qualifications.
From my earliest youth I have been
regarded as a lagger of outstanding
merit.
Even during schooldays I had to leave
home at 4.30 a.m. so as to give me time
to get to school for the afternoon session.
Since then I have lagged consistently
and with eminent success in many
and varied capacities. I am regarded as
the undisputed champion train-misser on
our line. I have never seen a film, never
having arrived at a picture show before
“God Save the King.”
Regarding my personal qualifications,
I am unmarried, having lagged in reach-
ing the registry office in time for the
“Said your exact double at Truro, Captain
“ Indade! What did un look like ?”
ceremony, which, had it taken place,
would have marked the finish of some
nine and a half years of courting.
I am sober and thrifty. Sober, because
I usually lag far too long over my beer
to raise the slightest semblance of a
“glow” ; thrifty, because the number of
trams, trains, etc., which my normal dila-
tory movements cause me to miss en-
ables me to save a considerable amount.
—Yours faithfully, Watt A. Droob.
Per P.S.C.
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
I. —Prelude to Discovery.
Columbus’s feat of navigational duck-
shooting in finding America after having
sailed westward to look for Asia inspired
both Spain and Portugal to search for
any other new worlds that might be
lying around going to waste.
The Pork-and-Beans, in particular,
were most active. They had absorbed
avidly the juicy tales Marco Polo had
spun about the marvellously rich spice
islands around Cathay. Had not the
Grand Lord Keeper of the Royal Spices
admitted his failure to get an adequate
supply of cloves for his royal master?
And without them how could Emmanuel
trick his masterful Isabella after he had
sneaked out the back gate of the palace
for a couple of quickies just before six
o’clock?
Then there was the incident of the
lady-in-waiting who had repelled the
monarch’s amorous advances. Swiping
him playfully but solidly across the kisser
she had said banteringly: “Cut that out,
Lollylegs ; you’re not such hot stuff as a
lover, anyway.”
Manny, to repair this serious defect,
decided to go on a diet of chillies and
red pepper as recommended by. his
physicians-in-ordinary, only to discover
that the G.L.K. of the R.S. had again
fallen down on his job. Enraged, the
king ordered expeditions right and left
to comb the world for the desirqd condi-
ments.
The most successful of these expedi-
tions was that led by Jorge de Menezes.
Jorge, a landsman by birth, profession
and inclination, but an ardent admirer of
Isabella by choice, was ordered by the
canny Emmanuel to lead the spice-
searchers. Making for the South Sea
Islands, he immediately steered a N.N.W.
course.
As Portugal happened to be in the grip
of a world-wide economic depression,
Jorge argued that there would conse-
quently be no N.E. trade winds that year.
His object, therefore, was to beat up
against the Gulf Stream and let the pack
ice drift him through the Nor’-west Pas-
sage. As he would then be starting to
come down the world it would be a
simple matter of coasting along the
Americas until he reached the southern
seas. If he wasn’t able to coast all the
way (say when he ran into a strong
southerly) then he considered his craft
was sufficiently powerful to do it in
second gear.
But the only compass on board was
one with a gold hand and platinum
letters, the gift of the queen to the navi-
gator. The brig had only just got out of
sight of land when Jorge discovered to
his horror that some dastard among the
crew had souvenired the vital parts of
the memento. But the explorer was not
beaten. Remembering his punting days,
he blindfolded himself, stabbed with a
pin at the map, ordered the boat to go
around in circles for a day and then at an
appointed time shot off at a tangent and
kept in that direction.
It was thus he came to the Malaccas,
but he stopped there only long enough
to found the Malacca cane industry.
Then, anxious to get the spices and get
back to Portugal and Bella, he pushed
on, eventually arriving at New Guinea.
But, there being no mention of the place
on the crude map he carried, he failed
to recognise it.
Cautiously he sailed around it several
times in daylight so as to memorise the
shape of it, and eventually landed to see
if the natives knew the name of the
place. He had only just stepped ashore
and was shaking hands with the chief
when there came a terrific subterranean
rumble and a blast of molten lava
whizzed past his ear. It was not until
the explorer was safely back on the
poop of his brig and half-way to the
horizon that he discovered that he still
held the native chief by the hand. This
experience so unnerved Jorge that on the
return voyage he would leap violently
in the air when anyone with a bass voice
started to laugh. He afterwards became
the national high-jump champion.
But although De Menezes never actu-
ally reached Australia he got closer than
any _of his fellow-navigators, and his
landing in New Guinea actually caused
repercussions among the Northern Terri-
tory abos. The Papuans, on their next
visit to the mainland
to get supplies of
witchetty grubs,
goannas and lubras,
boasted that they had
been discovered by
white men. The
Myalls, fiercely resent-
ful that they hadn’t
been discovered first,
laid into them and
drove their catamarans
off.
The news that
Menezes had reached
New Guinea but had
failed to sight Aus-
tralia brought forth a
chorus of raspberries
from the Escurial, and
the Spaniards deter-
mined to show the
Pork-and-Beans how
exploration should be
carried out. Conse-
quently they sent for
Cortez, but that war-
rior-explorer was too
busy staring with
eagle eyes at the
Pacific to notice the
messenger. Besides,
Cortez had got very
stout, as Keats testi-
fies, and it was months before his men
could get him down from the peak in
Darien.
Having other things on hand, Cortez
sent his kinsman, Alvaro de Saavedra, to
search for the southern continent, but at
Hawaii, where he called to cut a fresh
supply of toothpicks, a girl stuck a
rhododendron in his flowing locks and
Alvaro forgot all about Australia.
Thereafter, in rapid succession, came
Quiros and Torres. Quiros discovered
the New Hebrides, and called the vast
land to the south Austrialia. He also
pronounced it like that, his mother being
a Cockney. Torres got within coo-ee of
the N.Q. coast, but the sight of the
bananas growing profusely made him feel
bilious, and he made back to Vera Cruz.
S. W. K.
According to Precedent.
“Future Queen of Egypt prefers slacks and
white shorts.” —Woman’s paper.
Though she might wear enchanting frocks
Of silk and crepe de Chine,
Or deck herself in coats of fox
Designed to grace a queen;
A nd though her figure might be sheathed
In lovely gowns from France,
Like ev’ry bride that ever breathed,
She’d rather wear the pants!
P.O.M.C.
The Morbid Multitude.
The crowd that gapes and stands around
When men of brawn and muscle
Dig excavations in the ground
Amid the city’s bustle
Is, I have not the slightest doubt
{For with it / have tarried ),
That selfsame crowd that hangs about
To watch some chump get married.
P.O.M.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE '
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson.
The ords. in this strongly-estab-
lished concern attracted greater in-
terest last week in Sydney, the scrip
lifting from 68s. to 70s. Further
reference appears in these pages.
It should be an excellent stock for
holding.
JJRJTjf
TQfi
20 Investments In One!
That’s what you get by becoming a Certificate Holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST. Spreading your
funds over the shares of 20 first-class companies, these Certifi-
cates provide also a liberal income yield and potential
capital appreciation. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to “Romance of Industry” Session each Wednesday Night at 9.30
from 2UE.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Gold and the Mighty Dollar
First-class goldmines have lately been
restored partially to their former status
in the Australian share-lists. There was
a time, during the boom, when they rose
to really silly prices. Reaction followed,
and in the world scare of last April,
when the yellow metal took the shape of
an incubus in the minds of a lot of
writers and economists, there was wild
selling of gold scrip all over the world,
find in this country such stout customers
as North Kalgurli were slashed—that
particular one slumped to under 175.,
and it was picked here as the best thing
offering for those definitely wanting a
gold stock. North Kals., incidentally,
sold last week at 21s. lOd.
Despite rumors and alarms concern-
ing President Roosevelt’s threatened
attack on the price of gold in the
U.S.A., eight months have gone by, and
nothing untoward has happened except
that pressure of the fleeing franc has
forced sterling up and the price of the
rdetal down a few pence.
Gold investors continue to watch
Roosevelt keenly. With an unemployed-
roll that has proved more stubborn than
in any other great country of the world,
the United States remains an enigma.
The President thought prices were too
high last March ; does he think they are
too low now? Will he try to bring the
nation out of its economic difficulties by
further monetary management, or will he
leave things to a dogfight between Capi-
tal and Labor, and let a frontal attack be
made by those who are principally in-
terested on the problems that demand
attack?
It is certain that back-door ways of
dealing with U.S.A.’s problems—currency
and credit management and quasi-con-
trol of industry, instead of letting em-
ployer and employee stew in their own
juice or agree to co-operate in common
interests —are conducive to speculation.
Just now a number of Australian fol-
lowers of the sharemarket are guessing
as to whether, by a stroke of the Presi-
dential pen, U.S.A. will put a higher
value on gold and a lower value on the
dollar in order to “do something” about
unemployment. Some are tipping that
further inflation or “pump-priming” is
imminent in the U.S.A. If it should
happen on a large scale, gold would lift
in price, and base metals might be ex-
pected to follow.
This page doesn’t pretend to be able
to anticipate Franklin Roosevelt. If
nothing else, he is a good poker-player,
and his silences on occasion are more
alarming than his utterances. It is a great
pity, really, that through the influence of
the mighty dollar the Government of the
U.S.A. can hold such sway over the
markets of other countries.
But there it is, and Britain can’t afford
to allow the pound sterling to “stay put”
if the dollar starts doing tricks aimed
partly at cheapening American goods in
the world’s markets. Maintenance of
some sort of ratio between the dollar
and the pound is an economic necessity
so far as Britain is concerned.
One thing does seem certain, and it is
that Roosevelt was genuinely concerned
about the crazy rise in prices early last
year. Therefore he may be careful about
using artificial boosting in the future.
And by now he has had a lot of practi-
cal experience around the point that in-
flation and pump-priming are expedients
only, not cures.
At last week’s sharemarket prices the
three biggest Barrier mines were valued
as follows:
North .. .. .. .. £7,840,000
South .. .. .. .. 5,600,000
Zinc Corp. .. . . .. 5,600,000
Zinc Corp. is potentially the most valu-
able of them all. Its output is being
largely increased, and though profits to
Dec., 1936, were something less than
half those of South for the year to
June 30, 1937, the terms aren’t com-
parable, highest metal prices being
realised in the Jan.-June, 1937, period.
On the basis of last divs., yields from
North and Zinc ords. at present share
prices are almost the same.
* * * *
The lift in metal prices of a fortnight
ago wasn’t sustained for long. There
were sharp falls all round in the middle
of last week. Barriers and Mt. Lyell
held well, all things considered.
sjc * # *
Commonwealth wool sales to Dec. 31
were, at 1,051,033 bales, down 181,502
bales, and proceeds, at £21,028,121, were
£6,493,727 lower compared with the same
half of 1936. The average for greasy
(13.7 d.) was down 1.5 d., and for greasy
and scoured together (14d.) down 1.4 d.
The position is rather worse than it looks.
This time last year prices were climbing
strongly, and the season finished with an
average of about 16.5 d. for wool. At the
moment the tendency in the Common-
wealth is for the season’s average to be
reduced with succeeding sales. But
prices of other commodities have in
several cases lifted lately, and there may
be better inquiry for the staple before
June 30 next.
* * * *
A story from Mt. Garnet (Q.) to the
effect that Broken Hill Prop, has taken
options over tin-bearing areas in the
Herberton district has followed on the
co.’s prospecting activities in the North.
The fact that B.H.P. intends to start
tinplate works in the Commonwealth
later on lends color to the report.
Tableland Tin, the Malcolm Newman
show now preparing to work the Return
Creek area near Mt. Garnet, expects to
have its small dredge in operation
shortly. The big dredge, annual capacity
million cubic yards, is under con-
struction, and a second call, of 2s. 6d.
(making the £1 shares paid to 7s. 6d.), is
being made to help things along. There
is something like 80,000,000 c.y. in the
area to be dredged, values bored at better
than half a pound. Though tin is down
at the moment, it isn’t likely to be low
for ever, and. meantime Tableland isn’t
working-out its property. It looks a
promising proposition, in able hands.
* * * *
With an interim div. due in March,
more interest is being taken in the ord.
shares of Mauri Bros, arid Thomson, a
very select stock in the brewers’-supplies
section. M.B. and T. controls Australian
Crown Seals, which turns out bottle-seals,
the parent co. doing the distributing.
Corks, Champion’s vinegar, malt, shop
refrigerators (the milk-bars brought in
big business), soda-fountains, counter fit-
tings, etc., are a few of the other items
which enabled the co. to show 27.1 p.c.
on ord. capital last term. At that the
figure included profits of subsidiary cos.
only “so far as these have been declared
as dividends.” Net tangibles visibly
amount to 345. 3d. per ord. share, apart
from any goodwill on the one side or
undistributed profit on the other in the
subsidiary cos. In the worst year of the
slump the co. showed 9.7 p.c. on ord.
capital, and in 10 years only £27,620
has been added to the share-register,
making it £457,520 in 285,620 ords.,
150,000 9 p.c. prefs. and 21,900 10 p.c.
prefs. To-day the balance-sheet is as
pretty as one would wish to see —there
is £163,528 in cash, as against a few hun-
dreds not so many years ago. At 70s.
(they were up to 755. in 1937) the ords.
return £4 6s. per cent, on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
* * He #
North Kalgurli finished' 1937 showing
a mine profit of £265,278 Australian,
compared with £163,056 in 1936. Ore
milled was 133,265 tons, against 112,338
tons. The forecast in B. 24/11/’37 that
working surplus should be up “at least
£100,000” has been borne out. The
total represents 395. lOd. per ton of ore
milled, and is up 10s. a ton on 1936 ex-
perience. This improvement is princi-
pally due to better extraction and lower
costs. Grade of ore remains much the
same.
* * * #
North Kal. scrip has lifted tq around
17s. 6d. in London following indications
of a happy new year. The shares have
been firm in Australia at near 21s. 9d.
for a couple of weeks.
* * * *
It seems that Loloma, Fiji, in its
bottom (224 ft.) level, has picked up the
southern ore-shoot. Average values go
17dwt. over 57in. for 12ft. in the south
drive, and 23dwt. over 60in. for 17ft.
after a break of low values for 12ft.
The shares practically looped the loop.
At 17s. 6d. on Monday morning of last
week, they sold at 20s. 9d. later, and
were back to 18s. 2d. on Wednesday.
* * * *
The ords. in H. B. Dickie, towel and
terry-cloth makers, of Victoria, have sold
as high as 265. lately—an improvement.
It is a promising little co., and paid 1\
p.c. last year; an interim div. is due to
be paid next month. The yield at last
rate of div. is £5 15s. sd. per cent., or
£6 3s. p.c. if 8 p.c. goes out in respect
of the current term.
* * * *
G. J. Coles’s half-yearly interim divi-
dend, declared last week, was at the rate
of 15 p.c. p.a. This suggests that last
year’s rate of p.c. should at least be
maintained. The market dropped from
around 86s. 6d. to 84s. 6d., and the yield
offering was £4 10s. per cent., .allowing
for div. accrued.
* * * *
There has been steady buying of Adel-
aide Steam shares lately, and at 335. 6d.
last week the price hasn’t been higher
since the slump. The co. usually dis-
closes just enough profit to pay the divi-
dend. Last year the rate went up to
7 p.c., after three years at 6 p.c., and an
interim div. is due in March. This term
there have been no maritime strikes, and
with freight rates up any growth in exes,
should be well offset. Adelaide has the
finest fleet of inter-State passenger and
cargo vessels on the coast, and its coal
and other investments are heavily written
down in the accounts. It also has con-
tracts with the C.S.R. in Queensland.
Yield on a 7 p.c. basis at 335. 6d. is
£4 4s. p.c., or £4 9s. p.c. on a 7i p.c.
basis.
* * * *
Liquidation of Adelaide Brewing
Corp., formed about the end of 1936, is
recommended by the directors. A good
deal of optimistic talk preceded and suc-
ceeded the flotation, but the ss. shares
reacted strongly early in 1937, and there
has been evidence of difficulty attending
establishment of the business for some
time. The co. still has £43,000 liquid,
equal to 2s. 3d. per ss. share. Accounts
made up to Nov. 30 last are to be pre-
sented shortly. The case of the Adel-
aide co. illustrates the point that all
breweries aren’t necessarily goldmines.
New ones generally have great difficulties
to face.
* * i]i *
After the first news of Castlemaine,
Perkins’s new one-for-five par issue had
grown a bit stale, the market lowered its
quotes slightly, business being possible at
around 265. 9d. in southern capitals.
Brisbane quotes are always lower because
brokerage is payable both by buyer and
seller. An interim, div. of 6d. a share
will most likely go out on the old scrip
in March. On a 265. 6d. net price basis,
the yield offering to present buyers will
be £4 2s. 6d. per cent, when the new
scrip is fully paid. That assumes that
no more or no less than 8 p.c. be paid
annually. Distributions have been amply
covered to date, and prospects have a
cheerful look.
* * *
The ords. in Associated' Pulp, the co.
which aims to start commercial produc-
tion of fine printing- and writing-paper
at Burnie (Tas.) by mid-1938, kept
under 21s. last week. They are de-
cidedly interesting at the price.
* * * *
Another much-marked-down stock to
show big recovery in the new year has
been Melbourne “Herald.” At 61s. in
November (745. last March), there was
turnover at 675. 6d. last week. The return
is about £3 12s. p.c.
* * * *
After a brief rise to above 10s., Pro-
ducers and General (Sydney) ords.
dropped back to 95., the lowest quote
on record, last week. A div. announce-
ment is due this month. There are hopes
that the new manager will improve the
co.’s position, but because there has been
little certainty on the part of outsiders
regarding the exact financial position of
the co. at any given time, it is difficult
to guess at the value of the shares. That
is one reason why the market is so
erratic. In the last accounts it was im-
possible to gauge the extent of the influ-
ence of P.P. Bank realisations on profits,
or the amount at which unrealised P.P.
assets figured in the books.
* * * sSr
Hotel Metropole, Sydney, has lifted its
interim div. from 3 p.c. to 3| p.c. Last
term a final of 7 p.c. was paid, making
10 p.c. for the year. There have been
almost annual increases in the rate since
the low point of 2\ p.c. in 1931. Last
sale of the scrip was at 375. Buyers offer
345.
* sfc ♦ #
In Melbourne last week:
General Motors-Holdens, which in 1936
earned 73.8 p.c. on ord. capital and paid a
65 p.c. div., announced a proposal for capi-
talising £761,600 of reserves in the shape of
a bonus issue. General Motors, U.S.A., will
principally participate.
Holeproof ords. lifted further, touching 30s.
Accounts should soon be out.
Myer ords. had further dealings at the
higher figure of 355. 6d. The prefs. were
lower. Yarra Falls shares changed hands
at 395. 3d. Australian Cement ords. lifted
to 345. 3d., being much higher, comparatively,
than Kandos Cement in Sydney.


Y
r:
Vk
t,
n
■v,
■y
'r
/
that’s how the news spreads.
G. L. Fuller & Co., Limited,
Quality Tailors, have built up
over the last five years a repu-
tation second to none.
One satisfied client is worth a
ton of advertising assertion.
You, too, deserve to be cor-
rectly tailored by the men
who know.
<§. %. ffulltx & Co. Htb.
EIGHTY-FOUR PITT STREET, SYDNEY
QUALITY TAILORS
Mr. George Fuller will be pleased to personally advise you on the correct style for your individuality.
Mt. Morgan is going to erect smelters
at last. As pointed out here realisation
costs, including those of shipping con-
centrates to Tacoma (U.S.A.) for refin-
ing, have been running out at ss. 6d. a
ton of sulphide ore. Shipments have
been hung up for nearly four months,
and another couple will elapse before
there are realisations. The argument in
favor of refining locally has therefore
grown greatly in force, and it always
seemed a strong one. Shareholders aren’t
so pleased about the projected £200,000
issue of 8 p.c. redeemable preference
shares. They were informed some time
ago there would be no further increases >n
capital, but perhaps smelters weren’t con-
templated then. Still, Eric Campbell told
shareholders at the last meeting that
smelters shouldn’t cost more than £50,000.
The extra £150,000 must be for other
development or for extra cost on account
of smelters not previously anticipated.
* * *
A div. at the unaltered rate of 10 p.c.
p.a. has come along from Kandos
Cement (N.S.W.). Australian Cement,
Melbourne, which, like Kandos, owns a
million shares in Australian Portland
Cement, recently showed profits at a
thousand or two lower for the year to
Nov. 30; Kandos balances on June 30,
but indications to date suggest that earn-
ings for the current term will show little
alteration compared with last year. The
operating co. may actually be doing
better, but reflection of betterment in
the holding cos.’ accounts depends on
how much distributions from the work-
ing co. are increased. If no more tfian
10 p.c. is intended to be paid to Kandos
and Australian shareholders, there would
be no necessity on the part of the sub-
sidiary to pay divs. of more than 7± p.c.
p.a., even though it might be earning
more. Kandos 16s. scrip was weaker last
week at 255. 3d., and was much better
buying than Australian £1 shares at
345. 3d
* * * *
In the December quarter of last year
Australian trade-union unemployment
had dropped to 8.2 p.c., compared with
9.3 p.c. for the three months ended Sep-
tember, and 10.7 p.c. for the December
period of 1936. The figure indicates the
highest trade-union employment ratio
since the quarter ended June, 1927. Fac-
tory employment just now is the greatest
in the country’s history, and it is still
growing. This is largely due to the sub-
sequent influences' of depression ; hard
times threw us more on our own re-
sources, because our external income
didn’t warrant overseas buying on a
boom-time scale. The virtual cessation
of overseas borrowing has also been a
great help.
* * * *
Another interim-div. increase last
week was that of William Adams, the
co. that in 1937 benefited, as agents
for a British make of turbines, by the
Sydney County Council’s acceptance of
a tender for new turbo-generators at the
Bunnerong power-house. The interim
was of 8.3 p.c. p.a., compared with 6.5
p.c. for the whole of the preceding term.
The 145.-paid ords. have lifted to 17s.
There has been a very creditable re-
organisation of this business. In pre-
depression days the co. was a straggler for
a long while. Last week’s div., in fact,
was the best since 1921. An increase in
capital is proposed.
* * * *
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Sydney,
has maintained its interim quarterly ord.
div. at 15 p.c. The 125.-paid scrip fell
from above 255. to around 16s. over
about a year; last week there was re-
covery to 17s. 6d. There have been in-
creasing doubts in the public mind as to
the future of cash-order cos. Fears are
that legislative or combined traders’
action may cramp the cos.’ style. -
* * * *
Finney, Isles ords. have changed hands
at the lower figure of 295. 3d. in Bris-
bane; last Sydney sales were at 30s. 9d.,
and highest quote for 1937 was 325, 6d.
The interim div. paid in September last
was a t rate of 8 p.c. p.a., the same as the
preceding year’s rate. A final is due in
March. Shares in McWhirters, at the
Valley- end of the city, were recom-
mended here some time ago around 14s.
They have firmed to 15s.
* * * *
An indication of the revival in the
N. S. Wales real-estate market is
Richardson and Wrench’s dividend. A
10 p.c. distribution was made in 1930 ;
then nothing went out until 1934, when
6 p.c. was paid. Each succeeding year
divs. have gone up by 2 p.c., the rate for
1937, though profits were almost un-
changed, being 12 p.c. That’s a very
nice income to shareholders who
bought during the slump, but it is still
less than half some of the rates before
slump and Lang put the N. S. Wales
property market at the gates of the
lunatic asylum. The recovery, however,
is very heartening. Last sale of Richard-
son and Wrench’s scrip was at 31s.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch ords. could be
picked up at 525. last week in Mel-
bourne, yielding £4 11s. 6d. per cent, on
the well-covered 12 p.c. div. basis. A
good return from a sound stock.


The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . .
ĵ
Australian Representatives:
MACDONALD & BAKER,
Unique and attractive in appearance,
perfect in construction, it gives better
and longer service than any Razor
you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of
Satisfaction.
SYDNEY—ADELAIDE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Rain kept thousands away from Rand-
wick on Saturday, and thousands more,
sloshing about with wet feet and watch-
ing their fancies labor on the heavy track,
wished they hadn’t come. The going
proved too much for horses with sub-
stantial burdens, such as Beau Ercil
(Bondi Handicap) and Jocular (Chal-
lenge Stakes). It suited lightweights like
Panaster (January Handicap), Hammer-
head and Brown Baroness (Challenge
Stakes).
Hammerhead is a six-year-old gelding
by’ Royal Sun-Adina, trained at Rosehill
by his owner, Sutherland. He did his
Challenge Stakes job well; whether the
form was of much account remains to
be proved. Brown Baroness was favor-
ite ; Hammerhead went out at tens.
Hammerhead gave the little mare four
lengths’ start commencing the last fur-
long and beat her comfortably. Mark
Anthony was a poor third, ahead of
Aureus and Lord Bine. Brazandt, who
touched fours —he eased to sixes—led the
field a merry dance, but was beaten at
the Leger.
Hammerhead is to be taken to Vic-
toria for the Newmarket. If it’s a wet
day he may run a fair race, but the Mel-
bourne sprinters seem decidedly superior
to the Sydney lot.
Panaster is also trained at Rosehill,
he is raced on lease by M. Webster, who
prepares Sarcherie and other members
of J. J. Leahy’s team. The Pantheon colt
was at 11 to 2 in the January Handicap
and led throughout, Prittle Prattle and
Rossjoy, both very tired, following him
home. Tuckerbox demonstrated that he
is definitely no good on a soft track. Sal
Volatile and Mananui also failed.
Panaster is owned by Alec Higgins.
He cost 250 guineas as a yearling, but
was so poor that Higgins, who races in
India, decided to leave him behind for a
season or two to let him develop. Though
still leggy and narrow, he is improving
with every run.
Randwick trainer Jerome Carey, who
had Karuma and Lingle and put
Mohican through his early paces, has an-
other smart galloper in his stable in Rex,
owned by Mrs. M. E. Nathan, of Sydney.
Although he had not raced since he won
a small event at Rosebery in August this
son of Baralong was backed from 20 to
1 to 14 to 1 in the Bondi Handicap, and
beat Troy and To-morrow like a good
one. Beau Ercil drew the rails position,
but in the circumstances it was no use
to him.
Bofield (9 to 2) was declared by her
owner, Alan Cooper, to be a certainty
for the Widden Handicap. The half-
sister to Jacko had missed the jump at
Canterbury ; on Saturday Shean got her
away speedily, and the result was not in
doubt after the first furlong. Feminist
ran on gamely in second place; Mil-
tiades was third, and Bofield’s stablemate,
Early Bird, fourth.
Two Kensington sportsmen, D. and M.
Flansford, saw their colors carried to
victory for the first time when The World
(16 to 1), nicely handled by Charley
Findlay, beat Not So Bad and Levant in
the First Novice. He finished strongly,
and, being a son of Pantheon, may
develop into a stayer.
Young Harvey, who had won on Ham-
merhead, rode a clever race on the Can-
terbury-trained Mordent (4 to 1) in the
Paddington Handicap. The black mare
looked beaten when Palarang and Happy-
land went past her at the top of the
straight, but Harvey kept to the rails,
rode the mare vigorously and drove her
past Happyland and Red Rosebud to vic-
tory. The youth is from South Australia.
* * * *
Hua (Heroic-Gladioli), winner of the
Victoria Derby in November last, sur-
prised everyone but his trainer and a
few thick-anu-thin admirers by annexing
the William Reid Stakes at Moonee Val-
ley on Saturday. Most racing followers
in the Yarra River city maintained that
six furlongs was far too short a journey
for this three-year-old.
Odds of 25 to 1 actually were laid
against Hua, but he shortened to twelves
after a well-known owner made invest-
ments along the rails of the members’
enclosure. This sportsman is believed
to have executed a commission for Jim
Scobie, whose Pytchley Lodge stable
shelters the handsome bay.
Scobie made no secret of his faith in
the ability of Hua to at least give a good
account of himself. “If I thought other-
wise I wouldn’t be starting the colt,” he
remarked while supervising the saddling-
up operations. “The others will know
they have been galloping before they
have finished with Hua.”
His trainer admitted that Hua wasn’t yet
wound up, and a cursory examination
made that clear. The colt looked rather
burly, but had done enough fast work to
fit him for the sprint, and his superior
quality proved the decisive factor, even
against such speedsters as Studio, Regu-
lar Bachelor, Beechwood, Hostile, Ami-
able and Garrio, not to speak of Press
Gang, Ogwell and Great Legend.
Beechwood shared favoritism with the
Standish Handicap winner, • Amiable, at
4 to 1. Sixes could be had about Studio
and Stoic, while Garrio figured at eights.
Hostile and Regular Bachelor were on
the same level of favor as Hua. With
every chance in running, Studio, Garrio
and Stoic acquitted themselves poorly,
but Hostile finished an impressive fourth.
The style in which Hua won suggests
that he will develop into one of the best
gallopers Scobie ever trained, which is
saying a whole lot. Going comfortably
in third position for half the distance,
he took control at the home turn, and
was easing up to beat Beechwood by If
lengths. Regular Bachelor made up tre-
mendous ground in the concluding three
furlongs, and was a mere head behind
Beechwood.
Hua is not engaged in the Newmarket
Handicap. That event is run on the same
afternoon as the St. Leger, and E. E. D.
Clarke, his owner, vastly prefers classic
to handicap victories. Whether the colt
will compete in the Australian Cup is
problematical, but after Saturday’s revela-
tion of brilliance he may be produced
for the Caulfield Futurity Stakes.
Distance of the Futurity Stakes is seven
furlongs, which ought to suit Hua. He
set lmin. Ilf sec. for six in the William
Reid Stakes, equalling the course record,
established by Pamelus 12 months before.
So far the Futurity Stakes is one of the
few big races that Scobie has not cap-
tured. In 1905 Emir (also owned by
E. E. D. Clarke) made a dead-heat for
second with Billingsgate and Dangai.
When The Riff went under by a long
neck to W. R. Kemball’s Bellevue in the
middle-distance Caldermeade Handicap,
those associated with the S.A. horse re-
ceived a heavy financial jolt. The Riff
had been backed, from fives down to less
than half those odds. There was little
between Bellevue and The Riff up to half
a mile from home, where The Wizard
came from near the rear and hit the
front with a phenomenal burst of speed.
Had The Wizard (20 to 1) not hung
out on the turn he might have added to
the happiness of bookmakers over other
surprise results during the afternoon.
After being straightened The Wizard put
in some more good work and beat The
K.C. by a head for third money, only a
half-length behind The Riff.
Kemball, picture-theatre magnate in
M.L. but mainly resident in Melbourne,
was expected to follow up the Bellevue
triumph by taking the Warrook High-
weight with Prince Quex, a 4 to 1
favorite; but this splendid-looking stal-
lion found lOst. 61b. rather too heavy a
burden against Lady Mauve, a rival of
equal age with Bst. Archie Crofts’s mare,
a 10 to 1 chance, “came from the clouds”
to score, running away, by a length and
a quarter.
Allowed to go out at 20 to 1 because
of his poor showing in a race for steeple-
chase jockeys at Caulfield on the previous
Saturday, Chelandric displayed something
like his true form by leading into the
straight and attaching third prize. He is
a stablemate of the champion juvenile
Nuffield, and ought to win before long
for Jack Holt.
Divisions of the juvenile event went to
Rosado (Silverado-Roscome) and Veiled
Prophet (Veilmond-Highness) respec-
tively. The former, owned by T. C.
Manifold, of the V.R.C. committee,
started at 20 to 1 and paid £7 13s. for
ss. in the tote win pool. Veiled Prophet
was a 6-to-4 favorite. Kaolin, second to
Rosado, is fully related to Feldspar,
winner of the 1935 Victoria Derby. It
was the colt’s first appearance, and he
promises to be a good ’un. Lou Robert-
son must have tried Kaolin well, as he
ended up a solid second favorite.
Bill Burke, the veteran trainer, ran
second to Veiled Prophet with Belle Blue,
a smart filly by Beau Fils. In the con-
cluding event of the afternoon Burke had
a winning turn with Elmdale, who carried
9st. and scored gamely, though by the
narrowest margin, from Just Smith, a
rank outsider.
Elmdale (7 to 2) was one of three
favorites to succeed in seven events.
Others were Veiled Prophet and Jupiter.
Latter (10 to 9) registered his third suc-
cessive victory over obstacles in the
Tweedside Hurdle. He was flat out to
beat Imitari. If he hadn’t fallen five
furlongs from home Shadow Moon
would have made the finish still more
thrilling.
* * * *
“R.X.8.”: A horse named Niedergon-
dershausen must have caused the Ring
some trouble before he fell in an Eng-
lish race. Australians have never had
anything as bad as that to contend with,
but a simple name like Wotan suffers a
wide variety of pronunciation. Jeanne
d’Arc and Djojka are tongue-twisters for
the bookmakers, and Gene Tout soon
became Jeannie Tout, rhyming with
“lout.” Horses’ names are usually
euphonious, and are, in many cases,
cleverly compounded to give a clue to
the pedigree. That doesn’t seem to apply
to dogs. Apropos, a greyhound racing in
Sydney is named Father’s Features.
* * * *
“Marino”: Adelaide betting shops
have done even more harm to field
sports on Saturday afternoons than the
old under-the-lap betting joints. Secre-
tary Jeanes, of the S. Australian C.A.,
has been telling the Betting, Commis-
sion that both in town and country the
shops are dragging away from the games
not only the public but the players them-
selves. He added that the same applied
to football, and advocated closing of
the shops on Saturdays at least.
Ins and Outs
Rain prevented play in N.S.W. v. Vic.
in Sydney on Saturday, and they took
over on Monday—Friday had been
broken into also—with N.S.W. 177 for
five wickets. Barnes (54) —he showed
vast improvement on his funereal dis-
play against S.A. —and White (7) were
the not-out men. Victoria needed a first-
innings win in this clash and over S.A.
next week to beat Noo South for the
Shield.
(Continued on page 30.)
Sydney had its first look at the visit-
ing Empire Games men at the Sports
Ground on the second , day of the N.S.W.
championships. The field was boggy and
rain pelted, but performances were good.
Mumford, who the previous Saturday
had taken the 100 and the 440, won the
220 in 22.45ec., o.7sec. better than his time
last year, and faster than the Canadians
Loaring and O’Connor did in the invita-
tion event. Pardon threw the 161 bi.
hammer 146 ft. lin. to set anew Austra-
lian record, but that was bettered by
Sutherland, of Canada, who hurled it
154 ft. lOJin. Another Australian, Cart-
wright, cleared 12ft. 7in. pole-vaulting to
raise the Empire figures lin., and last
year’s results were bettered in three of
the other events.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: For the first time since the
competition was started the Linton Cup
for inter-State junior tennis has been
prised out of the N.S.W. grip, South
Australia scoring its initial win in Adel-
aide. In Max Newcombe S.A. is confi-
dent it has a coming champion. The
Wilson Cup for flappers saw Ma take the
knock again, this time from Victoria.
# * * *
There were early surprises in the Aus-
tralian tennis championships played at
Adelaide. The German Henkel met an
unknown Victorian, George Holland, in
the second round. Henkel took the first
set easily, 6-1, and the second without
much difficulty, 6-4. Then Holland made
for the net. Volleys and smashes gave
him the third set 6-3, and the fourth 6-0.
In the fifth he was still on top, though
Henkel took four games—6-4. Craw-
ford, too, was outed —by Schwartz, of
S.A., 7-5, 5-7, 6-3, 8-6. The others —
Budge, Cramm, Bromwich, Quist and co.
—weren’t bothered.
* # * *
“Spinnaker”: N.S.W. Sailing League
has an impressive entry for its 18ft.
world’s championship over the nine-miles
Sow and Pigs course on Port Jack-
son. Maoriland has entered four boats
and Queensland four, including the fly-
ing Aberdare, first and fastest of the so-
called “skiff” design, the adoption of
which by a section of Australian sailing
men split the 18ft. community in two.
N.S.W. has 12 entries, chief among them
being H. C. Press and Malvina, a Queens-
land-designed and -built champion.
Malvina, which the previous week won
the Australian championship at Brisbane,
was sailed by anew skipper and a scratch
crew, and the first heat on Sunday went
to Taree, another Sydney-owned Bris-
bane-built boat. Queensland followed
with Aberdare, Victor and Marjorie, then
came the Maoriland Irina —their boats,
half-decked, follow a design new to Aus-
tralia —with Gloria (N.S.W.) sixth. The
second heat is to be sailed to-morrow
and the last on Sunday.
* * * *
Tommy Farr, who gave heavyweight
champion Louis a stiff go a couple of
months back, was outpointed in N’Yark
by Braddock, whom Louis beat for the
title, and who, it was claimed, was a no-
good champ., anyhow, and was mak-
ing a second, or third, “comeback.” By
report, Braddock won only four of the
10 rounds, but they were the first two
and the last two, and in the end he was
dealing it out to Tommy. Braddock is
33, and before the scrap the only “expert”
to give him a chance was Louis.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The Empire Games Asso-
ciation had to be called in to end the bit
of pother as to what boxers and wrestlers
would argue on behalf of Australia dur-
ing the Games. The trouble started when
the selectors chosen by the Amateur B.
and W. Union turned in a list omitting
some Australian title winners. The union
decided to toss the selectors’ choice aside
and nominate their own men. The
Games people now say that nomination
stands. That should end it, though there’s
still talk about injunctions and: the like.
FOR RANDWICK.
Kurnell Handicap: Bodley Head ;
next, Beau Ercil.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Joan Dar-
ling ; next, Lady Cav.
Anniversary Handicap: Panaster ;
next, Silk Felt.
Phillip Handicap: Bradford ;
next, Shakespeare.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Chesterfield Handicap: Hostile ;
next, Heros.
Inverness Handicap: Prince
Quex; next, Gay Circle or Boon-
garry.
Sandhurst Welter: Riddle ; next,
Boongarry or Beaustone.
FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Trial Stakes: The Athenian;
next, Punjab.
Flying Handicap: Lord Bine ;
next, Moonray.
Rosehill Handicap: Kinsfolk;
next, Verberry.
Carlingford Mile: Duke Cale-
don; next, Housemaster.


j
Ik
mm
m
mm
w*.
SS
J. Kelso Murchison Will Banish Your Baldness—Oß NO COST /
discovery
R Quickly^
it Distribution oF 1000 TRIAL
TREATMENTS This Month/
USE COUPON BELOW
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“Hair Growing Like Wildfire“
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. I could have told you, after one application, that your
treatment would certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, but yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It has completely changed the color of my hair. It
has turned it from dry, dead, straw-looking color back to its original
shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I have
a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It's growing like
wildfire. I might mention that 1 never gave your treatment a
very fair go, either.” E. J. REYNOLDS, M., N.S.W.
Test it yourself—NOW!
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in your own home —
under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of
dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer from within 30 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING! —not a penny. But you must hurry; this offer may never be
repeated; it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post that
coupon NOW!
GREAT DISTRIBUTION OF HAIR TREATMENTS!
What I Discovered About Hair
IT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you
are fast going bald—or what you have tried! 1
know you have not used the RIGHT method! My
own hair fell out in handfuls until I fast began to go
bald. I tried everything; but now I have a thick,
lustrous growth of hair—thanks to the important
discovery that—
Hair “Seeds'still live inbald heads
I HAVE proved, as in actual cases quoted opposite,
that the hair “seeds” frequently remain alive in
bald heads for a number of years. In the greater
majority of such cases, new hair can be grown,
provided that the real causes of the trouble are known
and the correct scientific treatment applied. Hundreds
of men and women from all over .Australasia have
grown new hair this wonderful new way. Just read
the letters opposite received from these grateful people
—surely this is proof enough.
Tonics will never grow hair
'“THEY never have—because it is impossible! There
is one underlying principle that stimulates New
Hair Growth that principle is involved in the new
Kelso Murchison Treatment! It’s a new way—entirely
different and successful. It approaches baldness,
falling hair, etc., from a new angle. With it you can
stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on
worthless tonics and “hair restorers,” but
accept my great offer and watch your hair
grow! Get this special offer coupon in the
post to-day!
It does not matter
IT does not matter how long-standing: your hair
4 or scalp trouble may be; it does not matter
what you have tried —J. Kelso Murchison is
prepared to PROVE to you beyond all doubt,
and without your risking one penny, that YOU
CAN DEFINITE!,Y GROW NEW you
send the attached coupon NOW!
This OFFer Expires Shortly!
SEND this COUPON tm
J. Kelso Murchison, Desk 94,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt St., Sydney.
Name
Address
26/1 /’3B.
READ THIS CONVINCING PROOF
from Grateful Men and Women!
Proves Other
Testimonials—by His
Own Results.
“I liave carried out
jour instructions and
have had wonderful
results. Before having:
anything to do with
your course myself,
i was very dubious
about the results other
people have achieved.
But now I know all
those letters to be true
by my own experience.
My dandruff is gone,
and my hair has re-
gained its sheen, and
oh! how wonderful it
is to have a clean scalp
and not to be afraid
to take off one’s hat
for fear of showing
thick dandruff.”
—M. HARDWICK.
S.,' N.Z.
11
m
SBS
The ageing eflect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could
not be more strikingly depicted
than in these pictures.
Mrs, Annita Burgess, Beaumaris, Vic., says:
“Course a Blessing!”
“I am writing to tliank you for the won-
derful* results received from yodr hair
treatment. I was in despair—my hair had
been falling out and had got very thin,
and no life in it
at all, ■ and was
full of dandruff. I
decided to try
your course. Well,
I can really say
it has been a
blessing to me, as
my hair now looks
really better than
I have ever known
it to be. You will
agree that the
photograph speaks
for itself.”
Hair Coming Rapidly.
“I wish to thank you for your wonderful
method for hair. I started with your
method on the Ist of December, and on
the 3rd my hair had almost, stopped falling
out. and now the new hair is coming
rapidly.”
—s. a. McDonald, t., n.s.w.
Never Thought Hair Would Grow
Again.
“My hair is growing very nicely on top of
my head, and is also starting in front. I
had thought that my hair would never
grow again, but you have proved this to
be a fallacy. I never realised how badly I
must have suffered from dandruff, but now,
thanks to you, all signs of it have dis-
appeared.”
—L. ROBERTS, N., N.S.W.
Recommends Course to Anybody.
“I thought I must write a few lines to you
about my hair. I can safely say now that
my hair has stopped falling out, and will
certainly recommend your course to any-
body in need of same, as I think it is cheap
at the price.”
N. BARTHOLOMAEUS, M., S.A.
Mrs. Annita Burgess.
ĵ
Ij. Phillips, of
Dunoon, says:—
“Hair has Grown
Twice as Thick! -
“After the first
night’s treatment the dandruff began to
disappear; at the end of three days was
completely gone. New hair was growing
at the temples and the crown of the head
at the end of 30 days, and in a very short
period all my hair and scalp troubles were
over for good. My hair has also grown
twice as thick. Anybody suffering from
any of the hair disorders I have had and
desiring to get rid of them for all time,
and obtain a good head of hair, just write
to .T. Kelso Murchison.”
—L. Phillips, D., N.S.W.
Improved Wonderfully!
“Having used your hair course, I must say
that I have had good results. It has often
been remarked to me as to what I have
been putting on my hair, as it has im-
proved wonderfully. There is no doubt it
has improved greatly; my hair always had
a dry look, but now it is soft and has a
good gloss, and has become much thicker.”
—J. W. CARLON, U., N.S.W.
Bald Patches Growing Hair.
“Before I started to use your hair treat-
ment my hair was falling out that much
that I thought I would be bald in a short
time. Thanks to your wonderful treat-
ment. the bald patches on my scalp are
growing hair very rapidly, and I would
recommend your hair treatment as the best
in the world. It has cured my dandruff
and my hair is 100 per cent, better.”
—W. A. PEARSON, P., N.S.W.
Wonderful Results!
“I have been using your hair treatment for
one month, with wonderful results. My
hair is no longer thin and scraggy. It
has stopped falling out, and all the dan-
druff has disappeared, also the itchy scalp.
Where it used to be short and thin it has
grown much longer and thicker. My hair
seems as though it has new life in it,
thanks to you. I think your course won-
derful and so easy to do.”
—Miss M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
£lOOO GUARANTEE We guarantee that all testimonials published in this announcement are
genuine letters or extracts from reports received by grateful men and
women who have used the Murchison Method successfully. These letters, together with hundreds
more, are open for inspection at our offices at any time.
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Desk 94, Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
j


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
SILVER EDGE
BRAKE LINING
trade MARK. THE RAYBESTOS CO.
SAVE
IEGISTERED. THE RAYBESTOS *
MONEY/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation ior consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It the long
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with RAYBbbiUb.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne. Vic.
MOOTIHI
WAR!
Declare war on insect pests
-use INSECTIBANE
powder ... It cannot fail.
Insectibane positively kills
flies and other insect pests
but is harmless to humans
and animals: it lasts longer,
too ! Sold everywhere in
Australia by chemists and
stores : buy Insectibane and
banish insects!
INSECTIBANE
M.Q. and Rafferty
Carroll, Leto and Others.
The scrap that drew 27,000 to Sydney
Sports Ground —held to be a record
crowd for a fight in Australia must have
been deeply disappointing to any who
attended to see butchery done. Its 10
rounds ended with the gladiators posed
in a brotherly embrace for the press
photographers and Carroll qualifying for
Hollywood by the nice artistry of a kiss
he smacked on Leto’s forehead, an
achievement that would be like tasting
a piece of salty castiron. The flush of
a glove mark or two on the Carroll
cheek and ribs and a slight puff under
Leto’s left eye were then about the worst
indications that there had been a fight.
In fact, a good time was had by all.
Carroll had weighed out over
the specified lOst. 71b. —a result, his
manager explained, of Jack s insatiable
fondness for chokos — and Leto
under, but the matter wasn’t allowed to
interfere with the atmosphere of all-round
friendliness. No cleaner or more gentle-
manly scraps have ever been seen than
all the five or six in which Carroll has
figured at this address in the last couple
of years. In this one ref. Harald Baker
didn’t once have to lay on hands or
utter a cautionary word of any kind. It
was a most refined exposition of the
noble art.
That is natural to Carroll: he is one
of the least damaging boxers ever to
wear a champ.’s belt. Leto, too, is natur-
ally an extra clean-fighting little chap ;
highly popular now with the Australian
crowd. Nevertheless, he’d certainly have
been damaging if Carroll had been agree-
able. He is a tough little fighter, and to
the best of his ability he went in to fight.
He had mana from the fact that he d
floored Carroll in their first match’last
March, though with a fluky punch,
landed on a Carroll who then looked
past his prime. This time the invader
encountered a Carroll in rattling good
form. Carroll’s physical peak may be
back in the misty ages, but he goes
on becoming a better boxer. His
sheer boxing ability in this encounter
was such that at the end of the affair
Leto, Leto’s manager and all in that
corner whatever stood and took stock
of him with acknowledging admiration
on their honest, if here and there dented,
dials.
Hostilities throughout were a matter of
Leto doing his darnedest to get a punch
home on a streak of lightning that had
been taught evasion in some evidently
long-vanished school. Leto’s best show-
ing was in the first round, in which he
landed some ominous body punches. The
invader may also have done slightly the
better in the third, in the sixth he got a
right home to Carroll’s neck which
shook the gent, from Footscray, and again
in the ninth he rattled him, but for the
entire rest of it he was as much a butt
for the display of Carroll’s boxing tech-
nique as the other invader, Jannazzo,
had been a few weeks earlier. Carroll
never at any stage looked like doing
the slightest actual bodily harm to Leto,
but he landed scoring taps direct,
sideways, backwards to every legitimate
square inch of the Leto frame and visage.
An encounter between the two of them
would always be worth crawling over
barbed wire to look at, but the result
would always be the same —Carroll very
easily on points—unless the right with
which Leto on this occasion pounded
chiefly the air did happen to get to the
intended address, and it would seem that
that could only occur by fluke.
Lucas and his fellow Sports Ground
promoters have the good sense to make
their bills as rich as available talent per-
mits ; the main support match, between
Ambrose Palmer — making a come-
back — and Claude Nichol, would have
drawn a fair crowd to most ad-
dresses. Palmer (12st. 3|lb.) gave away
weight extravagantly to Nichol (13st.
61b.), and the Westralian made a point
of using every ounce of it. Mostly the
fight was a matter of his shoving Palmer
against the ropes and there leaning on
him till the ref. pulled him off. In the
circumstances Palmer’s showing was
quite good, his left hook, particularly, in
excellent trim. He won the eight-
rounder on points, whereupon the loud-
speaker invited Britain’s champ, to come
out and have a go. Whether Palmer’s
showing justified that is another matter,
unless boxing form in Britain is in worse
state than it mostly is in Australia at the
moment.
At other addresses Australians went
down to the invaders unanimously, most
notably in Melbourne, where Lou Farber
(Bst. 911 b.) solidly outpointed Australian
bantam and feather champion Micky
Miller (Bst. 12f1b.) in a hard-fought 12-
rounder. Another import, Tom Chester
(list. 1211 b.), beat Jack Wilson (list.
611 b.) with even more decisiveness at the
Rushcutter Bay address. Wilson put up
a game scrap, but he tried to fight the
Here for the Empire Games: A. Dudgeon, a 21-stone Scottish wrestler; J.J.
S. Clarke, a pole-vaulter and captain of the Northern Ireland team; and D.
Young, a Scottish discus-thrower.
American with his right. He got it
home, too, monotonously —high on the
jaw and thereabouts —but it made no
visible impression, and meanwhile he
took a gruelling about the middle from
the negro’s powerful two-fisted body-
punching. Though it was clean enough,
there was a good bit of native savagery
about the scrap. Chester from time to
time lets out an unholy grunting noise
that his forefathers might have used for
frightening lions. His general attack,
too, is full of threat and menace and he’s
a powerful puncher.
When this Bulletin went to the printer
Dick Humphries was due to try uphold-
ing the Australian end in battle with Jan-
nazzo, winner to have the doubtful privi-
lege of meeting Carroll.
Ins and Outs
N.S.W. got a first-innings lead of 108
in the match at Sydney C.G., and South
Australia faced an uphill job in its second
knock. Whitington (29) and Badcock
(132) had their good start backed by
Bradman (104), but all were gone for
334 (O’Brien 3 for 90, O’Reilly 4 for 65).
Ma gave a dreary exhibition to amass
the necessary 227 to win—McCabe’s
clever 39 in strong contrast to Fingle-
ton’s woeful 74. Waite bowled splen-
didly to'take 3 for 53, and had everyone
in trouble. Bradman, deputising behind
the sticks for the injured Walker, took
three catches and allowed only three
byes — he’d shine anywhere on a cricket
field.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Bradman’s century
against N.S.W. in Sydney was his 65th
in first-class cricket, and it brought
his aggregate for the season to over
1000 —the ninth time he has passed four
figures in a season’s big cricket in Aus-
tralia.
Queensland’s Sheffield managed
to make a draw of its match against
Victoria. Consistent support by that fine
all-round performer Rain was the cause
of the comparative triumph. Time and
again he held up the Victorian attack
until on the fourth day Queensland had
lost only five wickets for 171 in their
first-innings reply to Victoria’s 396.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Percy Hornibrook put
his finger on the right spot when he
ascribed recent Queensland batting fail-
ures to the poor quality of the local
bowling, which, as always happens, has
brought the best of the batting down to
its own level. He might have pointed the
moral by referring to the cases of bats-
men who have quite lost form after im-
portation to Brisbane to coach the locals.
High-class batsmen like Ducat, Christy
and Brown all in turn slipped for want
of a bowling attack which could keep
them on their toes.
“Susie Swattit”: Hazel Pritchard, of
N.S.W., can fairly claim to be the Brad-
woman of feminine cricket Playing in
the inter-State tourney in Adelaide, the
damsel made 193 n. 0., 80, 33 and 108
n. 0., an average of 207 for the meeting.
Thanks largely to her efforts, the Ma
State came out on top of the tourney,
winning all engagements.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English cricket prophets
have taken on the mantle of Jeremiah
to a man. After a long and brilliant
burst of silence Neville Cardus has
emerged from his native Mancunian
smoke-screen to forecast a sweeping
Australian victory in the next Test series.
London “Observer’s” tame seer says the
outlook is so gloomy and reliable young
talent so scarce that the services of the
veteran Sutcliffe must be again utilised.
A foolish idea, but no more fatuous than
that of the Australians who, at the begin-
ning of the season, were urging the in-
clusion of Ponsford in the Australian
side for England.
* * * *
“Hotham”: A feature of Tests in
England is the multitude of deadheads
who demand free admittance on one
excuse or another. Marylebone has
hardened its heart, and these privileges
have been accorded the axe. To allow
Australians a fair chance to see the Tests
in comfort season tickets for each ground
are being issued at £2 Bs. for Trent
Bridge, £2 2s. for Lord’s, £2 6s. for Old
Trafford, £2 6s. for Leeds and £3 for
the final game at Kennington Oval.
* r * *
“Aigburth”: Sir James Leigh-Wood,
commandant of the British Empire
Games teams, is the bearer of an interest-
ing letter of congratulation from Sir Jere-
miah Collins, one of the grand old men
of English cricket. Collins says that he
has followed Australian sport for 70
years, beginning when he was taken to
see the abo. team at the Oval in 1868.
He spins a yarn —new to the writer —of
Percy McDonnell. McDonnell was bat-
ting in a private match with Collins’s
team at Carshalton Park, and killed a
rook in a chestnut-tree on the boundary
with a tremendous drive. Perhaps Tom
Garrett, of Sydney, last surviving mem-
ber of that team, may recall the hap-
pening.
* * * *
“Mardi”: Notts County, usually more
or less financial, this season reports a
deficit of £B6O, an unpleasant start for
the county club’s centenary year. An
appeal for £6OOO is in progress, and most
of this will go to improve the accom-
modation at Trent Bridge for the Test
with Australia, which is looked to to pull
the club out of its troubles. Injuries to
Larwood and Voce are blamed for the
falling-off in attendances.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. professional
golfers are still hopeful of getting some
good overseas players here to compete
in the £lOOO tourney they are staging in
September or October, when the British
and American seasons are ending. As
the P.G.A. may promote only profes-
sional tourneys, it is asking the help of
the N.S.W. golf council in making the
big event an open one. So far the G.C.
has never shown itself indulgently dis-
posed to professional schemes of the sort,
but it may suffer a change of heart.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Yet another of Mel-
bourne’s big golf clubs is abandoning its
old stamping ground on the “clay” for
the “sand belt”: Eastern is to move next
door to Metropolitan, having worked a
satisfactory deal for the balance of its


Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Examination for permanent appointment as
Mechanic, Grade 2 (Light and Power Section),'
Postmaster-General’s Department, New South
Wales.
A competitive examination for appointment
as Mechanic, Grade 2 (Light and Power
Section), open to males who are natural-born
or naturalised British subjects, and who were
born not earlier than Ist November, 1887, and
not later than 31st July, 1917, will commence
on Saturday, 16th July, 1938. Practical tests
will be held on subsequent dates to be arranged.
Full particulars may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Public Service Inspector, Bth
Floor, Commonwealth Bank Building, Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Applications should be made on foolscap
and should be lodged with the Secretary’
Commonwealth Public Service Board, Canberra
not later than Bth June, 103 R
F. G. THORPE, Commissioner,
Commonwealth Public Service Board.
Australia?s Leading Financial Journal .
JANUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
What Will 1938 Bring?
The Dow Theory
Britain’s Gold Reserves
Stocks Worth Consideration
Mining Developments AH Fields
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Mick Simmons
Service to
Sportsmen!
ĵ
Let Lionel Bibby, famous Crack-sbot and
Australia’s best-known authority on Fire-
arms and Ballistics, who is attached to
Mick Simmons’ Shooting Department,
guide you in making your selection.
Fully avail yourself of his advice on any
matter pertaining to the sport of shooting.
High-Grade
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22 cal., bolt action similar
to No. 1,24 in. barrel pistol grip,
j
adjustable tangent rear
sight; weight, about 4£lb.
36/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, about 4-^lb.
50/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action, 22-
calibre, rimfire, 27in. round
blued steel barrel; weight,
4Jib.; ladder rear __ .
sight 50/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 13A—WI NC H E STER
BOLT ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 69, 22
cal., 25in. round barrel,
hooded ramp, front sight,
and peep receiver near
sight, two 5-cartridge
(one for short and the
other for long-rifle cart-
ridges) magazines sup-
plied; weight, about __
sib £5
Carriage Paid.
Famous
SHOT GUNS
ĵ
No. 20—THE CERT D.8.8.L. GUN, steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib, bar
locks, X-bolt, walnut stock,
pistol grip .... £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 25— IVOR JOHNSON D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 3 2 in.
barrels, both full choke, top lever X-bolt;
Anson and Deeley action. Tested for
nitro powders; weight, about
sib £B/15/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever
X-bolt, walnut stock, pistol grip, nitro
proof; weight, about'
™ £ll/11/.
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high grade,
with ejector; weight about
7ib £l3/13/-
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING REPAIRS
By expert armourers. Lowest charges!
SHOOTING CATALOGUE!
No keen sportsman can be without this
Comprehensive Publication. Post Free!
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
present leasehold. The swap-over is ex-
pected to cost £20,000.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: English papers announce
an unusual pro. competition in June.
The 12 leading professionals on last
year’s average list will meet in match
play for a £lOOO purse. Two points will
reward a win and one a drawn match ,
66 matches will be played and the man
scoring most points will take the fat end
of the purse. Gate proceeds are to go
to the Ryder Cup fund.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: Queenslanders are wrath
over the non-seeding of Mrs. Westacott
in the Australian championships at Adel-
aide. The action is hard to understand.
Mrs. Westacott easily defeated the
American women in Brisbane, though
both are included in the seeding, and
was runner-up to Nancy Wynne in the
last Australian singles. The Queensland
lady would be one of the first popular
picks for the team for overseas, but the
Adelaide performance has heavily handi-
capped her chance.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The tennis fairy tale of
the week sets out that Tilden and Cochet
intend to tour Australia shortly. Their
trouble would be finding professional op-
ponents and courts. When Cochet came
here on his own the State associations
did their best to boycott him, but were
finally forced by public opinion to climb
down. Cochet’s modest invasion did not
yield a fortune in the circumstances.
The cost of a Tilden-Cochet tour would
be much heavier and, from a profiteer-
ing point of view, hardly worth while.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The tennis expert of
London “Star” gives Australia a good
chance of beating America in the chal-
lenge round for the Davis Cup if this
country sends a team —and if it gets
so far. His estimate that Budge is
the only formidable hurdle to sur-
mount will find a lot of agreement.
Already in Australia it is realised that
Mako is far from being another Budge,
and unless Riggs blossoms into a cham-
pion no one else is likely to upset the
Australian applecart. The last meeting
of the teams in the U.S.A. with Quist
out of it was not a true test of compara-
tive form.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Reference to Harley
Mathews’s protest against shamateurism
in tennis (B. 12/1/’3B) brings to mind
the little-known fact that tennis con-
trollers throughout the world have been
refused affiliation with the International
Amateur Federation, which includes m
its ranks every genuinely amateur sport.
As the Federation officials have put it,
the tennis people have been unable to
convince the Federation that all their
players abide by the Federation’s defi-
nition of amateurism.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: The appearance of the Eng-
lish Empire Games rowing eight on
Port Jackson marked the first time an
English crew has dipped an oar in the
famous waters. The preliminary spin
on the Parramatta and later on the
Nepean revealed them a formidable lot;
six of them from the London Rowing
Club. Two Australians, Hambridge, of
King’s School, and Turnbull, of Gee-
long Grammar, are in the crew.
The Canadian four from Victoria
(8.C.) shows up in strong contrast with
its sharp, jerky style and snappy body-
work. Stroke rows on what the average
oarsman regards as the bow side, and
the boat is also in the unusual class, the
planking being glued instead of nailed.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Among other com-
ment on the British Empire Games team
in English papers to hand, the “Field”
points out that the rowing crew is the
first composite one sent abroad from the
Old Country, previous representatives
having been the winners of the Henley
Grand Challenge. That system had the
disadvantage that a crew always has one
or two men not up to top form, and these
set the standard for the remainder. Aus-
tralia for years suffered from that same
obsession. State after State for some
time took to the champion-crew theory.
Without exception all have abandoned it
in favor of the composite crew.
* * » *
“Stretcher”: Australian rowing stopped
a facer when coach and selector Keary
announced his resignation through ill-
ness following on sunstroke. Mr. Keary
travelled to watch oarsmen in all States,
and the crews he assembled in Sydney
were the result of many weeks of hard
work. No one knows the men and their
form as well as he, and his successor,
has a tough job ahead of him.
S. Raper, who takes Keary’s place
as coach, was one of the Mosman club’s
outstanding oarsmen. He rowed for the
State in the King’s Cup races of 1928-
29, and coached the 1936-37 crews.
* * * #
“Shell”: Double-sculling is practically
unknown in Australia, but rowing fol-
lowers may get a chance of seeing an
exhibition at the Empire Games regatta
on February 9. The two English emer-
gencies for the eight, the Offer brothers,
have brought a double-sculler with them,
and the Ma State rowing heads are try-
ing to get Cecil Pearce and W. J. Brad-
ley to go up against the visitors. The
boat which the Australians rowed in at
Berlin is available, and as Pearce and
Bradley have been in training for the
State championships their condition
should be O.K.
* * * *
“Blade”: Rowing enthusiasts will have
a chance of watching imported form
during the N.S.W. championships re-
gatta on the Nepean on Saturday. All
the Empire Games crews and scullers,
including our own, are to give exhibi-
tion spins.
* * * *
“Flat Sheet”: The trans-Tasman race
from Auckland to Hobart started last
week. There are only two competitors,
Aurora Star, a 41ft. staysail schooner,
and Wayfarer, a 36ft. cutter. The
schooner carries a crew of five, and four
men man the cutter. Wayfarer has a
time allowance of 44hr. 7min. 3sec. The
odd seconds seem cutting it rather fine
for such a long and dusty trip, and sug-
gest that a super-mathematician worked
out the sail areas.
* * * *
“Ringtail”: Sportsmen who signify
their disappointment by handing fat
cheques to more successful rivals are as
rare as frogs wearing gold wrist-watches.
Bundaberg sailing club had entered a
boat for the 16ft. Australian champion-
ship in Sydney. Some of the crew could
not get leave, and the hope of the rum
metropolis had to stay at home. No-
thing daunted, the club sent albng a good
wad of the funds it had collected for its
own men to help subsidise the Brisbane
boat replacing the Bundaberg craft.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The British rifle team
will see a lot more of the country than
our other visitors from overseas. After
shooting at Perth, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne they came overland to Sydney by
car, taking in Canberra on the way.
Brisbane is the next stop, and after a
shoot there the team was due back in
Sydney on January 25. Then to New-
castle and a final return to Sydney for
the meeting starting on February 5. The
Empire match is down for February 14.
After a spin to the Blue Mountains the
tourists will head for home via M.L.
* - * * *
“Maltese Cat”: Victorian polo-players
will this year conduct their arguments at
Allandale, Mentone, the private ground
of A. R. Creswick. The annual tourney
for the Stradbroke Cup will be played
at Moonee Valley from February 25-28
and March 2-4. The new umpiring rules
adopted by Hurlingham—calling for two
umpires on the field and a referee to be
consulted in case the umpires disagree—
will be observed in this season’s matches.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Practically certain a
South African Soccer side will be in
Australia next season, when the All-
Blacks, the M.L. League players and a
French League team will be chasing the
dough. The South Africans are rigid
amateurs, but Soccer is one of those
games where the lilywhite lamb may lie
down with the big, bad professional
wolf without endangering its amateur
status. May the local heads make a
better deal of it than they did over the
visit of the English team last year!
Arrangements then left the association
only the chicken feed to pick up.
* * * *
“Rectory Field”: One who did skipper
England at Rugby as well as at cricket
(B. 19/1/’3B) was A. E. Stoddart. This
was during the tour of the British team
in Australia in 1888, after the original
captain, R. J. Seddon, had been drowned
while sculling on the Hunter River. I
fancy “A.E.” also led an international
side or two in the Old Country, but can-
not verify this. He is certainly the only
man who has led England in both games.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: N. S. W. Rugby Union,
acting on behalf of the other Australian
Unions, has received the programme for
the 1939-40 British tour of the Australian
XV. Twenty-eight games will be played,
the first on September 16 and the last,
against England, on January 6. Four-
teen matches will be played in England,
eight in Wales, four in Scotland and two
in Ireland. The internationals are Scot-
land (Nov. 25), Ireland (Dec. 9), Wales
(Dec. 23), England (Jan. 6).
* * * *
“Jachris”: The bit of bother between
the Australian Rugby Leaguers at present
careering round France and the Sydney
R.L. Board has produced one notable
cable. The board has booked passages
for the team on a boat leaving Toulon on
February 5 ; the team managers’ idea is
to take the players back to England and
sail for home a fortnight later. So this
end has cabled:
EMBARK ON FEBRUARY 5 OR STAY
IN ENGLAND.
It opens up vast possibilities should the
tourists decide to take the advice. Cer-
tainly they would have the problem of
an English summer and an off-season for
footballers to get over, but that done it
should be an easy matter to find a philan-
thropist of the cricketing Julien Cahn
variety willing to back them for the re-
flected glory which ownership of a team
of tame footballers might bring. Also, it
should be easy to enter one of the North
o’ England competitions, and, though they
couldn’t win the Ashes, they would make
a formidable club team. Good publicity
could do wonders with gates —they might
be billed as the Abandoned Australians.
For the time being, too, they have plenty
of reserves, and marriage with well-
selected locals might see the emergence
of a race of footballers apart to carry on
the tradition.
* * * *
“Treble”: Darts, which has fairly
taken Britain by the wool, is spreading
to the Dominions. Durban licensing
authorities have just declared the harm-
less-looking game “immoral,” and
licensed premises may not harbor it in
future. It is essentially a public bar
game, and, though betting is barred, its
opponents claim it induces excessive
drinking. As the same authority has also
banned shove-ha’penny, dominoes and
quoits, it looks as if the wowser is not
confined to Australia. Writer has, so
far, not heard of the introduction of the
dangerous pursuit to this pleasant land.
When it arrives the unco guid should
soon be hot on its tracks.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Awful Truth.”
Cary Grant, Irene Dunne.
With all the suavity of “The Thin
Alan” and more laughs than “It Hap-
pened One Night,” this polished comedy
at Sydney Regent is too lighthearted for
satire and too definite for farce. It
hovers midway between, simmering with
fun from start to finish and often bub-
bling over hilariously.
Situations are side-splitting, and not a
member of the cast is serious,, unless
it’s to accefituate the comedy! The
smooth interplay of characters allows for
some of the brightest wit and most spark-
ling repartee that has ever gone into the
making of a film.
Briefly, Grant, as a young man with
a habit of slipping the matrimonial chain
occasionally, returns home with some
friends after a fortnight on the loose.
He passes over the unexpected absence
of his wife by making her the subject
of a lecture on wedded bliss, but half an
hour later the lady in question arrives
with a good excuse for a night out in the
form of music instructor Alexander
D’Arcy.
Mr. Smith, wire-haired terrier and one
of the star performers, raises the only
quibble in divorce proceedings. Each
wants custody of him, so he is brought
into court and allowed to choose for
himself. The lady wins, leaving husband
with permission to pay the dog an occa-
sional visit. The terrier’s acting in this
scene is a remarkable achievement for
bis trainer.
The Dunne lady then sets out to find
another partner to face the altar when
the decree is pronounced. With the
assistance of an elderly but still sparking
aunt, her favor rests on the simple rug-
gedness of a way-out-westerner. Grant’s
unintentionally spoking her wheel is one
of the highlights of the show.
When the ex-husband takes it on him-
self to sample the simple joys of married
life again, he picks a charmer in the
uppah stratah of sassiety. Miss Dunne
decides she wants him back, and her
method of freezing a few gallons of
blue blood is an uproar.
From there it’s only a short way to a
country house with two rooms separated
by a flimsy lock, and here the subtle
comedy reaches its top note.
As an irresponsible comedian Grant is
infinitely more entertaining than in the
square-jawed he-man stuff. His bland
serenity and witty interpolations and
Miss Dunne’s vivacious performance are
about as perfect as could be. Miss
Dunne’s whispered asides and small talk
with her husband are among the most
natural pieces of acting this showman
has come across.
“Big City.”
Spencer Tracy, Luise Rainer.
Perhaps present film-taster’s dis-
appointment in this current offering at
Sydney St. James was really only un-
favorable reaction to the rather extrava-
gant indulgence in forerunning excerpts-
publicity at this address. This had led
to expectation of a film out of the
ordinary ; one in which, as was freely
claimed for it, there would be presented
a comprehensive interpretation and repre-
sentation of a big city’s life.
Bar a few good shots of city night
scenes, it was nothing nearly so ex-
pansive. It was just' a pleasant stretch
of serio-comedy drama, with Spencer
Tracy as a taxi-driver and the Rainer as
his pretty little poor-European immigrant
wife, their troubles brought about by
gangster racketeering efforts to drive off
the streets the taxi crowd Tracy’s in
with.
It’s a trite little story, and violently
plagiaristic. The taxi-smashing part of
it was done, and done miles better, in
a mere support film at the Capitol
months ago, and the Tracy-Rainer love-
making is too close to the Powell-Loy
pattern to look anything original.
There is, however, one bright original
note in it'. The taxi war that bursts
into view from time to time is a matter
of the. racketeering mob smashing their
cars into the cars of Tracy’s crowd, with
street stoush an invariable sequel, and
to wind this up with a thoroughly good
brawl the film’s makers had the bright
notion of having at hand a pretty army
of America’s ex-champion pugs, includ-
ing Dempsey and a large coon with a
tummy on him like a Centralian honey-
ant —none other than Jack Johnson,
apparently. “Snowy” Baker is also
among ’em, and certainly a tough and
he-man bunch they look.
Irene Dunne, Cary Grant and Mr. Smith in the excellent American comedy “The
Awful Truth” at Sydney Regent.
This array of former fist'-slingers, with
a wrestler or two for variety, clean up
the rival taxi mob with an enthusiasm
warranted to make small boys leap to
the ceiling. In other ways, too, the
film’s a good stretch of entertainment.
Tracy is a good actor in these parts,
and the Rainer, in anything with a
slightly alien tinge, would be very hard
to better. Between them they enact a
delightful idealised love story, played out
on a nice note of comedy.
“My Dear Miss Aldrich .”
Support at Sydney St. James, this is
quite pleasant light comedy, with some
extra clever dialogue lines.
The story, such as it is, is one that
has been taken seriously for the making
of innumerable stretches of slush ; pre-
sented in this latest manner, as typical
American comedy, it is better than bear-
able.
It’s simply our old friend the country
goil who inherits a N’Yark newspaper
and joins its staff as a goil reporter,
winning, as her chief laurel, the honest
hand of the woman-hating young editor.
The film burlesques that sort of thing
very nicely.
Since it’s M.G.M., that it’s well acted
and directed almost goes without saying,
especially with main roles in the hands
of Edna May Oliver (a delightful per-
formance), Maureen O’Sullivan and
Walter Pigeon.
“Manhattan Merry-go-round.”
Leo Carrillo, Tamara Geva.
One of the most ambitious attempts
of its kind, this film, at Sydney Capitol,
reaches fairly high standard without hit-
ting the top mark.
Living right up to the second half of
the title, it bubbles from start to finish
through a crazy whirl of warblers and
yawpers of both sexes, three orchestras, a
radio choir, a band and a temperamental
opera star. Even a baseball match finds
a small corner.
For those with Amurrican tastes, Cab
Calloway, Ted Lewis, Gene Autry and
Kay Thompson and her radio choir all
turn on their ideas of music.
The reason for it all originates when a
racketeer assumes control of a record-
ing company and sets out to find talent
for his records. By gentle persuasion of
the gun his henchmen take their pick of
New York’s songandance manufacturers
and the co. accumulates a heap of jazz
disks.
When the gangster’s mother upsets his
apple-cart by demanding operatic re-
cordings, . lady-killer Phil Regan, star
artist of the co., has to scrap his lurv
affair with the Dvorak lady and concen-
trate his charms on an opera star whose
refusals to record her voice are pro-
verbial.
For some reason she succumbs to his
yawping and agrees to make a record ;
her manager, however, indicates that
their contract stipulates otherwise. A
fake kidnapping gets round the trouble.
Carrillo’s hazardous passage from
point to point of a conversation by his
own peculiar adaptation of the English
language is an infallible laugh-raiser. His
staccato search for the phrases that bring
him unerringly to the crux of the matter
results, in his own typical ambiguity, in
“a man of few words, and when I talk
I say a lot.”
As the opera star with a brittle tem-
perament, Tamara Geva makes some
sparkling contributions to the comedy.
Her tantrums and whims measure up to
Carrillo’s funmaking and fill most of the
moments when he is absent. James
Gleason emulates Ned Sparks, and is
funny without being a patch on his pro-
totype, and Henry Armetta and Luis
Alberni are explosively Latin and supply
the rest of the laughs.
The film leaves a whirling jumbled
impression somewhat similar to that of
a beery night out, but, having no hang-
over, it’s worth a visit.
“Charlie Chan at Monte
Carlo.”
Warner Oland, Keye Luke and Harold Huber.
Hero of an apparently endless series
of films which vies with the Hopalong
Cassidy horse-operas in the matter of
steady popularity, Charlie Chan has long
since ceased to owe anything save his
name and mannerisms to his creator,
Earl Derr Biggers.
The modus operandi now is to get a
team of writers to produce a Charlie
Chan story, to get another team to turn
it into a play, and then, doubtless, to
let directors and producers play ring-a-
ring-a-rosy round the ideas of both
teams. The result is usually very fair
entertainment.
In the latest opus the Celestial sleuth
(Warner Oland), aided by Number One
Son (Keye Luke) solves for the Police
Chief of Monte Carlo (Harold Huber)
a couple of murders, a blackmailing
ramp and various thefts of negotiable
securities. The plot is more complicated
than usual, and certain aspects of it have
to be very sketchily handled to make
room for the usual quota of comic inci-
dents —a taxi that backfires so violently
as to shake itself to bits ; the arrest of
Chan and his son because the latter’s
bad French is construed as a confession
of murder; a further arrest of Number
One Son for spying through windows.
Virginia Field has an unconvincing
role as a goil crook, and Robert Kent,
the most unlikely member of the cast,
is, of course, unmasked at the finish as
the double moiderer.
Huber gives yet another good picture
of a chief of police—a French one this
time —and Sidney Blackmer (also released
from an almost unbroken screen career
of villainy) is impressive as a law-abiding
financier. Support at Sydney Mayfair.
“Some Blondes Are
Dangerous”
Noah Beery, Junior.
About a simple young truck-driver
who makes a meteoric rise as a pug.
With plenty of grit and punch he’s ap-
parently one over Dempsey, provided
trainer William Gargan does the think-
ing.
Rapid rise in the fighting game changes
hitherto useful self-confidence to vanity
that increases with success until he walks
out on' the decent goil and is lured along
the primrose path by a doubtful blonde.
A still more improbable landing of the
championship bears fruit in some high-
falutin ideas on sassiety, so he goes with
his wife to Yurrup and returns about as
perfect a specimen of the objectionable
as could be avoided.
Breaking with Gargan, he makes some
other fatheaded mistakes. It all comes
home when his wife turns out to be what
she shouldn’t, and he loses the belt to an-
other protege of his former trainer. What
he doesn’t deserve but gets are his old
goil and trainer back again.
Beery’s insufferable obtuseness is all
to his credit, as are voice, mannerisms
and expressions, which seem to be de -
veloping a strong semblance to those of


Uncle Wallace. Gargan does a neat
piece of work, and Nan Grey and Doro-
thea Kent are the goils. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Thank You, Mr. Moto.
Peter Lorre.
This support at Sydney Regent is a
vehicle for some quick thinking between
Lorre and a bunch of crooks after a set
of ancient Chinese scrolls showing the
whereabouts of a fahboolus fortune. A
few murders, a suicide and lurv interest
are thrown in for good measure, but they
don’t help very much.
Lorre is the best part of the opus, but
it’s a pity to see an actor of his capabili-
ties relegated to a dilute imitation of
Charlie Chan films.
Still, as a Japanese investigator, he
does his part very well; there’s steely
undercurrent to his almost effeminate
manner and speech, and his method of
removing obstacles is most logical and
effective..
The film moves at a good pace, and
the cast do their best, but take Lorre out
and there’s nothing to it.
Anthony Horderns 9 Hall of
Fame.
One of the most interesting sesqui
shows on offer is at the old address of
Anthony Horderns’.
Well over the hundred mark itself, the
firm marks the occasion with a series of
large panels depicting scenes and events
most relevant to the history and develop-
ment of the State and Commonwealth.
There are 24 illustrations of scenes
generally associated with, or most sym-
bolical of, discovery, foundation, explora-
tion, government, art, literature, engi-
neering and the progress of industry and
business. On. the back of each is the
notability concerned, and both scenes and
portraits have been accurately done.
In quiet, almost pastel shades that do
not clash with the more vivid surround-
ings, the pictures are framed between
pillars on which are draped banners
bearing the coats-of-arms of the States
and their leading towns. About 70
species of Australian wildflowers get an
airing on banners decorating other
pillars.
Gratis, and commendable particularly
from its educational aspect, the display
deserves a visit from schoolchildren and
anyone interested in the country’s history.
Pictures of Old Sydney .
A seasonable show, in view of the
State’s 150th birthday, is a collection of
prints and drawings of early Sydney,
collated by Miss Jeanie Ranken, but-
tressed by a series of Lionel Lindsay’s
etchings.
Foremost among the prints is an excel-
lently-preserved copy of the Webber-
Bartolozzi engraving “The Death of
Captain Cook.” It’s a lively bit of imagi-
native work, but if it were a photograph
it would involve in a charge of murder
either Cook or one of his officers, for,
while one of the two principal white
figures is being stabbed in the back by
a dusky spearsman, an officer in epau-
lets, on the ground, is discharging a
musket point-blank at his chest.
Dodds’s “Mutiny of the Bounty”
shows a touching little concession on the
part of the mutineers: they are handing
down to Bligh'his ceremonial sword.
Views of Sydney Harbor in the early
years of last century are legion. The
settlement must have developed very
rapidly, for with the exception of the one
landmark that still remains—the old
Commissariat Stores at Circular Quay —
it seems impossible to discover any com-
mon architectural feature in these draw-
ings, the dates of which range from 1804
to 1857. Of especial interest are some
excellent drawings and lithographs of
drawings by Conrad Martens, who seems
to have been more careful about topo-
graphical accuracy than other artists who
made pretty pictures of Port Jackson.
An excellent series of French engrav-
ings (New South Wales looks quaint as
“Nouvelle Galles de Sud”) gives an im-
pression of photographic fidelity. George
Cruikshank (was he ever in Australia,
or did he draw on his fertile imagina-
tion?) is represented by “The Single
Ladies Off to the Diggings” and “Topsy-
Turvey, or Our Antipodes.” In the latter
gold-diggers are attended by university
graduates as cooks and bottle-washers.
Lindsay’s etchings, which belong, of
course, to a much later generation than
the rest of the collection, are well known.
They represent old landmarks in their
more modern surroundings of the ’nine-
ties and later, and, incidentally, go to
show that Australian art has made
mighty strides in the last 130 years.
ROUNDABOUT
Bivouac for Battle.
Easily the outstanding show of last
week, regarded from either the enter-
tainment or the box-office point of view,
was the great comedy-drama bill, “One
Night of Stoush,” produced by Mr.
Charles Lucas on his open-air stage at
Sydney Sports Ground.
What other sort of show could attract
a gathering of 27,000 —at up to £ 1-odd
for front stalls —and seat them full of
pleasurable anticipation on seats that
make the Town Hall’s seem eiderdown-
Mr. Lucas.
upholstered by comparison, and out in
the open at that, beneath as black and
heavy a sky as ever threatened a return
performance of the Deluge?
No wonder Mr. Lucas, favoring the
quart-of-fresh-milk fashion in evening
clobber, walked about with enough
furrows in his forehead to do the Cele-
brations Committee for staging the entire
sea voyage of the First Fleet. Looking
up continuously with intense disfavor at
the heavens, possibly he thought of nights
like this when he slept out in the open
in France, thinking the war a consider-
ably overrated entertainment.
Be that as it may, the sky didn’t burst,
the downpour didn’t fall, and the two
charming members of the audience who
occupied front stalls completely enveloped
—heads and faces included —in trans-
lucent pale blue oilsilk had had their
bright thought for nothing.
So had those who came armed with
precautions ranging from brollies to
horse rugs. It should be noted in the
right quarter, however, that the great
majority of the enormous crowd turned
up as they were, without protection of
any kind, displaying a trust in a bene-
ficent providence equalled only by their
trust in the show’s leading performer,
Mr. J. Carroll.
Squatted in their circling waves under
the black sky, they looked like a vast
bivouac of bareheaded troops or a synod
of raincloud worshippers got together
opportunely to pray finis to a drought.
The white-floored square, lit with
powerful overhead lights, set up in the
middle of the grassed football playing-
field ; the field just about covered with
close-packed chairs; surrounding that
again, the packed stands and terraces;
the whole illuminated before the show
got going, and between performances,
by floodlighting from about half a dozen
meccanolike towers.
Standing up at the ringside and sweep-
ing a look about it, a veritable sea —or a
large lagoon at the very least —of faces;
the cruder sex in the majority by about
ten to one. Struck matches and the
glow of cigarettes here and there in-
creasing the night-bivouac impression.
For the benefit of the various ones it
may interest, the Empire Games arrived
in blazers at 8.5 ; Mr. Rufe Naylor, with
a red carnation in his buttonhole, at*
8.11 ; and the clergy at 8.15. Also —to
extend the sporting interest a little further
—Mr. Don Bradman also arrived, was
introduced in the ring and greeted by
one enthusiastic admirer with an em-
phatic “Gawd, boy, I wish you was a
fighter !”
By. this time the show was well on the
way, and at least one reason for its
popularity was already clear. This was
the complete freedom of expression per-
mitted to the audience.
When all’s said, doesn’t this hold the
real explanation of the latter-day flop of
the good old legit.? As everybody
knows, honest oral criticism of the show
in progress has been taboo in theatres
for over a generation, and for over a
generation the legit, has been going near
the rocks. You can’t utter a decent,
fairminded “Boo!” these days without
the sheeplike rest of the audience turn-
ing on you a sibilant barrage of
“Shs-s-s-s-s-h!” and the criticised act-or
coming out in the papers with a plaint
about ill-manners.
It’s got too thin-skinned —that’s really
the canker at the core of the legit. Why,
they won’t even stand an honest “Bah!”
in basement theatres these days, and
. look where they’ve got to ; the rats are
“Shs-s-s-s-s-h!”
eating their wardrobes. A bit more in-
dulgence in candid criticism from their
audiences might be the saving of the lot
of them; though it must be admitted
that they’re so wrapped up in the cotton-
wool of delicate politeness that it’s maybe
best to leave them there, to their pre-
ferred fate.
For the talkies, of course, the idea’s
not worth a hoot; but then, as far as
art —noble or otherwise —goes, cynics
might say that neither are the talkies.
Anyway, it’s certainly no use
loudly advising Bobby Breen to
take that silly smirk off his mug,
as disparaging critics tell a per-
former at this show, or, to give an
example of the favorable sort of
criticism, there’d be mighty thin
satisfaction in greeting Errol Flynn
with “Nice work, boy!” when he
goes into a clinch with Miss Blondell.
And though some may feel like uttering
them every week, no notice would be
taken of this show’s attendant heartfelt
cries of “Stop it!” and “What’s this
supposed to be?” if uttered as comment
on the latest moaning crooner.
And, of course, the loudly bawled and
reiterated comment on one of this
night’s performers, “He’s a gift, boy—
they never come back!” —he having re-
tired a year or so ago, but changed his
mind —could not be used with much
point of prima donnas.
The cruder sex in the majority.
In fact, only in one sphere of other
theatrical activity is there, as far as we
know, a replica of this audience’s insis-
tence on being heartily vocal about the
entertainment on offer. That is at the
Saturday matinees frequented by small
boys at the King’s Cross Theatre or, say,
the Capitol, especially when the offering
is Tarzan.
To the undiscerning ear the display of
critical talent on such an occasion might
seem just hullabaloo and uproar, but
the people concerned with the projection
of Tarzan rate it rather higher. Thus
they know now that the latest gentle-
man to enact this splendid role is a flop,
and they know why. When Johnny
Weismuller, enacting the role, was chased
by a crocodile, he invariably turned and
put up a fight. Those whose ears are
attuned to it know that the yelling which
attends the current Tarzan’s pursuit by
croc, is tinged with disappointment. He
just keeps on lighting out for the horizon,
a matter which no healthy-minded boy
can bear the shameful sight of.
Interpreted by experts, the resultant
critical comment is that the latest Tarzan
is a ciss. This, in due course, percolates
to Hollywood, and so is the high stan-
dard of Tarzan attained again.
But we are barging into the higher
criticism.
Still, we stick to the opinion that, as
much as anything else, it’s this freely
expressed criticism attendant on all forms
of the branch of theatrical entertainment
called Sport—Mr. Bradman is as sub-
ject to it as Mr. Carroll—which accounts
for its comparative excellence and popu-
larity, and for this outspread lagoon of an
audience. As much as anything, it seems
The show’s leading performer.
to us, this audience is here because here
—as at the Cricket Ground, non-barrack-
ing cisses notwithstanding—it can open
its lungs and let out what’s elsewhere
inhibited —especially in the degenerate
branches of theatrical entertainment —
the ordinary human urge in everybody to
criticise somebody or something.
As for the show, it completely justifies
our theory. We’ve forgotten when we
last saw such virile performance on any
stage. That of Mr. J. Carroll in the
main 10-acter was superb. The further
the piece progressed the more completely
did he get inside his part. Throughout
he sustained the character of a pugilist to
the life.
The 10-acter itself might perhaps be
criticised on the ground of slight
monotony. At least, so it seemed to us,
what with Mr. Carroll seemingly intent
to dazzle rather than to damage Mr.
Leto, Mr. Leto intent on damaging Mr.
Carroll rather than dazzling him, and
Mr. Leto’s right continuously going out
and’ Mr. Carroll not being there to re-
ceive it.
Still, it was a very lively play of the
lighter dramatic sort, and no happier
ending has ever been conceived —even in
Hollywood—than the two principals
standing with arms across each other’s
shoulders while the press photographers
Don.
took their pictures, with, for delightful
climax, Mr. Carroll turning and planting
a benign and brotherly kiss on the brow
of Mr. Leto.


youJi hx>m&
with.
IB iff "
UL, T «—*■■■
QuahantwL Moikonoofr iotJ[iie. td£M£&£&BMi£iilMA
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet . feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloomsbury Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatre?
and Shops. 250 Rooms, H. &C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/ per day. Ulus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Brightnesses in Saturday’s blur of rain
at Randwick were the transparent capes
and hoods. Red and blue and primrose,
they ballooned along when sudden swirls
of wind caught them on their way up
and down the stands. Fur capes and
some short fur coats were worn. Lady
Wakehurst was among the translucently-
coated. Her choice was yellow, and her
suit showed caramel-brown beneath it.
Hermione Llewellyn was silver fox to
the waist. Her frock was black and neat.
The State’s vice-regal skipper was there,
and his little daughter, the Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder, also bore him company. But,
all told, the opening day of the Anniver-
sary meeting was a dispirited affair. Even
the umbrellas above the bookies’ stands
had lost their usual carnival look. Lady
Evelyn Drummond in flowered silk, Sadie
Budge and Philippa Stephen were among
those sprayed by the gentle rain from
heaven.
If this Letter needed anything to
assure it that University women can be
the best of wives and mothers in spite
of reported rumors to the contrary it
was meeting Ella Shields at the Univer-
sity Women’s dinner last week. Ella,
very feminine in ethereal blue finished
off with a fluffy white organdie cape, still
contrived to keep the Burlington Bertie
gleam in her eye. She was one
of the guests of the evening, so
after that the jolliest baby need not
hesitate to be born into any Uni-
versity household. The dinner was
shorn of premeditated speeches, and there
was a sparkle about the little outbursts
of thanks from inter-State representa-
tives. One rhymester—somebody said
she came from Adelaide —had written
snappy verses eulogising Sydney, Dame
Constance D’Arcy, Gladys Marks,
Camilla Wedgwood, Mrs. Sherrard,
Kitty Young and others who had been
active in conference affairs.
Not only commemorative verse but
brilliant flowers were handed to them.
Dr. Georgina Sweet was a speaker; so
were the McPhee lady and Marjorie
Young, who comes from Tasmania by
way of Lancashire, and was a student
of Roedean, famed girls’ school outside
of Brighton. Dr. Mary Booth was there,
and Mrs. Armytage and Esmey Burfitt,
whose short jacket was of Tyrian red.
Aileen Fitz Patrick’s sweet smile went
with a soft lace frock. Camilla Wedg-
wood was in white. Vere Matthews’s
cafe rocked on a sea of sound, and after
the King’s health was drunk Ella
Shields went to the piano and sang to
her own accompaniments.
There will be an army on parade at
Centennial Park on January 29 that will
bring battalions of onlookers. For this
150th Anniversary review the troops
will number 1000 Navy, 5000 Army and
500 Air Force, and Brig.-General Mackay
will be in command. In the spirited
scene 450 Light Horsemen chosen from
country centres will take part, but the
rest of the warriors will be drawn from
metropolitan areas. Lord Wakehurst,
complete with escort, will arrive at the
saluting base at 2.50 to the accompani-
ment of a royal salute. Ten minut-es
later Lord Gowrie, with a slightly larger
escort, will take his place to a similar
thunder of artillery.
The G.-G. of Maoriland, the Gov-
ernors of Victoria, Queensland, S. Aus-
tralia and Tasmania will arrive by cars,
and will be tucked into their positions
by 2.42. A bright splash will be made
by the guidons—the cavalry counterpart
of infantry colors. These are of crimson
silk damask. They are inscribed with
the regimental badge and territorial
title, and emblazoned with battle honors
gained by the parent unit.
An exhibition of children’s art in the
Blaxland Galleries owes its being .to
“Cousin Marie,” of the “Sunday Sun.”
There are 2000 exhibits in pencil and
water-color —the subjects of which are
mostly, flowers and trees, birds and ships
and such things as are the natural loves
of all young children. Some of the work
shows remarkable talent. The poster
section is stimulating, being vigorous in
its descriptive power. Marie Marshall,
known to thousands of Sunbeamers as
“Cousin Marie,” has the right touch with
the child and adolescent mind. Proof
of it is in this exhibition, which was
opened by Minister for Labor Dunning-
ham last Monday.
The big moment at the University
Women’s reception was the speech by
Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon. The over-
seas visitor, whose vitality is sheathed in
a gentle, almost fragile, exterior, spoke
for nearly 20 minutes. Seldom has the
wisdom of experience and learning been
clothed in more suitable words. The
male (oh, yes, this was a mixed grill—
the temperature and humidity made it a
grill) clapped even more loudly than the
female of the species; Dame Constance
D’Arcy beamed. The rooms at Eliza-
beth Bay House were overflowing with
the educational “Who’s Who” of all the
States. The frocks of Mrs. Greg Mc-
Girr and Mrs. Dettmann again came in
for favorable regard. Dr. Annie Praed,
in wistaria chiffons, was notable. Monica
Flower’s jewels were the garnets be-
loved by the Romans. Dr. Georgina
Sweet was a Melbourne visitor. Prof.
Dakin, Bishop Pilcher, the Walkoms,
Sydney’s old friend Dr. Elma Sandford
Morgan, now living in Adelaide, the
Timothy Kellys, Professor and Mrs.
Sadler and Mrs. Bernard Muscio were
among the company in the flower-decked
rooms.
Sydney University is justly proud of
its first woman doctor of dental science.
Dr. Annie Praed was a distinguished
figure in her scarlet gown, its wide
Portia-like sleeves lined with purple and
bordered with ermine, as she went for-
ward to receive her degree in the Great
Hall of the Uni. last week. All the doc-
tor’s degrees have Australia’s seal. She
was the first woman to get her license
in dental surgery at Sydney University,
she was its first woman 8.D.5., and now
she has taken her doctorate at the same
address, the first woman dentist to do
so. After the big moment Dr. Praed
found time to drink tea at the Women’s
College with the conferrers at the eighth
roll-up of the Australian Federation of
University Women. Monte Luke photo-
graph.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
had a great night last Friday. The first
to hold a ball in honor of Australia’s
birthday, it did the thing with a flourish,
and had the Showboat moored below the
whale’s ribs at the foot of its Kirribilli
garden. This was the ballroom, and up
in the clubhouse was the supper. Un-
fortunately on Friday night a stretch of
wet garden path separated the two. The
Governor-General (who is the club’s
commodore) and Lady Gowrie were re-
ceived by the vice-commodore Milson
couple, the D’Arcy Shelleys, the O G.
Meyers, Mrs. Rupert Furber and Mrs.
Don Taylor. Two good-looking dancers
were Princess Melikoff and Mrs. Moore
Cosgrave.
There was a spot of razzle-dazzle
among the hockey girls last Thursday
night. From every suburb they con-
verged on the Secondary Schools’ Club to
eat a dinner to the glory of secretary
Mrs. F. J. Davy and her M.B.E. The
guest, in lilac chiffons, was very bright-
cheeked, and sat between president Dr.
Marie Hamilton and Mrs. Hart. An-
other guest was Betty Thorpe, who goes
to the Y.W.C.A., Auckland, as sports-
mistress. Betty is a great hockey-
player, and there will be many blue and
white streamers snapped by her play-
mates here as her ship leaves Port Jack-
son. Laudatory speeches crackling with
humor and a profusion of flowers were
handed to Mrs. Davy. Betty Thorpe
also had her meed of praise and handful
of horticulture.
Daisy Degotardi of this picture is a
pianist of note and a composer who will
present in the Town Hall on February 2
a complete programme of her own corn-
positions. These include piano and violin
concertos played in conjunction with a
chamber orchestra. In one concerto
Beatrice Tange will be the solo pianist;
in another Cyril Monk will be solo
violinist. There will be a symphonic
work played by Christian Hellemann on
the organ, and a dramatic aria sung by
Alfred Wilmore. The orchestra will be
directed by Cedric Ashton. This is
probably the first time in Sydney that
any woman writer of music has put on
an entire programme of works from her
own pen. Miss Degotardi picked the
150th celebrations to launch this effort.
Her talent and courage deserve encour-
agement.
Out to Kurnell went the faithful to see
the Governor hoist the flag over the spot
where Phillip first landed. The banner
used was the Union flag of Queen
Anne’s days, that being the one used by
our first Governor. There was a larger
crowd than usual, and there were many
children present. Men and women de-
scendants of pioneers were there in some
force. Some aborigines, too, were there,
but kept shyly in the background. Among
the speakers were the Premier and Ad-
miral Lane-Poole, and the last was the
first as far as the women were con-
cerned. Two days after they were re-
membering things he said. Another item
which made the day memorable was the
luscious watermelon. A green and glossy
pile of these was on sale on the shores
of Botany Bay. “Here you are, ma’am ;
the Governor’s lady has just bought one,”
whispered a salesman to a prospect. But
that was a little mistake. The lady who
had just skipped into her car with a
melon and a pleased smile was not Lady
Wakehurst. Her enterprise, however,
was followed by almost every other
woman in the group.
When the curtain ran up for the after-
noon party at the Rose Bay Golf Club
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, one of the hostesses,
was out beyond the Heads, sailing to-
wards Tasmania. Mrs. Burfitt had in-
tended to go straight from the reception
to the ship, which she had thought would
sail in the late afternoon. But tide and
timetables wait not even for a Univer-
sity Women’s corroboree. The Sheldon
lady, Mrs. Leon Lyons and Miss K.
Egan, the other three hostesses represent-
ing Sancta Sophia, kept the flag flying.
There were more than 200 delegates and
visitors in the cool rooms, whose vistas
were broken with tall blue agapanthus.
Black-and-white was worn by the
Sheldon lady; Miss Egan was trig in
navy, and Mrs. Leon Lyons had the deep
blue of her frock patterned in pale-gold
roses, the design in circling bands. Her
flowers were yellow roses. Mrs. Greg
McGirr wore a Suzy hat in yellow and
brown ; her frock was closely patterned
in yellow, and you couldn’t help noticing
her cigarette-case, which was shaped like
a postcard, stamp and all. It was in-
scribed “Souvenir of the Paris Exposi-
tion.” A thick wreath of small wild-
flowers circled Dame Constance D’Arcy’s
hat. One of the smartest was Mrs. W.
J. Sachs, from Queensland. Anne Doug-
las was another who came from the
North ; Margaret Walkom was a popular
girl; Joan Hearman represented horti-
culture and the West. Frances Penning-
ton, Mrs. Sherrard, Kitty Young, Dr.
Mary Booth, Miss Margaret Windeyer
and Mrs. Hull were others.
Hobart’s Mayoress, Mrs. J. J. Wignall,
has come to Sydney for our birthday
celebrations. With her husband she flew
from Tasmania in the Centaurus —its
first woman passenger. Hobart knows
its Mayor ; he has been elected by public
vote six years in succession. Mr. and
Mrs. Wignall are at the Wentworth
Hotel.
Suzanne Stogdale’s marriage to Mick
Fairfax brought half of Sydney’s woman-
hood out to St. Mark’s at Darling Point.
Clusters swarmed about the gaily-
awninged path that led from the gate to
the church portals. The awning was
propped up as a protection against the
fall in the barometer foretold alike by
weatherman and lowering cloud. It
would have been almost sacrilege for
one raindrop to spatter the supple flow-
ing white satins worn by the bride or
the swaying tulle frocks in which her
’maids created a rainbow illusion. Pale
gold, pink, blue, green and violet blended
as the six girls walked up the aisle, their
flower fans repeating the tone of the
frocks. On the wedding-dress pearl
swallows spread their wings ; pearl em-
broideries edged the train. Diamonds
and pearls, the earrings the present of
her ’groom, the pendant a gift from her
grandmother in Adelaide, flashed as the
bride went her way.
The stairway to Mary Whidborne’s
new studio in Rowe-street echoed to
many feet between five and seven last
Friday. The housewarming was brewed
in fruit-cup and sherry. There was quite
a cluster of what might be termed the
A.B.C. Younger Set. Isabel Huntley,
who was a singer, then a very good
painter, and is now, once more, a singer,
was there ; so was Mrs. F. Pfeiffer, her
black hat, furs and frock just the right
composition for a portrait. Ruth Ains-
worth brought her mother, who was busy
taking farewells. The Largs Bay took
her and daughter Betty off to England
yesterday. Mrs. J. Mort and daughter
Phyllis helped make the party. Dr.
Roberts, his friend Mr. Cole and Jack
Mort helped tend the bar. This was
formed by a trestle placed across the
doorway to an inner room. The hostess
made her announcement in a firm voice:
“Look after yourselves, for there’s
nobody else to look after you.” It
proved quite a heartening introductory
remark.
The Strathnaver brought Helene Kir-
sova to Sydney and her Dr. Erik Fischer.
But the Vice-Consul for Denmark is still
in hospital, so that was not such a gay
reunion. However, the bridegroom-to-be
is expected to be well again before the
date already set for the wedding. In the
meantime Miss Kirsova, whose real
name is Hansen, is staying with the
Warwick Fairfaxes at Bellevue Hill.
The Society of Women Writers is sup-
posed to be in recess, but a smiling sym-
posium of members gathered in the Carl-
ton for a lunch to Mrs. Joseph Hummel,
the wife of one of the heads of Warner
Brothers. Mrs. Hummel, who is a real
brunette, wore a frock of deep lilac that
was just right with her dark eyes. Mrs.
Hummel has travelled the world round
innumerable times, and has met almost
every stage and film star of the day.
Clifford Odets was a friend before the
days of his success as a playwright.
{Continued on page 38.)


tte
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic, Kidney, Bladder,
Acid or Associated Disorders.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, pufliness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians— are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
' \*s. -V - v '
< **V. v;- : V
swim
' x
i ■; >■
■m-
mm
,■ -1.
> •■•:. v.
ss
m
m
m
■
mm
■
.
mKHKmf
m
>Sc<
wmxmm
MMS
WI
m
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
m
m
Diaqram shourinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid (.rgstals
ĵ
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpointg that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you, and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time sufferers
from Kidney-Bladder-Acid Ills who have failed to get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
■
li
•IvXyX
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
I feel I cant go on .”
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
WEARY BODIES REVIVE - YOUTH Returns
as Harrison's Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.”
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills lam out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —(Signed) J. Taylor.”
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
('marantc
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—-if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is free! Titee
sizes: 2/-, 3/-, 5/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated Baking
Douse, Sydney.
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills—With
j
ĵ


pan orama!
j
Up, up you go to the summit of Mt.
Wellington, Hobart, and as you hike
or motor each scene is more entranc-
ing than the last. A memorable trip and
only one of the many holiday enjoyments
Tasmania offers in an ideal climate.
sill
.13
xca
*l-
-
§h
S Ul
.8 ™
*s*
'to*
,2 U|
'3 >
a
sZ
I<
IS
<
MELBOURNE -
SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE -
- - The Block, Collins Street
4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
• - - - - 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE
PERTH - - - A.M.P.
BRISBANE |&,2r : jEifflßi
... 12 Pirie Street
Bldg., William Street
. 196 Adelaide Street
Missing Friends
EMIL PHITZNER, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with his
brother Gus, GOOLGOWI, N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
It wasn’t exactly by-the-sea weather
on the day of the unveiling of the foun-
dation-stone of the Cottage-by-the-Sea at
Queenscliff, but 900 people witnessed
the ceremony, which coincided with the
Ministering Children’s League’s annual
excursion. A great number of Geelong
folk were present, and the majority of
Melbourne visitors braved the choppy
waters of the bay in the ancient Weeroona.
Since November, when it was com-
pleted, the new “cottage” has been used
as an after-care hospital for little “polios.”
Downstairs there are dining-rooms, kit-
chen, playrooms and a changing-room for
the children when they return from their
sea bathes. Upstairs are dormitories
with 40 beds. Sixteen of the small
patients have been discharged, and many
are showing good results of physio-
therapy treatment, and move much more
easily than they could on the day when
they were brought down to Queenscliff
in motor conveyances fixed up with
stretchers.
At the opening function two stones
were unveiled, Lady Huntingfield per-
forming offices at the first ceremony and
Mrs. F. W. Scarlett, president of the
league, being responsible for the second,
which took place around the foundation of
the original cottage, built to accommodate
12 children. This stone, now embedded in
the new western wing, was laid 43 years
ago by Lady Brassey, wife of the Gover-
nor. Among those who took part in
last week’s ceremony were Mrs. J. H.
Hewison (organising secretary), who,
with Mrs. Scarlett, represented the league
in offering the cottage to the Govern-
ment several months ago. Also present
were C. L. McVilly, of the Charities
Board, Col. Tom White, Scott Williams
(with a presentation pair of silver scissors
for Lady Huntingfield), Dr. Gerald
Weigall and the Mayor and Mayoress of
Queenscliff, Cr. and Mrs. Klug, who, on
behalf of the executive, had earlier in the
day welcomed the Government House
party and other special guests to lun-
cheon at the Ozone Hotel.
Several husbands are among prospec-
tive members for the conducted tour to
Europe sponsored by the N.C.W. to leave
in the Strathaird in April. The tour will
conclude in July in Edinburgh, which
city is expected at that time to be flying
a flag or two in honor of the Inter-
national Council of Women’s Confer-
ence. The last I.C.W. Conference took
place three years ago in Paris ; the one
before that was in Vienna. Twenty-two
countries will be represented, and from
Australia there will be 10 official and 20
visiting delegates. On account of work
in connection with the forthcoming con-
ference, Dr. Maria Ogilvie-Gordon, who
is senior vice-president of the 1.C.W.,
will not linger long in Sydney for that
city’s birthday spree.
Miss M. A. Williamson will travel on
the tour as “hostess” (an overworked
term which in this case means guide,
philosopher and friend). Miss William-
son is hon. sec. of the N.C.W. in Vic-
toria, and also interstate sec. A courier
will accompany the travellers through
Europe. On disembarking at Marseilles
the route will take them through Monte
Carlo, Rome, Venice, Milan, Interlaken,
Lucerne, Heidelberg, Cologne, Amster-
dam, The Hague, Brussels, Paris and
Boulogne. After a few days in London
a motor tour is planned for England and
Scotland. The Glasgow Exhibition opens
in May, and will be a further attraction
of the Scottish visit.
Dr. Joske, opening the loan exhibition
of contemporary Canadian paintings at
the National Gallery, voiced the wish
that some public-spirited citizen of means
would finance an exhibition of Austra-
lian pictures to be sent abroad in a simi-
lar manner. Such exchanges among the
arts are valuable emissaries of goodwill.
Dr. Joske pinpricked three points in the
catalogue which struck him as interest-
ing. Fred Simpson Coburn was born
at Upper Melbourne, Quebec, and never
thought when painting “Logging” that
this picture would one day be hung in
a gallery of Australia’s Melbourne. Stella
Evelyn Grier, who exhibited “Mother
and Child,” first studied with her father,
Sir Wyly Grier, who was born in Syd-
ney. The third point that struck Dr.
Joske was that there is a Royal Canadian
Academy of Art which seems to be a
very flourishing institution.
The opening of the show took place
on a day when- it was pleasant to linger
in the cool lower galleries among pot-
tery of the ancients and bows and
arrows and stone axes of the Pacific
Islanders, for the temperature rose 20
degrees in the Upper McAllan Gallery,
where the paintings were exhibited.
Among those present during the first
afternoon were the Jim MacDonalds,
Canadian Trade Commissioner Palmer,
the chairman of the Felton Bequest,
J. A. Levey, F. W. Eggleston, I. H. Moss,
Chief Librarian E. R. Pitt (whose wife
was at Frankston for the day) and Dr.
and Mrs. J. F. Mackeddie. Although
the doctor was sensibly clad in a light-
weight suit and Mrs. Mackeddie wore
summery garb the couple were longing
to get back to their lovely home at Mt.
Eliza with its panoramic view of the
bay. After everyone had seen the pic-
tures, Dr. Joske and his daughter Sybil
gathered up friends and acquaintances
for tea at tables spread in party fashion
in the basement kiosk.
Professor and Mrs. W. J. Young have
reason to be proud of their only child,
Dr. Sylvia Young, who is at present in
Melbourne spending as much time as
possible of her four months’ leave of
absence from her medical duties in Jeru-
salem. Dr. Young has been in the British
Colonial Medical Service for two years,
and was the first woman appointed to
such a position. It was left to her initia-
tive to “make the job” among the Arab
tvomen. No one knew if she would get
many patients, but thousands soon
flocked to the clinics she instituted
throughout her territory. Since Dr.
Young’s appointment, which has proved
so successful, another woman medico has
been sent out to Palestine, with her head-
quarters in Haifa.
Dr. Young finds the Arab women tract-
able patients, with a great sense of
humor, and as long as they are con-
stantly reminded they’ll carry out medi-
cal instructions. They are more amen-
able to advice in hygiene than are many
of their whiter-skinned sisters. Dr.
Young’s most successful solution to the
problem of high living expenses in Jeru-
salem was to employ an Armenian cook-
housekeeper-laundress at £5 per month.
This woman seemed to have many
friends and relations who, when guests
came to the bungalow, were always
waiting around to help, and were wait-
ing afterwards for baksheesh. Dr.
Young is her own chauffeur and drives
a car about 600 miles a month in con-
nection with her work. Recreations of
the British community in Jerusalem con-
sist of tennis and golf (on rough but
often sporty links) and occasional drives
over beautiful roads for a swim at Jaffa,
43 miles away on the coast. There are
also bridge at the club and visits to the
centre of social life, the King David
Hotel. Dr. Young’s father has recently
been promoted from an associate pro-
fessorship to become Professor of
Biochemistry at Melbourne University.
In the Ronald Esler portrait is Agnes
Thomas, who will be married to-morrow
(27th) to Campbell Johnson in St. Mark’s
C. of E., Camberwell. Agnes is the
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. R.
Thomas, of Hawthorn. It’s to be an
evening wedding, and the bride will be
attended by her sister Marion, the
’groom’s sister Jean, Betty Journeaux and
Marget Carson.
As a farewell to the Talbot Sander-
sons on the eve of their sailing for Eng-
land the Noel Puckles and the Thomson
Taits did a spot of entertaining at the
maisonette in Domain-road, South Yarra,
which Dr. and Mrs. Tait recently took
over from the Tristan Buessts, who are
spending the summer at Frankston. It
was a very hot evening, the sort of sur-
prise which Melbourne’s provocative
weather gods have a habit of sending
along without any warning, so that guests
were glad to say their good-byes to the
tinkle of ice in long jugs or shakers.
The Talbot Sanderson couple are build-
ing a house at Bowral (N.S.W.), and
will be back in this country again about
the time it is ready for their attention re-
garding furnishings.
Among those at the party were the
Canadian Trade Commissioner and Mrs.
F. Palmer, who are finding Long Island
a pleasant out-of-town locality in which
to spend the summer. The Clive Steeles
were there; also the Dudley Shuters
(Mrs. Shuter wearing the pale-blue and
white accessories which suit her blonde
coloring so well) and Mrs. P. Eckford
(owner of an attractive home at Point
Lonsdale), who wore a large geranium-
red hat upon her sleekly-swathed dark
head. Eric Quirk and Clive Fairbairn
were also noticed, and Peter Manifold
came with his wife, who wore no hat
and whose full-skirted patterned gown
was of formal ankle-length. Nan Brett,
who came up from Mentone for the
party, had a spot of discussion with Mar-
garet Cochran on mutual hopes of get-
ting to England in May. Nan has been
invited to share a flat in London with Vi
Temple Smith and Wendy Outhwaite.
It’s a tiny flat, but one more occupant
won’t matter provided she’s as tidy as
the pair already dug in. Incidentally, a
couple of returned travellers say that
when they suddenly came upon Vi by
chance in Bond-street her clothes were
such perfection that they took her for
a Parisienne.
Among many people to whom credit
is due for the way they have risen to the
occasion of the infantile paralysis epi-
demic are the masseuses. Several of
these young women, who have worked
up their own clientele and are kept
consistently busy, have given up lucra-
tive patients (the usual fee is 10s. 6d. per
treatment) so that they will have enough
time to do several half-days per week
in the physiotherapy departments of the
hospitals. For work of this temporary
nature the pay is not nearly as much as
the money the girls would make if pur-
suing their careers in the usual manner.
Several married women who trained as
masseuses before they had homes, hus-
bands and children to look after are back
in their old jobs for part-time work.
Permanent hospital staffs of masseuses
are all working hard, but are uncom-
plaining about the overtime they must
do to attend to all patients.
“Music —Romance —Sumptuous Fare
—Cards —Dancing—Nothing Forgotten'’
are some of the inducements promised
by the P. and O. Co. for the ball in the
Stratheden in aid of St. Vincent’s Mater-
nity Hospital and Hospice. The re-
minder cards being sent out by the sec-
retaries also annotate “A Shipboard
Dance” in the curly script of a rope in
the hands of a skittish sailor. Miss
De Bavay, Mrs. J. J. Daly and Mrs.
George Armstrong are sending out
entree cards on receipt of the guineas
which are coming along satisfactorily in
response to the nautical pieces of paste-
board. Mrs. Armstrong and Pamela
have gone to Sydney for the sesqui do-
ings, but will be back at Coombe Cottage
in good time for the dance on February
21.
The massive pile of Stonnington, once
State Government House, and for many
years St. Margaret’s fashionable school
for girls, will be opened in a few days
as an after-care home for infantile para-
lysis patients. There will be 80 beds to
start with, and there is room if necessary
for 20 to 30 more. After the holidays
St. Margaret’s boarders will go up to the
school’s branch at Berwick, and those
who are day pupils will take their sat-
chels round the corner to Mayfield-
avenue.
Jean Burns, a charming young thing
who had her eighteenth birthday party
last December, is turning over in her
mind the idea that she might be able to
make parachute-jumping her job in life.
Jean has a pilot’s license, and is Aus-
tralia’s first woman parachutist. She
has convinced the Civil Aviation Board
that she’s in earnest, and the board has
granted its sanction for her to jump at
Hamilton on January 29 —provided that
the parachute is folded by someone who
holds a license for that particular art.
Irene Donnett, champion diver, of Mel-
bourne, who is representing Australia in
the springboard art for the Empire
Games in Sydney, is so keen about being
chosen to go to the Games in Japan in
1940 that she’s studying Japanese and,
in spite of the difficulty of the language,
is making satisfactory progress. Among
exercises Irene does during the winter to
keep her fit is riding a stationary bicycle.
Dorothy Kennedy and Ted Tyler, who
were married on Saturday in the Old
Cathedral, are going to Queensland for
a month’s honeymoon, after which they
will spend a few weeks here before em-
barking via South Africa for England,
where they will live for at least two
years. The bride has had some experi-
ence of travel in three trips to the Orient,
but this will be her first visit to Europe.
For the wedding her sister, Mrs. Robert
Peel, came over from Sydney to carry
out the duties of matron-of-honor in a
gown of cornflower-blue threaded with
silver. Another sister, Mrs. J. K. Swan-
son, came from still further afield, Lis-
more (N.S.W.). Mrs. John Bond, whose
home has been in England for many
years, was also a guest. As Freda Pizzey,
of Ivanhoe, she was a girlhood friend of
the bride. Before she said good-bye to
the guests at Menzies, the bride changed
her gown of ivory satin, with which
she had carried gardenias and lily-of-
the-valley, for an evening frock of shell-
pink chiffon and a cloak of wine-tinted
velvet.
Barbara Hitchens, the Sydney girl who
is flying a Gypsy Moth to New Guinea,
has plenty of pluck and one hundred per
cent, confidence, and will certainly de-
serve generous congratulations if she gets
through. She will find the hardest and
most difficult part of her trip at the end.
With the exception of Amelia Earhart
Putnam, who took off from Lae on her
last flight, which ended in disaster, Miss
Hitchens will be the only woman pilot
who has flown in New Guinea. All
New Guinea pilots have their adventures,
but never treat them as spectacular events
—they are happenings, part of the
routine. When E. J. Stephens, a pilot
whose experience goes back to war ser-
vice in the R.A.A.F., and who operates
his own air service in New Guinea, was
flying his Hercules up from Australia he
got bogged for several days on Cape
York Peninsula with nothing to eat but
camp flour and lizards. The crew of a
’plane in New Guinea which hit the top
of Mount Thompson by mistake in bad
weather were fortunate to be seen by a
search ’plane, but they had to stay on the
cold 10,000 ft.-high emergency camp for
a week while a rescue party cut its way
through the bush.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A FIRE
EXTINGUISHER CONTAINER.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 23280/29 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Sydney.
IMPLEMENT FOR TREATING AND
PLACING CONCRETE.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 21331/35 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of his rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars obtainable from Griffith,
Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Sydney.
V) \
c/
When
a MAN
tells you
that he has used
Calvert’s nearly all
his life,
that Calvert’s has
kept his teeth per-
fect when most
men of his age
have parted with
theirs—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
VAAR/r
O*
SC lit
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dungeness”: The new motor roads
through coastal North Queensland have
improved life for town-dwellers by afford-
ing easy access to bathing beaches and
mountain resorts. Cairns now has a
dozen fine beaches within easy reach along
the Cook Highway, and the lofty cool
heights of the Atherton Plateau as well.
Innisfaii has Etty Bay and the southern
end of the Plateau via the new Palmer-
ston Highway. Ingham and Townsville
can surf on many beaches, and there is
easy access to picturesque Mt. Spec,
3000 ft. above sea level, on the crest of
the Paluma Range. For dwellers on a
tropic coast a change to bracing moun-
tain air affords the best possible health-
holiday, and the new roads are doing
more toward the rapid development and
permanent maintenance of a healthy
white working population in Australia’s
far north than even their most enthusi-
astic advocates ever imagined.
#*i « ,
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane thieves had an
enjoyable and varied recent week-end. A
city hospital yielded a gold pencil, a tin
of cigarettes and 15s. in cash. Two girls
swimming in the upper rivet - lost every
scrap of their clothing, and had to walk
home barefooted in bathing togs. A
gang of three armed and masked bur-
glars, wearing gloves to prevent finger-
prints from being traced, was arrested,
complete with swag, by one constable.
The eldest malefactor was aged 12, the
armament was a water-pistol, and the
loot consisted of lollies and cigarettes.
The star haul comprised seven lion-
headed goldfish, valued at £35, mysteri-
ously missing from their pond in a doc-
tor’s garden, without any clue as to the
manner in which they were captured.
However, uproarious merriment has been
noticed among local kookaburras, and
Jacky is a good fisherman when he cares
to try.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: A 12-year-old girl, with
the appropriate name of Mary Getthings,
picked up an oyster, among other shells,
during a family picnic to Woody Point,
Moreton Bay (Q.). Showing her catch
to a neighbor with N.Q. experience, he
suggested that there might be a pearl in
it, and opened it. To their joint surprise
there were four pearls, each about half
the diameter of a small pea. Not long .
ago a pearl valued at £lO was found in
an oyster at Wynnum on the other side
of Moreton Bay. Ten years before that
a hunt among the blacklip shell laid
down long ago at the south-eastern
corner of Moreton Island brought a
much-needed £3OO to two returned sol-
diers. In the “earlies” quite a number
of decent pearls are said to have been
collected by a Cingalese near Cleveland.
But I wouldn’t advise anyone to chuck
up even the poorest of jobs for the gay,
romantic life of a Moreton Bay pearler.
* * *
“X T.”: For as long as I can remem-
ber there has been an agitation on foot
in Brisbane to deck the police and tram-
waymen out in summer uniforms.
Present tramway uniforms are of choker
pattern, and the police all look as if they
have cracked vertebrae done up in
plaster— except the water police, who
wear open-necked jackets and ties.
Helmets were copied from the Royal
Irish Constabulary, meant for use in a
land of rain and cold. The furthest
the timid tramwaymen appear to
want to go is to have the privilege
of wearing soft collars and ties, with
a lighter material in their uniforms. If
a royal commission is appointed I hope
it will spend some time in southern
Asia. Shorts are almost universal for
policemen and other uniformed public
officers there. Necks are open generally.
Surely Australian invention is capable
of devising a uniform which will be no
less dignified than the present ones
in use, and which yet will let a bit of
breeze in and not act as a prickly-heat
incubator.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Any gentleman out of a job
and with a taste for smuggling should
have a careful look at the Coronation
issues of Territory of New Guinea and
Papuan stamps. The two Territories —
The Bulletin has long advocated their
amalgamation—lie side by side and agree
to differ in all things. So when the Com-
monwealth decided to print Coronation
stamps with a clear-cut picture of George
Ma, if this is gold We'll be able t' put up that new cow-bail."
VI. on them, though it made them
exactly the same in design, one carries
the name “New Guinea” and the other
“Papua,” and different colors have dif-
ferent values in the two satrapies. Thus
it comes about that a sd. green stamp
on one side of the border looks exactly
like a Is. green stamp on the other side
of the border, unless you read it care-
fully. It seems to me a golden oppor-
tunity for somebody whose conscience
has been sufficiently inhibited. Who ever
takes the, trouble to read a stamp?
* * * *
“Murlonga”: That talk about making
Darwin a free port isn’t anything new —
it was old when I wore rompers. It was
darned near being a free port in those
days, too. The poll tax on Chinese enter-
ing Q. was about a hundred quid—it was
only half a crown a nob in the Northern
Territory, of which Darwin was the en-
trance gate. Fat old Chinks in Q.
who had amassed wealth used to im-
port their compatriots and let those poor
slaves work off the debt. Some took
another means of entering the Queens-
land El Dorado —they paid the half-
crown at Darwin and trekked overland.
A heap of them did it; many fell
by the way. Their main track used to
be across by Murranji, hit the head
waters of the James, run it down to the
junction with the Georgina, cross the
downs to Gidyea Creek, run it up to the
Cloncurry Ranges, get over that water-
shed and then take any of a dozen leads
to the eastern coast. The Palmer gold-
fields were the main magnet. There
is much stonework standing on Aus-
tral to this day—dams across rivers and
other heavy work—which is reputed to
have b ( een dope by the Chinks.
“Ex-Mister”: An ancient bookstall
copy of the Queensland Ports and Har-
bors regulations, with “Wm. Cottier,
Master,” written inside the cover, set
me thinking of long-past days. Bland,
bearded and benevolent, Captain Bill
Cottier, of the (paddle-driven) Lady
Bowen, the Boomerang, Telegraph and
many more, was for 30 years a promi-
nent figure on the Queensland coast. A
friend of my parents, he took me, a sea-
bent boy, for a voyage to Cairns and
back to Sydney. It visioned the sea for
me as a glorious, carefree life, of merry
meetings with jovial men passengers,
pretty ladies, too, good food and com-
fort. From remarks heard here and
there, particularly from my friend the
butcher, concerning Captain Bill’s little
private ventures, lots of money, too.
Often in ensuing years of a swamped
half-deck, wet clothes and tucker that
a modern dog wouldn’t look at, did I
curse that genial soul for kidding me to
sea in sail as the best start towards a
similar life.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, who represents the
Queensland Government Tourist Bureau
in Melbourne, arrived by the Manunda
bound for Cairns and Lindeman Island,
where she will spend a fortnight with
Minister for Transport Dash and his
wife. Mrs. Ryan has been in Melbourne
for the Tourist Bureau for almost five
years, and has done more to introduce
Southerners to the delights of northern
travel than most people realise.
The committee which is arranging the
fete to be held at Government House in
May to furnish funds for the Bush Chil-
dren’s Health Scheme and Red Cross
peace-time activities has a meeting on
January 27. Mrs. A. E. Moore is chair-
man of the fete committee, and the Lady
Mayoress and the wives of State Min-
isters are helping.
Two hundred and fifty Queenslanders
of Scots descent have been enrolled in
the Queensland Cameron Highlanders,
and now all they want is equipment and
a colonel. Knight Donald Cameron, who
was active in the formation of the regi-
ment, is to be asked to become honorary
colonel, and the public is to be invited
to dip into its pockets to provide the
equipment.
Ronald Weeks, captain of the British
bowling team which will take part in' the
Empire Games in Sydney, has a sister
living in Brisbane —Mrs. Edward
Drewett, of Kedron. After the games
Mr. Weeks and his wife will visit Bris-
bane./
It required the blunt comments of an
overseas visitor to awaken Australians
to the fact that no memorial had been
erected to the memory of Charles Kings-
ford Smith. Lord Mayor A. J. Jones has
called a public meeting at which sugges-
tions for a suitable memorial will be con-
sidered.
Judge R. J. Douglas, of Townsville,
and Judge E. A. Douglas, of Brisbane,
are going abroad. While they are away
two of Brisbane’s best-known barristers
will act for them, A. D. Graham at
Townsville, P. L. Hart in Brisbane. A.
D. Graham was an acting-Justice dur-
ing the term of James Blair’s Lieut. -
Governorship, and P. L. Hart has acted
on several occasions.
The old Customs House at Cleveland,
which for many years was incorporated
in the Pier Hotel, is still standing,
although it was built in 1846 and the
Pier Hotel was recently destroyed by
fire. Now it is to be a “cave” in which
corals and shells from the Reef and
Torres Strait will be displayed.
With Governor Leslie Wilson as chair-
man of the committee, and the Navy, the
Water Police and the Royal Queensland
Yacht Club all co-operating heartily, the"
second Henley and Venetian Carnival, to
be held in March for the funds of the
Ambulance Brigade, should be a big
success. March 11, the opening date,
will be an evening show. On the fol-
lowing day the Henley eights will be
rowed, and the river will be gay with
decorated boats, trade displays and a
showboat concert to provide good
measure.
Premier and Mrs. Forgan Smith re-
ceived a heap of congratulatory letters
and telegrams on their silver-wedding an-
niversary, which happened on January
15. David Galloway, who now is Min-
ister of Scots Church, Clayfield ,tied the
knot at the Mackay kirk. There was a
family dinner-party at the Forgan Smith
home in honor of the event, garnished
with huge masses of flowers, most of
them gifts received by Mrs. Forgan
Smith during the day.
A supper-dance at the Belle Vue, ar-
ranged by a group of Marjorie Moss’s
girl friends, was the finale to a long list
of pre-parties before her marriage to
Jack Saint Smith. The knot was tied at
the Ann-street kirk, and only sister
Audrey was bridesmaid. Eric Loutitt
was best man. Mrs. Moss greeted the
guests at the reception, which was held
at Rowe’s.
Blue hydrangea and graceful festoons
of pink antignon made St. Thomas’s
Church, Toowong, lovely for the wed-
ding of Helen May Shield, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Shield, to Albert H.
Johnson, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Johnson, and Brisbane. Bride
wore white organdie and a picture hat
trimmed with forget-me-nots. Barbara
Shield, who was the only bridesmaid, was
in pale-pink organdie over coral taffetas,
topped with a picture hat.
Ethel May Sheehy, skipper of the
White Wings Cricket Club, married
Kingston Thomas Willis at All Saints’
Church, and the members of her team
formed a guard of honor for her. Ethel
is one of our girl athletes, and has been
in the representative State hockey team.
Myrtle and Evelyn Sheehy were ’maids,
and Jack Willis and Otto Marks best man
and groomsman.
Another cricketer, Desmond Hansen,
who has played in Sheffield Shield teams,
was married to May Avenell at St.
Andrew’s Church of England, South
Brisbane. Joyce Avenell was ’maid.


pp 8 ®"
NO USE.MISS
ĵ
No matter how hard you
brush, your teeth won’t
really sparkle unless you
use the right tooth paste
Pepsodent, containing
the thrilling new dental
discovery, IRIUM. Irium
ends Scrub - Hard disap-
pointment. It gets you
results from proper brush-
ing, makes your teeth
sparkle with a brilliant
natural lustre.
BECAUSE OF floats film
away _inste,d
BECAUSE OF NO SOAP
Pepsodent r q GR | T .. NO
. Tcontains NO okm
pumice. _ £>afj4, !
BECAUSE OF IMJJJ Parte leaves
pepsodent . dean and
wholesome.
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
IMUfif
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
>. (aust.) pty. ltd. (incorporated IN VICTORIA)
THE PEPSODENT CO
j
Cinderella’s glass slippers did not
dazzle the eye more with their glitter
than do the new evening shoes. They
are just the wear if your feet feel like
running down an avenue of fun or folly.
Diamonds by the ton must have been
sifted over the season’s output. They
twinkle on instep, strap, on toes and
heels, and wink on the front piece of the
sandal that this season runs right up to
the strap. One Sydney shop is showing
a facsimile of the pair worn by the
Queen at the Coronation. These are
jewelled on every strap, and have a crown
on the instep. All the best shoes for
evening are open a little at the toes ; the
rest of the sandal consists of open spaces,
a narrow band or two of gold, silver,
gaily-striped silk, embossed brocade and
glitter. If you want to shine above the
waist you can slip on collars and cuffs
of diamente. One pair of black evening
gloves had forget-me-nots thickly em-
broidered half-way up the arm. Each
glove finished with a deep border on
which little fawns disported.
The new froths of chiffon or tulle com-
bine half a dozen shades. One of these
seen at a preview the other day ran from
primrose to poppy gold. The bodices of
the latest after-eight-o’clockers show a
strict economy in material; mostly off-
the-shoulder effects, or string shoulder
straps. This year, as well as being back-
less, frocks will be cut very low in front.
However, the breeze will be tempered
by chiffon or tulle scarves.
The Anniversary celebrations will be
enriched by a tapestry exhibition.
Thirty of the Queen’s ladies-in-waiting
will send their best pieces. Through
Lady Wakehurst a collection valued
at £5OOO will come to Australia. Our
own tapestry workers are as busy as
Penelopes, and good work is expected
from all the States. Among the contem-
porary work will be some examples of
Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt Junior’s jwrt.
The exhibition will be one of June’s at-
tractions. Mrs. Penfold Hyland is presi-
dent, Mrs. Stamp-Taylor the organiser.
The Sydney Industrial Blind Institution
will reap the profits.
Those who started the movement of
celebrating the Coronation by founding
libraries in bush schools feel more than
repaid already. Letters have been pour-
ing in saying “thank you” for pushing
open the door to romance and beauty.
One teacher wrote: “Many a happy
hour will be spent by my pupils in the
fireglow and lamplight of timber-cutters’
tents and selectors’ dwellings. Our
little school is on the frontier of
settlement, far from main roads and
railways, and most of the children work
hard, and ride or walk great distances
to school.” There are letters from
Jilliby, from aborigine schools, from
Hanging Rock, from Walla Walla and
other far-off spots. What do you think
of a small girl of 11 who milks eight
cows before setting out to walk three
miles to school and still finds time to
love poetry?
Contributions for the Coronation
Libraries will find Nora Kemp, treasurer,
at 19 Bligh-street.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Mrs. Lionel Logue occupied the pew
of honor at many farewell parties before
her departure for London via the Panama
Canal. Dr. and Mrs. Love chose sun-
down for their cocktail-pouring in her
honor, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Jacoby
set out a sumptuous buffet-dinner for
dozens of guests at their Mount’s Bay-
road home, and Mount-street was lined
with cars for the A. J. Hermans’ Sunday-
night feast of music. Paul Schramm, the
Viennese pianist, was the highlight of
the programme, with local musicians
Doris Horrigan, Margaret Sharpe, Roy
Glenister and Signor Ugo Mina shining
brightly in his wake. Mrs. Herman
shimmered in crystal-beaded ice-blue
moulded satins, and Mrs. Logue’s white
crepes were hand-painted in bold floral
patterning and veiled with flowing white
chiffon redingote.
The J. R. W. Gardam couple, who are
packing their trunks for a lengthy holi-
. day abroad, have had their engagement
books filled to overflowing with farewell
feting dates. Mrs. Roy Mitchell set
up mah-jongg tables at her home in
Mount-street, the Raymond . Cruik-
shanks invited guests to drink a farewell
cocktail at the Karrakatta Club, and Mrs.
Guy MacLeod hostessed a women’s
luncheon party at the Esplanade. The
Norman Temperleys dispensed sun-
downers at their Peppermint Grove
home, Mrs. Frank Leake made a fare-
well gesture with bridge, and Mrs. Hope-
Robertson presided over the teacups at
her flat on the Esplanade.
Pat Hannah, one of the Rep. Club’s
leading ladies and a well-known voice
over the air, played the leading role at
St. Mary’s Cathedral, with Charles
Thomson lending male support. Soft
pleatings of cream satin gleamed ’neath
billowing bridal tulle which fell from a
seed-pearl-encrusted halo of fine white
straw. ’Maid Ronnie Donoghue secured
her pale-green ninon sari with a top-
knot of rosebuds and trailed Cecil Brun-
ner roses over froths of pink ninon. The
honeymoon itinerary includes California,
where the bridegroom will represent the
Perth Junior Chamber of Commerce at
the U.S.A. Commerce Convention.
The Royal Aero Club’s races attracted
a crowd of airminded folk to Maylands.
Members entertained guests to breakfast,
luncheon or supper at the ’drome ac-
cording to which races they were inter-
ested in. Ross Little scored a popular
win in the Head of the Air, and Ron
Butterworth carried off the Aerial Derby
trophy for keeps this time. The Junior
Derby went to Kelvin Stone. Val Abbott
and Lance Barrett, president and former
v.-p., ran the gauntlet of congratulations
on the recent visits of the stork to their
respective homes.
A “families-only” wedding of the week
was that of the A. H. Savages’ second
lass Pat to Kimberley Rose, of the Nor’-
west, and son of Mr. and Mrs. George
Rose, of Claremont. The Rev. John Bell
tied the knot at Christ Church, after
which champagne and cake were dis-
pensed at the Savage home in Pepper-
mint Grove.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
An impromptu dance at the Grosvenor,
North-terrace, was arranged by the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps in honor of Captain
Burgess and the staff of the Centaurus.
They were received by Lord Mayor
Barrett, who is president of the South
Australian Flying Corps. Bowls arranged
with the Air Force colors, red and two
shades of blue, were set round the ball-'
room and on the supper tables. As the
weather was warm, dancing was inter-
spersed with musical and other entertain-
ment.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Bray, of Hutt-
street, gave a bright party to welcome
home their son, Dr. John Bray, who re-
turned in the. Strathnaver. He and his
sister Rowena left Adelaide six months
ago on a trip to England and the Con-
tinent. Miss Bray has remained behind
as the guest of her cousin, Mrs. Denis
Heath (formerly Ada Bonython), at her
home near Birmingham.
The engagement is announced of Edith,
younger daughter of Mrs. C. Donaldson,
Victoria-avenue, Rose Park, and the late
Louis Donaldson, to A. T. S. Boyle, of
Paigagalla Estate, Kalutara, Ceylon.
Frances, only daughter of Mrs. and
Mrs. Sidney Rymill, Somerton, was
hostess at a sherry party at the South
Australian to welcome home Mary Cave,
who returned from England in the Strath-
naver with her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
H. C. Cave, and Helen Bakewell, who
travelled in the same liner. Although the
temperature had soared to 105, iced
drinks helped the guests to bear up. Mr.
and Mrs. Kenneth Bakewell had enter-
tained a number of daughter Helen s
friends at a large cocktail party at their
home, Fitzroy, on the afternoon of her
return from overseas.
Tennis is still attracting large crowds
at the Memorial Drive. Nearly everyone
carries a cushion, for sitting day after
day on a seat of wooden bars in mid-
summer weather makes you feel like a
grilled chop.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Clark, of Ceylon,
who with their small daughter Mary
arrived in Adelaide at the end of last
year, are on furlough from their tea
plantation, and have been the guests of
some of Mrs. Clark’s numerous friends.
She was formerly Nancy Gall, of St.
Peters. The Clarks have been the guests
of the Eric Bonythons at Mount Barker,
and now are staying with Dr. and Mrs.
C. F. Drew, the latter Mrs. Clark’s sister.
Hans Heysen is a grandfather! Mrs.
Darcy Sowell (Deidre Heysen that was),
of Sunnymeade, Kalangadoo, has pre-
sented him with his first grandchild.
Phyllis, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
E. G. Lawton, of Mitcham, lived in
a whirl of parties prior to her marriage
to Dr. Oliver Leitch. Mrs. Max Lawton
gave a gift afternoon at her home, Mrs.
E. C. Grasby and her daughter Joan
entertained at a dinner party at their
home, Park-terrace, Parkside, a bridge
afternoon was arranged by Miriam
Ifould, to which her friends also brought
gifts, and three girl pals, qualified M.Ds.,
gave a luncheon party for her at the
South Australian.
David L. Dowie, the 1934 Angas
Engineering scholar for S.A., who re-
cently married Irene, daughter of Sir
William and Lady Jarrett, of Ealing,
England, is returning from London with
his wife to take up a mining position in
Melbourne. Mr. Dowie is at present in
the U.S.A.
An inter-State wedding was celebrated
at Trinity Church, North-terrace, when
Jean Rosalind, youngest daughter of
Mrs. L. Hope-Oliver, of East Melbourne,
Victoria, married Cecil, son of Mr. and
Mrs. C. G. Pulford, Mintaro. The bride’s
white satin was cut on princess lines and
worn with a white lace redingote. Her
veil was held in place by a halo of orange-
blossom. Edna Primrose (bride’s sister)
was frocked in gold satin with gold net
redingote. Her sash was green and gold,
she wore a picture hat and carried a
basket of autumn-toned flowers.
TASMANIA.
There was not the same spirit of jubi-
lation over the wool sales this year as
there was last. Town was full of country
folk, but the celebrating and entertaining
were not on the same level. Nevertheless,
prices, though lower, were not dis-
astrously so.
Mrs. Alex. McGregor’s buffet-lunch at
the Queen Mary Club was one of the
high spots in recent entertainment. About
50 guests enjoyed the delicious food, and
the hostess, who wore a smart turnout
in navy and white, received many con-
gratulations on a windfall that came her
way from a “certain consultation.”
The Lewis lady bade a throng of
friends to sherry and savories at Wern-
dee to meet her brother-in-law and sister,
Vice-Admiral and Mrs. Alister Beal, who
were in town for a few days. Country
folk who had come down for the wool
sales were among the guests. The hostess
was in black, with a little sequined cape
on the shoulders, and Mrs. Beal’s frock
of beige lace was worn with a small hat
in the same shade.
Pat Walch had parties every day and
sometimes two or three a day in the fort-
night immediately before her wedding to
Bill Hodgman. Among hostesses in that
time were Mrs. Clive and her two girls.
Lilia and Joan, who gave her a “kitchen
tea” at their home at Old Beach. A
buffet-lunch was given by Mrs. C. Shoo-
bridge, a “rainbow tea,” where a variety
of gifts greeted the bride, by Marjorie
Oldmeadow, and a bridge party, an even-
ing function, was hostessed by Carys
and Alison Page. Then there were
an afternoon gift-party to stock the
larder, given by Mrs. L. F. Piesse and
Mrs. David Logan; a morning-tea at
the Chaucer (Mrs. R. N. Butler) and a
“handkerchief tea” at Mrs. Colin
Bisdee’s at Sandy Bay.
Pat Walch walked down the aisle of
St. Joseph’s as Mrs. Bill Hodgman in a
frock of cream georgette with a satin
design Her veil of Limerick lace was
over 100 years old, and the little Juliet
cap was in the same lace, made to match
by the nuns of St. Joseph’s. Wanda
Logan was matron of honor, and there
were three ’maids, Carys Page, Kim
Ricards and Lilia Clive. Their frocks of
cream organza were topped.by tulle hats
trimmed with buttonhole roses, and they
carried tulle muffs. There was a recep-
tion at Hadley’s afterwards.
The W. D. McMinns returned recent
hospitality by giving a cocktail party at
their own home at Sandy Bay. The
rooms were gay with mixed flowers. Mrs.
McMinn’s floral frock had short sleeves.
An engagement with a scholastic tang
in it is that of Ruth, younger of the
W. H. Clemes girls, of Clemes College,
to Alan Walter, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. W. V. Briggs, Scotch College,
Launceston.
Mrs. Nellie Payne has left a specimen
of her beautiful woodcarving at St.
Andrew’s Church, Westbury, her girl-
hood home town, in the shape of a chan -
cel screen. There was a ceremony of
dedication at the church, followed by a
reception at the R. C. Fields’ home,
Westfield.
Mrs. R. M. Harvey (Elsternwick, Vic.),
formerly Joan Cox, of Hobart, is over
here on a visit to her relatives and en-
joying meeting many old friends. Mrs.
Harvey has written two or three plays
which have been successfully adapted for
radio in Melbourne and Sydney, and has
now had one accepted in Maoriland.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon., K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Long White Cloud
Living Costs on the Up-grade
According to Canberra reports, there
will be little variation in the Australia-
Maoriland trade treaty; Mr. Savage
merely intends to exercise his right to
adjust tariff rates on certain Australian
manufactures in order to protect his own
employers-of-labor. The Commonwealth
may obtain advantages through supply
of raw materials for Maoriland secondary
industries, as well as in the freer entry
of some of its fruits.
Reasons behind the necessity for
Maoriland to so restrict the import of
highly competitive Australian manufac-
tures are significant from a political
viewpoint. Production costs have been
pushed so high by Savage Government
legislation that Australia has been able
to ship factory products across the Tas-
man, undercut locally-made goods and
still show a fair profit.
With tariff impositions, Mr. Savage
hopes to give the Maoriland manufac-
turer a better break. But this must also
entail a further rise in Maoriland’s cost
of living, and this time there can hardly
be compensating wage and produce-
price increases to delude the Maorilander
that he is still better off.
The people being hit the hardest by
the cost-of-living lifts are those worthy
retired souls living on moderate and
fiked incomes from properties, stocks
and businesses, their equity in which
took their active working lives to create.
“M.”: There’s more than a superficial
similarity in the policies, peculiarities and
difficulties of Maoriland Prime Minister
Savage and U.S. President Roosevelt.
Both distrust’ what they term the “dis-
tortion” of the daily press to such an
extent that each has used the radio for
important announcements. Both have
a down on Big Business when it is con-
ducted by private individuals. Both are
spending huge amounts on relief works
masquerading under other titles. Both
have had labor troubles which, originat-
ing among the people whose votes they
require for continuance of their parties
in power, strike at the very foundations
of their socialistic principles; and both
are entering an uneasy and critical trial
period when many of their legislative
birds must come home to roost and to
judgment. They should certainly have
swapped sincere Christmas and New
Year cards.
* * * *
“Motu”: Nudism has reached Maori-,
land in the flesh. A Wellington
group, adherents of which are styled
“naturists,” is forming a sunshine
club, membership being open to both
sexes. The idea is to bake in the
uncovered out Porirua way. Auckland
has a new group whose object is to
establish a similar colony for sun-wor-
shippers. Even Christchurch —sane, cold
city of spires and churches and school
ties —is suffering the internal urge for
external revelation. From Australia’s
experience of nudism the people who will
benefit most will be those selling cough
mixtures.
* * * *
“Xo”: Maoriland’s Mr. Jordan, first
Labor Government appointment to the
London job, left England a policeman
and returned as a High Commissioner.
He has all the self-confidence of the
rugged Cabinet Ministers these parts of
the world sent to Imperial Conferences
of an earlier London. There’s no pre-
tence about him, and he’s all the time
frankly chasing Maoriland sales —with
evident success. He is in striking con-
trast to Australian High Commissioner
Bruce, who pushes Commonwealth goods
and prestige equally well by entirely dif-
ferent methods; the faultlessly-groomed
rep. who meets the eyeglass Englishmen
on their own ground and uses their
idiom.
* * * *
“Mak”: For long the sound creditor
centre of Maoriland, Dunedin is em-
bracing the Savage Government’s muni-
cipal housing scheme. With a £lOO,OOO
State Advances Corporation loan at 3 per
cent, for 30 years, Dunedin started build-
ing ; more than 50 houses were occupied
by the end of 1937, contracts had been
let for another 100 and there were appli-
cations for houses from an extra 150
ratepayers. Another £lOO,OOO loan has
been taken out on similar terms, and
council houses of good appearance and
solid design are still being planned. Citi-
zens get these homes for a minimum de-
posit of £25 and an all-in repayment in
rental form of from £1 ss. a week to
£1 135.; in 30 years the houses are their
own. From the tenants’ viewpoint there's
nothing wrong with this sort of rehous-
ing, and other Maoriland centres, late in
deciding there was no Labor Govern-
ment catch in the finance proposition,
are beginning to envy Dunedin the
material housing assets it will have long
after Mr. Savage has gone the way of
all politicians.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Legend persists in M.L.
of a woman who was marooned on the
main island of the Campbell group, south
of the Dominion. That towards the end
of the eighteenth century a woman lived
there has been attested by old whalers
who knew of her when she first reached
the island as a young woman with an
older woman attendant. She spent many
years there, provisioned by whaling
ships, before dying on the island, after
which the servant was taken back to
Scotland. As in those times only whal-
ing ships visited the Campbells, infor-
mation of the exile is hazy, but her
stay is proved to have been long by a
“ ’S all right, Miss, there amt no fire — we're only practising .”
shell path she made from the house
she lived in to the sea, of a variety
of shell very rarely cast on those tempest-
swept shores. On one voyage of the
Government supply-ship Hinemoa the
secretary of the then Minister for Cus-
toms found a grave covered with Scot-
tish heather. Sir James Ross was sup-
posed to know the woman’s identity and
the reason for her exile ; legend has it
that she was a Stuart, banished because
her presence in Scotland would possibly
be embarrassing, and that she traced her
descent from the not - authenticated
daughter of Mary Stuart and Bothwell.
* * * *
“Onawe”: Though the phenomenon
is usually cited as one of the evil results
of the Labor regime in M.L. the present
housing shortage is no new thing. It
happens about every quarter of a cen-
tury. It is an axiom in financial circles
in the Shivery Isles that house-property,
in almost any circumstances, is a bad
buy; that it is better business to rent or
lease a dwelling than to buy it, and
periodically that conviction seems to
sweep throughout property - owning
circles. Landlords go sour on the whole
business, and decide to sell. But who
will buy? That’s easy. The landlords
just refuse to go on landlording. They
won’t let houses. So everyone who wants
a roof over his head has to buy. That
may seem a huge exaggeration, but so
far as the cities and large towns are
concerned it is perfectly true. It’s harder
to rent a dwelling house in Auckland,
Wellington, Christchurch or Dunedin
to-day than for a rich man to go through
the eye of a camel.
* * * *
“Hittite”: Quaint pub names from
Maoriland: At Lumsden, Southland, is
the Elbow Hotel, and in the Hutt Valley,
Wellington district, is one which glories
in the Maori name of Te Taita. It’s
pronounced “Tighter.”
% sfc *
“Pakeha”: Maoriland’s birthrate is de-
creasing, and in the last five years de-
partures have outnumbered arrivals by
8778. According to Dr. Kuczynski, of
the London School of Economics, the
Dominion in 1933 reached the stage at
which population is not replacing itself.
According to his system of computation
a net reproduction Unit of one is neces-
sary to replacement. Maoriland’s rate
was 1.36 for 1911-15, 1.29 for 1921-22
and 0.98 for 1933. Australia’s rate, also,
in 1933 was 0.98. Hence perturbation in
Governmental circles on both sides of
the Tasman. The imperative need (from
a politician’s point of view, anyway) is
for more taxpayers, so that the taxation
revenue may go on expanding in the
robust and rotund manner that is its
habit. Such a lot has been left for pos-
terity to pay for that the thought of a
dwindling posterity is awful.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Maoriland sheepmen must
still possess shrewd market judgment if
they are to escape financial difficulties.
One man, whose usual procedure was
to ship his fat-lamb carcasses for direct
sale on the London market and buy his
breeding ewes forward, would have been
trying the banks if he had done so this
season. He would have ended up with
a mob of ewes that cost him well over
market prices ruling at time of delivery,
and there would have been a smaller
return from his fat lambs to meet the
debt. The unsteady wool market per-
suaded him against buying forward, and
doubt as to the Labor Government’s
next price-fixing manoeuvre, as much as
to the usual gamble on London prices,
stopped him shipping his own lambs.
Many of his neighbors aren’t' so happy.
Of the annual 250,000 Poverty Bay and
East Coast ewes now reaching Waikato
lamb-raising properties, by far the
greater proportion were bought months
before delivery, when values were higher
than they are to-day. But it is a sig-
nificant fact, and one that Mr. Savage
and his Government find difficult to be-
lieve, that they still prefer the open wool
market to any Labor-Government tinker-
ing.
* * * *
“Korero”: Prof. Algie’s Auckland Pro-
vincial Freedom Association, which has
entered the Maoriland general election
lists against everything that smacks of
Savage or smells of Socialism (B.
19 /1 / ’3B), will soon realise an unpleasant
fact that must already be obvious to
Opposition Leader Adam Hamilton and
other old Nationalist campaigners. To a
large degree, all anti-Savage forces are
contributing to the war sinews of the
Labor party. Mr. Savage hasn’t a daily
press, but Government statements can’t
be neglected ; news from every depart-
ment, if it has any good points at all, is
pro-Government in any election year. In
addition to this political truism, Mr.
Savage has added a Government pub-
licity officer whose job is to put Laboj
icing-sugar on departmental news.
Further, Mr. Savage has created a Labor-
leaning Commercial Broadcasting Ser-
vice with transmitters in the four major
cities; this concern is owned by the
people, but it is run by the Government
—for the time being, by the Savage Gov-
ernment that has fathered it. Mr. Savage
has helped himself from his opponents'
pockets to introduce to Maoriland the
fact that this is an age of propaganda.
* * * #
“Kiwit”: On the authority of Prime
Minister Savage, Maoriland’s social
services are once more “likely to become
a model for the world.” National
health and superannuation schemes are
in the Wellington incubator. Every
pension lift has involved total costs
well above the most liberal estimates,
and sections of the Labor Ministry
would prefer caution to action at this
stage of their Parliamentary term.
With an election this year and the
general tax reduction promised by
Labor before it gained office —still un-
accomplished, the Savage rank and file
are chary of taking yet another dig at
Maorilanders’ pay-envelopes. Any uni-
versal health-insurance and superannua-
tion schemes must' be contributory,
which raises the question of whether or
not the temper of an already overtaxed
people would take the additional strain
without turning on Mr. Savage and his
disciples. So the rest of the world will
probably have to wait a while for this
new social-service model.
* * ❖ *
“Taniwha”: Maoriland’s 100th anni-
versary of first contact with the Maori
is happening about the same time as the
N. S. Wales 150th birthday, and orations
praising the past and conjuring up rosy
visions of the future are, very naturally, in
favor throughout Fernland. Most original
of the prophetic utterances came from
Native Land Court Judge Acheson, who
concerned himself with the future of the
Maori. He reckons (and as his acquaint-
ance with native affairs is intimate and
of long standing he probably has good
reasons for his views) that the Maori
within measurable generations will be
absorbed into the British race. But it
won’t sink without a trace. The Maori
element of romance, poetry, mysticism
and spirituality will leaven the hard-
headed Anglo-Saxon stock and save it
from an increasingly commercial and
materialistic outlook. Judge Acheson
points to the retention of their racial
characteristics by the South Island
Maoris, even though they are now very
few, as evidence of the strong spirit of
the race. He feels that that spirit is too
strong to die, and that it would be a pity
were that to occur.


MASTER M ANT El
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front £i2 / lff / (i.
ĵ
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of tbe times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
6Y6G in Five-valve A.C.
Superhet.
A high-fidelity receiver capable of a
power output greater than that of the
conventional three-watt instrument can
be designed by using the recently-intro-
duced Radiotron 6V6G. This valve is
capable of a power output of 4.25 watts,
and by the application of series inverse
feedback this output can be obtained with
reduced distortion.
The circuit shown is that of a 4/5
broadcast receiver, of conventional de-
sign except that the usual 42 valve has
been replaced by the 6V6G —thus, 6ABG,
6GBG, 6J7G, 6V6G and SY3G. G
series valves are preferable because of
the standard octal sockets, but the older
glass equivalents are given in brackets
for convenient reference.
An R.F. stage could be added with
advantage but for the sake of simplicity
is not shown in the circuit diagram.
Several points are of interest. The
use of a 20,000-ohm anode grid dropping-
resistor for the 6ABG is recommended in
place of a tapping on the voltage divider,
since the dropping-resistor gives a self-
regulating effect. For a similar reason
the target voltage applied to the 6G5 or
6U5 “Magic Eye” is supplied through a
10,000-ohm dropping-resistor which is
designed to prevent unduly high current
from flowing in this circuit.
With an average valve the voltage on
the target is approximately 220, this
being chosen in order to ensure long life
of the “Eye” valve, and in order to pre-
vent the maximum voltage of 250 from
being exceeded by supply-main fluctua-
tions. ‘ The new construction of the 6G5
and 6U5, incorporating the space charge
grid in the target section, makes for
longer life and more uniform target
current.
There is no reason why this receiver
circuit should not be applied to short-
wave reception, although the perform-
ance would not be so good as with a
receiver having a higher overall sensi-
tivity. The circuit illustrates one appli-
cation of the 6V6G, but is not intended
as a comprehensive design, since the
6V6G may be applied to practically any
standard circuit in place of a pentode.
Total current drawn by the 6V6G is only
about 10 milliamperes greater than that
of the 42.
This circuit provides 10 p.c. effective
inverse feedback. It will be noted that
the divider across the load indicates a
higher degree of feedback, since the
shunting effect of the plate resistance of
the audio valve and the grid resistor of
the power valve together decrease the
amount of inverse feedback. The circuit
as it stands is intended purely for local
reception, but the sensitivity is sufficiently
high for distant reception under normal
conditions. If high sensitivity is required,
an R.F. stage is recommended, or an
additional I.F. stage, using a 6U7G. The
amplifier section alone is capable of ex-
cellent performance in applications where
an output of four or five watts is re-
quired.
National Short-wave
Programmes.
Callsign, VLR, Melbourne; wave-length,
31.34 metres; frequency, 9.58 megacycles.
The programmes, intended mainly for
overseas reception, are of considerable
value to the inland and distant listener
within Australia. Times of operation
throughout the week are: Sunday, 6 p.m.
to 10.30 p.m.; Monday, 12.35 p.m. to
11.30 p.m.; Tuesday, 12.35 p.m. to 11.30
p.m.; Wednesday, 12.35 p.m. to 11.30
p.m. ; ' Thursday, 12.35 p.m. to 11.30
p.m.; Friday, 12.35 p.m. to 11.30 p.m,;
Saturday, 12.35 p.m. to midnight—Aus-
tralian eastern standard time.
Folded Doublet Aerial.
Because most of the radiation from a
doublet aerial for transmission takes
place from the centre and not from the
ends, the ends can be folded in to make
a more compact form of aerial with
very little loss.
Amateur transmitters the world over
are employing various forms of
folded doublets —“signal squirters” or
“squishers” —for directive transmission.
Whereas a half-wave doublet for use at
20 metres normally takes up a length of
33ft. overall, folded it needs only 16ft.
square. Thus it is easily arranged to
rotate, whether vertically or horizontally,
in order to take full advantage of direc-
tive properties.
This advantage is shown in reception
as well as transmission, and the short-
wave listener can easily adapt the idea
for directive reception. Pictured is a
scheme (from “Short Wave and Tele-
vision,” U.S.A.) for the folding of a
doublet in a square vertical form. The
dimensions shown are for an aerial for
the amateur 10-metre band. To double
up on the size shown a 20-metre aerial
need be only Bft. square.
Going a step further, the twisted pair
doublet as used extensively for general
short-wave reception, usually about 25ft.
each side of the feeder junction, would
be still a compact arrangement built this
way, working out at about 12ft. square.
Mounted on a pole with a bearing and
control ropes for turning through 180 deg.,
it can readily be turned to take advan-
tage of the direction of any signal being
received. An aerial of this kind is bi-
directional and will give greatest response
broadside to the incoming signal. The
higher it can be erected the better.
VK2NO.
De Luxe Mobile P.A. System.
Illustrated is the comprehensively-
designed mobile public-address installa-
tion operated in Sydney and N.S.W.
country districts by Bridgewater Arnpli-
vox Sound Systems. The designer is
Frank Bridgewater, well known to radio
listeners as VK2ZO, of Moore Park, Syd-
ney. Five years
ago, Bridge-
water had the
misfortune to
lose his sight
completely in an
ammonia re-
frigerator acci-
dent, and has
since applied
himself to radio
and public-
address amplifi-
cation. The
quality of the
late-night trans-
missions on the
broadcast band
from VK2ZO is
evidence of the
good work he
does.
The sound
truck contains
amplifiers in
three units, capable of producing 20
watts of audio power with 685 valves in
the output. The amplifiers are installed
in rack fashion and fed by pre-amplifiers,
enabling as many as three microphones
at the one time to be used. Provision is
also made for the reproduction of re-
cordings. Crystal microphones and pick-
ups are used, and three horn-type
speakers are arranged on the roof so that
they can be swung in any direction.
The power supply is designed on a 240
volts A.C. basis so that, where an outside
A.C. source is available, this can be used
instead of the nine six-volt accumulators
which provide a 48-volt D.C. input to a
Don rotary converter delivering 240 volts
A.C. at 240 watts. In addition to the
amplifying equipment the truck carries
workbenches and storage space for tools
and spare valves. The amplifiers can be
controlled from the driver’s seat, so that
the sound system can be used while the
truckMs travelling.
A battery broadcast receiver is carried
for the rebroadcasting of items of interest
to country audiences. Perhaps the most
interesting technical application is the
recent addition of sound-recording equip-
ment and the provision of ultra-short-
wave apparatus for linking by radio with
announcer points. This saves the trouble
of laying microphone lines. It is doubt-
ful if a more up-to-date sound amplify-
ing and recording system has yet been
undertaken anywhere else in this country.
D.B.K.
Inductance Tuning.
Old-time radio experimenters will re-
call receivers of the type where two vari-
ometers were used for tuning, one in
the grid and one in the plate circuit of
a regenerative detector. There were other
tuning methods where no capacity other
than that between the windings of a
variometer was used, and in their day
such receivers were quite successful,
meeting requirements for the few broad-
casting stations then in existence.
Apparently the old idea has been put
into a modern dress, for “Electronics”
(U.S.A.) gives details of an interesting
system for tuning a superhet or T.R.F.
receiver by means of variation in induct-
ance, instead of the present-day method
of tuning by capacity variation. It is
distinct from the variable permeability
method, where an iron-dust core is used
as the coil foundation, and part of the
core is moved in relation to the bulk in
order to obtain the tuning variation.
The inductance in this case is a single-
layer solenoid which rotates with the
tuning dial. On this coil is a phosphor-
bronze rider which makes contact with
bare silverplated hard - drawn copper
wire, and affects the tuning. Several of
these coils may be ganged together.
Across each coil is a fixed capacity
about 1200 micro-microfarads for short-
waves.
Advantages claimed for the system are
ease of alignment, greater frequency cov-
erage for each switch position, lower
variations between units due to varia-
tions in wiring, better oscillation in
superheterodynes, switchless skip band
design, push-button tuning without the
necessity of automatic frequency control
and ease of getting bandspread without
extra gadgets. The receiver demon-
strated covered from the broadcast band
to 65 megacycles with three-switch posi-
tions, and the accuracy of alignment and
tuning was high compared with capacity
tuning.
A variable condenser is normally re-
stricted to a 180-degree rotation, and
thus the tuning dial must affect all the
tuning in this half-circle. With the new
coils, however, there are 30ft. of wire
for the broadcast band. Since the con-
tact can cover each iin. of this 30ft.
the total dial motion amounts to the
number of turns multiplied by 360 (360
degrees), and the accuracy amounts to
in 30ft.
A difficulty is presented by this long
tuning range, and a crank is provided by
which the tuning is literally wound up
to the required frequency. If motor
drive is employed this process can' be
considerably simplified. The system also
has obvious advantages when applied to
signal generators, and with one using a
M.O.P.A. oscillator with a 954 acorn
valve, the frequency coverage for the
oscillator is from 40 to 150 megacycles.
D.B.K.


Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Principal Short-wave* Stations -
and Frequencies.
Wave-lengths
j
ĵ
&2^\\
\^o
ItM
TlVf
m
■ t
m
pro
«r-
-m
M*
*•:■*•
Radiotron valves are
sealed for your protection in
red and blue cartons. For
safety, always . . .
R E-VALVE W| T#
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
Amateur Chatter.
The first organised 56mc. DX week-
end test with U.S.A. produced no
results in Australia. Even harmonics
from local stations operating on
lower frequency bands were at a mini-
mum, and, judging by observations made
on general short-wave conditions at Mt.
Stromlo, it appears that a complete
blackout occurred for a longer period
during the morning of 16 /1 / ’3B than
ever previously recorded. Intense sun-
spot activity is said to be responsible, but
it is during such periods that ultra-shorts
are supposed to cover long distances. It
is not known if VK signals were heard
overseas. There are two more week-
ends of the test to come. According to
“Amateur Radio,” the W.I.A. journal,
VK3UK was transmitting during the
whole of the week-end with a beam array
directed to Sydney. A careful watch was
kept around 57,120 kc., but nothing was
heard. In order to leave no possibility
uninvestigated in reception and trans-
mission, continual change was made at
the writer’s station from vertical to hori-
zontal polarisation, a twin dipole and
horizontal WBJK being used alternately.
VK2AZ has completed a new 56mc.
transmitter using only three stages, and
in tests on the night of 16/1/’3B excel-
lent results were obtained. The exciter
portion is similar to the writer’s (B.
11/11/ ’36). A 6L6 electron-coupled os-
cillator doubles from ten to five ihetres,
with capacity coupling to an 802. This
at present drives a single-ended T 55 with
remarkable output, but a change is to be
made shortly to two of the new Radio-
tron 809’s in push-pull for the final.
VK2NO.
“C. Sharp”: Many cases of freak radio
reception crop up. At Bowral (N.S.W.)
I could tune in the Robertson telephone
exchange, 15 miles away, and hear two-
way conversations, as well as everything
being said in the post office. At Lind-
Where the Empire programmes start long journeys. One of
the Daventry aerial arrays used for Australia, M.L. and
the Far East.
field (N.S.W.) a friend is able to tune
in the spark of a duco-spraying outfit and
hear the conversation in the garage where
it is being used. My queerest experience
was with a one-valve set at Bowral. I
could get a M.L. station perfectly and
at ten times the volume of the Sydney
or Melbourne stations until a pine-tree,
300 yards from the house, was blown
down during a storm. Afterwards I
couldn’t raise it even on more modern
and larger sets.
Switching Tapped
Transformers.
It is usual when making a high-voltage
transformer for transmitter plate supply
to arrange for different voltages each side
of the centre-tap. Often this feature is
not made use of because of the lack of
any convenient means of selecting these
voltage taps. It is much better to be able
to start with a voltage much lower than
the apparatus was designed for when
trying out a new circuit. If anything is
wrong, less damage is likely to be done
than by taking a chance with the maxi-
mum voltage from the start.
This suggestion comes from Maoriland
experimenter ZL4FR via the N.Z.A.R.T.'s
“Break-In.” The power transformer is
tapped at 500, 750, 1000 and 1500 volts
each side of the centre-tap. The switch
makes possible the selection of any of
these voltages without having to switch
everything off and
transfer flex leads
from terminals.
It is easily done.
The body of the
switch is made from
a bakelite panel
6in. square, as
shown in the
sketch. The con-
tacts are brass
bolts with flat
countersunk heads.
They are sunk into
the bakelite until
flush with the sur-
face. A solder lug
is attached to each
at the back to en-
able these contacts
to be connected to
the appropriate
voltage taps on the
transformer. The
contact strips C,
which are con-
nected to the recti-
fier plates, are of
l-16in. brass,
bolted to the panel
with flat counter-
sunk-headed bolts.
The heads are
sweated with solder
and smoothed off.
On strip G are
drilled small de-
ptessions, D,
diametrically in line
with the appropri-
ate contacts on op-
posite sides of the
switch panel. These
depressions must
not be too deep, or
the spring contacts
will stick. They
lock the switch arm in the correct posi-
tion for any given voltage and indicate
when the arm is in the correct position.
The switch arm is made from a strip
of bakelite by lin. Two strips
should be bolted together and used as
one to make the arm rigid and less likely
to bend. The spring contacts are made
from bayonet light sockets and are let
into pieces of |in. brass and well sol-
dered. The distance between the con-
tacts of a pair is equal to the distance be-
tween the tap contacts and the contact
strips for the rectifier plates.
In the centre of the arm is another
piece of brass drilled and fitted to the
hexagon head of a panel bush, and sol-
dered. The shaft is sweated into this
assembly, which is bolted to the arm,
with the nut screwed on to the panel
bush. The assembly is shown at B.
The bearing for the switch arm is
another panel bush through the
centre of the panel. The switch arm
is locked in position by a -|in.
shaft coupler on the spindle at the
back of the switch panel. This coupler
is adjusted so that there is a good con-
tact between the contact screws, plates
and spring contacts on the arm. Owing
to the large size a fair-sized knob is
needed to operate the switch. Earthing
of the spindle is an added protection.
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent.
Otherwise answers will appear in this column.
It is. desired to operate either a Morse
sounder or an inker from the output of a
short-wave receiver for telegraphic practice.
How would such apparatus be connected to
the receiver? —627.
The circuit diagram shows a simple method.
It consists of an extra audio stage, using a
type 30 valve, with a sensitive relay in the
plate circuit. In effect it is a trigger circuit,
the valve acting more as a detector than an
audio amplifier and giving sharp impulses to
trip the relay. A Morse sounder is shown
connected in the secondary circuit of the relay.
* * * #
(1) Is the twisted pair cable known as “EOl”
available in Australia ? (2) Any other makes
of special low impedance cable obtainable ?
(3) Best substitute to handle about 100 watts?
—629.
(1) No. (2) A Sydney radio co. may shortly
have available an English make of 72 ohm
twisted pair line. Also, it is possible that
concentric feeder line of the flexible Bassett
type may be obtainable. (3) 16 V.I.R. cable,
twisted loosely together. The ends should be
treated with rubber solution and bound with
insulating tape against penetration of moisture
between the fabric and the wire.
* * * *
I have a dual-wave super, just completed,
and wish to line it to 465/cc. for the I.F.
How can the modulated oscillator ( B.
17/11/’37) be calibrated readily for 465 kc. and
175/cc. without access to a commercial signal
generator ? —628.
The upper range can be calibrated approxi-
mately by extending the curve from the broad-
cast range. The second harmonic will be
employed, and this will be audible in the
broadcast range. Dividing the reading in each
case will give the fundamental frequency of
the oscillator. It should tune to about 350kc.,
which makes it useful to line up 465kc.
superhets.


Errs
LYS
ft
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products -are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
•r-~?
m
<v;
mi
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Officer 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sheep Fertility.
“Ghanam”: C.S. and I.R. examination
of the stud-merino register show that the
lambing of 1,427,000 sheep gave an aver-
age of 69.1 p.c. from the inception of
registration. Most of the stud breeding
takes place in N. S. Wales, where in
1934 458,000 ewes out of a total of
674,000 registered were lambed down.
They produced a 60.5 p.c. drop against
the Victorian average of 65 p.c. and S.
Australia’s 69 p.c. Queensland and W.A.
could compass only a drop around 55 p.c.
Some station sheep show much higher
percentages. Bunna Bunna, on the N. S.
Wales north-western plains, in six
years ended 1934 marked 43,480 lambs
from 44,905 ewes, a 96.82 p.c. average. In
the peak year—l932—the drop was 102.3
p.c. In Western Queensland downs coun-
try the drop is rarely over 60 p.c., some-
times falls to 30 p.c. and approximates
about 40 p.c. over a number of years.
Beside the British drop, Australian
figures are low. The C.S. and I.R. quotes
one Wensleydale flock which from 1898
to 1922 averaged 171 lambs per 100 ewes.
Californian Rambouillet flocks are men-
tioned in which the lamb production was
123.5 p.c., but S’Africa can do no better
than the best Australian averages—a typi-
cal first-class stud is mentioned as giv-
ing 96.2 p.c. British breeds in England
have a minimum increase of 110 p.c.,
and Suffolks top the list with 142 p.c.
The C.S. and I.R. recently acquired
500 acres of land 30 miles from Sydney
to make fertility experiments. Rams were
given concentrates while in service, and
mineral supplements—lime, phosphorus,
manganese and salt —were available for
all sheep. A 4 p.c. copper sulphate
drench was given all animals.
Groups of low fertility and normal
fertility were used for a close study of
mating conditions. It was found that
paddock mating gave the highest percent-
age. Hand mating did not have a fair
test because the ewes were not naturally
docile enough to make the experiment a
success. Artificial insemination showed a
very low percentage, but metal nozzles
were used, and it was believed that these
injured the spermatozoa.
Cheviots.
“Sheepo”: The. Cheviot (B. 12/1/’3B)
might prove adaptable in some of the
coastal areas, but I can’t imagine the breed
being more suitable than Border
Leicesters for crossing with merino ewes
for wool. Kemps are or once were very
prevalent in the Cheviot’s fleece.
Mated with Border Leicester rams the
half-bred progeny of Cheviots have done
well in Scotland as early-maturing fat
lambs, and the half-bred ewes realise
greater prices in the market than any
other breed. The wool is an improvement
on either Cheviot or Leicester. The
only half-breed really recognised in Scot-
land is the Cheviot-Border Leicester
cross.
With the ever-increasing quantity of
inferior crossbred wools Australia has
enough English breeds already.
Sex Marks.
“C.V.S.”: Buyers usually take little
notice of class brands on bales, but they
do look at sex marks. In small clips,
where star lots are unavoidable, sex marks
should never be used, as they restrict
the broker’s choice of display.
Shurled hoggets’, ewes’ and wethers’
wool may, with advantage, be interlotted
—real hoggets will seldom match other
wool because of lamb’s tip.
If interlotting two bales ewes, one bale
wethers and one bale hoggets of similar
class to make a large lot, normally only
two bales would be shown, but if sex
marks are used one bale of each class
must be displayed. One bale must be
opened, the others flapped and windowed,
but if the opened bale carries the H
mark buyers may object that it is the best
bale.
Even in large clips sex marks are un-
necessary. Classers should give details
of flocks in their specifications, arrang-
ing the lots in order and, if necessary,
bracketing together similar wool from
different flocks to make large lots.
Hand-feeding*
“Ghanam”: The need for hand-feed-
ing of sheep is spreading with bad
weather in several N. S. Wales western
districts.
Sheep are often poorly fed because
the right precautions are not taken to
“Buck up with the others , Joe the buyer'll be ’ere any minute .”
assure that they get the maximum bene-
fit from the hard, dry feed. Where hard,
coarse scrub with a large fibre content
is given, there should always be molasses
or Epsom salt available in a lick to
counteract the binding effects of the
fodder.
There should be no sudden discontinu-
ance of feeding when rain brings a grass
spring. Sheep should be brought back
to a normal diet gradually. On hot days
feeding should be done near sundown,
and round midday the animals should be
allowed to rest in the shade. Drinking-
water should be cleared with chlorate of
lime or wood ashes.
A little maize or concentrates fed with
scrub is a sound investment.
Winter Stock Feed.
“Hortus”: On the N.S.W. Tableland
the winter-feed problem is being solved
by grazing turnips in conjunction with
improved pastures. The MOL. page
began to advocate the practice four years
ago.
Good results have been obtained on
the friable black loams in New England,
The lighter soils appear the best. The
moisture-holding capacity is important,
so a fair percentage of sand is needed.
It is advisable to plough deeply. Tur-
nips are shallow rooters. Lightly cross-
plough before sowing, and work the sur-
face soil to a nice tilth.
Best results are obtained by sowing
in January. To provide continuous graz-
ing, sowing should proceed up to end of
February or early in March.
On new land sow broadcast up to 21b.
toacre. Where weeds are troublesome it
is best to plant in drills 2ft. to 2ft. 6m.
apart. Mix seed with fertiliser (super
lcwt.), and sow through fertiliser box.
Sow shallow and harrow in. Thin out
at 2in. height. Keep the soil between
drills loose to prevent evaporation. A
caked surface is fatal.
Sheep can graze on the turnips in the
field. When they reduce roots to the
“cup” stage, cultivate the land to loosen
and expose the uneaten portions.
W. Allingham, of Black Mountain
(N.S.W.), has had 6000 sheep grazing on
230 acres of turnips. A 70-acre paddock
carried approx. 2000 sheep for eight
weeks. Another 50-acre field carried
1400 sheep for three weeks and 1150 for
an additional five weeks. And 720 sheep
were grazing another nine-acre block for
five weeks without eating out the crop.
He intends planting 400 acres next
season.
In Scotland, especially in the Hebrides,
there would be neither beef nor sheep
industry without the “neap.”
’Hopper Campaign.
“K. Me”: “Valerin” (B. 12/1/’37) is
“passing the buck” in trying to put the
onus of combating the ’hoppers on to
the C.S. and I.R. Weak-kneed P.P.
Boards are largely responsible for the
lack of co-operation by some land-
holders. The willing man gets no en-
couragement to poison while his neigh-
bor is allowed to do little or nothing.
Scientists in America and Africa have
been for years endeavoring to find a
specific or parasite to exterminate the
pest, and so far the bran bait and arsenic
sprays have come out best. Drought
will clean up the pest in the western
areas, whence “Valerin” fears reinfesta-
lion.
During the recent campaign in N. S.
Wales, the bait used cost approximately
£28,000. Crops and pastures saved have
been worth several times that figure.
b
Polled Shorthorns from U.S.A.
One of the most valuable importations
0 f stud cattle in recent years has been
made by E. L. Killen, who has brought
2 7 polled Shorthorn cows and live
b u N . s . w . £rom U S.A. A couple
c ... ■ , .f'
°f, on the voyage, and two
calves were born.
J be berdis * be best Australians seen
of the breed - The bulls mclude Oakwood
Impression, Virginia champion, 1937,
and Oakwood Royal Rodney, grand
champion of Virginia and junior cham-
pmn of several States in U.S.A. The
cows include Little Sweetheart, grand
champion at the last Chicago Interna-
tional, a blocky young matron of
superb lines and. beautiful fleshing.
The importation sets a new standard in
hornless Shorthorns in the Common-
wealth.
About Galloways,
“W.D.McC.”: Galloways are an ad-
mirable breed of polled Scotch cattle for
baby . beef purposes thick-meated, short-
, ' d H c ‘(funked an d fine-haired
legged, aee P nanKea ana nne nairea,
hardy and great doers. The bulls are
no ' ed £or * eir
of barr ® l and thlckness
of rib the Galloway will compare with
any breed. The cows are good, rich
milkers and great mothers for prime
ve£ders -
At the annual yearling bull sale at
Cagtle Douglas> 2 13 head sold up to
2 10gns. and averaged £2O per head. At
t ]-, e Scottish National (Edinburgh) Show,
1937, the Supreme Carcass Champion-
ship was won by a Galloway steer, live-
weight 14cwt. and dressed 10491 b. The
champion heifer was also a Galloway,
weighing alive 13cwt. and dressing out at
8501 b.
In the last 14 shows at Smithfield, in
the carcass classes only 16 pure animals


ĵ
Safeguard your Funds
When on Travel
When on travel it is not safe to carry ordinary
money, but it is safe, and convenient, to take
National Bank Travellers’ Cheques. They may
be changed into local currency on shipboard,
at hotels, main shops, and Banks at all ports
of call. Travellers’ Cheques are available in
denominations of £2, £5 and £ 10. When larger
amounts are required, the traveller should take
a National Bank Circular Letter of Credit.
Further information with regard to finance,
bookings, passports, and tax clearances may be
obtained from any Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia ( lncorpd. in Victoria )
46/12/37
3
V t:. ' .t; : ;
", i ; 3V.
, . r .
. i ,
> -.i
' 1
i
s ,•
t.- 5 ; '*
H
if,; ■ -l\
. ?. :
-
'l. •:
,-. • / V"-
r r,’ ! ■
.. . i ; . . . ' ■
. S
*■; *:■
f. ,0
. l .
L ' \
i
CC33
Registered No
9425.
Slightest pressure
cuts off water supply
6a. per card containing two washers
If unobtainable locally, two washers on a card, giving instructions, will
be mailed on receipt of six penny stamps. State size of tap, fin. or Jin.
HOLDTITE, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
won first prizes, and 15 of them were
pure Galloways.
Artificial Insemination.
“Silky Bag”: Perhaps “Hubback’s
Uncle” (B. 5/l/’3B) is too optimistic
about the possibilities of securing the pro-
geny of a famous sire by artificial fertilis-
ing.
At the best, spermatozoa can be kept
alive about 60 days. In practice, a safe
limit is only 25 to 30 days. The time of
transit from bull to cows must be within
that period, and also within a range of
one degree of a set temperature.
Cows for impregnation, too, need to be
handy and close to their oestrum (heat
period) when the spermatozoa are de-
livered. And only a practised hand can
carry out the impregnation.
Does Butter Production Pay?
“5.8.”: “Mookau” (B. 5/l/’3B) brings
home the unhappy truth that if the aver-
age dairyman is selling butterfat and
paying 5 p.c. interest on three-quarters of
his property he may as well pack up and
try something else.
Suppose one cow needs three acres of
land worth £25 an acre, and farm equip-
ment outlay brings the total well Over the
£lOO p.a. mark. If she gives 2501 b. fat —
well above the average—the gross return
is only £l3 10s. This leaves a mere £8
10s. per cow for the owner to live on
and pay expenses, after deducting £5
interest.
Thirty cows could give him only £255,
and he must pay at least £lOO in wages.
If those cows gave 4001 b. of butterfat
instead, each would return £2l 15s. gross,
or £l6 15s. after interest was paid. Milk-
ing expenses would be the same. While
feeding and pasture-work costs may be
higher, the good cow has it over the poor
cow all the way.
A 4001 b. cow is not a big producer by
stud standards. On the modern mixed
pasture of N.S.W., , Gippsland and the
Western District (Vic.), any “fairly” good
cow will give this quantity of fat.
It may take a few years to breed up a
poor herd to the standard, but certainly
not so long as some farmers believe.
Improve the quality of the pasture by
sowing, harrowing and topdressing, cull
the no-goods, buy a bull from a 5501 b-
. cow, keep plenty of good
meadow hay for winter use, and a 4001 b.
average is not far away.
Arsenical Poisoning in Stock.
“Bulago”: First thing with animals
affected by poisoning after arsenical
pasture-spraying is to keep them quiet.
A large percentage of deaths has occurred
through the mob being driven hard over
long distances immediately after poison-
ing. Hold the stock under the nearest
available shade and keep them away from
water for two or three days.
Get a vet. if possible. If not, give a
laxative of raw linseed oil at the rate of
i-pint to two pints for horses and cattle,
according to size and age.
Follow with a dose of hypo solution
(sodium thiosulphate). The hypo should
be dissolved in warm water, the dose
varying in strength from one dessert-
spoon to two tablespoons in pint of
water per animal, according to size and
age.
Should a stimulant be necessary,
strong, sweet black coffee is good.
Sudan Grass Poisoning.
“5.8.”: Prussic acid is not active in the
plants, but lies alongside an enjyme, in a
dormant state. The two are brought to-
gether in the cow’s rumen, and the poison
liberated.
The same process is apt to occur if
fresh sorghum is eaten, but has been so
rare with Sudan that the blame was
placed on sorghum-Sudan crossbreds.
Now, pure Sudan strains have been
shown to cause deaths.
Sudan is dangerous only just after the
crop has been eaten bare and young
fresh shoots formed. These may or may
not be poisonous—it depends on the rate
of growth and moisture available —but it
is best to keep cows off all Sudan grass
until some heads are showing in the
newly-grown plants. After that, there is
no risk with crops from pure seed. '
Swine Erysipelas.
“Silky Bag”: Erysipelas (B. 5/1/’3B)
didn’t appear first in N.S.W. —Dandenong
(Vic.) claims the doubtful honor —but the
N.S.W. discovery has brought things to
a head.
There are four forms of swine ery-
sipelas. The first is a general fever, in
which deaths are rapid and contagion
spreads freely. Pigs sicken and die in
one to two days.
A more common type is recognised by
diamond-shaped rashes about iin. across
on the lower parts of the skin and limbs.
The animal is hot, feverish and, if white,
the skin is reddened by increased blood
circulation.
A third type involves the heart valves,
in which the germs localise and produce


Comfort
There’s one thing about an
Abbey Riding Boot, it feels
as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong
calf is soft and supple,
moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight.
The tough sole of Austra-
lian leather is springy and
light, bending easily arid
unresisting with the foot.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
1338
Made in Brown Willow Calf in full
sizes. Leather lined throughout.
Price, 39/6.
When ordering, don’t forget your tin
of Abbey’s Shoe Polish. Price 6d.
Sv
O
Proprietary Limited
THIS SPLENDID
HANDBOOK OF
TOOLS, FARM
MACHINERY AND
ACCESSORIES . . .
@ Here is a book that no
farmer, carpenter or
“ handyman ” should be
without .... contains 372
pages of valuable informa-
tion —and it’s yours for the
asking!
Write for your copy
TO-DAY!
51 Bathurst Street .... Sydney
546 Colliiis Street . . Melbourne
and at
Adelaide and Perth.
WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING t°h f e ROAD”
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. Kinn_St.. Sydney
nodules that interfere with heart function.
A falling away in condition may be the
only symptom visible.
The fourth kind shows itself as a stiff-
ening and swelling of the joints. Perma-
nent bony growths may be formed or
merely pronounced lameness. Any of
the last three types can appear together,
but the first one is mostly acute and
fatal on its own.
S.e. takes a big toll yearly in Europe,
where it is partly controlled now by
vaccine. We have had the germ in this
country for years, without actual ery-
sipelas showing up. Now every case of
fever, skin rashes or reddening in a pig-
gery should be viewed with suspicion.
Poison Berries.
“Mulyan”: The white cedar, common
in many east-coast districts, particularly
between the Richmond River and Cape
York, is useful and ornamental, but
should not be grown near pigsties. It is
often planted for shade. Pigs eat the
yellow berries that drop off, and heavy
losses have occurred from poisoning near
Beaudesert (Q.) and also in the Dawson
Valley.
The symptoms are cold shivers and
partial paralysis of the front legs, and
the best cure a prompt dosing with castor
oil.
Testing Water.
“Farmasist”: Scientists differ as to the
maximum amount of salt per gallon
which is injurious to different stock, but
agree that with up to one ounce per
gallon water is usable. Stock sometimes
refuse such water at first, and the well
is abandoned.
In doubtful cases a guinea for analysis:
is well spent, but for less than ten shil-
lings the farmer can test a number of
wells for himself. The equipment is
simple. Buy from a chemist ss. worth
of “silver nitrate one-tenth normal,” a
shilling’s worth of potassium chromate
and a glass jar graduated to 50 cubic
centimetres, price about 2s. 6d.
Take 20 c.cs. of the water and color
it faint yellow with a little of the potas-
sium chromate. Pour into an ordinary
breakfast cup or jug.
Pour 10 c.cs. of nitrate into the gradu-
ated jar and add slowly to the colored
water. When the water turns from faint
yellow to faint red, see how many c.cs.
of nitrate have been used. This multi-
plied by 20 is the grains of salt per
gallon.
Always use 20 c.cs. of water, but as
much nitrate as required—it may be
more than 10 c.cs. Keep the nitrate bottle
in a dark place.
An idea of grains per gallon for some
typical waters:
Rain, 1 to 6; good town water, 20;
bad town water, 100; good general stock
water, 200.
The limit for working horses is 400
grains, for sheep 500; but stock have
existed on water containing 700 grains.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: A good cure for sore
teats of milking cows is 3oz. of glycerine
and |oz. of alum in a little warm water.
Apply after each milking.
“Hayes C.”: For wheat-sickness in
horses mix £lb. soda bicarb, with a
quart of new milk and drench the animal.
Repeat the dose every hour until the
condition is relieved. Wheat does not
swell in milk and soda helps it to pass
through the animal quickly.
“By Gum”: Before making a petrol-
or kerosene-tin into a bucket turn it
upside down and with a soldering iron
spread a thin film of solder over the
bottom. It will make the bucket last
a deal longer.
“Quercus”: Oil-drums are useful on a
poultry farm as grain hoppers. They can
be used, too, for preserving eggs, storing
fat, butcher’s blood or pig’s food. On
wheels in the orchard, they can hold spray-
ing mixtures. Recently I fitted two in
tandem for a sediment tank and filter for
a fish hatchery.
“M.L.W.”: When feeding horses,
always throw out chaff left over from the
last feed before putting a fresh supply in
the trough. If a horse doesn’t clean his
feed up he is either getting too much or
is not well. In either case his appetite
won’t be improved by the stale leftovers.
Better to look for the cause and remedy it.
“Dimon”: White cockatoos are often
seen digging up ’hopper eggs. When not
hunted, they prevent millions of ’hoppers
from hatching.
“Silky Bag”; An unsterilised teat
siphon invites mastitis. Always boil a
siphon for 10 minutes in clean water
before use. A small saucepan, with lid
complete, can be reserved for the job, and
if the water is drained off without re-
moving the lid the siphon will cool and
remain sterile for hours, ready for use.
“Geedee”: Ten years ago Currawa,
Federation, Penny and Gluyas were the
leading Mallee wheats ; to-day’s favor-
ites, Ghurka and Ranee IV., were almost
unheard of. W. B. Miller, senior Vic-
torian inspector of agriculture, predicts
that in another 10 years Mallee wheat-
growers will be growing some of the new
varieties now being bred on the Mallee
Research Station at Walpeup. Estab-
lished only five years ago, its first “home-
bred” crossbreds are almost ready for
distribution among farmers. They are
bred under the actual growing conditions
which they will have to contend with
later on.
“S.T.S.”: Highland Valley, one of
S.A.’s most notable near-in stations, has
been sold, after having been held by the
Stirling family since it was taken up just
on a century back. (Lancelot and
Edward Stirling found time to be Presi-
dent of the Leg. Council and University
professor.) It is about 7500 acres in
the hills between Adelaide and the
Murray. Merino mostly, but a Romney
Marsh cross is planned.
“M.L.W.”: The storing of belly-wools
is a regular shed problem. Don’t throw
them into an empty woolbale, which is
often in the way, and from which it is
awkward to remove them. Make a stage
over the catching pens nearest the press,
about 7ft. from the floor, and throw the
belly-wools on it. They are then out of
the way and handy for dumping.
“Valerin”: It is better to underfeed
than to give a too liberal ration which
will cause digestive trouble and probably
heavy loss. Young sheep and ewes in
lamb are inclined to camp on the feed-
ing ground, so feed in different parts of
the paddock and as far from water as
possible. Merinos are natural roamers
in searching for food, and if they are not
made to travel there will be trouble.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Formula for thistle~root poison bait for
rabbits ? —58226.
Try 10 drops vanilla, 5 drops each oil of
rhodium and oil of cumin, loz. strychnine, 1
tablespoonful each of flour and sugar. This
will make 850 baits. Mix the sugar, oils,
strychnine and flour with the baits in the order
named. The material should be handled as
little as possible, the mixing being done with
a stick.
* * * *
Formula for Epsom salts-molasses bait for
grasshoppers ? —58341.
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept, recommends the
following: Bran, 60-65 p.c.; molasses, 15 p.c.;
magnesium sulphate (Epsom salts), 20-25 p.c.;
and enough water to moisten. The bait is
spread on the ground where the young grass-
hoppers are crawling. It does not give a large
kill.
* * * *
A suitable laying mash for poultry? —SB249.
Pollard, 601 b.; bran, 341 b.; meatmeal, 61b.;
salt, 220 z. If used dry the quantity of salt
should be reduced to 12oz. The best results
are obtained by giving about half a feed of
wet mash in the morning, leaving the dry
feed before the birds all day and giving the
usual grain feed in the afternoon. The color
of the legs of a White Leghorn is not neces-
sarily an indication of its health. Where
the birds have unlimited range on fresh, grassy
land the color of the legs will be deeper than
where they are run on bare ground.


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’s Weekly EXTRA
in spare-time home study
as
fif*
*
w
i
Deb
YOU
can quickly qualify by prac-
tical correspondence training
in your spare hours for a well-paid position in
Diesel engineering—the coming profession for
trained engineers with specialised technical
knowledge. Never were opportunities so great
as in this relatively new and uncrowded field
of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments of
industry. Power users are changing rapidly to
this cheaper and more efficient form of power.
The demand for the skilled, trained man has
never been so great.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big,
well-paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more—if you want to get ahead of the
next man —to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you may live,
you can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehen-
sive courses.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College, after years of
research, has prepared a comprehensive course
for the beginner in the construction, operation
and maintenance of Diesel engines. The
lessons are set out in the simplest manner, with
countless illustrations, diagrams, etc. This
course covers two main sections of Diesel
engineering, either or both of which may be
selected: TRACTION DIESEL (tractors,
lorries, motor-buses, etc.); STATIONARY
DIESEL (power and electric plants for fac-
tories, etc.).
ADVANCED
COURSE
This course is provided as an
advanced course for engineers
who wish to gain specialised
knowledge of Diesel engineer-
ing (mainly High Speed) for
those who already have a pri-
mary knowledge of Diesels.
Fuel injection nozzle
CMNK CASH
PcA VCH G/HG
POUT
ajgcV° H
SIF
r \
Section through 2-Stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
Free Book Tells
You
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of the course in which you
may be interested. Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal of the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of the
Diesel Engineering College courses, terms, etc.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers to
'Y OU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. Remember, on sea, land,
road, in factories and in the air, the cry is
for Diesel power and for Diesel-trained
engineers. And remember, it’s the TRAINED
man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life —may show you the way to a suc-
cessful lifetime career. So get this coupon in
the mail now —to-day.
DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE
Offices at SYDNEY-Newcastle-MELBOURNE.
FREE
BOOK
gives you full infor-
mation regarding the
courses of this, the
largest Diesel Engineer-
ing College in Aus-
tralia.
Post this enquiry now.
Sem/ coupon NOW!
The Principal,
Diesel Engineering College,
Dept. 14, Kembla Building,
Margaret Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to' me, please forward full information
regarding your Courses
PRIMARY ( cross out course not required)
ADVANCED
NAME .
ADDRESS
B. 26/1 /’3B.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Governess (24) wants position on station
Riverina or Southern Tablelands, February,
1938. Teach all subjects to children up to 12
years. Refs. —8295.
High-class dressmaker, Sydney, wants sew-
ing; 10s. per day, plus fares. —8333.
Middle-aged man, N.S.W., bookkeeper, wide
exp., active, wants position in country.—B297.
Married man, S.A., wants position as station
overseer or in charge of outcamp, conscientious
worker, wide exp. stock management in three
States. Refs.—B3o3.
Chauffeur (24), N.S.W., used to Continental
and British cars, non-smoker and total
abstainer, wants employment. Refs. —8336.
G.P.S. boy wants job as jackeroo in Queens-
land or M.L. Four years’ exp. on experimental
farm. Refs.—B33s.
Windmill man, can do own smithing, 15
years’ exp., wants job in N.S.W. or Q’land. —
8284.
Refined, educated man (52) would give light
services, clerical, salesmanship, companionship,
etc., in return for comfortable home, city or
country.—B267.
Origin of the quotation: “I being poor have
only my dreams. I lay my dreams at your
feet.” —8304.
Words of song beginning “It was years ago
in the springtime my lover sailed away.”—
8285.
Words of poem ending with the line “Far
o’er the deep blue sea I make my home.” —
8207.
To exchange Australian stamps for those
Qf any British possessions.—B273.
To exchange Stranger’s Outline of Wireless
for Reyner’s Modern Radio Communication.
—8320.
Information Sought.
(1) What were the innings totals and results
of the Test matches between England and
Maoriland in England in 1931 ? (2) Result
and scores of the matches of M.L. team in Aus-
tralia in 1937 ? —8266.
First Test at Lord’s, drawn —Maoriland, 224
and 469 for 9 wickets (innings closed); Eng-
land, 454 and 146 for 5 wickets. Second Test
at Kennington Oval, England won by an in-
nings and 26 runs —M.L., 193 and 197; Eng-
land, 416 for 4 wickets (innings closed). Third
Test at Manchester, drawn —England, 224 for
3 wickets; M.L. did not bat. (2) M.L., 151
and 186; S.A., 331 and 7 for 0 wickets. M.L.,
210 and 223 ; Vic., 141 and 293 for 5 wickets.
M.L., 195 and 214; N.S.W., 274 and 136 for
2 wickets. Maoriland lost the three matches.
* * * *
Is an over considered a maiden if wickets
have fallen during it but no runs have been
taken ? —BlB2.
Yes; when no runs have been scored by
batsmen from an over (no matter how many
wickets may fall) the over is a maiden.
He * * *
What swimmers have crossed the English
Channel during the last ten years ? When did
they make their crossings and what were their
times ? —8345.
Ivy Hawke, on August 18, 1928, in 19hr.
16min.; Hilda Sharp, August 24, 1928, 14hr.
58min.; L. Helmy, September 1, 1928, 23hr.
40min.; Miss P. Duncan, September 10, 1930,
16hr. 17min.; Miss S. Lowry, August 29, 1933,
15hr. 39min.; E. H. Temme, August 19,
1934, 15hr. 54min.; Haydn Taylor, August
22, 1935, 14hr. 50min.; T. Blower, August
4, 1937, 13hr. 29min.
* * * *
After whom were ■ the following Sydney
suburbs named: (1) Wollstonecraft, (2) Wool-
wich, (3) St. Leonards, (4) Pymble and (5)
Milson’s Point ? —8348.
(1) Edward Wollstonecraft, a doctor, and
partner and brother-in-law of Alex. Berry. He
obtained a grant of 500 acres on the North
Shore, where he built a cottage called Crow’s
Nest. (2) So named by the Atlas Engineering
Co. after the famous English dockyard when
the co. erected its works on the site. (3)
Viscount Sydney of St. Leonards, British Sec-
retary of State. (4) Robert Pymble, who settled
in the district in 1824. (5) This land was a
grant from Governor Brisbane in 1825 to James
Milson, who later on established the first steam
ferry to the North Shore.
* * * *
Population of the twelve largest towns in
New South Wales outside Sydney and New-
castle ? —8356.
Figures are as at December 31, 1936, and
are as follows: Broken Hill, 27,400; Goulburn,
15,260; Cessnock, 14,400; Lithgow, 13,570;
Wollongong, 12,660; Lismore, 12,620; Mait-
land (East and West), 12,580; Wagga, 12,330;
Albury, 11,070; Bathurst, 10,700; Tamworth,
10,530; and Orange, 10,030.
* * * *
The Bulletin said editorially recently:
“Among the Little Peoples the Scandinavians
are the only ones not oppressed with cares.”
Some time back The Bulletin stated that the
Scandinavian countries were not greatly
affected by the depression. I also read some-
where that Sweden has practically no unem-
ployment. If all this is correct, why? —B329.
For one reason, between Norway, Sweden,
Denmark, Finland and Iceland there exists a
strong measure of economic co-operation, facili-
tating the exchange of their diverse products
on mutually profitable terms. Also, industrial
employment is not concentrated in towns to
the same extent as in the rest of Europe, but
is spread among rural districts. The percent-
age of skilled labor to the whole is high;
collective agreements between employers and
employed make for fair remuneration of labor,
and the people are thrifty and industrious —
helped in both these respects by climatic con-
ditions. A very full disquisition on the subject
is contained in The Northern Countries in
World Economy, recently issued jointly by the
Economic Delegations of the five countries
concerned.
* * * *
(1) Has the Queensland Government ever
taken money from the Unemployment Insurance
Scheme Fund to be used as consolidated
revenue ? (2) Is this fund in a sound financial
position at present ? (3) To what extent has
the Government utilised main road funds for
revenue ? —Bl6l.
(1) No. (2) During 1936-37 contributions
amounted to £560,963 16s. Bd., and the dis-
bursements £488,528, so that the fund appears
to be in a fair financial position. Cost of
administration of the fund was £27,779 18s.
10d., and £460,757 6s. Id. went for sus-
tenance payments. (3) In 1936-37 £250,000
was transferred to consolidated revenue
in accordance with the Main Roads Fund
Transfer Approval Act of 1935; £793,731 14s.
Id. went to unemployment relief schemes, and
the Treasury collections under the State Trans-
port Act of 1932 amounted to £53,833. There
was another distribution of collections under
Section 10 of the Main Roads Fund Transfer
Approval Act amounting to £44,298 14s. 7d.
Total disbursements were £2,689,472 Is.
* * * *
Who wrote the words and music of “Rule,
Britannia” ? —8264.
The words are by James Thomson (altered
by Mallet); the music, ascribed to Dr. Arne,
is said by Schoelcher (in his life of Handel) to
have been taken from an air in Handel’s
“Occasional Oratorio,” composed in 1746, but
the song and music were really printed in Dr.
Arne’s masque “Alfred” in 1740.
* * * *
Who wrote the words and music of (1) “God
Save the King” and (2) “The Star-spangled
Banner” ? —8292.
(1) The writer of the words of the National
Anthem is not known. The verses have been
attributed to Carey ( d. 1743), the author of the
lyrics and tune of “Sally in Our Alley.” The
earliest known version was printed in Har-
monia Anglicana (1742), and the three stanzas
now usually sung appeared in the “Gentle-
man’s Magazine” for Oct., 1745. Carey is
said to have sung the anthem in 1740, and it
had a great vogue during the Jacobite troubles
five years later. As to the source of the
music, the evidence is in favor of a galliard in-
cluded in a manuscript collection of virginal
music from the pen of Dr. John Bull (1563-
1628). (2) The melody is said to have its
origin partly in the air of “To Anacreon in
Heaven,” a convivial song of the Anacreontic
Society of London, published first in 1771.
An American, Francis Scott Key, set the words
of a patriotic hymn to this tune at the time
of the British attack on Fort McHenry in 1814.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that a troupe of Parisian
actors and actresses are to visit Australasia this
year, the season being guaranteed by the
advance-sale of tickets at concession rates? (2)
Is the company a first-class one ? (3) What
plays will it present? (4) Will any special
concessions be given to members of amateur
acting groups ? —8307.
(1) Yes. Ronald G. McDonald, of Sydney,
is organising a subscription season of classical
and modern French comedies, to be played in
French. (2) ' Should be. It is headed
by M. Roger Monteaux, a member of the
Comedie Francaise, and M. Raoul Marco, a
stage, screen and radio actor. Five of seven
supporting artists are prize-winners at the Paris
Conservatoire. (3) Three or four modern
comedies are now being selected. Classical
comedies chosen are: “Le Bourgeois Gentil-
homme,” “L’Avare” and “Le Barbier de
Seville” (the play). (4) Yes. About one-third
off.
* * * *
(1) What steps has the Federal Government
taken to have aircraft manufactured in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Have contracts been entered into
with American aircraft cos. or with Australian
or other cos. in which Americans are inter-
ested? (3) Is a British type of machine to
be manufactured in Australia? —8191.
(1) The Federal Government, since the last
war, has consistently encouraged the manufac-
ture of aircraft in Australia. Until recently this
had been done by contracts for the supply of
training-type aircraft and aircraft parts for use
by the Air Force. Recently, however, at the
invitation of the Government, a syndicate of the
leading industrial concerns in Australia formed
an aircraft manufacturing company, called the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, which
will manufacture both airframes and engines at
its works now nearing completion at Fisher-
men’s Bend, Melbourne. (2) A contract has
been let to the Commonwealth Aircraft Cor-
poration for the supply of forty (40) aircraft
for the Royal Australian Air Force. Americans
are interested in the Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation, but only to a minor extent. This
interest is in General Motors Pty., Ltd., which
is a combined Australian-American company
and holds 10 per cent, of the shares in
the aircraft company. (3) The first type to be
manufactured will be of American design, but
thereafter it is expected that aircraft of British
designs will be manufactured.
* * * *
Is it true that more men than women die
of cancer in N.S.W. ? If so, what’s the reason ?
—8282.
Yes; according to the latest N.S.W. Year-
Book, the crude male rate is usually the
higher. Probably, as has been thought to be
the case in England, the two factors which
influence the matter are the success of opera-
tions upon the relatively more accessible cancers
of females, and the better diagnosis of the less
accessible cancers as a consequence of improved
medical appliances and knowledge. Before
these improvements were attained, in England
at any rate, the female deathrate was the
higher.
What are the chief provisions of (1) the
N.S.W. Poor Prisoners’ Defence Act and (2) the
Poor Persons’ Legal Remedies Act ? —8270.
(1) Under the Act a person committed for
trial for an indictable offence may apply for
legal aid for his defence before the jury is
sworn. If the Judge or committing magistrate
considers that the person is without adequate
means, and that such legal aid should be sup-
plied, the Attorney-General may arrange for
the defence of the accused and for payment of
expenses of all material witnesses. (2) This Act
authorises Judges to make rules regulating the
practice and procedure and the cost and fees
payable in respect of proceedings to which poor
persons are parties. Such proceedings may not
be instituted without permission, and Judges to
whom applications for permission are made are
authorised to act as conciliators. The rules
made under this Act do not apply to criminal
proceedings. Barristers and solicitors have
enrolled under this Act to give their services
free of charge on being assigned in a proper
case. Out-of-pocket expenses are paid by the
Crown.
* * * *
(1) Whereabouts in N.S.W. is the Hurlstone
Agricultural College ? (2) Area ? (3) Are pupils
resident or day pupils? (4) Length of course,
and what examinations must pupils pass ? Does
the course lead to higher institutions ? —8277.
(1) At Glenfield. (2) 220 acres. (3) It takes
both resident and day pupils. (4) It extends
over five years, with an examination for the in-
termediate certificate at the end of three years,
and for the leaving certificate at the conclusion
of the course. Successful candidates at the
intermediate certificate examination, under
certain conditions, may gain entrance to
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College; tfmse
successful at the examination for the leaving
certificate may qualify for matriculation in one
of the faculties of science, agriculture and
veterinary science at the University or compete
for scholarships at the Sydney Teachers’ Col-
lege.
* * * *
Who invented spectacles ? —8271.
They are generally supposed to have been
invented by Alexander de Spina, a monk of
Florence, Italy. According to Dr. Plott, they
were invented by Roger Bacon, about 1280.
Manni attributes them to Salvino, who died
1317. On his tomb at Florence is an inscrip-
tion which, translated, into English, reads:
“Here lies Salvino degli Armati, Inventor of
Spectacles. May God pardon his sins.”
* * * *
What is the process of pasteurisation of milk ?
Is it harmful? —8288.
It consists in quickly raising the tempera-
ture of the milk to 62.5 deg. C. (145 deg. F.),
keeping it at that level for half an hour and
then rapidly cooling. If carried out in this
way, pasteurisation kills all pathogenic germs,
including the tubercle bacillus. But by far
the greatest amount of milk contamination takes
place in the home and not in the dairy, so that
pasteurised milk should be delivered in sealed
bottles. Proper pasteurisation does not spoil
the flavor nor interfere with the digestibility of
the milk, though it entails a slight diminution
in the contained amounts of albumin, soluble
calcium and anti-scorbutic vitamin.
* * V *
Is catgut made from the intestines of cats?
—B3OO.
No; it is manufactured from the intestines
of sheep. Why the material should have been
so named has never been satisfactorily explained.
It may be a humorous allusion to the sound
produced by a badly-played violin (caterwaul-
ing) or that the word itself is a corruption of
kit-gut, kit being an old word for a small
fiddle.
* * * *
What method should be used in preparing a
home-made liver extract for an ancemic patient ?
—8299.
One pound of ox liver is finely ground in a
meat-chopper, all the juice being carefully saved.
Two glasses of water are added, shaken for a
moment, and allowed to stand for eight to
24 hours, preferably in an ice-chest. Finally,
the preparation is heated to boiling-point,
quickly cooled, and strained through cheese-
cloth or butter-muslin, as much fluid being
squeezed out as possible. The whole of the
fluid is given to the patient daily; it may be
taken either hot or cold and flavored in any
way desired.
* * * *
Details of Dr. Roderigo Lopez ?— 8294.
He was a native of Portugal, of Jewish birth,
who settled in England in 1559. He was the
first man to hold the office of house physician
at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. He reached
a high position in the medical profession in
London, and in 1586 was appointed chief phy-
sician to Queen Elizabeth. Eight years later
he was found guilty of participating in a plot
to poison the Queen, and was hanged at
Tyburn. It has been said that Shakspeare
drew the character of Shylock, in “The Mer-
chant of Venice,” from Dr. Lopez.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning the shining
starling ? —8274.
The shining starling ( Aplonis metallica) is a
spring and summer visitor to the Northern
Territory and northern Queensland from Papua
and the Moluccas. It is a dark-colored bird,
with glossy plumage reflecting purple and green
metallic tints and with a bright red eye; it
is noisy and sociable in its habits, and feeds
on scrub-fruits. Large numbers of nests are
constructed on the branches of a single tree,
which is sometimes covered with them. The
nests are large oval structures, with the entrance
at the side, suspended by a tapering portion.
The two or three eggs are bluish-grey, with
reddish markings, chiefly at the larger end.
* * * *
Meaning and origin of the word “mug-
wump” ? —8352.
It is defined as “one who holds aloof from
party politics” and is said to be derived from
an American Indian word meaning “great
chief.” The word came into use in the United
States Presidential campaign of 1884, and was
applied to Republicans who repudiated the
nomination of J. G. Blaine and declined to
vote the regular party ticket.
Does Anybody Know?
Why is a flag flown at half-mast to denote
a death?—7B24.
Meaning of the aboriginal word “Talun-
dilly”?—B2sl.
Particulars of automatic machine which sells
a railway ticket and gives change? 8279.
Meanings of the following aboriginal place-
names: Beanbri, Burrandona, Carolgi, Courid-
yah, Gidginbung, Kenebri, Bimberry, Callimpa,
Caroona, Garrabegar, Glengeera and Kikoira?
—8255.
Brief Answers.
C.H.R.: No such articles have been pub-
lished in The Bulletin within recent years
L. Full particulars are obtainable from
the Federal Government Printer, Canberra....
W.J.D.: The Writers and Artists’ Year-Book,
published by A. and C. Black, London; price
ss. 3d W.A.T.L.: Understand that he is
touring the English provinces. Write Allan
Wilkie, Authors’ Club, 2 Whitehall Court,
London, 5.W.1... .M.R.: Write Common-
wealth Statistician, Federal Bureau of Census
and Statistics, Canberra, F.C.T L.H.:
Cannot furnish private addresses without per-
mission, but letters addressed to them care of
this office will be forwarded... .E.M.: Full par-
ticulars from the Registrar, University of Syd-
ney, Newtown A.M.D.: Repeat questions in
full and an early answer will be obtained....
V.J.W.: (1) A batsman can be run out in
attempting to score a run from a no-ball
(Law 16); and a batsman can be given out
stumped or hit - wicket or run out from
a wide (Law 12). (2) Handling the ball,
unless at the request of the opposing side
(Law 29), was omitted from the ways a bats-
man can be dismissed (B. 8/12/’37)... .C.M.S.:
Angus and Robertson and N.S.W. Bookstall
Co. —both Sydney—stock books on the sub-
ject. .. .R.T.M.: Title unknown to local film
distributors A.W.8.: (1) Yes, but merely
nominal. (2) Comparisons are difficult, so
much depends upon the person. (3) Yes, in
order to fully protect the lad’s interests
M. : To enable you to sell the land and
procure the transfer you must have a power of
attorney. This, no doubt, you could obtain
from your daughter ... .E.NJ.: (1) Know of no
local firm. W. Mansfield, Creewood Build-
ings, Brunswick-street, Liverpool, England, can
supply. (2) Southern Cross Windmill Co.,
22 Young-street, Sydney; Toowoomba Foundry
Co., Rockhampton, Q’land; Intercolonial
Boring Co., Brisbane. Unless you have had
experience, suggest you get the job done by a
reputable local contractor... .T.M.: The law
in all States makes no distinction between
aborigines and others in the matter of decency
of attire K.J.G.: In Australia there is the
Royal Military College of Australia. In Eng-
land there are a Royal Military College and
also a Royal Military Academy for the train-
ing of candidates for commissions in the
British Army. Write to the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defence, for information as to con-
ditions of entry... .C.W.L.: Yes, get the con-
dition treated by the same process as before;
consult a good skin specialist A.L.M.: (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) No such operation has ever
been performed in Sydney. Cannot, therefore,
furnish you with a list. (6) Yes, the thing
can be treated successfully; but can’t advise
without information as to the age, sex and
social state (married or not) of the patient....
W.W.F.: (1) It isn’t; the important questions
are those of texture, not color. (2) Red or
orange materials possess no special power of
“deflecting” the sun’s rays. (3) Red flannel
is no warmer than white. (4) White cotton
garments are common in many tropical coun-
tries, but clothes of every color are also worn.
E.N.: (1) Volume I. (2) New copies from
leading booksellers. (3) Usually from second-
hand dealers in Sydney or Melbourne. New
articles are not sold to the public... .W.A.P.:
Voting for Martin (N.S.W.) at the elections
mentioned was as follows: General elections,
14/11 /’25, H. E. Pratten, 31,730; H. J. Mc-
Dicken, 17,263. By-election, 16/6/’2B, F. G.
Pratten, 29,482; P. G. Harnett, 18,922. General
election, 12/10/’29, J. C. Eldridge, 31,804;
F. G. Pratten, 25,218; E. Beeby, 4459....
L.R.M.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., 116 West 39th-
street, New York... .J.D.: System too detailed
to explain here. See Commonwealth Official
Year-Book G.P.: Sorry, unable to assist.
J.M.: “The Great Australian Adjective”
was written by W. T. Goodge and appears in
The Bulletin Reciter D.W.S.: “Australian
Museum Magazine” or “Walkabout” may be
interested in the articles... .W.M.: Write
Collector of Customs, Customs House, Sydney,
and the Superintendent, Mercantile Marine
Office, York-street, Sydney... .C.P.G.:
Thatcher and Oburg, Gardener’s-road, Mascot,
Sydney W.S.: The poem was written by
Jack Moses and appears in his book, Beyond
the City Gates FJ.: The 1916 conscription
referendum included 133,813 votes by members
of the A.1.F., of which 72,399 were for,-58,894
against and 2520 informal. The 1917 con-
scription referendum included 199,677 votes
by members of the A.1.F., of which 103,789
were for, 93,910 against and 1978 informal
H.A.A.: Horwood Bagshaw, 78 Currie-street,
Adelaide, S.A L.W.: Dan Cooper shore
316 sheep with the machines in the full eight-
hour day in 1909 at Bundooran (Q.) T.R.:
The Mitchell Library, Sydney, will hold an
exhibition of historical pictures, manuscripts
and printed books covering the full period of
Australia’s- history. The exhibition will open
on February 2 P.P.: Jack Lindsay’s plays
“Hereward” and “Helen Comes of Age” were
both published by the Fanfrolico Press, Lon-
don‘...B.C.: R. H. Yapp’s Textbook of
Botany, A. Brewster and C. le Plastrier’s
Botany for Australian Students, Fritsch and
Salisbury’s An Introduction to the Study of
Plants, M. A. Johnstone’s Matriculation
Botany, F. Keeble’s Life of Plants and W. O.
James’s Plant Physiology N.M.H.: To
bleach yellowed ivory place strips of zinc in
the bottom of a glass vessel, set the ivory on
them and cover with spirits of turpentine.
Expose to the sun for several days. If only
slightly yellowed apply a thick paste of whiting
and alcohol. Brush off when dry C.D.:
The necessary training for industrial chemistry
in N.S.W. may be obtained either through a
course at the University of Sydney, leading to
the B.Sc. degree, or through the diploma
course at the Sydney Technical College
S.F.: The best treatment for the killing and
removal of a tick fastened in the skin is to
drop some turpentine or kerosene on the
insect. This compels the’ tick to release its
hold, when it can be removed without diffi-
culty J. 8.: The N.S.W. State public debt
at June 30, 1937, amounted to £344,911,945,
or £l2B 2s. per head of population... .G.T.S.:
Write Director-General of Public Health,
Winchcombe House, 52 Bridge-street, Sydney.
. ...J.L.S.: Phenomenon is due to reflections
between back and front surfaces of mirror
glass. Increase in number of observed reflec-
tions must be due to increased power of the
moon’s light (Many others mailed.)


Satisfying Smoking Tobaccos
The Empire Tobaccos with the Largest
Sales. Don’t Judge Bg the Price
A LTHOUGH yon have in the past been
paying “through the nose” for yonr
tobaccos, you also probably intended cut-
ting down your tobacco bill. Don’t imagine
you will not buy the same quality when
you .compare our prices. We know, of
course, you will repeat your tobacco orders
with us like many hundreds of satisfied
smokers. You will be readily persuaded
of our tobaccos’ good smoking quality.
They satisfy you and save you pounds.
From Factory to you.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder is
included with all orders over £l.
ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS
jrcr iu.
Sweet crop, mild 6/3
All British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . ~ 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . . , 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium 6/9
Africander, mellow and mild .. 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild .. .... 7/3
Normandie, medium 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge, medium ~ .. 10/-
White Lodge, light 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 67-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zags 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
THE
lIMITCn INSURA NCE
UIII I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
BRANDAIJERS
9**
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
j
Thousands of STORIES and ARTICLES are wanted annually by Australian
Editors. If YOU have THOUGHTS, why not turn them into CASH and
make a regular EXTRA INCOME weekly? Send for STOTT’S New Free
Booklet: “How to Write for Profit.” No letter is necessary. Simply cut
this Advertisement and mail it with your full Name and Address to Dept.
8100, STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 100 Russell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• • o
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland. Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
A MIXED GRILL
“F.S.”: “Jimmie” Dyer, passed over
in Paris recently, was the centre of a
controversy among Melbourne music-
lovers for nearly a decade. He tried to
benefit Melbourne music by donating
£lO,OOO as the nucleus of a fund for a
permanent orchestra, but the scramble
for it was only ended when the Supreme
Court removed the prize from the arena
by varying the deed of trust and order-
ing the money to be handed to the British
Music Society, which was a creation of
Mrs. Dyer. She conducts the Lyre Bird
Press in Paris, and is gratefully regarded
by the French for her publication of the
complete works of Couperin.
# * * *
“Hittite”: Mention of “Tiny” White
(B. 15/12/’37) brings to mind a yarn
about the R.F.C. pilot which was told
me by a fellow-passenger on Tiny’s
’plane between Gisborne and Napier. In
the days of joyriding Tiny was doing
the usual short flights for ten bob
a time. One of his bucolic patrons,
stepping out of the ’plane after his first
flight, said: “Cripes! Is that all I get
fer ten hog?” Tiny assured him that,
although it was considered a fair thing
by most people, if the gentleman would
kindly step aboard again Then the
assembly on the ground saw some real
war-style flying, all the known tricks and
a few of the old pilot’s own chucked in.
When the customer crawled out to clutch
the heaving earth he had a few more
complaints, but none of them to do with
not getting enough for his mopey.
* * * *
“Devil’s Poker”: The business methods
of some Territorian storekeepers are un-
usual, but sound. Recently half-caste
Timothy, anxious to go dingo-scalping,
applied at the local store for about £3
worth of provisions on tick. “But,” ex-
plained the storekeeper, “I can’t give you
credit on the off-chance of your gettin’
dorgs. If you had reg’lar money cornin’
in—somethin’ you was sure of —it’d be
different.” “But I gets baby-bonus,”
said Timothy. “I bin married close on
six years and ain’t missed yet. There’s
’nother fiver due next month.” “Are
you goin’ to take your wife with you?”
No ; she can sit down longa Mission.”
“Where is she now?” “Outside,” re-
Timothy. “She gottum green
dress.” The storekeeper inspected the
security. Stores supplied.
* * * *
D. ’: Champions of home-made
money systems devised to keep the world
in an eternal state of bliss have quietened
down considerably these last two ior
three years. Perhaps the return to.
prosperity” is responsible ; but one can’t
help thinking that the wars going on here
and there have a lot to do with it. Com-
mercial Japan, we are told, shrinks from
the whole idea of the China campaign;
military Japan, we are also told, is for it.
There is probably a good deal of truth
in that representation of the position.
And yet a self-regulating, self-starting
and -stopping, supercharged universal
money system would have prevented it
all! Even cranks now seem to be quail-
ing at the idea.
* * * *
“Leirum”: Binghi, under stress of
hungry times, is resourceful and economi-
cal. When tobacco supplies are low
I’ve seen the old men seated in a circle,
with the solitary possessor of a cigar-
ette exhaling the smoke into a hollow
bamboo tube with the ends blocked and
two tiny holes pierced. The tube was
then sealed with the finger and passed
smartly on to the nearest neighbor in
the circle, by which process all enjoyed
a smoke. Yet tobacco js the only “white-
man” commodity in which the abo.
shows any sign of thrift. Flour, sugar,
rice, etc., are dissipated in shameless
prodigality. But he is parsimonious in
the expenditure of any of his own natural
foods, such as yam, fish or native flour.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Years ago a few hardy
souls selected land on the foothills of Mt.
Baw Baw (Vic.). Twenty miles from the
nearest railway, and with only the
roughest of bush transport for their pro-
duce, it isn’t surprising that most of them,
after years of heartbreaking toil, did the
Arab trick and stole silently away. Yet
the huge trees they strove hard to de-
stroy were in themselves a potential
fortune; the giant mountain ash keeps a
dozen sawmills going around Baw Baw
to-day.
* * * * *
“Coongan Creek”: It may be true that
the primitive ab'o. never made a night
attack on anyone, but. contact with
whites soon taught him treacherous
ways. In 1899 natives made a night at-
tack on Braeside station, out from Marble
Bar (W.A.). Mrs. Hodgson, the owner’s
wife, was expecting an important event.
Dr. Vines, R.M., and also medical man
for the district, had arrived in good time,
and with the husband was seated on the
lighted verandah smoking. Suddenly
both went down under spears thrown
from the outer darkness, the doctor
fatally wounded. Alarmed by the shouts
of the wounded men, Mrs. Hodgson rose
from her couch, snatched up the ever-
ready revolver, and from the vantage of
her bedroom doorway stemmed the rush
with a few well-aimed shots. The blacks
then withdrew, leaving the courageous
lady facing as tight a predicament as
woman ever faced in the history of this
continent.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
P.L.E.: “Ode to the Flowers of Spring”
is a sticky dirge, besides being out of
season H.N.S.: Well, hardly “an interpre-
tation of lyrical ecstasy” T.T.N.: Comes to
the point very deviously J.S.Y.: It has
merits, but we don’t know where you’d place
it L.S.: A narrative poem on a sft. scroll
is usually tied with pink ribbon and sealed
with wax... .M.D.R.: Rhyming is horrible
T.R.F.: Can’t let you work off your plaints
in verse L.T.: Doesn’t make the grade; but
try us with something else P.R.8.: You’re
another who’d be better for an original idea
8.H.T.: As a yarn-spinner you’re down at the
bottom of the class T.R.W.: Cut it and
try again R.C.J.: You’ve been hammering
at the same nail for six months G.T.H.:
Right off our beat... .C.V.R.: Just another
borderliner N.J.T.: Each yarn brings you
nearer the mark M.F.G.: You rush at an
idea like a bull at a gate and make a bigger
mess of things R.T.C.: A flapper mag.
should consider it J.S.P.: Yes, try your
hand at something else by all means, but not
yarn-spinning T.T.W.: We’re fed-up too.
E.T.G.: You’re not making any noticeable
progress S.E.O’D.: Still wondering what
that goriness was all about R.W.K.:
Doesn’t raise a chuckle S.D.S.: Cut out
the fine writing and concentrate on a definite
plot J.H.F.: Might make a par., but we
doubt it T.W.C.: If you must write in
that vein it’s no use to us H.L.S.:
Don Edwards has exhausted that field....
R.8.Y.: Not bad for a beginner, but you’ve
a long way to go R.G.T.: Bright enough
in patches, but the ending spoils it S.D.A.:
Nothing new in that batch... .8.F.N.: Drags
painfully from start to finish R.T.G.,
L.M.D., J.F. and 8.5. T.: Try them elsewhere.
J.F.N.: Send the nasty little flapper home
to father J.P.: That abo.-on-the-drunk yarn
isn’t worth the telling T.M.: Afraid that
mournful tale won’t help you raise the mort-
gage G.R.: A lottery win has to be
expertly handled and new; yours is neither.
H.C.S.: Can’t share your enthusiasm for
“thrilling adventures with myalls in the dead
heart of the continent”... .A.S.: Hackneyed.
. ...K.M.: That “sagacious pup” had one
look at the office cat and hasn’t been seen
since A.McD.: Doubt if you’ll find a
home for your gangsters in Australia
T.E.G.R.: Well done; but, then, others have
told the same tale just as well before
G. 8.: We burst into tears midway through
the second page H.H.: “She pirouetted
gracefully before the mirror, gave one
last pat to her hair, then turned and glided
lightly down the stairs,” only to trip and fall
headlong out of our ken L.A.0’8.: Neither
good nor bad just uninteresting... .A.V.:
That’s Con Drew’s preserve... .C.W.W.:
You’ve a long way to go before you’ll write
the Great Australian Short Story; anyway,
why not aim a little below that for a start?
. ...L.R.: Try doing that as a radio play....
E.M.: You’re well away from our paddock.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.K.: Enraged suitor will have time to cool
down on the trip home N.P.: Frail little
artistic misfits and a batch of tame gags
W.S.: No use for jests about mental defectives.
8.8.: Which is the kangaroo and which
the kangaroo dog? E.D.T.: Hard to decide
which is the worse J.M.8.: That joke has
been in cold-storage for a long time 8.A.:
Didn’t fancy picture of fat old gent, with knife
through his heart J.C.S.: Not interested in
mere optical illusions P.M.: The drawing
gave us eyestrain, and the gag is no blushing
deb A.C.: Joke belongs to hansom-cab
days... .W.J.T.: Picture of drunk searching
for his reflection in a hairbrush goes the way
of its thousand cobbers... .8.L.: We want
humorous drawings and you send us an
architectural exhibit E.S.: A little more
craftsmanship might have carried it through.
J.J.: Scrap that scatchy style and you
might catch an editor’s eye M.S.: An idea
there, but it’s not well enough illustrated
H.D.: Joke is heavyweight foolery, sketch
lightweight 8.T.: No harm in persever-
ing, but you’ll have to persevere a 10t... .N.C.:
No use for drawings executed in purple ink on
writing-paper P.Q.: As wooden as the
Trojan horse S.A.: There is little connec-
tion between joke and drawing P.F,: “En-
closed is my first attempt at drawing, which
please criticise.” Hopeless C.E.: Those
bathers are safe. No self-respecting shark
would look at them H.S.D.: Noted your
own eulogies on the excellence of your pro-
duction and beg to violently disagree....
L.L.W.: You draw as if you had on boxing
gloves 5.G.8.: What makes you think we
would welcome a drawing like that? J.A.:
Another indelible-pencil atrocity A.G.:
Drunk who paid tram fare for crayfish is a
disreputable old friend... .N.W.: This week’s
wildest piece of ink-slinging... .P.W.: Idea
shows imagination, but the drawing is a
clumsy piece of work.


-
.... ..... ;
’
Presenting the Moccasin
The ideal Gentleman’s Slipper—the Elk
Skin Moccasin. Soft padded soles, and
unlined for coolness. Australian made
and priced at 1 5/6, all sizes. Obtainable
only from
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba and Roma.
He Beat Everyone But Darcy
In the course of half a century Aus-
tralia has been visited by many good
American pugilists, beginning with
“Young Mitchell” (afterwards Alderman
Hergott, of San Francisco) and Martin
(“Buffalo”) Costello, and has found them
to its liking, not only as boxers but as
men. Eddie McGoorty, who spent up-
wards of two years in this country, was
an excellent fighter and an excellent
fellow.
Australians knew little about him till
the latter part of 1912, when the news
was flashed from New York that
McGoorty had knocked out Dave Smith
in half a round. They couldn’t believe
it wasn’t a fluke, and when McGoorty
had completed his American engagements
McGOORTY AND BRADLEY.
he was brought to Sydney for a return
match, which took place on Jan. 1, 1914.
The proceedings were impressive even
though they were brief. Smith was the
first to enter the ring, and he bowed to
the cheering thousands with easy confi-
dence. Then came McGoorty, cased in
green trunks, “pride in his port, defiance
in his eye.” The voice of the announcer
whispered that they had both weighed
list. 41b. at two o’clock; McGoorty,
nevertheless, looked bigger and heavier.
Arthur Scott said “Box on! ” and Smith
came out of his corner, right glove up,
covering his jaw. McGoorty walked
across the ring and feinted with the left
hook which had encompassed Smith’s
downfall in the U.S.A. Dave guarded
and stepped back. McGoorty bounded
in. There was an awful smack, a re-
sounding thwack that could be heard at
the White City, and Smith shot against
the ropes and slipped down on the floor.
The left hook had arrived.
Smith sprang up at “five,” ducked left
and right and backed away. McGoorty
followed him, and again Smith was sent
prone. Up again, he was once more
hurled against the ropes, and by them
flung right back, to roll on his side.
Again he rose unsteadily, and out of a
shower of wallops, with a split cheek, a
bleeding mouth and a battered nose, he
reeled against the ropes on the northern
side and waited for what was coming.
A pained expression came into
McGoorty’s eyes. He sent lefts and rights
on to Smith’s gloves, and said something
about stopping the fight.
“Box on!” was the referee’s reply.
Muttering something about being sorry,
McGoorty again stepped forward and
battered the gloves of the swaying
gladiator. Smith broke away towards
mid-ring, and McGoorty, tripping after
him, knocked him to the floor for the last
time.
Expectancy ran high when McGoorty
and the hard-hitting Pat Bradley entered
the Sydney Stadium ring on the night of
Feb. 7, 1914, for Bradley was a great
favorite. McGoorty got a specimen of
Pat’s goods in the first round, when, step-
ping in to deliver a left hook, he received
a polthogue on the top side of the cheek.
The audience cheered madly when Pat
went to his corner uninjured at the end
of the first round, and when he survived
the second round, and seemed to have
more than held his own, the whole lunatic
asylum broke loose. But McGoorty was
playing the right game. He was there to
defend his championship. So he settled
down to outpoint Bradley, and did it
slowly but surely. Pat was worn down.
But he always came back with the ghost
of a smile on his lips. Towards the end,
the thing resolved itself into a deter-
mined struggle on the part of Bradley
to keep on his feet for 20 rounds, and
this he did.
The McGoorty-Jeff Smith fight at the
Sydney Stadium on March 14, 1914, was
a fine strenuous battle, and about 15,000
people enjoyed it, 13,000 or so having
at the conclusion the added pleasure of
hooting the referee.
There was a curious similarity about
the boxers. McGoorty, who weighed
list. 51b., appeared to be a larger replica
of Smith, who weighed list. 3ilb. Smith
looked like a Greek god of the days
when Greece had gods, which was before
it took to the fish-shop industry. There
never was a Greek god who went by the
name of Smith.
The resemblance did not extend to
their methods of going into action. Smith
crouched, while McGoorty, a debonair
expression on his cheerful countenance,
advanced in the straight-standing Jem
Mace style. Smith’s left flashed out and
hit McGoorty on the cheekbone, but
McGoorty’s right arrived like a sledge-
hammer and caught Smith as he danced
away. McGoorty sent in blows rapidly,
and the first round was his.
Again and again in the second and
third rourt'ds Smith sprang in and stabbed
with the left. McGoorty would take
these stabs like thistledown, and his right
would come over and catch the retreat-
ing Smith every time and send him spin-
ning like a top. In the third round the
crowd, which was very much for Smith,
gasped as it saw McGoorty hook and
Smith’s right eye puff and half-close.
Before the end of the round McGoorty
had closed the eye, and had punched
Smith hard and frequently in other
places.
By the use of the lancet and some
astringent, Smith recaptured his right eye
in the fifth round, and for seven or eight
rounds he did some very clever work. He
would heave his left into McGoorty’s face
and then clinch; and wresting for an
opening he would bang his right on the
heart or thereabouts. But in spite of
many misses McGoorty was always the
attacking party.
The fourteenth round saw Eddie come
out and land two heavy straight lefts
which staggered Jeff. In the seventeenth,
an uppercut caught McGoorty on the
point and he went weak; but Smith
appeared afraid to go in close. In the
eighteenth McGoorty still seemed
groggy; in the nineteenth, how-
ever, he was himself again, and
he fell on the foe in magnificent
style. It was easily McGoorty's
round.
An odor of champagne pre-
ceded the twentieth gong. Then
McGoorty cut loose again. He
strained every nerve for a
knockout, but the other fellow
hung on desperately at times
and at other times dodged won-
derfully. At the end Scott,
without a moment’s hesitation,
placed his hand on McGoorty.
Then there was a frightful din ;
hundreds started to kick the
iron walls in fury. The Baker
management surrendered to the
clamor for Smith to the extent
of deposing Arthur Scott, ap-
pointing its brother Harald to
the vacant place.
When Dave Smith and McGoorty
entered the ring on April 11, 1914,
people stood up and adjured Dave to
knock him out; and Dave did his best
to oblige. He charged in with a straight
left and forestalled the dreaded left hook.
When the gong went and Smith was still
on his feet and ahead on points, the
audience went quite mad. It didn t
cheer; it howled.
Dave was still on his feet and ahead
on points at the end of the seventh round.
In the eighth, however, McGoorty
startled him and the crowd by putting in
left hooks in rapid succession. Eddie was
coming out of his shell.
In the ninth he was the gladiator from
head to heels. Smith was floored. He
scrambled up and charged McGoorty
once more with the left, but this time
McGoorty took no heed of left or right—
he just hit. In the tenth he threw him-
self at Dave. Dave clung desperately to
his conqueror ; and out of the break he
struck wildly, smiting McGoorty heavily
on the nose. But as he came in to
follow it up, McGoorty countered to the
body; then an avalanche of blows put
Dave down and out.
On the morning of May 2, 1914, half
Australia was waiting eagerly to hear how
Jerry Jerome had fared with McGoorty
at Brisbane. Thousands had firmly be-
lieved that if the abo. could get his usual
blizzard to work he would prove too
much for the American. But their fond
hopes were shattered, for Jerry retired in
the sixth round with a damaged wrist
and a sick feeling, and Eddie walked out
and lifted the large end of the purse.
Jerry lasted a round longer than did
a Frenchman named Jules Dubourg at
Melbourne. Jules was allowed to out-
point McGoorty for four rounds ; in the
fifth round that left hook put him down
four times, and the police intimated that
they had seen enough.
Les O’Donnell was a capital boxer
who was always too clever for Jerry
Jerome. His fight with McGoorty at
Sydney Stadium was a disappointing
affair in one way, while in another it
wasn’t. It was vigorous and spectacular,
McGoorty supplying vim and ferocity
enough to galvanise half a dozen battles.
He was magnificent in his self-confidence.
Inside of 90 seconds O’Donnell had
demonstrated that he could hit Eddie
every time he wanted to and as he listed.
Eddie had no illusions on the subject.
But the self-reliant young man waded in
to put up such a fight as would coun-
teract the enemy’s advantage by destroy-
ing his morale —and he did it.
It was an extraordinary battle. With
the advantage of weight and reach (he
weighed 12st. 41b. to Mac’s list. lOjlb.),
O’Donnell was overcome and brought
low after the first round —not by Mc-
Goorty’s left hooks, but by McGoorty’s
superb self-reliance and self-confidence.
Again and again he poked his lancelike
left to McGoorty’s face. It was a case
when, according to the rules of the game,
McGoorty should have fought a defen-
sive battle and got away. But he
charged right in. He took his life in his
hands and hurled his head on the floor
of the Stadium when he fell over
O’Donnell’s back. By sheer belief ,in
himself he won handsomely.
They advanced to the centre of the
ring. They fenced for a moment. Then
the American threw himself up against
the foe. That he missed made no dif-
ference. Not to him, anyway. He played
the same part that the Austrian did at
Lissa and the Briton at Mons and Cam-
EDDIE FOUND JEFF SMITH
ELUSIVE.
brai. If he got home one in six it was
good business, and he got home aoout
one in four, till in the seventh round
O’Donnell went down twice for eight
seconds. After that his seconds decided
wisely to blow up what remained of the
fleet, and abandon the wounded, and
form the wreck of the army into a hollow
square for the purposes of retirement.
Unbeaten here, McGoorty returned to
the U.S.A. He was brought back in 1915
to meet Les Darcy. As a curtain-raiser,
he put on a show with Harold Hard-
wick, who had turned professional, after
distinguishing himself as an amateur
boxer and swimmer.
Tall, straight and superbly built, a
boxer of the highest class and trained to
the minute, Hardwick stepped confidently


CHAINED TO BED BY
BACKACHE
Now—Thanks to Kruschen—
Not a Trace of Pain
This woman’s life was made a misery by the
nagging pains of backache. Then her father,
who had proved the value of Kruschen himself,
advised her to try it. She did, and here is her
grateful letter:
“For years I have been suffering with pains
in the back. At times I had to stay in bed
for days. I could not walk, or even stand. My
father was using Kruschen Salts for the same
thing. He, too, used to suffer badly, and
Kruschen saved him. He advised me to try it.
I did so, and did not get a pain for three
years. I then neglected my daily dose for about
six months, and two months ago the pain re-
turned. I tried aftother remedy—it failed, so I
again started Kruschen. Now I have not a
trace of pain, thanks to Kruschen.” —(Mrs.)
H.R.
Pains in the back are usually due to poisons
in the blood —waste products which tired
kidneys are failing to filter from the system.
The six salts in Kruschen coax your kidneys
back to healthy, normal action, so that not a
particle of poisonous waste matter remains
unexpelled.
FLV SB GETS.
WHITEj
ĵ
6/81
‘aina
Post 2/- N.S.W., 3/6 Q’land, Vic.
Made in light, cool yet strong netting with
substantial fringe.
No. 4—Headstall Ply Veil with leather lace
veil, fin. 3/6, 2>n. 4/6. l*ostage 9d.
WHIPS
Handles Plaited on Zair Steel Cores.
No. 14 —16-plait handle, 6ft. x 12-plait
thong, 34/6.
No. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-plait
thong, 36/9.
No. 16—16-plait handle, Bft. x 12-plait
thong, 39/-.
No. 17 —24-plait handle, 7ft. x 16-plait
thong, 42/6.
No. 18—24-plait handle, £ft. x 16-plait
thong, 45/6.
Postage 1/3 each.
WRITE FOR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER v STEVEHSOH
□xa
rvriR
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY!
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
53/
d
£
%
Gregory Blaxland
On the left of the main western highway from Sydney,
just beyond Katoomba, is the explorers’ tree, one of the
trees marked by Gregory Blaxland during his famous
exploration of the passage over the Blue Mountains.
Undeterred by Governor King’s statement that the moun-
tains were impassable and that further efforts to master
them would be “as chimerical as useless”. Blaxland
determined to test his theory that the way to cross the
mountains was not to follow a valley but to climb to the
top of a ridge and trace it westward.
Accompanied by Lieutenant Lawson and William Charles
Wentworth and four servants, he set out in May, 1813,
from his farm at South Greek, and cutting his way
through heavily timbered country succeeded in opening
up a passage to the western plains.
Many thousands of people are now prospering on the
fertile lands west of the Blue Mountains where numerous
branches of the Bank of New South Wales have for
many years co-operated in the development of the re-
sources of that important part of Australia.
'-ms
/////x W
■W-M •
ESTABLISHED 1817
\
/A*
\ Vv \i
-X-
-w
\\
\
3X3F.1938
forth from his corner on the night of
June 26, 1915. McGoorty displayed
none of his opponent’s grace and skill.
He plodded after Harold with the lum-
bering deliberation of one of the b’ars
of his native per-airie. But to no avail.
His left hooks were blocked with ease.
So were his right swings. Sometimes he
missed by yards, sometimes by feet.
During this incredible display, Hard-
wick was far from idle. He popped a
straight left into the Irish-American’s
visage, over and over again. He crossed
and backmoved in a manner that would
have edified any gymnasium. It was too
good to be true.
The first indication that Eddie con-
sidered that he had given the crowd a
fair run for its money came in the ninth
round. He let it be understood here that
the ex-amateur was impotent to hurt him.
In the tenth he suddenly remembered a
city appointment or something, and
walked from his corner a completely
different McGoorty. Three awful swings
ARTHUR SCOTT DECLARES
McGOORTY THE WINNER.
to Harold’s head were stopped, more or
less. A terrific right landed. The Aus-
tralian seemed dazed. A left sank into
his body and a right caught him flush on
the chin. Then 12st. 31b. of unconscious
manhood sought the boards and stayed
there.
There is a type of individual who won’t
have it that anything is square. He sees
ramps and fakes and swindles in the least
obvious places. This type was prominent
before and after the first Darcy-
McGoorty bout at Sydney on July 7,
1915. Fighting as a heavyweight with
Darcy bound to the middleweight limit,
McGoorty might have had a chance. At
list. 61b. Eddie was no match for a
youngster who hit as hard as himself, was
every bit as courageous and was stronger
and more rugged, a faster and better
boxer. Darcy was on top nearly all the
time. As already described in this series,
he stopped McGoorty in the fourteenth
round.
That particular hiding did McGoorty
no harm. He demonstrated this by
knocking out his fellow-countryman
Billy Murray a couple of months later.
In the first round Billy lost his head, in
the third his powers,of resistance, in the
fourth his senses. McGoorty completed
the massacre with a blow on the chin.
At Brisbane McGoorty settled an
American heavyweight named Joe Bond
in a shade over a minute. It was cruelty
to pugs to let this pair meet. Joseph
had sparred with the Oshkosh man and
had developed a horror of his punch.
The left hook, followed by a right cross,
did the gruesome trick.
A third scalp lifted in the course of
three weeks was that of Harry Reeve, an
English heavyweight. It called for no
great exertion on McGoorty’s part.
Reeve fought back gamely and took his
medicine like a man, but he was much
too slow for McGoorty.
The Australian, Mick King, though
only a middleweight, was faster than
Murray, Bond or Reeve, and so gave
McGoorty more trouble. But in the
tenth round Mick was done to a turn,
and Arthur Scott, who had become the
Sydney Stadium referee again, leaped
into the line of fire, with the result that
the towel fluttered gently to the floor.
Then came the second fight with
Darcy. The whisper had gone round that
McGoorty had been tired or something
in the first encounter, and Ikey Mo
hearkened to this with the long ear of
credulity. He laid six to four and two
to one on the American ; he even backed
Eddie to win inside 10 rounds. Before
the first round was over Ikey felt the
world slipping from underneath his feet.
McGoorty for the second time in his
career was up against a rival with whom
he had positively no chance. Game as
he was, he left his corner heavily bur-
dened by the memory of the walloping
the youngster had given him. Darcy
sported a wide boyish grin; there was
no grin on McGoorty’s dial nor any
confidence in his heart. The matchless
exhibition of skill, speed, courage, hard
and accurate hitting and strength which
Darcy gave that night has also been here
described. The one-sided affair was
stopped by Authority in the eighth
round.
Fifteen months elapsed be-
fore McGoorty was seen in an
Australian ring again. He had
spent the 15 months playing
baseball—for Waverley—and fol-
lowing the ponies, and sheer
necessity compelled him to ac-
cept a match with the 161 b.
lighter Tommy Uren. Mc-
Goorty was fat and slow, and
could not cope with the younger
and more active lad. He bled
profusely during the 20 rounds
and was a clear loser on points,
though he was never actually in
trouble.
Still slow and fat, he signed
to meet Albert Lloyd, and
arranged to back himself with
his share of the “gate.” It
wasn’t much, for the Game had
gone to the pack, but for poor
McGoorty it was the only thing
in sight. It was said that he
needed an operation badly, but
that did not prevent him from
going into the ring and giving
as vigorous a display as his con-
dition permitted. Again the ver-
dict went against him, and for
the first time in Australia Mc-
Goorty took it badly. His good
nature immediately reasserted
itself, and before he left the
Stadium, though he left without a shil-
ling in the world, he handsomely apolo-
gised to the crowd and the management.
One of his Australian friends paid his
fare back to the U.S.A. By the return
mail this letter arrived:
Dear pal Joe, —Enclosed you will find
the money you so kindly lent me. I won
it back playing craps on board the boat.
Thanks, pal Joe. —Your pal, Eddie.
McGoorty enlisted in the United States
Army in time to go to France with the
Doughboys. At the Allied Games in
1919 he represented them in the heavy-
weight boxing, but was outpointed by
Bombardier Wells. Afterwards he had
a few fights in England, one of his vic-
tims being the same old Harry Reeve.
Australians have lost sight of Mc-
Goorty for many years. Wherever he
may be, he is pretty sure to be playing
END OF THE THIRD McGOORTY-
DAVE SMITH FIGHT.
cra P s and following the ponies. And
doubtless in his middle life there is
some pal J° e who sees him through tern-
porary difficulties and to whom he talks
now and then of his fights in Australia
and of the good times he had and the
good friends he made there when he was
young.


FIS
m
Qoßac
V
I H
|jg|j
:
■HI
-
r»
■ 5 i * -'* •««-*- 'Tv»f‘ *>v
An exhibition of Oils, Water-colors and Etchings, etc., by leading Australian artists, at the Macleod 252 George Street, Sydney.
Admission Free. Open Week Days, 10 a.ra. unUl 4.30 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. until noon.
ARTHUR PHILLIP
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
SYDNEY’S first permanent church the earliest
one, on the east side of the Tank Stream, having
i J been burned down by compulsory parishioners
who found its services irksome stood on the
spot where the modern Bradfield Highway merges into
York-street, on Church Hill, and was called St.
Phillip’s after the first saintlike person of whom Aus-
tralia had any experience—the dauntless, far-seeing
little man who founded a British commonwealth in
the South Seas.
The picturesque old building, with its round tower,
-looked down for many years upon the little town he
had established behind Sydney Cove, and although
the fashion of its naming was wholly unorthodox
there can be no doubt now, a century and a half
afterwards, that Arthur Phillip was worthy of the
honor.
There was something saintly in his courage, his
faith and his constancy to an ideal. No man who
has since lived beside Port Jackson has been more
worthy of honor and respect. Arthur Phillip almost
stands above comparison with anyone else in the
making of Australia.
Before he came to this country Phillip was a
fairly average representative of the naval post-captain
of the period, most of them thoroughly efficient sea-
men, good fighters, and occasionally able adminis-
trators. His career in the British Navy had no
particularly outstand-
ing features, and what
reputation he had ac-
quired was gained in
the Portuguese ser-
vice, for which he
had volunteered whilst
a lieutenant. Going
back to the Royal
Navy ten years before
his arrival in Aus-
tralia, he had risen
through the rank of
commander to that of
post-captain, with the
command of a couple
of frigates in his re-
cord, before being
selected in 1786 to
take charge of the
projected colonial
settlement at Botany
Bay.
“I cannot say,”
wrote Admiral Lord
Howe, learning of his
appointment, “t h e
little knowledge I
have of Captain
Phillip would have led
me to select him for
a service of this com-
plicated nature.” His
was no very shining
light, apparently, in
the navy. But within
the next half-dozen years this almost unknown
captain was to do as great a work in his country’s
service as has ever been done by anyone. He stepped
out of obscurity into the light of greatness, and no
one to-day can deny a claim on his behalf to have
been one of the really great Englishmen of the latter
end of the eighteenth century.
The expedition to New South Wales was long in
preparation, and for eight months Phillip worked
incessantly over all its details of food, clothing, stores,
tools down to the minutest elements of its equip-
ment —fighting all the time the apathy and carelessness
of departmental officials. He played almost a lone
hand in seeing to the fitting-out of the ships, their
provisioning and the necessary safeguards for the
health of his colony of convicts during the long
voyage through all climates that lay before them. The
sluggish officials resented his ener-
getic methods —they had been used
to making plans for a six weeks’
voyage to America, and, but for
Phillip, would have made exactly
the same arrangements for the much longer voyage
to Australia.
As it was, and in spite of all the Governor could
do, the Fleet sailed with scarcely any ammunition
and woefully deficient in many of the most necessary
articles which would be required on shore at the end
of this prodigious voyage round the world. There
was so little spare clothing put on board for the
convicts that it was proposed to use flour-sacks to eke
out the scanty supply.
However, after calling at Rio and the Cape
Phillip got his eleven ships into Botany Bay on
January 18, 1788, after a voyage of thirty-six weeks,
without serious misfortune of any sort. To realise
adequately what Phillip’s care and watchfulness had
effected it is only necessary to recall the fact that no
succeeding voyage of convict transports was made
with such immunity from sickness or mutiny as
obtained in the First Fleet.
It was now that Phillip’s serious troubles began.
Almost at a glance he saw that Botany Bay would
never do as a site for a settlement, so he led a boat
expedition to the northward with some idea of seeing
what Broken Bay was like. On the way he turned
“Who the devil is sick in this room?”
into Port Jackson, was astonished at finding it the
best harbor he had ever dreamed of, and decided to
plant his colony there. So, on January 26 a hundred
and fifty years ago, Australia began its career as a
British community at the head of Sydney Cove and
Phillip began four years of strenuous fight against
dangers and difficulties and privations that no one but
a truly exceptional man could have overcome.
It did not take him long to realise after he had
landed his charges that better country than what lay
round Port Jackson would have to be found if the
colony was to survive. So a series of land-seeking
expeditions was made into the interior, and it was
not a great while before the territory had been
explored west to the long-impenetrable barrier of the
Blue Mountains. Phillip himself —a frail and some-
what delicate man, fifty years old —took part in most
of this exploration and in more than one expedition
along the coast and up the Hawkesbury River from
Broken Bay. Before he went home in 1792 agricul-
tural settlement was fairly under way, mainly owing
to his unvarying insistence upon its importance above
all else.
With a thousand people to rule and provide for
in a strange new country of a sort utterly unknown
to himself or anyone with him, Phillip’s task must
have seemed, even to such an optimist as himself, a
frightfully hazardous one. His subjects were nearly
all criminals, or near-criminals, of low and ignorant
origin. Famine was always imminent, and for a time
actually existed to such an extent that the convicts
were excused all labor on account of physical weak-
ness. For the most part his officers were discontented
grumblers who constantly hindered the Governor’s
plans and behind his back persistently recommended
the home Government to abandon the colony; his
second-in-command, the Lieutenant-Governor, was the
worst of them all. - -
When all these difficulties are considered and it is
remembered that they were courageously and hope-
fully overcome the high character of Phillip’s auto-
cracy may in some measure be realised.
With the aborigines Phillip soon became on the
best of terms, and he did everything he could —
generally being thwarted in his endeavors by sub-
ordinates and convicts—to make their conquest by
an alien race less severe in its bearing upon their
conditions of existence. When he was dangerously
wounded at Manly by a native’s spear his forbearance
and toleration are sufficient evidence of the splendid
human being Phillip naturally was. And his courage,
when confronted by an armed horde of hundreds of
them on his way back
from an overland ex-
pedition to Botany
Bay in going forward
alone to indicate the
peaceable intention of
his party is one of the
finest incidents in the
story of the first days
of settlement.
Always he strove
to make the lot of
his convict subjects
better and more en-
durable. As soon as
they were landed he
married off as many
of the prisoners as he
could persuade.
When the “hungry
time” came and a
state of actual, starva-
tion existed he shared
personally in the uni-
versal privation of
. rations reduced to the
very minimum. He
rewarded the well-
behaved with every
indulgence possible,
but was swift in
punishing loafers and
incorrigibles, though always with a forbearance and
mildness (for those harsh days) that indicate his habi-
tual restraint.
It is impossible to exaggerate the services rendered
by Arthur Phillip to the Australia that was to develop
after his own time. He knew well—better than any
of his contemporaries on the spot or at home —that
this country was destined for greater things than a
penal settlement might hope for, and always shaped
his policy in the light of such a view. He had a
belief in the future of the colony that no discourage-
ment could abate. Although always beset by heart-
breaking difficulties he never varied in his faith in
Australia, and his dispatches constantly demonstrate
that he meant what he was saying when he wrote:
“This country will yet be the most valuable acquisition
Great Britain has ever made.”


masterpiece is (Perfection
f the spirit he always serves.
w
I
rj*rv:
V
IE
8
X?
isy
.>w
0
n
9
m
m
jLi jVa/ne j
r
(FCdllums
Scots CUhisky
&'9mx»
( rwM«»
(PGdluro’s
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
j
ĵ
&
V o°%<t> V
*
<?' s ° o°
J>
S°
ftV
X\>
,0-
AS?
0 E '^'t‘4''?i , 'V sC '..
■ <£*
c #
<*'
oO^'
o*
0
••’ t) e J/
••* » * e VvcV V 0
\o -v^V*


G
N
I
t
ll 1 ?
mmm
E
E
m
mua
ID
E
y
m
i
T
I
vV
=A
\0
OV
MP
*&*
vo^'
•V*
e* c
T
S£
►S*
'A*
dM
I s
s&
•B.'fl
Mi
m
cV
s*
C o '
.0>
V 0
AS
M'
\\9
c<=
mi
fct'
ril*
: : :: :
\*
®:!S
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
As Good for Women as for Men.
KNOWN TO GENERATIONS OF AUSTRALIANS
FOR ITS UNIQUE MEDICINAL PROPERTIES
**
$m
Wolfe’* c ,
a&/ e ; ; ,
Quarter Half
Hotel? S ‘ Ze h °t”eJ at y,
• Relieves Tiredness
• • \ . /
•Gives Renewed Energy
• Builds up your health
• Cools and Refreshes
Always keep a bottle of Wolfe s Schnapps in
YOUR home. Its purity guarantees it as a
safe and certain standby in cases needing a
reliable stimulant.
