

fIL
■ ■■ &L.
Mw
Sl 3
a 5!?
at OZ'.
to Oii
fc JOi ■
£ui Ztf«
=3 5 01-z
ri * ji» ■
o * '3 -j
U i QTJ
AC lU^l-2
* “go*
~ UI ujq 10
Ss9§<
J, -JT*i
iofii
SCI a: cc ®
oui a h
Ut mA . >«
T z a
.L »JI QihZ
£n“3o
£2 u, ShS
5 iuO >
—I v-> tnttl
Ui J 7
5r« l
auAyy
lON
m
_ \ n m vtt
\ c V*P* .
\ sC^
Sl^ S :
\\\^ ;VS
HMfl vW>
<c
•tf*- , ,-rtS
c,^**
>V<"
-S^**
dcV
o# 8
•so"
ftV bea^ g wei" 1
\!UeM a rTV£
A 4O ’ • ..ttu LU * I^o^ S
*■■%.**
1 «. ’“ itio ' v
,^ ic
uu i ‘ , lS
' * , o uW sll ' 1
C^ es tl S <fi«* Xx *' . c e\ i^ AuSt
A v U ftl tHe st »*
stc c v />ss*
„«^ t9 ’ „000
i
\C
aS eS
ELECTRIC SHOVEL LOADING-'
IRON ORE * IRON MONARCH, 5.A.
THE COKE OVENS'
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
• !• • .... X-
\i
m
' ■
m
m
to AO INC PRODUCTS AT THE
frill WORKS WHARF NEWCASTLE
The Bulletin
New Serial — “Promenade,” by G. B. Lancaster
Vol. 59.—N0. 3041.
Thursday, May 26, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
FRIENDS OF MR. TIBBETT.
The temptation to knit a good solid muffler fo
the heathen in America has moved the devout eve
since radio and talkies began to bray out jazz anc
Mammy songs, but Lawrence Tibbett’s versions o
De Glory Road” and “The Emperor Jones” at Syc
ney Town Hall could have persuaded the most infur
ated needleworker to stay his hand.
Foul as it is, “hot” music derives from the sam
sort of hysteria as “De Glory Road,” and where th
exultation or exaltation of the negro is genuine
has value; and, granted that someone should be
nice kind mother to A 1 Jolson and take him awa
to a nice quiet corner and hit him hard with a feeding
bottle, his sentimentality has its roots in the “gooc
old” songs—negro melodies such as “Swanee River
which eberyone found pleasant.
Songs of the “Swanee River” type, like those oi
nearly all native races, are sad ; uncorrupted by jazz
bands or Jolsons, they are, on their humble plane
a more valid art form than the melodies of the Maori
or the Hawaiians, for the melancholy of the negroes
exiled and enslaved, grew from a stark reality, wherea
the Maoris and the South Sea Islanders had not th
slightest reason for always a-weeping and a-wailing i
their songs, except for the purely sentimental pleasur
of feeling sorrowful. That is why Robeson can mak
“Ole Man River” into something tragic and powerfu
whereas Ana Hato can make of Alfred Hill’s setting
of Maori music only something as charmingly unim
portant as a Strauss waltz.
Stronger music might have been expected from
the warlike Maoris, but their melodies are nearly a
gentle, and their poetry light and pretty. The wail
the tangi and the dramatic rhythms of the haka offe
possibilities of more powerful expression, but some
thing desperate in the negro character, that makes fo
profoundly moving song, was missing in Fernland’
more fortunate race. The negro had the capacity fo
absolute despair, and for its natural concomitant, wile
exultation; slavery gave him ample opportunity to
exercise those emotions, in the same way as centurie
of persecution have fostered the genius of the Jews
In much the same way, Australia’s early days
charged with the despair and desperation of the con
victs and the homesickness of the immigrants, founc
their natural expression in the melancholy Adam
Lindsay Gordon.
The hysteria of the slave, alternating between
despair and exultation, and always longing for escape
found its most impressive outlet in the “negro
spiritual” songs, and it was the depth of feeling in that
form that made “De Glory Road” and “The Emperor
Jones” worth Tibbett’s while. It was pointed out in
Sundry Shows (B. 19/5/’3B) that the actual words of
the negro songs were about the only ones in Tibbett’s
whole repertoire that approached poetry, and “De
Glory Road” bears out the contention:
De horse he wuz longer dan a thousan’ mile;
His tail went lashin’ an’ his hoofs wuz wil’;
His mane wuz flamin’ an’ his eyes wuz moons,
An’ his mouth kep’ singin’ Halleluyah tunes!
At least one American poet of importance—
Vachel Lindsay, who died in 1932—realised the poten-
tialities of the negro folksongs, and adopted their
rhythms, their imagery and even their vocabulary to
make his own poetry unique. His “General William
Booth Enters Heaven,” for instance, is at once a jazz
and a serious poem ; it reads frivolously, but rever-
ence lies between the lines:
Oh! shout Salvation! It was good to see
Kings and Princes by the Lamb set free.
The banjos rattled and the tambourines
Jing-jing-jingled in the hands of Queens.
And when Booth halted by the curb for prayer
He saw his Master through the flag-filled air.
Christ came gently with a robe and crown
For Booth the soldier while the throng knelt down.
He saw King Jesus. They were face to face,
And he knelt a-weeping in that holy place.
In that poem, or in “The Daniel Jazz,” Lindsay
directly imitated the negro spiritual; in subjects far
different he used the same technique. “Johnny Apple-
seed,” symbolising the pioneer, for instance:
Hawthorn and crab-thorn bent, rain-wet,
And dropped their flowers in his night-black hair;
And his black eyes shone through the forest-gleam,
And he plunged young hands into new-turned earth.
And he ran with the rabbit and slept with the stream.
And he ran with the rabbit and slept with the stream.
And so for us he made great medicine,
And so for us he made great medicine,
In the days of President Washington.
“Johnny Appleseed” marched across the conti-
nent, ploughing, sowing, planting orchards, until:
At last the Indian overtook him, at last the Indian
hurried past him;
At last the white man overtook him, at last the white
man hurried past him
At last his own trees overtook him, at last his own
man hurried past him;
Many cats were tame again,
Many pigs were tame again,
Many canaries tame again;
And the real frontier was his sunburned breast.
Like the author of the play “Green Pastures,”
Vachel Lindsay exploited the comical, joyous aspects
of the negro character. Epstein has gone to the other
pole and depicted in his magnificent bronzes the black
man’s infinite capacity for agony. Epstein is supposed
to “debase” his creations by his negroid imagery. But
when he gives the head of a European an African
cast of features, he is using a tremendously powerful
symbol: the Black Man, a slave in a foreign country
or bewildered and beaten down in his own, symbolises
any human soul at odds with human existence.
It is good symbolism. And, like Tibbett’s “Glory
Road” and even Robeson’s “Ole Man River,” it is
one of the good things that have come from Black
Brother to compensate for Mr. Jolson and the in-
numerable fat bandsmen with their Hotcha Boys.
S.
Study of Binghi.
George Herbert Sunter, in Adventures of a
Trepang Fisher (Hurst and Blackett), contributes some
interesting data on the North Australian aborigines
of particular value because the book is singularly
devoid of sentimentality.
The tale covers a long period spent trepang-fishing
in the face of heat and cold, occasional short rations,
danger of sharks and crocodiles during the harvest,
risks in a cyclonic sea when the catch was taken to
port and incidental mishaps.
Sunter’s eye is on the adventures of trepang-
fishing and the stories of other white men with whom
he comes in contact. His revelation of the characters
of his boss-boys and others is largely incidental, but
it runs through the tale like a bright thread, a record
of courage, skill, mirth and fidelity. More than once
the author was saved from danger by the alertness of
his helpers.
Adventures of a Trepang Fisher is out of the
present current of our literature. It seems to have been
written with an overseas audience in mind, and is
explanatory where most writer-adventurers achieve
imaginative penetration through presupposing some
knowledge on the part of their readers. Nevertheless,
it has value. Dramatic corroborees, for example,
portraying a buffalo hunt and the stalking of a kan-
garoo, with incidental mimicry illustrating the domestic
life of these creatures, and a serio-comic sketch of a
rheumaticky old lubra digging for yams are clearly
set down.
Sunter glances at relationships between Asiatics and
lubras, and says that miscegenation is inevitable while
we allow the yellow man in but exclude his women-
folk. He has some blunt things to say about the spread
of opium-eating among the blacks. Writing on the
subject of the still tribalised natives, he notes that
they are indulgent with children, and will often go
hungry that the youngsters may be fed, but that in
crossing a crocodile-infested river they compel an
aged lubra to walk in the rear, from which point the
crocodile invariably attacks. He fails to observe that
both these things, though one smacks of callousness,
are solutions of an old problem in race preservation—
a curious omission on the part of an eminently prac-
tical mind. He offsets it, however, by a comment well
worth underlining; the Australian aboriginal, in con-
tradistinction to many savage races, never made tor-
ture one of his amusements.
Mexican Primitive.
Gregorio Lopez y Fuentes’s They That Reap
(Harrap; translated by Anita Brenner) is, for the
Anglo-Saxon reader, a very curious book. Few, if
any, Mexican books reach us, and They That Reap
suggests that this is a pity. Its strange foreign quality
stimulates the imagination without obscuring the uni-
versality of the subject—man’s struggle for subsistence
and freedom. A familiar theme is presented from a
new viewpoint.
It is the story of a mountain village, a rancheria,
inhabited by the aboriginal people of Mexico, the
Indian descendants of the Aztecs, who have been
driven into the barren mountain pastures and reduced
to serfdom by an alien civilisation.
Broken down by poverty and persecution they
began to sink back. Pagan and Christian customs
mingled strangely in their minds, and they went
through rituals whose meaning they had forgotten
or never learned. The picture of daily life —the primi-
tive women, the calendar of toil on the haciendas, on
the roads, for the Church, the fiesta with the ancient
ceremony of “el Volador” (a pagan propitiation of the
winds), the undercurrent of witchcraft, the council of
the old men—is brilliantly and economically limned.
These are inarticulate people, and little that is
beyond the range of their minds or emotions is used
to portray them.. The style, like the subject-matter, is
strong and simple. It is simplicity founded on passion.
The author’s bitterness is visible now and then in a
restrained phrase or a stabbing little picture, like this
description of the Indians going out to fish:
They passed and disappeared. Only thus, stealthily,
can this race be seen at its full height. They are like
untamed animals. When they believe themselves alone
they draw up to their full size, but then, at the slightest
suggestion of danger, how they shrink! What timidity!
Even the peccary is beautiful when it is free; the stag
a sculpture in solitude.
Of the fiesta the author cries bitterly that it
“recapitulates four centuries of painful history, first
the dancing, the music, the Volador, the ancient ways;
then alcohol and disorder.”
To this rancheria there came three white men,
looking, they said, for medicinal herbs. They hoped
also to discover an Aztec cache of gold dust. They
believed that the Indians knew of this treasure but
would not speak, and they determined to force their
way into the secret at any cost. They took an Indian
boy out into the mountains and tortured him. He
escaped, but, falling over a precipice in his flight,
crushed both legs. In revenge the Indians ambushed
the whites and hurled rocks down on them, killing
one.
A punitive expedition followed, and the Indians
fled into the mountains, hiding and starving while
their fields fell into ruin. At last the need for their
labor drove the authorities to pardon them. They
returned to their village, and everything was as before
except that the white men’s guide was a hopeless
cripple. He was to have been married, but the girl s
fatner, with the consent of the council of oldmen,
gave her to another suitor, one who was whol J
body and could work for her. This led to a feud
between the families, and each resorted to witchcraft
to hurt the others. This is very simply told, and has
a genuine touch of horror, the feeling of a remote
dark past stalking in the present.
Private grudges, however, were blotted out oy
an epidemic of smallpox which decimated the village,
claiming the girl as one of the victims. Now the
weakened Indians were more than ever in the power
of the alien authorities. In their desperation they
found a leader who won them various reforms and
privileges, a school, a highway, but they were bl-d
white in taxes and labor to pay for them, and were
little benefited. The leader got a good job in the city.
The people were then forced to build a church
and go on a pilgrimage as a thank offering for the
passing of the epidemic. If they were serfs before
they are now slaves, and that is the book’s bitter
conclusion.
The characters in They That Reap are nameless ;
it is wholly a drama of repercussive forces. The text
is illustrated by Diego Rivera with harsh, simple
drawings that are in close accord with the subject.
Cricket Accounting.
Sir Home Gordon claims that the work of prepar-
ing his Sixty Years of Cricket Form at a Glance
(. 1878-1937 ) (Arthur Barker) was “a task of unremit-
ting love.”
It is an amazing work certainly. Every cricketer
who has played in first-class matches in two English
seasons since the first Australian team arrived in
England is listed, as well as every member of an
overseas - team to visit the country —3685 of them in
all. They are there with their aggregate scores, their
averages, batting and bowling, the number of catches
they held. Hobbs made 61,237 runs, Grimmett took
447 wickets against English teams, and for Notts in
1887-88 somebody named Sulley made 21 runs at an
average of seven. There are tables galore. The one
first-class match in 60 years between married men
and single was won by the bachelors ; non-smokers
were nine wickets better than smokers ; Yorkshire in
110 championship matches against Surrey has totalled
39,669 runs.
The author mentions the “enormous labor”
required for the job. He has evidently devoted most
of his life to it. It needed five months of solid con-
centration, he says, to extract fielding statistics from
1878 to 1933, “and I would wake petrified lest I had
omitted some match or some catch.” Thirty-six years
ago he got out his first book, Cricket Form at a
Glance; he’s been at the latest one ever since. It’s
perhaps an ironic comment on the futility of human
endeavor that there’s a mistake (printer’s undoubtedly)
in the first line of statistics; having accidentally dis-
covered that, present reviewer spent an hour searching
unsuccessfully for others.
Those who find the book useful, and the cricket
charities to which the whole of the proceeds are to be
donated, won’t hesitate to hope the baronet finds his
heaven—where “through all eternity I wish no greater
bliss than to watch a never-ending series of first-class
matches.”
He Wrote "Anthony Adverse."
Colonel Nat Franklin, leading character of Action
at Aquila, by Hervey Allen (Gollancz; Angus and
Robertson), had been shot off his horse at Antietam,
had a horse shot under him at Gettysburg and a hole
drilled through his campaign hat during a skirmish at
Winchester, but when the story opens he is still going
strong. He is in his early thirties, debonair, handsome,
of good Northern family and unmarried —so the
reader knows what to expect. If he has any doubts
he can turn at once to the last chapter and meet the
colonel minus a leg but plus a wife.
The unprofitable roles of second and third heroes
are taken by Paul Crittendon, of the Confederate
Army, who is in love with Flossie Kiskadden, and
William Farfar, of the Federals, in love with Margaret
Crittendon. Paul and William, both mortally wounded
in action, die in each other’s arms, thus symbolising
the essential American brotherhood of the contending
armies. It is well arranged, this sacrifice of a couple
of minor characters. The reader is able to feel touched
without being harrowed.
For the rest, Action at Aquila takes in the tradi-
tional peace-and-war scene of the period, with the
colonel spurring through it on his favorite charger.
There are pretty faces in poke bonnets; whiskered
ones under plug hats ; regiments thundering into battle
with swinging sabres; tattered warriors who salt their
speech with expressions like “sho’ is,” “you-all” and
“by Heck,” and who will nonchalantly risk their lives
for a “chaw” of tobacco ; towns far removed from
the carnage where rows of old chestnut-trees shadow
the pitted brick sidewalks; livery stables ; zithers and
candlelight; even an old darky who bares a snowy
poll as the colonel rides by at the head of his gallant
men and says again and again, “Good luck, Mars’
Lincoln’s boys!”
Hervey Allen seems to have enjoyed himself
writing this book. His victims are rarely killed in
action, they are “dead on the field of honor.” Perhaps
this is part of a desire to deal tenderly with the stricken.
After the battle of Aquila, which is the book’s descrip-
tive piece de resistance, the wounded are lying around
thicker than pumpkins in March. Their cries are
silenced with snow which falls as softly “as feathers
from the wings of Death” until “Nature has her quiet
way at last.” This is the action in which Paul and
William lose their lives. That night their sweethearts
search the battlefield for their bodies.
It is Elizabeth Crittendon, mother of Margaret
and aunt of Paul, who eventually becomes the colonel’s
(Continued on Daee 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
"THE SENIOR STORE.'
li
mk
X
*
*£Cn.
ft
o
'' A
5 tt-
r'.'Y
! '
f
i;. r »; sm,-..., . ■/
•>\S*r K
V: • t
.• *d
'• i.’Vi -.
; tJ : -
i} i
>
-
(
■;
I
■
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BE
JUMBUK " (REGD.)
UNDERWEAR
GUARANTEED AND RECOMMENDED BY
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of winter.
Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long-staple pure woollen yarn
—the soft, down-like surface of the fabric is flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its native
warmth, the stored-up virtues of our country’s glorious sunshine.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is guaranteed pre-shrunk, and the wide range of sizes stocked
enables every man, woman and child to obtain a comfortable fit.
220X —“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool, lightweight.
- v •; ‘ • - . _ . „ „ . „ . „ . .
33OX— “Jumbuk” Natural All Wool, medium winter weight.
AX X —“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets.
In Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style, self bound neck and armholes. Sizes, 34 to 44
inch chest. Prices, each S/6
750—“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton, lightweight.
OTHER MAKES OF UNDERWEAR
70P1 Fleecy Lined Underwear, warm winter weight undershirt's with short sleeves,
underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest or waist. In Natural shade^
medium weight. Price
In Fawn shade, heavy winter weight. Price /
70P2 Natural All Wool Underwear, soft finish. Undershirts
underpants to ankle. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest or waist’.
wool. Price .
In winter weight all wool. Price
In super quality heavy all wool. Price
with short sleeves,
In light weight all
5/6
7/6
B/11
70P3 Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear, soft finish. Sizes, 34 to 44 inch chest
or waist. Undershirts with short sleeves, or underpants to ankle. In light weight
wool and cotton. Price . . '•.•••' 4/11
In medium weight wool and cotton. Price 5/11
In heavy winter weight wool and cotton. Price 7/6
70P4—Brown Cotton Underwear. A stout durable make in a soft (unbleached)
finish.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Shirts, short sleeves 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 6/- 6/6
Underpants 5/6 5/9 6/- 6/3 6/6 7/- 7/6
70P5 —Men’s Flannel Undershirts, in reliable quality flannel, full fitting. In Natural
and Dark Grey. Prices 5/11, 7/9, 8/6
In Cream Flannel. Prices 7/9, 8/11
In Navy Blue Flannel. Price 8/11
In Cream, Natural or Dark Grey, athletic style, no sleeves . 6/11
Natural or Dark Grey. Extra O.S. fitting. Price .‘ 9/11
Natural or Dark Grey, 12 inch double back. Price 9/6
Natural, Cream or Dark Grey with long sleeves, button wrists 10/6
9 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD
SYDNEY
Box 2712C, G.P.O.
’Phone; M 2401 (Day or Night)


A New Serial by the Author of "Pageant”
PROMENADE
BY G.B. LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
11.
IUT it wasn’t for Darien Jermyn was look-
ing, entering the long military fodder-barn
turned by that magician Governor Grey
into the most elegant of ballrooms ; with
marquees and outbuildings for supper and
sitting-out, and ten pounds of the best
sperm candle scraped upon the floor, and
Governor Grey and his lady up on a red dais sitting
a little higher than the chaperons. He knows that
every man here to-night is cursing him, and he don’t
care a damn, thought Jermyn.
“Gad! There’s a beauty,” said O’Reilly at his
side. “A fine filly, sir,” agreed a fat colonel, and
Jermyn looked up to see Darien sinking in a white
foam before the Governor with that curtsy which was
so shortly to become famous.
Jermyn’s eyes rested on her absently. She looks
well to-night, he thought; saw Sally standing a little
apart and went to her like a needle to its magnet.
“Oh, Jermyn! Isn’t Darien glorious?” cried Sally,
glowing out of her blue gown.
“Blast Darien! How many dances can I have?”
Sally began to tremble because Jermyn should be
used to eternity by now, and how could she ever be
if he wasn’t?
“I —I can’t dance to-night, Jermyn. I’m chaperon-
ing Darien, and a chaper”
“Come, my dear,” said Peregrine, with Darien
already on his arm. “Our seats are on the dais,” he
added, quite gracious since, if the symptoms he saw
around him were correct, this abominable girl would
soon be off his hands for good. The expenditure had
been justified, thought Peregrine, pulling up his stock
and listening to the compliments (which were fashion-
ably florid and lengthy), watching Darien being so
modest with her big white feather-fan while her pro-
gramme filled up.
I MUST be careful, thought Darien, feeling excite-
ment boil in her until she wanted to whoop and
jump. This is heaven at last, she thought, beginning
to glide in the arms of the Governor’s aide, who held
her divinely close. After bumping round with Elvira,
with Sarah Wells, who was so hot and hugging, this
was heaven. Once she had thought she knew it with
the dancing-master ; but after he had tried to kiss her
behind the whatnot that was the end of him. Darien
didn’t intend to have her reputation blown on before
she had made it.
“What blest spot has had the joy of harboring
you until now?” murmured the aide, bending a stiff
pomatumed head.
“Why ... I have just left school,” said Darien
with wide innocent eyes.
“A school for scandal, eh? I’ll wager all the
masters fought duels over the chance of just one smile
from those fair lips.”
“Oh, sir!” murmured Darien, looking down. This
was such fun that she almost forgot Jermyn—who
was probably speechless with admiration and jealousy
in some corner. I shan’t keep those dances for him
much longer, she thought; enjoying the quadrille
almost better, with so many eager hands reaching
and lingering, so many languishing eyes, so many
inspired young bloods doing the pigeonwing in hom-
age to that seduction which Nick Flower had told
her would be the curse of men.
It was a pity Nick Flower was not here to see
her conquest, but perhaps someone would tell him
about it. In the meantime she had never dreamed
that anyone could be so happy; that a brass band
could so fill the world with melody ; that a man’s
arm about her waist could twitch and tighten and
keep on tightening . . .
If I could dance for ever it seems to me I
wouldn’t have to wear stays, thought Darien, panting
a little in the gallop and wondering if she were per-
spiring. No, Mrs. Williams said that ladies didn’t
perspire. Well, anyway, she was doing all that ladies
were allowed to do.
The regimental band swung from quadrille to
waltz and back again. The long room gleamed ;
white arms and shoulders gleamed, color was a de-
lirium of azure, pink and pearly-white, and a thou-
sand brilliancies more —of floating scarves entangling
in epaulettes and being released with pretty shrieks, of
scarlet jackets, black coats, jewels, ringlets floating
glossily, perfumed side-whiskers going off with the
ringlets to supper, champagne bubbling in crystal
glasses, gentlemen being very merry at the buffet,
Caroline bouncirlg like a stray orange down the
centre with the Governor in Sir Roger . . .
BUT many gentlemen were not entirely happy
because, being unable to quarrel about Grey while
drinking the man’s wine, they had to find another
topic. Old Barnes supplied one with the Harbor
Board, which was attempting to get Auckland out to
deep water by casting spoil from the hills over the
mud-flats and laying streets atop to keep it there.
“A child’s game. We need new blood, sir,” he
bellowed at Peregrine, who had been chairman of the
board for a year. “Yes, an’ we’ll put it in at the next
election, too. Flower . . . you know Nick Flower,
all of you? (So many gentlemen looked uncomfort-
able that it was presumed that they did.) Well, he’s
the sort. Sticks at nothin’. Dredges, he says, and
I’ll lay it’s gotta be dredges. At this rate our grand-
children may see deep-water ships berthing at our
wharves. We never will.”
Talk of Flower always stiffened Peregrine. Will
nothing rid me of this traitor, he thought, longing
for Wolsey’s slayers. He said affably—for let a man
think you agree with him and he is half-won already:
“Dredges would be excellent. I have already inquired
for English estimates. We might get a suitable one
delivered here for about five thousand pounds, but I
fear we would need at least three.”
“Ur,” said old Barnes, his lip dropping. More
taxes, eh? Not for him.
“Get that scoundrel Flower to pay for ’em with
the money he’s making by smuggling war material,”
said Major Henry, beginning to bubble with the
champagne.
“When Greek meets Greek”.... began Sir Win-
ston, but the gun-running was always so many red
rags to bulls. They all began roaring together, so
Major Henry went away to talk to Sally—who was not
on the dais where she should have been. Jermyn? . . .
he thought with a stound of fear. But Jermyn (also so
palpably not where he should be) was equally likely
to be where he should not.
Alarm and champagne strove in Major Henry.
Jermyn had no conscience, and Sally ... the Lord
help her, thought the Major; but (being aware by
now that the Lord seldom hurried) he set about
doing it himself, interrupting three proposals and a
quarrel in green bowery outhouses and marquees,
and never finding Sally engaged in one of them. Ter-
rible, he thought, searching frantically. No breath
allowed on female Lovels, egad, though the males
might (and did) give a fillip to life now and then.
B UT among the flax and manuka Jermyn was
v giving Sally so many fillips that she had nothing
to meet them with but tears. She had come with him,
thinking he had a message from Mr. Lovel, but any-
thing less like a message from Mr. Lovel it was impos-
sible to imagine. “Oh, don’t, don’t,” she wept while
.Termyn’s intensest convictions swept over her in a
flood.
Love (declared Jermyn, who seemed quite beside
himself) came from God and was not meant to be
denied. Sally didn’t know what love was. Peregrine
did not. Jermyn, it seemed, was the only one who
did, and he made such a beautiful destroying angel
of it that Sally’s little twitters about eternity got her
less than nowhere. Wouldn’t Jermyn do all a man
could do for her —ajid didn’t he deserve anything for
that? Wasn’t he haunted by her day and night?
And didn’t he deserve anything for that? “Do you
expect me to go to my grave in this torment?” de-
manded Jermyn of a trembling Sally seeing ancient
Jermyns hobbling without their deservings into yawn-
ing vaults. “By God, it’s true enough that a woman
has no heart.”
“Oh, Jermyn, you must understand” . . .
But Jermyn, having so thoroughly let go of him-
self, was afraid to stop and understand. There were
limits, he told her, to patience, to repression. Limits
(it appeared) to everything but love. “I cannot do
without you and I won’t,” he cried, trying to take
her in his arms.
She felt herself pushing him back with both
hands on his breast. “Another word and I’ll never
speak to you again,” she cried, not believing that it
was her own voice saying it, her own body that
dodged suddenly under his arm and carried her at a
run into the house, where she took cover among blue
curtains in the ladies’ dressing-room, explaining to the
startled maid that she had a cold.
“A mustard bath is the best thing, Madam,” said
the maid to a Sally feeling mustard all over her burn-
ing skin, her burning eyes, her burning heart. Please
God let him find comfort in eternity, prayed Sally,
unable to discover any there herself.
This, thought Jermyn, returning later to the bril-
liant barn, is how a whipped cur feels, I suppose.
Tail between his legs and yet wanting to bite. A
radiant Darien was the first person who presented her-
self to be bitten ; dismissing her partner outside a
marquee and walking Jermyn off. “I kept this dance
for you,” said Darien, determined to have no more
nonsense. “But we’ll sit it out.”
“As you please,” said Jermyn wearily.
Sitting with him on a puffy blue satin settee
behind tree-ferns, Darien was perplexed that she did
not swoon with joy at having got Jermyn to herself
at last, disordered though he appeared. But so many
gentlemen were disordered by this time of night, she
thought, willing to make allowances. And that wild
look, like a corsair or a pirate, became him monstrous
well. Quite ready to be pirated by Jermyn she leaned
toward him, laid her hand on his.
“Do I look nice to-night, Jermyn?”
The soft caressing touch sent shocks through
him. Glancing round he saw radiance, warmth, a
quite delirious enchantment of invitation shedding
lovely benison on him. Fragrance of hair and sweet
young flesh, ripe lips half-parted for the kissing. With
a sighing groan he took what the gods and Darien
offered. But even in the kiss he thought those soft
lips were not Sally’s, and he let her go in confused
anger as she cried:
“Jermyn, do you love me? Do you really?”
“No,” he said, getting up, alarmed to find how
he was shaking. “No. I—l beg your pardon. I —l’m
drunk, I think,” he said, conscious that he must soon
be drunker or go mad.
“Well, I didn’t really expect you to at once,”
said Darien kindly. “But you soon will. It’s my
seduction, you know. Mr. Flower said I had it and
I seem to be seducting everybody to-night.”
“Congratulations,” said Jermyn vaguely. He
took her back to the ballroom and went home to
Major Henry’s rum-cask, which was three parts full.
A brave and happy ending to a successful evening, he
thought.
111.
mR. LOVEL was making matters clear to females
next morning at prayers, reading from St.
Paul, who seemed to be the special advocate of
the gentlemen. “Let the woman learn in silence with
all subjection,” read Mr. Lovel sonorously, with sun-
light on the back of Roddy’s neck, of Brian’s where
they knelt hunched at their chairs, softly passing
marbles back and forth ; with shadow on Tiffany’s
clasped hands and eager little face composed into
the puzzled reverence prayers always brought there.
“But I suffer not a woman to teach,” read Mr. Lovel
loud above the faint click of the marbles, “nor to
usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence”
So very definite, St. Paul, thought Sally, trying to
keep little Jerry quiet and watching Darien smiling
at herself in the sideboard mirror. Such an excellent
WHAT WENT BEFORE...
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient (“he would have
them all on his shoulders. And he could carry
them, manipulate them, dispose of them to his
wilt, like God”); easy Sir John, his elder
brother; bluff, bragging 'old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline, “Voluptuous without Indeli-
cacy” ; Peregrine’s fifteen-year-old wife Sally
(“not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency, could
found a family without a woman”); her
younger sister Darien —all of them impover-
ished in England, but ready, under Peregrine,
to found a new aristocracy in a new land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, who
smuggles guns to the Maoris and is “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 comes Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire, to shatter Pere-
grine’s dreams of kingship, to sign the Wai-
tangi Treaty giving the land the Maoris owned
back to the Maoris, making trouble for future
Governors in the signing, and then to sail away
to the south to his new capital at Auckland.
Peregrine follows him with Lovels when the
Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the ship-
yard again, sending John out to establish a
farm. Jermyn tries to persuade Sally from her
“virtuous promenade” with Peregrine, while
Darien, ready for her coming out at Governor
Grey’s ball (“Governors fell like leaves....
and New Zealand had disposed of three in a
short eight years”), has determined on marrying
Jermyn.


friend to the gentlemen. As for Sally and Dariei
and Tiffany, St. Paul promised that they should be
saved in childbirth if they behaved themselves ...
“Amen,” pronounced Mr. Lovel, rising with
dignity.
“Oh, God, please don’t let me hate Mr. Lovel,
prayed Sally, running upstairs to dive into linen-
closets and hurry the maids about their work. So
difficult to remember the names of maids who, hav-
ing arrived in New Zealand with the sole intention
of making a speedy marriage, proved so speedy at it
that one never knew where they were.
As for Tiffany, she had long ceased to pray Our
Father,” feeling that one was more than enough. In
the bush-gully below the house which pioneers had
somehow overlooked in their haste to destroy all that
was New Zealand and make her another England as
soon as might be, Tiffany prayed to the little Maori
god that Hemi Fleete had hacked for her out of a
rich red totara-heart, while Roddy played on a flute
left behind at Lovel Hall by an officer returned to
England.
Wonderful magic in the flute for Roddy, trampling
about on the maidenhair, the soft green mosses ; blow-
ing heaven out in shining bubbles round him, hearing
the blare of glorious trumpets, the far sweet singing
of sirens on enchanted shores, desperate with his in-
ability to proclaim the terrible beauty of everything
to an unseeing world. “Some day I shall go off by
myself and . . . and have lovely things all round me.”
“Will papa let you?” asked Tiffany, since papa let
them do so little they liked.
The boy’s, radiance faded. Up his sleeve young-
est Brian laughed at papa exacting continual cere-
monies, but Roddy feared him. In spite of conquer-
ing trumpets, he knew that he could not conquer
papa. “Well, you needn’t have reminded me of him,
Tiffy.”
“P’r’aps he’ll be dead some day, and then you
can,” said Tiffany, the consoler. “I wish mamma
hadn’t married him. It would be so much nicer
without a papa at all.”
“You’re always wishing,” said Roddy, aching with
his own wishes. “Come home.”
Tiffany came. Brothers would some day be men
and therefore must be obeyed.
I WISH I were my own brother, she thought,
riding that sunny afternoon with Brian and Hew
Garcia up past the creaking windmill that ground
Auckland’s corn on Karangahape-road and through
the scrub beyond to sit outside a Maori whare.
Brian, already one of the fastidious Lovels, would
never go in a whare, although there was usually a pot
of boiling water to pour on the floor to kill some of
the fleas.
Hew had come for a little greenstone heitiki, and
sat in the sun polishing it with a silk handkerchief.
This form of Tiki, the first Maori god, should be
polished by wearing next the skin for generations ;
but Hew, being English, couldn’t wait for that. He
looked very ruddy and English among the fat Maori
women, easy in their one garment, plaiting little green-
flax baskets for kai; among the fat, brown
men lazily slicing fragrant yellow shavings off half-
made canoe-paddles, or carving the ceremonial tops.
Niggers, thought Brian, who was rapidly imbibing
Auckland’s opinions. He wanted to be gone, but
Hew, who always liked to air his knowledge, would
talk ; and since he was twelve and much stronger
than lean, dark little Brian there didn’t seem any-
thing to do about it.
“Tiki made men out of red clay, and women out
of echoes,” said Hew. “So all women are only
echoes. Do you hear, Tiffany? You are only my
echo, so you must agree with everything I say.”
“I can’t if it isn’t true,” objected Tiffany, nursing
two little pigs.
“It would be true, of course. But you must agree
anyway,” declared Hew, staring at her under his
thick, dark brows.
“A po-pofessing Christian shouldn’t believe in
Maori gods.”
“I never said I believed.” Hew got up, pocketing
the heitiki. He no longer wanted to kiss Tiffany.
“You can’t tell the truth”
“I can,” shrieked Tiffany, flying at him. “ ‘Cursed
be thy incomings and thy outgoings.’ ”
“Good, my girl,” said Brian, sniggering. Tiffany
at any rate found some value in morning prayers.
Hew avoided her onrush, suddenly disconcerted.
“I don’t fight girls. I’m going. Come, Brian.”
Brian, who specially disliked Tiffany when lumul-
tuous and nursing pigs, got his pony, and the two rode
off into the tall manuka-trees, leaving Tiffany dumb
with horror at herself, conscious that she had sud-
denly wanted to scratch Hew, bite bits out of him.
Often in her rebellions against rules she bit her arms
and the ends of her curls, but she had never before
wanted to bite other people. And she had cursed . . .
after telling Tane she would be good, too. Our
Father would surely come off his cloud and kill her.
Hoping that he would get her before papa did, since
Brian would certainly tell papa, she scrambled on her
pony and pelted off to Corny Fleete’s, feeling that if
she couldn’t soon sec kindly understanding Hemi
she’d die.
IN Corny’s big untidy house Haini Fleete sat all
day, weaving glowing mats for her tribal relations,
with her daughters sorting the bright piles of dyed
flax and feathers on the floor. Haini would look so
splendid in mats, said Tiffany, stroking their soft-
ness, and Haini’s voice sounded mysterious and far
off like the witch of Endor as she answered:
“One day I think all Maoris will wear the mat
again. Do not wait for the dark, little Tihane. Rehu
Pai is still unburied.”
All Maoris dread the dark, particularly when an
unburied ghost is about. Tiffany said, hesitating:
“Isn’t Hemi anywhere?”
“He is flying the new kite . . .. the manu aute.
He wants a good omen.” Tiffany knew all about
kites, just as she knew all about the spinning-tops as
big as your head which the young men whipped over
ditches and hedges to make themselves strong and
deep-breathed in battle. Every Maori game was a
preparation for battle. Hemi’s new kite had a head
like a man, with shells rattling inside, and to fly it
over an enemy’s pa was very bad for the mana of
all the chiefs there. “Is Hemi going to fight?” Tif-
fany asked.
“Ana pea. Who knows? Go, Tihane. We have
not seen the little green lizards, but they must have
come for Rehu Pai.”
Tiffany rode hastily home through an equally
hasty sunset, for the North does not dally on the
confines of light and dark. The world seemed far and
strange and very still.
“Oh, go quick, Selim,” gasped Tiffany, who
hadn’t yet been able to rid herself of belief in Rienga,
that mysterious Cape in the far North, where, escorted
by the little green lizards, every Maori soul has to go
after its body is buried in two halves of a canoe and
stuck up in an outhouse or a tree. At Te Rienga the
soul slings itself into the sea by a branch and enters
Te Po . . . the Darkness. But what happened to it
then not even Hemi could tell her.
Down the hill a few belated Maoris moved with
torches, for there is no protection from a wandering
ghost except poking a lighted torch in its eye. Tif-
fany had no torch as defence against the ghostly soul
of Rehu Pai. For the first time she thought of the
soul as separate from the body, and cold tremors
ran over her. Would it be raw and red like a new
baby, or would it grow to be a giant when it got out
of bent old Rehu Pai? Was that the soul moaning
in the bracken, turning up the white sides of the tus-
sock in search of the little green lizards? . . .
In Rehu Pai’s house all the old women would be
howling the tangi, crying: “Go! Travel the long
road. Go to the majority lost in darkness” ; cutting
their wrinkled cheeks and breasts with the sharp pipi-
shell; while men would be skinning animals for the
feast, and Rehu Pai, sitting alone with all his best
mats and weapons and plates and knives hung on the
fence behind him, would be watching his poor soul
hunting for the lizards . . .
There was the soul, big as a giant, waving its
arms at her out of the dark . . . The tall pale clump of
toitoi grass turned its feathery fronds as she galloped
by, screaming heartily with terror. Then the pony
put his foot in a hole, and the one pommel in the
pad-saddle was not enough to keep Tiffany there.
HEMI found her limping through the grey dusk
with face set against the world. He had a torch,
and in the wild blown light his tawny face with the
thin English lips was lovelier to Tiffany than an
angel’s. She gripped him with frantic hands.
“Oh, Hemi, I’ve been so wicked, and the ghost
upset Selim and he’s gone home. Hemi, you won’t
let Rehu Pai have me, will you? I don’t want to go
to Te Po.”
At thirteen big Hemi was on the edge of Maori
manhood and receiving private instruction from the
priestly tohungas about the Books of Life and Death
and his own exalted ancestry which went back and
back like the Begats in the Bible. Soon (Haini had
said, standing among her flowing hair like a prophet-
ess) Hemi must run away to the great chief in the
Waikato who was his grandfather and like the mighty
rata-tree wherein a thousand birds nested and a thou-
sand ferns and vines took root. There Hemi would
go through the long and painful initiation into a war-
rior’s status and have cut on his smooth young cheeks
the special double-spiral which (like a duke’s straw-
berry-leaves) would leave no doubt of his birth.
Hemi, conscious that he should want to go much
more than he did, shyly offered Tiffany his arm, just
as white men did their women, and felt somehow
crowned when she clung to it, as though she had made
him all white. Yet he didn’t want to be white, and
he despised his white father. Oh, where do I belong?
thought Hemi, taking Tiffany past the mill heavy on
Maori land as though it would bend and break it . . .
and the Maoris down here didn’t care. They were
not like the warriors of Nene and Hone Heke. They
tilled ground for the white man and pushed his
barrows and drove his bullocks. They were learning
to drink the white man’s Stinking Water and shame
their birth. And the English soldiers had proud
stomachs and called the Maoris nigger, and the new
kite would not fly . . .
“Nothing is the same now, Tihane,” said Hemi,
dimly feeling the weight of a dying race on his young
shoulders.
In the Domain, as they passed through it, two
old Maori gentlemen squatted outside a reed whare,
cooking their supper in red embers. The one with
the black pipe (whispered Hemi, pausing) was Te
Rauparaha, once too great a chief for a Maori to
name. But after the Nelson trouble the English had
made him a prisoner for a year on a man-o’-war, &nd
now it pleased him to attend Governor Grey at
levees, wearing a naval uniform as a delicate sugges-
tion that his sojourn afloat had not been at all what
people imagined.
“He has lost his spiritual power, his mana,” said
Hemi bitterly. “Now he is nothing. Once a chief is
prisoner he can never again be a chief. He should
have killed himself . . . for there were handcuffs l
The one stirring the pot is Te Whero.”
Of the two, Hemi most despised Te Whero, that
powerful Waikato chief who had become a Christian
and sent little notes to Heke (still unregenerate in the
North) explaining that if he wanted Auckland he must
first fight all the Waikato. Heke did want Auckland,
but not under those conditions. So, said Hemi scorn-
fully, it was that old fellow, magnificently tattooed
and wearing the huia feather of royalty beneath his
belltopper who really protected everybody. The
English only lived because Te Whero allowed it.
TE WHERO, talking across the cooking-haangi to
Te Rauparaha, was not very sure why he did allow
it. Everywhere the Maori was discovering that the
pakeha’s politics were as muddled as his religions,
which Heke once wrote to pakeha Queen Victoria
about. “We are too confused with your religions,”
wrote Heke. “We do not know which way to worship
your God now.”
Truly enough they didn’t. The early mission-
aries had been simple men, teaching the plain law of
Christ with one hand and carpentry and blacksmith-
ing with the other. Then came the Roman Catholics,
talking of Mary and Purgatory and Confession ; and
the High Church Anglicans, under Bishop Selwyn,
telling that God could only be approached with genu-
flections and no end of paraphernalia ; and the Bap-
tists, who said you must get right under water before
God would look at you ; and the Methodists, who
said that God did not like his priests to wear long
gowns. Altogether, this pakeha God was very capri-
cious and couldn’t kill with a curse, as any good
tohunga could. As for the law of tapu, the English
had nothing to touch it.
“The old gods were best,” said Te Rauparaha,
smoking thoughtfully in the shadows. Aue! True
. . . true as dying, agreed Te Whero. And a mis-
sionary had once told him that if he disobeyed this
contradictory God he would go for ever into outer
darkness where the flames of hell would burn him.
But when Te Whero asked how it could be dark if
there were flames he had no answer. A Maori can
always find an answer to anything. Yet it seemed
that the pakeha were like sands of the sea for number
and every tide piled them higher on Ao-tea-roa’s
shores. So peace was best, agreed the two old war-
riors, and this English tobacco was very good . . .
“Come,” said Hemi, dragging Tiffany roughly.
But she knew that his anger was not for her, and
went with him quietly, past the barracks and up to her
own gate. Brian met her at the door.
“Well, Miss, papa is looking for you,” said Brian,
grinning. Tiffany went in, unsuspecting that Sally
was also in disgrace for bravely objecting to Brian’s
tale-telling.
“I asked him why he had left her. Would you
have him tell a lie?” cried Peregrine, who was so con-
scientiously bringing up his family that he cut from
the papers any paragraphs unfit for them to see . . .
a habit which gave Brian a deal of trouble, because
he had to go down to Hew’s twice weekly in order
to read those paragraphs.
I.
ALLY, who hadn’t expected anything of the
Pxjlll kind, tried to hide her dismay when Caro-
line arrived at Peregrine’s new house on the
next section and proceeded to “settle in” ;
hanging numberless stuff curtains confined
HhwffiiKl by heavy woollen cords and tassels, putting
up gilt brackets everywhere; arranging
books of engravings on the one-legged round table in
the middle of the sitting-room, and otherwise being
ornately vulgar in the best Victorian manner, while
the girls crocheted feverishly at bright woollen mats
to put under everything.
“I never waste time,” said Caroline, bustling
about with a great swishing of many petticoats. Nor
did she, thought Sally, coming to call and feeling as
though she had somehow got into a rag-bag. Caroline
never wasted anything except life, and now her whole
mind was full of climbing to the pinnacle of Auckland
Society.
“Everything is possible now,” Caroline cried with
whole orchestras of thanksgiving in her voice, “though
of course most people would pay one for looking
after their houses for them. But I’ve learned not to
expect gratitude . . . Sophia! How long do you mean
to take over hemming that frill?”
Sophia, who always tried so hard to be good
that no one could bear her, jumped, upsetting a vase
of red geraniums over the purple merino. And then
she cried so much that Caroline had to box her ears
and send her for the brimstone-and-treacle.
“Oh, no. Oh, please, mamma. I know thats
what makes my spots so bad.”


“Wicked, ungrateful child! If you have spots
with brimstone I’d like to know what you’d have
without it. Leprosy, probably,” said Caroline, ad-
ministering a large dose and dabbing the merino with
her handkerchief. “I do think you ought to make
Darien drench herself, Sally. She is getting far too
lively. I hear all sorts of stories about her.”
Caroline would soon be adding to them, thought
Sally, going away; wondering why Mr. Lovel had
given Caroline the house, and never guessing how he
had desired to put poor John under an obligation
with a view to annexing the finest of his flocks and
herds when the time came for the Peregrine Lovels
to settle on the land. I don’t want to be selfish, but
I do wish they were not so near, thought Sally, who
had had so much of Caroline at Kororareka.
Meanwhile Auckland erected another equally
hideous barracks behind those on Britomart Hill,
called them Albert after England’s Prince Consort and
proceeded to house the increasing number of regi-
ments so grudgingly sent by England.
In fact, what with the land-trouble and too many
tupara-guns. Queen Victoria’s Maori nurselings were
having the time of their lives ; pot-shotting each other
out of sheer delight and keeping their nursemaids con-
tinually on the trot trying to prevent it, while taxes
went up and revenue went down and Governor Grey
still refused to execute the Charter.
rtEREGRINE, working so diligently that one had a
\ constant impression of flying coat-tails, scented
disaster in the wind and thrust out more tentacles.
When the steamer H.M.S. Driver came up the Waite-
mata some years back colonists sternly refused to
believe in her, referring to her distantly as to some
vulgar feat of legerdemain. But Peregrine believed.
Steam would come ; and as New Zealand had no iron
for machinery-making, shipbuilding must fail. The
land . . . the land which no one could have was
the only realy stability, decided Peregrine, wondering
how he could get it, pulling here and there at interm-
inable strings, and mounting an eyeglass—which
was difficult to see through but gained him much
added respect.
“Our Peregrine goes through life as he will go
through eternity, always expecting it to touch its hat
to him. And it usually does,” said Jermyn. “Lord,
how the British stock loves an autocratic aristocrat.”
Like a wounded scorpion, Jermyn was now sting-
ing himself and his Lovel pride so brilliantly in
the “Chronicle” that it decided to send him down to
report on that upstart town Wellington, which had
actually given a ball in its own Government House
and set up its own legislation, being so neglected by
Auckland. “Trounce ’em well, the blaggards,” said
the “Chronicle” ; so Jermyn went up the hill to hurt
Sally with his information —if she cared, but who
knew what women would do, thought Jermyn, once
so certain that he knew all about them.
Peregrine was there, stuffed as full of importance
as a goose and bristling with demands.
“Then, Jermyn, I can utilise you in my new
enterprise,” Peregrine said, walking up and down a
carpet as flowery as his periods, while Sally sat like
some dim enchantment in a corner, stitching wrist-
bands, weaving spells. “Corny Fleete and I have been
considering these increasing little settlements along
the east coast,” said Peregrine, “and we believe that
a regular service might prove lucrative since they now
have to depend for necessities on whaling-ships or an
occasional lugger. So we are sending the Nestor with
a large consignment of agricultural implements, hard-
ware and so forth, and I offer you a free passage on
her if you will report results at each settlement. You
understand?” asked Peregrine, pausing at last before
Jermyn and peering through his eyeglass.
“I desire to discover,” Peregrine went on, “if a
regular service—possibly as far as Wellington—
is likely to be satisfactory. It must come some day
since water is naturally the only means of traffic this
country can ever have.” Peregrine was quite unable
to visualise roads through these hundreds of miles
of relentless ranges and still more relentless Maoris,
and was determined to make some hay before the rain
of steamers spoiled it.
“You might discover Nick Flower and his
smugglers,” suggested Darien from the rocking-chair
where she was humming like a tawny bee—with a
waspish waist and sting, thought Peregrine, asserting
acidly that Jermyn would not need to occupy him-
self with chimeras.
“I wouldn’t call Nick Flower a chimera. Much
more like a mastiff,” declared Darien. And Jermyn
is a greyhound, she thought. With those long, slender
limbs and his cinnamon-color coat he was very like
a greyhound ; though he had never kissed her again,
nor called her a parterre of roses, nor written any-
thing in the album, now so full of burning verses
that it was a wonder the cover didn’t shrivel. She
dropped him a curtsy as he went away.
“Adieu, fair sir. I may be engaged when you
return.”
“Congratulations to the happy man ... or men,
for I can’t think you’ll be content with one,” said
Jermyn, going out with Peregrine.
• “A shocking quiz, I vow,” cried Darien, shrug-
ging. Jermyn—her brilliant Lord Nelson—should
come to Lady Hamilton some day even if she had to
find a husband first to make him jealous. She ran
up to her room to write in her diary: “Jermyn is a
Brown Fawn and a Don Juan, and perhaps I shall
marry some fool to Floute him and make him so
jealous he will run off with me and do some great
Deed to make him notorious. Till then I will be a
notorious Bell myself for it is vastly entertaining.”
11.
U MAN with many irons in the fire needs the
material for constant stoking, and so Nick
* " Flower, having no patience with cooling irons,
was rarely in one place long. Waterside taverns every-
where knew the tall man with his big shoulders and
harsh voice and sharp half-closed eyes; rickety little
offices in Auckland and Wellington and Sydney knew
him, their owners rising to shake hands in a heartiness
they seldom felt —for Flower usually got more than
his pound of flesh out of every bargain. The Maoris
knew him and welcomed him more freely than others
did, since proud chiefs, refusing to deal any longer
with ordinary traders, found Flower always ready
to remember that they had backbones and had owned
the country long before the graceless pakeha came.
So Flower did heavy trade in the midlands; and,
besides the smuggled ammunition, many kegs of strong
black tobacco, many cases of saws, axes and knives,
many bottles of sauces and vinegars to give a relish
to plain food were landed free of duty from brigs
and cutters lurching in the rough seas along those
rugged wooded coasts. Flower, who never saw why
he should have mercy on any man, fleeced the chiefs
too, but not so savagely as other white men did . . .
white men who had infinitely fewer morals than the
Maori, he thought, sitting now by a campfire within
the tall carved ramparts of Te Mahia’s pa below the
snowy shoulder of Mount Egmont in the Taranaki.
Close in the red flicker of light lay a young Maori;
hands clenched, dark eyes rolling under the anguish of
tattoo, but scorning (stout fellow) to let a groan out
of him as the naked squatting old tohunga tap-tapped
out the long cheek-lines with mallet and shark-tooth
knife, wiping away the blood with the twist of dressed
flax round his little finger. For many months the
torture would go on, as much at a time as the protest-
ing flesh could bear, with charcoal dropped into the
open wounds until the smooth brown young cheeks
and forehead were scarred for ever into an indigo
ferocity. And then the tohunga would begin on the
man’s rump.
BY what right did the English consider themselves
so superior to a race which passed into manhood
through such an initiation ; whose chiefs-to-be must
prove themselves in yet bitterer ways ; whose every
child-game is a gruelling test of courage and deter-
mination and strength? Our white skin, I suppose,
thought Flower, shrugging and consulting a notebook.
The selling of tattooed enemy-heads to museums
all over the world had been almost stopped, but there
were still a few to be picked up and secretly got away.
Te Mahia (said Flower’s notebook) had several . . .
The missionaries, always so ready to believe, thought
they had stopped the tattooing ; but, in spite of that
giant Bishop Selwyn walking all over the island on
his long legs, what did the whites know of the hap-
penings in these deep forests?
What did those arrogant English gentlemen know,
fussily planting English oaks and silver birches round
their new houses, importing Chinese pheasants and
peacocks to walk on their new lawns, importing
brindled bulldogs to hunt the great droves of Captain-
Cook pigs back in the hills, importing blooded horses
for their racing and silk bonnets for their ladies to walk
abroad in? What did they know in their blind child-
ish conceit of the dangers they were piling up for them-
selves by their insolence to the Maori, their crazy
denunciation of their Governors in the papers?
All the ignorance of civilisation, thought Flower,
strolling through the dimness to another fire, where
a missionary-taught lad out of one of the Bishop’s
schools was slowly translating from a recent
“Chronicle.” “With eyes turned to heaven and lips
dropping unctuous rectitude our Pecksniffian Gov-
ernor is robbing Peter to pay Paul and elegantly build-
ing schools for savages while consistently denying to
white immigrants the use of their land”
The jolly little group round the campfire under-
stood enough of that to bellow their amusement. A
young warrior took the reader’s head under his arm,
pretending to punch it. “Hori Grey!” he shouted,
and the men beat their heels on the ground in ecstasy.
So that was where England’s honor was going to.
Yet the Maoris would have respected Grey if they
had been allowed, for he surely was doing all that
mortal man could do in the face of more confusions
than any country had ever before been cursed with.
“Aue,” grunted Te Mahia at Flower’s elbow.
“This is not good. Should a Maori say half that of a
chief he would be dead in two days. Why does not
your white chief also kill?”
“He can’t,” said Flower dryly. Te Mahia
digested that slowly.
“All the Taranaki is saying that to be ruled by
a chief whom his own warriors laugh at is an evil
thing,” he remarked at last.
“Wanganui is saying it, too, And the Waikato.”
Flower looked sideways at the grim old face. Touch
a Maori’s pride and only blood will comfort him.
Well, damn it, why not touch it? War had to come
anyway. “Some day Maori warriors may learn to
laugh at their own chiefs, Te Mahia.”
“The chiefs are thinking of that,” said Te Mahia,
walking away.
FLOWER went down to Wellington with the tat-
tooed heads in a carpet-bag. He had paid through
the nose for them, but they were worth their weight
in gold now. Vienna Museum . . . that one in
Budapest . . . considering their relative merits, Flower
walked through the steep little Wellington streets
(Wellington was already hanging like numerous
swallows’ nests on its high cliffs) and drank a modest
brandy at a little table in the Prince Consort tavern.
A young man with loose fair hair and a general ele-
gance gone somehow astray sat alone at a distant
table. Jermyn Lovel, egad, looking for once as
though the world was not well with him. Flower
went down the sanded floor, asking for Auckland
news, but Jermyn, it seemed, had none to give.
Indeed, he gave so little of anything that Flower
was immediately interested. Something biting this
young buck, so smart in his sherry-color coat and
ruby pin catching the firelight, so sullen about the
tired eyes and drooping well-cut mouth. Feeling his
way, Flower talked idly of the commerce of crowns
and countries, the feeding-bottle logic of the old men,
the heady aspirations of the young.
“No mistaking your hand in the ‘Chronicle’
now, Mr. Lovel. It’s a great thing to have an influ-
ence on men’s minds. I have to content myself with
influencing their fortunes.”
There are no great things, Jermyn wanted to say.
How could there be when an honest man is reduced
to making a virtue of prostituting his conscience? He
said instead: “Have the ordinary men minds?”
“Precious few, I grant you. Nor fortunes either.”
Another drink or so, and Jermyn would loosen up,
thought Flower, instructing the waitress. What did
this young fool know of the plums Flower could
drop into that sulky mouth if he chose? The New
Zealand Company (Flower could tell him) will shortly
throw in the towel, handing over its debts to Eng-
land and getting out as best it can. And England will
undoubtedly push those debts back on the New
Zealand Government which is Auckland. More
lOUs for Nick Flower then; fewer liqueurs for the
gentlemen and not so many Paris bonnets for the
ladies. Lord Almighty, what a scoop for young
Lovel and the “Chronicle” to get in first with that
news! Of the Maoris Flower could tell him ; of the
blind stupid mistakes made by every civilisation in
taking hold . . .
“Why have no white men the imagination to read
history?” he asked.
But Jermyn was not here to be asked riddles. He
gulped raw brandy, that began to glitter in his eyes,
loosened up with a tirade against hell of all places.
Hell, he said, very tragic and confidential, had been
defined as the epitome of effort and failure. Did
Flower know anything of failure?
“Philosophers know,” declared Jermyn, pouring
more brandy. “Their job to dissect the soul . . .
Where is the soul?”
“In most women and few men, I should imagine,”
said Flower. What woman was young Lovel chasing
with such smoky tempest in his eyes?
“A woman, sir,” said Jermyn, staring profoundly
out of disordered waves of hair, “is an ’nigma.”
“She thinks she is,” amended Flower.
“And life in t-towns is jush a refined way o’ going
to pieces.”
“A very elegant way, I’m sure. I hope I’ll never
have to try it.” How many more platitudes was this
fellow going to cast at him? “What did you see along
the coast?” he asked.
“Sent tools ashore instead. P’r’aps they know
how to behave. I don’t. T-tryin’ . . . self-restraint.
Ever you try self-reshtraint with a woman?”
“Oh, take her, man. For the Lord’s sake, take
her if you want her. What else is a woman for?
Don’t you know yet how the pretty creatures despise
us for self-restraint?”
“What’s that?” Jermyn sat up with a glare.
“Despise us? For-for not throwing their caps over
windmills? Don’t b’lieve it. No woman likes
throwing”
“Plenty of underground ways, ain’t there?” asked
Flower, and went away, for there is no profit in
conversation with a man besotted by love.
111.
CHE year wound its way into the hot Christmas
weather, with a dance of heat on the fern and
the harbor like milk, curdled here and there by
passing boats. Major Henry, missing Jermyn, took
much notice of Roddy and Tiffany, finding pleasure
in enlarging their innocent minds beyond the straight
limits of Peregrine and his dogmas . . . and all other
dogmas that preached what they did not practise.
“I’m going to be a Mohammedan,” announced
Tiffany, borrowing Major Henry’s best rug for a
prayer-carpet and sneaking down to the bush-gully
to conduct her orisons among the birds. “Now I am
a Confucian,” she cried, coming out of a tattered
book on old China with glowing eyes. Making her
soul, this intense childish Tiffany revelling with the
immortals while Darien played havoc with the mortals
and provoked several private duels.
Never, thought Darien, did I know anyone could
be so happy. Handsome macaronis, balls, routs,
kettledrums, picnics by land and water, riding-parties
—Darien in a long rust-color habit and wide hat with
sweeping plumes was even bowling over Captain
Lord Calthorpe, the adamantine barracks bachelor.
Very thin about the legs, little Lord Calthorpe
in his tight glossy Hessian boots, and always too
redolent of scent and brandy. But all the young
ladies were envious, and Letitia Baizey so far forgot
her pledged friendship as to call Darien an odious
cat.
So what more could a girl ask to fill the days
while waiting for Jermyn, who had gone to Sydney or
the South Island (both as remote as the moon). I
ask no more, thought Darien, snipping little curls
from her abundant bright hair for fob-lockets, scat-
tering breast-knots to be mumbled over by male lips,
and contriving, despite Peregrine’s niggardliness, to
do with an old sprigged muslin of Sally’s and a few


ribbons what other girls couldn’t do with a banking-
account.
SHE grows lovelier all the time, thought Sally,
fondly peeping through her fingers during morning
prayers. And indeed Darien was lovely in the clear
sunlight this morning, with faint violet shadows be-
neath her dark-lashed changing eyes and a paler rose
on the fair skin. But she felt suddenly red right down
to her white ruffle when a little later she put herself
in the way of Mr. Lovel going for his hat.
“I have to inform you,” she said with all the
majesty she could muster, “that I engaged myself to
two gentlemen last night and I don’t want either of
them. Will you kindly tell them so?”
“Oh, Darien!” gasped Sally.
“You did what?” demanded Peregrine, really
unable to believe his ears.
“Two gentlemen. Double-banked. And —and
I don’t know what to do with the fools,” said Darien,
feeling hysterics coming very fast. “If only men
knew what they look like on their knees . . . both
knees and he forgot to pull his trousers up . . . don’t
stare at me like that! I won’t have it. Your eyes are
too close together. I always say so. Sally,” cried
Darien, feeling the hysterics arrived, “why do you
let his eyes be too close together?”
“Stop that infernal nonsense,” said Peregrine,
almost forgetting his dignity. “Am I to understand
that you accepted proposals from two of Mr. Seager’s
guests last night?”
“They were so funny. I wanted to see how funny
they could be. Men in love are always so peculiar.
Oh, don’t stamp. Don’t. It makes you so funny
to-o,” giggled Darien, collapsing into a chair and
mopping her eyes.
“Oh, darling,” cried Sally, rushing with a glass
of water. Peregrine plucked her away.
“Kindly leave this to me, my dear. What are
the names of these deluded gentlemen, Miss Vibart?”
“Oh, not deluded, I think. A little d-drunk,
perhaps”
“Their names, if you please . . . should you
happen to know them.”
“Of course I know them ... I don’t know Mr.
Milliken’s Christian name, though Bertram would suit
him. That fop Calthorpe has as many names as a
fine puss gentleman might be expected to. Eustace
Algernon Charles”
“Am I to understand that you have accepted
Lord Calthorpe?” Peregrine felt himself cooling
down amazingly. No good record attached to this
young sprig of the nobility who (said rumor) had
been cashiered from the Hussars and squeezed by
anxious relatives into an infantry regiment sailing for
the colonies, the relatives promising that he would
receive a handsome remittance so long as he stayed
there. But few lords with handsome remittances grew
on colonial bushes, and all the Auckland mammas
were after this one . . . who must have been drunker
than usual to allow himself to be caught.
But caught he’d stay now, thought Peregrine,
promising to go up to the barracks and attend to the
matter immediately.
“Tell him to give you that curl of mine he has
in the locket with the diamonds,” said Darien, feeling
herself reviving a little. “Leta Baizey is in the chased
one.”
“Oh, Darien,” said Sally helplessly as Peregrine
went out. Darien sighed.
“It’s terrible to be a woman and say what you
don’t mean and be caught on the hop. I’m not half
ready to marry yet, Sally. Women get nothing out
of marriage . . . though they do get something out
of engagements. Presents and envy and things.” She
wiped her eyes and stood up. “Oh, dear, I wish I
hadn’t got in a panic. Two engagements at once
would be so amusing and experiencing.”
Of a morning ladies in second-best gloves
and shawls did business here with the
marketing Maoris.
Sally suggested that an engagement with Darien
would probably be experiencing although not very
amusing for the gentlemen.
“I have no wish to amuse them . . . idle fops,”
said Darien, beginning to tidy her hair. Since Jermyn
wouldn’t propose, all men were monsters. “Men are
monsters, Sal-volatile, and so conceited you wouldn’t
believe. It is women,” cried Darien, suddenly feel-
ing herself inspired, “who carry all the burden of
this horrid pioneering. But who will go down to
history as the heroes of it? Not women. It’s
only we who have made it possible. And men”
Darien (who could be shrewd enough when she chose)
went on to picture men keeping voluminous diaries
in order to explain to posterity how each of them
had saved the country single-handed—if it should be
saved, which was uncommon doubtful since they
held the reins.
“And will there by any mention of women in
those diaries, Sally? Not one, I’ll wager. My
diary will tell posterity the truth, anyway,”
she cried, rushing off to it, while Sally put the
china together with trembling hands, quite frightened
at this tumbling of the gentlemen off their pedestals.
PREPARING to tumble another gentleman off, Pere-
grine sent in his card to Lord Calthorpe, who, some-
what limp in a saffron gown with green cords, was
cursing his batman because breakfast tasted like hell.
He greeted his visitor sulkily. “What’ll you have?
A chair? Brandy? Shall I send for some eggs?
Gad, I must have been on the tiles properly last night.
Can’t remember how, though,” he added, scratching
a sandy head under the gold-tasselled nightcap.
Quite prepared for this, Peregrine reminded him
so clearly and skilfully that the little lord sat up
straight for once.
“My eye, did I though? I must have been blind
drunk. ’Ssure you, Mr. Lovel, I always stop short of
proposals. Promised my fam’ly . . . word of honor,
don’t y’ know. Accepted me, did she? Doosed
awkward, that. I thought she had more sense. Well
. . . just tell her I was in my cups, will you? In my
cups and no harm done ... I hope?”
“As Miss Vibart’s guardian, sir,” said Peregrine,
at his stateliest, “I am entitled to ask what you mean
by that. Are you repudiating an engagement which
Miss Vibart in all good faith has already made
public?”
“Has she, though? By jove! Doosed awkward,
that. Bloody awkward,” said Lord Calthorpe, col-
lapsing again and staring feebly at Peregrine.
“Are you repudiating the engagement, sir?”
“Oh, no, no. By no means. Can’t do that . . .
can I? Gentleman can’t . . . can he?” said Cal-
thorpe, who was always discovering to his sorrow
that he had been born a gentleman. “If gal sticks
to it —she does stick to it? Eh?”
“Would she have announced it otherwise? I
confess I am at a loss to understand your attitude,
sir, when I have come to offer my congratulations
on your conquest of a particularly charming lady.”
“Eh? Oh, cert’nly. Mettlesome filly . , . Doosed
good of you and all that. Have some brandy? I —l
don’t think I feel quite well,” said the little lord,
pouring it out.
“Nor does she, poor child. She was weeping
with excitement when I left. You know what women
in love are, my lord,” said Peregrine, offering balm
to go with the brandy. And the two appeared to
blend so well that before he left Calthorpe was
almost reconciled.
“Stop the others chasing me, eh? Won’t it?
’Ssure you, sir, mammas are the devil. I scarcely
dare get drunk. I’ll get drunk to-night, though. No
more danger, eh? Well, I can’t go and call this
mornin’. Parade duty. I’ll be up this evenin’ if she’s
still stickin’ to it. Eh? You think she will be stickin’
to it?”
“Can you doubt her?” said Peregrine, going off
to interview Lieutenant Milliken. If Darien made
any more trouble he’d put her in the stocks.
Milliken, being frankly detrimental, was easily
managed. “I love her, sir,” he said sadly. “But, of
course, it was too much luck for me. I —l wish her
happy. I know I am . . . unworthy.”
“What woman can resist a title and diamonds?
Calthorpe has both,” said Peregrine, finishing a fruit-
ful morning by presenting the “Southern Cross” and
the “Chronicle” offices with a few extremely important
scrawled words procured from Calthorpe, and return-
ing to Darien, who (how like a woman!) received his
news in the aloof
manner one might as-
sociate with queens,
while Sally (who
never had any sense)
wept copiously.
“Well, of course,
I didn’t really suppose
he’d want to give me
up, and I fancy an en-
gaged gentleman is
quite funny. Did you
tell him I won’t return
his presents when I
break it off, even if
he is mean enough to
want them?”
Sally, looking
up timidly at Mr.
Lovel, saw something
in his face that did
not go with breakings-
off and cried harder.
Surely not even Mr.
Lovel could force dar-
ling reckless Darien
into that? But Jer-
myn had once said
that it was God’s
great jest to allow
Adam to develop his
ego before Eve
appeared, and he had been developing it ever since,
Mr. Lovel’s ego spreading across the world so dark-
ened it that it was quite difficult to fulfil her promise
to Tiffany, and presently beg that the child might go
to school at Mrs. Dupont’s.
“Mrs. Dupont? Who is she? Is it a School of
Detention?” demanded Peregrine, remembering a
Tiffany who would certainly be the better for that,
“A—a seminary for the daughters of gentlemen,
just opened in Commercial Bay. Lady Martin is
sending her daughters”
“I should not dream of it. A girl has no need
for tuition outside her home. A blue-stocking in my
family? No, I thank you. Let Tiffany learn to do
her duty by her parents and her brothers and she will,
I hope, later do her duty by her husband and her
children. 1 very much dislike publicity for females,”
declared Peregrine, still smarting under Darien’s
publicity.
He took a turn through the room, glancing at
Sally sitting so quiet in her pale flowing muslins with
that decorous little cap on her bent head, and an
unexpected rush of thankfulness went through him.
“If she grows up like you, my dear, I shall be well
content,” he added more kindly. “And Caroline don’t
mean to send her girls, you know.”
So Sally said, “Yes, Mr. Lovel,” and went to tell
the bad news to Tiffany, who ran straightway down
to Major Henry and became a Buddhist.
“How many more religions are there?” she asked,
seriously doubting if any single religion would be
enough comfort just now.
IV.
IN Auckland affairs moved but slowly ; with no
money behind any enterprise, with sailormen wait-
ing in rough waterfront taverns for their ships to
fill with hides, tallow and timber ; with immigrants
waiting for land and continually tragic or abusive
according to their natures.
This country, the immigrants said, gave no in-
crease save of customs duties, which were now its
only revenue. So they sailed away in large numbers
to the Australian and Californian goldfields, and
Maoris, who took a holiday if you spoke to them,
wheeled the barrows of gunny-sacks and drove the
patient red-and-white bullocks down the steep streets
to the rickety wharf and the mud-flats still greasy in
the sun and unconquered by the Harbor Board.
Yet for the gentlemen, so strangely favored by
St. Paul, life had plenty of salt, with no end of
regattas, pig-hunting, horse-racing, flirtations, and
on the night Jermyn returned from the South Island,
a tremendous to-do at the Mechanic’s Institute with
all the members present.
Jermyn’s work had preceded him in a quite out-
rageous letter to a Sydney paper, where, after prais-
ing the enterprise of Wellington, he had basely
attacked Auckland, to this effect: —•
“Auckland, although a mere scatter of huts,
sheds, tents, raupo whares and lean, weatherboard
houses singularly unimpressive staggering alongside
ill-kept streets, chooses to flaunt as a Town by erect-
ing a tavern to every three miserable stores in Com-
mercial Bay and baptising all with such Sounding
names as Crown Hotel, Theatre Royal, the Law
Courts, which, though propping the gaol, would fall
without its support. In Official Bay the Governor
has set up the horrid Pomp of autocracy so that his
boots are kept clean by the lickings of his Toadies ;
and the Colonial Office, aided by the Legislative Coun-
cil, which, since the Governor holds two votes in a
Council of four appointed by the Crown, is no more
than a political rag to cover the nakedness of all con-
cerned, are between them daily driving the country
further on the Road to Ruin.”
There were few who were not hit, and the air in
the dirty little room was very hostile. Peregrine,
severely pricked by the jibe of toadying, opened with:
“We have requested your presence here at the earliest
available moment, Jermyn, in order that you may
explain the meaning of these outrageous insults” -
“My insults were never considered outrageous so
long as they referred merely to the Governor,”
retorted Jermyn. He looked older, thought Major
Henry, uneasily, with new lines beneath those wide
bright eyes, that were almost glittering gold to-night.
Still hag-ridden, thought the Major, cursing the hag,
whoever she might be. Peregrine said majestically:
“With the country in its present state, it is sheer
suicide not to uphold the Government.”
“Assuredly it cannot uphold itself.”
“Ah ... so long as we all stand shoulder to
shoulder, our difficulties will adjust themselves,”
declared Peregrine, wishing he could believe it.
“What infant’s hornbook did you find that in?”
Gentlemen permitted interest to replace the glare
in their eyes. Jermyn’s tone was more than offensive.
A personal matter, eh? Bad blood between Lovels?
Major Henry plunged in hastily with:
“Stand together, of course ... So many different
standards . . . damned conflictin’ ”•
“There is only one real standard of right, Major,”
said Peregrine, very black and haughty.
“Yours, naturally,” said Jermyn. He brushed
his hand over his wet forehead. Until he saw Pere-
grine again he had not known how he wanted to kill
him. And when he saw Sally again . . . God Almighty,
what was he going to do then?
GENTLEMEN were excited, if a little nervous. This
was vastly unpleasant—but which would hit first?
Was it possible that they were going to see Peregrine
Lovel knocked out of his Jovian calm at last? His
pinched nostrils were getting white, and Jermyn was
like a wild-cat with those big glittering eyes and his
thick hair all over the place.
“If England would understand” began Mr.
Seager, offering her as a sop to the gentlemen who
wouldn’t have her. England, they felt, had no wish
to understand. But this attack on their own town . . .
on Auckland . . .
There was a howl from old Sir Winston, who
never took any notice of the young fellers, hang ’em.
He had just discovered for himself what was the
matter with Auckland and every other place, and he
proceeded to expound it with a scatter of quotations,
thumping his green umbrella on the dingy boards
until his hat fell off and his yellow wig slid over his
ear.
How, he demanded, could we expect to build
England’s pleasant land on a public debt that was
assuming simply colossal proportions since the man
Wellington had handed over the bankrupt New
Zealand Company to the Imperial Government, which
was wanting Auckland to foot the really staggering
(Continued on page 50.)


rrs
W\C
£
-<X
K
%
KEEP
OtCUcrU/L,
0t0e*....
'J'ake Golcryst regu-
larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS ETC.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
ALL CHEMISTS 4* . •* . ft .'
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to "‘The Bulletin’s” criticism (10/1/ 34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., I/TD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
. Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
lady. The colonel’s first job—acting under strict orders
is to burn down her noble Southern home. The
fire is also her deceased soldier husband’s funeral pyre,
but she doesn’t know this ; it is a secret locked in the
colonel’s bosom. By the time she finds out that her
missing husband will return no more she is gently
reconciled to his absence. Life must go on. She will
play the part of a mother and a woman. About 20 pages
are required after her heroic decision for the author
to clear up outstanding odds and ends of his tale, and
then comes the sweetly sad fireside scene in which
the colonel begs her forgiveness for his deception,
and she feels his “great longing and strong tenderness
lying like a refuge before her.”
The last book by the author of Action at Aquila
sold a million copies; the present one is in strong
demand.
A Dodie Smith Play.
Dodie Smith’s career as a playwright has been
rather like a cinema fairy tale. Her first play, Autumn
Crocus, brought her fame and affluence, and liberated
her froni her job. It was a spontaneous and brightly
romantic piece of work, a variant of a very old story,
the Cinderella motif, modernised with an unhappy
ending and an exotic background. In its genre it
was very effective.
Her new play, Bonnet Over the Windmill (Heine-
mann), is not as happy. The intention is the same but
the aim is not so sure. Success has made the author
less spontaneous, more self-conscious. She is a
romantic still, but appears to have accumulated some
intellectual doubts as to the validity of the roman-
ticism.
Bonnet Over the Windmill is a success play. It
is a dramatised novelette with a happy ending. Every-
body gets what he or she wants. You can almost hear
the slot machine digesting its penny. Three girls share
a fiat, with, as its playground, a flat roof high above
London. They are Carola, a plump, amiable puppy
of 19; Dinah, featherbrained and exquisitely pretty;
Janet, who has genius. They are all studying for the
stage.
At the other end of the roof there is a flat with
three young men: Anthony, a journalist; Simon, young,
gay and foolish ; and Brian, whose father is a famous
actor-manager called Sir Rupert. Carola secures a.
serio-comic proposal from Simon, and is able to boast
of it —which is all she wants from life at present,
Dinah, after various other adventures, gets off with
Brian, while Janet gets loads of luck.
Anthony falls in love with her, Sir Rupert dis-
covers that she is a genius and gives her a lead in
his West End theatre, and in a heroic effort to save
an embittered playwright from himself—by spending
the night with him —she achieves the emotional experi-
ence necessary to her art. The playwright remains
unregenerate and goes to Hollywood to sell his soul
for a fabulous sum, but Janet is saved from humilia-
tion by a beautiful touch of sentiment. The trusty
Anthony stands by. Sir Rupert is paired off, uncon-
ventionally, with Billie, the girls’ brave, gay, quaint
little landlady.
It is a brisk play, full of amusing situations, effec-
tive tableaux, touches of nature and the English
equivalent of wisecracks. It moves swiftly and would
be good entertainment on the stage while it lasted.
It would end the moment the final curtain fell, for
there is nothing in it to live on in imagination or to
stir thought.
Prison Life.
It was 10 o’clock at night. The place was in
silence and darkness. Suddenly there was a terrible
crashing and rending. He rose from his narrow bunk
and peered through the grating in his door, knowing
that others were doing the same. From the other side
of the hall there came the smash of glass and the
jangle of hurtling tinware. The sound was accom-
panied by aTrenzied howling and the dull, rhythmic
thumping of a body beating against a door. He
knew what it was, another long-term man had lost
his grip of himself and was “smashing up.” He
listened carefully, imagining the details. You got a
kick out of witnessing a “smash up,” and often it
saved you from “smashing up” yourself.
That is the gist of a short scene from the novel
Lifer, by Jim Phelan (Peter Davies), one of the
most compelling and convincing bits of realism
that have come this commentator’s way in a
long time. Phelan has been in gaol several times ;
he admits it in his preface, and proves it
in his yarn. He traces the story of a lifer
during 15 years, from the day his cell door first shuts
on him to the day he stands on Victoria station, be-
wildered because people are running in all directions
and not plodding in single file. He makes no special
plea for prisoners nor indictments of gaolers; just
reveals the details of prison life through the story of
a man’s slow disintegration under gaol conditions.
Mansell, his principal character, was 20 when
convicted. He found there were social grades in gaol,
good fellows and men of no account; timid, subser-
vient men and men who had won influence with the
guards through attacking them and enduring conse-
quent punishment. His own character was judged in
the first 48 hours, and he was helped through the worst
of his troubles the first month.
Chewing tobacco was slipped into his hand. He
was told when to report “real sick” to avoid “smash-
ing up”; and “tell the hospital guard we told you
to.” The hospital doctor knows there is nothing phy-
sically the matter with him, but keeps up the pretence
until he is ready for another bout of cells. There is
nothing surprising about this, for a gaol community,
prisoners and guards, are a world apart from the
outer world, and its two halves meet and merge more
or less through convicts who are appointed to posts
of minor responsibility and through the guards’ con-
versational needs during long hours of duty.
From cells to exercise yard, and from workshop
to the comparative liberty of field work, by experience
and by listening to muttered talk, Mansell slowly
acquires a full knowledge of gaol life. It is a strangely
mixed life of comradeships and antipathies, intrigues,
long repressed silences and sudden upflarings of pas-
sion. Above all, it is timeless.
But men come and go during the period of a
lifer’s sentence, and it was hard then not to let
thoughts wander. The outside world sometimes got
through the chinks of the defence. There was the
sight of the young girl who passed by in a car as the
file moved along the road on the way to work, for
instance.
In his early days Mansell is warned by his mates
not to dream of escape. It will break his nerve if he
does. Yet the mob does what the individual is warned
against. During the morning there is a queer, ominous
silence among the men. A fake fight starts at one
end of the line and everyone piles into it. The guards
come running—and five men bolt from the other end
of the line.
The idea that escaped men are pursued, says Man-
sell, is all wrong. The guards know every path be-
tween the bogs of the surrounding moor. They scatter
widely and wait patiently until the poor devils, starved
and half-drowned, present themselves at the muzzle
of a rifle. One thing for which the guards exact
summary vengeance is attempted escape. Mansell sees
the five escapees brought back. He never attempts to
make a break himself.
Lifer is not a gloomy book. The grimness of
the story is relieved by the swiftness of the author’s
narrative style. The reader is made to realise just
how Mansell felt when at last he stood in the gaol
gateway a free man ; how it comes about that at 35
he looked like a man of 50 ; and why after a few
short weeks of liberty he was brought back.
Books About Cards.
The Stern Austrian System (Harrap) doesn’t
describe the new political regime. It’s an outline by
Dr. Paul Stern of the contract bridge technique which
he and other Viennese experts have devised, and
which, they claim,-enabled them to defeat Culbert-
son’s team when it visited the Austrian capital.
The Stern system is a code of bidding conven-
tions, chief of which are a new “weak one club” and
“strong one no-trump.” Stern claims his method
facilitates the discovery of respective hand patterns
in time to reach the correct contract. The system
seems logical.
Dr. Stern mentions that Austrian players have
long abandoned the 4,3, 2, 1 honor count. “Vienna
Points” are: Ace 7, king 5, queen 3, jack 1. Aus-
trians also have adopted the “Herbert Convention,”
essence of which is that if you have no backing for a
partner’s “forcing two” bid you respond with a mini-
mum bid in the next highest ranking suit, instead of
going to “two no-trumps”, a la Culbertson.
Jo Jotte, the Two-hand Card Game, by Ely Cul-
bertson (Faber and Faber), describes a game which
Culbertson has not “invented,” but compiled from
various sources. There’s a little bit of auction bidding
in it; the contract principle is invoked ; there are
all sort of honors to be scored, doubling and redoub-
ling are features, and with one of those hands that
looks more like a foot you can go “Nullo”—same as
“Misere” in solo. Culbertson says the rules can be
learned in 20 minutes (alas! we’re not all Culbert-
sons), but leaves something still to learn after 20
years’ play. Even if it doesn’t live up to all that, it
looks like a promising addition to the too-small list
of two-hand and three-hand games.
The fiftieth anniversary edition of Hoyle Up to
Date (U.S. Playing Card Co.) improves on the 1936
edition by incorporating an outline of the Culbertson
contract bridge system and full rules for duplicate
play. There are also some small additions to the
games listed. The inexpensive little volume should be
on every cardplayer’s bookshelf. In its latest form
it is a final authority on rules and conventions.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Other Women’s Beauty : Maysie Greig (Hodder
and Stoughton). Gita Melrose’s job in a fashionable
beauty parlor leads on to heart’s desire. The author
—once in Australian journalism—is establishing her-
self in the halls of light romance.
Susannah of the Mounties: Murial Denison
(Dent). Canadian novel for children. Based on the
author’s childhood experiences, and an excellent job.
The humor is delicately accented by the drawings.
A Comedy of Eros: Charles Lloyd Jones (Lovat
Dickson). A pre-war romance landed him in later life
with a grown-up daughter of whom he had not previ-
ously heard. Ironical, and quite readable.
The Deputy of Carabina : Colt MacDonald (Wild
West Club). Cardsharpers, six-shooters and broncho
dust. The author ranks high with “Western” fans.
Dent’s “Modern Sports” . . .
A more ambitious undertaking than most sporting
series, The writers are experts, writing primarily for
those who play the game, dealing with rules and
tactics, training hints and history. There are many
photographs.
The two most recent volumes are Athletics, by
Nineteen Members of the English Achilles Club —
five of them are Olympic champions—each dealing
with his own event, and Hockey, by D. S. Milford,
who has 25 times played for England. Jardine has
already covered Cricket, and Henry Longhurst Golf,
and Tennis, Rugby Football (that’s Union, of course)
and Association Football (Soccer) have also been done.
They’re bound uniformly and handsomely. The
player will want one or the other, but the man who
is interested in all sports just because they are sports
couldn’t find them better explained anywhere.
General . . .
Consolidated Eticyclopcedia (Consolidated World
Research Society, London, 1936) has a column or so
on Australian literature. After brief mention of
Gordon and Kendall, outstanding Australian poets are
stated to be (spelling here is the Encyclopcedia’s )
George Gordon McCrae, D. B. W. Sladen,
W. P, Reeves, Victor Daley, Roderick Quinn and
Edwin J. Brady. Henry Lawson is described as “an-
other very versatile writer.” Important women writers
are Louise Mack, Jessie Mackay, Ethel Castilla, Inez
K. Hyland, Doris Wilcox and Dorothea Mackellar.
Male novelists are Arthur Hoey Davis, Henry Kings-
ley, Marcus Clark and Charles Alexander Brown.
Women novelists are Mrs. G. F. Cross, Mrs. Campbell
Praed and Mrs. Aeneas Gunn. Appropriate toast
appears to be one to Queen Anne.
Pacific Scene: Harry J. Greenwall (Nicholson
and Watson ; from Robertson and Mullens, Melb.).
A book of this sort, if it’s to be read with hope of
profit, needs to be read at once. Events can cancel
whole chapters overnight. This author deals conver-
sationally with the state of things in China, gives word-
pictures of such personalities as Chiang Kai-shek and
speculates interestingly on the future. There is now a
whole library of such books being rushed from the
printer, and this one is as well worth reading as most
of them, especially for the sake of its author’s detached
and broadminded outlook.
Recent additions to the King’s Treasuries of
Literature (Dent) are King Richard’s Land, by L. A.
G. Strong, Sir John Constantine (abridged), by Quiller
Couch, both fiction with historical background ; The
Cycle of the North, short stories in north-Canadian
settings, and The Unending Conquest, an anthology
of essays compiled by R. De La Bere and dealing
with aviation from Daedalus to the Mildenhall-
Melbourne air race and written by assorted authorities
from Tennyson to the Wright brothers, Richthofen
and Lindbergh. All pleasant classroom fare and
edited by Quiller Couch.


!
A
II 1
%r
:>
t™
AT SEA, ON LANS
and. IN THE AIR
m
A self-contained and highly efficient wireless manufacturing
industry, capable of ready expansion if called upon, is essen-
tial to Australia’s needs.
The manufacture of wireless equipment commenced by
Amalgamated Wireless in 1913 has developed until to-day
at the A.W.A. modern Radio-Electric Works every type of
wireless equipment for use at sea, on land and in the air
is produced. Wireless stations for ships, for Australian
coastal radio and Pacific Island stations, and broadcasting
transmitters for Australian and New Zealand services are
but a few of the many products manufactured.
The 60 k.w. broadcast transmitter of 2YA Wellington, built
for the New Zealand broadcasting services, the 20 k.w.
transmitter used for the Wireless Telephone Service between
Australia and Great Britain, as well as the fourteen other
transmitters at A.W.A. Radio Centre, Pennant Hills, Sydney,
used for various communication services, were manufactured
at the Company’s works.
In the field of aircraft, A.W.A. is installing for the Civil
Aviation Board radio telegraphy and telephony equipment
at all the principal aerodromes in Australia, also a number
of ultra-high frequency radio course beacons.
Twenty-five commercial aircraft of various Australian air-
ways companies carry A.W.A. aircraft equipment.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


rh
■ I
mmam\
>-^M
<m
m?
p . :
mm i
■PHHHBHMRRrV ■
9 j
' ' : \w»\
L ■
3SB -“"
SH&ILN
r
*-
U
Hi
m
; ■ T
, flmwfi
, j
mS
p
11;
ff
HHni
~ /
rrn/j
I&/J
I j
Hhhlh
.
yf
• ' '
if;
msm.
' s y-^||
mum
mm shhm
mhh m
k i* j
■ •■: • ■': ■:
iWßmmMmm
sW
'
■ ■
1 ■
--f;
■
■ .
.
Vy:.,
Jp-I; 1
HHilMi
HNhhl
£|§ll|§fH . Vr :
■mmSSMmmmMS
HHraNNaNi
jg§&£>
tl ': 1 llliill
JlSpWiS#^*
HHH :yy
;
HHH
•' -:-f-
-* *r *
sKHinMiM
l
li HHHHi
«
'
■
f-MWm
m
S i
■
■ X - ••
||HH9H
HI
. ■
»assiii*K
:i ; S
mSmlm
mm
liili
■
mm MKMHHni
u
_J
/
--. -T: •> '■;•
■ *. „ - ...


FOR PEACE AND CIVIL LIBERTIES.
“Bishops and the Council for Civil Liberties thoroughly approve of the waterside workers’ boycott.”
“Thanks, men, for the way you are championing great causes. And what would you do if any other body of men tried
to shift this stuff?”
“Dong ’em.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12si 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £ 1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
BACKS AGAINST THE WALL.
The British system of democracy has one great
virtue not possessed by dictatorships. Dictators have
no goad to efficiency save their own ambition. When
they lag or get into a muddle, the public mouth is
closed.
It is different in Britain when the Government
is behindhand with an essential job, or the public
can be persuaded that it is. Especially if national
security or national solvency becomes threatened even
in a slight degree, men of all parties and from all
sections demand immediate reform and the political
scalps of failures and delinquents.
A good war-time example of the process at
work was the storm over munitions-supply. Another
major one has burst round the heads of the public
men responsible for air defence.
After the war when the League and Woodrow
Wilson were promising eternal security behind a
moat of ink, it was decided that 28 squadrons of
various types, of which 21 would be used abroad to
chasten the heathen of Asia, would be all the R.A.F.
needed. A year later it was agreed to add five more
squadrons. In 1923 a new programme was drawn up
again. By 1933 there were 42 squadrons in Britain
and 24 in Egypt, Palestine, Irak, India and the Far
East, apart from 13 with the Fleet air arm. The
personnel then consisted of 3450 officers and 27,050
men.
Judged by 1938 standards, the-machines were
primitive. Most of them were partly fabric, held
together with struts and wires. The fighter was still
the staple. Engine power was low, and the French
and the U.S.A. air forces had ’planes with nearly
double the speeds of the slower British ones. There
was then no German air force, and, though Italy was
building steadily and had good pilots, no great respect
was felt for Italian air power.
With the advent of Hitlerism and the develop-
ment of the Baldwin theory that Britain’s frontier was
on the Rhine, another new scheme was evolved in
1934. It was scrapped in 1935, when a plan to build
the front-line internal air force up to 1500 machines,
with 2500 pilots, was adopted. In March, 1936, that
idea went overboard and Scheme F arrived.
Scheme F involved the regimenting of firms
capable of building fighting aeroplanes, with Govern-
ment financial backing, and an intensive programme
of night-and-day work to give Britain by March, 1939,
100 entirely new squadrons at home, 26 overseas and
20 with the fleet. The expansion was to involve not
only numbers but sizes of machines, and speed was
to be increased by 50 to 100 per cent. The medium two-
engined bomber, armed for gun-fighting, succeeded the
single-engined short-range fighter as the staple. The
fabric biplane was to be replaced everywhere by the
all-metal monoplane, and almost every type of ’plane
was to be given a range hitherto untouched. Per-
sonnel was to be doubled —to 4850 officers and 51,000
men inside three years.
Two years’ votes for these programmes totalled
£144,000,000. Lord Winterton has told Parliament
that this scheme will be completed to schedule next
April.
By the early part of 1937 63,000 men were em-
ployed in production of machines. Another 30,000
men have been added since. Changes in types have
been so great that any R.A.A.F. man who had been
lost in the Antarctic for three years would not recog-
nise the machines in use in 70 per cent, of the air
squadrons; neither would he be able to cope with
their high speeds without special training.
The Ministry decided this year to double the
Scheme F programme by 1940, and to bring the
personnel of the R.A.F. up to 110,000. At that,
progress is alleged to be slow compared with the rates
at which ’planes are being built in Germany and
Russia. The chances are that the position has been
exaggerated by the Attlees, Sinclairs and Churchills and
their journalistic friends. They can say everything that
comes into their noddles, whereas the Government
has to be careful not to divulge secrets, even if it has
a perfect answer to every attack. At all events, the
Air Minister, Lord Swinton, has resigned. He has
been succeeded by Sir Kingsley Wood, a London
solicitQr, who showed himself at the Post Office an
organiser of unusual capacity, slashing at red-tape
wherever he saw it.
It is said in Britain that Germany has 6000 aero-
planes, In Germany it is said that France has 6000
and Russia 8000. The average man has no way of
arriving at the truth. Germany’s new types have
been shrouded in mystery; so have Russia’s and
Italy’s. But there has been enough going on for the
British Government to consider buying machines
from the U.S.A., where are produced the heavy com-
mercial aeroplanes bought for Dominion services not
subsidised by Governments.
Whatever the failure of Britain to keep pace with
other countries, its factories are working under great
difficulties. In the army mechanisation is going ahead
at a tremendous pace. For the navy, a battle-fleet as
large as any existing in Europe beyond Britain is on
the stocks. Existing warships are being rearmed and
rearmored on a large scale. Immense siege stores of
food and manufactured metal goods are being placed
in reserve.
To meet the challenge of foreign commercial air-
craft, Britain has been obliged, in the last three years,
virtually te reconstruct all its long-distance mailplanes.
To meet sea challenges, it has had to build great
passenger- and cargo-carrying vessels. In all spheres
it is building back to the wall and against time. The
• urgency and immensity of the effort are part of the
price which has to be paid for 20 years of dilly-
dallying with “collective security,” of sheltering
behind conferences and pacts and League resolutions,
instead of relying on Britain’s own exertions and those
of Greater Britain.
During all those wasted years the Dominions duti-
fully followed the Old Man. They, too, neglected
their defences, and in Australia the neglect persists.
While Britain is making a supreme effort, there are
no signs of high pressure in Australian dockyards,
nor of any large-scale building-up of land transport
and aeroplane factories.
During the House of Commons debate which
preceded Lord Swinton’s resignation, J. T. Moore-
Brabazon, who holds No. 1 flying license, and who
is withal a capable commercial man, thoroughly con-
versant with manufacturing needs and possibilities,
stressed the advantages of making aircraft in the
Dominions, where the works would be safe. There
is everything to be said for it. Investment of a few
millions of British money in Australia would relieve
the Chamberlain Government of the responsibility of
supplying Australia with anything up to 300 aero-
planes in case of sudden war.
And the Chamberlain Government might well
extend the principle. Outside very heavy guns, there
is scarcely any kind of armament which could not
be made in Australia, and nothing in the way of muni-
tions. Even the naval programme could be hastened
by laying down a few light cruisers in Australian
dockyards.
A Man of Peace at Large.
George Lansbury, pacifist, veteran worker in the
Labor cause and honest thinker, as distinct from being
a “clever” man, has published an account of his peace
missions to various countries —undertaken at a time,
it is worth remembering, when the “inevitable-war”
prophets, the hate-gospellers, the interventionist
crusaders were at the top of their form.
Since then conditions have changed considerably.
In a much stronger position to achieve tangible results
than Mr. Lansbury was, Mr. Chamberlain has demon-
strated that agreement with Italy was not only
possible but easy. The Austrian union with
Germany, much as democrats dislike the way in
which the Nazis went about it, was accomplished
without bloodshed, and another potential cause of
war will be removed if, as a result, of which there is
at least some promise, Czechoslovakia is converted
into a second Switzerland. And, though ill supported
at home and abroad, the British Government’s efforts
to restrict Spain’s civil war to Spain have not failed.
Several things stand out in regard to the change
that has come over international affairs. One is
that it has taken place since Britain’s return
to a policy of armed security. Another, with
which Mr. Lansbury would not quarrel though
he gives credit to the League of Nations, as he does
to most other things, and to all men, where it is due
—is that the improved state of affairs has followed
Britain’s remove from the false position of both
depending on the League’s ability to hold off and
prevent wars, and being committed by it in advance
to take part in every war that should ever break out.
Our complete pacifist set out on his international
peace campaign in 1935, when he went to America. Of
no great moment otherwise, since nobody doubts Uncle
Sam’s pacific intentions, the visit had the good effect
of confirming Mr. Lansbury in his refusal to accept
the then almost universal notion that war was inevit-
able. Also, discussion with the President and many
others convinced him that “there is no possible chance
that mankind will allow itself to be divided into two
competing theories of government.” On all sides he
was well received and encouraged ; among others, the
framer of the Kellogg Pact urged him to carry on:
“Get those responsible for the world round a table
before war is allowed to break out; there is no other
way to peace.”
Mr. Lansbury next visited France. Though he
can’t help being kind, France was apparently his worst
disappointment. The old man’s confidence was
revived in Brussels by the King of the Belgians and
the then Prime Minister, M. Van Zeeland: “It seemed
to me that he understood, more clearly than most,
that a true League of Nations must be an inclusive
one and its objects not penal but constructive.”
After carrying his mission to the Scandinavian
countries, he prepared to visit Germany. Hitherto no
great notice had been taken of this solitary old man
campaigning about the world for peace, at a time
when the press and the air were filled with war talk.
Now “representative leaders of all religious denomi-
nations in the United States, in Europe and in this
country asked their congregations to say special
prayers for the success of my mission.” He received
shoals of letters and telegrams wishing him success.
From Socialist and Labor organisations he received
protests against the visit!
That is the most extraordinary statement in Mr.
Lansbury’s account. He is not bitter about it; he
is a magnanimous man: they “had not understood
that this and all other visits were made solely for the
purpose of trying to win support for the proposed
new world conference to deal with the economic, terri-
torial and financial causes of war.” Himself every
bit as strongly opposed to Germany’s form of govern-
ment as his Socialist and Labor protesters, he knew
that theirs was no way to world peace. Among other
things, his account records:
More children and young people visit Germany
from France than from any other country. It is cer-
tain that if the masses have their way France and
Germany will never fight again. The German and
French masses desire nothing better than peace and co-
operation.
Hitler has declared for peace; but his declaration,
so far as statesmen are concerned, goes unheeded because
no one has had courage enough to take him at his word
and suggest a meeting to consider a new way of life.
It is continually said that Hitler cannot be trusted.
His latest coup in Austria gives justification for the
statement, but we shall do well to remember that many
Germans think the same about us and other nations.
Again and again during our talk Herr Hitler declared
that Germany must have peace; that she was arming
because other countries were arming.
1 certain that, if once this great nation can be
brought to believe they will get a fair deal with other
nations in regard to trade and international relation-
ships, this phase of bitterness [towards Jews] will pass.
Herr Hitler hates Bolshevism as many in this country
hate it. He is under no delusions as to the strength and
influence of Great Britain and wishes for nothing better
than friendship with us. To live, Germany needs peace
as much as any nation in the world. No one under-
stands this better than Herr Hitler. I do not minimise
the fact that men in such a position as he is often find
themselves driven to courses they know may be dis-
astrous.
Germany must live and develop its internal life
through relationship with other nations. Any who think
this can be prevented by brute force, boycott or any
other means are harboring a great illusion. Germany
demands a place in the comity of nations on terms of
equality. This cannot be denied her. Given a reason-
able chance to share the world’s resources and markets,
Germany will again join in discussions on how to abolish
war by abolishing armaments.
Instead of the usual representation of Hitler as
a monster (vide dailies, radio babblers and, most
vicious of all, propaganda films), Mr. Lansbury
found him human and definitely agreeable to co-
operating in the peace scheme “if President Roose-
velt or the head of another great country will take
the lead in calling such a conference.” “History will
record Herr Hitler as one of the great men of our
time.”
Next Mussolini; this time “no protests from
anyone.” Mussolini greeted him with the refnark that
“it was a pleasure and a privilege to meet anyone
who came to discuss peace.” That is easy enough
to accept now; it would not have been at the time,
when hatred of Italy was being assiduously fostered,
and very bitterly so here in Australia. Mr. Lansbury’s
impressions:
I felt like weeping bitter tears of anguish when realis-
ing that these innocent, hard-working, courteous people
and my own fellow-citizens in Britain were being taught
by many newspapers and by some so-called statesmen that
war is inevitable between them and/us. Ido not care a
bit what reason men of my party or country may
put forward. A war of any sort between my own people
in East London and Britain generally with those I met
in Italy, living hard, laborious days tending the land,
looking after the playgrounds of the world, will be a
most unforgivable crime against humanity.
I determined during some of my quiet hours in Italy
that when I returned home my countrymen should
understand that war against Italy or any other nation
would mean just civil war—a war, that is, against our
own flesh and blood, against people subject to the same
virtues and failings as we are ourselves.
Again, instead of the monster bogey of the hate
propagandists, he found Mussolini a most human
person, “a mixture of Stanley Baldwin, Lloyd George
and Winston Churchill.” “I would give all I possess,
which is not saying much,” he adds, “if I could
arrange a meeting between Stalin, Mussolini and
Hitler with somebody as chairman with a sense of
humor.”
After his interview with the Italian leader, Mr.
Lansbury gave the combined press an interview:
I especially appealed for a cessation of hate propa-
ganda. I knew, 1 said, that many things were being
done everywhere which were brutal and disgusting to all
right-minded people, but, I asked, does anyone think
the world will be better through more and more hate
propaganda?
Instead of a continuation of that sort of thing—
of the perpetual snarling and hate-gospelling which
may end in baiting some nation or other into war —
Mr. Lansbury appeals for an attempt at understand-
ing ; for the sort of reasonableness that had not once
been tried since the World War till Mr. Chamberlain
adopted it in his successful approach to Italy. Instead
of invoking sanctions it cannot enforce, Mr. Lansbury
would have the League of Nations devote its efforts
to elimination of the causes of war. In discussions
between nations he would have statesmen forget their
diplomacy and think and talk to each other as men.
In short, he would have an attempt to have world
affairs brought down from the realms of mutual
hatred and hot air to a friendly and human level.
Without a shadow of doubt the mass of humanity
agrees with him. With the difference that the way
taken is that of friendly separate approach to other
nations in turn, instead of the world conference he
advocates, his gospel is being given a trial by Britain’s
leader now. Mr. Lansbury would not quarrel with
the means, as long as the end is achieved. This old
man would be foremost among those who wish Mr.
Chamberlain further success in his policy of taking
the leaders of the other nations at their word, accept-
ing that they are sincere when they say that what they
desire above all is peace, and seeking to secure their
co-operation in realising that desire.
The hate-gospellers have had a long-enough
innings.
MACANN.


Because of the more regular delivery of
air-mail from London, enabling “Uncabled
Additions” to go earlier to press,
7fie' <^xdLdX/ n on and after June 1
will be published on Wednesdays again.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
League Pets Lose Their Heads.
Mr. Chamberlain has done magnanimous things in
the cause of peace, but it is beyond his power to
control reckless foreign fools. Some of these gentry
let themselves go last week, and a situation that
seemed to be shaping well changed for the worse.
It came out that the “non-interventionist” French
politicians, who have made such a mess of their coun-
try’s affairs at home and abroad, had virtually placed
the Pyrenees frontier at the disposal of the hard-
pressed Red Government of Valencia for fresh sup-
plies of reinforcements, ’planes, guns and munitions.
This, though in flat contempt of the Anglo-Italian
agreement, as well as of non-intervention, was brazenly
admitted by Paris newspapers, and as brazenly justi-
fied by the secretary of the French Confederation of
Labor, who said to the International Trade-union
Congress at Oslo: “The French workers will never
allow the Franco-Spanish frontier to be closed.” In
the result there were angry exchanges between Rome
and Paris.
Then a French Foreign Office spokesman was
alleged to have said that “if Germany crossed the
Czechoslokavian frontier it would automatically start
a war: France would respect its engagements to the
Czechs if they were victims of aggression.” Municipal
elections were about to be held in Czechoslovakia,
and “serious incidents” had occurred. In one, accord-
ing to Berlin, “100 Sudeten Germans” were “attacked
by Czech soldiers with fists and bayonets, 100 being
injured.” The Prague version was that “only six
or eight were slightly injured,” and that the German
party had abused, spat at and tried to wrench their
bayonets from soldiers.
The other affair was worse. It was admitted at
Prague that a Czech policeman had fired at and
mortally wounded two Sudeten German motor-
cyclists who had refused to stop when called upon.
“He aimed at their tyres,” it seems, but because of “a
steep dip in the road” he plugged them. The German
comment on this explanation was “Impudent lying.”
Then the Czech Government committed the dan-
gerous folly of summoning reservists, Sudeten Ger-
mans included, to the colors. It did this without
consultation with France and Britain. Not till the
French, British and German representatives at Prague
called on the Czech Foreign Minister was an explana-
tion vouchsafed: it was to the effect that the reservists
were of the 1898 class, and “were required to main-
tain order in the towns during the absence of troops
that had been sent to the frontier to keep the peace.”
The proceeding, it was asserted, did not amount to
mobilisation —mobilisation would require Parliamen-
tary sanction. The gentleman wound up by saying
that his Government had “broadcast an appeal for
the maintenance of order.” And Dr. Benes, that
darling of the League press, weighed in with a public
declaration that “there has been no more critical time
since the Great War.”
Reports of menacing movements of German troops
reached London. They were denied by the German
Ambassador in London, and “Czechoslovak officials”
who “investigated” them failed to discover proofs.
The municipal elections are to be spread over
three weeks, and the first series passed off without
any shooting. Meanwhile the British Government is
trying to pacify both parties, and on one it can bring
a great deal more influence to bear than it could have
done had Mr. Anthony Eden remained at the Foreign
Office. Anti-German, anti-Italian and anti-Japanese
newspapers assert that it has “warned Germany.”
People with cool heads will prefer to believe that it
has warned the Czechs that they will not be allowed
to drag the Empire into war for the maintenance of
an ascendancy which they have so patently abused —
in other words, to permit them to behave like arrogant
conquerors to minorities they have never conquered.
With the Bishop's Blessing.
Two years ago or thereabouts, Bishop Burgmann, of
Goulburn (N.S.W.) and of the Society for the Pro-
motion of Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia, was
very voluble on the subject of “Russia’s mighty experi-
ment for the world.” Then Zinoviev, Kamenev and
party got it in the back of the neck ; also 17 pals of
Radek; likewise Yenukidze, Karakhan, Rudzutak,
Mezhlauk, Gamarnik, Tukhachevsky, Orloff, Yegoroff,
Smirnoff, Rykoff, Khalepsky, Prokofieff, YaknyPrima-
koff, Tupoleff, Sivkoff, Kozhanoff, Bukharin and a
few thousand others; and the Bishop chose to
remain silent. Of late there has been a lull in the
“liquidation” programme, and the episcopal jaw has
been wagging again.
Communists in Australia, obviously complying
with Moscow instructions, have demanded a water-
front boycott on alleged war materials consigned to
Japan. By dint of bluff and intimidation, Com-
munists in the Waterside Workers’ Federation have
made this boycott effective at several ports. It began
with tin clippings ; then scrap iron was added, then
tallow. Other commodities may be put on the list as
the local branch of the union may determine, the
caprice of the local branch of the union being the
deciding factor.
This boycott has not had nor can it have the
slightest effect on the course of the war in China ;
but it is very dangerous to Australia. It has almost
snuffed out one or two small industries, and it
threatens a big one —the biggest of all —already
scourged by drought. What is more, it gives a just
grievance to a great military Power with which Aus-
tralia all its days has lived and traded in peace. It is
a form of war. Permitted by the Government and ex-
tended according to Moscow policy, it might mean
actual war; and for that Australia is not prepared.
The Bishop of Goulburn nevertheless approves
of this boycott. So does a Victorian society calling
itself the Council for Civil Liberties. This is rather
rich, for the wharf-laborers have announced that
they will not permit volunteers to do what they refuse
to do themselves. That is wharf law, as practised
when unionists can enfbrce it. Their troubles about
civil liberties!
During the worst year of the World War, this
very section went on strike against the nation. A
member of the Lyons Government was then Prime
Minister. In August, 1917, he stated that this was
then the position in Australia:
Transport and even hospital ships cannot be coaled.
Vessels awaiting cargoes of wheat and flour are empty.
The nation did not permit a few hundred wharf-
laborers to become its masters then. It will not per-
mit them to pick a quarrel for it with Japan, Ger-
many or Italy now. No, not if a score of bishops or
a hundred Councils for Civil Liberties give them
their blessing.
The Clumsy Canberra Way.
Embargoes have become fashionable. The Govern-
ment at Canberra is putting one on the export of
iron ore for commercial purposes, “as from July 1.”
It declares that the known deposits are sufficient only
for the expanding needs of Australia. If there were
reasonable evidence of this —there can be no actual
proof—the principle would be accepted by the whole
nation. Australia is developing a great iron and
steel industry and its requirements will grow immensely
with the years.
But there is a right way and a wrong way of
going about such a business. The Lyons Government
has taken the wrong way, and is imposing its ban at
almost the worst possible time'.
It is one of the unremedied defects of a Federal
system which is as full of holes as a colander that
mining for and export of iron ore should be under
divided control. The existence of the great deposits
at Yampi Sound in North Westralia has been known
for many years, and attempts to exploit them began
before the war. The Ryan-Theodore Government had
a plan for shipping Yampi ore to the steelworks it
was going to establish at Bowen (N.Q.). Long after-
wards leases were granted by the Westralian Govern-
ment to a London concern, which arranged for their
development by an operating co. financed from Japan.
The Commonwealth Government was kept in
touch with all these developments. It was informed
that the Japanese had laid out large sums on blast
furnaces, that labor had been sent to Yampi,
and that the Westralian Government would regard
any interference from Canberra as an unjustifiable
check to its arrangements for developing the northern
half of its State, and for marketing a commodity which
the Swedes sell abroad in millions of tons.
Through all the years, no Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has called for a thorough survey of the iron-
ore resources of Australia. The present action has
been taken on the advice of one geologist who reported
at second hand.
It was characteristic of the Lyons Government
to try to burke debate on the embargo ; characteristic
of it also to burble that “equitable claims for reim-
bursement” would be “considered.” There will be
huge demands for compensation, not only from the
Britons and Japanese concerned, but from the West-
ralian and South Australian Governments—for the
embargo also affects Whyalla. And, of course, the
Japanese Government is lodging a “strong protest.”
Our relations with Japan are a challenge to and
a test of Australian statesmanship. In the early
Commonwealth years when a most difficult question
arose, the test was answered admirably ; but in the
past two years these relations have been handled
with almost inconceivable clumsiness.
"No Australian Need Apply."
Having decided that there is no Australian with suf-
ficient professional knowledge or practical experience
or something, Mr. Lyons and Mr. Thorby are bring-
ing a gentleman from the War Office to act as
Inspector-General of the A.M.F. for as long as he
chooses to stay. He is Major-General Squires,
Director of Staff Duties, and he is rising 56, which
means that he is nearly three years older than the
A.M.F.’s Adjutant-General, Carl Jess.
The Major-General was born in India and may
be presumed to know all about the ways of Indian
soldiers. He served in India for nine years before
going to France towards the end of 1914 with the
Indian Expeditionary Force. When the Indians were
withdrawn from France after a comparatively .brief
campaign, this engineer officer accompanied them to
Mesopotamia, remaining there for upwards of three
years. He was in the taking of Bagdad, where, accord-
ing to Captain Liddell Hart, “Maude had a superior-
ity of over six to one in fighting strength and far more
in total strength, besides greatly superior equipment.”
While the army in Mesopotamia was thus en-
gaged with an enemy who had few ’planes, inferior
guns and no gas, Jess was in Gallipoli from the begin-
ning, and in France from 1916 till the end. He com-
manded a brigade in the field at 33 —the Inspector-
General-elect was not named Brigadier till he was
nearly 50—and he had three times as much experi-
ence of fighting Germans as the gentleman who is
to be placed over him. An Australian-born/he has
been concerned with Australian soldiers for nearly
30 years. The newcomer will be a total stranger to them.
The belated excuse for disqualifying Australians
for an appointment to which they had every right to
aspire is that Australians have been kept out of touch
with “modern” — i.e., post-war —“methods of warfare.”
If this is true, it is a disgrace to the present Govern-
ment and its predecessors.
From Australia there have gone to England,
allegedly on missions important to the country, Prime
Ministers and members of their Cabinets, State Pre-
miers and Ministers, Under-Secretaries, Commis-
sioners of Railways, Tramways and Police, private
members, private secretaries, Customs officers,
teachers, bughunters, clerks, typists, baggage-watchers
and God knows whom else, to the number of at least
800 in 10 years. Some of these trippers have gone
two or three times; and suites in luxury liners have
been reserved for some parties and for others suites
in flash London hotels. While the claim was made in
every case that the trip was necessary, in no case was
it pretended that promotion depended upon it. The
privilege of travel was denied to the distinguished
A.I.F. soldiers who passed into the A.M.F., and
because it was denied them the highest rank in their
own army is held to have been placed beyond their
reach. The whole business is so shabby that it is
beneath contempt.
Shelve It!
Mr. Casey’s “National” Health and Pensions Insur-
ance Bill proposes to add to our already enormous
national commitments another £284,000,000 as from
January 1, 1939. A little discrepancy of £22,500,000
in favor of the official memorandum explaining the
bill, as against the official actuarial estimate, may be
taken as an indication of a generous outlook by the
Government.
Mr. Casey has explained that the measure is not
to be regarded as a money-saver. Women pensioners,
friendly societies and doctors are demanding increases
in payment rates; employers and unions want reduced
contributions; State Governments, far from hinting
at a reduction of excessive taxes, talk of demanding
subventions.
From a flurry of funds, grants, deferred funds,
cumulative interest and contribution rates a few
salient facts emerge. Employed persons to the number
of 1,850,000 are to contribute, compulsorily, weekly
sums of from Bd. to Is. 6d., and their employers are
to double it. These rates rise after five years, and
again in ten years. Commonwealth grants ranging
from £1,000,000 p.a. up to £10,000,000 p.a. by 1961
are to make up the balance for pensions, with £900,000
p.a. for 30 years for health benefits.
“Health benefits” are really general-practitioner
attendance for the insured individual only, and on a
very modest basis. They do not include wives,
children or dependants. Prevention of disease, even
occupational disease, and specialist treatment or hospital
treatment are not included. The “health scheme”
(gross cost estimated at £17,500,000) is a bare copy
of the English scheme initiated in pre-war days for
a much larger industrial population, accustomed to
lower standards of living and medical practice than
prevail in Australia.
The pensions scheme is based on a fund to be
built up over 40 years to £268,000,000. During these
40 years old-age pensions will increase from 590,000
to 1,280,000, though the official expectation is that
after 1967 the population will fall steadily—this only
extensive immigration and a large immediate birth-
rate increase can even mitigate. By 1978, moreover,
the pensions bill under the Act will still be £15,650,000
more than the contributions received.
We live to-day in a world engaged in a feverish
armaments race, and dependent for its prosperity on
a delicate and complicated credit nexus. It is emphati-
cally no time for experimenting with sociological
half-measures at vast expense. Defence and consoli-
dation of all our resources are our pressing need.
If the Lyons Government has any sense at all
it will shelve its half-baked insurance scheme for at
least a year.
The Industry That Won't Be Strangled.
“M.” goes to a motor, show:
Behind Victoria’s current exhibition of motor vehicles
and equipment, claimed to be the greatest one-roof motor
show yet presented in Australia, are industrial and transport
developments that cannot be demonstrated as simply as the
latest factory models. They are meat for the statistician;
and the statistics are rather startling.
One feature of the exhibition was the increased proportion
of Australian-made bodies. According to the Chamber of
Automotive Industries, value of motor bodies built in Australia
last year was £300,000 more than the 1936 figure, and that
reached £7,000,000. And in that year operatives earned
£3,500,000.
There are 836,000 motor vehicles on Australia’s roads.
The C.A.I. statistician reckons the number of garages and
service stations at 10,000. With a low minimum average of
three employees, that brings a further 30,000 Australians and
their families into dependence on the motor industry.
A million Australians hold drivers’ licenses, and many
earn their living by driving. Of 227,000 commercial motors
operating, two-thirds, the C.A.I. says, are driven by wages
men. Lumping these with the owner-drivers, and assuming
that each driver has one dependant, the livelihoods of another
450,000 Australians are drawn from this section of the
industry.
Taxes paid by motorists? They amount to about £9,000,000
a year on petrol and £6,000,000 in State registration fees. Out
of the £15,000,000 or so £8,000,000 is reserved for road con-
struction and maintenance; of this, about 90 per cent, goes
to pay 36,000 road-workers. Then there is the host of
allied industries —rubber, leather, batteries and steel, to men-
tion only a few —in which many men are kept working by
the steady demands of an expanding motor trade.
And the motor industry should more than hold the
ground it has gained. A recent Dunlop Perdriau survey of
the 1928-37 decade found that 178,000 of the cars in use at
the end of last year were more than 10 years old; in the
commercial sphere the percentage of 10-year-olds was slightly
higher. This helps to explain why road accidents do not
diminish. . , ... .
With a few far-sighted exceptions, Australian politicians
seem to delight in taxing and hampering motor transport in
every way. In respect of Defence alone, it is a tomfool policy.
If taxation-for-revenue and the throttling of road competition
were reviewed in the light of the country’s real needs, and if
the chaotic transport laws were clarified —Jordan, C.J., has
been pointing out how bewildering they are, even to the
judiciary in N. S. Wales, and they are as foggy in other
States —the industry would make substantial progress, and Aus-
tralia would be the gainer.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Public Remembrancer”: The 37th
anniversary of the opening of the
first Commonwealth Parliament passed
over on May 9 without beat of
drum, though members, as an after-
thought perhaps, did raise their own sal-
• aries and tacked an extra 30 quid a week
on to the Priminister’s screw. Nobody
reijiembered publicly that Sam Marsden
had been in the grave for upwards of
80 years on May 12. Sam was a church-
man of some tonnage in his day, and
helped also to establish our main sup-
port in life —the wool industry. The
13th was the anniversary of the sailing
of the First Fleet, but nobody recalled
that very loudly. N.S.W. Premier Stevens
did remember that Governor Game dis-
missed Lang on that day six years
ago. On the 22nd occurred the
78th anniversary of the opening of
the first N.S.W. Parliament under re-
sponsible government, and linked with
this was an important anniversary on
May 24, on which day, 97 years ago,
Sydney was first lighted with gas. Nobody
cared. I write to suggest atonement with
a joint demonstration in honor of all
these things on June 29, the 58th anni-
versary of the capture of Ned Kelly.
*•* * *
“Ente Marid”: British Australia is it?
Read the first 15 names on the Darwin
electoral roll:
Abala, Adair, Adams, Agars, Agostini,
Ah Chin Bang, Ah Fat, Ah Fatt, Ah Kee,
Ah Mat (four of them), Ah Mow Goon
Pan, Ak Ming.
And the last two on the roll are Dolly
Yuen and T. Zumptfeldt.
* * * *
“Oran”: Some towns have tried a
consistent plan of street-naming. Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) started off with Goldsmith,
Cowper, Addison and Emerson, but
slumped later to the inevitable Church,
King and High. Auckland, M.L., made
a similar effort in a new suburb, and
perpetuated the memory of Maorilander
Tom Bracken, with Kipling, Tennyson
and some more. Gisborne, a M.L. coastal
town, dated its birth by utilising the
names of the British Ministry then in
power, with the main street Gladstone,
and Childers, Bright, Cobden and Palmer-
ston giving a political flavor to side-
streets. Christchurch, M.L. is the most
consistent. It has named all its streets
after the bishoprics of the Empire.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Australia prob-
ably never possessed a more pattern
swaggie than Old Harry, who has now
ceased his travels, such as they were.
The ancient looked the part so well
that an artist or so requisitioned him as a
model, but the perfectly-rolled swag and
blackened billy never went outside Syd-
ney. I have heard him say he never
begged in his life, but his appearance
with his kelpie at his heels in the city
proper was always enough to draw a
crowd, some of which were bound to
feel generous impulses towards this rep-
resentative of the great outback; and
(as I know) Old Harry knew how to put
on the hard word when the opening was
made. He didn’t spoil the show by ap-
pearing often in the city ; the sight of
the old swaggie camped by the side of
a road in a prosperous suburb was
equally effective. He worked the city
swagman business for over 30 years. It
was certainly more profitable than being
the real thing.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A tragedy that would seem
more appropriate to a cathedral of the
Middle Ages has taken place in a large
Methodist church in North Adelaide.
A painter was decorating the ceiling
when the scaffolding on which he stood
collapsed and flung him out and down,
to smash a pew and lie dead before the
communion-rail.
* * * *
“Admiral”: At a recent camp in Bris-
bane the troops were collected for dis-
cussion after carrying out an attack.
During the confab the Coolum, dwarfing
her companion ’plane, flew over. The
troops watched her until the C.O. inter-
rupted the speaker: “It is no use talking
“Carry it to the garage for a deener, mister?”
now. Look, men! That is one of the
new flying-boats, the Coolum. She has
just come in.” “Too right!” yelled one
of the mob from a cow-cockying district.
“She’s got her calf with her!”
* sK * *
“Ike Hollar”: An official court short-
hand reporter told me that his hardest
job was “taking” an Italian witness. The
man was voluble, and his broken English
increased the difficulty of getting him
down ; the faster the shorthandist went
the more the Italian’s speed increased
until the sweat was pouring from the fore-
head of the note-taker. He was becom-
ing desperate, but suddenly the volubility
stopped. The Italian, with a look of
entreaty, leaned towards the shorthand-
writer. “Please-a!” he implored, “I
aska you nota write so fast. I cannot
keep up wit’ you.” Another Anglc-
Italian misunderstanding was thereupon
cleared up to the relief of both parties.
* * * *
“Junior Turf Club”: With dismay I
read in the cables that the new British
Staff College is to be removed to Chel-
tenham. That may be a misprint for
Camberley, where it is at present, and
one hopes so. Cheltenham is away to
blazes in the West of England. Cam-
berley is nice and handy to London and
its Capuan delights, as is Sandhurst. It
was easy to slip up to town for a few
hours’ relaxation. If ready cash was not
available owing to the flinty-heartedness
of Messrs. Cox, Messrs. Attenborough,
the eminent pawnbrokers, would make
most liberal advances on plane tables,
prismatic compasses and other instru-
ments wherewith the p.s.c. aspirant had
to equip himself at the expense of more
or less indulgent parents.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Begging “Isobar’s” (B.
12/5/’3B) pardon, no body of a race-
horse, or of anything else, was ever re-
ported as having bfeen washed up from
the wreck of the Yongala in 1911. I was
in the search for traces of her a few days
later. And for months, years, even this
year, I’ve had the job of explaining to
husbands, wives, parents and children
that the big ship and all that she held
had gone below together. It put all North
Queensland into mourning. Such yarns
only raise false hopes for sorrowing
people as to possible traces of lost ones.
There aren’t any.
* * * *
“Cap. Pintle”: Many an elderly citizen
who was a sea-minded boy in the 1890’s
or so will heave a sigh at the ending of
the Gippsland Lakes steamer services.
The last survivor was the Dargo, running
from Lakes Entrance to Bairnsdale ; be-
fore that from Lakes Entrance to Sale.
Others were the Omeo, J.C.D. and
Gippsland, the last sold not long ago
for harbor work at Sydney. The Mei-
bourne-Lakes Entrance run, carried on
for many years by Ellerker’s smart little
steamers, went out of business a couple
of years back. The variable state of the
Entrance bar always made trading
irregular at certain seasons, but the low
freights imposed by road and rail com-
petition were the final factor in squeez-
ing out a coastal and inland-waters ser-
vice which, for more than half a century,
played a vital part in developing a pros-
perous and wealthy district. Also, a sea-
nursery which produced not a few good
deepwater men.
* * * *
“Millie” : The dearest, and inciden-
tally the smallest, daily newspaper in
the world refuses all non-local ad vet-
tisements. bar one, which is a gin ad.,
and it only gets in because the agent for
.. . t* 5 i,.. . , c j.,° *l.
the tipple is an old friend of editor Alex.
Corran, of the Torres Strait “Daily
Pilot,” published on Thursday Island.
For 42 years Corran has made the island
his home, and his sheet, which is printed
on one side of the paper only, and con-
tains three columns, each a foot long
and 2jin. wide, has been a daily since
t+ „ ’ a o tw
the war. It used to sell for a bob, but
has now been reduced to 6d. ihe editor,
who is Mayor of Thursday Island, is
three years short of 80. ,
\ * * *
(irv - , rr ( „ t- i
Dick Tafone : Funny how medieval
notions exist about disease. Queensland s
Minister for Health Hanlon, refusing
a request to reopen Brisbane picture-
. ,
theatres to children under 16, said
he would do nothing to jeopardise
the health or life of a child. Most
°r S - Ul ? der spend a * par t
of their lives Within school-walls in
closer contact with one another than
would be the case in any picture
. r a i „ j r'burr'b ond snoial
show, they freely attend church and social
gatherings under similar conditions, and
those living in outer suburbs get un-
hampered pickshers just outside the
banned areas where they live. Any of
his medical advisers could have told
Mr Hanlon, and probably have, that
infantile paralysis is merely a 1000-to-l
accident in a practically universal disease,
which may happen at any age and can-
not be prevented.
* * * *
“Tovarisch”: A lady —name of Rosa
Cohen—is having a curious experience
of that softheadedness which makes Eng-
land, the brutal home of Imperialism,
so difficult for Continental people to
understand. Rosa, a Communist, mar-
ried a Russian and lost her British
nationality. She then went to Russia,
which, according to the C.P. literature,
is the Communist’s “only fatherland,”
and was promptly jugged for eight
months’ solitary. Had she been a Rus-
sian Trotskyist or a bourgeoise visiting
England and got into that fix, the Kremlin
would merely have hung out another flag.
But England, being England, sent its
ambassador along to ask the U.S.S.R.
to turn the lady loose so that, as a
British subject, she could continue to
work in the glorious cause of Com-
munism, one of whose objectives is—l
quote from a document addressed from
Moscow to the poor, downtrodden Indian
wage slaves “the overthrow of that
blood-drunk despotism the so-called
British Empire.” Lord Chilton, the am-
bassador of the blood-drunk despotism,
got hot under the collar when they
wouldn’t even let him see Rosa. Ivan
Kremlinski, of the Ogpu, or whatever
its latest name is, is doubtless still scratch-
ing his head —if Stalin has not blown it
off in the interval —over the strange ways
of the Anglo-Saxon.
From “Ninety-three”:
Representatives of Australian daily news-
papers forgathered in Sydney last week for
one of their periodical conferences. Had the
thing been held a few years ago there would
have been delegates from the Adelaide “Regis-
ter,” the Brisbane “Daily Mail” and the Syd-
ney “Evening News” and “Daily Guardian”;
but those newspapers were “amalgamated” or
something, and if their ghosts hovered about
the proceedings their presence wasn’t reported.
From capital cities other than Sydney there
were ten delegates. Six appeared for seven
newspapers in which one concern was interested.
Still, the scowls with which the old journalists
assimilated this information were chased away
now and again by grins.
The chairman was young Mr. Denison, of
Sydney “Sun.” Beside him, according to a
“Sun” photograph, sat young Mr. Packer,
of the Sydney “D.T.” It irresistibly recalled
(1) Pa Denison’s assertion in the High Court
that the “Sun” group had been unwittingly
involved by Packer pere, then an employee, in
an agreement to pay Packer fils and Theodore
£BO,OOO for not bringing out a rival news-
paper, and (2) the “D.T.’s” reply, made when
Pa Denison had left Australia, that “it was a
particularly mean libel on a dead man,” de-
scribed as Pa Denison’s benefactor.
The contiguity of young Mr. Denison and
young Mr. Packer illustrated young Mr. Deni-
son’s reference to “the spirit of co-operation
which, of recent years, has been a pleasing
feature of conference.” To me it was more
arresting than any Peeping Tom photograph in
“Pitch.”
Young Mr. Denison said: “Australians,
thanks to the number and authoritative stand-
ing of the sources from which their cable
services are gathered, are able to enjoy, not
merely the benefits of one or two services, but
a complete and carefully-weighed compilation,
free from political bias and propaganda.” And
nobody said “Rats!”
HONEST JOE.
“Discussing the plaster head of the Prime Minister
now being exhibited at the Macquarie Galleries, the
‘D.T.’ art critic declares that ‘the eyes and mouth
have a subtlety which makes the term “Honest Joe”
senselessly bucolic.’”
Mr. Joseph Aloysius,
Are you there?
In the press we mostly strike a
Picture of you looking like a
Native bear,
Harmless, guileless, tender, gentle,
Indescribably parental,
Staid and slow.
Is this widely current reading
Of your lineaments misleading,
Honest Joe?
Is there something keen and subtle
That belies
The koala’s rustic poses,
Which a.closer look discloses
™ln your eyes?
Are you really—sweet as custard
On the surface —keen as mustard
Down below,
Far less unsophisticated
Than you’re generally rated,
Honest Joe?
There’s a lot in what the vulgar
Call a “map,”
And a bland and childlike facet
Is a valuable asset
For a chap.
Men will be more apt to set him
In the foremost place and let him
Run the show,
And he’ll likewise be enabled
With less effort to be labelled
“Honest Joe.”
Mr. Joseph Aloysius.
May one ask
Is your dial so calm and placid,
Never showing spleen or acid,
Just a mask?
Are you full of grit and gumption
Underneath the mild assumption
That we know?
Ah, if we bucolic creatures
Guessed the riddle of your features,
Honest Joe!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Dungeness”: For sale, the veritable
Isle of Dreams. In September, 1897,
Edmund James Banfield, journalist, of
Townsville, bought the lease of Dunk
Island in the inner channel of the Barrier
Reef, about midway between Townsville
and Cairns. There in later years he iwrote
the books which made the island world-
famous. To-day he and his devoted wife
rest under a stone cairn which overlooks
the scene of sea and shore which he drew
in words with such delicate, entrancing
skill. The island tragedy was when he
lay dead for three days in the bungalow
until his widow contrived to signal a
passing vessel for aid. The wide-
verandahed home is now the dining-
room of the modern chalet which Hugo
Brassey built for the attraction of those
who love dream isles. But things went
awry, and he sailed off across the world
in his own stout little ship. Now island,
chalet and all are for sale —all but the
dreams. The buyer must supply those.
X X X X
“Kwakprak”: The senior surgeon of
the Royal Cancer Hospital in London has
gone so far as to describe advances in
cancer treatment last year as dramatic.
It is an unusual word for a surgeon to
use, and it refers principally to methods
of treating different kinds of cancer, with
surgery or X-ray as alternatives. He
considers that a definite line can now
be drawn between the two. Two years
ago I saw, not dramas, but miracles
in that same hospital. They were largely
photographs, but the human result and
outcome was there, too, alive and healthy.
Ten years ago more than half of these
cases would have been doomed in a
year, most of the rest later on. In my
student days practically all would have
died of cancer. Low-voltage X-ray
results on skin, face, lip, breast, are now
certain. But —and the whole show de-
pends on it —take it early. Any swelling,
mild ulcer, what not, after 40, have it
looked to by a doctor. Pain? That’s
the last and too-late warning in cancer.
X X X X
“Susu”: I wonder how many “Ben
Pricers” exist to-day as curios, and what,
if anything, would be their relative value-
equivalents. If you don’t know what a
Ben Pricer was, then you weren't in
Rabaul towards the end of 1914. After
the occupation there was a dire shortage
of Australian currency, and a dire need
of it for use in the two-up schools at
which the soldiery relieved the tropical
tedium. In consultation with the O.C,
the versatile and accomplished Sergeant
Ben Price reckoned that he could do
something in the way of shinplasters
with the couple of old German hand-
presses and founts. Paper was the chief
difficulty. Told to do his best, the
resourceful Ben unearthed a supply of
tinned-beef labels, and the
result satisfied everyone.
Hence the name of some
really extraordinary-look-
ing real money, never
faulted in a school.
XXX
“Nagheer”: Whether
Papua’s Hubert Mur-
ray won champion-
ships in the Queens-
berry dark ages or
not (B. 12/5/’3B), he
was a tidy artist with
his dooks as late as
1912. In that year I
happened to have official
reasons for meeting craft
from Papua at Thursday
Island, and one of them
bore Judge Murray as,
ostensibly, a passenger.
- The vessel had a hard-
bitten white crew of three,
all with recent and exten-
sive facial disfigurements.
I liked the way they
jumped to duty as we
came alongside, but felt surprised
when I learned that the person who
handled the tiller and gave the orders
was their passenger, Judge Murray.
The persistence of ay Island’s
only editor got the story out of one of
the crew. When the Government yacht
in Port Moresby had broken down and
they’d got a good charter for T.I. with
the Government, they reckoned they’d
got the chance of their lives. And all
they’d really got was a blankard with
a left about Bft. long and an unprintable
knowledge of how to use it to their
detriment.
“ Don't worry , Alf — We’ll ’ave you out in ’arf a jiff!”
“Long Bow”: I don’t know, or care,
whether darts is a popular pastime in
the Old Dart or not, but I know that
archery is, and that the cult of the long-
bow has at last reached Australia. A
society of archers has been formed in
our midst, and soon, perhaps, if enough
shopkeepers are interested, there, will be
an Archery Week, and maybe inter-
Dominion tests. 1 The competition for the
“Antient Scorton Arrow” in England
is the oldest annual athletic event held
in the British Isles. It has been going
since 1673, with only two breaks —one
during the Peninsular War and the other
during the Great War. Even the in-
vasions of 1715 and 1745 failed to stop
it.
X X X X
“Kerys”: The boss arrived at the office
in a shocking temper, and the staff tip-
toed round waiting for the storm to
burst. It broke on the head of Mervyn,
the office-boy, who happened to rotate
within the cyclone’s reach. “Here, you,”
roared the boss. “What d’you mean by
coming to the office in those boots?”
Mervyn made an effort to conceal the
ancient and much-worn footwear while
he muttered what were presumably ex-
cuses. “Not even clean,” continued the
“Land on the starboard bow , sir!”
boss. “Look at them!” But by this
time the humble Mervyn was roused to
reprisals. “Yes, look at them,” he
squeaked. “If you had to lend your
boots to y’ brother so’s he could get a
job you might have an old pair on, too.
We’ve only got one pair each, and I
gotter wear his old ones till he gets work.
They’re not clean because he used all
the blacking.” With this Mervyn swept
out and left the staff paralysed and the
boss petrified. The boss was the first to
recover. “Mr. Smith,” he shouted to the
shipping clerk, “take that kid up town
and buy him a decent pair of boots.”
While Mr. Smith was putting on his hat
the boss’s door opened again. “Buy the
brother a pair, too,” he commanded, and
retired once more. Peace reigned there-
after.
x * * *
“Zedo”: A loud, sarcastic snort across
the breakfast table came from the strife
—she had read in the “Argus” that floods
of foreigners were converging on Aus-
tralia in quest of peace. “Peace!” she
scoffed. “Where’s the peace in this place?
Look at yesterday. Postman turned up at
8.40 overweight letter from charity ;
lady arrived 9.15, wants to sell soap and
home-made lace. Next few hours we
had offers of bootlaces, Judge Ruther-
ford’s library, tomato-seeds, rose-cuttings,
vacuum cleaners and a wireless set.
At lunch, another vacuum-cleaner man
and a fellow from the council. Of
course, the afternoon was free enough
—just another church visitor or two
and a couple of wireless men and
an orator from a cash-order company.
Peace!” said the missus. “I bet if
they come to live over here they’ll soon
want to go back to Bulgaria or wherever
it is they come from.”
* X X *
“Stickler”: That ban on making a like-
ness of “any living thing that is in the
heavens above, the earth beneath or the
waters under the earth” is not confined
to Islamic law —you will find it in the
Ten Commandments, from which Maho-
met lifted it. We are enjoined to rigidly
obey those commandments, yet I sup-
pose this particular one has been smashed
to atoms smaller than those into which
frail humanity has battered the other
nine. Curiously enough, I cannot find
what punishment, if any, is imposed on
the Christian offender against this law.
It is a pity if there is none, for it will be
an infernal shame if no hereafter with
boiling oil in it is waiting for some
painters I have been exposed to.
* X X X
“Spare Skeats”: “Oxmead” (B.
12,/5/’3B) puts up some ingenious special
pleading in his defence of the American
word “Britisher,” but he quite fails to
convince with his contention that the
word “Briton” is “be-
coming a trifle archaic'’
and that it has “acquired
a secondary meaning."’
Nor does he do any better
when quoting Macaulay’s
use of the American word
in a letter dated 1851 to
support his theory that
“Britisher” is a proper English word.
The date is subsequent to that of the
publication of Martin Chuzzlewit, and it
is fair to assume that Macaulay, most
omnivorous of readers, derived the word
from Dickens.
“Britisher”: Obviously “Briton” can-
not be used in place of “Britisher,”
for the reason that the Britons in
Britain are mainly Welsh. In Ireland
there may be some Britons, and there
may be some in Brittany, but in England
there are no Britons, save in Cornwall.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: Cabled news that Mrs. A.
C. Webster, of London, formerly Miss
Fairfax, is sending to Sydney for old
times’ sake £7OO worth of pewter, part
of a famous collection, shows up the
steady rise in value of this once humble
metal. In the early days most Australian
homes had pewter utensils, many of
which were discarded when damaged.
Few people foresaw the future of pewter.
An exception was an old dealer in New
Plymouth (M.L.). While a collecting
relative went through junk-heaps seeking
for china, I examined shelves of pewter,
and listened doubtfully to the old man’s
assertion that it would presently “come
into its own.” He didn’t live to see the
coming.
* x x *
“P.S.C.”: Latest army reforms include
an extension of the British Staff College
at Camberley, and provide for a one-
year course for junior officers and the
reduction of the senior course to a year
also. Juniors will go on to staff
appointments up to second-grade.
Seniors will go to the first-class jobs
and to command. While most of the
trainees will be regulars, room will be
found for Terriers, Marines, Airmen,
Dominions, Egyptian and Indian army
officers. It looks as if the old fetish of
the regimental officer will go by the
board. In past days it was held, with
some justice, that an officer’s place was
with his regiment and the men trained
in it. Ambitious juniors suspected of
aspiring to a Staff College course, which
entailed a long absence from their regi-
mental duties while promotion was
blocked for those who remained with
the colors, were as popular as mice at
a meeting of the Housewives’ Associa-
tion.
x x x *
“Fi. fa.”: Any experienced solicitor
will have met the client with a sound
case involving a substantial sum who,
in perfect honesty, explains that he has
no hope of paying the costs unless he
wins, but that if the solicitor will carry
it through for him he will divide hand-
somely from the results. Such folk are
genuinely surprised when told that it is
a legal offence to assist a party to a suit
in which the assisting person is not actu-
ally concerned, with a view to sharing
the proceeds. It is champerty, in legal
language, and not only will a Court
refuse to act upon or enforce any agree-
ment which it regards as amounting to
champerty, but the person acting under
it may be made responsible for the de-
fendant’s costs. And, what’s more, it is
not only lawyers who may get it in the
neck over a champertous agreement. Of
course, it’s been got away with often
enough, but even a smell of champerty
is enough to attract a Court’s most hos-
tile notice.
CLEARING THE BAR.
“S.p. betting was brought almost to a standstill
by recent police action, and bookmakers were driven
out of hotels.” — “S. M. Herald.”
I’ll serve you choice three-star,
Rum, gin or 0.V.G.,
But, whatsoe’er the moaning at the bar,
I’m through with this s.p.
Full double-tides my pumps will work to keep
Long-sleevers crowned with foam;
But here you’ll learn no more what odds you II
reap
When tips get home.
Driven from my hotel
Go book and “after dark,”
With no apparent sadness of farewell
My mien to mark.
My joint shall ne’er be stamped a gaming-place,
As certain others are;
And I can look the whole force in the face
Now I have cleared the bar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Zli
10 for
WIBB4
II
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
•X
THIS
GENERATION
TIPPED
E3QXOE
POLITICAL POINTS
The House of Representatives, which
had only 35 sittings last year, sat for
parts of three days last week. Still, some-
thing was attempted and something done.
After a statesmanlike debate on sanitary
earthenware, the old duties, condemned
by the Tariff Board (26} p.c. British
preference and 60 p.c. general) were car-
ried against the Government.
A Sydney “Sun” man at Canberra lets
himself go:—-
Exactly eight members of Parliament
were in the House when it resumed after
dinner, ostensibly to debate the tariff. There
wasn t an empty seat in the public gallery,
v • ‘They must still be celebrating their
rise, a man in the gallery remarked to his
wife concerning the absent members.
The Sun” man had better be careful.
In the old days Parliamentary reporters
were found guilty of contempt for less.
Australian party leaders must envy the
ease with which Hertzog wins elections.
Prime Minister since 1924 and now allied
with Smuts, Hertzog has been returned
again with a majority of 72 in a House
of 150. Malan’s Nationalists (i.e., Boer
republicans) won 27 seats, the Dominion
party eight (it lost its leader, Stallard) and
Labor three, the 150th member being a
socialist.
The Red Government of Mexico,
which “expropriated” the British and
American oil properties in its distracted
country, tardily offered to “pay” in stolen
oil. Britain has withdrawn its represen-
tative from Mexico City, and the Mexi-
can representative has quitted London.
Ehch party is looking to Washington to
protect its interests; and Washington,
which has exuded heaps of mush about
its “good-neighbor policy” and the duty
of Latin and Anglo-Saxon Americans to
stand four-square to all the winds that
blow, is sorely embarrassed.
Mexico is still a member of the League
and ready with its vote should the
Russians and the Czechs invoke
“sanctions” against “the Fascist Powers.”
Other members are Afghanistan, Cuba,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,
Liberia, Lithuania, Nicaragua, Persia,
Santo Domingo, San Salvador, Uruguay
and Venezuela. Germany, Italy, Japan
and Brazil have gone, and Chile is
going, unless the Covenant is amended.
Jordan, the English copper who “repre-
sents” Maoriland, says it doesn’t need
amending.
A Czech policeman has shot two
Sudeten Germans who, being motor-
cyclists, seem to have been going about
their lawful occasions, and one-eyed Syd-
ney daily papers suggest that the Ger-
mans of the Reich, being cows, ought to
take it lying down. This meekness
wouldn’t have been shown by Australians
had the same thing happened to Aus-
tralians in unquiet times. In 1919 one of
a party of waterside workers, engaged in
a lawless struggle with the police for the
capture of the main Fremantle wharf,
was knocked on the head. Scared authori-
ties (1) yielded up the wharf, (2) with-
drew their police from Fremantle, and
(3) agreed that no Government trams or
trains should run during the hour in
which the lumper was buried—nor did
any run.
The Liars are busy again. “Britain,
France, Soviet Warn Hitler” —Lie No. 1.
“ ‘lf Germany crosses the Czech frontier
that would automatically start a war,’
said the spokesman of the French
Foreign Office.” It is “authoritatively
denied” that he said anything of the sort.
Two Great Thoughts of the week. The
author of one is Commander Villari, of
the Italian Foreign Office:
Italy is fighting in the cause of the British
Empire in Spain.
The other thinker is Mr. Wedgwood
Benn, M.P. (Lib.):
The League Covenant is the basis of the
British Commonwealth. There is no other
document which binds all the Dominions,
only the Covenant.
He gets the booby prize. Being a mem-
ber of the Third Estate, he really ought
to have heard about the Crown.
A dreadful lot of rubbish is spouted
and written about the crime of exporting
iron ore to countries whose forms of
government and policies the merchants of
rubbish don’t like. Sweden has exported
iron ore for centuries, and if export was
banned the country would go bung. In
1935 the Swedes raised 7,932,800 tons
of iron ore and sold 7,070,300 tons
abroad. Some of the very people who
are horrified at the idea of Westralia
“Sydney papers are asserting in excited articles that the resignation of Police Commissioner
Mackay would be a National Calamity.”
“Wot’s the latest, sarge?”
exporting a commodity for which there
has hitherto been no demand hold up
Sweden as one of the model democ-
racies.
Sydney’s “new” “Labor Daily” turns
out to be a close imitation of the “D.T.”
—comic strips, semi-stripped brats and
all. The only difference seems to be
that the Moscow stuff comes from Our
Own Moscow Reporter.
In the pride of rebirth, the Sydney
“Labor Daily” has lavishly increased its
estimate of the number of N.S.W. union-
ists “represented” by Trades and Labor
Council delegates who demand collective
insecurity and boycotts of the “Fascist
Powers,” Von Luckner and Australian
defence. Previously it was “250,000
unionists”; now it is “more than
300,000.” “More than 300,000”: and
the Trades and Labor Council ticket at
the Assembly elections didn’t get 20,000
unionist votes!
Sydney’s absurdly-named and badly-
run County Council has a weakness for
papers in which Lang is or was interested,
benevolently or otherwise. It bestowed
an advertising contract on an Adelaide
Labor paper which barracked for “the
big fellow,” although Adelaide doesn’t
buy a penn’orth of the current it sells ;
and it was a regular advertiser in the
“Labor Daily” when Lang controlled it.
Last week it gave Lang a £2O ad. for the
first issue of his “Century”—so-called,
perhaps, because he is more than three-
fifths of the way to a hundred not out —
and “portion of the advertising allocated
to the ‘Labor Daily,’ amounting to £452,”
is to be “reconsidered,” the idea being
that “it may be allocated to advertising
in the ‘Century.’ ”
Anyone reading the papers would
imagine Australia was a Crown colony
again. Some of the papers themselves
are denationalised, drawing their inspira-
tion from Hollywood, Moscow or South
Kensington. The day after an Anglo-
Indian who served in Mesopotamia was
appointed Inspector-General of the Aus-
tralian Army, over the heads of younger
Australians with greater experience of
warfare against first-class soldiers armed
with modern weapons, it was reported
that a Police Commissioner from Glas-
gow was about to resign in N.S.W.
Straightway there was a demand that his
successor should be got from Scotland
Yard. Surely a country with nearly
7,000,000 white people can grow its own
coppers.
Fruits of the Victorian alliance be-
tween a numerically weak Country party
and the Labor party that put three Sena-
tors in, as seen by Hollway, the Ballarat
M.L.A.:
The Labor party has lost its vigor and
the Country party its independence. The
C.P. has become a party in which a Mel-
bourne junta has complete and autocratic
control.
And nobody can deny it who washes the
dust out of his eyes and takes the Book
in his right hand.
“Australia’s greatest needs are men,
money and markets.” So said the young
Bruce when he was kidding Baldwin,
then new to the game, for preferences.
Now, after 14 years, Tommy White, the
Minister of Customs, has discovered that
“Australia’s greatest needs are men,
money and manufactures.”
Casey’s “national” insurance scheme
applies only to a limited number of em-
ployees, doesn’t provide against unem-
ployment, discriminates against women,
restricts medical benefits to the insured
person, is regarded by the B.M.A. as in-
complete and inadequate,” by country
doctors as a danger to their practices and
by friendly societies as a menace to their
existence. Introduced in a year of record
expenditure on armaments, and of
drought in what are normally among the
most productive districts in Australia,
it will mean more taxation.
If Casey gets his “National” Insurance
Bill slammed on the Statute Book, there
will be another direct tax on employers
and another direct tax on employees;
and efforts to compel employers to pay
the employees’ tax-won’t ease the position
for the nation. It should be put aside
until it can be dispassionately studied in
all its bearings. But, of course, Casey
is going to try to push it through in a
hurry.
“Friendly society” is a good name for
a good thing. The friendly societies
promote thrift, Christian charity and
good citizenship. They were caring for
sick and disabled members of lodges
and ruling out malingerers when Mr.
Casey’s grandfather was in petticoats.
So when the chiefs of an organisation like
the Manchester Unity, with 65,000 mem-
bers in N.S.W. alone, tell the public that
“many clauses of the ‘National’ Insur-
ance Bill will do the friendly societies un-
told harm,” even Canberra politicians
ought to sit up and take notice.
Melbourne’s Town Clerk and health
officer want a “permanent expert town-
planning authority” to guide the Hous-
ing Commission. Victoria spent £22,500
on a Town Planning Commission which
sat for seven years till 1929. It produced
a sound 300-page report stuffed witli
maps, which was immediately shelved and
conveniently forgotten by a scared Gov-
ernment.
With beef scarce and dear, fat cattle
from the Board of Works farm at Werri-
bee that would go 13001 b. dressed-weight
are being sold at four guineas a head
for boiling-down. So said Melbourne
City Councillors last week, and one ex-
plained that it was because of “exag-
gerated statements about beef measles,
tapeworms and other injurious expres-
sions,” they having prompted the Cocky
Government to ban the sale of beeves
from the publicly-owned farm. It used
to be a profitable concern, and the ban
has disordered the board’s finances. But
it is sure to remain until the Labor party
turns nasty, which point will be reached
only when Labor electors kick hard.
An Education Conference “for a pro-
gressive democratic Australia” is to be
held in Sydney Town Hall next month,
and. people who feel that, because of
misdirected economies and a narrow pro-
vincial outlook, the minds of young Aus-
tralians are not being furnished nearly
as well as they should be have been
invited to give it active support. The
conveners have drawn up a 10-point
programme, the tenth point being “pro-
vision for an effective free library system
in schools and in local centres.” Per-
haps the tenth should be first. And it
is proposed that the Commonwealth
should “subsidise education to the ex-
tent of at least £5,000,000 p.a.” The
Bulletin’s idea is that there should be
national control with full financial re-
sponsibility and, of course, adminis-
tration decentralised as it is decentralised
in Britain.
From “Farmasist”:
Apropos of that Kurrawang (W.A.) strike
settlement (B. 28/4/’3B), the offer to pay the
amount in dispute, £450, to the Kalgoorlie
Hospital came from an employee. The com-
pany agreed, but, whether to save face or for
some other reason, made it a condition that
the men stump up ss. apiece. The men were
willing, and that was the finish.


THE LAST OF HIS CLAN.
The outlook for big-game hunters in Africa is gloomy Lions in particular are becoming increasingly rare.


hVllday"!
;10 DAYS £lO-10-0 i
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the 1 N,
VICTORIA
PAIACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
I
Hill
m#ii nntl fTTI
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you:
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead*
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you cai
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
HH
STRAUAN
AU
20
p/^M\€.S
COM
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
PERSONAL ITEM S
To the already formidable array of
letters after his name Surgeon Henry
Newland, of Adelaide, can now add those
that denote fellowship with the Associa-
tion of Surgeons of Great Britain and
Ireland, an honorary distinction which
can be held by only 25 persons outside
the British Isles. Newland, who is 64,
was born in S.A. and got his first medical
sheepskin at Adelaide Uni. Later he
studied in London, Paris, Prague, Vienna
and the U.S.A. He served in the
A.A.M.C. throughout the Great War,
emerging with a D.S.O. and a lieut.-
colonelcy. He collected ,a K.B. seven
years ago.
Dead at 71, William James Gall,
former Under-Secretary in the Home
Affairs Department, Queensland, State
Protector of Aborigines and Comptroller-
General of Prisons. Born in Ipswich
(Q.), he joined the public service as a
boy, and had rapid promotion. As officer
in charge of military accounts, he saw
much of the shearers’ strike of the 1890’s,
and could tell diverting tales of inner
happenings on both sides. A noted foot-
baller in his youth, he became in later
years a keen fisherman and game shot.
lan Gall, black-and-white artist, is a son.
Dr. Arthur Goode, dead in Brisbane
at the military hospital, was an Adelaide
graduate and a fine athlete in his time.
War service at Abbeville hospital and
elsewhere broke his health, and, though
he was prominent at Horseferry-road
after the Armistice, he was never well
again in S.A., and he had to migrate to
Queensland. Crawford Vaughan, a
former S.A. Premier, is a brother-in-law,
and Clarence Goode, a brother, was in
the same Cabinet.
Bruce Bellamy, a 34-year-old Forbes
(N.S.W.) product, has risen from junior
mail clerk in the Sydney office to adver-
tising manager for Australia of Vacuum
Oil. He spent some years on the sales
end in central and western N.S.W., and,
after helping Cowra Rugby Union into
existence, was in Orange and Bathurst be-
fore going back to the city in 1930. A few
months later he was advertising manager
for N.S.W., and in 1931 was transferred
to head office in Melbourne as assistant
to W. G. Griffith, whose job he took
BRUCE BELLAMY.
when the latter went to Sydney as assist-
ant State g.m. and sales manager.
W. J. MacDonald, who has just passed
hence, started in Adelaide, went on to
Melbourne University, and later was
school-teacher, sub-editor and freelance
journalist. He could always turn out
easy and popular verse, some of which
got into The Bulletin.
Latest appointee to the N. S. Wales
Public Service Board is Thomas Dwyer
Kelly, Under-Secretary of the Treasury.
He leaves the Treasury job, held since
1935, but .retains the vice-presidency of
the Metropolitan Water Board, held also
T.D. KELLY.
since 1935, and will remain a member of
the advisory committee on technical
education. Born at Molonglo long before
it was Federal Territory, T. D. Kelly, now
58, took up the profession of accountancy
and was a colleague of Premier Stevens
in the latter’s civil service days. He
accompanied the Premier on his trip
abroad two years ago.
Melbourne loses one of. its best-
liked police magistrates by the death at
49 of Albert Spivey Hauser. Born in
Ballarat, he joined the public service
in 1906 as a clerk in the Lands Depart-
ment, later transferring to the Crown
Law Department. He received his
appointment as P.M. in 1931 after many
years’ experience as clerk of court. As
chairman of a score of wages boards
he did useful service in adjusting indus-
trial squabbles. He was also an ideal
Children’s Court magistrate.
Vic.’s international motor show, staged
in Melbourne by the Chamber of Auto-
motive Industries, has as organiser H.
W. Harrison, third of his line to be asso-
ciated with Australia’s transport history.
Grandfather Capt. John Harrison once
ran coastal boats out of Sydney, while his
son, H.W.’s father, was boss of Permewan,
Wright and Co.’s long-distance hauling
which connected the Vic. and N.S.W.
railway lines in the days when the Mel-
bourne-Albury and Sydney-Albury tracks
were being constructed. The third Har-
rison—present motor-car showman—has
had 35 years’ experience of the motor
industry ; this is his 26th as C.A.I. secre-
tary and 12th as organising sec. of the
only individual motor show held in Aus-
tralia or Maoriland. Now 59, he is Mel-
bourne-born, but spent part of his boy-
hood at Albury and the rest of it at
Eltham, 14 miles out of Melbourne,
which his mother’s people, the Arm-
strongs, helped the Harper, Andrews and
Wingrove families to found.
Melbourne Grammar School’s new
headmaster, in succession to D. S. Col-
man, will be L -R. Sutcliffe, the third
Maorilander to hold the post. Sutcliffe
is 41, was educated at Palmerston High
School, took a science degree at Victoria
College,- Wellington (M.L.), went to the
war in the ranks of the machine-gunners,
and later had a commission in the R.F.C.
During his eight years in charge of Scots
College, Wellington (M.L.), the school
roll has doubled in numbers.
Captain H. Auten, foreign manager of
British Empire Films and of the Aus-
tralian concern Cinesound Productions,
who arrived in Sydney last week, became
a skipper in the R.N.R. in war-time, as
an officer in and later a commander of
“mystery ships,” and carried on
afterwards in the mercantile
marine in ships trading to Aus-
tralia and S’Africa. He came
ashore and went into the film
business eight or nine years ago.
Has written Q-Boat Adventures, >
and can sport a V.C., gained in a dust-
up with a U-boat in 1918.
Dead in Brisbane at 72, John Frederick
Bailey, second of one of Australia’s most
prolific botanical dynasties. His grand-
father, S’Australia’s first Colonial Bot-
anist, brought the fig, the vine, the date-
palm and other vegetable immigrants to
the colony. His father, Frederick Man-
son Bailey, was Queensland’s Govt.
Botanist. J.F. in 1905 succeeded him in
the job, which carries with it the curator-
ship of Brisbane Botanical Gardens. In
1917 he went to Adelaide as curator of
the Botanical Gardens there, retiring in
1932. A son, F.M., joined the N. S.
Wales Forestry Dept., and a nephew,
Cyril White, is present Queensland
Botanist.
Thomas Playford, S.A.’s new Com-
missioner of Crown Lands, a job which
in that State is held by a member of
the Ministry, is a grandson of the former
Premier (and Lands Commissioner) of
the same name, and has been in Parlia-
ment about five years. Aged 42, he takes
an interest in farming matters, and was
THOMAS PLAY FORD.
on the honorary commission that in-
quired into dairying problems. He en-
listed early in the Great War and saw
service on Gallipoli and in France and
Belgium. He received a commission on
the field, and was still going strong when
the Armistice arrived. Earns his liveli-
hood as a gardener and flower-grower,
and has a nice place at Norton Summit.
Glimpse of a man with a big job:
Kingsley Wood, Britain’s new Air Minister,
looks in the pistance like a son of Mr. Pick-
wick, but on closer inspection there is an in-
cisiveness about him which belies his curves
and his rather brief stature. In action, he is—
or was when he was a few years vonrv^er —
a streak of greased lightning tailored in Savile
Row. He is a solicitor who in an earlier day
specialised in insurance and property law; but
after he entered politics a generation ago the
only things he specialised in were several
branches of health organisation, insurance,
housing, post-office reform, price-regulation of
food, daylight saving, motor-car manufacture
and the general features of national politics.
LUCKNER, of the Seeadler.
He virtually badgered the Government of the
day into creating the Health Ministry after the
war, and himself in time became Health Min-
ister; but his greatest triumph was the Post
Office, till his day a conservative old institution
which had scarcely moved forward in the 30
years which had passed since its chief engineer
had shaken his head over Marconi and said that
wireless would never become a commercial
possibility. Wood’s sixpenny telegrams, ac-
celerated deliveries, special services for tele-
phone subscribers and a flood of other innova-
tions set the old hands gasping. He even de-
creed that the G.P.O. should advertise. The
results were soaring revenues and soaring
profits. And though he was not in office when
the scheme came into force, he was the first
man to moot the idea of a Hd. airmail through-
out the British Empire. It operates to-day—
except as regards Australia.
Rev. E. Norman McKie, new Modera-
tor of the Kirk in N. S. Wales, is minister
of St. Columba’s, Guyra, and interests
himself in the practical as well as the
spiritual needs of his flock through
junior farmers’ clubs and Agricultural
Bureau organisations. His hobby is
botany, and he has worked on the flora
of New England and other districts for
several years. The Royal Australian
Historical Society and also the Linnean
and Royal Societies of N. S. Wales count
him among their active members. Born
at Barraba (N.S.W.) 56 years ago, he
was employed by the Commercial Bank-
ing Co. of Sydney before entering the
ministry. A St. Andrew’s College pupil
and Sydney University 8.A., he was
ordained and inducted to his first charge
—Manilla-Bendemeer —in 1909. From
there he went to his present charge at
Guyra in 1912.
Exit at 81, in the quietude of Virginia
Water, England, Louis Bayly, a peppery
sea dog who might have come out of a
Jane Austen novel. He joined the navy
in 1870, when a man still needed a voice
to reach a yardarm, and spent an event-
ful youth mainly in Africa helping to
civilise the Congo and Ashanti and per-
suade Egypt into a right frame of mind.
At 50 he was president of the Naval War
College, and when Wilhelm broke loose
he was for a time in command of the
First Battle Cruiser Squadron, transfer-
ring his flag to Queenstown (Ireland) as
head of the naval forces patrolling the
western approaches. There a heavy re-
sponsibility fell on him during the re-
mainder of the war, in the latter part
of which he was responsible for the
organisation and control of the Q boats.


mtsm
S i
m
■
x::
4l
Hfl
£3
Jb
f\J
m
mm®**
:«
m
m
■m
M
■x
a?
Mi
u
J
/
mm
m
ft
*
n
g»
I
“Call me
fussy if
you like
Some people may
be content to take
their whisky as it
comes. Frankly, I
prefer to be more par-
ticular .. I don’t believe
in this idea that one
Scotch whisky is just j
as good as another
Some people may not know the
difference: I always insist on
White Horse. Surely you’ll agree
with me that while you
can get White Horse
soft and smooth as a
fine liqueur, it’s wiser to
ask for it by name.”
ish
lit
m
m
11
N#
m
n
I
m
a
an
f
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


ABORIGINALITIES
“Warrigal”: I hadn’t been home for
a few years, and after city conveniences
the sight of the womenfolk struggling
the length of the verandah from tank to
kitchen with endless kerosene-tins of
water struck me in a new light, in place
of previous acceptance of the custom as
a provision of nature. I worked out
that jacking the tankstand up five feet
or so and running a length of pipe along
the verandah would lay the water neatly
into the kitchen. “Don’t be silly! ”
roared the Old Man, when I broached
the project. “D’y’ think I’m lookin’
f’r work?” Feeling on second thoughts
that a little bolstering was needed, he
added, “Besides, carrying the water in
teaches them to be careful with it. You’d
only encourage them to slop it all over
the place, whether it was wanted or not! ”
* * * *
“Talus”: The reappearance some
years ago of the scarlet-crested parrot
(Neophema splendida), which was sup-
posed to have become extinct, gave a
fillip to the bird-netting industry in the
Centre. The scarlet-crest, Bourke’s
parrot and the Alexandra parrakeet are
the chief birds sought, and at present
there are several trappers working in
the south-western part of Centralia.
Twenty-five pounds was paid for the
first pair of scarlet-crests sent down to
Adelaide, and it is reckoned that a pair
would now be worth £lOO on the London
market.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: Never heard of kurra-
jong posts sprouting (B. 12/5/’3B), but
remember how settlers in Mildura (Vic.)
years ago trellised their vines with posts
cut from tamarisk or tamarack trees
(probably imported from U.S.A.) and
found them sprouting heavily after an
irrigation or two. -It meant replacing
them with box or pine posts.
* * * *
“Hanko”: There is a thrill to be had
in getting a close-up of a wildling, the
more so should it own to a degree of
wariness. A white-fronted heron sailed
into a pool by the clump of broom
wherein I was standing. Long-legs at
once got busy stirring the bottom to raise
tadpoles. A stride forward and he re-
peated the process ; another stride—and
he glimpsed me. Astonishment sat him
back on his tail; his bill flew open and
he gave an audible gasp, then he skittered
into the air with a squawk of protest at
my eavesdropping. Hang it all, Ido
believe I slunk guiltily out from cover.
* * * *
“Johnno”: Our bananas, left to ripen
on the tree, were regularly disappearing,
but the thief dodged us for a long time.
Then one morning we caught him red-
handed. It was one of our dogs, a big,
friendly, innocent-looking black mong
that had come wandering in from
nowhere one day. Standing on his hind
legs Stumpy knocked the ripe fruit to
the ground with his paws, peeled and
calmly scoffed them. And we had been
wondering what kept the sly old boy so
fat. Also had a tyke that used to help
himself to a pineapple whenever he felt
that way.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When a dark and fetch-
ing young miss came to the post office
of our Murray River town there was a
rush for razors, soap and hair-oil. Soon
the competition had fined down to
Barney 8., of Tammit station, and Long
Bob, of Prill Park. As the three-sided
wooing progressed, and the men of each
station barracked for their own, the affair
threatened to split town and district into
two camps. But there hadn’t been more
than half a dozen brawls before Barney
won the maid’s heart, peace was declared,
and everyone got ready for the marriage
doings. Tammit threw in handsomely
and bought the ’groom a rubber-tyred,
nickel-plated sulky. Prill, not to be out-
done, sent to Mildura for a spanking
chestnut to draw it. On the big day,
stations, bends and camps yielded up
their best, and a concourse of the
bush gathered in the town. The
wedding was at five, breakfast at six,
and the shivoo in the hall began at 7
p.m. By 10 p.m., what with congratu-
lations and “just another,” few of the
males over 15 could keep properly up-
"I say , is Mr. Jenkins down theyah ?”
“ Yairs , but ’e Wont see nobody unless you ’ace an appointment
right. Nobody noticed that Long Bob
and a couple of his cronies had vanished.
Those of the populace who greeted the
dawn stood amazed to see the glorious
sulky astride the ridge-cap of the hall;
the chestnut was trying to buck off the
broad white stripes painted on it; the
bridegroom was 10 miles up-river trying
to locate himself; and Long Bob and his
allies rode towards Prill, profanely assur-
ing each other that the night had been
a “bobby-dazzler.”
* * o
“Sou’-west”: Having been one of those
mugs who use a “cumbersome, top-heavy
maul” in preference to a 71b. steel
striking-hammer, may I ask “C.J.R.” (B.
28/4/’3B) how he gets on about his
wedges? The good rail- and sleeper-
splitter here in W.A. uses a maul, not
necessarily cumbersome and top-heavy,
simply because wedges are too valuable
to have their tops bashed to pieces by
a steel hammer. And, anyway, the splitter
with a maul and well-kept wedges will
soon put it over one with wedges the
tops of which resemble chrysanthemums.
The only man I ever struck using a steel
hammer on wedges in the Westralian
bush was a firewood-getter and his
wedges would have made a sleeper-
splitter weep.
❖
“Gordo Blanco”: But why should
grapes be such an unobtainable luxury
to most of outback Australia (B.
28/4/’38)? Is there any place on this
continent climatically unsuited to grape
cultivation or any hardier vegetable than
the vine itself? I have grown grapes in
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) in soil in its unbroken
summer condition reminiscent of the hobs
of Hades, providing the necessary mois-
ture in the shape of slops from the bath
and the washtub, the worst of the suds
precipitated with a handful of lime. The
secret of success was to sink any sort
of pipe two or three feet into the ground
and pour the water down that, thus
eliminating evaporation and using the
soil as a filter. A little fresh water now
and again acted as a tonic. With a little
such encouragement the vine roots soon
get well down and find moisture for
themselves. And there are few places
in Australia where some subsoil moisture
doesn’t exist. The real trouble about
growing grapes outback is that so few try.
* * * *
“Dominic”: So “Binatang” (B.
28/4/’3B) reckons the old belief that the
drinking of sea-water by otherwise-water-
less castaways will cause madness is “all
my eye.” Well, let him try sea-water as
a beverage, even without being a cast-
away. Taken in moderate quantities salt
is an emetic. Taken in'large doses it
becomes a poison, causing violent grip-
ing pains. Thus the parched castaway
who succumbs to the lure of the cool
sea goes mad, not with general paralysis
of the insane or anything so certifiable,
but simply with agony —to end which he,
not having any too encouraging a future,
may jump overboard. If restrained from
such an end he may writhe on the floor-
boards and, as salt increases thirst, try
to drink more sea-water, even the bilge
in the boat, thus involving himself in
still greater agony. I was in Fremantle
in 1907 when the crew of the Carnarvon
Castle came in right up from the
Southern Ocean. They had been in two
open boats for 21 days. In the captain’s
boat several had succumbed to the lure
of the salt water; without exception the
drinkers had died.
* * * *
“Ninderry”: Went into the chook-
house the other day and found a porcu-
pine buried in six inches of sawdust in
the bottom of a hen’s nest. Apparently
Porky used the nest as a dustbath to
rid himself of ticks. He protested at
being interrupted, using language similar
to that of the guinea-pig tribe. Inciden-
tally, these interesting beasties are very
powerful and are becoming rare. Ticks
play havoc with them, but other Aboliars
may adduce other causes of their dis-
appearance.
* o =:= •:<
“Bufo”: Lismore (N.S.W.) has been
getting all thrilled by its Town Council
with the glad news that a marvellous
little fish from America, Gambusia affinis
by name, is about to rid it of mosquitoes
by eating up their larvae in tanks and
other water collections. The miracle-
worker is, in reality, the top-minnow
of Barbadoes, a moderately effective
larvae-destroyer, but so destructive an
enemy of native fish and their fpod sup-
plies that the N.S.W. Aquarium Society
has advised the State Fisheries Depart-
ment that its introduction to inland
streams should be barred on account of
the damage already done by it in coastal
waters. And all the while theworlds
best and most effective larva-destroying
fish, the “blue-eye,” Pseuda-mugil sig-
nifer? is abundant in every N.S.W. and
SQ. coastal stream and deep lagoon,
particularly so in the neighborhood of
Lismore itself. The little warriors have
a world-wide reputation except, charac-
teristically, in their land of origin.
* * * *
“Piscator”: If “Bray Rock .(B.
12/5/’3B) is right in saying that the
swordfish race do not spar with the bait
when not in a feeding mood, then Zane
Grey is a mug. In his book on his Aus-
tralian fishing experiences he constantly
mentions the marlin’s aggravating habit
of knocking the bait about as if in utter
contempt of Zane’s attempts to sell him
a pup, and then leaving it on other
business.
* * * *
“Spare Psychologist”: I would say that
the terrier which kills its male offspring
(B. 12/5/ ’3B) is afflicted with the (Edipus
complex. Otherwise the slaying of newly-
born offspring is not uncommon with
dogs, even the mothers of some breeds
developing the horrid habit, especially
if disturbed after the lying-in, but writer
has never heard of the males only being
selected for slaughter. Larger members
of the cat family are peculiarly prone to
eat their offspring, and no zoo or men-
agerie attendant who knows his job
allows a father lion or tiger to stay with
the missus after the family arrives.
* * * *
“Passage Pilot”: Many tourists to the
islands off the N.Q. coast make their
fortunes in a day and lose them, in five
minutes. They open black-lip oysters,
only to find that they are too big, coarse
and billygoatish in flavor. But what they
do see are pearls. Some of the tourists
get elated; others, having business train-
ing, say nothing and look smug. They
intend to keep that find to themselves
until they can exploit it, and almost a
man can hear the wheels going round
in their heads as they compute working
exes, against profits. But there aren't
any profits. Those teardrop pearls, dull
and lacking lustre, aren’t worth the
trouble to gather.
* * * *
“Bricks”: For coolness in summer and
warmth in winter there’s nothing to beat
the old homesteads in W.Q. built of
pise. They’re commodious, with big
walls, built to last, and, barring one
thing, they’ll be there when the blasts
of doom shake the earth. Pise is mud
of a clayey consistency mixed with cow-,
bullock- or bull-hair, and a bangtailing
would supply plenty on those old cattle
stations. The walls were raised up be-
tween moulds, a couple of feet thick,
and as they dried they were painted or
whitewashed. The only thing that finishes
’em is moisture. The roof has to be
sound, and there must be a protecting
verandah to keep the pelting rain out.
The old township of Urandangie was
built of pise. That was where Urquhart
was supposed to build his fort, and didn’t.
Unfortunately, a flood in the Georgina
just lapped all the walls. That was why
they shifted the town to where it now
stands —there was nothing left of the old
’un, or the supposititious fort, either,
when the flood had receded.
THE LAND GIRL.
I had made some admirin’ remarks on a farm
that the pair of us passed,
A bonzer—for spick-and-span neatness it left
all the others outclassed.
“Ar, that joint!” said McGinty the Snagger as
his whip flicked his animal’s rump,
“Well, a while back y’d never ’ave known it,
for it looked just an abserloot dump.
“Yair, the bails an’ the barns an’ the fences
was failin’ to bits. Not a trace
Of paint could you see on the ’omestead; for
the laziest cove round the place
Useter own it—or, rather, ’e would’ve, if on’y
the bank ’ad bin kind
An’ wiped orf ’is mortgage an’ int’rest. ’E
musta bin six years be’ind.
“Well, the nex’ thing we ’ears there’s a widda
’as bought it. An’ w’en she lobs in,
Starve the spags! if she don’t stun the locals;
for she’s nifty an’ young, with a grin
Sorta friendly. O’ course orl the wimmen—you
know ’ow they are with a tab
’Oo’s good-lookin’ —would ’ave it she’s schemin’
a Number Two ’usband to grab.
“Pretty soon every bloke that ain’t yoked up
—an’ quite a few, also, that were —
Sneaks along there to offer assistance. ‘Bluey’
Clark lashes in cuttin’ burr
Ev’ry Sundey; while after ’is milkin’ young
Sims puts up posts that ’e’d split,
And the rest of ’em ’ops into odd jobs, each
’opin’ ’e’s made a good ’it.
“It ain’t long till everything’s shipshape. The
ploughin’ and all ’as been done,
An’ the ’omestead repaired an’ all painted, an’
the rubbish burnt orf be the ton.
Course they’d jockeyed each other fer possies,
each cove bein’ sure that ’e’d win;
Though she’s sweet to ’em all there seemed no
one ’oo’d got a particular spin.
“But the odds is on Big Harry Skinner, a curly-
’aired joker ’oo sings—
They was, I should say, till she skips. A new
owner arrives with ’is things.
Then they finds out ’er ’usband’s a shrewdy ’oo
buys up old farms for a song.
Yair, the mob all got stung. But there’s one
thing: they proved that the wimmen was
wrong l”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Bull-ant Bill”: I’m afraid I’ve done
in my rep. for commonsense with our
district councillor, but I’ve gained an
interesting sidelight on why unemploy-
ment-relief taxes remain so high in
Queensland despite political promises. A
couple of relief-workers have been brush-
ing the sides of the road, and in sym-
pathy with their hearty curses anent the
bluntness of the hooks and mattocks sup-
plied by the council I lent them a file
to remedy matters a bit. Soon after
they were sailing valiantly into the job
with sharp tools and putting up a good
effort. On Saturday I met the councillor
in town. “Thought you had more sense,
Bill, than to lend those chaps tools,”
quoth he reproachfully. I explained that
I’d got the file back all right, and that
they were decent lads. “Blast the file! ’
he exploded ; “they’ll be finished the job
in a week now, and I don’t know where
the blazes to put ’em next. Should’ve
taken a month. Wattinell do you go
interfering with my men for?” It took
two pots to soothe him.
* * * *
“Stoo”: The half-wild pigs that roam the
tea-tree round Lake Taupo (M.L.) must
be descended from “Dinnis’s” pals the
French truffle-hunters (B. 12 /5 / ’3B). The
brutes have developed a taste for trout,
and the unwary angler who leaves one
buried in the sand there —a common
practice when the bag’s full and you
want to go on fishing and don’t want
the flies to call on the catch —is liable
to have the fish rooted up and devoured.
Have seen the pigs follow an angler
along, waiting for a feed, and seen them,
too, raid a tent. The Maoris own them
and let them roam at large, and if you
slay one in sorrow or anger Hori invari-
ably appears from nowhere with out-
stretched palm. A bloke did tell me that
the pigs found buried trout not by the
smell but by the stick the angler would
leave to mark the spot —but he was a
fisherman.
“Mako”: Add the Maori wahine to
the admirers of the pig. And it isn’t
merely a commercial admiration but a
kind and friendly interest which causes
her, when the animal is yet young and
wieldy, to carry him about slung on her
back as she would in other circumstances
carry her infant. A piglet so adopted
leads a pleasant and contented life, and
makes an affectionate and docile pet.
And there is nothing the matter with his
intelligence; in fact, his foster-mother
will regale relatives and frieftds with tales
of the unusual brightness of her favorite
in the manner the average mother boasts
of the exploits of Betty and little Bill.
* * * *
“Colebrook”: Old Bill the rouseabout
has blossomed into a statistician. He
reckons —sane margins and all chucked
in—that an old gander which was
reared on the place donkeys’ years ago
has, up to the end of last year, walked
over 32,000 miles, swum half that dis-
tance, and stacked 14 tons of grass
into his innards. Besides this, he has
seen sons and daughters of the approxi-
mate value of £lOOO packed into crates
and forwarded to market to furnish the
principal item on the menus of nearly
4000 Christmas dinners since he first
toddled out of the old butter-tub which
is still in commission as a hatchery.
* * * *
“Kookaroo”: I have been young and
now am old, but never have I seen a
tree which has had wire wound round
it in its youth take the wire with it as
it. grew up, as “Lego” (B. 12/5/’3B)
asserts. I have seen many a tree in-
corporated in a fence, but in every case
the wires have remained at the same
height from the ground as when they
were first attached years before, years
in which the vegetable has, perhaps, more
than doubled its height.
$ * * *
“Wang”: “Talkin’ of fertile soil,” said
Old Dan, “a bloke I knew down in
South Gippsland had a river flat what
he sowed with oats. A coupla days
later he went along t’ see how it was
gettin’ on, an’ found a bootiful crop
about six feet high an’ still growin’. As
he stood gawpin’ at it he heard faint
squawkin’ sounds cornin’ out of it. He
pushed his way in a few feet an’ found
’bout a thousand cockatoos lyin’ on
th’ ground. Them what wasn’t dead wus
at their last gasps. They’d evidently
flown down t’ bandicoot th’ oats, what
had grown so thick an’ fast around them
they’d been unable t’ open their wings
t’ fly away.”
“I wish he Wouldn't exaggerate so, Ronny”
“Squalus”: Though, like other Aus-
tralians, I ’ have eaten a good deal of
shark disguised as smoked haddock, I
will admit that this is a special variety
which certainly does not carry the awful
odor “Lombardena” ascribes to the shark
eaten by his Malay crew (B. 12/5/’3B).
But I have seen many a shark of various
kinds cooked and eaten by Papuans, and
inspection of the viand has revealed no
particular odor, good or bad, while the
firm, white, flaky flesh is most appetis-
ing in appearance. Crocodile, on the
other hand, is no scent-sachet. Cooking
seems to accentuate the horrid musky
smell so characteristic of the brute in
life, though in Papua they don’t seem to
mind it.
* * * *
“Wide Awake”: Hugh McMaster, a
Cloncurry (Q.) squatter, has found a new
use for the herds of camels which the
motor has put out of the carrying game.
They “hand-feed” his flocks. Preferring
leaves of trees and shrubs to grass, the
oonts have become expert at breaking
the branches off, and the jumbucks follow
“May the Loard bless these few remarks .”
“If the Loard bless they remarks, Silas, 'E’d bless anything .”
their tall cobbers around to share in the
meal. Large numbers of sheep have thus
been saved from starvation during
drought periods.
* * * *
“Tally”: What’s the biggest mob of
sheep counted out in the one run? Any-
thing over 10,000 gives a man eyestrain,
and most counters will block such a mob
once or twice to give their optics a spell.
Biggest count-out I ever saw was 24,000,
but over a friendly glass or two I’ve
heard of counts of up to 50,000. If these
reputed counts did take place, the prob-
ability was that two or more counters
did the job in relays. I once added-up
16,000 passing from one drought-stricken
paddock to another, and when the job
was over my eyes felt stricken with sandy
blight. On green pastures the strain isn't
so great, and yet under the best con-
ditions a counter would need eyes out
of the common to let them work non-
stop on those 40,000-50,000 mobs. Like
300-a-day shearers, gun sheep-counters
are very rare birds.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The manager of the
outback W.A. station on which I toiled
was a long, lanky cove who had his
own way of handling charging bullocks
—a quick side-step at the right moment
and a blow behind the horns with a
short stick. He explained that a bull
closes its eyes during the last few yards
of a rush, and a blow behind the head
when it expected one in front kept it
going. It never came back for more.
He wanted me to learn the trick, and
offered to let me practise on some young
steers, but I got a wire from home, and
had to leave.
* * * *
“Physalia”: A record catch for river
fishing was made up our S.Q. way lately.
My 16-stone neighbor and his wife, keen
anglers both, were trying for barramundi
at night, with live frogs as bait. Femi-
nine kindness of heart insisted that the
frogs should be only tied to the hook—
besides, they swim better that way. Sport
was poor, and he dozed off. Making a
sleepy swipe at a mosquito, he was
wrenched forcibly back to full conscious-
ness by an agonising pang in the pos-
terior, followed by a yell from his wife.
“Quick with the gaff, Bill. I’ve got a
whopper!” She had hooked Bill! Her
humanely-treated bait had crawled up the
bank and sheltered in Bill’s ample lee.
His swipe at the mossie had brought his
hand against the lme and the lady had
struck vigorously at the supposed bite.
* * * *
“Drover”: “Rummiest happenin’ ever
I had drovin’,” said Larry, “was ther
time I was bringin’ in twelve hundred
bullicks from Mulga Downs. Real old
pikers they was, with horns on ’em like
crooked coolabah rails. Every night
they used ter ring up, an’ it took all
hands an’ ther cook ter keep ’em from
breakin’ off camp. Just before daylight
one day they got inter it; yer couldn’t
see ’em for ther dust they was makin’,
an’ by ther pace they was goin’ at ther
wonder is their hooves never run hot.
Just as we steadied ’em down daylight
broke, an’ when I looked at ther bullicks
I nearly slipped outa ther saddle with
shock. The whole lot of ’em was poleys.
They’d been ringin’ so fast and so close
to each other that their horns got
knocked off in ther crush.”
* * * *
“No. 1”: Can’t understand the methods
of the average amateur Walton in strong
tidal waters. Nothing smaller than a
shark-gauge gut will suffice to haul in
his anticipated catch, and a miniature
kellick serves as a sinker, apparently in
the hope that the bait will be anchored
by it. It takes quite a lot of lead to
fasten a line down against the pull of a
strong ebb- or flood-tide, and even when
accomplished the feat leaves the fisher-
man no further advanced, for the waters
merely sweep the fish by at too fast a
pace to allow them to bite. It is far
better to drift with the current, if in a
boat, or else to use the lightest of sinkers
and throw upstream, if on shore. In
either case bait and fish will be travelling
at approximately the same speed, and
there is some slight opportunity for the
two to come in contact. The rod-fisher-
man on a bank is forced into this tech-
nique by his float. The main thing is
never to leave either float or sinker
dangling idly downstream. As soon as
the limit is reached, a fresh cast upstream
should always be made.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Does anything lead a
more precarious existence than the frog,
or go through so many transformations?
From a mouthless slug he becomes a
tadpole that is more fish than frog.
In a few days he sprouts legs, when he
is more like a water-lizard; then the
tail is absorbed. During these stages
he has to dodge waterfowl; and if a
number are confined in a gilgai or
melonhole the big fellows eat the little
fellows’ tails. After getting legs Froggy
sets off through the grass and meets
the snake. In the lagoon or river
he runs the gauntlet of hungry fish.
When his home pool is disappearing in
dry places he takes in a cargo of water
and buries himself. After rain has
softened his tomb he resurrects —to find
the heron and the brolga waiting to
gobble him up.
* , * * *
“Mandurah”: There is something
merciless, almost diabolical, in the power
of the sea. The old man was nearly 80
when he started building his last boat
—soft. overall, broad of beam and of
ample draught, with natural-bend knees
gathered from the bush, and stout jarrah
planks. Jarrah and
iron don’t agree, so
essential fastenings
were of copper. The
metal being scarce,
the builder, with a
hatchet for roughing
out and a steel block
with various sized
holes, patiently made
thousands of dowels
for fastening the
planking. For the
taking of each dowel
a corresponding hole
was bored. She took
the water like a swan.
The trial voyage was
a success; “another
one or two like that,
and she’s paid for.”
But on the second
going out, passing
through the” narrow
opening in the sand
bar, she missed stays
and ran lightly
aground. The next wave caught her and
lifted the keel a foot or more higher.
The next, higher still. Working frantic-
ally, the crew jettisoned the cargo. But
higher and higher the keel lifted. Firmer
and firmer the ship settled into the sand.
The southerly buster came, waves broke
over her and she began to fill. All
buoyancy gone, she settled into the sand.
Slowly yet steadily she went. Twelve
hours, and only the tips of the masts
showed; next morning not even these.
Nor, in 15 years, has the sand bar opened
again to reveal what became of her.
THE SHEMLOCK.
All that’s left of Shemlock town
Are kerbing stones where the street went down,
The poppet-legs of the Shemlock mine
And pepper-trees in a long straight lme.
Veiled in drowsy noonday haze,
The Shemlock dreams of golden days
When men came up and men went down,
And all the land knew Shemlock town.
’Tis said that, ere the morning breaks,
With all its dead the Shemlock wakes,
And skips surge up and skips sweep down,
And old lights shine in Shemlock town.
’Midst mullock dumps, drab grey and brown,
The day reveals of Shemlock town
But the poppet-legs of Shemlock mine
And pepper-trees in a long straight line.
W.A.
JACK SORENSEN.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
For the Quarter ended 31st March, 1938.
Company.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd
Rawang Concessions, Ltd
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd. . .
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd
Larut Tin Field's, Ltd
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
The Tongkah Harbor Tin Dredg-
ing Co., No Liability
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De--
Ended predation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
124 p.c.
£ as £ £
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723.421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 . . 744,322 731,250 1,482,133 2,678.937
1933 . . 792,414 731,250 1,543,297 2,896,624
1934 .. 963,501 731,250 1,775,548 2,995,421
Reserves disclosed, £883,000.. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564.. 6,616,112
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 766,112
Reserves disappear, £57,564.. 708,548
6} p.c.
1935 . . 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 . . 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
p.c.
1938 . . 1,060,786 8.77,500 1.384,974 3,700,479
* Includes special bonus of ss. share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
The co. has such a gilded history and
the business is so well entrenched, finan-
cially and otherwise, that the market
sees the glow of the past reflected into
the future and prices the fully-paid £2O
shares at £49 as against £46 2s. 6d. in
March last. The return at £49 is 3 p.c.
on a 7\ p.c. div. basis, or about f p.c.
less than is to be had from Government
securities. The investor who looks for
4.1 p.c. on his money counts on a 10 p.c.
distribution, or 1 p.c. more than the
total profit claimed for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts.
Indications are that the div. isn’t
likely to be sent up with a rush.
This suggests that the scrip at its
present price is a long-term invest-
ment, the attractiveness of which lies not
only in the possibility of steady growth
of earnings and divs., assisted by expand-
ing activities, but also in the ability of
both earnings and divs. to withstand the
effects of severe fluctuations in economic
conditions, as a glance at that portion
of the table covering the slump shows.
According to the published accounts,
the net tangible cover is £22 7s. 4d. pet-
share, and there is another £6 6s. 6d.
in the replacement and depreciation re-
serve, which the “Wild Cat” believes to
be mostly genuine profit. In addition,
there is the suspense account (£2,419,159,
up £24,514), which is largely provision
for contingencies, many of which might
not occur. Also, the hidden strength is
believed to be still very substantial —for
many years the practice has been to pay
for all additions to fixed assets out of
earnings, and then from the same source
to write down these assets severely.
Earnings are derived from milling and
refining in Australia, growing and milling
in Fiji, refining in Maoriland, and from
a big wad of investments (£3,152,590 at
March 31) outside the business. The
sheet-anchor of the co.’s Australian earn-
ings, which account for over half the
total, is its commissions under contract
with the Government for refining, selling
and financing all but a small fraction
(handled by the Millaquin Co.) of the
entire Australian crop. Last year this
crop reached record figures:
( Tons (94 n.t.)
Average,
1926-28. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Aust. consumption 344,000 337,000 359,000 355,000
Export . . . . 143,000 310,000 423,000 448,000
Total ... . . 487,000 647,000 782,000 803,000
The Fiji crop was lighter, but “provided
a satisfactory result.” The problem of
overproduction is becoming acute, but
this is likely to affect the grower more
than the C.S.R.
The retail price of refined sugar in
Australia is £37 6s. Bd., made up as
follows:
Retail grocers .. .. .. .. £428
Discount to wholesalers . . .... 80
Concessions to fruit industry, etc. .. 14 3
Transport charges .. .. . . . . 2 13
Refining at cost . . . . . . • ■ 2 12 6
Cost of financing the pool . . .. 5 8
Insuring raw stocks (cost) . . . . 6
To C.S.R. for administration, tax and profit 15 5
To C.S.R. as selling agents .. . . 7 2
Total .. £lll7 5
To Q’land Govt, for distribution among
growers and millers .. .. . . 25 9 3
Refining, financing the pool and insuring
stocks of raws are done by the C.S.R.
at actual cost. The co.’s profits under
its contract are derived mainly from the
allowance for administration, selling, etc.,
equal to 0.121 d. per pound of refined
sugar in 1937.
After allowing £333,170 for deprecia-
tion, the declared net result for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
was £24,450 stronger at a shade over
9 p.c. on capital as against 8.8 p.c. for
the previous year. The div. was lifted
from 6.9 p.c. to p.c., and 1\ p.c. is
worth 15 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the one-for-one gift in 1934.
The solidness of the financial structure
is seen in the next table:
1925. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £4,785,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 1,607,274 2,546,473 2,387,418
Suspense accounts 1,856,909 2,394,618 2,419,159
Employees’ funds 39,545 63,160 53,170
Refineries, mills,
etc 5,670,772 9,957.066 10,150,934
Steamers, etc. . . 100,000 142,118 176,924
Distillery . . 86,292 188,346 236,153
Premises . . 52,850 180,113 226,302
Stocks.. .. 3,225,413 4,120,310 4,120,339
Book debts, etc. ( „ ( 447.557 450,031
Investments .. j \ 3,101,573 3.152,590
Cash and deposits 1,211,103 3,716,662 3,570,679
The year’s net addition of £193,868 to
the book value of refineries, mills, etc.,
£34,806 to distilleries and £47,807 to
steamers augurs well for future earnings.
Despite the outlay on fixed assets, and
including suspense accounts with liabili-
ties, the more or less liquid surplus
(£6,433,892) was £52,041 stronger than
at the previous balance.
It should not be long before the co.’s
pineapple venture in Fiji and th£ manu-
facture of Cane-ite insulating board begin
to contribute to the pool. Cane-ite, now
on the market, is the new fibre board,
made from megass (hitherto a waste
cane product burnt in furnaces), which
the co. is offering the building trade.
Plant to turn out 30,000,000 sq. ft. of
the stuff annually is being erected.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
To-
f Dividends \ wards Nominal
Net Pref. Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 74 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.}
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 p.c. = 100,000 40,697 20.414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 44,154 64,568
1930. 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107.867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ ~ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16.817 Nil Nil 16,817 81.807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82.532
1935.. 84,387 87,188} Nil 79,731
1936.. 97,941 87,188} 2 p.c. = 25,000 65,484
1937. 43,593 4J ~ „ 56,250 9,573 75.057
1938. .113,026 43,593 5 „ ~ 62,500 6,933 81,990
* After deducting debenture interest. t Two years.
} Subject to goodwill, etc., now £273,153.
Owing to the universal nature of this
more-than-century-old business, stocks
include many slow- as well as quick-
moving lines, and country trade accounts
for a large slice of turnover. Among
other things, this means that earnings
are subject to a very wide range of
influences; much wider than most other
traders have to contend with. Mainly
because of all this and the heavy over-
head involved, shareholders cannot ex-
pect the co.’s earnings to bound along
at the same rate as those of other cos.
doing a purely city turnover in quick-
moving lines. A pleasing feature is
the management’s success in dealing
with its more - than - usually - difficult
problems, as the steady improvement
in the figures in the table over
the last half-dozen years shows. An-
other is that service—it has developed
to an extent that would have seemed
suicidal to the storekeeper of a genera-
tion ago —which is now a big factor in
widening and cementing goodwill, has
been placed in the foreground of the
co.’s policy, while the reorganisation of
departments, new show windows and
better display and lift facilities have fur-
ther added to customers’ comfort and
the attractiveness of the store. It all
augurs well for the long-term prospects
of the business.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts conditions were mixed.
City turnover continued to swell, thanks
partly to further reduction of unemploy-
ment, the lift in wages, last season’s high
prices for wool and wheat, Government
spending, and special causes, including
Sydney’s sesquicentenary celebrations.
But country trade was affected by a
steady recession in prices for the two
staples just mentioned and the develop-
ment of dry conditions in many pastoral
and agricultural areas. Altogether the
co. gained little more on the swings than
it lost on the roundabouts. •
After providing for taxation (the tax
reserve was £2627 lighter at £40,955)
and striking off £55,298 (up £378) for
depreciation, the declared net result was
£3610 stronger at £113,026, which is the
best showing since 1930. The £113,026
was 5.6 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of share
capital, of which £750,000 carries a fixed
cumulative 1\ p.c., reduced to 5.8 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act. After paying the prefs. their
5.8 p.c., enough remained to show 5.5
p.c. on ord. capital, and the div. was
lifted half a point, making it 5 p.c.
It is difficult to say when much better
than 5 p.c. can be expected. Certainly
an all-round 6 p.c. would call for only
£6974 more profit than was reported last
term, and city turnovers generally have
continued on the up-grade since the close
of accounts. Much will depend upon
the course of seasonal conditions, prices
and costs.
Finances are comfortable enough, as
they always have been:
1927. 1937. 1938.
Ord. capital ..£1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Debentures . . 1,000,000 600,000 580,000
Sundry creditors,
etc 249,210 84,633 117,175
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 1 , 7 -„ ' 1,?R1.956 1,258,865
Plant, etc. ~ { | 256,951 242,0§6
Stocks ... . . 1,130,878 70Y,221 822,978
Book debts .. t ... j 224,469 246,48/
Cash, etc. ..) { 63,289 32,597
* Includes goodwill.
To carry an extra £65,757 of stocks, add
£19,018 to debtors’ balances and clip
£20,000 off the debenture debt the board
went. outside for an extra £32,542 and
drew upon cash, etc., for £30,692 ; the
allowance for depreciation, etc., provided
the balance. Including stocks, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£401,887) was £41,541. The old
7 p.c. debentures (the rate had been
reduced to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c. under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act) were re-
deemed and a new lot, taken by the
M.L.C. at p.c., issued a year or so
ago.
At 18s. 3d. the ords. return an attrac-
tive 5.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 235. 6d. return 5 p.c. on a 5.8
p.c. distribution. The net tangible cover
is £2 Bs. 3d. prefs. and 16s. lid. ords.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1926.. 28,598 15 p.c. = 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ ~ 22,500 7,984 147.337
Premiums on shares, £75,000 .. 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ ~ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12£ „ ~31,250 242,696
1931.. 1,181 74 „ ~18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 6'., ~15.000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ ~ 12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ ~ 17,500 1,792 228,577
1935.. 12,334 6 ~ ~ 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ ~20.000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937.. 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938.. 36,054 10 ~ ~ 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
The growth of £3665 in last year’s net
earnings was due to the introduction of
£150,000 of fresh capital, which brought
with it £75,000 of share premiums. The
premiums were added to reserves, and
the issue, made just before the close of
accounts in 1937, raised the total on
the share register to £400,000. The
£150,000 of fresh capital, and more be-
sides, was used mainly to assist clients,
who had 11,814 bales of wool in the
store when the books closed as against
2749 bales at the previous balance:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £400,000
Liabilities . . 364,582 329,371 368,968 384,699
Premises and
plant . 141.235 162,298 179,877 193,465
Book debts, etc. 722,077 638,262 756,316 910,699
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc. . . 9,005 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise . . .3,610 3,217 4,039 4,015
After providing for bad and doubtful
debts, the net growth in advances was
£154,383, and £13,588 net was added to
the book value of premises, etc. To do this
and chip £33,584 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£170,970), the board
went to its bankers for an extra £49,315,
making the overdraft £213,729. So,
when the books closed, there was 10s. 9d.
of outside money at risk in the business
for every pound belonging to share-
holders ; but advances appear to be
largely against wool and other produce,
and therefore self-liquidating. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£539,020) was £138,628, due
to the introduction of new capital.
Drought conditions affected the co.’s
stock business in the Riverina and north-
eastern Vic.; 2335 fewer bales of wool
were put under the hammer owing to
the heavy carry-over already referred to,
and the price of the staple was down—
the Australian average per bale for the
10 months to the end of April being
£l6 2s. 7d. as against £2O 17s. lid. for
the corresponding period of the previous
season. Still, the extra capital and satis-
factory prices for livestock enabled the
co. to show £17,679 more of gross earn-
ings:—
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1927.. 71.137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
1932.. 75.464 92.315 73,138 79.2 „
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1937.. 81,850 122,821 90,432 73.6 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
Including provision for depreciation
(£3256) and taxation (£6692) and £l5OO
sent to the staff fund, exes, took £14,014
of the increase, leaving the net result
(up £3665) at 9.6 p.c. on average capital,
as against 12.9, 10.7, 4.9, 7.7, 4, 7.6,
0.4, 11.6 and 20.8 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was maintained at 10 p.c.,
though to pay it and write off the cost
(£1337) of the new share issue reserves were
tapped for £2783. For the dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1930 divs.
averaged 14 p.c. The rate dropped to 5
p.c. in 1933, and has since stepped up
to 10 p.c. again. Share premiums, how-
ever, take some of the gilt off the ginger-
bread.
As for the outlook, the chairman says
“we are merely passing through one of
those periods inherent to Australia
which should be of no serious detriment
to our position.” Certainly the carry-
over should/help to offset the effects of
a lighter and less well-grown clip ; much
will depend upon prices, which in turn
are bound up with the state of the trade
abroad.
The market, doubtful whether the 10
p.c. div. will be maintained, prices the
pound shares at 31s. Allowing for the
"final div., the return at that figure is
6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis or 5.3
p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. The cover
is 355. 7d. in net tangibles.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


OPEN YOUR EYES & MIND
Let the World’s Great Thinkers
Improve Your Mind and Personality
r\ESPITE the different conditions of modern
life the problems we face to-day are the
same as those that have exercised the minds
of the world’s greatest philosophers. Aristotle,
Plato, Bacon, Voltaire, Havelock Ellis—all these
great minds have pondered the problems of
life. Their conclusions, their solutions, are now
available in this twenty volume library. For a
10/- deposit you can have these great thinkers
to aid you in overcoming the difficulties of
daily life.
1(1
it
p p
y<x
■
What Philosophy does for You!
The man with a knowledge of philosophy has a mental
balance that enables him to meet the disappointments
of life and to seize opportunities when they present
themselves. He has a poise
and confidence that comes
from a full understanding of
the world’s great minds; he
has something of their serene
courage, depending not only
on himself but also on those
great men who have given him a rule
of life. His conversation is listened to
and respected; whatever he says carries
weight.
A few minutes spent each day
studying the volumes of this Library of
the World’s Great Thinkers will
develop your mental powers so that you
can meet and conquer difficulties that
now depress you. Your acquaintance
with the world’s great minds will
broaden your outlook, increase your
interests, and develop your personality
so that you will impress people as a
man of culture—factors which mean
success.
THE LIBRARY OF THE
WORLDS GREAT
THINKERS
If) f : .; / v 7 ; =a? "MmIMHmI
i" ■v/•~• -/ 77 , ;**
v;-') -W $! !'.s ''-Z /"••7 r *«sfr
&/ &? ;v />: r l//% ;*> .-5
£7*/ a. 7 .» :>' j// />} W#?•/ 5? *4£
'7/ Ai?s r-C lHi ft >'j ps3 /5 s »«s*
'7/ as? 7 <>> ■f 11 i>t v /$7 79*. *«asf
*>/. % «#f«W,tf
K
isf »2* *
r» t***?
€,X;? «>
■ s& -.
' •■:
A
°4v
/
NOTE
THESE TITLES:
BACON, VOLTAIRE, SPINOZA,
ARISTOTLE, CONFUCIUS, PLATO,
MONTAIGNE, FREUD, DARWIN, GOETHE,
TOLSTOY, FRANKLIN, ROUSSEAU, EMERSON,
NIETZSCHE, JOHN DEWEY, SCHOPENHAUER, HAVELOCK ELLIS,
KARL MARX, THOMAS PAINE.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
HANDSOME
DE LUXE BINDING
These fine books are worthy of
a place in any booklover’s
library. Each of these de luxe
volumes measures inches by
inches, richly bound in
“lifetime” binding of two-
toned Royal Blue Silk Weave
cloth. Inlaid panels, gold titles
and decorations with coloured
end sheets. Stained and
polished page tops, mercerized
head bands.
In these twenty volumes you
have the philosophy of all ages
and nations—from Plato and
Aristotle in Greece, -Confucius
in China, Bacon in England, to
Emerson in America and Freud
in Austria. All these, and
fourteen other great minds, are
here to interest, entertain and
instruct you.
Available on
EASY TERMS
You can secure these twenty
volumes of the World’s Great
Thinkers for a deposit of 10/-;
the balance can be paid in con-
venient monthly payments of
1 2/6. Or if you prefer to pay
cash the price is £7/19/6.
Theye is a set of these fine
books waiting for you; fill in
and post the order form below
to-day!
SPINOZA
CONFUCIUS
PLATO
GOETHE
TOLSTOY
SCHOPENHAUER
EMERSON
VOLTAIRE
ARISTOTLE
MONTAIGNE
ROUSSEAU
JOHN
G)EWEY
A# 1 .
HAVELOCK
ELLIS
KARL
MARX
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., ADHFD FADM
89 Street ’ ORDER FORM
Please send me the “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers,” 20
volumes, for which I enclose a deposit of 10/- and agree to make 13
further monthly instalments of 12/6—£B/12/6 in all; or I will pay
£7/19/6 cash within 30 days of delivery.
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
793


*- A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN-TIMES **
■
■
§ -u
1
Will YOU be free
of money troubles
at 60?
AVERY jolly old lady this week tells why she gets “a
nice fat cheque” from the A.M.P. every quarter:
“When my husband and I were married we took
out a policy in the A.M.P. that would give each of us
£3 a week when we got to 60. We reached 60 long ago
and are enjoying the nice fat cheques that come, and will
come, every quarter till we die. We have no money
troubles. 1 would advise every young couple to follow
the same plan.”
It is a good plan. It is one of the many good A.M.P. plans that
make for the happiness and peace of mind of men and women, and for
their longer lease of life.
Over 186,000 new policies were issued by the A.M.P. Society
last year. Each policy will in due course ease someone’s money troubles.
The nearest A.M.P. office will be glad to send an experienced adviser
to you to suggest how you can ease yours. Ask to-day that he be sent.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Boards
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., C. M. MARTIN,
General Manager and Actuary. Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Public Notice.
MESSRS. F. W. DUESBURY & COMPANY,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), desire to advise
that neither their Firm nor any of its Principals
or staff have any connection or association
with any of the parties to, nor are they in any
way concerned in, the Suit recently concluded
in the Equity Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court,
in the Matter of Du Menier Laboratories,
Limited, dealt with by Mr. Justice Long-Innes.
22nd May, 1938.
18-20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins. Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
f* f. ft ijs
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD.,’ Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value arid marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 176 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE, PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
sl«*
m
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed —and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia —it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. c. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queers Bridge St., South Melbourne.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
t D ividends %
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Loss. 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1928.. 23JJ83 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors,
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. " Reserves.
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO .. 2,395
Deficit.
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil 7,495
1933.. 9,829 Nil Nil 17,324
Profit.
1934.. 10,357 Nil Nil 6,967
11 p.c. Reserves.
1935.. 19,853 11,110 5 p.c. = 1,065 7,678 711
12 p.c.
1936.. 21,179 12,120 10 „ „ 2,129 6,930 7,641
1937.. 21,230 12,120 10 „ „ 2,130 6,980 14,621
124 p.c.
1938.. 22,491 12,625 12J „ „ 2,662 7,204 21,825
There is £122,296 of capital in 101,000
£1 prefs. and 106,480 ords. of 4s. each.
In a reconstruction about three years ago
capital remained intact, but the pref. div.
(it had been reduced by 22\ p.c. under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act)
was restored to its original rate of 10
p.c. cumulative. After that any distri-
bution of profits is to be in approxi-
mately equal amounts to prefs. and ords.
until arrears of pref. divs. are wiped out.
The idea was to give the ords. —they had
experienced a drought for the seven years
to the end of January, 1934, and 16s. had
been lopped off each pound share since
1921 —a chance to get into the picture.
The co. and its two pups—Overland,
Sydney, Ltd., and Overland. Ltd. —are
distributors of the products of Willys-
Overland (U.S.A.), Graham - Paige
(U.S.A.) and Singer Co. (Eng.) in both
N. S. Wales and Queensland, and of
Diamond T. Motors (U.S.A.) in the
northern State only. During the last term
boom conditions prevailed in the motor
trade, and Garratt’s earnings appear to
be at or near their peak. The £22,491
(up £1161) of profit claimed more than
twice covered the prefs.’ minimum
annual requirements (£10,100). After
allowing for these, one-half the balance
was equal to 6.1 p.c. on pref. capital, and
the other half to 29 p.c. on ord. capital.
Actually the ords. got 12| p.c. and the
prefs. J2| p.c., of which 2\ p.c. was in
respect of arrears, reducing them to
£40,148, equal to 7s. lid. per share. The
£7204 that remained lifted the carry-for-
ward to £21,825, which is available for
distribution £10,625 to the prefs. and
£11,200 to the ords.
Early in the term a service station and
assembly premises were erected on the
co.’s Surry Hills (Syd.) freehold, which
was extended by purchase of a small
adjoining property. This and the lease
of two new showrooms in the city are
reflected in a growth of £14,509 in fixed
assets: —•
1928. *1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £186,182 £122,296 £122,296 £122,296
Sundry creditors 121,236 1,649 2,344 14,368
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 82,062 20,059 20,000 34,341
Plant, etc. .. 12,181 1,521 664 832
Stocks. . . . 1,067 —.—
Book debts.. 195,828 74,087 86,287 95,118
Shares in
subsidiaries, etc. 39,522 44,535 44,927 44,927
Book debts (up £8831) are advances to
the pups. To meet the outlay, £11,548
was added to the overdraft (£13,717) and
£476 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£651). Still, finances are com-
fortable.
Mindful of the history of this and
other concerns in the motor-agency busi-
ness, the market prices the prefs. at 235.
and the ords. at 6s. At these figures the
return is 10.8 p.c. and 8.3 p.c. respec-
tively on a 121 P-c. div. basis. Subject
to intangibles in the subsidiaries, the
backing is 28s. 6d. prefs. and Bs. Id. ords.
New £10,250,000 Loan
Thus far the Treasury reports a satis-
factory response to the Loan Council’s
new £10,250,000 issue, which has a strong
patriotic as well as a sound investment
appeal, £4,000,000 of the money being
required to meet part of the first year’s
cost (£15,000,000) of the Commonwealth’s
accelerated defence programme. The
other £6,250,000 is for ordinary loan and
public works expenditure among the vari-
ous Governments, whose programmes in
this respect have been reduced. Details
of the issue compare with those of all
other Government issues on the local
market since borrowing began after the
slump as follows:
Term, Issue Interest, Return,
Date. Amount. Years. Price. P.c. P.c.*
7/11/’32 £8,000,000 10 Par 3£ £3/15/-
22/5/’33 8,461,000 9 Par 3f £3/15/-
16/11/’33 10,316,000 10 £99 31 £3/12/5
5/6/’34 12,234,000 14 £9B/10/- 3* £3/7/8
20/11/’34 15,042,000 14 £99/15/- 3 £3/0/5
11/6/’35 12,500,000 14 £99/10/- 3§ £3/8/5
26/11/’35 7,500,000 14 £99/15/- 3§ £3/15/5
2/6/’36 9,000,000 15 £9B/10/- 3J £3/17/6
26/11/’36 7,500,000 15 £97/10/- 3| £3/19/4
27/4/’37 7,500,000 11 £99/5/- 3J £3/19/1
30/11/’37 8,000,000 14 £99/15/- 3| £3/15/6
19/o/’3B 10,250,000 16 £99/10/- 3f £3/15/10
* Including redemption.
The terms accord with market conditions,
and income from the issue, which is
trustee security and applications for
which close not later than June 3, is free
of State income tax except the unemploy-
ment relief levy. It is difficult to say
when much, if any, better terms than
those now offered can be expectd.
Later in the year the Government will
have to face its big conversion issue of
£64,834,000 of 4 per cents., plus £6,249,000
of 3 per cents.
Australian Metropolitan Life (B.
12/5/’3B) has further strengthened the
position of its policy-holders, who are
now entitled to 90 p.c. of the surplus in
the prdinary department, leaving only
10 p.c. for shareholders. Hitherto the
ratios had been 80 p.c. and 20 p.c. re-
spectively.
*s• sfc H*
Roma Blocks Oil Co., N.L., has
secured an advance of £lO,OOO from the
Federal Government to test a favorable
structure at Mt. Bassett, about 10 miles
north-east of Roma (Q.). Drilling is
expected to commence by the end of
next month. The co.’s original Block 16
well, which penetrated a water sand con-
taining a little oil, is reckoned to be
on the extreme edge of what the Com-
monwealth Oil Advisory Committee
regards as a structure of “first-rate im-
portance,” extending for about two and
a half miles eastward. Before sinking
a deep test well, the committee recom-
mends that a pilot hole, not exceeding
500 ft. in depth, should be put down near
the site selected by L. M. Waterford, to
gain information about the relationship
between basalt and underlying rocks.
* * * He
After having spent nearly four years
and approximately £70,000 in testing the
Berry United deep leads, near Allendale
(Vic.), Gold Mines of Australia, which
was working in conjunction with Gold
Exploration and Finance, has abandoned
the venture and sold the plant and equip-
ment. It was in this district that the
most famous of the old deep-lead mines,
the Madam Berry, produced 387,3000 z.
of gold and paid £855,000 in divs. on
a capital of £15,975. However, the diffi-
culty of satisfactorily proving the gold
content of a large body of buried wash,
and the technical and operating problems
involved, have made the venture a long-
range one from which no returns could
be expected for some years. Out of
these problems has arisen the immediate
and insuperable one of raising the neces-
sary finance under present market con-
ditions.
Owing to a slight reduction in the
average recovery-grade of ore treated
and the lower average price of gold,
Sons of Gwalia’s profit for 1937 was
£126,996, or £2164 short of that
for 1936. A final dividend of 2s. 6d.
(making 6s. for the year) and an interim
of Is. for 1938 will be paid on June 24,
leaving £5479 to be carried forward. In
the last 40 years Gwalia has yielded
nearly £8,000,000 worth of gold, and
shareholders have received about
£1,500,000. For some years ore reserves
have been equal to five years’ mill supply
of approximately 7dwt. grade. Of recent
years one disability has been the distance
of working faces from the main incline
shaft. To overcome this costly drawback
a new internal shaft is being sunk be-
low No. 30 level. In Australian currency
last year’s working costs were 30s. Bd. a
ton of ore as against 30s. lOd. for 1936.
* * * *
During the first quarter of 1938 Lake
View and Star treated 151,887 tons of ore
and 182,141 tons of tailings, old and
current, for a total revenue of £A347,800.
Working surplus was £153,118. Capital
expenditure at £21,286 comprised £15,167
on special development and £6119 on
plant. Over 8000 ft. of developmental
work and nearly 4000 ft. of diamond
drilling were done. Developments added
substantially to the ore reserves, and the
drilling indicated several places where
further supplies awaited development.
* * * *
London-controlled Paringa, at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), expects to have its new
treatment plant running at full capacity
this month. Ore reserves are reckoned
to be sufficient for three years, and de-
velopment of more is being pushed
ahead. During the seven months to the
end of March the co. treated 8473 tons
at the S. Kalgurli mill for a net return
of £19,500.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Thomas: Recent developments suggest that
the mine should do better in the future, but it
is too early yet to talk of dividends T.V.R.:
Owing to drastic reduction in the basis of
valuation it might be a few years yet before
shareholders reap the full benefits. Govern-
ment scheme not likely to very seriously affect
business... .L.G.W.: Boom conditions recently
prevailed in the trade; stock subject to varia-
tion in capital value oji the market. Morris,
Hedstrom, or Cumberland Paper worth con-
sideration A.D.: The church certainly has
no direct interest in the -co V.M.: Fair
spec, at Bs. 6d. Boring campaign shows co.
has million c.y. of payable ground. The
15s. shares are paid to 11s. each, and a bit
more may be wanted in connection with trans-
fer of plant and removal of overburden in first
paddock A.J.M.: No open market for
scrip. Secretary might be able to find a buyer
for you. The offer mentioned was not a
genuine one... .N.H.M.: Cannot say when pro-
duction will begin. Prospects of satisfactory
ord. divs. not encouraging at the moment
T.C.P.: Offer mentioned is not in best interests
of shareholders. Present management has
done good work; just about stopped the drift.
Proposed to presently write down ord. capital.


m
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
SMOKE-OH!
Premier Stevens is always out after
New South Whale’s share of loan money.
•i* * *i* •i*
“Under the Liquor Law music of any descrip-
tion can be prohibited in bars.” — "Sun.”
We doubt if it could stop a lot of the
humming that goes on.
4* + •i*
Armament debts are piling up in
I O Urope!
“Empress of Britain? U-um, wot’s she like for comfort ?”
“A recent dietary plebiscite reveals that
Young America has turned its back on the
steak and apple pies of our forefathers.”
—American paper.
We don’t blame Young America ; they
must be a bit on the stale side now.
-b *£■
“It is possible to experience the sensation of
seasickness without actually going on the water,”
says a doctor.
But who on earth wants to?
*-
“The Ancient Greeks were the first to en-
courage liberal thinking.”— Radio lecturer.
Modern Greeks try to make us think
we’re eating snapper instead of shark.
4* 4* *l*
“Ghosts will not answer unless summoned,”
says a psychical writer.
A fine response!
Is the Australian taxpayer going to
stand for a Federal Parliament that sits
for 29 days a year?
The Good Oil.
“Margarine and grease for machinery is now
produced in Germany from fats extracted from
wood.” — Sydney “Sun.”
So butter and lard are no longer used
for the lubrication of machinery in Ger-
many. Many a good Scottish engineer
will shudder to think that these have
at last given place to margarine.
Efficient as it is in some respects for
this purpose, margarine has its disadvan-
tages. For instance, unless kept in
a refrigerator it will go bad, and the
difficulties to be encountered in getting
a solid frozen block of margarine into
the innards of delicate machinery which
is itself cold need no stressing.
Lubrication by the margarine method,
however, has been reduced to a fine art
in the Reich. The frozen blocks are
thawed out and patted into pellets, and
these are accurately flung into the vital
parts of the machinery by members of
the Sturmtruppenmechanik Corps, who
perform this highly specialised work
under the eye of inspectors (Gesselschaft-
inspektors), who in turn are inspected by
another corps of inspectors (Obergessel-
schaftinspektors), who themselves are
under the constant surveillance of the
dreaded Gestapo.
This is to ensure that nobody eats the
lubrication.
80.
F
“A considerable amount of s.p. betting took
place in the billiard-room.”
One of those places where you had to
mind your s.ps. and cues.
In the Parliamentary report of a London
paper a member’s speech was described as
vibrant and yeasty.”
Perhaps speeches like that brought
about those rises at Canberra.
•P
“Burglars who robbed a house in Melbourne
<posed as plumbers.”
Suspicion was aroused when they re-,
paired a leaking gas jet in the bath-heater
without punching a hole in the water
pipe.
•P •£
The Australian XI CAN Be Beaten!
[In this further article Mr. Falstaff Tomtit, the
brilliant English critic who, owing to the bold,
flowing strokes with which he paints his word-
pictures, has been called the Augustus John of
the pressbox, discusses the problem of Aus-
tralia’s spin bowlers.]
Having found a method (vide my
previous article) of circumventing Brad-
man’s heavy scoring, it but remains to
discover ways whereby the trundling of
O’Reilly and Fleetwood-Smith may be
“...stand goggle-eyed, fascinated....”
rendered innocuous to ensure England’s
winning the ashes.
These two represent the only menace
to English batsmen, too many o£ whom
take the fatalistic view that they may
escape Scylla only to be wrecked on
Charybdis. Away with this folly! Both
bowlers can be collared.
O’Reilly.
I once o weiily as the eighth
wonder of the world. Admittedly, I
coined the phrase in a moment of sheer
intoxication after seeing him bowl a
ball that had in it something of the
ineffable beauty of one of those rare
sunsets sometimes seen low down off
the Madagascan coast in late winter. Ham-
mond shaped as if to caress it with
voluptuous grace to the fine-leg boundary.
Had the leathern sphere been guided by
Mephistopheles himself it could have
done nothing more diabolical. It hung
suspended in midair for an eternity;
then, with a downward rush, suggestive
of a thrush volplaning to a spinney,
eluded the flowing bat to shatter the
wicket.
But that — eheu fugaces ! —was in the
long ago. Truth to tell, no longer need
batsmen stand goggle-eyed, fascinated by
“....need to study Euclid....”
the Terror’s awful powers of destruc-
tion.
I have always contended that a bowler
with a run up to the wicket suggestive
of a combination of hamstrung dino-
saurus and peripatetic windmill could not
last. The accuracy of my judgment has
been confirmed; the last time I saw
O’Reilly in action he had bowled only
42 overs, and was already so ragged that
two singles were scored off the last.
Here, then, is the secret: Let O’Reilly
tire himself out!
For this purpose batsmen similar in
stance, physique and, if possible, looks
should be selected ; some heavy-footed
for playing back, others fleet-footed to
attack. The bowler, confused by this
similarity, will not know into what cate-
gory the man at the wicket falls. He will
be in a quandary as to whether to pitch
them well up or drop them short. Thus
he will suffer severe mental travail. It
will not be long before O’Reilly is with-
drawn from the shock attack, a nervous
and physical wreck.
Fleetwood-Smith.
My first sight of Fleetwood-Smith, that
gay D’Artagnan of the bowling crease, as
he came dancing to the wicket with the
grace of Zobeide’s favorite slave in
“Scheherazade” is burned indelibly into
the palimpsest of my memory. Such was
the wonder of his prodigious break that
I all but swooned with the magic of it.
Gradually, however, I broke the fetters
of my idolatry and saw him in truer
perspective as one of us —a mortal, with
a mortal’s failings.
The very magnitude of his breaks can,
I find, be his undoing. In the past Fleet-
wood-Smith has often been confounded
—heartily—by exasperated batsmen. Now
he can be confounded by thoughtful,
mathematical batsmanship.
Fleetwood-Smith may be classified as
a Cubist bowler. Angles, not curves, are
his forte. England’s batsmen will there-
fore need to study Euclid, applying its
principles to their task. Yet it is per-
pectly simple, boiling down to the old
problem of the isosceles triangle.
Let the straight line from bowler to
batsmen be the base, the other two sides
being lines drawn from bowler to the
point of the break outside the wicket,
and from there to the stumps.
As any two sides of an isosceles tri-
angle are together greater than the third,
it only needs swift calculation by the
batsman, according to the angle of the
break, to determine what extra fraction
of a second he will have to make his
stroke, and do so accordingly. Studied
intelligently, this method, applied swiftly
to each ball on its merits, will enable
the bogey of Fleetwood-Smith to be laid
for ever.
S. W. K.
Why Not?
“Dogs can be de-barked by veterinary sur-
geons.”—"Sun.”
Instead of scientific narks
Depriving doggies of their barks,
Why not attempt a greater boon,
And try de-crooning those who croon!
MC.
Easy Money.
“In their eternal search for substitutes Ger-
man research chemists have shown that even
inferior wood can yield wealth.”
— "Telegraph.”
Though the Teuton is prolific of ideas
scientific
He’s been badly beaten to it here, I
know ;
For the dealer who supplies us with the
firewood that defies us
To ignite it learned the secret long
ago !
NIPPER.
Delicately Balanced.
“What is all this trouble one reads
about the ‘Have-not’ nations?” inquired
the Visitor from Mars, putting down his
digest with a puzzled frown.
“Well, it’s like this,” his host replied.
“A few nations hold the bulk of the re-
sources of this planet, while the re-
mainder inevitably go short. The ‘Have-
nots’ are alarmed because they are not
in a position to go to war, for example,
if they want to.”
“Why would they want to?”
“To acquire some of the resources of
the ‘Haves.’ ”
“But could they?”
“No, because they couldn’t win for
lack of those very resources.”
“Isn’t there some way of pacifying
the ‘Have-nots’?”
“Well, the ‘Haves’ might allow them
access to these resources.”
“That sounds feasible enough.”
“But then the ‘Have-nots’ would be
in danger of having these facilities taken
away from them just when they needed
them most, in the event of war.”
“Well, why not give them resources of
their own to keep? Wouldn’t that satisfy
them?”
“Yes, but not the ‘Haves,’ for the
‘Have-nots’ would then be in a position
to go to war against them. To anticipate
such a contingency, the ‘Haves’ would
have to get in first and reseize the fresh
resources of the ‘Have-nots’ as a sort of
insurance measure!”
“Oh, yes, I overlooked that,” confessed
the Visitor from Mars.
CLOON.


Myer Emporium.
The ords. in Myer’s, Melbourne,
at 31s. return a shade under 6 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis, and buyers
at the present figure can hardly go
wrong. A large parcel of scrip has
depressed the sharemarket.
m
¥
. . . . Buying
in FOREIGN MARKETS
*
Wherever Australian business extends, the
National Bank provides a full range of
financial facilities. Its commercial Letters of
Credit for financing imports are readily
accepted, and its experience enables it to give
assistance to both import and export trade. If
you are buying or selling abroad, the Bank
invites you to discuss your problems with its
Foreign Departments at Head Office, in Mel-
bourne, or at any of its 430 Branches and
Offices spread through the various States.
When overseas, the same facilities are readily
available through its London Office and a
world-wide chain of Banking Agents.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia (.lncorporated in Victoria)
E5/16/33
TO WORK NELL GWYNNE
LINE OF REEF
£27,500 Company for Bendigo.
BENDIGO, Tuesday.—Arrangements have
been completed and the prospectus will he
issued late to-day for the flotation of the
Golden Sovereign Gold Mining Co., N. 1., with
a capital of £27,500 in 55,000 shares of 10/-
each.
It will be the first distinct company to be
floated on the Bendigo field for about four
years.
Of the 55,000 shares, 40,000 will be offered
for public subscription at Is. each; 10,000
shares paid up to 10s. each will be issued to the
vendor and the promoter; and 5000 shares will
be held in reserve.
The provisional directors are John Cranstoun
Henderson and Angus Mackay. The legal
manager is Mr. J. Stanistreet, of McColl,
Rankin and Stanistreet, Bendigo.
The area which will be worked comprises
approximately 23 acres near Derwent Gully;
embraces the Nell Gwynne and the Napoleon
lines of reef and the syncline country between,
and has a length along the line of approxi-
mately 400 and 484 yards respectively.
NATURE OF COUNTRY.
A strong cross-course known as the Nell
Gwynne fault has faulted the Napoleon anti-
cline eastwards towards the Nell Gwynne anti-
cline and brings them to within 450 feet of
each other.
A second cross-course, branching off the Nell
Gwynne fault, strikes • north-east and crosses
both lines in the lease. Geologists think this
cross-course, at its eastern end, may be a
branch of the famous Collmann fault which
enriched the three lines of reef to the east and
provided such profitable workings several years
ago.
It is proposed to sink the new shaft to 200
feet and crosscut east to pick up the Nell
Gwynne centre at 160 feet and west to cut
through the syncline at 130 feet to meet the
east back and spurs on the formation at about
160 feet.
It is hoped that the east crosscut will pick
up the west and east backs of the auriferous
saddle reef worked at the surface many years
ago, while it is proposed to extend the west
crosscut to the Napoleon centre to locate two
shallow auriferous formations indicated there.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Economic Management Overdone
There was once a period when, to
present-day people looking back, rises
and falls in world prices seemed to be
governed by factors which could be
observed and generally understood.
“Supply and demand” in commodity
markets, good seasons and bad seasons,
extra buying-power following rich gold
discoveries—these and other fundamen-
tal (perhaps primitive) circumstances held
powerful and obvious sway over the level
of prices. Possibly the sway wasn’t so
predictable at the time as would seem
after the passing of years; the gold
standard, it is easy to overlook, has a
more or less universal history of only
a century or so, and the few generations
which saw monetary order evolve from
chaos had scarcely become accustomed
to such order and its natural influences
before chaos was again thrust on the
present generation.
These older days were generally of
“free” trade —so “free” that the weakest
in the economic system went to the wall,
and there was no such thing anywhere
as a “standard of living.” If a country
was finding trade bad the worst-organised
section of its industrial make-up might
be expected to suffer almost automati-
cally until bad times passed. “Equilib-
rium” was probably regained more
quickly under drastic conditions. Top-
heavy businesses weren’t saved by bol-
stering them up with bank credit. If
a business or a bank wasn’t too sound
it went under in the natural course of
events.
To-day, overwhelmed by the pressure of
mechanical invention and mass produc-
tion, the basic order of things is almost
lost to sight in a seething whirl of re-
finements, complications, managed cur-
rencies, credit, debt and politics. Nearly
every country is striving towards an
improved standard of living, and so long
as the improvement is real that is all
to the good. But obviously it makes
for economic difficulties in countries
where, by reason of some whim of
Nature, the land itself will not support
a high living standard.
So trouble starts. “Self-sufficient”
countries, in raising their living stand-
ards, trade less with these inadequately-
provided peoples, who at present choose
to call themselves the “Have-nots.”
Mechanical progress has made the posi-
tion unusually difficult, because without
motor-cars and aeroplanes a backward
country drifts further into obscurity. As
the world’s greatest automobile factory
and petrol-supplier is the U.S.A., and as
the U.S.A. is the most self-sufficient
country in the world, it is common to
hear of people in “Have-not” countries
being stinted in food and clothing items
in order to allow the nation to buy petrol,
aeroplanes, etc., from places like America.
In short, conditions of 50 years ago
allowed peoples to live and prosper in
lands where prosperity isn’t evident to-
day. Modern invention and standards
of living have influenced their situation
fully as much as war effects and other
economic factors. In many cases the
affected peoples are not prepared just
to sit down and mope over their troubles.
They are making a noise about it; and
the noise is a worry even, say, to
America, as it is probably intended to
be.
It becomes clear why the so-called
“natural laws of economics” seem sub-
merged at present. We are all wiser
after an event, and no economic crisis
is ever identical with a preceding one,
because we have taken measures to pre-
vent a return of the trouble we know;
so next time, instead of getting a cold
in the head, we get a pain in the stomach.
We have stopped making one mistake
in order to make another.
Also, at present a great deal of energy
is being expended throughout the world
in order to better the lot of unemployed
people by circumventing the old “laws”
of economics. In the U.S.A. “pump-
priming” is going on ad lib., but so far
that nation’s troubles seem only to have
been prolonged. Instead of being sent
to bed for a spell, the patient is propped
up and dosed, but looks like being sick
anyway. The appearance of this patient
periodically gets on the nerves of people
in other countries, and then anything is
likely to happen to markets and pfices.
Mussolini and Hitler haven’t the
medicine with which to dose their
patients, and so they call for a tightening
of belts and make a fair amount of
noise instead, magnified in the news-
papers of other countries, and this also
periodically gives markets the jitters.
So long as a few great countries of
the world find it necessary to manipulate
their economic systems, so will the out-
look for prices in other countries remain
a problem. “Management” is something
that can hardly be anticipated—the re-
sults often not even by the managers
themselves.
South having paid a quarterly of 9d.
a short while ago, the market was
shocked to learn that only 6d. was com-
ing from North Broken Hill. On an-
nouncement of the div., North scrip was
slashed 3s. 9d. (to 435. 9d.), and South
shares also suffered to the extent of Is.
3d., drifting to 295. 3d. On Monday
the quotes w,ere still weaker at 41s. 9d.
and 275. 9d. respectively, great con-
fusi®n being evident. These divs., of
course, are no indication whatever of
the respective earning power of the two
mines. Not in any year since 1924 has
South paid a bigger div. than North, and
if it should happen to pay a bigger one
this year there should be definite reasons,
such as:—
(a) North is spending more on develop-
ing its larger ore-body than South is; (fe)
, South had £638,767 in cash and £131,490
in public securities last balance day, where-
as North’s holding of cash and public
securities totalled £574,534.
In any case, since two directors of North
are also on the board of South, in the
present rickety state of the sharemarket
it would do no harm if some explana-
tion accompanied the div. of each co.,
stating in one case why, the rate was
so unexpectedly high, in the other case
why so unexpectedly low. The share-
broking fraternity has had the stuffing
knocked out of it by recent investment
trends, and in many respects it is a drag
on other parts of our economy. Hal
Sheppard, chairman of North, is a Mel-
bourne sharebroker, and he should
understand this position. Perhaps the
boards of North and South aren’t con-
cerned with market behavior, and gener-
ally that is a good way to be. Still, since
the scrip in both cos. was cut down from
£1 to ss. counters a couple of years ago
in order to facilitate transfer and spread
of shareholdings, an additional service
on the lines indicated mightn’t have been
out of place. Shareholders who are not
interested in the market ordinarily are
very concerned about their holdings just
now, especially in view of the slump in
metal prices.
Base metals were in a condition of
definite slump last week-end, lead and
spelter especially. Not sirfce 1935, when
the lowest London quote was £lO Is. 3d.,
has lead been lower than last week’s
£l3 10s., and one has to go back to 1934
to get a lower yearly average than £l3
10s. Because of high quotes in the first
half of 1937-38, lead had averaged £lB
3s. a ton for the 10 months to April 30,
but it is, of course, declining every
month. Spelter was down to £l2 7s.
last week, the lowest individual quote
also since 1935 (£ll 11s. 3d.), and no
yearly average on record has touched
that low level. For the 10 months to
April the average has been £l7 Bs. lOd.
Unless this is the worst metal slump in
modern times, statistics demonstrate that
lead and, more particularly, spelter must
improve before long. Slump has been
the inevitable reaction from last year’s
boom, but rearmament in Britain is now
actually in progress, not merely a pros-
pect, and there must be a hardening in
metals later.
* * * *
Last week the Australian sharemarkets
opened very quietly, in clear contrast
to the state of affairs a week earlier.
Buyers and sellers were both inconspicu-
ous. Prices in the investment section
weren’t appreciably weaker at the
week’s beginning, though Sydney re-
tail houses slipped slightly, follow-
ing publication of some accounts that
showed little increase in profits over the
preceding year ; Adelaide Steam' receded
6d. from its recently-reached high peak,
and Yarra Falls dropped 6d. C.S.R.
came back to £49, and bank shares
took on a downward trend, partly owing
to sales out of estates (which means
good buying). G. J. Coles ords. showed
outstanding strength, but even these had
a weaker look in the general recession
in industrials that seemed to coincide
with the cut in North’s div. at the week-
end.
* * * *
The lift in Tooth’s div. rate, from 10
p.c. to 11 p.c. p.a., was received with-
out any display of enthusiasm by the
sharemarket, which has begun to regard
the co. as something of a tightwad as
far as divs. are concerned, and to mutter
“Well, you can afford it, anyway,” when
something extra comes to light. The
scrip is priced on the most flattering
basis of all Australian brewery stocks.
At 555. Tooth shares return a shade
over 4 p.c. on the new div. basis,
whereas Carlton, of Melbourne, even at
last week’s stronger price of 675. 9d.,
shows nearly 4.5 p.c. Castlemaine Perkins,
Brisbane (B. 12/5/’3B, at 225. 6d.), has
lifted to 235. 3d., and at that price the
12s. 6d. scrip returns £4 6s. 2d. per cent.
* * * *
Bankers and 1 Traders’, a flush little
Sydney-controlled fire and general in-
surance office, wrote a substantially in-
creased business in its last term and
showed net profits of £20,745, up £6834,
and equal to 21.7 p.c. .on capital. The
div. stays at 7 p.c., and reserves lift to
£146,950, being £51,775 in excess of
capital. The 10s. shares, up to 38s. in
1937 and down to 295. 6d. recently,
firmed to 30s. 6d. last week, yielding 2.3
p.c. Benefits are likely in the way of
bonus scrip later on.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Felt and Textiles ords. sold at 335. 6d.,
yielding 6 p.c. A record half-year’s turnover
has been reported, which was expected. This
is one of the newer textile concerns to come
on the market, and the specialised nature of its
output, (felt and felt products), together with
the recent expansion of the business, encouraged
a good deal of speculation for a time. The
ords. were up to 375. as recently as early March.
Herald scrip was still in poor demand at 58s.
Can there be an “estate” parcel of this on the
market now, too? In other instances some
recently-deceased men of wealth seem to have
been neglectful of their probate insurance.
North Coast Steam and Bank of N. S.
Wales, in Sydney, and Australasian Paper
and Myer Emporium, in Melbourne, have
recently been putting through transfers with
estate trustees as the vendors. The weakness
in the Herald’s case, of course, may simply
be due .to the, reappraisement of newspaper in-
vestments owing to increased newsprint costs
and wireless competition.
Waldas Shoes-passed its-,pref. interim.


■|N|||B||| ■■
bn Elf Bill LE H
■ Bimet-BMHB
■■ln IpBI milißH
and the Lowest-Priced Full-Sized Panel Van
GAIN for 1938, Chevrolet offers the lowest-
Xx priced full-sized Utilities on the Australian
market —and the best! Read the list of features
given below and you’ll see that Chevrolet
Utilities are brilliantly engineered and com-
pletely equipped for dependable, economical
utility service. Chevrolet’s 6-cyl. Overhead
Valve high compression engine is an outstand-
ing economy feature. Its efficient power is
ideal for fast “top-gear” work and a check on
running expenses will show that a full-sized,
full-powered Chevrolet Utility costs only a few
pounds more a year for petrol than the smallest
low-powered units. Chevrolet Utilities are avail-
able on three distinctly different chasses—the
“Standard” for 10-12 cwt. loads —the Master
de Luxe (with independent front wheel spring-
ing) for 10-12 cwt. loads and the heavier
type “Commercial” for 15 cwt. loads.
There is a range of 22 body and driving
compartment styles. Prove the value of one of
these ultra-smart Utilities in your own work—
your Chevrolet Dealer will gladly place a model
at your disposal for a test, without obligation.
GENERAL MOTOR S—H OLDEN’S LTD.
ONLY CHEVROLET GIVES YOU ALL THESE FEATURES
Overhead Valve 6-cylinder Economy Engine (which never needs replacing). Perfected “Full
Contact 5 ' Hydraulic Brakes. Synchro-Mesh Gears. Exclusive New-design Clutch. Box-girder
Frame (steel channel frame on Commercials). “Turretop 55 Driving Compartments on Coupe
Utilities. All-steel Truck Cab on Commercial models. Independent Front Wheel Springing
and Rear Shock Absorbers on Master de Luxe models. Complete equipment, including Front
Bumper, Front Shock Absorbers and No-Draught Ventilation on all models.
CHEVROLET UTILITY PRICES:
Commercial Utility 112 in. w.b. Chassis ... £239 Standard Coupe Utility with Open Body ... £307
Standard Utility 1121 in. w.b. Chassis £249 Commercial Utility with Open Body and Truck Cab £3OB
Master Utility 1121 in. w.b. Chassis £269 Master Coupe Utility with Open Body £327
(All Prices Plus Sales Tax)
CHEVROLET TRUCK CHASSIS PRICES FROM ... £255 (Plus Sales Tax)
19?2
Thi
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
C 620-44 Sold_and_Serviced bY Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
3 DISTINCTLY DIFFERENT
CHASSES— a Type for Every Job.
THE CHEVROLET OPEN COUPE UTILITY
The handsome Utility (illustrated above) is available with
either half door or full door Coupe front on both Master
de Luxe and Standard Chasses. Alternative body style*:
Welisides and Flareboard.
THE CHEVROLET STANDARD PANEL VAN
The stylish Panel Van (illustrated above) is available on
the Standard Utility Chassis. A similar unit for 15-cwt,
loads is available on the Commercial Chassis.
THE CHEVROLET COMMERCIAL UTILITY
With its roomy Platform, Coaming and Dropsides Body
and All-steel Truck Cab, this 15-cwt. model (illustrated
above) offers the finest value in the whole Utility field.
Alternative body styles include: Welisides, Open, Flare-
board and Panel Van.
T here’s a Complete Range of Chevrolet Trucks, factory-rated
for /-ton to 9 ton payloads. Including an entirely NEW ONE -
TONNER. Complete range of Standard body styles for all
ratings. Special bodies available for individual requirements.
See your Chevrolet Dealer for particulars and prices.
Easy Terms available Under Confidential Q.M.A.C. Plan
Your Money Goes Further In a General Motors’ Product
At last balance day Mt. Lyell had
metal stocks, debtors and cash in excess
of all liabilities to the extent of £510,191.
Shares in other cos., which turned in
£71,611, had a book value of £1,515,526.
If the surplus liquids and these invest-
ments are worth their book value,
then the assets, apart from the mine
and plant at Queenstown, represent
£2,025,717. At the price (245.) paid on
Monday for Lyell scrip, the 1,550,000
shares issued are valued at £1,900,000—a
figure that either excludes the mine
altogether or discounts the book value
of floating assets and investments. In-
come from shares (mostly fertiliser cos.)
represented 4.6 p.c. on total capital last
term. In the first seven months of the
co.’s present term electrolytic has aver-
aged £45 11s. lOd. sterling. Down to
£4O at the week-end, the price compared
with £6O Bs. 3d. in Lyell’s last com-
pleted term, and £4O 14s. Bd. the year
before that, when a 10 p.c. div. was
paid.
* * * *
For some time now Oil Search shares
haven’t been above 6s. 6d. or below 65.,
notwithstanding that last week the
Vacuum Oil Co. announced the ’forma-
tion of N.Z. Petroleum Co., in which
Oil Search and Taranaki Oil Fields will
have an interest through Shale Oil In-
vestigations Pty., which represents the
second group of shareholders in the new
float. California Texas Investments is
the third group. The new co. is to make
“an extensive search for petroleum” in
Maoriland. Some shareholders in Oil
Search are wondering whether the out-
come of all the negotiations with “over-
seas interests” regarding the co.’s Papuan
areas will merely be the joint formation
of a co. to “search for petroleum.” Pitt-
street (Sydney) gossip had predicted a
cash bonus to O.S. shareholders when
“the deal” comes off, and that had some-
thing to do with the shares lifting to 9s.
6d. in 1937.
* * * *
Someone seems to be dabbling around
with P. and G. Finance ords. in Sydney,
After a staleness covering many weeks
following the passing of the div., the
ords. have lifted from ss. 6d. to as
high as 9s. 7d. last week, when 1700
shares changed hands in one day. There
have been strings of sales for days
(around 2500 between Monday and Fri-
day), and the market has been about as
stable as that for Natural Gas scrip,
Market talk of a final div. has revived
interest, but if the management is wise
it will put to reserve a substantial pro-
portion of any profits earned. Profit-
takers came in at the higher figure last
week and set the price back to 7s. 6d.
Last Thursday 1600 prefs. went through
at between 14s. lid. and 15s. 3d. About
3000 were dealt in during the week.
t * * *
The trend of markets overseas, especi-
ally for armaments materials, seems
idiotic until the falling-off in motor-car
production in the U.S.A. is considered,
Still, this section of industry has a
greater influence on steel, tin and
rubber than it has on lead, spelter or
copper, which depend more on the build-
ing and electrical trades. In Britain trade
conditions are mixed, with exporters in
a not-too-happy position; in France
costs, aided by the 40-hour week, have
beaten the ballooning franc; the U.S.A.
has had a bad relapse; in Germany,
Italy, Russia and Japan economies in
imports have cut overseas buying to
bedrock. Copper has accumulated to a
year’s supply in the U.S A holders of
good base-metal shares had best accept
the situation with a shrug of the shoulders
and settle down to waiting.
* * * *.
From a listen-in at the meeting of
Mt. Kasi, Fiji (B. 19/5/’37), last week
in Sydney, it seems that there are chances
of the show turning out really big, if
low in grade. Payable gold has been
found over a wide area, and whether
it persists to depths is to be found out
by shafting and drilling. The unusual
nature of the deposit, referred to in B.
2/2/’3B, lends hope to the ore outlook.
Profits of Sons of Gwalia (Leonora,
for 1937 at £126,996 stg. are £2164
i ower t h an f or 1936, Div. remains un-
changed at 60 p.c. (£95,700) on the 10s.
(stg.) shares. Ore values have dropped
from 7dwt. to 6.4dwt., but the old mine
is well supported,
* * * l l '
As suggested here a few weeks ago,
the high copra prices early in the co. s
term seem to have helped in making a
satisfactory average for Morns Hed-
Strom’s full year, even though the stuff
is now very low-down to £lO 15s. in
London. The div has been lifted from
5- 4 - p.c. to 6 p.c., and in addition a - 2 p.c.
bonus §? es out ( ? commemorate the
70th anniversary of .the co. s foundation.
Shar * £s in Wellington Alluvials, on the
M arie (KS .W.), ran up to over 6s.
for * timg J ast week in sp £ e of the dry
weather and other difficulties attending
opening-out operations and the prelimi-
nary run The mar ket is taking a long
v j ew anc j backing B.H.P. management,
Oriomo Explorations scrip (the co. has
a large interest in Hill End Alluvials)
keeps in the doldrums around 2s. 9d. in
spite of the high values claimed on the
Hill End property. Initial results here
were disappointing.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Peril of Europe.
[Condensed from an article in London “Observer”
in which J. L. Garvin considers the problem of Czecho-
slovakia and the way out for Britain.]
The problem of the Greater Reich and its further
claims is the crux of world-peace. Between Britain
and France on the one hand and Germany on the
other it must come to settlement or catastrophe.
Czechoslovakia is the peril of Europe. By no possi-
bility can the internal constitution of Czechoslovakia
be maintained as it stands. It represents the undemo-
cratic and untenable ascendancy of the Czechs over
a mixed majority of other races. Those races include
three and a half million Germans who are in imme-
diate touch with the main body of their people in the
Greater Reich and regard themselves as an integral
part of it. Physically that is pretty well the fact.
It was mad for the Czechs to annex these Sude-
ten Germans. They are bound to come into union
with their folk. Either the Czechs must go the same
way by deliberate alliance or they must allow the
Sudeten Germans to go their own way. There is no
middle course.
Czechoslovakia never can be maintained by force
in its present unnatural shape. War on this of all sub-
jects would be about the most egregious futility in
human annals.
This is where the deep difference lies as yet
between Paris and London. Our French friends still
would like us to guarantee some sort of Czech ascen-
dancy in the mixed State. Britain should not be
induced to guarantee anything whatever in that hope-
less connection, for nothing that we attempted could
stand in default of agreement between the Czechs
and Sudeten Germans themselves.
The Czechs offer considerable concessions, but
short of allowing the Germans full control over their
own lives. This policy is too late. It might have
worked before the Anschluss, but not now. The
Sudeten Deutsch claim two main things. In domestic
matters they want full autonomy free from interfer-
ence by the Slavs. In foreign affairs they demand the
abrogation of the Soviet Pact between Prague and
Moscow and co-operation with the Reich rather, than
with Russia.
This latter question is the touchstone. There is
no possibility of a peaceful solution so long as the
Czechs insist, and the French argue, that the German
minority shall remain liable to be mobilised against
the Greater Reich and against the whole German
cause. This is the sort of fratricidal proposition in
the interests of another race that flesh and blood
cannot stand. It is an unnatural proposition to which
British policy ought not to lend the faintest shadow
of encouragement. On this point our French allies
should not be left under any doubt whatever.
What then is the way out, consistently with peace?
It lies in the complete reform of the composite State
on the principles declared by the Czechs themselves
at Versailles: “The Germans in Bohemia will have
the same rights as the Czechs. The German language
will be the second language of the 'country, and no
oppressive measures will ever be used against the
German part of the population. The regime will
resemble that of Switzerland .”
“The Cult of the Hyena.”
[Under this heading in London “Nineteenth Cen-
tury” J. P. Collins, a journalist concerned for the
good name of his profession, attacks daily newspapers on
the grounds of cheap sensationalism and the parading
of crime and sex.]
Even a hyena, one imagines, would draw the line
at torturing the widow and the fatherless in moments
of grief. It is this sub-bestial behavior on the part
of certain publications which arouses indignation
among the public, for it is made to realise that
this is the inevitable product of an elaborate and evil
system. There is all the less reason for hesitation in
lumping cheap newspapers together—that in regard
to the principal ingredients (advertisements, “features/’
illustrations and “hot” news), their staple industry is
watching each other for the purpose of plagiarism
and second-hand effects.
If news value consists in the “unusual,” how is
it that these products are so deplorably unvaried from
day to day? Like proprietary medicines, they make
no secret of their recipe. They turn out every morn-
ing a broadsheet which in many cases is only bought
for the caricature, list of public amusements, racing
news or the insurance policy.
The citizen’s chief qualification for their atten-
tion is to be found dead or found out, in detailed
circumstances of discredit. The road to celebrity
for any woman is to be divorced, or left stripped and
rqurdered, or deserted by a faithless swain in a trunk.
It would be hard to exaggerate this remorseless pur-
suit of the indelicate, where the “man in the street”
is used as a fetish, and then the slander is used as
a pretext for making him worse by inculcation.
Obviously the “man in the street” can turn to
better fare elsewhere. The journalist employed in
an office of this description has no option. Staffs are
hand-picked for their unabashed ardor at the game,
and are promoted for their proficiency in the dis-
regard of self-respect and syntax. That is why press-
men with any concern for their profession are so
anxious about the disappearance of the old school
of reporter—accurate, versatile, discreet.
A correspondent in the “Times” provides a case
in point; he tells how his wife’s facial injuries from
a motor accident were morbidly described in print.
One emissary from the intrusion group badgered a
servant for a photograph in her employer’s absence,
and then, haying failed, printed a bogus interview
attributing to the patient statements “not only untrue
but utterly abhorrent.”
The absence of any effectual defence for this
social misdemeanor is an admission of guilt. They
fall back upon “the freedom of the press,” which in
their mouths amounts to arrant hypocrisy. They make
things worse by citing Milton, but forget how he
states: “It is of greatest concernment in the church
and commonwealth to have a vigilant eye how books
demean themselves.”
There is plenty of evidence to show how this
decadence is being copied or exploited abroad to the
detriment of the British name. The offenders print
foreign commentary on their efforts and head it up
as proof of Continental Anglophobia!
The best professional discussion upon the subject
took place at the annual conference of the Empire
Press Union, and the resolution for taking steps to
restore the status of the press was carried with one
dissentient.
The “International Brigades.”
[Rivalling the story of the Abyssinian “Amazons,”
who were the prostitutes of Addis Ababa, is a story in
this article condensed from London “National Review.”
Six thousand Italians, the dailies reported last October,
had landed at Cadiz to help Franco. A party did land
at Cadiz, says the writer—“but there were not 6000
of them, but only a few hundreds; they were not Italians,
nor were they armed; they were Spanish children who,
after enjoying the hospitality of the seaside summer
camps in Italy, were returning home.” Admitting
German and Italian aid to Franco, he tells the inside
story of the “International Brigades” and the Comin-
tern.]
The general belief in Anglo-Saxon countries is
that, while the civil war began as a purely Spanish
quarrel, the Italians and the Germans intervened for
their own nefarious purposes. Had it not been for
Russian intervention neither Italians nor Germans
would have taken any part, and the war would have
ended in a Nationalist victory long ago. The great
mass of the Spanish people support Franco, and but
for foreign assistance the Reds would have collapsed
at once.
Indirect Russian intervention began as far back
as December, 1922, when the fourth Congress of the
Comintern declared that the Soviet Government must
support the Spanish Anarcho-Syndicalist organisations,
then already planning a Red revolution. Large sub-
sidies poured into Spain from Russia, strikes and other
forms of violence broke out, and in 1934 the rising in
the Asturias was organised, armed and financed by
Russia.
At the elections of February, 1936, a Popular
Front Government was set up and the way prepared
for a Communist revolution. In March a large group
of Russian expert revolutionaries arrived in Spain,
and Russian ships also began to land war material for
the Reds in Spanish ports. French experts came to
organise the Red militia. This was nine months before
any Italian or German volunteers had arrived in
Spain.
Russian intervention intensified. The. Soviet
Ambassador in Madrid, Moses Rosenberg, had been
the trusted adviser to the Red Government; he was
how admitted to the Council of Ministers and became
the real dictator. Vast quantities of war material
were landed in the Spanish ports, and by December,
1936, 300 aeroplanes and 300 tanks with their crews,
large numbers of officers and men, and rifles and
machine-guns for an army of 300,000 had arrived
from Russia. At the same time the so-called Inter-
national Brigades were pouring over the Pyrenean
frontier from France. A vast organisation was set
up by Communist groups in that country for supplying
more cannon fodder. They were sent by lorry into
Red Spain or by sea from Marseilles and Cette.
At the end of August, 1936, the Italian Govern-
ment made a proposal for eliminating all intervention
in Spain from any quarter, whether by men, arms,
munitions, money or propaganda. But for reasons
not yet made clear the proposal was turned down by
the other interested Powers. Foreign help, there-
fore, continued to pour in, in favor of the Reds, un-
hindered. It was this foreign help which held up the
National army at the gates of Madrid.
Then —in December, 1936 Franco appealed
to the Italian people for help to redress the balance.
There were two main reasons for Italian action.
First, to help a friendly people in its struggle to free
itself from a detested foreign tyranny. Second, Italy
was justly alarmed at the prospect of seeing Soviet
Russia, which had no legitimate interests in the Medi-
terranean, set up a branch house on the western shores
of that sea, intent only on promoting international
strife and paving the way for yet further Russian
conquests. The Mediterranean is Italy’s only sea, and
of vital importance to her security. Defeat of Franco
would not result merely in a weak Spain but in the
formation of a Russian colony, with naval, military
and air bases. Nor is it certain that a Soviet-ruled
Spain would not extend its tentacles beyond the
Pyrenees. The prospect of Communist domination
from Algeciras to Dunkirk is unpleasing.
In the second half of December, 1936, the first
detachment of Italian volunteers landed in Spain,
3000 strong. Eventually there were 45,000 to 50,000
Italian volunteers. The Germans were about 10,000,
mainly airmen, gunners and other experts. There was
also a small contingent of Irish Catholics organised
by General O’Duffy.
The foreigners on the Red side —French, Russians,
Belgians, Mexicans, Britons, Americans, Czecho-
slovaks, Swiss, Arabs from French North Africa,
etc. —were over 150,000. Their numbers were more
difficult to gauge because the Red authorities had in
most cases deprived them of their documents and
frequently conferred Spanish citizenship on them.
Schneider-Creusot batteries of 75’s, as well as
Russian batteries of 124’s, were generously supplied.
From July, 1936, to the end of August, 1937, the Reds
had received 1214 aeroplanes from Russia and France.
The French nationalised works had supplied 123 Potez
bombers, 76 Dewoitine chasers, 35 Bloch bombers,
27 S.P.A.D., 21 Nieuport chasers, etc. Earlier the
Russians had sent large numbers of ’planes—437 Rata
and Moskva monoplanes, Chatos biplanes, 234
Katushka and Natasha bombers.
The control of Red Spain by Soviet Russia, either
direct or through its branch house in France, con-
tinued unabated. The following letter in the “Neue
Zuricher Zeitung” of September 27, 1937, by a Swiss
who fought in the ranks of the Spanish Reds is illu-
minating
I went to Spain as a convinced anti-Fascist to fight
against Fascism. I was for 10 months on various fronts.
All the military operations of the Government troops
are directed by Russian officers. Every Spanish com-
mander is “assisted” by a Russian commissar, who in
effect gives the orders. General Miaja is always escorted
by six Russian commissars. The arms, the tanks, the
anti-aircraft guns, and the greater part of the aeroplanes
are of Russian origin. The new arms and ammunition
factories of Republican Spain are managed by Russian
commissars.
And yet the Left Press and Left politicians
continue to talk about Italo-German intervention
alone, and to ignore all intervention on the other side.
Ethics of Broadcasting.
[Like the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the
8.8. C. wisely steers clear of controversy, except in the
overseas propaganda transmissions which have become
necessary. This article by Edward Liveing, condensed
from London “Fortnightly Review,” indicates what the
British attitude would be on such matters as the banning
of Judge Foster. The writer, incidentally, complains
that the Empire pays nothing towards the cost of
Empire broadcasts.]
A broadcasting system such as the British, which
operates a monopoly of the “air,” faces critical
scrutiny. It is liable to accusations, often irrational,
of being “rightist” or “leftist.” Steering clear of
controversial issues, it has been attacked for timidity.
There are few programmes which will not provoke
controversy in a listening public 35,000,000 strong.
A programme about hunting annoys societies con-
cerned with protection of animals; a talk on wine,
teetotallers.
The 8.8. C. has weathered the storms. The
advantages of monopoly have been proved to out-
weigh the advantages of disseminated effort. The
British service may lack some of the gusto of Ameri-
can broadcasting ; but in this, however, it probably
expresses our national temperament more faithfully
than its critics. The British listener can receive pro-
grammes free of advertisement interest, and uncolored
by the prejudices and propaganda of rival newspaper
owners and ideological institutions.
About foreign language broadcasts, there is con-
siderable misunderstanding. For some time past cer-
tain countries have been broadcasting in more than
one language owing to the mixed linguistic composi-
tion of their own populations. More recently they
have broadcast to their nationals abroad. Only
in one or two isolated services has malevolent propa-
ganda been transmitted. The bulk of short-wave
broadcasting consists either of normal programmes
or of more direct, but not necessarily malevolent,
propaganda.
But there is a world of difference between the
Empire service and those of certain countries which
have been aiming at South America. Challenges of
this kind have now had to be taken up. The 8.8. C.
is already broadcasting in Arabic, and arrangements
have been completed for broadcasts in Spanish and
Portuguese to South America.
“Full Information.”
Sydney “Sun,” commenting on the News-
paper Conference at Sydney, observed:
In an authoritarian State the Govern-
ment decides issues without consultation
of the wishes of the people. In a democ-
racy the people decide, and to decide
must be informed. Any attempt, then, to
deny full information is a blow at the
very heart and principle of democracy.
That is quite true. And it is also true that
the dailies don’t give full information. The
new light on the Spanish struggle which is
given by the article on the “International
Brigades” on this page is a case in point.
“A free press,” the “Sun” admitted, “may
have its drawbacks when freedom degenerates
into license, and when the sense of responsi-
bility which freedom should give becomes
weakened.” Another article here, “The Cult
of the Hyena,” deals with a degeneracy that is
less harmful than the substitution of propa-
ganda for news, but which is nonetheless
bringing journalism into disrepute—the ex-
ploitation of the cash value of morbid curios-
ity. Cheap London rags are the worst
offenders in this respect, but all their faults,
from sensationalism to mere silliness, can be
seen imitated hereabouts.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS'
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR ..
If you really want a work-
boot which will give you
absolute comfort, look as
well as any work-boot should
look, and give you excep-
tional wear, try a pair of
Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
sole, full calf lining through-
out and a tough calf upper.
Stocked in full and half sizes
in stout Black or Brown
Calf.
Price: Black Calf . . 39/6
Brown Calf . . 45/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY.”
Profits from Armaments.
[The huge profits which armament firms are popu-
larly supposed to make have no very great direct concern
for the Commonwealth. But this article, condensed from
London “Daily Express,” besides pointing out that
armament firms don’t make anything like the money
their critics allege, shows where excess profits are
being made.]
The experience of shareholders in big armaments
companies has been a few years of glorious life during
which their plants are extended, their capital is inflated
and their dividend increased. After this they find their
works idle, their profits gone, their shares at rubbish
prices, and very often are faced with' the necessity of
writing off millions of worthless capital.
This is what happened to the shares after the last
boom in 1914-18:
Average
Price, High, Low,
1913. 1918. 1932.
Vickers 38/6 57/- 5/-
Hadfields .. .. .. 61/- 148/9 3/6
Armstrong-Whit worth .. 49/9 50/6 -/2
Baldwins .. .. .. 21/6 60/- 1/9
John Brown .. .. 20/6 34/3 -/6
W. Beardmore .. .. 18/- 20/6 -/I
Cammell Laird .. .. ’l3/.6 29/3 -/6
Subsequently the steel industry had to write off
£40,000,000 of capital, and its workers fell from
225,000 in 1918 to 166,000 in 1931. It is now employ-
ing 265,000 workers, and in the last quarter of 1937
earned 10.4 p.c. on its £100,000,000 of capital.
This brought the average earnings for the past
ten years, covering one slump and two booms, up to
4.01 p.c., while the average annual dividend over the
same period works out at 2.49 p.c., or less than is
now obtainable on the war loan.
But, with over £300,000,000 being spent annually
on arms, substantial profits are being made. The
Government seems to be so busy preventing armament
firms from making excessive profits that it is making
profiteering easy for the sub-contractors who supply
the armament makers with raw materials.
For example, the price of steel, though high, is
strictly controlled, in effect, by the Government’s
Imports Advisory Committee. Steel is dear largely
because the uncontrolled prices of coke and coal have
risen by 60 p.c.
In the aircraft industry contract prices are fixed
after exhaustive examination of the costs of produc-
tion, and the profit allowed ranges between 5 p.c.
and 10 p.c. only. But there is no control on the prices
and profits of the expensive materials used in aero-
plane building. Some of these sub-contractors are
earning unreasonable profits.
Shell-makers have similar difficulties with those
who supply their plant.
They do things better in the Navy, where prices
for warships built in private shipyards are fixed by
competitive tenders.
National Service.
[Sooner or later Australia will have to recognise
the folly of not having man-power to back up the
armaments on which millions are being spent. Un-
armed, Britain was admitted to be in danger; untrained,
as London “National Review” here points out, the
insecurity still remains.]
The British “voluntary system” is neither volun-
tary nor systematic. In Germany, the manhood
voluntarily accepts the democratic principle of service
for all. It cannot be reasonably asserted that a popu-
lation of 70’,000,000 virile people has no choice.
Not even Hitler could force universal service on a
whole people against the united will of that people.
The German, French and Italian peoples are
entitled to retort that theirs is the voluntary system.
In the name of “Freedom” the manhood of Great
Britain refuses, for the most part, to fit itself
in time of peace to defend or serve its country in
any military capacity. We have had compulsory
attendance at school since the year 1870 ; why not ex-
tend the rule to national service ?
In the “Times” Sir Archibald Sinclair wrote :
“The adoption of conscription in time of peace would
be a defeat for the ideals of freedom and democracy.”
But did not President Lincoln —a democrat if ever a
man was —adopt conscription ? Our “voluntary
system” implies a right to refuse service, and to im-
pose upon others a sacrifice the individual is so
selfish as to refuse.
In the Government’s defensive plans, as far as
the public is permitted to know, armaments take
first place. £1,500,000,000 is to be expended. What
of the men ? National service has been advocated
by Lord Lothian, Lord Selborne, Sir Edward Grigg,
Sir William Sharpe, Mr. B. G. Heathcote-Amory, Mr.
Boothby and others. Should national service be put
off until the outbreak of war (it is open to question
whether any Power would formally declare war) it
would then, apparently, be necessary for Great
Britain to ask for an armistice for at least eighteen
months : twelve -in which to compile a national
register, and not less than six in which to train
officers and men.
A school of thought holds that machines, rather
than man-power, will be the decisive factor in
future. Man-power is not less urgent than machine-
power. Smashing of fortifications is not sufficient in
itself. History teaches us that even an ostensibly
friendly country must be effectively occupied, as the
Germans took care to ensure when annexing Austria.
Inseparable from national service is the need for
a national register. There should be allocated to each
of us his or her particular job in a national emer-
gency. A national register would record the quali-
fications for duty of men and women, together with
their classification and allotment of service accord-
ingly.
The belief that, given the machines, volunteers
would offer themselves may or may not be well
founded. But surely the deplorable experience of
1914, when our young men were sent half-trained to
the front, will not be repeated?
The Change of Government in France.
[ln the fall of M. Blum and the rise of M.
Daladier and M. Bonnet London “National Review”
sees the abandonment of the provocative foreign policy
of the Left, the settlement of internal dissension and
greater hopes for international appeasement.]
Unlike the House of Lords, the Senate has finan-
cial power and it refused all but the most limited
supplies to M. Blum’s Administration. M. Blum’s
answer was heavy new taxation, a capital levy and
other Socialist items.
In the meantime, the revolutionary forces moved ;
20,000 Citroen motor-car operatives were induced to
start a stay-in strike. This movement grew rapidly.
The Premier, losing his grasp of the situation, had
early in April an embittered controversy with the
Senate on his financial proposals. That body repre-
sents the landed interests, i.e., the peasant population,
and the Senators’ position was too strong for the Blum
Government in the face of strike figures mounting
to 150,000, and talk of a general strike.
On April 8 the duel came to an end in the defeat
of the Government’s financial proposals by 223 votes
to 49, The Government resigned and M. Daladier
was asked to form a Government, which he did, but
without the Socialists, who refused the five seats he
offered them in the Cabinet, because he laid down
two conditions. The first that there must be no inter-
vention in Spain, and the second that stay-in strikers
must leave the factories.
The first action of the new Government was
successful. The strikers returned to work, agreed to
work for 45 hours a week instead of 40, in return for
a flat wage increase of less than l|d. an hour. This
settlement gave satisfaction to everyone save the
revolutionary leaders, sent to create in France the
opportunity desired by her enemies. The disruptive
work had been visibly that of foreigners, and the
French workmen had begun to see where they were
being led. In this matter of putting France in order
the clear lead came from the workmen ; they were
seen to be supporters of M. Daladier’s efforts on
April 11. The strike once called off, M. Daladier’s
position was made.
His selection of M. Bonnet as the new French
Foreign Minister is a guarantee that French diplo-
macy will work in close accord with British. M.
Bonnet is known to be in favor of getting to terms
with Italy, and he is not anxious—as was M. Paul
Boncour —to intervene to help the Spanish Reds. M.
Boncour fitted very well with Mr. Eden —they had the
same belief in Geneva, they both disliked Italy, and
had leanings to the Left. With the bursting of the
League bubble and the increase of Germany’s power,
they became anachronisms.
Some Spanish Problems.
[The problems of refugees, soldiers and civilians are
dealt with in this condensation of two articles on Spain
in London “Daily Telegraph.”]
From the dusty sierras of Aragon, from the
mountains and valleys beyond the Riou Majou, re-
treating militiamen and weary civilians have poured
into French territory. During April they have num-
bered 20,000. The number of men over 45 years of
age and of women, children and invalids now enjoy-
ing French hospitality is about 10,000.
Between April 1 and April 25, 7757 Government
soldiers and about 1000 able-bodied men were ad-
mitted into France and repatriated. M. Jean, the
French special refugee commissioner, has dealt with
some 400 recalcitrant extremists. When the ring-
leaders made inflammatory speeches against repatria-
tion, M. Jean called for tanks, reinforcements of
mobile guards and some 200 mounted Spahis. There-
after no trouble was experienced.
The Cinca valley, in which Government troops
are holding out, may contain 12,000 men, and all the
survivors will probably retreat to France eventually.
At Aragnouet, where the retreating troops must enter
France, special lighting has been installed for use
should the retreat begin after dark.
After the cessation of hostilities a new problem
will present itself—the political refugees who in thou-
sands will seek sanctuary on the French side of the
Pyrenees.
In Spain itself, the ending of the war is creating
huge problems of administration and conciliation.
Plans for administering Barcelona, Madrid and
Valencia have already been drawn up by Franco’s
experts.
After the tasks of establishing order and feeding
the population, the new rulers will have to turn their
minds to bewildering economic problems. There will
be a new currency to introduce. Bank officials will
have to spend months attempting to reconstruct the
position of thousands of clients whose property has
been confiscated. Factories will have to be restored
to rightful owners. Thousands of buildings will have
to be rebuilt. There will be endless claims for com-
pensation.
The important work of pacification and recon-
ciliation has not been forgotten. For two years the
people have heard little good of their fellow-citizens
“on the other side.” Newspapers and radio have
libelled “Fascists” as virulently as vehicles of National-
ist propaganda have libelled “Reds.” A small begin-
ning, with friendly propaganda broadcasts, has already
been made. How should the hundreds of thousands of
soldiers be treated? Discrimination will be unavoid-
able, but if there were much it would hardly make
for a contented Spain.
Japan and Britain.
A London “Times” report which does not confirm
the impression, fostered by other newspapers, that
whenever a Briton is sighted in China Japan trails
its kimono:—
Chinese bonds advanced sharply on the news of
a provisional agreement between Britain and Japan-
for continuation of the service of the foreign debt
secured on the Chinese maritime Customs. The
contributions now to be received from ports under
Japanese control should assure the maintenance of
the service until a definite settlement can be
reached.
Of total Customs collections amounting last year
to $342,899,739, practically two-thirds were con-
tributed by the three chief ports in Japanese
occupation Shanghai, Tientsin and Tsingtao.
Revenue from these three centres should still be
sufficient to cover, if need be, the $77,000,000
required for the foreign loan charges.
From China’s point of view, the agreement
preserves her foreign credit from the damaging
consequences of default. Foreign commercial
interests will, however, regret that, so far as is
known, it offers no assurance upon the preserva-
tion of international control in the Customs
administration.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
From more than one angle the success
of Buoyancy in the Gellibrand Handicap
at Williamstown on Saturday was
dramatic. He started at 20 to 1 and
beat the 7-to-4 favorite, Regular Bachelor,
by half a head.
Regular Bachelor couldn’t have lost
on a course like Flemington. Right
riding tactics were adopted by Keith
Voitre in allowing the Queensland stallion
time to settle down. Regular Bachelor
had come from the extreme rear to
defeat Amiable, King’s Head, Aurie’s
Star, Beechwood and others in the V.R.C.
Leonard Stakes on March 5.
But six furlongs in a direct line is
vastly different from a similar journey
on a circular track with a comparatively
short straight. Regular Bachelor had
six rivals in front of him at the three-
furlongs pole and they did not open out
on the home bend.
When the favorite eventually saw day-
light ahead the winning-post was too
near to permit of Buoyancy being col-
lared. Regular Bachelor traversed the
last 100 yards at a speed that made
spectators gasp, and until the judge’s
numbers went up they were unable to
determine what had won.
Buoyancy, a four-year-old gelding by
Windbag from a Paper Money mare,
Pamona, has had a romantic history.
With Buoyancy as a two-months foal
at foot, his dam was sent to Geelong
to be served by Gay Lothario. She died
there of snakebite, and the foal had to
be reared on infants’ food from a baby’s
bottle.
Miss D. Bauld received the motherless
Buoyancy as a gift from her father, W.
D. Bauld, who did so well several seasons
ago with Phocis, the hurdler. Bauld
has a earmarking station at the Eastern
Market, and recently bought the historic
site of Kirk’s Horse Bazaar in Bourke-
street for his business.
Though he captured the Flying Stakes
on Warrnambool Cup day, Reaper com-
manded even less support than Buoy-
ancy. His third, only a neck behind
Regular Bachelor, shows the extent to
which Williamstown punters erred in
their judgment.
Withdrawal of Black Mac from the
Bay View Handicap was due to fear of
a penalty being incurred for the Birthday
Cup in Adelaide next month. El Bruno
(9-to-4 favorite) had the outside marble
and never got into the firing line.
Draknia set such a fast pace that the
mile and three furlongs was run in 2min.
19|sec., which is only half a second
slower than the course record. Riding
a waiting race, as he did at Geelong three
days before, Bert Morris made imported
Plectrum hit the front as they faced for
home.
Half-way down the straight Beau Ham
(tens) headed Plectrum, who was a 7-to-
-1 pop; but the Irish-bred stallion has
improved wonderfully in the past few
weeks, and when Morris pulled out the
whip he fought on finely to a half-head
victory.
Three lengths off, Miss Devlin, owned
by the club chairman, J. J. Liston, was
third at 25 to 1. Turf Boy, almost friend-
less in the market, drew attention to his
G.N. Hurdle prospects by finishing fifth,
just behind Tapageur, who soon may win
on the flat.
Brought over from Maoriland by W.
R. Kemball, sold to the late A. G. Bar-
low and now raced by Mrs. A. M. Tuck,
wife of a master baker at Hampton,
Whernside (Grand Knight-Baylock) re-
vealed himself one of the most promising
of novice jumpers by annexing the Koro-
roit Hurdle.
Scantily supported at 14 to 1 (the tote
paid £4 11s. for 55.), Whernside took
control at the mile. Dornford (eights)
got on terms with him at the final flight
of battens, but Jim Pengilly’s candidate
scored nicely by a length and inciden-
tally lowered the course record by half a
second.
Whernside has been entered for both
Grand Nationals, but Dornford, though
he has had more experience over
obstacles, is in the G.N. Hurdle only.
F. W. Hoysted, owner-trainer of Dorn-
ford, considers that the Windbag gelding
would have won if allowed freer rein at
the outset.
Smothering the leaders immediately
W. Elliot found room on the fence,
Dannevirke (Colossus-Tripping) made
7 to 4 seem gift odds in the Juvenile
Handicap. He belongs to J. Fryer, of
Wotan fame. Another M.L. youngster,
Bankshaw, raced by W. R. Kemball,
finished second at fours, with Pretend
(5 to 1) third. Quinnat, trained by Pat
Quinlan, set the pace and will be at less
than 20 to 1 when next produced.
The Autumn Steeple was a chapter of
accidents. Five of the nine runners fell,
and two of them—Ramelton and Royal
Money —had to be destroyed. Chinka-
beau tore a mass of flesh from between
his chest and forearm on, the near side
and will take months to recover. It is
time that Williamstown came into line
with other Melbourne clubs by installing
brush fences.
Winner was Black Watch (Magpie-
Flay), who shared favoritism with Calfly
and beat Oakey by 3| lengths, with
Calfly a poor third. Black Watch is
in the two Nationals. Bred in N.S.W.
by Percy Miller, he is a half-brother to
Switch, who won races in Melbourne
for the late Norman Falkiner.
Selected by this Page to win the Beach
Welter, Riddle duly arrived in the first
division of that event. He firmed to
5 to 2 after 7 to 2 had been laid to good
amounts. Riddle was followed home by
Stevenage (tens) and Plymouth Hoe
(fives). Stevenage now belongs to the
Maharajah of Kolhapur and will be sent
to India before long.
P. Grant Hay, the Melbourne brewer,
did bookmakers a rare turn by appro-
priating the Beach Welter with Bridge
Law (Fourth Hand-Panique), a three-
year-old that he bred on Flinders Island.
Bridge Law figured at 33 to 1. He
won by 1| lengths from Araunah, with
Heroic’s Pride a close third. Winoobra, a
hot favorite, received a bump that settled
her chance. She is of scarcely more than
pony height and won’t stand buffeting.
Perseverance with Plectrum is having
its due reward. The stallion from Ireland
won the Geelong Handicap on May 18,
starting favorite at sto 2. Before the
race P. T. Heywood, his owner, ex-
pressed the opinion that wrong riding
tactics had been previously pursued with
Plectrum. “In my opinion.” he added,
“the horse ought to be allowed time to
settle down before being asked to stretch
out in earnest.” Bert Morris accordingly
allowed six rivals to lead Plectrum over
the first half of a mile journey. Apply-
ing pressure on the bend his mount made
rapid headway and wore down the
Windbag mare Lady Kooringal with a
well-sustained run. Plectrum used to be
owned by J. Hogan, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1935 with Marabou in
association with the late J. Fell. Then
he passed into the possession of Phil
Heywood and his brother-in-law, H. G.
Mcßoberts, a wholesale druggist. When
Mcßoberts died Heywood raced Plec-
trum as sole owner.
Villius, another stallion in which Mc-
Roberts and Heywood were jointly
interested at one period, competed in
the Barwon Welter at Geelong, but
wasn’t advanced in condition, figured at
long odds, and failed to show up. The
late F. E. Cobbold, a Queensland pas-
toralist who lived in Melbourne, owned
him once. Gay Lover, a full brother to
Villius, landed the Cantala Stakes of
1936, and has since distinguished him-
self on the turf in “the East.” Heywood
hasn’t given up hope of picking up a
good stake with Villius, whose three-
year-old sister, Vita Glass, also carries
his colors. Vita Glass met with a lot
of support for the first division of the
Novice Handicap at Geelong, but did
not gallop generously. If beauty of form
were the only requisite, Vita Glass would
be a champion.
Strange that Vin O’Neill, who pre-
pared Spearfelt for a sensational Mel-
bourne Cup victory in 1926, hadn’t
handled any of the progeny of the Spear-
mint stallion until Rex Felt —who was
bred in Queensland and is out of Mil-
lieme Miss —came into his hands.
O’Neill leased Rex Felt from the breeder
nearly 12 months ago, but didn’t hurry
to break-in or train the youngster. The
even-money victory of Rex Felt in the
Corio Two-year-old at Geelong was his
second in succession and very impres-
sive. Being by Trillion (son of The
Welkin) from Galtee Queen, his dam
is a half-sister to Sion, who was raced
in Sydney by the late Ned Moss.
* $ * *
F. W. Hughes—no relation to Billy,
although he is a friend—won a double
at Warwick Farm on Wednesday with
two young horses for which he paid big
prices in Maoriland Rival Hit and
Highborn. Actually Highborn was bred
in Australia, being by Baralong-Nobility,
but he was bought as a yearling in Syd-
ney for Maoriland racing. He had a
great tussle with Dutiful in the Warwick
Handicap at the Farm, and the finish
was very close. The vigorous riding of
Darby Munro, who is in great form these
days, was the deciding factor.
Highborn’s price was 5 to 1. Twos
was the closing quotation on Rival Hit,
who is a son of Winning Hit-Rivalry.
He had been heavily backed in a race
at Randwick, but never gave his sup-
porters any ground for hope. Either
the race did him good or something must
have happened to him on the journey ;
anyway, he showed decided improvement
in the Flying Welter Handicap at the
Farm. Second to him, a length away,
was Fernacre, who had been an unlucky
second to Aureus four days before.
Highborn and Rival Hit are trained
by B. R. Payten. Warwick Farm is
Payten’s favorite course. On the pre-
vious day he had led in the winner of
the Tamworth Cup, Disalto, and he and
Munro, who rode Disalto, had to make
a hurried journey back to Sydney.
The Warwick parm meeting was a
two-days affair, and on Saturday Hughes
nearly landed another double with his
three-year-olds. Rival Hit (evens) won
the second division of the Welter, a
seven-furlongs race. He did his job well
for Munro, but if Rosmead (third) hadn’t
lost his position after jumping out first
he would have made a close thing of it.
Jeanne d’Arc was second.
Mrs. Stuart Ritchie and Hal Cooper
own Petruchio, a handsome Bullhead
colt. Though his previous effort had been
successful, and the company was any-
thing but select, 5 to 1 was offered about
Petruchio for the May Nursery Handi-
cap ; the price firmed to threes. Petru-
chio took up a position behind Manaos,
and hit the front immediately McCarten
gave him his head. Aeolus finished well
to beat Manaos for second place. Petru-
chio is trained by George Price, who
is having a great season with two-year-
olds, having won with Pandava, Adios,
The Squire, Mildura and Pin Money as
well as Petruchio.
Gold Spark (7 to 1) followed her
Moorefield win by scoring easily in the
Warwick May Handicap. Three-year-
olds were first, second and third: Gold
Spark, Highborn and Bachelor King.
A hot pace set by Kinsfolk suited Gold
Spark, who can stay. Six furlongs from
home the filly cleared out, and, though
challenged by Highborn at the home
turn, she was going the better of the
pair at the finish. Young Watterson
rode her an excellent race. Gay Knight
was fourth. The heavily-backed Im-
provement and Billy Boy were never
possibilities, the latter whipping in the
field.
ShackletoA (7 to 2) rewarded his
patient followers in the Flying Handicap.
The big son of Heroic kept close to
Brown Baroness, and when she had had
enough he bounded away at the Leger.
He had to be kept going to hold ott
Bonnie Legion, but the mare failed by
“a long head” —it looked more Let
Slip being a head away third. Bonnie
Legion and Let Slip were hampered a bit
at the home turn. Herarde, the favorite,
beat two home.
Love from Maggie, a Marconigram
colt owned by Mrs. Horsley, of Tum-
blong, near Wagga, put in a fine finish
to beat Leeds and Wangalla in the
Maiden Plate. Leeds went to the front
at the Leger, and got a break, but Love
from Maggie overtook him rapidly. The
winner started at sixes. AJ.C. com-
mitteeman E. J. Watt’s filly Heiress led
into the straight and wound up fourth.
She may shape better if allowed to run
along without being bustled, as she was
bustled on Saturday.
Percy Stewart Dawson and R. W.
Mackinnon broke a run of bad luck
when Strathisla (6 to 1) beat Turbine
and Publicity in the first division of the
Welter. He had previously run fifteen
places without ever winning. Breeze
(fourth) and Publicity kept cutting at each
other in the lead. Their riders showed
little judgment.
Ross Grey-Smith will fill the vacancy
on the V.R.C. committee caused by J.
S. Feehan’s resignation ; in a very heavy
poll of members he received one more
vote than F. P. Smith. Except for being
“brothers under their skins” “good
sports” both —these Smiths are unrelated.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: There is interest for Aus-
tralians in the fact that Rockfel, winner
of the Thousand Guineas, is trained by
Ossie Bell, who is making a name for
himself in England as a trainer. He is
the youngest and only surviving son of
Joshua Peter Bell, once of Jimbour
station on the Western Downs, and in
his time prominent in Queensland
political and social life. Ossie first took
to training in the Malay States, and after
a successful career there established him-
self in England.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: For the Epsom Derby,
to be run on June 1, Pasch, the Two
Thousand winner, is warm favorite. He
is by Blandford from a Manna mare.
Sire and dam’s grandsire were Derby
winners, and he is owned by H. E.
Morris, who had Manna. Both the
Aga Khan and his son and heir, Prince
Ali Khan, will have candidates in the
Derby, the former owning Anne of Aus-
tria and the latter Stafarella. Stafarella,
a hot favorite, was beaten out of a
place in the Thousand Guineas.
Footbrawl
Carlton maintained its unbeaten
V.F.L. record by outplaying Collingwood
in the final quarter on Saturday, to win
19-16 to 17-12. Hawthorij, 13-9, sur-
prised Richmond, 12-12, and Footscray
turned the tables on Melbourne in the
last minute, 10-16 to 10-12. Geelong
kicked the highest tally of the day
against Fitzroy, and finished 21-21 to
11-9. Essendon, 15-15, had little trouble
defeating South Melbourne, 11-19, while
St. Kilda ran into second place on the
premiership ladder by winning from
North Melbourne, 11-16 to 10-12.
In the Vic. Association games, Bruns-
wick’s top-o’-the-ladder combination
downed Port Melbourne, 19-21 to 13-12.
Brighton, in second position, had a
harder game against Yarraville, but won,
18-17 to 9-13, after trailing at half-time.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Rough and dirty play is as
bad as ever in both League and Asso-
ciation this season, and the Melbourne
authorities are at their wit’s end how
to stop it. One suggestion is that a
special force of independent stewards be
formed to watch the games and do the
reporting of offenders. There is too
much evidence that umpires are afraid
to report because action of the kind
antagonises club officials, who can make
things hot for the ump. Of course, the
obvious remedy is to empower the
umpires to send toughs off the ground.
League and Association consistently
quash every attempt to introduce this
reform.
* * * *
As a result of Saturday’s Rugby Union
matches in Sydney, University shares first
place with Drummoyne. ’Varsity beat
the Reds 16-6, its forwards and backs
alike being too good. Randwick, though
surprisingly defeated (22-12) by a more
lively Eastern Suburbs, is next, one point
below the leaders. Manly and North
are only another point further down;
Manly prevailed over Gordon (19-6), and
North over Parramatta (26-18). West
slipped badly against St. George, the
Illawarra team scoring 29 to 11.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Federal Hurdle: Dakwood.
Mt. Alexander Handicap: Dun-
loe ; next, Red Manfred.
Keilor Handicap: Regular Bache-
lor ; next, Aurie’s Star.
Highweight: Barham; next,
Stevenage.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Welter: Brazandt; next,
Publicity.
Canterbury Handicap: Dutiful;
next, Perimond.
Park Stakes: Laurel G; next,
Interview.
Novice Handicap: Bianconi;
next, Euphorbus.


FOR
DEFENCE
AND
PUBLIC WORKS
van,
A
★
INTEREST PAYABLE TWICE YEARLY
Defence Brings Security . . . Public
Works create Employment. . . Buy a
Share in Your Country's Security
and Progress.
The two great questions facing Australia to-day are Defence
and Development. They are of paramount importance to
the nation and. to the individual.
Defence is the great task of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, whose aim is to make Australia as strong as possible
—as quickly as possible.
Development is the care of State Governments, as well as
of the Commonwealth Government, and in the development
of a young country like Australia, there is much to be done
—the building of roads and railways, and bridges, the
construction of water and sewerage works, etc.
To carry out the Defence Plan and the maintenance of
essential Public Works, this Loan of £ 10,250,000 is sought.
Investment in the Loan is a National duty for the individual,
and offers in return a profitable income.
Interest on Bonds is payable twice yearly, at the rate of
per cent, per annum. The income is not subject to
State taxation, and the taxation by the Commonwealth will
not exceed a stated rate.
The Governments appeal to small investors throughout the
Commonwealth to put some part of their savings into this
Loan. It is a People's Loan.
A
APPLY
EARLY
I
£ 10.250,000
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER
THAN 3RD JUNE, 1938.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra * Treasurer.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE.
ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN
The Office Which Pays
The Big Bonuses
DIRECTORS:
G. E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
o. j. McDermott, m. j. o’neill.
W. BENNETT.
OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: City Mutual Building, Hunter and Bligh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne;
C. A. Ralph, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 313-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. M. Hannan,
Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; B. J. Dolin,
Acting Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth; A. Wansbrough,
Manager.
TASMANIA: E., S. and A. Bank Chambers, Patterson Street,
Launceston; 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart; R. McNair, Manager.
J. A. Thomson, Assistant General Manager.
J. G. Taylor, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., General Secretary.
WILLIAM BENNETT, Managing Director.
G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., Actuary.
“Richmond”: Melbourne “Age” has
issued a clarion call to the V.F.L.
to devote more time and money to
strengthening the foundations of the
national code. The gnawing tooth of
the “foreign” codes is biting into the
schools. The Soccer people are sub-
sidising primary schools with a £5O hand-
out for gear and coaching. Rugby is also
raging, the clubs having increased from
half a dozen four or five years ago to
over 40 to-day, while the code is finding
favor in the Great Public Schools. To
the outsider there are two great draw-
backs to the Australian game, which
admittedly has no superior as football.
One is that it is confined to Australia ;
the other is the system of signed-up
professionalism.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Rugby Union and League
alike have an ever-present problem in
the scrummage. Under present condi-
tions the hooking of the ball back pre-
sents so many opportunities for unfair
play that referees are in despair. The
English R.U. has written N.S.W. asking
for its experience in the matter, and for
suggestions. The trouble is that with
three men in the front row there are too
many feet going. When this system
replaced the old one of two in front, the
art of fast and clean hooking vanished.
The modern system is a scrum variation
of the “stopping” methods so popular
outside the scrum. Spoiling the opposi-
tion is considered as important as beating
him in play. A return to the old two-in-
front method would open the eyes of
a generation which has never seen the
clean fast hooking that was the rule when
it prevailed.
* * * *
“Rus”: The N.S.W.R.U. is bringing
teams to Sydney from Newcastle,
Western Districts and Canberra to play a
triangular tourney on June 11, with a
Country v. City match on June 13.
Another matter considered by the Union
was a letter from the Canadian R.U.
asking fpr matches with the Australian
side either going to or coming from
Britain next year. It is likely that the
invitation will be accepted for the home
journey, and the N.S.W. Union has gone
through the motions of sending it on to
( Continued, on next page.)


NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
Schick Electric Dry Shavers banish
after-shave soreness . . . Schick
Shavers CANNOT irritate the ten-
derest skin. Over 2,000,000 Schick
risers enjoy the sweetest, smoothest
shaves science has found. Fully
guaranteed for 12 months, £5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E. T. C. INDUSTRIES, LTD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SCHICK
sdfsd
ENGINE RELIABILITY
BfPCNBS BN SPUMING HUBS
-YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Champions
To keep your car lively
in good and bad weather
... to help it to be your
reliable servant... install
new Champions once
every year. They reduce
carbon formation. They
save money!
An Empire Product
made in Windsor, Canada
wr
" J jsd-
m-.
mi
Wit!,
w.
WM
vm
mm
m
95
Sf'/J
m
fsdf
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
the other State bodies for their approval
or otherwise.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Most interesting of the 22
Maoriland Rugby Leaguers chosen for
next month’s Australian tour is full-back
George Nepia. He began, of course, with
the Union, and built up a reputation with
All-Black teams. Here with the 1935
Maori Union side, he afterwards had
two seasons playing League in the North
of England. Though he’s getting on in
years now he troubled the Kangaroos
last year in their matches on the way
to England, but may find it hard to
oust Smith, a youngster and nephew of
the 1905 All-Black George Smith, in the
Tests.
Eighteen of the tourists come from
Auckland, and the poor League form
elsewhere in the Dominion was evidenced
in the North-South trial game before the
team was chosen. It was all North ; the
Aucklanders put on 55 points to two
before the final whistle.
* * * Me
“Amateur Pro.”: Touching the N. S.
Wales Rugby Union’s protest to the
Queensland R.U. because that body rein-
stated a League player, the N.S.W.R.U.
has no standing in the matter. Its
Queensland opposite number is an inde-
pendent body, and thus has the right to
reinstate any professional as an amateur
should it choose to do so. This has not
prevented newspapers holding out threats
of what will happen to Queensland if it
persists in its wicked ways—exclusion of
Queenslanders from the matches against
the All-Blacks and from the team to go
to Britain are among them. The whole
business illustrates the necessity for plac-
ing the conduct of the game in Aus-
tralia in the hands of an Australian body.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Westralia has received
an invitation to send a Rugby Union
team to Ceylon during the cold weather
at the end of the present season. A
good deal of Rugby is played in Ceylon,
chiefly by the young Englishmen in the
civil service and the tea-trade.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Sammy and the Wicked Giant
Once upon a time —last Monday night,
to be precise—the immortal nursery
favorite “Jack and the Beanstalk” was en-
acted at Sydney Stadium to the immense
delight of the vast assemblage" of men,
women and little ones, gathered there, if
the truth be told, with no expectation of
seeing anything of the kind.
As a matter of fact, they had come
to see a wrestling match. And it mightn’t
be exceeding a scribe’s license to imagine
that they’d come to see it wild and
woolly. Apart from this being the nature
of most grappling engagements —so that
mild men like woolclassers, restaurant-
owners, solicitors and grocers get so
peeved that they arise and pelt the per-
formers with full tins of cigarettes, pea-
nuts and other heirlooms, and ladies ad-
dress the performers as if the brutes were
their husbands —apart from this natural
order of things, it may be remembered
that there was extra reason on Monday
evening for everybody to be fairly aching
for gore, gouging, strangling, garrotting
and suchlike simple pleasures.
Hadn’t the papers that day screamed
themselves into a crescendo of war
scare? Hadn’t threats and counter-threats
been rocketing backwards and forwards
across Europe? Didn’t it set you back
easily 9d. in l|d. lots reading up all the
versions as the newsboys hawked ’em
round, “Here y’are. Lytest on th’ war! ”
And here it was Monday evening and the
confounded war hadn’t broken out yet.
It’d make curates savage, let alone
wrestling addicts.
So, with the hope of vicarious battle
on their dials, and there also, in many
instances, the hall-mark of Israel, they
packed into the Rushcutter Bay fist-and-
grappling establishment, hopeful of see-
ing, since the Nations had so far failed
them, at least two representative examples
of mortal pugnacity deliver the goods.
It says something for the power of the
old nursery tale that when it was this
that was delivered instead all hands and
the cook' present took it in the best of
good spirits. The accustomed snarl soon
went out of the barracking ; the place
rocked with laughter and goodhumored
chiack of people enjoying a treat.
The principals—Sammy Stein (16st.
31b.) in the role of a perhaps somewhat
solidly developed Jack, and Pat
O’Shocker (17st. 51b.) as the Giant —
mostly ignored the Beanstalk. For the
rest, the piece followed the grand old
formula, and the principals were their
parts to the life. There was the wicked
O’Shocker, that great bhroth of a giant,
and the vast green rhobe he wore trailin’
down over the ghreat understandin’s of
him. Shure, an’ to think that when that
ghreat hulkin’ monster was a mere bit
of a bhoy back home there in his native
Chicago it’d shure be Ginger they’d be
callin’ him. Look at him there now, th’
ghreat monsther, with a grin on th’ tre-
menjus mug of him like th’ full moon
risin’ up over a cask of tallow!
Well, there’s our giant; and here now,
fairly bounding into the ring, is Sammy ;
our Jack the Giantkiller, appropriately
robed in a flowing mantle of pure white.
We feel, looking across at the
O’Shocker’s monstrous bulk, the awful-
ness of the task our hero is about to
embark upon. But he’s no mother’s little
pet, by the look of him. Not this Jack.
The hall-mark of his biblical forebears
has been flattened a bit, by some other
experience besides shoving it up against
candyshop windows. His magnificent
torso would shear a heavier and blacker
bale than the combined skulls round the
ringside. It looks virile beside the ginger
ringlets curling over the expanse of Pat’s
pink bosom.
As for the story, they come together
now and enact it with notable vigor and
variety. Pat —give the divvil his due —-
plays the Giant splendidly. He’s the
wicked monster of the piece. Listen how
the crowd roars and yells when he
whacks down a double-fisted rabbit-
killer on the gallant Sammy, picks
Sammy up and heaves him over the top
rope, boots Sammy out under the bottom
rope, also elsewhere. It’s awful. To
think that Virtue should suffer so much,
not only in the way of violence but in
the way, too, of indignity! And at the
hands of such a great, grinning oaf as
this O’Shocker’s turned out to be! Is
Virtue, then, to go unrewarded; is
Wickedness to triumph?
Anyhow, it gets a pretty good trot.
But now Jack’s got the Giant where he
wants him. With the great, ginger, curly
O’Shocker head tucked up underneath
his arm, Sammy drags him round and
round the ring. A sight to rock the
house, and it does rock it. Everybody
roars with enjoyment. Virtue has come
into its own ; Wickedness is in the toils.
And now Sammy’s gone and let him
go. In the crush of the headlock the
Giant’s boko has been made bleed a
little. Gore is extraordinarily absent from
wrestling as a rule. The Giant indicates
as much. His great hairy paw comes
away from his face with a red smear
across it. He calls upon the Beanstalk
to behold this unheard-of intrusion of
realism. The crowd howls with tem-
pestuous hilarity. And now' the Giant
catches hold of our Jack and hurls him
down near the ropes, himself takes a
grip on the top rope and with this lever-
age jumps both boots into poor Jack’s
tummy and crushes him down among
the terrified minions who, if they survive,
will tell the tale in their respective news-
papers. Thereupon, pushing the Giant
aside, the Beanstalk begins to count poor
Jack out. If poor Jack isn’t back in the
ring before the Beanstalk counts ten that
will be one up to the wicked Giant.
“One,” counts the Beanstalk. “Two —
three (long pause)—four—five (pause) —
six—sev-en—eight....” Jack is taking
too long altogether to clamber back.
“Sev-en!” repeats the Beanstalk. At that
even the Giant looks flabbergasted. Any-
how, it’s a point won for Virtue.
And so the pleasing tale unfolds. For
some time yet —what with grappling in
the ring and more heavings out of it—
Wickedness has the upper hand and
Virtue looks to be stonkered. But in the
last round Virtue triumphs magnifi-
cently, with a body press.
It was a notable night for Israel. Cur-
tain-raisers to the foregoing included an
eight-rounder between Harry Cohen (Bst.
101 b.) and Tony Mack (9st. 21b.), and
here again David conquered Goliath (on
points), presenting him with a boxing
lesson.
Ins and Outs
Rain put an end to the Australia-
Marylebone match at Lord’s, which was
drawn after the home side, had scored
214 and 1 for 87 in reply to Australia’s
502. Professionals Edrich and Compton,
both under 21, justified the hopes enter-
tained of them: Edrich made 31 and 53
n. 0., Compton 23 and 12 n. 0., and both
shaped in promising style.
The pair will meet the Australians
again for Middlesex, and both may catch
selection in the first Test. Edrich is said
to be a really fast bowler of some class,
though when his batting began to develop
he was sooled off bowling. His style is
reminiscent of the late Tib Cotter’s, with
an almost round-arm delivery.
Robins skippered the M.C.C. team
well, and is pretty certain to lead Eng-
land in the opening Test. Allen, who
is a newspaper tip, has played very little
since he returned from Australia, and
these days is not up to Test form with
bat or ball.
Veteran Wyatt’s showing at Lord’s will
probably put him in the Test team, where
he may help the young Yorkshireman,
Hutton, to open. Hammond, Ames and
Voce may be taken as certainties, while
Barnett, Hardstaff, Verity, Fames,
Stephenson and J. Smith have claims.
Robins will probably look after the
slows, though England is very hard up
for this style of bowling.
* * * *
For the Australians’ match against
Northampton three Maorilanders turned
out for the boot-clickers —James, Merritt
and O’Brien. Northampton is regarded
as the Cinderella of county cricket; it
has not won a match since 1935.
Bradman dropped Hassett and Fingle-
ton and included Walker. On the open-
ing day Badcock and Brown had 73 up
when rain washed out play. Resuming
next day on a talkative wicket, the side
collected 406 runs before Bradman closed
with six down, but this was due to
the inability of the frozen-fingered field
to hold simple catches. Brown reached
194 n. 0., his highest score in England,
but gave seven chances doing so. Bad-
cock (72) was dropped twice ; Bradman
scored two ; McCabe —missed in the slips
before scoring—made 13, and Chipper-
field 18. The pitch was now improving,
and after Barnett went l.b.w. for a single
Waite (43, with only two chances) and
Walker (29 n. 0.) showed a bit more con-
fidence than their mates. Walker’s score
in this and the Worcester match more
than doubles his total for the 1930 tour.
Partridge, top of the county wicket-
takers last season, took 3 for 82 and
Timms 3 for 68.
The county made a decent start in its
first innings, 78 being on the board when
Greenwood went for 24 ; but there was
a landslide, and the innings ended at
194, of which Nelson had made 74.
Ward had the best Australian bowling
figures with 6 for 75. Following on,
Northants scored 135, Greenwood top-
ping with 43. The rest found McCabe
(4 for 28) and Waite (3 for 28) in the
mood for bowling. Australia by an
innings and 77.
* * * *
Surrey, the Australians’ seventh
antagonist, has always been a tough
proposition, though only filling sixth place
on last year’s championship table. Several
of the players are well known on this
side, notably Holmes, the skipper, and
Freddy Brown, here with the M.C.C.
1935-36 team and Jardine’s lot respec-
tively. Fishlock will be recalled as a left-
hander who was a frost on Allen’s tour,
though he recovered in good style on
returning home. R. J. Gregory is the
batting star. Woodfull’s lot had to see
him get 116, 59 n. 0., and two 48’s against
them in the two games played with Surrey
last tour. •
Bradman again won the toss, and
started on a good wicket with Brown and
Fingleton. Brown’s score at Northants
evidently put him in heart, for he ran
to 96 before Watts bowled him. Fingleton
(37) and Badcock (32) helped the score
along steadily, and then Bradman took
his revenge for the Northants flop with
a characteristic 143, Watts getting his
second wicket. Chipperfield contributed
20, and at stumps the total was 432 for
five wickets, with Hassett (65) and Waite
(20) both n.o.
On Monday Hassett carried his score
to 98, and with Waite making 35 and
Barnett 33 n.o. the total was 528. Brown
(4 for 147) and Watts (3 for 69) did best
among the bowlers. At stumps the
county had 8 down for 269 (Gregory
60, Barling 67); O’Reilly, coming off at
last, bagged 6 for 102.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Fleetwood-Smith numbers
among, his accomplishments the imitating
of Australian bird-calls. All very well
for a smoke-oh, but Fleet.-Smith has been
reported as displaying his talents during
play on the cricket field, and during the
Northants match “delivered a series of
magpie calls.” Years ago Arthur Coning-
ham also made attempts to pose as the
life of the party during an Australian tour,
and the impression he made took a long
time to wear off. I respectfully suggest to
Bradman that if F.-Smith must imitate
a fowl he confine himself to an imper-
sonation of the jabiru. That noble bird
has never been known to make a noise
of any sort.
* * * *
Wisden’s, that harbinger of the British
summer, comes this year in new cloth-
ing. “The Cricketer’s Bible” is as full
as ever of the records and happenings
which have made it famous, but they are
presented in a new way. The two parts
of the older editions have now been
merged into one, and all items are ranged
in alphabetical order, with a complete
index. The doings of the M.L. side in
England and Allen’s team in Australia
are set out in full, and a feature is a
series of special articles, among which an
elaborate, detailed record of Bradman’s
performances by Justice Evatt is con-
spicuous. Women’s cricket is apprecia-
tively dealt with, and the tour of the
English team in Australia is recorded.
Nineteenth Hole
“Woogaroo”: The Queensland amateur
foursomes, which opened the Banana-
land championship meeting, was won by
Dudley von Nida and Joyce by a stroke
from Thompson and Q’Sullivan. The
Brisbane club’s purse for professionals
went to Want, a professional at the
Royal Queensland, who had a minus- 2
handicap. The southern competitors,
Von Nida, Cremin and the Naismiths,


Save
SS
SIEMENS
GET DOZENS OF
PERFECT SHAVES
FROM Id. BLADE!
Keep a ’barber's edge'
on your Safety Razor
Blades. Use Siemens
Automatic Razor Blade
Sharpener. Both Hones
and Strops all four
sides of 3-hole or New Gillette type
seconds! Non-Electric: A child can usi
results every time. Fully guaranteed.
tered post free. Box 549 B, G.P.0.,
blades in 5
i it. Perfect
12/6 regis-
Sydney.
f ./ < **y'r *3s
x V
i //
: ><Jjf
»*SSS:
C3>’
FOR TENNIS
and for CRICKET
COLF and BOWLS
ELASTA-STRAPS!
A GARMENT which, in a very few years, became
the undisputed leader in its field, must have
extraordinary merits and advantages. Elasta-Strap
Self-Supporting Trousers did just that. Today, they
are better than ever: for instance:
The TAUTTEX Shirt-Controlling FEATURE
The incorporation of this remarkable feature in the Plus Model
Elasta-Straps gets rid of an old bogey—the unsightly bulging shirt.
Do not neglect to inspect the New Plus Models. You’ll only know
how good they are when you commence wearing them.
Available in Greys, Creams, Fancies, etc. (the
largest range ever offered in Australia). The Elasta-
Strap Patent is obtainable also in Shorts and Suits.
PRICES : PLUS MODEL ELASTA-STRAPS
. . . from 17/6 to 55/-
RECULAR MODEL ELASTA-STRAPS
. . . from 14/6 to 28/6
SELF
-SViato
TING TROUSERS
Troncn&f
m
sr
%
■
\
L> 1 HSI
% %
• <0 V,O **%&t *> *V>“*
<>AxvCe^V V v
e
dYv ctv \^ ct Av \v£ 6 ’
' rtSiVi \&o& v- v c *
vt fV >v e A
VO- \v^ e lei C cVf^A v *
-cf\V Ve feC e AV **V<>
<s\ e ' v>
t?> -
'>>'
T 2
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED, ~
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
§
1
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
E
SSI
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone: CB3BO.
’Phone: M 6505.
had to carry a plus-2 poultice, and found
it too much for them.
“Sandy Gallop”: Bolting from a
strong field, Jim Ferrier won the “open”
with a card of 284, a record for the
event. He was 15 strokes ahead of his
next opponent, Walker, of Queensland.
Professionals Von Nida and Cremin tied
for third with 301. The Naismiths from
Victoria were well down the course.
Ferrier took the amateur title also, but
it required a 20ft. putt on the last green
to give him the victory over a young
Bananalander, O’Sullivan.
* * sfc
Hattersley and Ryan did well in the
first round of the British amateur; each
beat an international 2 up. Hattersley’s
victim was A. G. Hill, who reached the
semi-final of the amateur two years ago,
and Ryan overcame P. B. Lucas, “the
best left-handed golfer in England.”
Nettlefold and manager Rundle lost their
matches.
* ■ * * *
“Hoylake”: Nell Hutton, of Victoria,
reached the fourth round of the English
women’s golf championship, being then
defeated by the Welsh girl Joy Winn.
Miss Cheney was beaten in the third
round by Nan Baird, ex-champion of
Scotland.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Our girl golfers have been
complaining that, after Australian courses,
the English ones “look like goat-tracks.”
That is true. Equally true is it that,
until Australian golf architects wipe out
the “lolly” links at present the fashion
in Australia and give players something
really difficult to learn real golf on, our
inferiority to visiting players will con-
tinue.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Possibly be-
cause it suspects that the loathed Aus-
tralian body in Melbourne is in favor
of it, the N.S.W. Tennis Association has
told its delegates to oppose the motion
that the Davis Cup be played for every
two years, to be considered on May 30.
It has also circularised the tennis organ-
isations of the other States. There seems
little chance of the change being effected,
though Britain favors it.
H* % *
Mrs. Wills-Moody has struck form
again in England; in the final of the
Surrey championship she beat Miss
Lumb, 6-3, 6-4. In a semi-final the
English girl had accounted for Nancye
Wynne. All four Australians figured
in the doubles final, the Misses Wynne
and Coyne defeating Mrs. Hopman and
Miss Stevenson.
Miscellaneous
Dead in London, at 75, Stephen Fair-
bairn, the Australian who shattered the
traditions of rowing, most conservative
of sports, and lived to see his theories
adopted all over the world. Born in Vic-
toria, Fairbairn went to Cambridge from
Geelong and rowed in the Light Blue
boat against Oxford on four occasions.
He founded his amended style on the
theory that the orthodox method of body
swing was based on the old fixed seats
and was not applicable to the slides. The
leg drive off the stretcher was the essence
of his system, augmented by an elaborate
system of boat-drill and balancing, an
exhibition of which by the English crew
at the Empire regatta on the Nepean
astonished the local quidnuncs. Every
rowing man will recall the success with
which Cambridge utilised his theories
against Oxford during the past decade.
* * * *
Jim Wall, who has just transferred to
the Elysian greens, epitomised in his
person all that was best in bowls. As
player and administrator, he brought a
delightful personality to a game which
at its best stands for all the amenities of
social sport. A master builder, like so
many bowlers, he brought his organising
talents to bear on the game during his
term tis vice-president and president of
the N.S.W. Bowling Association with
great advantage to that body. Among
other items he inaugurated the Country
Week tourney.
* * * *
“Huon”: The meeting of the Austra-
lian University eights at Franklin in
Tassie this year will lose interest, since
Adelaide and Westralia are not boating
crews. Sydney and Melbourne Unis,
have their crews on the water, but at
time of writing Queensland had not
heaved in sight. June 5 is the date set
down for the struggle.
* * ** *
“Jachris”: J. G. Turner, president of
the Hobart Regatta Association and last
of the founders of the original Derwent
Sailing Boat Club (1874), is dead at 86.
Yachting was not the veteran’s only in-
terest. He was elected to the Hobart
Marine Board in 1909, and stayed on it
till his death, twice holding the position
of chief warden.
“Strangler”: It is expected that the
rules for amateur wrestling in Australia
will shortly be revised from truck to keel-
son. This is necessary to give Austra-
lian mat addicts a chance to pit them-
selves on equal terms against opponents
in Olympic or other international con-
tests. Under Australian rules a bout
runs to ten minutes or two falls. Inter-
national rules call for 15 minutes or the
first fall.


HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
WPW.
m &
mam. ?
*' - j
i .
. SKv
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z,
Patent.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THRESHING
MACHINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
26395/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
15 YEARS’
[guarantee
“INVINCIBLE”\
SINCE
1906]
dsf
INVINCIBLE engines.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVNCiBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.Vt.
LAST CONCERT
Conservatorium Hall,
Wednesday, June 1, 8.15 p.m.
LEONA
FLOOD
American Violinist.
Prices, 6/-, 4/-, 2/-, at Palings.
AERC
MECHANIK
Study for Good MangarJob
£
Aircraft Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
COLLECI OF CIVIL MATION_
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Gold Is Where You Find It”
Olivia de Havilland, George Brent, Claude
Rains.
This Warner Bros, offering should
prove a winner at Sydney Century, where
it kicks off next week.
Theme has some foundation in fact.
During the gold boom in California in
the latter years of last century, the
wheat-farmers and miners of that State
were almost at war. Reason for the
conflict was that monitors were breaking
up the country and the tailings from
sluices were pouring down the mountain-
sides into the valleys, devastating wheat-
fields and destroying farmers’ homes.
That is well exploited in the film.
Somewhere up the Sacramento valley
comes mining engineer Mr. Brent with
orders to raise production of a mine
already working havoc on the wheat-
lands. Output is increased accordingly,
Brent falls for the Havilland (and she
for him, of course) and rouses the
animosity of, among others, her father
(Claude Rains), feudal old wheat baron.
With the mine gaining ground every
day until the farms are practically laid
waste, Brent shifts to San Francisco,
doubles production and is double-crossed
by his bosses. The Havilland also has
her affections sorely tried, and thus com-
plications set in and hostility on both
sides reaches boiling point. All, of
course, ends happily.
Technicolor shows something of its
worth by making of that material a virile
and beautiful film. The color gives new
meaning to well-known scenes and situa-
tions. A bursting dam with water rush-
ing down the valley, villain Barton Mac-
Lane (excellent performance) rolling in
the mud, or Brent and the Havilland
dallying ip orchard or garden, to name
a few shots that would have little value
in light and shade, all take on fresh
significance in color. Incidental touches,
too —a dress, a vase of flowers, a bowl
of fruit, a tray of drinks in a San
Francisco pubbery —stand out vividly at
the right moment.
It is, however, the Californian land-
scape that gives most to the film. Time
after time the camera rests on splendid
scenery just long enough for it to be
appreciated. Fields of ripened wheat
with rich chocolate mud flowing through
them, mine workings with monitors
hurling 100-yard jets of water into the
red gravel, and the same scene illumi-
nated at night by half a dozen orange
flares are only a few of the highlights.
Harvesting scenes, orchards and the
mountainous countryside are others of
the many beautiful pictures.
Technicolor is by no means perfect,
and in this, as in several other films, its
value depends a great deal on novelty,
but when it can lift mediocre material
to the standard of this offering its worst
fault is that there isn’t enough of it.
“Mad About Music”
Deanna Durbin.
In this topnotch offering at Sydney
State young Miss Durbin’s acting is
Mary Charles, Jack McNaughton, Guy Hastings (the Scot), Fay Compton (as the newlywed
Victoria), Bruno Barnabe (the ditto Prince Albert), Field Fisher and Stafford Hilliard (Disraeli),
in “Victoria Regina” at Sydney Royal.
almost incomparably better than in her
first two films. She carries off her part
with the ease and assurance of a much
more experienced actress, even keeping
a stretch of calf-love from slopping over
and making it a pleasant highlight of
the film.
She sings, of course. In Gounod’s
“Ave Maria” she is accompanied by the
Vienna Boys’ Choir, but their appearance
is only a fleeting one. Three other light
tunes are fair enough, most catchy being
“I Love to Whistle,” sung two or three
times but best rendered from a crowd
of schoolgirls cycling along the Swiss
countryside.
The growing tendency of film-makers
to give an actor with a voice of any
quality a ragbag plot and poor support
is carried to the other extreme. The
acting and story are such that the musi-
cal side of the film is an additional
luxury.
The bones of the piece are sentimental.
Miss Durbin, as a faitherless lass tucked
away somewhere in Switzerland in a
school for young ladies in order that
her mother may continue as Hollywood’s
“No. 1 glamor girl,” creates a fictional
male parent and ascribes to him much
derring-do in darkest Africa. When her
bluff is called she backs her hand by
selecting from a trainload of tourists a
complete stranger in the form of a peace-
loving, overworked composer and pre-
senting him as her father.
Since Gail Patrick is the mother and
Herbert Marshall the composer the rest
is well up to the mark. From the
moment Miss Durbin approaches the
astonished Mr. Marshall and implants a
daughterly kiss on his brow, the film
lifts to a plane of more than pleasurable
light comedy and proceeds thereon for
most of the running time. Arthur
Treacher, for instance, is Marshall’s
valet-secretary, and his reactions to what
strikes him as his employer’s early phil-
andering are exploited uproariously on
half a dozen different occasions.
Marshall turns in a much better job
than he has done for some time. Strug-
gling to cope with verbal descriptions
of deeds attributed to him and recount-
ing his victories over assorted big-game
to a hundred or so schoolgirls he is par-
ticularly entertaining, losing the stiffness
that often mars his performances.
Other persons who help make the show
are Franklin Pangborn, who handles agi-
tated-hotel-manager roles just about
perfectly; Sid Grauman as a bemused
caretaker, and that intelligent juvenile
Marcia Mae Jones.
Topnotcher Tibbett.
At time of writing Lawrence Tibbett
is due to give a Wednesday matinee
show and then uphook and head for
other harborages.
His Sydney Town Hall season has been
a crowded and a deserved success. He
is by far the best entertainer-artist seen
at that address in years. He can not
only sing magnificently but can convey
the impression that he enjoys singing so
much that he wouldn’t mind going on
all night purely out of personal pleasure.
There _is none of the academic cold-
ness of the usual run of concert per-
formers about Tibbett. He has a most
friendly and intimate platform manner,
which includes that rarest of all concert-
hall qualities a rich sense of humor.
Sydney audiences warmed to him
from the start. His season has been ex-
tended a couple of times, and there are
still plenty who hold that it has been too
short. Both in the quality of his singing
and in his entertaining powers he gives
those billed to carry on this year’s con-
cert season a tidy standard to live up to.
Ruth Draper Moves South.
Ruth Draper opens her imaginary
bazaar and chats to an equally absent
husband with the complete sincerity of a
bush kid playing with make-believe
mates, but she does it in crowded
theatres where the most sophisticated
knowalls hang silently on
her every word and ges-
ture.
She’s doing to Mel-
bourne Comedy what she
did to the Sydney Royal.
Yarraside dailies sooled
on to her their most high-
brow wordspinners, but it
is doubtful if even a music
critic could fit Miss
Draper with any of the
airy euphemisms employed
when an artist has them
bluffed. Melbourne’s
critics, like the boiled
shirts and the furs in the
other seats, graciously
gave her best.
She’s everything The
Bulletin’s Sydney man
said she was, only more
so. If the J.C.W. people
don’t get the Comedy
plumber on to the hole
Miss Draper pointed out
in the roof of her Italian
church, a woman who sat
in front of the circle last
Thursday night isn’t going
back there any more ; she
saw that hole, and the old
boy with her immediately
complained of the draught.
Leona Flood, Violinist.
The American girl made her Sydney
debut at the Con. Hall last week. She
has good looks and beautiful arms and
hands, and her bowing is a delight to the
eye. Her tone is good—fuller and richer
than that of many eminent male fiddlers
—and she is a mistress of all the tricks
of technique. Her playing lacks the ripe
profundity (or the appearance of it) that
makes some older practitioners so im-
pressive, but that’s compensated for by
youthful vigor and daring.
Highlights of her opening Sydney re-
cital were Sarasate’s ever-popular Gipsy
Airs, the Paganini Concerto in D, the
Bach G-string Aria, and a very dashing
composition “Grecian Dance” (De
Meis), new to this commentator.
With six times as much advance pub-
licity, big posters all over the place and
the Town Hall to play to, Miss Flood
would have earned the tumultuous
ovations Sydney delights to bestow on
advertised musicians.


mm
x t*t&
m
m
U
m
m
WM
S *
&
fcM
m
»
>**s*=
**>•*
<im
SL
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
m
Wmrnmmm
ALSO BLACK
AND WHITE FINE CUT —THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
Szell in Melbourne.
Nothing was more apparent at Satur-
day’s Town Hall concert than that Georg
Szell has the allegiance of musical Mel-
bourne, although he practises none of
the histrionic arts of the popular con-
ductor. Somehow he conveys to his
audience that he knows his onions.
The crammed house responded with
enthusiasm to his rendering of the Con-
certo in D major for violin and orchestra
of Tschaikowsky, which at its first per-
formance in Vienna in 1881 gave to the
critics the impression of brutality, coarse-
ness and vulgarity. Saturday night’s
audience, on the contrary, found it rather
delicate and graceful, and, although the
tone of soloist Lionel Lawson’s violin
appeared to be a trifle thin in places, the
Sydney virtuoso impressed the sharpness
and vigor of his attack on a piece of
music which is so exacting that the
violinist for whom Tschaikowsky wrote
it refused to perform it, declaring its
difficulties to be insurmountable. Lawson
was admirably tender in the second
movement.
The Brahms Symphony No. 1 in D
minor monopolised the second part of
the programme. Szell showed his
earnestness by not inviting comparisons
with musical bric-a-brac, and the even-
ing ended early. But the Brahms work,
which lasted close on 50 minutes, con-
tained all the heights and depths, gaiety
and profundity, light and shade,
solemnity and exuberance necessary.
Conducting without score, Szell put the
orchestra on its mettle and took his audi-
ence with him.
Three Generations of Ashtons.
Eighty-seven-year-old Julian, his son
Howard and Howard’s son Richard
demonstrated the family’s diligence at
the altar of art over most of the period
during which there has been any art in
Australia by a show of 125 pictures at
the Blaxland Galleries, Sydney.
Many of the pictures from all three
'brushes had been seen before —some of
Julian’s are, in a way, historical land-
marks. But the show proved something
not hitherto sufficiently realised: that
these Ashtons all have the first essen-
tial of artistry, an independent mind and
the honesty as well as the ability to
express it. Howard, doubtless, was
strongly influenced by Julian, but beyond
the elements of good craftsmanship there
is no trace of that influence in his work.
Richard borrows no scintilla of style
from either Julian or Howard. They
paddle their own canoes.
Very successfully, too. Julian is the
most versatile. Portrait painting in Aus-
tralia has never risen higher than his
Henry Parkes; Australian landscape
painting would command respect if
nothing were left of it but “The Ever-
lasting Hills.” And even those mid-
Victorian nudes, so naughty and daring
in their day, so genteelly smug in this,
were pathmakers. Julian’s artistry in
water-color becomes more and more
apparent as the years roll by.
Howard Ashton, that very infrequent
exhibitor, last reminded the public of
the fact that he still has a palette and an
easel when he won the sesqui. landscape
prize with “Monaro Morning.” Howard
has no peer as a compounder of greys,
but he can achieve a richness of color
that gives the eye a seven-course dinner.
His skies, in quietest or most riotous of
moods, are unique, and he paints the
sort of hill-and-valley landscape one can
walk about in for half-an-hour and find
new beauties round every corner. One
of these, “Golden Afternoon,” goes to
the National Gallery, where Howard is
already worthily represented.
Richard Ashton s wine is a lot newer
in the bottle, naturally. He paints the
sea and ships ; his sea has movement,
his winds blow and there is vigor
in his expression. But here there is
promise rather than full achievement.
In a way Richard’s art is longer than
that of his father and his grandfather.
But he’s a chip from a good block and
looks as if he’ll do it credit.
Neville Bunning’s Busts.
These, with other examples of sculp-
ture and some weird plaques in mosaic,
are at Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
The key to the show seems to lie in
exhibit 15, a piece in terracotta depicting
a satyr fondling a nymph. Mr. Bun-
ning’s world seems to be peopled by
nymphs and satyrs.
There’s a bust of Joseph Aloysius
Lyons—a very clever likeness, too,
though it seems to make the P.M. some-
how belong to Mr. Bunning’s world.
Cyril Monk, the violinist, though the
likeness is quite recognisable, has been
given, too, the aspect of a woodland
faun—perhaps that one whose frolicsome
afternoon inspired Debussy. There are a
clinking head of Mollie Horseman and
what looks like a good rugged representa-
tion of Emil Sodersteen, but both are
Romanesque.
Most interesting to this commentator
is a bust of The Bulletin’s Frith. It
doesn’t depict the jester. It would have
been poetic justice to have caricatured
him, but Bunning has done the reverse,
presenting an older, more serious Frith.
Yet, as in the other cases, though the
likeness is instantly recognisable, the
subject seems to have been hybridised
with some figure from mythology—pos-
sibly Pan.
“The Temple Dance” is a nicely-
modelled but not very gracefully-posed
full-length nude, “The Toiler,” in the
curvist mode, expresses its intention, and
“The Bather,” an Epsteinian skit, is good
for a chuckle.
Rayner Hoff.
Australia has nroduced some notable
sculntnrs hut ifi everv case one the r
sculptors, but in every case save one their
fame has been earned abroad, and their
greatest achievements swell the art
treasures of other lands. Rayner Hof!
did all his best work in Australia, and
here it remains
The memorial exhibition in David
Jones’s new store, Sydney, though it has
been enriched by loans from the N. S.
Wales National Gallery and from private
owners, represents only a small part of
the sculptor’s output and is confined,
by necessity, to his smaller pieces. Rep-
resentative of his groups in the grand
tradition are the sketch model for an
Adelaide memorial, the “Faun and
Nymph,” the strangely-posed “Salome,”
“Mother and Child,” “Sagittarius,” the
beautiful “Birth of Pegasus” and
“Woomera,” a magnificent study of an
abo
As a portraitist Hoff excelled, as wit-
ness his busts of Norman Lindsay, Earl
Beauchamp, Alfred Hill, Dale Collins,
W. B. Dailey, Hugh McCrae, Mary Gil-
more and others—splendid, living like-
nesses all of them. There is pure genius
in the infant head “Nereida” and “Head
of a Dead Soldier.” The N. S. Wales
Gallery has bought a portrait bust of
Len Lye and a bronze statuette,
Atlanta. Most of these works have
been exhibited before, and due tribute
has been paid to their merit.
The present show emphasises that Aus-
tralian art lost a great figure when Hoff
laid down modelling clay and chisel.
Adelaide Art Shows.
T ait XT 11 A , , * •
M. J. McNally now an Adelaide rest-
dent, art critic and journalist, had a show
of water-colors at Preece’s gallery. Land-
scape with figures mostlj-toiches of
Turner and of Hilder, and yet highly
characteristic of himself
cnaracteristic ot Aimseir.
M ill ward Grey exhibited at his own
art school a lot of delicate work nudes,
koalas, costume-pieces. His study tor
mural decoration was appealing; he
has a special sense of Australia’s advan-
tages in bird, beast and flower as a
background for the decorative.
At Bayly’s gallery Ethleen Palmer had
a batch of her now familiar lino-cuts,
from ducks to antelopes, from gum-
blossom to frogs. Specially interesting,
herause unexpected was a bushranaine
scene The Nafenai Gallery of Adelaid?
already has several of her cuts. It has
. T rlin j„ _„ j 66 A 1
n ‘ ” e w ii a kfnn Millward rrpv’s
some more “
T rr . j c nji d i
Water-colors Ot Max Kagless.
This South Australian artist has been
hitherto best known on the eastern side
of Australia as a maker of vigorous
etchings * That he is equally vigorous
and sure of what he has to sa f in color
i§ d b display of paintings,
YjU ~' r ,°,’
S ’ Grosvenor Gal ‘
’ y . y * . . . ...
In assessing the artistic value of this
work the critic who does not know South
Australia is at a disadvantage. Heysen
f lects as P ec . ts ,bat have . som . e .. s ° r ‘
l> a .m°"y aad un,ty; Ragless delights in
!j nk “S c ? n ' asts a " d f ,ra 5 ge , c< ? lonn S?;
He B els bold P ractlca eileats “ sucb
P a 'ntmgs as Parachilna Creek and
Rawnsley s Buff from Arkaba, and
? ch .' a '; es a gentler more fanciful mood
m „ M ° ra ‘ n £ Ca !” and S ‘ ,ver
■"S’ But the pinks and ye lows of the
S -A- “ ene tak< = a lot o£ getting used to,
and ,j h fe pictures, one would think
wou ' d . bc more appreciatively received
In t lelr own batliewick.
Three studies in oils ar 6 disappointing.
T wo ar ® Bat ’ and tbe otber ’ a sea scene >
1S muclc, y-
European Art on Shou).
Two shows in Melbourne come from
Europe. There is 300 years’ distance in
time and a fundamental difference in out-
look between them.
Except for work like that of A. Romek,
.
who f a ® asses . hls wa
would call bot ! es) 15 u ,he last word
ln Photographic realism, the contempo-
rar >' , Hungarian artist is concerned
mainly with his own personality, tndi-
viduality, spiritual essence, or whatever
he calls it, and only incidentally with
Nature. The result is that he paints
pictures which can be fitted by any
£ ; conventions which are per-
f t Australians Viski for
. cdy familiar to Australians. Vis , t
> nstance . P a,nl , s . bo “ nd n’ bu " tsme \/ nd
horses exactly like the Englishman Mun-
rungs, the late Bernard Hall could have
executed the “Interior” of E. Komaromy-
Katz and charles wheeler could have
made as a nude as the “Alice” of
j ovesy
T . \
. It; . 1S no f , wdb t^ e P ut .”1 T
Flemings, lent by the Empire Art Loans
pcUection Society of London and hang-
“j? ,u‘ is N f'’ same
ls a Lif
o . rder . as ® e Rembrandt self-portrait
alread V in the Gallery s possession they
are all s P lendldl y representative of the
seventeenth-century attitudo-ttat lis to
sa y. , tbe y are P aln ./tra ghtforward un-
V3.tDlSllcdj ITl3.ttcr-OL“l2.ct of
objects seen, and as the objects are quaint
study from that point of view far more
than the contemporary Hungarian.
Moreover, without being any more or
any less like Nature, they are 100 p.c.
more dexterous.


The Richardson Chain Ilotei
I
!<: r
;.!! t»UiLS
'hr
mum Hi
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDEI
122-133 Silencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (> 0 —>
jr
When
a Woman
tells you:
that people often take
her for years
younger than she
is owing to her
white teeth,
that she’s used no-
thing but Calvert’s
since she left
school—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney went out by the thousand to
see the ceremony of trooping the colors
of the N. S. Wales Scottish Regiment
(30th Battalion). This was a spirited and
colorful scene at the Sydney Cricket
Ground on Sunday afternoon. Austra-
lian military history was made by the
participation in the ceremony of two
bands—a pipe band and a brass one.
All through the week-end the Von
Luckner yacht Seeteufel was the focal
point for all seacraft within coo-ee of
Neutral Bay. • There the trim and shapely
yacht held a sort of unofficial levee.
Within, the Seeteufel is as elegant as
her appearance presupposes. The chairs
in the dining-room are covered in tapes-
try, the design, worked by the Countess
herself, the Von Luckner family crest.
One sitting-room has green furnishings.
Rugs and books, pictures, family por-
traits and, of course, one of Hitler con-
tribute to the general cosiness. True,
other yachts whose logs have recorded
long and stormy passages have anchored
in Sydney Harbor, but this is the only
one whose owner has sunk £5,000,000
worth of Allied shipping. He did it in the
bad old war days. Twice before the
Count has been to Sydney. Once
as a lad he acted as billposter for a
troupe of magicians. Later he came as
a prisoner of war. His Countess is fair,
pretty and accomplished.
Twice last week the Count was seen at
the Yacht Club at Kirribilli. Once, with
his wife, he was the guest of some
of the members at lunch. On Saturday
afternoon he was special guest at a cock-
tail party given by one of the members.
He was good fun. His specialities are a
continuous flow of fluent if somewhat
German-sounding English and a most
amazing repertoire of sleight-of-hand
tricks. He staggered his audience in the
end with a feat of strength by taking a
Sydney telephone book and tearing it
in halves. The Cpuntess was not well
enough to come to this five-to-seven.
The American hockey girls had a
merry time as they toured and played
from Sydney to Brisbane. Country
people arranged all sorts of parties for
them, but to their keen regret they ar-
rived just too late for the kangaroo hunt
Mrs. Arthur Ross, of Balaclava station,
Glen Innes, had planned. There was a
supper party instead. Another bright
spot was the lunch given by the Whites,
of Saumarez. Even Young America was
impressed by the Teachers’ College at
Armidale and the collection of paintings
given by Howard Hinton. Another lunch
party here, and to it Minister for Edu-
cation Drummond and Mrs. Drummond
journeyed from Sydney. In between
matches the girls rode —bikes or horses,
whichever came handiest. Betty Fehr
simply couldn’t pass a hungry-looking
dog. And stray mongs. from here to
Brisbane were fed pies and chops and
sausages when Betty’s eye fell on them.
Popularity laurels unanimously handed
to Jane Whitney.
The Musical Assoc.’s reception last
Friday night was fairly bedizened with
celebrities. .First of all, the party was
to the Lawrence Tibbett couple. They
came with pianist Stewart Wille. Mrs.
Tibbett’s frock was blithe, black and
brilliant with flowers. It had frilly net
flounces and wore a cape of itself that
fastened just below the chin. In case
this Letter has not described her, she is
tall, dark, good-looking and has the
smooth, uncorrugated figure that can
wear fitting frocks. Another artist to
whom these words apply is Grace Adams
East, trumpeter. She came with man-
ager Freddie Shipman, and was sleek in
satins, green as an apple-skin and almost
as fitting.
Dear Ella Shields was there. Maybe
it’s a reaction from the attire of her
male impersonations, but Ella always in-
troduces the feminine touch. Her ex-
quisite smallness was clothed in black
satin, with which she wore a waist-length
cape of fluted black tulle. Young Ameri-
can violinist Leona Flood came with
her mother, and had a small posy of
words handed to her by president Sver-
jensky. Everybody praised Larry Tib-
bett, the president and Lindley Evans
singing the verses, and the populace
bringing in a chorus of mighty handclaps.
This party was in the Australia, and after
the programme given by Eisteddfod
prize-winners everybody went on from
ballroom to supper-room.
A round table in the middle of the
room, as commodious as the old shan-
drydan in the “Boree Log,” accommo-
dated the guests of Mrs. Hope G.ibson
and Mrs. Harold Bott. Here sat the
Alexander Gordon lady, now intent on
launching another young pianist. Neigh-
bors were Mrs. Arlom, Mrs. McCarthy,
Mrs. Denmark and Mrs. George Earp.
Mrs. Rupert Scammell was seen; so
were organist Alice Bryant and her sister
and Cara Hall from Maoriland. In fact,
almost every musical entity of the city
was there. The singer and his pianist
worked overtime signing programmes.
Rotarians are out to get £50,000 for
the cause of crippled children. A group
of best-known songbirds and actors is
putting on an entertainment at the Aus-
tralia next Monday to help fill the hat.
Albert Collins will link up the threads in
his inimitable way. The Australia orches-
tra will play at intervals as its bit of
the good work. All this, and supper, for
ss. 6d.
Newcastle will be the richer by the
good looks and good works of Joyce
Beazley when she marries John Stuart
Hall of that city. Since her return from
England Joyce has been active on many
committees-working for charity. She is
also president of the French Alliance
younger set. She speaks the language
like a native. Joyce is the elder of the
Frank Beazleys’ daughters; sister Claudia,
now in England, returns for the wedding
in November. John Stuart is the only
son of the late J. R. Halls, of Newcastle.
Photograph from Monte Luke.
The E.-S.U. is lucky in the director
of its music circle, Mrs. Harry Twigden.
Mrs. Twigden is an accomplished pianist,
and last week, succumbing to months of
pressure, she arranged a self-programme
of Chopin and Liszt. A happy thought
was the writing of a little resume of each
work, with a few notes as to the emotion
or the circumstance from which it sprang.
At the end of the programme Mrs.
Twigden played one of her own
compositions, and even if you hadn’t
known the pianist lived at Manly you
could hear the sea and the wind in the
trees in this work. Marie Brown lifted
her rich soprano in such numbers as
“Songs My Mother Taught Me” and a
Brahms lullaby. Much point was given
to the reading of the musical annotations
by the clear voice of Mrs. Wallace-
Turner.
The Lyceum Club netted Ella Shields
on the wing, as it were, for its dinner
last week. Ella’s wardrobe was still in
its boxes, she having just arrived from
Maoriland, and she wore a little after-
noon frock. Grandeur, however, was
imparted by a cape of silver fox and some
nice pearls. Norda Mata, another guest,
was a lithe, poinsettia-red figure when
she illustrated her talk on masks with a
few dance movements. President Mrs.
Thomas did her job gracefully—she has
a flair for such functions.
Dame Mary Gilmore came, carrying
the catalogue of the Rayner Hoff show.
The sculptor, who died some time ago,
had modelled Mary’s head in bronze,
and she with hosts of others had seen it at
the afternoon’s opening of the exhibi-
tion. Ella spoke, quite seriously at first,
about the joy of such an occasion as this
dinner when the guests could lay aside
their worldly-wise masks. Then laughter
bubbled up, and she said she had been
struck by the lifelike look of the mask
used by Norda in her movements. But
no mask could take the place of the
human smile —or wink. And with that
she did a beauty, the full voltage of
which was caught by Dr. Grace Boelke
opposite.
Sydney still remembers the pleasant
impression made by Sir Henry Morris-
Jones and his lady during our great
birthday celebrations. He was one of the
distinguished Parliamentary guests. A
letter from Lady Morris-Jones from their
home, Latchford Lodge, in Hertfordshire,
tells of gay doings since their return —
a swagger reception in honor of the
Prime Minister and Mrs. Chamberlain ;
an outsize in lunch parties given by
Sir Henry’s constituents in Wales to hear
all about Australia; the great Welsh
Ball at Claridge’s Hotel. Wherever they
go they find people anxious to hear about
Australia, and they delight in answering.
If possible, they will come back again
early next year for a short visit. Lady
Morris-Jones, who wore lovely clothes to
all the functions in Sydney, has had a
complete new wardrobe since her return
made by the famed Isobel, of Grosvenor-
street.
In the International Tapestry Exhibi-
tion will be two examples of the ex-
quisite work of Olive Nock. One, an
evening bag in petit-point has a design
of blue wrens and banksia. The other is
a tapestry wall panel on which birds dis-
port. Olive, who is a member of the Arts
and Crafts Society, has had the distinc-
tion of having one of her designs printed
by Liberty’s. Photograph from Freeman.
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. C. B. Win-
cott, who have been very popular dur-
ing their stay at Richmond, went off to
England in the Ormonde last Saturday.
Before they went they spread decanter
and glasses for many Sydney friends in
the home of the Netherlands C.G. Elink
Schuurmans. The Royal Air Force
badge in diamonds and pearls shone on
the neckline of Mrs. Wincott’s black
frock. Mrs. Schuurman’s dark-blue silks
were flower patterned.
There was an old-world touch about
the birthday celebration —the 79th —of
Ernest Wunderlich, music-lover and
composer of much good music. He was
finishing dinner at his Waverley home
when strains of music were heard with-
out. Some old friends had arranged a
serenade, and playing away on the lawn
were Carl Gotsch and Edward Marriot
(’cellos) and Lucas Staehelin (recorder
flute), who accompanied an ode to the
occasion sung by Leonora Gotsch. The
band, of course, was brought indoors at
once, and there the concert was con-
tinued, an additional performer being
Curt Perauer, who played some of Mr.
Wunderlich’s own pianoforte composi-
tions. Australian wine flowed, and the
evening was a merry one.
Elizabeth Bay House put on all its
sparklers for the dance which Mrs. I. C.
Robertson, of Yoorooga, Yass, gave to
celebrate son Murray’s coming of age.
Murray, who is learning to be a success-
ful man on the land at Toganmain, Hay,
happily greeted his town and country
friends. There were many of the latter,
some pretty girls among them. Blue and
white, the colors of The King’s School,
where Murray was educated, predomi-
nated in the decorations. The cake was
topped by a footballer in these colors.
A frock of deep-blue romaine glittering
with moonlight sequins was worn by the
hostess.
A Saturday-afternoon party with an
entente-cordiale atmosphere was given by
Mrs. Ivy Moore. This was a greeting
to Mr. and Mrs. Kuder, of Noumea.
Mr. Kuder and his tall wife are
in Sydney on holidays, and they came
with messages from the Governor of
Noumea to Mrs. Moore. Out of 49
invited, 48 turned up. Among these
were the Lance Fallaws, just back from
England and foreign parts.
The first thing that struck the eye at
Leona Flood’s recital last week was the
nice arrangement of the lighting. The
light concentrated on the violinist, in-
credibly slim and very poised when she
was playing, and very shy in her bow
and swift entrances and exits. Her dark
hair and the roseate hues of her sunray
pleated satin frock were in nice har-
mony. Her instrument was a Strad. of
very grand lineage. The programme
was comprehensive and included works
new to Sydney audiences. Our own best
violinists were among the listeners: the
graceful Mrs. Scammell (Dagmar Thomp-
son), herself a pupil of Ysaye, Phyllis
McDonald and others.
Leona and her mother, Mrs. Frank
Flood, have been feted by the Americans
in Sydney during their stay, and America
was largely in the audience. One of the
many baskets of flowers handed up flew
both Australia’s and America’s flags, an-
other those of Greece and U.S.A. Bertie
Kelly, who loves the fiddle, was there
with Mrs. Bertie. She was very hand-
some in cornelian velvets. Mrs. Grattan
Guinness brought Florentine blues and
Mrs. David Knox black lace and a
sweeping black velvet wrap to the scene.
Nell Thomson’s ermine cape was dis-
tinctive ; so was the Tyrian red and gold
wrap worn by Eva Garcia. Eva looks
typically Spanish with her large eyes
and black satin hair. The C.-G. for
China and Mrs. Pao—her frock was gar-
net in tone, her coat was white —the Erik
Fischers and the Consul-General for
Denmark and Mrs. Host came together.
They were all a little late, having been
at a dinner party given by the Fischers.
Mrs. W. B. McElhone, Mrs. Harold Bott,
the Baintons and Lucelle Bruntnell were
glimpsed. So was manager Freddie Ship-
man with Mrs. Freddie.
Lady Tempest and daughter Hilary,
who have been living in Earl Beau-
champ’s home at Bellevue Hill all sum-
mer, have recently moved into a flat
at 52 Macleay-street. In a week or so
they intend to sail north, and will winter
between Brisbane and Cairns.
Deep blue, maroon and light-blue bal-
loons hobbled gaily from the same colored
streamers at the Australian Flying Corps
Association’s dance last week. They were
festooned from the ceiling of the Troca-
dero, and they chimed in with the flower
decorations on the official table. There
were numbers of small gilded aeroplanes,
and on one table was a splendid hangar
—red roses and blue hydrangea. The
president of the association, Major A. W.
L. Ellis, and Mrs. Ellis welcomed many
guests, among whom were the Mayoress,
the Ernest Fisk couple and Minister for
Transport Bruxner and Mrs. Bruxner.
Group-Commander de la Rue and his
wife were importants. Wine-colored
laces, much shirred, were worn by Mrs.
Ellis, and befrilled black tulle over pink
satin swirled on Mrs. de la Rue. The
civic lady’s frock was flower-patterned
white satin.


Wt
wm
ifilfPs
GROWN!
IN JUST TWO MONTHS
Marvellous Success of
Remarkable New Treatment
85.000 NEW HAIRS
WAS BALD FOR i 6 YEARS!
“Hair has started to grow over parts which
have been bald for 16 years.”
(Signed) G. L. Horton, 0., S.A.
ANOTHER 1500
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO
“BULLETIN” READERS.
Great Distribution of Hair Treatments!
WHAT I DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR.
It does not matter if your hair is falling
out, if you are fast going bald—or what
you have tried! I know you have not used
the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out
in handfuls until I fast began to go bald.
I tried everything; but now I have a thick,
lustrous growth of hair thanks to the im-
portant discovery that —•
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
They never have—because it is impossible!
There is one underlying principle that
stimulates New Hair Growth—that prin-
ciple is involved in the new Kelso Murchi-
son Treatment! It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new
angle. With it you can stop your hair
troubles overnight! Don’t waste more time
and money on worthless “tonics” and
“hair restorers”; but accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this special
offer coupon in the post to-day! '
NOW YOU CAN TEST IT
YOURSELF!
■\TOW, you can test it yourself—try this
* ’ famous treatment in your own home
—under any condition you like, and if it
doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of dandruff
or any other hair trouble you suffer from
within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
—not one penny! But you must hurry;
this offer may never be repeated, it places
you under no obligation; all you have to
do is to post that coupon NOW!
ACT AT ONCE!
This is your great
OPPORTUNITY.
the person using the treatment was
practically totally bald. In less than
two months he had a head of strong
healthy hair—after being bald for 16
years! It will be seen therefore that
the estimate is well within the mark.
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NEW HAIR CAN BE GROWN.
AFTER 15 years the Murchison Method has
established a sound reputation in the special
sphere of work of banishing and Preventing
Baldness and the accompanying hair maladies.
The many hundreds of voluntary testimonials
from grateful users of this treatment sent from
all parts of the globe are more than adequate
proof of the efficacy of the Murchison Method.
TN one case treated recently, it was estimated
that the treatment had grown fully 85,000 new
hairs in less than two months. The average head
of dark hair contains approximately 110,000 hairs,
the average head of fair hair 150,000 —according
to European Baldness Specialists. In this case
Read this PROOF!
“You asked me to report in one month on your
treatment for the hair. The month isn’t quite up
yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait that long. I
could have told you after one application that
your treatment would certainly grow hair. I have
used a lot of different ‘restorers’ in my time,
but yours is the only one that I ever used that
I have had any faith in. You said it would cure
dandruff in one week. Well, I can beat that
easily, as it cured my dandruff in one night.
It has completely changed the colour of my hair.
It has turned it from its dry, dead, straw-looking
colour back to its original shade of brown, and
now, after about three weeks’ use, I have a lot
of new hair growing all over my head. It’s
growing like wildfire. I might mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go, either.”
B. J. REYNOLDS, M., Vic.
AVONDERFUL RESULTS.
“I have been using your hair treatment for one
month, with wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has stopped falling
out, and all the dandruff has disappeared, also
the itchy scalp. Where it used to be short and
thin, it has grown much longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it has new life in it, thanks
to you. I think your course wonderful, and so
easy to do.”
MISS M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
RipJh[s_ouh-and PO5T£
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
17” Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
/
| j NAME
I*
, E
ADDRESS
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL OFFer!
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amaz'ng FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK Make Money in Your Spare Time.
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
What This FREE Book “ HOW TO BE AN FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
Tells You!
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Slake Money in Your Spare Time.
• How to Develop Patent Ability.
© How to Cartoon. .
• How to Caricature.
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY!
FOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offer-
ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist—then
send for this amazing book &nd let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by?
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment.
NOW!
This Book
is Free to
YOU! _
asaPiSp-
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw —develop your talent—
how to-cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Pill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now—at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, “How To
Be An Artist. ’ I enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
36/5/’3B.


HOTSPOTS PEOAA HISTORY
THE REAL REASON WHY
NEISON DIDN'T SEE THE
SIGNAL AT COPENHAGEN'
Jv
m
/
HE WAS
LISTENING
TO ONE
OF THE
NEW
AUDIOSCOPIC
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of j
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name J
Address * ~ j
•^Cso'SENDS^-SWIONIoor
BR7|
BRANDAUERS
m
%
gw
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDABER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Legal Notice.
LOUIS ELLISON, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable
Jurisdiction dated 21st April 1938 made in a
matter intituled “In the matter of the estate of
Louis Ellison formerly of Annandale near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales Gentle-
man now deceased” NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that HENRY ELLISON and JULIA
ANDERSON in the Will of the said deceased
described as his brother and sister respectively
who take between them equally the residuary
estate of the said deceased are to send by post
to the undersigned so as to reach them on or
before the 30th day of June 1938 their ad-
dresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims or in default thereof the said
Court will be asked to direct that the estate
of the said deceased may be distributed on the
basis that both the said Henry Ellison and
Julia Anderson predeceased him and all per-
sons having any knowledge of the whereabouts
of the said Henry Ellison and Julia Anderson
or either of them are requested to communi-
cate such knowledge to the undersigned within
the time abovementioned.
DATED this Fifth day of May, 1938.
PERKINS, STEVENSON AND CO.,
369 George Street, Sydney,
Solicitors for the Trustees,
Melbourne
Chatter
This year P.L.C. Old Collegians devi-
ated from their usual haunt in St. Kilda
Town Hall and held their annual dance
at the Palais. As president, Mrs. Lex
Rentoul, slimly swathed in purple-grape
cloque, stood beside Dorothy Anderson,
who presented to her the all-in-white
debs. These young things went through
the ceremonial with grace and precision,
though they had had only one rehearsal,
at the party given for them recently by
the committee at the P.L.C. Club, and
that was without their partners, who
were put through their paces individu-
ally. The debs, received posies of pink
carnations, violets and cornflowers, gifts
of the committee. There were 21 of
them, of whom five —Jean Mathieson,
Verna Hughes, Mary Sharman, Nancy
Kilpatrick and Bell Broderick —are em-
barking on careers as freshers at the
University.
Among those who worked for the suc-
cess of the dance were ticket secretaries
Alison Cook, in a gown of geranium
cloque, and fair-haired Beth Watson, in
a rustle of black tulle skirt attached to
slim corsage and shoulder straps. Sheila
Fitzgerald wore carnation-pink taffeta,
and ice-blue lace was chosen by Pauline
Jennings, who in her working hours is
gym. mistress at the college. Coralie
Gardiner, a working committee member
of many other years, but just enjoying
herself on this particular occasion, wore
a long ruby-red cloak over her dance
frock. Treasurer Burneice Swaine
brought a word of news from Old Col-
legians’ past president Doris Moore, now
married to Allan Tregear, of Canberra.
Only this week Doris and Allan moved
from a flat into the house they have built
in the Federal Capital.
Small but superior was the dinner-
party given by the Clive Ross Fenners
in honor of bride and bridegroom Joan
Hill and Ronnie McNicoll. It happened
at the Fenners’ new home in St. George's-
road, where the dining-room shows an
intriguing simplicity of blue curtains,
off-white walls and wall-vases containing
white chrysanthemums, with more white
chrysanthemums' on the black glass
mantelshelf, and where in the lounge
there is a mod. con. cocktail bar deco-
rated with an impressionistic mural which
on close inspection tells a story of a
policeman who kissed a cook. Among
guests at the party were Mrs. Geoff
Goods and Mrs. Lindsay Plant, whose
better-halves were at the moment in Syd-
ney and the U.S.A. respectively. After
dinner, at which everybody made
speeches, good, bad and indifferent, but
all loudly applauded, there was a
migration to the Embassy for dancing.
Sonia Revid, who is giving a dance
recital this evening in the new theatre
of the University Union House, has been
in Australia five years and is now a
naturalised British subject; her -birth-
place was Liban, whose waterfront is
washed by chilly Baltic waves. Miss
Revid studied for many years at Mary
Wigman’s School of Interpretative Danc-
ing at Dresden. Recently she has added
to her list of pupils by taking classes for
the poorer children of Melbourne, whose
barefoot mode is rather from necessity’s
than for art’s sake. She got in touch with
these children through the Mission of
Streets and Lanes and other welfare
movements. At first the children were
diffident, but they soon became respon-
sive, and take a genuine pleasure in their
lessons. Roma Bottomley, of Gibney-
street, Hawthorn, is ticket secretary for
Miss Revid’s recital, which is a one-
woman occasion, no pupils assisting with
the programme. Miss Revid’s photo-
graph is by Athol Shmith.
The O.C.’s new home at Point Cook
had an afternoon housewarming when
Mrs. Frank Lukis gave a bridge party.
Guests anxious to see what sort of job
men had made of designing and building
a house without suggestions or demands
from wives, mothers and other feminine
home-makers found much to interest
them. The house is in early-American
style, two-storeyed, of cream and green
timber, with so many windows that not
a corner is dark or airless. In the
kitchen and pantry there must be room
for about a year’s supply of groceries, for
there are 39 cupboards.
Among those who studied the architec-
tural. layout and praised Mrs. Lukis’s
diligence in sewing hundreds of yards of
curtain seams for her scores of windows
were Mrs. Punch Wackett and Mrs. T.
A. Swinburne, who with Mrs. David
Ross and a quiverful of children are now
sharing a house at Mt. Martha for a
golfing holiday. Another guest was
Mrs. Gibb Maitland, of South Perth, who
came to Melbourne for the marriage of
her son John to Mrs. Beecher Stowe, also
of Perth. The newly-married couple have
taken a charming little cottage at Sand-
ringham not far away from Mrs. Edgar
Johnson, who is a sister of the bride-
groom.
The laying of the foundation stone of
the new chemistry building at the Univer-
sity was not quite the usual affair of
speeches, a trowel for the person who
(in theory) heaves the stone into position
—in this case it was the Premier —a
mass of speeches and the follow-up of
a scrimmage for tea and cakes that are
far too creamy for the digestions of most
of the people who usually attend such
ceremonies. The excitement was caused
by Mr. Dunstan’s announcement that a
Government grant of £75,000 was being
made in addition to the usual £5OOO
yearly maintenance grant for the Univer-
sity. Probable distribution of the sum
will be £30,000 for the engineering school,
much to the gratification of the dean,
Prof. Burstall, who has long recognised
the need for more money for rebuilding,
etc., and who is interested in the pos-
sibility of an aeronautical school. Prof.
Laby and the nat. phil. school have
plenty of things to do with £22,000. The
commerce school, which is being more
and more favored by students who want
to be sure of getting jobs when they
have their degrees, expects round about
£20,000. The bacteriological department
has plans for spending its £3OOO ; its
bugs as well as its students require larger
and more up-to-date premises.
Gwen Hughes was an invaluable ad-
junct at the International Club last week,
for Georg Szell and his wife, who were
to have been guests of honor, didn’t put
in an appearance owing to Mrs. Szell’s
illness. Miss Hughes, who was brought
along on a lucky invitation from the
Consul of Czechoslovakia and Mrs. Pea-
cock, deputised by speaking of some of
her adventures among the Czechs, which
she prefaced by recalling another and
more difficult occasion when she’d had to
make an impromptu address. This hap-
pened in Prague at a dinner with profes-
sors on each side of her, people famous
for their learning wherever she looked,
and doubtful encouragement from her
neighbor in the shape of “We are await-
ing a witty speech from Madame.”
Madame resorted to two glasses of cham-
pagne, drunk very quickly just before
she stood up. She doesn’t know what
she said, but it was apparently satisfac-
tory, for all the professors kissed her
hand afterwards.
The event of the week was Ruth
Draper; even the double Menuhin-
Nicholas engagement was second in con-
versation. Of Miss Draper’s work every
eulogistic adjective has already been used.
Of Ruth Draper the woman we have
also heard a good deal. It is well known
that she is very generous, but she is
never pleased if publicity is given to
the details of her beneficence. Meeting
her, one is impressed by her strength of
character, her poise and perfect deport-
ment, and the feeling that she would
draw a definite line between her friends
and her acquaintances. To the latter
she would always be polite, but the
former would be hers for all time. As
all artificialities are foreign to Miss
Draper’s disposition, she uses practically
no make-up off the stage. She’s un-
married, and is neither ashamed nor
proud of being 50 years of age.
It’s not often that the “House Full”
sign goes up at the Comedy, but that
was the case throughout the Draper
season. Among interested spectators on
the first night was Miss A. Michaelis,
who knew Dorothea Spinney (another
famous artist of the stage) well and
travelled with her several years ago. Miss
Michaelis was with Mrs. Barden, jun.,
who wore the sort of gown that is useful
for winter nights in Melbourne. Of
black velvet, it had full long sleeves, and
a rose was tucked into its snug high
neck. Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon’s sump-
tuous silver foxes fell in a knee-length
cape. Mrs. Ernest Poolman also wore
furs. On another evening the Angus
Urquharts were noticed, Mrs. Urquhart
in black with two capes—furs for out-
side and feathers for within the theatre.
The Macpherson Robertsons were in
the circle, she with many orchids upon
her sable wrap. Wearing black was
Alison Howse, whose fair hair depends
for beauty upon its natural wave. Janet
Moran was also in the audience. Her
parents, the Leslie Morans, are away
caravanning and enjoying the experience
in spite of these frosty mornings.
A friendship whose first tender sprigs
were apparent in student days at the
University has now flowered in an en-
gagement between Eugenie La Gerche
and Dr. Hugh Johnston. Eugenie
dabbled in an arts course, trained the
gay undergrads.’ ballet for several musi-
cal shows and when she has time and
inclination stitches almost as fine a seam
on dainty clothes as does her sister Mar-
guerite. She’s an Old Collegian of P.L.C.,
and Dr. Johnston, who is a resident at
St. Vincent’s, is an Old Melburnian.
Possibly when the time comes for home-
making the services of Eugenie’s brother
John may be sought after, for his pro-
fession is architecture.
The last of the series of Szell concerts
finished with tremendous applause on
Saturday evening. Szell bowed and
looked pleased with his grand reception,
but he was adamant about refusing to
make a speech. There are no celebrity
concerts in June, but Richard Tauber will
be the soloist on July 6, and August 6
is the date for the first of the four con-
certs conducted by Malcolm Sargent.
On Saturday Mrs. Ray Connolly had
the bad luck to drop one of her season
tickets in the crowded foyer, and the
search thereof was as for a pin in a
field of corn. Mr. Connolly wasn t
there for when his wife attends a con-
cert he goes off to a fight. Mrs. Massey
Burnside was swathed in an ermine wrap.
Margaret Cox made a blonde picture in
her mushroom frock and cape. Betty
Magennis was all in kingfisher blue. Pat
Chilvers wore a little green bolero with
her patterned frock. Dr. Walter William
was there, also Boydie Wallace Smith.
Days are numbered for the old pig
market, on the site of which the new
Melbourne Hospital will rise. This de-
cision has now been reached, though
several arguments are still in progress.
One criticism comes from the matron and
sisters, who find that there is no pro-
vision for children’s wards, so. that unless
alterations are made nurses will have
to go to other hospitals for their several
months’ experience with children. The
various blocks and wards of the huge
new building will be connected by elec-
tric trucks in underground tunnels and
by 11 passenger and four service lifts.
The operating theatre will be air-con-
ditioned and will contain arena seats for
students. There is provision for 500
beds, 90 more than are provided at the
present Melbourne Hospital. The prob-
lem of demand on beds never eases even
as more hospitals are built and enlarged.
The estimated cost of the new institution
is £BOO,OOO. At present the City Council
is making up its mind where to put the
pig market, and in three or, more likely,
four years’ time it will consider the
exchequer in relation to buying the old
hospital site for a new Town Hall or
some other civic structure.
In the Broothorn photograph is one
of to-day’s brides, Joan Hill, whose mar-
riage to Captain Ronald McNicoll takes
place at the Toorak kirk. The church
ceremony is to be very plain, with neither
bridesmaids nor guests, but Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Hill will hold a reception afterwards
at Menzies. Bridegroom Ron, who is
the eldest son of General McNicoll, is
a staff corps officer at present attached
to Victoria Barracks.
The Education Dept, has some jobs to
offer to girl and women cooks, tried and
true by examination. Applicants must
hold an approved diploma in cookery and
kindred subjects, and a knowledge of
needlecraft may be a help in landing the
job. If an insufficient number of A-grade
applicants come forward those with 11.
and 111. cookery certificates may be con-
sidered. Salaries range from £192 to
£264 according to qualifications and ex-
perience. Applications should be lodged
this week.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1599 of 1937.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER of
113 Dandenong Road Malvern 5.E.4 in
the State of Victoria Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRA§
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights dated the fourth day of April
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight
has been made against you in a suit wherein
HELEN COURTIER BRASIER was the Peti-
tioner and you the said CECIL ROWLAND
BRUCE BRASIER (also known as James Cecil
Rowland and James Cecil Brassier) were re-
spondent requiring you within two calender
months from the service of the said decree to
take back or return home to the Petitioner and
render to her conjugal rights and further requir-
ing you within four days after the expiration of
the said two calendar months to file in the
registry of this Honorable Court a certificate
of compliance with the decree AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that by an Order made on
the eleventh day of May instant it ' was
ordered that substituted service of the said
decree be made by advertising this notice
twice in a Sydney weekly newspaper AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the conse-
quence of your noncompliance with the decree
is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
judicial separation or for dissolution of your
marriage AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that service is to be taken as complete on the
twenty-sixth day of May One. thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight from which day the
two calendar months in which you are to take
back or return home to the Petitioner will com-
mence to run.
DATED this Thirteenth day of May, a.d.
1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for Petitioner, 8a
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ft
protects your
Health
A T this time of the year, you
must expect sudden changes
of weather and temperature. It
is important, therefore, to main-
tain your strength and vitality
as a safeguard against coughs,
chills and other bronchial ail-
ments.
For this purpose make “Oval-
tine” your regular daily bever-
age and you will ensure that
your natural powers of resist-
ance are maintained at the high-
est possible level.
“Ovaltine” provides the assur-
ance of health for every
member of the family. Let
“Ovaltine” help ybu maintain
radiant health right through
Autumn and Winter.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial
sample of “Ovaltine”, sufficient to
make four cupsful, will be sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps, to cover
cost of packing and postage.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-.
At all Chemists and Stores.
/•/ ' '
« <S*T7
/
IMS
[* ;
:.HS(f/
m
j'
mZ
mm
m
l / *
'A///
iilllll
»
M
?< , | '?
< / >.' -
SSS
/ /
/ * /
r .•/
? *
jL ■" /
:J9& S :/
%■■' •#
I
/
Oval tine'
Guilds up your Resistance,
against Winter Ills oioiBjs
A. WANDER LIMITED. 1 YORK STREET NORTH. SYDNEY
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson went to
the Victoria League’s annual recording
at Rowe’s, at which Lady Wilson pre-
sided. Speeches were numerous, with
some music to lighten things. Lena Ham-
mond sang a group of three British songs
and a duet with Fred Homer. Gladys
Frost was heard in pianoforte selections.
The Governor, with wife and son
David, attended the Beaudesert Show
Bali and was received by president
Charlie Persse and .his pretty wife. Lady
Wilson was in mignonette-green, and
Mrs. Persse in white and silver. An
English visitor, Lady Williams, also was
a guest, and her lace draperies were of
the softest dove-grey.
Roses and chrysanthemums made a
colorful setting for the Limbless Soldiers’
Association Ball, held at the Trocadero.
G. R. Faulkner, president of the associa-
tion, and his wife received, and Mrs.
F. K. Brodribb, the patroness, and the
Lady Mayoress, president, together with
the committee, saw to it that all the
guests had a good time.
Qantas Airways, Ltd., is transferring
its head office to Sydney, so secretary
H. H. Harmon has to leave us, too. His
wife and mother (Mrs. E. Harmon) were
guests of honor at a farewell party given
by Mrs. B. T. Cowlishaw at her home at
Ascot. There were aeroplanes—little
gold ones—among the tulle puffings on
the table.
C. of E. Grammar School chapel was
crowded for the wedding of Lorna,
daughter of Mrs. L. Stephens and the
late Llewellyn Stephens, to Neville, son
of Mrs. Arthur Pixley, of Sydney. The
white-clad bride was‘veiled in priceless
Limerick lace. Daphne Stephens, Bar-
bara Hart and Peggy Pixley ’maided.
Colleen Gray, a granddaughter of the
late George Appel, for many years
M.L.A. for Beaudesert, and daughter of
George Boulderson Gray and of Mrs.
H. Ervin, of Darling Point, Sydney, sur-
prised all her Brisbane friends when she
went off quietly to the Woollahra kirk
and was married to- Sim, only son of the
late Dr. and Mrs. Sim Bennett, of Wool-
lahra. There was an informal luncheon
afterwards at the Australia.
The A.T.N.A. Nurses’ Rest Home got
a welcome financial lift through the
annual ball, arranged by the matron and
nursing staff of the Brisbane and South
Coast Hospitals Board. Hostesses were
Mesdames A. D. Pye, R. G. Quinn and
Miss C. Sorensen, the general matron.
There were bouquets for them from the
committee, as well as for the Blair lady,
Mrs. H. A. Bruce and Mrs. T. L. Jones.
Green tulle and roses decked the official
supper table, and roses and chrysanthe-
mums made the supper-room lovely.
The Victorians’ Association of Q’land
held their ball at Lennon’s, and president
and Mrs. T. B. Roadknight greeted 70
guests at the entrance to the ballroom,
which was gay with roses and gerberas.
A long black velvet cloak covered Mrs.
Roadknight’s white chiffon frock, which
was cut on classical lines.
WESTRALIA.
The dignified jarrah-panelled dining-
hall of St. George’s College was the
scene of the Common Room Club’s
annual ball. Warden C. B. Law met
the G.-H. party at the foot of the stair-
case and ushered Uni. heads to the seats
of honor, set about with fernery at one
end of the ballroom. The Mitchell lady’s
o.s. pink rose nestled ’mid tapestries of
black Chantilly lace and satin, Uni.
Chancellor Dr. J. S. Battye’s other half
was wrapped in a length of blue-and-
silver-striped crepe roubaix, and Mrs.*
Prof. Blakey’s black marquisette dazzled
the eye with cascades of gold and ruby
sequins. Among the tripping young
things was Marjorie Shann, lame girt,
who is over on holiday from Sydney,
Dorothy Bold, in gold-belted brown vel-
vets, and Gwen Mofflin, red-gold locks
a-gleam above swirls of black taffeta
and net.
Perth’s portrait and landscape artist
Muriel Southern is being given a round
of farewell parties prior to her departure
for Adelaide and a matromonial date
with George Meikle at the end of the
month. The Society of Artists made a
handsome presentation at a gathering of
members in the London Tavern. Dirk-
sey Cowan and Mrs. Sydney Culling-
worth wielded sherry decanters at their
respective homes at the cocktail hour,
and Mrs. Margolin and Jane Young lit
log fires to warm their afternoon-tea
guests.
Architectural students forsook T-
squares and drawing-boards for dancing
pumps and the smooth boards of the
Embassy for their annual revel. There
were dancing exhibitions by June Irving,
and a burlesque on the Pyramids and
Cleopatra’s Needle given by the students
in early Roman garb. Mrs. Arthur Hard-
wicke appliqued scintillating sequin but-
terflies on her black taffeta trappings, Mrs.
Keith Woodroffe’s sleek brunette locks’
were offset with palest cyclamen chiffon,
diamente-studded, and Mrs. Kevin
Kelly’s white net ruchings were caught
on one shoulder with a spray of bril-
liants to match the ornament in her
silver-blonde curls.
The departure of the S. J. McGibbon
and Basil Bruce couples for the Inter-
national Rotary Convention in ’Frisco
was the reason for six-o’clock hospitality
at the Perry home in Mount’s Bay-road.
S. W. Perry, president of the Perth
Rotary Club, gave welcome ’mid masses
of fiery poinsettias and coral-tree blooms,
with wife at elbow draped in steel-bead-
encrusted black velvets. Daughter June
flitted among the guests in picture-style
black velvets trimmed with ermine.
A gathering of the Forrest clan took place
at Minderoo, Claremont, on the occasion
of Mrs. David Forrest’s 85th birthday.
Mrs. Forrest, who is a sister-in-law of
“Bigjohn” Forrest, was a gracious figure
in flowing black velvets as she received
her guests ’mid a floral bower of tributes
sent from all over the State. A birthday
cake held pride of place on the rose-
decked dining-table, and daughters and
granddaughters helped in the enter-
taining.
The Charles Diamonds’ three daugh-
ters have gone distinctly tropical in their
marriages. The eldest, Sylvia, has been
Mrs. Hugh Bainford, of Sourabaya, Java,
for some years; Lorraine, the baby, leaves
in August for a wedding date on the
same island, and now comes news of
Ethel’s intention to return next January.
The man in the case is James Munro
Jack, who has just been transferred to
Penang.
News comes from S’Africa of Mar-
jorie Howlett, who went a-holidaying
last year and has stayed to wed a mining
man, Charles Pearse, at Broken Hill, in
Northern Rhodesia.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A bright dance was given at the Mount
Osmond Country Club by the Howard
Burgesses, of Glenunga, to launch their
daughter Nancy into the social swirl.
The 250 guests motoring up had a won-
derful panoramic view of the plains.
Bronze and yellow chrysanthemums
mixed with autumn foliage decorated the
huge lounge, and the supper table was
arranged with roses. Debutante Nancy
wore a dainty frock of white ninon.
A large number of women motored to
Mount Barker for the opening of the
C.W.A. rest-room by Lady Dugan. The
president (Mrs. F. W, Shephard) men-
tioned that the building had been made
possible through the generosity of the
Paterson family, of Wistow. Diana
Lorimer, daughter of the branch sec-
retary (Mrs. K. G. Lorimer), presented
Lady Dugan with a floral key of sweet-
peas and violets, tied with violet ribbon.
Afternoon-tea was served in the new
building following the ceremony.
The beautiful home of Mr. and Mrs.
Claude Martin, Brougham-place, North
Adelaide, was the scene of a dance at
which three pretty debs. —Patricia Mar-
tin, Shirley Hamilton and Margaret
Cowell —made their curtsies. Dr. and
Mrs. William Hamilton were joint host
and hostess with Mr. and Mrs. Martin.
Dancing was in a large marquee ; so was
the supper, the tables decorated with low
bowls of pink and mauve sweet-peas
and green candles in crystal candlesticks.
The dance marquee was festooned with
ropes of flowers from pillar to pillar.
The host and hostesses, with the three
debutantes, received in the huge lounge
upstairs, wherb a delightful effect was
achieved by placing electric lights be-
hind massed yellow and pink gladioli.
Autumn flowers made a background
for the marriage of Nancy, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Milne, of
Glenelg, to George, second son of Mrs.
M. Hunn, of Glenelg, and the late Dr.
W. Hunn, of Booleroo Centre. The
bride was gowned in magnolia French
brocade patterned in silver. The tulle
veil was held in place by a bandeau of
flat velvet roses. Matrons of honor
Mesdames C. E. Horrocks and N. G.
Perriman were frocked alike in primrose
crinkled chiffon, with shoulder-length
veils and caps of the crinkled chiffon.
The engagement has been announced
of Christine, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Oscar Tipping, of Edwin-terrace,
Gilberton, to George Howard, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Michell, of Fitz-
roy-terrace, Thorngate.
There was quite a floral display in the
Town Hall when the N.C.W. organised
a welcome for Lady Dugan, their patron.
The stage had been transformed into a
Georgian garden with pines and cypresses
mounted along the background. In the
front stone urns were linked by festoons
of ivy leaVes. The hall was arranged with
small tables set with bowls of mixed
flowers, the official supper table being
done with scarlet carnations. Lady Dugan
was received by the president, Miss
Adelaide Meithke, and 58 societies were
represented.
TASMANIA.
The Uni. dinner at Hadleys, with a
meeting afterwards to start a University
Association, was a gay affair in spite
of the high academic tonnage of the
guests. R. G. Osborne and D. F. Gee
were chief organisers. About 80 gradu-
ates and past students lowered their
brows for the occasion.
The Child Welfare Association wound
up Baby Day with a big dance at the
Belvedere, with Dorothy Fulton as organ-
iser for a big committee. The Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Joan Mc-
Lennan and Capt. and Mrs. Johnston
were among those in the official party.
About 300 dancers took the floor.
Mrs. G. H. Butler and daughter
Evelyn are off to England again, travel-
ling in the Ulysses this time. Mrs. Clive,
Old Beach, Mrs. Norman Ferguson, Miss
Maxwell and Mrs. Flexmore were host-
esses who gave them tea, bridge or lunch
parties by way of send-off.
Mrs. Hungerford changed her mind
at the eleventh hour, gave up her idea
of going to England via Panama, and
returned to the beaten track in the
Otranto, calling in at Hobart on the way.
The Lewis lady entertained her at a
small luncheon party while the ship was
in port.
Two recent engagements are those of
Donald Webster, youngest son of the
Edwin Websters, Sandy Bay, to Vera
Elizabeth, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Frank Margary, Adelaide, and of Clive
Turnbull, only son of the Perry Turn-
bulls, formerly of Glenorchy, Hobart,
to Joyce Aileen Hammond, Coonac,
Toorak.


\\'
/
■23
GO
mwicr
O 0 p tfftZZt/Cz
ttSEjUMin
%
W
"Nothing I like
better than a string
quartette!”
Get o free copy of the
"Radio Rejuvenation “
booklet from your local
radio dealer, or write to
Box 2703 C, G. P.O.
Sydney.
.. between a piano and a harpsichord—between
a flute and a violin—between an organ and an
accordion—between an oboe and a clarionet—
and so on.
If you can't tell the difference it's a sign that your
radio is suffering from Harmonic Distortion. This
radio complaint can affect any receiver. It
develops gradually, and unless it is promptly
corrected, fatal results are sure to follow. Get
your free copy of the booklet "Radio Rejuvena-
tion," and learn how your radio troubles can be
corrected through the Ten-Point Check-Up.
ACT NOW! SEE YOUR RADIO DEALER.
THE "10-POINT CHECK-UP " IS SPONSORED BY PHILIPS VALVES sva
Band.
Primary.*
Secondary.
Plate.
Space Bet.
Plate Coil
and Sec.
10-20 metres..
4 turns No. 32 S.S.C.,
interwound with sec.
turns (plate end").
5 turns No. 26 S.S.C.,
3-16in. between turns.
5 turns No. 32
s.s.c.
3-32in.
20-40 metres..
8 turns No. 32 S.S.C.,
interwound with sec.
turns.
11 turns No. 26 S.S.C.,
3-32in. between turns.
7 turns No. 32
S.S.C.
3-l6in.
40-80 metres. .
15 turns No. 32 S.S.C.,
interwound with sec.
turns.
23 turns No. 26 S.S.C..
5-64in. between turns.
8 turns No. 30
S.S.C.
3-32in.
80-200 m
31 turns No. 32 S.S.C.,
interwound with sec.
turns.
50 turns No. 30 S.S.C.,
!-32in. between turns.
16 turns No. 30
S.S.C.
5*32in.
*OB. Tff#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
TUNED R.F. TWIN RECEIVER.
Since their introduction, valves of the 19 type with two triodes in one glass
envelope have found innumerable uses in dual roles other than the original
Class-B audio specification. In small short-wave receivers al9 valve makes
an excellent detector and audio amplifier, and occupies little space. The
Little Twin receiver (B. 29/l/’36) was the first of this kind in Australia,
and many hundreds are now in use. The use of an R.F. amplifier ahead of
this receiver resulted in the Semi-tuned R.F. Twin (B. 16/2/'3B). The
receiver described here uses a tuned R.F. amplifier with still better results.
Although the short-wave receiver of
the regenerative detector kind is capable
of doing much better than normally with
the addition of an untuned R.F. ampli-
fier, such a stage is, in effect, only an
aerial coupling valve. It has the advan-
tage of removing “dead-spots” in detec-
tor tuning which are caused by the aerial
load either at the fundamental or at har-
monies. The untuned stage can be made
to give results closely approximating a
tuned stage if the grid coils used are
themselves resonant over the range of
frequencies covered by the detector-grid
circuit. This was done in the receiver
described in B. 16/2/’3B.
As with a tuned R.F. stage, the par-
ticular design calls for a change of plug-
in coils. With this consideration in mind
it was decided, in response to inquiries,
to outline briefly the details of a receiver
using a 19 as short-wave detector and
headphone audio, with a tuned R.F. stage
ahead. There are no radical changes in
the arrangement as compared with the
untuned R.F. type of receiver, except
that the grid circuit of the R.F. valve is
tuned.
The circuit diagram shows one method
of coupling an R.F. pentode such as a
34 or IC4. The tuning condensers are
ganged, and in order to obtain better
tracking than would be the case with
capacity coupling a primary winding is
used in relation to the detector-grid cir-
cuit. With the coil specifications given,
together with the values of tuning and
trimming capacities, the receiver will tune
over all the short-wage ranges with over-
lap from around 10 metres to 200 metres.
Suitable coils could easily be made to
take in the broadcast band if desired, but
for complete coverage two coils would
be necessary owing to the .00014mfd.
tuning capacity.
The 19 portion of the receiver needs
little reference, as this type of circuit
is now well known and quite foolproof.
The first triode section of the 19 works
as a regenerative detector, with plate coil
feedback and oscillation controlled by a
50,000-ohm potentiometer in the plate
voltage supply. The second triode is
resistance-capacity coupled to the detec-
tor in the usual manner, and gives ample
audio output for headphone reception.
It is not intended to work with even a
small loudspeaker.
In laying out a chassis the two
.00014mfd. tuning condensers (Cl in
the circuit diagram) are best ar-
ranged in the centre as a ganged
unit. On each side should be
placed screening partitions, with the
R.F. coil and screened valve on the left
of the left-hand partition, and the detec-
tor coil and 19 valve on the right of the
other partition. This will give ample
interstage screening and will eliminate
interlocking in the tuning.
A plain aerial could be connected to
the grid of the R.F. valve through a very
small capacity, or the aerial coupling coil
suggested in the diagram may be used.
The dotted line at the bottom end of
this coil shows where a connection should
be made to earth if a plain aerial is used
with the aerial coil. Otherwise the coil
may be used for coupling to a doublet-
type aerial.
A two-volt accumulator and 135 volts
of B battery are needed for the power
supply, and provision is made for a
three-volt negative bias on the R.F. and
audio stages. Dry cells could be used
for the A supply, as the filament current
taken by the 34 and 19 valves is .32
ampere, but such cells should be of the
large Ever-Ready “C” type.
Connected in parallel with the tuning
condenser section for the R.F. stage is
a midget lOOmmfd. variable condenser.
This is a manual padder control, and the
condenser can be mounted below the
chassis directly underneath the tuning
condenser. There is always some differ-
ence in the resonance of the two tuned
circuits owing to internal valve capacities
and mechanical considerations, and this
padder enables the adjustment of the
R.F. amplifier to exact
resonance so that maxi-
mum signal amplification
is assured.
A further help in ad-
justing the circuits is the
inclusion of a mica com-
pression trimmer con-
denser with a maximum
capacity of around
70mmfd. across the grid
coil and tuning condenser
of the detector.
All necessary resistance and capacity
values are shown in the diagram, and
the coil specifications are given here.
Six-pin l|in. plug-in coil formers are
needed.
This receiver will give much greater
signal strength than those previously
described.
D.B.K.
Unselfish Service.
The radio amateur can be of vital
use to the community in case of emer-
gency. “Radio,” published in Los
Angeles, tells of the work done by radio
amateurs during recent disastrous floods
in California.
“When their own lines went out, the
rail cos. were at a loss as to where their
trains were. Two brand-new stream-
liners were completely lost. They were
known to be somewhere between Los
Angeles and Salt Lake. Whether they
were marooned between washed-out
bridges, returning to Salt Lake, or just
what was their fate could only be
guessed. A chain consisting of W6MRT,
W6GXM, W6KDI, W6DSV, W6BMC
and W6GQC along the two routes en-
abled rail officials to track down their
lost trains.”
Broadcasting services also turned to
amateur radio for help:
“Thursday night, when the water was
at its height, N.B.C. was faced with
the problem of getting three important
sponsored shows on the* net. Failure
would cost over a hundred thousand
dollars. The trans-Pacific receiving
equipment of R.C.A. at San Francisco
was swung over to KFI and the pro-
gramme fed east from San Francisco.
This all required prearrangement. For
a day and a half all the N.B.C. traffic
for San Francisco and New York was
handled by amateurs. So pleased was
N.B.C. with the way things clicked with-
out a hitch that it is organising an
amateur radio emergency net.”
Lives were saved by amateur radio in
the San Fernando valley:
“The whole district was under water
and without communication. An un-
determined number were known to be
taking shelter in the North Hollywood
schoolhouse. Whether they were hungry
or needed blankets was unknown. Ex-
cept for short periods when faltering
power came on, only to be disrupted
again, this area was without gas, lights
or drinking water from Tuesday night
until Saturday morning. To solve the
communication problem, W6PAK and
W6LRO set out with mobile five-metre
rigs for the top of Cahuenga Pass to act
as relay stations for marooned San Fer-
nando valley u.h.f. mobile amateurs
unable to get their signals over the hills
into Los Angeles. W6PAK was
marooned himself because of flooded
roads, but was unwilling to relax vigil-
ance because of the importance of the
circuit he was maintaining. He operated
from his car for 50 hours continuously
without relief.”
These instances are a few among many
in the story of the good work done by
amateur stations. Without amateur radio
on the job, the loss of life might have
been much heavier than it was. This
kind of emergency communication, pro-
vided willingly and without thought of
financial return, is part of the make-up
of amateur radio.
D.B.K.
American Expedition to
Netherlands N.G.
E. H. Conklin, W9FM, associate editor
of “Radio,” U.S.A., sends information
about the Archbold radio-equipped ex-
pedition now on the way to New Guinea.
Its purpose is to study flora and fauna
in the centre of Dutch New Guinea.
Leading the expedition is Richard Arch-
bold, with air-pilot Russell Rogers, flight-
engineer Gerald Brown, mechanic Wil-
liam Sanderson and radio operator
William Booth. The ’plane is a twin-
engined Consolidated PBY-2, carrying
radio equipment for two-way working.
The transmitter uses two RK46 valves
similar to the RK2O type, except for 12-
volt filaments. Both telegraphy and
telephony will be used, the latter by
suppressor modulation of the final ampli-
fier. The assigned frequencies include
3105 kc, and 6210 kc., but the higher fre-
quency, 12,420 kc., will very likely be
used most of the time. Plans call for
almost continuous operation whilst in
the air, and the American Federal Radio
Commission has granted permission for
communication with amateur radio
stations.
The callsign is KHAHX and amateurs
hoping to make contact should look for
the signal on 12,420 kc.; KHAHX will
not be heard in any of the amateur bands.
The expedition was scheduled to leave
San Diego during this month for the
flight across the Pacific via Midway,
Wake, Guam, and the Philippines, using
Pan-American Airways facilities. Inland
flights are expected to be made in Dutch
New Guinea for a year and a half before
returning to U.S.A.
D.B.K.
* Plate coil wound at bottom or pin end of lfin. diameter form. Prim, turns
interwound at lower end of sec. (nearest plate).
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Quilpie, south-west. Re-
ceiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-wave.
Service from York Minster was fair
on GSJ, and gradually improved until
closing at 8.15 p.m. Cricket broadcasts
from 10.15 to 10.30 p.m. are excellent
from GSJ, being much better on this
station than from GSG on 16 metres.


An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - F 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
df
Wf-ftK MfN MR WQMfN
Loss of vitality ana premature feeling of ola
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitelv
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment".
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
CHI
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Statu—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
The only way
to a
Clean Shave
„ v,%
m
fUI
H
d good lather and this hollow-ground safety
Shaving is something that must be done thoroughly. You'll feel
half-dressed if you re only half-shaved. So get behind those bristles
with a Rolls Razor. There's a sense of satisfaction as the keen
hollow-ground blade glides through the snowy lather. Your cheeks
are smooth and clean. You've had a man's shave with the
one-blade razor that never varies year in year out . . . and what
an economy!
ROLLS RAZOR
SELF STROPPING
SELF HONING
Rolls Razor Company of Australia (Pty.) Ltd.
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
Melbourne: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane.
Brisbane: Butler Bros. Aust. (Pty.) Ltd., Creek St.
Adelaide: Cornells, Coltons and Hoiinungs.
Perth: Harris Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay St.
GSF is very weak and GSH a little
stronger.
WBXK has been heard on 13.92 metres,
with fair volume. A Russian station
opening at 2 p.m. on 19.75 metres was
stronger than any other 19-metre station,
but GSO swamped the signal by 3 p.m.
From around 3 p.m. COCQ can be logged
at nice volume on 30.8 metres. A station
at a slightly lower wave-length than DJC
on 49 metres may be a Russian, and
there are five other stations at weak
strength, speaking no English, and so far
unidentified.
In the mornings GSP opens well at
7.15 but falls off in strength rapidly. The
best 19-metre station at 7.15, it is about
the weakest at 8, when GSO and DJR
are easily the best. W2XAF is at its best
from around 8.30 to 9, when it is then
the strongest on the air. After 9 WBXK
is the best on 25.27 metres.
Daventiy’s new time for Transmis-
sion 1 is quite a success. GSB is
Televising international hockey from The Oval, famous ground of the Surrey
Cricket Club, where the B.B.C.’s mobile unit has been investigating the possi-
bilities of televising cricket matches. Results were extremely successful.
good but later weakens badly, GSD very
fine and provides the best short-wave
reception possible, GSF good, GSO fair
only, but very good by 3.30 p.m., and
GSG is not much use here.
EAQ Madrid was good on 30.48 metres,
being much stronger than GSB, which
was itself better than heard before. At
5.45 p.m. news was given in English,
and the station signed off at 6 p.m. with
the announcement “National Broadcast-
ing Company of Spain.” This session is
at 8.45 a.m. Madrid summer time and
the next at 9.40 p.m. M.S.T.
GSJ did nobly for the opening of the
Empire Exhibition, and it was noticeable
that the King’s voice was much stronger
than that of the announcer heard after-
wards. On 4/5/’3B W2XAF and WIXK
were full speaker strength around 7.30
a.m., and at 8.35 a.m. W2XAF gave a
list of short-wave stations with fre-
quencies, hours of operation, and altera-
tions in frequency. Indian stations at
Delhi and Bombay were mentioned, with
Italians, a Cuban and a South American.
At 1 p.m. RNE was heard at full speaker-
volume and TPA4 and DJD were good.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
G6FO, editor of the “Short-Wave
Magazine,” a new and bright amateur
mag. from London, writes to say that
he is now using crystal control on 56mc.,
and getting out well with a beam aerial
over local distances. He reports a great
deal of five-metre activity in England,
but distances in excess of 100 miles
QRA to QRA are rare. Some regular
schedules are being kept, using beams
over distances between 50 and 60 miles.
Australia has shown better results than
this in the way of signals logged at
greater distances, with VK2NO logged
on 27/6/’37 by VK2DN at Deryliquin,
N.S.W., 380 miles distant, to say nothing
of the two trans-Tasman reports. QSOs
will come sooner or later.
Jack Scott, ex-VK2NR and recently
G6JB, who returned to Sydney from
Czechoslovakia, has decided to keep the
DX ball rolling. He has been allotted
the new callsign of VK2AJX, and may
be expected to burn the ether up again
in the near future. The old original
callsign now graces a national-relay
broadcaster in the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.) district.
Writer listened to the 8.8. C. chief
engineer through Daventry on 5/5/’3B
explaining that one result of the Cairo
Conference is that amateurs have to share
portion of the 40-metre band with
Government services. He referred to
many new phannels for short-wave
broadcasting. The new channels will
not actually come into effect until the
first of September next year. So once
again amateur radio seems to have been
lopped of already meagre frequencies.
Talk of extension of frequencies is futile,
and it begins to look as if the thin end
of the wedge is being driven into the
very existence of amateur radio as known
’ in the past decade.
Sydney u.-s.-w. workers are losing a
good man in W. Bardin, VK2ABZ, who
leaves shortly to take up duties at Rabaul,
N.G. His keenness on 56mc. work may
result in a reliable DX station at a
favorable distance for contact.
It is not often an amateur ’phone
station has the opportunity to listen to
a “play-back” of its own transmission.
Testing a new modulator system recently
the writer contacted VK2YW (Wagga,
N.S.W.) on 20 metres and asked the
operator to be frankly critical upon any
deficiencies in speech quality, modula-
tion depth, etc. VK2YW replied that
in a few seconds he would play-back a
recording of the entire transmission from
VK2NO. This was done with perfect
reproduction. ’Phone men who may have
doubts about their speech should ask
VK2YW for similar treatment. No
doubt many speech systems would under-
go overhaul.
A well-known European 20-metre
station silent recently is OE3AH, oper-
ated by Archduke Anton, of the house
of Habsburg, a prominent Austrian DX
man. OE3AH was very active during the
last international C.W. DX contest, and
piled up many points. Not many of his
contacts realised that they were QSO
with royalty. Two other royal amateurs
are active on 20 metres, one in Malaya
and the other in Ascension Island.
The reception of the Scottish amateur
GM6RG in U.S.A. on 56mc. has been
confirmed. GM6RG was using 900
watts, crystal-controlled, on 57,016 kc.
when heard by American amateurs
W2JCY, W2KHR and WIKTF. The
first two reported reception on telephony
and the latter on C.W. telegraphy.
WIKTF heard a tape transmission which
was identified correctly ; GM6RG changes
the wording of the tape each week so as
to have the means to check each report
exactly. DX is also being recorded m
U.S.A. in the seven-metre region. A
listener in Phoenix, Arizona, heard
mobile station WIXOU on 39,700 kc.
when driving near Bloomfield, Connec-
ticut, on March 8 last. This is believed
to be a record for seven-metre re-
ception of a mobile station, the distance
being 2200 miles. American police-cars
have often been heard clear across
U.S.A., and on one occasion a South
African amateur, ZS2A, heard a police
car in one of the Eastern U.S.A. districts.
W4DRZ in Florida is looking for 56mc.
DX. He has a concentric line converter
with acorn valves. W4EDD, a well-
known u.s.w. worker, has now concen-
trated on a horizontal Yagi array with a
reflector and several directors, all spaced
one-quarter-wave length and properly
tuned.
VK2NO.
The 8.8. C. recently inaugurated a ser-
vice of news bulletins in Spanish and
Portuguese from the Empire transmitters
at Daventry. The service is intended
for reception in Central and South
America.
* * * *
A new microphone used by the 8.8. C.
is described as the “lip type.” It is
mounted on a short handle and is insen-
sitive to sounds coming from more than
a few inches away. The type is for out-
side broadcasts only, where it is undesir-
able that sounds other than those of the
commentator’s voice should be audible.
"Radio," April, 1938 Issue.
Main feature in the current issue of
‘‘Radio,’’ published in Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, is a description of the communi-
cation networks provided by amateur
radio stations during the recent heavy
floods in the Los Angeles district.
Technical articles are: “An Inexpensive
Field-strength Meter,” “What Happens
in a Super-regenerative Receiver,” “A
Beam Without Insulators,” “Determina-
tion of Skip Distance,” “Rotatable Mast
for Beam Aerials,” “The Bi-square
Directive Array,” “The Hamset Re-
ceiver,” “More Speech Power from
Class-B Modulators,” “A Simple Super-
het” and “A 20-watt Midget Portable.”
Annual subscription is 18s. 6d. through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
tusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1)7 have had a receiver built supposedly to
your design known as the Wide-World Two
Valves supplied are Radiotron 6C6 and National
Union 41. Are these suitable? (2) Reception
is fair here in New Guinea, but the 31-metre
band seems to be very crowded, and stations
(u ' e f} ar ~. }° se P ara/ e. What is the reason of
this ?—671.
_d) Quite suitable. Actually the 6C6 is more
efficient than the original 77, and the 41 is a
better audio valve in every way than the 38
specified in the article. (2) Stations are very
close in frequency in this band, and when
good reception conditions prevail some over-
shadowing is inevitable with anything but a
selective superhet.
* * * *
(1) How does the Ideal T.R.F. receiver com-
pare with the Hi-Gain T.R.F. ? (2) Would it
be possible to reprint the Ideal circuit or can
I obtain a copy? (3) Would a Philips 3003 B
eliminator deliver enough voltage to operate
either of these receivers? (4) I have a trans-
former giving six volts. Would this be applied
direct to the valve heaters, or would filtering
be necessary? (5) How about an article on
super-regeneration and its advantages or other-
wise for the short-wave listener? —672.
(1) The performance of the two receivers is
about equal, but the Ideal receiver gives some-
what more audio gain because transformer
coupling is used. (2) Copy of issue 28/4/’37,
in which receiver was described, is available at
this office, 6d., plus postage. (3) Yes, but it will
be working at full capacity. (4) Direct to the
valve heaters without filtering. (5) Will con-
sider it.


A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
US!
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Hridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
WHAT ABOUT MINERALS?
: 'if. .... - l ;
“Tri-cal” : About. those mineral sup-
plements: I like one that has a mini-
mum • of- protein and no fat for the
reason that these nutrients (P. &, F.) are
supplied in the. ordinary fodders—after
all you are feeding the stuff, primarily
for its mineral content. I always reborn-
mend Tri-cal-os Bone Flour ; it con-
tains some 73 per cent. Uricalcic phos-
phate, and an advantage is the absence
of fat and the protein is reduced to a
minimum. My stock held condition
well in the drought, and I give Tri-cal-os
all the credit. Davis Gelatine, Sydney,
will send you particulars of how to feed
it. Tell them what stock you want it for.
Old Farmer.
S'-..::-
£
W«
[iW'
I ,‘V I
<w*.’"»- (I
FREE SAMPLES SENT.
nr
Re-Nu Liquid
Nu-Meta!
Just - deposit through plug
openings on pistons, turn
engine over a dozen times,
then let run 5 minutes.
N U-METAL , expands -.25%, reconditions engine
w hile running,' saves costly £lO- £2O rebore,
ends piston , slap, excess , oil pumping, petrol
waste, rattles, noises, buying expensive parts,
-restores compression, top speed, new power,
pep, zip. Makes cars, trucks, motor-cycles,
farm engines, and all combustion engines run
like new.. ' Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles,
when same results can be repeated; also
guaranteed harmless any part finest engine.
NU—METAL is put up in exact quantity size
tubes for each type of engine. Price, 5/- a
tube for each cylinder. Maximum price, 4,6,
8 cylinder, 25/-, with extra 1 FREE tube of
Special Colloidal Nu-Metal for injection through
oil sump- for the main bearings, big ends, etc.
Send for FREE Samples 20 other lines. Agents
required. RE-NU LTD., Op. Richmond Station,
Melbourne, J 4797. Open late Fridays.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Drought Losses.
“Ghanam”: Even if there is steady
soaking rain and a mild winter, sheep
losses in N. S. Wales and Queensland will
run into millions. Outlay on fodder, mov-
ing of starving stock and agistment has
been enormous. In far inland areas large
numbers of ewes cannot raise their
lambs.
The astonishing thing is that long
before this there has not been some at-
tempt to concert a plan which would
save the maximum number of sheep.
Often sheep are kept on drought country
too long, and either hurried to agistment
when they are too weak to benefit or
hand-fed at a stage when, if they are
ewes, the spoiling of the lambing is
already assured.
Waiting for a drought—what folly!
In 1920 alone N. S. Wales lost oyer
10,000,000 sheep. Queensland at various
times since the war has lost more. Aus-
tralia as a whole in that period has lost
probably 40,000,000. But we never seem
to learn.
Quality in Rams.
“Dead Finish”: E. A. Elliott, N.S.W.
sheep and wool expert, recently told
members of the Merino Sheepbreeders’
Association that “unless an end is put
to the sale of low-grade rams at the
Sydney stud sales the high: quality of
N.S.W. wools will seriously suffer.” The
warning, in view of the number of N.S.W.
flock rams sold to buyers from all over
Australia, is of national importance.
Too many merino studs breed flock
rams to a price rather than to a standard.
The cheaper buyer creates an unhealthy
demand. The distant grower who asks
his broker to secure rams for him helps
to perpetuate the cheap-ram trade.
A danger that should not need empha-
sising is that in any draft of flock rams
bought without inspection or selection,
a percentage of worthless animals not
conforming to any recognised type will
be found. These should be crossed only
with a butcher’s knife. The damage this
class of sire can do is inestimable.
Woolgrowers in the poorer portions of
Australia where the natural' increases
barely cover the losses cannot cull. In
any case, the average grower
should not need to cull anything
more than the natural “throw-
back” which turns up in all stock-
breeding, and the sheep which
does not conform to his type. The
ram which does the damage
should have been culled where he
was bred.
Certain States in Australia, by law, will
not allow a colt to remain entire unless
it conforms to strict requirements. All
States have their cattle herdbooks. Yet
anyone with a few ewes and an odd ram
or two can start a sheep stud.
Certainly the Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion has its Stud Merino Register, but
listen to Elliott: “No flock could be
entered unless passed by the Register’s
executive committee or by a State sub-
committee. It was doubtful, however,
whether this was adhered to strictly.”
In other States things are just as slip-
shod. Queensland stipulates that a cer-
tain number of rams must be sold before
a property can be classed as a stud, but
takes no account of class or quality.
Some strict supervision is required to
determine what constitutes a ram fit to
improve the standard of our merino
wools.
To the Devil His Due.
“Valerin”: Skeleton weed on Riverina
stubble areas has saved thousands of
sheep this year; as it responds quickly
to light showers, stockowners are depend-
ing on it to tide them over a hard winter.
Saffron thistle is not a pest where good
farming is practised. Sheep thrive on
its seed, which they lick up from the
ground.
It seems to me efforts should be made
to utilise both these weed pests. S.w.
clothed with foliage would equal lucerne
in viability and nutritive quality, and
would never need reseeding. Take the
prickles out of saffron and you get a
valuable fertilising plant with great
potentialities for checking sand-drift in
western N.S.W. areas.
There are several grasses which could
be vastly improved by selection and
crossing. A lot of our plants need re-
forming rather than destroying.
“Careful, Ma; don't frighten 'em!"
Drought-feeding.
“Albarmount”: Wheat could be used
by anyone with rough grass, hay or
scrub feed. It has a higher protein con-
tent than corn, is as rich in carbohydrates
but is low in fats. A little linseed will
supply this deficiency and increase the
ration of protein.
If molasses and,salt are available little
trouble occurs through using the'rough
feed. Unpalatable hay becomes tasty
when sprayed with molasses water.
Molasses also supplies body heat and is
rich in essential minerals.
Novices in drought-feeding often make
the mistake of using only protein-rich
concentrates, such as bone, meat or lin-
seed .meals. These stimulate an .over-
production of internal secretions, which
helps the rapid development of the bacil-
lus causing entero-toxaemia. Vaccines
are efficient preventives, but are not
needed if roughage is provided for the
secretions to work on. In fact, the-excess
digestive juices enable the animals to
assimilate the maximum ■ amount oi
nourishment in the rough feed. •
“R.N.”: As to the need of fodder-
saving, consider David Edis,. who . holds
820 acres near Ariah Park. (N.S.W.). He
grows oats, clover, lucerne and peas for
fodder, conserves it in pits,. stacks
and grain-bins. When most men in
his area are selling sheep because they
can’t feed them, Edis is buying. Nor-
mally he runs about 500 sheep ; just now
he has 1800, mostly merino ewes, from
which he expects crossbred lambs. He
can carry that lot through the winter,
rain or no rain, and he has more than
600 acres under crop, 220 of it for wheat.
His fodder reserves now total 230 tons,
enough to feed nearly 1000 sheep foi
10 months.
More Edises in the country and it
would need to be a daddy among
droughts to cause any worry.
Small Crossbred Clips.
“C.V.S.”: I doubt that a grower in-
experienced in classing could satisfac-
~ i •
torily prepare for market a crossbred clip
from 2000 sheep (B 28/4/ 38). ,
Staple length is only : a rough mdi-
cation of spinning quality, many • broad
wools being shorter than well-grown
finer fleeces. Again, some crossbred
showing harsh broad fibres is of a lower
spinning quality than the crimp suggests.
There are other faults and qualities not
immediately apparent, and a knowledge
of types suitable for. blending is-needed,
Flocks: of about 2000 sheep are be-
coming-common.' Owners will find the
employment of a classer, if available, at
about £7 per week more satisfactory than
store classing and as cheap.
There is a vast difference between
a clip just even enough for sale and a
well-prepared clip.
Hogget Wool.
' “B-gar”: I can’t agree that the wool
from, a shirled^hogget will realise more
if branded “wethers” than if branded
“hoggets” C’B. 28/4/’3B). Coming from
young sheep, hogget wool in normal
seasons invariably looks better than that
from older sheep. It is usually lighter
in condition and has a better color. In
many' Victorian clips I know of wool
branded hoggets brings top price for the
clip. " ’ .' )
Where the real and the sliirled hogget
exist, care should be taken' to. keep the
wools separate, the * tip of the former
being spiral and curly-pointed and the
wool lacking the uniformity of that of
the shirled hogget with its more blocky
tip.
Moits about the neck and shoulder
are often a feature of hogget wool, but
judicious skirting can eliminate that.
Wool from young sheep should never be
allowed to lose its identity by using too
broad a description.
Wheat, Past and Present.
“Seedling”: Last year’s wheat crop
was the best both in price and quantity
since 1932-33. In
that year, 15,765,000
acres were sown
and the yield was
213,927,000' bushels.
Low-water mark
for recent years was
reached in 1934-35
with a 133,400,000-
bushel yield. Sub-
ject to some slight
possible revision, the
estimate for 1937-38
has been fixed at
180,500,000 bushels.
Not only was the
gross yield high,
but per-acre yield
showed a big im-
.provement 13.07
bushels to the acre,
1.64 bushels better
than for any of the
previous 10 years—
and f.a.q. standards
(N.S.W. 641 b., Vic.
63Llb. and W.A.
6‘3|lb.) were abnor-
mal. Victoria’s turn-
off of 17.93 bushels
was the highest for
68 years in that
State.
The coming sea-
son is not nearly so
hopeful. In three
States dry weather
has held up seasonal
operations.
Even in January
and February rain
was urgently needed in some of the bigger
ales whe^t districts , and now the
condition of some is so desperate that
, f or tbe cro p are ver y lean. Parts
f F the River i na have had rain —just
■ hto put a smear over the land-
f But e ven fairly safe districts
a ß bad state.
victor i a reported a dry beginning to
new lanting sea son, and in Queens-
drought on the Darling Downs was
dbrnbined with a heatwave. In W.A.
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


SIT
HERE
AND
SAVE
MONEY
.
ilm'.
m \ i
Uw
xMv/
■
■assllli
■nm
You’re bound for
better farming when you
hop up to the seat of a
SUNSHINE
MASSEY HARRIS
TRACTOR
Its generous power, fuel economy, durability,
and low upkeep cost will bring you more profit
than any other tractor could. You’ll enjoy its
comfortable, easy handling, too!
Every Sunshine Massey Harris Tractor has a
unique combination of definite advantages. The
local agent is ready to go over these features
point by point and show just WHY you get
MORE WORK AT LESS COST.
All Models on
STEEL OR
RUBBER TYRES
Backed by the H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS
three-point service:-
1 • Highly qualified service and engineering staffs.
2. Australia-wide organisation of practical field
experts.
3. Complete, constantly-available stocks of dupli-
cate parts.
Let us help you solve all your haulage and power
problems.
MODELS TO
MEET ALL NEEDS
MODEL 25. —-26/41 h.p. The ideal tractor
for general farm work. (Shown above
on steel wheels; and in photograph at
left, on rubber tyres.)
PACEMAKER. —-16/26 h.p. A speedy unit
for farm and transport work.
h
ORCHARD PACEMAKER.— I6/26 h.p. Low
set and streamlined. Many special
features for the fruitgrower.
WSr
/j: m |
m
CHALLENGER. —I6/26 h.p. To-day s out-
standing row crop and general purpose
tractor. Cultivator (extra equipment)
may be attached direct
H
V
Me KA Y
MASSEY
HARRIS
PTY
LTD
mm
- m
mm
(Incorporated in Victoria )
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, W. 20, Victoria.
AGENTS IN ALL COUNTRY CENTRES. BRANCHES AT SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


FARMERS!
Concrete Will Increase Your
Properties 1 Earning Capacity
Concrete Piggeries, Hawkesbury
Agricultural College.
Concrete Trough and Fence Posts,
Navua Stud Farm, Richmond.
That Is Why Model Farmers Make Use of It.
FOLLOW THEIR LEAD!
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
43 Margaret Street, Sydney,
WILL GIVE YOU FREE ADVICE.
Write to the association or cement companies in various States for any of
the following free booklets : —
Method of Making Concrete.
Concrete Fence Posts.
Concrete Footpaths and Floors.
Concrete Walls and Steps.
Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells.
Use of Colour with Cement.
Concrete Blocks, Bricks and Slabs.
Concrete for Farm and Station.
Portland Cement Stucco.
Portland Cement Plaster.
Portland Cement Textures.
Concrete Cricket Pitch.
Concrete Round the Home.
Concrete Silos.
Estimation of Materials for Concrete
and Mortar Simplified.
Concrete Mixing Made Easy.
Leaking Tanks Conquered with Con-
crete.
Concrete Tennis Court.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages.. .. Page 39
Rations » 15
Sheep bought ~ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return t*
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Svdney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
dsf
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
TTuTV&xilleZ&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
a particularly dry February was relieved
by March rains which put a new com-
plexion on affairs there. Tasmania and
S. Australia had good rains, and in
the latter State conditions are better
than anywhere elsd* in Australia.
There has also been a downward swing
in prices and overseas conditions. Silo
wheat has been quoted in Sydney round
3s. 1 lid. on a March basis, and there
have been sharp declines and a dead
•market overseas.
In U.S.A. there is a fairly heavy carry-
over from last season in spite of dry
weather in some middle-western areas.
At first it was thought that there would
be a decline in the winter harvest to
about 630,000,000 bushels —last year the
crop yielded over 680,000,000 —but good
March rains have altered the position.
It will not now be surprising if the out-
put comes near to 1937 level.
India, which will harvest the first wheat
of 1938 vintage, has 32,500,000 acres
sown, which is three-quarters of a million
acres more than last year. It is expected
that the yield will come near 400,000,000
bushels, against the 366,000,000 bushels
harvested for last season.
Good seasons are expected in other
producing countries, and it is estimated
that on August 1 next stocks of old
wheat will be 685,000,000 bushels, against
568,000,000 bushels last year. This is
an arbitrary figure about which authori-
ties differ, but all agree that there will
be an increase in the hold-over.
Topdressing Maize.
“Mulyan”: The benefit of topdressing
maize was demonstrated in experiments
carried out this season at Macksville
(N.S.W.). The land was river-bank
alluvial, which had been cropped with
maize for six years. One plot was top-
dressed, when the maize had tasselled,
with super, and bonedust in equal parts,
applied at the rate of scwt. to the acre.
A plot alongside was untreated, both
being sown with Hickory King, and
similarly spaced.
The manured plot yielded 88 bushels
per acre, the other 51 bushels. The cost
of the manure was £2 an acre.
Cottonseed-meal “Poisoning. ’ ’
“Molecule”: The Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture has been looking
into the old libel that cottonseed-meal
has poisonous properties. It was im-
ported to Australia from the U.S., where
crude early methods of processing the
cottonseeds yielded a feed of doubtful
value. People who have had experience
of the meal turned out by the Queens-
land Cotton Board’s plant regard the
poisoning story as a myth.
It has been found that stock said to
be affected by cottonseed-meal “poison-
ing” were really suffering from acute
vitamin A deficiency, the meal, of
course, being usually fed when green
feed is scarce. Even the best-quality hay
contains little or no vitamin A, and, as
cottonseed-meal is also deficient in it,
trouble is naturally encountered unless
steps are taken to make the deficiency
good.
Pigs have been said to be particularly
susceptible. A 12 months’ test at Gatton
(Q.) Agricultural College failed to prove
it, though proportions up to 24 p.c. of
cottonseed-meal were fed, the remainder
of the ration consisting of maize and
meatmeal—no milk and no pasture. Not
one death occurred, and the bacon was
of excellent quality. Modern U.S.A.
tests on cows have shown that up to
101 b. of cottonseed-meal can be fed daily
without ill effects.
Milk Fever.
“Silky Bag”: Milk fever is sometimes
difficult to diagnose. Odd cases don’t
show prostration, with head turned to
the side ; instead, they may have chronic
“staggers” for a day or two before going
down or just appear dopey on their feet.
Most animals affected this way go un-
treated as their troubles are put down
to poisoning or digestive upsets. Usually
they die.
Only two facts are of any definite value
in diagnosing m.f. One is the time since
calving. If a cow shows any constitu-
tional sickness one week before and up
to 12 weeks after calving, always suspect
milk fever. The other is the flow of milk.
A sudden complete stop or rapid shrink-
age of milk flow is suspicious. If the
cow is making a large quantity of milk
the trouble is certainly not m.f.
It always pays to treat for milk fever
when in doubt. Treatment methods are
harmless, whereas failure to apply them
can mean loss of the cow.
Modern vets, are using both calcium
gluconate injections and udder-inflation,
basing the combination’s value on the
rapid, short action of the former and the
slowly-delayed result from the latter in
checking milk secretion.
This raises the old problem. Should
a dairyman inject calcium himself? My
advice is “yes,” if he has been wise
enough to secure good demonstrations
and tuition from a practising vet. first
Once mastered it is easy enough, and
every dairyman should know how to do
the job.
The Breeding Sow.
“Pappamosca”: It is important to see
that a breeding sow does not get too fat.
Moderate condition produced by plenty
of sustaining food and clean water in
clean surroundings are big factors in
success.
See, too, that the lady has a regular
attendant. Strangers are apt to upset her.
She should not be touched unless she
shows an inclination to injure her pig-
lets. This needs careful watching ; once
she has tasted sucking pig she is likely
to make a meal of the lot.
The safest way —and the healthiest—is
to pick up each youngster as it is dropped
and place it in a safe place until the
whole litter have arrived, when they can
be handed back to the mother.
Ten days or a fortnight after farrow-
ing, the sow’s food should be added to
gradually. But, again, she should not be
allowed to wallow in food, and cleanli-
ness and exercise are more than ever
needed.
Look Out for Ragwort.
“Zedo”: Ragwort, which is the bane
of farmers’ lives in Maoriland and parts
of Victoria, has now turned up near
Kangaloon on the Bowral Plateau
(N.S.W.). It is a super pest where it
gets a hold, a destroyer of grazing and
poison to cattle, and once it has a good
start is just about as easy to move as
the paddock itself.
Ragwort grows about 3ft. high or less,
with a rosette formation and a curious
serrated leaf. Its flowers are yellow and
something like daisies. Young plants
need shade, and this seems to rule rag-
wort out as a serious pest in the hotter
and more open parts of Australia ; but
in poorish pastures with enough grass
and clover on the barer patches to give
the nuisance a start it needs watching.
Plants should not be hoed ; a cut root
means new and vigorous growth. Pull or
fork the plant out completely and burn.
Heavy ragwort needs a chemical spray,
and even with that results are doubtful
and stock cannot be pastured for some
time after treatment.
The best plan is to take it as it appears
the first season. Once allowed to seed
on any scale, it is hard to catch up with
it. Seeds travel with the wind, and a
big plant will produce from 50,000 to
60,000.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: Try this for itchy legs on a
horse caused by working in wet ground.
Mix neatsfoot oil, ground sulphur and
one large spoonful of kerosene to the
consistency of thick cream. Clip the legs
and rub well in with an upward motion.
One dressing should cure, but re-
treatment two or three times at weekly
intervals may be needed.
“S.”: Variegated thistles make excel-
lent ensilage. Last year a neighbor who
used 200 tons from thistles won the
local herd-testing competition.
“Valerin”: For scour in sheep caused
by some irritant poison, vegetable or
mineral, try this remedy: One tablespoon
finely ground charcoal mixed with two
tablespoons crude Epsom salts.
with half-pint of diluted treacle and thin
starch gruel. Administer as a drench.
“M.L.W.”: An effective drench for
sanded horses is lib. of honey dissolved
in 2| pints of milk fresh from the cow.
The dose should be repeated.


7
r
A
/
16.
.'T
Y' —v
/
S*
si
?
#
that s how the news spreads.
G. L. Fuller & Co., Limited,
Quality Tailors, have built up
over the last five years a repu-
tation second to none.
One satisfied client is worth a
ton of advertising assertion.
You, too, deserve to be cor-
rectly tailored by the
who know.
men
<&. 2.. jfullcr & Co. Ufa
EIGHTY-FOUR PITT STREET, SYDNEY
QUALITY tailors
■“> Mr. George Fuller will be pleased to personally advise
you on the correct style for your individuality.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
9 RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of. Training ever written I
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . • . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (23), Adelaide, company, secre-
tarial and journalistic exp., competent book-
keeper, seeks position.—96o6.
Englishman (32), exp. truck- and busrdriver,
mechanical knowledge, used to long distances,
wants employment anywhere.—964l.
English bachelor (55), war service, world
traveller, exp. accounts, seeks light clerical
duties in Islands or elsewhere. . Refs. —9600.
Words of poem “Nimmitabel on the
Monaro.”—962B.
To buy “London Illustrated News,”' March
12, 1938. Must be in good order. Will pay
double price.—9648.
Information Sought.
Does an Australian going to live in M.L.
have to have a passport, a cash bond or any
set amount of money to land there? What
are the conditions of living there, and how do
they compare with Australia? —9621.
Passports are not required by British subjects
travelling between Australia and Maori-
land. The Customs Department has the power
to refuse admittance to the Dominion to per-
sons who in their opinion may become a
charge on the State. Consequently it is ad-
visable for intending residents to have either
a definite offer of employment or sufficient funds
to maintain themselves during the time they
intend being in M.L. The amount of money
in this case is left to the discretion of the
Customs authorities. Living conditions are
very similar to those in Australia.
'=*==&**
In N. S. Wales, could a mother who has
previously given her consent (but not in writing)
to the engagement and marriage of her
daughter, aged 20, refuse to sign a written con-
sent which the father has signed ? Must the
mother sign the form of consent as well as the
father before the marriage can be performed ?
—9555.
No. Mother’s consent is immaterial where
father’s consent is given. The Marriage Act
(N.S.W.) provides that where either of the
parties to the proposed marriage is under the
age of 21 years the ceremony shall not take
place without the production to the minister
or the registrar, as the case may be, about
to celebrate the same of the “written consent
of the father of such party.” Only in the
event of the father’s death is the mother’s
consent needed.
* * * #
(1) What are the opportunities in Papua or
New Guinea for the commercial exploitation of
timber ? (2) Names and addresses of firms
interested in timber there ? (3) What are the
chances of employment in the timber industry
there ? (4) What are the undeveloped timber
countries in the world at present? How about
South America ? —9537.
(1) The exploitation of timbers from New
Guinea, mainly hardwoods, is at present being
developed by several firms. Shipments have
been made to Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
(2) Pacific Timbers, Put-Put, New Britain;
New Britain Timbers, Kabaira, New Britain;
Ryan and Sons, Inglis-street, Port Melbourne.
(3) Can’t say. Write to the firms interested.
(4) Practically the only undeveloped areas are
those entirely inaccessible. The largest of such
areas occur in Eastern Russia.
* * * *
(1) If a train was travelling 60 m.p.h. and the
guard had a rifle that would shoot a bullet at
a velocity of 60 m.p.h., is it possible for the
guard at the rear of the train to shoot the
driver, given a clear course for the bullet? (2)
If so, how is this possible? —962s.
(1) Yes. The speed of the train doesn’t affect
the problem in the least. No matter at what
speed it is running any shooting on the prem-
ises will have exactly the same result as if
the train were stationary. In the particular case
you mention the bullet has a velocity of 60
m.p.h. between marksman and target, but
a velocity of 120 m.p.h. (60 m.p.h. plus the
speed of the train) over the ground over which
the train is travelling. If that were not the
rule it would be impossible to play cricket
with the earth whizzing round at an equator
velocity of over 1000 m.p.h.
* * * *
In his Gettysburg speech in 1863, Abraham
Lincoln used the phrase “government, of the
people, by the people, for the people." Was
the same phrase earlier used by other Ameri-
cans ? —9668.
Yes. In 1830 Daniel Webster, in a speech,
used the expression: “The people’s government,
made for the people, made by the people, and
answerable to the people.” On May 29, 1850,
Theodore Parker, speaking at Boston, said:
“There is what I call the American idea
a government of all the people, by all the
people, for all the people.”
* * * *
How old is King Victor Emmanuel 111. of
Italy ? When did he succeed to the throne, and
whom did he marry? Whom did his children
marry ? —9658.
He is 68 years old, and succeeded to the
throne in 1900 on the assassination f of his
father King Humbert. He married in 1896
Princess Helene of Montenegro. His eldest
daughter, Princess Yolanda, married Count
Calvi di Bergolo on April 9, 1923. His daughter
Princess Mafalda married in September, 1925,
Prince Philip of Hesse. His eldest son mar-
ried Princess Marie Jose of Belgium on Janu-
ary 8, 1930. His daughter Princess Giovanna
married King Boris of Bulgaria in 1930.
What have been the party majorities at
British general elections since 1895 ? —9659.
1895, Unionist majority 152; 1900, Unionist
134; 1906, Liberal 354; 1910 (January), Liberal
124; 1910 (December), Liberal 126; 1918,
Coalition 249; 1922, Conservative 79; 1923,
no party majority; 1924, Conservative 211;
1929, no party majority; 1931, National Gov-
ernment 497; 1935, National Government 248.
* % * *
Following particulars concerning agricultural-
implement works in Australia: (1) Number of
factories, (2) number of employees, (3) aggregate
horse-power of engines used, (4) approximate
value of land and buildings, (5) approximate
value of plant and machinery, (6) wages paid,
(7) value of fuel used, (8) value of materials
used, (9) total value of output, and (10) value
of production ? —9673.
Figures are for the year 1935-36: (1) 143, (2)
5053, (3) 6142, (4) £608,679, (5) £600,915, (6)
£936,350, (7) £66,518, (8) £1,121,478, (9)
£2,528,088, (10) £1,340,092.
(1) German and English words of a German
proverb concerning the days of a Queen
Bertha ? (2) Who was she ? (3) What English
poet mentions her, and in what words? —9663.
(1) The German quotation is “Hin ist die Zeit
da Bertha spann,” which, translated into Eng-
lish, reads, “Gone is the time when Bertha
span.” (2) Bertha, Queen of Rudolph 11. of
Burgundy. (3) Longfellow in “Courtship of
Miles Standish” wrote the following:
....Bertha, the Spinner, Queen of Helvetia,
Who, as she rode on her palfrey, o’er valley and
meadow and mountain,
Ever was spinning her thread, from the distaff fixed
to her saddle: *
She was so thrifty and good that her name passed
into a proverb.
* * * *
How many species of the true quail are there
in Australia ? What are their names, and what
regions do they inhabit ?•—9675.
Four. The stubble-quail ( Coturnix pec-
toralis), which is closely allied to the quail of
Europe, is confined to southern Australia and
Tasmania. The brown quail or swamp quail
(Synoicus australis) is found from the Moluccas
through Australia to Tasmania; in the
latter island a larger species of brown
quail ( Synoicus ypsilophorus) also exists. The
beautiful king quail ( Excalfactoria chinensis) is
found throughout eastern Australia, its range
extending northwards through the Malay region
to China.
* * * *
What was the occasion when the cargo,
which comprised mainly spirits, of a vessel
proceeding from England to Australia and
which was shipwrecked was broached by people
on land, resulting in many deaths from alco-
holism ? —9671.
When the Royal Adelaide (1320 tons), an
iron clipper ship, from London to Sydney,
was driven ashore in a heavy s.-w. gale and was
totally wrecked on Chesil Beach, near Portland,
in the English Channel, on November 25, 1872.
Of the 35 passengers and 32 crew, all but six
were saved. Thousands of people on the beach
smashed open hundreds of cases of spirits as
they floated ashore, and by midnight most of
them were lying drunk on the beach; 20 of
them were dead next day.
* * * *
(1) What 12 municipalities or shires in the
Sydney metropolitan area have the largest
populations ? (2) What municipalities or shires
in the same area have lost population since
1911 ?—9670.
(1) Canterbury 81,350, Randwick 81,340,
Waverley 58,900, North Sydney 50,770, Mar-
rickville 45,840, Willoughby 44,330, Rockdale
40,530, Ashfield 40,100, Woollahra 36,640,
Kogarah 32,100, Kuring-gai 30,560, Leichhardt
30,340. (2) Redfern 23 p.c., Alexandria 11 p.c.,
Erskineville 9 p.c., Newtown 5 p.c., Darlington
20 p.c., Glebe 9 p.c., Balmain 12 p.c.
What literature is available on the Anglo-
Persian oil agreement ? —9575.
The following works deal with the Anglo-
Persian oil agreement: M. Balfour’s Recent Hap-
penings in Persia (1922); Sir Arnold T. Wilson’s
Persia (1932); “Dispute between Persia and
Great Britain over the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.’s
concession in Persia” in “Survey of Inter-
national Affairs, 1934,” pp. 224-247; “Agree-
ment of May 28, 1901, between the Govern-
ment of His Imperial Majesty the Shah of
Persia and William Knox D’Arcy, now held by
the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, Ltd.,” in
“League of Nations Official Journal,” vol. 13,
pt. 2, Dec., 1932, pp. 2305-8; “Agreement
between the Imperial Government of Persia
and the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, Ltd.,
April 29, 1933,” in “League of Nations Official
Journal,” vol. 14, pt. 2, Dec., 1933, pp. 1653-
60. A good article by A. C. Millspaugh, en-
titled “Persian-British Oil Dispute,” occurs in
“Foreign Affairs,” April, 1933, and an article
by A. M. Bouillon on “British Claims to
Persian Oil’' is published in “Current History,”
March, 1933.
* * * *
What claim, if any, does the Master-ih-
Lunacy have on the estate of the parents of a
son aged 35 confined in a N.S.W. mental hos-
pital ? —9604.
The Master may obtain an order, through a
Court of Petty Sessions, for the payment to
him by the father or, if dead, by the mother
of a reasonable sum weekly or monthly for or
towards the patient’s maintenance and clothing
and for care and for medicine supplied. This
is on the assumption that the patient has not
an estate of his own sufficient to maintain
him.
* * o *
Possibility of purchase or lease of small
island inside Barrier Reef, Q’land? —9557.
It is the present policy of the Q’land Govern-
ment not to make islands on the coast avail-
able for settlement or lease unless the appli-
cant is prepared to expend a considerable
amount of money in developing the particular
island desired by him for tourist purposes. In
connection with any such application the appli-
cant would require to submit full details ot
his proposal for consideration, and the Gov-
ernment would require to be assured that the
applicant has the capital readily available for
expenditure on development contemplated by
him.
* * * *
(1) My sheep-shearing machine is driven by
a 2-h.p. petrol engine, but it is proposed to
change over to an electric-motor drive. What
power would be required? (2) Cost of motor.
(3) Current consumed per hour? (4) Com-
parsion between costs of petrol at 2s. per gall,
and current at 6 d. per unit? —9617.
(1) A 2.25 kw. motor. (2) Will depend upon
the supply voltage and whether A.C. or D.C.
A 1460-r.p.m. llOv. D.C. motor and starter
would cost about £4O, but a good second-hand
machine could be purchased for approximately
half this figure. (3) 2.25 units per hour. (4)
Running costs of motor will be about Is. Hd.
per hour, while the petrol cost will be about
6d., but to this figure must be added, say,
0.3 pints of oil.
j]c H* H»
What is baking powder, and what is its
action ? —9605.
It is a substitute for yeast and is composed
of a mixture of tartaric acid and bicarbonate
of soda, a quantity of flour usually being
added to reduce the strength. When the powder
comes in contact with water, carbonic acid gas
is set free by the decomposition of the car-
bonate. The evolution of this gas when the
powder is kneaded up with dough produces the
porosity which is required to make bread light.
* * * *
(1) Collector value of N.S.W. 2d. stamp de-
picting an emu ? (2) When was this stamp
issued? (3) Name of designer? (4) Reason for
issue ? —9539.
(1) id. (2) August 30, 1888. (.3) Miss
Devine. (4) This stamp, with seven others
ranging in values .from one penny to one
pound, was issued to celebrate the centenary
of New South Wales. The 4d., 6d., Bd., Is.
and 20s. remained in circulation until 1913,
when they were replaced by the Common-
wealth series.
* * * v
Where can I obtain an instruction-book on
the 1928 Talbot car, or, failing this, technical
information ? —9591.
Try Standard Motors (Vic.), 568 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, Cl. Buckle Motors, 123-129
William-street, Sydney, might also be able to
help.
i\‘ -l' %
Who was the father of Louisa Anne Mere-
dith, who wrote a lot about the fauna and
flora of Tasmania? Where and when was she
bom, what were her chief publications and
where and when did she die? —9677.
She was the daughter of Thomas Twamley,
and was born at Hampstead, near Birming-
ham, on July 20, 1812, and published her first
book, Poems with Illustrations, in 1833. Her
chief publications were Notes and Sketches of
New South Wales, My Home in Tasmania,
Some of My Bush Friends, Over the Straits,
Our Island Home and Tasmanian Friends and
Foes, all illustrated with reproductmns of her
own drawings or water-color paintings. She
died in Melbourne on October 21, 1895.
* * * *
(1) Brief biographical details concerning
Ramon J. Sender, author of “Seven Red Sun-
days” ? (2) Spanish titles of other works by
him ? —9679.
(1) Born at Aragon, the son of a small
farmer, he was educated in a monastery school
and afterwards at Saragossa. At 18 he went
to Madrid to read law at the University, sup-
porting himself by assisting in a chemist’s
shop. He abandoned law, became entangled in
revolutionary movements, and escaped punish-
ment only because his parents claimed him as a
minor. For three years he lived with them,
editing a small country paper, and then passed
into military service in Morocco. In 1924 he
joined the staff of “El Sol,” then almost a
Republican organ, but was imprisoned for
activities against the dictatorship. In 1935
he was awarded the Spanish National Prize
for Literature. (2) I man, El Viento en la Mon-
cloa, Madrid-Moscu, Viaje a la Aldea del
Crimen, El Problema Religioso in Mejico and
El Verbose Hizo Sexo.
* * # *
First-wicket records in first-class cricket in
(1) England, (2) Australia and (3) South
Africa ? —9660.
(1) 555 by Holmes and Sutcliffe for York-
shire v. Essex in 1932, (2) 456 by Ponsford
and Mayne for Victoria v. Queensland in 1923-
24, (3) 424 by Nicholson and Siedle for Natal
v. Orange Free State in 1926-37.
* H* * *
What were the bowling figures of O’Reilly
and Ward in the first and second Tests v. Eng-
land in Australia in 1936-37 ? —9322.
First Test.
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
First Innings—
O’Reilly .. 40.6 13 102 5
Ward .. 36 2 138 2
Second Innings— .
O’Reilly .. 35 15 59 0
Ward ..46 16 102 6
Second Test.
First Innings —
O’Reilly ..41 17 86 1
Ward .. 42 8 132 2
Totals —•
O’Reilly 116.6 45 247 6
Ward 124 26 372 10
Brief Answers.
EK M • A hurricane wick lantern burning
kerosene is manufactured by the Crown Crystal .
Glass Co. Dowling-street, Waterloo (N.S.W.),
and a pressure lantern for burning kerosene or
petrol *3OO candlepower, with mantle, is manu-
factured by Bysells, Wilson House, Chariotte-
fan Author Zd Arts* Handbook, . obtainable
Montgomerie, is published by Williams and
Norgate, London, 15s. Obtainable from lead
ing booksellers D.C.: Write Principal, A
Deoartment East Sydney Technological Col-
SSa&hSrst.... 1.C.8.: Must know State
you reside in before, answering... .L.O. .A. a.
(“Banjo”) Paterson was born near Molong
(NSW.) on February 17, 1864.... J-G.L..
Write to the “Mathematical Gazette, Londpn.
W E G.: (1) The highest price for a merino
ram sold in N.S.W. was paid for Ballymena,
who was bred by Austin Wanganella and Co
and sold at five years old in 1924 toi swu
guineas. This is believed to be a world s record.
(2) Get in touch with the secretary, R.A.S.,
Endeavour House, Macquarie-place, Sydney. .. .
T W : Until the beginning of the 19th century
there existed no exact knowledge as to the
population of England, only vague estimates
being possible. A total population of one
million and a half has been estimated for the
close of the 11th century, two and half million
for the close of the 14th century, about six
million in 1700, and six million and a halt in
1750. In 1801 (the year of the first census)
the population was 8,892,536, and in 1831
13 896 797 J.L.S.: Write Director of Navi-
gation’ Adelaide W.D.: Good Friday in
1869 fell on March 26, not April 16 It tell
on April 16 in 1897, and will fall on that date
again in 1954... .F.C.G.M.: Write Golds-
brough, Mort and Co. or Wmchcombe, Car-
son, Ltd.—both Sydney....F.L.: Write Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission, 96 Market-
street, Sydney 8.H.: No restrictions now
exist to prohibit the passage of children from
any Australian State to another as a measure
against the spread of infantile paralysis....
5.8.5.: See Australian Aboriginal Place Names,
compiled by James Tyrrell; price 2s. 6d
J.K.: Further details are required before an
answer can be given... .M.G.: All contribu-
tions should be addressed to the editor. Ex-
cept in the case of stories and drawings, pay-
ment is made upon publication, and contribu-
tors must claim for payment by forwarding full
particulars to the accountant... .M.A.M.S.:
Get in touch with the Chief of the Division of
Forest Products, C.S. and 1.R., Melbourne....
A.A.: In 1887 £350 of double florins was issued
according to the Sydney Mint report for that
year, but these would be minted presumably
in London. (2) No information as to their cir-
culation. (3) There is no Australian coin of
that denomination... .G.S.A.: The sample ot
water should be forwarded to the Government
Analyst, Department of Public Health, Sydney,
for analysis... .E. 8.: Parnell, by Joan Haslip
(225. 6d.), obtainable from leading booksellers.
J L.S.: Write Principal, Melbourne Tech-
nical College, 124 Latrobe-street, Melbourne.
A.F.: Results of the 150th Anniversary
play competition were announced in the daily
press on March 1, 1938, and of the 150th Anni-
versary short story, poem, long and short
essay competitions and the Commonwealth
literary prize on April 1, 1938... .E.K.: (1)
Kikuyu grass. (2) Yes. Although compara-
tively drought-resistant, it is doubtful if Kikuyu
or any other lawn will thrive without some arti-
ficial watering in your district. Frosts cut Kikuyu
grass right back during the winter, but it
shoots again quite early in the spring. (3) Yes.
(4) No J.C.W.: (1) For information in
regard to the sale of futures tops get in touch
with Belgo-Australian Wool Co., 30 Grosvenor-
street, Sydney, brokers in that line. The
co. will give you a circular covering all par-
ticulars. (2) The levy on wool is collected to pay
for advertising and research which it is hoped
will benefit the woolgrowers. The arrangement
in regard to the collection of the. levy was in-
stigated by growers’ representatives, and its
collection is enforced by Act of Parliament. The
manufacturers’ contribution is voluntary. All
communications in regard to the fund should
be addressed to Mr. S. L. Officer, Australian
Wool Growers’ Council, 422 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne R.N.F.: Ask a chemist to supply
you with something having a pungent odor with
which to spray the places. If the places are
sprayed daily for a few days the dog will find
a new place. He should have a liberal amount
of freedom or be taken out away from the
grounds upon occasion. If his desires in this
respect are anticipated he will soon learn to
behave himself D.N.: The results of the
essay competition conducted by the London
Peace Society (N.S.W. branch) last year wfcre
as follows: First, Rev. W. D. O’Reilley, 206
Croydon-road, Croydon (N.S.W.); second, Mrs.
I M. Mclntyre, 10 Bischoff-street, West Pres-
ton (Vic.) R.H.T.: From description given
painting is probably the work of B. W. Leader,
R.A. If it is a genuine B. W. Leader it would
bring a better price in London than here. He
had a great vogue for many years, and some
of his canvases sold for several hundred guineas
each F.N.R.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, for pamphlet “Grasshopper Control”
A A.: Specimen forwarded is Martynia lutea,
one of the plants which are known as yellow-
flowered devil’s-claw. This plant is a native
of South America, and during recent years
has appeared in some districts of N. S. Wales.
It has not proved so troublesome as the
common devil’s-claw {Martynia probos-
cidea), but is likely to cause trouble in wool,
and also gets about the hocks of sheep, cattle
and horses. It is advisable to eradicate the
plant wherever possible... .A.S.: With excess
of vitamin D there may result an excess of cal-
cium and phosphorus in the blood and so over-
calcification in newly-forming bone and over-
mineralisation of the teeth. The symptoms
would be insidibus, but you would be safe in
giving the preparation in doses no larger than
those recommended... .5.8.: The cramp is a
consequence of degenerative changes which
occur in the arteries of the legs and feet ot.
elderly people, with a resulting accumulation
of waste products in the tissues. As you sug-
gest, gentle warmth is a palliative. Strenuous
exercise in any form is to be avoided.


SOUND ADVICE, based on an extensive
variety of practical experience of over 40
years, given on Business, Personal or Financial
Matters that I am competent to deal with.
Fees are in proportion to the importance of
the matter involved. No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8YV6115.
WBm
-< "D
o
a
73
0
c 0 O
L2-o°
n- n 0 r -
-T7 CO CO
0 T 3
m
Tl >
2:
Cr- to
u
z
>
C"***
ss>
TO
?>
m
o
m
*<
CQ
>
m
-<
t*
*3
CO
m >
CO
mm
fi
-<
rt- Q—
>
m
Q
u
(Q
SS
m
TO
Q) m
*4
z
o
o
CO
o
Q_
13
9 =;
<
iH
> ‘‘!ijy** !
•5-
3
CO
C
Q
o
5
Q
a
m
Q_
rt-
Q -D
a
c=
=3“
u
D
S 3
>
Q
Q_ O
mu
Q
TO
TO
<
o
m
K S
cccris
&-2 £
4
A »
U
rt
3
n>
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Though it wasn’t mentioned in the
cables or in the reports of the agitated
House of Commons debate on the
R.A.F., a German flying-boat, catapulted
from a seaplane-carrier, has made a non-
stop flight of 5313 miles from Start Bay,
Devon, to Caravellas, Brazil, and it could
have gone farther. The fact should be
noted by those Sydney housewives who
are periodically urged by political ladies
to boycott countries whose proceedings
or politics political ladies don’t like.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I’m glad to
hear that those treacherous, cow-hocked,
cantankerous canine frauds the St. Ber-
nard dogs of the Alpine hospice of that
name are to be sent to Tibet on account
of their propensity for attacking inoffen-
sive passers-by. As child-biters they
cannot be surpassed, and, as for helping
the lost traveller in the snow, they would
be more likely to eat him (provided he
was too done in to put up any kind of a
fight), drink the brandy entrusted to them
by the innocent monks, and sleep off the
debauch before returning to wag a men-
dacious tail at the hospice’s kitchen door.
They will receive some hearty surprises
if they try such games on the Tibetan
porters who use the 16,000 ft.-high Labsa
Pass. Those are tough lads, well used
to Tibetan mastiffs, any one of which
would tear the stuffing out of a whole
hospiceful of St. Bernards, and not in
the least given to fainting in the snow
unless drunk.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The home of dull unintel-
lectuality, these Antipodes? Maybe, but
in the first volume of short stories of
world standard issued by the Penguin
Books organisation in London, there are
11 yarns and one of them is by an
Australian (I. A. R. Wylie) and one by
Scobie Mackenzie, a Maorilander, who
is well-known in London as a playwright,
though he has published a couple of
novels. I. A. R. Wylie, born in Mel-
bourne, is one of the world’s best sellers.
She has a serial running in the “Saturday
Evening Post” at the moment, and long
ago crashed the Hollywood film market,
which almost buries her in cash every
time she produces a filmable yarn.
* * * *
“Cyclist”: This year is the jubilee of
J. B. Dunlop’s pneumatic tyre. Dunlop,
a Scot by birth, practised as a vet. in
Ireland, and it wasn’t until he Was about
to retire that he had an opportunity of
trying out the ideas which revolutionised
road transport and helped the develop-
ment of the internal-combustion engine
and aviation. Dunlop had Australian
interests ; he bought a sheep property,
which his brother-in-law ran, and which
is still in the family.
❖ * *
“J. Want”: Somebody has had the
temerity to suggest to the Oxford
House of Congregation that Latin as a
compulsory subject at the old university
should be abandoned. The House, when
it had recovered from its swoon, decided
by 91 votes to five to retain the lingo of
Musso’s ancestors as a hurdle which
every student must take.
* # * *
“Chucker”: A cricket expert, writing
in a Sydney paper, says men of long
experience to whom he has spoken can-
not recall any prominent English bowler
whose delivery has been questioned. In
my own experience I can name three:
Crossland, Mold and Kortright. Cross-
land made the pace so hot that Lan-
cashire dropped him. Mold, a fast left-
hander, played in three Tests in Eng-
land but was never chanced in Aus-
tralia. Kortright, a bowler of tremen-
dous pace, was confined to county
cricket.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: Young Yardley,
whose polished batting for Cambridge
against the Australians made a big im-
pression, is not the first of the family
to distinguish himself for the Light Blues.
One of his fore-elders —grandfather, 1
fancy—was one of the few players who
have twice scored centuries in the Oxford-
Cambridge match. That was “Bill”
Yardley, who notched 100 and 130 in
1870 and 1872. Later “Bill” became one
of the Boys of the Village and earned
additional fame as a regular contributor
to the “Pink ’Un.” Contemporaries were
Nathaniel Gubbins, “The Shifter,” “The
Pitcher” and “The Dwarf of Blood,”
all folk of great fame in their day.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
V.T.: Something stronger should hang on
that peg.... WJ.B.: But do miners sing “Yo,
ho, ho!”?... .T.E.McC.: Dark work....
R.W.S.: Holding one. Don’t send anything
that’s been published elsewhere, as a song or
otherwise G.McI.: Can’t pay “Black Bill.”
... .M.M.C.: Too much water in that milk
G. 8.: A flicker R.F.: Some snags in that
creek... .E.W.K.: A chuckle for point about
leaves; suggest you try Noah on a Tennessee
paper R. 8.: Tails of pigs lack verve....
J.McL.: Always interested in short stories, if
that’s what the note meant D.G.8.: “Bank
Book” doesn’t balance P.J.1.: The bird can
sing, but his plumage is moulting... .L.K.:
“And then —it stops”... .F.W.D.: Found Lewie
a dull sort of codger... .E. 0.5.: Too thin for
that length; try the idea on “Smoke-0h”....
J.S.: Just failed to make the grade... .P.D.T.:
Come, come, you didn’t really think we’d
make space for “poor, benighted little Mary.”
. ...H.L.M.: Nothing out of the ordinary there.
. ...C.L.G.: No to all questions V.T.: All
right most of the way, but it doesn’t click at
the finish... .G.N.T.: We can’t make any
promises R.P.L.: “Believe it or not.” We
don’t... .F.S.: Stale H.T.8.: Nothing about
any of those to commend them... .T.L.:
“Slight.” Exactly J.N.: “A friend dared
me to send this.” You’re very game L.D.T.:
“Horsehair and Down” won’t feather your nest.
B.T.M.: No better, no worse than usual.
L.D.Y.: Cut it and try a daily F.G.C.:
“Sketch” awkward H.C.: That sort of letter
won’t get you anywhere with anyone....
8.D.F.: “Solution’-’ very watery W.N.R.:
“ ‘Ha-ha,’ he said twirling his moustache, ‘I
see it all, she loves another.’ ” And after that,
we presume, he cast her and the child out into
the snow T.F.H.: Machine-made stuff; take
a rest for a while... .T.N.F.: Cut and revise
it, then try again B.R.C.: Not that one;
something a bit lighter perhaps... .V.F.: Runes
Hackston wrote the same thing in the Christmas
Bulletin D.C.: You’ll have to do much
better than that T.B.R.: Obscenity unneces-
sary... .B.F.L.: Dunno where you might place
it G.L.S.: Not for us B.C.L.: You’re
wasting stamps P.L.H.: He shows some
promise. Let him keep reading for a while.
. ...T.N.S.: Ask the Service Department....
W.P.T.: “Does this net anything?” No, it’s
basketed... .T.L.C.: Your knowledge of pros-
pecting is limited C.R.L.: “Do you ever
think of us authors?” Yes, and of readers,
too P.D.C.: Dreadful K.C.M.: Charac-
ters impossible N.M.R.: Don’t you think
it’s time you took the hint? M.L.P.; Vapid
wanderings... .F.L.R.: Don’t do anything like
that again... .R.W.: Nothing new in any of
those P.T.S.: Usually about three weeks.
....M.S.C., L.R.F., D.B. and O.S.: Try them
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.R • Strive for a more individual style
A. : The gent, needs repairs from the waist
up and the horse could do with a better body.
J.P.: It is no use sending in “rough outs”
unless you have had previous acceptances....
B. : No room for them except in the w.p.b.
H.H.: Any nine-ypar-old nipper should be
able to do better than that E.S.: Don’t
send in colored sketches and don’t lift your
gags from overseas papers R.L.C.: You’re
a bit late in the day with that Abyssinian car-
toon, aren’t you? G.M.: Cow cocky
appears to have been carved out of a gatepost
with a blunt penknife J. 8.: It upset our
eyesight for days after R.P.: If you promise
to keep away from a drawing-board it will
take a big load off our mind H.R.: Quite
good for a first-year student; let us hear from
you when you have completed your training.
... .E.E.: Drawing might have made the grade
if it hadn’t been burdened with that joke
W.F.8.: We have a dim recollection of having
rejected that drawing earlier in the year
J.L.S.: Others have exploited that particular
nudist-colony wheeze... .F.C.; You can cer-
tainly draw an aeroplane, but you lack a sense
of humor... .T.W.: Inter-State caricatures need
to be endorsed as to likeness by someone
known to u5....W.K.: Passable, but we have
no intention of entering that serial-strip field
P.B.T.: Uncurled, the lady would stand
about 10ft. high, while the room is only made
for midgets... .M.D.C.: Not buying stodgy
drawing and long-winded gag about weevils in
the porridge... .H. 8.: We get few quite as>
The Bulletin welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
bad as that... .M.W.: Wash drawing too dim
and streaky for reproduction T.S.: Don’t sub-
mit the rest unless they’re a lot better than the
batch sent in J.R.D.: Drawings are daintily
decorative, but jokes are dull M.R.L.:
Can’t see you squeezing any of the regulars
out... .H.L.A.: It was a case of thumbs down
with that lopsided gladiator... .J.W.: A few
inches of stipple paper would give the effect
you seek G.C.: Afraid you’re still in the
cup-and-saucer stage R.J.: It needed only
a fleeting glance to send them on their way to
the dungeon 8.M.: Linework is too
scratchy and figures are out of proportion
M.G.V.: Neat workmanship; pictures need to
fit gags better... .J.H.W.: Congratulations
on successful concealment of point of joke.


HOW SPECIALISTS
CHECK COLDS
- m m
■\' : . : :• : •. ’
"V. ••
HOW TO CHECK A COLD-QUICKLY . .
B
The left hand illustration shows your colon clogged with
acid-forming food waste. Your partial bowel movement may
be regular, but the food waste from devitalised foods has
clogged your colon. The self-poisoning has so loaded your
body with poisons that Nature, in an endeavour to get rid
of the surplus, has caused a "cold" to develop. The quick,
scientific way to check a cold is firstly get rid of a clogged
Clogged Colon colon. Laxatives are useless —they only act on the lower part
of the bowels. They do not clear away the acid poisons from the colon
walls. COLOSEPTIC, however, cleans the entire colon of waste matter as
shown in the right hand illustration. Secondly: Combat the acid that
encourages colds. Coloseptic neutralises all acid conditions
that induce colds and restores the body's alkaline reserve.
Coloseptic also activates the kidneys, skin pores and res-
piratory apparatus —other organs which the system uses to
eliminate acids and poisons. Tests have shown that Colo-
septic possesses a definite alkaline (antacid) reaction. It
helps your system to return to normal alkalescence. Cold
and "flu" germs cannot exist in an alkaline system.
ml
Unclogged
Colon
KINGSWOOD, FIA PENRITH, N.S.W. sth September, 1936.
“A short time ago 1 sent for a sample of ‘Coloseptic’ which I received, and am
that pleased with the results Pm forced to write you about it. / have felt much
better in every way and may I say ‘Full o’ Beans. I shall continue to use it, and
tell all my friends about it. I first heard about Coloseptic at Christmas lime in
Queensland. My friends there would not be without a bottle, especially in winter
time, it prevents colds."
FREE Liberal Sample of 'Coloseptic/
Mail Coupon for a Free Sample. You'll receive it by return mail, also
an interesting book telling you more about this subject of autoxima.
Quick&Ji
Way...
Leading Specialists have re-
cently discovered a method ol
combating colds, that is brand
new, quick and simple. Medical
research has revealed that most
colds, coughs, chills and "flu,"
result from a highly acid con-
dition of the system due to self-
poisoning (autoxima). A clogged
colon —where the self-poisoning
really begins arises from in-
complete evacuation of the
waste matter left over from di-
gestion. Self-poisoning quickly
reduces the body's normal al-
kaline reserve and enables cold
germs to take hold.
HOW SELF-POISONING
CAUSES COLDS ....
Modem life with its lack of open air and
exercise, its devitalized and demineralized
foods gives insufficient exercise to the
walls of the colon (large intestine). They
lose their power of normal movement and
are unable to get rid of all the poisonous
acid-forming food waste, which encrusts
in the colon folds. Essential alkalising
food minerals which are vitally necessary
to maintain the body's alkaline reserve
are not extracted from your food by the
lifeless colon walls. Also, poisonous acids
from the encrusted food waste are passed
into the blood stream still further de-
veloping a generally acid condition ol
the whole system. Conditions are then
ideal for cold and "flu" germs to gain
a firm hold.
AT ALL CHEMISTS
INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9. ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6
If unobtainable locally, write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd..
28 O’Connell St.. Sydney.
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
1C
m
*
AIDS NUTRITION
SELF-POISONING
CHECKS
m
HEALTH
BUILDS
ACIDITY
COMBATS
■ c^A V /v>
,*v° ° V
n v ~ o' \A C o> -- 4 e
4 e e6 c V>
C° V *
B. 26/5/’3B.
Twelve Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XIV.
The Parliament in which Mr. Pew
persisted in blazing like a comet, imita-
tions of falling stars not being in his line,
was dissolved on March 24, 1917. That
day found him in high spirits, for a
glorious victory had been won by the
two N.S.W. wings of the Win-the-War
party at the State elections held on March
23, and in Commonwealth politics New
South Wales is the pivotal State.
Like Mr. Pew, Mr. Dolman, the
N.S.W. Premier —Labor no longer —and
Mr. Weighed, lately leader of the Liberals,
now Nationalists, had toyed with the idea
of prolonging the life of their Parlia-
ment. This had embroiled Mr. Dolman
with the Governor, a peppery little
gentleman who had strong views about
the duties of “colonial” Governors.
Downing-street sided with Mr. Dolman
and Sir Jerry Strickadacatena retired in-
dignantly to his maternal estates in Malta.
After deep thought, Mr. Dolman de-
cided that the war could be won on the
N.S.W. front without “amending” the
Triennial Act, the Labor Opposition hav-
ing become a leaderless rabble. He was a
shrewd campaigner who, his new allies
protested when they were his implacable
enemies, had had astonishing luck in
second ballots.
Mac Sherry had also toyed with an
idea —that he would come out as a can-
didate for Banksia, a Sydney suburb.
He had been assured that he could get
the party nomination, and he went to
see Jack Burke about it.
“If I were you I’d kape out of it,
lad,” was that old hand’s counsel. “We’re
in for an almighty licking, and you’ll
only lose by a much bigger majority than
the last Banksia lad was beat by, and
do a bit of dough as well. If you could
pull the sitting member’s majority down
a thousand or so, I’d say ‘go,’ for it
would be remembered in your favor next
time; but you can’t, and a bad trouncin’
might be the ind of all your foine am-
bitions. So give it a miss this year,
Terry, me b’y.”
Terry took the veteran’s advice, con-
fining his efforts for the party to speak-
ing at an occasional street meeting and
being a scrutineer on election-day.
When not himself engaged, he went
from meeting to meeting, studying the
methods of good speakers on both sides,
baiting Ministerialists and helping his
own men with timely applause. When
the occasion didn’t call for organised
interruption or encouragement, he en-
joyed being a silent spectator.
One night he was present at an open-
air meeting in a North Shore suburb
where a Labor candidate was fighting a
forlorn hope. The speaker was the
member, old Colonel Gobbler, who had
led his troops to the opening of the
Commonwealth Parliament in 1901 and
there protected the King and Queen —
then Duke and Duchess of York
against all their enemies.
Colonel Gobbler claimed to be a
Liberal, though really a Tory of the
most crusted description. The alliance
with Mr. Dolman’s Labor group had
been too sudden for an elderly gentle-
man whose mind worked slowly to adopt
a new mode of attack; so he continued
to denounce the Labor party on the old
lines and in the old terms.
“What do we Lib’rals stand for?”
Colonel Gobbler boomed. “The sanctity
of the marriage tie! ”
A woman standing near Mac Sherry
laughed scornfully.
“The sanctity of the marriage tie and
the pewrity of the ’omethe orator went
on. “Those are the principles of the
Lib’ral party, and it will be all up with
them if you put these Labor fellows in.
“You ought to talk,” the woman inter-
posed.
Then, addressing Mac Sherry, she said
in a voice loud enough for a hundred
people to hear, “I’ve washed for the
old humbug many a time, and I’ve had
to shut me washhouse door on him often.
If he comes within arm’s length of a
woman he can’t keep his paws off her,
even if she’s washing his dirty duds.”
Colonel Gobbler was a trifle deaf, and
he had left his spectacles at home. He
didn’t recognise the indignant washer-
woman, and though he dimly heard the
laughter that went up when she had told
her artless tale he couldn’t make out what
it was all about.
Colonel Gobbler went on droning about
the sanctity of the marriage tie and
the purity of the home and the bonds of
Empire—all of which, he insisted, would
be in deadly peril if those Labor scoun-
drels were returned.
The Germans had retreated to a new
and stronger line in France ; and Mr.
Pew decided to copy their strategy. He
retired from the N.S.W. electorate from
which he had put the Case for Labor
since 1901, and took up a position in
Victoria.
This had not been bargained for by
the Liberals. Some of them grumbled
that if Mr. Pew’s hold on his constitu-
ency was so weak that he had to bolt
his ex-Labor followers must be in even
worse case ; in effect, the Liberals were
giving everything and gaining nothing.
But it was now too late to withdraw from
the arrangement their leaders had made.
Before the Lab.-Lib. Ministry was
sworn in, Mr. Pew had gone through
the motions of inviting Mr. Intruder
and other old Labor associates to join
a real National Government. When he
took the stump a few weeks later, he
thundered that their party was “made up
of men either hostile to or lukewarm on
the war; indifferent to the Empire or
openly opposed to it; men who forget
that their duty is to Australia and put
other interests before that of their coun-
try. They appeal to all that is narrow,
mean and selfish ; they come to destroy,
not to build.”
Mr. Pew was reminded that the mem-
bers thus assailed had constituted two-
thirds of the party when he made it
the subject of a panegyric to the duchesses
of England. He had held forth to the
duchesses on “the spiritual influences that
dominate the thought of Australian
Labor, devoted to the sublime causes of
Truth and Justice.” But nobody ever
disconcerted Mr. Pew by throwing his
own words at him.
By common consent of his friends, Mr.
Pew was at the top of his form in that
campaign.
For the doubting and the timid he had
pledges, such as “I pledge myself, the
Government and the party not to enforce
conscription, either by statute or by regu-
lation, during the lifetime of the forth-
coming Parliament.” For old friends,
become opponents, licks with the rough
side of his tongue were never wanting.
Mr. Higgins, for instance, was in-
formed that he had “a mind like a toad
in a cesspool.” A belated discovery, for
Mr. Higgins, like Mr. Pew, was a Labor
member of the 1901 vintage. He had
been Mr. Pew’s Treasurer till he left
the Ministry on account of the referen-
dum regulations. In process of time he
was to be taken into Mr. Pew’s favor
again as a Nationalist.
One of the Irishmen who followed Mr.
Pew and Mr. Dolman was Mr. McGarri-
gal, a Legislative Assemblyman. Mr.
McGarrigal toured his State giving volun-
tary testimonials to the Labor Senators
who were standing for re-election and
their running mate. “I know ’em well,’
he said. “Fine min; the divil better.
Wan’s a wowser, another’s an anarchist
and the third’s an atheist.”
Here and there the Labor Opposi-
tion put up soldiers who had been in-
valided home. It made no difference, for
the National party carried every State.
Even Queensland rejected the Senate
candidates supported by the Ryan-Theo-
philus Government, though that Gov-
ernment was presently to show that it was
well dug-in.
A detractor of the Ryan-Theophilus
Government asserted that it had more
concern for cheap chops than for the
great question of reinforcements. A
defender admitted the cheap-chops im-
peachment (the losses on the cheap chops
from the State farms and shops were
charged up to posterity), but protesteu
that Mr. Ryan and a colleague, Mi
Bunter, had spoken from recruiting plat-
forms only to be “insulted.
In the hour of victory Mr. Pew w as
comparatively calm. Not so Mr. Clue ',


The Woman's Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE .......
On Sale Every Friday .
-3d.
SHE WAS A HUMAN
POISON FACTORY
Full of Uric Acid and Unable
to Move
If all your joints were so stiff with uric acid
that you thought yourself fortunate even to be
able to sit all day in a chair, you would do
anything to get well. This woman had all her
teeth out —but still she suffered, until she took
Kruschen. She writes: —
“I have been taking Kruschen Salts for
three months. When I started, I had rheuma-
tism in both knees. They were very swollen
—just like puddings. I could not rise from a
chair without assistance, and to go upstairs was
agony. I have been into hospital and had my
teeth extracted. Afterwards, I started taking
Kruschen. Now I can run upstairs and kneel
as much as I like. I have just got another
bottle of Kruschen—after taking a dose I can
work like a horse.”—(Mrs.) H.S.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the in-
gredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents of these Salts assist Nature to expel the
dissolved crystals through the natural channels.
fd
II
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
Built with watch-like pre-
cision the Conklin Nozac
presents the revolutionary
Cushion Point a new
scientific development that
makes writing easier and
smoother. Other outstand-
ing Conklin advantages in-
clude self-filling device that
“Winds Like a Wat'ch”—
new controlled feed vis-
ible ink supply exclusive
Conklin Word Gauge—
beautiful penline design.
Before buying any pen, see
the Conklin Nozac a
truly precision pen.
Available in Black, and
in Grey, Green and Red
Pearl.
The Pens are priced at
22/6, 30/- and 40/- each. I
Pencils to match, 17/6
and 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Cases 40/-, 55/- and
65/-.
Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every pen—
4oz. Bottles, All Colors—
1/- per Bottle.
From Stationers, Jewellers
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIB
Shop all Europe in one centre. Over
8000 exhibitors from 25 countries,
including Great Britain, assemble at
Leipzig for your convenience. Join
the 280,000 trade buy ers who visit
Leipzig Fair twice a year.
AUTUMN FAIR
begins
AUGUST 28tK
Comprising General Samples, Textiles,
Office Equipment, Furniture, Sports
Goods, Photographic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and
Aski Trading Marks) and Letters of
Introduction available of LARS G.
BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia
ior the Leipzig International Industries
Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O.
Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL,
Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; J. M. BEIERS, 305 Queen Street,
Brisbane; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shen-
ton Park, West Australia.
nd Departmental Stores everywh l
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
the Liberal leader, now the No. 2
Nationalist. To the reporters Mr. Cluck
said, “The sun of Labor has set behind
the hills, never to reappear.” Mr. Cluck
had begun public life as a Labor member.
The Administration had exploited
during the campaign, and the Opposition
had been embarrassed by, the feeling
against the I.W.W.
Introduced from the United States in
the first decade of the century, this queer
revolutionary movement made little head-
way until the war had unsettled people’s
minds. Steadygoing Australians saw no-
thing attractive in its programme, in the
odd characters who expounded it —new-
comers, for the most part, English, Irish,
Clydeside Scots and Jews —or in their
strange talk about “sabotage,” “sab-
cats, “the shoe rampant,” “saboting
the boss” and the like.
But as war disillusion grew the I.W.W.
became active and mischievous. It threw
itself into a coal strike which broke out
in New South Wales in 1916. This was
“settled” by Mr. Pew—a local Judge ap-
pointed under a War Precautions regu-
lation ascertained what the strikers would
take and granted it to them in an award
—but the I.W.W. claimed all the credit
for “the victory.” From New South
Wales it spread into the other States and
tackled the great Australian Workers’
Union on its own ground.
The police and the military began to
take notice of the I.W.W. A country
constable arrested a foul-mouthed I.W.W.
blackguard; a few days later he was
murdered.
Forged five-pound notes were found in
circulation. Three I.W.W. men were con-
victed of forgery and two others of utter-
ing. The two escaped from Tamworth
gaol after felling a warder and beating
him on the head till he was half dead.
They were recaptured, and one, who had
confided to his confederate that he had
killed a man, was placed on trial for the
murder of a Greek restaurant-keeper in
Sydney, convicted and hanged.
Before he was executed the fellow said,
“I was never in trouble till I joined the
I.W.W. Curse the 1.W.W.! It made a
criminal of me and many others besides, ’
And there had been mysterious mine
explosions in the place (Tottenham) in
which the policeman was murdered ; wil-
ful damage to the cruiser Brisbane, then
under construction in Cockatoo Dock,
Sydney, and fires. Particularly fires.
Rags and cotton-waste soaked in a
chemical were deposited in Sydney
drapery and other stores. In three
months of 1916 property valued at
£500,000 was destroyed.
Before the election was over, copies of
“Sunset,” an I.W.W. magazine contain-
ing a boastful account of I.W.W. pro-
ceedings in New South Wales, had arrived
from the U.S.A. The writer declared that
I.W.W. men had preached rebellion and
threatened to burn down Sydney until
certain imprisoned coal strikers were
released. “Night after night,” he wrote,
“the incendiary work went on in Sydney.
Terrorised by the handful of industrial
rebels, the Commonwealth was forced to
yield.”
In the meantime 12 members of the
organisation had been tried in Sydney on
three counts: (1) conspiring to set fire
to premises ; (2) conspiring to pervert the
course of justice and to secure the escape
from prison of one Tom Barker; and
(3) seditious conspiracy.
One of the 12 was serving a sentence
for the note-forgery business. He was con-
victed on the third count. Seven others
were found guilty on all three counts
and four on the first and second counts.
Justice Pring imposed terms of imprison-
ment ranging from five years to 15 years.
To him the I.W.W. was “an association
of criminals of the very worst type and
a hotbed of crime.”
Then began an agitation which was
to survive the I.W.W. itself. It was
angrily declared that the convicted men
had been “railroaded to gaol” (they must
have been gratified at this use of their
own jargon), and the declaration was re-
peated many times during the next four
years.
First the case was taken to the Court
of Criminal Appeal. That tribunal upheld
(the convictions of ten men, quashing those
of two on the second count and reducing
their sentences from 15 to 10 years.
Then a Supreme Court Judge who had
not been associated with trial or appeal
was appointed, under royal commission,
to review the evidence and consider post-
trial allegations against the police and
witnesses for the Crown.
Part of his Honor’s report was not
complimentary to police methods or
the character of three witnesses, but he
reported that “no fresh facts have been
elicited raising any doubt in my mind as
to the guilt of the convicted men.”
Finally, in 1920, a State Labor Gov-
ernment being now in office, a Judge
was brought from Tasmania to go into
the cases again. This gentleman de-
scribed the three witnesses in question as
“liars and forgers.” He recommended
that one man should be obliged to serve
his full term, that another should have his
sentence reduced, and that the rest should
be released —six because he held they
had been wrongfully convicted and four
because he thought they had been in
prison long enough.
All Tasmania’s recommendations were
accepted, and the ten came out of gaol,
to be hailed as martyrs and given a
Sydney Town Hall reception.
{To be continued.)
A MIXED GRILL.
“Dogspike”: A Darwin contributor to
the “S.M.H.” says that on the N.T.’s
solitary railway line “a jargon distinct
from any other in Australia has been
developed” as the result of isolation.
Amongst other localisms, one learns,
fettlers are invariably referred to as
“snake-charmers.” I heard the term used
quite 40 years ago in Westralia, and I
suspect it is much older than that.
. . * *
Dickie Beech : As an oarsman, ama-
teur and professional, from school pairs
to club eights, from ships’ boatraces to
fishing-dinghy events, and none too sue-
cessful at any of them, I can muster up
no admiration whatever for the perform-
ances at Head-of-the-River school races
The rowing is good, but the hysterical
nonsense about brave lads collapsing over
their oars or bursting into tears only
means that they are either physically
unfit for the job or out for publicity.
Lots of fishing lads do more, now and
then, as part of the day’s work, and I’ve
yet to see one of them faint or blub.
They wouldn’t get another chance if
they did such sissy tricks ; and they’d be
ashamed to, anyhow.
# * * *
“Xo”: Cornered in a Melbourne street
by an acquaintance who knows I come
from Auckland, I was assured of his
profound sympathy with that city.
“Things must be serious over there,” he
said, “when Australia has to meet rush
orders for a shipment of Epsom salts!”
I mentally labelled him as a pest to be
avoided in future; but he was right:
Auckland did run out of Epsom salts.
Appears the purgative is being used in
quantity to combat an outbreak of facial
eczema—among cows, pigs and sheep.
* * * *
“Realty”: Brisbane had its real-estate
lottery also (B. 5/5/’3B) in 1893. For my
quid ticket I won two 16-perch allot-
ments somewhere about the site of Yeer-
ongpilly golf links to-day. I never saw
them, and the local authorities eventu-
ally got them for unpaid rates.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Neville Cardus is busy
burbling over the Australian Eleven, and
one of his recent comments suggests the
Lancashire lad is weakening. In two
successive paragraphs he says that to
match Hassett’s style and all-round mas-
tery “we have to take Hammond at his
best,” and that “Hassett also fits into
the Sandham category.” Hammond we
all know. Sandham, here with Gilligan
in 1924-25, was a typical stodgy pro-
fessional, who obviously based his style
on Hobbs and fell far short of his ob-
jective.
“Old Q.”: A player in a Union Rugby
match at Sydney complained that he had
been bitten on the hand during a scrum.
It recalls the days of old, the days of gold,
when a favorite trick of front-row men
who found they were being beaten for
the ball was to cover the eyes of the
hooker with their hands. One enraged
individual subjected to this treatment pro-
tested by spitting copiously into the palm
held over his face. His enemy was equal
to the emergency. He rubbed the con-
tents of his hand all over the face of
his chastened adversary, so all ended
happily.


bills? How, with the caitiff Wellington continuing to
beget bastard settlements all over the place, could
we expect God to save the Queen or anyone else?
Blessed be he who expecteth nothing for Doodlum
Buck was all he’d get.
“Who, gentlemen . . . who, I say, is the ravening
wolf coming down like the Assyrian on our fold?
Grey! Who’s the one-eyed Cyclops who can never
see any but himself . . . and that squinting? Grey!
Gentlemen ... I put it to the vote. Grey!” Sir
Winston shouted it, quite out of breath, grabbing his
wig as it covered him up like a mask.
Conscious of a slight disappointment, the
gentlemen genteelly cushioned impending trouble by
voting Grey responsible for everything. They voted
him responsible for Auckland’s bankruptcy, and for
the settlement in 1849 of Dunedin, at the far end of
the South Island, although this was so near the South
Pole that only such a body of stoics as the Free
Church of Scotland would have fathered the adven-
ture. They voted him responsible for the four ships
bringing the Canterbury Pilgrims at the end of 1850
under the blessing of the Church of England . . .
“Church! Church! Don’t every scurvy male-
factor hide under the skirts of the Church?” bel-
lowed Sir Winston, who disapproved of the way
Bishop Selwyn and Judge Martin stood together with
Grey for the Maoris.
Major Henry, whom Peregrine had sent to the
South Island to buy land when the first Canterbury
lots were put up, hastened to assure the company that
so many unchurched Australians had followed the
Pilgrims over the Port Hills from Lyttelton and
settled like flies on the flanks of the infant specula-
tion that it was fast becoming quite secular and very
abusive among its marshes and howling nor’-westers.
Yet in time we might be glad of Canterbury,
declared the Major, hoping that Jermyn had gone, but
what with smoking oil-lamps and smoking gentlemen
how could one be sure? If gentlemen realised the
placidity of the Canterbury Maoris, of whom there
were so very few ; the courage of enterprising colonists
driving sheep and cattle into wildernesses of stony
river beds, level horizons of yellow tussock, long
ranges succulent with snowgrass and frequently find-
ing colonists still more enterprising already estab-
lished and building huge stations for their fattening
flocks ...
BUT the gentlemen refused to be glad of Canter-
bury, which sounded like a chimera, since all the
New Zealand they knew appeared to be on edge, both
■morally and geographically; and Peregrine was very
acid about Dunedin, which was already at shipbuild-
ing, so that southern whalers were bound to make it
their landfall, to the great detriment of Auckland. In
fact, Auckland had become Cinderella, and with only
Grey for a fairy godmother New Zealand’s fate was
sealed. Peregrine, who had been considerably rattled
by Jermyn, foresaw England turning such a discom-
fortable and luckless country over to France or any-
one else who would take her; and then Major Henry,
heartened by seeing Jermyn flinging out of the room
with his hat on the back of his head, had the most
brilliant inspiration of his life.
“I protest,” he cried, getting up on a chair with
some difficulty, “against such pusillanimity. Even
Nature herself bows to the onslaught of man when
rightly directed. Australia has discovered gold in her
bowels. Why cannot we? How do we know that at
this very moment New Zealand is not secreting
beneath our feet riches beyond the wealth of Araby?”
After such a flight he mopped his forehead, while
everyone made surprised and enthusiastic noises, look-
ing to Peregrine for a lead. Feeling the tribute, he
kept them waiting like a god in a frock-coat, saying
at last: “I suggest that a reward be offered for the
discovery of gold. It must be large enough to attract
enterprise. I am willing to put down one hundred
pounds as a nucleus to form a private company.”
Here, one felt, was the real Mr. Peregrine Lovel,
of Lovel Hall. None other could offer half as much.
Grey would be shut out and, should paying gold be
found, the company —with Peregrine clearly headed
for managing director —would be in a position to dic-
tate terms to a bankrupt Government.
“Damn it,” muttered Major Henry, “I can’t like the
fellow, but I have to respect him.” Yet so few things
have to be respected, he thought, cheering up as every-
one rushed to subscribe, and broke the remaining
chairs during subsequent demonstrations, which they
conducted as though gold was already in their
pockets.
I.
ILTHOUGH ladies intent on shopping came
round to Commercial Bay by rowboat,
there was no help but legs (which mustn’t
be mentioned, however they ached) to get
one up the steep twisting little streets.
___ Caroline made heavy weather of them with
her five long fashionable petticoats and
full plum-color poplin skirts sweeping up quite a tor-
nado of dust and refuse as she bowed right and left,
just like royalty.
Here were smart officers
saluting, Captain Macrae in
full Highland rig, with his
great brooch like a sema-
phore in the brilliant light;
Lord Calthorpe (such an ex-
quisite that he wore a tartan
shawl in the hottest weather
and looking quite brisked up
since his engagement); Sir Winston in yachting cos-
tume, his straw hat floating a blue ribbon and his old
green umbrella showing the spikes. Even newly-
arrived immigrants in smocks and chin-whiskers, and
Corny Fleete with no waistcoat beneath his tussore
coat, received their share of Caroline’s graciousness.
“One must be kind to all,” she said to Sophia
carrying the heavy basket. Surely the world needed
kindness in these terrible days, with top-hats becom-
ing daily more napless, and elastic-side boots (the
only elegant wear for gentlemen) having an unhappy
habit of sagging round the ankles, and Suchong at
sixteen shillings and more the pound . . . although one
could help out considerably with leaves of the. native
tea-tree, which must be medicinal since they tasted so
unpleasant.
She stopped to speak to lermyn lounging outside
the little “Chronicle” office like any other young fop.
Jermyn, said Caroline’s maid, had been censored or
something at the Institute last night, and so one must
be kind. Besides he was really very handsome,
although looking wilder than before he went away.
“I trust you were not seasick on your voyage,
lermyn. You look unwell,” she said, passing on to
Mr. Brown’s, where you could buy a bright Belgian
candle for a farthing, and nudging Sophia to look
away because Mrs. Pinshon was there. Long ago
ladies had agreed not to recognise each other when
shopping in the cheaper places, meeting directly after
in the street as though they had not encountered for
months. So gentility was kept up very convincingly,
and on washing-days all blinds were drawn as a polite
hint to callers.
“One must have biscuits for a dinner-party.
These broken ones are cheaper. I could say you fell
down with the basket, Sophia,’ said Caroline.
. Outside, they met Sally with Tiffany. And there
was Nick Flower, looking so rough in old white ducks
and short trader’s jacket that Caroline didn’t feel she
need be kind to him. But, most surprisingly, he
stopped, pulling off his old hat and asking if he might
speak privately to Mrs. Lovel. Sally stepped aside ;
came back presently, prettily flushed under her blue
bonnet.
“Caroline, will you be so kind as to take Tiffany
home?” she said, and walked off with Nick Flower,
accepting his hand to help her over holes and tussocks.
“Well, I never did!” exclaimed Caroline with
so much meaning that Tiffany said defiantly:
“She’ll just have gone to be good to somebody.
She’s always doing that.”
“My poor child, how little you know of life, and
I pray you never will,” said Caroline, hurrying on
the little girls in the hope of seeing where Sally was
going. But she lost her on the waterfront. An
assignation. A liaison. And with that creature! What
a mercy Caroline lived near enough to watch Sally.
Probably Peregrine had put her there for that very
purpose. Poor Peregrine! But she would help him
all she could, and discover everything before she told
him.
“Home,” she said majestically to the Maori boat-
man, whom she had put into livery before Peregrine
thought of doing such a thing. What kind of home
had poor Peregrine now? Indeed, the wickedness
of the world was beyond belief . . .
SALLY, so used to ministering at Kororareka, had
not hesitated when Nick Flower told her about
Kati. “I have locked her in my office ... and there’s the
fellow waiting in his dirty little lugger in the stream.
If anyone can stop her it’s you, Mrs. Lovel. The
man’s married,” said Flower, stern as ever, yet with
anxious eyes. For long Sally had known that the big
awkward child meant a good deal to Nick Flower.
“I’ll do what I can,” she promised, and did it
to some present purpose. But how can a girl like
that ever keep good, she thought, pitifully; silent as
the boatman rowed her home, and Sored
the little Official Bay jetty long after he ha<l moored
the boat and gone away up ther pattn Of a mornmg
ladies in second-best gloves and shawls did business
here with the marketing Maons, exchangt g
and petticoats for so many kits of kumeras and
onions, so many great yellow f ourds “ d b “ ndleS °
Indian corn and flax-kits full of ripe peac .
To-night there was only old Rangitoto across th
“sing from the blue with the “born o
plums. Only a great ship going out with all its sails
set laden with ox-horns and ambergris green hides,
casks of oil and tallow and kauri spars. Such achmgs
they brought to exiled hearts, these gallant queens of
distance; racing in their whiteness a § al " st the "“’
growing yearly in beauty, grace and speed since theie
was now so much wool to carry from Australia, so
many cargoes from New Zealand.
The cluck-cluck of oars sounded faint like a ghost
rowing round Britomart Point. But it was no ghost
rowing into the jetty through a green fragrance fanned
by the wings of home-going birds. Oh, the strange
lightening of the sky so that the dim west turned
gold with the coming of Jermyn . . .
(To be continued .)
Murray River Memories
BY WILL LAWSON.
—nr HERE was a time when there were a hundred
f steamers plying out of Goolwa, Mannum and
V j Morgan, at the lower end of the Murray in S.A.,
and Echuca at the “top.” In those days no
railways tapped the river trade except that from Me
bourne to Echuca, 150 miles long.
There was great rivalry between the “top-end”
boats of E*chuca and the “bottom-enders.” On the
Darling the rival steamers raced and fought tor
cargoes. Wentworth, at the junction of the Darling
and Murray, was the dividing point of the trade routes
of the Murray, up or down river. There in the high-
river season the wharves and river banks were lined
with steamers. On the river flats were camped the
teams which brought the freights to the steamers
horse-teams, camel-teams and bullock-teams. Went-
worth hummed with business, and it was expected to
have a railway soon and become the hub of that
part of Australia. To-day Mildura, seventeen miles
away on the Victorian side, has stolen its glory.
In the steamer days tough old skippers took their
tough old craft to headwaters where it seems incredible
that a vessel could float. The Brewarrina, built and
owned by Captain George White, carried stores right
up to Mungindi, on the Queensland border, during
the 1890 flood. On her return trip, with the current,
she was almost unmanageable, and crashed through
trees and branches till every scrap of her deckhouses
was removed and only her funnel and towing post
stuck up above the deck. Similar trips were made
on the Upper Murray to get food to the tinminers
when roads were bad.
There were mishaps to these old steamers and
their crews. At Kelpie’s Leap, 140 miles below
Echuca, the steamer Kelpie, under the command of
Johnny Innes, was faced with a sand-bar too shallow
to float over. Her skipper got a full head of steam up
and charged -the bar, literally jumping his steamer
over it.
One of the closest calls was when a barge being
towed by the Corrong stuck suddenly and the sudden
strain on the towing post caused it to carry away.
This pulled down the funnel, which shot past the
mate’s nose. Such good luck did not favor Captain
Archie Manning when the towrope got under the
bumpkin at the stern. When he went to help clear
it, the bumpkin flew up, striking him on the head and
killing him.
The towing posts were set amidships, higher than
the funnels, and braced to every part of the hull by
chains or wire ropes. The, towline was thus givert
freedom of all obstacles, no matter how the steamer
turned. And when the barges stuck the strain was
terrific.
It was a hard life and work was endless. At
night large oil lamps with reflectors lit up the river
ahead, but snags could not always be seen, and many
boats and barges were sunk.
Another source of danger was the boilers —
many of them were old locomotive boilers and worn
very thin —which had a habit of blowing up. There
is a yarn about two men who bought an old steamer,
one of them being rated as engineer, though he knew
little about the work, while the other was captain.
One day the engineer came on deck and said to his
mate, “What do you do when there’s no water in the
boiler?”
“Here, take the wheel,” yelled the skipper and
dived overboard before she blew up.
In the heyday of the river steamers there were
three large firms running boats out of Echuca —
Cramsie, Bowden and Co., William McCulloch and
Co., and Permewan, Wright and Co. The principal
captains were Gus Lindquist, Johnny Innes, Jimmy
Dickson (his ship, the Rodney, was burned by strikers
off Polia woolshed on the Darling), Charlie Hill, Bill
Keir, Tommy Freeman, Billy Carlyon, Charlie Cant-
well, Bob Strang, Bill Rowlands, Davey Bowers,
Charlie Payne and Gus Pearce.
To-day only a few wool-boats, wood-boats and
one passenger steamer run from Echuca, though Mil-
dura has a showboat, converted from the hull of the
old Avoca, which Captain Tracey and his family run
ten miles up the river on summer nights for the enter-
tainment of dancers. Perhaps sometimes the show-
boat passes the ghosts of the old boats, or hears them
blowing for the woodpiles round the bends.


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning — Sir Herbert Barker.
MM
ilili:
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
•:v.
m
The Baroness Orcz\.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
* >
»
Dr. F. W. Norwood.
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system ot
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
8
air Arthur
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than 1
can reckon.”
a
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—it make 3
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his work
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex’’
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration —Organising Power
—Observation —Directive Ability
—Perception —Presence of Mins!
—Optimism —Courage
—Cheerfulness —Self-Confidence
—Judgment —Self-Control
—lnitiative —Tact
--Will Power —Reliability
—Decision —Driving Force
—Originality —Salesmanship
—Resourcefulness —Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day ot spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, then-
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is e£*;y
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelmati
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 39,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Telman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing:. Its
headquarters are in London, and Its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders JLane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute,
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
jsst
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
tey
c°
A&'
e
\s s
N o^
.•■ c v° \^S^V‘


ER
c
\9^2
s*
A
TYPE
FOR
EVERY
PURPOSE
More men are wearing TOP
DOC Pyjamas than ever before.
TOP DOG has introduced in
Pyjamas a new smartness—a
new comfort—and a standard
of quality unsurpassed.
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed
•V: 'A. J*
Vf- ..
I
When it’s
MEN’S WEAR
MEN SWEAR
*g§Jq
o
D
y
iV
’jIIMBL
m
%S*
*s
\\s\
m
K
\\\W
m
WSig
w
WORK
TROUSERS
IN
PLAIN GREY
TWIST
Your Local Store will
be pleased to show
you the latest in
TOP DOG
PRODUCTIONS
n
Pc?
P.EGD
Mm
m
CALL IN AND COMPARE OUR VALUES
YOU'LL SEE HOW WELL WE PLEASE
IN THIS DEPARTMENT.
TOP DOG PRODUCTS
sf
WE SHOW
THE LATEST
IDEAS IN HATS,
SHIRTS, TIES, SOX
AND MANY OTHER
LINES YOU'LL WANT
FOR HARD WEAR
m
i-.
m
mm
SS ■
m
TOP
DOG
WORKSHIRTS
—unequalled for rough
heavy work.
Cut on generous pro-
portions—giving absolute
freedom.
TOP DOG
Every Garment Guaranteed
