

SAVE MONEY with
H
N
mm
m
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
the
THREE in ONE
money-saving family
remedy for quickly curing
COUGHS
COLDS-CATARRH
BRONCHITIS-SORE THROATS S ’FLU
Costs 2 1- & Saves £’s
You save lots of money by simply adding a 2/- bottle of concentrated Heenzo
(obtainable at all chemists and stores) to sweetened water, thus making a large
family supply equal in quantity up to £l*s worth of the best ready-made-up
remedies for chest, nose and throat ailments. It is important to remember that
Heenzo does not contain any poisons, therefore is equally good for young and
old as an internal remedy for coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
For immediate relief from catarrh and colds in the head, exhaustive tests have
proved that there is nothing in the world better than just a few drops of made-up
Heenzo in each nostril, night and morning, whilst for the treatment of sore
throats made-up Heenzo used as a gargle is unsurpassed.
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO.
fg
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
i'
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief .
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3049.
Wednesday, July 20, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street. SYDNEY.
The Red Page
JEAN BATTEN'S FLIGHTS.
Maoriland’s Jean Batten tells her story in My Life
(Harrap), a flat, impeccable little book that will none
the less command sincere admiration and have school-
girls parachuting from dormitory windows with a
vision of roaring crowds, orchids, celebrities and
decorations floating before their eyes.
Since 1934 Jean Batten has flown solo from
England to Australia and back, solo from England
to Brazil, solo from England to Maoriland and alone
again from Australia back to England.
Brazil has given her the Southern Cross (an order,
though it might well have been a constellation);
France has made her a Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor; England has spared her a civil servant’s
C.B.E. Her list of medals and trophies would make
any aviator’s feathers grow backwards.
Now 28, she was born in an appropriately vola-
tile bit of M.L. —Rotorua, where the geysers grow.
When she was four her dentist father extracted the
family to Auckland. Kingsford Smith’s first Tasman
flight set her mind on flying, and when she was 19
she went to England and won her wings with London
Aeroplane Club. Even before she left M.L. she had
in mind an England-Australia flight, and as soon as
she got her A license in England she tried to get
backing. Failing, she returned to M.L., but missed
there, too. In England again she managed in 1933
to acquire half a second-hand Moth, and reached
India before a connecting-rod broke and penetrated
the crankcase. She made a forced landing, and the
adventure was over.
Her second attempt was another failure. In a
£260 fifth-hand Moth, with a cruising speed of 80
m.p.h., she ran out of petrol over Rome, and landed
miraculously in the darkness on a small field sur-
rounded by wireless masts. The machine was dam-
aged, and a week later she flew back to England to
make a fresh start.
This time, despite a fair share of troubles, she
was successful, reaching Darwin in the old 80 m.p.h.
Moth in 14 days hours. Duststorms in the desert,
petrol at six shillings a gallon at a French outpost,
bumps so bad that once, taken by surprise, she was
nearly flung out of the ’plane, were the worst of her
difficulties until she was over India, when an oil leak
could have brought her to disaster. After that, the
monsoon:
The rain thundered down on the wings and visibility
was so bad that the wingtips were not visible and the
coastline was completely blotted out. It was like flying
from day into night, and in the semi-darkness the lumin-
ous instruments glowed in an eerie green from the dash-
board. The cockpit was flooded. It was distinctly un-
pleasant flying blind at such a low altitude. The engine
gave an occasional splutter, then regained its steady roar.
On the journey back to England, flying over the
Timor Sea above “a cloud carpet tinted orange by
the dust,” the engine suddenly failed.
Almost fascinated, I watched the altimeter —5000,
4500, 4000 feet. The last few minutes were torture as
I neared the water. The propeller was still just ticking
over, and suddenly, with a noise that was nearly deafen-
ing in the stillness and like a great sob, the engine
burst into life again.
Dust had temporarily blocked the petrol system.
Such hairbreadth escapes from destruction occurred
on every long flight: a throttle that jambed so that she
could not land ; storms that obscured dangerous
mountains ; lightning flickering blue at the base of
the propeller; landing-grounds treacherous with rocks
or stumps or surrounded with trees; aerodromes that
lacked facilities for night flying. Obviously she risked
her life unnecessarily in using an old machine; and
just as obviously some aviation authorities throughout
the world are needlessly adding to fliers’ dangers by
neglecting landing-grounds and equipment.
The book demonstrates the utter folly of solo
attempts on records: there is a limit to human endur-
ance, and Jean Batten admits that she was as near as
could be to disaster through overtaxing her strength.
Returning to England after her last superb flight to
Maoriland, she was constantly at the point of falling
asleep in the air:
As time wore on I grew increasingly tired, and not
far from Jodhpur a terrible desire for sleep nearly
overcame me. The air in the confined space of the cock-
pit was pervaded with petrol fumes. There had been
little opportunity for rest since I had left Australia, and
my eyes, swollen from the glare, felt like redhot coals.
Only sheer willpower and the fact that I was so superbly
fit kept me awake.
Her account of that flight—four days seventeen
hours to Singapore from England, another day to
Darwin, down to Sydney and across to her native
Auckland 11 days after she had first hopped off in the
darkness —is dramatic reading, with all the dangers
of storms, night landings, a petrol leak over the
Tasman, and Mount Egmont, which should have been
her beacon, shrouded in rain.
The writing is rarely good ; the only times it
evinces real feeling are when she writes of the loneli-
ness of the aviator, solitary over the oceans and
continents:
Blue sky and sunshine above, and below, as far as
1 could see, stretched a white carpet. For company
1 watched the shadow of my aeroplane on the clouds
beneath. Often on my flights I had watched that
shadow speeding along, sometimes silhouetted against
the sands of the Syrian desert, sometimes on white
clouds such as these, high above some lonely part of
the world.
Apart from a few such passages the book has
hardly a touch of the personal, unless a quaint state-
ment that she refused to be photographed with some
native children until they were “properly dressed” can
be counted. Rumors of marriage she dismisses in one
brief paragraph saying that she broke off her engage-
ment because she preferred her flying career. Pre-
sumably, though she doesn’t say so, she is planning
further flights. A reproduction of a customs clearance
from Darwin has the touch of adventurous charm
that this record of achievement should have every-
where, but lacks: Miss J. Batten, master of the air-
craft GADPR (“ship” crossed out), with a crew of
one British nil foreign, bound for London, “hath
entered and cleared his said ship according to law.”
Eccentricities of an Editor.
The memory of Joseph Pulitzer, one of the giants
of the American press who died three years before the
war, is kept green by his large bequests to literature,
journalism, cultural bodies generally, and a string of
annual prizes for a history of America, a novel, a
poem, an outstanding achievement in reporting and a
meritorious act of public service.
He was born in Hungary in 1847 of a Jewish
father and a Christian mother. He emigrated to America
at the age of 16, friendless and penniless, without a
word of English. The Civil War was raging and he
enlisted immediately in a New York cavalry regiment,
A year later the war was over and he was thrown on
his own resources in a hungry world full of un-
employed men.
An adventure that befell him in St. Louis in 1868
set him on the track of his future fortune. A bogus
agent engaged him and forty other men for well-
paid jobs on a Louisiana sugar plantation. The agent’s
fee was five dollars a head; and by pooling their
resources the 41 successful applicants were just able to
pay it. They were loaded on a steamer and sent down
the Mississippi. At three in the morning they were
landed forty miles from St. Louis on a deserted stretch
of country. By the time they had made their way
back to the city with murder in their hearts the agent
had fled.
Young Pulitzer, however, wrote an account of
the shabby adventure for the German paper of St.
Louis, the “Westliche Post,” which so pleased the
editor that he gave him a job as reporter. Ten years
later—in the true Log Cabin to White House vein—
Pulitzer owned the paper, then a combine of pro-
vincial papers, and finally, in 1883, he went to New
York and bought a run-down news sheet, the “New
York World,” and built it up into one of the most
powerful papers of the day. It became the grand
passion of his life, though the success he always
valued most was his election to the Missouri legislature
when he was neither an American citizen nor of age.
His immense energy ruined his health while he
was still a comparatively young man. He had “a will
of iron and a nervous system of gossamer.” Twenty-
four years before his death a municipal election robbed
him of his sight. He threw such energy into his
newspaper campaign against a corrupt political “boss”
that he ruptured a blood vessel behind his eyes and
within a short time was completely blind. Already a
millionaire, he went into retirement, but with the
assistance of six secretary-companions continued to
take a vital interest in his paper and the whole field of
journalism. He died on his yacht, Liberty, while re-
cuperating from the effort of making a new will—
which he never signed.
These biographical details are a side-line of
Alleyne Ireland’s An Adventure with a Genius :
Recollections of Joseph Pulitzer (Lovat Dickson);
the real work of the book is to spotlight Pulitzer’s
eccentricities. Ireland is a very clever man with a
phenomenal memory; the arch-editor is squeezed for
his last penn’orth of news-value by an arch-journalist.
Ireland was one of Pulitzer’s companion-secretaries
during the last year of his life and he headlines all
the curiosities of that curious menage in which the
blind millionaire was driving himself to death and
everyone else to madness by his inexhaustible energy.
Pulitzer shrank from every sort of noise. When
he stayed in a hotel the suites above, below and on
either side of the one he was to occupy were engaged.
In his New York house his bedroom was in a court-
yard with separate foundations, double doors, triple
windows and silk screens in the ceiling to absorb all
vibrations. The clink of a fork against a plate was
enough to ruin his temper for a day. Almonds were
struck off the menu because one of the secretaries
broke them in half before eating and the tiny snap
was too much for Pulitzer’s nerves.
He valued a good memory above all other pos-
sessions, and his idea of pleasant dinner-table con-
versation was to require some feat of one of his
secretaries such as to name all the characters in
Shakspeare’s plays, or engage them all in a sort of
infernal parlor game, calling upon them to furnish
from memory “a microscopic description of the faces
of Warren Hastings, Clive, President Wilson, the
present King and Queen of England, the late John
W. Gates, Ignace Paderewski and an odd dozen cur-
rent murderers, embezzlers, divorce habitues and can-
didates for political office.”
His mind had to be continuously occupied with
reading or conversation. While he slept for two hours
in the afternoon a secretary read to him in a low
murmur. Any play, novel or biography that was read
to him had to be read at least twice beforehand by a
secretary so that, should he grow tired of it, it could
be immediately summarised for him. Ireland’s job
was one of the most arduous as he had to supply
humor at any moment that Pulitzer demanded it.
“I’ve got a frightful headache. Now tell me some
humorous stories —make me laugh.” “It was no un-
usual experience that after I had told J.P. one of the
best tales in my collection he would say, ‘Well, go on,
go on, come to the point. For God’s sake can’t there
be any end to this story?’” Not content with one
diversion Pulitzer often demanded that the piano
should be played while he was being read to —and he
liked full-bodied Wagnerian compositions. Pulitzer
was, according to Ireland, surrounded by supermep, of
whom his butler was not the least:
The butler was capable and efficient in the highest
degree. His duties ranged from those of a nurse to
those of a diplomat. He produced at a moment’s notice,
as a conjuror produces rabbits and goldfish, the latest
hot water bottle from a village pharmacy in Elba, special
trains from haughty and reluctant officials of State rail-
ways, bales of newspapers mysteriously collected from
clubs, hotels or consulates in remote and microscopic
ports, fruits and vegetables out of season, rooms, suites,
floors of hotels at the height of the rush in the most
crowded resorts, or a dozen cabins in a steamer. He
could open telegraph stations and post offices when they
were closed to the native nobility, convert the eager
curiosity of port officials into trance-like indifference, or
monopolise the services of a whole administration if the
comfort, convenience or caprice of his master
demanded it.
Ireland was himself, as he modestly lets the
reader know, a superman. This is a very super book
and it ends, just as it should, with a flourish and
Joseph Pulitzer’s death.
Tit-Bits, Little Pictures, etc.
The editor of London “Tit-Bits,” having been for
a holiday to America, wants to talk about it. His
name is Leonard Crocombe, and Harrap has let him
loose in An Editor Goes West. Among his experi-
ences, proclaims the blurb, are: “Becoming a million-
aire for five days ; discovering what goes on in a
liner’s kitchen; learning why he was rebuffed by a
pretty American girl; curing a cold with baking-soda
and water ; watching the New York police depart-
ment ; golfing with the Duke of Windsor’s double.”
Here is the editor on New York’s slums:
Frantz had called for me in his car, and took me
through typical New York streets. I noted that not
many yards from the spacious modernity of the main
avenues there were streets of old-fashioned, dilapidated
commercial buildings and crowded, unsavory-looking
tenements. In fact, much of the city looked to me as
though a few coats of paint would do a lot of good.
His meeting with the Duke of Windsor’s double
was even more recklessly exciting:
At lunch we were joined by a Canadian Scot named
Murray Brown; he’s an architect, the double of the
Duke of Windsor. When he had his cap on, tilted
to one side, the resemblance was startling.
That is all. That one momentous paragraph is
considered worth a chapter heading and a mention
in the blurb.
The book begins:
I said good-bye to my family the day before I sailed.
I determined that I would not allow myself to be seen
off. No, thank you. My wife understood; so did my
kiddies. (“Don’t forget my cowboy outfit, dads!” —
Oliver, aged nine.)
And it ends:
Yet one more thrill linked to my holidays awaited
me: it’s in a letter I received a few days later from
my good friend Captain Meikle: “Cheerio, and I hope
we shall be shipmates again.”
You can laugh your heads off, but I’m keeping that
letter.
Next a rhymer who has lived in Australia. One
quotation from Little Pictures, by James L. Carstairs
(Moray Press):
We love little Paddy, her face all alight
With the glint in her bright eyes that gained her the
name.
In mischief she takes an unholy delight,
And bedad, if she’s caught, poof! she don’t care a
damn!
And bedad, if he’s caught, poof! he’s dropped with
all the goodwill in the world.
Then Mr. Shaw Desmond (author of Passion )
with World-Birth (Methuen). This advocates extreme
pacifism—non-resistance —as the only hope for the
Empire. It is as powerful as a battery of exclamation-
marks, italics and “Nay, mores!” can make it. His
idealism, though woolly, is undoubtedly beautiful, but
the beauty of his style is another matter:
War means not only the civil conscription of man-
and woman-power for the ammunition bench, but also
the fertilisation of the woman-potential by that man-
power to produce child-power.
He scores points for oddity:
It may not be so fanciful to suspect that in some
projection of the dark mal-vibrations conjured up by
the propagandists during war-time we may yet find
the destruction of nation by nation by “thought-vibra-
tion” alone. Those who have studied Voodoo or the
darker sides of thought-transference amongst the negroes
will not, at least, find it so far-fetched.
Or take A Book of Hours, by Donald Culross
Peattie (Harrap), blurbed as revealing “a wealth of
truth and philosophy, the meditations of a vigorous
and noble spirit on the verities and mysteries of life”:
The planet spins on, plunging Asia into night, giving
back to every prairie grass blade the American day.
At 10,000 ft. the Rockies pick up the fierce astronomical
signals of the sun, and flash rose and blue relays from
their toppling glaciers.
Mr. Peattie knows all about Linnaeus’s flower
clock, and the Carolina wren that whistles “WHEE-
yoodle, WHEE-yoodle, WHEE-yoodle! ” Anyone who
can read description in a novel might be game to
tackle his 200 pages of purple patches.
Adorned with seven decorations, pince-nez and
a military moustache, comes next The Real William
Le Queux, by N. St. Barbe Sladen, F.R.S.L., with a
foreword by Sir Robert Gower, K.C.V.0., M.P.
Nicholson and Watson offer this extraordinary candi-
date for immortality, who knew everyone, from
Crippen to the Kaiser, and wrote best-sellers, letters
((Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—AIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE
f
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
\
X
.-.■■lll—
m
%
*sm-x x ***~
m
£2l 12 Gauge DBBL.
HAMMER LESS GUN
Made by W. W. Greener, stamped J. V.
Needham. 30in. barrels, both choke;
treble wedge, fast crossbolt; the strongest
breech action; nitro proved and chambered
for 2 fin. cartridges. Fully guaranteed.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price £2 I
Sale Price £l9
fl 9
£l5/10/- 12 Gauge DBBL
HAMMER GUN
Bar lock, treble wedge, cast crossbolt, re-
bounding hammers, barrels 30in. or 3 2 in.
Both choke chambered for 2 fin. cartridges.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, £l5/10/-.
Sale Price £l4
H 4
REDUCTION IN CARTRIDGES
20-gauge Peters’ Smokeless Cartridges, No. 7 shot only.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price, per 100 19/-
Sale Price • • 15/-
16-gauge Remington Smokeless Cartridges. No. BB 5, <7, 8
shot. Regular Price, per 100 . . 19/-. Sale Price . . 15/-
22-cal. Short Smokeless Cartridges. Price per 100 . . 2/9
Sale Price 2/-
22-cal. Long Smokeless. Price per 100 . . 3/3. Sale . . 2/9
22-cal. Long Rifle. Price per ICO . . 3/9. Sale . . 3/-
.303 Mark VI. Cartridges per 100 ... 12/6. Sale .. . 9/6
Sole
ENDS SATURDAY!
95/- BROWNING AUTO
LOADING
Solid breech, hammerless, will fire Rim fire .22 calibre /
Long Rifle Smokeless Cartridges. 20in. barrel. Weight
4|lb. Magazine holds eight cartridges. # \J
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 95/-
Sale Price 87/b
As above, for .22 Short, Magazine holds 1 1 cartridges—Price 95/-
Sale Price • • • • 87 / 6
v /%;
57/6 B.S.A. MARTINI ACTION RIFLE
These rifles have been used by the military and are in perfect Mr /
condition. They’re splendid value even at their regular price.
25in. barrels. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price .... ”57/6
Sale Price
£5/7/6 BROWNING
TROMBONE REPEATER
.22 Calibre (15 short, or 12 long, or 11 long rifle). Will shoot !■*
these different cartridges mixed. 22in. barrel. Exceptionally
accurate. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price £5/7/6 £
Sale Price £5
25/- 22 Cal. SINGLE SHOT RIFLE
This 22 Single-shot bolt-action rifle is a particularly reliable
weapon. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 25/-
Sale Price •' • • • 20/-
ocy-
£B/7/6
22 Cal. MAUSER REPEATING RIFLE
Model 4208, with wind gauge. Magazine holds five cartridges
and the barrel is Weight 641 b.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price £B/ 7/6
Sale Price £8
j? 8
Sports—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within
our Delivery Area.


Last Chapters of a Fine Serial
by G.B.LANCASER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
11.
BIERRY, having married Miss Clara Scott in
Christchurch, had had no need of Darien’s
ministrations there. But since she had refused
to turn out of Bendemeer she consented to
build him a cottage nearer the river, where
he was very happy planning the great man-
sion which was to be another Lovel Hall
some day.
Bendemeer had expanded since England’s loan
flooded the country with present and prospective
wealth. Fate, having been niggardly with this new
land for so long, now tried another game on it. Lift-
ing the cornucopia to her shoulder she poured
out riches in such bewildering floods that everybody
wondered what they had been about to think they had
had enough before, and plunged so swiftly into spend-
ing and speculation that one almost heard the splash.
Of course we can never have enough, declared
the gentlemen, hurrying to buy from the provincial
Governments, before they were abolished, any amount
of land at £2 the acre, with no restrictions other than
the childish one that the sale must not be for less
than twenty acres. A monstrous useful restriction,
that, considered the gentlemen, planning their new
blocks with everywhere nineteen-and-a-half acres
between, which (since they couldn’t be bought)
presently became absorbed in the blocks already
bought. In Canterbury all the big stations were
increasing, and immigrants coming with a few hundred
pounds in their pockets were quite squeezed out. The
small man is a danger. How can any hand-to-mouth
settler establish first-class breeds of sheep and cattle
as we can, said the English county gentlemen, con-
scious of their duty to New Zealand.
TO Darien this new game was the best fun yet;
■ and she went to it with such gusto that Bende-
meer soon had blocks stretching away to the
foothills, where thousands of succulent snowgrass acres
were gradually coming under the hoof; and sheep,
cattle and horses roamed where they would until the
mustering time. Many station-owners increased their
land by mortgage. But Darien paid in bags of gold,
and let everyone know it, for the same reason that she
had had the covers of her brood-mares fitted with
silver chains and “Bendemeer” done on the outer
gates in gilt studs.
“I’ll wear gold studs in my nose if I like. I can
afford it,” said Darien, keeping a watchful eye on
fencing-gangs at work in the blazing sun, on the deadly
mischief of the nor’-westers, the biting southerly
busters that brought the snow. “Be careful with those
survey-pegs,” she ordered as the low sod walls rose
on the level tussock, to be sown later with gorse
and protected by shining wires until the gorse grew.
Already many fences were high enough for good jump-
ing ; so these gentlemen riders of the Plains put their
heads together, establishing kennels for drag-hunts,
since there were plenty of weka-birds and imported
pheasants and quails but no foxes.
Andrew declared that we must import hares. But
meanwhile drag-hunts were excellent fun ; with men,
women, and children all following somehow, and
uproarious evenings at Durdans, at Bendemeer and
elsewhere, and no end of Witney blankets for a sleepy
man to roll himself in on the floor when all was done.
For Janet hunts were a combined ecstasy, and
anguish, for hidden wire in the fences trapped many
and somersaults were common. But gentlemen looked
so gallant, so well-turned-out on their well-bred horses,
and the master in his green coat she would never
forget—until there was another one next year. With
her slim girlish body of eighteen and mind as near
eight years old as Linda could imagine it, Janet would
have been a continual danger to young men if she
had been less shy.
Since these were the spacious days, a good
twenty men and several women crowded into Ben-
demeer one evening when the hunt was done and
the red frosty sunset gave place to the great red fires.
All the Plains stations kept full larders of chines of
beef, ham, legs of mutton, endless bacon, and eggs
for hungry men ; all sideboards gleamed with bottles,
and beer-barrels were continually full. So Darien
fed her horde ; and the men ranged where they would,
and the women sat and talked over the fire with skirts
drawn up . . . Tiffany and Darien, Jerry’s jolly Clara,
and Sophia, come to cook and be bullied by Darien
since Uncle Henry had died. Darien had long since
stuffed Sophy’s cap and shawl under the copper. “If
you can’t be good in a tartan gown and those sausage-
curls I bought you in Christchurch, you can be
wicked,” said Darien. “I’d rather you were, anyway.”
But since Sophia couldn’t be wicked even in false
curls she warmed her toes and thought of her curios
while the others talked and laughed. Darien had
been so kind in giving her an outhouse for her curios,
and there they lay in rows on the shelves—Maori axes
and deep-grooved tops that sounded the high whining
note for the tangi when you spun them, scraps of
kauri gum, shells carved into cameos, Maori mats and
poi-balls . . . My collection really is beyond price,
thought Sophia, who intended to have it priced some
day and give all her ensuing wealth to the Chinese
missions.
The men came in, and there was a deal of laughter
and joking, and Sophia went to bring great jugs of
cocoa topped with cream and huge thick slabs of
currant cake while Tiffany lay back among cushions,
watching Brant being as intent as anyone else. So
intent on all he did, this man she loved. So incredible
that her wild self should love Brant with his close
instincts of the English county gentlemen, his bringing
up of their two boys in English ways . . . with
nurseries, and coming in for dessert, and cricket-
balls already in their little hands, and an English
public school in prospect by-and-bye. Like Frank
Crofts and everyone else, Brant was setting out to
raise an English county family on the Plains.
The talk jumped from sheep to fishing, to the
paradise duck which gave such good shooting,
to the tentative crops now appearing on the Plains,
and back to the sheep by which they chiefly lived.
“I’ll show you my purebred Saxon merinos to-
morrow,” promised Darien, who had just imported
them from Germany. “None of you have anything
to touch ’em. Wake up and sing something, Tiffy.
You’re not earning your keep.”
Chorus-songs where everyone could shout were
best after so much cake and cocoa, and the gentlemen
did so well with “John Peel’s” tally-ho’s that Darien
clapped her hands. “I do love noise,” she said.
All a little crude and colonial, thought Brant
Hutton, but we will better it in time. Tiffany (he felt,
watching her so vital and gay at the piano) was
already bettered. At times I could almost think her
English, he thought, gratefully bestowing the highest
praise he had.
p OR those men who stayed all night there were mat-
■ tresses and chaff-sacks on the big-room floor, while
Tiffany slept in the second bed in Sophia’s room.
But there was not much sleep in it, with Sophia
bringing her pale scared eyes close to whisper about
Linda’s Prue. “I fear she’s in love with one of our
station-hands. A gentleman,” said Sophia, very im-
pressive.
“Nonsense, dear. She’s only seventeen.” Sophy
was always fearing something.
“Every girl is in love at seventeen. Over and
over. But there are no gentlemen like those splendid
officers in these days,” sighed Sophia.
“If you’d said Janet now”
“Oh, she’s never out of it, though Linda won’t
Jet her talk to men. But Prue never has before, and
Bethune is a gentleman, though just a tramp Darien
picked off the road,” said Sophia, looking so dreadful
in a red flannel dressing-gown and all her false curls
off that Tiffany shut her eyes. ,
Quantities of tramping swaggies of all classes
since the Westland goldfields were no longer doing
what they should, and every station-owner gave orders
to his hut-cook to feed two nightly, though if there
were more they had to ask at the house. Bethune,
it appeared, had asked at the house, and Darien, liking
his manner, had given him a job at the fencing. “She
enjoys bullying gentlemen,” said Sophia, feeling how
often Darien mistook her for a gentleman. “And
Prue is always riding over with messages from Linda,
who never troubles to come herself.”
Linda, as Tilfany knew, rarely troubled to do
anything now that her daughters were old enough to
do it for her. Even Caroline had been turned over to
the girls, who were so dutifully busy from dawn
till dark that one would have marvelled they could
think of love.
“I’m glad you told me, Sophy, dear, and I’ll ask
Linda if she will let Prue stay with me for a while.
Don’t speak to anyone about it. It would only
make trouble.”
Lying near the open window while Sophia slept
with a flannel petticoat of silent protest round her
head, Tiffany thought how Prue had always been one
of the rebellious Lovels, belonging to this new land
as her father and mother did not; for Linda proudly
talked of being English-born, neglecting to mention
that she had been weaned by a goat on the voyage
out. It had given us colonials such a false idea,
thought Tiffany. Trying to adapt all the old hide-
bound beliefs and traditions to our new outlook and
surroundings, and making such a muddle of both.
We should have started at the beginnings, before
man had so overridden nature with art . . .
in.
3"“ERRY (who had learned men in eight years of
war) had known Bethune’s type at once when
meeting him tramping across the paddock with his
swag. Here was one of that mysterious wandering
gentleman-army which scribbled French, Latin, and
even Greek on the whare walls when halting for the
night before going on among the other vagabonds
now infesting the Plains. Jerry could read the stupid,
plaintive, and often foul scribbling of thieves and
gaolbirds and other passing shadows ; but he couldn’t
read the Greek and Latin, which, said Hutton, was
as well. “All damned souls, these gentlemen tramps,”
said Hutton, and Jerry was always tender with damned
souls.
“Come far?” he asked pleasantly, reining his
horse in.
“Buckingham Palace. Oxford before that,” said
the man, looking up with a faint grin on his thin,
tired face. Jerry offered his pouch without patronage.
He looked Oxford anyway.
“Have a pipe with me? Jolly cold, isn’t it?”
“Thanks.” Those trembling hands lighting up
were too eager, told too clearly how long the privation
had been. “God! That’s good. Any chance of
a job? I’m set for a month . . . more if you can
hold my cheque back.”
Drink, of course. But they wanted fencers.
Jerry said:
“Go up to the house and ask for Lady Calthorpe.
Say Mr. Lovel sent you. What’s your name?”
“Bethune . . . among friends. In gaol or the
Salvation Army, I’m Smith.”
Shameless? Or more likely so eaten by shame
that he had to flaunt it at everyone. I hope Darien
takes him, thought Jerry, riding on round the sheep
cropping frozen turnips in the road-paddock. Plough-
ing was still timid on the Plains, since the nor’-wester
had a way of getting under the furrow and lifting all
the earth into the next paddock. But horses must
have oats and barley, and sheep must have winter feed.
And with wheat the price it was everyone was defying
the nor’-westers. Bendeemer had six hundred acres
in wheat this year. Shelter-plantations and fences
are helping a lot, thought Jerry, feeling very friendly
to the sheep. Their sharp clattering hooves and little
grating coughs gave them a queer faint personality.
DARIEN had taken Bethune and, because she firmly
refused to give him his cheque, he had stayed
on through the hunting-weather, the windy spring,
and into shearing-time, becoming so vigorous in the
process that, despite his tiresome gentleman-ways, the
men liked him to work with. How he had first met
and talked to Prue he didn’t remember.
Such questions she asked, this sleek-haired girl
with her long eyes full of fire and wonder. So famished
for knowledge that she would take it from a tramp.
Good Lord, what are her folk about to let such
innocence and ignorance run loose? thought Bethune,
talking with Prue while digging postholes near the
Durdans boundary, or clearing a slip on the river-
cutting where sheep were driven for water, or strolling
after the day’s work beside a gum-plantation, as the
long evenings drew on.
Prue, slipping off for a lonely gallop when she
could avoid her sisters and her duties, found her Lead
filling, from Bethune’s talk, with wonderful, entranc-
ing affairs. Bugles calling and kilts swinging on the
heights of Stirling Castle, knights fighting in the steep
Perugia streets until the cobbles ran with blood, Don
Quixote wandering with his white floating hair, scraps
of the romance languages wherein Petrarch sang of


Laura, Roland shouted to his men before he blew his
horn, D’Artagnan diced and laughed, the lovers of
Seville went wooing . . .
“Tell me more of Spain,” commanded Prue, who
only needed fan and mantilla to be Spain herself. So
Bethune told her of the Alhambra gardens where the
little fountains and the nightingales sang the warm
night through, and of the towers upon the walls, each
haunted by the languorous, amorous ghosts of some
fair lady waiting in solitude for her Moorish lord.
Yet Prue had the strong crude fibre of this land
in her too, telling him how ashamed he should be of
remaining a station-hand when he knew so much . . .
“Perhaps I am ashamed,” said Bethune, straining
up a wire to the post.
“Go away, then,” said Prue, finding the words
stab her heart.
“With a big cheque? I’d be in gaol in a week. I
drink, you know.” He straightened up, looking at her
under his dark brows, pleased to see her painful flush
at his brutality. But she met him fiercely.
“Any man should be able to control himself. I’m
learning to, and I’m just a girl.”
“That’s why. You haven’t been tempted,” he
said, gathering up his tools and going on to the next
post, while Prue rode home, her mind gloriously
tapestried with the loveliness of the ancient world.
IV.
nOW shearing, that sacred imperious festival of the
year, was coming to the Plains, marching station
by station towards the hills, and wherever it
reigned at the moment men left their daily affairs to
serve the sheep. Even the fencers left their work
and wrought in the yards, thrusting and beating long
lines of grey panting bodies up the race with manuka-
boughs and forebent knees. Hut-cooks had two
helpers, and several fresh-killed sheep hung daily on
the gallows by the killing-pens. Dogs barked in
dozens and fought in couples for the entertainment of
their masters through the long hot evenings, and sheep
cried day and night, as unhappy in their new white
agility as they had been when gasping under the
heavy weight of fleece. Each fleece was a golden
fleece in these good days, and each ear of wheat was
a grain of gold, and Darien, standing with Tiffany in
the door of the Bendemeer shed, said no more, than
everyone else was thinking.
“Soon I’ll be rich beyond the dreams of avarice,”
said Darien. Even those who had mortgaged up
to the hilt believed that they would, too. This great
aristocracy of the hills and Plains was no more than
beginning to arrive at its own.
Tiffany had ridden down from Peak Hills with
Hutton, come to try if he could get the shearers next.
“Crofts is after them,” Darien told him. “But they
may take you instead because yours is the bigger
shed.” Somewhat touchy and high-handed, the
shearers, coming often in numbers from Australia,
working their way south through the New Zealand
sheds. Hutton would speak to the leaders when work
was done, but now he was watching the woolclasser
at the long table. A good woolclasser was the kind
of gentleman for station-owners to go on their knees to.
“Come on,” said Darien, moving forward. Tiffany
hesitated. This dear man of hers did try so hard to
keep her like an English lady. If only he knew all
that I do know about things, thought Tiffany, finding
continual humor in her daily struggles to be as ignorant
as Brant thought her, finding endless stimulation in
the high risks she had taken. Despite all their efforts
(and Brant would try loyally) nothing could re-establish
his belief in her as the perfect woman if he should
know fully what had been between her and Dick
Sackville. Brant, like any other English gentleman,
demanded the utter perfection of purity in his wife.
But, since being perfect was a little dull at times, she
followed Darien into the shed.
“That second Maori is ringer this year,” said
Darien, looking down the dim broad board flecked
with light from the little windows, with the flash of
clicking blades, the gleam of steadily-moving naked
arms and torsos. Like machinery those muscular
arms were moving ; opening up the fleece with the
long straight blow, purling it away in creamy folds
glistening richly with the yolk, until the fleecy came
pattering to gather up the full robe, the scared stripped
sheep went out through the trap, and the shearer
reached into the pen for another.
Poetry in this, thought Tiffany, feeling that she
would never write poetry again. Brant wouldn’t like
the only kind that was natural to her. But she could
enjoy the beauty of those rippling muscles, those brown
Maori bodies glossy as hazel-nuts, the sheep with their
yellow, patient eyes. And she could enjoy these rich
meaty smells of sheep and heated men and oil and
tar dabbed on a wound, and dust and sheep-dip from
the yards outside.
Maori shearers were a poor exchange for proud
Heke strutting on the Beach with his warriors behind
him ; for kind old Waka Nene, who had given her so
many toys ; for the young Hemi, who gave so much
more than toys . . . All forgotten now, along with the
mighty pride and tradition of the chiefs. Te Kooti,,
last of all the rebels, had bowed now to Fate.
Oblivion had come to the great fighting chiefs with
the huia feathers of royalty in their hair . . .
ttWT ORGIVE me for leaving you, dear,” said Brant,
■ rather hurried, at her elbow. “I had no notion
you were in here. Shall I take you to the house?”
Tiffany went with him meekly past the clatter
of the woolpress, the sharp orders of the classer, the
men moving the great bales aside with iron hooks.
All these lusty, hasty joys were not for Brant Hutton’s
wife, and Darien was perhaps the only lady on the
Plains who went more than once in the season to
the shearing-shed. They grant us the once as a
raree-show, thought Tiffany smiling, with her hand on
Brant’s arm. “What a dear you are,” she said, a
little protectingly. “Why, Prue!”
Some months since she had seen Prue, whom
Roddy called Andalusia . . . which fitted her as neatly
as Don Rodrigo fitted him. But this was a wakened
Andalusia whose red ripe lips kissing Tiffany seemed
kissing love itself, so warm and close they were. My
gracious, thought Tiffany, alarmed ; surely old Sophia
couldn’t have been right for once. She’s never right.
Why should she be this time? thought Tiffany, going
with Prue between the heavy scents of jasmine, the
frail winey scent of little banksia roses into the long
room where Sophia was clattering crockery.
“I vow you must be dying for tea,” fussed
Sophia, who always felt like a ministering angel when
she had a teapot in her hand. “It is such a comfort.
How is your dear grandma, Prue?”
“Not very much of a comfort just at present,”
said Prue, sitting on the end of the sofa like a mer-
maid in her close green habit. “We’re short of
butter, and grandma is taking it to heart so much
mamma sent me over for some. Two pounds, if you
can spare it, please.”
“Well, I don’t churn till the morning and the
shearers are eating it all, but if you could stay the
night”
“Oh, I could. In fact, I daren’t go home without
it. Thank you, Aunt Sophy.”
Prue’s dark eyes shone. She melted into sudden
liveliness, running to carry cups and cake. It can’t
be, thought Tiffany, who, since Linda had refused
to lend Prue to Peak Hills, had put the matter away
as one of Sophia’s mare’s-nests. Prue’s sleek young
head on its slender neck was assuredly too proud to
stoop to any tramp, no matter what his begats might
be. Perhaps Linda has let a lover into Durdans at
last, thought Tiffany, asking after Deb and Janet.
Janet, it appeared, had a new tune to practise
and Deb a new puppy to train. And what have you
got? wondered Tiffany, as Darien and the gentlemen
came in. This gay Prue, looking sideways with her long,
languorous eyes, moving with her young grace, seemed
so very delectable a woman that Darien asked in her
blunt fashion: “When are you girls going to be
married?”
“Ask mamma,” said Prue, a little bitter.
“Oh! ” Darien sat up, her strange eyes suddenly
lit. “Putting spokes in your wheels, is she? I sus-
pected it. I would have bet young Taverner was after
Janet last year, but now he’s got a girl in Christ-
church.”
“Mamma says it’s indecent for girls to talk to
young men,” said Prue, so exactly prim-mouthed Linda
that Tiffany had to laugh.
V.
ONCE at least in a long and profitable season
shearers and shepherds serenaded The House and
received the thanks of the Boss —with a full barrel
of beer as well. It was a great and dignified rite,
not vouchsafed at every station. The very air round
the huts trembled to-night with excitement, and men
naturally particular and men who had never been
known to wash-up before, now stripped and scrubbed
under the tap of the big tank. And but for straying
dogs eating all the soap, only heaven knew when
they’d have done, thought Bethune, who had chosen
to manage his own toilet in secret.
Standing presently with this rough crew he would
see Prue sitting in a white gown among the ladies
and gentlemen, among the little tables with their
whisky-glasses, the starry jasmine-flowers . . . and
would that teach her anything? Which do I want it
to be? he wondered, watching the rouseabouts sleek
their hair with foul-smelling dripping begged from
the cook, watching a macaroni of a shearer busy with
a pink cambric tie on his new black shirt. All these
hard-working fellows, seeing a shearing through, taking
their big cheques and going on to the next shed were
better men than himself, who dared not take his
cheque—dared not drink the beer to-night . . . but
would!
Round him in the warm dusk was a murmuring
of voices, of tunes softly sought for and repeated, of
accordions getting whisperingly to work, while now
and then the melody that is in every Maori throat
rolled grandly out in a phrase and died away. A
broken underflow of harmonies and discords going
anxiously with the tramping feet in the moonlight
past the young gorse-hedges golden with their bloom ;
past the blocks of sheds and stables and outhouses,
past the gardens where the warm night was loaded
with fragrance of flowers and grasses, where the
pervading odor of sheep was embedded in all the
other odors, like scent in ambergris.
Knowing the value of this ceremony, Robertson
led with his bagpipes, while behind him the low un-
easy searching for tunes went on. On the lawn he
ceased, and with shufflings and coughings the men
spread out in a half-circle, while the leader of the
shearers stepped forward, delivering the formula in
a low gabble.
“Lady Calthorpe, ma’am. Me and the men
thought we’d like to come and give you a little moosic,
ma’am.”
“Very good of you, Chote,” said Darien clearly
out of her big chair. “We’re all ready.”
PRUE had never heard a shearer’s serenade before,
and at Durdans she would have had to listen
behind drawn curtains. But here she unbelievably
was in a long Island chair on Bendemeer verandah ;
with Darien and Tiffany and Clara and Sophia, with
Jerry and Brant Hutton and several other men.
Tiffany saw Prue’s face as she leaned forward
into the light for a moment. A strangely vital, dis-
embodied Prue, as though her young soul were going
off somewhere with just that pointed chin, those
scarlet lips, those long and smouldering eyes. Then
she sat back suddenly, and Tiffany thought, “She’s
seen Bethune,” and saw him herself, standing a little
apart with his shabby clothes, his easy gentleman
air . . .
Accordions made a false start; then another.
Now the harsh, husky voices, the rich power of the
Maoris were launched like an avalanche on the
immemorial song of the shearing-sheds:
There was a ship came from the north countree,
And the name of the ship was the Golden Vanitee.
In mournful monotony song followed song, with
the accordions filling up the gaps, and presently Tiffany
noticed that the gap beside her was no longer filled
by Prue. Nor was Bethune out there in the flicker
of moonlight. She slipped away hastily behind the
chairs. Ignorant as Prue was she knew better than
this. But Tiffany too had known better, and that
hadn’t stopped her. Once she too had come by way
of sunrises, a windy sky of light, a flower, or some
other immortal art of nature’s wooing, and so with
opening heart to meet the wooing of a man.
The orchard beyond the macrocapa fence was
the likeliest place, thought Tiffany, hurrying along
the path with heart in her throat. Slender shadows
of young trees everywhere now . . . and there, where
apple- and cherry-trees studded the night with frail
stars, a thicker shadow stood among the long grass.
At her step it parted, and Prue was gone, silent as a
ghost. But Bethune stood still to meet Tiffany. Was
he hoping she’d think it was a kitchenmaid he had
been embracing here? She said coldly:
“You can come to the house for your cheque
after breakfast to-morrow, Bethune.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Hutton.” His voice was
colorless, but she had heard his gasp and pity sud-
denly overcame her.
“Oh, I’m sorry. But you must have known . . .
Why have you done this to her?”
“Why am I a man, you meant to say, didn’t you?”
He made a half-laugh, a half-sneer of it, shuffling
away without more words through the orchard to-
wards the men’s huts. Tiffany went slowly up to the
verandah, where Prue was in her place, lying far back
with hands gripped on the sides of her chair. Oh, why
are our lessons so hard to learn? thought Tiffany
pitifully.
I.
had sent for Tiffany quite in
"Ssi Grand Mogul manner —and who could
Kp J have expected anything else with his por-
| feagjf trait, painted by Australia’s best artist, hang-
g Kjj« ing, eyeglass and all, in Parliament House?
j jJctp “Since your mother has been ailing for
some considerable time,” he wrote, “I
permit you to pay her a short visit. You will under-
stand that it is solely for her sake
“Nice old gentleman,” said Darien when Tiffany
showed her the letter. “Keepin’ that fire hot for
twenty-four years.”
“So it is,” said Tiffany, surprised. Four years
since Brant was drowned in the big river flood of
1884; since she had let Peak Hill so the boys could
stay at the English schools to which Brant had sent
them. “Oh, do you think mamma is really ill?”
she asked anxiously.
“Not she! Learnin’ how to get her own way
at last, that’s all. It always did take Sal-volatile a
damn long time to learn anything. I’d have taught
that mean black rig something in a month. I did,
too. You won’t stay up there, Tiffy?”
It was nice to have Tiffy back at Bendemeer, since
Sophia was so taken up with her curios that one
always expected to find some in the soup or the
shepherd’s pie. Nearly as dangerous to dinners as
the politics and Governors of the early days, Sophy’s
curios.
“Could you see him allowing it?” said Tiffany,
between a laugh and a sigh. Tiffy had got back her
old brightness now, and might even go on marrying,
thought Darien, who could never keep her hands off
marriages. She had got Deb and Janet settled, though
it had been a devil of a job, with Janet drowned in
love and tears, and Linda never speaking to Darien
again. But Prue had remained stubborn. Perhaps
she really had cared for that Bethune, thought Darien,
who never could understand why one man wasn’t as
good as another, since all a- woman needed of him was
a home and comforts.
Fewer now to provide the home and comforts
since the land-boom burst at the end of ’seventy-nine,
Setting so many of New Zealand’s gentlemen to keep-
ing their anxious noses to the grindstone. Yet in the
South they still made gallant show with hunts and
balls and races, and the shipping of frozen meat to
England since ’eighty-two had helped many to their
feet again. With wool and wheat worth nothing (and
the whole world, it seemed, was in the same box) it
was very convenient of sheep to turn into valuable
mutton . . . though, of course, it meant great changes
in breeding. But Darien was equal to that.
So far she and her fortune had been equal to
holding off the little men now come nibbling every-
where on the edges of the great stations; but much


of Durdans was gone, and Tiffy had had to sell some
of Peak Hills. What with taxes and Liberal notions
and voting by all males over twenty-one, said Andrew,
the writing was not only on the wall, but in every-
body’s cheque book.
11.
TW REAL railway-train to take Tiffany all the way
to Lyttelton, a real steamer to take her up the
coast to Wellington raised her to such heights of
exultation that when she saw Roddy on the Wellington
wharf there was nothing left to do but cry in his
arms.
“Oh, dearest ... I don’t often. But I did think
you were in the Mountains of the Moon or some-
where.”
“I was. Came down last night on a moonbeam.
Pray don’t apologise ... I enjoy having lovely
females cry in my arms and provide a little romance
for the bystanders. Tiffy, why did you never wear a
little wine-red bonnet with velvet strings before ? It’s
adorable. And please tell me that I am too. I like to
hear it, though I am not allowed velvet bonnets.”
So Roddy was still whimsical Don Rodrigo,
keeping his troubles (and behind his smiling eyes one
could see that he had them) in their proper place,
conducting her courteously to a hansom.
“An elopement. I saw those two nice old ladies
whispering it. Now, if you could contrive to scream
just loud enough to send them to the police, my
Tiffany, it would add such a spice of excitement to
what I fear must be rather dull lives.”
“If you could contrive to be sensible just long
enough to tell me how mamma is,” said Tiffany.
“Oh, you’ll soon see that. Between us we have
pulled the wool over the eyes of His Omnipotence in
the most approved manner . . . and how we are enjoy-
ing the joke.”
“Roddy, isn’t she ill at all?”
“Just effectively.” (Whatever Tiffy might learn
later, there was no need to sadden her now.) “Here’s
our bijou residence, and . . . well, hang it all, you
really are Sally, you know,” said Roddy, standing by
to see this shining, flushing little creature disappearing
under Tiffany’s dark cloak.
Sally never had adequate words for occasions,
and it seemed that Tiffany hadn’t either ; so Roddy
drove them in from the gusty wind ; tucking Sally
up on a sofa with gay rugs and cushions, straighten-
ing her cap.
“The meeting of the waters. Why must females
cry so much ? I had hoped that tears went out with
crinolines,” complained Roddy, a little anxious for
Sally, while Tiffany sat back on the floor and declared
that they were only laughing . . . “Oh, I can’t
believe I haven’t seen you for over twenty years,
mamma darling.”
“You’ll believe it when you see His Omni-
potence,” said Roddy, bringing Sally’s medicine.
“He’s gone to get his hair cut in order to persuade
himself that he still has some. An excellent begin-
ning, we may presently be able to persuade him that
he still has a daughter.”
Any kind of talk would do while these dear
women controlled themselves; drying each other’s
eyes, with Sally saying shakily: “So wonderful ... to
have you both together.” What, she felt, had she ever
done that so much happiness should be hers, that the
trampling years should have passed these two by so
lightly, leaving laughter and beauty with them both?
PEREGRINE pushed open the half-closed door, see-
ing a most merry and charming family group in
the red firelight, and felt a surprised twinge of pride
in the consciousness that it was his own. That it
stilled and separated as he came forward was (he
acknowledged) a tribute to his domination, and
Tiffany on her knees by the sofa was quite in the
proper position to offer the supplications of an erring
child.
But Tiffany had always been a disappointment.
Now she stood up, smoothing back the thick bronze
hair that still would run into curls, smoothing down
the dark serge of her gown with hands grown
suddenly cold. Here he was, the man who had denied
her love and home for half a lifetime.
Roddy did what he could, drawing Tiffany for-
ward.
“Mrs. Hutton of Peak Hills, Canterbury, sir. I
believe you met her first at Kororareka. A handsome
woman. I recognised her on the wharf by her likeness
to yourself.”
“I hope I see you well, papa,” said Tiffany,
dropping a demure, little curtsy, while Roddy wanted
to box her ears. This proud jade with the damask
flush hot in her smooth cheeks would never learn to
dissemble.
“Quite, I thank you.” Peregrine bowed stiffly.
“I trust you may not have overexcited your mother.
My dear ... I think you had better rest.”
“Oh, please ... if I can just lie quiet and hear
you talk,” pleaded Sally, still hoping prayerfully for
the melting of these two unmalleable metals.
Peregrine sat down and embarked on conversation
with his family, while Tiffany, feeling as though
she were dragging a springless cart over heavy shingle,
wondered why people who had learned to keep safe
from the laws they made so seldom learned to keep
safe from each other ... or themselves. Papa was
still a little afraid of her, just as she was afraid of
herself ... so let them talk of law, since New Zealand
was still getting so much of it . . . poor dear little
country which men never would leave alone.
Vogel’s public works policy, said Peregrine, had
on the whole been beneficial, but it should have been
consolidated by a board of works in control. He and
Vogel had fought hard for that, but the Opposition
(a menace to all commonsense) had thrown it out;
and the resultant waste and confusion, with every
member fighting tooth and nail for his own district,
was quite beyond words, said Peregrine, proceeding
to put it into words, walking about with hand under
his coat-tails quite in the old musical-box manner.
Sally shut her eyes with a sigh. They had been
so happy without him, and she had heard the sins of
the Parliament members so often.
“From ’seventy-one to ’eighty we imported one
hundred thousand immigrants from England and
Europe,” Peregrine buzzed on. “In that time our debt
has risen from eight million to twenty-nine million
pounds. Does that convey nothing to you ? Since
brains are apparently not required here, such gentle-
folk as arrived have chiefly gone to manual labor,
demanding high wages and constant concessions like
the rest. We have become a vulgar country, ruled
by the mob instead of class.”
Well, of course, thought Roddy, the old diehards
would always talk like that; and to gentlemen who
had visions of establishing county families, of being
barons or even kings in the land, all this must be
particularly unpleasing.
Tiffany, suddenly awakening to pride in the South,
offered papa the through railway from Dunedin to
Christchurch (hadn’t she travelled on part of it her-
self ?), reaping-machines, water-races spreading all
over the Plains so that it was no longer needful to
drive sheep weekly to the rivers, frozejn mutton . . .
But Peregrine preferred to thank Sir George
Grey for rabbits, which (he understood) had become
such a plague throughout the country that we should
soon have to discontinue sheepbreeding, exporting
rabbit-skins instead of fleeces. “And even that don’t
teach the Labor party what the man is like,” said
Peregrine bitterly.
111.
77 J HEN Sophia went to Canterbury, Lucilla had
ill her sister Maria as nursemaid, sempstress and
anything else she could make of her, which,
she felt, was not much even then. But she kindly
took Maria to see Tiffany, lending her a feather boa
to make her smart but wearing her own best hat of
black velvet bows and orange plumes, so that no one
should mistake the difference in their positions.
Yet Fate, it seemed, was making a mistake some-
where or surely they would not have arrived simul-
taneously with Jermyn’s latest book, which Sally was
just taking from its wrappings, pausing now and then
because even this chilly hands-across-the-sea affair
made her stupid heart jump and flutter so. Lucilla
struck attitudes at once, having become much more
dramatic since Mr. Piper got on the sanitary board.
“La ! What do I see ? The latest Jermyn Lovel ?
What joy ! I simply dote on his heroes.”
Sally smiled faintly. No secrets now from
Jermyn, inscribing one copy of each of the many
volumes appearing so regularly to : “My old friends,
Sir Peregrine & Lady Lovel. With the author’s
compliments.”
The author’s Compliments were still terrifying to
a Sally who had once found the mysticism of love and
religion so finely blended in her that she had nightly
pledged herself to God and Jermyn, feeling them so
very much one, since it was only they that made life
possible. But that was so long ago. Everything was
so long ago, thought Sally, hearing Lucilla being
dramatic over Jermyn’s book. “Passionate Partners.
I vow I never heard anything more romantic. Isn’t
he clever! And the heroine called Adora.”
“Is that his wife’s name ?” asked Maria.
“Don’t be stupid. You know she’s Sabina. But
he may call her Adora. He is so vastly original. I
vow he is the most original man I ever met.”
Tiffany stopped handing cakes and crumpets and
sat down suddenly. She had never heard of this
marriage. Had mamma forgot to tell her, or was it
that she just couldn’t ? Without daring to look she
knew it was because she couldn’t, and suddenly she
snatched the book from Lucilla, and searched for
what she feared to find.
“Such a mercy he went to England and married
someone who could help him. He sells thousands and
thousands of his books now, Tiffy,” said Lucilla.
Tiffany shut her lips on a tart: “So I should
imagine.” She must not hurt this poor little mamma
who cared for Jermyn still. Oh, what could she say?
If only Roddy were here to help her out.
“I haven’t had the chance to read any of his books
yet,” she said haltingly. And then (bless him) Roddy
came in with his magic wand that could bring smiles
to any face. Tiffany felt the tension lifted as Lucilla
flung herself gushingly upon him.
“Roddy! Oh, what do you think? Passionate
Partners ! Jermyn always chooses such elegant titles.”
“Whatever he does will always be elegant,” said
Roddy, very genial. “No! You’re not to have it,
Lucy. Buy it, my dear. That’s the action of a true
friend.” He put the novel on top of the bookcase ;
crooked his arm and bent his knee as though holding
a guitar, sang with his laughing eyes upon her:
Oh, dear! How I love my Lucy.
She’s fair. Her lips are red and juicy.
“Get along with you, you impudent wretch,” cried
Lucilla, highly delighted. “I vow no one but you
would dare sing that to a married lady.”
“Well, I own it’s neither gentlemanly nor clever,”
said Roddy. But it had served its turn. Passionate
Partners was forgotten until Tiffany resurrected it
later when Roddy came to her room to say good night.
ijODDY, I didn’t know about Jermyn’s marriage
or anything. Are all his books as bad as that
dreadful thing?”
“The last enchantment of the mediocre, I’m afraid,
Tiffy. It’s not the same Jermyn, poor old chap. You
see, I think the little mammy would have had him
hitch his wagon to a star . . . and the star was too far
off. He had to have something he could lay his hands
on now. But she’s kept him sweet in some way. He
never wallows in the indecencies. Just offers sops to
simpletons . . . and so many writers do that.”
“Don’t make excuses for him. I’d much rather
he were indecent,” cried Tiffany, pushing her hair
up until she looked like an accusing Fury. “That
would show some kind of strength in him. But to sink
his wit and brains to this! And for money! I shall
never forgive him.”
“That’s neither here nor there. She has. I saw
him in England, you know. He has married one of
his coroneted correspondents, and she has helped him
to an adoring following. He really does the best he
can with . . . with what he has now, and it is natural
that he thinks it better than it is. We’re all apt to do
that.”
“Don’t! To have loved mamma .. . and come to
this! It makes me ill.”
“Well ... I can’t blame him. A man is all loose
ends without a woman, Tiffy. Though I have never
found mine . . . except in dreams.”
LUCILLA, thought Sally, must have been more noisy
than usual to have tired her so very much. But it
was good to lie on her couch, and watch the chintz
roses on the chairs and dream she was back in the
chintz room where she was a girl. And better to
have Roddy come with his gay smile, holding her
hand until some power in him seemed dancing through
her.
“Roddy,” she ventured, “Tiffy will have Brant
in eternity, but ... do you think you could spare a
little time for me there? Just sometimes, dear?”
“God bless you, you ridiculous little handful!
You won’t be able to get rid of me. Not even when
Jermyn comes.”
“Oh! No, no, Roddy.” She struggled up on
her cushions in distress. “Don’t say such a dreadful
thing. He has his wife.”
“Don’t you fret. That little sugar-plum of his
don’t belong to the eternities. She’s only a make-
weight. You’ll have us both fighting for you like
the lion and the unicorn all around the sky . . . and
His Omnipotence skirmishing outside the meteors
with his celestial coat-tails flying.”
“Oh, Roddy, don’t make me laugh . . . Oh!” Her
hands went to her breast, she looked with piteous
blue eyes. “So sorry, dear . . . this silly heart. It
feels”
With the first pale light in the east they thought
her gone. But Sally had yet one thing to say, opening
eager eyes, flushing brightly.
“I see the flowers, Jermyn,” she cried triumphantly.
“There will be bouquets for buttonholes.”
IV
IT is a wise person who knows just where small
things end and great things begin. They seem to
run into each other so, thought Linda’s Prue, feel-
ing how they were doing it now with the going off
of the boys to the South African war in this October
of ’ninety-nine. They looked on it as a game . . .
Jerry’s sons, other men’s sons, while for Prue the
tremendous march of evolution went continually past
her door with its ringing feet . . . and never came in.
It would be more than a game to her, she thought,
leaving her horse at the top of the river-cutting and
running down between cabbage-trees and flax already
wild in the growing wind. Life, that was what it
would be, and that was what they would find it,
for all their clear eyes and careless laughter. She
, stooped to tear a flax-blade apart, suck the red gum,
so bitter beneath the sweet. Always she had loved
the flax-gum because it was different from anything
else, just as she loved to ride bareback, feeling the
rough throbbing body between her knees. Janet and
Deb had never wanted to do that, and they had be-
come good wives and mothers of families.
There must be something the matter with me be-
cause I can’t take that decorous and well-trod road
. . . and there’s no other for a woman, thought Prue,
caught by the full blast of the nor’-west as she turned
the corner, and was pinned gasping against the clay
cliff. She pulled off her hat, letting the wind tear
at her black hair, pepper her pale face and scarlet
mouth with sand-particles, wind her skirt about her
long slender limbs. A fine thing to be the nor’-wester,
or even somebody’s son going to the war, thought
Prue.
ALL the folk driving that evening to Bendemeer for
Darien’s good-bye party to young soldiers endured
this buffeting, bellowing, dusty nor’-wester according
to their natures ; and Peregrine, muffled up on the front
seat of the Lovel Hall dog-cart beside Jerry, endured it
like a deeply-annoyed and rather shaky eighty-three.
New Zealand, after all he had done for her, had failed
him. Sally (for whom he had done so very much)
had failed him, leaving him to be cared for by sons
and daughters-in-law who had built the Lovel Hall
verandah too narrow and their family much too wide
and noisy. And the winds were a disgrace to anybody,
and so was Caroline, who was certain to talk politics
to-night, though she knew how they upset his digestion.
“Here we are,” said Jerry, thankful for the
sudden shelter of the macrocapa hedge, the compara-
tive hush of this bullying roar. “A brutal wind. I
hope it didn’t knock you out, sir,” he added, helping
his parent to descend before the open welcoming
doors.


“I do not knock out,” said Peregrine testily. These
young things would persuade him that he was old if
he allowed them. Great Heavens ! What a nasty
old witch Caroline looked, with her fat raddled cheeks
and her simpering at the young fellows over a fan
of purple feathers. Peregrine put up his eyeglass with
an air, offered austere greetings, permitted Linda (still
pretty in a pink, cushiony middle-age) to kiss his
cheek, retreated from a lean enveloping Emily, and
repulsed with an elegant snarl Sophia rushing with
footstools and cushions.
Too many young people ; too much noise and
color; far too much Darien in saffron, silk and
diamonds, laughing, joking, pervading everything.
That woman would never know how to behave. None
of this generation knew how to behave in the presence
of their elders, thought Peregrine, staring aloofly at
flushed faces, white shoulders, black sleeves crushing
together round the piano where Jerry’s Brian was
going to sing. That long-legged black gawk might
be the best rider on the Plains, but he had none of
the grace of Peregrine’s own boy Brian, killed . . .
how many years ago? Yet this youngster was going
away to be killed, too. And Jerry’s Roderick was
going—which Jerry should not allow, since he would
carry on the title some day. Unless his own Roddy
married a Chinese, which was quite likely, since he
had lately accompanied an expedition to Tibet.
“La!” cried Linda. “See the old gentleman
quizzing us. What are you thinking about, Uncle
Peregrine ?”
“Peregrine,” cried Caroline, waking from a doze
which had set her ornate cap crooked, “who did you
vote for at the last elections? I didn’t see you there.”
Parliament, out-heroding Herod, had given
women the suffrage in ’ninety-three. Peregrine said
frigidly : “It makes no matter whom one votes for
in these days.” *
“Now, now,” cried Caroline, trying (Heaven for-
give her) to be voluptuous with three chins, “don’t
tell me you think we ladies don’t deserve the vote.”
“I do not think the country deserved it . . . any
more than it deserved the Land for Settlements Act
that cut up the large properties, which alone gave
it distinction. Nor its continuous ministry. Nor its
pandering to Labor with higher wages and shorter
hours. Nor its earthquakes. But it has to suffer
them.”
Tiffany, bringing a screen to keep the draught
from this lean old frigid papa who would neVer for-
give her, said cheerfully: “New Zealand can never
keep quiet, can it?”
Indeed that was true enough. Maoris, wars,
parliaments, bad times, earthquakes. . . . But New
Zealand had conquered all except the earthquakes.
“I always think,” announced Caroline, “that we
don’t trust enough. If we had trusted more we should
never have had this shocking Land and Income Tax
Bill. Linda don’t like it. No more do I.”
“It don’t hurt you,” said Darien. “You haven’t
an income. But what it’s costing me. . . . Good Lord !
I suppose Jerry pays yours, Peregrine.”
PARIEN was very happy to-night. She was still the
richest person in the district; breeding the finest
sheep and horses; entertaining scores of hungry riders
at the hunt breakfasts ; giving her carpet-dances and
tennis-parties; scattering presents among all these
young things. A clean, open-air, vigorous crowd, the
young things with their shining hair and eyes and their
clear skins.
Darien knew how they kept her young . . . hard
masculine arms flung in careless caress round her
shoulder as she passed, soft lips dropping warm little
kisses. But they ought to be at their marrying, all the
the same. Given a little more time and she’d have
had Rick and Annot Crofts mated before he went
away. It was criminal that Rick, who would one day
be Sir Roderick Lovel, should leave no progeny. But,
since humans were so unreasonable and the boys leav-
ing to-morrow, even Darien at her most Homeric
couldn’t do anything now.
Since turgid patriotism was the fashion of the
day everyone sang “The Soldiers of the Queen,” and
“The Boys in Blue.” And then it was:
There’s a flag that waves o’er ev’ry sea, no
matter when or where
And to treat that flag as aught but free is
more than the strongest dare . . .
Pernicious mush, thought Peregrine, who had
never forgiven England for allowing New Zealand
to be free, any more than he had forgiven her when
she didn’t allow it. Visions of New Zealand rushing
freely down headlong paths to perdition were enough
to make a politician of the early days feel positively
ill. Peregrine (quite ready to feel ill in a suitable cause)
considered the lavish angry ’seventies with Grey
giving birth to that unspeakable Opposition; the
agonised ’eighties, when wheat and wool sank to
nothing, and soup-kitchens and Songs of the Shirt
were everywhere, and laborers, brought at such cost to
develop the country, departed in their thousands ; the
toilsome ’nineties struggling to climb the steep grade
again.
All Grey’s fault. The fault of that intense furious
old man, launching his poisoned darts at everyone.
Fighting for the “poor man,” he had said. Egad, he
had made everybody poor. . . .
“Did you know Sir George Grey, my dear ?” he
asked Prue, tasting that name still bitter on his tongue.
All Grey’s fault that there would be no great county
families building ancestral mansions, strolling with
pedigreed spaniels in their vast and elegant parks.
Every little man with his wife and sons and daughters
able to vote such glories out of existence ; vote the
parks into cabbage-patches, the pedigreed spaniels
into mongrel sheep-dogs nipping a gentleman’s
heels ... A country for the commoner, this New
Zealand, where he had once dreamed of kingship, of
sons about him like the great land-barons of old.
Linda was charmed to remember Sir George
Grey, who was such a perfect gentleman, though she
never could understand why he had become so fond
of the working-man. “But since neither of our boys
wanted to go on the land I think it is a good thing
the Government cut up so much of Durdans for
closer settlement,” declared Linda, her head on one
side, like a plump hen considering worms.
Andrew (who very much showed the effect of the
’eighties) thought it was all for the best, since the
big stations couldn’t have carried the whole burden
of taxation. “Bendemeer can, and a few more, but
the little settlers grow fine crops where we could only
afford to run sheep. Though they do break down the
fences confoundly at hunts,” said Andrew, who had
plenty of hares to hunt now and much less leisure to
do it in—which wouldn’t have surprised him if he had
known as much about Fate’s cantrips as Peregrine
did.
OME on,” cried Darien, crashing out great
V chords at the piano. “John Peel.” Swaying
with linked arms and shining eyes, these boys and
girls, born to the saddle, to the open windy spaces,
sang it richly :
For the sound of his horn brought me from
my bed,
And the cry of the hounds that he oft-times
led.
Boys and girls, curving hands to mouths, setting chins
up and shoulders back, let some of their secret trouble
go in a great shouting and laughter.
“You’ll hear that in South Africa, Rick,” said
grey-eyed Annot Crofts.
“I’ll hear you,” muttered the future Sir Roderick,
edging her away. . . .
So there it went on, this insatiable promenade of
the generations ; stately in crinoline, gay and light-
some in a barn-dance, marching with drum and fife
to war, soft in slippered feet over the fire. Two and
two, the promenade, looking into each other’s eyes
and never seeing where they were going, or looking
aside and seeing too far. And what it was all for who
could say. Not Tiffany, running to help Sophia bring
in the great trays for supper.
“I can enjoy crayfish salad,” said Caroline, accept-
ing a large plateful, “but I certainly don’t think it
wise for you, Peregrine. What about hot milk with
a little nutmeg in it ?”
Peregrine knew it so unwise that it might
presently kill him. But what other riposte for a
gentleman of his standing except to take a helping
apparently designed for a ploughman and then allow
Tiffany (who was really quite skilled in such matters)
to dispose of it unostentatiously, leaving her own
empty plate to be casually exhibited to Caroline.
This little ruse pleased Peregrine so well that he bore
with equanimity the ensuing speeches and presen-
tations : Sophia giving each departing soldier a curio
and a wool-worked text, and Darien giving watches
(so vulgarly ostentatious), and Caroline calling each
abashed youth up for a little good advice.
“Soon you’ll all be back with South Africa in
your pockets,” cried Darien, managing to squeeze
Rick and Annot out of the crowd. He’d propose if
he could get her through the door, she thought, and
that was so much to the good.
“A grand parade of England’s possessions, each
blowing its own trumpet and out of step with all the
rest,” said Prue, who was sometimes too much like
Jermyn at his worst.
“We’ll learn to keep step some day,” said Brian,
going to the piano, singing in a mellow tender voice
that made one think of Roddy . . .
Darien peered round the gleaming shoulders, the
black coats. Annot and Rick were gone and the door
shut.
V.
HEDGES had brought the native birds to the
Plains, and on this autumn afternoon the gardens
at Bendemeer were full of them; little green
white-eyes, flycatchers skimming along under the
verandah in search of a late meal, small native robins
with black glossy coats and plump saffron waistcoats
hopping on the lawns' all tawny with leaves of oak
and sycamore fallen in last night’s frost. In the shade
frost was still as white as the flower-bunches in the
laurustinus fence . . . and very emphatic in my bones,
thought Tiffany, gathering a handful of the wind-red
button chrysanthemums, and walking on down the
frosty path, crisp as biscuits underfoot, and out
through the side gate to hot sun and the woodpile.
The woodpile of grubbed gorse-roots and drift-
wood and broken branches sprawled everywhere, and
the station-hands got good ratting from it.
"We really should clean it up, thought Tiffany,
feeling that she really ought to clean up her own
affairs, too. She couldn’t go on for ever, like the
woodpile. Darien couldn’t, though she always believed
she could . . . never accepting old age, as Tiffany had
accepted it. A difficult art to learn, this growing old.;
this giving up jiding, or going out in the air without
hat and shawl, this being gracious when Prue and the
maids ran errands for you. Darien (her feet loose
in slippers, her hands in mittens as she crouched over
the fire) still talked largely of buying new prunellas,
satin slippers, purple kid boots to fit a neat ankle,
white kid gloves . . . size sixes . . .
“I am not what I have to be,” declared Darien,
defying time and rheumatism and all the other bogies,
talking of all she would do with Nick Flower’s legacy
yet. A strange, rather tragic liaison that had been
between Nick Flower and Darien, neither bringing
anything but money to birth. Yet Darien, at least,
had helped the country, and now Rick and
Annot were bearing at Lovel Hall the burden she had
so reluctantly laid down.
A valiant soul, Darien, according to her lights,
thought Tiffany, sitting on a log of the woodpile to
watch a lark tossing his spray of song into the tall
dazzling blue, turning to meet a stranger alighting
with dignity, though rather stiffly, from the
hotel car pulling up by the back gate, coming towards
her in all the splendor of homburg hat and fashion-
able ulster. She got up, feeling that her plain brown
dress and old brown hat pulled on anyhow were so
palpably below the notice of this large, elegant old
gentleman that he must be coming to address the
woodpile.
“Tihane!” he said, dropping a silver-mounted
stick, holding out both brown wrinkled hands. “It
is you, Tihane?”
“Hemi . . . oh, my dear” No more words
possible for Tiffany, feeling all the past rising up at
her like this. Holding his hands, she bent solemnly
forward, solemnly gave to Hemi the old Maori salu-
tation of pressing noses, which she had never vouch-
safed to him before.
THEN they sat down on the woodpile, still holding
hands, still smiling foolishly at each other. He
looks much more Maori now that he’s so brown and
wrinkled, she thought. But his nose is the real royal
kaka-beak. “Oh, how did you find me, Hemi? And
why did you want to after all these years? Can I
do anything for you, my dear? Though I fear I’m
rather past doing anything for anybody.”
She could, he said, do much by just letting him
look at her, since she was still his beautiful Tihane.
And it was only when he came just now to the South
that he had found her. “I have come to see the
Maoris of Kaiapoi and Little River. I am in Parlia-
ment now, Tihane, and you know that the Maori
Ministers have to look after all the Maoris.”
“Parliament? How splendid, Hemi! I’m afraid
I don’t read the papers as I used to. Now you can
fight for your own people there. And do you stun
everybody with your oratory as you used to stun me
in the bush-gully?”
“I never stunned you far enough. I never had
you under my mat,” he said, his dark sunken eyes
on her with something of their once-deep burning.
Then he shook his head as though putting that away.
“I am many grandfathers now, Tihane, and some of
my grandsons are fighting with other Maoris in this
great war in Europe . . . where I hope they will not
shame their begats,” said Hemi sternly.
“I have a grandson there, too. His father lives in
England. Oh, Hemi,” said Tiffany rather forlornly, “I
was just nicely getting used to being old, and now
you come and mix me all up.”
“I shall never think you old. But you were right
not to come under my mat, Tihane. Always it is
pain to me that I am two races. Never should pakeha
and Maori mix. Te Whiti knew that.”
Tiffany remembered about Te Whiti, who had
been the last of the real Maori troubles in the early
’eighties. A prophet, just as there would always be
Maori prophets now that the big chiefs were gone.
And (for the first time) a prophet who did not want
to kill.
“A good man, Tihane. He saw true. We Maoris
think he saw the Christ. And the Christ said: ‘Come
ye apart, my brown men, for the ways of the pakeha
are not for you.’ And you know how they were not.
We could not understand. And we grew bitter . . .
and drunken . . . and we despaired. There was a Sir
Donald McLean in the Parliament, and he did much
for the Maori. But Te Whiti did more . . . for he
and his followers were imprisoned in their hundreds
and they would not lift a hand.”
“I read about that. There were not enough
prisons for them—just sitting down and refusing to
live with the pakeha....”
“I was one. It was funny. The pakeha were all
so puzzled. They could not believe that after all they
have done for us . . . and it has been much, the Maori
did not want to live with pakeha men. Some do . . .
but they are not the best. But now we have got
reserves, and the Maori can be Maori still, and the
Urewera is Maori —though it is not much, being all
cold forests and mountains. And they pay us well
for the land they take. And in the Parliament I and
others can do something. But nothing can give us
back our warriors and our chiefs and our gods. I
do not think the Maori believes in anything now.
Nor is he a proud gentleman any longer.”
Hemi’s careful English had still the rolling Maori
gutturals. When he let himself go, grew impassioned
%
(Continued on page 50.)


NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
gf
Shave Electrically
Schick Electric Shavers are fine! N
more raw faces and no shavin
preparation. Just plug into electric
socket A.C. or D.C. and shave faster,
smoother and more comfortably will)
Schick.
High-class stores and tobacconists,
£5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, UTI).,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
o
mm
g
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age 7 If the answer
is “No," just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., TjTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director,
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
to the “Times” and unofficial reports on nefarious
plots of all descriptions for the Secret Service
His biographer, who has not the remotest inten-
tion of debunking his hero, is oddly honest:
When Le Queux was in Switzerland in 1924, the
undergraduate section of the winter sports visitors took
a violent dislike to him and formed a species of
“Anti-Le Queux Club,” adopting a special badge.
Having waded through all the foregoing, present
book-sampler spent a cheerful week-end with the
thought that every bad book published helps to
obscure the occasional good one.
Black Brother and an American
Gentleman.
A travel book of distinctive quality is Dark
Islands, by John W. Vandercook (Heinemann). The
author, an American, accompanied by his wife, went
exploring well off the beaten track in Hawaii, Fiji,
New Guinea and the Solomons. He made a success
of his travels, in that they gave him intense enjoy-
ment and satisfaction. The secret of that success
seems to have lain in the voyager’s lack of any sense
of superiority or inferiority. There is often a humor-
ous twinkle in his eye, but he’d rather laugh with
people, white or black, than at them, and he neither
feared nor pitied the primitive people he encountered.
From Hawaii he brought back a priceless piece
of terse Americanese —“The missionaries went to
Hawaii to do good. They did well.” In Fiji he dis-
covered Communism of the sort practised by the
early Christians. It’s impossible for a native to set
up a shop, because if he does the populace descend
upon it, take all and pay nothing. In the Solomons
Vandercook looked at what the missionaries had done
and found it bad. Gone were the proudly-decorated
canoes, the finely-carved doorposts; gone the tradi-
tional dances.
Most terrible of all—and this is the first and most
lasting lesson that the missions teach —the people of
Malaita had learned that they were black. It is the most
terrible discovery that men can make. They had been
taught that not only were the white men masters of earth,
but masters of heaven, too. The gods were white,
and all dark gods, like all dark men, were weak and
wrong.
Vandercook’s New Guinea wanderings were the
most delectable of all. First came an interview with
Hubert Murray.
When he came on to the porch of the little bungalow
office on the hill to welcome us, a native messenger was
waiting, standing stiffly by the door. The hand the tall
old Governor-General laid on the boy’s shoulder was as
gentle a hand as we have ever seen. He was 71. He
had ruled his beloved colony for 27 years. He was
wearing a white uniform with jacket buttoned to the
throat, and it was quite unadorned. He had begun
to look a little tired. The native, messenger was a little
chap with a big crop of black hair. That hand resting
for a moment on his shoulder, that light, unthinking,
affectionate embrace of the elderly gentleman in whites,
had marked, we could see, the summit of his life. The
boy stood very upright, trembling a little, his eyes large
with adoration. Two tears had sprung into them.
Murray wasn’t going to have two Americans stravag-
ing about unchecked in Papua. He was courteous and
kind, and arranged that the visitors, as a great treat,
should go on a perfectly safe tour of the Catholic
missions! (“He did not say it, but it was unmistak-
ably on Sir Hubert’s mind that his Papuans also would
be quite safe from us.”) The Vandercooks dodged
from under and made a canoe journey far into the
interior. There, from the natives in villages on piles
in swamps, they had kindness and hospitality.
An account of a first meeting with some of these
village folk in a hut placed at the disposal of the
visitors illustrates the Vandercook philosophy in the
matter of the savage. Vandercook let the tribesmen
peep into the mirror of his reflex camera ; showed
how the tripod worked ; demonstrated a cigarette-
lighter and a collapsible frying-pan. “We did our
best to make a good showing for our race and color.”
He reflects then: “These people think we have made
all these things.”
With what must have seemed a sudden petulance 1
gathered the things I had been showing them and
huddled them away. With words which they did not
understand, but with gestures and expressions which they
did, we turned to honest admiration of their possessions,
their exquisitely-carved bark belts, the spectacular feather
headdresses. It was curious to see how quickly damage
had been done. They had come so proudly. Now they
were a little ashamed, for the first time in all the changeless
years. They were timid and no longer sure, like children
rebuffed, children whose toys of grimy spools had been
stripped by scorn of all imagined splendor. We were
humble with them. Since our admiration had no taint
of condescension, they soon forgot. Shy men on the
outskirts of the little crowd pushed forward to show
the traceries on their bone daggers, to giggle and nod
and turn while we admired their finery.
To hark back to the Solomons, on Malaita Van-
dercook was lured into a “no far” expedition by three
young bucks. They took him over creeks and rivers
and up mountains, a devil of a journey, and conveyed
him back laughing and joking all the time. Mrs.
Vandercook didn’t worry. “I was in the safe custody
of savages.”
A South African Tragedian.
Sarah Gertrude Millin, South African, is among
novelists —like Synge among dramatists- —an authentic
tragedian.
She never baulks consequences. She has told,
in God’s Stepchildren, the story of the working out
of mixed blood to the third and fourth generation ;!
in The Sons of Mrs. Aab of the malign influence of
an idiot upon his healthy brother ; in The Fiddler of a
woman who ran away with a manAvho did not love
her and the consequent destruction of her spirit. Now,
in What Hath a Man ? (Chatto and Windus) she has
written a tragedy of Henry Ormandy, who, with
apparently everything in his favor, comes to ship-
wreck.
Ormandy was the son of well-to-do parents and
he received all the advantages of his class. He was
good looking and intelligent and could have had as
many friends as he wanted, but chose to be a solitary.
Fired by reading a speech of Rhodes, he took service
with the chartered company in Rhodesia. He car-
ried his struggle against life and loneliness to remote
stations. He set himself a high standard both in his
duty towards the natives and in his personal conduct;
and by discipline he attained it. Yet his life remained
barren.
Returning to England on leave he found an even
more hopeless desert of loneliness. He married his
mother’s companion in a moment of quixotry and
returned to Rhodesia. He became ill, and the fear of
his illness was added to his other torments. In all his
life there were only two things of importance, a meet-
ing with Rhodes and his secret harassing love for his
son who was killed in the war.
From birth to death he found no satisfaction and
no rest except in those two things. The history is told
in bare outline. Ormandy is shut in the prison of his
own character. He has the illusion of seeing through
everything ; so in him wisdom is a bitter growth. This,
from his reflections, gives the tenor of the book:
He saw that suicide might be an escape, but a
revenge it was not, and that the hara-kiri of the Japanese
was, therefore, a psychological error. For the impres-
sion a death made upon those whose personal lives
it did not reduce was inconsequential. Even the loss
of a child or a spouse could be better borne than the
loss of a fortune. One did not admit it. What could
be more terrible than the hollowness a great human
loss blasted in one’s heart? Yet into that hollowness
stepped eternity and grew in the void until only a little
diminishing chunk of pain was left that did not damage
—that rather ennobled —the outward life one lived,
which was, in fact, the real life. What filled the blank
in that outward life, that real life, when a fortune
departed? One had only to compare the humanly
bereft with the financially bereft; it was sorrow against
desolation.
Sarah Gertrude Millin knows her Africa. She
indulges in few descriptions, yet there is a ring of
authenticity about her picture of life in Rhodesia
that holds attention.
Aldington Loughs.
Like Sinclair Lewis’s Prodigal Parents, Richard
Aldington’s Seven Against Reeves (Heineman) repre-
sents the Indian Summer of a satirist. He has be-
come an entertainer. Seven Against Reeves is a
riotous book.
It is about John Reeves, a respectable middle-
aged middle-class Englishman, who has made a tidy
fortune in the City and retired from business in
order to enjoy it in the company of his wife, his son
Basil and his daughter Marcelle. He discovers almost
immediately that he doesn’t know how to fill in his time.
His wife “with the quiet but deadly obstinacy of the
philanthropist who so often succeeds in squaring his
interests with his altruism” undertakes to create a
social life for him.
There follows a series of adventures in High
Society, Art, Philanthropy and Foreign Travel, during
which Mr. Reeves is systematically fleeced by every-
body, but especially by his children. The title claims
only seven against Reeves but Aldington is evidently
thinking of Thebes and can’t resist a private chuckle
at parodying that heroic theme —and in the Greek
play each of the seven led an army.
It is an open secret between Aldington and his
reader that, with one exception, no one matters a
peppercorn, which leaves the novelist free to poke the
most extravagant fun at them. He knocks social
climbers, bijou artists, pseudo promoters of would-be
geniuses, interior decorators who can’t decorate and a
host of other parasites on the head with a gleeful
hammer. Surrealism does not escape:-
The background of “Homer” was a dull pea-green ’
evidently intended to symbolise the eternal freshness of
the poet of Rhodes, Smyrna, Colophon, etcetera. The
most conspicuous detail of the picture was a pair of
glass eyes, artfully stuck on the canvas with seccotine,
to show that the artist knew that Homer was blind!
Vanishing from one corner of the canvas was the wheei
of a milk-cart —obviously the chariot of Achilles—to
which was attached a piece of raw meat which Mr.
Marsbate alone on this planet knew was a leg dragged
from the corpse of Hector. In the foreground was a
hare which looked like a tortoise and a tortoise which
looked like a hare—for Mr. Marsbate had been to Eton
and had heard of the problem of Achilles.
Amidst all this swatting of flies with hammers
Mr. Reeves walks in innocence. He is a simple man ;
to him music is a noise, science merely a guarantee
of perfect plumbing, literature means detective stories.
He is, in fact, the Great British Public.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ...
Love’s Lottery : Gordon Casserly (Quality Press).
London working girl, airman lover, Riviera, opium
den, mysterious villa, Communist plot, Riff tribesmen,
Spanish firing party, rescue from the skies.
General ...
Introducing Leslie Hunter: T. J. Honeyman
(Faber). Biography and fresh critical estimate of a
Scottish painter whose work has appreciated in interest
since his death. Like Van Gogh, he was untaught,
strongly individual, sold few pictures and found life
full of difficulties that his own temperament did little
to mitigate. His story is well told, and 43 illustra-
tions in color and monochrome give some idea of his
style and abilities.
Vaeious Verse
A Sonnet.
“Get up.” “Go now.” “Make haste.” “Return.” “Be
sure,”
Puppet to puppet cried; and when I heard
The singing voice, and saw the form’s allure,
I almost was to such a life endeared;
But thunder tented in a purple sky,
And rain rinsed white with air, reminded me
That there was no one else who would be I
If I surrendered this to puppetry ;
And for the voice, the form, and all else lost
There was great solace in the eventual thought
That not with cash, but at far sterner cost
I buy what neither friend nor foe has bought:
The right to envy those who must endure
“Get up.” “Go now.” “Be sure.” “Be sure.” “Be sure!”
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
Statement in Winter.
Not believing now the shadowed time
That channelled with remorseless flame
Bole and bone in dapple safe,
Not believing now that green betrayer
Offering grass and offering leaf
To hands outstretched in country prayer,
1 have considered it all and grow
As cold and still as fallen snow.
I could have been a fisher of trout
With daybreak and the silver thought
Of stone and water, willow and thrush
To bum my body, flame in song.
If any man’s dark death ward flesh
Lit when I spoke with water’s tongue,
Go with God, friend, go with grace,
Sweet was that green wandering place.
Not believing now that quiet lie,
Nor moon, white boats upon the bay,
Shall faith assume that powerful structure
Our speed of steel to heaven rears
In white, star-splintering architecture?
It shall be answered cold are stars,
And cold are brown leaves when they go
Falling upon the fallen snow.
I could have been a blade of steel
Glittering with the siren wail
Of slums and factories, unemployed,
To flash in a white rage of song.
If any man when pity cried
Bled or burned at endless wrong,
Go with grace, friend, go with God,
Holy and hopeless is the road.
Ships, white breakers on the coasts,
Slumber between the dark of breasts,
The blade whose white is stained with blood,
Time among the shade in wait
For stream and stone and thrush and wood,
1 have considered it all: and yet
In stillness past delight I know
The brown leaf on the fallen snow.
N.S.W.
DOIGLAS STEWART.


a-.
m
V
4/-
%
X
If
v/
mi
1^ —ll
in
I"I
- ¥>
>
s
5k
o
V A
****
°9™£A?z?
RADIOL A:
Model 265. 6-valve
World Range Air
Cell operated Model,
38 GUINEAS
Other Air Cell
Models from 20 gns.
TASMA: Model
585. 5-valve Dual
Wave Air Cell oper-
ated. Model. Price,
37 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell
Models from 29
guineas. (Prices
slightly higher in
W.A.)
Model 330.
5-valve Dual Wave *
Air Cell operated
Model price, 33
GUINEAS. Other
Air Cell operated
Models priced from 27
guineas.
TO-DAY, the Australian community
that lives beyond the power lines and
has no electricity can have as fine a
radio set as those who live in wired
areas. You can prove this for yourself at
any time, simply by paying a visit to your
local radio dealer and seeing one of the
amazing new Air Cell operated models
demonstrated. Endorsed by no less than
23 leading manufacturers of radio sets
in Australia, if is equipped with an Ever
Ready Air Cell, the new type battery
that supercedes the accumulator, needs
no recharging and no attention whatso-
ever. With normal use it will give over
12 months of perfect service.
f
111
< '
‘ '<
ivxi mtWi'yy^
mm
111
iiiiii
.TV
»}»
• Other well-known makes of Air Cell operated
Radio include:—Aristocrat (E.S.M.), Batyphone,
Briton, Calstan, Crammond, Croydon, Genalex,
Howard, Kriesler, Lekmek, Varamount, Velco,
Weldon, Zenith.
WESTINGHOUSE: Model
458. 5-valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model. Price, 38
GUINEAS. Other Air Cell
operated Models from 28 guineas.
fg
BREVILLE: Model 111. 5-
valve Triple Wave Air Cell operated
Model. Price, 35 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell Models from 31 gns.
(1 gn. higher in Q., S.A and W.A.)
mmm
*
m
h
If you would like full
details concerning any
particular make of Air
Cell operated Radio
Receiver, consult your
local dealer or write
TO-DAY to the Ever
Ready Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Harcourt Parade,
Rosebery, N.S.W.
f
BANDMASTER:
Model 458D8. svalve World
Range Air Cell operated
Model, 32 GUINEAS.
Other Air Cell Models from
20 guineas.
STROMBERG-
CARLSON: Model 780.
6-valve Dual Wave Air Cell
operated Model. 38 g
GUINEAS. Other Air
Cell Models from 28 guineas.
(Prices slightly higher in
W.A.)
S.T.C.:ModeIS23D.
5-valve Dual Wave
Air Cell operated
Model. Price, 35
GUINEAS. Other
Air Cell Models from
20 guineas. (Prices
slightly higher in Q.)
Al6/.150
/
/
ii f . "


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
mm
I
V
:y m
*****
mMt-
WfE?***
«S,
«s**
iNfc
;- |pt|p
m
«*..
'-•^v
e*-*** 4 *
**ssg
‘*s*’
*«-■
:*..■
m
#r
v- g
W &
w***
Some of the wine-filled casks to be placed in one of the huge storage cellars.
yfffc'd c Hme<>fWie mellewncjSxmdlxttui/uet


IN THE OVER-PROMISED LAND.
“Blime, this is worse than a Mosley meetin’ in the Mile-end-road!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
JOHN BULL AS JOHN HOP.
For the time being there is a lull in the clamor of
those who like to envisage John Bull in the role of
world policeman. The cause of the lull is that Mr.
Chamberlain’s foreign policy is succeeding. It will only
need a hitch, however unavoidable or temporary, and
the pack will be in full cry again, yelping in extra-
ordinary ignorance of the full-time job J.B. already
has on his hands, policing and guarding what he holds,
and of the defects in his equipment for doing that job.
The more apparent of those defects—the matter
of guns, ’planes, warships—are being overcome as fast
as money can do it. The cost is a sufficient measure
of the past folly of the war-mongers. Speaking on
this in March Mr. Chamberlain stated that there would
have to be a still further increase on the £1,500,000,000
at first contemplated for rearmament. This year
alone J.B. is spending £343,500,000 on defence, which
“must inevitably be exceeded next year.”
With such expenditure necessary, not for plung-
ing into war but for the ordinary commonsense busi-
ness of self-protection, the sheer ignorance of those
who have been clamoring for strife for five years past
becomes horrible to think about. It should be as
plain as daylight that if such expenditure is needed
to get J.B. back from a criminal state of weakness
to normal safety, any one of the interference jobs lately
urged for him represented an invitation to suicide.
Even now it is a five years' rearmament plan
which J.B. is working on, not an overnight conjuring
trick. It will be at the earliest another two years
before a respectable tuck has been taken up in the
slack, and even at that the improvement will be only
in arms, not in man-power. In this J. 8., since the
pacifists (now crusaders) got busy after the war, has
permitted himself much the same luxury of weakness
as have all other parts of the Empire.
The Regular Army, including British troops in
India and all other garrisons abroad, stands at
188,381, compared with 234,586 in 1913-14, well
before the war broke. The other main body of J.B.’s
man-power, the Territorial Army, has had its peace
establishment reduced from 315,000 to 203,000. That
is on paper only; by divers shifts the strength has
been increased some 30,000 since 1936 (when the fire-
eaters were roaring their heads off), but it is still
35,000 below even the reduced establishment.
Such figures should steady some of the claptrap
of armchair crusaders ; a glance at the shifts needed
to improve J.B.’s fighting force even to the present
figure should steady more. Apart from improvements
in Thomas Atkins’s allowances, living conditions and
the like, J.B. has found it necessary to raise the maxi-
mum age limit for enlistment, recruit married men,
modify physical standards and establish a depot where
men who do not come up to that modified standard
may receive special treatment and training. Under
this sort of stimulus the intake of recruits is still
nowhere near requirements—for peace defence pur-
poses, let alone for acting as John Hop to the world.
While J.B.’s own ranks thus remain half-full,
those of Empire countries on which he might hope
to call at a pinch are in even worse state. In 1913-14
Australia’s strength was 34,000, and increasing—
under the scheme adopted in 1911 it was proposed to
have 120,000 citizen soldiers training when the system
was in full operation. In 1936-37 the figure stood at
28,000: it is claimed that pretty uniforms (which will
be scrapped in war-time) and other such shifts have
improved this figure, but ranks are still half full. In
Canada the drop has been from 77,420 to 49,000 ;
in South Africa, from 20,000 to 15,000 ; in Maoriland,
from 30,000 to 13,000.
It might steady armchair fire-eaters just a bit
more to reflect that only very small proportions of
those forces are either well enough trained or well
enough equipped to be sent to help J.B. at short
notice, even if the Dominions gave a unanimous
Yes to a war-call, which —with the Statute of West-
minister permitting No, plus the sort of war-calls that
have been resounding—is not certain. .
In addition to such considerations —which should
in themselves be enough to steady even fools —
there remains the very full-time job J.B. has on his
hands doing his own John Hopping. Something of
the magnitude of this job has lately become evident
through the troubles in Palestine and Jamaica forcing
up into,the limelight. It is another count to the indict-
ment of sword-rattling crusaders that the troubles in
these places and elsewhere —particularly India —are no
sudden misfortune, but have been present throughout
the term that has both seen J.B. at his weakest and
heard the save-the-League, save-Spain, save-China, save-
Czechoslovakia crusading lunatics at their loudest.
In quelling one fairly recent outbreak of rebellion
in India more than a division was engaged in military
operations in the field for from 18 months to two
years. Still more recent operations on the North-
West frontier entailed the employment of some
40,000 troops. On this part of his beat alone J.B. has
to maintain about two divisions on a war footing as
a deterrent against tribal disorder. Precautionary
troops stationed in India and Burma now number 45
British battalions, five British cavalry regiments, 109
Indian battalions and 21 Indian cavalry regiments.
These figures—in common with the weakening every-
where —represent heavy reductions compared with
1914, and the political changes India is now under-
going certainly do not make J.B.’s John Hopping in
that country any easier.
In Palestine J.B.’s John Hopping is getting in-
creasingly more difficult. It is one of the sundry
aspects of the Abyssinian bother which were kept
unadvertised that, though J.B.’s Palestinian troubles
were rapidly growing worse all the time he was
engaged upholding the rotten structure of the League
of Nations, he could not move troops needed to do
his own private job till that farce had been played
out. By then the number of additional troops needed
in Palestine was 10,000, hurried to the scene in
August-September, 1936 another matter that
remained unadvertised in Australia, while the
crusaders were bellowing at their loudest. At their
maximum the forces then employed in Palestine repre-
sented about two divisions, over a policing period of
from three to six months. Even when this army was
reduced the Palestinian force was kept at not less than
three times what had previously been considered
normal strength. Now there have been further con-
siderable increases.
Apart from these major John Hopping jobs J.B.
has sundry others. Overdue reforms may steady the riot-
ing in Jamaica, but meanwhile J.B. as John Hop has
a prickly beat there. He has other beats in Africa,
at Gibraltar, at the Suez Canal, at Aden, at Singa-
pore, in China and at other points. Patrolling beats,
some of them ; but all represent a drain on his reduced
man-power strength and almost any one of them might
demand reinforcing at any time.
It is a matter not only of ordinary saving com-
monsense, as opposed to day-dreaming idealism, but
also of necessity enforced by such realistic facts, that
Mr. Chamberlain makes J.B.’s own John Hopping job
first of his three enunciated principles of foreign
policy: “Protection of British interests and lives of
British nationals.” Even if J.B. had anything to spare
from that —which he clearly hasn’t—looking for other
beats would still be folly. In his present circumstances
it would be criminal lunacy.
At Villers-Bret.
Villers - Bretonneux, where stands the noble
memorial which the King is to unveil on July 22, has
an old, though indirect, connection with this country.
Bean notes in his A.I.F. in France that the town “had
prospered on the home-spinning of wool” —Australian,
of course. It already had a monument when the
Australians saw it first, for a battle was fought in the
neighborhood in 1870, a year fatal to the Bonapartes.
Nine miles to the west lies Amiens, not only a
city with a famous cathedral, but a great railway junc-
tion. To the Germans, advancing victoriously in the
last week of March, 1918, and hoping to separate the
British Army from the French, possession of Villers-
Bretonneux was all important, for it “offered the most
direct approach” to Amiens, and “the best obser-
vation” withal.
On March 30, the tenth day of the “Michael”
battle, the 9th Australian Brigade, commanded
for the first time by Charles Rosenthal, was thrown
into the fight. Rosenthal’s headquarters were at Gen-
telles, three miles south-west of Villers-Bretonneux ;
his orders to Lieut.-Colonel Morshead, of the 33rd
Battalion, were that the battalion should advance, if
possible, to a line three and a half miles away. As
Bean tells the story:
“When are we to do it?” —“Now.”
“Any artillery?”—“No.”
“Do you know where the British line is?” —“No.”
“Can I have some troops to support me?” —“Yes,
the 34th.”
So, without artillery preparation, but with the 12th
Lancers giving dashing assistance, the 33rd and the
34th fought their way to a new line, which they estab-
lished in spite of furious shelling and persistent
machine-gun fire. Then, having lost 200 officers and
men, they handed over to the 10th Essex and returned
to headquarters, “drenched and cold, but enthusiastic.”
The 35th Battalion, for its part, was ordered to
take over “the whole sector of the 61st Division.” It
thus became “responsible for the vital front, 2800
yards in length, immediately protecting Villers-
Bretonneux,” and spent “miserable days in rain-soaked
country.” On the fifth day the enemy broke through
a British sector, and the 35th fell back.
The 36th counter-attacked. The verbal orders of
its commander, “Jock” Milne, were preserved and
communicated to Bean.
The enemy has broken through in our immediate
front, and we must counter-attack at once.
Bushelle, your company will be on the left. Rodd,
B company will be in the centre. Tedder, C company
will take the right, and I shall send immediately to the
C.O. of the Queen’s and ask him to co-operate.
Bushelle, your left flank will rest on the railway
embankment. The 35th are on the other side. Attack
in one wave.
D company, under Captain Gadd, I shall hold you
in reserve here in the sunken road.
Get ready. There’s no time to waste.
Captain Bushelle asked, “How far shall we go?”
“Go till you’re stopped,” replied Milne, “and hold
on at all costs.”
With 180 men of the 7th Queens on its right flank,
and with a company of the 35th and four companies
of the 6th London forming a second wave, the 36th
drove the Germans back a mile on the left and on
the right for nearly half a mile. More than half its
officers became casualties.
Of 2250 officers and men engaged, the 9th
Brigade lost 675. But, although the Fourth British
Army was driven back on its whole front, Villers-
Bretonneux was held. Unfortunately, Milne, who, in
the words of a colonel of the 6th London, “un-
doubtedly retrieved a very awkward situation,” was
killed by a shell which burst in his headquarters a
week after the fight.
That, to the Diggers, was First Villers-Bret. Second
Villers-Bret. began on April 24, when, attacking in a
mist and using tanks and mustard gas, the enemy
smashed through British troops, many of whom were
raw lads, and seized the town.
The 15th Australian Brigade, commanded by
Harold Edward (“Pompey”) Elliott, was posted north-
west of Villers-Bretonneux. From the divisional com-
mander, General Hobbs, Elliott received permission
to move his battalion into position for a counter-attack
which, anticipating what would happen, he had been
planning for weeks. Then it was that he issued the
order which cost him the goodwill of persons in high
places: “All British troops to be rallied and re-formed,
as our troops march through them, by selected officers,
and on any hesitation to be shot.” The last seven
words were countermanded by General Hobbs.
General Rawlinson, leader of the 4th British Army,
at once issued orders for the recapture of Villers-
Bretonneux, and a similar instruction came from Foch.
It was decided to attack that night, mainly on Elliott’s
plan of a simultaneous advance north and south of the
town. Thomas William Glasgow’s Australian Brigade,
the 13th, was moved up eight miles to the outskirts
of the Bois l’Abbe for the southern operation.
According to Bean, the British General Butler
wanted the attack to begin at 8 o’clock, summer-time,
when the Germans would have been able to see every-
thing. Glasgow “saved everyone concerned from that
tragic mistake ” by suggesting 10.30 p.m., and holding
out successfully for 10 p.m.
Each Australian brigade did its job splendidly.
On the south an advancing line of the 51st Battalion
(Westralians) was straightway enfiladed by machine-
gunners, “and it looked as if the advance might be
permanently held up.” Then there occurred a won-
derful example of the resourcefulness of the Aus-
tralian soldier.
The sergeant of the platoon next to Lieutenant
Sadlier’s, a tall, dark, lithe Westralian, Charlie Stokes, crept
up to Sadlier and asked him what he was going to do.
“Carry out the order —go straight to our objective,”
replied Sadlier.
“You can’t do it,” said Stokes, “you’ll all be killed.”
“Well, what can we do?”
“Collect your bombers and go into the wood and
bomb those guns out.”
Led by Sadlier and Stokes, “who had secured a
bag of bombs,” the Westralians dashed into the dark
wood and tackled the astonished machine-gunners.
They rushed the first gun, first firing rifle-grenades
over the trees —“lacking cup-containers, they had to
rest the handles against their bayonets.” Sadlier was
shot twice and had to go to the rear. “Stokes led on
from one German gun to another.”
With his men reduced to two, and his bombs all
spent, he met Corporal West, who found some German
stick-bombs. With two of these Stokes blew out another
machine-gun crew. He captured the gun and went on to
attack and subdue two more machine-guns. Corporal
Browne, with a Lewis gun, also worked into the wood,
suppressed a machine-gun and shot down a number
of the enemy.
By this audacious attack all the machine-guns along
that edge of the wood were eventually silenced —six were
picked up there afterwards —and a great danger was
removed from the hank of the advancing brigade.
The northern attackers of Elliott’s brigade
had the difficult task of advancing past the town and
then changing direction. This they accomplished
magnificently, in the process charging with the bayonet.
Part of the line was held up by a machine-gun,
firing from behind a haystack, “until a daring soldier,
Private Hodgekiss, ran round the stack and killed the
gunner.” The right of the attack had to pass through
a belt of wire. Though the operation was as difficult
as any attempted in the war —the distance was two
miles, the dark was intense and gas lay on the low
ground—touch was kept throughout.
By four o’clock on April 25, the third anniversary
of The Landing, the two Australian brigades had estab-
lished themselves —not, it is true, upon the objective set
them, completely cutting off the town, but so near to it
that it was certain that the enemy, unless he dislodged
them, must withdraw his troops from the town and
wood, if, indeed, it was still possible for them to escape.
Escape many of them did, in a thick morning mist,
which increased the difficulties of the British battalions
to which the mopping-up job had been assigned. But
Villers-Bretonneux was recaptured and was never
again lost.
The cost to the Australians was 1464 officers and
men, of whom the 51st Battalion lost 365. They
took 614 prisoners. The British Brigadier-General
Grogan, who was on the spot, wrote that this “suc-
cessful counter-attack by night across unknown and
difficult ground, at a few hours’ notice, was perhaps
the greatest individual feat of the war.” Foch, who
was never effusive, said that the duty of the high
command was to live up to the “altogether astonish-
ing valiance” of such soldiers.
It is a glorious chapter in Australian history, and
it is all too little known, especially to the generation
that has grown up since 1918, and the generation that
is growing up now. While the war was in progress
Australians had to put up with scraps of information
which was as often as not misleading, and they were
too sick of it to want to read about it when it was
over. Partly because pacifism has been fashionable,
and partly because of the moving-picture glorification
of the American achievement “after the war clouds
lowered in 1917,” they have never made up for their
lack of knowledge of what their fellow-Australians did.
If The Bulletin had the ordering of Australian
schooling, it would direct that at least one chapter
of Bean’s noble story of the A.I.F. should be read
every month in classrooms to boys of 10 years and
upwards, and that when Bean and the boys are
finished the readings should begin all over again.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Relief-Tax Racket.
Premier Forgan Smith promised relief-tax reduction
when he was electioneering, and he has since under-
taken that it will be one of the first matters introduced
during the Parliamentary session, which is to begin
on August 9. Reduction is long overdue. The more
substantial it is, the better it will be for Queensland
industry. In a State with every material advantage—
an enterprising and adaptable people, raw materials,
fuel, a good home market and accessibility to great
foreign markets —manufacturing progress in particular
has been retarded by stiff taxation, on incomes especi-
ally—relief tax is lid. in the £, and in addition com-
panies pay up to ss. 3d. in the £, plus 20 p.c., and indi-
viduals up to 4s. 6d. in the £ on £BOOO, and ss. in the
£ on anything over £BOOO, plus 20 p.c. Together, of
course, with Commonwealth tax; which goes up to
6s. 9d. in the £ on anything over £3700.
The smaller the number of unemployed the greater
the amount of relief tax. This is particularly the case
in N. S. Wales and Victoria, where the local Govern-
ments at the beginning of the financial year boasted
mightily of the cuts they were making. In N. S. Wales
the impost now called wages and special income tax
yielded £6,949,000 in 1937-38 as against £6,801,800 in
1936-37. In Victoria, though there was “a further re-
duction of 20 p.c.” in rates, proceeds were £1,934,500
in 1.938, as against £1,955,000 the previous year. In each
case, portion of the revenue was got by taxing income
from the neighboring State, a proceeding doubtfully
constitutional, though its constitutionality has not been
properly tested.
One of the objections to these relief taxes is that
the unemployed don’t get what is extracted from the
public or anything like it. In Victoria during the
1936-37 year £lOO,OOO of it was applied in liquidation
of hospital overdrafts. Last year £35,000 was given
to Melbourne University for a building on which not
one jobless man was employed. In N. S. Wales family
endowment, widows’ pensions and all manner of other
things are charged up to relief-tax revenue. The
Treasury report shows, indeed, that the £6,949,000
extorted sufficed to defray the cost of all the social
services, “including unemployment - relief, family
endowment, widows’ pensions, etc.,” and left a balance
of £1,113,200, which was availed of to show a surplus
of £60,000 —and it is expected that the surplus will
be advanced by Assemblymen as an argument for
increase of their salaries from £670 to £875 p.a.
Consideration of this relief-tax ramp deepens the
impression that there should be one tax on income,
imposed by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth
has this much consideration for the taxpayer, that
it allows State taxes paid to be deducted from taxable-
income. State Governments insist on taxing tax-money
paid to the Commonwealth.
A Million Up.
This month the population of Queensland is officially
expected to reach the million mark. It will be no
mean achievement, for in the race for population
eaeff of the seven-figure States had a better start. In
N. S. Wales there was settlement as far south as Can-
berra, as far west as the Lachlan and as far north as
the Hunter before Queensland even held a military
post. Gold-seekers were swarming over Victoria eight
years before Queensland became a colony.
It is a prized tradition in the North that Queens-
land came into existence in 1859 with eightpence in
its Treasury and with 25,000 people. In those days *
Brisbane was the only port, and the Lockyer and the
Darling Downs were the only settled inland parts. There
were two types of immigrant—young fellows from
Eton, Winchester and Shrewsbury, some of them heirs
to titles, and a growing tide of sound English and
Scottish agricultural and artisan stock, much of it
handpicked under the tutelage of John Dunmore
Lang.
Despite the blue-blooded origin of most of the
members of the first Parliament, Downing-street
refused to trust the people to initiate their own govern-
ment. For Governor, it sent out George Bowen, who
had taken a first-class in classics at Oxford and had
been president of the University of Corfu and Chief
Secretary of the lonian Islands. He was 38. It also
dispatched a Premier to Brisbane —Robert George
Herbert, grandson of the first Earl of Carnarvon.
Herbert was 28. He lived to be permanent head
of the Colonial Office. His first Attorney-General,
Ratcliffe Pring, son of a Devonshire solicitor, was 34.
The remaining member of the original Ministry, R. R.
Mackenzie, was relatively ancient —48; he was heir
to a Scottish baronetcy, and became Premier. A
Minister without portfolio, Maurice Charles O’Con-
nell, was taken in a few months after the Government
was formed: he was a grandson of Bligh and a god-
son of Governor Macquarie. The first Speaker was
Gilbert Eliott, a descendant of the conqueror of Gib-
raltar. Eliott had given up being A.D.C. because
Governor Gipps asked him to see to the cooking of
the family porterhouse. He drifted north to join his
fellow-Etonians, Arthur Hodgson and Stuart Russell,
on the Darling Downs. He, too, was the son of a
baronet.
Herbert saw many changes in his lifetime. The
first Australian Labor Ministry had held office in
Queensland, and the population had gone beyond
half a million, before he died—in 1905. John Bram-
ston, who was Government Secretary in 1860, when
there were not 30,000 Queenslanders all told, was alive
when 57,000 Queenslanders enlisted in the A.1.F., and
Queensland was governed by a predominantly Aus-
tralian-born Ministry —he died in 1921. Both lived
to see their Queensland bury the tradition that the
tropics could be developed only by coolie labor, fall
into the habit of getting its Premiers from tropical
electorates and become the outstanding example of
decentralisation among the mainland States.
Where Men Are Men.
“£k Dum”: Sydney Watersiders held their annual
union elections on July 13. Voting was compulsory,
the fine for failure being 2s. 6d. Every voter was
instructed to bring his membership medal and deposit
it overnight at a booth for safekeeping. Candidates
were forbidden to issue pamphlets and leaflets or
allow them to be issued —penalty, £5.
The managers of the ballot showed a nicer appre-
ciation of the understanding of electors than the
aloof election managers at Canberra. Nobody named
“Aarons, Aaron Aasvogel,” stood, but each candidate
on the official roster had his nickname printed, so
that nobody could mistake him. “Loshi” Baroni, for
instance, and “Puss” Knight and “Bluey” Goodwin
and good old “Darkie” Breakwell.
If you didn’t like “Loshi” for vice-president,
there were “Benno” Bennett, “Bibba” Donnelly and
“Jock” Woods. For secretary you could choose
between G. (“Barney”) Mullins and W. M. (“Scotty”)
Ross; for treasurer, between Phil Dalton and
“Brummy” Ferguson. Prospective vigilance officers
included “Gaff” Holmes and “Tassie” Smith. Some
candidates seem to have been specially baptised for
the jobs they were after: for instance, J. (“Joe”)
Scraggo, caretaker; Joe (“Beef”) Rogers, guardian
and W. J. (“Coppertosser”) Ryan. “Coppertosser”
likewise aspired to guard.
The committee, too, sounds up to Waterside
standards. With “Skinny” Baker, “Momajay” Carlisle,
“Dood” Farrell, “Bluey” Finch, “Bricks” Macarthy,
“Monk” Porter, “Shacko” Shackleton and “Needle
Nose” Findlay round the table, business should go
through like a southerly buster.
Nobody can say that wharfies are not vigorous.
There is even something virile about the prizes poli-
ticians give for dancing at their socials. At their last
hop at Balmain Jack Beasley, M.H.R., weighed in with -
a handsome electric flat-iron for the champion lady
(Jack was in the flat-iron biz himself), and Jack
Quirk, M.L.A., contributed a razor for the champion
gent.
The waterfront remains at least one spot where,
in this flapper age, men continue to be men.
“Down With Chamberlain! 11
The “Cronk-News” learns on unimpeachable
authority that German reinforcements for the rebels
in Spain are “being largely increased.” “It is under-
stood” by the Special Representative of “S. M. Herald”
that “Sir Robert Hodgson’s description of the Ger-
man penetration and hold in Spain is disturbing White-
hall.”
It is understood that he revealed that Germany’s grip
was stronger than Italy’s.
The Rome correspondent of the British United
Press has ascertained “from a trustworthy Italian
source” that “a number of extreme Fascist officials
are urging Signor Mussolini to denounce the Anglo-
Italian pact.”
It is understood that Signor Mussolini is considering
taking this step if the delay in the implementation of
the pact is too long.
According to the Diplomatic Correspondent of the
Australian Associated Press, “old suspicions have been
reborn and there is a deep fear that the Anglo-Italian
agreement will lapse.”
An American magazine has discovered that Mr.
Eden will be the next Prime Minister. A London
“Daily Telegraph” man reports that Earl Baldwin has
written a political will and testament in which he has
left an Eden Prime Ministership as a legacy to the
nation.
And Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” denouncing the
Chamberlain Government because “it fails to protect
British ships carrying on a legitimate trade with a
legitimate Spanish Government,” denies that the
owners of the ships are “profiteers,” as asserted by
“Mr. Duff Gordon, First Lord of the Admiralty, re-
peating Mr. Chamberlain’s attack”:-
The risk is high, because the British Government will
not exert the necessary pressure to protect them. So the
freight charges are proportionately high. Is there any-
thing shameful about this? The ships are taking food-
stuffs, without which women and children would starve.
Taking foodstuffs from Britain, which can’t feed
itself, to Spain, “a preponderatingly agricultural
country”!
The foregoing rubbish has all appeared since the
Chamberlain Government got the signatures of all
the Governments interested in the civil war to its
plan for the withdrawal of the foreigners fighting in
Spain. Even if nothing comes of the thing, something
was gained for the human family when the rival
“ideologies” were collected at the same table and
induced to agree, even in principle, that war is a
curse. But if ignorant, biassed and mendacious
journalism can frustrate the Chamberlain plan, frus-
trated it will be.
Big and Little Brothers.
“Mak” consults his grandmother:
Scottish, and somewhat stricken in years, grandma has
no bouquets for those worthy Victorian citizens about to reach
into their own pockets to bring out more Little Brothers from
Britain. “They’re like all men.” sniffs Grandma —’“can’t
see beyond their noses. Are there no Little Brothers in
Australia?”
There are, and Victoria has a Youth Employment Move-
ment for them, but it doesn’t seem to do much moving.
According to Minister Mackrell, its register contains the names
of 2833 young fellows in the 19-26 age-group. Only 268 arc
being trained for jobs in trades. On Mackrell’s list are 180
married youths, of whom only 28 are being trained. Limited
finances prevent expansion of the training courses, and the
19-year-olds aren’t in the running.
Yet the Big Brothers expect to raise a voluntary £5OOO which,
with financial and other assistance from the British and Com-
monwealth Governments, will be used to bring out more
United Kingdom lads to “help fill our continent with our own
kith and kin” rather than Southern Europeans and such.
Possibly contributions will be got from persons who, in the
words of the Melbourne Y.M.C.A.’s secretary, have “dismissed
Australian youths whose increasing years have qualified them
for increased wages.”
“But Mr. Charles Merrett says there’s no intention of
bringing out English boys likely to take the places of Austra-
lians in jobs,” I told my grandmother. “And he says he has
yet to meet the Australian lad who wants to go farming.”
My grandmother was not impressed. “Have they asked
Australian boys to go farming?” she wanted to know. “If
they have, did they promise to look after them, as they
promised when the 1000 Little Brothers were brought out, and
as they will promise the next lot of Little Brothers?”
Grandma’s idea is that there’s more romance for a man
in playing Big Brother to a boy from 13,000 miles away than
to a boy in the next street. But she’s so old in the shop
teeth that she’s cynical about lots of things. Especially men.
Twin Superstitions.
By way of catering for mugs who have “fallen
for” the two grossest superstitions now raging in Aus-
tralia, the “new” “Labor Daily” is publishing an
astrologer’s tips for Sydney races, The prophet, it
seems, doesn’t follow form —just divines winners by
reading the stars. Doubtless he is no more of a fraud
than the blatant type of tipster that uses the radio
and claims to have “information” from the horse’s,
trainer’s or jockey’s mouth.
Meanwhile, “S.M. Herald” has come into the
picture with racing supplements prepared especially
for s.p. bettors. At the same time Brisbane is
pondering on the case of a bank clerk charged with
a series of thefts from his employers.
It is alleged that he told a detective that he
wagered up to £BOOO or £9OOO a day and paid one
bookmaker £16,500 in a month. The total deficiency
is set down as £69,000.
Synchronously with the hearing of the charges
against the bank clerk, the bankruptcy case of A. G.
Barlow, deceased, came up in Melbourne. Barlow
owned racehorses and backed them and other horses in
a big way. The petitioning creditor alleges that in 12
months Barlow obtained £lBO,OOO from him by means
of promissory notes, and that “the total deficiency
is over £50,000.”
At a somewhat censorious party meeting, N. S.
Wales Premier Stevens unfolded his anti-s.p. proposals.
It is questionable whether any good will come of
them. The only way to stop s.p. betting is to restrict
all betting to the racecourse by prohibiting the publi-
cation of all racing stuff except on the racecourse ;
and no Government will do that.
Short Catechism.
Q.: What is your name?
A.: Cecil Arthur Cherrington, Bishop ot
Waikato.
Q.: Where do you come from?
A.: What a question for a colonial to ask! From
England, of course.
Q.: What do you believe?
A.: That the whole of North Australia should
be offered as a free gift to the Japanese; that large
tracts of Maoriland should similarly be given away;
that Maoriland and Australia are incapable of defend-
ing themselves; that Northern Australia is impossible
for white settlement; that if only five million Japanese
were admitted to Maoriland the country “would not
know itself for the wealth that would ensue”; that it
would be possible to make regulations that would
ensure the two races living amicably in the same
country.
Q.: When Spain can have a civil war over ideas,
do you not agree that, apart from race, two peoples
differing utterly in ideas, religion and even language
must almost inevitably fight if locked in the same
boundaries? When there are at present racial perse-
cution in Europe, a racial war in Palestine and
racial clashes in India, do you not agree that it would
be extremely silly to risk that sort of trouble in our
own countries?
A.: I do not.
Q.: Then do you not know, my lord bishop, that
even if there were no color prejudices on either side,
foreign immigration should always be slow, giving the
country a chance to absorb the immigrants, instead
of being swamped by them; that to let in large num-
bers of a foreign race would mean dominance by that
race within a very short time, and that to invite
five million immigrants of any race to Maoriland
would be to drown its million-and-a-half population
immediately? Do you imagine for a moment that
such immigrants would be content with wild or barren
territory when rich land now occupied by the whites is
there for the snatching? Would they stick to the
tussock plains of Taupo when your own wealthy dairy-
ing diocese is so close?
A.: All very colonial, my dear sir. What will
they say in England?


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Told y it Was a mistake to let that cow of a magician join the club!”
“Wodgil”: The bones of departed
Fairfaxes must have rattled in their cof-
fins when “S. M. Herald” came out with
its first Form at a Glance supplement,
with a column and a half of bookmakers’
ads. and tips from the “Newsletter,” the
“Greyhound Recorder” and the “Sports-
man” —which was John Norton’s. Still,
in the new Hunter-street fashion, the
Form at a Glance supplement celebrates
a centenary. It is just a hundred years
since John Fairfax, “deacon of the Con-
gregational Church meeting in the
Spencer-street chapel, Leamington, and
superintendent of the Sunday - school
there,” arrived in Sydney, aged 24. On
September 26, 1838 (I quote from Hen-
niker Heaton’s Men of the Time), John
“accepted the appointment of librarian
to the Australian Library.” In 1840 “he
was chosen to be a deacon of the Pitt-
street Congregational church,” having
meanwhile become, first, reporter and
then part-proprietor of the “Herald.” The
second Form at a Glance supplement
was to have been issued on Tuesday,
a day on which “Granny” is now ex-
pected to come out with pictures of
tennis-girls bursting out of their rompers
(or whatever it is tennis-girls wear on the
courts) and other grinning young women
clutching cocktail glasses. If the spirit of
the first Fairfax was in Sydney on Tues-
day, it doubtless went screaming back
to the shades.
* * * *
“Pawang”: If the Edina goes into
the knacker’s hands in Melbourne there
should be money for the buyers in
mementoes and souvenirs made from the
panelling. Despite her 84 years, the Edina
still looks a pretty craft; marine archi-
tecture hasn’t improved in looks, since
her day.
* * * *
“Dave”: A B-class broadcasting
station recently brought to a breathless
Australia, hot from Hollywood, the
prophecy that “Mrs. Rex Bell, formerly
Clara Bow, will not give birth to a child
this month as anticipated, but the happy
event will occur in August. Also, the
child will arrive in the same manner as
one of the most famous of the Caesars.”
How’s that for inside information?
* * * *
“Katie Keyboard”: I don’t say gee
now because my new boy-friend says its
a vulgar Americanism and ought to be
stamped out of the Australian vocabulary
by all refined people, and he knows
because he’s learning to be a radio-
announcer and he has to learn all the
vulgar and bad words so as he won’t
use any of them when he’s announcing
and if he hears any other announcer
announcing them then he can write to
the papers and say that announcer ought
to be sacked because he’s undermining
the purity of Australian young girls and
then if the other announcer that’s sacked
had a better job than my new boy-friend
then my boy-friend will get the other
announcer’s job. And g—l mean good
gracious it must be interesting to know
all of the bad and vulgar words there are
and it would be a great relief sometimes
for a girl to know them even if she only
had to think them but learning announ-
cing seems to be the only way a pure
girl can learn them in Australia.
* * * *
“M. Poirot”: Students of the psy-
chology of homicide will find much to
interest them in the evidence in lower
court proceedings on a charge of murder
in Wellington, M.L. The accused, a
young man of 20, made a statement to
the police to the effect that he had a
fight with his father, “went berserk” and
killed him; dismembered the body with
a hunting knife and a tenon saw, packed
the fragments into two suit-cases, took
them from Wellington to Picton by
steamer, and dumped them in the harbor
at the latter port, returning by air. A
tough-fibred, matter-of-fact customer
apparently. But a letter written by ac-
cused to his mother after the tragedy,
and tendered as evidence for the defence,
contained such passages as these: “And
I yearn, oh how I yearn, for all this
life they will perhaps take from me. I
am a man —a man who has lived his
youth for a purpose and an ideal which
drove me always. Only the lovely things
in life did I desire. The sordidness and
harshness of life I lived only to contrast
the future ... I relied fully on my
thoughts, which I always kept beautiful
whenever I felt the utter futility of life,”
and again, “Alas, poor mortal clay, you
aim too high. Soon shall your dreams
lie broken upon the sacrificial stone of
that base goddess Fate, when so soon
to life’s fulfilment you would have
woken.”
* * * *
“Vasse”: Another mild anachronism
(B. 6/7/’3B) —a local one this time, from
lon Idriess’s The Cattle King. Sydney
Kidman, when a lad, is represented as
meeting a wandering Westralian some-
where near Kapunda, when the follow-
ing dialogue ensues:
“Heard anything of ‘Big John’ Forrest?”
“No, he’s an explorer, isn’t he?”
“One of the best. He left Perth five
months ago with his brother Alexander
to try and come overland to Adelaide
Neither bush nor desert nor distance can
beat Big John.”
“You seem to like him.”
“Every Western Australian does.”
Not very many can have heard of him
in 1870 —the date of the conversation is
supplied—when the future Baron was
a slim stripling of 22. It wasn’t until
nearly 30 years later that the “Bigjohn”
sobriquet, a Bulletin coinage, came into
print and stuck.
* * * *
“Stareleigh, J.”: Hevidence, y’r ’Onor?
In an English court lately a Soccer foot-
baller was charged with “behaving with
intent to insult females.” Prosecution said
defendant, who was on the side of the
field opposite to that where play was
going on, was scraping mud from his
boots when a lady from the adjacent
grandstand called on him to “stop scratch-
ing like an old hen.” It was alleged that the
player then turned his back to the stand,
pulled down his knickers and “exposed
his posterior.” Several witnesses of the
thousands in the stands swore to it.
Others, also disinterested, swore they
noticed nothing out of the way. Accused
said he might have given a seamen’s
hitch to his slipping breeks, but nothing
more. He was acquitted amid cheers
of a sympathetic crowd.
# * * *
“El V.”: If London “D.T.” leans
towards Judah (B. 13/7/’3B) it must be
because of the lingering of a flavor of
the past rather than through any present
association. The Levy-Lawson interests
sold out years ago to the Berrys, who
built the old paper up from a 120,000
to a 500,000 circulation. And nobody
would suspect a Berry of having a conk
which would not pass muster across the
Avon in Wales. A lot of the Jew-boy
muck which finds its way into the British
and Australian press is due to corre-
spondents with an ancestry that goes back
to Zion ; and the reason for their exist-
ence is their cosmopolitan ability to
learn languages. Often they are minor
actors in the office caste, but Mr. Rollo
Blunks, the gaudy young chief corre-
spondent, himself no linguist, is never-
theless dependent on them for his local
translations and clippings to a very wide
extent.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Apropos the republishing
of Bulletin sketches (B. 13/7/’3B), and
the Glasgow “Herald’s” comment that
“All good cartoonists do not come from
the Sydney Bulletin,” a Glasgow pic-
torial sheet is called “The Bulletin,” and
the script of its heading is a neat steal
from that which has graced this pink
cover for so many years. I tried to find
out in Glasgow who robbed the Sydney
hen-roost, but it had become a tradition
there that the Glaswegian edition was the
original—a foul libel if ever there was
one.
* * * *
“Bo Varsh”: In the matter of clobber
most of us leave details to the tailor.
Lately mine has made my strides a bit
longer and a bit wider round the ankles.
When hurrying downstairs the flowing
tweed around one ankle is apt to wrap
itself around the other ankle, trip you
and land you on your ear. Before coroners
become interested in the subject it might
be wise for the knights of the needle to
get together and consider the matter on
safety-first principles.
* * *
“Xo”: Melbourne has been in throes
of a controversy about tree-cutting. Tech-
nical College girls picketed for a day the
few elms surviving in their street after a
City Council axe-and-shovel visit. The
subject was kept alive by a suburban
council which announced, smugly, that
it loved trees and always sought the
opinion of the ratepayers in the street
before authorising any chopping. Then
a woman ratepayer wrote her bayside
council that it would be cut out of her
will if it cut out any more of the
borough’s trees. A tree-planting legacy
was good news, so this council quickly
informed its future benefactor that for
every tree removed another is planted.
* * * *
“Spookist”: The little Maoriland sea-
port near which I was brought up was
prolific in haunted houses, but there was
nothing of that eerie sort in the city a
few miles away. The port nestled among
high hills; the city was on a flat plain,
which brings me to a theory that has
dawned on me after a few years’ resi-
dence in a hilly Sydney suburb. My
present domicile has all the evidences of
haunting. Alone in the house at night
or on a quiet afternoon you can hear
footsteps all over the place, doors open-
ing and closing, and voices. Next door’s
a hundred yards away, but I live near
the bottom of a valley. Such valleys
have spots in them like the focal point
of sounds in a whispering-gallery, and
my house happens to be in one of those
spots. Come to think of it, all the
haunted houses of my youth were down
in valleys.
* * *
“Hrodorg”: One of the minor
engineering sights of Sydney is the elec-
tric brougham which ambles gently along
with the head of an old legal firm at
the controls. It is the only vehicle of its
type in Australia (unless it has a twin
in the Allen stable), and indeed there
are mighty few in the world. No more
than 52 have been made in the U.S.A.
since January, 1936, but Detroit will still
make one to order for you at prices rang-
ing from £5OO up. The operating cost
is small, but you can’t go very far, one
full battery charge giving a cruising range
of about 85 miles. There are seven
known active users of these vehicles in
lands outside the U.S.A. One of them
is the Maharajah of Mysore, whose
vehicle sports gold fittings and upholstery
of purple and gold.
* * *. . #
“Pardon Me”: Tell “Captain Pintle”
(B. 13/7/ ’3B) that the Cutty Sark in her
Portuguese days was not La Pequina
Camisola, but Ferreira. lam aware that
Cutty Sark means “a short chemise,”
but probably the Portuguese were not.
* * * *
“Ould Pommeloe”: British army
women followed the drum for long after
the Waterloo period (B. 13/7/’38); it
was the usual practice in India right
up to modern times. I knew one old
lady, the late Mrs. Dunne, of Blackall
(Q.), who claimed to have “ridden on the
baggage” throughout the Mutiny, and to
have taken part, with her sergeant hus-
band and other ladies on the strength,
in the desperate dash to Cawnpore and
Lucknow. By profession a midwife, Mrs.
Dunne several times in the course of her
business visited the Barcoo station on
which the writer abode, and her stories
of the great rising provided the younger
members of the family with nightmares
for weeks.
A BIRTHRATE BALLAD.
“The Sydney suburb of Erskineville produces, pro-
portionately, more than twice as many children as
Mosman.”— “S. M. Herald.”
The birthrate figures go down and down,
And what will the end be no man knows,
But it’s falling faster in Sydney town
Than in any place where the kind stork goes.
Yet quaint divergences files disclose
Where clerks the registry records fill:
For every baby Mosman shows
There’s a brace bespoken for Erskineville.
Reformers worry and parsons frown,
And women argue the cons and pros.
For a church-blest union’s essential crown
Is a decent quiverful of those
That parenthood to the country owes.
But who is there, say, the beans can spill
Why the stream so slow that at Mosman flows
Runs twice as rapid at Erskineville?
Is Marie Stopes, then, of scant renown,
Is there less regard for the seed she sows
Where the mise en scene is more drab and
brown
Than where the rose or the poppy blows?
Are there better Aussies in cottage rows
Than in toney flats? Who shall say? But still
For each human flower that Mosman grows
There’s a couple budding at Erskineville.
The motives swaying the Ayes and Noes
Belike we know not, nor ever will.
But for every hostage, Heaven bestows
Where the red of the Mosman roof tree glows
There’s two of ’em bound for Erskineville.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“D.E.”: Elderly gentlemen wise in the
ways of constituencies are owlishly dis-
cussing the future of a young politician
who won a spectacular contest last
October. Not because he has shown no
aptitude for debate, but because one of
those rags that drivel about “socialites”
writes him up (with portrait) as if he
belonged to a pathetic imitation of
American imitations of English smart
sets. I suppose he doesn’t really, but the
old gentlemen predict that if he doesn't
stop the drivellers from mingling him
with the “socialites” it will go hard with
him in his electorate. They recall the
case of a young chap who went from
Sydney to a seat which had been in the
family. In an evil hour the blither press
assigned him to the Balsam Beach Set
or something of the kind, ran photo-
graphs of self and bride every few weeks,
and mentioned the lady copiously in
their “We Saw It First column” —you
know the kind of thing: “We Saw" It
First on Mrs. Climber —an emerald blow-
SHORISIGHTED PADRE: “Would someone mind removing the child's
bonnet ?”
fly, the wings picked out with diamonds
and rubies.” His constituents, especi-
ally the women, stored it up in their
memories and gave him such an appall-
ing sock at the polls that he hasn’t been
seen at Canberra since. Quite a nice
young fellow, too.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Surprising, these
air-minded kids. Our youngest brought
another 13-year citizen to tea, and, over-
hearing an argument as to whether com-
pass-variations are the same at sea-
and aloft-levels, I ventured to butt in.
Five minutes later I was
getting out a local chart,
dividers, parallel rulers,
and all. That kid had the
latest information on a
complicated question of
deviation - angles, and
understood it too. But,
when the chart was shown
and explained, his eyes
fairly popped. “Gee! ”
he exploded, S ‘l never
knew they made maps like
that. Where can you buy
them?” “Didn’t I tell you
about charts,” exploded
our hopeful, “you’re only
a puff-bloke full o’ figures
an’ lookin’ for somewhere
to land on if you get ’em
wrong.” “Puff-bloke” is a
new Australian phrase to
me, although Thirteen-
Years assures me that it’s
quite ancient before he
got into his present class,
even.
-H -K
“Coif”: The English
blither press is quoting
the opinion of “a K.C.”
that the contract of the Australian
cricketers cannot debar the wives from
joining them in England without the
consent of the Board of Control (now
granted) since they are not parties to
it and therefore not bound. But they are
femmes couvertes, and as such in law are
presumed to act only under the husband’s
duress. This would make Bradman the
legal instigator of his wife’s action sup-
posing Mrs. B. defied the almighty
Board, and involve him as the actual
breaker of the contract by which it is
not disputed he is bound. Mr. Bumble
long ago found some consolation in re-
flecting that Mrs. Bumble was as deeply
in the soup as he. It was when it was
explained to him that Mrs. B. would
be held to be acting in the matter
“ ’Er an ’er furs! ’Ow did she gel 'em ?”
by bis compulsion that Bumble uttered
his immortal dictum, “If the law says
that, then the is a hass,”
af * * *
“Bufo”: There really was no need for
Mr. Casey’s long and courteous dis-
pensation of supplied knowieuge con-
cerning the extermination of silverfish
(B. 6/7/’3B) for the benefit of Mr.
“Texas” Green. Pyrethrum, derris, and
the awesome-sounding barium fluosili-
cate are as unnecessary as is courtesy
among politicians. Plain, honest Epsom
salts does the job as well and lastingly
as any of the complicated nostrums
advocated by the C.S. and I.R. pundits.
Scatter an ounce or so about the ward-
robe and amidst the accumulated clobber
every now and then, and no silverfish
will be persuaded to stay.
$ 4*
“Oran”: News is cabled that Carters,
the English seed firm, are still offering
£lOOO for a sweet-pea bloom canary-
yellow in hue which will remain true
to color for three years. That’s a quest
that started 30 years ago. Nature’s re-
fusal to produce red, yellow and blue
in any one species is stubborn. Man
has managed at times to almost produce
the missing color in various species, but
the freak flowers do not last, quickly
reverting to their other tints. To the
lucky producer of a bright-blue rose, a
canary-yellow sweet-pea or a scarlet lupin
that will stay that way fame and fortune
are assured.
“S.T.S.”: Decided by an
Adelaide Court that a ser-
vice-car in which the handles
of door and window can be
mistaken for each other
makes thq carrier liable for
injury to the passenger. Want-
ing air, she somehow turned
the handle of the door, and,
as it opened from the front,
a strong wind tore it open
and dragged her out on to
the road. Decided that she
had “conducted herself in the
ordinary way of a passen-
ger,” and that there was neg-
licence in not exhibiting in
the car some warning of
danger. Damages, £237 18s.
6d.
* * *
“Mak”: Victorians who
want to avail themselves of
a buckshee civil marriage
ceremony will have to hop
to it before a pending amend-
ment to the Vic. Marriage
Act becomes legal. At pre-
sent, registrars have no
authority to charge a fee,
but some of them have been
collecting, and so heavily that
the Government proposes to
fix a maximum of £1 Is., with
a pious provision that the
whole or any part may be
remitted if payment would
“entail serious hardship.”
N.S.W. extracts £1 ss. from the ’groom
of a civil marriage; Queensland, £1 ;
S. Australia, ss. notice and from 10s. to
£2 15s. for the ceremony; Westralia, Is.
notice and £2; Tas., 2s. 6d. and 10s.
There are stiffer special-license rates for
the impetuous in S. Australia, Westralia
and Tas. Maoriland, long adept in ex-
ploiting likely revenue sources and still
a hearty believer in church weddings,
takes from the ’groom 2s. 6d. for notice,
£1 for the civil ceremony and an extra
quid for the certificate. Merrie England
does the whole job at the cut-rate of a
bob for the notice and seven bob for
the ceremony.
si: # ❖
“T.”: One fact about the 150th year
of settlement deserves to be mentioned
wherever the blue ribbons of total abstin-
ence flutter. During the period of the
celebrations more softstuff was drunk in
Sydney than in any previous quarter
of its history. It may be two years before
the Milk Board statistics come out,
Boards and Governments being like that;
but it was obvious enough that the milk-
bars did a roaring trade. As for fizzy
drinks, one big concern couldn’t supply
the demand for soda syphons, and an-
other, which has been in business for
upwards of half a century (for 28 years
as a public company) reports record pro-
fits for the year to May 26, and distri-
buted p.c. among shareholders. And,
of course, a large proportion of its trade
was done in the sesqui summer and
autumn.
'•* '•*
“A.R.”: “G.’s” doubts about Clark
Gable’s ability to bail out of a ’plane
diving at 600 m.p.h. (B. 6/7/’3B) are
text-book doubts. No school text-book
on physics will tell you at what speed
a man will drop in air—the text-books
deal only with falls in a vacuum. Flying-
men in the testing business reckon that
the maximum speed a falling man can
attain in air is not more than 120 m.p.h.
Here’s an actual case that parallels
Gable’s filmic exploit: Pilot Lee Gehl-
bach (U.S.A.) power-dived a big bomber
whose wings stripped off at the end of
two miles descent, speed being then 600
m.p.h.; altitude 10,000 ft. Gehlbach fell
a further 2000 ft. while struggling clear
of the ’plane. He didn’t dare pull the
rip-cord till he was within 500 ft. of the
ground, and then when the parachute
opened it split along two seams. But
Gehlbach landed in a tree which broke
his fall, and he escaped scathless. An-
other item “G.” can paste in his scrap-
book is that the latest delayed-parachute
record is that of a Frenchman with the
Welsh name of Williams, who bailed out
at 35,000 ft. and waited till he was 650 ft.
from the ground before letting his first
parachute open—his first, because he was
equipped with two in case the first one
burst.
* * * *
“S.A.D.”: The critic who complained
in “Sundry Shows” recently of the per-
sistence with which Australian artists
attack the gum-tree might have recom-
mended them to roost before their easels
out Windsor (N.S.W.) way, or anywhere
else where the orange grows, and con-
template that luscious vegetable. Set
among the dark leaves, the oranges look
as exciting to a visitor as Chinese lan-
terns or candles on a Hans Andersen
fir. For a change from “Turbot and
Tomatoes,” let me recommend “Jersey
and Oranges”; there was a cow at
Windsor the other day wading into a
great pile of the fruit, and set against
the gold, blissful and squelching, she
mooed aloud for paint.
DRAWING A DISTINCTION.
The gents who help to frame our laws
Are mostly downy birds;
Whatever else may give them pause
They’re never stuck for words.
I'd rate them higher, I confess,
Our legislative corps,
If they would talk a little less
And say a little more.
The stream of yap is seldom stayed,
Of speeches ne’er is dearth,
At Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
At Brisbane,. Hobart, Perth.
And Canberra can top the score
Tis there, you’ll acquiesce,
They best might say a little more.
And talk a little less.
Joe Lyons looks, there’s no denial,
Benevolently wise,
With frankness stamped upon his dial
And candor in his eyes,
But when he’s finished an address
One feels a trifle sore
He couldn’t talk a little less
And say a little more.
A plain, blunt man Bert Stevens is,
Assert his trusty friends,
With ev’rything that counts in biz
Stacked at his finger-ends.
The facts and figures in his store
Speak loud. But still I guess
Ev’n he might say a little more
And talk a little less.
And so it is with all the clan,
And aren’t I glad, not ’arf!
I haven’t got to earn my scran
Upon a “Hansard” staff.
Else, ere my aching head would press
The pillow, I’d implore
Nightly in utter weariness:
“Lord, let them talk a little less
And say a little more.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


gf
CRAVEN A W 4
Hem varies -tketf f te„
ahiiMpsMeolk+fadt!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
T H R
e>
m
m
E 1867
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons is “following Britain” again—•
this time by appointing Parliamentary
secretaries to this and that Minister.
The Macquarie Lawson is to help Casey
in the Treasury, and Street, of Coran-
gamite, is to spring to the assistance of
Thorby. The experiment didn’t work
well in the case of Stewart; moreover
Foil, as a full Minister, with only 20
to 30 Senate sittings p.a. to attend to,
could do more in the administative
line than rubber-stamp decisions of the
Repat. and War-service Homes staff.
Still, it is allowed in the lobbies that
Street, as a 1914-19 A.I.F. man, will be
able to tell Thorby what soldiers are
like.
Jack Barnes, who was elected in
October to represent Victorian Labor
in the Senate for six years from July 1,
and who died before he could take his
seat, is to be succeeded for half the
term by J. M. Sheehan —if the Victorian
Parliament can bring it off. The V.P.
has given its nomination to Sheehan,
whose opponent, Stahle, secretary of the
Liberal Cockies, was beaten by 62 to
35. It is. questioned whether a State
legislature can constitutionally choose a
stop-gap Senator in the unique circum-
stances, and the point is pretty sure to
be tested.
The mania for importing “experts”
is spreading. A Melbourne City Coun-
cil sub-committee, asked to co-operate
in rehousing and slum-abolition work,
suggested that the Housing Commission
should get an “English expert” to assist.
He would, of course, be ignorant of
special circumstances with which mem-
bers of the Housing Commission are
familiar; but that doesn’t matter to
councillors. And at least some N.S.W.
schoolteachers are willing that their
Government should send overseas not
only for a physical-culture man but for a
Director of Education.
There are people who question the
published figures relating to the immi-
gration of Jews from Europe, and sug-
gest that they are understated. Certainly
there has been a rather considerable
influx in parts of Sydney. Doctors have
asked the Sydney and Melbourne Gov-
ernments to protect them, and a clause
in Stevens’s Medical Practitioners’ Bill—
which, incidentally, provides for the
appointment of a committee to hear
complaints of overcharging—is to oblige
foreigners to qualify for N.S.W. regis-
tration by taking “the fourth, fifth and
final-year examinations as prescribed by
the University of Sydney.”
Washington has issued “revised”
figures which show that the gross U.S.A.
debt will reach $40,650,000,000 this finan-
cial year. It was a mere $1,191,264,000
in 1915. In 1930, after having soared
to $26,596,701,600 at the end of the war
period, it stood at $16,185,300,200. That
was in Hoover’s time. It was Hoover
who told the world that his country had
abolished poverty.
Victorian drys are looking forward to
the October poll with the dismal feeling
that a poor vote for their cause will give
the wets a solid argument for seeking
complete abolition of the eight-yearly
fixture. It does seem a futile way of
spending £25,000 to £30,000 of public
money.
There was no Government railway
strike in Queensland the men simply
refused to come out. This is the second
jolt Reds have collected these last few
weeks—the calling-off of the waterfront
boycott on the loading of goods for
“Fascist Powers” was the first —and their
non - co-operation - in - defence - unless-
Lyons-surrenders-to - Litvinov campaign
invites a third. Reliance on the credulity
and inertia of Australian unionists can
be pushed too far.
It is a grotesque commentary on the
theory that the individual withers in
North Australia that for quarter of a
century Queensland has got its dominat-
ing politicians from north of Capricorn.
In all that time there have been two
Premiers from the South, Moore and
Gillies, and neither lasted long. Inciden-
tally, the sugar country of the northern
coastal littoral has been tackled with
such energy that about £11,000,000 worth
of crop came off 324,000 acres of it last
year.
Though it is mid-winter, Sydney has
been declared short of water for gar-
dens. It seems to be an effect of the
clumsy Water Board going off its rocker
about “sewerage schemes,” and the tem-
per of people with gardens has not been
“I’m in favor of it, Adolf . Maybe they’ll let you and me alone now.”
improved by official flapdoodle about
the magical properties of wash-up water
and the like. The bureaucratic excuse
for the shortage, the failure of a loan
“guaranteed” by Lang in 1931, adds in-
sult to injury.
By all accounts, Washington is never
without a goodly proportion of Ministers
and members, but it is different in our
imitation Washington when Jack Frost
takes charge. The Melbourne “Herald’s”
Canberra man went in search of
Cabineteers, Senators and Reps, in the
city through which the wild Molonglo
flows. “In a richly-panelled office” he
found one Minister, Thompson—Thomp-
son is only an Assistant —“and not a
private member anywhere.”
At last, a writing professor who doesn’t
really expect the youth of the Empire
to rush into crusading wars armed with
pea-shooters and catapults! He is Walter
Murdoch, of Perth, and to him, “in the
changed world into which we have been
plunged by the new weapons of de-
struction,” Australia is driven to a choice
between peace and massacre. Therefore,
This country must give its moral support
to Mr. Chamberlain’s policy of appease-
ment, and must have no truck with those
who, on pretence of saving what they call
democracy, or to thwart the ambitions of
some nation they happen to dislike, or to
avert some problematical disaster of the
future, would likely give the signal for an
explosion infinitely more devastating than
anything that has ever yet visited this
afflicted planet.
Undergrads, should chalk it up in the
lecture rooms of all crusading profs.
Defending the Senate against the slings
and arrows of outraged critics, Joseph
Silver Collings avers that a Senator has
as hard a job as any Parliamentarian
could have. The obvious retort is that
the Senate has had 23 sittings this year,
and had 27 in ’37, 49 in ’36, 37 in ’35
and 22 in ’34. And, except when mem-
bers are about to stampede from Can-
berra, Senate sittings rarely last more
than five hours. Perhaps the job seems
hard to Joseph Silver because he is in
the seventies.
In some unfriendly quarters a whisper-
ing campaign directed against Neville
Chamberlain has succeeded the campaign
of plain and fancy lying, and Eden is
being cracked up again. How little he
deserves it is illustrated by his latest
speech:—
This country should have taken a more
positive line in the Mediterranean. It is
untrue to pretend that it endangers peace
for this country to act firmly in defending
the standards of international decency.
Such a doctrine if ever held in this country
would be highly dangerous.
This country is England. It never
occurs to Eden that there are other
countries, countries with more than half
the fit manhood of the Empire, and that
this country has no right to involve them
in the horrors of crusading wars. He
never mentions the Dominions in his
speeches.
Casey, writing to a conference of agri-
cultural scientists, mentioned that output
of tobacco “is now approximately four
times greater than it was seven or eight
years ago.” This was made possible by
a C.S. and I.R. discovery of a method
of controlling blue mould. In spite of
this outstanding example, the value of
agricultural science is still imperfectly ap-
preciated by State Governments, especi-
ally those with headquarters at Sydney
and Melbourne. N.S.W., according to
the president of the Agricultural Bureau,
is “short of young men trained in agricul-
tural science” because of “the niggardly
salaries paid: during the depression many
unskilled farm laborers got more than
agricultural instructors.”
Mr. McKerihan, of the N.S.W. Rural
Bank, is “one who believes that war is
not likely for some time.”
But even if I am wrong, and war does
come, let us not forget that foodstuffs will
be in great demand.
It recalls “Q.’s” quip at the expense of
a great old Maorilander who also had
an eye to the main chance in these
matters:
Said Mr. R. J. Seddon,
Beholding Armageddon,
“H’m, who supplies
The mutton pies
The combatants are fed on?”
At the end of the month letters from
Britain to Maoriland will be carried for
three-halfpence the half-ounce, and the
flying-boats will take Maoriland letters to
Britain for the same charge. Carriage
of half-ounce Australia-Britain letters still
costs Is. 6d., though it will come down
to sd. next month. Before long, no doubt,
ridicule will have killed the imposition
of 34d. on letters borne from Australia;
but only a very dull Government would
have invited such ridicule.
A “Cronk-News” man, hiding in a
Prussian jackboot or something, jotted
down “a verbatim report of a highly-
placed German officer’s secret lecture to
Nazi leaders at Berlin in June,” and the
story, with extracts from a “Cronk-
News” leader, which “interprets the lec-
ture” as a Startling Warning to Britain
and Portugal, and Another Revelation
of the Criminal Blindness of the Cham-
berlain Government, was, of course,
cabled to Australia. Reported Secret
Talk was one of “S. M. Herald’s” head-
lines, and Alleged Revelations appeared
in the “Sun.” If these papers don’t be-
lieve “Cronk-News” fairy-tales, they
shouldn’t publish them.
It would be interesting to know how
many protesting letters “S. M. Herald”
has received since it rebuked Minister
White for not agreeing to open the gates
to “the refugees from Austria.” A bit of
self-praise relating to a job found for
one Alfons F. Ehrenhaft, a mechanical
engineer, brought a ripsnorter from a
Sydney man, who pointed out that
“the majority of younger civil and
mechanical engineers” in the N.S.W.
Government service hold their jobs on
“a precarious tenure,” being listed as
temporary employees. “Granny” hast-
ened to drop the subject.
The second Roosevelt’s progress
through the country whose debt he has
doubled suggests that he is bidding for
a third term. There is no constitutional
barrier, but when it was proposed to put
Grant up for the third time in 1876 the
House of Representatives resolved, by
223 to 18, that “any attempt to depart
from the precedent established by Wash-
ington would be unwise, unpatriotic and
fraught with peril to our institutions.”
Nevertheless, Grant was nominated again
in 1880 and led in the first ballot. The
first Roosevelt served 3| years after
McKinley was shot, and when elected in
1904 announced that he would consider
himself as entering upon a second term.
The wise custom which limits the Presi-
dent to two terms regards the substance
and not the form. Under no circumstances
will I be a candidate for or accept another
nomination.
Then he came out as a Progressive—in
1912. He got 4,126,000 popular votes
and carried half a dozen States; but that
was the end of him.


ROMAN HOLIDAY.
“Jumping over a ro w of fixed bayonet, was one of the athletic demonstration, gi ven by Fascist leader, in Rome. Only eight competitors, out of 64 completed all the tests.”


Co GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
g
Sol« Ag«nU: JOUBERT Q. JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
PLUMB AXES
At Townsville Show, also
Mackay Show. All wood
chopping finals won by PLUMB AXES
FREE !
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL. RECONDITIONS
Cars, Trucks, Tractors, Buses, Motor-cycles,
Standing Engines, etc. While-U-Drive. Just
deposit thru Spark Plug Openings on
Pistons, Saves Rebore, Ends Piston Slap,
Rattles, Oil, Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts,
Restores New Compression, Power, Top Speed,
Zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles.
Harmless Finest Engine. Anyone can use it.
Trial Sample, 6/6. We send C.O.D. Re-Nu
Coy., op. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Twenty other lines. Agents required. Free
samples.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Maoriland’s Bishop Cherrington, who
has got into the news with a plan for
presenting to the Japanese the “waste
lands” of Australasia, is a connection of
the famous English brewing family, but
comes from one of its ecclesiastical
branches, being the son of an English
vicar. He was chaplain and lecturer at
Lichfield Theological College after a
round of parish curacies and school chap-
laincies, and served in the Great War as
a padre. He was Archdeacon of Mauri-
tius from 1922 to 1926, when he was im-
ported to Maoriland to fill the Waikato
see.
Harold Boas, whose association with
the building of London Court, Perth, for
the De Bernales interests has been the
subject of an inquiry by a tribunal of
which “Diver” Hughes, M.L.A., is a
member, has been a Perth City Council-
lor for about quarter of a century. Harold
is an architect. With the solemnity that
youth sometimes affects, he made a public
pronouncement early in the war: “I am
holding myself in readiness to proceed
to the front.” Perth grinned, not un-
kindly, when it came out that Harold,
one of the Chosen, was going with the
Y.M.C.A.
Monsignor Lonergan, dead in Mel-
bourne, had for long been associated
with St. Patrick’s Cathedral, latterly
as Administrator and private secre-
tary to Archbishop Mannix. Born in
South Melbourne, he studied for the
priesthood at St. Patrick’s College,
Manly, and was ordained in 1911. Early
this year he was designated Bishop of
Port Augusta, and he was to have been
consecrated to that see in April. The
kindly, good-humored Australian seemed
destined to a great career in the Church
when his health failed, at 50.
William Lindsay, South Australia’s
new Architect-in-chief, is descended from
a sire also versed in the use of set-square
and compass. Born in Glasgow, William
had his early training at the School for
Architects there, and was later on the
teaching staff. He arrived in Adelaide
26 years ago at the age of 25, and joined
the firm of Woods and Bagot, but within
a year was in Government employ. In
1920 he succeeded A. E. Simpson as
chief draughtsman, and now succeeds
W. LINDSAY, S.A.’s Chief Architect.
Simpson as head of the architectural
branch. A Presbyterian, and a member
of the board of Scotch Church, he en-
livens his leisure hours playing bowls.
C. L. Dubois, lately dead in Adelaide,
came into the limelight twice: when
he sold his far-back station properties
to Sidney Kidman, and when, in partner-
ship with Bennett, an Adelaide lawyer,
he won the Melbourne Cup with King
Ingoda.
Two S.A. men get promotion in un-
usual directions. W. N. Oats goes from
the staff of the Teachers’ Training Col-
lege to be a resident master at the Inter-
national School, Geneva. And R. C. L.
Bosworth, after five years of research at
Cambridge, moves to London to take
charge of the research laboratories of
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co.
Thomas Latham, father of the High
Court Chief Justice, who died in Mel-
bourne last week, was a leading
Methodist, and one of the founders of
the Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals of which he was first secretary.
He was twice married. The Chief Jus-
tice and A. T. Latham (who succeeded
his father as secretary of the S.P.A.),
are sons of the first marriage, as are
Dr. L. S. Latham, of Melbourne, and
Bertrand Latham, actuary of the Com-
monwealth Bank, Sydney.
Gone west at 63, Dr. Harold Jackson,
of Bendigo. Diggers who were on Galli-
poli remember him as the medico whose
captain’s pips weren’t in evidence because
he worked in his shirt sleeves, and who
seemed never to sleep. Attending the
wounded under fire was part of his regu-
lar day’s work. When he came home
Bendigo gave him a public welcome that
still stands as a purple patch in the town’s
memories. Educated at St. Andrew’s Col-
lege, Bendigo, and Melb. and Edinburgh
unis., Jackson made a name for himself
in his student days as a fine all-round
athlete. He commenced his career with
some house-surgeon experience in big
English hospitals, and latterly has con-
ducted a private hospital in Bendigo.
Golfing and bowling circles in his home
town will miss a good sport.
A long association with Brighton
Grammar School, Vic., has been broken
by the retirement on health grounds of
H. E. Dixon, who has been headmaster
since 1923. Before that he had served
as senior master and vice-principal, re-
ceiving his first appointment 35 years ago.
He had a good grasp of commercial sub-
jects and economics, and broke his schol-
astic career for six years, between 1912
and 1918, to become secretary and
examiner to Vic. Bankers’ Institute. As
school principal, he controlled the finan-
cial and administrative side of the school
as well as the academic, and did well
for the school on both sides.
William Watson, for 40 years a direc-
tor of the Bank of N. 2., who had bank-
ing experience dating back to the ’sixties,
didn’t live long after his retirement, which
happened a couple of months ago. He
was 92 at the end, and had been a banker
for 74 years. He was president of the
N.Z. when Seddon bolstered it up, and
since 1898 has representeed ordinary
shareholders on the board, with a term
as chairman in 1931-32. Born in the
Scottish highlands, he spent many years
in Asia before going to Maoriland.
Western Queenslanders will miss the
guidance of P. C. Tibbits, who retires
after 50 years engineering service under
the Crown and 15 years as artesian-bore
expert. Tibbits was in the N. S. Wales
service for many years before he went to
join the staff created to administer the
first Queensland Water Act in 1912.
The young Earl of Egmont, who is to
visit Australia shortly, is Canadian-born
—his father lived as a small rancher till
he inherited the title, which was origin-
ally bestowed on an Irish M.P. The
family has taken little part in public
affairs, but it has a unique condition
attached to its peerage. Every eldest son
in line of succession is by righfia baronet.
Of the three grandsons of Capt. H. C.
Antill, who came to N. S. Wales as
A.D.C. to Governor Macquarie, only
one now remains—Guy Antill, of Bondi.
Major General Antill died some months
ago, and R. C. Antill, the eldest son, was
buried in the family vault at Picton last
week. The original Antill was more
closely associated with Macquarie dur-
ing his Governorship than almost any
other man. He accompanied him on all
his explorations of the County of Cum-
berland, and was present at the founda-
tion ceremonies of all the towns formed
in Macquarie’s reign, including Windsor,
Richmond, Liverpool, Bathurst and Pic-
ton. There Macquarie gave him a grant
of 2000 acres which was named after the
Governor’s first wife Jane Jarvis Mac-
quarie, daughter of a Chief Justice of
Antigua.
Frith, who lately has been dabbling
in sculpture, found a fine robust subject
LAWRENCE CAMPBELL.
in the head of Lawrence Campbell, who
as a teacher of the dramatic arts has
been keeping Sydney in touch with the
traditions of the old legit, for two genera-
tions. Campbell, who was born in
Dover, flourished on the stage in the era
of Henry Irving, and played in Frank
Curzon’s co. with Violet'Vanbrugh. In
1891 he sailed for Tas., then in the
throes of a gold rush, and made money
not by digging, but by reciting Shak-
speare. He came on to Sydney in the
same year, liked the place, and has been
a feature of its landscape ever since. He
has taught in schools and in his own
studio ; has made a name for himself as
a character actor —he excels as Falstaff
—and has adjudicated play contests all
over Australia. He played “the Bloke”
in the first performance of C. J. Dennis’s
“Sentimental Bloke.”
Howard Hughes, the 33-year-old
American who flew 14,680 miles round
the northern part of the globe in 3 days
19hr. Bmin. 10sec., calling in at Paris,
Moscow, Omsk and Fairbanks, Alaska, on
his way from and to New York, did the
job in style, if not exactly in comfort,
piloting a big twin-engined Lockheed
capable of a speed of 250 m.p.h. and
actually averaging 206.71 m.p.h. on the
journey. He’s a Texan business man,
president of the Hughes Industries Co.
and chairman of the Hughes Tool Co.,
of Houston. Though he didn’t fly solo
as Lindbergh did, having a crew of three,
Hughes cut Lindbergh’s time to Paris in
two, covering the trip from New York
in 16hr. 31min., as against Lindbergh’s
33i hours. America’s tabloid press un-
earthed a “romance” between the flier
and film-star Katharine Hepburn. The
lady played up—good publicity there—
but Hughes, apparently, wasn’t in the
know. Anyway, he didn’t even send her
a kiss by telephone on arrival home.
Many an old hand in N. S. Wales poli-
tics must have gasped to hear that R. H.
Levien, who died at 90 in Sydney the
other day, had been still alive. The dapper
little solicitor entered the N. S. Wales
Assembly when Parkes was Premier, with
John Robertson, John Lackey, Saul
Samuel, W. C. Windeyer and F. B.
Sutton in the Ministry, being chosen for
the new electorate of Tamworth on Dec.
2, 1880. With an interval of seven years
at the end of last century, during which
he sat for Quirindi, he continued to
represent that seat till 1913. He became
the Father of the N.S.W. Assembly in
1909. He was a Liberal with strong
feelings of antipathy towards the farmers’
parties which began to grow up in his
later days. He practised in Sydney as a
solicitor for 60 years and retired in 1933.
His memory remained clear till his last
years, and he preserved many incisive
personal memories of the great legal and
political figures of the middle of last
century.
Part, at least, of the gap in Vic. musi-
cal circles left by the translation of organ-
ist W. N. McKie to Magdalen College,
Oxford, has been filled by the appoint-
ment of another excellent organist (an
Australian this time) to McKie’s erstwhile
job as director of music at Geelong C. of
E. Grammar School, Corio. Lancelot
Hardy, the new incumbent, is 28, was
born in Elsternwick, and a product of
Melb. Uni. Con. Further study at the
Royal College of Music in London fol-
lowed, and he then graduated Mus.Bac.
at London Uni., won the Harding Prize,
and added the letters F.R.C.O. to his
name. Lately he has been music director
at a Shropshire school, and won’t get
back to Australia till next September.
Vic. Assembly and Council members
voted J. M. Sheehan, 45-year-old union
organiser, into the Senate vacancy caused
by the passing of the A.W.U.’s Jack
Barnes. Jim Sheehan is the friendly sort of
old-time Labor barracker ; at 16 he joined
the A.L.P. branch at Castlemaine (Vic.),
where his father had been an engineer
since the gold-rush days. He’s been
organiser of the Australian Railways
Union for better than 18 years, and
his standing there can be judged by
the recent conference decision to grant
him leave of absence until it is seen
how he fares in the next Senate elections,
or in any constitutional appeal that
may be launched against the manner
of his election. Vic.’s other Labor Sena-
tors are old mates —Dick Keane was sec.
to the same union until he went to Can-
berra as Bendigo rep. in 1929, and Don
SENATOR J. M. SHEEHAN.
Cameron sat with him on the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council and the A.L.P.
executive.
John Lemmon, Assembly member for
Williamstown since 1904, has resigned
the secretaryship of Vic.’s Parliamen-
tary Labor party which he held for 25
years. At 63 he’s reducing the tempo
of a busy life in the interests of his
health. Much of his friendly society
work has been dropped already, but
he couldn’t stay away from last week’s
Melbourne meeting at which J. B. Brig-
den, chairman, and D. McVey, of the
National Insurance Commission, ex-
plained provisions of the new health and
pensions scheme as applying to friendly
society and union members. Lemmon
is one of the Labor men that Carlton
bred for the Vic. movement; he held
the Education and Labor portfolios in
each of Vic.’s four Labor Governments.


km a»
Mi
:
{Si*
ig
/!
1
III:
:
SiS
sis
535
Ml:
B
kn
w%m m
mrnmmmm
Wmm
* On July 11th, 1913, Amal-
gamated Wireless (A’sia)
Limited was incorporated
to develop every phase of
the wireless industry in
Australia, New Zealand and
the Pacific Islands.
The A.W.A. Trans-ocean Telephone Service
enables any Australian telepnone subscriber
to speak to any one of more than 35 million
telephone subscribers in other parts of the
world.
By means of the Beam Wireless Service
messages are flashed between Australia and
Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, and
North and South America.
Another A.W.A. activity is the Beam Wire-
less Picturegram service for the transmission
of pictures between Australia and England
and Australia and North America.
19 Coastal Radio stations in Australia and
12 stations in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji
are owned and operated by A.W.A. for
communication with each other and with
ships at sea.
A.W.A. operates over 150 wireless telegraph
stations on ships. Since its inception the
Company has equipped 471 ships with wire-
less installations.
Pioneers of broadcasting in Australia,
A.W.A. has designed, manufactured and
installed over 45 broadcasting stations in
Australia and New Zealand.
The first regular world-range broadcasting
service was established by A.W.A. in 1927
and three overseas broadcasting services are
now operated VK2ME Sydney, VK3ME
Melbourne and VK6ME Perth
At its modern Radio-Electric Works at
Ashfield, near Sydney, over 1700 Austra-
lians are engaged in the manufacture of
every type of wireless equipment for use at
sea, on land and in the air.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “Twins,” remarked Dan,
“isn’t alwuz dead rings ; but I never saw
a couple more like each other than Alec
an’ Donald McKiltie up at Sheoak
Gully. They wus tall, rangy blokes ’bout
50, an’ they uster dress exactly the same,
even to their hats. They did it just t’
puzzle people, and seemed t’ get a helluva
lot of fun outer it. One afternoon I
wus up at Grogan’s pub when the twins
strolled in. The on’y other cove in the
bar-room, except Grogan, wus a sozzled
swaggie lyin’ asleep on a form. We had
a coupla drinks together, an’ wus standin’
there yarnin’ when we hears a chokin’
sorta sound, an’ ’ere’s this swaggie sit-
tin’ up, staring, with his eyes stickin’ out
like marbles. He rubs ’em a coupla
times, an’ then ses t’ Grogan, grinnin’
behind the bar, “’Struth! I must be a
blanky sight worse than I thought. I’ve
heard of blokes when they’re shot seein’
two blokes where there’s on’y one, but,
strike me! I’m seein’ four!”
* * * *
“Huglow”: “Waranbini” (B. 29/6/’3B)
courts disaster when he talks of lopping
bauhinia trees for sheep-fodder. Doubt-
less the sheep will eat the stuff, but it
frequently causes blindness in any that
touch it. Where the bauhinia tree is cul-
tivated for sheep-shelter the lower
branches are lopped and burnt
“Hanko”: In my time I’ve fattened
countless snails, slugs, slaters and what-
not with seedlings, and I’m unimpressed
by “Aglum’s” wriggling-root way of
forecasting the weather (B. 6/7/’3B). Re-
gardless of impending rain, the roots of
seedlings newly removed from a com-
paratively dry box will wriggle about
when being placed in a moistened hole.
Root acrobatics may be overcome by an
immersion in earth-puddled water —the
correct method of planting seedlings.
* * * *
“Williami”: The billy-boiling cere-
monial does not perpetuate the daddy of
all myths (B. 6/7/’3B). Have never seen
two twigs placed across the top of a
billy ; one only is the rule, and it is true
that the smoke, curling around both
ends, gets an impetus upwards and is car-
ried off. Moreover, the steam distils the
juices from the twig and adds a piquancy
to the tea that no blending of the Orient
can give. A surer way to impart this
flavor is to drop the smallest possible
prong into the billy after the tea is made.
Let it draw, but be sure that the prong
is green and leafless.
* * * *
“Pro ’lker”: Me an’ me mate tried
that stunt o’ walkin’ on railway tracks
(B. 29/6/’3B), but it was a bit slow, so
we practised ridin’ bikes on ’em with a
stick ’eld between. Bonza an’ smooth
it was, an’ we got real good; but we
c< 3 only go where trains went, so we
give it up an’ took ter walkin’ up in the
air. Our sense o’ balance was so good
that we useter shin up a telegraph-pole
an’ skip along the wires, ’and-in-’and,
real dainty. A reg’lar motion we got up
between the poles ; three little skips, three
big strides, then three short steps an’
jump over the insulators. But we ’ad
ter give it up when people started com-
plainin’ about reg’lar SOS messages
cornin’ over the ’phone.
* # sir
“Wang”: “I wus rouseabout with a
circus once what had a troupe of ‘strong
men,’ ’’ said Dan. “One place we showed
at the locals laughed, and talked about
a family of three brothers livin’ in the
district. The boss wus interested, an’
we found the farm where they lived ;
the first thing we see is a big bloke
pushin’ a plough in front of him like a
Dutch hoe. The bloke didn’t seem to
think much of it, and sed he wusn’t near
as strong as his brother Alf. We found
Alf pullin’ up with ’is ’ands young trees
bout a foot thick just as if they wus
weeds, an’ chuckin’ ’em into heaps. Then
we strikes ’Arry, the strongest one. ’E
was chuckin’ outsize porkers from one
sty to another as if they wus rabbits.
But ’e give us a demonstration o’ reel
strength after. About 18 stone ’e was,
but he grabs hisself by the waistband of
his pants an’ lifted hisself four feet from
the ground.”
"You know what happened the last time the car broke down."
“Valencia Creek”: Bush courtships
aren’t always the protracted affairs our
humorists make them out to be. Old
Wool bales was a stern moralist and a
firm believer in the frailty of modern
youth, so his nineteen-year-old daughter
was kept in almost .nun-like seclusion.
When he arrived back from a duck-shoot
and found her talking to the son of a
family newly arrived in the district, he
wasted no time. “Want to marry my
daughter?” he enquired of the flabber-
gasted visitor. “Well—er, I’ve never
spoken to her before,” the youth stam-
mered. The old man hitched his gun
forward. “Dd you or don’t you?” he
roared. “Yes —yes,” was the hasty reply.
Still carrying his gun, Woolbales shep-
herded the pair into his car. Next day
they were on their honeymoon.
* $ *
“Skull Creek”: Those canine heroes
leave me cold, too. (B. 29/6V’38.) I
was doing some fence-fixing ten miles
from nowhere when the axe slipped and
cut a sizeable gash in my foot. In the
excitement, my hack broke its bridle and
instead of galloping homewards, raced off
and joined a mob of loose horses. Old
Bog, the sheep-dog, was my only chance,
so I tied a note to his collar and tried
to send him home. After much fruitless
effort I did the job with a shower of
stones. Towards sundown he returned
with 2000 wethers —all he could find in
the paddock. Late that night when the
searchers found my beacon fire the faith-
ful tyke was still shepherding his flock.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: The buffalo that
wandered 600 miles from its home
country (B. 29/6/’3B) may have been a
record-breaker, but our Hereford bull
can give it points in pertinacity and
sense of direction. The bull is George’s
special care, and somewhere about the
middle of the week he finds it necessary
to ride off and see if the beast has broken
out of the home paddock. Invariably he
returns after a lapse of hours and reports
that the bull has got out, as usual,
Strangely enough, the wanderer always
takes the road that leads pub-wards, so
nowadays, instead of wasting time
searching the highways and byways,
George rides direct to the pub and finds
the animal without any trouble. George
hates wasting time.
* * # *
“Notaden”: Our educationally-minded
Postal Department is adorning its nine-
penny stamp with a very badly-drawn
picture of a platypus for the proclaimed
purpose of convincing oversea dis-
believers of the existence of an am-
phibious, fur-bearing animal, which has a
duck-like bill, web-feet, lays eggs, and
hibernates in a burrow. Strictly speak-
ing it is not fully amphibious, its bill
is not duck-like but too flexible to even
crush worms easily, only the fore-feet
are used in swimming and the hiber-
nation is no more than a few long sleeps
at intervals in winter, but it’s near enough
for postal pundits. One very curious
accomplishment of the animal is the
digging of tunnels up to 100 ft. and more
long, without any vestige of the displaced
earth showing on the surface. It selects
loose soil, and presses and tamps it
against the sides of the burrow. The nest-
chamber is quite a spacious apartment,
made in the same way, and bedded-
down with a solid armful of grass. The
twin babies emerge from small eggs,
stuck together with mucus to prevent
them from rolling about during incu-
bation.
“Rats”: A fresh peril threatens
Britain from alien invaders. Some years
ago American muskrats played Old Harry
with canal banks and drains, and when
these were overcome, the home-made
rabbit threatened for a bit to become a
pest. The South American coypu is
the new menace. It is a biggish animal,
some three feet long, and as it feeds in
the fields at night, while living in the
streams by day, it is not easily got at. It
is the bearer of a valuable fur called
nutria, and for this reason was intro-
duced, like the muskrat, by fur farmers
after the war.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The argument centred on
what bush timber was the best fuel.
Spinifex Sam plumped for gidya;
Wiregrass the Squatter stuck for black-
wattle. Boiling the billy from scratch,
each using his own favorite fuel, was the
agreed-on test. Sam won hands down,
and while the mob went into the Shearer’s
Arms to surround the drinks that Wire-
grass had lost, I hung back to do my
part of the job, which was the extrac-
tion of a sizable stone which Sam had
surreptitiously slipped into his rival’s
billy.” “It’s an old dodge that never
fails,’ explained Spinifex, “and the larger
the stone the longer the billy’ll take to
boil.”
* if. * *
“Herpeton”: That explanation of the
horny scale which terminates the death-
adder (B. 6/7/’3B) is funny without being
vulgar. The idea that combined with
the reptile’s fangs it gets the strangle-
hold on the poisoner’s prey “till the
venom has had time to work” should be
enshrined in the Abo archives with other
magnificent fables of the same kind. The
“horny spur” is, as has been said, just
the terminal scale of the adder’s over-
coat. It has no grip and harbors no
poison-sac as once used to be fiercely
alleged by snakeliars. The adder has no
need to hang on to his prey. His poison
is so deadly and there is so much of it
that the small birds and animals on
which he lives do not last a minute after
the bite. The adder is our only variant
from the colubrines which form the bulk
of Australian poisonous snakes. His
fangs are not grooved, as are those of
his cobbers, but they inject the poison
through a closed tube in the fangs. These
are much longer and bite deeper than
the small fangs with their poison-wast-
ing outside grooves of the colubrines. At
the same time the poison of some of
these, like the tiger, holds a world's
record for toxicity.
*!* •!* -!•
“Coir”: Is the Australian baobab (B.
6/7/ ’3 8) imported from East, Africa ?
Years ago Curator Bailey, of Queens-
land, told writer that those of our far
nor’-west were an indigenous species dif-
fering only in botanical details from the
African variety, and having a distant rela-
tive in the familiar bottle-tree of Queens-
land. It hardly seems likely that these
extraordinary growths which take cen-
turies to develop could have been brought
to Australia from Africa to one particu-
lar spot and that one which, when the
trees were in the seedling stage, was un-
known to the rest of the world. As to
the Australian failure to have developed
coconut planting, I put that down to the
national casualness and laziness which
permitted S’Africa to pinch our wattles
and build up a huge tanning-bark export
trade with their help. Coconuts will grow
and flourish anywhere on the tropical
coasts of Australia if attention is paid to
their cultivation, and it should be re-
called that the palm will also flourish
far inland and high up if looked after.
* * sfc *
“Porosus”: The dreamy atmosphere
of Queensland’s south coast has been
disturbed by the discovery of a live 10ft.
crocodile in a swamp just north of the
N.S.W. border. Investigations showed
the remains of a recently-devoured cow
near by. Years ago a crocodile haunted
the Logan River, between Brisbane and
Southport, and it is thought that this
may be the same one which has shifted
quarters a few miles. Bundaberg, where
the sugar and rum crop of Queensland
practically begins, is supposed to be the
southern limit of the estuarine crocodile
so common in N.Q., but the beast is a
noted wanderer and has no objection to
a sea voyage. Probably this one once
struck a warm current and overshot his
objective on his journey south. Warm
water is essential to -him.
* * * #
“Aves”: Soaring birds certainly know
how to make air currents help them to
gain height. I disturbed a pair of wedge-
tails in a hollow between two small
hills. There was a stiff breeze blowing,
and both birds flew low around to the
lee side of one hill, then over the trees
towards the summit, where they imme-
diately rose almost vertically on the
up-current from the windward side. On
another occasion a big whirlwind went
racing across the house-paddock. A
wedgetail, perched on a dead gum, saw
it and gave chase. Having caught it,
he swung straight into the centre of
the dust column. In less than a minute
he was a tiny black speck, still in the
dust column, and still rising.
AN OVERBOOMED SCIENCE.
“These scientific coots,” said “Blue,” “are
pretty big galoots to-day,
But, ’struth, they slip a cog or two; their
schemes go flamin’ miles astray.
The trouble is, it seems ter me, that these
ideas they sling about
May sound good-oh but yet they’ll be dead
failures when y’ try ’em out.
“I’ll tell yer, now, just ’ow I know. One time
I’m up at Wyndendust;
I’ve got a small mixed farmin’ show which
barely gets a man a crust.
One day some trav’ler cove comes round an’
mags until I buys a book;
It looked all right, an’ corst a pound, but,
cripes, it was a flamin’ rook!
“It’s all about astrology; accordin’ to this
spielin’ cow
Our lives are influenced, y’ see, by this ’ere
Zodiac. Speed the plough!
’E seemed to prove it; showed me Mars an’
mentioned cockies that ’e’d nailed
’Oo’d set their spuds in by the stars an’ got a
crop where others failed.
“For instance, when this Aries goes an’ Taurus
shows up good an’ bold
Y’ mustn’t work or shoot at crows —an acci-
dent might knock y’ cold;
It’s likewise askin’ for a crack from Forchin if
a prad y’ ride
Before Aquarius joins the pack or Leo’s on
the downward glide.
“I’m trackin’ with a sheilah, see? I’d on’y
known ’er seven years;
Me birthday comes around an’, gee! I’d
belted over sev’ral beers,
So I decides to try me luck, to ask ’er then,
by hook or crook,
Espeshly while I’ve got the pluck—but first I
must consult me book!
“It’s Sagittarius—blast the sign!—‘Decisions
will be good to-day,’
So writes this quarter-witted swine. I screws
me nerve and says me say.
She tells me “Yair”; I marries ’er; no doubts
or sorrows then I felt:
If I catch that astrologer I’ll boot ’im past
Orion’s Belt!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


‘ Knit Tog”: When I went into our
local store the aged proprietor seemed to
be more than usually downcast. “These
city blokes are mad as snakes,” he com-
plained. “Just got a letter from me agent
down below sayin’ he’s sendin’ me up
four dozen Penguins an’ reprints.” I
comforted him with the assurance that
he’d probably get rid of them somehow.
“That’s all right,” he said. “But what
am I goin’ to do with the things in the
meantime? I got plenty of tinned fish to
feed the penguins on, but what the blazes
do them reprints eat?”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: I offer a horse as the
most popular animal in Victoria. Wenda,
the wombat at the Colin Mackenzie
Sanctuary, has second place. Wenda has
the instincts of a dog and follows visitors
all over the reserve. But the horse, a
giant of 6ft. from toe to wither, doesn’t
have to chase round for human cobbers.
They come from every part of the city
to see him at work in Fitzroy Gardens.
The dray he pulls looks like a toy cart
behind his towering rump, and the shafts
fall short at his rippling shoulders. With
all the dignity of an elephant he drags
his load of dried leaves to the bonfire,
or plods with the mower over the table-
smooth lawns. His feet are as large as
a prospector’s dish, and it is an eight-
hour job to shoe him. He is one of the
most photographed personalities in Bat-
man’s village.
* * * *
“Dinornis”: I see where mushrooms
’ave bin pushin’ their way up through
bitumen pavements in Adelaide,” said
Tom the Dip. “Reminds me o’ when I
’ad a wool-haulin’ contract once. ’Ad to
take a big load over a river which was
spanned by a concrete bridge about 50ft.
long. As me lorry took the bridge there
was a nasty bump, and she shuddered
and half reared on her hind legs at a
crool angle. I climbed down, to find
that that there bridge ’ad lifted 18in.
above road level. Lookin’ to find the
cause I find three mushrooms—a ’elluva
size—’oldin’ ’er up. I goes back to the
car, puts a towin’-line around the big-
gest mushroom an’ tries to pull it away,
but all it does is bend me back axle.
Them mushies kept growin’, an’ when
they’ve got the bridge 10ft. above road-
level I gets the council blokes on the job.
It took them all the morning, but they
settled them fungus affairs at last —
poisoned ’em with tincture of cold tea.”
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Very little happens
on the N.Q. coast that does not reach
Nippon’s ears. When a diviner located
a supply of fresh water at Queen’s Beach,
near Bowen, a well was put
down. Three weeks later two Jap
trepang boats from Thursday
Island anchored off the beach,
and the crews took the contents
of the well into their tanks. A
par. in the local newspaper may
have supplied them with the in-
formation, which suggests that
the columns of country papers
are scanned by English-reading
Japanese, and information of
value to the trepang and pearling
boats circulated among them
While on the subject of trepang!
it might be mentioned that when
sampans were cleaning up the
sea-slugs within the Barrier Reef
they were assisted to locate likely
spots by charts supplied to them
by Japanese who had worked
these waters for years on boats
owned by Australians in the far
North.
Cam Cove . How do the bearologists
amve at their estimates of vital stalk
tics? The latest figures for t-nlii statls '
lations are given as: NSW 100 P Vir'
toria 1000. It is claimedK 100 ’ , Vlc "
State has the healthiest teddk<f soatll ® rn
all Queenslanders aJe r ld d Vd Si*
disease. Extinction is the plr. d ed
lion. The bears Ire‘VaS^evt
“Hey, Wot'd you people charge to kalsomine the Town ’ A ll?”
possible enemy—man, fox, dingo, bush-
fire and food ; even their favorite trees
are said to become poisonous at intervals,
without warning. There is much more
of it. The “experts” are beating the
drums of doom everywhere. Am I to
believe them? If not, what has the Abo.
council to say?
* * * #
“Euro”: Just how hard does a re-
turning boomerang strike? At Kanowna
(W.A.) we induced a big buck to give an
exhibition. Then McCulloch, who prided
himself on his bushcraft, reckoned he
could do as good. He could, nearly. But
he couldn’t fetch them straight back like
the abo. could. Mac’s second shot went
a bit wide, and on its return struck his
new iron chimney, punching a hole right
through the 24g. sheet. We reckoned
the same blow would have sliced a man’s
skull just as if it had been a melon.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: “Louden” is pretty right
about that woodheap (B. 22/6/’3B). I
don’t have to get far away from the one
at my cabin in the Murray district
(W.A.) before I strike the big timber.
Last week I topped a 90ft. white gum
that threatened to fall with disastrous
results. This top joined the vast tuart
which came down close to the back
door in last year’s cyclone. All-comers
are invited to have a go at that wood-
heap. Occasional jarrah-jerkers, down
from the hills for a spot of fishing, lop
off odd segments for the making of
mauls. They reckon that lOin. of half-
dry tuart, bound with steel rings, leaves
nothing to be desired, the faces soon
beating to almost iron toughness.
“Louden’s” hardened wedges and soft-
faced hammer somehow recall a kid’s
first day in an iron moulding shop—
when he is sent on a futile quest for the
leather-faced hammer with which to rap
the aluminium patterns. Still, he may
have met such wedge- and hammer-
murderers (anything is possible in the
bush), but will he kindly tell us just how
long such a soft-faced hammer would
last? And I might tell him that steel
hammers are even more costly than
wedges, while mauls cost nothing ; my
jarrah-jerkers whittle their segments of
tuart to shape in a few minutes. Also,
being sensible men, they bore the hole
for the handle before cutting the seg-
ment from the tree.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: When old Mike Matthew’s
ancient buggy-horse dropped dead Mike
decided to get a car. He bought Billy
Jones’s old one and insisted on driving
it home. Mike had never driven a car
before, but reckoned he could pick that
up “dead quick.” After a bit of arguing
Billy cranked the bus up and showed
old Mike how to get her in gear. With
a noise like a chaff-cutter gone mad the
“Chuck ’em a bit further , son!”
outfit disappeared
over the hill in the
direction of home.
Billy rang up Mike’s
family to warn them
that he was coming.
He came, steering a
ragtime course at
speeds varying from
15 to 40 m.p.h. ac-
cording to the bumps
in the road. Arriving
at the gate, the old
bus failed to stop. We
could hear Mike’s
frenzied “Whoa! you’’
as the gate dissolved
under the strain, and
he headed for the
second gate that led
into the house-pad-
dock. That, too,
crumpled. By this
time Mum, Mike’s
daughters and several
neighbors were on the
scene. Mike headed
for the crowd, which
promptly took refuge
behind substantial
cover. Mikewas
standing in his seat,
his hands firmly grip-
ping the wheel at
which he pulled with
all his strength, all
the time singing out “Whoa! Whoa!”
After circling the paddock three times,
demolishing the garden fence and threat-
ening the house itself, Mike ran his new
toy into the stables, fortunately empty.
Being stoutly built they stood up to the
job. The bus had a few fresh dents in
her, but Mike wasn’t hurt. He clam-
bered out and glared at the grinning-
audience. “By cripes! ” he snorted.
“Never ’ad to ’andle anything so ’ard-
in-the-mouth before. I pulled that
blanky wheel till I thought it’d come out
be the roots, an’ it never shifted an
inch!”
* * * *
“Old-t.”: Bluey, pinched for cutting
down a tree on private property, told the
Beak he was after a bees’ nest therein,
but his Worship made it a quid and
costs. After the court a sympathiser
bought him a drink, and said, “How
much honey did y’ get?” Bluey downed
his pot bitterly. “Not enough t’ give
yeh a flamin’ toothache,” he grunted.
* * * *
“Marsh”: “Too right,” said Mulga
Mick. “I’ve nearly perished from thirst
a good few times while humpin’ me
drum, but the closest I got ter bein’ a
angel was when me an’ Paddy the Rat
was makin’ acrost ter Boulia. We was
two days without a drink, an’ we’re just
about all-in when we drops down under
the only tree fer miles. After a while
Paddy gets up an’, grabbin’ hold of a
waddy, starts beltin’ inter the tree. I
thinks he’s gone cuckoo an’ I’m won-
derin’ how much longer I’d last meself
when Paddy lets out a yell an’ starts
lickin’ his hands. ‘Gralj a waddy,’ he
calls out, very excited. ‘lt’s me that’ll
show yer how ter get a drink.’ Sweat on
his hands? Not on yer life! Beltin’
inter the tree had raised big blisters on
Pat’s hands, an’ he was bustin’ them an’
drinkin’ the water. In an hour me an’
Paddy never had no sound skin left on
our maulers, but we had a billyful o’
water an’ enough ter last us inter Boulia.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: The boss of Big Bunk-
Bunk, just back from town, weaved on
to the board as a run of culled piebalds
was being put through, and a shearer
yelled for tar. “Tubtut-tar,” hicupped
the Big Noise. “By look of blasted sheep
mosht of you blankards should be —hie
—asphaltin’ streets.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: What is the greatest
pain the average man can suffer? Real
physical pain, not the exquisite mental
torture so often self-inflicted by morons
in love or in the grip of duns. I mark
the ballot-paper in favor of a stone-bruise
on the foot. Renal colic or a slipped
cartilage in the knee might head the poll
for acuteness, but the Prime Minister of
all chronic misery is the stone-bruise.
You can’t eat or sleep for the torture of
it, nor, of course, walk. There isn’t one
mortal thing you can do. The greatest
absurdity of all is to suppose that you
can bear the pain. And I’d like to meet
the man who can tell exactly where it
is located. It begins where the bruise
started ; but it sends out agents all over
the body, each as cruel as the chief gang-
ster. After the third day I defy any man
to say with certainty which foot the
bruise is actually on. He will feel the
pain equally in both feet.
ROAD I REMEMBER.
It is raining in the city, the streets are wet and
bright,
Each pool is like an opal, shot through with
changing light; ' ~
Purple and gold and scarlet; blue, emerald
and white.
Laughter and talk and music, the ceaseless
tramp of feet,
And the endless roar of traffic, till every busy
street
Is like a deep-voiced canyon, where rival
torrents meet.
1 close my eyes and listen, till the sound goes
rolling back
Like a giant, baffled comber, with foaming
plumes grown slack,
And I see through sweet, warm darkness, a
narrow, winding track!
A little road and lonely, from all the world
apart,
Blind road that winds on sweetly, where tiny
wild-flowers start —
It cuts right through a forest ... it cuts right
through my heart t
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


HAVE YOU RETIRED
from
Rusiness Activities?
If so, you may wish to be free from the
worries of investments, the collection of
rents and interest, or from the care and
management of real estate. The Trustees
txecutors and Agency Company Limited,
with over 60 years’ experience as Attorney
and Agent, can be of invaluable assistance
to you. Investigate the possibilities by
writing or calling upon the Company at your
convenience.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S> AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS
«lst YEAR OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits,
£955,800.
401 and 403 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes,
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1928.. 16,417 124 p.c. = 12,055 4362 36,887
1929.. 17,929 124 „ „ 16,402 1527 38,414
1930.. 27,042 10 ~ „ 24,017 3025 41,439
1931.. 7,047 24 „ „ 6,750 297 41,736
1932.. 3,606 Nil 3606 45,342
1933.. 3,867 lj p.c. = 3,375 492 45,834
1934.. 3,904 li,. „ 3,375 529 46,363
1935.. 3,680 21„ „ 6,750 43.293
1936.. 3,980 14 „ „ 4,050 43,223
Tax rebate, £305 . . . . . . 43,528
Unexplained addition, £l6OO .. .. 45,128
1937.. 4,028 24 p.c. = 6,750 42,406
1938.. 3,487 l| „ „ 3,375 112 42,518
* Excludes capital assets reserve, £37,885.
This is one of the four holding cos.
through which the public is interested in
the tangled and depressed group of Union
Theatres, which is one of the two leading
organisations (Hoyts is the other) operat-
ing picture theatres throughout Australia.
The operating organisation paid its last
div. in 1929, and it is difficult to say
when it is likely to pay another. The
slender profits earned and small divs.
paid by West’s over the last eight years
have come entirely from interest and
rents. At the end of March the £270,000
of capital and the so-called reserves, to-
gether with £66 coming to sundry credi-
tors, were represented by shares in other
cos., £293,338 (cost); freehold, £35,893 ;
debtors, £1260; Consols, £23,540; cash,
£675. The shareholdings are in Greater
Union Theatres, Australasian Films
(Holding) and General Film Co. (in liq.),
and the auditor accepts no responsibility
for the correctness of their book value.
However, the possibility of share-
holders receiving a little more has been
brightened by the decision to spend about
£40,000 on reconditioning the Olympia
Theatre, Adelaide, which Greater Union
has agreed to lease for another 10 years
from present date at the current weekly
rental of £53 17s. 6d. plus 8 p.c. on addi-
tional capital outlay, and the lessee pays
rates and taxes. Also, aggregate board
fees (£499 last term) have been reduced
to £2OO p.a., and the King’s Theatre,
Wellington (M.L.), in which the co. holds
a four-fifth interest, has been leased at
an increased rental of £624 p.a. On the
basis of last year’s figures, appearances
are that the co. will be able to pay 2\
p.c. or 3 p.c. on its capital.
The pound shares, which touched 11s.
in the market in 1937, have fluctuated be-
tween 6s. 3d. and 4s. Id. since the be-
ginning of 1938, the figure last week-end
being ss. 9d. The return at ss. 9d. is
4.3 p.c. on a \\ p.c. div. basis, or 8.7 p.c.
on a 2\ p.c. distribution. So there may
t be a shilling or so to be picked up here.
The scheme whereby shareholders in
the four holding cos. were to exchange
their scrip for shares in Greater Union,
thus giving them a direct voice in the
control of the chief operating co., has
been put on the shelf; it is to be taken
down when Greater Union earns ‘satis-
factory profits.” Also, the agreement
between Greater Union and Hoyts,
whereby the pair pooled their interests
in city theatres in all the State capitals
on a 50-50 basis, ran out at the end of
1937, and was not renewed. Still, General
Theatres Corp., which had been formed
for the purpose, will continue as a sepa-
rate co. (still jointly owned on the same
basis), because it acquired interests in
the Embassy, Empire and King’s Cross
theatres, Sydney, and the Ambassador’s
Theatre, Perth, all of which it will con-
tinue to operate. The other 36 theatres
that used to be under the corporation’s
control passed 13 to Hoyts and 23 to
Union.
Since then kissing has gone by favor
in the supply section of the trade,
and Greater Union is “facing a film
monopoly,” while earnings were also
affected to some extent by the paralysis
epidemic. Anticipations have thus got
astray, as the following comparison of
the earnings of the group shows:
, Year June 30 -^Half-year
1935. 1936. 1937. 31/12/’37.
Greater Union .. £21.751 £24,982 £21,060 £14,060 5
Cinesound . . 4,742 2,680 5,254* 2,788
Brit. Empire Films 2,292 8,634* 15,706* 782
Xat. Theatre Supply 447* 738* 8,934* 937*
Group profit . . £30,338 £18,290* £8,834*£11,427*
* Loss.
For reasons just stated Greater Union
recorded a loss of £14,060 for the half-
year to the end of December last as
against a profit of £21,060 for the pre-
ceding 12 months. Prospects of the
board’s anticipation of a profit of £48,823
for the 12 months of 1938 being realised
look rather blue at the moment. When
profits are earned, there is the overdraft
(£348,373 at the end of June, 1937) call-
ing for reduction, which is pretty sure to
mean that divs. to the holding cos. will
be pushed into the future.
William Adams and Co.
f— —- —Dividends >
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 6,962 1750 2£ p.c. - 4,500 712 12,767
Surplus on property sale, £1022 .. 13,789
1929.. 14,767 1750 5 p.c. = 9,000 4,017 17,806
1930.. 15,940 1750 5 „ „ 9,000 5,190 22,996
Loss.
1931.. 15,772 875* -Nil “ ' <>,349
Deficit.
1932.. 16,117 Nil Nil —9,76 S
1933.. 10,424 Nil Nil 20,192
Profit.
19'34. . 932 Nil Nil 932 19,260
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
Reserves.
Capital written off, £22,500 .. .. 11,527
Apparent adjustment book values,
£11,176 351
1936.. 22,031 7820 f 3 p.c. = 4,687 9,523 9,874
6.56 p.c.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.56,, „ 10,313 16,394 26,268
7 p.c.
1938.. 34,389 1750 10.1 „ „ 15,938 16,701 42,969
* Half-year. ts| years.
The bad patch in the table reflects the
struggle of the engineering trades against
high costs, slump and competition from
cheap-labor countries. To help the co.
out, the management gave more atten-
tion to overseas agencies (the co. has a
subsidiary in London and branches in
all the Australian capitals), and, as con-
ditions improved, sales have continued
to expand, and earnings are now better
than at any time since the present co.
took over in 1912 the business established
by Wm. Adams in 1898. After the tide
turned and the board saw more clearly
what prospects were, 2s. per share
(£22,500) was chipped off the ords. (a
cut of 4s. per share had been made in
1923), reducing paid capital to its present
figure—£lB2,soo in 25,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs.
(subject to 22y p.c. cut under N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act) and 225,000 ords.
of 14s. each—and opening the way for
resumption of divs. Next term (1936)
profits went up with a rush, arrears of
pref. divs. were paid and the ords., after
being shown an empty basket for five
years, got 3 p.c.
Continued expansion of the business is
reflected in a heartening improvement of
earnings since. After striking off £4291
for depreciation and allowing for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, last year’s
declared net earnings were £6045 better
at £34,389, or enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rate and show 20.7 p.c.
on ord. capital. The ord. div. was stepped
up from 6.5 p.c. to 10.1 p.c., the prefs.
automatically followed then to 7 p.c.,
and the £16,701 (nearly half the year’s
net earnings) that remained lifted the sup-
port and protection for capital to £42,969.
The board is now giving more attention
than it used to to strengthening the prop
for capital, thus reducing the risks for
shareholders.
The larger trading has been financed
mainly on outside money. Over the last
half-dozen years £150,697 was added to
the debt, while stocks increased by
£72,252 and book debts by £106,830: —•
1927. 1932. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. , £205,000 £205,000 £182',500 £182,500
Liabilities . . 265,599 119,590 216,298 270,287
Freeholds . . 106,357 103,476 109,202 109,085
Plant, etc. . . 25,744 18,979 16,613 21,506
Stocks . . 173,669 124,256 151.632 196,508
Book debts .. . 172,420 62,029 138,747 168,859
Cash, shares, etc. 9,,839 6,084 15,457 10,245
Last year £53,989 was added to the debt,
£44,876 to stocks and £30,112 to debtors’
balances. The more or less liquid sur-
plus improved by £15,787, reaching
£105,325. Still, when the books closed,
there was 235. lid. of outside money at
risk in the business for every pound be-
longing to shareholders.
Since the board sees stable conditions
ahead, it has decided to relieve the pres-
sure by offering those on the register at
July 22 125,000 new 14s. ords. at par,
one for two. When all the money on
the new issue (it has been underwritten
by four members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange) is in paid capital will be
£270,000 in 25,000 7 p.c. prefs. and
350,000 ords. of 14s. each. Last year’s
profit was sufficient to pay the pref. div.
and show 13.3 p.c. on £245,000 of ord.
capital, and there should be some gain
to earnings from reduction of the debt.
On the market the prefs. fetch 225. 6d.
and the ords. 16s. 9d. After exercising
the rights and allowing for the div., the
net price is approximately 21s. prefs. and
15s. 4d. ords. At 21s. the prefs. return
6.6 p.c. and the ords. at 15s. 4d. would
yield 9.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. In-
cluding the new issue, the net tangible
cover is £l2 10s. 4d. prefs. and 16s. sd.
ords.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. servo.'.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 526 Nil 526 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 876 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1,276 2,224
1933.. 11,115 Nil 11,115 13,339
Loss.
1934.. 5,701 Nil 7,638
Profit.
1935.. 8,589 4 p.c. = 4724 3.865 11,503
1936.. 8,584 5 „ „ 5905 2,679 14,182
1937.. 6,026 5 ~ ~ 5905 117 14,299
Although the mill is a bit far south,
which helps to explain the irregularity
in the co.’s crushings, the outlook for
shareholders is brighter than at any time
in the last decade, thanks to an increase
in the quantity of cane coming forward
(average crushing for the five years to
the close of last accounts was 68,341
tons as against 46,873 tons for the pre-
ceding quinquennium), reduction of the
overdraft and elimination of sawmilling,
etc., which had proved a drag on the
business.
Good returns were won during the
decade to the close of accounts in 1925,
and £56,190 of reserves was capitalised.
Then, following the doubling of mill
capacity (the board went to its bankers
for the money), raising it to 100,000 tons
p.a., prices fell, the volume of crushings
dropped, costs rose and the debt pressed
heavily upon earnings. However, after
a nine-year wait, shareholders got into
the picture again with a 4 p.c. div. in
1935, followed by 5 p.c. for each of the
last two years. Subject to seasonal and
economic developments, the co. looks
like becoming into a regular dividend-
payer again.
Owing to seasonal conditions, there
was a drop of 2190 tons in cane crushed
and of 1229 tons in the outturn of raws:
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1927.. 46,355 5,917 £130,266 £22 110
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 114,751 16 11 7
1933.. 82,362 10,908 194,647 15 7 7
1934.. 44,849 6.066 105,356 18 4 8
1935.. 80,086 11,115 189,693 16 0 2
1936.. 68,303 9,924 172,518 16 4 7
1937.. 66,113 8,69'5 155,379 17 1 9
The smaller production is reflected in a
contraction of £17,139 in sales and a
growth of 17s. 2d. per ton in costs. Net
earnings were £2558 lighter at a shade
over 5 p.c. on capital as against 7.2, 7.2,
a loss, and 9.4 p.c. for the four preceding
terms.
When the books closed there was
£53,790 (up £9271) coming to the bank
as against £124,058 10 years earlier. Sun-
dry creditors figured for £23,298 (down
£197). Outside liabilities (£77,088) ex-
ceeded more or less liquids (£55,467) by
£21,621, an improvement of £2535 over
the twelvemonth. On fixed assets
(£165,191) £3372 more was written off
than was spent. Further improvements
were made to plant, upon which much
depends.
As for the current term, nature pro-
mises to be kind, and a record crushing
is in sight.
At 16s. 6d. (12s. two years ago) the
pound shares return 6 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 225. sd. in
net tangibles, all fixed assets.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends , Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ ■ £ £
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 p.c. = 18,600 5,383 ,7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ ~ 14,983 9,087 1,3.36
1930.. 11,549,2700 4*,, ~ 7,491 1,358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil . 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8.299 4741 + Nil 8,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 73247 4 p.c. = 6,659 0,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 ~ „ 13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6.010
* Six months. t 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
t Includes all arrears.
Last year’s profit was the largest since
the co. took over the business of F.
Malley and Son 19 years ago. The works
at Alexandria, a suburb of Sydney, turn
out builders’ and plumbers’ hardware,
sanitary ware, sheet metal, dairy utensils
and hotel- and cafe-kitchen equipment;
and there are five selling branches in N. S.
Wales and one at Brisbane. Since turn-
over depends largely upon activity in the
building trade, slump brought a run of
losses aggregating £24,654 for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1933,
and payments to the prefs. fell £7780
(ss. 2d. per share) into arrears. Mean-
while, debtors’ balances and stocks were
worked down, the outside debt was
(i Continued on page 24.)


A Copy of the Prospectus has been filed for registration
with the Registrar-General pursuant to Section 87 of the Companies Act 1928.
of the Companies Act 1928 have not been fully complied with.
In this Abridged Prospectus the requirements
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
BARLOGAN LIMITED
/ PRIVATE. NON-L/CENSEDA
\RESIDENTI4L HOTEL. /
04 comply to be incorporated under the Companies Act of 1928 of the State of Victoria.)
Nominal Capital: £250,000 in shares of £1 each
ISSUE AT PAR OF 200,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF £1 EACH
(185,000 of which are offered for Public Subsription)
Payable: 2/6 on Application; 2/6 on Allotment; and ‘ he b^ al ! c ® ‘V 1
calls of 5/- per share, each payable on the Ist of November, 1938, Ist February
and Ist May, 1939.
DIRECTORS:
ROBERT FITZROY SANDERSON, 72 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Manufacturer „
ALFRED FAIREY FULLARD, 29 Hopetoun Avenue, Canterbury, Company Director.
PETER GUTHRIE TAIT, 8 Eton Square, St. Hilda Road, Melbourne, Managing i
FRANCIS OLIVER FOSTER, 16 Dudley Street, Brighton, Company Consultant.
An additional Director will be appointed by shareholders at the ° than three
General Meeting of the Company, which is to be held not less than n>r
months from the date at which the Company is entitled to commence business.
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
LIMITED, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS:
BULLEN & BURT, Bank of Australasia Building,
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKER:
FRANK 0. FOSTER, Suite 21, sth Floor,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel.: MU2032.
AUDITOR:
ADOLF ALEXANDER FITZGERALD, 8.C0m.,
F.1.0.A., of the firm of Fitzgerald & Tompson,
of 440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ARCHITECT:
MARCUS BARLOW F.R.A.1.A., Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY and Registered Office:
FREDERICK OSWALD BARNETT, M.Comm.,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The Company is being formed with the objects mentioned in its Memorandum
of Association, but more particularly for the purpose of acquiring the freehold
of certain land situate in Clarendon Street, East Melbourne, and erecting
thereon a non-licensed hotel, to be known as Barlogan.
Estimate of Capital Expenditure
Capital Expenditure is estimated to be as
>llows:—
£36,000 Cost of land (including cost of
option).
263,500 Cost of new buildings (including
Architect’s fees and all charges inci-
dental thereto).
35,000 Cost of furnishings complete.
17,500 Brokerage, Preliminary and Establish-
ment Expenses.
18,000 Working Capital.
£370,000
£200,000 Provided by the issue of Ordinary
Shares of £1 each.
£170,000 Provided by Mortgage or Debenture
over the Company’s Land and Build-
ings.
£370,000
Cost of Building
422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
10th March, 1938.
Marcus R. Barlow, Architect.
F. O. Foster, Esq.,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Dear Sir,
Under your instructions, I have prepared con-
sidefed sketch plans for “Barlogan,’ corner
Clarendon and George Streets, East Melbourne.
I estimate the cost of the building at
£263,500.
This estimate includes air conditioning to
ground floor and all bedrooms on north eleva-
tion —kitchen equipment—swimming pool—
billiard tables —architect’s fees, etc., but ex-
cludes floor coverings.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) MARCUS R. BARLOW.
Estimated Annual Revenue:
Revenue estimates are most conservative and based upon the minimum tariff rates
at present being quoted by a well-known Private Hotel, and much below the ruling
charges for less attractive accommodation in many of Melbourne’s Licensed Hotels,
notwithstanding air-conditioning and many other facilities unavailable to guests in
any other Victorian Hotel.
Revenue:
After providing for 20 per cent, for Vacancies
£101,982
Expenditure
Salaries and Wages . . .. £16,324
Provisions, Stores . . . . 22,144
Working Expenses .. . • 12,350
Administration .. .. 6,750
Total Expenses
£57,568
£44,414
Provision For
Interest at 5 per cent £8,500
Writing off Preliminary Ex-
penses over 10 years .. 1,750'
Income Tax 5,080
Sinking Fund Redemption .. 8,514
• £23,844
Nett Profit available for distri-
bution .. .. £20,570
CERTIFICATE OF INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANT:
JAMES L. GILLBERG, F.C.A.A., Yorkshire House,
Re Proposed Hotel, Clarendon Street, East Melbourne.
The foregoing estimates of Revenue and Expenditure prepared by Mr. F. O. Foster have been
very carefully cheeked by hie and I consider they are reasonable in every respect. I desire to
comment on these figures as follows: —
Revenue:
The estimated rates for Accommodation are in line with rates charged by similar establishments,
and estimates have been drawn up to provide for 20 per cent, of the available accommodation
being vacant at all times.
Expenditure:
SALARIES AND WAGES': Provision has been made for a total staff of 114 persons, and this
staff in my opinion is adequate to cater for the maximum number of guests that can be accommo
dated at the Hotel.
PROVISIONS AND STORES: Ample provision has been made to meet every possible contingency,
the amount allowed for the cost of meals being in excess of known costs at similar establishments.
WORKING EXPENSES: This estimate covers costs of Lighting, Power, Fuel, Laundry, Repairs,
Replacements, Insurance and Sundries, and in my opinion provides very fully for every cont ge y.
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: Expenses under this heading are as follows:
Directors’ Fees £1250
Advertising £2OOO
Rates and Land Tax
Sundries
£3OOO
£5OO
and they should not be exceeded.
Provision has been made for the writing off of Preliminary Expenses over the next ten years,
and Income Tax has been computed at 8/ in the £.
I consider, therefore, after a thorough investigation into all Revenue and Expenditure, that a
Nett Profit should be available annually of £29,084.
Yours faithfully, ___ «,
(Signed) JAMES I/. GILLBERG,
Fellow Australasian Institute Cost Accountants
(Incorporated).
PRINCIPAL INVESTMENT FEATURES
The success of the venture should be assured from the outset. All estimates of possible and
probable revenue and expenditure have been carefully examined and checked and every provision has
been mlde to ensure that the establishment will meet the undoubted. public demand which exists
for aTesfdential private hotel of the kind. From an investor’s point of view the outstanding
features of the proposition may be summarised as follows:
I—Payment of regular dividends seems to be assured, and the principal asset consists of real
estate—the highest form of security.
2. The demand for high-class hotel accommodation at moderate prices is extensive.
3. —No other hotel in Victoria supplies equivalent amenities.
4 Moderate charges for accommodation, combined with efficient management and special
facilities, including air-conditioning, bathrooms to each room, central heating, garaging,
enclosed swimming pool, gymnasium, billiard room, golf practice room, sq;uash racquets
court nursery, large sun room, laundries and ironing rooms for the use of women guests
beauty salon Y library, barber’s shop, wireless reception (with volume control to prevent
undrnf noise) and noiseless electric timepieces in each room, and other unusual featuies
assure the popularity of the Hotel.
5 —The splendid situation facing the gardens and within walking distance of the City, churches
and recreative facilities is one Of the most favorable features.
6._Provision not only for more or less permanent guests, but the special attractions such as
appeal to and must attract visitors from overseas, particularly Amei lean and Europea.
visitors, who expect such modem necessities as air-conditioning and central heating
otherwise unobtainable in Melbourne.
7—The demand for this class of accommodation has been proved in all parts of the world.
8. The cash nature of the business obviates bad debts.
APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT:
Applications for shares will proceed only on
one of the forms of application referred to
and endorsed upon a printed copy of the pros-
pectus. , .
In the event of the issue being over-
subscribed, the Directors reserve the right to
make allotments as seem to them to be in the
best interests of the Company,
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION:
The minimum subscription upon which the
Directors may proceed to allotment is 150,000
shares of £1 each on which the sum of 2/<6
has been paid to or received by the Company.
Notwithstanding the subscription as aforesaid
of 150*,000 shares of £1 each, the Directors
will not proceed to allotment until additional
finance (by way of mortgage or debentures) of
not less than £150,000 is available.
STOCK EXCHANGE:
The Company’s Articles of Association
have been drafted so as to comply with
the requirements of the Melbourne Stock
Exchange and it is intended to apply for
the listing of the Company’s shares as
soon as practicable after the present issue
has been fully allotted.
In connection with the allotment of
shares of the present issue made in
accordance with the applications bearing
the stamp of any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange, brokerage at the rate
of 5 per cent, on the nominal value of
shares will be paid by the Company.
MORTGAGE AND MORTGAGE REDEMPTION
Negotiations are proceeding for the provision of £170,000' by way of mortgage over the
Company’s land and buildings for an amount to be advanced in the first place by way of a
building loan and subsequently for a fixed term of 15 years,
It is the intention of the Directors to provide the complete redemption of the mortgage upon
the date of maturity by a special redemption policy to be taken out with one of the leading Life
Assurance Offices in Australia. In the estimates provision has been made for the annual premium
needed to guarantee the repayment of the sum to be borrowed. This will materially strengthen
the position of shareholders in that, over a period of 15 years, they will, in addition to the
dividends received, eliminate entirely the loan charge, securing additional assets worth £170,000.
Moneys paid to the mortgage redemption fund will be invested outside the business of the Company.
There lias been no change of ownership of the property to be purchased during the
last two years.
;
>
mm
m
nm
m
mm
Si
li
m
'i
m
mm&
■
m
-<
i i
mm
1
.
1
mmm
*
iosasssfeii
To Barlogan, Ltd.,
(To Be Incorporated),
Suite 26, sth Floor, “Temple Court,”
422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: MU2023.
/ am interested in your proposal to
erect a non-licensed hotel in Clarendon
Street, East Melbourne, and would
be glad to receive a copy of your illus-
trated prospectus.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS
A view of Barlogan from the air
showing the building as it will appear
In the establishment of “Barlogan” the aim is not only to
provide a building architecturally and structurally in advance
of any hotel at present in existence in Australia, but to create
therein an atmosphere —-a character—distinctive and attractive
to those who make of it a temporary home, whether for a night
or for a year.
It is the definite aim of the Directors that “Barlogan!’
shall earn the distinction of being the most attractive and
satisfying hotel in the southern hemisphere. Its location, at the
comer of Clarendon and George Streets, fronting the Fitzroy
Gardens is ideal, and Tariff Bates will be fully competitive
with other Hotels.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE, PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
gf
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
Obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins’ Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.).- — Advt.
* ' * * *
FERRO DOB (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of it's quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
gf
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
reduced, cash was strengthened and new
lines were added to the list of manu-
factures.
Profits showed up again in 1934, and
turnover has bounded along each year
since. The prefs.’ slate was cleaned
in ’35, and the ords., which had been
passed by for five years, got 4 p.c. in ’36,
and an all-round 8 p.c. has been paid for
each of the last two years. The prefs.
(there are 30,000 of them in a paid capital
of £230,000) carry a fixed cumulative
9 p.c., subject to the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act.
After allowing £4629 for depreciation
and setting aside £7500 (up £2500) for the
taxgatherer, last year’s net earnings were
£5519 better at £28,945, equal to 12.5 p.c.
on capital (pref. and ord. combined), as
against 10.1 p.c. and 8.7 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. Since money is wanted
in the business, the div. was kept at an
all-round 8 p.c., and the £10,545 that re-
mained lifted reserves £6016 in excess of
goodwill, etc. (£22,682), which is not
treated as an asset herein.
The year’s brisker trading and pur-
chase of the freehold of the Mountain-
street, Sydney, showrooms, previously
held on lease, are reflected in the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1933. . 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £196,473 £196,473 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities* . . 17,714 23,833 81,902 103,280
Freeholds .. 55,632 55,859 59,652 87,101
Leaseholds .. 17,272 15,680 15,490
Plant, etc. . . 40,304 40,820 46,957 48,712
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 87.048 89,276
Book debts . . 24,465 32,035 105,390 122,225
Cash, etc. . . 11,677 1,642 2,182 1,184
* Including provision for depreciation.
To add £27,449 to the book value of free-
holds, £1755 to plant and carry an extra
£2228 of stocks and £16,835 of debtors’
balances, the co. went outside for a
further £21,378. The contraction in the
more or less liquid surplus (£112,718) was
£3313, which suggests that the cost of the
freehold was largely offset by the unex-
pired value of the lease (£15,490 at the
close of accounts in 1937). The two most
vulnerable points are stocks and debtors’
balances. The first are claimed to be
clean and conservatively valued ; as for
the second, all known bad debts have
been written off, and the reserve for
doubtful ones is reckoned to be adequate.
In anticipation of further developments
meriting an increase in working capital,
shareholders will be asked next week to
make the necessary provision by increas-
ing nominal capital.
At 245. 6d. the prefs. return 6.5 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. They have priority
as to capital, and the right to a premium
of 2s. 6d. per share in the event of a
wind-up or return of their money. The
ords. at 225. yield 7.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
£7 17s. 4d. prefs. and 20s. 7d. ords.
Selfridges (A'sia), Ltd.
The shareholders’ committee (R. C.
Hagon, J. A. Carpenter and J. W. Austin)
considers that the business can be rehabili-
tated. It is also of opinion that, since
it was obvious the co. was trading at a
loss, there was no justification for pay-
ment of an interim div. last year, or for
the premium of ss. per share charged in
connection with the new issue in October,
1937 ; that the policy of capitalising and
carrying forward expenses, although
legal, led to a misunderstanding of the
position ; that both the Maoriland and
Westralian subsidiaries, which traded at
a loss to the end of May, 1938, carry a
load of intangibles (largely promoters’
shares) out of all proportion to earning
capacity; that excess quantities of mer-
chandise were bought, slow-selling lines
were marked at prices which the public
would not pay, and handling facilities
were hampered. The committee further
says that the system of buying was not
in the best interests of the co., that a joint
managing-directorship is unworkable, and
that it could find no justification for the
directors receiving free shares in the sub-
sidiaries in addition to the acquisition
of shares by the parent co.
The. managing director says that the
committee knows nothing about chain-
store merchandising, and that its report
is one-sided and needs modifying. He
does not regard very seriously the state-
ment of overstocking by £38,000, since
the co.’s takings amounted to £50,000 a
month in the winter period and to
£128,000 in December.
Given good buying and a team that
will pull together and keep a tight hold
upon outgoings, the co.’s prospects of
earning satisfactory profits are not dis-
couraging, though it may take a year or
two before such a position becomes
assured. The committee reckons that
finance will present a problem in the
near future. Calls to be met include
£23,800 in respect of the Westralian and
£14,481 in connection with the Maori-
land subsidiary, and overseas commit-
ments total £35,094.
At the end of January paid capital was
£240,791 in 285,000 £1 shares, leaving
£44,209 still to come, and there was
£2290 cash in hand. More or less liquids
exceeded the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £39,179.
The price of the shares, which are not
officially listed on the Stock Exchange,
fell from 345. cum rights 10 months ago
to 17s. following publication of latest
disappointing accounts —for full review
see B. 15/6/’3B. Last week-end buyers
offered 13s. 6d. with sellers standing off
at 15s. 6d. The net tangible cover is
approximately 19s. per share.
The position at the moment is that the
two managing directors (F. W. Harper
and A. W. Lambell) have resigned, leav-
ing the chairman and two other direc-
tors on the board. An extraordinary
general meeting of shareholders is to be
held within a month to elect directors.
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Floated by Tanah Biji in 1925, Jela-
pang is now one of the most promising
Anglo - Oriental’s Malayan ventures.
Available ore reserves and plant capacity
are high in relation to capital, leading
to the possibility of comparatively high
dividends under favorable quota con-
ditions.
The property extends along the Ipoh-
Jelapang road, Perak, F.M.S. Though
clayey in parts, the wash presents no
special dredging difficulties, comprising
mostly soft ground, with plenty of
water. At Dec. 31 last dredging re-
serves were figured at 21,385,000 c.y.,
containing 8204 tons tin oxide, or an
average of 0.861 b. per c.y. Metallic tin
content assays over 75 p.c. oxide.
Reconstructed early in 1937 at a cost
of £lB,BOO, and converted to electric
drive, the dredge is now capable of dig-
ging up to 150,000 c.y. monthly. Last
term permissible output was lifted from
67 p.c. to 77.7 p.c. of assessment. The
plant worked nine months of the year:
, —'Surplus—v—Dividends
live., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1936.. 1 £49,330 £28,789 £20,541 3/4 Nil Nil
\To bucket-line renewal, £4OOO.
1937 S 65,392 32,767 35,625 5/11 4/-£24,000
(To bucket-line renewal, £2OOO.
Includes depreciation: 1936, £1648 ; 1937, £7625.
Thanks to improved metal prices and
reduced costs, the net result, after
charging depreciation, improved £15,084
to £35,625, or nearly 6s. per share; 4s.
was distributed (the preceding term had
been dry owing to the reconstruction
programme), and £2OOO was earmarked
for bucket-line renewal, increasing that
provision to £6OOO. During the year the
balance of general reserve (£30,000) was
struck off the book-value of the dredge,
reducing the figure to £35,000, the idea
being “to relieve future years of any
heavy charge on account of deprecia-
tion.”
Here is a more detailed view of the
year’s operations :- —
1936. 1937.
Cubic yards dug .. .. 949,000 1,365,000
Recovery t. 0., tons .. .. 408.64 441.4
Av. per c.y., pound .. .. 0.96 0.72
Assay, p.c. .. . . .. 75.6 75.3
Working- costs, c.y., pence .. 4.42 3.39
Net ore real’n, ton .. .. £122/5/8 £147/7/3
Singapore av. metallic tin, ton £192/11/10 £236/9/1
The board offers no explanation for the
lower recoveries. For the first quarter
of the current term the co. dug 377,000
c.y. for a working profit of £3407, Pro-
duction totalled 162 x tons t. 0., an average
per c.y. of 0.961 b going.
The co. is assessed at 404 tons of
oxide p.a. Permissible output for the
three months to Sept. 30, however, is
down to 33.1 p.c. of assessment, of which
only 25.5 p.c. is for export. Chairman
A. A. Henggeler summarises prospects
thus:
Owing to the severe degree of restriction
now in force, quota price has risen to a
figure which does not make it economic
to buy quota rights on the market. For
the time being, therefore, we are continu-
ing to operate so as to build up stocks, but,
in the face of a 45 p.c. international release
to come into force as from July 1, it is
obvious that the time may come when the
dredge will have to close down. We pro-
pose, however, to continue working until
sufficient stocks have been accumulated to
cover exports for some considerable time.
At last term’s actual rate of turnover
(1,800,000 c.y. yearly) there is upwards
of 12 years’ life in the property. Since
the close of accounts the co. has acquired
a £490 interest in Anglo-Malayan de-
velopment (issued capital £50,000 in £1
shares), formed to prospect for new’ hold-
ings on behalf of the associated Anglo-
Oriental cos.
Paid capital is £120,000 in £1 shares,
worth 40s. apiece in the market. At
balance date liquids amounted to £28,433
and liabilities to £4976.
From London: Gold was recently
bought in large quantities by hoarders and
others, including India, which, after cen-
turies of hoarding, was a big seller not
long ago. The demand was attributed
mainly to the belief that Roosevelt might,
in order to support his policy, force the
dollar down agaipst gold, taking with
it, perhaps, the franc and sterling. The
demand for gold shares, mostly in pro-
ducing and dividend-paying African cos.,
has also been strong.
* $ *
“O.B.”: Octogenarian C. A. More-
ing’s retirement, on medical advice, from
the chairmanship of Sons of Gwalia
severs his last active connection with
Westralian goldmining. In pre-war years
ex-President Herbert Hoover was a part-
ner of Bewick Moreing and Co. The
firm was very prominent in the early
days of the Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie,
Leonora and Murchison fields, on which
it bossed a number of mines. C. A.
Moreing’s twin sons are now at the head
of the firm. One, a member of the
House of Commons, succeeds his father
as chairman of the “Gwalia.”
* * * *
New Yilgarn took over a goldmining
venture near Southern Cross (W.A.) early
last year and bogged in. Later a report
by a well-known mining man stated that
a few thousand tons of good-grade ore
was in sight, but that more development
was necessary to gauge the show’s size.
Now the board advises that, owing to
regular production over the last three
months, the financial position is brighten-
ing, current assets exceeding liabilities
by £494. It adds that, since last year,
‘mine management has been “completely
reorganised,” equipment overhauled,
underground workings put in good con-
dition, and the way paved for better
times. Unforeseen flooding of the prop-
erty seriously interfered, for a time, with
the development programme and kept
production at a low figure.
# * * T.
Indications are that dividend-paying
Norseman (W.A.) will be a stayer.
Periodical development reports read well,
and the fact that additions are about to
be made to the treatment plant reads
better. This is the mine which, after
returning to shareholders a substantial
sum, was abandoned years ago by the
now-defunct Mararoa co. in order to try
a show, on the Murchison field, which
failed to turn out as expected, but which
is now worked by Triton and paying
well.
* * * *
London-controlled Ora Banda United,
which took ovef the Mopoke, Gimlet
South and Victorious at Ora Banda
(W.A.) from B.A.N.Z. Mines, Ltd., in
Nov., 1934, has been granted exemption.
More money is needed to carry on. Last
year ore reserves were put at 1,143,000
tons, averaging 3.Bdwt., of which 543,000
tons, averaging were reckoned to
be blocked out. On a throughput of
100,000 tons a year operating profit was
estimated at £A 102,000. A Bulletin
man reckoned at the time that these esti-
mates were optimistic.
Two of De Bernales Westralian group,»
Atlas and Black Range, have pegged 10
blocks at Sandstone (W.A.), including
areas worked years ago by the now-
defunct Oroya Black Range and Black
Range cos. Both deceased concerns
were fair-sized producers for a time, and,
while operating, were the mainstay of the
then lively and spick-and-span but now
dull and dilapidated township of Sand-
stone.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.), with a
substantial sum in the till, has taken
another option, this time over an area
between Bullfinch and Mt. Jackson on
the Yilgarn field. The show is reported
to have a reef worth 30dwt. by pan assay.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.C.5.8.: (1) Paid capital is £lOO,OOO in £ll
shares paid to £lO. Last div. sent out 1924.
No quote for shares on ’Change last two years.
Loss 1937, £609. There was £3438 coining to
creditors; debtors and investments figured at
£9714. Whitburn Colliery now being reopened,
other property (Victoria Tunnel) let on tribute.
(2) Ask broker to obtain quote for y0u....
M.D.M.: (1) The swap you suggest is a sound
one. (2) A gamble at long odds... .R.C.: Regu-
lar bonuses to policy-holders not yet in sight.
F.L.L.: (1) Not bright. (2) Cannot say.
Ords. recently offered at ss. 9d. and prefs.
at 16s F.C.J.: (1) Metropolitan Gas is
offering £135,900 of 4 p.c. debentures. The
fours maturing in 1956 sold at £lOO 10s. last
week-end. (2) Sales are reported in dailies
when made. (3) There is ready market for
the stock. (4) B.H. Prop.’s 7 per cents.,
maturing 1940, are worth consideration
B 41: Of the seven mentioned, the first and
sixth. (2) Cumberland Paper and Morris, Hed-
strom still worth attention... .R.R.M.: Resi-
dent of Canberra in receipt of net income from
rents from N. S. Wales would pay State income
tax of £1 175., plus special income tax of
£8 16s. Bd. Tax on dividends would be as-
sessed to the extent that they were paid from
profits derived in N. S. Wales... .L.S.: Limited
market for tantalite. Crude concentrate assay-
ing over 30 p.c. about £6 per unit f.o.b. Sydney.
Only about 100 tons of silmenite used anually
here. Try B.H. Prop A.H.W.: Practically
no market for local product. Trade prefers to
import its requirements. Write F. Hambridge,
Bridge-street, Sydney, giving assay.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiKECTORS-James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H.Hart, Esq.; M J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
s/OTOCR CORDiAtS
~m ii^MifiiiiMiirnniTrnrr
SMOKE-OH!
“Some of the more sensational magazines and
newspapers make strange errors.”
—American paper.
So do those who buy them.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Hitler reads Tennyson but dislikes Burns.”
— “News” story.
Somebody must have told him he was
called Rabbi Burns.
4 4 4 4
“The cocktail hour demands smart hats.”
—Fashion article.
But after an hour at cocktails any hat
will look smart. •
4* 4* 4* 4
“Long beds are better than short ones.”
—Gardening hint.
That’s right; otherwise how could the
the dog bury a decent-sized shinbone?
4* 4* 4* 4
“Nothing gains in velocity like a spinning
political wheel.” — “Century.”
Naturally, politicians being born
spokesmen!
“There was a growing hostility from mem-
bers of the corps whom he had penalised, and
finally he was transferred to another unit.”
—Sydney weekly.
He was rotten to the corps.
4 4 4 4
“ the editor was dambfounded damb-
founded eox?..” — Perth “News.”
Yes, yes; we’ve read MS. like that,
too.
4 4 4 4
Nomenclatural Significance.
“General Chin-Chin is pne of the most ardent
and determined of China’s commanders.”
He’d be strong on entertaining or at
sedulously draining
All rum issues round the front till he
was sated;
And, apart from other racial marks he
has one feature facial:
For a double Chin is clearly indicated!
80.
“ You see, sir, I 'ad a diff'rence of opinion with the admiral.”
“Many of man’s inventions have caused no-
thing but trouble.” — Lecturer.
Especially the one about being de-
tained at the office
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Victorian Electricity Commission has ad-
vertised ‘Bradman and Briquettes.’ Coburg
(Vic.) Stonebreakers’ Institute is considering
‘McCabe and Macadam.’ "
Well, didn’t Joe set the fashion with
his foreign policy: “Just Waite”?
Self-evident.
“Women used make-up in the Middle Ages.
—Woman s paper.
From ocular perusal, we
Don’t doubt a bit this statement s true,
Because on every hand we see
Plain evidence that still they do.
Dougal.
4» 4* 4* 4*
Modem Fable.
One day a young man came to his
father and said: “Father, Emily has jilted
me; what is the correct thing to do?
And his father replied: ‘The correct
thing is to go to a far country and shoot
tigers.”
So the young man went to a far coun-
try and shot tigers. One day he received
a cablegram which read: Darling, come
home at once. Stop. All is f or f lv f?-
Stop. Love, Emily. Stop. And this
message so excited the young man that
he walked deep into the jungle without
his rifle.
Presently he came face to face with a
large tiger, which, noticing the young
man had no gun and being of an inquir-
ing mind, said: “Before I kill you, tell
me why you humans are always shooting
at us; what have we done to you?” And
the young man tried to explain all about
the correct thing and tradition and all
that, till the tiger began to strop his claws
upon a tree because he didn’t think the
excuse was very good.
Seeing that the tiger was about to
spring at him, the young man shouted
desperately: “Stop! ” and proceeded to
read the cablegram aloud (stops and all)
until, after thinking awhile, the tiger
said: “Well, if you aren’t going to annoy
us any more, I’ll let you go, and I’m not
very hungry anyway” ; and so the two
parted, voicing goodwill, and the young
man went home to Emily.
Some two years later this same tiger
was walking through the jungle when he
found himself looking down the muzzle
of a gun, and he was astonished to find
that the man who held the gun was the
very same one whose life he had spared
previously, and the tiger laughed sardoni-
cally and said: “Here’s gratitude for you.
I show you mercy, and this is how you
repay me.” And, as the gun never
wavered, the tiger continued: “Has your
Emily jilted you again?” and the young
man said very harshly: “No. I married
her,” and so saying he pressed the trigger.
Leon.
4 4 4 4
“He was the winner of a butter competi-
M. Herald.”
And no doubt he patted himself on the
back.
Be Your Own Mechanic!
ttt _ r;..-..,-
m Overhauling the Engine.
It follows that a foreign noise, if
proved not to be in the bodywork, must,
ipso facto, be in the mechanical part.
The most likely cause will be something
in the engine itself. Though slightly more
complicated than the bodywork, the
engine need prove no bogey, even to the
tyro.
First it will be as well to run the car
out of the garage on to the runway,
“Three boxes of cartridges don't go far, Dad!”
where there is better light. (Incidentally,
to dismantle the engine is a good Satur-
day-afternoon job.) Now lift the bonnet.
You will be confronted by the cylinders.
These will be surrounded by rows of
nuts which will have to be removed.
This operation is known as “lifting the
heads.”
Before doing this the spark plugs must
be removed. A special implement is
necessary for this work. If you can’t
borrow one from the garage which you
patronise for your free air some motorist-
neighbor is sure to have one.
While you’re
on the job the
plugs might as
well be cleaned,
as they are sure
to be badly car-
bonised. Remov-
ing the carbon
with a nail file or
a small screw-
driver is too
fiddling. A far
easier method is
to fill each one
with wet clay and
put them all in a
very hot oven for
an hour. By that
time the clay will
have become
baked hard, and
on the plugs be-
ing knocked
against the wall
the clay will
come out in a
lump, bringing
the carbon with
it.
Alternati v e 1 y,
they may be
rubbed in sharp,
dry river sand. A blowlamp is also
effective, but care should be taken
that it is played on to the plug for no
longer than five minutes at a time. In
case they get trodden on or lost, the
plugs should be carefully wrapped and
put in a safe place until you are ready
to re-install them.
Next remove all the nuts from the
cylinder-heads. Before commencing, and
to save excoriation, swathe each hand in
several yards of soogee bagging. As it is
difficult to grasp the spanner tightly
after your hands are bound, take a firm
grip of it first and then get the wife to
bind the bagging around them.
It is a mistake to count the number
of nuts to be removed before you actu-
ally start this job, as this tends to dis-
couragement. On an eight-cylinder car
there will be approximately 42. It
is a good idea to test each one first,
selecting to start off on those which are
Hkely f c yield a£ter only about ten
minutes’ wrestling. The really hard ones
can be left until last, when you will be
no t only more proficient but in a better
mo od.
it is not to be supposed that, having
eventually got the nuts off, it is then just
a simple matter of lifting the heads off.
They will be found to be stuck firmly
on. Don’t try to loosen them by using a
light sledgehammer, as this will jar your
hands. Get a big screwdriver and prise
them off. This may chew the gaskets up
a bit, but they can easily be trodden into
shape again with heavy gardening boots.
Having removed the heads and exposed
the cylinders, the next thing is to decar-
bonise them.
If this hasn’t been done for some
time the carbon will be thickly encrusted.
By far the most efficacious way to re-
move this is to blow it off after having
loosened it with some blunt instrument,
say, a gardening trowel; but unless this
is done scientifically the carbon will float
out of the cylinder into other delicate
parts of the mechanism such as the water
manifold and engine trays, and you will
be worse off than before.
An excellent plan is to smear your
face heavily with vaseline. Then, tak-
ing a deep breath, lean right over the
cylinder top and blow as hard as you
can, taking care to close your eyes as
you do so. The carbon will naturally be
forced straight up out of the cylinder
into your face, where it will immediately
adhere to the greasy surface. If the
carbonisation is bad, or if your car has
a multiplicity of cylinders, frequent face
washings and fresh applications of
vaseline will be necessary.
The carbon may also be removed by
suction. If the vacuum-cleaner has a
sufficiently long lead to reach the car
this will do admirably. Of course, if
the wife happens to use it next day on
the cream lounge-room curtains for
blowing, well, just ask her, in the subse-
quent recriminations, which is the more
important—a sweetly-running car or a
few mouldy old curtains. But it might
be impolitic to wait for the answer.
S. W. K.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
piincipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “ The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
u
m
r
m
ill
m
ilMln!!i!l!li
lift.
M
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
t
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
CHEQUE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
London Funds £64,000,000
For the first time in the memory of
anyone who became interested in such
things during the depression, provisional
figures relating to our London funds have
been made available within a fortnight
of the close of the financial year.
The trading banks generally don’t
favor disclosure of the extent of our
London funds —that is one point on
which The Bulletin and the banks
differ. However that may be, Roland
Wilson, the Commonwealth Statistician,
reckons our London credit to be
£7,000,000 sterling lower than a year
ago ; he works out income and outgo
for 1937-38 in these terms:
Credits — £stg.
Exports and gold production .. 122,542,000
, Exports of old gold 782,000
Government borrowings .... 4,130,000
Local government borrowings.. 1,370,000
Company issues in London and
profits invested 4,300,000
New private investments in
Australia 7,000,000
Other credit items 324,000
Total credits 140,448,000
Debits —
Imports of merchandise 111,474,000
Overseas interest 21,840,000
Invisible current outgo 9,500,000
Overseas sinking fund 3,203,000
Decrease in Australian funds of
oversea banks 620,000
Total debits 146,637,000
Our favorable trade balance for 1937-38
was about £12,000,000 stg., down
£23,500,000 stg. compared with 1936-37.
New Government and local-government
borrowings totalled £5,500,000, lifting the
credit to £17,500,000; company share-
issues and private loans, etc., brought in
£11,600,000, making a total credit of ap-
proximately £29,000,000 out of which to
meet the £21,840,000 of overseas interest,
£9,500,000 of profits from film-hire, divs.
from motor-car and other pups of U.S.A.
cos., etc., transmitted abroad, and
£3,800,000 overseas sinking-fund pay-
ments and odds and ends. The credits
were £6,200,000 sterling shy of these
debits, and other items are reckoned
to make the year’s debit balance up to
£7,000,000. Funds in London have, there-
fore, dropped from £71,000,000 sterling
to £64,000,000 over the year.
That wouldn’t be so bad ; but the fact
that our credit position has worsened
further to the extent of £5,500,000, repre-
senting public borrowing in London, can
be too readily overlooked. An Austra-
lian company might raise money in Lon-
don, default in interest later on, and few
people ever hear about it; but public
credit must be kept immaculate. Hence
the danger in this resumption of pledging
our credit abroad. Fortunately for us,
John Bull is no more ready to stretch
things than is the Commonwealth Bank
in Australia.
Comment has been heard in Sydney
that the main importance of London
funds is as a drought reserve. They rep-
resent much more than that. Nowadays
“There's a man'ere dedden come 's' mornin' , an' if 'e don't come again ,
to-morrow I'll send un goin' and put you in ez place."
portion of them is the solidest part of
the backing for our note issue.
The ratio of advances made by Aus-
tralian banks to the deposits they hold
was 89 p.c. for the June quarter of
1938, compared with 83.25 p.c. a year
earlier. Here is full evidence of the
tighter money forecast on this page
several times within the last 12 months.
* * * *
Share-hawkers have come a thud in
N. S. Wales since the passing of the new
Companies Act —a clause prohibits house-
to-house canvassing of good, bad or indif-
ferent scrip, except that the hawker may
drop in at a “place of business.” But
in Victoria, a State which a few years
ago was the most advanced, as regards
company law, in the Commonwealth, go-
getters are still signing them up. Old-
ham, member for Boroondara, has
brought the matter up in Vic. Assembly.
When the N. S. Wales legislation was
first conceived there were fears, expressed
on this page and elsewhere, that a too-
drastic law might have the effect of giv-
ing the Stock Exchanges an absolute
monopoly of the placing of shares. But
what eventually became law isn’t too
severe, and the sooner Victoria puts
something similar on the statute book
the better it will be for unsophisticated
folk with savings to invest.
Electro. Zinc’s final div. of 9 p.c.,
making 15 p.c. for the year, was received
with apreciation by the sharemarket.
Only the bonus of 2\ p.c. has been
dropped when a comparison is made
with last year. The div. announcement
had the effect of steadying prices for Bar-
riers and Mt. Lyell, although the market’s
reasoning was hardly logical. Electro.
Zinc, by reason of its contract with Bar-
rier cos., is in the position that it does
not get the full benefit of rises in the
price of zinc, nor does it suffer so
sharplv as the mines when metals fall.
* *
Shares in Mt. Kasi, Fiji, improved last
week, selling at 4s. 9d. There are 396,008
shares issued, and if all goes well this
term profits may run to £30,000. In the
24 weeks to June 15 17,069 tons had re-
turned 37410 z., exclusive of slags.
* * * *
Mount Lyell, Queenstown (Tas.), has
now published production figures cover-
ing nine months of the current year,
which ends on Sept. 30. Quarterly figures
for the year so far are here compared
with annual milling results for 1935-36
and 1936-37:
Blister Elec-
Year., Ore, Copper, fro., Silver, Gold,
Sept., Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1936 .. 665,422 12,083 13,103 100,888 7015
1937 .. 841,427 12,883 13,516 91,651 6430
Quarter,
Dec.,’37 . . 220,923 2,444 2,926 15,631 1236
Mar.,’3B .. 261,550 3,054 2,893 17,770 1835
June,’3B ..265,577 3,249 3,274 16,594 2006
Sept.-June 748,050 8,747 9,093 49,995 5077
Blister-copper output is shown as well as
production of the refined metal; blister
more truly represents current metal pro
duction from current millings. Refining,
it is apparent from the tabulation, has
sometimes lagged behind concentration,
and at other times has eaten up stocks
of crude copper so fast that, with the
help of arrears, output of electrolytic
appears to be greater than the outturn
of blister.
Blister-copper recovery for the nine
months has dropped to 1.036 p.c., as
against 1.53 p.c. in the preceding term.
Ore grade is much lower. The West Lyell
stuff, though easily mined, runs from 1.25
p.c. to 1.5 p.c., and the 9,894,000 tons
now in sight altogether averages 1.69 p.c.
Though Lyell is able to maintain output
at around 12,000 tons electrolytic a year
by stepping-up millings, that means higher
costs, which last year, after deducting
the value of precious metals recovered,
ran to £47 12s. Aust. including taxes.
Electrolytic averaged £6O Bs. in London
that term; for the nine months to June
30 last it has brought £44 Bs. Id. stg.
(£55 10s. Aust.). If costs this year are
£4B 10s. (taxes should, be lower but con-
centration exes, higher), there has been
about £7 a ton profit in it; with the metal
at present around the average of the
nine months, 12 months’ figures may
show £85,000 Aust.. from mining.
If £75,000 net comes in from in-
vestments (£71,611 last term), a
net profit of £160,000 is possible,
which would cover a 10 p.c. div.
* * * *
Metal Options (Broken Hill),
Ltd., was formed in Oct., 1937,
and offered 2500 shares of £5 each
for public subscription; 1000 £5
fully-paids went to the vendor,
Patrick J. Kelly, of Adelaide. The
public issue was payable in full on
application and allotment. Two of the
four directors corfie from Adelaide, two
from Melbourne (where the office is). The
vendor handed over his interest in a
160-acre option at Thorndale, Barrier
Ranges, some distance east Of the South
mine. Early this year it was announced
that an offer made by S’African and
London interests for 80 acres of the co.’s
property had been accepted by the Metal
Options board; the arrangement with
overseas capital was subject to drilling
being done. In April last it was reported
that drilling had disclosed small quan-
tities of sulphide of lead at 318-20 ft., and
zinc sulphide at 375 ft. Other patches
of sulphides were mentioned. F. M. T.
Phipps, consulting engineer, spoke favor-
ably of “commercial proportions” of
lode eventually being found. When 613 ft.
(“still in formation”) had been reached
in No. 1 bore, the hole was plugged and
No. 2 bore was started, at an angle of
60 degrees, further to the nor’-east.
When 47ft. was reached the water used
in drilling was lost, and this was “con-
sidered to be caused by proximity of
lode formation.” However, at 189 ft.
the bore was “in felspar again.”
General indication in upper footage of
core indicates that sulphide zone should
u reai ned at any time, but it might be
deep-seated.
The proposition is still a spec.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The new 5 p.c. pref. issue of Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries of Aust. and N.Z. opened at
above 21s. Yield offering was about £4 J3s.
per cent.
Associated Pulp ords. (B. 13/7/’3B) firmed
Is. 2d., to 20s.
The 171 P-c. ord. distribution by G. J.
Coles (on a share-register increased by a one-
-for-ten bonus ord. issue during the year) com-
pared with 18J p.c. in 1936-37 ; but by reason
of the bonus issue shareholders who have held
their scrip get a trifle more in actual cash from
their increased holding. The market wasn't
pleased, however.
Mt. Morgans and Golden Plateaus were
slightly firmer. Westralian gold issues were
steady.
Norths resumed their market ratio of 11 to 1
in relation to Souths.
Australian Cement dropped a shilling, to
325. 6d., in contrast with a strong market for
Kandos scrip in Sydney.


Carlton Brewery.
Carlton scrip is a better-class
investment, returning £4 11s. per
cent, despite the apparently high
price of 665. A historical note on
Carlton in these pages is interest-
ing.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BRISBANE, JULY 13, 1938.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and thirteenth Report, with the
Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended June 30 last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of
Income, Land and other Taxes payable during that period,
reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £2500,
making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts and all known
Contingencies and including Recoveries, amounts to . .
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
June 30, 1937 . .
Making a total of
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 4\ per cent,
per annum for the Half-year ended December 31, 193 7,
amounting to
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 4£ per cent, per annum for the Half-
year ended June 30, 1938
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and Unemployment Relief
Tax)
Balance to be Carried Forward
Although the totals of Advances and Deposits are lower in the Balance Sheet
than at the same date last .year, the business of the Bank has shown steady expansion,
the reduction in figures being attributable to the merging of certain large credit and
debit balances by customers without disturbing in any way the Bank’s earning power.
During the year the Bank purchased at a profit £23,256/15/10 of Interminable
Inscribed Deposit Stock.
Seasonal conditions, upon which ,so much of the prosperity of Queensland
depends, have been variable during the year under review. While the coastal districts
have experienced excellent rains, the large pastoral areas in the Central and far
North-west' have not been so fortunate, , and many properties are back to virtual
drought conditions, with prospects of a difficult winter to be negotiated before any
substantial relief can be anticipated.
The year has also been marked by a material drop in the prices of our exportable
commodities, notably that of wool, which plays such a vital part in the economic
life of the State. At the average price current over the year, the grower is receiving
little more than cost of production, and unless improvement in the market materialises,
graziers in the dry areas particularly must inevitably be faced with much distress.
The farmers and cattle producers in the main fortunately have experienced better
conditions and markets, and have been enabled to carry on at profitable levels over
the period.
Due to the material increase in imports and drop in value of exports, the
favorable overseas trade balance of Australia declined substantially during 193 7-38,
but internal industrial activity has continued at a high level.
Reserves have not been drawn upon during the current year.
£2500 has been written off for depreciation of Bank Premises and Furniture.
During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Bollon, Southport
and Thangool (Queensland), and the Branch at Muttaburra (Queensland) has been
closed.
By Order of the Board,
D. S. FORBES,
General Manager.
The Queensland National Bank
BALANCE SHEET as at June 30, 1938.
Limited.
Dr. p RESERVE FUND. Cr.
y
The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended June 30, 1938, was
£2430.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Batik according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on June 30, 1938. We have
obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
July 13, 1938.
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.I.A. 1
E. D. SUMMERSON, F.C.A. (Aust.) I
Auditors.
1 he usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on THURSDAY, August 18, 1938, at Noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended June 30, 1938.
To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Accounts to June 30 for the North and
South Barrier mines won’t be out for
some time yet, but throughputs at the
mills, published periodically, when aggre-
gated give a rough idea of how the mines
have fared. North, for instance, has
produced lead and zinc concentrates con-
taining the following metal (subject to the
proviso in the footnote to the table) over
the past three financial years:
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1936 (52 weeks) .. 58,412 3,254,214 40,873
1937 (52 weeks) .. 59,380 3,312,534 39,125
1938 (52 weeks) .. 64,092 3,546,765 42,870
* Excluding zinc in iead concentrates and
lead and silver in zinc concentrates.
Average prices for lead, fine silver and
spelter during the period are here com-
pared with the two corresponding pre-
vious terms:
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Ton. Oz. Ton.
1936 .. .. £l6/4/5 2/2.4 £l5/3/11
1937 .. .. 23/2/8 1/9.9 20/2/1
1938 .. .. 17/9/6 1/9.1 " 16/13/4
In its 1936-37 term North showed
£910,628 net profit after providing heav-
ily for taxation and royalties. In effect,
in addition to the year’s production, it
also sold 7846 tons of lead out of stock,
and had 13,192 tons on hand at 30/6/’37.
The drop during the past year of
£5 13s. 2d. stg. (about £7 Is. Aust.) a
ton in lead and £3 Bs. 9d. stg (£4 6s.
Aust.) in spelter must come out of the
profits end of North’s income, except
that there will be a saving in the lead
bonus paid to mine employees. All that
can be said definitely is that the produc-
tion of last year, if disposed of at the
year’s averages prices, would show a drop
of just about £400,000 Aust., and that if
lead stocks were drawn on the 1936-37
extent net profits shouldn’t fall by the
full £400,000 because of lower wages
and tax provision. But plant and de-
velopment outlay at the mine may bring
a sharper cut in divs.
South’s latest production figures cover
53 weeks:
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1936 (52 weeks) .. 50,309 1,899,458 37,529
1937 (52 weeks) .. 48,679 1,692,550 35,559
1938 (53 weeks) .. 52,895 2,050,209 41,072
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and
lead and silver in zinc concentrates.
In 1936-37 this efficient but smaller mine
disclosed £768,316 of net profit.
Sf * * ■ *
New Broken Hill Consolidated (B.
13/7/’3B) expects, with the help of Zinc
Corp., to reach partial production of
metal by the first half of 1940.
* * * *
The ords. in United Provisions, after
being down to 65., sold in Melbourne at
7s. 6d. last week. The bacon business,
by reason of keen competition in both
buying and selling, at present is a
barely-paying one; but because of the
sound finances of the U.P. merger, U.P.
ords. should be interesting for holding.
* * * *
North Coast Steam shares (9 p.c. p.a.
now) are on offer in Sydney at 40s. A
while back they sold at 41s. 6d., and a
few weeks before that they were bought
by people on this page’s recommendation
at 365. 6d.
# * * *
Arthur Cocks ords., a selection at
225. 6d. in B. 19/5/’3B, sold at 245. sd.
last week, returning a 6.7 p.c. that is
well secured on recent trading experi-
ence. It is a well-handled Sydney whole-
sale optical and jewellery concern.
* He * *
Reports last week from the League's
economic branch at Geneva (probably
the most useful service the institution
renders, incidentally) were gloomy. A
decline in world trade during the first
quarter of 1938 wiped out the expansion
of the preceding two years, and the level
of industrial production slipped to 15
p.c. below that of 1929. The collapse in
the U.S.A., of course, is mainly respon-
sible, and France is in poor shape, too.
Australia has already largely suffered
from the effects of the decline in world
trade in prices received for wool and
wheat, although it is only the growers
and direct handlers and financiers of
those commodities that have so far felt
the full force of the blow. The shock
may be softer as it spreads among other
industries. Also, many share prices have
already been' marked down severely—
8.H.P., for instance, even allowing for
the new issue that took with it some of
the high market premium of early 1937.
* * * *
The New York “Times” index of
U.S.A. steel production for the week
ended June 18 was 35.9, as against 33.9
a week earlier and 108.6 a year ago. The
automobile-output indexes in the same
order were 43.1, 41.2 and 115. An “all-
business” index was 76.8 for the week
to June 18, 76.5 a week earlier and 107
a year ago. What a “recession”!
London “Times,” June 27 : —-
There is still insufficient evidence to
suggest that what Wall-street thinks to-
day it will continue to think to-morrow or
next year in the sense that the prospective
recovery of business which it has now so
suddenly begun to discount will be of a
different order than the recovery which
petered out with hardly more warning last
summer The key to the longer future
of Wall-street lies in the speed with which
the undoubted arrears of capital construc-
tion in the United States are made good.
And that will be primarily regulated by the
rapidity of the. elimination of the present
political antipathy of Business to the ad-
ministration or of the Administration to
Business.
Another relevant observation, June
29:
The evidence that the sharp setback in
United States business activity arrested re-
covery in other countries before its normal
maximum is inconclusive, but recollections
of the somewhat similar recession in 1907
which did, and which, when it vanished as
abruptly as it . developed, released world
business for further gains, invest the present
action of Wall-street with more than usual
significance.
The world now certainly looks to the
U.S.A. for a cleaning-up of doubts and
depression.
* * * *
Just lately there has been a tendency
for some manufacturing grocers to put up
their prices. It is a bad sign. Groceries
obviously figure very conspiciously in
cost-of-living calculations, and cost of
living regulates wage awards. The manu-
facturers certainly have higher wages to
pay than this time last year—there has
been a “prosperity” loading not based on
the cost of living ; but if profit margins
can possibly be maintained by other
means, they should be reluctant about
raising prices. A vicious spiral of rising
costs has brought us crashing before to-
day.
*** ■ *
Australia’s taxation extortions have
for two or three years been on the high-
est scale ever —and spending from
revenue has been in proportion. What a
job our politician-equilibrists are going
to have if taxable incomes shrink!
Wages-tax and sales-tax, “depression”
measures, are still screwed on tightly to
the economic machine ; and altogether
Government taxes, including Customs
duties, now run to around £l6 for every
man, woman and child in the country.
It is better that we pay our way from
revenue rather than from loans ; but it
does seem that we are paying our way
through the nose.
* * *
Carlton Brewery, in Melbourne, hasn’t
asked shareholders for help to finance
expansion of the C.U.B. combine in the
memory of anyone who has been drink-
ing Carlton beer for 40 years or less.
Carlton took over two waterlogged
breweries after the crash of the ’nine-
ties; it sold out (for shares) to Carlton
and United in 1907 ; by arrangement
with creditors divs. were limited to 3
p.c. until the accounts were balanced,
and until 1922 there was nothing more
than that rate in it for shareholders. But
Melburnians, in spite of the climate, had
been manfully drinking the co. out of
its troubles to better effect than most
of them realised. Old debts were cleared
off by 1923, and next year the share-
register was multiplied 17 times by the
capitalisation of reserves. That was only
the start. There were some liberal cash
distributions about this time, divs. lifted,
and from 1926 to 1929 (inclusive) 14
p.c. p.a. went out. During the slump
nothing less than 8 p.c. was paid, and
the present rate is a well-covered 15
p.c. Since 1924 the capital of Carlton
and United, the operating co., has grown
from £1,100,000 to £2,925,000 by cash
and bonus issues, but Carlton share-
holders haven't had to put up a penny,
maintaining their proportionate interest
in C.U.B. nevertheless. In 1923-24 C.U.B.
earned £274,115 ; in 1936-37, £453,997-
beating the 1928 record by £BOOO. Though
C.U.B.’s profit hasn’t visibly expanded
at the rate of, say, Tooth’s in Sydney,
indications are that trade is very good
and that earnings are conservatively esti-
mated.
$ $ $ $
Myer ords., after lifting to 325. for a
while in Melbourne, were dealt in at 31s.
and 30s. 9d.; last week they recovered
to 325. again, but closed rather weaker.
In 1936-37 the co. earned 14.7 p.c. on
ord. capital and paid 9 p.c. During the
slump nothing less than 6 p.c. was paid
on ords. —a better experience than the
majority of Sydney retailers. Accounts
for 1937-38 close on July 31.
* * * *
Australian Cement, which balances on
Nov. 31, (Kandos on June 30), de-
clared an interim at the unchanged rate
of 10 p.c. p.a.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S.A. Problems, Prejudices and Policy.
[These impressions of Roosevelt’s America are
condensed from a series of special correspondent
articles in London “Times.” The first section presents
a view of the President’s standing in striking contrast
to that condensed here from London “Daily Mail”
(B. 13/7/’38); the second throws light on racial problems
of the kind proposed for Australia by the Maoriland
bishop who achieved a happy hour of notoriety last
week with opinions more publicised than creditable to
himself; and the third section points to the folly of
expectjng U.S.A. co-operation in crusading stunts, as
well as showing how U.S.A., generally better informed
on foreign affairs than Australia and Maoriland, is
occasionally just as wildly misled.]
How Stands the President?
For the first time the class struggle has reared
its head in American politics, imparting a bitterness
unknown since the Civil War.
So long as the enterprising worker had only to
“go West, young man,” in order to become a capi-
talist, so long as American democracy was in fact an
aristocracy based on the exploitation of the illiterate
immigrant and the virtually disfranchised negro, the
struggle between capital and labor could be staved off.
But now that immigration is cut off, now that the
West no longer offers vistas of unlimited expansion,
now that the worker no longer feels that he carries
a millionaire’s cheque-book in his knapsack, now that
some of the great American fortunes have already
descended to the third generation, the United States
are developing a stratified society.
In these new conditions Mr. Roosevelt has posed
the issue of Rich versus? Poor ; and by so doing, he
has earned the hatred of the well-to-do. Of the news-
papers, discreetly controlled by advertising interests,
at least 90 p.c. are either bitterly hostile or coldly
critical. In social, financial, and business circles, only
eccentrics find anything to say in his favor.
The President’s popularity with the man in the
street is still immense, but there is no doubt that the
new economic crisis has struck a hard blow at his
prestige. Business is bad and men are still being laid
off. The President is,clearly at a loss. In his mos!t
successful period he was, it is murmured, no more than
an opportunist; and what can be worse than an oppor-
tunist who has no more cards up his sleeve? The
old tonic did not avert a depression. Yet Mr. Roose-
velt has no plan except to increase the dose. His
remedy has been to ask Congress for another
$1,250,000,000 for direct “pump priming” as well as
some minor allocations for specific purposes. Con-
gress has voted him the money, but without enthus-
iasm and without conviction. Like other doctors, he
has not discovered a cure. The best that can be done
is to keep the patient alive, and trust to time and
nature to bring him back to health.
It looks at the moment as if the course of
American politics during the next few years might be
decided within the Democratic party. Assuming that
Mr. Roosevelt abandons (as he probably will) any
hope of standing for a third term, it must be his
ambition to nominate a successor who will continue
his policy. But he will have a hard fight against the
conservative old-timers in his own party. There are
some Republicans who, despairing of their own chances,
are now talking of throwing their weight behind a
“moderate” Democrat and thereby killing the New
Deal from within. The Republican managers are old
hands ; and it would not be beyond their skill to put
across some such combination.
Uncle Sam’s Racial Troubles
For various reasons Germans, Italians, Poles,
and other “foreigners” in the United States are far
more conscious than formerly of their European
affinities. In most of the big cities these“foreign”
communities hold closely together, and it is customary
to blame them for the prevalence of crimes of viol-
ence, just as the Irish are held responsible for the low
standard of local political morality. Such prejudices
keep racial animosities alive and render fusion more
difficult.
Two racial problems stand out. Anti-Semitism,
always prevalent as a social phenomenon, is on the
increase. With a few exceptions every university and
college and every social club has its secret numerus:
clausus for Jews. Certain hotels send out slips with
their prospectuses announcing that they do not receive
Jews. Many more pursue the same policy, but do not
advertise it. Only a few rich and socially prominent
Jews are immune from these restrictions, and are
received everywhere.
The negroes, some 12,000,000 strong, present a
problem which continually assumes new forms, but
does not become less acute. During and since the
war the demand for cheap labor has produced a rapid
influx of negroes into the north. Here the negro en-
joys complete formal equality with the white man.
It is true that he is not received socially, is not ad-
mitted to first-class hotels or restaurants or fashion-
able churches, or to the higher-priced seats in theatres,
and is not allowed to buy or rent a house or apart-
ment in a “good” neighborhood. But few negroes can
afford these luxuries. On the other hand he is not
herded (as happens in the South) into separate schools
and colleges, or into separate sections in trains, street-
cars, and public lavatories ; he is treated with com-
mon civility in the street, and has some chance of an
impartial hearing in a civil or criminal court.
Above all, he exercises (as he does not dare to
do in the South) the right to vote. In 1932 the negro
vote in certain cities —notably Cincinnati, Philadel-
phia, and some districts of New York —contributed
materially to the Democratic landslide. Actively or
passively, the negro will play a disturbing role in
American politics for many years to come.
It is often said that America has no class dis-
tinctions and no social snobbishness. Yet the hierarchy
of race is everywhere tacitly recognised. The Anglo-
Saxon thinks himself superior to the German and
the Scandinavian, who look down on the Pole and
the Italian, who rank above the Greek and the Lithu-
anian, who rank above the Chinese and the Porto
Rican, who rank somewhat dubiously above the negro.
This racial sectionalism has had its most striking
effects in the world of labor. It has been an im-
possible task to organise labor in industries and
factories employing workers of half a dozen different
races whose only common language was an in-
different pidgin-English, and whose mutual jealousies
could be fanned in a moment by any interested party.
Uncle Sam Favors J. Bull
Far from being representative of American
opinion about foreign affairs, New York is less typical
of the United States in this than in any other field.
It has a far higher proportion of unassimilated
“foreign” population than any other city. It is,
moreover, the only part of the United States where
Jewish influence is predominant, both in public affairs
and in the press ; and in present tragic circumstances
Jewish influence necessarily means a somewhat special
view of international politics. The nervousness about
Europe, and the belief in an imminent European war,
which have been endemic in the American Press for
the past two years, derive primarily from this “foreign”
atmosphere of New York.
In complete contrast is the great Middle West. It
is isolated, and stubborn in its isolation. It was the
last part of the country to catch the war fever in
1917 ; the only memory which it retains of the war
is that its sons were taken and sent to Europe, and
that some of them never came back. The Middle
West says America’s action in 1917 was a mistake,
which won her no gratitude, and has done her no
good ; it does not want that to be repeated.
Take “isolationism” as meaning our old friend
“no entangling alliances,” and America is overwhelm-
ingly isolationist. The number of Americans who
believe that the United States should join the League
of Nations, or a democratic bloc, or promise to par-
ticipate with other Powers in applying bpycotts or
sanctions, is negligibly small. It is now agreed that
the reaction to the President’s tentative remarks at
Chicago last October about “quarantining aggressor
nations” was hostile. His party managers are reputed
to have told him that, if he made any more speeches
of that kind, he would elect a Republican to the White
House in 1940.
It would be wrong to assume, because British
policy is criticised, that Britain is unpopular. Solution
of the Irish question and agreement for naval parity
removed the last stumbling-blocks in the way of friend-
ship ; and never before has feeling for Britain been
so warm as it is to-day. France drew so heavily during
the war on the credit standing to her account in the
name of Lafayette that not much of it is left. Ger-
many, Italy, Japan and the Soviet Union are objects
of more or less active dislike. It is precisely because
Britain is tljg only major country which counts where
American sympathies are concerned that criticism of
British policy is rife. It is the token of a real sense
of common interest.
It is a pity that some of the principal Ameri-
can correspondents in London tend to reflect mainly
the opinions and hopes of the Opposition. This was
particularly conspicuous at the time of Mr. Eden’s
resignation, when the American public was led for
several days to expect a serious Governmental crisis
involving numerous secessions in the House and a
widespread revolt in the country. But Americans are
practical people who are not taken in twice ; and judg-
ment will be by results. If the Prime Minister’s policy
leads to the pacification of Europe, he will be, within
a few weeks, a popular hero in the United States'.
Far more serious is the harm done by those
British enthusiasts who tour the United States deliver-
ing impassioned appeals for American co-operation
in saving collective security, democracy, peace,
international law or world order. It has created the
legend, which has become current throughout the
length and breadth of the country, that “England
wants America to pull British chestnuts out of the
fire” and that “England expects every American to do
his duty.”
If one thing is clear about American opinion at
the present time, it is that any attempt from the
British side to influence it, whether in the direction
of co-operation or in any other, is likely to defeat its
own ends.
Mr. Menzies Speaks for Australia.
[Cables characteristically reported only sketchy or
hazy versions of the important speech delivered by the
Commonwealth Attorney-General at the dinner of the
Royal Institute of International Affairs, London, June 21.
Melbourne “Argus” gave a sentence or two introduced
as “an important speech against isolation.” “S. M.
Herald” printed one sentence, with its “special corre-
spondent’s” addendum: “Mr. Menzies’s speech was short
and consisted virtually only of the single point reported.”
Sydney “Sun” had a “diplomatic correspondent” fantasti-
cally reading into it a comment on “the sinking of ships
and the possible threat to the Empire’s Mediterranean
communications.” Here, shorn only of verbiage
employed for the occasion, is the relevant body of the
speech, as belatedly reported in London “Times”
(28/6/’3B).]
Anybody coming from my part of the world and
realising, as we do, that there are problems in the
world which actually exist outside Europe, cannot help
being struck by the fact that very many people are
still to be found who regard foreign affairs and Euro-
pean affairs as essentially synonymous. I do not
believe that they are synonymous.
I do not mean when I say that that I belong to
that rabid group of people who have so forgotten
geography that they believe isolation from the affairs
of Europe is possible for this country. I do not believe
that for the fraction of a minute ; I firmly believe that
every British Foreign Minister ought to be mainly
engaged from time to time in the consideration of the
affairs of Europe, even if he is not, to use the jargon
of the moment, completely preoccupied by it.
But from time to time there is a great deal to be
said for the English statesman who said, many years
ago, that he had “called the New World in to redress
the balance of the Old.” I should like to think that
people in these islands more frequently turned their
eyes outward to that New World and said to them-
selves more frequently, What is the consequence in
the affairs of the world of this new British world which
is to be found in all the Seven Seas?
Now, of course, that, up to a point, may be taken
as a mere rhetorical assertion, but I refer to it because
I want to suggest that there is one problem of urgency
and importance to which we shall all have to devote
some of our attention. In spite of the theorists, and
there are many theorists in the world, the foreign
policy of the British Commonwealth is to a large
extent in the hands of the Foreign Secretary of this
country.
We may, as indeed some of our predecessors did,
claim that we are equal in all things in point of foreign
policy, but the fact will remain that the great issue
of peace and war will be much more determined by
the gentleman who sits in a room looking across the
Horse Guards Parade than it will be by my colleague
in Canberra or one of our colleagues in Canada or
South Africa.
The nations of the world will not be prepared
to sit down for a few weeks or months while the
members of the Commonwealth have an intimate chat
as to what they are to do. Consequently, if we are
to have one voice of the British people—and I am a
believer in one voice, not six voices, of the British
people—and if that one voice is to speak with clarity
and with a proper authority in the world, we must
devote ourselves increasingly to the problem of find-
ing out how we can accelerate and complete the pro-
cess of consultation between the British Government
here and those other British Governments which are
to be found in the self-governing communities of the
Commonwealth.
I do not want to suggest for one moment that the
distinguished guest to-night [Lord Halifax], or any
of his distinguished predecessors, has failed to realise
that the Dominions, who may have to pay part of
the price, are entitled to be consulted on the tune. I
do not suggest that for a moment. But I do want
to put into your minds the suggestion that, instead of
assuming that consultation with the British self-
governing communities may quite frequently and
appropriately be consultation after the event, we
should be directing our minds to see how far it can
he made possible to consult every Dominion at the
right moment and with a mind which is open until
that Dominion has spoken.
In Australia not long ago we held a Cabinet meet-
ing, using telephones ; in some instances thousands
of miles separated the Ministers. More recently we
sat in our Cabinet room at Canberra and had a con-
versation by every member of the Cabinet with our
High Commissioner in London. I look forward to the
day when the triumphs of science and the increasing
realisation in this island that the British Common-
wealth is something which goes far beyond the con-
fines of Europe, will enable us to speak with one
voice, which will be the voice of peace and indubitably
the greatest and most powerful voice in the world.
Dean Inge on Entanglements.
(Condensed from London “Evening Standard’’ 29/6/’3B).
In the last four centuries, ending with the Great
War, we have been at war 207 years, at peace 193
years. It is not easy to break off old bad habits.
But very few people in any country really want
war, now that the horrors of modern war are known.
And yet there is a general impression that we are or
have been in great danger of being drawn into it this
year. The other day I met a good lady who was
Dialogue in Barcelona.
London “Times’* Barcelona correspondent, report-
ing this extraordinary dialogue between pressmen
and the Spanish Prime Minister on his return from
a visit to Madrid, comments that “naturally it is
giving rise to many comments”:—
Press Representatives : We thought, Mr.
Prime Minister, that your stay would be a longer
one.
Dr. Negrin: So did I, but the buzzing of flies
has brought me back.
Press Representatives : What are your impres-
sions, sir?
Dr. Negrin : From the other part of the Gov-
ernment territory, excellent and comforting. The
spirit of the civilian population and of the fight-
ing men is splendid, their resolve to resist is
admirable. As for this part — well, you know it.
The political mudhole is disturbed. Frankly, it is
rather disgusting, or, rather, very disgusting. But it
is better not to speak about it at present. If the
people and the army got to know of it they would
sweep us all away, and with justice. But it is
better that they should not be disturbed as they
have other more pressing work to do, so we must
wait calmly for the moment of cleaning up. There
are persons so foolish in their cowardice that they
do not hesitate at treason, and, while encouraging
internal distrust, intrigue abroad for us to be
asphyxiated. But do not worry. The Government
holds the reins firmly. Ah, one moment while I
give orders to the censor to allow these remarks to
be published entire.


already filling her cellar with potted meat, biscuits and
other eatables useful during a famine.
Apart from pugnacity, what are the chief causes
of this mad state of affairs?
I do not think emperors or dictators are more
bellicose than republics, nor that armament firms exer-
cise the sinister influence which Socialists attribute to
them. At present, in this country, it is our Socialists
and ex-pacifists who are breathing threatenings and
slaughter against nations who have chosen a form of
government which they happen to dislike.
Wars between rival ideologies are only too pos-
sible. We have had nothing like them since the wars
of religion, and the prospect is almost too horrible to
contemplate. It is significant that Georges Sorel, the
French Syndicalist, after speaking, quite like a Prus-
sian, of the invigorating effects of a war, adds that
“a great extension of proletarian violence” might do
as well.
Of other causes, most potent of all is fear. It is
fear which leads to secret understandings and pacts
with other nations, made without the knowledge of
the peoples concerned. It was the naval arrangement
with France which, above all, made it almost impos-
sible for us to stand out in 1914, though we were
as little concerned with Serbia then as we are with
Czechoslovakia now. But we allow ourselves to be
entangled without realising it, and we are then told
that honor requires us to keep to our agreements.
Is it true that we are deeply entangled now? Can
the French, who have deceived us again and again;—
about Turkey and Greece, about Italy and Abyssinia,
and about neutrality in Spain —drag us into a quarrel
with Germany, which might be the end of us as a
Great Power, and the end of European civilisation?
As for neutrality in Spain, do my readers know that
Franco has among his prisoners of war 6000 French,
3500 Russians, 3000 Czechoslovaks, 900 Belgians, 275
Americans and 236 British? Fifteen thousand
prisoners probably implies something like 100,000
international gunmen, nearly all of whom, except the
Russians, must have been passed over the French
frontier.
We are told that we are pledged. I am more
inclined to agree with Lord Beaverbrook, who wrote
three years ago: “There are no commitments which
the British people cannot bring to an end, as soon as
they resolve to do so. There are no pledges which
cannot be honorably terminated. Are we bound by
Locarno? Certainly not.”
I do not believe there will be a war this year, but
in this demented continent anything may happen, and
perhaps we are right to be prepared.
The Late Ethelred J. Bull.
[As pointed out in a leader-page article in the present
Bulletin and further indicated in the London “Times”
military correspondent article here condensed, John Bull
was in a shocking state of unpreparedness throughout the
term when war-mongers were bellowing their loudest.
Ethelred himself was not more unready.]
In regard to anti-aircraft measures the history of
the past few years provides cause for astonishment
that so much satisfaction could have been expressed
over achievement so perilously inadequate.
Early in 1935 this country had only two air-
defence brigades for its protection: they comprised a
nominal total of barely 100 guns, and the actual num-
ber that would have been ready for use if war had
come suddenly was much less. At a rough calculation
the proportion of money devoted to them cannot have
been very much more than £IOO,OOO a year. The Wai
Office, which held responsibility for the anti-aircrait
defence of this country, had been receiving an average
of about £40,000,000 a year ever since the war. Yet
all that time massed air attack had been a spectre
on the horizon of any future war.
In 1935 the Government announced a great accel-
eration of general rearmament measures. The scanti-
ness of the provision had been acutely felt when the
tension with Italy over Abyssinia developed. To meet
the needs of our Mediterranean garrisons, even to a
limited extent, the stocks of anti-aircraft ammunition
at home had to be drained, with the result that this
country was almost denuded of any effective protec-
tion. To have too few guns is bad enough ; it is worse
if the guns have nothing to fire.
The guns, moreover, were the 3in. guns of the
last war pattern, and although, they were described
as modernised, this amounted to a change of liner, or
inner tube, which merely enabled the crew to repair
a gun on the spot instead of sending it away. Even
with some improvement in the ammunition, the maxi-
mum height to which the shells could reach was barely
20,000 ft., while the effective ceiling was little more
than 15,000 ft.
As for the searchlight position, the number of
lights required for the zone of the Ist Anti-Aircraft
Division was about 1050 on the minimum scale then
approved. Yet in the summer of 1936 the division
could scrape together only about 120 in emergency,
• and some of these had to be borrowed from the coast
defences. This meant that for the heart of the Empire
there was only a 10 p.c. insurance cover. Equipment
was lacking, not only for war but even for the bare
needs of training. Lack of accommodation was an-
other serious handicap. Near the end of 1936 the
commander had 88 units, many of which clogged the
17 existing headquarters while waiting for their own
to be built. Although schemes for these new head-
quarters had been initiated in the summer of 1935, not
a brick had yet been laid.
In 1937, out of the 45 new headquarters needed
by the Ist A.A. Division, only two were approaching
completion. Only about 60 guns and 200 searchlights
were available. The position of the 2nd A.A. Division
was worse. The guns were all of the old 3in. pattern,
and the issue of the new and greatly-improved 3.7 in.
was not yet in sight. This is said to have a ceiling of
about 40,000 ft., and the size of its shell-burst to be
about four times as effective, while the time of flight
to the target has been nearly halved: a very important
factor in view of the great speed of modern aircraft.
None of the new sound-locators were yet issued. Units
were still waiting for the new height-finding and range-
taking instruments.
The gauge of any reorganisation now impending
will be the measure in which it fulfils the conditions
of equality necessary for the fulfilment of its purpose:
Great Britain’s direct protection.
Jenkins’s Ear and Pacifico’s Bedstead.
lln . the article here condensed from London
“Observer” I. L. Garvin retorts to the sabre-rattling
speeches of Lloyd George and the general cries for war
for piffling causes, citing as warning past examples ot
war or ultimatum over causes no more puerile than those
held up as baits in the past few years.]
Some of the recent anti-Ministerial appeals to
the patriotic Jingoism of Britons invoke the glorious
memories of the war about Jenkins’s ear and the ulti-
matum about Don Pacifico’s bedstead. At this
Gladstone and Bright might turn in their graves, and
many of the saner sort among the Labor and Liberal
Oppositions of to-day must turn in their stomachs.
The “fable of Jenkins’s ear,” as Burke called it,
was used in the eighteenth century to drag Walpole
into a war which he knew to be wrong. [A merchant
captain told the House of Commons that the
Spaniards had cut off his ear, with taunts at the
English King.”] A calm historian speaks of that
transaction in words that may awake some misgivings
of mind among the mixed Left and even some com-
punctions of conscience. “Every resource of oratory
was applied to exaggerate the insults and cruelties of
the Spaniards, and to brand as cowardice the Minister’s
wise and honorable love of peace.” This well-known
sentiment used to be part of the very soul of Liberal-
ism. Mr. Chamberlain may amuse himself by remem-
bering that Mr. Lloyd George could not beat Bishop
Atterbury when he called Walpole “The cur-dog ol
Britain and spaniel of Spain.”
In Victorian times occurred the ironic case of
Don Pacifico’s bedstead. Various British subjects
had grievances and claims against the Greek Gov-
ernment. Among them Don Pacifico, a native ot.
Gibraltar, put a magnificently Imperial valuation on
his demolished bedstead. Palmerston sent the British
fleet to the Piraeus, where it seized Greek vessels
whether belonging to the Government or private
owners. . ,
If this ancient crudity of Jingoism is to be cited
to-day by supporters, apostles of democracy, humanity
and the League, they must go further. They must
vindicate the Opium War, and that later Chinese
affair when Canton was bombarded on a wretched pre-
text. The Chinese Commissioner used a phrase which
applies curiously to-day to some present notorious
abuses of British registry in the Levant ports ot
Spain. “A, lorcha owned by a Chinese, said Gov-
ernor Yeh, “purchased a British flag; did that mak
her a British vessel?”
Issues of vastly greater magnitude are at stake
than in the cases of Jenkins’s ear and Don Pacifico s
bedstead. The Prime Minister’s mind is Charged with
the sense of a more tremendous responsibility than
any of his predecessors ever yet have had to sustain
in time of peace; and his present course means pre-
cisely that he has the courage and tenacity equal to
the size and weight of the task. On the one hand,
he has warned all whom it may concern that in cir-
cumstances touching our own life or that of our next
neighbors, and threatening the domination ot the
whole world by anti-democratic Powers, Britain would
not shrink from the last arbitrament. We are rearm-
ing against that dread contingency. The only ques-
tion still is whether we are rearming hard enough.
Are the Labor and Liberal Oppositions facing the
grimness of Marshal Goring’s new decree for uni-
versal industrial conscription? Are they facing
realities and responsibilities in anything?
On the other hand, though Britain must be pre-
pared to meet the last arbitrament if forced upon us,
this nation of all societies and this Empire of all
systems would be stark mad to provoke it. We must
not challenge it on minor and momentary things,
however irritating. The issue on which we stake the
existence of the nation and the Empire for ever must
be commensurable with the immensity of that irre-
vocable engagement. It must be an issue vital and
fateful; clear beyond the possibility of mistake;
approved as in the former conflict by the general
opinion of the world.
The incitements of the Oppositions mean nothing
but “seeing red” and plunging to chaos. “Bomb the
aerodromes in the Balearics” is the incendiary cry of
Mr. Lloyd George. The childish counsel of others is
to blockade Majorca or seize Franco’s ships. All
these would promote and precipitate the ruin of the
world to enforce the supposed right of real and
nominal British shipping to make a sort of blood
money by free profiteering out of a foreign civil war.
Whatever the principle on which we may be prepared
to stake our lives and souls in the future, let it never
be for this. Jenkins’s ear was not lost in the dis-
interested service of his country; and after the British
fleet swooped on the Piraeus the arbitrators ulti-
mately found, if we recollect rightly, that Don
Pacifico’s bedstead had been overvalued by at least a
thousand per cent.
The “Isms” Compared.
[The comparative study of Communism, Fascism,
Nazism and other “isms” presented in this digest is
condensed from. a “Nineteenth Century” article by
Douglas Jerrold.]
Communism is the logical conclusion of the un-
restricted democratic political State, developed to the
point when all power and responsibility is concentrated
in the hands of the political classes. Fascism is an
ingenious (and, arguably, an unworkable) device toi
reducing the political classes to impotence by giving
political representation and power to function instead
of to opinion and making the Government the expres-
sion of economic function instead of the expression
of political will.
National Socialism is not even an attempted com-
promise between these two utterly contradictory sys-
tems. It is merely a dictatorship, in the true sense
of that term: a concentration of power in the hands
of one man for a particular purpose. It is not a
system. It is a despairing substitute for a system.
The Communist revolution is, by its declared
policy, a minority movement, which attains power by
the ruthless exercise of force against the majority and
secures it by mass murder and systematic terrorism.
It sets out as its first step ort attaining power to destroy
the Christian religion—not to persecute it, not to
impoverish it, but to destroy it. The Communist
revolution, alike in theory and in practice, denies all
the three liberties—political liberty, economic liberty
and religious liberty. No other regime in history, no
other “ideal” of the professors, denies all these
liberties.
Beneath the pride and glitter and constructive
ability of National Socialism is a falsehood which it
it be not eradicated will be fatal to the hopes of Herr
Hitler and his followers. The pride of national
fellowship can never be an end satisfying in itself ; it
must, because it can never meet the deepest needs
of man’s being, always strive for some purpose exter-
nal to itself, and that striving must spell danger and,
ultimately, disaster to our common civilisation. All
this is true, and must be faced. But it is not true that,
while Marxism aims at the dictatorship of a class
within a State, National Socialism aims at the dictator-
ship of a race within a continent. Desire to dominate
and rule an alien race is incompatible with the philo-
sophy of racialism. The evil of that philosophy is that
it gives a pseudo-moral as well as a pseudo-scientific
sanction to the persecution of racial minorities within
its borders, and that it sets the State above the Church.
It is essential, however, to remember that neither
justice to the Jews nor the submission of the nation
to God is incompatible with the social and pohtica
structure of the Third Reich. The English, above all
peoples, have the duty to realise this, because there
is nothing that National Socialism has done to the
Jews which English Parliamentarianism did not do
to the Catholics.
Further, the difference between a State built up
on the right to own, and therefore on the mutual
responsibility of the State to the individual and of
the individual to the State, and a State built up on
the denial of the right of ownership is fundamental.
In the one system, however aggressively political it
be, the individual has the last word against the Mate.
In the other, however tolerant it be (and history as
yet affords no example of a tolerant Communist State),
the individual is, in the last analysis, a slave.
We cannot build up that understanding between
the peoples of Western Europe which is the absolute
condition of peace unless we recognise not only the
dangerous similarities between the philosophy ot
Marxism and the theoretic claims of Racialism but
also the more fundamental differences. Still more
necessary is it to understand that the political theory
underlying the Corporate State is just as different from
German National Socialism as it is from English
Parliamentarianism.
An understanding of these things is iundamenta.
to our peace.
A Quaint Old Custom.
This being Villers-Bret. Week, the occasion
seems appropriate for enshrining a fragment o
history here. It is from a 1914-18 war
dent’* account included in Lord Ponsonby s 1 alse
hood in Wartime”: —
They [that is, his paper] telegraphed out that
they wanted stories of atrocities. Weil, there
weren’t any atrocities at that time. So then they
telegraphed out that they wanted stories of
refugees. So I said to myself, ‘2 hats fine, l
won’t have to move.” There was a little town
outside Brussels where one went to get dinner—
a very good dinner, too. I heard the Hun had
been there. 1 supposed there must have been a
babv there. So l wrote a heart-rending story
about the baby of Combeel Loo being rescued
from the Hun in the light of the burning home-
steads. ,
> The next day they telegraphed out to me to send
the baby along, as they had about five thousand
letters offering to adopt it. The day after that
baby clothes began to pour into the office. Even
Queen Alexandra wired her sympathy and sent
some clothes. Well, I couldn’t M’ire back to them
there wasn’t a baby. So I finally arranged with
the doctor that took care of the refugees that
the blessed baby died of some very contagious
disease, so it couldn’t even have a public burial.
So a creche was started with all the baby
clothes.
Some day a story just as diverting will no
doubt, be told about Sydney “Sun’s” great Black
Box sensation (the Box with Mussolini’s plans to
sink tlie British Navy), about the “S. M. Herald’s”
yarn, of the charging Spanish fishwives, and the
iatest “News-Chronicie” discovery of yet another
“secret document” —also served up by “S.M.H.” as
gospel—purporting to reveal “brutal German aims’
to keep Britain and Prance at loggerheads over
Spain. This last yarn drew from Berlin the retort
—published in Sydney “Sun,” not in “S.M.H.”—that
it. was laughable and that “every Englishman of
goodwill should put an end to such dangerous
machinations.”
That an end will be put to this sort of thing is,
of course, extremely unlikely. As the quoted 1914-18
war correspondent’s story indicates, it is an old and
well-established journalistic custom. It can be
countered only by publishing calm report, sound
observation and intelligent opinion, which is the
general purpose of “Uncabled Additions.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Fred Hoysted never remains long out
of the picture as a trainer of jumpers.
Heroic Chief, owned by Archie Crofts,
disappointed Fred by running last in the
National Hurdle, but on Saturday the
Leamington Hurdle at Caulfield was cap-
tured in really good style by Dornford,
a Windbag gelding that carries Hoysted’s
own colors.
Backers forgave Turf Boy for his fall
at Flemington, and, Fullarton again
being in the saddle, they made “Morrie”
McGrath’s representative a 7-to-4 favor-
ite, with Koke King at fours and Giant
Killer half a point longer. Turf Boy,
fifth in a field of seven, was beaten so
far from home that his Australian
Hurdle chance looks negligible.
Harry Torr, in whose care Koke King
was placed for Melbourne engagements,
reckoned that the Mount Gambier horse
had dashed towards the front too early
in the National. Waiting tactics were
employed at Caulfield, where Koke King
finished only half a head behind Giant
Killer, who lost to Dornford by-a length.
Later in the afternoon W. G. Smith,
the veteran pilot of Koke King, sus-
tained a broken collarbone through
Cueesun falling With him in the cross-
country event. So a new rider will have
to be found for Koke King in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle.
Dornford is weighted at 9st. 41b. in
the first “leg” of the August jumping
double at Caulfield and hasn’t incurred
a penalty. He was credited with strip-
ping 2\ sec. off the Leamington Hurdle
race record, but the accuracy of the tim-
ing is doubted. Delay occurred in start-
ing the electric chronometer, and a stop-
watch was used.
Hoysted entered Dornford for both the
Australian Hurdle and Steeple. Ten
years ago Sir Alogy carried off this
double under light burdens with no more
experience than Dornford possesses.
Hilltop (14 to 1) jumped like a stag
throughout the Godfrey Watson Steeple,
and the half-length by which he ac-
counted for Grantley (5 to 4) could have
been greater if Maher had desired.
Maher did not have to draw the whip,
whereas Fullarton rode the favorite right
out.
Form threw little light on Australian
Steeple prospects beyond condemning
the unplaced division with the possible
exception of Cueesun, who was travel-
ling fairly when he fell over All Blarney.
There might be some hope for the
Western District horse Grey Abbott
(Magpie-Royal Abbess), who gained
third place in a manner suggestive of
fondness for a long journey.
Hilltop ran in the Melbourne Cup
of 1936. He was strongly fancied for the
Onkaparinga Steeple last Easter, but the
event had to be abandoned through
flooding of the Oakbank course. Yellow
Mountain, dam of Hilltop, is a half-sister
to Jack Rice, whose jumping deeds have
not been forgotten.
Nineteen competed in the Liillimur
Two-year-old, which High Time won by
the narrowest of margins from W. R.
Kemball’s Beau Frere colt Hilton —both
were 10-to-l shots. Cassio (eights) was
third, less than a length off, just in
advance of Percy Miller’s Good Boy,
who came home particularly well.
In a spirited betting race Sylphide (Gay
Lothario-Woodlove) was favorite at
sevens. She ran eleventh only, but was
a good thing beaten. Sylphide dwelt at
the post. She exhibited unusual speed by
running up fourth on the bend and
appearing a possible place-getter. Frank
Musgrave is sure to win a race with this
filly for Clive Baillieu’s daughter.
Panopeus (twelves) and Demotic (12
to 1) surprised by dead-heating for first
in the 1£ miles Murrumbeena Handicap.
Third money went to Irving, who ran
a fast final furlong. Neither Aitchengee
(fours) nor International, nearest him in
the quotes, flattered their backers. In-
ternational made futile efforts to get
through on the rails.
Places in the first division of the Kam-
brook Trial were filled by Conwardil
(20 to 1), Swynstead (20 to 1) and Con
Naru (25 to 1). Following on the success
of other outsiders this showed what a
harvest McShortodds was reaping. Car-
rarice (11 to 4, favorite) surrendered by
a neck to G. J. Barton’s colt, Silver
Bond, in the second division of the Trial.
After his recent victory Silver Bond ought
to have been shorter than eights.
Climax of misery for punters was Sun
Beau’s win, at 33 to 1, in the Malvina
Welter. In June of last year this Gay
Lothario colt ran second to Stoic on two
occasions, but he lost form and carried
the minimum weight on Saturday. Sun
Beau was saddled-up by Jack Sing, the
former cross-country horseman, who has
succeeded Bill Tindall as trainer to A.
Morrow, owner of Nightguard.
* * * *
Hot Shot, who ran second to Palfresco
in the Caulfield Cup of 1935, made his
initial appearance over hurdles at Gee-
long on Wednesday. The jumping edu-
cation of the Pantheon gelding has been
entrusted to Fullarton. Ridden by
Hawkins, Hot Shot cleared the first
obstacle, but chested the next one and
nearly fell. After that he went from
bad to worse, finishing a long last. If
and when Hot Shot runs again over
hurdles Fullarton will be in the saddle to
decide whether he has any real aptitude
for the game.
The Barwon Hurdle, in which Hot
Shot competed, was won by Gold Fire,
another raw recruit, trained by Theo
Lewis, who won the King’s Cup in Tas-
mania, the Williamstown Cup and other
races for Jack Holt on Second Wind.
Starting at 20 to 1, Gold Fire scored by
a head from Old Jack, a son of Spear-
feit.
Former W.A. trainers who have done
well in Melbourne are Ted Temby and
J. E. Smedley. At Geelong Smedley cap-
tured two events —the Juvenile Trial with
Mantalini (Manfred-Stephanite) and the
second division of the Corio Welter with
Greenos (Greenstead - Miss Tulloch).
Mantalini (fours) was next in demand to
the 6-to-4 favorite, Warbreck. Latter
missed a place, but might have won if
Skidmore had evaded trouble in the
straight. Kaipara led round the home
bend, but Mantalini soon had his
measure. Sweet Rhythm, from Freed-
man’s powerful stable, threw out a bold
challenge, and Mantalini was all out to
score by half a neck.
Victory of Greenos possessed high
merit. Missing the jump-out, he was prob-
ably 10 lengths behind the leaders after
travelling two furlongs. This appeared
to make the race a certainty for Benedict,
who, at 6 to 4, was in a bit better demand
than Greenos. However, Benedict dropped
the bit and faded out after being second
into the straight. Just when Lalmoni
looked “home and dry,” Greenos swept
down on the outside and defeated the
Eastern Monarch mare by half a length.
The Tasmanian-owned Valsard headed
the unplaced division.
Chief event at Geelong, the July Han-
dicap, of furlongs, ended in Peggy
O’Neill (4 to 1) coming from the clouds
to defeat Patra (12 to 1) by half a neck,
with the favorite, Lord Carrington, half
a length farther away. Peggy O’Neill was
bred in Ireland, and is by the same sire'
as Plectrum, winner of several good races
in Melbourne recently.
At Flemington Kashgar (Harvest King-
L’Avoca) commanded solid support in
the Steeplechasers’ Flat, won by Grant-
ley, but finished “outside the money.”
He atoned at Geelong by annexing the
Brush Steeple with a lot to spare from
Restorto and David’s Joy. Winner’s quote
was fives, with Wildwood first choice at
4 to 1. Fullarton had Wildwood in front
to the last fence, but the opposition
proved too strong.
Only prime fancy to succeed at Gee-
long was Gerald (7 to 2) in the Novice
Handicap. There were 20 runners.
Gerald made his rivals look cheap in
the closing stage. Hebrus, sire of Gerald,
is a half brother to Heroic, and was bred
by A. T. Creswick, whose purchase of
Chersonese (imp.) when the Moses
brothers broke up their stud in N.S.W.
had far-reaching effects.
Locally-owned Shining Star divided
favoritism with Jack Holt’s cast-off,
Mooramong, in the first division of the
Corio Welter. Mooramong remained at
the post. Villius (fours) squeezed home
by half a head from Shining Star, with
Nuclei a head farther away. Villius is
a brother to Gay Lover, who lost the
A.J.C. Epsom of 1936 to Capris on a
protest.
* * * *
Roguish gallopers seem to do better
for Darby Munro than for any other
Sydney jockey. A case in point is Cid,
who has repeatedly taken charge of
other riders. Cid met his master at Can-
terbury on Saturday, his master being
the said Munro.
Because Munro was up Mrs. S. R.
Coward’s horse was in strong demand, at
fours, for the Canterbury Handicap. He
tried to quit along the back, and again
in the straight, but Munro wouldn’t let
him. Using the whip as they approached
the last furlong, Munro persuaded the
erratic stallion to go on with the job and
in the end he beat the favorite, Jocular,
by half a length, Tuckiar being third.
Fernclove made the pace, but was
beaten at the home turn. He will do
better in weaker company. Rosante,
tried as a stayer, ran his race in patches ;
fourth early, he dropped back. He fin-
ished on again in the straight. Dulcedo
was one of the beaten lot.
Arabia was favorite for the Flying
Handicap, though he looked as if he
could have done with another gallop or
two. He did not commence smartly, but
a run on the rails enabled him to take
the lead at the half-mile. Challenged
by Let Slip (9 to 2) turning into the
straight, he was settled, after a short
tussle. Grey Derby finished strongly, but
could not extend Let Slip; the very
weary Arabia was in third place. Brown
Baroness was fourth; slow away, she
made up a lot of ground in the last two
furlongs.
Backers were well on the mark in the
divisions of the Juvenile Handicap.
Royal Prince (10 to 9 on) led throughout
in the first; and in the second Bill
Booth’s Heroic filly Powder Puff, on the
rails, held off Kuttabul and Glenone, a
brother to Pamelus, at the finish.
Lucky Kid, topweight with 9st. 61b.,
had to overcome many difficulties in the
Park Stakes. But, thanks to Munro, she
overcame them, and, with the crowd
cheering mare and jockey, she beat
Wattle Day and the Newcastle-trained
Nahlin, a stablemate of Tuckiar, at the
finish. The price was 4 to 1. Proceed
and Heraway were favorites. Proceed,
owned by pastoralist C. J. Withycombe,
who won a Sydney Cup with Broad
Arrow, was fourth, Heraway last.
Scratchings reduced the first division
of the Park Stakes to a poor lot of
sprinters. Cleopatra (evens) was not
asked to gallop to beat Mavro and Silver
Queen. The second division was won
by the Canterbury-trained Braedene,
who started at 10 to 1. He was the only
outsider among the winners, and the Ring
moaned that it had been a dreadful day.
But they are never reckless with their
money at Canterbury.
**■ * *
Alan Verde (The Verderer-Zingarette),
who is good on the Ascot (Sydney)
track but not much good anywhere else,
won his ninth race on his favorite stamp-
ing ground on Wednesday. Now ending
his fourth season as a racehorse, he has
scored 15 times altogether.
Footbrawl
Westralia sent a strong team to Mel-
bourne to tackle Victoria for first place
among the States playing the national
code, and the Victorian selectors took
no chances—they picked the best players
from the V.F.L. clubs. It was a grand
match, and the Westralian centres, Ryan,
Cronin and Brewer, were decidedly
superior to the Melbourne three. But in
other departments the superiority was
with the home team. It led at each bell,
and final scores were 22-13 to 17-21.
Victoria was noticeably the taller and
heavier side, and it was suited by the
heavy ground. In goal-kicking it had the
advantage; Todd, the Collingwood for-
ward, got 8 of the 22 scored.
In the Association games, Brunswick
was defeated for the first time this
season, Yarraville, after staging a
splendid third term, winning 20-16 to
14-14. However, Brunswick still leads
on points. Brighton, second on the list,
went down to Camberwell, 14-13 to
11-21.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The barge between the
N.S.W. Soccer and Rugby League
authorities over the use of die Sydney
Cricket Ground reminds) me that we
have a similar problem in Melbourne.
The V.F.L. has a stranglehold over the
Melbourne C.G. The V.F.A. is anxious
to get it for August 6 and 13, when only
League second teams will be playing on
the big enclosure, and has offered the
League two near-by Association grounds
for these games. The secretary of the
M. has notified the V.F.A. that it
will have to go to the V.F.L. for permis-
sion. As the League is averse from giving
people who never go near an Associa-
tion ground an eyeful of the improve-
ment the . new “throw-pass” rule has
worked, it is not expected to grant the
permission.
* * * *
“Jersey”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
is again arguing over the choice of the
colors to be worn by Australian football
teams playing the All-Blacks. Dark
green with thin gold stripes, which has
been intermittently used in the past, is
hard to distinguish from the All-Black
uniform when the light is failing or the
ground muddy. In any case, the Spring-
boks made those their colors long ago,
and #s Ireland also plays in green the
time is ripe for a change. The choice
seems to have fallen on a particularly
hideous orange jersey with a green band,
and it is to be hoped this will quickly
perish. Why not adopt the N.S.W. light
blue, with an “Australia” badge in place
of the waratah? It was the color of the
original Wallabies and Waratahs, and
Queensland, the only other State contri-
buting members to that team, made no
objection, nor would it nor Victoria to-
day, since their own colors of dark red
and dark blue clash with those of Wales
and Scotland. Further, no other inter-
national side throughout the world
affects it.
* * * *
“Gate”: The merriest jest of all the
glad new year is the appeal by the N.S.W.
Rugby League to the Government and,
incidentally, to other sporting bodies, to
put the boot into s.p. betting, which, is
having “a demoralising effect on young
men, who have forsaken the playing
fields.” The professional body has
always been notable for its hide, but
this present move is the limit. One par-
ticular official actually asks the public to
believe that the League is not concerned
over the falling-off in its gate receipts—
only “genuinely moved” by the de-
moralising effect above quoted.
* * * *
“Slump”: At the beginning of the
season several Australian Rugby League
clubs and N.S.W. country groups made
tentative arrangements for visiting M.L.
at the end of this season. Their enthusi-
asm has cooled, and it is now doubtful
if any will go. The M.L. folk are now
not keen on a visit. With visions of
the big gate they made last year from the
England-bound Kangaroos, they had
hopes of carrying a shipload of brass
back to MX. from Queensland and
N. But the Australian tour yielded
only a profit of £3OO-odd. Half goes
to the players, so there will be little for
guarantees to any visiting show.
o Continued on page 33.)
“Aigburth”: A lot of yarns have been
dug up about Old Trafford Tests. I like
best that one about Jim Kelly. England
needed only four to win, and Maurice
Tate’s dad, the world’s worst batsman,
was last man in. It was hoped he might
fluke a leg snick to the boundary, but
Jack Saunders clean bowled him. When
the players were packing their bags in
the dressing-room Kelly was seen wan-
dering about with a puzzled look on his
face. “What’s up, Jim?” said Clem
Hill. “I’m looking for my gloves,”
replied the ’keeper. “Gloves?” said
Clem. “Why, you’ve still got ’em on!”
* * * *
“Bowyer”: Contests between archers
and golfers have been common for years
in Britain. Sydney saw its first at North
Ryde. Two bowmen went round in 73
and 79; the golfers returned cards of
“over 80.” They reached up to 250
yards with their drives, the archers from
180 to 190 with their “flights.” The
archers shot from the same tee as the
golfers, and then from the spot where
the arrow had fallen. They holed out
by hitting a 4in. disk target at the hole.
FOR MONEE VALLEY.
Compensation Handicap: Beau
Ham or King Gee ; next, Panopeus.
Phoenix Handicap: Petunia Park ;
next, Fancifort.
Northwood Welter: King Gee
or The Egotist; next, Marion
Melton.


i -
■
m
mi
'
'■■■■ ;
u
m
r*
“Call me
fussy if
you like
Some people may
be content to take
their whisky as it
comes. Frankly, I
prefer to be more par
ticular .. I don’t believe
in this idea that one
Scotch whisky is just
as good as another
A
N
a
. >
!S»K*
Some people may not know the
difference: I always insist on
White Horse. Surely you’ll agree
with me that while you
can get White Horse
soft and smooth as a
fine liqueur, it’s wiser to
ask for it by name.”
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Scretv cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
“puftp*
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne, Victoria
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge,
70/-.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Cohen Outs Cyma
Stepping into it from the bell, Harry
Cohen (Bst. 131 b.) and recently-imported
Filipino, Flash Cyma (9st. 211 b.), gave
Sydney Stadium patrons a dandy bit of
scrapping.
Inside the first three minutes Cohen
was well and truly out on his feet. Cyma
got him with a left hook, then a peach
of a right to the jaw, and then a berserk
battering of rights and lefts to the head.
Cohen fell back on the ropes, trying
vainly to pull himself together and pro-
tect his jaw. One thing was at once
manifest —Cyma hasn’t a real punch, or
he’d have knocked his man. As it was
Cohen was near battered unconscious by
sheer force of repetition. Hit, hit, hit and
hit again, he swayed, dazed and rocking,
at every impact, by a miracle of tough-
ness and gameness remaining approxi-
mately perpendicular.
At the bell, belted conveniently to
where his anxious bottle-holders waited
to hop in and catch him, Cohen somnam-
bulated over to a neutral corner and
stood there in a dream. They fetched him
home, rubbed him, poured water into
his sagging mouth and comfort into his
lugs.
He went forth again to battle with the
Philistine, loudly adjured to “Claim him,
Harry ; claim him! ” For a while he did
so ; then he let loose, hitting hard for
the body and trying to duck the right
hand. They fought hard and fast all over
the ring, till another right stopped Cohen
coming in and left him again at the
invader’s mercy. Now Cohen sustained
another battering, right hand, left hand,
blow after blow. His knees knocked. He
shook his head, trying to clear the mists
away. But he stayed on his feet.
He was even fighting back when the
bell gave him another breathing spell.
Once more he went in a dream to the
neutral corner; once more they fetched
him home, rubbed and comforted him.
There was the bell again. He moved
out, landed a couple of clinking rights,
got his head bored into Cyma’s shoulder
and walloped away below. “Leggo!”
chanted Mr. Wallis, and they broke and
tore in again, Cohen still getting his jaw
in the way of rights that shook him.
But he was more erect now; up on his
toes, hitting hard and straight, feinting
and ducking with a clearer head as they
battled back and forth in the glare of
light.
This time Cohen returned straight to
his corner with a firm tread, a wild-eyed
confidence lighting his eager and deter-
mined dial.
The fourth was a shade quieter. Cyma
had slowed down somewhat, and wasn’t
hitting so accurately. The body attack
was hurting him, and the jaw Cohen still
couldn’t guard with the glove was being
kept out of range by weaving and duck-
ing. Even so, there remained a note in
the rising shouts of Cohen’s backers
more of hope than of assurance.
In the fifth Mr. Wallis spoke to Cohen
concerning a low punch. Cyma’s Orien-
tal visage showed no sign of hurt, and
the scrap got going again, more willing
than ever. Cyma was still flashing ’em
out for the jaw and occasionally finding
it; Cohen was fighting almost wholly
for the body.
The end came surprisingly in the sixth.
Cyma was backmoving across the ring,
when Cohen, pursuing him on his toes,
got home a beautiful left rip to the solar
and a right cross. Cyma collapsed, as
after his efforts he might well have done
from sheer exhaustion. He fell with
head and shoulders out under the ropes
and lay like a log. By the time he was
himself again Mr. Wallis had completed
his ritualistic addendum to the proceed-
ings, and so also had the chap who plays
the Anthem.
Declared No Fight
Stoush at West Melbourne Stadium
got another poor advertisement out of the
Overlin-Sabatino encounter. Ref. Jack
Carroll thought so ill of the proceedings
that in the seventh round he declared
the scrap “no fight.”
Overlin’s explanation was that both he
and Sabatino are counter-fighters, each
therefore depending on the other’s lead-
ing to get in scoring hits. On Sabatino’s
behalf it was declared that he hit as often
as he could catch up with Overlin.
It’s true that they do fight that way, so
much so that many were surprised at the
excellent fight they put on in Sydney.
They gave such a fine show at the Rush-
cutter Bay address that it’s now just as
surprising that they couldn’t do some-
thing like it at the Yarraside stadium.
The crowd there sang and whistled at
the fare offered, and cheered Carroll’s
decision.
Ins and Outs
Once more a Manchester Test match
has had to be abandoned because of rain.
The idea of taking a Test away from
Manchester will not be welcomed, but it
might be better worth consideration than
other suggestions put forward. Lan-
cashire, one of the greatest of cricket
counties and one boasting a huge cricket
following, is entitled to a Test. Why not
hold an experimental one next tour at
Aigburth, home of the Liverpool Club
and Ground?
Aigburth is one of the finest grounds
in England, as it should be, considering
its huge and wealthy membership. It
is famous for its “natural” grass wickets,
and though no Test has ever been played
there, county matches in plenty have.
Aigburth is outside the Manchester
showerbath belt, and instead of being
founded on a bog, as is Old Trafford,
has a sandy sub-soil like Aintree. It is
handy to all rail and road access.
* * * *
“Sale”: With the third Test washout
there is a move to cancel the 24th and
25th matches of the tour against Scot-
land and Durham and use the dates,
October 4-9, for a Test at Manchester.
No doubt the Scots would agree if they
were offered a cut of the Old Trafford
gates. Then all the blue bonnets would
be over the border in the blink o’ an e’e.
* * * *
Escaped from the pluvial purgatory
of Manchester, the Australians tackled
Warwickshire at Birmingham. Barnes
filled Barnett’s place behind the wickets,
and made a very good showing, stump-
ing two men and allowing only 10 byes
in the county’s total of 179.
Not liking the look of the pitch, Brad-
man sent his opponents in after winning
the toss. The pitch improved rapidly,
“We ought to get a good view of the ski-jumping from here, Martha .”
however, and by the middle of the first
innings was not giving the bowlers much
help. The first couple of wickets went
cheaply; McCormick bowled Thompson
for 11 and McCabe caught Croome, off
Waite, for 11. Santall (21), Dollery (31)
and J. S. Ord (61) took the score to
5 for 153. Buckingham and skipper
Cranmer added a couple of 15’s, and
O’Reilly and Ward bustled out an almost
scoreless tail-end. Dollery, the star bats-
man of the team, played a good shot,
as did Ord, a new regular on the side.
But the county missed Wyatt, who last
year topped averages and aggregate in
the best season of his career.
Wickets, O’Reilly 3-69, Ward 4-26,
Waite 2-38, McCormick 1-14.
Bradman dropped Hassett, Badcock,
F.-Smith, Barnett and Walker, and sent
McCabe to open with Brown, Fingleton
having gone off as the result of a knock
on the sconce from a hard leg hit by
Santall while fielding at silly short-leg.
McCabe ran to 14; then Wilmot got
him. While Brown pursued his accus-
tomed path, the Australian captain went
for the bowling. At knock-off time only
McCabe was out for 202. Brown was
66 and Bradman 115.
Letting fly at everything, Bradman
raised his overnight score to 135 before
the Wilmot-Mayer combination retired
him. Brown departed with 101 —his
third consecutive century. Barnes batted
brightly for 24, but Waite and Chipper-
field, who scored 35 n.o. and 36 potter-
ingly in spite of instructions, were an
affliction. Bradman closed with eight
gone for 390, rather later than he had
meant to. Hollies took five for 130.
A drop of rain held up play for a bit,
but that did not prevent the Australian
bowlers having the home team back in
the pavilion that evening, and thus earn-
ing a day’s respite before the next game ;
Australia, by an innings and 93. Ord
notched 31. Skipper Cranmer 37.
O’Reilly (4-33) and Waite (3-33) were the
principal bowlers.
Nottinghamshire, which tackled the
Australians at Trent Bridge, has long
been famous for its manufacture of pro-
fessional cricketers, which it has supplied
to other counties and to most of the
clubs and schools in England. All that
used to be necessary—and it may be the
same to-day—was to send a note to
Shaw and Shrewsbury stating your re-
quirements. Your pro. would be on the
mat next morning with the milk.
Many of England’s greatest players
have come from Notts: Shrewsbury,
Shaw and the Gunns, among the old-
sters ; and, of the moderns, Hardstaff,
Larwood and Voce. Last season Notts
dropped down the county table, finishing
tenth, the illness of Voce and the sus-
pension of Larwood having a good deal
to do with this.
Rain followed our men to Trent
Bridge, and caused the close of play
late on Saturday afternoon, though the
wicket was not affected. Bradman
spelled Fingleton, McCabe, White, Mc-
Cormick and Walker, and sent Badcock
in first with Brown. Only a few hun-
dreds saw them come on the worst
opening attendance of the tour.
When only 4, Brown sent a catch to
Marshall off Voce. Badcock, who looks
like missing the next Test, failed again,
Jepson, a new hand this season, getting
him caught by ’keeper Wheat. Brad-
man began carefully, and soon lost Has-
sett, who was “legged” by Voce for 2:
3 for 25. Barnes, however, stayed with
his skipper, and, batting confidently, both
men changed the outlook for the time
being. Then Jepson again scored by
sending Bradman back on a l.b.w. de-
cision for 58, and when Chipperfield
almost immediately followed his leader
after adding 3, Australia had lost 5 for
107.
Barnes carried on after lunch in fine
style, with Waite as a partner. A good
stand was broken when the N.S.W.
youngster was sent back l.b.w. to Harris
after a hand for 58 that makes his marble
for the Leeds Test look excellent. Waite
batted on to 25 when Harris got one
past him.
It remained for two of the worst bats
in the team to help Australia to a re-
spectable score. Ward and O’Reilly de-
fied the attack until they had added 68
mighty welcome runs; then O’Reilly
left, leg-before to Voce for 33. Fleet-
wood-Smith had 8 up when Harris got
him l.b.w. —the fifth leg-before decision
of the innings. Ward finished in a cloud
of glory for 29 ; all out, 243.
The Notts bowling was never mas-
tered. Harris, who took 4 for 60, is
better known as a batsman than a
bowler; he scored over 1800 runs for
the county last season. Jepson is de-
scribed as a slow off-breaker ; his tally
was 3-38. Our old friend Voce did a
good job with 3-72.
Rain stopped play for the day when
Notts had lost Keeton for 4 runs.
Fourth Test on Friday. Then comes a
long trot of county and spare-part
matches, such as Scotland and The
Army, until the final Test at the Oval
starting on August 20.
When one goes to Leeds to play
cricket one goes to a place called
Headingley. Leeds shares with Man-
chester and Sheffield the world’s cham-
pionship in smoke-and-cinder produc-
tion. It is also probably the largest
Jewish town in the Empire, being the
world’s centre of the ready-made clothing
trade. It is easy for the informed to iden-
tify an inhabitant of Leeds. If he
accosts . you gesticulating with both
hands, palms upwards, and asks in a
thick Yorkshire accent if you don’t want
to buy a super-overcoat in which to
watch the Test match, no doubt remains.
The Test at Leeds is the eighth of a
series which began in 1899. Of that lot
Australia has won two —in 1909 and
1921 —and the others have been drawn.
“Old Trafford”: The English Test
selectors, who dropped Fames from the
team for the third Test at Manchester,
have had to include him among the
13 for the Leeds match. Bowling against
the Players, on a Lord’s wicket on which
the Gentlemen had made 411, Fames
took 8-43 in a total of 218. Other
amateurs to shine were Yardley (88)
and Bartlett, who went in fifth down and
walloped Nicholls, Pollard, P. Smith and
Smailes to blazes for 175 n.o. He goes
into the Test team, too/ He is described
as being of Sussex and Surrey, but his
name does not appear in the averages
of either county in last season’s Wisden.
He was a Cambridge Blue from 1934 to
1936.


Position Wanted.
STATION MECHANIC (Danish marine en-
gineer), at present on large property, will be
open engagement September 1, 1938. Account
drought.— 2BB, Bulletin Office, Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
For Sale.
p* LIMBING TOMATO (Imported), Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS, large
x 2iin.), red, meaty Tomatoes per plant.
AMAZINGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW.
Government tested seed, 2/6 packet, posted.
Sole Distributors, N.S.W. Seed Co., 17a Pitt
Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
Tenders.
For Sale.
Coffee Plantations.
Situated at Raua, Bougainville, in the
Mandated Territory of New Guinea.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of the
assets in the said Territory of Rugen Coffee
Estates (No. 1), Limited (In Liquidation), and
Rugen Harbour Plantations, Limited (In Liqui-
dation), consisting of Coffee Plantations being
carried on as a going concern.
Parcel No. 1.
There are approximately 5499 acres, of which
434 acres are fully planted, and 80 acres are in
the sixth year of growth, 80 in the fifth year,
*6l in the fourth year, 91 in the third year and
22 m the second year of growth, and a further
13 acres are ready for planting, and the nurseries
have approximately 50,000 seedlings. Also
Parcel No. 2.
there are approximately 326 acres, of which
J *6o are iully planted, that is to say, 44 acres
m the sixth year of growth, 42 in the second
year, 74 m the first year, 116 acres are ready
to plant, and 51 acres are in various stages
of development: Also
Parcel No. 3.
90 acres felled land.
There is a Coffee Mill on the Plantations, ar
™3[° Veme ? ts ’ effects and equipment for tl
y ? n of the Plantations as a going co
Rpm'cfralirf \9* d , registered under the Lam
SSn"invta d r nCe 1924 ° £ th,i T “ ri,or
re£ fi* ired to ask for full particula
Burns Phil 100 °5 sa * e from the undersigne
Svdnev nr a £ d Co - Ltd., 7 Bridge Strei
Tenitorv nl- ? r ® nches at Rabaul in the sa
Stanlev y Fentr, at £, ort Moresby, or from R<
on behalf of "the 2 R Pltt - Stree - t ’ Sydney, actii
Tenders will -i Peceiver s m Possession.
August next The hLw Thirty - fir . st day
necessarily accenteH hlghest or an y tender n
P H'%companv. ltd..
And ,t o Be u Sti ; eet - Sydney,
ROY STANI Fvm\li nd Port Moresby.
Receivers, 52 Pitt q, on behalf of t
Dated July 19, i 9 f£ eet > Sydney.
gf
mom/MM/M
rnnn ■■ n
rUnDV'O UNITS
1
rir-'-*
'mm
m
Delivery with Steel Straightside Body
mmmmmm
NEW EXPRESS DELIVERY TRUCK
GROSS CAPACITY 6,800 LBS.
Now available in Australia—this brand new Ford V-8
Express Delivery—a handsome vehicle with truck-
type cab. larger load space and rugged truck fea-
tures—fills the need for a unit between the utility
and the 30-cwt.. 2-ton trucks. The new 122 in. wheel-
base Express Delivery has specific advantages over
any other unit of similar capacity.
Note These Long-Life Features
Four-speed truck-type gearbox. Full-floating truck-
type rear axle with straddle-mounted pinion, ratio
5.14 to 1. Torque tube drive and radius rods. Rear
semi-elliptic springs free-shackled at each end.
A Full Range of Body Types
The Express Delivery is available as chassis. Chassis
with cab and with steel Straightside. steel Well-type,
Dropside and Platform bodies.
Arrange with your local Ford Dealer to inspect and
test this new unit. Convenient purchase terms.
FORD V 8 185 IN. WHEELBASE TRUCK
GROSS CAPACITY 14,270 LBS.
Incorporated in this new unit are all the proved fea-
tures that brought Ford V-8 record sales in the
heavy-duty truck class. This hefty newcomer has a
gross capacity of 14,270 lbs. and is available from
the factory with a dropside or platform body 15 ft.
6 ins. long x 6 ft. 6 ins. wide.
Special Value Features include
POWER with the famous V-8 economy engine
developing 170 ft. lbs. torque over a wide range of
road speeds. FRAME —of massive, heavy-duty dual
side-plate construction. HEAVY-DUTY SPRINGS —
free shackled at each end with auxiliary springs
standard equipment. Spring carrying capacity is
15,350 lbs. TYRE CAPACITY —more than sufficient
to carry the rated load; 6, 32 x 6 10-ply tyres are
standard equipment.
Arrange with your local Ford Dealer to inspect and
test this new unit. Easy and convenient purchase
terms available.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
«
>.-?
XB5 INCH
WHEELBASE
PLATFORM
TRUCK
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
VICTORIA)
F273.24C
Footbrawl
Injuries to Kelaher and others com-
pelled the N.S.W. Rugby Union selectors
to experiment in the backs when picking
a team for the first of the matches against
the Maorilanders at Sydney Cricket
Ground. McLaughlin, a club centre, was
on one wing; Wansey, originally a
second reserve, was on the other, and
Rankin, another centre, was at full-back.
The experiment failed; the backs were
beaten badly. ...
The Maorilanders lined their backs up
according to their “stand-off or second-
five-eighth system. Whether it really
makes any difference or whether it’s
merely a matter of name, it was among
the inside backs that the All-Blacks were
most impressive. And the general im-
pression made by the team was such that
thousands of spectators left the ground
saying they would have beaten the
Springboks whom Sydney saw.
Berghan, the first five-eighth, fast on
his feet and a quick thinker, made the
first try. cutting through for the opening
before he sent the ball out. He, his
partner Sullivan and Mitchell, the centre
and captain, were in everything after-
wards. Swift and sure passes from Sax-
ton, the half, helped them, and before the
interval they were helped, too, by the
N.S.W. centres’ refusal to tackle. At
half-time it was 18-nil. The N.S.W. for-
wards had cut even with the Blacks.
N.S.W. did better in the second spell.
The visitors still had the edge, but they
weren’t allowed the latitude they’d had
before. They notched two more tries;
N.S.W. scored one, and Hodgson after
a grand run missed another by inches.
Converted, that one try gave N.S.W. five
points, and Rankin kicked a penalty goal,
but that was all. M.L. had six tries and
five goals—2 B-8. It was a most interest-
ing match.
The attendance was 24,600. it would
have exceeded 30,000 had St. Joseph’s v.
“Shore” been played as a preliminary.
This college match generally produces
some of the best football seen in Sydney
during the winter; on Saturday “Joey’s”
—unbeaten for the fourth season —won
24-12.
The Australian Rugby selectors used
the axe on the N.S.W. side after Satur-
day’s match ; they included only seven
Welshmen in the team for the first Test
against the All-Blacks. The backs are
Rankin (N.S.W.), Carpenter (Vic.),
Lewis, Hayes and Howard (Queensland),
Richards and Stone (N.S.W.). Forwards
are Malone, Ramsay, Hutchinson and
Hodgson (N.S.W.), Bonis, Wilson and
Oxlade (Queensland) and Kerr (Victoria).
Wilson is captain.
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. footballers got
a shock when the R.U. expelled Quin-
livan, who had been selected to play
against the All-Blacks. It is alleged that
while at Armidale (N.S.W.) Quinlivan
played with a Rugby League club and
took money for doing so, and for acting
as an official. Quinlivan’s defence was
that he got no money for playing but was
paid for his official work. Any connection
whatever with professional football,
whether as a player, official or just club
member is an act of professionalism
under the R.U. laws. The Union is itself
to blame for the general ignorance. For
yearn it has omitted the rules as to pro-
fessionalism from its annual.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Indian team
leaves Colombo on August 6. The Soccer
folk still have dim hopes of persuading
the Rugby League to let them have the
use of the Sydney Cricket Ground for
two matches. The trustees are willing,
but they can do nothing under the terms
of the League’s lease, a lease which
should never have been permitted. The
League’s refusal could be understood if
the ground was required for some inter-
state or international match, but on the
dates mentioned only a couple of club
matches will be played, and clubs prefer
their own local grounds.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” .-With the Australian
golf championships in Adelaide heaving
in sight the time is rotten-ripe for the
authorities to consider the miserable
prize-money allotted to the open cham-
pionship and to other events in which
professionals take part. First prize for
the open is £75. The Queensland body
hangs up £lOO for its State title, and its
prize-list for the meeting comes to £240
compared with the £176 paid by the
Australian body, this including the cost
of amateur trophies. The meanest dodge
of all is the confiscation of first prize if
an amateur wins the open. This should
at least be divided among the also-ran
professionals. It is difficult for any pro-
fessional from a State other than that in
which the championship is played to
show a profit, even if he wins first prize,
and the meeting is a dead loss for many.
Much is made by the economical con-
ductors of these shows of the prestige
attaching to winning a national title. In
Australia it does not add £2O a year to
a player’s earnings.
* 5?: * *
The careless are reminded that entries
close for the Australian open champion-
ship meeting, August 13 to August 25,
in Adelaide on July 25.
$ * * *
The opening event of the N.S.W.
women’s golf championship, the four-
somes, was won at Rose Bay by Misses
V. Ebert and E. S. Jones, who defeated
Miss McCulloch and Mrs. Bowie by
three strokes with a card of 167. The
winners also took the title last year and
in 1933 and 1935.
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland golfers
are to suffer wrong no more, to quote
Macaulay. At long last they have recog-
nised that the failure of the N.S.W.-
Yic.-South Aus. junta to take notice of
Bananaland players has been due to their
own modest-violet attitude. There will be
no more of this. Last year a start was
made in sending an official team south,
and this is to be a regular thing for
amateurs and pros, in the future. The
cost is high, but golfers have given
nobly, and the sock is plethoric.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
Davis Cuppers cast up undamaged at
Los Angeles. They are to meet Mexico
at Kansas City on July 29-30-31, the
date having been brought forward a
week. In view of the fact that Bromwich
last season won the Queensland, N.S.W.
and South Australian championships,
defeated Budge and Cramm, and was
only beaten by Budge for the Australian
and Victorian titles, he will rank as No.
1 player.
* :«i * sk
“Cut Shot”: U.S.A. selectors have
issued a list of players from whom the
Davis Cup team will be chosen. Budge
and Mako have first and second places;
the balance of the team will come from
Parker, Grant, Riggs, Hunt, Kovacs,
Surface and McNeill, with, perhaps, a
new outsider named Guernsey. The
conviction is growing that the Americans
will find it hard to find a second string
as capable as their first.
* ❖ * *
The Japanese, who expect to meet Aus-
tralia in the zone championship, have
asked that the match be played on a
hard court, but this not likely to be
acceded to. The burning question among
our men is who will be selected as the
Yank second singles player. It is taken
for granted that Budge and Mako will
pair in the doubles.
* # $
“Cut Shot”: N.S.W. tennis delegates
have been instructed to vote in favor
of inviting a Yug team to visit Australia
this season. The Yugs are said to be
willing, and as they are a really good lot
who may yet upset our applecart in the
U.S.A., they should draw.
* * * *
The Yugs caused a mild sensation by
downing the Americans at Belgrade,
four matches to one. Budge was beaten
by Kukuljevic and Mako by Drobny, and
they lost the doubles. The American
attitude towards these exhibition games,
as voiced by Budge on his visit to Aus-
tralia, must be remembered.
sJj Hs 'Y' 'A'
The Australian girls wiil return with
at least one championship—the German
doubles. All four were in the finals, and
the Misses Wynne and Coyne beat the
other lasses in straight sets. But the heart
of the N.S.W.L.T.A., mourning the £2OOO
that the tour has cost, will not be com-
forted.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The American Olympic
Committee has been conducting a poll
among athletes and clubs on the ques-
tion of the nation taking part in the
Olympiad at Tokio. The verdict was in
favor of participation. Then Tokio
announced that there would be no Olym-
piad at Tokio. The thing may be held
at Helsingfors, if at all.
* Sc * *
“Ride Off”: This year’s Countess of
Dudley Polo Cup will be played for at
Kyeemagh from July 26 to July 30. The
Ashton combination will be split up,
J.H. and G.G. playing with Cobbitty
and R.R. with Vychan. Scone and Mait-
land will also be represented.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Let George Do It”
A Boisterous Australian Comedy.
Cinesound, with the aid of George
Wallace’s hilarious buffoonery and Ken
Hall’s keen producing and directing,
demonstrates in this length of uproar at
Sydney Capitol that it can make ’em as
downright funny as the funniest imports
whatever.
It’s a bellow from the first moment,
when George is discovered in bed in
danger of being wakened by a Heath
Robinsonian device wherein a ball, set
going by a stroke of the clock, travels
through a preposterous pulleys-and-lifts-
and-string mechanism, to end up drop-
ping on George’s forehead.
No Australian picture had hitherto
snapped right into its business with such
a bang. And it doesn’t let up. It’s a
succession of similarly absurd episodes,
mounting in uproariousness, with the
finish a mad speedboat chase round and
round a yacht-crowded bay of Our
’Arbor.
Wallace is one of the funniest vaude-
villains ever witnessed in these parts, and
his film is really like a tiptop vaudeville
comedy act somewhat expanded out into
the open air. A fair stretch takes place
behind scenes and on stage at what’s now
called the Tivoli, with George as an un-
consciously funny stage hand, and the
neat little bunch of lasses they always
keep at that address adding their trim
decorativeness to the scene.
In these scenes and others the film’s
maker is to be congratulated on his
courage in being realistic. This is what
backstage actually looks like, as distinct
from the fanciful settings usually depicted
in Hollywooden films. The interest for
anyone going backstage with an eye to
contrast lies in that of the romantically
dressed (or undressed) players moving
about there in the shabbiest of surround-
ings. Cinesound gives the real thing, in-
stead of the customary falsehood.
Whether the real thing makes better en-
tertainment film than the usual roman-
ticised version is another matter.
Similarly in the funny pub and other
scenes Ken Hall sticks to realism. Apart
from the merit of the film as side-splitting
comedy, it is authentic Sydneyside. It
is specially enjoyable for its intimacy and
familiarity. And it isn’t Sydney only;
it will strike that note of authenticity
and familiarity wherever it’s showm in
Australia.
All that happens against that realistic
background is, of course, by the nature
of the film prodigious and preposterous.
George in a bewilderment of live fowls
on the Tiv. stage ; George getting bottled
in a Sydney pub, dancing, hitting the
floor heavily, showing fight; George,
maudlin, intent on suicide and mixing
himself a dose in a chemist’s, after which
his breath takes fire, he spits on the floor
and there’s an explosion, spits into a
street rubbish receptacle and sets it alight,
spits at a cockatoo and leaves it as
denuded of plumage as the old bird of
Tom Ugly’s Point; finally, George and
his hearty lass loose on Sydney Harbor
in a speedboat they can’t stop, with the
comic villains pursuing them in another
speedboat and a fortune for George
hanging in the balance.
Preposterousness thrown in, it’s an
honest human business, just sufficiently
out of focus with normal experience to
hold sympathy for the participants while
still having them objects of wild mirth.
George gives a clinking performance
all the way. He’s an authentic buffoon ;
an original; a natural funny cuss. His
is broad comedy—rough and ready and
familiarly, if not peculiarly, Australian.
The dialogue helps him: it is the real
Australian article. Support, including
Letty Craydon, Joe Valli, Alec Kellaway,
George Lloyd and Gwen Munro, is also
strong enough to be no hindrance to
George’s excellent damfoolery. The idea
that physical deformity is funny is the
worst weakness of an otherwise intelli-
gent production.
An Australian concern capable of turn-
ing out film entertainment as good as this
merits positive assistance in increasing
the good work. If provisions like the N. S.
Wales Quota Act are not enough to keep
it in constant and frequent production
something more direct should be done.
Australian audiences would welcome
home-made films as entertaining as this
one, as a change from the puerile
imported productions that are included
in nine bills out of ten as supports, to the
point where now the average film house’s
support film is something to avoid at all
cost.
Formby, Jessie Matthews,
Hulbert, Etc.
After a drought as severe as a tee-
totallers’ picnic one of the most exten-
sive outbreaks of English fillums ever
witnessed has suddenly occurred in Syd-
ney houses. In addition to the Lady X
opus at the Century, there are the George
Formby effort and another at the
Lyceum, and both Jessie Matthews and
Jack Hulbert at the Mayfair.
Apart from George, the Lyceum piece
has Cyril Ritchard, Frank Leighton and
Betty Stockfield to give it special local
interest. Cyril is, astoundingly, the dirty
dog of the affair, and makes as awkward
a fist of it as he does of the ice-hockey
player’s rigout with which his noble
Allan Jones, Judy Garland and Fanny Brice in the tip-top comedy “Everybody
Sing,” at Sydney State.
frame is encumbered. All his natural
attributes are completely subdued. The
other two have just minor parts.
George is in prime fettle. He goes on
improving. Here he sings and strums the
old banjo as well as ever and acts a great
deal better. The film is mainly George ;
he’s never off for more than a few
minutes at a stretch, and all the time he’s
on it’s good entertainment. His main
comedy attribute this time is a camera
concealed in his bow-tie, with which he
takes forbidden snaps in an ice-hockey
joint and other places.
Also the film has, in Kay Walsh, Eng-
land’s answer to Sonja Henie. Experts
can decide by how much Sonja wins, but
the English lass is good enough to leave
the feeling that more use could profitably
have been made of her on the ice.
Support is an appalling thing entitled
“Sunset in Vienna,” in which Tullio Car-
minati is a gallant Italian airman in the
Great War, the story being the whis-
kered one of complications ensuing
through his being married to an Aus-
trian lass whose brother is a spy.
Miss Matthews makes her appearance
in the Mayfair’s “Sailing Along,” and
if supports began to get within coo-ee of
being even half as good this film-taster
would take back everything he’s said
about ’em.
Jessie’s fringe is at least an eighth of
an inch longer than hitherto and her per-
formance better than ever. She sings in
a crooning way, but with a lilting melo-
diousness as distinct from the dolorous
moanings of the Hollywooden practi-
tioners. She acts admirably, foots it
nicely and works like the dickens to make
the piece bright entertainment.
Story is much more sound and natural
than most efforts that have to do with
its sort of doings. Jess is a Thames
barge lass with stage aspirations; Barry
Mackay’s her bloke on the barge ; com-
plications begin when a soup manufac-
turer sights Jessie and adds her to his
string of geniuses. Thames settings of
boats and the like are excellently photo-
graphed, and the whole affair well
directed and generally admirably put
over. Dancing is extra good, especially
one stretch of it in which Jessie and
partner portray a fragment of low water-
side night life —an exceptionally effective
bit of choreography.
The Mayfair makes the Jack Hulbert
opus “Kate Plus Ten” its main offering.
An Edgar Wallace crime-gang yarn (with
a girl leading the gang and Hulbert
as chief of Scotland Yard) is turned
into almost straight comedy. Jack,
though he neither sings nor flutters the
hoof, is in good form and the piece
pretty fair light entertainment, though not
so good as the one that’s listed as sup-
port.
“The Divorce of Lady X”
Laurence Olivier, Merle Oberon.
» Gazing first on the Hollywooden
musicomedy “Everybody Sing,” at Syd-
ney State, then inspecting this English
opus at the Century provides an experi-
ence in contrast which is extreme with-
out being nasty.
The Amurrican effort fairly flashes
along. Dialogue is smart remark, wise-
crack retort, as fast as they can be got
out. You get an impression of the pro-
ducers tearing their hair in the hopeless-
ness of getting all the good stuff at their
disposal into the maximum running time.
Another striking thing about this
Hollywooden effort is that, though its
wordiness licks a Royal Commission re-
port to a frazzle, it differs from this
latter sort of humor in that there isn’t
a remark in it that isn’t keen, sharp and
sparkling and to the point. Not many
films are worth looking at twice, but
this one would probably repay a second
visit just to take in missed subtleties of
the wisecracking dialogue, a brittle com-
position of wit and humor which the
slick-tongued inhabitants of Gahd’s Own
have made their special contribution to
enlivening this vale of solemnity. The
smartness even extends to the songs,
which are unusually well-worded.
The purpose of the cast in “Everybody
Sing” is simply to rush the thing through.
Acting isn’t required of them, though one
or two —Billie Burke and Fanny Brice
especially throw in a bit; all that’s
asked of all of them is to be voices in
the general hullabaloo.
In all these respects the English offer-
ing is in utter and extreme contrast. The
two pictures are different enough, any-
how, in the English one being a techni-
color job, and the color in turn has a
good deal to do with their being so very
different in tempo, also. As in pretty well
all color pictures so far produced, color
scenes for their own sake are freely
given. They are lovely scenes; one of
a hunt makes the whole film glorious.
Three things, at least, come out beauti-
fully in film color—women’s hair, horses
and dogs. They are all good to look on,
and they have rarely been better done
than here. Tables set with food, and
especially glasses and their contents, are
also first-class subjects for the color
camera.
It may be only novelty, but for the
present, anyway, such color scenes are
so engaging that their brake on the
tempo of proceedings doesn’t seem to
matter. The hunt scene has virtually
nothing to do with the actual business
of the film, but nobody would wish it
out on that account. Also in the interest
of the color, the actor laddies have to
knock off successive whiskies, one of
which would fell an ox —great cut-glass
goblets into which they pour the lovely
red-gold stuff as if it was tea. By the
way they toss it off whisky must be
feeble in England now, but it’s pretty
to look at.
Apart from this brake put on tempo
simply to show audiences how engaging
color-photography scenes can be, “The
Divorce of Madame X” is still a leisurely
business compared with the madcap bat
of “Everybody Sing.” It has the absolute
minimum of action and of setting.
Ye olde Bedroom Scene and ye very
olde Cross Purposes are its main ingre-
dients. A young barristeiy compelled by
London fog to put up for the night at
a posh pubbery where the attendants at
a fancy-dress ball are also fog-bound,
has his suite invaded by a determined
lass in crinoline, who ends up by com-
mandeering his bed. A large slice of
the film is taken up in working out this
situation till they part next morning.
Then Lord Weir comes to him at his
chambers intent on divorce, and men-
tioning compromising circumstances
which convince the wig-wearer that the
person who barged in on him is Lady
Weir and he himself the co-re.
In time Mistaken Identity and Cross
Purposes are knocked on the head; the
lass proves to be, not a much-divorced
Madame X, but as innocent as was her
behavior in the bedroom, and all ends
very happily indeed. Yet another point
of contrast in comparison with the
American film is that the dialogue is not
only leisurely, but is very seldom either
funny or smart. Yet the film is a comedy,
and a diverting comedy at that. It is
largely so through situations, but what
really makes it is the quality of the
acting.
The Tasmanian Merle turns in a stun-
ning job as the bedroom invader —a com-
bination of pertness, sophistication, in-
dependence and innocence that hits young
feminine modernity off admirably. As
the one she’s set on, Laurence Olivier
also does an excellent job, representing
what Amurrican laddies who essay
such roles always make a hopeless mess
of —rude uncouthness without becoming
an unpleasant prig.
“I Met My Love Again.”
Henry Fonda, Joan Bennett.
Well, at last here’s a support that
didn’t make present film-taster want to
rush out and let a tram run over him.
Showing at Sydney Century, it helps to
make the bill there notable for a touch
of human naturalness, if for nothing else.
Not that it isn’t faulty: far too much
use is made of certain members of the
supporting cast, especially Dame May
Whitty, who’s a dear soul, but as an
aunt who has taken to her bed because
her niece has run off with the Wrong
Bloke, just a little of her would go
a devil of a long way.
Relations of the Right Bloke also do
exaggerated jobs, and a cheild intruded
into the proceedings is nothing to rave
about, except in a hostile manner. Also,
Henry somewhat overacts a difficult part.
These matters notwithstanding, the film
is so far above the brand of supports
that have lately threatened these pages
with internal combustion that it could,
and maybe will, serve in many theatres
as main attraction. The story is simple,
straightforward and completely natural
—the'young fellow intent on doing some-
thing in life to “make himself worthy”
of the girl; the girl eager for him as he
is and be hanged to what he maj become,
and therefore an easy mark for the
Wrong Bloke, a mad-headed writer chap
who is able to take her off to Paris and
hectic living, till his flaming temper goes
out with a bullet through it. Then back
to U.S.A. for the misguided lass, where
the steady bloke is still blundering along
and aunt is still in bed, complications
ensuing through another lass now making
a dead set at the bloke.
Some of the devices employed to work
it all out to a happy conclusion do violent
insult to feasibility, but it’s not bad
entertainment just the same. The Ben-
nett is her customary charming self,
which is excuse enough for the general


SUNSHINE
CRUISE
Avoid the cold wintry weather and
enjoy a delightful holiday in the
glorious sunshine of the tropics.
TO NOUMEA
Including several days Cruising through the
calm waters and vivid colouring of the Great
Barrier Reef and the beautiful Whitsunday
Passage, also encircling Lord Howe Island on
the return voyage.
R.M.S. STRATHAIRD
leaves Sydney August 19
FIRST SALOON FROM 20 GUINEAS
TOURIST CLASS FROM 13 GUINEAS
Principal Agents:
MACDONALD HAMILTON & CO.
247 George Street, Sydney. Telephone 87511
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
GILCHRIST WATT & SANDERSON PTY. LTD.
5 O'Connell Street, Sydney. Telephone g 6701 (
P & o
Peninsular and Oriental S.N. Co. (Incorporated in England ).
The Life of the Kitchen The
M C CLARY COOKING RANGE
A MODEL FOR GAS Q A MODEL FOR ELECTRICITY
mm jmi
Electric M c Clary Cooker in Flats, Kings Cross, where space counts.
A SIZE FOR EVERY TYPE OF FLAT
AND DWELLING.
m
mwm
mm
Gas M c Clary Cooker in a roomy kitchen at Vaucluse.
CALL AND INSPECT WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
Phone M 6505 (18 Lines). Late Shopping, Friday, 8.30 p.m.
JCUN DANKSiSCN
(Incorporated in Victoria) PROPRIETARY LTD.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: M 6505.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. ’Phone: M 2381.
U any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
happenings. Fonda, despite the hang-
dog look he has to wear and his over-
indulgence in a lip that would trip a
Grand National winner, is a credible
dumbell.
“Her Jungle Love ”
Dorothy Lamour, Ray Milland.
A bid to cash in on such popularity
as attaches to the immortal Tarzan, this
current offering at Sydney Prince Edward
is lifted above the rut wholly by its
being in color.
The story is pure Tarzan in reverse.
Whereas in the Tarzan opuses it’s a lass
from civilisation blending with a he-
natural of the jungle, here it’s a couple
of American flyers crashing on an out-
landish volcanic island inhabited by a
beauteous lass in a loin cloth.
She’s kept there as priestess for the
annual sacrificial rites performed in a
cavern with boiling mudholes and water
crawling with crocodiles, to which come
the mainland ruler and his mob for the
yearly performance, bringing with ’em
on this occasion the missing airman the
other two had been looking for when
they crashed.
On this showing, Dorothy’s acting
talent consists entirely of exposing plenty
of her nicely tanned pelt. She does a
wooden job. Milland and his offsider do
better, but award for the most intelligent
acting goes to the film’s tame ape, who
turns in a really good performance.
Spectacle gets a lot of help from the
color when the mudholes start to erupt
and the internal arrangements of the
cavern collapse all over the place, carry-
ing to their doom a shuddersome aval-
anche of human bodies and crocodiles.
The Draper Battalion .
That army of old women and children,
good girls and bad girls, that calls itself
Ruth Draper has been marching trium-
phantly across the stage at Sydney Royal
again. About 30 principal characters
sub-divided from her personality the
opening night, and in addition there were
easily five hundred diners in the
restaurant in which she tripped over
imaginary legs, edged with infinite care
between crowded non-existent tables.
How on earth does Miss Draper get
away from her ghosts when the show
is over? They seem so much alive that
they’d be with her, rowdy, upon a peak
in Darien.
Her first sketch, “The Italian Lesson,”
was almost exactly the same as the
Coward one-acter “Hands Across the
Sea” that the Compton company put
on so entertainingly—portrait of a frilly
rich woman, very busy with nothing
and the telephone. Ruth Draper did it
quite as amusingly entirely on her own,
with a host of beautifully-limned minor
characters just out of sight somewhere.
.Next was “Three Generations in the
Court of Domestic Relations” ; business
with a shawl was all she needed to
change from grandmother to mother and
then to daughter, and the piece, besides
being brilliant characterisation, was a
moving and powerful drama of the hos-
tility between the older women and the
girl.
As a German governess with a mad-
dening class and a most adorable sniffle,
and as a restaurant and four women
discussing “operations” she was equally
magnificent. The dear old lady who
followed was funny enough with her
affection for an old crock of a horse
and an older crock of a husband, but
dear, stringy old ladies are a sop to
sentimentality that’s out of place
among the comedy or realism of most
of Miss Draper’s repertoire. She atoned
for that in the next number, where she
was a French village-woman learning
of her husband’s death at Verdun with-
out sentimentality. All the dialogue (it
can’t be called monologue; was in
French, but the thing was so vivid its
purport was clear throughout even to
those whose only experience in French
has been with the aunt of the gardener.
Amateur “Merchant”
Success with “The Merchant of
Venice” depends on the interpretation of
Shylock. He has to he at once tragic
and ridiculous, repulsive yet almost
lovable. His justifiable hatred of An-
tonio, becoming monstrous when he
fastens on the merchant all his personal,
racial and commercial torments, his love
for Jessica twisted and frustrated by his
avarice and his ingrained frigidity, call
for true understanding on the part of
the actor. He has to convey the bitter-
ness of “Did spit upon my Jewish
gaberdine,” and the insanity of
If every ducat in six thousand ducats
Were in six parts, and every part a ducat,
I would not draw them; I would have my
bond.
But when he learns that Jessica has sold
his dead wife’s ring, he must convey the
pathos and the tenderness of “I had it
of Leah when I was a bachelor.”
So the really outstanding success Syd-
ney Players’ Club made of the play at
St. James Hall was mainly due to the
portrait of the old Jew given by Harold
Fraser. Not only did he exact every
ounce of drama from the magnificent
trial scene, but in conversation with
Tubal or Antonio he caught the psy-
chological subtlety, making the play as
significant as when it was written. Mr.
Fraser could play Lear.
All that the remaining characters have
to do is to provide a setting for Shy-
lock, and, except for Antonio, they have
none of the Jew’s emotional complexity.
The company at St. James Hall made
the setting sparkle. Leonard Bullen gave
a clear, straight-forward Bassanio, en-
hancing his talent with a pleasant voice
and the looks appropriate to Portia’s
lover. William Smith’s Gratiano was
accurately flippant; too much so in the
court scene, but he livened the play
throughout in the way the script demands.
Antonio was interpreted by Charles Kil-
burn as resigned and melancholy, and
as such, was very well done. He would
probably, be more satisfactory with a
dash of bitters. “I am a tainted wether
of the flock” can be read as resignation,
but it could also be ground out in an
agony of bitterness.
John Howard made good hay with
Launcelot Gobbo, though Gobbo’s so
fantastic on the contemporary stage that
Howard’s delighted leap to the wings
when the fiend bade him run was very
understandable. A courageous producer
might drop Gobbo altogether, or prefer-
ably, modernise him into the Wirth’s
clown he would have been to the
Elizabethans.
Portia, Nerissa and Jessica, played by
Muriel Steinbeck, Nina Badham and
Zelma Tabrett, were charming. Portia
was a frank, gay statement, and about
the only flaw in her performance was
that she was not anxious enough when
the Prince of Morocco was hovering
about the caskets.
“The Merchant of Venice,” with its
powerful scenes and rich, lovely language,
deserves the best of production; and it
got it from Arthur Greenaway. It was
worth seeing just as pageantry, with the
opulent costumes against the simple,
harmonious settings. Details, down to
a lad with a nice voice singing “Tell Me
Where is Fancy Bred,” were all attended
to, and the swiftness of the production-
no waiting between scenes and not quite
time for a cigarette between acts —was
something worth commenting on, con-
sidering the usual amateur crime, and
considering those St. James chairs.
Flagstad in Melbourne.
Pianist-accompanist Edwin McArthur
appeared to be as amazed at the strength,
purity and beauty of Kirsten Flagstad’s
singing at Melbourne Town Hall as if it
was the first time he had heard it, and
his emotion communicated itself to his
playing, even in his solo numbers, so
much so that the house was infected and
gave him such prolonged applause that
he would have thrown the programme off
its balance in his own favor if his fellow-
entertainer had been of lesser calibre.
Even the most unaware reviewer must
have felt that the house was surveying
the singer from at least half a dozen
angles with equal satisfaction. Her god-
desslike proportions were allied with an
unusual grace of movement, when she
exhibited her profile it was as if a glimpse
had been vouchsafed of some remem-
bered statue or picture, when she sang
two arias from “Tannhauser” she was
Elizabeth in character, and when she sang
four of the loveliest songs of Grieg it
was of beautiful sounds the audience was
thinking.
Her English songs were not of the same
high order, and had possibly been selected
to give her alto the opportunity of soar-
ing to heights so dizzy that one’s ear
ached in expectation of a tumble. And
she did it all with a stillness of pos-
ture that made the sounds she produced
so much the more extraordinary.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-133 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kail way Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
Phone: M 4 I 4 1 (10 lines).
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL THOMAS FLANIGAN (a brother of
Owen T. FJanigan, late of Strathalbyn, South
Australia, farmer, deceased), or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate promptly
with the undersigned.
E. J. TUCKER & SONS,
Solicitors,
Strathalbyn, South Australia.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic-pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN b
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of People
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and wHI
help flush out the 15 miles of tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Our own Cockatoo Dock-built Alba-
tross had a royal progress down the
waterways as she made for the Heads
last week. Dwellers on the harbor front
were treated to a sort of impromptu air
and water pageant. The Albatross, a fleet
of ’planes streaming along the air and
dipping their wings above her, circled
Fort Denison and made farewell salute
to other warships. Seaplanes churning
up the waters beside her escorted her on
her way. It was a spirited scene —the
sort of thing that makes the ferry trip
a much more pictorial affair than tram
transport. But when are we to have
silencers on ’planes? Multiply the present
roaring along the skyline by 50 per cent.,
and the trams in George-street will seem
like a lover’s whisper. In another decade
it is more than likely that aerial trans-
port will increase more than 50 per cent.
Well, the milliner can always design hats
with earflaps!
Merrily the orchestra played, while
above it the poor bones of some skeleton
hung austerely. The Medical Society’s
ball got going at nine o’clock in David
Jones’s ballroom last Wednesday, and
soon there was scarcely room to turn.
All around the walls were caricatures
of various professors in characteristic
pose. Very much admired was the one
showing the president of the society hold-
ing a stethoscope to a football, and
labelled “bladder trouble.” There were
prizes for table decorations, and this
brought forth some lovely and ingenious
decorative effects. Of course, the prize
went to the “Snow White” table, Mar-
garet Raphael and John Begg being re-
sponsible for the figures of the principals
in this world-famed drama.
Dressing was exquisite, and the three
McMahon sisters were in the van. Any
woman would have loved the wrist-length
blue kid gloves Dr. Dora McMahon wore
to match her lobelia-blue satins. On the
back of the left glove was fastened a
wrist posy of pink flowers. The frock
was made with a little pleated, upstand-
ing frill just below the waist, and the
skirt was slightly draped in front. The
high light of Dorothy McMahon’s frock-
ing was the black net cape with its
arabesque of large white daisies with
yellow centres. Sister Kathleen’s pale
yellow frock gained distinction with its
trig bolero and its embroideries of wool
flowers in pastel tones. Mrs. Harold
Dew’s black frock was thickly patterned
in pink poppies. White satin and silver
sequins glittered on Thora Hawkes. The
Garnet Hallorans brought a happy party.
Mrs. Halloran sparkled in rose chiffons.
The John McKelvey lady was one of the
night’s belles. Her frock was of black
tulle, full and sweeping, its only relief a
diamond brooch.
White furs wrapped the amethyst
velvets worn by Mrs. C. G. McDonald.
Prof. Douglas Stewart and Mrs. Stewart
and the Prof. Tasman Lovell couple were
among the night’s special guests. Mollie
O’Connor’s bright green satins had been
caught in a shower of silver. New pro-
fessor of botany Ashley came with his
wife. Stephanie Edye wreathed her head
in peacock feathers. She wore one, too,
across the bodice of her white chiffons.
Prof. Windeyer and his wife were also
on deck. Her frock of ivory lace was
amongst the night’s admired. Gloves
and shoes were the distinct fashion note
of this dance. Gloves accented the color-
note in frocks, shoes were exotic in
color, sandal in shape.
It’s just as well this argument about
more or less meat did not start before
scores were laid in for the Agricultural
Conference at Hawkesbury College.
About 350 conferrers arrived for the cor-
roboree, and house manager E. Hird
knew they had to be filled up with some-
thing in addition to enthusiasm. His
pantry solids included 15001 b. of beef,
5001 b. of mutton, nearly 200 turkeys,
3001 b. of pork. Add butter, cheese, eggs,
jam, honey and greens to correspond and
a good time was had by all. President of
the women’s section of the conference
this year, was Mrs. J. Cavanagh.
A pretty compliment to France’s
National Day was “Vive La France,”
the concluding number of Ruth Draper’s
programme, last Thursday. This was
the opening of Ruth’s return season, and
she was even better than Sydney remem-
bered her. Her ironic caricatures of the
women who are health-fad mad shook
the house with laughter. The lady who
was starved for purple, and who had to
swim for hours on end in a. purple pool,
cheered up the listeners and made them
forget the horrors that would be served
up in the morning’s papers. Which re-
minds that the Hubert Fairfaxes were
in the stalls. Mrs. F. Pfeiffer wrapped in
a mink cape was one of the active
applauders. Peter Dearing, of the Fay
Compton company, was in the house. He
stays over in Sydney to produce “Per-
sonal Appearance.” Mrs. Jimmy Burns
and Mrs. Henriques were among the
richly furred. Mrs, Theo Wunderlich
had a touch of ermine, too. Her black
velvet coat was caped in it.
Sydney is poorer for the passing of the
pleasant smile and kindly eyes of Mrs.
Rose Gullett, mother of knight Harry
and journalist Isabel Gullett. Mrs.
Gullett had passed much of her girlhood
and early-married life on the land in
Victoria, and the hospitable qualities ac-
quired in country homesteads remained
with her to the end. The late Monty
Somer, of R.A.S. renown, was her
brother, and her husband’s brother was
the pioneer journalist who did so much
to establish the original “Daily Tele-
graph,” so it is no wonder that Harry
and Isabel took to pen and paper so
naturally. After a service in St. John’s,
Darlinghurst, Mrs. Gullett was buried at
Wentworth Falls.
Here’s Jane Connolly, of the silk-soft
voice and the Celt-red hair. Jane is a
graduate of local repertory who will
make her professional debut in “Personal
Appearance” due to follow the Ruth
Draper season at the Theatre Royal.
For five years Jane has worked hard with
the Independent group. Notable appear-
ances have been Laura in the “Enchanted
Cottage” and Elizabeth Bennett in “Pride
and Prejudice.” She was South Africa,
with the glittering diamond train, in our
150th Birthday Pageant of Nations. Falk
photograph.
Flagstad finished up her Sydney reci-
tals with flags flying. Her Wagnerian
concerts with orchestra were high lights
of a very brilliant season. She had a
birthday, too, last week, and among
other things to surprise her, husband
Henry Johansen went seeking a very
special and exotic wine for the celebra-
tions. He found it, too. Sydney isn’t
so far away from Europe, after all.
One of the happiest 14th of July parties
was held on the evening of the 13th. It
was all equality and brotherhood, and
was held in the French Alliance rooms.
Mrs. Ivy Moore made just the right sort
of hostess ; and as the guests arrived with
their suitcases or baskets, there was a
wave of warm friendliness to greet them.
An acre or so of supper tables were
spread with party foods. One man not
only did the most eye-deceiving card
tricks, but explained them to the eager-
eyed. The Consul-General was one who
enjoyed the fun.
There was a ball in Hordern Brothers’
to celebrate France’s National Day. This
is the yearly gay ribbon in the lapel of
the French Alliance. The tricolor was
everywhere—in the flowers on the table
and in the flags on the walls, and “The
Marseillaise,” in jazz time, played the
official party into the ballroom.
Consul-General Tremoulet, of course,
was in the foreground, and grouped
about him were the Vice-Consul and
Mrs. Puaux, Jean Limage, of the French
Chamber of Commerce, the Pierre
Remonds, the Consul-General for the
Netherlands, and Mrs. Schuurman. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, who is a vice-president of
the Alliance, brought a party. The new
Consul-General for Belgium and his wife
and daughter were entertained by the
Brenac couple. With Mrs. Ivy Moore
was French writer Fabienne Destombes.
Nancy Bird, one of our youngest and
most competent flying girls, went wing-
ing her way to Europe last Sunday. She
flies to Java as the guest of Dutch Air-
lines, and no girl has ever gone away
with more farewell lunches and teas from
women’s societies and clubs tucked under
her belt. Nancy is an attractive girl, and
she has done some valuable aerial service
work for the Far West Health Scheme.
She now goes to England for a holiday,
but before she returns she will make a
further study of air matters in England,
Holland and America. Portrait from
Montgomery Dunn studio.
Rosalie Wilson, whose knowledge of
embroidery is widely known and who
has published a book on this subject,
who also knows all about cookery, and
who writes radio sketches, has now
turned her attention to the stage, and
on the 23rd at the Little Theatre, Phillip
Street, will produce four Australian plays
for the Sydney Drama Society, of which
she is director.
The Independents’ new rooms were
once part of the old Civic Club, and
Harald Bowden, in opening them last
week, recalled that they were once the
scene of a Thespian disagreement in
which noses were pulled. But that’s
not a precedent that need be followed
by the present occupants. Enthusiasm
burns bright among the club members.
Two of the girls had even fervor
enough to scrub down the whole of the
walls. The house-warming seethed with
good fellowship, sherry and gin cocktails.
Minister for Health FitzSimons was
among the blithe. Is he going to be
offered the part of Eliza when the club
produces Uncle Tom’s Cabin? Some-
body said he seemed to be practising
the part at the Palais skating-rink. The
Julius lady waved a glad mitt to Joe
Collins and others above a sea of heads.
Joe was the core of the party. Oswald
Cheeke and Gag Beaton, the Hawdon
Wilsons, Ailsa Sutherland, Mary Whid-
borne, the Paul Schramms and Brian
O’Brien were in the throng. Doris Fit-
ton, founder and chieftainess of the
movement, was attractive in emerald-
green crepes. The curtains are a nice
touch. They are cream in color and are
printed with lino-cuts designed by Haydee
Seldon, and printed by Alan Colefax.
The Commercial Banking Co.’s dance
brought about 400 dancers to the Blax-
land Galleries. Somebody had had a
pretty notion, and the edges of the bal-
cony dripped a thick vine of balloons.
Later in the night these were let down in
a brilliant shower. General-manager
Darvall entertained a number of guests,
among whom were the Alick Osbornes.
Du Barry-pink chiffons made her frock.
The A. T. Edwards couple and Dr. and
Mrs. Byron Wilson were others in this
party. Merry Broad girdled her black
chiffons in gold, and red carnations were
a bright touch against the black velvets
worn by Mrs. W. D. L. Dymock. The
R. M. Broads were among the night’s
hosts.
To help the expenses of the ball for
the Crown-street Women’s Hospital,
Mrs. Harold Bott gave a music party in
her Killara home last Friday. The big
lounge was crowded and such splendid
artists as Virginia Bassetti, Thelma
Houston, Constance Pickworth (she’s off
to Milan for a refresher course in a week
or so) made the rafters ring. ’Cellist
Kathleen Tuohy played with smooth,
rich tone. The hostess wore an after-
noon frock of black sheer made with a
long tunic, its square neckline outlined
with ivory lace medallions. Mrs. Hope
Gibson (a heaven-born accompanist)
played for singer and ’cellist. Her frock,
a sweeping affair of deep burgundy, had
an accompanying black velvet coat.
Spring was in the air the minute Mrs.
Norman Macleod stepped in. Her hat,
of the coming season’s architecture, was
of grass-green felt. With it she wore a
rust-red ensemble, against which the reds
and browns of wall-flower burned. Mrs.
Robert Dixson made a little speech, very
direct and clear in delivery. May
Mitchell, the secretary of the hospital,
also flying green, went back to town with
a cash-box rattling with the afternoon’s
takings—almost £l2.
With such a good programme-and-
poster name, Valda Aveling has one key
to success in her possession. This girl
pianist gave her good-bye to Sydney
concert-goers in the Town Hall last
week. Her blue velvet frock, with its
ground-length folds and puffed sleeves
had a brightly-blooming stage for set-
ting. The committee working up the
fund to send the Sydney girl to England
for further study had been decorating
the Town Hall from two-thirty to half-
past five that afternoon. Mrs. Robert
Dixson had brought masses of flowers
from her famed gardens at Castle Hill.
Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs. Macartney and
Mrs. Hope Gibson were others who
robbed North Shore line gardens.
Window boxes lush with sweet-peas,
lilies and pansies outlined the stage,
golden standards of arum-lilies and trail-
ing greenery in which pendants of huge
pansies were linked stood about it.
Espinosa, chairman of the British
Ballet organisation, arrived in Sydney
from London last week. He and his wife
were welcomed at a sherry party given
by the Federal Association of Teachers
of Dancing, at the Wentworth. Madame
Espinosa (Louise Kay) is a former Syd-
ney girl, known to theatre-goers of a few
years back as the beautiful Eve Kelland.
While in Sydney with her celebrated hus-
band she will found a scholarship
fund for Australian dancing girls who
wish to study abroad. She will also try
to establish a benevolent fund for needy
members of the British Ballet organisa-
tion in Australasia. Espinosa will visit
Maoriland, Melbourne and S’Africa for
purpose of examinations before returning
to England.
This Letter met artist Mary Edwards
the other day just as she was staggering
home with a long list of names culled to
protest against the cutting-down of the
old fig-tree in Hyde Park. Mary had
worked like a beaver, and she must be
pleased with all other good tree-lovers
that the council decided that the tree did
not spoil the view of the War Memorial.
This is the second time the old Moreton
Bay has been saved from the wood-
chopper. But Mary had pictorial as well
as arboreal news. The portrait of
Madame Pao, which she painted some
time ago, and which was shown with the
Archibald Prize entries, has been bought
by the University to add to its art col-
lection. The portrait has that style and
sureness of touch for which Mary is
noted.


g
NATION At
ENCYCLOPEDIA
\cmm £l2*l2*o value
TEN LARGE VOLUMES
This is an absolutely modern up-to-the-minute encyclopedia which will be of inestimable value at
home, in the schoolroom and in the office. The set comprises ten large volumes, beautifully printed,
handsomely bound and profusely illustrated with full-page colored plates and maps, illustrations from
photographs and line drawings.
By special arrangement with the publishers in America we are able to offer a limited number of these
fine sets at approximately one-third of the regular price.
KEEP ABREAST OF TO-DAY
The National Encyclopedia is not a hastily compiled work of doubtful authority. It was compiled
by 1062 eminent scholars in America under the editorship of Henry Suzzallo, Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D.
In the list of contributors given at the beginning of each volume will be seen the names of professors
with world-wide reputations as authorities on the subject of their articles.
The result is a magnificent work presenting all knowledge through modern eyes.
CASH OR TERMS
An order form is attached below to enable you to conveniently place
an early order and thus be assured of securing one of the limited
number of sets available. The cash price is 84/-; if desired a set may
be secured by sending a deposit of 12/6 with order and eight further
monthly payments of 10/- (total terms price £4/12/6).
When the present supply is exhausted no more sets will be available
at this low figure,.
PPM®
warn
■■l
hi
¥aM*:wi
, <*<
«lf 111
<L«t
******
smms
iliaiilf
■
Bn
jc
"-‘•r
11111
m
iMMill
i m
% *l<
IHliiiil
k^ixwsi
Hnß
■
i
■
■
■
Hi
Mimm
■m
i i
bHb
ISll
i
■i
PJ
fg
THE MASTERPIECE
LIBRARIES
MASTERPIECES OF ADVENTURE.
Strange happenings in strange places—tales of con-
flict and daring by the greatest authors of all time
—O. Henry, Thomas Hardy, W. H. Hudson, Bret
Harte, Charles Dickens, R. L. Stevenson, Jack
London, Donn Byrne and many others. De Luxe
edition. Twenty-eight stories in four attractively
bound volumes in a box. Size Bin. x s|in. Four
volumes, 15/- (post 1/2).
MASTERPIECES OF MYSTERY.
Stories of criminals and the guardians of the law.
Ghost stories. Blood-curdling tales tinged with
mysticism. Stories mixing mirth with murder. All
from the pens of such master writers as Conan Doyle, Edgar Allan Poe, Wilkie
Collins, Mark Twain and many others. Thirty-seven stories in four volumes,
attractively bound and boxed. Size Bin. x s|in. Four volumes, 15/- (post 1/6).
THESE TWO SETS ARE WONDERFUL VALUE!
FEATURES
1. 10 Large Quarto Volumes.
2. 6000 Pages.
3. 6,000,000 Words.
4. 74 Distinguished Depart-
mental Editors.
5. 1062 Famous Contributors.
6. All Principal Articles Signed
by Famous Contributors.
7. 33,000 Article Headings
Alphabetically Arranged.
8. 15,000 Cross-References.
S. 3000 Half-tone Illustrations.
10. 3500 Line-cut Illustrations.
11. 51 Full-page Plates in Color.
12. 102 Full-page and Double-
page Maps in Color.
13. 2000 Charts, Diagrams, Line
Maps.
14. Large, Beautiful Modern
Type.
15. Genuine Gold Stamping on
Covers of Volumes.
16. Popular Edition in Handsome
Maroon Cloth with Morocco
Grain.
17. Beautiful Opaque Specially
Made Heavy Paper.
18. Size of Volume 7% x 10j| x
21 inches.
19. Specially Bound to Enable
Volume to Open Flat.
SEND FOR_YOUR
Angus & Robertson, Ltd., ■"> MM
sYj?NEY. reaBrh street ’ ORDER FORM
Please send me the set(s) marked X below. Indicate A or B terms when ordering the
National Encyclopedia.
(a) The National Encyclopedia (10 vols.) 84/- (cash within 30 days).
(b) The National Encyclopedia (10 vols.) (12/6 with order and 10/- monthly,
total £4/12/6).
Masterpieces of Mystery (4 vols.) 15/- (post 1/2 extra).
Masterpieces of Adventure (4 vols.) 15/- (post 1/6 extra).
NAME
ADDRESS
I‘reight on the National Encyclopedia is extra, but in no instance will it exceed 7/6.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO HUBERT STANLEY HAYES last heard
of at Launceston in Tasmania but whose
whereabouts are at present unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court indorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charge in the
petition of ELSIE ALICE HAYES of Laun-
ceston in Tasmania praying for a dissolution
of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in re-
spect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid on or
before the 26th day of August 1938 an appear-
ance must be entered at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
TO BEATRICE THELMA FERRALL for-
merly of 16 Sutherland Road Armadale in
the State of Victoria Married Woman but
now of parts unknown.
AND TO WALTER MARSHALL formerly of
16 Sutherland Road Armadale in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT LESLIE
TERENCE FERRALL husband of you the said
BEATRICE THELMA FERRALL has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground that since the celebration of mar-
riage the said Beatrice Thelma Ferrall has been
guilty of adultery with the said Walter
Marshall and one Alan Hoy UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne in the
State of Victoria within fourteen days of the
date of the publication of this notice and file
an answer in this suit within a further ten
days the case may proceed in your absence.
MAHONY, O BRIEN & HARTY,
20 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1228 of 1938.
BETWEEN ENA IRIS FOGARTY Petitioner
And MATTHEW JOSEPH FOGARTY
Respondent.
TO MATTHEW JOSEPH FOGARTY late of
119 Military Road Neutral Bay New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ENA IRIS
FOGARTY has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Fourteenth day
of October One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the said
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of July, 1938.
For the Registrar in Divorce.
(1.5.) T. THORNBOROUGH.
Clerk in Divorce.
ROY ELLIOTT TEBBUTT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 100 of 1938.
lETWEEN OLIVE ANN DICKENS Petitioner
And SAMUEL EDWARD DICKENS Re-
spondent.
fO SAMUEL EDWARD DICKENS late of
Broken Hill New South Wales.
rAKE NOTICE that the said OLIVE ANN
DICKENS of 47 Mica Street Broken Hill;-af ore-
aid has commenced a suit against you in this
lonorable Court and is applying for a disso-
ution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
or three years and upwards without just cause
,r excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
equired to enter an appearance to the said
uit at the proper office of this Honorable
3ourt on or before the Fourteenth day ot
Dctober One thousand nine hundred and
hirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
o within the time limited or obtaining further
ime the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
,c heard and determined your absence notwith-
tanding. A copy of the petition hlcd lieiein
nay be had on application to the undeisigned
ree of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of July, 1938-
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) T. THORNBOROUGH
Clerk in Divorce.
CECIL F. HURLEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
ioner, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
On the same night last week the Town
Hall accommodated Richard Tauber,
singing enchanting German songs, and the
French community in the shape of the
Alliance Francaise celebrating the fall of
the Bastille. But the walls are thick.
While Tauber proceeded to work himself
into an ecstacy over his wife’s version of
a brave tree there was no hint of jaunty
American dance music on the floor
below.
M. and Madame Claudon were among
guests at the official table at the Alliance
Ball. Madame wore a boldly-patterned
floral frock with a black background,
and she put into practice some of the
talk we have heard about woollen even-
ing wraps—hers was of off-white face-
cloth and it hung in a long cape straight
from shoulders to ankles. Madame Coc-
kerton wore black and sprays of cycla-
men upon her corsage and in her hair.
Among others invited were Colonel and
Mrs. Wright with daughter Margaret
wearing a frock of bark-brown moire
and the downy fluffiness of white ospreys
around her shoulders. Another member
of the younger generation was Collette
Reddin, whose coat from Pekin showed
embroidered dragons and pagodas upon
white satin. Collette, who sometimes
takes part in the Alliance plays, speaks
French perfectly, for she has a French
mother.
About 320 young things had the time
of their lives at The Palms, Alexander-
avenue, during the “Crescent Moon” Ball,
for none of them minded the crowded
dance floor, the thick smoke or the fact
that the orchestra leader was liable at
any moment to invite any one at random
to come up on the platform and croon.
Some said “yes,” others “no,” but even
the refusers got applause to cover their
blushes. Among incidentals that helped
with the profits were a Dutch auction
wherein Bill Harrison collected a bottle
of champagne as to the manner born ;
the raffle of a pound note, a Monte
Carlo and a balloon dance in which
everybody taking part had to buy at least
one balloon. Supper was at cabaret
tables and when the full moon was a
little lower in the sky and the early-
morning frost had almost settled on the
grass there was hot soup to cheer every-
one for the way home.
Among the committee people was Jean
Wallace Mitchell, who had a little candy-
pink coat to slip over her black moire
gown. Joan Clark mixed a fuschia frock
and a burgundy coat. Yvonne Richard-
son wore blue and arrived late, after
“Rose Marie” (she is also busy with re-
hearsals for “The Belle of New York”).
Nancy Alderton was in blossom-pink
chiffon. Dennis Gerity, who wrote the
“Crescent Moon” music, gave people
present an inkling of what it’s like by
playing a couple of songs. Dr. Deborah
Buffer Murphy came along and enjoyed
herself so much that she stayed tiff the
end. Among her guests were the Mac
Knoxes.
At the Tauber concerts rows of seats
were placed so closely together that the
audience had difficulty in climbing over
one another’s knees. A dangerous opera-
tion at close quarters,, even with apolo-
gies, for sometimes the various knees
stuck as people were going out, deeming
the concert over and an impasse arose
with Tauber back on the platform to
oblige with yet another encore. The
classical listeners were easily out-
numbered by battalions of stamping
feet demanding more of the over-
ripe film fare. “House Sold Out”
was the usual sign over the Town Hall
steps after the last of the 2s. seats in
the side wings of the stage had been put
on the market at the ticket window.
Audiences came in and out of evening-
dress, but had kindred ideas about fur
coats. An exception was Mrs. Alan
Stuart, who accompanied her husband
to one concert wearing an osprey cape of
deepening shades of lilac. The same
evening Mrs. Chester Guest’s cape was
of silver foxes worn over a frock
flowered upon a black background. Joan
Burke, who is off to England in three
weeks’ time, wore a long black velvet
coat with a green scarf tucked into the
snugly-buttoned neck. Mrs. E. C. Tron-
son’s black coat with blue fox collars pro-
tected a gown of white satin. Daughter
Peggy’s fur coat revealed the blue hem
of her skirt and the plum-colored neck-
line of her little velvet blouse. Mrs. Leith
Gillespie wrapped a squirrel coat about
a powdery-blue frock. Many wives had
their husbands’ company without any
persuasion (the latter incentive being
necessary in many cases for the celebrity
concerts). Dr. and Mrs. Roy Chambers
were among the many couples who heard
Tauber because they both wanted to,
but it was the doctor who actually booked
the seats and tried to find out before-
hand what was on the programme.
Mrs. Richard Tauber has made her
presence felt in Melbourne in many ways
—by her movie camera, by the length,
breadth and insurance premiums paid on
her furs and fur coats, by her very high
heels, worn even with waterproof coats
on rainy days. In and out of Menzies
lounge she has worn the divided skirt
idea for dinner frocks and, in spite of the
cold, scarlet toenails unmeshed of stock-
ings. But so far this city hasn’t been
given a first release of her diaphragm
frocks. One which she wore on board
ship was in two shades of blue chiffon.
It is cut low at the back and in the front
has a cut-out portion just over the
diaphragm. The idea might be useful to
singing teachers when instructing their
pupils how to breathe from the abdomen.
From Spencer Shier’s studio comes the
portrait of Roberta, twin daughter of
knight Robert Best and his lady.
Roberta likes swimming and riding, plays
tennis and badminton, can persuade
plants in the garden to grow bigger and
better flowers and is of cultivating
her own window-boxes for each of the
four seasons. She also knows quite a lot
about the arts and for several years has
enjoyed particularly her lessons in paint-
ing and balleFdancing. Recently she
has become very keen on drawing and is
making good progress in the direction of
black-and-white work.
Time and place synchronised happily
last week when Gertrude Concannon,
who was passing through Melbourne,
telephoned Gertrude Johnson, for the
same evening Miss Johnson and the
National Theatre were welcoming
Espinosa, and Miss Concannon was
promptly added as a guest of honor. For
13 years she has been touring the world
with songs she sings in 10 languages.
The National Theatre party packed out
St. Peters’ Hall, where the evening’s piece
de resistance was “Harlequinade,” a
story in mime performed ip old English
village costumes and produced by Mrs.
Elise James.
While Madame Louise Kay is in Sydney
(after 20 years spent mostly in London
and Paris) she means to put on her walk-
ing-shoes for a roam around William-
street, Madame says she just missed
being born in Woolloomooloo. Her birth-
place, near William-street, is probably
demolished to make way for garages and
shops, but she means to look for it and
for the site of her old school, only a few
blocks away.
Eunice .Weston's cocktail party at
Scott’s was a welcome to Espinosa and
to his wife, Madame Louise Kay.
Espinosa is spry as ever. Madame, who
wore black with a skunk-trimmed seal-
skin coat, knows how to cope with an
Edwardian veil ; hers just covered her
eyes and then, after divers twists upon
her hat, was tied in a knot beneath her
chin. Among other guests were the
hostess's parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. B.
Weston, a couple who enjoy ’a party as
well as anyone provided Mr. Weston can
feel the reassurance of his best friend in
his pocket —his pipe, that he lights up on
the way home. In December he’ll be 80
and his wife 83.
Among others who attended were M.
Paul Bibron, who learnt dancing from
Espinosa’s father, Prof, and Mrs. Agar
and Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Plews, Mrs.
Piews wearing a violet frock and hat
with her fur coat. Dr. and Mrs. Keith
Fairley and Mrs. Eccles Mackay were
also there, Mrs. Mackay wearing black
with a dash of chartreuse green for her
beads, belt and bolero. Espinosa an-
nounces that the British Ballet Organisa-
tion is considering an annual scholarship
for Australian dancers tenable in Lon-
don. The winning candidate, who must
be at least 15 years of age, will be in the
care of Madame Kay while she is abroad,
her fare will be paid both ways, and she
is guaranted a four weeks’ professional
engagement as well as her tuition. W. S.
Kent Hughes and Dr. Eccles Mackay are
chairman and treasurer of the provisional
committe organised to raise funds for
the return fare, which if the prospective
ballerina justifies hopes might not be
needed.
Kirsten Flagstad lifted up her magnifi-
cent voice and Melbourne was hers.
There is repose about her art; while she
sings she neither gesticulates nor moves
about the stage. Her right hand is on
the oiano, her left by her side, and her
gold sandals are immovable upon the
strip of white carpet. The prima donna’s
customary bow she interprets as a little
bend-of-the-knee curtsey. Her gown on
Saturday night was a masterpiece of
perfect cutting and tailoring in aqua-
colored faille, with heavy gold em-
broideries upon the corsage and a train
falling from the waist and lined with
the same gold material Her fair hair
was unadorned, but she wore diamond
ring, bracelet and pendant and pearl
earrings. After the concert the usual
crowd gathered on the steps, but Madame
dodged the extra adulation and slipped
away quietly by the back stairs to her
taxi waiting in the Town Hall yard.
Creeping quietly but not unnoticed on
to the heads of the audience was the
Edwardian coiffure, surely a deathtrap
when it doesn’t stay put. The hair is
brushed up from the back of the neck to
be held high with pins, combs, flowers
and a speck of willpower. Near the
crown of the head it meets masses of
curls which tumble as far forward as the
forehead. Most successful of such coif-
fures present belonged to Janet Moran, it
stayed firm and showed no sign of
coming to grief although Janet’s school-
girl sister Anne watched as if she hoped
the worst would happen any moment.
Mrs. Massey Burnside had her hair
coaxed into a few light curls on the top
of her head, and Mrs. C. R. Duncan’s
coiffure was a soft roll and a halo of
black velvet. Among mothers present
with their sons were Mrs. J. G. Purves
and Bill and Mrs. Frank Stuart and Nevil.
Mrs. Neville Fraser varied the idea of
fur trimming for a long velvet coat, with
narrow strips of sable along the shoulders
and down the sleeves of her burgundy
wrap. Also in the audience was Marjorie
Beeby, a daughter of Judge and Mrs.
Beeby, and a N singer who has only recently
returned from America. “Maestro” Spiva-
kovsky enjoyed technical conversation
with Kath Goodail and some of her
pupils during the interval. The Taubers
were also in the house, even those who
weren’t present in time for their entry
complete with applause couldn’t miss the
landmark of Mrs. Tauber’s white fur cap
and luxurious white fox cape. Tauber,
like many others present, was particularly
interested to hear some of his repertoire
(Greig’s “A Dream” and Schubert’s
“Impatience”) sung in an entirely dif-
ferent interpretation by this great
soprano.
Gertrude Concannon, whose photo-
graph is by Broothorn, passed through
Melbourne last week on her way to
Queensland from England by way of
Burma and Singapore. With her soprano
voice as an asset she has managed to do
a great deal of travelling since she left
her home town, Maryborough, 13 years
ago. She was met in Melbourne by Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, who was instrumental in
organising in Brisbane one of the benefit
functions which helped to send Miss
Concannon’s promising soprano overseas.
You can’t keep a good girl down.
Minnie Everett, who knows all there is
to know about stage technique, has
broken out in a new direction, at an
age which she doesn’t look. Minnie has
opened a mannequin academy to be run
in conjunction with her stage craft
school. She had her first footlights job
at the age of 13, and for 30 years was
the Firm’s ballet mistress. In 1914 she
went to S’Africa to produce a long and
successful J.C.W. season of pantomime
and musical comedy. This was the first
of her trips. She was sent four times to
Europe and the U.S.A., and for one sea-
son produced “High Jinks” at the Adel-
phi, in London. Minnie can’t be tricked
on Gilbert and Sullivan. During rehear-
sals for these Savoy operas she can detect
errors without reference to the script
(sometimes much to the perturbation of
the orchestra). For J.C.W. she has been
producer during a dozen G. and S. sea-
sons, spread over a period of 20 years.
Indomitable Miss Everett just managed
by strength of will to get to the opening
of her mannequin school. She came
from a fortnight’s attack of influenza.
The room was only just ready for a
parade. It was 6 o’clock when the last
props arrived and the last carpenters left.
One of the girls who went through the
routine during the evening was Carrie
Moore, 15-year-old niece of the Carrie
Moore.


r New Gland Treatment.
.oss of .youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
f A«rrv” Ctl ° ning - 821 GLAND TONIC
, * BL “ IS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
x p ™*lo/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &CO.
_ chemists,
Al 9 George St., Sydney.
fg
BRAN DAL ERrS
IPS
m
%
(PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDADKR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
success
—. ...hea
... happiness
PSYCHOLOGY »
First Volume FREE,
shows how to attain
your life’s objective.
Prepared in the form of a
Home Course,, and written in
simple language that everyone
can understand, the scientific
principles of commonsense psy-
si Oft
chology ave now available... .Shelley Castle, world’s
acknowledged leader in practical psychology, shows
how to apply it all to YOU .how YOU, in any
walk of business or private life, may lift yourself
OUT of the workaday ruck, to greater Health, new
Happiness, increasing Success... .Marvellously
REAL... .Vital... .Fascinating. Decide now, AT
ONCE, to revitalise your whole life....cost is
negligible, progress is rapid reward is VAST!
Send Coupon for Free Copy of First Volume.
SHELLEY CASTLE DIVISION, MODERN
RESEARCH LABORATORIES, 119' PHILLIP
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send me free and without obligation, the first
Shelley Castle Volume, with explanatory data.
Name (Mr., Mrs., Miss)
Address
Age Occupation B. 20/7/’3B.
NORTH or
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. Want”: Brain as well as brawn
develops well in N. Queensland. From
Townsville Grammar came Dr. F. H. S.
Roberts, one of the band of scientists
who beat prickly-pear with the cacto-
blastis. Charles Hopkins, another Towns-
ville doctor, is studying tropical diseases
at Samarai. Two legal youngsters
trained under the shadow of Castle Hill
came firs* in the State in their examina-
tions this year. And the 1938 Queens-
land Rhodes scholar, Chester Parker,
who put up a record by getting “As”
in all subjects at his University senior
exam., hails from T.G.S.
* * * *
So many politicians and officials have
gone or are going north that Australia
will tend to be top-heavy for the next
few weeks. A. M. Blain, M.P., is cam-
paigning in the N.T., ahead of Interior
Minister McEwen. The Defence Minis-
ter’s private secretary is inspecting the
Darwin-Sydney air route. McEwen’s
N.T. Expedition is now on trek—with
the Minister, Scholfield and Rankin,
Busy Days in Darwin
“Eumungalan”: Busy, indeed! The
Government Gazette records that the
M.V. Maroubra will depart for the Daly
River three times between now and Dec.
5 ; the Administrator vouches for it over
his own signature.
Then the Government Secretary
weighs in with the news that the Public
Library will be open a few hours a
day. The Secretary to the Northern
Australia Tender Board wants to hear
from prospective purchasers of the wood-
and-iron humpy which used to house the
copper at Brock’s Creek. Then comes:
I, Charles Lydiard Aubrey Abbott, in
the name of the Governor-General of Aus-
tralia, do hereby appoint Patrick Reilly,
J.P. special magistrate.
Low Wah gets a license to slaughter—
livestock, of course. And Victor Thomp-
son, “a member of the Executive Coun-
cil, acting for and on behalf of the
Minister for State for the Interior,” cer-
tifies that a school at Alice Springs is
efficient. Two Administrators —Govern-
ment and Railways—announce that the
King’s Birthday is a holiday. A Wills
Ordinance and a Dog Act are baptised.
There is a long probate notice dealing
with the late Abdul Khalick, camel
driver.
A column of print is devoted to tenders
for the retimbering of a well near the
old Pine Creek police-station. Dimen-
sions of well, 30ft. x 4ft. x 2ft. The
tenderer must “build a penthouse
over the hole to prevent debris falling
down while repairs are being effected.”
Wave Hill police-station is to be sold —
a new one was needed about half a
century ago. Blocks of single officers’
quarters are to be built in the capital.
This time, J. McEwen, Minister of State,
signs— to show, presumably, that there
is work for everybody.
But the last item in the week’s work
seems to me the most binding. It is an
Ordinance to amend the Methylated
Spirits law, and it is almost as long in
vital substance as Hitler’s German con-
stitution: —
No aboriginal shall be in possession of
any methylated spirits.
No get out of it, either. The thing is
signed not only by the Acting Governor-
General but by the Minister.
Yes, Darwin is shuffling out of its
long siesta —a new era is dawning.
“E.H.M.”: Queensland is about to
become a million-State. In going after
the next million Cape York Peninsula,
which claims the only birthrate over 30
in the Commonwealth, should receive
attention. The last Lands Department
map gives the total area of the State
as 429,000,000 acres, 46,107,000 acres
being marked unoccupied. Most of the
emptiness is in the Cape York Penin-
sula.
*k
“E.V.”: Queensland claims ownership
of large quantities of sea, stretching
north to the Papuan coast, on the west
250 miles beyond Thursday Island, and
on the east to outside the Barrier Reef,
sometimes over 100 miles from the
mainland. The maintenance of the claim
to these waters and their islands is im-
portant from a defensive viewpoint. An
enemy establishing himself in Torres
Strait could command approaches to
the Gulf and the N.Q. mineral-fields,
to the main overseas aerial route
which runs across the Gulf, and to the
long stretch of calm water which lies
inside the Barrier Reef. Despite the
vital importance of these avenues to Aus-
tralia, not only are they neglected defen-
sively, but outer Great Barrier resources
are left to Asiatic beche-de-mer and
shell-fishers.
Ms.P., Senator Cooper, the
Administrator, seven officials
and five drivers. And on July
26 the Prime Minister, his wife,
a daughter. Minister Foil,
Senator Collings and daughter,
Senator Courtice and wife, three
other politicians and nine secre-
taries will arrive at Townsville.
“ Don't make eyes at me! Watch where you're going!"
“Physalia”: A necessary outcome of
the tourist influx to Great Barrier Reef
waters has been the proclamation of
nearly 80 islands as national parks. Bird,
animal, plant and marine life upon them
is protected under substantial penalties
against the senseless depredations of
morons. The next step should be to
initiate a few prosecutions against the
more irresponsible type who-will not pay
attention to notices or warnings. Even
if they don’t come back, Queensland
will be well rid of visitors obsessed by
the destruction complex.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Australian maps? A
quarter of a century ago we had a Jap
cook on the roads with a mob of cattle,
and it was left to him to settle an argu-
ment as to the distance between Norman-
ton and Burketown (N.Q.). From his
valise the Japanese unearthed a series of
maps showing sections of our coastline
from Cooktown to Wyndham. Drawn to
scale they exhibited everything worth-
while, though the spelling of rivers, creeks
and inlets wasn’t accurate. My offer of a
fiver was refused. They were printed in
Japan, and I haven’t seen any Australian
edition to come up to them since.
* * * *
“Retired Screw”: That ingenious mur-
derer Cockroach (B. 1/6/’3B) achieved
notoriety also by a remarkable escape.
After over 20 years on Rottnest he was
given practically the freedom of the
island ; with a fellow-murderer he built
a catamaran on which they escaped to
the mainland —a voyage of well over 30
miles. Cockroach accompanied his
fellow-escapee on a social visit to Cool-
gardie, a jaunt of nearly 400 miles, suf-
fering severely from lack of water, on
one stretch doing a perish of four days.
Arrived at Coolgardie Cockroach didn’t
linger. While his pal went back to dur-
ance he headed north-west across barren
Ularring, completely disappearing from
civilised ken. About four months later
he turned up at Roebourne —home!
After it all, the home folks proved un-
kind. Having long memories, they hadn’t
forgotten his expertness as a killer, and
the very first time he attempted to steal
another buck’s wife they informed the
police.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Add to the rapidly-growing
list of synthetic trade-names such as
“Radiotrician” and “Beautician,” one
that caught my eye whilst driving through
a Brisbane (Q.) suburb —a sign-painter
who called himself a “Signologist.”
* * * *
“Sea Horse”: The average Australian
is singularly unimaginative in his distri-
bution of nomenclature. Take the good
old Devil. How many Devil’s Elbows,
of road and river, are there on this
continent? Then the Tasmanian devil—
the fiercest feature of which was its
name. As for the sea—well, attending
the funeral of a Jap diver in Broome,
we were told a devil-fish killed him. Fur-
ther investigation showed it was a
diamond-fish that fouled his lines. Cray-
fishing on the reefs of the Abrolhos
(W.A.), Mick made a sudden lunge with a
six-pronged spear and landed a “devil-
fish.” It was an octopus with a 12ft.
spread. Harmless enough, but credited
with satanic qualities ever since Victor
Hugo wrote “Toilers of the Sea.”
* * * *
“Retired Screw”: Few will believe that
a man could still be alive after suffering
three weeks of complete starvation, yet
W.A.’s penal records hold such a case.
In 1884 a gang of ticket-of-leave men
tried to emulate the Kellys, beginning
with the murder of a policeman at
Beverley, and ending with a pitched battle
with police and volunteers under John
McKenna, during which two of the des-
peradoes were shot. The leader Carbury
was tried and sentenced to death. Granted
the three clear Sundays universally recog-
nised as the condemned’s privilege under
British law, he went on hunger strike
with the intention of cheating Ketch.
They were hard in those days ; so the
gallows won. When the fatal Monday
arrived Carbury was so weak that he had
to be seated on a chair ; and so emaciated
that doubts were expressed whether his
weight would be sufficient to bring about
a quick death. But, still hard, the gaol
authorities made certain by attaching
weights to his feet.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A strange accident ended
the life of a Brisbane man who came
almost unscathed through A.I.F. service
from 1914 to the very end. He was
amusing his 12-year-old son by pretend-
ing to throw a safety razor-blade into
his mouth, chew and swallow it, and
then pick it from between his lips. The
trick, of course, was done by palming
the blade during the throwing movement,
going through the motions of chewing,
swallowing and regurgitation, a.nd then
putting it between his lips in the final
pass. But, the blade slipped from his
hold as he made the throwing movement,
sailed through the purposely wide-opened
mouth, lodged in the back of his throat,
and was swallowed. Despite first-aid,
X-ray, and two operations, he died four
days later. i
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Longreach is the only
town in Queensland, if not in Australia,
where both hot and cold water are laid
on from the town mains. The hot supply
comes from bores, and, though impos-
sible for drinking or gardening purposes,
is great for laundry work. It is not so
hot as the Winton bore supply, which
scalds the town firemen at a blaze, but
has to be tank-cooled before use in
baths. A standard Longreach joke on
an unwary stranger is to get him under
the shower after the cool water has run
out of the tank and listen for new words.
The “cold” comes from the Long Reach
on the Thomson River, three miles
away whence also came the town’s
name. It, too, is unsuitable for drinking,
although it has made gardens possible
at last. But Barcaldine bore-water grows
the best flowers, fruit and vegetables in
the central-west, and also the only com-
mercial date plantation in Australia.
Some of the bunches go 1501 b.


An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALHING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS,
<ll Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - P 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
Tff#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RAIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Handy Midget Set.
Two small single-valve super-regenera-
tive receivers were described in B.
5/l/’3B as being suitable basic designs
for what are known in the U.S.A. as
“pocket-sets.” Both these receivers used
a single-triode of the 30-type, one calling
for a maximum plate-voltage of no more
than 18 volts and the other needing 45
volts. Either of these little receivers,
used out in the open in any metropolitan
suburb, will give clear headphone recep-
tion of the local broadcasters.
One of the tricks of radio for many
years has been the employment of a
double-grid valve as a space-charge detec-
tor, wherein surprising sensitivity can be
obtained by the simple expedient of re-
versing the control and auxiliary grids.
Many of the earlier battery broadcast
receivers for headphone use employed
tetrodes in this manner, followed by a
single-audio stage. The circuit shows a
tetrode of suitable characteristics applied
to a “pocket set.”
The most suitable valve for the pur-
pose was found to be the Mullard
PM IDG, which is a two-volt double-grid
valve taking two volts on the filament at
The circuit diagram with condenser and resistor values. L1/L2 and L3-L4 are discussed in the text.
. 1 ampere. The 49 type can be used, but
the PM IDG was found to be more active
as a ready super-regenerator in this par-
ticular circuit. The auxiliary grid, marked
SG in the circuit, is used as the control
grid, and the control grid, CG, as the
element for introducing super-regenera-
tion in conjunction with the two inter-
rupter coils, L 3 and L 4. The grid coil,
drawn in the form of a square frame,
Ll/L2, is nothing more than the familiar
tapped Reinartz-coil arrangement, with
the grid to earth portion tuned by a
.00025mfd. variable condenser. The few
turns used between earth and plate
through the .00016 mfd variable con-
denser, plus the .002 mica fixed con-
denser, are for regeneration, without
which the circuit would be useless. The
.002 mica condenser is not strictly neces-
sary, but is a safeguard against the pos-
sibility of a faulty reaction condenser.
Without the fixed safety condenser a
short in the reaction condenser might
mean damage to the valve.
The dimensions of Ll/L2 depend upon
the individual design of the receiver. The
turns are wound around the outside Ol
the carrying case, and if the coils are
first made experimentally to determine
complete coverage of the broadcast band,
final windings can be substituted. The
reaction winding should be roughly one-
third of the number of turns in the grid
winding.
The only portion of the receiver requir-
ing careful attention is the construction
of the interrupter-coil unit. Both coils
are wound in slabs, with 1000 turns each
of any fine-gauge insulated wire. The
writer made this unit up on a fin. dowel
with three 2yin. diameter disks spaced
|in. apart and glued on the dowel. The
disks may be of thin sheet bakelite or
any insulating material. Both coils are
wound in the same direction and the ends
of the windings soldered to tags fitted to
the outside disks for subsequent ease of
wiring. The R.F. choke in the plate cir-
cuit is a four-section Eddystone type.
If the circuit is followed carefully no
trouble should be experienced in getting
the valve to oscillate normally, but if
super-regeneration is not present look
to the connections to the interrupter coils.
Try reversing the' leads to one of the
coils. Although this receiver super-
regenerates very quietly, the fact that the
circuit is working thus will be evident
by a vast increase in sensitivity.
The handling of the controls must be
well learnt; it is not just a case of rotat-
ing the tuning control. The reaction
condenser has an important part to play
in the action of the valve. As the detec-
tor goes into oscillation, it is interrupted
at a lower frequency than that of the
tuned-grid circuit. The valve is checked
from actually going into oscillation, and
by this means the sensitivity is increased
enormously. With the grid and reaction
coils wound outside the small case in
the form of a frame it should be possible
to hear the local stations well, provided
the receiver is not used in a badly-
screened location.
If more strength is required a short
length of wire can be attached to the
grid end of the grid coil as an external
aerial; about 10ft. of wire is all that is
neccessary. A long aerial attached
directly to the grid would prevent the
valve from regenerating, but a long wire
can be attached to the grid through a
very small capacity, such as 50 mmfds.
In any case, the receiver should not be
used with an external aerial where other
broadcast listeners are in the vicinity, as
a super-regenerator without an R.F.-
coupling stage can cause considerable in-
terference with other receivers.
The rheostat shown in the circuit as
eight ohms in the filament of the
PM IDG should be a fixed resistor of
this value where dry cells at three volts
are used for the filament supply. The 45-
volt B battery used is an extra-small one
by Ever-Ready, of the type LD4S,
made especially for portable-test kits for
radio servicing.
D. B. K.
Radiolympia and Television.
This year’s exhibition at London’s
Radiolympia will be devoted primarily
to television. Demonstrations of tele-
vision receivers will be given almost con-
tinuously. The 8.8. C. will transmit pro-
grammes from the studio at Olympia
which viewers will be able to see from
any point in the services area by the aid
of a modern vision receiver. This will
be the first time that manufacturers have
been able actually to demonstrate their
products, and visitors will be able to
form some conclusion as to the merits of
the various receivers and to determine
for themselves what progress has been
made in television in the last year.
D. B. K.
Ashbox Midget Results.
“F.M.C.” Duntroon, F.C.T., writes:
. “The Ashbox Midget (described in B.
15/6/’3B) is working extremely well. In
the daytime 2GB, 2CH and 2CR come in
at good strength and at night-time all the
B-class stations fairly make the speaker
vibrate. The cricket Tests have been
heard at good volume from 3AR and
3WV.”
[Although this little receiver was de-
signed primarily for local stations, it is
evident that good long-distance results
can be obtained in country locations. —
D. B. K.]
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location: Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver: ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver
(B. 28/4/’37).
Of chief interest since the last log are
the new VLR sessions. At 3 p.m.
VK2ME and VLR open at about equal
volume, both very strong. At the same
time Daventry, on the altered frequen-
cies, is very fine through GSD, good on
GSB and GSE, which has now replaced
GSO, poor on GSG and not much better
on GSI, which is replacing SF for Western
Canada. In direct comparison, Berlin^on
the 16- and 19-metre bands, is very good,
especially through DJB and DJE. GSP
has improved in the morning sessions,
and in the midday session GSI is now as
good as GSD and GSB.
PCI is still the best 31-metre station at
about 10.15 a.m. Next in order of re-
ception are DJN and GSB. GSG does
well in the mornings but not at night.
On the broadcast band 2YA in M.L. is
heard strongly in the evenings. Two of
the best stations here are 2CR and 3WV.
On 2/7/’3B 2YA was heard clearly
using a short wire aerial attached to the
iron roof of a garage, and no more than
Bft. high. Best direction is east-south-
east, which may have some bearing on
the reception. At present night reception
on the short waves is not very good ex-
cept for a few on 31 metres.
K. B. G.
What's What in Radio.
Television pictures are being received
in Brighton on the south coast of Eng-
land from the Eiffel Tower station in
Paris. The distance is a little under 200
miles, and the receiver, used by W. R.
Westhead, is at a position 330 ft. above
sea-level.
v *i : <l> $
A private television service will be in
operation in Bombay, India, by the end
of the year.
Radio Comment.
“Norwood”: Starting off by removing
a section of the wooden support under-
neath a chassis in its cabinet to facilitate
access to an awkwardly-placed padding
condenser, I now cut a rectangle right
out of such boards, the dimensions run-
ning to within an inch under the exterior
(overall) measurements of the chassis. The
mechanical support for the chassis is not
impaired in any way, since the strain
falls on the outer segments of the board,
while the earthing capacity of the chassis
frame still ensures efficient baffling. All
underneath parts are readily accessible
for inspection and repair, without the
loss of time involved in removing chassis
and disconnecting speaker and escut-
cheon, while valve-breakage is virtually
impossible.
* * * *
“Querex”: Although the modern tele-
vision receiver uses a cathode-ray tube,
there is still scope for mechanical-optical
methods of scanning. An article in
“Television and Short-Wave World”
(England) for June this year makes sug-
gestions in this direction for the experi-
menter. One high-speed scanner consists
merely of a number of polished-steel
balls clamped between the edges of two
heavy brass disks. It is considered that
by such means the experimenter can
build a high definition mechanical re-
ceiver equal in results to those using
C.R. tubes.
if :|: *
“VK2NO”: Weight is the deciding
factor in making any portable equipment
and it is surprising how this can be
materially reduced. A microphone trans-
former for portable 56mc. must fit in-
side very limited space. After trying
sundry old audio transformers with the
object of winding a low-resistance
primary, and finding the smallest of them
too big for the purpose, my eye fell
on an old pair of headphones. One pole-
piece was removed intact with its high-
resistance winding, and over this was
wound a primary consisting of about 200
turns of 38-DSC wire. It made the most
compact of all mike transformers, and is
quite effective with a high-gain single-
button carbon mike of the modern tele-
phone inset type.
Amateur Chatter.
No “dyed-in-the-wool” amateur is
likely to forsake his hobby completely.
“Old-timers” often reappear after an
absence of many years. One such is
VK2RF, well known in earlier days in
connection with aviation radio tests and
a gold-seeking expedition to Centralia,
who is back on the air with telephony on
40 metres, though not much time is avail-
able owing to the demands of profes-
sional activities on the National Broad-
casting network. VK2RF is better known
as Sergeant “Bill” Felton, of Cavalry
Divisional Signals, A.M.F.
The 40-metre band on the morning of
10/7/’3B showed heavy QRM, but no
worse than it was three or four years
ago, or is now on 20 metres any Sunday
afternoon. Notwithstanding the DX
possibilities of 20, 40 will always be a
most useful inter-State and local com-
munication band. When extreme DX
conditions again prevail, on 40 as may be
expected in three years’ time, the band
almost certainly will become crowded
because of the increased number of sta-
tions —Australia now has more licensed
amateurs in ratio to population than has
Great Britain.
A correspondent in N.Z.A.R.T.L.’s
“Break-in” lets fly at VKs on the sub-
ject of ’phone—and probably not with-
out justification. The main growl is
against the playing of records, and in
this respect the Maorilander will be sup-
ported by genuine VK experimenters.
There is still too much “record grinding,”
but the VK vigilance committees keep a
check on it. The ZL asks for elimination
of VK ’phone completely from 40, but


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; TO issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and
advance of the times.
keep in
“Radio’
radio
to-day,
” is the fastest selling of al
magazines—on the bookstal
sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
Amateur Five-metre Band.
At present 5-metre amateurs in U.S.A.
are sandwiched in between two commer-
cial television bands, so that control of
transmissions on this band is now very
strict. It means that for all practical
purposes crystal-controlled transmitters
must be universally used. Thus much
has been done to improve the technical
efficiency of ultra-high-frequency appara-
tus used by American amateurs.
At the recent International conference
in Cairo it was decided that in future
television stations could be erected for
use on frequencies up to 58.5mc. This
means that half the amateur 5-metre band
will be used for television stations at the
same time as amateurs. Actually, this
will be an advantage, for in future
amateurs in countries where television
services are in action must use crystal-
controlled rather than self-excited oscil-
lators.
British amateurs will not be so cramped
in the band as Americans, and the posi-
tion for Australians is completely un-
changed, there being no immediate pros-
pect of television making a start here.
But lack of television or other commer-
cial services operating in immediate
proximity to five metres is no reason
why antiquated gear should be used by
amateurs on this band, for the time
will surely come when commercial ser-
vices will be in action on either side of
56-60mc. The time is not very far dis-
tant when accurate frequency standards
will be needed for VKs working on five
metres, just as with the lower frequencies.
D. B. K.
that argument has been settled for all
time, both in amateur and official circles.
Amateur communication conditions in
M.L. and Australia are totally dissimilar.
In Sweden SMSSN is trying for DX
every day between 0730 and 1600 G.M.T.
with crystal-controlled transmission be-
tween 56mc. and 57.5mc. A carrier wave
is transmitted which is automatically
tone-modulated with a Morse text in-
cluding the callsign, and aerial power is
approximately 25 watts. The transmis-
sions will continue for the rest of this
year and reports should be directed to G.
Siljeholm, A.-8., Hammarblylampan,
Stockholm, 20, Sweden.
In Britain the offer of an amateur radio
network for air-raid protection purposes
was declined on the grounds that land-
line telephone services are adequate for
such work. Still scattered amateur sta-
tions would stand less chance of destruc-
tion than overhead telephone wires. In
Australia a suggestion has already come
from the Government that amateurs
should be enrolled in a Signals Defence
Corps for co-operation with the fighting
services. The scheme appears now to
depend upon W.I.A. leaders. Such a
scheme would involve no military service
such as enrolment in the militia, and
week-end drills using all bands would
give a new interest to amateur radio
generally. With nearly 2000 licensed
amateurs available the whole of Aus-
tralia could be well covered.
Eric Trebilcock, known as B.E.R.S.
195, has put up a wojld’s record as a DX
listener on the amateur bands. In his
spare time he punches a P.O. key at
Powell Creek, N.T. For many years his
listening has covered the 165-, 80-, 40-
and 20-metre bands, but now with a new
U.H.F. receiver made for him by
VK2NO, the 10- and 5-metre bands are
to be carefully explored from his N.T.
location. A tower is to be erected, 50ft.
high, and as no straight timber is avail-
able in the locality, it will be made up
from 3ft. lengths of packing-cases. Re-
cently B.E.R.S. 195 reported signals on
VK2NO and VK4CM discuss
ultra-short-wave problems in Brisbane.
the 40-metre band from Asia and North
America consistent from 4 p.m. to mid-
night. ZSSB has been heard frequently
around 3 a.m., and at 7 a.m. Europeans
can be heard, but not so strongly as on
20 metres. During the R.S.G.B. National
Field Day, Trebilcock logged 22 British
portables, 20 of these on 20 metres and
two on 40 metres. He also heard the
Swiss portable station HBIX. Some in-
duction trouble is experienced at times
“ If you'll sing ‘De Glory Road' I'll give you tuppence.”
from signals breaking through from the
overland telegraph line.
Observers on the American 20-metre
’phone band often hear W ’phone stations
announcing “Western Association” after
the callsign. This association originated in
Buenos Ayres, Argentina, in 1923. Ama-
teurs interesting themselves in the organi-
sation undertake not to discuss internal
or external politics, or religion or com-
mercial matters of any nature whatso-
ever. There are delegates appointed in
Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, Spain,
France, England, Mexico, Nicaragua,
U.S.A., Uruguay, Paraguay, Peru, Por-
tugal, Venezuela and Sweden.
VK6WZ says that not only have the
additions to the R.A.A.F. personnel sta-
tioned at Pearce strengthened the aerial
defences of Westralia, but also greatly en-
larged the roster of VK6’s. A large
number of calls now appear with QRA as
“R.A.A.F. Pearce, W.A.” Practically all
the W/T ops. in the Signals side of the
R.A.A.F. hold amateur licenses.
Philips EK2G.
An important addition to the series
of “G”-type valves on the Australian
market is the Octode EK2G —a six-grid
converter electrically equivalent to the
EK2. The EK2 is already popular be-
cause of its high impedance (2 megohms)
and low plate current, ensuring minimum
background noise and high sensitivity.
A noteworthy feature of the EK2G is
the internal self-neutralising condenser
between oscillator grid and signal input
grid. This serves to reduce undesirable
coupling between these two electrodes.
The recommended grid-coupling for
the EK2G is 50 mmF., together with a
grid leak of 50,000 ohms which should
be connected to the cathode. The oscil-
lator grid current at broadcast frequen-
cies is approximately 300 mA., while a
current of 200 mA. may be realised on
short-wave bands.
Operating data, socket connections,
etc., for the EK2G —which is fitted with
a miniature cap in common with other
“G”-type valves —may be obtained from
Philips valve chart, which is available
on request from the Philips’ office in any
State.
Trade Notes.
Westralian broadcasters 6AM, 6ML,
6KG and 6GE now use Piezo-astatic
microphones as standard equipment;
6AM, 6GE and 6ML also use Piezo-
astatic pick-ups. These products are
handled in the West for E.T.C. Industries
by Carlyle and Co., of Perth.
* * * *
A new all-wave aerial kit, designed by
A.W.A., gives improved reception of sig-
nals between 13 and 550 metres. Noise
reduction is claimed over the whole
range, and the kit comprises one 40ft.
coil of aerial wire and aerial-coupling
unit, this being an enclosed weatherproof
transformer with mounting strap. The
aerial, earth wire and transmission line
are attached to this transformer. The
transmission line is a 40ft. coil of black-
twisted, twin-wire, insulated cable cov-
ered with weatherproof braiding, and the
receiver coupling unit is a shielded trans-
former fitted with a bracket for con-
venient mounting on the receiver chassis.
Terminals are provided for connection
to the receiver and to the transmission
line. Included in the kit are a 6ft. earth-
wire, two porcelain insulators for the
aerial and an earth-clip. This kit can
be adapted to existing installations ; ver-
tical or horizontal aerials may be used,
and no doublets or critical transmission-
line lengths are needed. The transmis-
sion line may be installed underground
to avoid unsightly appearance. Particu-
lars can be obtained from A.W.A., 47
York-street, Sydney.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Could a vibrator unit be fitted to an
Eddystone All-world Four receiver? (2) If so,
where can I get one, with instructions for
fitting ? —699.
(1) Yes, but as two-volt valves are used in
the receiver one cell of the six-volt accumu-
lator for the vibrator unit would be used for
the filament supply. (2) Radiokes, Ltd., Vine-
street, Redfern, N.S.W.
H? W # *
Is the Ashbox Midget suitable for use as
an A.C.-D.C. receiver? —698.
As described (B. 15/6/’3B), this receiver is
applicable only to 240 volts A.C., but it would
be a simple matter to use two A.C.-D.C. valves
in place of those specified, with a suitable
baretter.
* * * *
What is the best type and make of key to
use in learning Morse code? —697.
Practice outfits consisting of a hand key,
buzzer and dry-cell battery can be had from
any radio dealer. The keys are usually of the
straight or post office type.
* * * *
I have constructed a Duplex Single receiver,
built around a single 19-type valve. All parts
are new and the coils factory-made, but all I
can hear is a faint carrier at the lower end of
the broadcast band. What’s wrong? —696.
This receiver is a regenerative detector and
headphone audio stage, with the two functions
combined in the twin-triode valve. Successful
operation depends entirely on smooth oscilla-
tion control in the detector. If the detector
is not oscillating at all, the receiver will be
practically useless. With the regeneration
control fully advanced, the carriers of many
broadcasting stations should be heard as the
tuning dial is rotated if the detector is oscil-
lating.
* * # *
(1) Make of loudspeaker which would give
clear reception from a six-valve Atwater-Kent
receiver nine years old? (2) Where obtainable?
(3) Can a vibrator-powered receiver be operated
from an Ever-Ready Air-Cell ? (4) Cost of a
complete kit of parts for a vibrator-powered
receiver ? —695.
(1) Any modern dynamic, with transformer
suitable for the output valve in the set (2)
Amplion A/sia, Ltd., 66 Clarence-street, Syd-
ney, for speakers of that make, and George
Brown and Co., 267 Clarence-street, Sydney,
for Rola speakers. (3) No. (4) Radiokes have
a kit at 15 guineas.


MEGGITIS NEW
. ,5 J , W-?/
'x_:
SHEEP NUT
)t\%
.'ON ') { \\\u-L
»Vf
it
VvVVV-Y^
F
&
1
p
»
i
w
fig
/
f i
W l '
\
JT j%
/ft
i
C j
: V >
;x \j' '■
jtfWZ
j
\
*./
N
J
t
I
i
H
llllU'llil'l'lMinij |
LINSEEDBAIAHCEDt^
SHEEfmi
NET ioo LBS
WHEN PACKED
MANUFACTU RED BY M E 661 T
\>
NOTE THE
NEW SHAPE
These new nut 3
are moulded into
hexagonal form to
prevent waste and
enable sheep to
pick them up
easily.
RATION ADVICE
Information on the feeding of stock under
all conditions is available free on application
to the Advisory Department at Meggitt ,
Ltd., Box 1555 E., C.P.0. , Sydney.
MEGGITT S New Linseed Balanced Sheep Nut
assures you of ample supplies of a fodder that
will maintain , sheep, economically, in good
condition through droughts and dry spells.
The basis of this new Nut is Meggitt’s Linseed Oil
Meal—well known for its high content of digestible
protein and its mildly laxative action which prevents all
forms of digestive troubles. , \
The other ingredients—all foods of highest quality—
combine with Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal tp provide a
balanced nut which is undoubtedly the ; most economical
sheep fodder on the market.
Supplies are available now. Order
either direct from Meggitt, Ltd., or
through your local store, produce
merchant or stock and station agent.
Or
a
o
M EGGi ITT
SHE EP
Meggitt, Limited, Head Office, 67 York Street, Sydney
Works: Parramatta, Melbourne and Adelaide


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHERE ARE WE HEADING?
THE TIN POSITION
SHARES WORTH CONSIDERATION
WHAT’S HAPPENING IN MINING
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Publ;shed by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
PROFITS —AND PIGS.
“Tamworth”: Re-read that article I
was telling you about. It pointed out
that the most critical period of a pig's
life is from 3 to 4 weeks. Another
point that interested me was that the
size of the litter, preweaning mortality
and the weight of the pigs at six weeks
tend to increase with the age of the sow
up to the seventh or eighth litter. That’s
something to think about. Since I’ve
been using Tri-cal-os Bone Flour my
returns from the pigs have greatly in-
creased. I’m convinced it is responsible
for the improved texture of the meat that
the buyer commented on. Davis
Gelatine, Sydney, sent me all particulars
about Tri-cal-os.
Old Farmer.
gf
gf
g
fg
fg
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Hammond on Australian Stock.
“Ghanam”: Yes, the report which Dr.
John Hammond, of the Cambridge Uni-
versity Animal Research Institute has
made to the C.S. and I.R. should be
read by all stock breeders (B. 13/7/’3B).
Dr. Hammond has little new to say
about beef cattle production. His rela-
tion of differences between Australian
methods of breeding and fattening and
those of the Argentine and U.S.A., where
good land is used for topping off, has
been stressed again and again on the
M.O.L. page. But there will be dis-
agreement in many quarters with his
championship of the Zebu to meet the
high temperatures of Australian breed-
ing areas. They may do well as a cross
in Brazil and Florida; but Brazil and
Florida cannot compete with the Argen-
tine in the British chilled and frozen
market. In that they are in line with
Australia, whose beef, the doctor says,
cannot compare in any way with the
Argentine’s better quality and uniform
supply.
Zebu blood is not going to help, either
in conformation or quality. If Dr.
Hammond could have seen the Alex-
andria (N.T.) female Shorthorn herd he
would probably have been prepared to
admit that the English cattle do well
in the Northern climate provided they
are continually reinforced with fresh im-
ported blood, as the Argentine herds are.
Given that and the system which he
recommends—and which The Bulletin
has long recommended —of moving cattle
to feeding areas at an appropriate stage
after the manner of the Brice Henry
trials in the North, no Zebu experiment
is needed. The old plan of pouring good
blood and good feed into young and
uniform bodies will work without the
importation of Oriental strains. And,
indeed, it has yet to be shown that the
Indian strains are as tough in survival
as the British breeds. The original Aus-
tralian cattle were nearly, all Indian or
Cape-Indian, some of them the toughest
kinds of so-called Zebu. Even in the
’fifties and ’sixties they formed the
majority. But the stud Shorthorn and
Hereford importations which came in the
late ’twenties soon outed the “hardy”
Indian breeds.
A lot of our failure in beef lies in the
fact noticed by the doctor that there
is too great a divergence in quality be-
tween the stud bull and the station bull.
1 heard an Argentinian at a London
Royal Show say that he kept 700 closely-
related young stud bulls on his ranch.
Australian station-owners must be made
to realise that pure blood is an absolute
need in beef producing. Argentine bulls
are never used till they are 2\ years old,
when they can stand up to station con-
ditions.
One trade which has not been tried is
baby-beef export. Hammond suggests
that Australia’s quick and limited grow-
ing period is highly favorable to the
production of eight-to-ten-months-old
vealer carcasses, weighing 3501 b. to 4001 b.
There is no competition to speak of
from imported meat of this type in
London, since foot and mouth disease
has been responsible for an embargo on
Continental vealers. The doctor thinks
an experimental trade during.the London
spring and summer when lightweight
joints are needed would be worth while.
He urges—and it has been frequently
stressed here that dairying districts
could do something in beef producing
by the use of properly conformationed
cull cows with beef bulls? The basic
blood of the Australian Illawarra Short-
horns came from some of the choicest
of the mid-nineteenth century Booth and
Bates cattle—Butterflies, Oxfords, Sum-
mertons and others from the Albany
Princess and Favorite (252) strains, which
fell into dairying hands in the slump of
the early ’eighties.
Ages of Sheep.
“Sheepo”: Until an age-mark system
is universally adopted there will always
be arguments between seller and buyer
as to the true age of sheep. Constitution,
climatic and pastoral conditions have a
big influence on teeth. Mouthing gives
no exact indication of age.
Sheep with their eight incisors fully
developed might be any age from four
years old onward ; a mob represented
as five-year-olds might easily be two or
three years older. Sheep of the same
lambing often show variations in their
incisors long before the full-mouth stage.
Differing ages at which certain breeds
“ 'E's bin there since the Show started—'s'ez never seen a cow like 'er before.”
become mature also have an effect on
teeth. The mouthing of some of the
English breeds would indicate ages to
be greater than they really were.
It would be all to the benefit of the
industry if an age-mark system was made
compulsory. A five- or a seven-year
cycle system would fulfill all require-
ments. Only with aged sheep or in sus-
picious cases would it be necessary to
inspect for broken mouths.
Cootamundra’s Merinos.
“Jayem”: Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
claims the largest exhibition of merinos
in the world. This year Sydney had 355
entries, representing 547 merinos, and
Cootamundra, a fortnight later, 507
entries and 760 merinos. Sydney had
more Australasian and British breed
sheep. It was Cootamundra’s twelfth
annual show, and the only indications
of the severe season were that younger
sheep were not quite so well-grown as
usual, and unhoused exhibits carried
more dust in the fleece.
W. T. Fahey (Boorowa), who judged
fine wools, said the exhibits were among
the best he had seen. Quality was very
eyen in the unhoused section. Merry-
v.lle Pty., Ltd. (Yass), prov.ded both
champions in the open section, and the
reserve ram. Reserve ewe was exhibited
by W. Armstrong. Both champions were
well grown, with lustrous fleeces. Both
champions and reserve ram in the un-
housed section also came from Merry-
ville ; the estate of the late G. W. Merri-
man (Vale View) showed the reserve
ewe,
Competition in the medium wool
section was keen. Most of the sheep
were large-framed and adequately
covered. Snowstar (Merryville) was
champion ewe of the open section, later
taking the grand championship of the
show. She was grand champion in
Sydney. Her tip and under covering is
excellent, and she is one of the best
ewes in Australia. Starr and Son (Eshcol,
Dalton) showed the reserve champion.
A bold, upstanding Merryville ram nar-
rowly took the championship from a
big-framed exhibit from Anthony Hor-
dern’s Mungadal stud.
Billabong Pastoral Co. had the cham-
pion unhoused ram, a big-framed sheep
with depthy wool of good commercial
type. Merryville’s reserve ram came
from the young classes. Two splendid
types of commercial -wool growers won
the ewe championship and reserve rib-
bons for Bruce Bern brick (Grenfell).
While fleeces, generally, were dense in
the strong wool section, staple was faulty
in several instances. Some of the wool
bordered on medium, which the judge
attributed to the unfavorable season.
C. Crichton and Co. (Young) had the
open champion ram, which was well
developed and heavily woolled. A
Mungadal ram was reserve. Another
Merryville ewe was champion, later tak-
ing the reserve grand championship. She
was well finished on points and underline.
With a big ewe, coated with well-stapled
wool, Mungadal won the reserve rib-
bon. Effects of the season were more
apparent in the unhoused section. Merry-
ville’s champion ram was a very compact
ahimal, with true strong wool. Running
him close was Billabong Pastoral Co.’s
reserve ram. E. W. Hamblin (Wagga)
owned champion and reserve ewes, which
were both of splendid conformation,
Starr arid Son were successful in the
section for local breeders. Their fine
woo l champion ram, Eshcol Noble, was
awarded the grand champion ribbon,
massive sheep, he carried a heavy
fleece Improved . |it both of sh y
„ .
. , ’ as a PP aren in tbe . oca
B iaziers section. G. G. Davidsons
stron g WOC)1 ram was champion, and
C. Davidson had the champion ewe,
a winner in the medium wool section,
Wool quality of Corriedales showed
improvement, while the type and con-
formation were more even than at past
shows. Although he met strong corn-
Petition W. J. McSweeney (Canowmdra)
took a “ championships,
A section for Polwarths, provided for
the first time, brought a big entry o!
good sheep. F. E. Kendall owned cham-
pi°n and reserve rams. A. J. Kendall
had the champion ewe, reserve award
going to J. E. Jelbart’s entry,
With blocky, low-set sheep, A. W.
Alleyn and Sons (Wagga) scooped the
Dorset Horns pool. Southdowns were
typical fat-lamb producers, W. J. Mc-
Sweeney winning the championships,
Ryelands made their first appearance at
Cootamundra, J. R. Hudson’s team from
Corowa being the only exhibits,
C. McPherson (Junee), one of the best
judges in Australia, said it would be im-
possible to find better Border Leicesters
in the State. W. A. O’Neil (Cowra)
withstood strong opposition to take the
championships with sheep prominent, at
Sydney show. W. R. Glasson’s Gamboola
Romney Marsh overshadowed the other
exhibits. Of splendid conformation, they
were low-set and carried wool of splen-
did quality.
Sheep Tick Precautions.
“B-gar”: Thorough dipping of all sheep
and lambs within a reasonable time of
shearing and when all shear cuts have
healed, will render them immune from
ticks. A clean muster is essential, other-
wise one ticky sheep may re-infest the
flock.
The idea that sheep ticks live in scrub
is wrong. Tests have proved that after
being parted from their natural hosts,
they die within three weeks. Glean sheep,
however, are liable to become infested if


He’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work..
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings. Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’
u
H
xv
sm
b
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations „ 15
Sheep bought 20
Wire netting 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book w ll be forwarded to
you.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ffiuffyttlleZi/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board ot Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
f
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Hank of N.S.W.
16.- Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
placed in yards or a shed where ticky
sheep may have been just previously.
Travelling sheep are often the cause
of tick infestation. It’s wise to inspect
travellers for signs of tick before the
mob enters the property. Every grazier
should be fully acquainted with the Sheep
Dipping Act.
Hydatids.
“J.R.D.”: The hydatid cysts in rabbits
are filled with a jelly-like substance and
occur not only in organs but just under
the skin. The eggs contained in the cysts
will hatch out into tapeworms should
they be eaten by dogs, but they do not
affect humans.
The real home of the human hydatid
cyst is the organs of sheep. The sheep
picks up the minute eggs while grazing,
and these form large cysts embedded in
the liver or lungs, filled with colorless
liquid and hydatid sand. On being eaten
by a dog the eggs hatch out into hydatid
tapeworms about |in. long. The in-
numerable minute eggs of the hydatid
tapeworm are passed by the dog, and it
can be seen how dangerous may be the
area where dogs are kept on the chain.
The dust there becomes impregnated with
the eggs, and these are picked up in the
dog’s coat when he rolls.
The chief danger is to children. Every
care should be taken to remove the pos-
sibility of infection.
The first point to be remembered is
that the dog is the host of the worm.
Even though a sheep’s organs have
hydatid cysts in them, the carcass may
be used as human food.
Prevention of hydatid disease can be
effected by keeping dogs away from all
offal. Where dogs have to be fed on
sheep’s offal or go hungry, the offal
should first be boiled for ten minutes to
kill the eggs.
Get rid of worms already in dogs by
dosing the animals with arecoline hydro-
bromide. The dose varies according to
the size of the dogs. Dissolve one \-
grain tablet in loz. of water, and for
average-sized kelpies give 8 drachms of
this solution. Dogs should be well washed
and tied up in a fresh place.
Statistics from one M.L. public hos-
pital show that one patient in every 200
admitted is a hydatid case. The main
thing to remember is “ Don’t feed dogs
on raw offal.”
Giving Medicines to Pigs.
“5.8.”: The old boot method (B.
6/7/’3B) of giving liquid and of tying
the pig up is excellent; but there is little
to be gained by putting drugs in food.
If they are strong enough to be effective
pigs won’t eat the stuff. Vermifuges,
plus charcoal and iron, seem to be all
a pig needs.
Worm doses are best given concen-
trated. A box of 1 or lx drachm gela-
tine capsules can be bought, together
with a special roller-gag and tongs to
hold the capsules, for about 6s.
The gag is placed in the mouth hori-
zontally and hooked behind the upper
tusks. Then it is pushed downwards, so
rolling the mouth open. The capsule,
which has been filled with the dose of
drug, solid or liquid, can then be pushed
over the back of the tongue. It is easily
the best way of dosing pigs, and you
can be sure each animal receives the
correct dose.
Fodder Conservation.
“Hortus”: Notwithstanding three
months’ handfeeding of 12,500 merinos,
Oakhampton, Manilla (N.S.W.), still has
reserves on hand —80 tons lucerne hay
and 164 tons cereal hay are in the sheds.
The 295 tons of grain remaining include
1500 bushels of wheat, 80 bags oats, 10
of maize and 54 of barley. The gal-
vanised-iron silo, capable of holding 8000
bushels of grain, is divided into four
compartments, so that different types may
be conserved.
On the steep foothills, mainly com-
posed of laminated shalebeds, lucerne
has been planted. In all, 800 acres of
lucerne are established. Old wheat culti-
vations are sown with a mixture of cereal
and lucerne, and then given a spell.
Wheat this season will amount to 600
acres, and there are 200 acres oats and
130 acres skinless barley, with 400 acres
fallow.
The barley is sown in February and
provides good feed until the oats are
ready for use.
On the arable land contour drains have
proved very valuable. A growth of red
grass in the shallow channels is welcomed
because of its soil-binding ability. This
is also doing well on the hills, exercising
good soil erosion control.
Beside the sheep, Oakhampton has 500
cattle, including the Hereford stud, and
60 horses. For hand-feeding, wheaten
chaff and grain are laid out in split
hollow logs. Kurrajong-trees are kept
for the cattle.
The whole of the supplies proved
enough for 7790 sheep, and the carrying
capacity of the 13,000-acre block was
estimated at 13,000 head.
“Mullengah”: Pre-natal care is neces-
sary if a sow is to produce a large and
healthy litter. She should get plenty of
green feed and drinking water, with the
usual ration, to induce a heavy and con-
tinuous flow of milk. For some weeks
after birth, suckers thrive best on sow’s
milk. In the third week they should be
encouraged to eat supplements—cracked
grain and pollard are good.
“Sandy”: Saffron thistle (B. 29/6/’3B)
is a curse in cultivation. If it could be
confined to sheep lands it would be all
right, but wind and birds carry it into
the wheat.
“Heresone”: Don’t see why sheep
shouldn’t eat yellow-box (B. 15/6/’3B).
On the Darling Downs it is our main
standby for cattle in droughts. After-
wards the cut limbs make first-class fire-
wood, and the lopped trunks soon sprout
again.
“Bundalinga”: To supply poor soil
with humus, J. E. Chambers, of Oxley
Island (N.S.W.) closes the paddock and
allows paspalum to grow rank and tall.
A heavy stocking of cattle are then
turned in. They eat little but trample a
lot. The grass rots, and the succeeding
growth is improved. Clovers thrive
under this treatment.
“Jumbuck”: Those Cheviots recently
imported from Maoriland were not the
first of the breed to enter Australia. The
first sheep taken by the Hentys to their
Munthum property, near Casterton (Vic.),
were Cheviots, and in ’6B the flock was
composed principally of this breed and
Cheviot-merino crosses. The higher
prices for merino wool and its continued
improvement gradually outed the
Cheviots from Munthum.
“J.R.D.”: There have been cases lately
of sheep fed on grain during the dry
season becoming “sanded-up.” Where
the grain has been scattered on the
ground, the animals, rams in particular,
pick up dirt and sand with it, and this
accumulates in the stomach. Symptoms
are a hanging-back at feeding time, and
slow, painful gait. Dosing or drenching
in that state is useless, as it fails to shift
the sand. Feed affected animals on hay.
Fill them right up and give the bulky
feed time to go through and get mixed
up with the sand. Then give a good dose
of Epsom salts.
“C.V.S.”: Extension of the wool-selling
season to 10 months has again been sug-
gested in Melbourne. Smaller catalogues
would suit buyers better than large ones
with frequent withdrawals, both prior to
and during the sale. Another advantage
would be continuity of employment in
bulk-classing and reclassing. It has been
further suggested that the Tasmanian
sales should occupy two days at each
centre, Launceston and Hobart. Now
about 44,000 bales are sold on two sell-
ing days. A few years ago at the Laun-
ceston sales writer saw a bale of fair-
quality merino sold for 2d. per pound,
the only bid.


HE RES TO EE
BLACKS
now corned
GARAGE
AN
m
(
I
9/
A
HIRESTOII
(A A
HE RES TO EE
rIMES change and we with time.
Horses give place to engines, black-
smiths become mechanics.
But "Here's To'ee" has the same significance as
when smithys were frequent as bowsers are now.
The old brewing house has remained faithful to
* the true traditions of brewing .. . producing bever-
ages of quality to Suit the palates of to-day.
TooheysLtd
Standard Brcwerj. SYDNEY
Agents
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
i’Jqugh worry” ,s hardly the word, for
A f^ oes not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdms, Ltd., Melbourne.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Snort Story Writers • • • You learn
now to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I«C*S« School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
gf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to bell or Lo Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, 30, sober, industrious, some
exp., wants position as assistant in a country
store.—2os.
Owner of 120 McCormick Deering tractor
and tank sinking plant wants excavating or
other work.—24o.
Information Sought.
Who invented the tracer bullet used in
machine-guns during the Great War? —77.
The name of the inventor is difficult to
ascertain. Tracer ammunition was experimented
with in the Royal Laboratories, England, prior
to the war, but trials with this at the com-
mencement of the war proved it unsatisfactory.
Early in 1916 Aerators, Ltd., undertook on behalf
of the Ministry of Munitions the production of
a tracer bullet. One was produced about July,
1916, and was first called the “Sparklet” after-
wards S.P.K. Mk. VII. T. Dr. S. Smiles, in
conjunction with the Royal Laboratories, pro-
duced a better bullet in 1917. Bullets were also
produced by J. Buckingham and John Pomeroy,
of Australia. It is stated that Mr. Pomeroy
first produced his bullet in 1914, but it was
not until 1916 that it was ordered in quantity.
Vol. 11l of “Official History of the War”—
“War in the Air,” appendix V, contains the
history relating to the use of tracer ammunition.
* * * *
(1) At whose instigation did Sir Otto Niemeyer
visit Australia ? (2) What was his mission ?
(3) When did he arrive? (4) Was his advice
acted upon by the Commonwealth? (5) Was
his mission a failure ? (6) In what way was
he associated with the Bank of England? —2l2.
(1) and (2) Sir Otto Niemeyer was invited to
inquire into our financial position and out-
look by the Commonwealth Government. (3)
Arrived in July, 1930. (4) He advised that
efforts be made to attain “budget equilibrium”
and to reduce costs of production in sympathy
with the fall in prices. His report is published
in The Crisis in Australian Finance, 1929-31,
by Professors Shann and Copland (Angus and
Robertson). His advice was largely acted upon
(or forced on us by circumstances) in carry-
ing out the “Premiers’ Plan.” (5) Our recovery
suggests that, so far as the advice of any one
man was responsible, his mission was not a
failure. (6) He was an officer of that insti-
tution.
* * * *
Which is faster, blade or machine shearing ?
100.
Debatable, but expert opinion is that with
the merinos of to-day, machines are faster and
shear closer. In 1892 Jack Howe shore 321 sheep
with blades in 7 hours 40 minutes at Alice
Downs, Queensland. In 1895, Jimmy Power
shore 315 sheep with machines at Barenya,
Queensland, in 7 hours 20 minutes, but had
more sheep been available it is believed he
would have beaten the blade record. In those
days, sheep were smaller and plainer, and did
not have the trimmings of modern merinos.
The highest tallies recorded have been made
with crossbreds in M.L. A few years ago
Sonny White shore 433 Romney breeding ewes
in 9 hours at Gisborne.
* * * *
(1) Do newspapers and magazines employ
special film, music and theatre critics or book
reviewers ? (2) Would it be possible to secure
such a position with a good secondary school
education if the applicant was a wide reader,
very interested in film and theatre art, played
the piano and several stringed instruments well,
was a keen lover and student of music and
literature, and had a flair for journalistic work ?
(3) What is the usual age ? (4) What are the
Qualifications for the position of an air hostess ?
(5) With knowledge of languages would a
hostess have any chance of changing to foreign
airlines ? —9990.
(1) These duties are almost always undertaken
by some member or members of the permanent
staff. (2) Qualifications would help; much
would depend upon the degree of “journalistic
flair. ’ (3) Immaterial between very wide limits,
save in the case of a cadetship, for which
youth is essential. (4) Applicant should hold
an A.T.N.A. nursing certificate, have a know-
ledge of shorthand, typing and general office
routine, weight not more than Bst. and
have a pleasing personality. (5) Might be such
opportunities, but nothing much is known
about them in Australia.
* * * *
(1) Do cutlery manufacturers have represen-
tatives in A ustralia ? (2) Where can
Pampa lockback pocket knives made
by Lockwood be obtained? (3) / read that
Joseph Rodgers and Sons had a law case with
another firm using their name. If so, what
name does that firm trade under now ?— 96.
(1) Yes. (2) Don’t know. Lockback knives
are obtainable from W. Jno. Baker, Sydney.
(3) Perhaps Joseph Rodgers and Sons might
enlighten you. Their knives are on the market
jn Australia.
(1) Does the general shearing season in
Armidale (N.S.W.) district start about the end
of July? (2) What chance of employment is
there for a shearer going there on spec ? (3)
Second-class rail fare from Sydney? —l73.
(1) No. Shearing season in Armidale and in
the New England district generally does not
commence until October. (2) It would be
rather risky going from Vic. to Armidale on
the off chance of picking up a shed. By the
time the New England shearing season com-
mences the rush of the general shearing in
N. S. Wales is over and as a rule there are
plenty of local shearers available. (3) £1 17s.
lOd.
* * * *
Would a siphon function under the follow-
ing conditions ? Height of bend above water
level, 42 ft.; outlet, 40 ft. below water level;
horizontal distance from bend to outlet, 18
chains. —l3B.
No. Theoretically, if the bend is more than
34ft. above the surface of the water the siphon
will not function. In practice, this height
should not exceed about 25ft.
* * * *
(1) Are there openings for ground engineers
in aviation concerns? (2) Will prospects be
better in two years’ time? (3) Could a C and
D license ground engineer obtain a position in
the R.A.A.F. ? (4) Can one qualify for ground
engineer, C and D licences, by obtaining two
years’ practical and technical training from a
training school; or has one to be apprenticed ?
(5) Would a State school education be sufficient
to pass the C and D licence examination ? (6)
Where can the requirements issued by the Civil
Aviation Board, governing the ground engineer
C and D license be obtained? —63.
(1) Yes. Good men as a rule do not ex-
perience any difficulty in obtaining a job. (2)
Possibly. (3) Only by enlisting in the usual
manner. (4) To qualify for a ground engineer’s
licence, at least two years’ practical experience
on aircraft construction or maintenance is re-
quired for a C Licence and two years as a
mechanic or engineer on the construction, main-
tenance and/or overhaul of aero engines. Can-
didates must pass a written, oral and practical
examination before a ground engineer’s licence
is issued. (5) Yes. (6) From the Officer-in-
charge, Archerfield Aerodrome, Brisbane,
Queensland.
=•= * * *
(1) Meaning of the Maori word Tianui?
(2) Maori word meaning big pig or a large
number of pigs ? —6.
(1) “Tianui”: “Tia”—the abdomen or belly
and “nui”—great or large. May be used to
describe a greedy person. Possible that word
has been confused with “Tainui” which means
“A great tide.” The latter was the name of
one of the canoes which, according to myth-
ology, brought some of the first Maoris to M.L.
(2) “Poaka-nui” would be the Maori equivalent
of “big pig” or “many pigs.”
* * # *
I have been told that old water taps will drip
or leak more when wet weather is approaching
and hold better in dry weather. Is there any
foundation for this? —3B.
Old or new taps depend for their anti-drip
qualities on the condition of the leather washer.
Some leathers may absorb moisture from the
atmosphere on the approach of wet weather,
reducing their capacity for holding back water,
but there’s no definite information on the point.
* * * *
(1) What parts of the Eastern States and
Tasmania are best for alluvial gold prospect-
ing? (2) Is there a union in N.S.W. represent-
ing gold miners ? (3) What does a gold mining
and prospecting license cost? —82.
(1) A leaflet has been posted which furnishes
information for the use of'prospectors in N. S.
Wales. (2) The Australian Workers’ Union
(N.S.W. Branch), 238 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. (3) A Miner’s Right costs 2s. 6d. for
six months or ss. for 12 months.
* * * *
I have two fox skins which 1 wish to send
to England as presents. Is there any embargo
on skins leaving Australia or entering England
and are permits necessary? —9s.
The skins are prohibited exports unless the
consent of the Minister has first been obtained.
Permits to export will, however, be issued on
application to the Customs House, Sydney. If
the skins are being forwarded by post the permit
should be handed to the Postmaster as authority
to export. With regard to any embargo on
importation into England, communicate with
H.M. Senior Trade Commissioner, Herald
Building, Pitt-street, Sydney.
* * * *
/ have on hand two or three pounds ■of
pitch. How could this be used to make up a
paint to be used for the inside of a refrigerator
cooling tank, car chassis, etc.? —151.
Simplest procedure would be to melt the
pitch and reduce with boiled oil to brushing
consistency.
* * * *
I have a cage of wild birds —wonga and
bronze wing pigeons, black ducks, king, Blue
Mountain and lory parrots. Now, after about
nine months without mishap, I get one dead
per day, king or lory. Any hints as to feed-
ing, and so forth ? —99.
Possibly the birds are dying from cold. The
aviary and conditions under which the birds
are being kept appear to be quite in order.
Mix with the food a teaspoonful of cod liver
oil. Mix the oil well with the wheat and corn
and allow to stand for 48 hours, by which time
the oil will have thoroughly soaked into the
food. If there is no improvement take the
birds to the Officer in Charge of the School of
Tropical Health at Melbourne Uni.
* * * *
Who look the part of Uncle George in the
film “Broadway Melody of 1938,” and what is
his address? —l76.
Billy Gilbert, c/o Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Studios, Culver City, California.
* ' 4* * H*
How often does the Otway light flash and
what is its candlepower? —lB7.
The light group flashes three white and red
sectors every 60 seconds thus: Flash 3 seconds,
eclipse 6 seconds, flash 3 seconds, eclipse 6
seconds, flash 3 seconds, eclipse 39 seconds;
Red from 257 deg. through west to 272 deg.,
white thence to 109 deg., red thence to the
shore. Candlepower 100,000.
%
Directions for waterproofing the outside of
a house wall built of porous sand bricks ? —206.
One method would be to apply two good
coats of exterior varnish, thinning the first coat
slightly with mineral turpentine so that it would
soak into the bricks and then over-finish with
another coat. Varnish covers on an average
650 sq. feet to the gallon, but the first coat
could not be expected to satisfy the same area
due to the absorption. An alternative treat-
ment would be to use a waterproofing liquid,
such as Berger’s Weathertite.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of subsidised and/or pro-
visional schools ? (2) By whom controlled ?
(3) Qualifications of teachers? —s7.
(1) In localities where there are not sufficient
children available to maintain a departmental
school, and where a private teacher is en-
gaged by one or more families, a subsidy may
be paid by the department, under certain con-
ditions. The teacher must be at least 16 years
of age and must possess educational qualifi-
cations at least equivalent to the N.S.W. inter-
mediate certificate examination. The parents
must provide board and lodging for the teacher
free of charge, but any extra remuneration to
be paid by them is a matter for settlement be-
tween them and the teacher. (2) Subsidised
schools are controlled by the promoters, who
are usually parents of children in attendance,
but are inspected periodically by an officer of
the department. Provisional schools are the
smallest type of full-time schools under the
control of the department. (3) The teachers are
employees of the department and have under-
gone a two years’ course of training at one of
the department’s Teachers’ Colleges. The stan-
dard of education required for entrance to
these colleges is that of the N.S.W. leaving cer-
tificate examination.
* * * *
(1) What important points should one look
for in buying pedigree dogs? (2) Name of a
b°234 d ea H n 8 with all phases of dogkeeping ?
(1) The important points are that the dogs
shall conform to size, coloring, coat and sound-
ness. (2) Ash’s Practical Dog Book, 14s. 6d.,
postage Is. Id., from “Dog World” Office,
16 Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of method used for fumi-
gating food products such as dried fruits,
cereals, etc. ? (2) Any qualifications neces-
sary ? —9943.
(1) Ethylene oxide and carbon dioxide (1 to
10) are used extensively and effectively for
general fumigating. Vacuum plant is not essen-
tial, though advisable if large masses of
densely-packed material are to be treated.
Mixed gas is supplied in cylinders by Houghton
and Byrne and Mt. Frome Lime Co., both
Sydney, and by Australian Oxygen and Indus-
trial Gases, Melbourne. Any firm will supply
full directions for use. (2) No particular skill
required; gas is non-poisonous and, though
combustible, quite safe in concentrations gener-
ally used. Plant is simple, and any competent
engineering firm could construct a chamber
either for atmospheric or vacuum use.
* * * *
Method of waterproofing a boiler suit? —92.
Place one quart of boiled linseed oil (in-
flammable) in a large tin over a covered fire;
shred 4oz. yellow soap into a basin and cover
with boiling water to make a jelly, then whisk
it into the oil. Add one level dessertspoon
of powdered alum, keeping all hot. Brush the
suit with water until it is damp all over but
not wet; then lay it flat and brush on a coating
of hot mixture. Hang, and when quite dry
apply a second hot coating; dry and oil a
third time for a good job. Thorough drying
between the coatings is important, otherwise
suit will always be sticky. Buttons are re-
moved before waterproofing.
* * * *
I intend installing a Fiat car engine (No.
501/12416588) in a 22ft. by B ft. bin. overall
V-bottom cabin cruiser. (1) What year was the
engine manufactured ? Horse power ? (2)
Most suitable gear? (3) Size and pitch of pro-
peller ? (4) Approximate maximum speed under
average conditions ? (5) If fresh water was run
from a sgal. tank supply through 1 in. copper
piping about 16ft. of which would be sub-
merged in salt water—to the engine and back
to the tank, would it prove an effective cooling
system? —9l.
(1) Not later than 1924. Rated h.p. is 10
(2) Approximate engine speed is 2000 r.p.m.
but it would be advisable not to exceed 1500
r.p.m., corresponding to a road speed of 35
m.p.h. (3) Operating on top gear at that
speed, a three-blade 12in. propeller with a
lOin. pitch would be satisfactory. Cost about
£2. (4) Speed depends on weight and draught
Probably about five to six knots at the most!
(5) Should be quite an efficient system.
* *
In the first Test at Nottingham a batsman
played the ball on the stumps and, although
rr P did not fall, the Australians appealed
Under what law of cricket had the umpire to
give a decision? —45.
Notes on Law 21 state; “An umpire is justi-
fied in ruling that part of a bail had been
‘struck off’ if as the result of the wicket being
hit any part of either bail has been disturbed
from its original position on the top of the
stumps.” In the case in question the umpire
ruled that the impact did not dislodge the bail.
* * * *
What are McCabe’s batting figures for each
of his Test innings against England ? Total
scored by his team, and results of each Test ?
1930 —At Nottingham McCabe scored 4
(innings total 144) and 49 (335), at Lord’s 44
(6 for 729) and 25 not out (3 for 72), at Leeds
30 (566), at Manchester 4 (345), at Kennington
Oval 54 (695); Australia in this series won
2, England 1, drawn 2. 1932-33—At Sydney
187 not out (360) and 32 (228), at Melbourne
32 (228) and 0 (191), at Adelaide 8 (222) and 7
(193), at Brisbane 20 (340) and 22 (175), at
Sydney 73 (435) and 4 (182); England won
4, Australia 1. 1934—At Nottingham 65 (374)
and 88 (8 for 273), at Lord’s 34 (284) and 19
(118), at Manchester 137 (491) and 33 not out
(1 for 66), at Leeds 27 (584), at Kennington
Oval 10 (701) and 70 (327); Australia won 2,
England 1, drawn 2. 1936-37—At Brisbane 51
(234) and 7 (58), at Sydney 0 (80) and 93 (324),
at Melbourne 63 (9 for 200) and 22 (564), at
Adelaide 88 (288) and 55 (433), at Melbourne
112 (604); Australia won 3 England 2. 1938 —
At Nottingham 232 (411) and 39 (6 for 427),
at Lord’s 38 (422) and 21 (6 for 204).
* * * *
What is the origin of the Gimcrack Stakes
run by the AJ.C.? —224.
The original Gimrack Stakes was a classic
race run by the English Jockey Club. It
dates back to the seventeenth or eighteenth
century and is famous because on the night
of the race the members of the Jockey Club
and the owner, trainer and rider of the winning
horse are entertained by the King at what is
known as the Gimcrack Dinner. The race has
been copied into Australian turf usage in the
same manner as the Derbies have been copied.
* * * *
How has the world heavyweight champion-
ship changed hands? —102.
1882, John Sullivan k.o.’d Paddy Ryan in
nine rounds; 1892, James Corbett k.o.’d Sulli-
van, 21 rounds; 1897, Bob Fitzsimmons tech,
k.o.’d Corbett, 14 rounds; 1899, James Jeffries
t.k.o.’d Fitzsimmons, 11 rounds; 1906, Tommy
Burns d. Marvin Hart on points, 20 rounds;
1908, Jack Johnson t.k.o.’d Tommy Burns, 14
rounds; 1915, Jess Willard k.o.’d Johnson, 26
rounds, 1919, Dempsey t.k.o.’d Willard in third
round; 1926, Tunney d. Dempsey on points,
10 rounds, 1930, Schmeling d. Sharkey on foul
in fourth round; 1932, Sharkey d. Schmeling on
points, 15 rounds; 1933, Camera k.o.’d Sharkey
in sixth round; 1934, Baer t.k.o.’d Camera, 11
rounds; 1935, Braddock d. Baer on points, 10
rounds; 1937, Louis k.o’d Braddock, eight
rounds.
* * * *
(1) Did knight Henry Braddon play for Aus-
tralia in Rugby Union football? (2) In what
rep. matches did he play? (3) What was his
position in the team ? —lO9.
(1) No. (2) Braddon played for M.L. in
Australia in 1884; and for N.S.W. v. Great
Britain in 1888, v. Queensland in 1890 and
1892, and v. Victoria in 1889. (3) Fullback.
Brief Answers.
T.D.: Mount Capoompeta, County of Clive,
Land District of Glen Innes (N.S.W.), is a
peak in the Great Dividing Range and is sur-
rounded by the Forest Land State Forest and
certain mining reservations. No information
on the geological formation of the country in
its vicinity... .W.E.J.: Cannot answer all your
questions, and anything like authentic
information on most of them will be
unobtainable till Spain’s Civil War is
over; but some of the information you
seek is given in the article “ ‘Mimosa’ for Bar-
celona” in “Uncabled Additions” (B. 6/7/’3B).
J.F.D.: No figures that could be accepted
as accurate are available except that in the
two months from mid-April to mid-June 22
ships registered as British were attacked, 11
of them sunk or damaged C.McG.: J.
Toohey rode Arch Marella in the Sydney Cup
in 1921... .E.R.S.: Would need to know some-
thing of the conditions under which the privet
plants are growing; cold winds and salt spray
may be causing the trouble... .J. 8.5.:
The United Country Party advocates the
transfer of national powers to Federal
Parliament and the replacement of State Par-
liaments by provincial councils L.W.: With-
out • reading the policy cannot give a definite
reply, but if, as you say, it covers the children’s
personal effects as well as your own, the
question of age would not affect the matter
P.R.D.S.: It could not be produced as evidence
in Court until the duty, plus fine for delay in
stamping, was paid D.M.: Jennifer is the
Cornish form of the Welsh Winifred, which
means in Celtic “White wave” or “stream.”
The French Genevieve is a form of the same
name. Earlier Welsh forms are Guenever and
Gwenhwyfar, Gwen standing for “white”
H.T.: The condition referred to is generally
due to a deficiency in the diet. State type of parrot
and food at present being given.,. .F.A.H.:
“How McDougal Topped the Score” was written
by Thos. E. Spencer and is published in The
Bulletin Reciter, obtainable from N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., Sydney, 2s J.C.H.: Your ques-
tion is rather vague. National Cash Register
Co., 106 Efizabeth-street, Brisbane, may help
you... .A. 8.: A leaflet on tanning has been
posted..-. .M.T.L.: The inscription on the
Shakespeare Memorial in the Sydney Domain
is taken from “The Tempest”,.. .R.S.: “The
Ring,” an American monthly; subscription, £1
ss. per annum, from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney E.A.P.: Do not know of any system
of shorthand called “Authic” or “Authentic.”
M.H.: Neither of any special value
G.E.8.: From “The Cotter’s Saturday Night”
by Robert Burns F.W.McW.; New Hudson
motor cycles are no longer made. V. S. Bur-
chall, 165 Broadway, Sydney, has spare parts,
and instruction books for 1931 model
R.S.P.: Hastings Deering, Ltd., William-street,
Sydney. ,


u
V
m
y
YOU CAN EARN AN EXTRA INCOME WEEKLY
—FOR LIFE—WRITING FOR THE PRESS!
Thousands of Stories, Articles, Radio Talks, Written Sketches,
Pars, are wanted annually by Australian Editors. If YOU have
Thoughts, why not turn them into Cash, and make a regular
EXTRA INCOME every week? Send for your copy of Stott’s New
Literary Prospectus explaining How to Write for Profit— Sent
FREE. Address carefully: Stott’s Correspondence College (Dept.
B-51), 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
X
5S
o
%
i mwtfri *•'
tfffii!
ivS
/p
NEW
TH
E
/?.
o>
Veedol Motor Oil has earned its world-wide reputation from years
of successful service in every corner of the globe. It has
placed at the command of motor users a permanent
lubrication ... an oil that cannot drain away
from the working parts of the engine
because it clings to the
surface.
\ V
AND NOW COMES THE NEW EXTRA MILEAGE VEEDOL.
Whether you ere hustling through o 1,000 mile trip or
stopping many times during the day . . . either below
freezing or over boiling point your engine stays 100%
lubricated with the New Extro Mileage Veedol Motor Oil
There's no carbon, gum or sludge formers in the New Extra
Mileage Veedol . . . after using it you will never let any
other oil go into the'crankcase of your car. There is no
motor oil in the world today to compare with the New
Extro Mileage Veedol Motor Oil.
100% PURE PENNSYLVANIA AT ITS BEST.
Obtainable at all leading garages and at no greater cost
than any other oil.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY
P T Y . LTD.
NCOftPORATED
V.Jft
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Church of England archbishops are
divided on foreign policy. The Primate
supports Chamberlain; his Grace of
York still demands Eden and “collective
security.” He and nine bishops have
issued a statement to the effect that
“there is no moral case for building and
maintaining armaments without clear
moral principles to direct their use.”
York it was who said to the tragically
unready Empire during the Abyssinian
business that it might be “necessary to
have another great and horrible war to
establish the efficacy of the League of
Nations.” Chamberlain may have had
this archbishop in mind when he referred
to “bloodthirsty pacifists.”
* * * *
“Cobbity”: Thus the chairman of
Britain’s National Federation of Grocers:
We deplore another American importa-
tion —that of sex-ridden advertising—which
stinks in the nostrils of clean-thinking men
and women. Let us have British ideas
translated into advertisement copy, instead
of the slavish imitation of Yankee sex and
sob-stuff appeal.
And he’s from Blackpool, too.
* * * *
. “Colonel Bungstarter”: Dammit, can’t
this infernal new generation leave us
oldsters with even a few of the romantic
associations of our day? Here’s a nosey
young French geographer out to prove
that Paris isn’t on the Seine at all, but
on the Yonne, and it looks as if the
blighter’s right. The two rivers meet at
Montereau, about 50 miles above Paris,
and I hate to think that when Jeanne and
I went there to look at the scenery I
quite forgot to notice that the Yonne
was —or is—the deeper, swifter and wider
of the two. Jeanne was sufficiently swift
and deep to need all of one’s available
attention. Anyhow, this geographer-chap
says that when salmon come up the
alleged Seine they turn to the right up
the Yonne, never up the Seine, and
salmon ought to know what river they’re
looking for.
* * * *
The progress of Anglo-Iranian Oil,
(the pipe-line of which, through Irak to
Haifa in the Mediterranean, is often in
the news since the Arabs around Pales-
tine have become restive), is apparently
of considerable interest to some Aus-
tralians ; Service Department inquiries
are often received. Over the last five
years royalties and taxes paid, profits
and divs. have been as follows:
Paid to
Iranian British Net Paid in
Government. Taxation. Profit. Dividends.
£ £ £ £
1933.. 1,785,012 305,418 2,643,978 2,078,109
1934.. 2,159,142 511,733 3,183,196 2,749,359
1935.. 2,191,921 408,635 3,519,183 3,084,984
1936.. 2,580,206 910,559 6,123,469 4,427,484
1937.. 3,545,313 1,651,588 7,455,094 6,105,609
The British Government is the largest
shareholder with £11,250,000 of ord.
stock, worth nearly £50,000,000 on the
market at present—“an investment almost
rivalling the famous purchase of Suez
Canal stock,” as one London authority
has put it. The public may buy the £1
stock units at around 90s. sterling.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: English Rugby League clubs,
now barred from signing up Australasian
and South African players, may look
for reinforcements from Australian
Rugby Unions. Commenting on this,
one Union official loftily remarks that
our men would not come at it since the
“social status” of the N. of E. profes-
sionals would not appeal to them. In his
football days writer played with teams
containing stokers, professional peds.,
barristers, pugs, civil servants and
many others of assorted trades and pro-
fessions. In Britain you find the same
wide range from the middle-class young-
sters who fill University and London
hospital teams and clubs which are
mostly recruited from bank and mercan-
tile clerks, to the saucepan-makers of
jLlanelly, the dockers of Cardiff and
{Swansea and the colliers of half a dozen
jgreat Welsh amateur teams. In the Mid-
ilands and the North of England, where
The leading Lancashire and Yorkshire
clubs outnumber those in the entire
! Rugby League, the range is from the
[fishermen of Silloth back to the middle-
jclassers again. The chief objection in
England to the League is not the mixed
substance of its players but the peonage
,system udder which the clubs employ
(them.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
D.O’S.: Couldn’t have her “dreaming . . .
and dreaming . . . ” here M.L.: Gas it is.
H.M.B.: Only a ghost in the bottle-green
frock 0.M.8.: A very stony sphinx
M.C.: Not enough in the bottles E.W.:
It’s very much “Out Yonder” N.A.MacD.:
“Never Never,” too T.S.: Some feeling, at
least... .D.C.: No, no good to publish
A.J.G.: Can’t pop the “Pawnshop Princess”
here... .R.W.: The ghost goes west... .R.M.:
Just an anecdote D.H.G. (England): 13,000
miles away in two senses S.S.: Wodehouse.
G.B.: Material’s there; poem missing
R.C.8.: Sincere; that’s a11....J.8.: At 116
lines it sounds a nice long holiday C.M.N.:
Too sing-song, though the slang’s entertaining.
I.S.A.: Promising landscape, but “tokened
dearth of fruitfulness” tokened dearth of
fruitfulness.... R.H.: Judging by the drift this
week there must be about a poet to the mile
on the track to Queensland L.P.: Bees
buzzing back T.M.C.: Bellerdrammer sells
at about twopence a time E.D.: Not for
us R.T.: Still misses E. 8.: Very close.
C.C.: Childish R.C.: That one just
misses; try again L.0.J.: You should place
it elsewhere 8.C.: Thin S.H.: More
suitable for a daily A.M.W.: Glimmer of
human interest, but it doesn’t make a story
D.McV.: Tailed off to nothing Charlott
(London): Your settings are a hemisphere too
far away... .Nytea: Sincere enough, but
they don’t make the grade Victorian:
Poor story J.W.: “End of Section” had wit,
but end is weak; other not in our line
H.H.: Not interested in “White Lady” addict.
....P.M.: Humor in a minor key C.G.
(San Francisco): Not quite M.M.: Not
interested in articles already broadcast
M. 8.: Short, yes; but a story, emphatically
no C.L.H.: The Cockney dialogue is
atrocious M.M.: Not a hope S.C.:
Ragged ending spoilt it H.W.8.: Remi-
niscences ramble too much G.E.L.W.
(Samoa): An incident only.. . .H.S.W.: “Travel-
ling Companions” are on the way back
M.A.C.: Not taken in by the miserly shop-
keeper... .F.H.: (Rhodesia): Well up, but
they’re off our beat... .J.H.: “Whew! What
a gal!” You’ve said it J.C.S.: Nothing
new there.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.C.L.: You can’t draw a table yet
R.S.K.: Cop has only one boot D.R.R.:
Half the picture represents a wheelbarrow, but
is the other half dog or goat?.... J.M.: Draw-
ings fair, but it’s a dreary collection of gags....
T.E.G.: Not interested in colored-crayon
sketches J.R.G.: Couldn’t see any likenesses
in those caricatures N. 8.: Send them to a
magazine of natural history T.D.: Figures
lack life H.H.: Fair copies; now try your
hand at original work E.A.P.: What is
hidden under the blots? J.L.P.: Those flap-
pers might find a place in a freak show....
R.L.: This week’s grimiest; use a fixative with
charcoal drawings... .D. 8.: There’s not a
laugh in any of them. .. .T.S.F.: Received and
returned, one cigar-box full of postcard-size
child studies D.H.P.: Fair, keep studying.
E.W.: You’re improving, but make your
work bolder J.M.C.: Once again, gags must
be original... .G.D.: The horse appears to
have been carved out of a tree-trunk
W.A.T.: And your two men look like tailor’s
dummies H.M.: Half Australia laughed
when Norman Lindsay first illustrated that
wheeze D.J.C. Not a grin in any of
them I.B.MacD.: The girl’s arms are about
four feet 10ng.... G.W.C.: Where did you see
that ancient tram?... .R.S.: Afraid not
H.A.T.: If you must draw, don’t use letter
paper... .A.G.L.: The decorated border was
nicely thought out H.F.8.: Gags poor,
drawing hopeless W.H.-S.: Very nearly
"The Bulletin" welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
N.R.M.: It’s only half-finished J.G.: The
block-maker saw it, had a stiff whisky, looked
again and went home for the afternoon.
“Yore”: The press yarn that many of
the latest Japanese warships are causing
concern by their instability because the
designers sacrificed'seaworthiness to gun-
power will raise a raucous laugh in many
a wardroom. All the new British cruisers
and destroyers are more heavily-gunned
than the Japanese. As the story runs:
The first indication of the trouble was
the capsizing of the torpedo boat Tomo-
duru in 1936 She carried five sin. guns,
whereas British destroyers mount four
4.7’5.
Brassey's Annual (March, 1936) showed
the Tomoduru as carrying three 4.7 in.
guns. It was in 1934 that she capsized.
She was only a 500-tonner—smaller than
any other modern ship of the class.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fane}, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
•••
sse
■ x *«. ~,<&».
ill
An Empire '
Product-
made in
Windsor. Can.
you candependon
CHAMPION SS
for
SMOOTH MOTORING
The smooth and even pull of
your car’s engine can be kept at
its peak of efficiency only by pro-
viding strong hot sparks. Install
new Champions at regular in-
tervals. These improved
plugs reduce carbon for-
mation, and pay forthem-
selves in fuel savings.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OH
CHECK AND
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XX.
Going home one evening in September,
1918, Terry found his mother trying to
comfort a white-haired woman dressed
in black.
“Mrs. O’Brien,” he said, “I haven’t
seen you for ever so long!”
The face turned to him was so an-
guished that his utterance faltered. He
proceeded awkwardly, “What’s the
matter, Mrs. O’Brien ; and is there any-
thing I can do?”
Mrs. O’Brien was too overcome to
reply. His mother whispered, “She got
word this morning that Francis is dead.”
Mrs. O’Brien had five sons, and four
had gone to the war. Mick, the eldest,
had fallen at Lone Pine. Eddie, the
second son, had been shot to pieces on
the Bullecourt wire. Francis was the
youngest —only 19 when he departed
with reinforcements in 1917, after the
fearful campaign in the mud of Flan-
ders had left all the King’s forces on the
Western Front decimated and depressed.
And now Francis had been slain, perhaps
“Reverse the act and We’ll take it.”
in bis first battle, although the official
communications which darkened so many
homes never went into such details.
Those were days in which mothers of
soldiers trembled at the sight of a black
coat, even when above it shone a kindly
phiz like that of Father Ryan or his friend
the Reverend McPetrie. Together Father
Ryan and the Reverend McPetrie had
turned that morning into the street in
which Mrs. O’Brien lived. It was the
priest who had stopped at the gate and
entered the stricken house.
“They might have left me my baby,”
wailed poor Mrs. O’Brien, breaking a
silence which Terry had found oppres-
sive, though he could say nothing. Words
of sympathy never came to him easily.
It was reserved for the first of the
A.I.F. V.Cs. to say the unforgettable
thing about the mothers of Australian
soldiers.
“When we went away to the war,” he
said, “our mothers were young —they
seemed just like elder sisters. When we
came back we found them old women,
and it cut us to the heart.”
Yes, women aged quickly during those
years of waiting, when 59,000 Australian
mothers waited in vain.
But Mrs. O’Brien, would have at least
one son to comfort her, and religion to
console. The war had taken from Brown,
the grocer, his only child.
Brown had been a figure of fun in
the suburb in which Terry lived. He was
a tall, awkwardly-built, bearded man,
with a hare-lip and a roofless mouth. In
spite of this defect he had gone in for
local politics, had become an alderman
and reached the office of Mayor. His
remarks were almost unintelligible to all
except experienced fellow-aldermen and
the run-to-seed journalist who did the
municipal reports for the free daily paper,
but he was diligent in discharge of his
routine duties, and when things grew dull
at council and ratepayers’ meetings he
could always be mocked at.
Those who
thought Brown ex-
quisite sport took
care not to mock at
him when his son
was within striking
distance. All that
Nature had denied
the father she had
bestowed upon the
son.
Young Brown was
a splendid physical
specimen, and full of
brains as well as per-
sonal charm. He
played football for
the university, at
which he was taking
an enginee ring
course, and he had
acquitted himself
well in a four-round
spar with Kingsley
Fairbridge, the
scholar from Ox-
ford, who, turned
down by the A.I.F.
doctors, had come to Sydney in search
of funds for the farm school he was
trying to establish in W.A.
Fairbridge, though he talked in that
Oxford manner and looked delicate, was
a skilful boxer. He had, it was said,
whipped a fellow named Julian Grenfell,
son of Lord Somebody-or-other, for the
middleweight championship of those
English universities.
“ Here's a pick-up, Claude. Now keep talkin”
till they get used to our faces!”
They must have been a queer pair,
Terry thought: poets as well as pugs. A
Sydney paper had reprinted a piece that
Grenfell had written before a German
bullet got him: “Into Battle,” it was
called. And Fairbridge’s poems were in
some South African anthology or autho-
logy, whichever it was.
Terry had played football with Jim
Brown, and put on the gloves with him,
and held his coat while he polished off a
hoodlum who had publicly mimicked the
Mayor. Terry admired the youngster for
his devotion to his father, for whom
Mac Sherry had a queer liking himself.
Before the son left for the war he had
extracted a promise that Terry would
“go to the shop now and again and have
a pitch with the old man” ; * and this
Terry did.
In his odd way, the elder Brown had
a strong sense of duty, and he had not
objected when the son said he was going
to enlist. The parting must have been
a dreadful blow to him, for the boy was
all he had in the world—the only human
being who understood him and received
and returned a full measure of affection.
Always, because of his impediment, a
man of few words, he seemed quieter
than ever when Terry made his calls. He
said he was sleeping badly, and Terry
could tell, from his lined and anxious
face, that the strain was telling on him.
And then came the news that Lieu-
tenant Brown had been killed in action.
Terry saw it in the morning paper,
and went straight to Brown’s. The shop
windows were shuttered, and the blinds
were drawn in the three-roomed dwelling
at the rear.
Terry knocked at the back door. It
was opened by Brown himself.
In silence Terry put out his hand and
grasped that of the man who was with-
out a son. He had to use both hands to
prevent Brown from falling.
Into a chair he slumped, the childless
father, moaning inarticulately like a
wounded animal —a picture of wild,
heartpiercing, unassuageable grief.
And, as Terry was soon to learn, that
kind of grief can kill. Within four
months Brown had gone to join his son.
(To be continued.)
“Nor’-west”: By his pen-
name “Wingina” (8.-1/6/’3B)
recalls that great gorge in
West Kimberley (W.A.).
Carved by the Lennard River
through the Napier Range
(out east of Derby and south
of the mightier King Leo-
polds), this gorge was during
the ’nineties the favorite
haunt of Pigeon, the abo-
riginal outlaw. He and Cap-
tain, a fellow-tracker, mur-
dered their boss, Mounted
Constable Richardson, motive
being the liberation of mem-
bers of Pigeon’s tribe, on the
chain for cattle-killing. A
couple of days later, right in-
side the gorge, the renegades
capped their first crime by
wanton slaughter of Gibbs
and Burke, unarmed and quite
unoffending stockmen. With
plenty of stolen guns and ammunition,
Pigeon next organised a gang which for
over three years maintained guerrilla war-
fare against the police and the settlers
along the Fitzroy Valley. By a lucky break
Captain was captured in Wingina Gorge.
Pigeon then took the warpath, declaring
his intention of taking three white lives.
At Collins’s station in the Oscar Range
he collected number one, Tom Jasper, a
newly-arrived Queenslander who, being
“used to niggers,” laughed at warnings.
Then, overbold, Pigeon overplayed his
hand. Full of contempt for the police he
lingered in the Oscars until all retreat
was cut off. But he fought to the last.
With a shattered hip-bone he struggled
along for days, outfighting a tracker, a
policeman and three white volunteers
who thought they had him cornered.
Then his lust for vengeance settled him.
Lying in ambush all night he shot the
tracker at daybreak. Pursued by a fresh
police party he was finally brought to
bay at the entrance of one of the
numerous mountain caves. Expending
his last two cartridges in halting the
police, he tried to escape by an opening
over the other side of the ridge. But two of
his own kind were waiting ; without com-
punction they blew his brains out when
his head appeared around a corner of
rock. What a field it would have been
for “Western” fiction had such valiant
outlaws been white, or even red, instead
of being merely niggers!


TRAVEL MADE HIM
CONSTIPATED
Salesman Says Kruschen
Keeps Him “On His Toes”
“I am a commercial traveller,” writes a cor-
respondent, “and due to endless travelling by
train, I find that I become constipated if I do
not keep myself well purged. Kruschen Salts
is the only thing that will do this effectively
and not interfere with my work. I take a large
dose of Kruschen every Saturday night, and on
Sunday, when I have no work to do, the Salts
act on me. On week-days I take a small dose
on rising. It is necessary that I be ‘on my
toes’ all through the day, and this is the only
way that it possibly can be done. I have
tried other laxatives and they have proven to
be either unreliable or harsh in their action.”
—V.L.
Kruschen Salts is Nature’s recipe for main-
taining a condition of internal cleanliness. The
six salts in Kruschen stimulate your internal
organs to smooth, regular action. Your inside
is thus kept clear of those impurities which,
when allowed to accumulate, lower the whole
tone of the system.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salama.ua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. ITD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
n
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
m
£
®3
By Appointment
/o
c* /
Os*or *•''*,. "'OJA' •' ,r '*»- «««•****
O*. f < f. / •»/-, . w * 'W UrjattW* **
a? « *.v* «r
C y f Arts oto
CC6/38
The Perfect Whisky
The mellowness, softness and
quality of this Whisky the
only one distilled outside the
British Isles that has won and
retained international repute
will instantly appeal to the
discerning palate.
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street.
Sydney.
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville.
Ontario, Canada. Since 1858.
Whisky
PRE-WAR
STRENGTH
The WONDER HORSE,
and Others
PHAR LAP has been honored in
great company. His pickled heart
at Canberra and his stuffed hide in
Melbourne have long stood, and
will stand much longer, as an inspiration
to the hardy race of Australian punters;
now, with Jimmy Pike up, he figures in
Lady Wentworth’s Thoroughbred Racing
Stock, a tome so monumental that Jack
Rice might have baulked at lumping it
over even the genteel bushes they now
call hurdles at Randwick.
Even in this company Phar Lap
appears as “The Wonder Horse.” Not
that Lady Wentworth is particularly well-
informed about him. In her text she
has his name as one word, and the time
which gets him into her list is not an
Australian record. His two Australian
records are fim. in 2min. 2isec., carry-
ing 9st. lib., at Randwick (1931), and
2|m. in 3min. 49isec. (7st. 131 b.), Rand-
wick (1930). Lady Wentworth adds that
had he not come to an untimely end,
he would undoubtedly have surpassed the
world’s record stake winnings: she puts
this at £75,348, by Sun Beau (U.S.A.).
As it was, she credits Phar Lap with
having won £70,140 in four years. Next
highest in her listings are Gallant Fox
(£65,623) and Zev (£60,215).
Lady Wentworth’s other Australian
references include mention that racing
began in this country in 1810, and that
the importation of brood mares began
in 1825 with Manto by Soothsayer, “who
remained the best of all succeeding pur-
chases.” She has a reference to Valais
as the “leading sire for five years (1924-
28)” and states that “Musket and Car-
bine had an outstanding influence, and
the Galopin line of blood did well, but
Wallace was considered the best of all
sires.” Of Carbine she mentions that
he “was bred in New Zealand out of
Mersey, and won 23 out of 43 races,
and was second six times. He was pur-
chased by the Duke of Portland for
13,000 guineas in 1895.” Phar Lap’s per-
formance was 37 wins, three seconds and
two thirds out of 51 starts.
Lady Wentworth adds in a footnote:
“The world’s record seems to be held
by the Oriental Roman horse Hirpinus,
which ran 262 races and won or was
placed in them all.” That, it should be
mentioned, was a fair time before
Flemington was thought of, and the
bragging sporting gentry whose doings
are reported in Sunday newspapers are
modesty itself to their prototypes of
that distant date. Still, Hirpinus must
have been a pretty fair sort of horse.
The sport must have been fair of its
kind, too. Rivalries having come to a
head at one race meeting in 445 a.d., “a
riot followed, and the city [Constan-
tinople, apparently] was devastated with
fire and drenched in blood.”
Lady Wentworth has one or two
references to the influence of Arab blood
in Australia. She is a champion of the
Arab, and an authority. For one of
her own Arab stallions an Eastern prince
offered her 45,000 guineas. The late Sir
Edward Cook wrote as foreword to her
book that “the tradition of keeping
racing horses has come down to the
present Lady Wentworth from her an-
cestor Sir Ralph Milbanke, who kept
one of the first foundation studs of
Oriental horses some 200 years ago.”
Lady Wentworth is directly related also
to the poet Byron, whose daughter Ada
took such an interest in racing that she
shook the foundations of Byron’s house
and heart by pawning the Wentworth
and Byron family jewels. (Lady Byron
redeemed them).
Exactly how much the punting Ada
did in on the Sport of Kings hasn’t been
placed on record, but Lady Wentworth
is able to chronicle one punting record
—the £lOO,OOO lost by Lord Hastings
when Hermit won the Derby. If any
punter has improved on that record
loss over a single race, he has kept mum
about it. This being a somewhat ticklish
subject with punters, actual figures of
losses rarely are given. Even the most
publicised of the uncountable fraternity
are at the worst “understood to have
lost a large amount in wagers,” which
is much the term applied to Mr. Alan
Cooper over Mala’s two recent disastrous
runs in Brisbane.
Mr. Cooper would perhaps be a man
after Lady Wentworth’s own heart: at
least, his selling for £1 a horse that then
won a string of races, and his giving
another away because it was beaten by
a head in a trial would have fitted into
the lighter side of her book. The ill-
fated Mala does figure in the work —in
the tables of world’s highest prices,
though a long way down the list. The
price Mr. Cooper paid for Talking gets
this horse into the list also, but though
the 19,000 guineas is easily an Australian
record, it stands only' twentieth in a list
which kicks off with the world record
figure of £64,000 paid for the Karta
Filly (Arab). Call Boy and Captain
Cuttle each sold for 60,000 guineas, and
Captain Cuttle broke his back shortly
after the sale. Tracery (53,000 guineas)
and Windsor Lad (50,000) are next on
the list, with Solario close up (47,000).
The Derby winner Blenheim was sold to
the U.S.A. for 45,000 guineas, the figure
offered for Lady Wentworth’s Crabbet
Arab.
The 37,000 guineas paid for Flying Fox
is as remarkable as any of the foregoing,
because it was paid in 1900, and apart
from isolated examples, such as the
15,000 guineas paid for Flair in 1909,
extreme top prices before the war were
around about 5000 to 6000 guineas. The
big prices lately ruling are, of course, a
result of greatly increased prize-money,
which makes a winner of classics a valu-
able stud investment —in U.S.A. Sun Beau
stands at £6OO and Sun Briar at the top
fee of £lOOO. Among bargains in this
line Lady Wentworth lists Hurry On,
who cost 500 guineas and brought in an
annual income of £16,000 till he was
over 20 years old, producing, among
other great performers, three Derby
winners. Though judgment in buying is
good, says this authority, luck is better,
to which a hearty hearrhear would no
doubt be added by the buyer who paid
£22 for the V.R.C. Grand National
winner, Dakwood.
Lady Wentworth also has some figures
that might interest Aboliars given to
holding forth on their prads’ distance
performances. As stated, the author is
the Arab’s champion—his blood, in her
estimate, is the “pure alcohol” in the
English thoroughbred’s veins—and when
she says Arab she means the real thing
from the part of Arabia where they still
keep them pure, not the animals which
used to do such slow times on Egyptian
race-tracks that Diggers, remembering
Randwick and Flemington—or even
dumps like Sydney “pony” tracks —used
to swear the jockeys pulled up on the
way round and picked themselves a feed
of figs.
The Arabian horse’s reputation for en-
durance has, Lady Wentworth insists,
been a positive curse to him, “as people
are for ever racing him over incredible
distances under fantastic weights, wast-
ing good horses on work best done by
motor transport.” She instances one such
race which took place in October, 1926,
in Portugal—l2oo miles in 18 days;
roughly, miles per day. The last
112-odd miles were done uphill, and the
last seven kilometres galloped uphill.
Emir, a pure Arab, won the event; a
large number of the 39 starters died on
the way. This death roll Lady Went-
worth attributes to bad riding as much
as anything: “Many Arabs could easily
cover far more than the usually pre-
scribed 60 miles a day without injury if
properly ridden. In Australia it is prob-
ably often done in the day’s work.” She
lists a Mr. Frazer’s Arab that went from
Shiraz to Teheran (522 miles) in six days,
and after three days’ rest went back in
five days. He remained nine days in
Shiraz, then did a further 522 miles in
seven days. This, representing 87 miles
a day for 1566 miles, might give even
Aboliars something to live up to. There
is also listed the performance of another
Arab that ran 400 miles in four con-
secutive days.
It was, Lady Wentworth declares, be-
cause it had become increasingly obvious
that stamina was diminishing that races
were shortened. She would probably be
amused to hear that a horse, coddled
half-way round the Australian continent
in a motor-trailer specially to contest a
race over six furlongs, failed in his mis-
sion because he hadn’t the stamina to
see out the distance carrying 9st. 41b. As
against that sort of thing she records the
performance of Bald Charlotte, who won
a match at Newmarket (three four-mile
heats) carrying 18st., and also won the
King’s Plate of four miles at Winchester
the same day, being ridden fully 150
miles.
What has been dealt with here, it
should be said, represents only the lighter
side of Lady Wentworth’s vast and
learned tome (published by Allen and
Unwin). It is really a library on the
noblest of animals somewhat haphazardly
lumped into one huge volume, with her
keen application of acid test dividing true
horse history from myth, covering the
sweep of time from cave drawings to
last year’s Derby winner and illustrated
with scores of plates, many in color She
sums up on the present state of things:
Our racehorse breeders naturally aim at
ever progressive speed and stamina, but
of late they have been scared by a fear
of retrogression, and view with dismay the
deterioration in soundness and stamina, the
bad feet, rickety joints, brittle pasterns
and defective wind, the intestinal weakness
of foals, and the barrenness of mares, and
the baffling temperamental excitability and
sullen or savage tempers. Whether we
can do anything to remedy this is doubtful.
The fact is that the value of a racehorse
is now as a machine to last three years,
and it does not matter how crippled or
unsound he may be after that if he can
keep his nose in front for two seasons.


for his race, this old man, who was a Maori gentle-
man, would be very effective in Parliament. Tiffany
cried:
“Oh, Hemi, 1 feel we should ask your pardon
for so much ... so much” . . .
“Well, I do not like jellies and custards at a
tangi, instead of bullocks roasted whole. Nor do I
like a Maori wife to paint her cheeks, instead of
having her lips tattooed,” said candid Hemi. “But
that is civilisation, and we Maori can be civilised
when we choose.” He looked at her, half-shy, half-
imperative. “Please take off your hat, Tihane, so I
may see your hair.”
“It’s white now,” said Tiffany, pulling off her hat.
“Never mind.” But he was clearly disappointed.
“1 shall always see it bronze, like the fern in the sun.
Now we shall sing ‘Red Plumes of the Kaka.’ ’’
“My dear, I’ve not a scrap of voice left.”
“We will sing,” said Hemi, who hadn’t had hun-
dreds of imperious begats for nothing.
They tried, breaking down in laughter that was
near to tears. “Red Plumes” gone, like so much else.
“The Maoris sing ‘Little Brown lug’ instead,” said
Hemi, who (it seemed) must also be gone. “There is
a train to catch, and a Minister must visit his con-
stituents,” said Hemi, shaking hands like an English
gentleman, stepping into the motor-car, driving away
with the past sixty years in his pocket.
TIFFANY sat still on the woodpile until the sun
went down. So many great things she had hoped
to do . . . and none of them done. So many years
since she had read her sheaf of verses for the last
time ; laughed and cried over them, and burned them.
Too full of ardencies and hopes and fears for a
woman who —though she might have the vote —was
still expected by this country to use it only for the
advancement of man. Some day (Roddy had said)
men and women will realise that they are the two
halves of the whole and pull together, instead of
against each other. But Roddy was long dead in
far-away Tibet. And Jerry was dead, and Rick was
Sir Roderick now . . .
So many ghosts, though Roddy had stoutly
scouted ghosts. “Good Lord,” Roddy had said, his
brown eyes all gay and shining, “if you imagine we’re
going to peter out into that kind of thing you have
a big bump coming, my dear. Swarms of lives . . .
all the little mammy’s eternities ahead of us yet,” said
Roddy, prepared to march on them with his flute
playing a merry music. So he would find his dear
love there. And mamma would find Jermyn, coming
back with eager feet from his long straying. And
poor anxious Sophy would find something better than
her curios-—which Darien had sold for quite a sum
after Sophy’s death, although the money hadn’t gone
to missions. ...
A fine creed, Roddy’s, though Tiffany wasn’t
always certain of it yet, what with Buddha and Osiris
and the others all pointing different ways.
The winter sun had sunk behind the great snowy
ramparts and shadows of tall trees lay across the
woodpile. Tiffany tried to jump up ; felt the twinges
in her limbs, and laughed, going in to Darien, who
was very cross with Tiffany for not bringing the
gentleman in to see her.
“So few of them on the Plains now. All these
damned little farmers crowding in with their little
patches. He looked quite a beau, and it was vastly
mean of you to keep him to yourself, Tiffy. Who
was he?”
“Hemi Fleete,” said Tiffany, smiling as she put
one button chrysanthemum in a vase. Hemi had
taken all the rest.
“Fleete? Don’t remember. We’ve had so many
beaux, haven’t we?” said Darien, cheering up at the
memory, and battering the fire with the poker. Few
things she had the strength to batter now, this old
Darien . . . who had returned to the elegancies with
a silk gown and a scarlet shawl dangling silken fringes.
I’ve always wanted to wear
scarlet, but 1 couldn’t till
my hair turned, she had
once told a shocked Clara.
Mind you bury, me in scar-
let. I’ve never had enough
of it.
Prue brought Darien’s
egg-nogg and arranged the cushions in the big chair.
“If you’d had more spunk you’d not be doing this,”
said Darien viciously. “Why the devil wouldn’t you
be a sensible girl and marry all the men I found for
you?”
Prue stood smiling with her long lips—which were
still that wonderful dark red, though her smooth hair
had streaks of grey.
“I’d have preferred going into Parliament. But
1 hadn’t the education or the money.”
“Nobody has any education now. But I’d have
lent you the money. I could afford it . . . though
we’re not so rich as we were, and Rick hasn’t my
eye for a sheep. Of course, one couldn’t expect that.
It is genius,” said Darien, complacently, sipping the
egg-nog, while Prue returned to the kitchen and her
imaginings.
“Prue always puts a little more brandy in this
than you do, Tiffy,” said Darien, sipping with relish.
“The only one of John’s bunch with sense. Do you
remember Linda and Caroline going into black when
Queen Victoria died? You don’t catch me doing it,
I told them. She didn’t know how to govern New
Zealand.- Your father didn’t either . . . messing every-
thing up. 1 didn’t go into black when they died. And
I’m to be buried in scarlet. Don’t forget.”
“I won’t,” promised Tiffany, smiling as Prue
came in with the lamp.
“And you can publish my diary then. It'll tell
posterity the truth. It’ll tell all that women do in
making a new country . . . though Janet is damn’
slow about getting her grand-daughters married. If it
hadn’t been for me she’d never have been married her-
self. How old is Sybil? Eighteen? Eighteen, and
not married? Good God, I must see to it at once.
Prue, draw me up a list of all the eligibles in the
district and I’ll give a party . . . though, Heaven knows,
men are not what they used to be. No manners
now”
“I think Sybil wants to go to England and study
art,” said Tiffany.
“Bah! She don’t know what’s good for her.
There’s no art greater than knowing how to manage
men . . . though one mustn’t take them seriously. 1
never did, and see where I’ve got to. Tiffy,” cried
Darien, sitting up, her eyes glowing again, “look up a
date at once. My rheumatism will be all right by
next month, and I bet I can dance Sir Roger with
any of you. I’ll give a party”
[The End.]
THE HOODOO GRAPPLER
By CON DREW.
“T” HE most unlucky grappler I ever handled was a
huge orang-outang of a bloke called Zango.
I Me and Handsome Harry picked him up in
Adelaide after he had bumped off a feW
baboons at the local stadium and brought him along to
Melbourne. He pulled down the scale at eighteen
stone and had a chest like a Clydesdale cart-horse.
He could sling bar-bells around as if they was made
of papier-mache, and liftin’ piannas was child’s play
to him. Once, with a side sweep of his arm, he sent
his wrestlin’ partner so hard against a ring-post that
the bloke cracked three of his ribs. He was a first-
class wrestler, and was easy to train ; but, as I said
before, he had a hoodoo well hung on to him.
First thing he did in Melbourne was to walk
clean through a shop window, and it cost us eleven
frogskins for repairs. Then in Ballarat we matched
him with the town’s best grappler and thought the
pair would draw a record house. On the day of the
affray it started to rain. It never let up for a second,
and when we arrived at the wrestlin’ joint we found the
place half-empty. We hardly collected enough to pay
expenses.
Seein’ that the dice was rollin’ agen us in Victoria
we lumbered Zango to Sydney, but old Doctor Gloom
was waitin’ for us there. For two solid weeks we
canvassed the wrestlin’ joints, but none of the pro-
moters would give us a match. The dates had been
booked up for weeks ahead, they reckoned.
Meanwhile, our funds were gettin’ mighty low.
In sheer desperation I went to see Sol Jacobs.
Sol promoted boxin’ contests only, but me and him
had been mates in the old days, and I thought he
might listen to reason.
“Ain’t that the baboon who walks through
winders?” he says after I’d told him me business.
“He ain’t took any prizes for thinkin’,” I
admitted, “but he’s a ding-dong grappler. If
you give him a match I’ll guarantee he’ll fill the
place.”
“I'm sorry,” says Sol, “but there ain’t a chance.
1 put on a wrestlin' contest once and the gorillas let
me down. There ain’t goin’ to be no encore.”
That seemed to be the end of the section but
I had another go at him. “If you won’t give Zango
a main bout will you put him on for a preliminary
go?” says I.
“If I did that,” Sol came back, “I’d be creatin’
a sort of procedure, and I’d be pestered by every
grappler who is lookin’ for a match.”
“You wouldn’t mind bein’ pestered if your cus-
tomers showed that they wanted more,” says I.
“That’s true,” admits Sol. “All right. I’ll take
a risk. Could you arrange to match your boarcon-
stricter with someone and have them ready to take
the ring on Saturday night week?”
“Easy,” I answers.
Y/ OU can bet l lost no time spillin’ the good news
* to Handsome, and we put in the afternoon
figurin’ out who would be the best man to stack up
against Zango. At last we decided on a grappler who
called hisself the Russian Bear. He’d been struttin’
around for a couple of months lookin’ for a match,
and we thought his manager would jump at the
chance. He did. When he heard the go was to take
place in Sol Jacobs’s hall he couldn't sign up quick
enough.
We kept Zango at top pressure until the day
before .he affray, and then we let him lay off. When
we inserted burselves into the hall on the Saturday
night he’d never been better in his life. The first
prelim., a three-round boxin’ contest, was on, and
before goin’ to our dressin’-room I shot a glance
around the joint to see if I could focus Sol. He was
there all right,, sittin’ at the ringside talkin’ to a gent,
with a gold watch-chain and an outsize cigar.
It took us about ten minutes to get ready. By
that time the boxers had finished their stunt and we
took Zango into the ring. After a bit the Bear ambles
in. He was a husky gent, with a jaw like the stern of
a destroyer, and he looked as if he’d been in a good
few battles. _ He was about half a head shorter than
Zango, but he made up for that in bulk.
Just before they went into action Handsome says
to Zango: “This is only a one-round prelim., but
there’s big things hangin’ to it, and you’ve gotter win.
Make this bloke wrastle from start to finish. You can
beat him all right, but watch out for them leg dives
of his. Now in you go. It’s up to you.”
Well, talkin’ of wrestlin’, I don’t suppose I’ve
seen a more evenly-matched pair of grapplers. As a
sort of declaration of war Zango grabbed hold of
the Bear and dumped him on top of his head. In a
wink the Bear was on his feet and he clamped a head-
lock on our gorilla that nearly tore his melon off.
Zango stood the pressure for a bit; then, givin’ a
mighty heavy, he got clear. A couple of seconds later
the Bear tried for another headlock, but Zango was
ready this time. Steppin’ aside he grabbed hold of
the Bear and heaved him clean over his head.
The Bear was on his feet agen in a jiff, and they
wrestled and fought around the ring like a pair of
buffalo bulls.
It was a hectic battle all right. At times it looked
as if Zango was gettin’ the best of it; then the Bear
would step on the gas and even things up agen.
Suddenly, when they had been at it for about six
minutes, the Bear made a dive for his favorite leg
hold. He missed it by a fraction of an inch and
Zango grabbed him. Liftin’ the Bear above his head
he swung him round like a Catherine wheel. They'd
call it the aeroplane spin to-day, but in them times
they called it the wheel.
I thought Zango was goin’ to dump the Bear on
the mat, but he didn’t. With an amazin’ exhibition
of strength he heaved him clean over the ropes and
into the fourth row of chairs. Not bein’ made of
iron the Bear stayed where he was thrown.
Handsome let out a yell that nearly lifted the
roof off the hall. “The hoodoo’s broke at last,” he
bellered. “We’ll eat regular now.”
AFTER the usual handshakes we took Zango down
to the dressin’-room and put him under the shower.
We was mighty pleased with ourselves, let me tell you.
We were dryin’ Zango off when in floats one of the
ushers.
“My word your boy put up a good go,” he says.
“He’s a slap-up grappler all right.”
“He’s not bad,” admits Handsome. “I’m glad
you enjoyed the show. What did Mr. Jacobs think
him?” says the usher. “Pretty good. 1 saw
him smilin’ at the bloke he was with. But just now
he’s up talkin’ to some bloke the Bear fell on. He’s
some big nob or other. Reckons somethin’ about
wantin’ damages for a broken collarbone.”


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning” —Sir Herbert Barker.
mm*
m
mmm.
Sir Herbert Barker.
“1 am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
The Baroness Orcz.v.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
Dr. F. W. Norwood.
D.D
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
m-
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly
*»•
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or vvhat his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—-it make 3
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his work
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings
mind’s latent powers and develops
the highest point of efficiency. It
such weaknesses and defects as:—
out the
them to
banishes
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex’*
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later—and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation ot 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House.
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 3(> years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in '‘The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.)> Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application bv using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
465.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
r.O
,\0 0
C»y/ -fV* ?
.tf'V'
s^ 1
ct s :
,0.i c
a\® v i oV
<o' 1 '
s '
o x
N\' ss
,• ' ’ A S< V° C VV 0<
.•• , ? A e^
.•• \° \* S^ 1 '


TASMA TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS,
N
o.
5.
/
%
V*
r
m
L
w
4
2
3
\
f
V
c
m
tuning »►*
To build a radio set without extended tuning range is like putting a growing
boy into a skin-tight suit. It may be all right for the moment . . . but what’s going to happen in two
years’ time? New Stations are continually coming on the air, but unless there is room at both ends of
the dial you won’t be able to tune them! Only the other day the International Conference got busy at
Cairo extending wave bands and making room for new stations. ONLY TASMA FORESAW THIS
. . . only TASMA provided sets with an extended tuning range. In other words gouf Tasma dial
will still be modern in five gears' time. Look ahead —buy a TASMA!
HERE ARE SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA’S LEADERSHIP
• AIR TRIMMERS
• INSTANTANEOUS TUNING
• OVERSIZE DIAL WITH 20in. OF TUNING SPACE
S3AIVA 3VIDO M3N •
• AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL
• VARIABLE SELECTIVITY
• INBUILT MAGIC EYE
• DUST-PROOF SPEAKERS
g
THE TASMA “PRINCESS”
Described by a leading critic
as “the most outstanding
receivers of their type on
the market.”
Model “530” —6-valve, dual-
wave A.O. model. 35 guineas.
Model “500” —7-valve, dual -
wave Universal current (A.O.
or D.C.). 39 guineas.
Model “585” Battery-
operated 5-valve. 35 gns.
Air Cell operated, 37 gns.
Vibrator operated, 40 gns.
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS * LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.; OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
' j
V:
THE TASMA "DEBUTANTE"
Meeting the demand for
receivers with full console
chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table
use.
Model “525” —-6-valve, dual-
wave A.O. 27 guineas.
Model “580” —Broadcast ■>-
valve, Battery operated. 27
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 29 gns.
Vibrator powered, 32 gns.
Model “585” —5-valve dual-
wave Battery operated. 29
guineas.
Air Cell operated, 31 gns.
Vibrator powered, 34 gns.
Ua4ma
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA; NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and
59 George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
IlfSii!
m
wmi
THE TASMA “COUNTESS"
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525”—6-valve dual-
wave AX'. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast, Battery operated,
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
fg
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
