

A R E
fi MAKING CHEAT STRIDES
)r y ' §
X
A-f
1
r
V
: :v
£3
itl
1?
21251$
: X
*v
ASHFIELD,
Next to Woolworths
2m
\
S
IW
L- 1
mtmmtjmnnamapmmtmm
■fficfh cfCiiex -fjouse
* *
HIT
ESS
HR
PSP
irf
11
11
11
IS
siw
MfSlSf
r
in
•as
@9*l
uT»S
999
avc
T 3!
«PB«
999
g«q
997
HURSTVILLE,
Opp. Post Office.
9ff™
999
7U
tW ' -si
HK«
H
CLARENCE ST.,
Furniture Warehouse.
PITT ST.,
Next to John Danks.
X
Q£
? I ;i
V
sjy
u £
IQI
'=£
1
s
s r
Hiqhqate i Credit Bond
High gates Merchandise Credit Bond is the world’s most
scientific Credit System. It is the easiest, fairest and
cheapest credit shopping system in existence.
It provides the world s finest merchandise at strictly
competitive prices for a payment of 1/- in the £ weekly
or the value of the Credit Bond entirely free of interest
and other unnecessary charges!
Highgates Merchandise Credit Bond costs you nothing
• * • it is absolutely free. There is no deposit to pay
and you take immediate delivery of your purchases.
It is quite easy to obtain a Highgates Credit Bond—all
you have to do is to call, write, or telephone and
register your name. This establishes your credit
for all time.
You can buy anything at Highgates and keep on buying
all the year round on the same Credit Bond. This is
recurring credit. Every time you make a payment, your
credit recurs and there is no necessity to enquire into
your credit standing every time as is done in other
credit systems!
• not the ordinary Time-payment system
® NOT a “Lay-by” system
NOT a Cash Order system
® NOT a Coupon system
-Hiah.aa.4elL
CREDIT CHAIN STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Telephone: MJ4691 (6 lines).
“ H !£ HG A TES HOUSE »” 332 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next John Danks and only a few doors from Liverpool Street.)
Administrative Offices: 257 Clarence Street, Sydney. Branches at Hurstville and Ashfield.
REQUEST FORM.
If. cannot call at one of our branch stores, simply fill in
this Request Form and post at once. If you would like a
representative to call, telephone to Mr. Miller ( MJ4691 ).
To HIGHGATES, LTD., Box 14 A, G.P.0., Sydney.
1 wish to register my name for a Highgates Credit Bond for
£ (State amount required.)
NAME
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS
USUAL SIGNATURE DATE..
Highgates Credit Bond is available of £l, £2,
£3, £4, £5, £7, £lO, £l5, £2O.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3035.
Wednesday, April 13, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
FROM THE CAMPFIRE CIRCLE.
The debt that Australian literature with a bush
setting owes to the campfire yarn was touched on in
a recent Red Page article. The tales that bushmen
swap, or a bushwoman’s recollections of something
past, were referred to as the folklore stage of this
branch of our literature, and its influence in the stories
and novels of a number of our writers was instanced.
Not that bushmen scatter unconsidered gems of litera-
ture, but when a man is reminded of what happened
to a mate of his and another recalls the perversities
of a wall-eyed gelding he used to ride authentic
rhythms are evoked. They are dealing in the seed
and soil of creative art.
What has been lacking in our annals is a direct
recording from the campfire. Now a minor miracle has
happened. One of the campfire circle has written a
book for himself, Hard Liberty, by Fred Blakeley
(Harrap), sub-titled “A Record of Experience.”
In a letter to Muriel V. Morley, to whom he first
submitted his manuscript—and who prepared it for
publication—he says that she, being headmistress of a
high school in Sydney, “will proberly be intrested in
his Storeys of walkabouts in country seldome visited
by man.”
He writes mainly of western N. S. Wales, the
Northern Territory and Central Australia. The last-
named is a country of “inspurations, pracally unknown
and proberly the Cradle of the Human Race.” He
mentions that his two great-aunts used to write novels
in England. He wonders what they would have
thought of the wild scene that rolls away from his
present camp in the Australian Alps and “how those
two Miss Propers would twist and squrme if they had
to read and correct all this.” Notwithstanding its
original spelling and syntax Blakeley’s brief letter
reveals a man with a philosophy of life and a mind
both vigorous and imaginative.
In 1908, when he was, apparently, in his middle
twenties, he left the Bunker opalfield near Broken Hill
and hiked it to the Northern Territory in company
with the brothers Jim and Dick O’Neill. Their in-
tended destination was the Tarama goldfield. They
were the first overlanding cyclists to reach Darwin.
With artless artistry Blakeley makes the story of this
ride the backbone of the book. It is itself a camp-
fire yarn of the first order: a record of adventures of
the road ; wet and dry perishes ; contacts with drovers,
station homestead folk, wild blacks; observations of
inland phenomena such as the Aurora Australis, the
dance of the pelicans, wild asses, mirages in the sky,
the bird life of a populous lagoon at dawn and other
things “it was grand to see.”
But as the story of the long-ago journey pro-
gresses Blakeley is reminded of many things. “When I
was down Geraldton way.” “When I smelt the scent
of boronia blowing off Cape Leeuwin.” “When I
was on a quest for a lost reef in the inland.” His
range of incident is as wide as his geographical sweep.
He turns from telling how he once had to tackle a
bull camel on the rampage to the story of a brief
friendship with a little girl at a homestead in Never-
Never Land. In bare terms, quitting his subject the
moment he is done with it, he gets the essential quality
out of every scrap of life he glances at, whether he
is telling of a midnight truck ride through thick mulga
to the aid of an airman in trouble or pausing in a
quieter passage to describe the passing of some donkey
teams.
The interest of Hard Liberty runs deeper than the
stories its author tells or the phases of bush life he
explains. The charm of the book is in its rarity, its
unaffected style, the unspoiled character of the nar-
rator, revealed unconsciously as he discusses the things
that interest him. Here is the bushman speaking for
himself. When he tells you of a sporting squatter he
says his stables “were a treat to see,” and when he
drove tandem to town “he made the pace a cracker.”
Semi-illiterate he may be, but when he comments on
the characters of men and women met on the ride, or
tells how he and his mates, through an inadvertence,
nearly disgraced themselves, you feel, in a way far
removed from patronage, that here is a man with an
innate sense of what is best in human conduct. He
wants no narrator’s petty profit on his stories. There
is no studied presentation for the sake of effect. It is
life he is telling about, and for life he has great
respect. He shows it —without suspecting he is doing
so —in the way he deals with inconsiderable things, a
plant, a small animal, ants.
He is reflective. As he moves along he specu-
lates on the nature of things, develops his pet theories.
He has an idea how the Central Australian sandhills
were formed in ages past. He argues from the
superiority of young timber over the old parent trees
that the climate of the inland is slowly changing. He
waxes lyrical over the uses of parakeelia and its deco-
rative beauty in flower. Why are the four corners of
the earth being searched for a plant for our shifting
sandy soils when we have this gift of the desert, on
which he has seen mobs of cattle still fat after three
years without rain? He has a plan for an aboriginal
reserve in the interior, but it must be laid out accord-
ing to “the natural tribal boundaries,” strictly policed.
He occasionally grows indignant over the inertia of
those in high places.
Nothing could better illustrate the artlessness of
Blakeley’s yarning than the treatment of the dog
Jethro, a heeler-dingo cross who travelled with the
mates. Here is no product of sentimental fancy, no
seeing of endings from beginnings. They didn’t want
to take him, he was a killer, a nuisance, had to be put
on a lead at times, three times he nearly “got his
wings” from an avenging bullet, often he had to be
“groomed with a spare bicycle chain.” Yet as the
story runs Jethro begins to stand forth as a dog of
character. Forty miles a day over burnt-over grass
tufts, claypan and burrs, the legend of his magnificent
feat preceded him, drovers and stockmen bid high
for him, but the mates took him right through, and
he ended his days “a Father in the North.” Again,
it is the unstudied quality of this book—this self-revela-
tion of a type of our race —that makes it exciting to
read, and which will probably earn it a lasting place.
The editor, Muriel V. Morley, has done her part
admirably. The manner is necessarily that of a man
writing, but the feeling of a man talking has been
kept. Occasionally there seems to be a flaw: “I con-
cealed myself in the undergrowth” doesn’t sound like
Blakeley ; the pedantic “does not” for “doesn’t” ; and
the “literary” story of the haunted hut wears a too-
knowing look, but on the whole the editorship is sound.
In one place she allows him his own spelling, “Tommy
the Chinerman.” He looked at the word correctly
spelled for a moment and then shook his head, “That
doesn’t look like my chap.”
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
Nash Is Nuts.
For the benefit of Maoriland readers it should
be explained in haste that the above heading has
nothing to do with the financial notions of the Labor
Government, but is a quotation from the blurb of
Ogden Nash’s The Primrose Path (Lane).
Nash’s pathological state is really a simple
proposition: Are the animals on this earth as mad
as they look, or is he? There is, for instance, the
rhinoceros:
The rhino is a homely beast;
For human eyes he’s not a feast,
But you and I will never know
Why Nature chose to make him so.
Farewell, farewell, you old rhinoceros,
I’ll stare at something less prepoceros.
The globe, when you come to think of it (and
Nash comes to think of it with uproarious frequency),
is haunted by an extremely improbable-looking lot
of fauna. From the winsome wombat to the wart-
hog Wirth’s used to retail at sixpence a sniff they’re
enough to make any impartial observer question
his sanity; or perhaps it’s their sanity that is to be
doubted, if Darwin is as right as Lang, and such an
unlikely combination of sheepish innocence and
bounce as the kangaroo really decided itself that it
was a good idea. Nash has yet to have the full
mystic import of the kangaroo brought home to him,
but he has already brooded upon the wombat:
The wombat lives across the seas
Among the far Antipodes.
He may exist on nuts and berries,
And then, again, on missionaries;
His distant habitat precludes
Conclusive knowledge of his moods.
But I would not engage the wombat
In any form of mortal combat.
There is the caribou, too, which Nash thinks
leads all the rest and so merits the title “Caribou
Ben Adhem” ; and the camel and the centipede and,
oddly sandwiched among the livestock, Mae West —
“The pace that launched a thousand hips.” The
hippopotamus at last enables him to decide just
where in relation to the animal kingdom the lunacy
lies:
Behold the hippopotamus!
We laugh at how he looks to us,
And yet in moments dank and grim
I wonder how we look to him.
Peace, peace, thou hippopotamus;
We really look all right to us,
And you no doubt delight the eye
Of other hippopotami.
Having decided that, Nash is free to contemplate
the eccentricities of our little friends, and so goes
to the ant:
The ant has made himself illustrious
Through constant industry industrious.
So what?
Would you be calm and placid
If you were full of
Formic acid?
All the dumb creation stirs his tender sensibilities,
but for the giraffe, which is dumber than most, his
regard is especially warm:
I beg you, children, do not laugh
When you survey the tall giraffe.
It’s hardly sporting to attack
A beast that cannot answer back.
It isn’t that his voice he hoards,
He hasn’t any vocal cords.
I wish for him, and for his wife,
A voluble girafter life.
He turns to the turtle:
The turtle lives ’twixt plated decks
Which practically conceal its sex.
I think it clever of the turtle
In such a fix to be so fertile.
The zoo to which The Primrose Path leads con-
tains numerous happy humans as well as animals, but
most of them are caged in long rambling poems, and
it’s difficult to poke a peanut through the mesh to the
aged poet with the significant name of Ezra Ttsop, to
St. Valentine, vice-crusaders, platinum blondes, cheer-
ful losers, people with beards, Greta Garbo or even
Bartie the Life of the Party. Anyone, though, can
drop in a nut to Sigmund Freud:
Who’s afreud of the big bad dream?
Things are never what they seem;
Daddy’s bowler, Auntie’s thimbles
Actually are shocking symbols.
Still, I think, a pig’s a pig—
Ah, there, symbol-minded Sig!
Three incongruities creep into the book. One is
a serious love poem, for even the mention of which
apologies are offered. The next is another serious
poem:
Beggar, beggar, burning low
In the city’s trodden snow,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy dread asymmetry?
In what distant deep of lies
Died the fire of thine eyes?
And when thy heart began to fail,
What soft excuse, what easy tale?
The full-length parody of Blake’s “Tiger” is
brilliant, and shows that Nash, besides being an out-
standing humorist, has a power of social criticism
equal to that displayed by Day Lewis in A Time to
Dance : —
Come live with me and be my love,
And we will all the pleasures prove
Of peace and plenty, bed and board,
That chance employment may afford.
I’ll handle dainties on the docks
And thou shalt read of summer frocks:
At evening by the sour canals
We’ll hope to hear some madrigals.
The third interloper is Nash’s American uneasi-
ness before the poise of the English, attested by the
introduction and by a poem called “Pride Goeth
Before a Peerage; or Ah, There, Mrs. Cavendish-
Smith.” It’s a disease that troubles many good Aus-
tralians as well as Mr. Nash, and until time cures it
consolation will have to be found in the reflection
that there’s nothing much wrong with a country that
thought of the kangaroo, or with a rhymester who can
write this “Song of the Open Road”:
1 think that I shall never see
A hoarding lovely as a tree.
Perhaps, unless the hoardings fall,
I’ll never see a tree at all.
A Spot of Blither.
One day Angus and Elspeth were strolling towards
Ballachulish, gently drivelling about Hazlitt, Dr.
Johnson, cuckoos and totalitarianism, when they saw
by the roadside what they took to be a red Highland
cow.
Angus: Could you tell us the way to Skye?
Cow: Hoots!
Realising from this that it was the local laird,
they poked fun at it for a minute or two, and then
strolled on in the wrong direction, gently drivelling
about Unitarianism, Wordsworth, Dr. Johnson and
worms.
Elspeth: Would you mind telling me what all this
is about?
Angus: Certainly. This is a review of a book
by Hesketh Pearson and Hugh Kingsmill called Skye
High. Knowing the publisher Hamish Hamilton,
through having previously published a number of
obscure works which in the present volume they boom
without mercy or modesty, they suggested to him that
they should follow the trail of Dr. Johnson and Bos-
well in Boswell’s Tour to the Hebrides. This is the
record of the trip, and it is written and padded in
just this way.
Elspeth: It must be good to know a publisher.
Tell me, did they see our waterfall at Little Gruinard
or taste the black murder in the air at Glencoe?
Angus: They are the sort of people who would
eat a banana in the Scottish National War Memorial,
and then boast about it.
Elspeth: Is the book of no merit at all?
Angus: If you are interested in the Highlands,
and don’t object to cheery persons, it would be as
profitable a diversion on a wet Sunday as knitting, and
possibly more profitable intellectually than swearing
at a little ball in a bunker. The Johnsoniana is good.
Elspeth: “Johnsoniana” sounds almost horticul-
tural.
Angus: I like to think of Dr. Johnson as a cab-
bage ; something static and a bit pompous, with a
strongish odor. And Bozzy as a white butterfly—-
drunk.
Elspeth: It sounds a cheerful book, anyhow.
Angus: It is. They declared at the outset that
it was going to be “sunny,” and they’re determined
to be “sunny” or bust.
Elspeth: And do they bust?
Angus: Horribly, at times. Tripe all over the
place.
Angus and Elspeth wandered off further in
the wrong direction into the sunset, drivellin’ ever so
softly about Lloyd George, Dr. Johnson, bathroom
taps and whether cuckoos say “Wuckoo.”
Aldous Views the World.
Aldous Huxley’s Ends and Means, “an inquiry
into the nature of ideals and into the methods
employed for their realisation” (Chatto and Windus),
is a stern, austere and serious piece of work in which
he reviews the philosophical bases of the world
situation to-day, finds them bad and applies theoretic
remedies.
He sees a world “manifestly in retrogression,” a
decline in charity since the nineteenth century, a
coarsening of the human spirit expressed in the
“equanimity with which the twentieth-century public
responds to written accounts and even to photographs
and moving pictures of slaughter and atrocity,” the
('Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
EFFICIENCY ON THE LAND
"BEATRICE" GRINDING MILL
an) ideAl machine for the poultry farmer
211R8S—Thef Mill. Net weight complete,
\as ilhistrated, 551 a Diameter of hand wheel, 18iin. Inside
Mneasurem&nW'of hopper: diameter, 6in.; depth, s£in. This
yMilJl, will grraa or gietajulate small dry. bones, broken oyster
(j .she Is/ grit, told crodcety, glass, charcoal and all kihd% of
V'gra: n. . • • 7^/6
' r.y
S' V 3
t
2URBS mi
m ’ ■wmßmßmam '\
}»
LARGE CAPACITY
HOPPER
EFFICIENT
RIDDLE FEED
SCIENTIFICALLY
DESIGNED PLATES
RING OILER
BRONZE BEARINGS
St
BALL BEARING
THRUST
STRONG. MASSIVE
LEGS j
STURDY
BRACES
STRONG. RIGID
FRAME
2IIRSS
211R8S— Bentall's X.C.PBGrinding Mill. This Mill, as the
following specifications will show, is thoroughly up-to-date
in design. Every Mill is carefully tested before despatch
which will account for the presence, in newly delivered
machines, of sijmall quantites of meal in the casing or
adhering, to thqjplates. Frame: Cast iron. Legs: Cast
iron, steel\btadech Main Bearings: Bronze, ring oiler type.
End Thrust : This \s taken on a ball thrust block of special
design.' plates: Flat reversible plates are fitted. They are
made of,special alloy metal of great hardness and dura-
bility. Feed: A riddle delivers the material to be ground
to a specially designed breaker conveyor which partly
reduces it before it reaches the plates. This is a distinct
advantage in the case of' the larger cereals such as beans
or maize.
Mark: X.C.P.B. Diameter of Grinding Plates: Bin. Horse-
power required : to 3. Speed, r.p.m., advised : 600.
Size of Pulley advised: 10 x inches. Approximate out-
put in'bushels per hour: Grind, 4 to 6; Kibble, 16 to'2o.
Price weight, 3321 b. £3O/-/-
/
HAND eORN^SHELLEBx
21 IRB7Yj; Heavy Hand Corn Shell6iS'. V 'Fits oryto/l 6x,
tulp, /q tc: ( An lYe-al-'EtiGllfei'-fer 'tHe smaller qrov/el"
< 1
( *-)
1 Agricultural Department—ptHiirtti FloorTPitrStreet.'
211R87
211R88
211R88—The "Fiddle" Broadcast Seed
Sower. Suitable for lucerne and other
small seeds. Price 21/-
211R89
211R89 Seed Sower. A splendid
machine for the broadcast sewing of
clover, Sudan grass, millet, lucerne,*
and pasture grass, or small areas of
seed grain. Breadth of cast varies
according to weight of seed or grain,
but usually it is about as follows:
clover, millet or lucerne, from 20 to 24
feet; grasses, 8 to 12 feet; wheat or
rye, 30 to 36 feet; barley, 27 to 33 feet.
Price 37/6
211R90
CORN & COTTON PLANTER
211 R9O Hand Corn and Cotton
Planter. Price 15/-j
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Box 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY ’Phone: M 2401
LTD.
ay or Night)


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
<€.200
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
Skinny Hazlitt Tries a New Spiel
COUSIN 'ERB
by
A.C. Headley
DRAWING
BY LOCK.
QTCINNY and I had been lying on our beds staring
\ at the ceiling, and we’d hardly spoken a word
/in half an hour. But our thoughts were on the
same topic, which was the absence of coin.
The partnership was suffering severely from that
well-known complaint, insufficiency of the visible
means. Skinny broke the silence.
“Scut,” he said with some bitterness, “the horse-i
racing game is played out; the horses are the only
people making feedTmoney at it. The stewards at
the dogs are beginning to think that Indian ink isn’t
the right kind of treatment for a dog’s coat. Farmers
don’t want to buy shares in goldmines, and it’s got
so that people don’t want the Harbor Bridge even if
you throw in a sundial for good measure.”
“Yeah,” said I; “what are the chances of making
an honest living these days? Everyone knows the
three-card trick and the thimble-and-pea by reason
of it being shown every Thurs., Fri., Sat. and Sat.
mat. at the local picture-show.”
“What we need,” said Skinny, “is fresh spiels.”
“Or impersonations new,” said I, thinking of
Madame Thora, the “well-known bearded beauty,”
and Madame Ravina, “crystal-staring, palm-reading,
etc.” “Can’t you think of anything, Skinny?”
Skinny polished his shoe on the quilt.
“The matter,” he said, “is receiving my undecided
attention.”
I let it go at that, but, the way things were,
Skinny’s mental processes would have to begin rolling
at a pretty rapid rate. Only the day before we’d lost
thirty quid on a racecourse certainty, and to make
our money rattle we had to keep it in the same pocket
with a bottle-opener.
But a few schooners made their way to port
before there was any sign of a gleam in the Hazlitt
eye, and then one afternoon Skinny came back from
exploiting the city and kicked the pillow off my bed.
“Scut,” he said, “it’s bikes.”
“What’s bikes?” said I, staring at him.
“Bikes,” said Skinny, “and perfessional bike-
riding. There’s money in it, Scut.” He waved his
hand. “All you got to do is get the management of
a good rider. It’s a gift, and there’s betting, too, and
good stake-money.”
“If it’s such a good racket,” said I, “there ain’t
goin’ to be no good riders vacant. It stands to
reason.”
Skinny grinned. “I got one. And he’s so good
he could beat most of them riding on a kid’s tricycle
with you standing on the back.”
“Then why,” said I, “is it that this champion
of yours is still in the telegram-boy class and looking
for someone with as little dough as you? It don’t
read right. I’ve got a feeling that everything ain’t
quite honest.”
“Everything’s jake,” said Skinny. “Ocky Miller
put me on to this feller.”
“How much did it cost?” said I, knowing Ocky
pretty well.
“Twenty-five quid,” said Skinny; “and cheap.
Ocky picked up this lump down in the bush riding
a bike and pulling a plough behind him. Scut, you
should see him. He’s got legs. He can lift a hundred-
pound weight with his foot. Ocky showed me.”
“He might have legs,” said I, “but has he got a
head?”
Skinny grinned. “Would he need one with me
behind him?”
“Yeah,” said I. “And now tell me what the
catch is. Ocky couldn’t be Santa Claus, not even to
his own kids.”
“Ocky don’t need him,” said
Skinny, “because he’s tied up right now
with a couple of fighters.”
“There must be something,” said I. “It can’t
be true.”
Skinny tilted his hat.
“There’s a small matter,” he said, “of some dough
for training expenses, bikes and things.”
I looked at him. “What expenses? And what’s
wrong with the bike he uses to pull the plough?”
“It’s diff’rent,” said Skinny. “These are special
bikes for racing ; and there’s diet. You can’t train
on beer.”
CT KINNY left it at that and seemed to think that
the matter was settled. Some way or other we
managed to rake up a few quid, and when we wanted
to know the time we had to look at pawntickets.
Our bike-rider’s name was Tom Ruby, and the first
time I saw him it settled the question about his head.
You could have taken a photo, of a two-ton truck
and used his figure as a background, and his face
looked as though it had been moulded against a
brick wall. Skinny introduced us.
“Hullo,” said I.
“Mister,” said Tom, “you ever ’ad your photer
took? I have. A man gimme a ticket. I was gittin’
orf a tram. Do you think I oughter git it? A
shillin’ it corsts.”
“Sure,” I said, “you ought to get it.”
Tom looked thoughtful.
“Yeah,” he said, “I think I will; and if I’m no
good I can cut me orf an’ it’s a good snap of the
tram.”
Well, that was our bike-rider. He could have
blown his brains out and never noticed the difference.
But just put him on a bike! Most of the time he
had to ride with the brakes on to stop himself from
bumping into the backs of speeding cars. On a bike
he was in his place; on the ground there didn’t seem
to be any place you could put him.
By this time Skinny had picked up a fair bit
about the bike-racing game and we’d been to a
couple of meetings where boys that weren’t half as
good as Tom were taking out fifty-quid stakes. We
had the game by the throat, and we were so little
worried about it that Tom was doing most of his
training at the local pub. Skinny fixed up a novice
race for him, and all we had to do was go and collect
the stake-money.
Before the race Skinny said, “Listen, Tom ; all
we want you to do is just win. There’s no need to
lap the field. Just win, Tom, that’s all.”
Tom “just won” by about twenty lengths, and
then came back and asked us how long they’d be
practising before the race started.
“Something has got to happen,” I told Skinny.
“It’s too good to be true.”
Something did happen. Tom had managed to clean
up a couple of minor races when we had a visit rom
Ocky Miller. ,
“Skinny,” he said, “I done you a good turn, an
I know it ain’t arstin’ too much when I say you
oughter let me in on it. I said to meself, A e er
like Skinny wouldn’t desert a pal.’ ” .
“I’m a sinking ship,” said Skinny, with the
politest way of calling anyone a rat that I’ve ever
heard. “Tom’s under contract to me with his mark,
and that’s the way he’s goin’ to stay. Ocky, you re
on the outer.”
Ocky stuck his teeth out. “Orright —we’ll see.
Skinny and I weren’t doing any worrying about
it. We had Tom all sewn up for the next twelve
months, and all we had to do was pay for his keep
and give him a little pocket-money so that he could
buy bike-oil. All the time he kept on winning his
races, and it was getting so that we had to take short
odds. It was then that Skinny decided to run him
dead for a while and Tom started to come in ninth
in a field of ten. That was Tom —he always did what
he was told. If we told him to win he won. If we
told him to lose Skinny could have beaten him on
a scooter.
I T was about that time Ocky Miller began to hang
1 around. I didn’t like it and Skinny didn’t like
it, because, knowing Ocky as we did, we had a pretty
good idea that if there wasn’t something in the wind
there would be pretty soon. It got so that we were
afraid to let Tom. go out on his own, and he used
to make us tired walking around the city to see the
sights. After a week of it Skinny and I were pretty
fed-up.
“Something’s got to be done,” said Skinny.
“You mean,” said I, “that Ocky’s got to be done.”
“I been thinkin’,” he said, “that if Ocky could
find a rider that he thought was better than Tom he
mightn’t worry us.”
“Yeah,” said I; “and you’re going to make Tom
the second-best rider. Where’s your brains? If
there’s a better rider than Tom he ought to be in
our stable.”
“I didn’t say there was a better rider,” said
Skinny. “I said if Ocky thought he had a better rider.
In future Tom is going out into the big city without
any attachments.”
Tom all this time had been in the bathroom.
Back where he came from the only stuff that came
out of taps was beer, and Tom hadn’t given up hope.
It was a passion with him. He’d turn on all the taps
and hope for the best. Already he had flooded the
flat three times. Except for bike-riding, he was so
dense it didn’t hurt. There was one time when I
commented on the size of his feet and he said that
they weren’t big for him because he was over twenty-
one. Well, now, Skinny called him out of the bath-
room.
“Listen, Tom,” he said ; “maybe your mother
told you there was some dishonest people in the
world, people that would rob you of your last penny.
And you ought to know that what your mother tells
you is true.”
“M-m-m-m-m-m,” said Tom.
“Orright,” said Skinny. “Then ain’t it your duty
to see that such people don’t come to no good?
Ain’t it?”
“M-m-m-m-m-m,” said Tom.
“Good,” said Skinny ; “and I’m ready to help
you do it. To-morrow, most likely, you will meet
one of these fellers. He’s been tryin’ to get near you
for a long while, and he’s up to no good. He might
want to pay you money so that you won’t try when
the big race comes off. That’s just the kind of
feller he is.”
“That’s cheatin’,” said Tom. ;
“Ain’t it ’orrible?” said Skinny.
“M-m-m,” said Tom. “Will I punch him?”
Skinny grinned.
“I got a better idea than that,” he said. “Punch-
ing him won’t hurt him. I got something that’ll fix
him.”
“M-m-m,” said Tom, trying to look intelligent.
“Listen,” said Skinny. “Back in your town is
there anyone that can sit on a bike?”
“There’s me cousin ’Erb,” said Tom.
“That’ll do,” said Skinny. “Now, listen; this
is what you’ve got to do. When this feller tries to
put anything over you, start telling him about this :
cousin ’Erb and what a good bike-rider he is and
how he could always beat you. You leave the rest
to me.”
“Right,” said Tom.


SYDNtr
cean n
\aVt(
AUCKLAND
W
IUcICtNCTO
a
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
S. CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
r
W.
■r
p>-%3 :
s
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
Well, that was that; and, sure enough, the next
day Ocky picked up Tom practically as soon as he
left the flat, and we didn’t see him any more until
a couple of hours later, when he tottered back with
a couple of drinks under his belt.
“It’s orright, Skinny,” he said. “I told ’im all
about ’Erb an’ what a good rider ’e was an’ ’ow ’e
could always beat me, like you said.”
“What did he say?” said Skinny.
“Nothin’,” said Tom. “On’y he asked me what
times the trains left for our place. He said not to
mention it to you because you wouldn’t be interested
about him buying a farm.”
“Good,” said Skinny.
Well, that was that; and we didn’t -see any more
of Ocky for a while ; but when the list of entries
came out for the big race right next to Tom’s name
was that of H. Ruby.
“That’s ’Erb,” said Tom, “on’y they must’ve spelt
his name wrong.”
P VENTUALLY the time of the big race came
round. We’d kept Tom away from the pub all
day, and he was feeling pretty right by race-time.
Sure enough, ’Erb was still in the race, and when
Tom saw him he let out a yelp of joy. But they
didn’t have a chance to speak to each other before
the race. Skinny saw to that. With all our dough
out he wasn’t taking any risks.
And then they were all lined up for the start.
They made a couple of circles of the track, and when
they came over the line together the gun cracked and
they were off.
Tom was the first one to jump, and they hadn’t
gone a couple of laps when he was twenty lengths
to the good. Skinny grinned and pointed ’Erb out
to me. He was well back in the bunch.
“Ocky is goin’ t’ be pleased,” he said.
It was a mile race and there was still about half-
way to go, but Tom was holding his lead and didn’t
look as though he was feeling it.
“Poor old Ocky,” said I; and it was just as I
said it that ’Erb started to move through the bunch.
I grabbed Skinny by the arm and pointed, and I felt
him stiffen. ’Erb was going right through the field,
and with a quarter to go he was only five lengths
behind Tom ; and he only stopped long enough to
mention the weather and the crops before he shot
right past as though he’d remembered an important
engagement.
The race was over. The only question was just
by how far he’d beat Tom. The judge said it was
ten lengths. I looked at Skinny, and there was a
gleam in his eye.
“We got t’ see Tom,” he said.
Tom was in the dressing-shed, and we bowled in.
“Tom,” said Skinny, “I ain’t goin’ to insult a
rat. You ain’t one, and I can’t think of anything
else. I thought you was honest.”
Tom looked as though he didn’t know what
Skinny was talking about.
“I don’ know what you mean,” he said.
Skinny scowled. “This cousin of yours. I
thought that the only way he could stay on a bike
was for someone to hold him.”
“I didn’t say that,” said Tom. “I tol’ you he
could ride ; that was all.”
“Yeah,” said Skinny ; “but you didn’t tell me he
was a better rider than you.”
Right then no one could have looked more sur-
prised than Tom, He scratched his head. “I thought
you knew all the time. You must ’ave. Didn’t you
tell me to tell Mr. Ocky?”
DESERT GOLD
BY E. O. SCHLUNKE.
THE two very sharp men in the shiny sedan gazed
speculatively at the shabby farm homestead.
“Not much good trying here,” said the
stout dark one with a grimace.
“Better give it a go,” said the other. “We can’t
do any good with the well-in fellows; they’re
mean enough to charge a man for the wear and tear
on their gates. A bloke who lives in a place like this
must be a mug.” He steered the car through the
gate.
The dark man nodded sadly. “If we don’t get
a bite soon we ? ll have to go back to the city. Farmers
are not what they used to be. I remember when you
could sell them seaside blocks that were under the
water.”
They found a weary-looking middle-aged man
tinkering with a battered old car.
“Good afternoon, sir” —the lean man hid his
sharpness under a mask of affability—“trouble with
the car? I’m sorry we’re not mechanics or we’d
help.”
“That’s very kind of you,” the old chap beamed
at them gratefully.
The lean man winked at his companion. “I hope
you don’t mind us taking up a little of your time,
Mr.—er —er” He ended on a note of interroga-
tion.
The old fellow took his pipe out of his mouth.
“Martin,” he mumbled modestly, and put the pipe
back.
“Ha, that’s right; Mr. Martin. We’ve heard
about you from your neighbor, Mr. Enfield. He
thinks a lot of you, Mr. Martin.” The lean man went
on volubly. “My name is Arthur P. W. Sullivan, of
the Centre Gold Development Company, and
this is Mr. Phillip Conelly, one of the directors.
We have a proposition that must interest you. Our
prospectors have at last discovered Lasseter’s Lost
Reef. You’ve heard about Lasseter’s Reef, I sup-
pose?”
Martin nodded. “I read the papers,” he said.
“I’m sure you do,” Sullivan approved. “Farmers
are an enlightened race these days; none of that Dad
and Dave stuff now, eh?”
Martin smiled his pleasure. Conelly came for-
ward and pulled some papers from his pocket. He
spread a map on the car bonnet and pointed with a
stubby finger. “See, here’s South Australia and the
Northern Territory, and here’s the Westralian boun-
dary. And see this?” His finger stopped on a small
red cross, and he poked his fat nose in Martin’s face.
“Is that where the gold is?” Martin asked
excitedly.
“It is,” Conelly snapped with uncontradictable
certainty.
Martin’s eyes grew wide with wonder, and he
took out his pipe so that he could open his mouth too.
Sullivan pushed his narrow face in front of
Martin again. “The gold is there waiting for the lucky
shareholders of the Centre Gold Development
Co., and we’ll have it as soon as we have the
money to pay for getting it. We’re not selling shares
in the ordinary way; it’s against the law to hawk
shares, and the C.G.D. Co. insists on everything
being square and aboveboard.” He hooked his
thumbs into his waistcoat armholes and looked like
a respectable, prosperous businessman. Martin nodded
approvingly.
“Besides,” Sullivan went on, “it is not, strictly
speaking, to be a mining company. We’re not going
to all the trouble of digging and crushing ore ; that’s
too expensive and too slow for us. We want quick
profits and quick returns, and we can get them. No
doubt you read about the specimens Lasseter had,
almost fifty per cent. gold. Well, our plan is to buy
a fleet of motor-trucks equipped with crawler tracks
—you know what they are?”
“Yes, I’ve seen tractors with them,” Martin said
eagerly.
“Then you know that no sandhill can stop them.
That’s been the difficulty, you know; can’t get the trucks
over the sand. We’ll simply load them with gold and
bring it home.”
ONELLY pulled another bunch of papers from
his pocket and showed illustrations of the trucks ;
splendid big machines, painted a bright red. Martin’s
eyes shone with admiration.
“One of them loaded with gold would be worth
a bit.”
They could almost hear his mouth watering.
“Even half the load would be worth while,
wouldn’t it, Mr. Martin?” Sullivan ventured judi-
ciously.
“My word it would.” ■
“Well, if you want half a truckload of gold, all you
need to do is to buy a truck. The C.G.D. Company
will do all the work for the other half.”
Martin thought it over for a while.
“It sounds quite fair,” he said ; “something like
share-farming, isn’t it?”
“Exactly, Mr. Martin. I can see that you have
a shrewd business head on you. I might add that the
company will buy the truck for you—they get them
so much cheaper by buying a number at a time ;
£4OO, and a bargain at the price. I’m sure that you’ll
want one, Mr. Martin. If half a truckload of gold
isn’t worth £50,000, I don’t know what I’m talking
about.”
“It sounds too good to be true,” Martin said
dubiously. “I can’t understand why you don’t get
all the money you want in the city if the scheme is
so good.”
“We could if we wanted to,” Sullivan assured him
fervently, “but we want to give the country people
a chance this time. Besides, we know we can trust
the farmers. I’m a farmer myself. I bought two
trucks, and I want my fellow-farmers to get in on
something good.”
Conelly pulled at his pocket again and produced
a form. He thrust it in front of Martin’s face, gave t
him a pen, pointed and said, “Sign here.”
Martin pulled back like a startled horse. Sulli-
van soothed him. “It’s only an order for a truck. A
mere formality ; just sign on the line if you want
one and then you give us a cheque. I’ll give you
my personal guarantee that in a couple of months
you’ll be able to pay off your mortgage and live like
a squatter for the rest of your life.”
Martin slowly put his pipe in his pocket and
scratched his head. “What happens to the truck after
the gold is brought home?” he asked.
“It’s yours then, Mr. Martin, to use as you like,”
Sullivan assured him. “You see that you can’t lose.
(Continued on page 7.)


Emancipists
OUT OF THE
PAST
MR. BRADLEY
J .H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
mR. BARTHOLOMEW BRADLEY, like many
other notable citizens of New South Wales
a hundred years ago, had a past which
he never discussed with anybody and did
not desire to discuss. He Was not ashamed of it,
really, but Mrs. Bradley was, and so family history
began for him only in the year 1820, when Governor
Macquarie had so generously dealt with Bartholomew.
For Mr. Bradley was an Emancipist, and that
fact could not be overlooked. It was one of the things
that everybody knew and no one was able to hide.
When you had come out in a ship with a guard of
soldiers to keep you in your place, a number sewn
on the back of your jacket and an intimate introduc-
tion to the Principal Superintendent of Convicts you
didn’t easily live down the manner of your arrival.
You always had it up against you that you were
“Bartholomew Bradley, No. 1234, per Lady Hunting-
don, Middlesex Sessions, seven years,” and were not
allowed to forget it.
So when the seven years had somehow been got
through you found that you hadn’t by any means
finished with them, no matter how successfully you
might have adapted strange circumstances to yourself
or how exemplary a colonist you became afterwards.
It was never forgotten that overseers and superin-
tendents had had it in their power to order your
comings and your goings, your doings and your
duties, your labor and your rest. You didn’t forget
these things yourself, so how might anyone else be
expected to do so? You were an Emancipist, and
that was that.
Mr. Bradley, in the commercial world of Sydney,
was very highly respected in 1838. What Barty Bradley
said he would do was invariably done. He was just,
honest, generous and faithful. He never did a mean
thing and seemed to be incapable of thinking one.
He never backed down, “crawfished” or evaded an
obligation. It was said of him that he was as straight
as he looked, and if anybody ever had the outward
aspect of an honest man it was Bartholomew Bradley,
He came on a young man tied to a tea-tree, his
wrists lashed together behind it and his ankles
secured to its butt.
with his handsome, aristocratic face, his straight nose,
steady eyes and courageous chin.
Mrs. Bradley was blonde and plump, with an air
of injury. She could not forget that her father,
Michael McCriven, had been something-in-the-Com-
missary’s-Office, was a free immigrant and a man of
great godliness. Nor could she forget that she had
married a man who had helped to build the Hyde
Park Barracks, St. James’s Church and the Supreme
Court and had once been the holder of a ticket-of-
leave. The man had saved her life in the harbor,
was the best-looking she ‘had ever seen and the best
one she knew —but he had been a prisoner. Therefore
she could not call upon her sister Jane, whose husband
was a master-mariner, retired, who built boats in
Cockle Bay ; nor could Jane call upon her.
The Ditchfields, who owned whaling ships, the
Larrabys, who had a station at Bathurst Plains, the
Rumbles, who were merchants in Macquarie-place,
and the Carters, who were potters, were available
to her, but all of them were people whom Assistant-
Commissaries and Assistant-Commissaries’ daughters
did not know save in the inevitable way of business.
Like Mr. Bradley, the heads of these households had
come to Sydney because they could not refuse to
come. They were good people, but The
Turners, the Harrowbys, the Inchkeiths and the
Smaleses, who had come free to the colony and were
her neighbors in Harrington-street, were the people
with whom she would have liked to mix.
But Mr. Bradley’s two daughters Sarah, the
elder, and Margaret—they knew everyone and were
liked and admired by everyone. They regarded them-
selves proudly as Currency Lasses and, to their
mother’s deep mortification, did not care a straw
about the circumstances of Papa’s arrival in Sydney
or whether other people were Pure Merinos or Old
Hands. They were content to be Sally and Meg
Bradley, two of the prettiest girls in Sydney, happy
in the possession of a father who was adorable and
of a mother who, in spite of heartburnings and little
jealousies, was not so bad at all.
Then came H.M.S. Arrogant to Port Jackson,
carrying a scientific expedition, and stayed five weeks
in the harbor.
Five weeks is not a long time, but it sufficed for
Lieutenant Harold Arbuthnot, R.N., to meet and
marry Miss Sarah Bradley, the ceremony having been
so unobtrusive as to have escaped the cognisance of
the bride’s parents. When it did come to the know-
ledge of Bartholomew Bradley it was only by the
strangest chance.
T T was a hot afternoon in December when Mr.
* Bradley, driving back to town in his gig along
the South Head-road from a job he was completing—
he was a builder and contractor in a large way of
business—out towards the Lachlan Swamps, suddenly
heard a cry of distress that was unmistakably also
an appeal for assistance. He reined-in his mare at
the foot of a big sand-
hill, dazzingly glaring
in the sunlight, round
whose base grew a
belt of tea-tree.
“Hullo, there—
hullo!” The voice
was angry and im-
perative.
“H ull o! ” cried
Bartholomew as he
checked his speed.
“What’s the matter?
And where the deuce
are you?”
For a few
moments he sat listen-
ing on his high seat
above the big wheels.
The appeal rang
out again, this time
with some indication
of pain in it. “For God’s sake, sir, come in
here and release me. I’m tied up to a tree, and
the lashings are sawing my wrists like the devil.”
“Coming!” shouted Mr. Bradley as he scrambled
down over the wheel. “Coming in a moment. Where
are you, then?” he called as he stood staring into the
dark green thicket.
“In here—at the foot of the hill,” responded the
voice. “Right in front of you.”
Hastily reaching into the gig, Mr. Bradley with-
drew from beneath the seat a large horse-pistol; it
was wise to go armed into the bush surrounding
Sydney in those days, for it was only a year or two
since Dr. Robert Wardell had been murdered by
bushrangers on his Petersham estate, quite close to
the Parramatta-road. Then he pushed his way into
the scrub in the direction of the sandhill and the
sound of the imploring voice. Half a dozen yards
through the dense growth and he came on a young
man tied up to the thick white paper-barked bole
of a tea-tree, his wrists lashed together behind it and
his ankles secured to its butt. Mr. Bradley halted
and regarded the captive with astonishment.
“Good heavens!” he exclaimed. “Why, ’tis Mr.
Arbuthnot, of his Majesty’s ship Arrogant. And
what in the name of Fortune’s happened to you, Mr.
Arbuthnot?”
“Amazingly painful, sir, I assure you. Pray,
Mr. Bradley, have you a penknife about you? If so,
pray cut these lashings round my wrists behind the
tree. They’re sawing my hands off.”
In a moment or two the lashings round wrists and
ankles had been severed, and, leaning on Bartholo-
mew’s arm, the young man staggered out of the tea-
tree scrub into the roadway, where the mare stood
quietly between the shafts of the gig.
“Well, now —well, now!” exclaimed Mr. Bradley
with manifest curiosity as he regarded the gentleman
chafing each wrist alternately whilst he stretched his
cramped body. “Pray, what’s happened, sir, and how
long had you been in that uncomfortable situation?”
“Highwaymen, sir. Highwaymen, Mr. Bradley.
That’s what it means. As I was riding out to the
Signal Station at the South Head, where I was due
to meet some of our scientific gentlemen this after-
noon. I thought I’d like a little riding exercise, so I
hired a horse, inquired the road and set out. They
were to have gone down by boat. Just here three
men, one of them armed with a musket, came
suddenly out of this copse and bade me stand and
deliver. Of course I pulled up, and before I could
do anything I was hauled out of the saddle and
trussed up to that tree. Highway robbery it was, sir—
by a trio of highwaymen who were as villainous-
looking a lot of scoundrels as I’ve ever come across.
They took my watch, my money. Highwaymen,
sir—damn them!”
“Oh, bushrangers—that’s what we call ’em here,
Mr. Arbuthnot. Yes, I’d heard there were some
absconders out this way, so I came armed, as you
see. Well, now, I can drive you back to town, and
we’ll report the affair at the police office. Then I
can take you down to Fort Macquarie, where you’ll
find a waterman to row you off to your ship. Allow
me to climb into my seat and then get up beside me.
We’ll not take long to get into Sydney.”
'T' HIS adventure of the First Lieutenant of H.M.S.
Arrogant took place in what is now Oxford-
street, half a mile, perhaps, beyond the situation of
the Paddington Town Hall. It was all scrub and
sandhills in those days, through which the South
Head-road wended its roundabout course to Watson’s
Bay. Except for an odd country house here and
there, the district was as desolate a wilderness as
it had been when Arthur Phillip traversed it in 1788
searching for the aboriginal murderers of the two
convicts at Rushcutter Bay.
The sun was low down behind the ridge of The
Rocks when Mr. Bradley and his passenger came out
of the police office in George-street, climbed once
more into the gig and drove on towards the harbor.
When they came to Fort Macquarie the naval officer,
a little shy and embarrassed, made an urgent request
of his rescuer.
“Look here, sir,” he said, so seriously that Mr.
Bradley stared at him, “couldn’t you leave your turn-
out here and come aboard with me? I’ve a very
particular reason for making this request, I assure
you. I have something in my possession which I’d
like to show you—something you ought to see. Come,
now, I’ll take no denial, sir. Pray leave your mare
and the turnout in charge of one of these fellows and
come aboard. I most earnestly beg of you to oblige
me. Please do so, sir.”


Even if the worst should happen you’ll still have your
truck, bought at a bargain price, too.”
“That’s good enough for me.” Martin signed
the order. “Come into the house and I’ll get you a
cheque.”
It took him quite a while to find the cheque-
book, then he put on his spectacles and sat down to
laboriously fill in the form. Suddenly he stopped as
if he had a happy idea. “It’s funny,” he said, “that
I’ll soon have plenty money to spend. I can hardly
believe it.”
“You’ll have it sure enough,” said Sullivan.
Martin sat back and smiled happily. “I feel I’d
like to go down to the pub and celebrate, but I haven’t
a bit of cash in the House. I wonder if I made out
the cheque for an extra ten pounds if you’d give me
the change in cash.”
Sullivan and Conelly exchanged a quick glance.
“We could hardly do that.” Sullivan tried to
sound tactful.
Martin stared at him. “Why not?” His mild blue
eyes became surprisingly indignant. “Don’t you trust
me? Look here, you expect me to trust you with
£4OO, but you don’t want to trust me with £lO. I
don’t like it.”
The two men exchanged another quick glance
and nodded to each other. Conelly produced a thick
wallet. They concluded the business with much hand-
shaking, and drove off with the cheque.
A S soon as the sedan was out of sight Martin flung
**■ a couple of battered suitcases into his car. He
returned to the house to do some more laborious
writing before driving off in a hurry. On the table
he left a note weighted down with a couple of
pennies:
Dear Bill, —
Don’t worry about trying to raise that ten
pounds you owe me for wages. I got it off a
couple of crooks who can afford it better than
you. I knew they were rogues and liars as soon
as they told me that Enfield said l was his best
friend. He’d shoot me if I went on to his place.
I used your cheque-book; but I’ll be a long
way away before they find that out. I left you
twopence to pay for the form. I don’t want
anyone to think I’m not an honest man.
JACK MARTIN.
P S. —You were the best boss I ever worked
for.
Mr. Bradley looked at the black hull, with its
row of white gun-ports reflecting themselves in the
glassy green water alongside and its tall spars and
trim and tidy rigging towering high against the back-
ground of the wooded hills across the water on the
North Shore. It would be pleasant to go aboard,
and this youngster whom he had helped out of an
unpleasant situation was a likeable young fellow.
There came a moment of doubt. If he were
asked by a subaltern of one of the regiments in
garrison to go into the officers’ mess at the barracks
in George-street, how would it be? He knew, he
knew bitterly well. There’d be someone there who’d
know all about him—how he had once been a prisoner
°1 Crown, and was therefore not a fit person to
be seen in the anteroom of the mess of one of her
Majesty s regiments. Once he’d been foolish enough
to go, and it was an unpleasant recollection. Maybe
he d better refuse. But Mr. Arbuthnot’s next words
made a different matter of it. He uttered them in
a low tone so that the boatman he had bespoken to
take him off to the ship might not hear.
Mr. Bradley,” he said shyly, “what I wish to
show you is of the extremest importance to one
very near and dear to you. I’ll say no more than
that it most intimately concerns Miss Bradley,
your elder daughter. Please give me the pleasure
of your company aboard for half an hour
or so.”
Looking curiously at his companion, Mr.
Bradley presently nodded his head, though
a little doubtfully. What could this mean?
His daughter Sally? Well, then—but
he d better go. There was something
about this young fellow he liked. Oh,
well, the officers of the Arrogant
hadn’t been here long. They didn’t
concern themselves with Pure Merinos
and Old Hands but took people as
they found them. He smiled a little
as he remembered that Mr. Arbuth-
not was something in his debt for
having become his saviour that after-
noon. Hang it all, he’d chance if.
The least he could do, after so polite
an invitation. And about Sally? Well,
what was it?
W HEN they had climbed the side-
ladder and stepped on to the
gleaming white teak of her Majesty’s
ship Arrogant he was glad he had come.
The round black breeches of the two rows of guns
along each side, the taut rigging and the coiled ropes,
the big wheel under the break of the poop with “Fear
God and Honour the Queen” in brass lettering round
its upper circumference, the smart appearance of
the seamen and the well-set-up marine sentry by the
cabin entrance—all these aspects of the upper deck
were agreeable, as had been the hearty handshake of
the officer-of-the-watch, telescope under arm, when
Mr. Arbuthnot introduced him. He was glad he’d
come.
“Come into the wardroom, will you, Mr.
Bradley? We’ll take some refreshment. After our
little adventure I think we’ve earned it. At least I
have —and I hope you’ll bear me company.” He led
the way into the big cabin in the poop —and imme-
diately Mr. Bradley felt miserably sorry for his
foolishness in coming aboard. He might have known
—he might have expected something of this soft.
Seated in an easy-chair, being entertained by the
surgeon, was Captain Llewellyn, the Comptroller-
General of Convicts.
Mr. Arbuthnot introduced Mr. Bradley to the
surgeon. The latter waved his hand towards the
Comptroller-General, who had risen to his feet and
was staring at Mr. Bradley with a faint sneer hover-
ing about his lips.
“You two will know one another, no doubt?”
said the surgeon genially. Then the smile of welcome
faded from his pleasant face and gave place to a
look of blank amazement. Captain Llewellyn had
deliberately turned his back on Mr. Bradley and was
taking farewell of his host.
“Well, I think I’ll be getting ashore, Doctor.
Pray remember our engagement for Tuesday evening
at the Australian Club. Dinner at five o’clock and
a rubber or two afterwards. Good evening, Mr.
Arbuthnot. Good evening, sir.” He followed the
amazed and confused surgeon out of the cabin on
to the quarter-deck, whence in a moment or two the
piping of a boastwain’s mate could be heard summon-
ing the boat’s crew which had brought the surgeon’s
guest aboard.
Mr. Bradley finished his drink in a dazed fashion,
hardly listening to the conversation with Mr. Asbuth-
not, in which he joined mechanically. There was no
one to blame but himself. Captain Llewellyn had
been true to form. No other conduct might have
been expected of him. What was the young officer
saying?
Pardon me, he said. I didn t catch your
remark.”
I was saying, Mr. Bradley, that in my humble
estimation that fellow who s just gone out’s a damned
cack Who on earth is he, then? If he were the
Emperor of Russia such behavior would have been
unpardonable.”
“Ch. Tbat § endeman > Lieutenant Arbuthnot, is
! he Comptroller-General of Convicts, and I-well,
iTJh “ k yOU , r t pard ° n for
r,, 8 f ,! had no ngbt to do sa
please forgive me and allow me to return on shore.
t arn deenlv sorrv T shnnld havp informpH
r Py . 7' , . m med you
my former situation when you invited me aboard.”
“j knew sir I knew it auite well and believe
1 ’ sir - 1 Knew 11 quite wen ana, believe
me, ever since I became aware of it you ve had my
deepest sympathy. You did something that any of
us might have done—something that few would have
refrained from doing. Twas a duel, wasn t it?
The Comptroller-General had risen to his
feet and was staring at Mr. Bradley with a
faint sneer hovering about his lips.
Mr. Bradley nodded.
“Well, will you please to come to my cabin, and
there I’ll confess to a much greater misdeed than
brought you to this country. It was not to have
been confessed for some time yet —until, in fact, we
were on the point of sailing. But the good turn you
did me this afternoon and the debt you leave me in
compel me to make confession now. I most humbly
hope for your forgiveness, Mr. Bradley.”
“My forgiveness? You leave me in wonder,
sir.”
“Pray step this way, Mr. Bradley.” He led him
down a companionway in the fore part of the ward-
room to the deck below and into his own cabin over
the rudder. Here the first thing he saw. hanging to
the white bulkhead, was a framed pencil drawing of
his elder daughter’s head and shoulders. He stood
before it in amazement.
“Sally!” he muttered vaguely.
“Mrs. Harold Arbuthnot, sir,” said his host.
“Took!”
‘
Mr. Bradley turned to confront the other. He
could onlv stare • ast onishment at the 'narrhment
y , c , P .
the young man was holding out to him. Mechanically he
took it and ran his eyes over it. It was a document
attesting the fact that, one day the previous week, the
Reverend William Cowper had united in the bonds
0 f holy matrimony the young man before him and
his daughter Sarah, described as a spinster. For
some time he could not speak.
“Good God!” he said at last. “Do you know
what you’ve done, young man? You’ve married the
daughter of an Old Hand!”
“I do —and I beg most humbly your forgiveness,
sir.”
“Me —l forgive you! Look you, Mr. Arbuth-
not, you don’t know this place. ’Tis not my forgive-
ness you’ll be needing. That I give freely.”
“Whose, then whose forgiveness must I seek,
Mr. Bradley?”
Mr. Bradley smiled. “The Captain Llewellyns
and their wives and daughters, my boy—Sydney’s full
of ’em.”
“Oh, damn the Llewellyns, sir!”
“Well, then, I think I agree with you, Mr.
Arbuthnot.”


ESTABLISHED 1834.
the
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
* General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
ROOFING
EnRsW .1 MR 8 F L O O R I N C
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents :
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
prevalence of lying under the name of propaganda
and “a great retreat from monotheism toward
idolatry.”
The worship of one God, he finds, has been
abandoned in favor of the worship of such local
divinities as the nation, the class, and even the deified
individual. Men are shelving their responsibility. They
depend on routine loyalties, on cults, above all on
“heroes.”
To these machine-made patterns of life Huxley
opposes the philosophy of non-attachment. This means
the calm and honest effort on the part of every think-
ing man to put away all slogans, intellectual short cuts,
and consider every situation on its own merit. He
must not sell his soul to any creed, political or
religious, but steadily face the consequences of his
own maturity. “The practice of non-attachment entails
the practice of all the virtues.” Political philosophy
can be built up only upon “psychological facts and
ethical first principles.”
So far as the State is concerned the desirable con-
text for reform is decentralisation and self-government
all round. The desirable methods for enacting reform
are the methods of non-violence.
The psychological basis of decentralisation he
finds in the difference between crowd psychology—
which drags the individual down to the level of the
worst element —and group psychology, in which the
level is that of the most enlightened person. Self-
government holds man to his task as man, through
the responsibility it imposes on him. Violence is the
enemy of all progress, “war and violence are the
prime causes of war and violence,” and “the means
employed determine the nature of the end produced.”
The goal of those who wish to change society for
the better is freedom, justice and peaceful co-operation
between non-attached, yet active and responsible indi-
viduals. Is there the smallest reason to suppose that
such a goal can be reached through police espionage,
military slavery, the centralisation of power, the creation
of an elaborate political hierarchy, the suppression of
free discussion and the imposition of an authoritarian
system of education? Obviously and emphatically the
answer is no.
The world, Huxley avers, can make neither
recovery nor progress without peace.
In the modern world the things that make for peace
are disarmament, unilateral if necessary; renunciation
of exclusive empires; abandonment of the policy of
economic nationalism; determination in all circum-
stances to use the methods of non-violence; systematic
training in such methods.
He pursues his argument through chapters on the
planned State, education, religion, ethics, and sets out
concretely what he conceives to be the channels and
means of salvation.
James Hanley's Own Story.
In Broken Water (Chatto and Windus) Irish
novelist James Hanley tells the story of his youth.
It begins with an account, rich in Irish humor,
of a family picnic from Dublin to Howth with a
drunken coachman, Mr. Michael Dunleary. It was on
this day, amid its rigmarole of serio-comic adventures,
that Hanley, aged 10, made his first attack on his
future. His grandmother had forced him to vow that
he would not, like his father, go to sea. He left it
to a seagull to decide the issue for him:
“If the bird flies east I’ll go to sea, if it flies to any
other point of the compass I won’t!”
At 14 he went to sea as ship’s boy on a tramp. It
was the year 1914. He gives the whole of that voyage
in brief tarry pictures—the bos’n; the mate; Algernon,
the other boy ; Rogers, washed off the bridge by drink ;
a funeral at sea ; watching from the crow’s-nest; the'
steward lost overboard when chasing a refractory
hen on a wild black night, slipping inch by inch out
of Hanley’s grip, while the wind carried away their
cries. “The man was dead, but the water was living.”
When he reached Liverpool again Hanley signed
on in the Mil bound for Alexandretta with sealed
orders. Here he met the most magnificent liar of all
his experiences, Garrity, called Tom Pepper. On one
occasion Garrity wheedled shore leave out of the stern
but pious captain with a tale of a change of heart and
a consequent longing to go to' mass on his mother’s
birthday. The skipper reinforced the change with five
shillings and an old suit. Garrity drank the five shil-
lings and the suit. Then he auctioned every stitch of
clothing he had on and topped off the binge with a
swim of two miles to regain his ship. It’s a good
yarn.
Hanley then sailed in a troopship carrying men to
Salonika and the Dardanelles. At 16 he deserted ship
to enlist in the Canadian army. This carried him to
France, a dose of gas and eventually back to Canada—
this last against his inclinations. He tells very little
about France, but has a good deal to say about the
training camp at Farnham, a boy tricked into adopt-
ing an uncle and his own desertion by inadvertence.
Behind the war story is the portrait of his mother,
stoically heroic with a son in the army and a husband,
two sons and a brother “somewhere at sea.”
After the war Hanley determined to become a
writer and a pianist. His first move toward this goal
was to take a job as a railway porter. The book ends
with the beginning of his success as a writer. The
story is instinct with life, it has quality and indi-
viduality.
Guests in the Brain.
Robert Briffault has put out a volume of social
essays, Reasons for Anger (Hale ; Moore’s Bookshop),
right on the heels of his latest novel, Europa in Limbo.
In tone they are aggressively opposed to the despon-
dency of so many present-day writers on European
social topics. There are 14 essays in a progressive
sequence all building up to the last, “Is Man
Improving?”
Briffault is a man of enthusiasms. He thinks he
can see who and what are responsible for the social
and international conflicts, and he thinks he can
produce the remedy.
He notes the declining faith of the day in
mechanical development which, under the name of
progress, so filled the eye of the nineteenth century.
He does not share it. Man’s inventiveness has resulted
in much more than “making something go faster and
faster.” By means of it man’s conception of himself
and his destiny has become clarified. Culture, using
that word for something more than aesthetic culture,
has become widely diffused.
The modern artisan, with books, papers and so
forth, is “capable of infinitely more correct judg-
ment” on a hundred issues vitally affecting him and
the future of mankind, he asserts, than were the most
learned men of ancient Athens.
He says that the most far-reaching discovery of
modern times, and one that has come so gradually
and from so many different quarters that no man’s
name can be attached to it, is that any man’s mind
is a social and not an individual product. In times
past the individual was falsely credited with being
the originator of what is broadly meant by his
mentality. This was now seen as a figment of the
general mind, owing its character and almost its exist-
ence to social influences. The child reared without
human contacts grows up practically an imbecile.
Further, who can say how much his mind is
his own and how much it is the mind of Shakspeare,
St. Paul, Charles Darwin, or that of the editor of his
chosen newspaper? Improve the social environment
and man will step forward. “What matters is not
so much the improvement of the individual organism
as of the social organism in which it develops.”
Tragedy of the Roads.
Dorothy Charques’s The Tramp and His Woman
(Peter Davies) deals in an English setting with much
the same sort of people as Steinbeck’s Of Mice and
Men and Frank’s Three in Three Million, and, while
it lacks the living unity and grace of the first and
the bleak tragic power of the second, it is a book
of quality.
The book is the closely-knit story of three people,
Ellen Bown, the daughter of a seedsman in a small
provincial town, had when she was a girl run away
with a plausible rogue. Fourteen years later, when
the book begins, she is tramping the roads. With
her is Jim Ross a man she had met casually
and as casually accepted as her protector —and her
thirteen-year-old daughter Annie.
Jim was a man with a violent streak in him,
warped and embittered by years of unemployment, but
alive still in mind and body. He was one who had
never acquiesced in his lot, yet lacked that last ounce
of vigor that would have lifted him out of it, and
because of that lack suffered humiliation in his own
eyes. Ellen, still young and handsome, meant much
more to him than the letter of their casual association.
But the child Annie is the core of the book, silent,
stoical, brought up on the roads, knowing a great
deal of the sordid side of life, yet innocent, feeling
acutely the humiliations that passed over the head
of her vigorous, careless mother. At the turn of her
life from childhood to maturity she had fallen mutely
in love with Jim.
That is the situation that works itself out. The
three are taken on at a farm, haymaking and fruit-
picking, and Ellen catches the eye of the farmer. She
has one preoccupation, to get security for herself, and
she follows up the opportunity. Jealously suspicious,
the farmer sacks Jim. Annie, well aware that her
mother no longer wants her, follows him and will
not be driven back.
In hardship and privation, in anger and docility,
they follow the road to nowhere. One night, in answer
to her mute love and to still his longing for her
mother, Jim possesses her. Then he knew himself a
criminal. “He could never leave her now. They
would never be safe together; they would never be
free. For the second time he was caught in a trap,
and she too. But he’d set her free.” In an agony
of bitterness and despair he kills her. Because the
book makes pain real to its readers, the story is
convincing. The beautiful background of rural Eng-
land softens the tragedy.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Three To-days: E. G. Cousins (Methuen).
Ancient Egypt, Arthurian Britain, modern London
film studios, the eternal triangle and “the vital prin-
ciple of reincarnation and karma faithfully presented.”
The Hidden Tribe: S. Fowler Wright (Robert
Hale). Kidnapping, an aeroplane disaster, and the
adventures of an English and an American girl among
a mysterious tribe in the Libyan desert.
Peter the Wild Boy: C. M. Tennant (James Clarke).
Based on the history of a “wild boy” captured in a
Hanoverian forest and brought to England by the
Elector. The materials of a novel have been
assembled, but the writer lacks imaginative heat.
Death at Low Tide: Miles Burton (The Crime
Club). Harbormaster’s corpse fished up by an angler.
Sleuth misses culprit’s coat-tail by an inch as he dives
to death among a liner’s engines.
The Case of the Constant God: Rufus King
(Methuen). Two corpses and a bullet that could have
come from no gun. Sigurd and his little black bag.
Sleuth Valcour’s rush to join a seagoing yacht—and
the culprit nabbed.
Spanish Prelude, by Jenny Ballou (Gollancz), is
a novel utterly different in kind and quality from
all those other novels and disquisitions on Spain
which are taking advantage of a topical interest. It
is written in the first person. An American woman
lives the life of an onlooker in the Guadarrama
Mountains, in Madrid and in Barcelona, and the
Spanish story is told through a long series of portraits.
There is beauty in the book, humor and a deep under-
standing of human nature. Altogether it is an unusual
book —Spain through an artist’s eyes, not a politician’s
or a cause monger’s.
: o
Thornton Butterworth, London, has accepted for
publication Myra Morris’s novel, The Wind on the
Water, which was one of the runners-up in the 1935
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize. It is set in the Mallee.
British Authors’ Press (London) announce a
volume, Tales by New Zealanders, copies of which
will shortly reach Australia. The editor is C. R.
Allen, of Dunedin (M.L.), and the book has a fore-
word by Hugh Walpole. There are 26 stories by as
many writers, including Hector Bolitho, Nelle Scanlan,
Dulcie Deamer, Will Lawson, Eileen Duggan, E.
Mary Gurney, Edith Howes, G. B. Lancaster, Alan
Mulgan, Alexa Stevens and others well known to
Bulletin readers. The publishers now announce a
second volume to consist of Australian short stories.


SETS A
NEW
UALITY
STANDARD
• It is to be expected that Shell should lead the way in the
development of motor spirit quality!
Improvement must go on. The new Super Shell is an improved Super
Shell improved in its anti-pinking properties, meeting every demand
of modern high-efficiency engines a new Spirit that will give to your
car, regardless of its make, model or age, a beauty of performance
previously impossible to experience.
Every desirable quality Anti-Knock! Power! Acceleration!
Speed! Mileage! Economy! will be yours in greater abundance
with the new Super Shell .
THERE IS A NEW SPIRIT IN THE SUPER SHELL PUMPS
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Incorporated in Great Britain)
S3B/IW.


9
/■
m
i
m.
& m
* ,
as
r
mm
m
w
i
■
R
■
ww®
... « 4
s£'
1
1
:-;
=§Hi§
■
mm I
Hi
■
1
fH
■
i
**
u:C
-
' , i
1
• v
a
«s
■
■
a ■
m
Mi S
'si
>:
M
H
gmmhi
‘
*> -■
m
■ vJraFtESTi
# IP" KfetS
.
■RSIS
jfp


STILL “OFFERING TOO LITTLE AND ASKING TOO MUCH.”
"Meinheer Lyons, you schpend four guilders mit my colonies for efery guilder dey schpend mit you; und to show how grateful I am, ya, I now offer to led
you defend dem. Ya!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aws.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
AN AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN POLICY.
Mr. Spender, M.H.R., who defeated Mr. Archdale
Parkhill in Warringah, has been ransacking Parlia-
mentary reports and newspaper files for evidence that
the Government has a foreign policy, and has failed
to find any. He allows that the Government has stated
that its object is “to preserve peace with other nations,”
but that, he says truly, “is not a foreign policy.”
An object is one thing; the method by which we
seek to achieve it is another.
For the instruction of the citizen as well as the
security of the country, Mr. Spender thinks it neces-
sary that Australia should have a foreign policy. Not
one differing from that of Britain, but one expressive
of Australian views in matters affecting Australia that
would “play an important part in the determination
of British policy” in those matters. And he appeals
to the Prime Minister “to give the people a lead.”
Mr. Spender’s speech will not endear him to the
U.A.P. The U.A.P. maintains that the Prime Minister
has a foreign policy and has given the people a lead.
Policy and lead are summed up in the words “Follow
Britain,” sometimes altered to “Tune in with Britain,”
though the meaning is no different. Britain is figured
as John Bull, a strong man in a blatant world, ever-
thoughtful of his children, ready for any emergency,
and always the same.
During the “sanctions” period Spain was listed
as one of the member-nations that would place all
their resources at the service of the League if it came
to war. In the retrospect it is clear that Spain could
have given no help whatever; Spain had become two
nations, which may be roughly defined as Communist
and Catholic, and the pro-Leaguers would have been
held in checK by the anti-Leaguers. It is by no means
certain that there are not now two nations in France ;
certainly Left and Right are separated by a gulf of
deadly hatred which, though financial and industrial
difficulties accumulate and the national prestige
declines everywhere, remains un bridged.
In these days to regard nations as entities, repre-
sented by unalterable types, with fixed foreign policies
to which every citizen is devoted, is dangerous folly..
John Bull the impersonation of imperial Britain
and unchanging policy? Nonsense! Yesterday Mr.
Eden stood in the place of John Bull, and the policy
was collective insecurity. To-day it is Mr. Chamber-
lain and non-intervention. To-morrow it may be Mr.
Attlee and intervention. And behind Mr. Attlee are
a motley crowd of professors and mob-flatterers —
Laski, Cripps, Strauss, Emanuel Shinwell and Miss
Ellen Wilkinson. These people demand “action”
against Germany and against Italy and against Japan.
In their ravings and writings they never mention
-Dominion interests, and they seem to take it for
granted that the Dominions will meekly take part and
exert all their strength in any war or wars the British
Left Wing chooses to start.
Crazy as this attitude is, it is the attitude of the
Opposition in the House of Commons, and in process
of time the Opposition becomes the Ministry. For
the second time in 29 years this Labor Opposition
has captured West FUlham, its candidate being a lady
doctor who “specialises in women’s and children’s
complaint's,” and whose “policy” was “Get back to
the League”—and “sanctions.” When Britain goes to
the polls there are two million more women than men,
and the women increasingly elect voluble members of
their own sex, especially those who are “clever,” which
nowadays is very apt to mean “dangerous” (Lincoln,
who was not “clever,” was worth a paddockful of
“clever” people). In each of the Dominions men are
in the majority, and when considering foreign policy
all the Dominions must reckon with the fact that
there is in Britain a preponderant —and that may
mean, in perilous proportions, credulous, capricious
and hysterical—female vote. .
It is improbable that the Conservatives will swing
back to collective insecurity, or that the Liberals will
ever amount to anything again, or that they would be
worth a rush if they did. So it is against the peril
of a British Labor Government, meddling provo-
catively and with insular ignorance in the affairs of
other countries, that the Dominions will have to pro-
vide. For that, Australia needs a foreign policy, and
its first point should be non-intervention in matters
that do not concern the Commonwealth in any way.
This first point should be expressed in language so
emphatic that even Laski and Emanuel Shinwe.l can
understand that, if they and their associates want to
wage a war by deputy for the “freeing of Red Spain,
Czechoslovakia, Austria or China, Australia won t
be in it as it was in the Great War.
A second point Df the policy should be the culti-
vation of friendships, irrespective of forms of govern-
ment, with countries which could cut off trade routes
vital to Australia, particularly the Mediterranean
and the Suez Canal. It should be made plain to all
the parties at Westminster that Australia sees no reason
for quarrelling with any of these countries, and that,
while determined to protect its possessions and its
liberties and to do its fair share of protecting those of
its sister-nations of the British Commonwealth, it has
neither the power nor the inclination to go crusading
in any part of the world.
It should be made plain also that Australia doesn t
want a formal alliance with any country, however
friendly or ingratiating, not even the United States.
The weakness of formal alliances is that you have got
to take up the other fellow’s quarrel even if he has
brought it on himself, and even though you are in
no quarrel nor in any danger yourself. Australians
realise that, for its own safety in the Pacific, if for
no other reason, the U.S.A. could not stand by and
see Australia and Maoriland conquered, just as the
British Commonwealth could not stand by and see the
U.S.A. conquered; but Australians are satisfied to
take that hurdle when (or if) it comes.
But Australia must, of course, back this foreign
policy with a far greater force than it is doing or
preparing to do. It needs, in the first place, national
training of its fit youth for its army, its navy and its
air force, so that each arm may be made sufficiently
strong to protect Australia’s coasts and its sea-borne
commerce and have something to spare for operations
in other parts of the British Commonwealth that may
be in greater danger. It needs also a paid battalion
prepared to go anywhere and do anything within the
law to maintain Commonwealth policy; for example,
when Commonwealth policy is dangerously overridden
by sectional boycotts.
After all, there will soon be seven millions of us ;
and a defence force drawn from seven millions, among
whom are the brothers and sons of the men who drove
the Germans out of Villers-Bretonneux and took Mont
St. Quentin, should be capable of taking care of itself
in any company.
Fascist or Communist?
As an epithet “Fascist” is a capital word. Used that
way it will come off the tongue with a hiss. There
is a natural sizzle in it that can be made to blister a
microphone. It can be literally spat out. That there
are countries where many millions of people use it
and that other equally adaptable expression “Nazi”
and make them sound tender, seems incredible.
“Fascist” particularly has more tang as an epithet than
all but the very best swearwords in the language. If
mechanisation had not spread to timber-getting there
could be a permanent place for it in bullocky
vocabulary.
All who appreciate the merits of a good resound-
ing oath must deplore the cheapening of such a word.
And it is cheapening when it is applied to designate
anyone who doesn’t happen to be a Communist. This
makes its application too wide altogether. Anyone
who holds to the opinion that Communism, as seen
in operation in places like Soviet Russia, Spain and
China, is the rottenest and most murderous travesty
of social control so far wished upon civilisation —
anyone who subscribes to that becomes logically a
Fascist. Since Communism works for the destruction
of the democratic form of government favored here
and in Britain, anyone who prefers this form of
government to all others and defends it against Com-
munism becomes by this common application of the
term a Fascist. Thus anyone who votes for such
steadfast pillars of democracy as Messrs. Lyons,
Stevens, Forgan Smith and the few-score others hold-
ing office in and upholding our preferred form of
government is clearly a Fascist.
In other words, it won’t do. The Communist
thumpers and others who hurl the term about thus
indiscriminately as an epithet are merely self-branded
asses. When they parade with notices on sticks exhort-
ing us to “Down with Fascists!” they are crusading
against shadows. There are no Fascists for us to
down. Unless Mr. Lyons—good old Joe! —is a
Fascist, or Mr. Stevens, Mr. Dunstan or any other of
our few-score Misters is a Duce or a Fiihrer in
disguise.
We have even so far escaped the affliction of any-
thing like England’s absurd Mr. Mosley and his micro-
scopic following. Oddly enough, the nearest Australia
has approached to a form of government as far
removed from its preferred democracy as Fascism
undoubtedly is came from what is normally the most
positively democratic of its various democratic parties
—Labor. That was, of course, the mongrel totali-
tarianism Mr. Lang tried to impose in the place of
our preferred democracy. It was countered, too, by
an uprising of opposition resembling itself in the
number and nature of ideas borrowed from totalitarian
sources. Australia has insisted over and over since
then that the last thing it wants about the place is
any substitute for the form of government Mr. Lang
tried to wreck. Also, the obscurity into which the
quasi-Fascist opposers of the Lang brand of rule
instantly passed with the passing of Mr. Lang provides
all the further proof necessary that Australia wants
nothing of this kind at all.
To acknowledge the achievements of Fascist
forms of government in the countries which have
gone in for such forms is one thing ; to believe these
forms worth emulating in any particular in a country
so liberally governed as Australia is quite another
thing. Fascism, or totalitarianism, in those countries
arose out of chaos and against the threat of Com-
munism. Moreover, the people of those countries
always have had a hankering for the form of govern-
ment they now support. Though it is some time since
they have been as openly and intensively thus gov-
erned as at the present time, the experience is by no
means new to them ; both have always had leanings
that way, and in none has the British democratic
form of party government ever been really highly
regarded. . .
The Fascist form of government is working in
those countries because it suits their people. Not to
admit that is to be blind to the plainest of facts. But
to admit it is not necessarily to admire the form and
certainly not to desire anything like it for a country
which is happily progressing under as liberal and prob-
ably as generally beneficent a form of government as
the world has ever known.
As far as The Bulletin knows there is not a
single organisation in this country which can be
described as Fascist in the real meaning of the word.
In the application of the word to designate all bodies
opposed to replacing our democratic form with Com-
munism there are, of course, hundreds of organisa-
tions which could be —and logically must be so
described. But there is not a single organisation work-
ing for the overthrow of our democratic system in
favor of the Fascist system. If there is one this paper
would be glad to hear of it, and to list it with thv.
Communist organisations —which avowedly are work-
ing for the overthrow of our free Parliamentary form
of government—as something Australia can do very
well without.
Bricks Without Straw.
In the last war I was in practically every First Divi-
sion fight, from the Landing to the Armistice. When
voluntary service was introduced in 1929 I joined the
militia forces in response to an appeal in the press
for returned soldiers to enlist and give the young
recruits the benefit of their war training and
experience.
It so happens that I am the only member of my
company who has seen active service, or who has any
idea of what a company at war strength looks like.
Never in the past eight years has the strength of my
company exceeded 60 men —the battalion went into
camp on the last occasion 247 strong, instead of
835, which it should be at war strength. None of my
officers or n.c.os. has any idea of the ground a com-
pany at full strength should occupy in attack or
defence, or how to control a unit of that size in a
fight.
Our colonel was an A.I.F. platoon commander.
Since he took charge of the battalion it has never
been much bigger than a fair-sized company. How
can he be expected to “fight” a battalion of more than
800 men effectively or to control it in battle when
it is spread over a frontage of anything up to a mile?
In the event of war we would have to enlist
approximately 600 recruits to bring our battalion up to
strength, and we should be lucky if we were fit to take
the field within three months of mobilisation. As
practically every other militia battalion is in the same
condition, Australia would be without an army to
defend it for at least three months after war was
declared. I served with partly-trained troops in 1918
and don’t want to do so again. Then they were but
a few among a crowd of experienced fighters, but
even n those circumstances they were a nuisance and
a menace. What chance would a battalion in which
three-fourths of the men were partly trained have
against fully trained and possibly war-seasoned
troops?
I think one may safely assume that at least a
portion of any hostile army attempting to land in
Australia would consist of mechanised units. What
chanfce would we have against an enemy armed with
tanks? One of the bravest things I saw in France
was an attempt by a German machine-gunner to stop
one of our tanks. He fired belt after belt into it
without effect, and in the end it ran over him and
crushed him flat. I made up my mind {here and then
that I would never attempt to stand up to a tank with-
out proper defensive weapons, nor would I ever expect
anyone else to do so.
According to the War Establishments of the
militia forces, issued in February, 1937, each infantry
battalion should have four anti-tank guns—light field
guns, miniature editions of 18-pounders, drawn by
small tractors. I doubt whether any battalion in the
Commonwealth possesses any, or has men trained in
their use. The adjutant of our battalion has never
seen one; neither has any of our three permanent
staff instructors.
At war strength each battalion should have 12
Vickers and 26 Lewis guns (including two of the latter
on headquarters for anti-aircraft defence), and at
least sufficient troops trained to man them. Because
of the heavy casualty rate among such troops a
number of trained men to replace losses should also
be available. I know of no battalion which has more
than six Vickers and 14 Lewis guns (two for anti-
aircraft defence), or sufficient trained men to man any
more.
Each platoon at war strength should have two
Lewis-gun sections, which should be trained to work
tactically in conjunction with one another and with
the other two sections. Very few, if any, have more
than one Lewis-gun section at present, with the result
that their training—and that of the platoon com-
mander —is, to that extent, defective.
I don’t mind taking a fair risk, but I strongly
object to taking an unnecessary one. In the last war
we were generally up to strength, were properly trained
and adequately armed. To-day none of those factors
applies. If ever anyone was asked to make bricks
without straw we are.
DYING GLADIATOR.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
They'd Better Hurry.
The first flying-boat for service on the London-
Australia mail run has been landed, a full year after
similar boats have been in service on other runs. But
the Government is not going to be precipitate about
allowing a beginning to be made with mail delivery.
At present, letters posted in Sydney for London
or vice versa are delivered on the thirteenth day. The
cost is Is. 6d. per half-ounce, and the service is bi-
weekly. By an immense effort' it is intended to cut
this time down to 10 days as a preliminary to further
reductions at some period unstated.
Meanwhile, the Government is hurrying on with
the preparation of six seaplane bases —at Darwin,
Groote Island, Karumba, Townsville, Brisbane and
Sydney. Apart from wireless and direction-finding
apparatus, the cost of the six together, some of them
in remote spots to which freight is highly expensive,
will, according to Mr. Thorby, be £59,800. Seaplane
bases are cheaper to equip than landplane bases, but
so as to ma ke the difference between the
£1,500,000 spent at Singapore and the few thousands
allocated to Sydney and Darwin.
However, apart from the fact that there is a
quarrel between the Defence Department and the
°H t 9® ce as to w h° ought to control the mail service,
and that a three-cornered argument is raging as to
what should be the real terminus and what the new
postage rate may be—6d. is suggested, though
has become universal in other parts of the Empire—
everything is satisfactory to the official mind.
Whether the public mind is so easy to please is
another matter. Tucked away at the bottom of a
newspaper column about Australian negotiations,
probabilities, conjectures and surmises about air-mail
tut^re was a small paragraph intimating that passenger
traffic on the Amsterdam-Java run has increased 30
p.c. in the last year, and that the East Indies-Aus-
tralia service will be opened within a few months.
There was also another unobtrusive paragraph
conveying the information that Guinea Airways had
ordered a new Lockheed machine with a cruising
speed of 224 miles per hour —the new London-Aus-
tralia flying-boats have a normal long-distance cruising
speed of 160 m.p.h. The Lockheed has a range of
1000 miles. It can fly from Darwin to Adelaide in
two hops with a load of two tons under nine hours. It
can carry 12 passengers and a crew of two.
The Dutch already have three services a week
from Holland to Java, and the passage takes sjr days.
Coming on to Darwin and linking with Guinea Air-
ways, they could land passengers and mail in Adel-
aide in 6y days. And the K.L.M. is not satisfied with
its present speeds. It is planning to cut down the
time of the Amsterdam-Batavia run by a day. If it
were to do that its service could almost halve the
time for the official mail service.
It would be quite easy to do. Four years ago, in
the Mildenhall-Melbourne air race, a Douglas with
seven passengers and 35,000 letters aboard reached
Rangoon (6300 miles) in 40| hours with six stops on
the way. Under the accelerated Australia-London
schedule, Rangoon will still be six days from London.
Maoriland's National Insurance.
While Mr. Stevens was blithely claiming credit for
prosperity in N. S. Wales as a U.A.P.-U.C.P. perform-
ance, enthusiasts on the other side of the Tasman
were proclaiming Maoriland’s better times as a miracle
worked by Labor.
And there are signs that the Labor Government
really believes it. Announcing plans for national
insurance, the cost of which, not yet worked out, is
to be “enormous,” Mr. Savage stated that the load
on the exchequer could be borne only by a country
made “increasingly prosperous” by the “deliberate
policy of the Government.”
Thirty shillings a week for everyone over 60,
generous pensions for widows and the sick, and free
medical treatment are all admirable things; but if
the tremendous cost of them can be borne only in
times of increasing prosperity the scheme is going
to look pretty rocky if the tide should turn the other
way again. In the last slump civil servants feared
for the safety of their superannuation funds, and
bad times might imperil the national-insurance stunt.
Labor hinted at tax-reduction before the last elec-
tion, but it has so increased the cost of government
that it has forced itself into bumping up taxation to a
point where Maorilanders pay about £22 per head
annually. The insurance scheme means an increase
in the unpopular wages tax from Bd. in the £ to a
shilling, and the proposed pound-for-pound subsidy
from the consolidated fund must also come out of
the taxpayers’ pockets. Imitation of President Roose-
velt is an expensive pastime.
Like Australia, as was pointed out again at the
recent Empire Producers’ Conference in Sydney,
Maoriland faces the danger of a shrinking British
market. Last year, when the trade-diversionists were
performing in Australia, its wool cheque increased
by £6,000,000. There will be no windfall like that
this year. Some less ambitious scheme than one
based on “increasing prosperity” would better fit the
case.
Brudenell White.
“Cent.” : There is talk of appointing some out-
standing authority to co-ordinate the new Defence
programme. It will be a tragedy if the Government’s
choice falls on a clerk or some moth-eaten politician.
In Brudenell White it has the man qualified above
all others to face the difficult task with the necessary
experience and ability. It was White who drew up
the C.M.F. mobilisation scheme which was translated
into fact when the A.I.F. became necessary. In the
wa{ he was second to none as Chief of Staff.
After the war the Government put White on the
Public Service Commission to decide, among other
things, how much Sissy the typist should get for tea-
money. A sinful waste of his powers. Give him the
kind of job to which Gamelin has been appointed in
France, and he will not fail the Commonwealth.
"Thorough."
In Sydney three Government tramway inspectors have
been employed under what has been called the “decoy”
system, mainly to see that conductors issued tickets
for all fares collected. The sleuths were in plain
clothes, and usually one of them boarded a tramcar
and tendered his fare on leaving. If the conductor
issued no ticket trouble descended on him. He might
even be dismissed as a thief, but before that came
about he would be brought before a departmental
inquiry, with the right of appeal to an independent
appeal board.
Few conductors were reported, but some of those
who were announced that they had been “framed.”
The result was the appointment of a Parliamentary
select committee, consisting of one-tenth of the mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly and including the
Transport Minister.
The committee held 15 sittings. It found that
as the evidence against a conductor is generally three
against one, the chances are against him, and, if the
examiners were unscrupulous and dishonest, the con-
ductor could be “framed.” There is no foundation
for believing that employees have been “framed” or
that there was any attempt by examiners to “frame”
an employee.
But it was suggested that the system should be replaced
by one less likely to cause mistakes and ill-feeling.
The committee’s report runs to 230 foolscap pages
and exceeds 200,000 words. It can be bought for
the sum of 9s. 3d.—the equivalent of 55 single-section
tramway fares. Anyone could wager with safety that
the report of the Cadman Commission on British
aviation is neither so long nor so expensive.
Egypt Has an Election.
The Egyptian election seems to have been conducted
on the Russian model. There was a landslide to the
Court party, and Nahas Pasha, the Wafdist leader,
accuses the Court party of blatant manipulation. He
says that he himself was attacked and prevented from
recording his vote, and that many thousands of his
party were treated in the same fashion.
The king is Turkish in blood and outlook, and,
like his predecessors on the throne and in the Viceroy-
ship, has early given evidence of a disinclination to
take the advice of men qualified to give it, and of a
determination to go his own way regardless of conse-
quences. Young as Europeans count years, he is yet
mature as rulers of his race and kind go. Worst of
all is the fact that he is now practically free to take
his own line. There is certainly a British represen-
tative in Cairo, but he is now a mere ambassador and
not the power that was Cromer, who, with like-
minded Britains, brought the nation out of its Egyptian
night.
What the dogged youth will do. now that the
people of free and enlightened Egypt have given him
an ostensible vote of confidence is one of the coming
problems of the Empire and the world. If he can
manage to sit firm he has in his hands one of the
greatest weapons for negotiation ever held by an
astute politician—control of the Suez Canal. For in
1968 the concession granted to De Lesseps will lapse
and the Canal will become the property of Egypt—
a property unhampered by restrictions as at present,
and one which may be opened and closed at the will
of the Egyptian Government or leased or sold to
the highest bidder.
There is no reason to suppose that gratitude for
past favors will sway Egyptian policy. Britain is in
the unhappy position of being the country’s benefac-
tor, and humanity hates nothing worse than a bene-
factor, especially one that has saved it from itself.
The situation is of great interest to the Empire,
and to Australia in particular; but lots of things can
happen in 30 years.
Another Radio Possibility.
World radio convention speakers told Australia that
“television for the masses will be realised in 10 years.”
Of greater immediate interest is the subject of news-
paper transmission, regarded by observers in the
United States as the half-way step from sound-broad-
casting to television.
The Bamberger Broadcasting Co. recently con-
ducted an American transmission by which a two-
column-wide paper, complete with news and pictures,
was “published” by radio in more than 50 scattered
test homes. Printed matter and pictures were con-
verted into electrical impulses of varying strength and
broadcast; pen-receivers faithfully reproduced the
original newspaper on paper rolls attached to home-
receiving sets. The paper was home-“printed” at about
an inch a minute, and experts say the speed and size
of the “newspaper” can be increased.
Present cost of the home-receivers is 125 dollars ;
mass production might reduce this to 35 dollars or so.
Eight newspaper transmission licenses have been
granted in U.S.A. —mostly to existing newspaper com-
panies. Costs are expected to be met by advertising.
Should this radio form of publishing news
become popular enough overseas for eventual Aus-
tralian and Maoriland adoption, it may mean the end
of the masquerade of comment in the form of news ;
transmission costs should see to that. Without much
alteration, dailies could purvey their usual day-to-
day comment as the background to the radio’d items.
By Labor decision, all Maoriland broadcasting is
Government-owned, and the Savage Government,
which is constantly bemoaning its lack of daily-news-
paper propaganda support, would probably overlook
the cost of the innovation if it opened Maoriland
homes to Labor-tinged “newsprint.” The only catch
from the point of view of Mr. Savage is that his
Government isn’t likely to last long enough to benefit
by the invention.
Electricity and Defence.
In Sydney almost all the industrial-power and central-
transport facilities of 1,250,000 people depend on elec-
tricity. Electric lighting is almost universal in the
metropolitan area and electric power in manufacture.
The food in a great number of hotels and restaurants
is electrically mixed, treated and cooked. Lift services
are electrical, medicine depends on electricity, news-
papers could not come out without it, nor could the
post office conform to modern standards deprived of
its help.
Yet an invader with bombs enough and a map
might paralyse Sydney electrically in half an hour. The
County Council’s huge plant, which produces the bulk
of the supply, sits on Botany Bay, away from any
effective defence area. That of the Government rail-
ways and the Balmain plant are in handy positions,
one minute’s bombing-’plane flight from the coast and
easily visible from a great height. The Harbor Bridge
plant is built conspicuously beside the bridge. All
are within the range of cruiser guns out at sea.
The position is much the same in other Aus-
tralian cities, even Newcastle —as regards aircraft
danger, at any rate.
Something should be done very promptly to
provide all electrical plants with effective aerial
defence. And all the electrical eggs shouldn’t be in
Big-City baskets.
Make Them Learn English.
“L.M.”: Nowadays when an immigrant ship from
the Mediterranean ties up at an Australian port the
cries of the newcomers and their friends on the wharf
are suggestive of Babel let loose. This recalls the fact
that the 1933 census-takers found nearly 30,000
persons in Australia who could not read or write
English. It recalls also that, when deliberate evasion
of industrial laws is proved, the culprit is, as often as
not, a foreigner.
The children learn their English in Australian
schools. Sometimes their parents, who have their
national clubs and newspapers, and are frequently
employed by people of their own nationality, do not
bother. In growth of language divisions there is
danger.
Foreign immigrants are, in nearly all cases, nomi-
nated, and their nominators guarantee that they will
not become charges on the Commonwealth. They
themselves should be required to learn the language
°f the country sufficiently to realise their responsi-
bilities as citizens within a reasonable time.
Who Owns This War?
“El Verdugo” wants to know:
Who owns this Spanish war anyway?
Everybody who knows Aragon and Catalonia has been
waiting eagerly for it to reach Catalonia and Aragon. Aragon
has always been a highly democratic piece of land, rich in
corn and wine and fat sheep. Its fighting powers may be
gauged by the fact that its favorite painter, Mr. Goya,
murdered three other citizens before he was 19 and once
threw a statue at the Duke of Wellington. The Catalonians,
too, are noted for their independence. They have had a
bad habit of presenting themselves and their countryside
to France every time they had a row with their king.
As descendants of the Goths, from whom they take their
name, they have always thoroughly enjoyed the aftermaths
of these little defections.
, When it was announced that Mr. Franco intended to tackle
tnese two kindly peoples with armies wholly composed of
Germans, Italians and Moors his sympathisers said a prayer
for the armies. When it became known, via the historically-
minded press, that Mr. Mussolini would afterwards take
control of Spain, he was included in the petition.
But what happened? Franco sent his Italian Black
Arrow troops into the fray to be “made a mess of” —see
flapper press—with “Moors walking behind them in case
they ran.” There don’t seem to have been any Aragonese.
Republican Spain appears to have been represented entirely
by the International Brigade, composed of white, “black, brown
and brindle” Communists from all parts of the world.
A full battalion captured in one spot included 96, British—
“a motley crowd with cropped heads, unshaven faces and
nondescript clothing.” Most of them had been “previously
unemployed,” and, when captured, instead of exhibiting a
burning zeal to die rather than see their new country fall
into the hands of the tyrant one of them (bearing the good
old British name of Myers) whispered that they had been
regarded as cannon fodder, and there were shouts of “We
want to go home” from the ranks.
Fifty Canadians turned up with a desire to be saved from
the consequences of capture by the Fascists (though they had
sworn away their Canadian allegiance). And there was a
sailor from Invergordon—where there was once a naval mutiny
—who described a battle in which “British and German
battalions fought the greatest battle of their lives,” leaving
the “Fascist dead two deep.” Then word came of a
“Garibaldi battalion of Italians” fighting for the Government.
And when the Franconians swept down on Batea they “van-
quished members of the International Brigade [again] by the
hopelessly superior weight of forces, killing 500 and taking
2500 prisoners.”
In fact, save for an Aragonese Army Corps fighting on
Franco’s side, the only Aragonese and Catalonians who seem
to be in the fray are women and children sitting round and
waiting for Fascists to bomb them, along with “several thou-
sand youthful recruits—apparently the rawest material”—who
have been “marching about accompanied by girls’ bands and
banners.”
After reading the allegations of both sides, I move
that the rival generals hand this war back to the Spaniards.
From long and continuous experience they know how to
enjoy a war.


Society
"NAD IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Rip van Winkle”: How the spirits
of Granny “Herald’s” mighty dead must
squirm as they mark the airy freedom
and skittishness of her modern writing.
Her reporters talk of “movies” as readily
as if that word had been invented by
Queen Victoria. And the other day a
Yankee tourist was allowed to say —on
the hallowed leader page of all places—
that Sydney Harbor was a “knockout.”
What would have happened to a scribe
who brought that piece of copy in 20
years ago I don’t know. Those were the
days when a lady reporter who had
written that somebody had appeared at
Randwick wearing “nigger brown” was
solemnly ushered into the editorial pres-
ence to be rebuked and informed that
“this paper, Miss 8., does not in any cir-
cumstances tolerate vulgar slang. With
us a negro is always a negro —not a
. nigger.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Bill came along for
patching up after his third motor smash
in 12 months. Sober, sensible and a first-
rate driver, it looked like sheer bad luck
until he mentioned that he’d never
had an accident until he took on
the evening run. Only on the re-
turn journey of that, it transpired.
Yes, all after sunset. A test showed
that Bill’s trouble is night-blind-
ness, a not uncommon condition
in which the eye is unable to ad-
just itself to subdued light, though
functioning perfectly in bright
light. It occurs in various grades,
and its discovery is always a com-
plete surprise to its owner. Any-
one can make a fairly accurate self-
test with an ordinary luminous-
faced watch. Read the time in a well-
lighted room, take it into a fully-dark
room, and see how long it takes for the
eyes to readjust themselves to the
luminous figures sufficiently to read the
time accurately. If it is over three
minutes it will be a good idea to see an
oculist if you have to depend on your
eyes in bad or poor lights.
* * * *
“Koura”: “Thank heaven there’s no
disaster from Maoriland this week-end,”
I said to him on Saturday, recalling that
on the four preceding Saturdays Sydney
papers had carried the Kopuawhara flood
story, then an account of a record num-
ber of road accidents, then a landslide
story and finally the details of a railway
crash said to have been caused by
wreckers. I thought it a little unkind
of him next day when he told me I had
spoken too soon, and spread out before
me the “Sunday Fun” carrying details
of Mr. Savage’s national-insurance pro-
posals.
* * * - *
“Xo”: Here’s the history, apparently
unfinished, of a Bulletin gag that has
followed so many of its unacknowledged
brethren into overseas publications. On
August 4, 1937, The Bulletin pictured a
typical Matilda-man telling a shocked
Australian motorist who offered him a
lift, “Thanks all the same, but I’ll wait
for a car with a radio.” Last week I was
glancing through a late-February issue
of an American daily and found, re-
printed from English “Answers” —but ac-
knowledged—a bowler-hatted English-
man, driving an English car in an Eng-
lish lane, looking surprised as a ragged
English tramp tells him, “No thanks —
I’m waitin’ fer a car wot’s got a radio.”
It still has a month or so in which to
cross the Pacific to Maoriland, then jump
the Tasman and so complete its round-
the-world jaunt within the year.
Jp
“Mak”: Fiascos—pardon, fiances —who
read that H. P. Williams, London princi-
pal of the Dunkling jewellery houses,
“Give it a fly, Bill —she MIGHT hold till y' git to the top .”
says present diamond prices are the lowest
he has ever experienced shouldn’t antici-
pate saving much money on their en-
gagement rings. Like lots of other cables
it was only partially correct. Frank Wil-
liams, brother of H.P., Dunkling’s Mel-
bourne manager, tells me rough
diamonds, which are sold at open auction
by the diamond syndicate in London, are
cheaper, but the Amsterdam Dutch who
cut and polish the stones to the specifica-
tions of whatever market they are in-
tended for charge as much as ever. On
top of these Holland charges come
transit insurance costs and, in the case of
Australia, the 25 p.c. exchange to
bump landed values. The regular Eng-
land-Australia air service, incidentally,
is regarded as safe enough for the dis-
patch of a parcel of Dunkling stones
worth between £90,000 and £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
“Jachris”: I’ve always dodged the
blokes who want to put your name down
on the Jay Pee list, but I’m wondering
now —and wilting under the high-pres-
sure campaign of a chap who’s trying to
sell me the idea. His last shot nearly
broke down my sales-resistance. “You
mightn’t think so,” he said, “but there
are advantages. Why, a young fellow
living near me was let off an indecent-
exposure charge just because he was on
the list.”
* * * *
“Motu”: Although he attends periodi-
cal S.A. and Speck sales and is fre-
quently rushed for time, a Melbourne
woolbuyer always travels by boat to
Tas. and by train or car to Adelaide. I
asked him why he didn’t fly. “Promised
the wife I wouldn’t and she keeps me up
to it,” he explained sheepishly. Make
discreet inquiry among your husband
friends and you’ll be surprised, as I was
in Vic., at the number of others in the
same fix. The domestic “don’t” isn’t
confined to Australia. To overcome it
in U.S.A., three major transcontinental
companies have set out to convince wives
that flying is safe; on coast-to-coasl
routes during February any husband who
bought a one-way or round-trip ticket
was told he could take his wife along
free. The American air was reported in
February to have been full of anti-
flight wives, but this may have been
due to the apparent fact that the airline
companies didn’t instal lie-detectors or
insist on marriage certificates. Still, the
idea should be worth slack-period trial
over Australian routes; the old some-
thing-for-nothing or bargain-sale feel-
ing has changed lots of feminine minds.
* * * *
“Plus Fours”: I was a stranger in
the desolate mining town of Zeehan
(Tas.) and was taken in. Entering a
pub bathroom after alighting from the
square-wheel section from Strahan, I
was struck dumb on opening the door,
for there before me was a row of at
least 20 baths with a fair Venus in each
of them, each exactly the same pose ; a
wonderful sight. A shower of soap
missiles in unison caused a retreat.
Amazed I waited for the march of the
harem. But only one lady came out.
Further investigation showed I had been
misled by the reflection of two 7ft.
mirrors with the bath and the Venus
intervening.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: Old McTaggart is one of
our wealthy up-country landowners, and
does not deny that his daughter Maggie
is a tremendous help to him in most
ways. Maggie had excelled herself in
looking after a huge company at har-
vest-time, and as she several times hinted
she thought she should have some ac-
knowledgment of her labors the old man
felt he had better humor her. Week
Moggie,” he said, “ye can go next weeK
to McPhairson’s shop and choose yersel
a hat.” Maggie, overcome at the un-
usual generosity, stared in astonishment.
“Ay,” continued the old man, putting
thoughtfully, “an’ if we hae anither good
season neist year I’ll let ye buy it.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: What is the most
beautifully-sounding word in the Eng-
lish language? Author J. W. Marriott,
in a recent broadcast, alleged that
foreigners regard “cellardoor” as the
loveliest of English words, prettier even
than troubadour and toreador. A German
friend of mine, a graduate of Bonn Uni.,
who had learned most of his colloquial
English in an Australian camp for
prisoners of war, was never tired of
proclaiming the beauty of “bullockyoke
as the most mellifluous collection of syl-
lables that he had met with among his
four languages. Prefixed by the Great
Australian Adjective, he considered the
combination as the most inspiring
achievement of human speech. For true
sonorousness, when delivered from a
deep and hairy chest, my personal choice
is “bullswool.” It makes a deep impres-
sion on Japanese, especially if accom-
panied by a polite bow.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I hadn’t seen my old
schoolmate Jim for over 30 years before
he turned up, rather the worse for wear,
in the last batch of relief workers down
our way. Talking over old days I men-
tioned a fellow-schoolboy of our time
who has since risen to well-earned honor
in political life. “Don’t be silly,” said
Jim, “that’s another bloke altogether.” I
convinced him that it was the identical
lad. “Gripes!” he said irritably, “7m/
’lm that you and me was at school with?
Young Stinker Wotsisname? Stone the
flamin’ crows, I voted for the bloke. An’
me thinkin’ of ’im all these years as a
real solid bloke. Don’t it show ’ow the
Tory press ’ides the truth from blokes
like us, Bill?” Do we ever grow up?
I’d felt that way, too.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: As The Bulletin fore-
told months ago, when the infantile-
paralysis scare was in its first stages of
flapper-press hysteria, a rapid drop in
cases is accompanying the onset of
cooler weather. Australian taxpayers
may console themselves with the reflec-
tion that all the uproar, expense and in-
convenience have not had the slightest
effect on the disease. The infection is
practically universal, normal symptoms
are those of a rather mild cold in the
head, the immunity conferred by the
mildest attack is lifelong, and paralysis is
a rare accident, occurring in, perhaps, one
of each thousand cases. Popular muddle-
headedness in such matters was admir-
ably illustrated by a Queensland Premier
in 1919, after the even more ridiculous
and vastly more expensive influenza
scare. Speaking of the costly observa-
tion camps established at the State
border, he proudly claimed that, what-
ever they had cost, they had been well
worth it, for not a single case had oc-
curred in any of them!
* * *
“D.E.”: Unusual was the case of one
of those Sydney motor-cyclists whom we
love so much—by “we” I mean all
elderly, “hearty,” rheumatic or lame
people who can’t hurry when some yob
on a cycle or hog in a car flashes up in
his wild progress from one dull place to
another, probably to do something inane
at the journey’s end. “Unusual” because
his deafening carcass-carrier was the
means of killing two people ; moreover,
the constable who inquired into the affair,
and who, his wife says, brooded over
it, was found dead, with a bullet wound
in the temple, on the day of the inquest.
That revealed that the cyclist knocked
’a widow down in Oxford-street, Darling-
hurst, on Christmas Eve and spilled a
girl from a pillion seat in Anzac-parade,
La Perouse, on January 2, both dying
in hospital. An eyewitness of the pillion-
girl slaughter testified to the jigger hav-
ing been travelling round 60 m.p.h., and
the young shaver —he is only 20 —sobbed
that he couldn’t deny it because his skull
had been fractured and he could re-
member nothing. Saying there was “no
doubt that excessive speed” was “respon-
sible for the cycle getting out of control”
in the second case, but that “excessive
speed does not necessarily mean criminal
negligence,” the coroner returned ver-
dicts of accidental death. So a fellow
who obviously should never be allowed
to ride or drive again comes out without
even the loss of his license.
ADVICE TO TOURISTS.
“Detectives say that Australian pickpockets have
an international reputation for skill and find their
best victims in overseas visitors.” — “S.M.H.”
Tourists, of ample means and generous girth,
Who come to view our country and to tell
The world our Harbor is the best on earth,
Our glorious Bridge without a parallel,
Our girls with charms no others could eclipse,
One word of warning to you—mind our dips!
Statesmen we have of credit and renown,
Like Hughes and Page and Stevens —yes, in-
deed—
To whom the country’s torch was handed down
From solemn Henry Parkes and jesting Reid.
But there’s another craft their fame outstrips:
Second to none we count ourselves in dips.
Crawfords and Bradmans, chartered kings of
sport,
Are ours to whose achievements all must
yield
For trimming foemen on the netted court
Or ieath’ring bowlers off the tented field.
Their fame is spoken on a thousand lips,
But few, how few, do justice to our dips!
A Cockney word —and yet it comprehends
All that inimitable Dickens states
About the Artful Dodger and his friends
In Fagin’s school, including Charley Bates.
And crooks as keen as those to put their nips
In you are waiting here —look out for dips!
Watch out for genial blokes who fain would
buy
You drinks; of crowded ferries have a care;
Of proffered friendships weigh the how and
why, ,
And, lastly, keep your wallet anywhere
Excepting in the kick behind your hips—
They’re nuts on that, our nimble-fingered dips.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dick Tafone”: A Brisbane Customs
officer searching a just-in steamer from
Asia, with a Chinese crew, found an
undeclared parcel of cigarettes in a
pantry. He put it into the hip-pocket of
his overalls, and went on with his work.
Reporting his find later on to his senior
officer, he put his hand in the pocket to
produce the contraband—and found it
empty. Ah Foo had, literally, caught
him bending, and removed the evidence.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Barnacles have been re-
sponsible for much regrettable sea-lan-
guage through the centuries since man
invented ships, and many ingenious
methods have been devised for cleaning
and keeping them off. Now they have
extended their trouble-making efforts to
the air. One of the essential items in
the overhaul which the R.A.F. flying-
boats underwent at Williamstown (Vic.)
after their passage from England was
the removal of a fine crop of the
creatures, gathered in the various anchor-
ages on the journey, and apparently en-
joying a bit of cheap air-travel. So long
as they can get into salt water every
day or so the air does not worry them,
as they really are a species of crus-
tacean, and not shellfish, as was formerly
believed.
* * * *
“Mak”: Well-meaning Yarrasiders
will have to become more explicit if they
continue to harp on “the serious un-
employment among boys”; they don’t
know their present subject. When our
general office rouseabout took his legiti-
mate vacation, we adver-
tised for a fill-in —three
weeks at a quid a week.
The one applicant seemed
a good chap, but we had
only a morning in which
to impress this future lion
of commerce with the
fact that we’re the sort
of people he should en-
gage at big money when
he’s a magnate. “Per-
haps the little goof has
got himself run over,’
hazarded a kindly typist
when he didn’t show up
after lunch. But the
little goof hadn’t; he’d
just walked out, looking-
for the next run. Neithei
the Boys’ Employment
Association nor the
Y.M.C.A. knew of a pos-
sible substitute, and if
there’s a jobless office
boy in Melbourne he
either can’t read or no
one has told him about
newspaper adv e r tise-
ments. And I have it on
the authority of a har-
ried office-manager and
a complaining typist that
our stamps don’t really
taste any worse than
those used by other busi-
ness houses.
* * *
“Billy Basher”: That
shindy in Rushcutter Bay
Park (Sydney) in which
rival pushes leathered
each other with palings
was an effete affair. In the
good old days the loose
blue metal that could be
gouged from the macadamised roads sup-
plied plentiful ammunition, and I was one
of the best metal-heavers in the Kippax-
street push. We didn’t regard anything as
a battle that lasted for less than an hour
and didn’t leave the site of the conflict
looking like Barcelona after a bombing.
Casualties were so commonplace that the
Cooper-street push, for one, ran a special
hospital fund (householders in the district
who failed to subscribe had their windows
broken). One historic battle, in Green’s-
road Paddington, lasted, on and off, for
’ hmirt hMlUtiPc heino rpsnnwl
seven houis, hostilities being resumed
thrice after the police had interfered.
It began with an invasion by the
“Rocks” push, following the report that
-ij
a Kippax-street leader had described
“When I give the office, you grab a couple o' big 'uns an run."
it as “a lot of dingoes, only good
on their own ground”; the Cooper-
street push rushed to the assistance of
its bitter rivals, the Kippax-street push,
which was small but ferocious, and a de-
tachment of the Cleveland-street mob
chipped in in the last part of the fight.
Over 200 pushites received hospital atten-
tion that night; a 60-year-old Kippax-
street man had his wounds dressed on
four occasions, and each time had
returned to the fray.
* * * *
“Stoo”: Sydney’s markets haven't
quite the color and variety of London’s
Petticoat-lane, but they’re a pretty good
second, and visiting them on a
Friday night it struck me how much
more human interest they had than the
talkies. For drama there was a young
preacher debating science versus religion
with a gang of good-humored near-
drunks who tried to push him off his
perch every time he scored a point. For
humor there was the 16-year-old dis-
ciple who kept quietening an elderly and
“Sometimes I feel that the Old Man carries his admiration for Nelson too far!"
alcoholic interjector with an admonish-
ing “Gor bless yer, brother” ; and some
of the clothes-sellers, nearly as amus-
ing as their London counterparts ; and
the fruit-seller who kept roaring “Thirty
tomatoes for sixpence! Feed a family
of 30 for sixpence!” For pathos there
was the shoddily dressed but pretty girl
who was waiting for the two pairs of
pyjamas offered at five shillings the pair
to come down to half a crown; and the
man who, when someone laughed at him
for selling some domestic article for tup-
pence, said “It makes you laugh, does
it? It makes me cry!” I missed the
jellied eels that everyone in Petticoat-
lane eats out of little cartons like ice-
cream, but a very charming lady who
told me how to breed goldfish provided
some aquatic interest. And, finally, I
thought there were both comedy and
pathos in the bundle of books that stood
among old kerosene lamps, old chipped
crockery and junk of all sorts on a
second-hand stall; the titles were Kenil-
worth, Henry Esmond, Melba’s Gift
Book, The Second Coming and Dental
Surgerv.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Counsel for the defendant
was eloquent in his address. Facing the
jury he said: “I ask you, where could
my client have hidden the watch? Not
in his pocket. The constable has told
you that the man was searched. Not in
his shoes —the watch was too big. Then
where was it hidden?” He paused for
effect, and before he could resume there
came, in triumphant tones, from the
dock: “Under me ’at!”
@ * * *
“King’s Inns”: In regard to courts-
martial (B. 23 /3 / ’3B) it might be added
perhaps that a soldier, as a member of
the army, incurs special liabilities and
special duties, and can therefore be pun-
ished for actions which a civilian might
commit with impunity. In this respect
a soldier obviously enjoys less freedom
than a civilian, but he remains a citizen,
and as such can be tried by Courts of
common law as well. If acquitted at
common law he cannot be tried for the
same offence by court-martial; but if
acquitted by court-martial he can be
tried for the same offence at common
law. Further, a soldier has to obey the
lawful commands of his superior officers,
but may be held liable at common law
for the consequence of such obedience.
Thus the position is possible in which a
soldier might be faced with the alterna-
tive of being shot by court-martial for
disobeying his superior officer, or hanged
by a Judge and jury for obeying him.
“Creeps”: The man who made a book-
case of wood from a hearse has been
beaten in the matter of contempt for
superstition by an Auburn (Sydney)
builder who bought the headstones from
the old Chinese portion of the Rook-
wood cemetery and used them to build
a house for himself and his young bride.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: As a shorthand-writer of
hoary vintage, now retired, I have read
with astonishment how much talking
speed has gone up in the last few years.
N. S. Wales Speaker Weaver, it appears,
can rattle off his wisdom at nearly 300
words a minute in some bursts, and a
Labor man, Concannon, is his compeer.
I have taken all the best-known Austra-
lian speakers of the last 30 years, leav-
ing out the final six or seven, as well as
a good many British and European ones*
and I have yet to find one who would
average more than 200 words a minute
and rarely one who could touch that
record. Deakin, when wound up, was
a fast speaker, though his main difficulty
for the writer was that he spoke with a
sort of surging-wave motion ; but his aver-
age was round about 170 at his fastest.
Lord Chelmsford, Governor of Queens-
land and N. S. Wales, was faster at times,
but his speech was even and smooth. He
was the fastest man I think I have ever
taken in any country when he was thor-
oughly in action, though he had close
rivals in Queensland’s Charles Jenkinson
and Joe Lesina. Weaver is easy beside
Deakin in full flight. The most trying
man I ever took was Kidston, Queens-
land Premier, and he was one of the
slowest burblers on record. He spoke in
periods which stopped the moving hand
every few words with a jerk.
* * * *
“Sabreur”: Tardy justice has been
done to the bones of Trooper Charles
Ewart, later Ensign Ewart, who cap-
tured singlehanded the eagle of the 45th
French infantry at Waterloo. Ewart was
a trooper of the Scots Greys, the regi-
ment which, with the First Royals and
Inniskillings, formed the Union Brigade,
the headlong charge of
which, on the French re-
serves coming into action,
was one of the deciding
factors of the Allied vic-
tory at Waterloo. Ewart
died in 1846 at Man-
chester, and when his
grave was recently dis-
covered it was resolved
to move the body to
Edinburgh, where a
memorial is to be placed
over it. To this day the
Greys wear as a badge a
replica of the French
eagle from the staff of
the standard captured by
Ewart.
\
* * *
“Centurion”: What is
“Alpha’s” authority (B.
30/ 3/ ’3B) for saying that
there were no officers’
batmen in the Napoleonic
army? The memoirs of
Baron de Marbot, a
trooper who became a
Marshal of France after
going through all Napo-
leon’s Continental cam-
paigns from Italy to
Waterloo, makes it very
clear that- not only did
officers have servants,
but that even men in the
ranks, if they could
afford it, were allowed
them. Officers and
n.c.os. were not only
allowed batmen but lady
companions, provided these put no
responsibility on the army command.
One of the most touching of the Baron’s
stories tells of the suffering of the lady
who assuaged the sorrows of Massena
when that stout old warrior went forth
to war. In the retreat from Torres
Vedras the lady’s carriage horses gave
out and she had to be carried in a litter
by the soldiery. She was of generous
proportions, and though the footsloggers
stuck to their job valiantly they didn’t
refrain from comment which must have
brought blushes even to her cheeks.
BALLADE OF A BAD MEMORY.
What won the Melbourne Cup ten years ano?
How many days have April, June and May?
You ask me: I admit I do not kno*v;
This is a game I never cared to play.
Of killing time there’s many a better way
Far kinder to my self-esteem, I find.
Such trivial questions fill me with dismay.
I wish 1 could recall these things to mind.
Do beetles form the base of indigo,
And does the gentle wombat grunt or bray?
What do the papers mean by status quo ?
And what on earth has happened to my pay?
And who asked Raleigh at Trafalgar Bay
To singe the Dutchman’s whiskers to the rind?
And what the devil now did Gladstone say?
I wish I could recall these things to mind.
Now was it Stanley Bruce or dear old Joe
Who used to fix umbrellas in his day?
Did Billy Hughes sing on the radio
Of Albert’s lion? —or Stanley Holloway?
Yes! Yes! I know this is a poor display
Of native wit and memory combined.
Intelligence, you call it? Well, you may.
I wish I could recall these things to mind.
Envoi.
Prince, where’s that tenner lent you yesterday?
, I’d like it back, if you would be so kind.
What’s that? Oh, hell! You paid it back, you
say!
I wish I could recall these things to mind.
N.S.W.
T. E. P.


20M'6
10/w 9 a
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco..
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATION
O F
R X
tipped
POLITICAL POINTS
The second Blum Government has fol-
lowed the third Chautemps Government
into oblivion, and there is another finan-
cial crisis, and “rearmament has been
brought almost to a standstill by strikes.”
Nevertheless, interventionists still serve
up the fiction that France is strong,
united, ready to the last button and
breaking its neck to march with
VAngleterre to the rescue of Spain,
Czechoslovakia, Austria and China.
The Rape of Austria has been ratified
by 99.75 p.c. of Austrians and 98.96 p.c.
of Germans. Mr. Roberts, the political
professor, and his employer, Mr. War-
wick Fairfax, sometime of the Oxford
Union, can’t understand it.
After all the trouble to which William
Glasgow went to rally Queensland for
the U.A.P., that party, which boasted
three members in the last State Parlia-
ment, will have only one more in the
next', Dart having wrested Wynnum from
Labor. Dart is a Brisbane alderman, so
he will be entitled to two salaries. He
has undertaken to leave one undrawn,
which shows that he is a very unusual
old Dart. *
The lady doctor won the West Fulham
by-election for the silliest Labor party
in the Empire. Compared with the
general election the Lab.-Lib. vote in-
creased from 16,110 to 16,583 and the
Conservative vote declined from 18,461
to 15,162. No great change; all the
same, it is a serious matter for the
Chamberlain Government, and Dominion
Governments will have to take it seri-
ously or they may be landed in trouble.
Twelve thousand application forms
have been issued by the British Consul at
Vienna to Austrian Jews anxious to
emigrate to Australia. But A.B.C. can’t
put them all on the air.
Bussau, the Attorney-General who was
no lawyer, is leaving at last to become
Agent-General (he is no businessman),
having stayed in the Ministry (it con-
trols 20 votes in a House with 65) long
enough to qualify for a deadhead ticket
over all the Australian Government rail-
way systems, which are all insolvent.
Victoria remembers another Attorney-
General who, going to England on
urgent Australian business, returned to
the Treasury the unexpended portion of
a very moderate allowance for expenses.
No doubt Australia still has men who,
like Deakin, go into public life for what
they think they can give and not for
what they can get out of it. The other
sort of politician is far more noticeable.
Strangers who find Australians rather
taciturn in private life and marvel at
the loquacity of their politicians and
royal-commission chaps were given more
food for marvelling by the meeting of
Vic. Cocky Parliamentarians about their
“crisis.” There were a couple of dozen
present, and they debated the “crisis”
for nearly seven hours. At 100 words a
minute, which is slow going for politi-
cians, they must have spoken 40,000
words —say, half the length of a standard
novel. And in the end, of course, they
declared they had “absolute confidence”
in the Premier and themselves, their
record being splendid.
Butler’s party of 15 (28 in February)
is to carry on with the aid of Indepen-
dents, whose terms provide for the
restoration of three-year Parliaments. A
month ago Butler said he would fight
for five-year Parliaments to the last
ditch, but in the shabby business that
State politics have become these trifling
difficulties can always be brushed away.
Foreign affairs are never debated at
Canberra. Westminster, plagued by the
silliest Labor party in the Empire, goes
to the other extreme, and has had 15
debates on foreign affairs in nine weeks.
The latest infliction moved even the
Liberal leader to pronounce it “a mis-
take,” and at the end, as even the pro-
Eden Australian press was driven to
admit, “Ministerialists gave Mr. Cham-
berlain an ovation which lasted five
minutes —one of the most remarkable
demonstrations for years.” Apropos,
Eden has dropped out of notice alto-
gether. In the circumstances, this is
highly creditable to him.
HAIL AND FAREWELL!
“When Dr. Otto Schmidt returned from the North Pole, Stalin kissed him.... When an
expedition planned by Dr. Otto Schmidt failed to make the North-east Passage, Stalin had
him arrested.”
These waterside boycotts stirred up
by Communists are the delirium of folly.
Sydney wharfies have refused for
months to load waste-tin clippings for
Japan, although not 2 p.c. of tin suitable
for munition-making could be got from
them. Melbourne wharfies have hitherto
loaded these clippings, but last week
they resolved to do some boycotting on
their own account —ban the loading
of “metals and other products.” About
the same time, the Japanese Industrial
Federation was appealing to the laborers
at Kobe, Osaka and Yokohama not to un-
load cargo from British holds. In short,
international boycott is a crazy sort of
war game that two or more can play.
Even in its headlines, “S. M. Herald”
grows more and more like the Labor
press. “Rebuff to Inskip—Engineers on
Arms Programme —Foreign Policy Dis-
liked” was its way of introducing a cable
which, boiled down, meant that Red
politicians professing to speak for the
Amalgamated Engineering Union gave
cheek when asked to hurry up with re-
armament. They said “trade-unionists
dislike the Government’s foreign policy,”
and came out presently with a roar-
ing demand for intervention on the Red
side in Spain. “Inskip” is Sir Thomas
Inskip, Minister for Co-ordination of
Defence. He said the unions had been
“frank and friendly.”
To prevent another split in his “party,”
Dunstan has had to accept a compromise,
the compromise being that “Central
Council should be asked to abandon all
claim to control Federal members.” A
bump for Mr. Stocking and Mr. Skeeter ;
but the shock was already cushioned for
Mr. Stocking. Dunstan made him a Sav-
ings Bank Commissioner, and will doubt-
less offer something to Mr. Skeeter if
he can hang on long enough.
A Senator named Dein (N.S.W.) was
a member of the latest party that set
out in search of “Lasseter’s Lost Reef.”
After flying a long distance through
cloudland and failing to find the “reef”
there, “the party’s specially chartered
’plane flew very low over a highly-
mineralised area,” and now “a com-
pany with a nominal capital of £lO,OOO
will take the matter up.” Some Westra-
lian Senator should take Dein up, and
challenge him to read what the late
Mines Minister Munsie and one of his
officers said about a previous attempt to
locate the “reef” by ’plane, and to prove
that the Westralian Mines Department
contains a shred of evidence that the
“reef” is not the shadow of a dream.
One of those London flapper-dailies
which discover Fascist plots every few
days has now discovered a tailor who has
discovered that he can’t sink. His name
is Wynn, and “he wants to meet the only
other person he has heard of who can
do the same —Mrs. Rebecca Paiker, or
N.S.W.” If Wynn can’t trace Mrs.
Rebecca, anyone in N.S.W. will give him
the name of a politician who never win*
and won’t be sunk.
Who took Lerida? “Franco’s Moor-
ish legionaries,” said Granny “Herald.
“Italians,” said Signor Gayda. Ger-
mans, Moors and Italians driven on by
Moors,” said the Barcelona correspon-
dent of the “Daily Herald,” reporting a
hero of the Red International Brigade.
This paper’s private opinion is that
Spaniards took it.
Nobody ever suspected Tummas Pater-
son of being a phrase-maker till he came
out with his reason for leaving the
Hocking-Skeat-Dunstan Cockies. He said
he was not going to belong to a party
for which the sun rises in the Dande-
nong Ranges and sets on the Werribee
plain. Apt description, too.
Though Queensland Labor lost East
Toowoomba to the C.P., Wynnum to the
U.A.P. and Kelvin Grove to Protestant
Lab., it wrested Dalby at last from God-
frey Morgan (C.P.). In the result, it
will have 44 of the 62 seats in the next
Parliament. Morgan was Moore’s Min-
ister of Railways. Moore had nine
Ministers ; only he, Walker and Deacon
are left in the Assembly.
Reports have reached London —from
the Spanish war zone perhaps —that
Australia is experiencing “the worst
drought since 1902.” Lyons says “no
anxiety whatever is felt regarding cereal
prospects in the south-eastern areas of
the continent” ; but that’s overdoing it in
another way. However, timely rains
could save the situation in the Wimmera,
the Vic. Mallee, the Riverina and N.S.W.
pastoral districts ; Westralia isn’t worry-
ing, and parts of the N.S.W. North Coast
are complaining of too much moisture.
Prophecy (B. 23 /1 / ’3B)
The position in China has not altered,
but the whole war there has been swept
from the front page. It will crop up again,
more sensational than ever, if the other
prospects [intervention in Austria and
Red Spain] fail.
Fulfilment (Associated Press, 9/4/’38):
One reason for Mr. Chamberlain’s desire
to hasten the completion of the Anglo-
Italian agreement is the indication of in-
creasing tension in the Far East.... where
Great Britain’s comparative weakness is most
disturbing. There is reason to believe that
further serious Japanese setbacks are con-
siderably perturbing official quarters in
London, whose advices suggest that the
Japanese, if they have their backs to the
wall, may be driven to desperate measures.
These measures might menace foreign in-
terests, possibly at Hong Kong and in the
Pacific. In that event, the British Empire’s
position would be gravely embarrassed.
A.P.’s Diplomatic Correspondent “under-
stands” all that.
Once a reporter was merely a re-
porter. His job was to get news, and
he was sacked if he didn’t get it right.
Now he can deal with perfect safety in
guesswork, mare’s-nests, cock-and-bull
stories, alarmist muck and views; and
they’ll call him a Diplomatic Correspon-
dent.
Viscount Ishii, entertained in London
by the Japan Society a few weeks ago,
adroitly reminded the English of the
Kuomintang boycott “which almost
paralysed the trade of Hong Kong” a
trifle over ten years ago, and of the
strong reinforcements sent from Britain
to meet the threat of worse. The same
treatment had been meted out to Japan
by precisely the same people.
Japan’s entire objective is the stabilisa-
tion, once and for all, of its relations with
China on a basis which cannot be de-
stroyed from time to time at the whim of
a hostile Chinese Government. When hos-
, tilities cease, I am certain Anglo-Japanese
friendship will emerge intact. Nations like
ours can never part company.
Of course this kind' of speech by a rep-
resentative man, though it would reassure
many anxious minds, never gets over the
p~ It would spoil the current
“story.”


THAT SCHOOLGIRL COMPLEX.
“At Texas ‘rehabilitation factories,' aged mules are having their faces ‘lifted’ to deceive dealers.’


The Richardson Chain Hotel
I it
ill
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you:
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead*
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you ca:
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors;
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD
Listen mi to the “Romance oj Industry” session
each Wednesday night at 9.30 from 2 UE.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V.,
G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
S 3
SIS
20
pan' £S
COM
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERONAL ITEM S
In April knight George Rich, Senior
Justice of the High Court, will have com-
pleted a quarter of a century on the
High Court Bench. Before that he was
a Supreme Court Judge (N. S. Wales).
In 1936, while in London, he sat on the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
A week or two ago Melbourne Uni-
versity enrolled a student already well-
equipped with degrees, Dr. Friedrich
Meister, whose satchel of sheepskins in-
cludes four from German and two from
Swiss universities. His pet subject is
pol. econ., and he comes to study Austra-
lian conditions on behalf of the German
Institute of International Trade, with a
view to improving trade relations.
Harold Charles Green, appointed by
the Commonwealth Government to
assist organise national insurance, was
born in Melbourne, son of the Rev. J.
L. Green, and will be 45 next month.
HAROLD GREEN.
An accountant by training, he joined the
Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics in 1911, went to the War (he
gained a commission), and resumed civil
service as Auditor at Australia House.
In addition to having a lot to do with
censuses subsequently, Green was for
four years secretary of the Royal Com-
mission on National Insurance—hence
his latest appointment, for which he
relinquishes the post of Assistant Com-
monwealth Statistician.
M. J. Durack, one of the pioneers of
the Kimberleys after the family drifted
across the N.T. from the Cooper in the
’eighties, left £44,522. After providing
annuities for his widow and a sister and
legacies for friends and relatives, he
willed the residuary estate to the St.
John of God Hospital in W.A.
With the blessing of some* Australian
Governments and by arrangement with
such scientific societies as the British
Ornithologists’ Union, A. H. Chisholm,
until recently editor of the Melbourne
“Argus,” clears the Yarra next Tuesday
for the first overseas broadcasting and
lecture tour ever undertaken by an Aus-
tralian naturalist. Author of Nature
Fantasy in Australia and Birds and
Green Places, Chisholm has occupied re-
sponsible newspaper jobs in the three
Eastern States ; he has also lectured —
without fee, by the way—in those States
and S. Australia, so the kookaburra and
his bush relatives couldn’t wish for a
better booster. British, European and
American naturalists whom Chisholm has
shown round Australia are planning to
return his hospitality. He should be a
hit with London’s cops; when knight
Philip Game, now their boss, was N. S.
Wales Governor, Chisholm introduced
him to the lyrebird and other fauna of
Sydney’s sandstone country.
Passed for the last time over the roads
he had constructed, William Watkins
Tapp, city engineer of Port Adelaide,
small of stature, big of mind. Born in
S.A. over 80 years ago, he was once
District Clerk of a small portion;
amalgamations brought him into the
larger sphere as valuator and rate-col-
lector of the City of Port Adelaide.
Meanwhile he studied municipal engi-
neering, and was largely responsible for
converting areas of mangrove swamp and
sandy wastes into a well-paved city. His
three marriages resulted in a family
of 13.
Now that Melbourne University’s new
Union House has been officially opened,
J. ..S. Rogers, chairman of the Union
board of management, G. L. Wood,
chairman of the Union finance com-
mittee, and Warden W. Bryden are en-
titled to their general air of satisfaction.
Senior lecturer in natural philosophy,
Rogers is a Melbourne graduate who
in 1922 went to Cambridge with an
1851 exhibition. And that was his second
trip abroad, the first being to join the
14th Battalion, A.I.F. For the last 18
months of the war he held staff appoint-
ments with both the A.I.F. and the
8.E.F., and at the end was brigade major
to the 3rd Tanks. Now his hobby is the
further devastation of a golf handicap
already near the single-figure mark.
Returning to Australia with his family
is David Mackenzie Dow, who for the
last 14 years has been 'a denizen of the
Australian Commissioner’s office, Broad-
way, New York. For the first seven
years of that term Dow was secretary to
the Commissioner. Then the job of
Commissioner-General fell vacant, no
new appointment was made and Dow
stayed on as “official representative of
Australia in the U.S.A.” He retired from
the Commonwealth service two years
ago, but again stayed on till a successor
could be found. Born in Vic., he started
work as an agricultural journalist, and
became publicity officer of the Prime
Minister’s Department in 1920. He’s
now 68.
A two-minute visitor to Sydney (he
was a passenger in the Hamburg-Amerika
Reliance) deserves a passing cheer for
his kind thoughts about Binghi. He’s
Prof. Carl Tauber, of Zurich, who is writ-
ing a monumental tome to prove that
art and culture had their beginnings
from the despised Australian aboriginal.
Tauber is the savant who deciphered the
Easter Island inscriptions. He estab-
lished that they are of Melanesian origin,
and he claims that the Melanesians, the
original inhabitants of the whole island
world of the southern Pacific, including,
of course, Australia, initiated speech,
graphic art and writing at a time when
Europe lay under ice. It was the
Melanesians, extending to Africa and the
Americas and thence to Europe, who
laid the foundations of civilisation.
The death of W. H. Pickering, 80-year-
old astronomer, at Jamaica recalls that'
it was he who in 1919 calculated the posi*
tion of the then-as-yet-unseen planet
Pluto well out beyond the orbit ot Nep-
tune, and asked Mount Wilson to use its
powerful tele-photographic apparatus tor
verification. Mount Wilson reported that
there was no sign of Pluto. In 1930 a
youngster named Tombaugh found Pluto
on a photograph he took at Lowell, and
when Mount Wilson rechecked its 1919
work the planet was found after all.
Pickering nevertheless let Tombaugh
have the credit, receiving the doubtful
consolation of having a small crater on
the surface of the moon named after huti
by the International Astronomical
Society.
“Jeames”: Winston Churchill seems
to be regarded in some quarters in
England as a possible Liberal leader. The
mantle is not likely to fall upon him
unless the British constituency forgets its
traditional distrust of the turncoat. Son
of Lord Randolph Churchill, he entered
Parliament in 1900 as a Conservative and
a Protectionist. Six years later he was a
Liberal and a Freetrader, an opportune
switch which landed him at once the
job of Under-Secretary of State for the
Colonies; then Presidency of the Board of
Trade and then control of the Admiralty
as First Lord. Churchill held that post till
the Gallipoli evacuation, then resigned
and went to France on active service,
returning in 1917 to be Minister of Muni-
tions in the National Cabinet. From 1918
to 1921 he was Secretary of War, back-
ing the White Russians —a losing horse.
From 1924 to 1928 he was Chancellor of
the Exchequer. Since, his political posi-
tion has been hazy. He chivvied Baldwin
as he now chivvies Chamberlain, but an
important division usually found him on
the Government’s side.
As keen an art connoisseur as Mel-
bourne has bred, and one of the most
generous to Australian artists, Dr. S. A.
Ewing has just given about £5OOO worth
of his pictures to Melbourne Uni. Nearly
74, the doctor retired from practice about
10 years ago, after having established a
great professional reputation. Son of a
Melbourne chemist from Dublin who
married a girl born near the Yarra,
Ewing was a chemist’s apprentice before
he went to medical school. After
a term at Edinburgh, he mixed Vic. and
Westralian country experience with
Dr. S. A. EWING.
periods in London and European hos-
pitals ; then he began in Collins-street.
To the hard work and personal dis-
appointments experienced up to this time
he ascribes his early appreciation of the
then struggling Australian artists whose
work he bought so consistently from
1908 to 1920. Even after parting with
more than 50 of his pictures his M.
Kilda home is still a treasure-house or
art.
Tom Cleave Scott, leader of the
numerically important Independent
group in the S.A. Parliament, is a Soutn
Australian born, hailing from
TOM CLEAVE STOTT, leader of the
S.A. Independents.
Peters; First and foremost he’s a wheat-
grower, and has fame among wheat-
growers owing to his experiments on his
farm at Mindarie in dry-climate cultiva-
tion. He was one of the founders, and
the first secretary, of the S.A. Wheat
Growers’ Association, from which grew
later the Federal Wheat Growers’ Asso-
ciation of Australia, and he is general
secretary of the later and greater
organisation. Still three years on the
sunny side of forty, he has been in Par-
liament for five years, first representing
Albert, and in the new House, Ridley.
Dead in Brisbane at 62, John Carter,
who had been 45 years in three States
and M.L. with the Union Bank, which
he joined in Adelaide at 17. He was a
quiet, retiring man who loved his garden
and his music, and during his Maoriland
period was a member of the Wellington
orchestra. He had been Brisbane
manager of the Union since 1931.
Melbourne’s Anzac Day march will be
led this year, for the first time, by a sol-
dier in mufti, and, for the first time in
10 years, the leader will be a footslogger,
like the rest of his army. As may be
gathered, Major-General John Gelli-
brand, chosen to head the march, is a
modest man, but he has a fine service
record. Born in Tasmania, where the
family name is a household word, he
entered the British Army through Sand-
hurst, went through the S’African cam-
paign, and had several years in Ceylon.
The Great War saw him in at the be-
ginning as a staff officer. He won his
D.S.O. at Gallipoli and added a bar to
it at Bullecourt. His Croix de Guerre is
“avec Palme.” Since the war he has been
a Public Service Commissioner in Tas.
and for two years Vic. Commissioner of
Police. He represented Denison (Tas.)
in the Federal Parliament for three years
from 1925. His hobby is farming and
he’s 67.
An Australian with a record:
Steve Fairbairn for the first time for 57 years
failed to turn up for the Oxford and Cam-
bridge boatrace this year, which was about the
next most unusual thing to having one Of the
boats missing. Steve was an old Geelong
College boy, son of the founder of one of Aus-
tralia’s first freezing works. He went to Jesus
College, Cambridge, and there rowed four years
for the University, evolving the Fairbairn or
Jesus style which revolutionised rowing. Then
he came home to life on a station, but soon
returned to London, where he is a director of
Dalgety’s. His Rowing Notes are the gospels
of the arduous exercise, but in his time Steve
has played most games, though, as he plaintively
told Who’s Who last year, his favorite sport
now in his middle seventies is “curing sciatica.”


e
,1^
&\ 'V
iilll!
L > l ] wSsfr. ' ’ V A
: : M\^'
r
8021
Ask for Capstan
Special Mild in
the Red Packet.
Capstans are
blended better.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Was bag-sewing on a
Vic. Mallee wheat farm when the owner
took ill and was removed to the local
hospital. The harvest went on under the
care of his two sons. The elder drove
off to the town one day to get a dupli-
cate part and inquire after his dad’s
health. The younger and I were work-
ing near the fence as he drove back.
“How’s dad?” cried the one with me.
“Dead,” was the laconic reply. The
youngster gazed after his brother’s cloud
of dust. “What do you know about
that?” he muttered to me. “Right in the
busy time, too!”
* * * *
“Kuaka”: Some ancient M.L. anglers,
with whom trout-fishing is a religion, are
becoming perturbed over the peculiar
spots from which mere fishermen seem
nowadays to be able to draw sporting
fish. It was always considered unlikely
any trout would mature in the Blue Lake
at Rotorua, a highly-mineralised pond of
a glorious bright blue; but last year
anglers secured fine specimens there.
Now comes news of large trout being
secured in the sea near Tauranga ; they
were, as is usual with sea-run trout, in
excellent condition.
* :!= * *
“Noondoo”: Wild pigs (B. 30/3/’3B)
afflict Queensland and N.S.W. outbackers
as well as the sturdy yeomen of Maoriland.
Early in the ’nineties they became such a
pest on the string of Australian Pastoral
Co.’s stations along the Balonne River
in s.-w. Queensland that sixpence a snout
was paid by the co. and adjacent station-
owners. Early in 1892 a huge drive down
the river was organised, every man who
could be spared from the runs rolling up.
In a week the party accounted for over
2000 pigs, and numbers escaped. Writer
and some friends had a go at the appar-
ently undiminished sounders some years
later and accounted for a couple of
hundred in two days, using spears made
of shear blades. The brutes played the
deuce with fences, and not only did they
work havoc among the lambs but liter-
ally ate alive any wretched sheep bogged
in the many lagoons in that flooded coun-
try (known as “briaries”). Closer settle-
ment has practically abolished the pest
in that part of the world, but it still flour-
ishes in the central-west and further
north, while one hears of it occasion-
ally in n.-w. N.S.W.
* * * *
“Tham”: Touching Maoriland’s carni-
vorous wild pigs (B. 30/3/’3B), I counted
22 skins of slaughtered lambs one morn-
ing in a corner of a flat where the flock
had spent the night, and a hunt in the
neighboring bush showed that sows and
suckers had been the criminals. Since
backblocks farmers commonly use their
sheep-dogs to hunt the pigs, they often
suffer a double loss when boars get their
tusks to work, and the shooting of one
of the best dogs I ever saw when pig-
hunting had turned him into a sheep-
worrier can also be chalked up against
the brutes.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: An elderly bachelor
down our outback Vic. way had a hatred
of washing clothes, and solved the prob-
lem by buying a new outfit whenever his
gear became too dirty for further use.
Three months ago he married a thrifty
widow, and she immediately started to
wash the huge pile of soiled clothing that
she found heaped up in one of the rooms.
Many of the articles were mildewed and
ruined, but according to the latest dis-
trict count she has salvaged 89 pairs of
strides, 107 shirts, hundreds of socks and
a couple of drayloads of flannels. She
is still washing, and the local storekeeper,
from whom most of the clothing «was
bought, has proved himself a sport by
engaging to supply her with free soap
until the tub marathon is finished.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The official decision
to abolish the confusing similarities and
duplications of name among some 60
reefs and beacons off the N.Q. coast is
good news to navigators in those diffi-
cult waters. Among them are three “F”
reefs —EF, EFF and EFT —from Cook-
town to Weymouth Bay ; three Ns —
ENN, EN and END ; three Ts —TEA,
TEE and TIH ; a You and a Yew, a Y
and a Wye (120 miles apart), a Turtle
Island, Turtle Group and two Turtle
Reefs. What such confusion means in
practice was illustrated not long ago by
a distress call received by an inter-State
vessel. Only the fact that the calling ship
had been passed on the previous day
“Hey, Dig., ’ow far is it to the next pub ?”
prevented the ffescuer from going to the
wrong reef. The job of suggesting new
names has, with the consent of the
Hydrographic Office, been given to the
Great Barrier Reef Committee, with the
request that the new titles shall be as dis-
similar as possible.
* 4= * *
“Golden Mile”: Here’s my longest
endurance walk. Was braceman-platman
to a Westralian wild-cat sinking to the
1000 ft. At the thousand we drove a bit
and cut an alleged lode. One day a natty
London mining reporter happened
along. Mine was the job to take him
to the bottom, the vehicle of descent
being an iron kibble, the traveller peich-
ing unsafely on the rim. I noticed that
it hazed him a bit stepping across the
yawning abyss on to the kibble, but I
got him started all right. At the 200 I
was holding him on, and as there was
no way of stopping I continued to hold
him, myself and a candle all the way to
the bottom. When it was time to ascend
he insisted on walking—no more kibble-
rim for him. A thousand feet of ladders,
each length 25ft. and inclined only 2ft.
from the perpendicular. No pad I ever
flogged came near it. I have heard,
though, of old-timers walking up 1500 ft.
when the hauling-gear broke down on
some of the old Ballarat mines.
i|: % * *
“W.P.T.”: “Cripes, the grasshoppers
are cunning down our way,” remarked
Monaro Mick. “When they started on
one of me corn crops I set alight to the
grass between it and the next crop, abom
’alf a mile away. I reckoned they’d
starve to death before they reached the
next one. But instead of eating the crop
right out they chewed the stalks off at
the bottom, and each ’hopper carried a
few under one wing to last him over the
burnt patch.”
* * * *
“Varanus”: With ducks in early pros-
pect, a favorite indoor sport at present
in our S.Q. parts is cartridge-loading.
When you load ’em yourself you know
what you’ve got in the old gun. Also,
why pay for three times as many cases,
not to speak of other economies, in these
hard times? A stock local argument
is size of shot. I back 4’s, and have
done well on 2’s. My shooting mate
won’t have anything bigger than 7’s. I
do better than he does on ducks over 45
yards, although he’s the better shot. Our
guns differ little in target pattern, and
it seems to me that penetration is better
than pattern. The heavier stuff gives
better penetration at the longer ranges,
obviously.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Less than two hours after
I read “Harry N.’s” statement (B.
23 /3/ ’3B) that queer barking sounds may
proceed from snakes, I obtained appar-
ently clear proof of that very thing.
Tracing such a noise, I found Joe
stretched out between two rocks with
the concert in full swing, and not a frog
or dog in sight. He was a harmless
person, and “H.N.” is responsible for
his death in the cause of science. Post-
mortem results had as the main exhibit
a green frog, dopey but in full song, 6in.
or so aft in his streamlined figure. Re-
stored to the outer air, the inmate re-
gained his proper voice timbre, but,
squeezed gently, he resumed the bark,
plus or minus allowance for performing
through Joseph’s tight-stretched sides.
“H.N.” seems to have arrived a trifle
late at the feast. In any case, snakes
have nothing at all which could possibly
serve as vocal chords, no matter what
the Book of Genesis says. The serpent-
tempter was a woman’s yarn, anyhow.
* * * *
“Wang”: The city visitor to the out-
back home told his host that his Sunday-
afternoon nap had been spoiled by so
many flies in his bedroom. “Wish yer’d
tole me y’ wanted t’ have a snooze,” Dad
said. “I’d have fixed it all right for yer.
They’re th’ same in ev’ry room in th’
house; but we’ve found a way t’ trick
’em. We jist give a bell in th’ kitchen
a tingle ; th’ flies think it’s our tucker
time, and make a rush out there. Then
we close th’ door on them an’ can sleep
comfortable.”
* * * *
“Scotia”: This with an accompanying
affidavit. A Carrum Downs (Vic.)
youngster found a hen’s egg weighing five
and a half ounces, and trotted it along
to school with him. The country ped.
broke it, to find that it contained the
usual yolk and albumen, as well as a
hard-shelled, apparently normal egg.
When this inner egg was cracked, its
contents were found to consist of albu-
men onlv.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Huglow’s” shot-
gun carries a wide spread when he claims
Queensland ironwood makes the best
sleepers for white-ant country (B-
-9/3/’3B). I’ve always understood that
title to be reserved for jarrah. Certainly
20 years’ immunity wouldn’t constitute
a record; and hardness in a timber isn
any protection from termites.
relish gimlet, one of the hardest of West-
ralian timbers, and they’ll eat salmon
gums green. Jarrah, which is softer than
either, is practically immune.
* 4= * *
“Tockilly”: Slow toilers? An ex-
ship’s-carpenter came to Eudlo (Q-) aia<a
decided to have a burl at swinging the
broad-axe. He tackled a huge tallow-
wood, and after a fortnight’s chopping
and sawing got another cutter to give him
a Saturday afternoon finishing the falling.
He didn’t work the butt block, but got
38 (9in. by sin.) transoms out of the
second block, spending nine months in
carving up that and the next seven
lengths, and went away leaving two
lengths still in the head of it. Averaging
two pieces a day, he just made tucker.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Any of the Council ever
met the devil’s curse? My introduc-
tion to it was at Gundagai (N.S.W.)
when a retired drover forced its jaws
open and tore it away from a fencing
post. The curse is a seed-pod which
grows on a low shrub in sheep country.
It opens like a pair of callipers and waits
a chance to close on the throat or jaws
of the feeding jumbuck, working its horn-
like pincers into the flesh until they
meet. Time or good luck decides the
rest; if the clutching curse is removed
quickly enough the sheep has a chance,
otherwise it dies of starvation and
general misery. That exhausts my know-
ledge on the subject, except that the pod
is large enough to take a death grip on
a small calf or foal.
* *
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve lived a fair
part of my life in tents, and I’ve always
managed to overcome the ventilation
problem with less than half the trouble
“Kerriki” takes (B. 9/3/’3B). It’s a
matter of how you swing your tent.
Erect your uprights sufficiently high to
permit swinging a second ridge pole
below your first. Use the lower one for
your tent, and throw a fly over the other
one. Leave a space of six inches or
more between tent and fly, and you’ll get
air circulation in summer and immunity
from wet in winter. For additional air-
ing on a hot day roll up the bottom of
your tent.
* X * *
“Talus”: The most unusual method of
camouflage to be found must be that
of one of the Barrier Reef sea-slugs.
The body of the slug is covered with
filaments into which the food passes,
and while being digested it shows
through the skin of these filaments so
as to give the slug the color of the weed
among which it is browsing. Another
sea-slug feeds on anemones, storing their
poison darts, to which it itself is im-
mune, in the filaments, where they are
used to protect the slug from its own
enemies.
TOUCH OF NATURE.
“When Wirth’s circus crossed the Tasman, Harold,
the orang-outang, was very seasick, and sat with arms
outstretched throughout the voyage, refusing food and
water and looking pathetic.”— “Sun.”
The virtues of that hairy gang
Who bear from bough to bough elate
Their symphony of flea and fang
Have rarely moved my pen to prate;
Both Tarzan and his blushing mate
And all his tribe for me may hang,
Yet not unmoved I ruminate
Of Harold, the orang-outang.
When scuppers swish and derricks clang
And binnacles and ratlines grate,
And all the Kipling bits go bang
To indicate a sea irate,
Abaft the ■ winch-house, lone and late,
I, too, have groaned beneath the pang
Of that which, sad to contemplate,
Racked Harold, the orang-outang.
Let scientists and such harangue,
I feel no brotherhood innate
With those dumb friends whom Darwin
sang;
Yet I have prayed the storm abate,
And, arms outstretched, ip pathos sate
What time the gong for dinner rang;
So let the tears of kinship spate
For Harold, the orang-outang.
Envoi.
Prince, stow your gab, and let me state
I love the ape as Heffron Lang,
Yet I have shuddered at the fate
Of Harold, the orang-outang.
N.S.W.
DHAS.


“Double Dee”: “Rabbits might be a
pest, but ’roos gave us old-timers a ’ead-
ache,” Dad declared to a group of young
cockies. “Roos ’ave brains; least they
did in them days. One time I was spud-
farmin’, and nearly every night after the
digging the ’roos used to ’elp them-
selves. But they’d never show up when
I ’ad the gun out. There were only two
or three by their tracks, but they’d shift
some spuds in a night. Yes, shift’s the
word. No sign of ’em eating any on the
place; just seemed ter cart ’em away
some’ow* It got me real puzzled, and I
lost some sleep tryin’ to get on to ’em.
Any’ow, one night they must’ve got care-
less and I caught ’em red-’anded. In the
middle of the pertater patch they were,
a doe and her joey. The old lady was
propped up agin a bag o’ spuds, ’oldin’
’er pouch open with both paws, and the
joey was flat out chuckin’ Steele Rudds
into it. I was that flabbergasted I forgot
to shoot ’em.”
* * * *
“Harry N.”: I once knew a real-life
counterpart of The Bulletin’s “Andy.”
A tall, rangy chap, he had a few acres
adjoining our block in Gippsland. His
wife and their progeny bullocked away at
the clearing, whilst the old man sat on
the sliprails, dividing his time between
keeping his family hard at it and ski ting
to any chance passer-by of what a won-
derful farm he was going to have in a
few years’ time. The first ploughing was
done by three of the biggest boys har-
nessed to an old mouldboard contrap-
tion, and being driven like horses by their
father. I really believe that for a time
he did regard them as horses.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Th’ most interleckchool
dorg I ever knoo,” Old Bob said, “was
a ’eeler Tarry Tom useter ’ave called
Bluey. Me an’ Tarry’d bin roundin’ up a
few strays wot ’ad broken out of ’is
cow paddick when up comes oF Jerry
Smith an’ th’ John with ’im. OF Jerry’s
as mad as a snake an’ reckins we pinched
one uv ’is prize ’Errorfords. We tells
’im ’e’s got dingbats, but it’s no go, fer
th’ John perdooces a bit uv blue paper
an’ says ’e’s goin’ ter search th’ joint.
Me an’ Tarry breaks inter a sweat, fer
we ain’t ’ad no time ter git rid uv th’
blasted ’Errorford, an’ it’s down in th’
paddick with th’ rest uv th’ mob. We
reckins there’s nothink but ter face th’
moosic, an’ so we tails down th’ paddick
with Jerry an’ th’ John. But, cripes,
that blinkin’ ’Errorford ain’t nowhere ter
be seen. Th’ John an’ ol’ Jerry turns
th’ place upside down, gittin’ wilder
ev’ry minit. They even examines th’
cattle ter see if we bin doin’ any fancy
“Back on your board, number one!”
“ Don't you Worry, dear. He’ll come back for us.”
paintin’. In th’ end, they’re beat an’
rides erway sore as ’ell. Me an’ Tarry
can’t make nothin’ uv it; that ’Error-
ford was there a coupla hours before.
Then we ’ears a whine frum th’ creek,
an’ there’s Bluey peepin’ over th’ bank
cautious-like. Wot d’yer reckin that there
dorg’s done? Soon as ’e spotted Jerry
an’ th’ John, ’e nicks orf an’ runs th’
’Errorford inter th’ creek an’ ’olds it
under water till ev’rythink’s clear. Th’
only trouble’s th’ brute’s drowned, but
me an’ Tarry’s satisfied, enough; yer
can’t alwuz ’ave ev’rythink both ways.”
“Tucker”: Wet weather, and we
needed a ration sheep; so one of the
pets, a four-toothed wether, had his death
warrant issued. He wasn’t much of a
pet, anyway. Now that fellow had been
brought up with the homestead goats,
he’d never lacked for tucker, the season
was good—in fact, he looked to be in
good nick. When killed he hadn’t a
scrap of fat on him. Moreover, his
abundant mutton was characteristically
red, lean and firm; and those finicky
people who shy off goat’s meat wouldn’t
have taken a bite of him. Wonder just
how far a diet of goat’s milk influences
the make-up of anything exclusively
brought up on it.
“Krill”: I’ve seen some queer S uns
come out of the water, and heard of
queerer ones, but I’ve got proof of this.
We landed him on Plane Creek, near
Mackay (N.Q.). Though well-known to
local fishermen as the frogfish, he doesn’t
seem to have got into print yet, in spite
of having hoppers like a ’roo. About
6in. long, the thing bore a marked re-
semblance to the stonefish, though it
was also equipped with the angler-fish’s
fleshy lure on the end of a rod. The
color was a dark, dirty yellow, with faint
iridescent purple blotches. What beat
me was that the ventral fins were changed
into a pair of hoppers built on almost
exactly the same pattern as those of the
’roo, each ending in three claws. The
other fins and tail were mere rudiments.
Any reader of the Mackay district who
thinks it was the rum can see the fish at
the Sarina branch of the Ambulance
Brigade.
* * * *
“Huglow”: The aerial fighting tactics
of the magpie could be studied by bud-
ding airmen to their advantage. I
watched a pair of maggies towel up a
stranger of that ilk who ventured too
near their nest. The male bird gave
chase and closed with the invader, bring-
ing him close to the ground. This gave
the slower-flying female time to make a
terrific power-dive, the impact of which
completely demoralised the enemy, who
limped off along the ground with a trail-
ing wing. The magpie, although one of
our strongest fliers, spends most of its
time on the ground, and when it does
take to the air it never uses its wings for
motive power when it can glide the dis-
tance.
* s>c * J;:
“Cat’s Whisker”: W.A. looks like
starting a new industry, made possible
by that modern plague thp radio. A new
mineral, vermiculite, which after treat-
ment becomes practically sound- and
vibration-proof (therefore eminently
useful for the construction of radio
studios, the lining of railway tunnels,
anywhere that the deadening of sound is
desired), has been found in deposits rang-
ing from Murchison in the lower north
to well down in the south-west, an area
to be thought of in thousands of square
miles. Treatment consists in raising the
raw stone to a red heat, upon which the
gross bulk is increased from 5 p.c. to
10 p.c., owing to atomically-held free
water being converted into steam. This
increased bulk is retained on cooling, the
resultant product being sufficiently cohe-
sive and flexible to be cut into building
blocks.
* * * *
“Titoki”: Why do limb posts from
some trees —eucalypts in particular—last
longer in the ground than heartwood
posts split from the bole of the same
tree? At Winchester (South Canterbury,
M.L.) there are limb posts from manna-
gum (Eucalyptus viminalis ) still sound
after 30 years in a fence line, yet split
posts from similar trees usually have a
life of only one-third to one-half that
time.
“Bill Howard”: Despite recently-ex-
pressed doubts, Chinese do eat seagulls.
I travelled to America and back by oil-
tanker. The captain was rightfully very
proud of his spotless ship and righteous
in his anger against the unclean habits
of the gulls. On several occasions, to
scare others away, he shot some birds.
When they dropped to deck, the Chink
crew would have a wild scramble for the
prize, and within a few minutes the bird
would be in the pot.
“Jae”: “Go to the ant, thou sluggard”
has taken on a new meaning for me.
Recently I have noticed what appeared
to be a civil war’ among small black
ants in our Largs Bay (S.A.) district.
Two by two, dozens of them lay on the
ground clinched together as though in
mortal combat, while others staggered
helplessly about. But now I find they
have a busy thoroughfare leading up to
a trellis of vines where the grapes, fol-
lowing recent rains, are fermenting.
“Vandyke”: Have these blokes who’re
telling about itches ever had the real
thing? When I was in the Peak Downs
country (C.Q.) I was mug enough to
pitch my tent under some black tea-tree.
It rained. The tent leaked. After about
three days of that I knew there was
something biting me —nipping me in a
thousand places—and I couldn’t find one
of the cusses. Itch! There was only one
real pleasure in life ; that was to shut
the eyes and scratch, tearing in to the
bone. I was raw in a hundred places,
and there was no relief coming to me.
That’s what they call the black-soil itch,
and that’s the way a man gets it.
“Bert”: On a windmill out on the
Winton Downs (Q.) a pair of crows had
nested. Housekeeping was proceeding in
orderly fashion when a pair of storm-
birds arrived, enticed the Kellys away,
heaved out the eggs and inserted one of
their own ; and in due course an exces-
sively unpleasant-looking youngster was
yelling to be fed. The Kellys obliged,
and were kept busy for so long that they
must have wondered in the spare
moments they had left after feeding the
youngster what in thunder was keeping
that fellow from leaving home. But he
couldn’t, for the Kellys had made a good
job of that nest, finishing it off with an
extra-good lining of horsehair, and as
young channel-bill grew up his foot had
worked down into the horsehair, twisted
it about and knotted it securely. And,
but for the timely arrival of a boundary-
rider, the ultimate result of that nesting
season would have been one starved
storm-bird and a couple of nervous
wrecks.
* * \'t ,
“Centre”: Unseasonable weather is
responsible for all kinds of freaks in the
vegetable and fungi worlds. Found a
mushroom, the only one in the paddock,
that measured a fraction over eight
inches across —a fair size, but nothing
out of the box. What was, though, was
the fact that there were three smaller
mushrooms growing on the surface close
to the .centre.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone. M4i>ol
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED IST2.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and 99
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions, covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
m
a
V
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed —and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia —it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. c. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
* POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen's Bridge St., South Melbourne.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
1927.. 654,000 14 p.e. = 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ „ 630,000 4,636.943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667.027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.c. = 343,500* 4,626,063
1932.. 254,970 7 „ „ 236,250* 4,644,783
1933.. 258,508 74 „ „ 253,125* 4,650,166
Inner reserves disclosed, £106,000.. 4,756,166
1934.. 265,087 94+p.c.=331,313* 4,689,940
Centenary bonus to staff, £36,250.-. 4,653,690
1935.. 273,857 7J p.e.= 270,281* 4,657,266
1936.. 300,962 8 „ „ 289,898* 4,668,330
1937.. 309,501 8 „ „ 297,000* 4,680,831
*After deducting tax.
flncludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus.
The decision of the Federal Government
to introduce fresh legislation (a bill is
now in course of preparation), based on
the recommendations of the Banking
Commission, has brought about a sharp
fall in the price of bank scrip on the
market. The ’Asia’s £lO shares paid to
£s—the other £5 is a contingent liability
callable only in the event of liquidation
—which fell from £l3 Bs. in March,
1937, to £ll at the beginning of 1938,
were at £9 15s. last week-end. The low-
est price touched during the slump was
£9 10s. in 1931. The 8 p.c. div. is pay-
able in sterling and subject to English
income tax of 3s. 6d. in the pound.
Allowing for the tax and exchange, 8
p.c. is worth 8i p.c. in Australian cur-
rency, on which basis the return at £9 15s.
is 4.2 p.c. Visibly the cover is £lO 4s.
in net tangibles, and inner reserves are
believed to be substantial.
Details of the’ bill have not yet been
broadcast. But the trading banks are
concerned about what their statutory
obligations will be in respect of deposits
with the central bank and the sale of
London funds. The opinion of the
Commonwealth Bank Board, as expressed
in evidence before the commission, was
that a fixed percentage of the trading
banks’ liabilities to the public should be
deposited with thp central institution,
which should also have the right to call
upon overseas funds of the other banks.
The aim is to obtain a statutory right
to more effective control of credit and
exchange and interest rates than the cen-
tral bank at present enjoys.
The trading banks, which were unani-
mous in their objections to these pro-
posals, contended that their cash reserves
vary with seasonal influences, and that
a fixed minimum deposit would be a
serious burden upon them at times when
such a state of affairs was least to be
desired in the public interest; that the
deposits would be more onerous on some
banks than others; and would result in
the banks holding more idle cash, rates
for advances would rise and borrowers
thus bear the burden. As for London
funds, the trading banks regularly sell
so much of these as is required for ser-
vice of the overseas public debt, but the
arrangement is not a permanent one.
Whether the Commonwealth Bank, if
given the full additional powers asked
for, would be able to more effectively
iron out fluctuations in the con-
dition of trade generally remains to
be seen. What can be said definitely is
that the soundness of the trading banks
was one of the pillars of our strength
during the slump, and the less they are
interfered with the better service will
they continue to render the public. Also,
no harm would be done if the Govern-
ment built up its own reserve of London
funds instead of asking the trading banks
to nurse the baby. One way for the
Government to accumulate London
funds would be to use that portion of
the profits of the Commonwealth Bank
and Note Issue now paid to the National
Debt Sinking Fund for the purpose.
There is not the profit in banking that
there used to be, owing largely to the
relatively low level of interest rates and
the high and rising level of costs. The
market for bank scrip, therefore, remains
very sensitive to proposals likely to retard
the upward trend of earnings.
After providing for contingencies, the
’Asia’s gross earnings (£1,281,759) sprang
£132,312 last year. The tax bill (£269,764)
was £96,399 heavier, and ordinary trad-
ing exes. (£702,494) were up £27,274,
leaving the net result at £309,501 (up
£8539), or 6.9 p.c. on capital as against
6.6, 6, 5.8, 5.7, 5.6, 4.8, 13.6 and 15 p.c.
back to 1929. On total shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
the latest result was only 3.3 p.c. The
div. was kept at a nominal 8 p.c., and it
is doubtful whether anything better need
be looked for in the current term.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—•
Liabilities.
1929. 1936. 1937.
Notes .'. .. £434,329 £2,795 £2,773
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 4,619,908 5,317,700
Deposits .. 34,414,798 37,165,580' 40,775,464
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,914,862 14,378,749 18,458,217
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,879,584 2,917,107
Advances . .. 34,314,960 33,300,768 33,460,837
Premises . . 278,373 567,316 607,718
Last year’s prosperous conditions are re-
flected in a net growth of only £160,069
in advances and of £3,609,884 in deposits.
Liquids were strengthened by £4,079,468.
When the books closed depositors and
others could see 40 p.c. of their money
in liquids, and the bank was holding
only £5 of the public’s money for every
pound of vits own. Advances amounted
to 82 p.c. of deposits as against 89 p.c.
for the previous term and 99 p.c. in
1929. Obviously the bank is well
equipped to further extend its lending
connections.
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£, & £■ £> £
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,454 20,572 136,051
1925. . 1,685,960 1,036,473 140,373 . 509,114
1930. . 2,109,372 1,379,792 183,170 10,870 1
Trans, to General Reserve, £200,000 ;[■ 267,540
to Income Tax Reserve, £68,000 J
1931.. 2,022,483 1,518,274 182,488131,981 ( 177 7 - n
Trans, to Income Tax Reserve, £12,000 j ’
1932.. 1,987,772 1,482,202 183,976 321,594
To Staff Fund, £14,023 .. .. 1 „ a 9 7 n 9
1933.. 2,071,868 1,486,785 188,306 52 J
To Staff Fund, £7189 .. .. \ r ,r
1934.. 2,202,168 1,456,873 192,823 ) 04 ’
To Staff Fund, £10,882 .. .. \ , r ,o
1935. . 2,314,069 1,458,217 212,097 3,415 ) ’
Profit on sale of securities, £7557 .. ]
To Staff Fund, £13,027 .. .. } 923,726
1936. . 2,649,319 1,446,134 273,988 j
To S’taff Fund, £12,730 .. .. | 1 ft 77 007
1937. . 2,806,347 1,422,983 290,006 2,641 )
•Includes dividends to shareholders.
tAfter deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
£> £> £> £ £>
1905.. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55,715
1925.. 647.779 210,802 260,596 3003 . 173,378
1930.. 815,475 342,047 294,398 5138 (
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £16,000 )
1931.. 761,017 298,868 284,009 267 f 17 r. 87 q
Transferred to Income Tax Reserve, £2OOO j
1932.. 757.097 307,014 268,310 4062 177,711
To Staff Fund, £6293.. .. .. lent 943
1933.. 784,788 297,798 274,704 4750 )
To Staff Fund, £6312.. .. .. 1 pan 4fifi
1934.. 869,449 281,242 283,595 2834 J
To Staff Fund, £5063. . . . . . 1 000 nnn
1935.. 920,562 291,691 288,557 1301 )
To Staff Fund, £5677 .. .. .. 19*0 772
1936.. 1,008,393 326,960 322,797 2188 100l 00 ’"
To Staff Fund, £5869 .. .. •• \
1937.. 1,126,782 390,476 363,237 2104 )
tAfter deducting taxes.
The low cost at which the M.L.C. col-
lects its income and manages its invest-
ments, the solid nature of its assets,
which appear to be worth more than
their book value, and the satisfactory
margins in those things upon which
soundness and progress depend have won
the co. a high reputation in the field of
life assurance. Last year further pro-
gress was recorded in all sections of the
business. At the end of Dec. contractual
engagements of the co. were repre-
sented by 617,016 policies assuring
with bonuses £75,919,397 (up £7,049,009).
The amount of new business written
was a record, £8,158,354 (up £1,110,863)
in the Ordinary department and
£4,401,774 (up £603,795) in the Indus-
trial section, making a total of
£12,560,128 (up £1,714,558), and sur-
renders (£226,013) were £36,902 lighter.
Total premium income (£2,827,815) im-
proved by £212,135, and after deducting
the tax bill (£48,264, down £8342) net
interest receipts (£1,139,656) were up
£67,592, making total income £279,727
better at £3,967,471. After paying all
legitimate claims and exes., sending
£18,599 to the staff fund, writing £4745
off the book value of securities, and
handing shareholders £lBO,OOO (90 p.c. on
capital), £1,441,414 net (it includes an un-
explained reduction of £1669) was added
to the assurance fund, raising the figure to
£24,107,142. In addition the fund had
the support and assistance of other re-
serves totalling £723,000.
The amount available for distribution
among policy-holders increased by
£67,844 in the Ordinary branch, but was
£2805 less in the Industrial section:
1929. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Ordinary .. £692,946 £671,296 £721,589 £789,433
Industrial .. 76.730 96,203 105,399 102,694
Total .. £769,676 £767,499 £826,988 £892,027
Bonuses to policy-holders were on the
same handsome scale as for the two pre-
ceding years. On whole-of-life contracts
in the Ordinary branch, these ranged
from £2 ss. p.c. on policies less than one
year in force to £5 4s. p.c. on those 45
years old.
After deducting taxes, the net effectiye
rate of interest earned was £4 14s. Bd. in
the Ordinary and £4 13s. 7d. in the
Industrial section, or about the same as
for the previous term. Considering that
nearly 72 p.c. of the co.’s assets are repre-
sented by public securities, the interest
rates realised suggest that assets are con-
servatively valued in the books. More-
over, the reserves set up against policy
contracts are on the basis of such reser-
vations earning only 2| p.c. in the Ordi-
nary and 2\ p.c. in the Industrial sec-
tion. These are the most stringent bases
of valuation used in Australia, the aim
being maintenance of high rates of
bonuses to policy-holders in the future.
As for expenses, the rate was 14.8 p.c.
of premium income in the Ordinary and
32.9 p.c. of net premiums in the Indus-
trial section. These rates are approxi-
mately the same as for the previous year,
despite the big increase in the amount of
new business written.
Policy-holders in the Widows’ Fund
section (it is a closed circuit) continue
in clover. Last year’s cash surplus was
equal to 146.5 p.c. of premium income.
That is to say, bonus additions to poli-
cies were nearly one and a half times
greater than the premiums paid —a posi-
tion unique in the history of life assur-
ance.
The co.’s £26,874,946 investment port-
folio, is divided up in this way:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Public securities £ 19,297,913 76.7 £19,308,763 71.8
Mortaasres . . 2,875,207 11.5 4,399,456 16.4
Loans on policies 1,811,089 7.2 1,793,750 6.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 510.817 2.0 510,561 1.9
Property. . .. 184,128 0.7 275,610 1.0
Other assets .. 489,692 1.9 586,806 2.2
£25,168,846 £26,874,946
Liabilities* .. 1,394,527 1,649,578
Net assets ..£23,774,319 £25,225,368
* Other than under policies.
The board has now turned its attention
to mortgages, up £1,524,249 last year.
The growth mainly reflects advances to
co-operative building societies under
Government guarantees. The addition
of £91,482 to the property item is on
account of the fine new premises the co.
is building itself in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£££ ' £
1928.. 20,252 10 p.c. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 ( fis 223 1156
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO ) ’
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 J 71 7 - 6 648
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO J ’
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 59,256 648
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 t 6, Bgo 74
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO )
1932.. 10,044 6* p.c. = 8,938 t 6l 996 12 59
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO ) ’
1933.. 8,619 6 p.c. = 8,250 \g. gGS 1710
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO ) ’
1934.. 9,725 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 g0,§40 2511
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO )
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 G 5 64g _
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO )
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 1; 69 035
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO )
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 7 71 565
Staff Super. Fupd, £lOOO )
1938.. 13,478 7i p.c. =10,313 \73 730 2873
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J
With the exception of the small chance
they take when investing their own
funds, these trustee cos. do not have
to risk much —if there is any doubt con-
cerning the interpretation of a will there
is always the Court to go to for in-
structions. Also, present-day complica-
tions associated with the administration
of estates, as well as a growing realisa-
tion of the advantages of a corporate
over a personal trustee, are sending more
business into the expert care of the cos.,
whose corpus and other commission
earnings have lately got a little further
help from the rise in the value of rents,
real estate and other securities.
The Union, which set up at Melbourne
53 years ago, has established outposts
at Sydney, Brisbane and Townsville, and
has strong connections in pastoral circles.
It does not broadcast the volume of
trusts in hand ; but this comparison' with
Australia’s greatest and also its oldest
trustee offices suggests that the amount
is substantial:
Paid Gross
Capital. Reserves. Trusts. Income.
Perpe t u a 1
(Syd.) . . £200,000 £264,282 £51,675,485 £158,3/9
T., E. and A.
(Me lb.) 140,000 147,206 29,399,725 86,672
Union . . 137,500 76,603 99,595
For 11 years to the close of accounts
in 1930 the Union paid a steady 10 p.c.
div., sweetened with £25,000 of bonus
scrip. Slump brought the rate down to
6 p.c., which was followed by 7 p.c. in
1937 and p.c. for the last term, when
the final was at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
Latest accounts show an improvement
of £8864 in gross earnings from all
sources:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Expenses. Earnings.
1915 . . . . £17,318 £9',728 56.1
1920 . . . . 37,029 24,609 66.4
1925 .. .. 80,658 59,905 74.1
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 .. .. 91,538 77,483 84.6
i 936 .. .. 97.411 82,571 84.7
1 937 .. 1 .. 90,731 75,776 83.5
1938 . . . . 99,595 84,117 84.5
Exes, took all but £523 of the increase,
and, after setting aside £2OOO (same as
in the previous term) for the taxgatherer,
the net result was 9.8 p.c. on capital,
compared with 9.4, 9.3, 8.7, 7.6, 6.5 and
8.1 p.c. back to 1932.
The market, which doesn’t expect the
8 p.c. div. to be interfered with, prices
the £2 10s. shares paid to 275. 6d. —all
but 2s. 6d. of the balance is a reserve
liability callable only in the event of
liquidation—at 495. 6d. as against 465. a
year ago. The return at 495. 6d. is 4.2
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
£2 2s. lOd. in net tangibles.
The £137,500 of share capital and the
reserves (there is nothing coming to out-
siders) are invested in premises, £135,979 ;
Government securities, £61,120; mort-
gages, £1508; debtors’ balances, £2510;
cash, £21,567.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


“Call n
fussy if
you like
Some people may
be content to take
their whisky as it
comes. Frankly, I
prefer to be more par-
ticular .. I don’t believe
in this idea that one
Scotch whisky is just
as good as another.
Hi
Hi
m
'■mw
fm
h
m
i i
■
;•> ,
■v:
■: > <
/
:^T
irl.Ufe
» 1
m
OT II
« i
111
it ip I
£&*. :; i >f ilm < «w'
PI
/
N*
K
S£ fiPiSS
■
lss>
In
■■
■
S ;v"
h
sx
*
: ■•
Some people may not know the
difference : I always insist on
While Horse. Surely you’ll agree
with me that while you
can get White Horse
soft and smooth as a
fine liqueur, it’s wiser to
ask for it by name.”
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


SAFEGUARDED
at ALL ages
THE wise man uses the A.M.P. Society to safeguard himself
and his dependents at all ages. He needs a different safe-
guard at each stage of his life, and can secure it most
economically through the A.M.P.
L f U'*-
&
i ua.L. —
■'S.
A GED 24. When he is look-
ing hopefully to the future;
he will be assured for a modest
sum, say, £5OO or £l,OOO. A
good start.
35. His wife and
family will be protected
with, perhaps, three A.M.P.
policies totalling £2,000. There
will be a sense of security.
62. He will have the
comfortable feeling of in-
dependence made possible
through A.M.P. policies built
up through the years.
A GED 70. His widow will
be without a care because
of the protection of A.M.P.
policies taken out by her hus-
band in his twenties and
thirties.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Bobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“ YelgabMelbourne.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
. Dividends- \ „
p re f To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c.' Ord. . serves, serves.
1927.. l2OO 15 p.c. = 46,080 l7 > 6 80 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 ~ ..46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „,, 46.292 10,801 153,<08
1930.. 39,410 1200 Hi „ ~ 34,837 3,373
1931.. 20,251 1200 6,, ~ 18,580 471 157,552
1932 20 529 2312 6„ ~ 15,793 2,424 159,976
1933 22 998 8 15,638 7,360 167.336
llll:: 23,886 - i2*:; ”19,354 4,532 m.ses
Staff fund, £5OO .. •• •• 171,368
1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 5 199 176 567
Staff fund, £5OO .. • • J
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936. . 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 \ 3 379 l7 g 946
Staff fund, £5OO .. n .„
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 199,946
1937.. 35,765 l7i p.c.=33,886 ) 1 379 201,325
Staff fund, £5OO .. •• J
Old shareholders in this co., which has
a hand-picked cash-order connection —it
was one of the first in the field —and
does a large furnishing and furnishing-
drapery turnover as well, are in clover,
and have been for many years. For 18
years to the close of accounts in 1930
the ords. received divs. averaging 12.7
p.c., sweetened with £222,400 of bonus
scrip, making paid capital £329,667.
Also, over quarter of a million had been
invested outside the business in readily-
realisable securities. So when slump,
unemployment and moratoriums played
havoc with the trade, the board was able
to return £174,833 of the capital more
than shareholders had subscribed—and
still leave the door open for payment of
a relatively high rate of dividend from
reduced earnings. Though the div.
dropped from 15 p.c. in 1929 to 6 p.c. in
1931, it rose to 8 p.c. in 1933, and then
sprang to 12j p.c., followed by 15 p.c.
and then \l\ p.c. for the last term.
Furthermore, £37,500 of bonus scrip was
scattered, one for four (inner reserves
were tapped for the purpose), at the end
of 1935, which makes the 1936 and 1937
divs. worth 18.7 p.c. and 21.8 p.c. re-
spectively on capital as it stood before
the gift.
Last year the demand for new .fur-
nishings which accompany new buildings
was supplemented by a steady flow of
replacement and renovation orders,
thanks partly to competition in the flat
business, while unemployment fell below
the pre-slump level, and the co.’s turn-
over showed a “satisfactory increase.”
After 'making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies
(the providing appears to have been
done with a heavy hand in the past), and
including a net addition of £2148 to the
premises maintenance account, the de-
clared net result was £2900 better than
the previous year’s at 18.4 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 16.9, 18.6, 15.4 and 11.7
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
15 p.c., and a 2\ p.c. bonus was added
to commemorate the city’s sesquicen-
tenary, making p.c. for the year.
Though there are signs of a possible
check to the expansion of business ac-
tivity during the second half of 1938,
Gordons has very well-established con-
nections and sound finances, and its his-
tory during the slump is pleasing. Still,
the market, having revised its estimate of
the future of industrial scrip generally,
prices the fully-paid pound shares at
525. 6d. as against 635. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 6.6 p.c. on
a \l\ p.c. div. basis; every drop of 1 p.c.
in the distribution would affect the
return by 0.38 p.c., leaving the yield at
4.7 p.c. on a p.c. div. Visibly the
cover is 40s. lOd. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:—-
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £154,834 £155,031 £193,238 £193,632
Sundry creditors 57,491 68,538 67,707 60,705
Overdraft .. 95 1,645 973 7,173
Property and
plant .. 116,933 115,686 119,684 118,622
Stock 1 f 19,190 24,856
Hire agree- - 90,110' 90,046 1
ments J [ 93,279 102,475
Book debts .. 40,894 43,245 67,232 67,058
Shares, deben-1
tures and |
short loans I , n , laqa'znJ 62,369 61,277
Mortgages ..I 1 ' 1 ’ 401 l 89 * 8 ™ 8)4G8 8 ,285
Cover nment |
securities .. J 73,600 76,817
Cash, etc. .. 656 655 38,208 28,784
Finances are obviously snug. Including
stocks and hire agreements, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£301,674, or 31s. 2d. per share)
was £BOO6.
Cuthbert’s Misima (Papua)
f —Dividend —,
Dee., Revenue. Exes.t Net. Share. Share. Amt.
£57,889 £26,794 £31,095 2/0.7 1/6 £22,500
|To reserve, £2OOO.
( 68,075 34,391 33,684 2/2.8 2/- 30,000
| To b p ec j a j reserve, £2OOO.
* 144 months, t Includes bonus to white staff,
£1125, 1936 ; £l5OO, 1937.
A splendid showing, all things con-
sidered, and, subject to mishaps, better
can be expected during the current year.
An additional 10-head of stamps, mak-
ing 20-head in all, and raising plant
capacity to 40,000 tons per annum, the
goal aimed at, was ready in June last;
but, owing to shortage of native labor
due to sickness and delay in arrival
of recruits, the old section ran only in-
termittently. The ore crushed (26,119
tons, up 4412 tons) assayed 6.37dwt. gold
and 47dwt. silver, or a trifle less than
for the previous term. Recoveries (90.8
p.c. gold and 34.9 p.c. silver) amounted
to 7407 (up 1032) fine ounces gold and
21,387 (up 2379) ounces silver. Taking
into the reckoning some small returns
from interest and slag, revenue was
£10,186 better at £68,075. Including the
tax bill) bonus to the white staff, etc.,
exes. (£34,391) took £7597 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result £2589 better
at £33,684, or 2s. 2.8 d. per share, of
which 2s. (6d. more than in the previous
term) was distributed.
Mining, treatment and development
costs amounted to 21s. 3.8 d. per ton of
ore treated, an increase of about lOd.
per ton, owing to interruptions due to
construction operations, rise in the price
of materials and shortage of labor. No
major loss occurred on account of
mechanical troubles.
For the three months to the end of
March last, the co. treated 8478 tons
crudes (which is at the rate of approxi-
mately 34,000 tons p.a.) for 25480 z. fine
gold and 50130 z. silver, or a slightly
better recovery than last year’s average.
Throughput and costs can be expected
to further benefit when the second haul-
age tunnel in the southern area (it is
926 ft. long and cuts the lode 1150 ft.
from the southern boundary) comes into
commission before the end of 1938. The
labor difficulty is being gradually over-
come.
Ore reserves in the oxidised zone of
the southern section are put at 190,091
tons positive and 112,925 tons probable,
an increase of 44,591 tons and 5725 tons
respectively compared with a year ago.
That takes no account of ore between
Nos. 8 and 9 levels, or in the sulphide
zone, on which no work has yet been
done. In addition, there is an estimated
300,000 tons, or thereabouts, in the upper
or oxidised zone of the northern section
of the mine which has not yet been de-
veloped. When the books closed, debtors,
cash and bullion in transit totalled
£12,571 ; there was £6897 coming to out-
siders, including provision for taxation.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s. shares
at 205., or thereabouts.
Tongkah Harbor’s latest estimate of
dredging reserves is 121,171,480 c.y. —20
years’ digging at last term’s rate of turn-
over. Details of the 39,760,800 c.y.
proved last year, not' all of which is yet
held under mining lease, are as follows:
Cubic Tin Oxide
yds.- per c. yd.
Harbor concession .. .. 18,500,000 0.411 b.
Chelong Bay .. •• 16,430,000 0.381 b.
Bang Neang .. .. . . 930,800 0.351 b.
Bidor 3,900,000 0.451 b.
Previously proved .. .. 81,411,040
Total 121,171,840
* 42,250,000 c.y., aver. 0.411 b. t.o. ; 39,160,000,
0.331b.-0.2951b.
A lot more wash remains to be tested.
Metal prices at the moment are a bit
low for the co.’s liking ; docking of the
main Harbor plant for reconstruction
will also affect current earnings.
While annual accounts are presenter
in Australian currency, Peninsula Tin,
Siam, sends out monthly returns in ster-
ling, without saying so. First 11 months
of the current term have produced a
mine surplus of £542,278, or £A52,850.
Last term’s net result (£A50,978) benefited
by £13,100 of tribute money. The co.
is on a much solider footing than it
used to be.
* * * *
“Old Hand”: The New Gympie mine,
Gympie (Q.), has exhausted its capital
before sufficient prospecting has been
done to prove the leases, which occupy
a favorable position in virgin country
north of the town. The management and
Queensland Geological Survey are satis-
fied the area includes strata and reefs
typical of older-worked portions of the
goldfield. Several major prospects have
been discontinued at points which should
be very close to results. The local
Chamber of Commerce and Mines, to-
gether with the Mines Department and
Queensland Geological Survey, desires to
see prospecting proceeded with. What
happens at the Great Northern fault block
will depend partly upon successful flota-
tion of New Gympie Tribute Co., N.L.
* * * *
At 4s. 6d. per ss. share, market capi-
talisation of Tingha South, tin-sluicing at
Cope’s Creek (N.S.W.), is £45,000. Work-
ing profit for the quarter ended March
31 was £2870; 82,000 c.y. was sluiced
for 53 tons t.o. At Is. 3d. per c.y. costs
have been in keeping with prospectus
figures ; average recoveries so far (1.441 b.
t. 0.) have been a half-pound shy. The
last clean-up the margin lengthened,
recovery being 1.331 b. per c.y. Proved
wash was put at 1,557,000 c.y. averaging
2.11 b. t.o. (90 p.c. recoverable); partly
proved, expected to average out the same,
1,150,000 c.y. An additional 2,000,000
c.y., value not indicated, has since been
acquired. Consideration to a div. is to
be given next month.
* * * *
Paringa’s offer of 796,237 new Is.
shares at 2s. 6d. will raise the total issue
to 3,981,187, which is a lot to spread divs.
over. The £99,540 now asked for is
wanted (1) to double plant capacity (now
4000 tons monthly) in the hope of lift-
ing milling profits to £AIOO,OOO p.a., or
£1 per ton, and (2) to do something
about the Mt. Charlotte-Hannan’s Re-
ward blocks, from which the co. hopes
to extract at least half a million tons.
Cost of bringing this property to produc-
tion may interrupt the immediate div.
programme. Last financial period
Paringa showed net earnings of 28s.
Aust. per ton treated. That was from
9|dwt. ore; last estimate of reserves on
the co.’s own property was 220,375 tons,
averaging s.6dwt. Threepence stg. a
share on enlarged capital would call
for close on £A62,200 p.a., and take
10 years to return present market capi-
talisation. The co. has other interests
at the north end of Kalgoorlie, and at
Yalgoo and West Pilbara.
* * * *
Mt. Ida (W.A.), in which Perth inves-
tors are largely interested, will shortly
start crushing with its own reconstructed
and enlarged plant. The co. is operating
two blocks, Forest Belle and Timoni at
Mt. Ida, north of Menzies. Forest Belle
has a good length of ore opened up down
to 265 ft. vertical, and the Timoni, which
was worked for some time by a Mel-
bourne co., is said to have prospects.
During the last 40'years a lot of gold
has been won in the locality where the
Mt. Ida holdings are situated, but hitherto
no mining at depth has been seriously
attempted.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Cyanide: A speculation, but long-term
chances favor a firming... .R.M.: Woolworths
was an exceptional instance. Suggest you leave
cash where it is A.S.: All right under exist-
ing conditions, but Australasian Paper ords.,
particularly attractive at present prices, should
prove a lot solider and possibly more profitable
over a period.
(The “Wild Cat” cannot undertake to mail
replies to financial queries.)
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
sjc * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined fin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS —
William Adams & Company. Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street. Sydney,
for your free copy. — Advt.


ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura uncon-
ditional and perpetual service
guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/- and
40/-, with Pencils to match
25/-. Complete Sets in
Presentation Case 55/-
and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
$1
SMOKE-OH!
“A veterinary surgeon, says that Australian
horses and cattle are given more pills than
sound veterinary advice.”
That’s hard to swallow!
•b *b *b *b
“One of the commonest faults among sing-
ing students when they attempt a song is in-
ability to know just when to start,” says a
musical lecturer.
And to stop.
•b *b *b *b
“According to a dance-band leader, the life
of a ‘swing’ tune is short.”
Unfortunately, it is usually survived
by its creator.
“Blest if ’ee ain't got on odd boots, Nich’las!”
“Awnly one, Cap’n.”
“By a secret process Germany is now pro-
ducing synthetic albumen from coal for food.”
Much less messy than the old way of
chewing it in the lump to get at the
albumen.
•b *b *b »b
“An overseas visitor says he was impressed
chiefly by the charm of our women and the
way they used cosmetics.”
That’s pretty thick!
“According to a surrealist, modern art acts
as a ‘mental medicine for the body politic.’ ”
It also leaves a nasty taste in the
mouth.
•b *b *b *b
The quickest way to make money out
of horses is to become a lawyer and
wear a horsehair wig.
The A.L.P. is certainly Languishing.
•b *b *b *b
“A world’s record is claimed by Mr. Joe
Harrison, of Ontario, Canada. He rocked a
rocking-chair for 55hr. Omin. 15sec.
He can also claim, moreover, that dur-
ing the whole of that time he was on a
bender.
4* 4* 4* *b
“Mrs. Cornwallis Oxford, a rich American,
owns nearly 300 umbrellas.” — “World’s News.”
Well, she certainly has something put
by for a rainy day.
4* *b *b *b
“It is more fatiguing to walk on the level
for a long time than it is to walk an equal
distance up and down hills.”— “Telegraph.”
That probably explains why it is so
hard to meet people who are on the
level.
•b *b *b *b
“Aborigines risk death by swimming croco-
dile-infested waters to see talkies.” — “S.M.H.”
White women prefer to risk it by wear-
ing hats like flower-pots, crunching pea-
nuts and telling everyone what’s going to
happen next.
•b *b 4* *b
Ins and Outs.
“As soon as he was taken to the police
station the burglar collapsed.”— Daily paper.
A most accomplished man of sin
He was, without a doubt,
For when he found that he was “in”
He rapidly was “out” !
T. W. N.
“Critic picks holes in new St. Andrew’s
Cathedral.”— “D.T.”
Evidently one of those fellows who
think that seeing is believing.
4* *b *b *b
“Baby-grand pianos are making sale con-
ditions very difficult for the upright make.”
— Musicians’ magazine.
They are fighting, as it were, with their
backs to the wall.
•J* »|« *%
“What makes an unmarried man look a
martyr?”— Dorothy Dix query.
Trying to remain unmarried is our
guess.
4* *b *b *b
Short and Sweet.
“The ceremony was accompanied by the
playing of a newly-composed national anthem
entitled ‘Clouds of good omen are discernible in
times of peace.’ ”
—Note on Japanese celebrations.
It is high time that the Occident imi-
tated the imitative ways of the Orient by
imitating the brevity of its song titles.
I am myself experimenting with a
melody entitled “It is an extremely long
distance to the most delightful Tip-
perary, but already the longings of
my heart have encompassed that dis-
tance.” This, too, may become a
national anthem—especially if people
were forced to sing it.
Another song I am working on has the
brief heading “After much sober
cogitation the conclusion may be
reached that there is no consolation
like alcoholic refreshment, glorious
alcoholic refreshment.”
Like many highly-respected citizens I
also hope to cash in on patriotism. I
expect to clean up properly with my
stirring song “Bellicosity is a regret-
table circumstance, but enemies of
peace will find that they cannot van-
quish the boys of bulldog ancestry who
have established the reputation of old
Albion.”
H. M.
*2* *!* *£*
“The price level of goods exported during
February was on the average of 25.6 per cent,
lower than on the average 25.6 per cent, lower
than the expired eight months of the year was
5.5 per cent, lower than for the corresponding
period of last year.”— “S. M. Herald.”
That’sh what’sh we all shay —hie.
Twenty-five pershentsh plush deshimal —
hie—ish lower than twenty-five’sh—hie
—plush shixsh shicks pershentsh lasht
. time.
•b *b *b *b
Some landlords would like to lay hands
on the chap who started this idea about
the horse being man’s noblest friend.
•b *b *b *b
Stiff Luck.
“A man was ordered to leave a Melbourne
court because of interruptions through
laughter.”
When once with ribald merriment I
roared
In court, the frigid Judge was not
amused.
Nevertheless he didn’t glance toward
The cop to chuck me out. This I deplored
For I, perforce, was there as the
accused !
Nipper.
•b *b *b *b
College Girls.
“Sydney Licensed Victuallers are considering
the establishment of a college for the training
of housemaids.”
Professor Crackerjack had the class.
“Mary Tootles, what do you know about
fresh eggs?”
“Plenty, sir. They start by tickling
you under the chin, then tell you
their wives don’t understand them,
and”
“Sit down! Madge Makeup, do
you think that a fast worker can be
a neat worker?”
“Well, I know some commercial
travellers who”
“Enough of that. Don’t any of you
know anything about housework? .
Peggy Powderpuff, how would you go
about putting your pantry in order?”
“What’s that got to do with you?
Anyway, I’d knock off eating choco-
lates, rich pastry and”
But the Prof, didn’t hear. He was
busy writing out his resignation.
Me.
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
XII. — First Haul of Fish and Abos.
Governor Phillip deputed Majah Ross
to go with some marines and hold against
any possibly hostile natives the fertile
area discovered by Dawes and Tench,
pending the arrival of convicts to culti-
vate it. The majah, enraged to think that
an officah of marines not only had to
hobnob with landlubbers but was com-
pelled to perform menial tasks such as
this, would have bitten his fingernails in
vexation if he’d had any left. With ill
grace he stamped off to measure the
14,759 paces, moodily taking long strides.
He’d have preferred short strides, but
the mosquitoes gave him curry. Besides,
the only time he’d worn them a convict
drawing water at the Tank Stream had
given a loud raspberry and to a fellow-
lag had pointed to his knees and sung
out: “Blimey, Alf, pipe ’is nibs’s knobs! ”
which had led to his 'accepted nickname
throughout the colony of “Knobs.”
Whether it was his inordinately long
legs, his notorious inability to count
beyond 50 or his crude sense of direc-
tion (as Collins afterwards remarked:
“The Alick must think the sun sets in
the nor’-east”), the majah and his force
disappeared. When, later, a search party
located them on a sandbank in the middle
of the Nepean River near Castlereagh
“Knobs,” his trousers rolled up to the
knees and his querulous tone punc-
tuated by many atishoos, said: “This is
a fide dab blace to bick od for a farb —
dothig bud wed sad!”
To supplement the meagre meat supply
Phillip put all the available convicts to
fishing. They came back with huge fish
heads only, reporting that those were all
they could catch, and that they thought
‘“these ’ere Orstrylian fish don’t ’ave no
bodies” ; that was, except one very ugly-
looking but lazy fish about the length of
their boat which had hung suspended
beneath their craft all day. They had
dangled their legs over the side to arouse
its curiosity and in the hope that it would
come close enough for them to grab it,
but in vain. Phillip, examining the
severed heads, was too shrewd to fall for
that tale, especially with the appetites
those convicts had. So he had armed
guards put in the boats to prevent the
ravenous anglers from wolfing any more
catches raw.
Phillip’s attitude regarding the natives
was “to cultivate an acquaintance with
them without their having an idea of
our great superiority over them.” This
liberal precept he put into practice when
the natives Bennelong and Colibee were
captured and put into service in his
household. Endeavoring to inculcate in
the former the general idea of personal
service, Phillip patiently explained, as
best he could under the language handi-
cap, just what were to be his duties.
“Listen, Ben, compree dingbat?” he
would say, and over and over again he
would go through the imaginary motions
of spitting on his boots and polishing
them, or of pipeclaying his three-cor-
nered hat, or of filling a glass with rum
and offering it with a deep bow in the
approved manner. After two months’
tuition and many noble efforts to sup-
press his language the Governor deemed
it time the native assumed his responsi-
bilities. It was to be the great experi-
ment that would point the future useful-
ness of the original inhabitants.
The first morning the abo. started
Phillip got up to find no shaving water
and his boots still muddy. Outside his
door he found the abo.’s loincloth, while
in the best hessian-and-sapling chair and
the altogether lounged Bennelong, a glass
of the best O.P. in his hand, waiting for
Phillip to put a knife-edge crease in his
only garment!
Following the resultant recriminations
Bennelong, fed-up, bolted to Manly,
whither Phillip followed to persuade him
to return and all would be forgiven. But
another coon, mistaking the Governor’s
motives, threw a spear. Instead of stand-
ing still, in which position he would have
been perfectly safe, Phillip made the mis-
take of trying to dodge it, and, of course,
stopped it in the collarbone.
The slight wound he got was not suf-
fered in vain, however, for since then
countless thousands of husbands have
profited by his classic mistake when their
spouses have commenced hurling things
around.
S. W. K.
Pall of the, Wild.
Though reared with pigs and cows and
such
I never loved them overmuch;
I liked to live in easy reach
Of blondes and beer and Bondi beach.
Farewell, farewell! Last night I found
Old habits had me tightly bound:
I dived beneath a passing tram
And tried to milk the thing, by dam’!
STOO.
Refer to Drawer.
“Juniors in some Vic. banks are forbidden
to attend Mae West films.”
Let bankers not with ribald sniggers
Forsake the chaster lines of figures,
Lest, looking, they go wild and daft
At Mae’s colossal overdraft!
Think not, I pray, the banks exalt
Respectability to a vault,
But they must guard that fixed deposit,
And that was never Mae’s lurk, was it!
s.
Amen and Omen.
“After the wedding, firemen formed a guard
of honor and held aloft an arch* of axes.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
They walked as organ pealed
Beneath an arch of axes,
Which brawny firemen wield
When flame to fury waxes.
An arch of whetted steel
Their exit to bedeck . . .
A solemn sign, I feel,
He’ll get it in the neck!
P. O. M. C.


w
TTm
>r*g=-
r*/A
“The advent of
the Banks . . .
gave the people
a settled cur-
rency, and the
facilities they
provided acted
as a stimulant
to trade.”
Hite Birth oF
Our Currency
We have learned that money is not an end
in itself but stands for many worthwhile
things. Mostly, we earn money, but some-
times it is the symbol of a gift of love and
interest.
On the other side, money gives us what we
require for three things the necessities of
life, the amenities of life and the emergencies
of life. Perhaps it is the last two which
chiefly justify the existence of Savings Banks.
The money earned, or given, having pro-
vided the necessities, the convenient interest-
producing Savings Bank account makes
easier provision for the others. *
commonuieALTti
•SAuines banH•
0-F A USTAALIA
Zinc Corp. Ords. at 80s.
Those people who don’t like or
who already have Melbourne
Steam or Australasian Paper ords.
(recommendations of the past two
respective weeks) may fancy a
Barrier stock ; and a good one is
Zinc Corp. at last week’s price. It
is a stock for investors, not
gamblers, and is likely to show its
best results only over a period
of years. The financially-weak
shouldn’t touch mining shares of
any kind.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Well, They’re Down Now
From the shape of the Australian
sharemarkets of recent weeks, it is
obvious that a considerable section of
investors are nervously critical of the
future. Prices of good-class ords. in a
number of cases are in exactly that low
condition at which many market fol-
lowers were hoping to be given the
chance of buying a few months back —
but at the moment there is little evidence
of such buying. Australasian Paper
ords. at 295. 6d., Myer ords. at 31s. 3d.,
Electro. Zincs at 415., Melb. “Herald”
ords. at 595. 6d., Kandos Cement at
235. 6d., and perhaps a dozen other
issues mentioned elsewhere are going at
the lowest rates for a couple of years or
several years. The market plainly has no
“guts” to it. There is a nervous con-
centration of funds around British
Tobacco, Colonial Sugar, breweries, first-
class prefs. and Consols, though Govern-
ment stock isn’t quite as popular as it
was—there are big conversions this year,
and the overseas-trade and internal bank-
ing positions are less bountiful than they
were.
An accumulation of nervous disorders
has to some extent demoralised the. Aus-
tralian investor. The Abyssinian affair
in 1935 caused only a passing setback in
confidence. The lifting of bank interest
rates early in 1936 coincided with the
usual before-Easter relaxation, and began
a sharp, fleeting relapse. Then a buoyant
market for commodities developed into a
rearmaments boom at the beginning of
1937, and most shares reached their peak.
In April a year ago Roosevelt “thought
prices were too high,” and there was talk
of revaluing the dollar; followed the
most definite shock to confidence and
pig-headed optimism seen since the crash
of 1929-30.
Since then investors’ nervous systems
have been called upon to “take” a hulla-
baloo in and around Spain, a very nasty
affair in China, an occupation of Austria
by Germany, and, worst of all, a New
Deal in the U.S.A. that has shot its bolt.
In Britain trade isn’t as bright as it was,
but it is the influence of the afflicted but
mighty dollar that holds most sway over
investments these times.
Within Australia dry conditions in
some parts and low export prices gener-
ally are depressing share quotations. Yet,
broadly, business is still good, and the
chances are that it will remain satisfac-
tory, in spite of fluctuations, if increas-
ing internal costs and prices are avoided.
We have a plain and simple lesson from
both the United States and the Old
Country as to how delusive and disastrous
high figures really are. Given good rains
in N. S. Wales and Queensland and less
nonsense from experimenting economists
and politicians, business and the share-
markets alike will take fresh heart.
By the end of March Australia’s total
favorable trade balance had struggled
along to £9,175,000 sterling. Whilst repre-
senting more than double the credit
shown at the end of seven months’ trade,
the nine months’ figures are less than
half the sum required to meet overseas
interest for the full 12 months. Wool
sales will go on their slackened way
almost up to June 30, and imports are
usually lighter in the last quarter of the
year. On these grounds some authorities
hope for an even balance of payments
over the year.
* * * *
Outstandingly good buying last week
were Australasian Paper ords. at 295. 6d.,
Melbourne Steam ords. at 285., Kandos
Cement at 235. 6d., Myer ords. at 31s. 3d.
and Yarra Falls at 38s. (cum Is. div.).
All are front-rankers of their class, and
all have been marked down substantially'
of late, Australasian Paper particularly.
s|c jJs ijc j}c
The best investments at the moment
are ord. shares in soundly-financed cos.
running a type of business that isn’t
overdone, doesn’t rely on “booms” to
prosper or on excessive “assistance,” and
the past history of which, on the aver-
age, is favorable. There are at the
moment such shares to be bought, giv-
ing yields that would stand some reduc-
tion at a pinch.
* * * *
Dow Jones or no Dow Jones, North
Coast Steam shares (B. 9/3/’3B, at 365.
6d. 'sold at 38s. 6d. last week, and buyers
offer that figure.
* * *
High yields were offering on success-
fully-established hosiery- and lingerie-co.
shares last week. Prestige (Vic.) re-
turned £6 7s. p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis
with the market at 15s. 9d., Beau Monde
at 12s. 9d. showed a shade under 10 p.c.
(interims have been maintained), Hole-
proof at 265. gave 7.7 p.c., while Lustre
(N.S.W.) returned 7.4 p.c. at 21s: The
sharemarkets fear overproduction, which
isn’t yet evident in the cos.’ earnings.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q,) is certainly pouring
out gold now that the oxidised-ore mill is
in full swing. It is no more than ex-
pected, and difficulties that had to be
overcome were greater than shareholders
bargained for—some, especially the open-
cut problem, are still to be dealt with —
but it is cheering to observe that during
the first 37 weeks of the co.’s current
term gold output was 9 p.c. higher than
for the whole 52 weeks of 1936-37. In
that last completed term 322,310 tons of
ore went through the sulphide mill and
97,241 tons through the oxidised plant
for 39,5390 z. fine gold and 1806 tons
copper. In the 37 weeks to March 23
269,200 tons sulphides and 227,540 tons
oxides yielded 43,0720 z. gold and 1605
tons copper. It is hard to say just what
account each type of mining and treat-
ment is giving of itself. In the latest
period, if the oxides are returning ldwt.,
then the sulphides are yielding 2.36dwt.
In 1936-37 returns were oxides 0.87dwt.,
sulphides 2.2dwt. Average throughput
just now is about 7500 tons a week sul-
phides, 6000 tons oxides. If the reduc-
tion in costs anticipated last balance day
is realised, the average profit on millings
this year should rise, because recoveries
so far seem definitely better. A lean
patch struck in the opencut early in 1937
upset earnings for a time.
* * * *
In millings covering 38 weeks of its
current term (up to March 26), Golden
Plateau, at Cracow (Q.), has put through
43,033 tons for 19,7110 z., average recovery
being 9.2dwt., as against 10.6dwt. from
1936-37 crushings. Recoveries over the
six weeks to the end of January ran out
at about 10.5dwt., some of the rich stuff
from No. 1 chute apparently going in
(mining is more or less selective), but
* grade dropped to around the average in
the two later returns. On the whole,
present gold producton is a fraction
above the previous term’s rate, tonnage
having been lifted as grade dropped.
What the future of the mine is it is diffi-
cult to say. It has been a great show,
and there is a good deal of money in ' it
yet, but the ore-reserve position was dealt
with in a confusing fashion by acting-
chairman T. R. Victor at the last annual
meeting. The scrip, for months around
13s. 6d.-14s. 6d., has drifted to below 12s.
in recent weeks. At 12s. market valuation
of the mine is £504,000.
* * * *
The ords. in Herald and Weekly Times,
Ltd., Melbourne —and the “Weekly
Times” part of it fades almost into mere
historical importance when compared with
the “Sun News-Pictorial” and inter-State
interests —are yielding 4 p.c. at 595. 6d.
Last ord. div. was 12 p.c., paid out of
earnings aggregating 19.1 p.c. (22.8 p.c.
if depreciation allowance is included). An
interim distribution is due this month.
The co.’s papers and those part-owned
in capitals other than Melbourne (Bris-
bane, Adelaide and Perth) in some cases
approach almost the monopolistic class.
To those who like “Herald” shares, the
present represents an excellent oppor-
tunity for buying.
* * * *
Associated Newspapers (Sydney) has
declared an unchanged interim of 2 p.c.
flat on ords. and prefs., the first such
distribution for the current term. In
1936-37 2 p.c., 2 p.c. and 3 p.c. was the
all-round distribution out' of earnings
running to 12.5 p.c. on ord. capital—
there had been little increase compared
with 1935-36. Both prefs. and ords. are
being bought to give a yield of well over
6 p.c. Publishing costs generally are
rising.
H»
United Provisions has kept up the in-
terim payment of 8 p.c. p.a. on its prefs.
(4 p.c. goes out on April 30), so at least
arrears aren’t accumulating in front of
the ords,, and the organisation must be
earning profits. In spite of the almost
incredible state of the bacon trade and
the unsatisfactory history for some years,
U.P. ords. seemed well worth a nibble
at 6s. 3d. early last week, and later the
price was run up to 7s.
* * * *
The £1 ord. shares in P. and G. Finance
Co., Sydney, went to a record low level
of ss. last week. After paying a div. of
14 p.c. for 1936-37, the interim this term
was passed in January, which was one
of the sanest happenings in the history
of this unusual co. There was an un-
common mixture of assets in the last
balance sheet; P.P. Bank debtors, out-
standing cash-order debts and discounted
p.ns. were lumped together at £376,555
(after deducting “reserves, £64,763”).
Shares figured at £81,993, unexpired con-
tract rights at £17,500, owing by sub-
sidiaries £89,888, and goodwill and es-
tablishment £108,431. The co. owed
£98,698, and divs. for the year had swal-
lowed most of the claimed earnings.
Book value of net tangible assets (includ-
ing shares in other cos.) ran out at 15s.
6d. per ord. share. The whole matter of
P. and G. is a puzzle to the onlooker.
On paper the ords. would appear to be
worth about 155., but the market isn’t
prepared to pay more than a third of
that. A number of things require ex-
planation before investors can buy with
an understanding of the co.’s real
position.
* * * *
The 7s. 6d.-paid shares of the Masonite
Corporation, recently listed, are selling
around 4s. 6d. —very disappointing to
holders. The co. was floated last Sep-
tember, the American parent co. taking
100,000 2s. 6d. deferreds, the public
250,000 £1 ords. Masonite is board made
from compressed wood chips exploded
under steam pressure. The deferred
shares are entitled to 50 p.c. of the pro-
fits after the ords. get 7 p.c. The market’s
chief worry, however, was the announce-
ment made by Colonial Sugar’s chair-
man on Nov. 24 last:
The directors have decided, in view of
our experience with fibre board, to estab-
lish the industry on a much larger scale,
and arrangements are now in hand to erect
a factory capable of supplying Australia’s
total requirements for some time to come.
From a prospectus issued a few months
ago, it appears that another co. is contem-
plating the manufacture in Australia of
fibre-board from wood. We have pio-
neered the industry in this country, and,
from the experience so gained, are quite
confident that we shall'produce, from cane
fibre, boards —hard or insulating—that will
be equal to or better than those manufac-
tured from any other material.
The idea of having to buck the C.S.R.
doesn’t seem to appeal to the share-
market. The 1 sugar co., incidentally,
already provides a large part of Aus-
tralia’s methylated-spirit, carbon dioxide
and dry-ice requirements. It should be
all to the public good, however, if the
Masonite Co, is able to win a share of
business in competition with the C.S.R.
* * * *
In spite of a strike at the mine since
March 24, consequent smaller through-
put, besides doubt about the future of
ore reserves and working costs, Lance-
field’s 6d. div. went out on April 8. Ces-
sation of work (“victimisation” is alleged)
has stopped progress towards opening up
the new values found by drilling, and
market support for the shares hasn’t been
so forceful.
* * * *
The £1 -shares in Australian Cement,
Melbourne, at last week’s price of 325.
9d. returned £6 3s. per cent. Kandos
16s. scrip sold at 235, 9d., yielding £6 16s.
p.c. This difference in yields, as usual, is
unwarranted, since the principal assets
of both are “allasame kind” —shares in
Australian Portland’ Cement Pty.
* * * . *
Austin Distributors, .Melb., was pointed
out here some months ago as a co. that
had a not-too-definite future in the scale
of investment prices. Car-selling cos.
usually settle down in market appraise-
ment at a price giving a high return
where the stock is div.-paying, and this
is particularly so where capital hasn’t the
substantial reserve backing evident in
cases like John McGrath (Sydney) and
Howards (Brisbane). Austin Distributors
has sound, well-kept finances but small
reserves ; net earnings swept up to 27.9
p.c. on capital for 1936-37, and a 15 p.c.
div. was paid. Interim in February was
at the same rate. There have been sales
of' the shares up to 505., but last week
scrip changed hands at 345., returning
8.8 p.c. if the div. keeps steady. About
this figure buying is reasonable.
V
Oil Search shares rattled up to 6s. 6d.
for a while in Sydney last Thursday and
then relaxed again. It’s a great life for
shareholders if they don’t weaken,
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Consols were decidedly firmer.
Barrier stocks again drifted to a low level.
Mt. Lyell was depressed and stale. Metals
were weaker overseas. < .
Broken Hill Prop, paids at 58si 9d. were the
.lowest for years, arid returned over 4 p.c. An-
other leading industrial, British , Tobacco, at
475. sold at the lowest price of recent weeks.
Bank shares continued to keep around very
low levels. E., S. and A. dropped below £5,
: National (£5) was on offer at £6 165., and
8.N.5..W. found no takers at £32.
After ;a little confusion following the an-
nouncement that Dunlop-Perdriau and Barnet
Glass were going to make tyre cord, ords. in
Davies, Coop, which proposes making yarn for
tyre fabric, firmed to 265., buyer. Share-
holders are now getting a reasonable return on
their money, with prospects. But the co. had
its initial struggles.


PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
Castings made under the
Meehanite Process are
superior to other irons.
They have:—
Greater Strength and
Toughness.
More uniform Grain Struc-
ture and Hardness.
Greater Resistance to
Abrasion.
Greater Density.
Higher Resistance to Cor-
rosion.
Freedom from spongy
regions regardless of
casting section.
Better Machinability.
Specific properties obtain-
able on specification:—
Tensile Strengths to 50,000
pounds without heat
treatment.
Tensile Strengths to 70,000
pounds with heat
treatment.
Brinell Hardness up to 600
by heat treatment.
Six times the impact
strength of semi-steel.
A
-
The SYMBOL
of controlled physical properties in CASTINGS
mm
r
"Til
r*
fj 4
\' # @3?
$ yV-J* "4-
:,: :.
RESISTS HEAT
Illustrated are work supports in
a car type annealing furnace. Top
photo, is of a Meehanite SC, non-scaling, non-growing cast which
showed no increase in length after three weeks’ service at temps,
from 1000 to 1600 degrees Fahr. The second photo, shows a
casting of Alloy Cast Iron which grew 4\ inches after 20 hours’
service at the same temperature.
RESISTS PRESSURE
This cast demonstrates
the value of Meehanite
for pressure work. Two rows of two plungers fit into each 1 \
inch hole bored out of solid metal to a depth of 6 inches in the
flanges. Spacing between sidewalls is only | inch. Each hole
was pressure tested to 1000 pounds.
RESISTS WEAR-
Meehanite is finding wide application
where superior wear-resisting quali-
ties are required in castings. The
ore crusher jaws of Meehanite
illustrated show little signs of wear
after long service. Top photo,
shows the crusher jaws in position;
lower photo., the jaws as cast.
; M
i
Specify Meehanite Castings and you may confidently
expect exceptional service from them.
Meehanite is an iron of superior physical properties which
are definitely controlled. It offers the casting user for
the first time in the progress of ferrous metallurgy the
opportunity to specify exactly the physical properties in
the castings he buys. He can buy iron castings as he buys
tool steel—on definite specification. He can design his
castings confidently and economically on guaranteed
physical standards.
Meehanite Castings are uniform in strength and grain
structure throughout, regardless of shape or size. They
contain metal which surpasses gray iron or semi-steel in
strength, toughness and machinability— a metal which has
markedly higher resistance to abrasion, heat and cor-
rosion. Due to its greater density and homogeneous struc-
ture it is pressure tight in every section.
Write to any of the Licensed Manufacturers below, or
direct to The Australian Concessionaires.
GENERAL ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS.
5”
ag
h 5
SpS
“A’
“B’ :
S.
j
w £
r-< w
PH
W
w
« a
H E-4
>o
a
■«! a?
MS
cH oa
525 «
o . S
Sa u
SH 2
go 2
O*
□ Hcc
Pm
oS s
© GO ft
CO
W £
Eh c 3
g&
H W
PS
a .
g>H
fig
ll
HH
fc *
H
O /.
2 fix
EH §JS
H®
PS Jz;
Ph„
a" 1
oO
<
1h
<i2g
o££
.. 50,000
75,000
Heat Treated
, . 45,000
5,500
0.16
to
0.20
196 to 500
to 600
Heat Treated
196 to 450
175,000 21,000,000
19,000,000
22', 000
23,000
Heat Treated
17,000,000 17‘,500 0.1748
15,000,000 15,000 0.1695
12,000,000 13,700 0.1651
12,000 0.1876
■29,000,000 27,000 0.2804
OO
a
aw.
|-H W
0.1959 7.43 gin.
0.1853 7.37 -Jin,
7.25 3-16 in.
7.13 gin.
7.02 Any Size
7.02
7.90
A
THE AUSTRALIAN MEEHANITE METAL CO.
Dowling Street, Waterloo, N.S.W.
Cable Address: CARBOY, SYDNEY. Telephone: MA6221 (9 lines).
Licensed Australian and New Zealand Manufacturers of
Meehanite: —
AUSTRALIAN GLASS MANUFACTURERS CO., LTD., Dowling Street, Waterloo.
MALLEABLE CASTINGS PTY., LTD., Rich Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
GRIMWADE AND ALLEN, Napier Street, Footscray, Victoria.
RUSSELL MANUFACTURING CO. PTY., LTD., Burnley Street, Richmond, Viet.
STEEL CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD., Frith Street, Brunswick, Victoria.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Stalin Touch.
(Condensed from a London “Times” special article “The
Russian Trials," 23/3/’38.)
Since 1935 among the men near the top of the
Soviet Central Government, two Deputy Prime Min-
isters (Rudzutak, Mezhlauk) have been “removed”; the
Ministry of Defence has lost by suicide and the execu-
tioner three Deputy Ministers (Gamarnik, Tukhachev-
sky, Orloff), who were “unmasked” as traitors, and
three others (Yegoroff, Alksnis, Viktoroff) have dis-
appeared to unknown fates ; the Ministry of Defence-
Industry has lost both its Minister and Deputy
Minister (Rukhimovich, Muklevich); Posts and Tele-
graphs have been for many a kind of condemned
cell; Smirnoff, Rykoff, Yagoda held this post for brief
periods before going to the dungeons of the G.P.U.,
their successor Khalepsky and his Deputy (Prokofieff,
friend and assistant of Yagoda) have followed them.
Stalin’s police have removed, shot and otherwise
handled or mishandled the chiefs in almost every
Ministry, including envoys to almost every country.
The purging of the 11 constituent “Republican
Governments” of the Soviet Union has been even
more thorough. The R.S.F.S.R. or Russia proper
has lost the Ministers of Education, Finance and
Justice; the Ukraine its Premier and Director of
Education ; White Russia its Premier and Minister
of Agriculture; Tajikistan its President and seven
Ministers ; Turkmanistan its President and four Min-
isters ; Georgia its Premier and six Ministers ; Armenia
its President and five Ministers, and Kirghizia its
President (Shamurzin). Some 40 chairmen of Terri-
torial Executive Committees, the “Mayors” of Kieff.
Kharkoff and Rostoff, more than 500 directors of
trusts, factories and big industrial undertakings have
also recently paid the penalty of “enemies of the
people.” Havoc among Communists in high party
posts has been on a similar scale. They include Buk-
harin, Zinovieff, Kameneff, Rudzutak, all former
members of the Politburo, the highest organ of the
party, and many of the highest officials in the con-
stituent “Republics.”
The blow delivered to the Red Army last June,
when Marshal Tukhachevsky and Generals Yakir,
Üborevich, Kork, Eideman, Feldman, Primakoff and
Putna were shot, has been followed by the wholesale
“removal” of senior officers. Orloff, Deputy Minister
of Defence and Commander-in-Chief of the Red Navy,
who represented the Soviet Union at the Coronation,
was, as Voroshiloff has mentioned, “wiped off the face
of the earth as a traitor and a spy.”
Among others who have disappeared from the
highest posts in the fighting services are deputy poli-
tical chiefs of the army, generals, commanders and
deputy-commanders of the Kharkoff, North Caucasus,
Ural, Transbaikal, Leningrad and Moscow Military
Districts and the Tank Corps ; Tkacheff, commander
of the Civil Air Force ; Tupoleff, head of Soviet aero-
plane construction; Admiral Sivkoff, commander of
the Baltic Fleet; Kozhanoff of the Black Sea and
Kireyeff of the Pacific Fleet; and nearly all the poli-
tical chiefs of military districts and the Red Fleet.
In 1935 the newly organised Military Council
attached to the Ministry of Defence consisted of 80
men ; of these 51 have since been proclaimed traitors.
In the purge which is still going on throughout
the armed forces and all departments of civil life,
victory has been achieved by an application of the
famous “Stalin tactics.” These were first practised in
the Politburo, where Stalin, whatever his opinion
might be, would listen to all his colleagues had to say.
At a chosen moment he would formulate the majority
opinion and propound it as if it were his own. Having
seen where each man stood he would subsequently
manoeuvre this man or that into conflict with his
colleagues and eventually out of the Politburo.
The movement for constitutional reform became
strong in 1934. Stalin, though really in opposition,
put himself at the head of the movement. Men were
led to believe they were doing Stalin’s will by working
out a liberal and democratic new order. But Stalin
had not yet shown his mind ; he had merely enticed
his fellow-Communists to show theirs.
The first shock came in August, 1936, when a
group of 16, headed by the Old Guard leaders Zino-
vieff and Kameneff, were tried by a military court
and all shot as Trotskyist terrorists. This appeared to
have nothing to do with the Constitution; still, it
was the first time Old Guard Communists had been
executed. Five months later a batch of 17 were
all shot except four (Sokolnikoff, Radek, Arnold,
Stroiloff). A few weeks before this the final text of
the Constitution had been passed. The connection
between this trial and the Constitution was Radek,
member of Stalin’s Constitutional Commission and
chairman of the sub-commission for working out the
election system. Bukharin, who has just been shot
as a traitor, was chairman of a sub-commission for
settling juridical aspects of the Constitution.
Last June the executioner began killing the heads
of the Red Army. In December Yenukidze, member
of Stalin’s Constitutional Commission and Secretary
of the Central Executive Committee since 1918, Kara-
khan, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, and six
others were shot without trial as traitors and spies.
In the latest trial, of the 21 men in the dock 18 were
shot.
The Constitution has been in force for the Soviet
Union as a whole'since the end of last year, though
in practice it is a mere caricature of what the Stalin
Commission worked out. Many members of the new
“Parliament” elected last December have been rele-
gated to the rank of traitors and disappeared. The
constituent republics have not yet had their elections
of local Parliaments. As the national republics have
suffered most in the purge, extremely few of the men
who worked out their particular Constitutions will be
present at the elections.
Ireland’s Loyalties.
[The Irish correspondent of London “Sunday Times”
makes these points in commenting on the curious posi-
tion of most inhabitants of Eire in regard to foreign
affairs. It represents only one of the numerous matters
overlooked by our interventionist crusaders, who carry
on their belligerent campaigns on the assumption that
the Empire would go unitedly into any or all of the
sundry very dubious wars they consider desirable.]
The average Irishman is an ardent advocate of
the rights of small nations and a devout Roman
Catholic, and there is much in European affairs to
arouse conflict between his two loyalties.
In regard to the seizure of Austria, there is no
conflict. Austria is a small Catholic country which
has fallen into the hands of a larger neighbor openly
hostile to the Church. Indeed, the present plight of
Austria in relation to the Reich appears to be not
unlike that of Ireland in the eighteenth century in
relation to Great Britain. Hence there is widespread
indignation at what the Germans have done, and there
have been hostile demonstrations outside the German
Legation in Dublin.
The other European conflicts are not so free of
divided loyalties. In regard to the Spanish war, Irish
opinion is overwhelmingly pro-Franco, for the simple
reason that he is believed to be fighting in the cause of
Christianity against Bolshevism. But to be pro-Franco
is to be pro-German, and if Germany were to attack
Czechoslovakia the spectacle of a smaller nation being
bullied by a larger one would give rise to great
indignation.
But if Great Britain were to intervene actively
in co-operation with France and Russia in Central
Europe, the position here would be very difficult,
because anything like an alliance with the Soviet would
offend the principles of every Catholic. The opinion
of the majority in Ireland would refuse to support
any policy that could be represented as being favor-
able to Russia, even if such refusal were to imply
an apparent acquiescence in the excesses of the Fascist
Powers.
Dealing with Dictators.
[The outlook attacked in this article (condensed
from London “Saturday Review”) was dangerously
prevalent all the time Mr. Eden was in control of
Britain's foreign affairs. It has waned, though there are
still echoes of it here as well as in Britain, and it is
not impossible that it could flourish again. Which is
why Australia needs a foreign policy less pusillanimous
than that considered good enough by the Lyons Govern-
ment.]
The sentimentalist wants to have things both
ways. He insists on our disarming ourselves as an
example to the world and then calls upon us to knock
down the Power he calls a bully.
He is so keen a democrat that he forgets the prin-
ciple on which democracy is based—the counting of
heads. Hitler and Mussolini have conferred great
benefits upon their nations. None the less, there are
democrats who hold that democracy should be forced
upon people who prefer autocracy, and what happens
to this sentimental combination of democracy and
autocracy is illustrated by the tyranny of Stalin.
Our foreign policy should be based on a realisa-
tion of things as they are. We have to make up our
minds if we want certain war or the possibility of
peace. If we decide in favor of war, we can accept
the extreme democratic point of view and try to over-
throw the dictatorships with the cheering certainty
that the nations under their rule prefer them to the
systems of government we should choose. It is no
doubt very wrong of a majority of Germans and
Italians to think that they owe a debt of gratitude
to these men who extricated them from chaos and
anarchy, but the fact remains—they do. If the democ
racies are going to impose their systems or gov
ment on other peoples, the consequence is war
inevitable.
If, on the other hand, we are in favor of peace,
we must treat with the dictatorships as we treat witn
other nations. It is a fine thing to be able to say,
as some of our Foreign Secretaries said in the past,
that they just wouldn’t play until the other chap a
accepted their rules of the game. In those days
policy was brutally based on British stiength an
British interest, and democratic principles were only
a trimming to conceal it. Nowadays we are stil
suffering from that crisis of sentimentalism which
disarmed us temporarily, and the bamboo we are
cultivating so expensively has not yet grown thicK
enough to justify the policy of the big stick.
Commenting on Mr. Eden’s resignation, the
Manchester “Guardian” said: There is now one
stumbling-block the less in the path of the dictator-
ships.” Is it the business of our Foreign Secretary
to be a stumbling-block in the path of any foreign
Power, no matter how it may be governed except
in so far as British interests are concerned? Since
we have proclaimed ad nauseam that all our efforts
are being directed to the prevention of war, we must
deal with the dictators on some basis of understand-
ing. If, while we renounce war, we are spending our
time in trying to trip up the dictators, we cannot
grumble if the dictators hit back and war comes our
way.
For Crusaders to Chew.
[Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post” article,
“We Love a Crusade,” by George Fielding Eliot, for-
merly Major, U.S.A. Military Intelligence Reserve, this
further expresses the reluctance of Americans to have
anything to do with foreign entanglements and crusading
wars, such as the one urged against Japan.]
Underneath all the tumult the ordinary American
citizen has one firmly rooted idea, which would get
something like a ten-to-one vote if put to a national
referendum —that the United States ought to stay out
of other nations’ wars.
The leaders of the various peace movements have
at least one thing in common —not one of them has
the smallest idea of the military ingredients required
by his particular nostrum. As an example, the pro-
posed boycott against Japan. The advocates do not
consider the military angle. They do not consider the
vital question of what materials are necessary for
the prosecution of war, and what only for peace-time
industrial operation. The idea, from their viewpoint, is
to stop a war, to save China. Temporarily crippling
Japan’s ordinary industries will not do that; the Japa-
' nese, with the vast prize of exclusive control of Chinese
markets and Chinese raw materials all but within their
grasp, can afford to tighten their belts and endure for
a considerable while, with certain mental reservations
as to vengeance when China is theirs.
As to raw materials immediately necessary for
the prosecution of war, the Anshan mines in Man-
churia and the Korean deposits, supplemented by
domestic production and by the “iron and steel self-
sufficiency” plan can take care of immediate iron
necessities. Japan’s drive in North China has given
her possession of the enormous iron deposits of
Chahar. Also, enormous war reserves of pig-iron
and scrap steel have been assembled in Japan.
The United States furnished 58.2 p.c. of Japan’s
imports of crude oil in 1933, 66 p.c. in 1934, and
76 p.c. in 1935. In refined oils there is another story,
and the figures are highly significant. The U.S.
furnished 41.8 p.c. of Japan’s requirements in 1933,
30.3 p.c. in 1934, and but 16.9 p.c. in 1935. Mean-
while, from the East Indies the percentage of refined
product's rose from 48.2 p.c. in 1933 to 55.2 p.c. in
1934 and to 66.1 p.c. in 1935.
That there are in Dutch and British Borneo
enormous oilfields as yet untapped, and that —as
regards Dutch Borneo, at any rate —much of the oil
lands is in the possession of native rajahs who are
none too well controlled by the Dutch, indicates just
where the Japanese would get supplies.
Not while an ample supply of oil is situated on
their doorstep, and in a region which can supply them
with rubber and other requisites, will the leaders of
Japan, who have staked everything on the war in
China, give in to Western pressure. Consider the
devastating loss of “face” if they did yield. One vast
echoing yell of Oriental laughter would sweep across
Asia from the Amur to the Irrawaddy, and with it would
vanish Japanese prestige and power on the mainland,
all her dreams of empire.
Almost inevitably the result of American or inter-
national embargo on exports to Japan would be the
seizure by Japan of Dutch Borneo and, perhaps, of
adjacent islands, such as Celebes. And the Philippines.
What would the situation then confronting the
people of the United States be? We would be com-
mitted to the expulsion of the Japanese from the
raped islands, and that expulsion could be achieved
only at the cost of a long and bloody war. Just how
long and how bloody cannot be foretold. But it may
be well to consider that it is more than 5000 miles
from Pearl Harbor —our farthest western base —to
Manila, and that the operating radius of a fleet is
but half of that, being limited by the cruising range
of the destroyers. A base would have to be obtained
somewhere in the Japanese mandate islands as a half-
way station. This would mean not only naval opera-
tions but the dispatch of an expeditionary force to
take and hold the base, of guns and ammunition, of
’planes, of thousands of tons of supplies ; all this trans-
ported through waters infested by long-range Japanese
Postscripts to a Crisis
The Schuschnigg plebiscite, it cannot be too often
repeated, was a piece of chicanery. Its suddenness, its
incomplete electoral lists and its ballot paper, printed
“Yes,” which compelled a “No” voter to ask for a
special sheet, shocked and distressed even those who
were in favor of the Fatherland Front. Had the
plebiscite been held I do not think any reasonable
man can doubt that there would have been bloodshed.
—Major F. Yeats-Brown, in London “Observer.”
* * * *
We cannot interfere; and we should not have
protested were it not that our Foreign Office always
feels injured when anybody does anything without
consulting it. The only alternative was to send an
ultimatum to the effect that unless all troops of the
Reich be withdrawn instantly from Austrian soil, and
Herr Hitler deprived of his dictatorship and exiled
from Germany within three hours, we shall lay
Berlin in ashes. This being for various reasons inex-
pedient we may as well accept the Anschluss without
grumbling, not only because it is an excellent thing in
itself, but because at Versailles we helped to create
the situation which has made it inevitable.
— G. Bernard Shaw, in London “Evening Standard.”
* * * *
The Anschluss is irreversible. It was no attack on
any foreign race. It is an obstacle out of the way.
It is precisely not a reason for rupturing effective
intercourse but for resuming with more earnestness
and in a reconstructive temper the inquiry into the
future of Europe and the colonial problem. Anglo-
German settlement, consistent with the safety and
honor of Britain and France and securing the world’s
salvation, is more practicable to-day than ever.
— J. L. Garvin, in London “Observer.”


MODEL 67.
,22-cal. Single-shot, bolt-action, 27in.
round tapered proof steel barrel. Sporting
rear sight' with sliding elevator. Sporting bead front
sight with bright non-tarnishing alloy bead. Full-
sized real walnut stock with pistol grip and semi-
beavertail forearm. Non-slip finger grooves, fitted
with shotgun-type composition butt plate. Cham-
bered to shoot regular and super-speed short 1 , long
and long-rifle cartridges. Take-down model.
Carriage Paid. Price 47 /6
MODEL 68.
Specifications similar to Model 67, except
that this model is fitted with new rear
peep sight instantly adjustable with fingers for wind-
age and elevation. Low front sight on non-glare
ramp base. Non-tarnishable alloy bead. Slip-on
spring steel sight cover. Carriage Paid. Price, 55/-
winchester
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use
of Super-speed Cartridges, and are scien-
tifically proportioned, drilled and rifled to
ensure maximum accuracy and balance.
Full-size Walnut Stock with Shotgun-type
Butt greatly adds to appearance and ease
in handling.
MODEL 69.
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in. round tapered
barrel; two magazines, one for short, other for
long and long-rifle, with sporting rear sight. Price, 87/6
With adjustable peep sight. Carriage Paid. Price 90/-
MODEL 62.
.22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-repeating
Rifle. 23in. round tapered barrel, shot-
gun-type walnut stock with checkered steel butt
plate and straight grip, new design walnut action
slide handle, Lyman bead front sight, sporting rear
sight; specially designed to handle the new super-
speed ammunition. Magazine capacity: 20 short,
16 long, or 14 long-rifle. Take-down model.
Carriage Paid. Price £5/5/-
!
MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” .22-cal. Automatic,
for long-rifle super-speed cartridges only.
Pistol grip, walnut stock, wider and deeper walnut
forearm, 23in. round tapered barrel, Lyman gold
bead front sight, adjustable rear sight with sliding
elevator, 1 0-sbot straight feed magazine. Take-down
model. Carriage Paid. Price £9/10/-
MODEL 69.
Equipped with Lyman No. 422 expert four-power telescopic
sight and sporting rear sight. Carriage Paid. Price
Winchester
Mounts.
Number.
3
5
Telescopic Sights with High Bases and
Power. Sight Only. Sight Fitted.
2\ 50/- 60/-
5 65/- 75/-
Cowles & Dunn
71 KING ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 3388.
Lyman No. 422 “Expert” Telescopic Sight, 4-power.
Sight only 55/-. Sight fitted 607-
Winchester and Lyman Telescopic Sights can be fitted
to any of the above rifles at ‘“Sight Fitted” Price Extra.
submarines and guarded by innumerable Japanese
islands —potential submarine and aircraft bases.
When this had been accomplished—and not until
—the fleet could operate in Philippine waters. By that
time the Japanese should have consolidated their posi-
tion in Borneo and the Philippines ; and their ejection
would mean again, not only naval operations, but a
much larger expeditionary force.
Thus, interfering in a war that is no concern of
ours might well be war for this country, too ; a war
fought on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, under
conditions of almost incredible difficulty, and for what?
What possible gain could we derive from such a vic-
tory that would be worth the price? The loss of the
best of our youth, the crushing load of debt, the
domestic troubles, perhaps extending even to the
destruction of our institutions—what would compen-
sate us for all these?
Perhaps we must face the loss of our China trade ;
there are markets closer home which ought to com-
pensate us. Prestige of the white man with the yellow 1
races? It is gone for ever, and we cannot snatch it
back. International morality and collective security?
Ethiopia and China placed their faith in those empty
phrases, and where are they to-day?
It is time to face the facts —before a new crusade
has led us into another war to make the world safe
for democracy.
Austria’s Plebiscite Choice.
[Despite the most conclusive evidence to the con-
trary, Australian press cables still pretend that Austria
did not desire union with Germany. The summary here
given of previous plebiscites and events leading up to
the latest one should dispose finally of that. Its author
is English, and his survey covers the historical facts.]
On November 12, 1918, the Austrian National
Assembly passed unanimously the following Act:
German-Austria is an integral part of the German
Republic. Special legislation shall provide for the par-
ticipation of German-Austria on the legislative bodies
and the administration of the German Republic as well
as for extending the validity upon German-Austria of
law and institutions of the German Republic.
The Versailles Treaty, however, forbade union
with Germany. The Germans in Austria continued
to protest. On April 24, 1921, the province of Tyrol
held a plebiscite on the question: “Do you demand
union with the German Reich?” The result was:
144,324 for union.
1,794 against union.
On May 29, 1921, the province of Salzburg held
a plebiscite on the question: “Do you demand the
Anschluss to Germany?” The result was:
103,000 for the Anschluss.
800 against the Anschluss.
200 invalid ballot papers.
The province of Styria decided to hold a plebi-
scite for the Anschluss on May 29, 1921. Owing to
pressure from the Entente Powers this did not take
place, and further plebiscites for the other Austrian
provinces were postponed.
The French Minister in Vienna made the follow-
ing statement to the Austrian Chancellor on April
14, 1921:
If the Austrian Government should not be able
to stop the nefarious activities which aim at the An-
schluss to the German Reich the French Government will
stop any action of assistance for Austria and the com-
petence of the Reparation Commission would be com-
pletely restored.
The British and Italian Ministers made similar
statements to the Austrian Government. An ‘Act
unanimously passed in 1921 by the Austrian Parlia-
ment which provided for a plebiscite in the whole of
Austria on the Anschluss had under this pressure to
be postponed.
The Catholic Chancellor Seifel, acting in agree-
ment with the German Chancellor Bruning, decided
in 1931 to bring about a customs union of the two
countries. The Hague Court of International Justice
decided - by a majority of one that the union could not
be arranged, as it would constitute a violation of the
Treaty. The British, American and Scandinavian
members of the Court did not agree with this view.
In 1934 another attempt was made to bring
about closer relations with Germany; this time
Italy intervened. During these years Austria was
little more than an Italian protectorate. Under this
foreign control, Austria became a Fascist State directed
by a Government that was upheld chiefly by Italy;
it had not been put in office by the popular vote, and
elections were henceforth ruled out. Vigorous oppres-
sion of Socialists and National Socialists set in. The
workmen revolted, and were put down with machine-
gun fire. The National Socialists were placed in
prisons and concentration camps by tens of thousands,
and 40,000 took refuge in Germany.
Meanwhile National Socialism had come to power
in Germany. Its essential meaning has to be under-
stood, and throws light on the present union. The
National Socialist Revolution marked the welding into
one of the various Germanic tribes, Prussians,
Bavarians and so on. It was the culmination of a
long movement which started in the time of the
Napoleonic invasions. After 1933, when Hitler came
to power, the Prussian, the Bavarian, the Wiirtem-
berger was for the first time described as a German
citizen in his passport; before 1933 he was designated
Prussian or Bavarian. This illustrates simply and
clearly the rise to national consciousness of the
Germanic tribes.
The Germans in Austria were greatly influenced
by this movement, and it was easy to foretell that
union with Germany was now inevitable.
It is the display of force that has provoked
criticism abroad, although the German Army was
received with enthusiasm, as all our English news-
paper correspondents show, These methods, however,
disturbed opinion, and they were unfortunate. The
Germans would say that the presence of the German
Army was necessary to prevent civil war, but the
main reason, no doubt, is that the Austrian frontiers
—now become the German frontiers —had to be occu-
pied and protected just as German frontiers in other
parts of Germany were protected. Vis-a-vis other
Powers —Italy, France and Britain —the Germans
accomplished an act of force, but vis-a-vis the people
of Austria it is clear that they were welcomed as
forces liberating the Austrians from the tutelage of
foreign Powers.
Alternative to Chamberlain.
[Before the Fulham by-election went against the
Government the Manchester “Guardian,” which is anti-
Chamberlain, acknowledged that “even among the critics
of the Prime Minister there are many who now hold that
he was right.” No wonder, when the alternative policy
propounded by his opponents can be said to be fairly
summarised in this election manifesto constructed from
their statements by Sir A. B. Gridley, M.P., in London
“Times.”]
It might help the country to make up its mind
as to whether the present policy of the Socialist party
is worthy of support or not if such policy is focused
in the shape of a general election manifesto. It would
run somewhat as follows.
If a Socialist Government is returned to power
it pledges itself:
(1) To call the League members together at once,
and to take both the lead and effective steps to make
collective security a reality. By reality we mean that
any member nation, if attacked wantonly, would at
once receive the armed assistance or applied sanctions
of all other League nations against the aggressor
Powers. This undertaking would apply in the East
or West, and would embrace China, Abyssinia and
Spain, and Czechoslovakia also if Germany should
threaten similar action there as in Austria.
(2) To arrange for immediate military conver-
sations between all League-member Powers in order
to have plans prepared for effective collective action
immediately circumstances so required.
(3) To make such provisions by Great Britain as
might be necessary to stem the aggressors, notwith-
standing that any League Power fails to fulfil its
obligations to apply force or sanctions or, once started,
is being overrun by the aggressors to the disadvantage
of Great Britain.
(4) To assist financially any League member un-
able to apply or continue force or sanctions through
lack of ability to finance the same.
(5) To raise internal or external loans to finance
the cost of the contribution by Great Britain or any
other country to a war of collective security.
(6) To assist the Spanish Government to acquire
arms, and for such purpose to provide loans if neces-
sary, and further to insist upon the immediate with-
drawal of German and Italian troops and material
from Spain.
(7) To carry out the foregoing provisions whether
the same have the approval or not of the Dominions
and colonies.
(8) Not to introduce conscription for the above
purposes, being satisfied that collective security would
involve a smaller contribution of force by Great
Britain than she is equipping herself to make under
the policy of the National Government.
These eight points appear to set out the views
expressed by one or other of the recognised leaders
of the Socialist party.
Who can doubt that conversations with those
countries sane enough to prefer peace to war is the
better way?
Jews of Vienna.
(Condensed from an article by Matthew Downing in
London “Evening Standard")
[This comes as an anticlimax after the created
impression that all the troubles of the Jewish people
in Austria began suddenly with Hitler’s entry into
Vienna.]
There were 176,000 Jews in Vienna at the 1934
census, and probably another 20,000 in the provinces.
All the Jews in Austria are suffering from poverty.
Hitler cannot bring poverty to them, as he has done
to, their cousins in Germany.
If the once-rich Jews are poor, the poorer Jews
are destitute. The Jewish Central Union in Vienna
spends almost half its total funds each year on charity.
An official told me that 47,000 of Vienna’s 176,000
Jews are receiving assistance. They have the mini-
mum necessary for existence. Three-quarters of all
the Jewish doctors and lawyers in Austria are unem-
ployed and living on charity. The funds for the
charity are provided mostly from abroad.
Why are Austria’s Jews so poor? The reason
is that they have already been driven out of nearly
every sphere of life by former Governments.
For years Vienna, the city with over a third of
its population Jewish, has been ruled exclusively by
the Aryan population. Back in the 1920’5, all Jews
working for the municipality of Vienna or for the
Austrian Government were relieved of their posts,
and legislation was later passed preventing their hold-
ing them again. The next step against them hit the
professional Jews, doctors, lawyers and musicians.
Doctors were gradually pushed out of the hospitals,
and were unable to hold salaried posts with large
firms or hotels as house physicians. Lawyers were
no more employed as legal advisers to large bodies
of any description. Of the musicians, 95 per cent,
are unemployed on account of the depression.
Jews have been forced out of banking, insurance,
heavy industry, cinemas and theatres.
When all is said, there is this great difference
between Berlin in 1933 and Vienna in 1938. When
the Nazis came into power in Germany there were
an immense number of Jews holding lucrative posi-
tions in Government and in industry. The Nazis may
still get their emotional satisfaction out of baiting
the Jews of Vienna. But if they are looking forward
to taking possession of comfortable jobs and flourish-
ing practices they will be disappointed.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Bulletin has fancied Bradford for
the Doncaster ever since the weights
came out, and it proposes to stick to the
Newcastle-trained four-year-old. He won
at Randwick in the spring, beating Ram-
din, since successful in the Villiers
Stakes, and has shown this season that
he is in form. Sydney punters who favor
him would have liked to see him in action
before the Doncaster, but they have
learned from experience that Smith, the
owner-trainer, knows how to get a horse
ready on his private track without any
need for Sydney appearances.
Sal Volatile is the second choice. Both
are four-year-olds, and the little mare has
rarely run a bad race ; both, moreover,
have light weights—Bradford 7st. 31b.,
Sal Volatile a pound more. Sal Volatile's
showing in the Railway Handicap at
Rosehill suggested that she is at the top
of her form ; the chances are that she is
better than in the spring. Next to Brad-
ford and Sal Volatile this Page would
place Forestage (7st.). In a little over
three months, Forestage has won three
races at Randwick over the Doncaster
distance, and a horse capable of doing that
must be respected with his light weight.
It looks an open race. Ajax having
been among the nominations (the cham-
pion, of course, has been scratched), the
handicapper adopted a light scale, and
the owners of King’s Head (Bst. 131 b.),
Mohican (Bst. 111 b.), Valbeau (Bst. 101 b.)
and Evening Mist (Bst. 91b.) cannot com-
plain that their horses are overburdened,
while Buzalong demonstrated in two races
last week that he was entitled to every
ounce of his Bst. 61b. What is more,
Lolorua (7st. 121 b.), Speardale, Hamurah
(each 7st. 91b.), Hammerhead and Arabia
(each 7st. 81b.) have no mean turn of
speed. And in a good season for three-
year-olds there is a strong representation
of horses of that age—Nightguard (7st.
111 b.), Bodley Head (7st. 101 b.), St. Con-
stant' and Panaster (each 7st. 91b.), Beau
Ercil (7st. 21b.) and Troy (6st. 101 b.)
among them. It seems likely to be a big
field, and no starter will be entirely
neglected.
Allunga (9st. 21b.) was this Page’s early
pick for the Sydney Cup, but after his
race at Randwick on Saturday he will
have to be discarded. He looked well
enough, but his effort over the last fur-
long was not reassuring. On the strength
of a good gallop on Thursday, it was
thought that he had got over the effects
of the accident at Rosehill, where he was
knocked down before the start of the
Rawson Stakes and finished bleeding at
the nose. Horses have to be thoroughly
fit to win Sydney Cups, and, although
there may be still time for Allunga to
overcome what has been troubling him,
he cannot be backed with confidence. In
any case, Apollo beat him by lengths in
the Chipping Norton Plate at a difference
of 51b., and there is 221 b. between them
in the Sydney Cup.
Apollo is owned by L. V. O’Hara,
member of a family that has prepared
heaps of winners in Westralia during the
last 30 years, and C. P. Barden. Barden
brought The Dimmer back from the
West in 1931, when that great stayer car-
ried all before him at the A.J.C. Easter
meetings, so he ought to know what is
required of a Sydney Cup horse. Giving
John Wilkes 51b., Apollo was a close
second to the youngster in the Chipping
Norton Plate, and the stewards took some
time to decide the protest lodged by his
rider, Munro. A four-year-old black
gelding by Constant Son-Lute String,
Apollo proved in Melbourne that he
could go a mile and a half at least —he
won the Moonee Ponds Handicap at
Moonee Valley over that distance, beat-
ing among others Aitchengee and
Marauder —and he seems to have the
knack of taking up a good position early
—a decided . asset in a race like the
Sydney Cup.
In an ordinary year Apollo would be
favorite. But the bookmakers were so
impressed by Genetout’s victory in the
Autumn Cup, with 9st. 51b., that they
advanced the French horse to that posi-
tion. Among the animals he defeated
were Sydney Cup candidates Sir
Regent, Old Rowley (each Bst. 31b.),
Mananui (Bst. lib.), Billy Boy (Bst.),
Fountain and Cathartes (each 7st.
31b.). Coming down 91b., as he will
do on Monday, Genetout will be meet-
ing them all on better terms. The doubt
is whether he has been sufficiently long
in Australia for a trying two-mile race.
On the other hand, he has proved him-
self a horse of class, and every gallop is
bringing him into better shape.
Donaster is at his best in the autumn
and winter, and on his third in the Chip-
ping Norton Plate he is not out of the
Cup with Bst. 111 b. He ran a good fifth
in the Melbourne Cup. Just behind him
in that' race was John Wilkes, who now
has Bst. 41b. —no great weight for a rep-
resentative three-year-old in an excep-
tional year. He looks a much more tak-
ing proposition than Cathartes or L’Aig-
lon (6st. 71b.), though L’Aiglon is coming
on, and his trainer expects him to stay.
In any case, John Wilkes should be a
good thing for the St. Leger.
Rosehill form gave Mest'oravon a
decided chance of winning a second Syd-
ney Cup. He has only 7st. 121 b., and
that would be nothing to so powerfully-
built a horse. Unfortunately he went
lame after the race, and has done no
fast work since. If he is started he
should be worth a tote ticket, for the
owner is unlikely to take an unnecessary
risk with so faithful an animal. But this
paper’s preference is for Apollo, with
Genetout and Donaster next.
Ajax, who galloped “three” in 351-sec.
between races at Randwick on Saturday,
and that with working shoes on, will be
one of the attractions of the week. No-
thing seems likely to give him any trouble
in the All-Aged Plate on Wednesday,
though El Golea is a good horse. In
Kai Tere, Dutiful and Country Party,
Jamieson has a string which may pick
up a handicap or two.
* * * *
The meeting at Randwick, transferred
from Warwick Farm, drew an excellent
crowd, and the 55.-tote innovation was
appreciated. But barrier delays and a
fall in the Chipping Norton Plate nullified
the club’s praiseworthy attempt to run
nine races in the compass of 3 hours 25
minutes. The last took place in semi-
darkness ; it was merely guesswork to
tell who led in the first half-mile. And
gusty rain fell every now and then. It
is to be hoped that the A.J.C. will have
better luck for Easter; its efforts to re-
store the popularity of the sport deserve
success.
The highlight of the day was the
splendid win of Genetout in the War-
wick Farm Cup of a mile and a half.
The French-bred horse looked in much
better condition than at Rosehill, and
was solidly backed, winding up at 9 to 2.
For the most part, McCarten let him run
along at his leisure. When required to
gallop, Genetout gathered up his oppo-
nents like a racehorse and won, running
away, from the three-year-old L’Aiglon
and Mananui. It was a genuine Sydney
Cup trial, for Genetout carried 9st. 51b.
—he drops to Bst. 101 b. on Monday.
Cathartes was the big disappointment.
He put no heart into his work. Sir
Regent’s fourth was not a bad effort; like
Genetout, he will have been improved
by the race. Northwind and Old Rowley
were never dangerous. Each receded in
the betting.
John Wilkes (9 to 4) and Apollo (33
to 1) had an exciting tussle for first place
in the Chipping Norton Plate. The way
was made easier for them when Sarcherie
came down turning for home ; the mare
had been galloping nicely. Commencing
the last furlong there was some jostling.
Evidently it did not affect John Wilkes,
who was on the inside, and the K.C.’s
colt beat Apollo by half a heck, Donaster
cutting Allunga out of third place. To
the chagrin of the Ring a protest lodged
by Darby Munro, the rider of Apollo,
was dismissed. Young Crusader set a
solid pace to the home turn, where he
was beaten. Allunga looked a possible
winner at the Leger, but he tired, and
was only slightly ahead of Bourbon at
the finish.
The Ring soon regained its high spirits,
for the next race, the Liverpool Handicap,
went to Mark Antony, who was neglected
by the general public, though a few
people backed him at 20 to 1 and better.
At the beginning Brazandt led the field
of 20, but Joan Darling (50 to 1) rushed
past him near the two-furlongs pole and
sustained her run surprisingly well. How-
ever, Mark Antony flashed through in
the last furlong to beat her by half a
head. Third, three-fourths of a length
away, was Buzalong, who was one of
the last lot turning for home. He must
have made fast time over that last two
furlongs. Heroic Faith’s fourth was
noticed by shrewd heads, and a minor
handicap may come his way during the
round. Evening Mist also pleased by run-
ning fifth. Beechwood, the favorite, was
never a possibility. King’s Head, also
started by the stable, did much better.
Pandava (9 to 4) made short work of
Nuffield and 17 other opponents in the
Fairfield Handicap division for colts and
geldings. First away, the Brazen colt set
up a commanding lead, and had the race
well in hand from the Leger. He carried
9st. 41b. and ran the “six” in lmin.
1 Hsec.; Mark Antony, with 7st. 51b., re-
duced that time by a mere quarter of a
second. Dan Seaton’s Geebung was
second, two lengths away; half a head
astern was Sol Green’s colt Brethren.
Nuffield was fourth.
Sydney people were pleased with Nuf-
field’s appearance, but not with his per-
formance. Starting from the outside, he
was boxed up early, and when he did
get clear Pandava had the race won. No
doubt Nuffield will run better in the Sires’
Produce Stakes; seven furlongs should
suit him better than six, and the smaller
field will be also to his advantage.
W. Cannon, a Queensland pastoralist,
has a promising filly in La Bequest, who,
starting at 8 to 1, led all the way in the
first division of the Fairfield Handicap
for fillies. Fan Dancer tackled her, and
was gaining at the finish, but La Bequest
hung on just long enough. June was third ;
9st. lib. was too much for her. Bonheur
de Pere (10 to 1) also led all the way in
the second division. She likewise had
had enough at the finish, Talkalot, carry-
ing the colors of veteran sportsman
W. T. Kerr, making a great effort, just
too late. Early Bird was third. Lady
Montague ran a poor race for a favorite,
and Politesse stopped at the post once
more.
Kai Tere (5 to 4), who is by Wotan’s
sire, Siegfried, followed his Warwick
Farm win by scoring impressively in the
first division of the Novice ; and he will
score when the company is more select.
Vestal took the second division (6 to 1).
Leeds, a brother to Bradford, ran a capi-
tal second.
Twenty-five lined up for the Cabra-
matta Handicap. The street lamps were
burning when the starter sent them away.
At the finish there was one only in it —
Forestage (12 to 1), whose immediate fol-
lowers were Blinky Bill and Beau Ercil.
In the Cabramatta Mile at Rosehill,
ridden by the same jockey, McMenamin,
and opposed to a field inferior in quality
and quantity, Forestage had run last. The
stewards opened an inquiry into his show-
ing. Explanation accepted.
* * * *
With 150,000 or so Melbourne resi-
dents witnessing the R.A.A.F. display at
Flemington, the Caulfield race meeting
on Saturday naturally drew a much smaller
crowd than usual. Tote turnover showed
a decrease of £5472 as compared with
the corresponding fixture last year. Yet
nearly £31,000 went through the
machines.
Fred Hoysted won a double—-the
Katandra Two-year-old with Lord Wind-
burra and the Glenhuntly Handicap with
Irving.
Lord Windburra (Windbag-Burra-
main) had been beaten into third place
at “the Heath” on March 30 when sent
out an even-money favorite. The oppo-
sition being considerably stronger on
Saturday, he was allowed to go out a..
5 to 1 in a field of seven.
Because of his third to Brethren and
Valhalla in the Gibson Carmichael
Stakes on Australian Cup Day, King-
dom started at evens. But tor
losing lengths in the jump-off King-
dom might have won instead or
being only third. At any rate, punters
will be sure to give the Thracian
colt another chance when next produced.
He finished very resolutely, a mere neck
behind Bureaucrat, who lost to Lord
Windburra by a length.
The late G. L. Mapleson, a Gipps-
land pastoralist, bred Lord Windburra,
whose colors are carried by his widow.
Though it represented a reversal of
form, the success of Lord Windburra did
not arouse any expression of annoyance
from backers, but when Irving appropri-
ated the Glenhuntly Handicap there were
hoots and catcalls from the flat, fol-
lowed by counter-cheers from the mem-
bers’ enclosure.
In the Belhaven Handicap at Ascot a
week before Irving had run a poor fifth.
Dignity scoring from The Wizard and
Rhodes Scholar, with Sindicada next. On
paper this did not entitle Irving to be
favorite at 4 to 1.
Hoysted attributed the Ascot defeat of
Irving to slow pace in the early stages,
the \\ miles and 40 yards taking 2min.
as against the course record of
2min. Bsec. On Saturday the mile and
a quarter was covered in 2min. ssec.
(course record, 2min. 3|sec.). Speed was
on from the outset.
The Wizard, as at Ascot, filled second
position. He reached the judge a neck
behind Irving, with Red Manfred half
a neck off. Red Manfred struck the
front at the straight entrance.
Harry Freedman, now in Sydney to
see El Golea through engagements at the
A.J.C. carnival annexed the Maiden
Two-year-old with Sir Robin, a Christo-
pher Robin colt which he races in con-
junction with J. Monaghan,. Fourth
favorite at sixes, Sir Robin prevailed by
half a length after a long-drawn-out
tussle with John Wren’s representative,
Beau Frere, who showed promise in
the spring by running Normal to half a
head in the V.A.T.C. Debutant Stakes.
Trained by Frank Musgrave, and a
stable-companion of Ajax, he now seems
to be striking true form.
With everything in his favor, Atticus
could not improve on a close third, and
cannot be as good as his mentor, Dick
O’Donnell, imagined. Even less can be
said for Kaolin, whose best price was
sto 2—the death-knock quote was 6to 4.
Kaolin finished in the middle of a big
field. This colt is a brother to Feldspar.
This Page selected Somerset to win
the Brighton Welter, and at the remu-
nerative price of 7 to 1 he accomplished
the task in most attractive style. Sweet
Memories drew out for a substantial lead,
but she couldn’t quite see out the seven
furlongs, and Somerset defeated her by
three-quarters of a length. Conchita,
almost cherry-ripe, was a head behind
the Gay Lothario filly.
Baryta (5-to-2 favorite) and Parodier
(threes) came home in the immediate
wake of the place-getters, Baryta flying
over the concluding furlong.
African, a former Sydney performer,
followed up his recent Moonee Valley
success by landing the Khartoum Hurdle,
easily defeating Nevizes, with whom he
shared favoritism at 9 to 4. Bill Tasker
is being deservedly rewarded for his per-
severance with the son of Dark Fox.
Hilltop, whose dam, Yellow Mountain,
was a half-sister to that wonderful jumper
Jack Rice, squeezed home in the Neerim
Steeple from Conde and Wildwood.
Bookmakers found satisfaction over the
result, as the winner started at 12 to 1
and the other two at longer odds. Green
Cape (5-to-2 first choice) crashed in front
of the stand.
* * * *
Fred Hoysted had contemplated flying
to Sydney this (Wednesday) evening and
watching the work of Donaster next
morning, but has abandoned the idea,
having ascertained from his son Norman
on the long-distance ’phone that the
chestnut is thriving. Hoysted says Don-
aster only needs to remain as well as at
present to be worth consideration in the
Sydney Cup.
o Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Doncaster: Bradford, 1 ; Sal
Volatile, 2 ; Forestage, 3.
Sydney Cup: Apollo, 1; Gene-
tout, 2; Donaster, 3.
Autumn Plate: Genetout'; next,
Donaster
St. Leger: John Wilkes; next,
Bristol.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Nuffield ;
next, Pandava.
Vaucluse Handicap: Kai Tere or
Dutiful; next, Heroic Faith or
Aladdin.
Easter Plate: Gay Romance;
next, Bonheur de Pere.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Easter Stakes: Prince Quex;
next, The Wizard.
Seaside Handicap: Sweet Memo-
ries ; next, Theodore.
Point Cook Trial: Barham ; next,
Jevington Maid.
Werribee Highweight: Somerset ;
next, Riddle.


Just Arrived! NEW FABRICS AND STYLES!
> ip
w 1 m 1
ifflllf 1 :
/.air
r
:;\£g
" ~
' "”"~ w '~<~v» ... ’ :*v*'-
w?:::W^::5#w: : i%::v:v
Leading
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURERS
POLIKOFF,
MAENSON,
SIMPSON,
SIMON ACKERMAN,
THEXTON & WRIGHT
yy//7s'//M//
Qai/or&a
and... READY FOR INSTANT WEAR
131 FITTINGS.
A little over twelve months ago when we opened
our new Department for Mens English Tailored
Clothing, we believed that 5 7 INDIVIDUAL
FITTINGS in 10 models was a comprehensive
size range.
WE SMILE! —For so phenomenal has been the
growth of this Department that to-day our size
range has been increased to 131 INDIVIDUAL
FITTINGS. Whether you are tall or short —
thin, portly or stout — 8 stone or 1 8 stone —your
fit and style are here.
Quality minded men, who formerly were com-
pelled to have their suits made to order, are
coming to us where they can be fitted with
English Ready-Tailored Suits at a much lower
price than they previously paid, whilst retaining
the sartorial excellence of style and character
combined with the latest in designs and tonings
from London’s West End.
• 10 MODELS TO FIT ALL FIGURES
RANGE... E 8 - £9 / 9 / - £lo'lo'- Ell'll'-
GRACE BROS..
PTY - LTD BROADWAY SYDNEY 'PHONE: M6SO6.


REMINGTON .22 Gal. RIFLES
are again obtainable on the Australian market.
Ask Your Dealer For These New Improved
“MASTER” MODELS
No. 41 “Targetmaster,” bolt action, single shot
27in. barrel, weight 5 if lb 47/6
No. 341 “Sportmaster,” bolt action, repeater
24in. barrel, weight 61b 97/6
No. 121 “Fieldmaster,” slide action, repeater
24in. barrel, weight 61b £6/12/6
No. 241 “Speedmaster,” autoloader
24in. barrel, weight 61b £8/10/-
BIGGER — BETTER — HEAVIER
This Model 241 handles like a small gauge shotgun.
For Full Information write to —
D. D. BRYANT,
Australian Representative, Box 686E, G.P.O., Melbourne.
Under the Whip
Ajax, carrying Badger, galloped six fur-
longs in lmin. 13|sec. on the grass at
Victoria Park (Sydney) on Thursday,
traversing the first five in 59|sec. And
the track was not fast: in the next-best
gallop over the distance Lolorua and
Herarde took lmin. 17isec. There is
now a pronounced tendency to believe
that Australia has never seen a faster
horse than Ajax up to a mile. Could
Phar Lap be brought back to life as an
autumn three-year-old and matched with
Ajax over the Doncaster distance, he
would not be favorite.
* * * *
Buzalong has proved himself a good
Randwick horse, and though his party
has grumbled about his Doncaster
weight, Bst. 61b.—the grumbles have
been echoed by at least one newspaper-
man —he will not lack support next
Saturday. Carrying lOst. 21b. in a divi-
sion of the Flying Welter at Ascot, Syd-
ney, on Wednesday, Buzalong defeated
a fair field with ease, conceding 261 b. to
Heritor, a Challenge Handicap winner,
who can still go a bit. The lathy Queens-
land-bred gelding quickly bridged the
gap that Heritor had set up and beat him
by three-quarters of a length. The time,
however, was nothing much —lmin.
14fsec.
In another division of the Flying
Welter, the two-year-old Gay Romance,
taking them on at all ages, won handily
and cut quarter of a second off Buza-
long’s time. This is the filly owned by
Bendrodt and Monder, of drawing-room-
dancing celebrity, and she has been a
very profitable purchase for them. She
is trained by Bendrodt, who expected to
win a Doncaster with Grand Mogul—
Grand Mogul couldn’t do it.
The Marne’s brother Heracles has
picked up another race, the Ascot Handi-
cap, at the Sydney course of that name
on Wednesday. He was one of three
winners (Buzalong and Fox Foote were
the others) ridden by Darby Munro on
the first day he returned to the saddle —
by request of the stewards the young
man had been “resting.” Heracles is no
wonder, but has been shrewdly placed by
the elder Kelso, and must now be show-
ing a balance on the right side of the
ledger for his owners, Orwell Phillips
and A. B. Abel.
A punter who staked ss. on Mark
Antony and Fox Foote collected a divi-
dend of £4O 19s. And Mark Antony
was only the runner-up—Scintillo, the
winner (at 20 to 1), was neglected by
punters. The machine that takes doubles
does these things sometimes ; the man,
never.
* * * *
“Becher’s”: The Liverpool Grand
National seems to have been a triumph
for sophisticated age as opposed to the
“too-old-at-forty” school. The winner
had seen 11 winters, equivalent in a horse
to at least 50 in a human, and was a
grandpapa to boot. For sufficient
reasons neither the second nor third
horses had experienced the sweets of
domesticity. Royal Danieli is seven years
old and Workman eight years.
Footbrawl
“Coif”:.. Australian Rules football in
Melbourne has been torn by dissensions
between the Association and the League.
When the former recently cast off all
camouflage and announced it would grab
League players when and where it could
get them the League produced an alleged
contract which every League player has
to sign ; it binds him not to play with any
but League clubs for two years from
date. Wigs have written to the press to
say that the contract is, in the words of
one of them, “as watertight as a sieve.”
No one can contract himself out of his
rights where his livelihood is concerned.
Then there is no mention of considera-
tion.
“Hotham”: The peak load in the
V.F.A.’s war with the V.F.L. arrived
when the V.F.A. received a League letter
as long as the average football ground
commenting on the Association’s intima-
tion that the agreement between the two
as to robbing each other of players and
other matters was to be regarded as a
scrap of paper and a candle in the wind.
The League’s dignified protest was cal-
culated to bring tears to the eyes of a
stuffed crocodile. More in sorrow than
in anger it reproved the F.A. for doing
to it what it had done countless times
itself to the F.A. It wound up with the
information that its faith in human
nature was gone a million, and that it
“We've ’ad steak f'r a week, an' y’ must pick
on TO-NIGHT to ’ave tripe!”
regarded the F.A. as a renegade and a
would-be assassin of the game.
H' 'l* *i*
“Fitzcray”: The great success attend-
ing the introduction of the Rugby pass
and the spirited raid of the V.F.A. on
leading League players has bucked the
F.A.’s stock out of sight. Record
crowds are attending practice matches
and clubs are selling membership tickets
at a rate never before experienced. The
new pass is certainly an attraction. In
a match between two F.A. clubs at
Brunswick the ball was taken by this
means in a few seconds from the back
to the forward line in typical Rugby
style, save that the passing was forward.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Not since Hitler marched
on Austria has Melbourne been filled
with so much wild surmise as by the
V.F.L.’s discovery that the V.F.A. has
signed up a number of League players. In
spite of assurances to the contrary, Laurie
Nash has been rapt from “Sowth” by
Camberwell, while the same club has kid-
napped Ford, of Hawthorn, and Eccles,
of St. Kilda. Other Association clubs
are on the prowl, and the League is think-
ing of providing armed escorts for its
players. The League executive met hur-
riedly behind closed doors when the
awful news leaked out, but had nothing
but an emphatic raspberry for the press
later.
* * * *
“Subiaco”: The Westralian football
heads have administered a facer to the
Melbourne footballers who have thrown
in their lot with the ’Gropers. None of
these will be considered when the West-
ralian team to play at Adelaide and Mel-
bourne is selected. Such players in future
will have to put in a full season’s play in
Westralia before being eligible for the
State side. As the newcomers include
such stars as Bunton, Shea and Hardi-
man, the Westralians will not be as
strong as was anticipated.
* * * *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian
Rulers have abandoned the dream of
Sunday football. The idea was to get to
the grounds on the Sabbath lukewarm
adherents who could not tear them-
selves away from the Capuan delights of
the s.p. pubs on Saturday afternoons.
Unanimous refusal of the councils
applied to for the use of the public play-
ing parks on Sundays made the scheme
impracticable.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has appointed five selectors for the State
team —in the opinion of good judges,
two too many. It has also appointed an
“Australian” selection committee of five
(though there is no Australian Rugby
Union), Victoria being represented by
Cowper and Queensland by Ryan. N.S.W.
contributes Blackwood and Pratt, and
chairn~"n Hill a vote.
* * *
“Duntroon”: The introduction of
Rugby Union to Canberra has roused
the Australian Rulers to what Kipling
called “a cold Mahratta fury.” At the
meeting of the Victorian League a motion
was passed that special pressure be
brought to bear by politically-minded
football barrackers on their Federal
members with a view to having the
“foreign” code banned in the Federal
Territory.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Making for Britain to
take a post-graduate course, Dr. Dunlop,
the slashing Victorian and Australian
Rugby forward. Less showy than his
clever contemporary Bridle, Dunlop was
an ideal Rugby rucker, while his size and
weight, combined with pace for so big
a. man, made him formidable in lineout
work and the open. He played for Aus-
tralia against the All-Blacks in 1932-34,
and his omission from the 1933 Wallabies
for South Africa was one of the bloomers
made by the selectors of that side.
* * * *
“Gate”: The M.L. Rugby League,
whose portion in the past, when treating
with its Australian cobbers, has been
humble pie, and not much of that, has
taken a dictatorial attitude which is mak-
ing the Sydney League officials gnash
their fangs. The M.L. crowd is evidently
up in the air since its defeats of the
Kangaroos on their way to England, and
has intimated that, unless the Australian
itinerary is amended so that the tour will
start in Sydney in June, it “may recon-
sider the trip.” As the M.L. visit is the
only mealticket the League has in sight
this season the ultimatum will be
accepted.
“Cash Amateur”: If the Australia
Rugby Leaguers are licked by their visi -
ing M.L. friends they will have the satis-
faction of knowing that the arrow tna
nailed them was winged from their own
tail feathers. Writing of the M.L. team
with engaging frankness the manager,
J. A. Redwood, says the side that beat
the Kangaroos has been greatly strength-
ened by the purchase of several Union
stars, the money coming from the pronto
of the Kangaroo matches.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Sydney Rugby Leagues
experiment of trying the old Queensland
R.U. rule whereby the referee put the
ball in the scrums proved an outstand-
ing success in trial matches, speeding up
the game and practically abolishing scrum
infringements by half-backs. The only
valid objection is that the English pro-
fessional teams when they visit -Australia
would never allow the loss of one or
their greatest assets, unfair scrum work,
to handicap them. The locals would
thus have to adopt the old rules for the
English matches only, and would be at
as great a disadvantage as Australian
teams who have spoiled their Rugby by
adopting a set of hybrid League rules
when meeting teams playing, like the
Springboks, under international rules.
jJ, .j.
“Gate”: Preliminary revelations by the
touring Kangaroo managers show a big
slump in takings. In writer’s opinion
there is yet time to pull things round.
The Board of Control meeting with the
rebel team managers takes place some-
time in April. Why not hold it in the
ring at Sydney Stadium, admitting the
public at world’s championship rates?
Lorries would be needed to cart off the
takings to the bank, while broadcasting
and photographic rights should also bring
in a pretty penny.
* * * *
“Stoush”: Now that it has fallen on
evil days, the N.S.W. Rugby League,
once scornful of the claims of its country
offspring, has become most
solicitous about the men from
the open spaces. So much so
that it proposes to give the
country administration all the
profits from the Country Week
matches in Sydney instead of
the 60 per cent, hitherto handed
out. Last year Country fore-
cast the failure of the Kan-
garoos abroad by giving the
metropolitan side a sound
hiding, and the experience has
evidently humbled the city
heads.
“Gridiron”: At the end of every
U.S.A. football season the Yankee
papers raise Cain about their winter
game. Once these protests were directed
at the high percentage of casualties;
nowadays professionalism is the topic.
Wallace, America’s leading authority on
the subject, says universities openly bid
for youngsters who have shown promise
in high schools, the inducements ranging
from cash bonuses, free tuition and living
allowances during the off season to flag-
rantly lenient marking of examination
papers. Though they spend huge sums
on these gladiators the universities make
splend'd profits from their grounds.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Brisbane’s Northern
Suburbs League club is to make the ex-
periment of paying its members for club
matches. This is new in Bananaland,
though men in inter-city and inter-State
matches are given a bonus. The Bris-
bane club proposes to pay ss. for a win,
3s. for a draw and 2s. for a loss —not
enough to pay for Saturday-night’s beer,
even after a winning day.
* * * *
“Centre Half”: Sydney Uni. has
founded a Soccer club. It will play with
the mid-week association, which includes
Police, Teachers’ College, Public Ser-
vice, Railway Institute, Balmain and
Army Transport. Each club plays 14
matches on the home-and-home system,
the competition starting on May 4. It
is now up to Queensland University to
follow Sydney’s example.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland golfers
of all degrees are scraping up funds to
send their representatives to Adelaide for
the Australian championships. The ama-
teurs started some time ago, and had a
bit in hand from previous collections:
the professionals are now on the job.
They are to raise funds by staging week-
day open events on local courses. The
first of these will be a stroke competition
on the municipal course at Victoria Park
on Ap r il 13.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Australian ama-
teur golfers for Britain have departed by
the Narkunda and will reach London
on May 15. They then go direct
to Troon, where the British amateur


■MS@I
1
The Schrader valve,
“the little fellow
with the big job.”
The importance
of regular
Schrader-testing
The Schrader Clip-
on is a real per-
sonal gauge, of
proved accuracy.
Its small footing
makes it very
handy to use.
Obtainable from all
garages.
The comfort and safety of motoring depend
to a large extent upon correctly balanced tyre
pressures. It is waste of money to insist on good
tyres and then neglect the air pressures in them.
Those few minutes every week with your
Schrader to ensure correctly balanced pressures
are time well spent. More even and therefore
safer braking will result, more comfortable steering
and improved suspension. Remember, excessive
tyre wear is due to under inflation.
So make a regular habit of Schrader-testing
your tyres each week-end. Schrader pioneered
air-control, and their valves are standard through-
out the world.
Schrader
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES E ACH WEEK- EN D
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, Cl.
THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED.
FOUNDED 1886.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
The M.L.C. takes pleasure in announcing that the results for
its fifty-first year surpass all records.
STRENGTH.
Assets exceeded £26,000,000, of which over 78 per cent, was
represented by Government, Municipal and Local Body Loans, and
Loans on Policies
The valuation of the actuarial liabilities was made on strictly pure
premium bases, the rates of interest assumed being 2\ per cent, for
the Industrial Branch, and 2\ per cent, for the Ordinary Branch. These
rates are unsurpassed for strength in Australia.
PROGRESS.
The new Ordinary Branch business written was £8,158,354
The new Industrial Branch business written was 4,401,774
£12,560,128
representing a large increase over the previous best figures.
The increase in funds was £1,441,415 —the largest in the
Company s history. The total income increased by £271,221 to
£4,015,736.
GOOD MANAGEMENT.
ECONOMY: Notwithstanding the record business written, the
percentage of income absorbed in expenses was only 10.05 in the
Ordinary Branch, and 25.81 in the Industrial Branch.
LIGHT MORTALITY: The mortality experienced was again extra-
ordinarily light,
SOUND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS: The effective rate of interest
earned on funds and reserves was £4/19/- per cent, in the Ordinary
Branch, and £4/16/9 per cent, in the Industrial Branch. Outstanding
interest at the end of the year amounted to £4OOl only on assets of
nearly £27,000,000, and none of it was brought into account as an asset.
THE RESULT.
The M.L.C. has been able to maintain the high bonus rates paid for
the year 1936
EXAMPLE: Whole of Life Policy in the Ordinary Branch, age 30
at entry.
Reversionary Bonus for the First Year, £2/5/- per cent.,
increasing to £4/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
TRUSTEES:
JOHN DONALDSON, A.1.A., Melbourne. The Right Hon. W. A. WATT,
P C., Melbourne. The Hon. Sir JOHN B. PEDEN, K.C.M.G., M.L C ,
Sydney. The Hon. F. W. EGGLESTON, Melbourne. Sir GEORGE JULIUS,
K. 8., B.Sc., 8.E., Sydney. J. S. WILSON, F.1.A., Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
ARTHUR EEDY, C.8.E., Managing Director. JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
F. LEVERRIER, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc. The Hon. Sir HENRY Y. BRADDON,
K.8.E., M.L.C. A. G. COPELAND.
Temporary Address During Rebuilding:
HOSKING HOUSE, HOSKING PLACE, SYDNEY.
To a tough beard and a tender skin the Rolls Razor is
an ambassador in miniature, peacefully persuasive instead
of blunt and blundering; diplomatic rather than dictatorial;,
mightier than the sword.
Gliding sweetly, swiftly, through the stubble, the Rolls
Razor has taken the tears from shaving, has changed bathroom
gloom to morning glory. Its almost everlasting hollow-ground
blade, hand-forged from the hardest Sheffield steel, has saved
nearly as many pounds for Rolls Razor owners as its self-
contained strop has saved them hours.
Why not be bold about this shaving business? The cost
is comparatively small, and it would be very pleasant to-morrow
morning to find your Rolls Razor in its compact silvery box on
the bathroom shelf, shining like a good deed in a naughty world.
ROLLS RAZOR
SELF STROPPING SELF HONING
Rolls Razor Company of Australia (Pty.) Ltd.
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
Melbourne: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane.
Brisbane: Butler Bros. Aust. (Pty.) Ltd., Creek St.
Adelaide: Cornells, Coltons and Hoffnungs.
Perth: Harris Scarfe & Saadover Ltd., Hay St.
championship begins on May 23. The
players of the team are Nettlefold,
McKay, Hattersley and Ryan, with
Rundle as manager.
* * * *
“Craig”: Not many men get away
with a golf championship after spending
months in bed with a broken neck. Such
a one was Le Fevre, who, with Naismith,
won the Victorian professional four-
somes title at Riversdale. Le Fevre won
the Australian open as long ago as 1921,
and has evidently a kick left in him yet.
Racquet and Bawl
J. R. Fullarton succeeds A. H. Barra-
clough as secretary of the Australian
L.T.A. The new official, a South Aus-
tralian, learned the game at St. Peter’s
and Adelaide Uni. For some time past
he has been secretary of the Victorian
golf association, and as such organised
the Melbourne centenary golf champion-
ships. The retiring secretary will take thq
place of W. S. Sproule as Queensland’s
delegate to the A.L.T.A.
* * * *
Rev. Knucklebone”: As expected the
American tennis heads strongly object
to the proposal that the Davis Cup be
played for every two years instead of
annually as at present. The Yanks give
six reasons for their objection. To the
writer the most pointed is that a two-year
interval will drive players to professional-
ism. There’s a lot in it. At present the
annual Davis Cup shivoo is the ama-
teur’s one chance to make a pot of
brass out of the game. If he has to
wait two long years to replenish the old
sock the temptation to become an open
money-grabber will be hard to resist.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: The American L.T.A.
has fixed the dates for the Davis Cup
challenge round for September 3, 4 and
5 at Germantown Cricket Club’s ground
near Philadelphia. If all are agreeable
the inter-zone final will be played there
also. With the German team broken
up by Cramm’s absence, Australians have
an even-money chance at least of being
the challengers.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: When Budge
was criticised for “lethargy” in his Syd-
ney exhibition match against Cramm, he
explained that that sort of thing was the
rule in exhibition matches in his own
country. Now comes news that Perry
and Vines nearly caused a riot by run-
ning a bye in their match at Los Angeles,
which they fiddled out to three hours,
the scoring for each player being mostly
due to the other fellow’s hits for six.
However, they are said to be doing well
in a cash sense since their season’s tour
started, and they would be well advised
to make the pace while the going is good.
The spectacle of the same two players
meeting over and over again for weeks
on end is bound eventually to sicken the
customers.
Miscellaneous
“Ride Off”: The polo which will have
the Australasian Gold Cup for star
attraction will be played on the
Kyeemagh ground at North Brighton
(N.S.W.) on April 19, 21 and 22. The
Maoriland contingent of seven players
and 24 ponies has been increased to
nine players and 30 mounts, so evidently
the Islanders mean to make a bold bid
for the pot.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Entries are beginning
to come in for the Empire billiards ama-
teur championship to be held in June.
Britain, M.L. and South Africa are
already in, and eight other countries have
been invited. Kennelly represents Eng-
land, and two Afrikanders, Bourke and
Prior, are coming. Marshall, of West-
ralia, holds the title, which he won at
Jo’burg in 1936. India was to have
staged this year’s competition, but, be-
cause- of the Anniversary tamasha,
swapped the date for 1940, when Aus-
tralia was to have been the convincing
ground again.


BH
df
Rouse your liver with the pill of the century.
Banish Constipation, Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Box
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
d
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling list Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. Row comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
SYDNEY’S BIG SHOW.
Sydney Show this year has swollen to
fat-lady dimensions. Its permanent city
has bulged out into new buildings in
unexpected places and fresh avenues
wrinkle its contours, so that the coo-ees
of old inhabitants, lost in the teeming
streets of stucco, can be heard from
every quarter.
Gone are the old beef-cattle rings and
stalls. The woodchopping enclosure has
jumped over the dairying section. A
majestic commemorative stand and a
huge manufacturers’ pavilion have filled
up a lot of empty space both horizon-
tally and vertically, and even on the open-
ing day the ground accommodated five
times as many people as there were on
the whole continent when the first fair
was held at Parramatta in Macquarie’s
time.
The show will be four days longer than
usual. The opening was brought back
to Saturday from the customary Mon-
day, and kicked off with a procession
through the city. Fifteen hundred per-
formers took part in the procession, the
largest being Princess, Wirths’ elephant,
who was treated to a ride on a lorry with
a cageful of lions and tigers. Princess
also won the prize for the female wear-
ing least clothes, but there were about
700 consolation prizes to human females
whom she beat by about half a tea-towel
and who were certainly a fine advertise-
ment for the Australian human figure.
There were, of course, lifesavers
(loudly cheered) and a steam tram, and
long lines of industrial floats, but few
horses and no cattle. In fact, the only
prads were merely included to demon-
strate the superiority over them of motor
traffic. It was an Industrial Procession.
Over 50,000 people turned up for the
Show’s opening day—easily a record —
and found the ground wearing an inter-
national air, what with exhibits from
Canada, Malta and Maoriland and a
ringful of cowboys from Canada, Maori-
land and U.S.A., as well as the locals.
When this page went to the printer the
big Show was just getting into its stride,
with every indication of being a corker.
Bihhling Show.
Thish offering, inshpected at Shydney
Royal Agri—hie—cultural Showground
—part of thish biggesht show in world —
was tip-top entertainer by any shtan-
dardsh whatshoever.
Action took place around clushter
bottlesh and atmosh—hie—phere mosht
effectively shupplied by shawdust and
bucketsh inshtead of cushpid—cishpud—
blasht, shpitoons.
Authentish —hie —ity of wine-tashtin’
scenesh poshitive achievement for drama-
tic art. Powerful note of menashe crept
in when villain of piesh lighted shigar.
Whole casht more than competent, but
Mishter —hie —Connolly won firsht place
in canter. As preshident of U.L.V.A. he
said Gov’ment should be ashamed of
itshelf not introducing lishenshesh per-
mitting everyone drink wine when they
flamin’ well pleashed.
Mr. Davis’sh portrayal of preshident of
N.S.W. bransh of Aust. Wine Pro-
ducersh’ Ashosh alsho rosh great height
when he shtated pershonsh at the Show
who vishited Ashosh’sh kioshk would be
given free glash wine with mealsh.
Show had one weaknesh; damn’
membersh of casht shtill shober at fade-
out. All of ’em. Hooray !
“The Great Garrick.”
Brian Aherne, Olivia de Havilland, Ed. Ev.
Horton.
In one respect this English film at
Sydney Embassy is very timely just now.
If we are to fight everybody about the
place it will at least be comforting to feel
that one Englishman is still as good as
a bunch of foreigners. The number used
to be restricted to about three ; here it’s
about a hundred Froggies that the Great
Garrick of Mr. Aherne makes look a
lot of chumps.
The film does not purport to be his-
tory. It simply selects a historical figure
and uses a wholly pleasant representation
of him to carry the light burden of a
wholly pleasant fictitious story. Set about
1750 it permits plenty of costume dress-
ing-up and allows the film’s makers to
get in some good work depicting what a
theatre looked like inside in those days.
Nice and violent.
Garrick leaves for France to appear at
the Comedie Franqaise ; and, word having
preceded him that he had told his Eng-
Nelson Eddy, Eleanor Powell —very bright in “Rosalie,” at Sydney St. James.
lish audience he was going to Paris to
teach the French how to act, the actors
of the Comedie Fran?aise hatch a plot to
make him look ridiculous. They hire an
inn at which Garrick will have to stay
on his way to Paris, and their scheme is
to take the visiting actor in by making
him believe the place is being run by so
many lunatics. Garrick sees through this
elaborate practical joke instanter, but the
affair is complicated for both sides by
the entry of a wholly neutral party —a
lady Garrick takes to be yet another cog
in the plot, the person with whom he’s
expected 'to fall in love.
The working out of this complication
provides plenty of enjoyable comedy, in
situations and in such excellent dialogue
as that wherein Garrick, after apparently
having taken his affair with the lady to
extreme lengths, declares in effect that
when for the first time in his life he en-
countered the real thing he thought it
was only bad acting.
Pretty well all the action takes place
inside the inn, with well-populated funny
scenes all along the way, some pretty
love-making and some extremely nice-
looking feminine scenery, especially Miss
de Havilland, whose nice looks, matched
with those of Mr. Aherne, make it all
very easy on the eyes. Mr. Aherne acts
well, too, as do Mr. Horton, Mr. Luis
Alberni and many another of the score
or two more. Good entertainment.
“Rosalie, ff
Nelson Eddy, Eleanor Powell.
Judged by this spectacular musical at
Sydney St. James the reason they keep
young Doughboys in places like West
Point isn’t to stop ’em from going a.w.1.;
it’s to stop the rest of U.S.A.’s male popu-
lation barging in and insisting on being
cadets, too.
Any young fellow would rush it with
his ears back. No doubt it would be a
help if he happened to have such a fine
upstanding figure for hanging a uniform
on as Mr. Eddy’s, and an equally like-
able personality and such a thoroughly
good voice. Thus equipped, Mr. Eddy
manages his affair with Miss Powell
swimmingly. A few rocks here and there,
of course, with Mr. Eddy very huffy,
and then Miss Powell very upstage, and
Mr. Eddy very snooty, and so forth. But
they get over these little things; it’s all
straightened out; and are they happy!
Who wouldn’t be, with four wurlit-
zers playing the wedding music, and a
long stairway for them (Mr. Eddy and
Miss Powell) to descend towards the audi-
ence, with Miss Powell’s train spread out
behind, Mr. Eddy singing away superbly,
and a background which in certain im-
portant particulars looks to have been
inspired by Pape’s illustrations to
Jurgen !
A great opportunity for the producers,
and they don’t waste it. They do the
large-scale spectacles splendidly—appar-
ently thousands of people.
Through such scenes and along such
lines runs the pretty romance, with Mr.
Eddy singing manfully and well when-
ever opportunity offers, and Miss Powell
dancing at suitable intervals in her ex-
quisite manner, by the aid, of course, of
two of the prettiest pins ever witnessed.
Both Mr. Eddy and Miss Powell, too,
contribute quite a lot to the plane of
comedy on which the piece runs its glit-
tering course. It is good comedy—
breezy, bright, snappy and plentiful. Mr.
Bolger also O.K. in this department, and
Mr. Frank Morgan absolutely tophole.
Mr. Morgan is the King; Miss Edna
May Oliver is his Queen. Need any
more be said about them?
The dialogue is full of laughter. A
thoroughly jolly and enjoyable film.
“Fit for a King,” at Sydney Capitol,
is mostly Joe Brown’s honest clowning.
In Yurrup as foreign correspondent to a
N’Yark rag, he ambles among assassina-
tions, archdukes, queens and clinches,
and winds up with a burst of slapstick
of the kind that sends youngsters hys-
terical.
“Portia on Trial,” at Sydney Lyceum,
has moments in which members of the
cast suggest that they could give reason-
able performances in a reasonable
picture, and court scenes toward the
finish are restrained and convincing.
Apart from that it must be as sodden
as anything unleashed for several months.
It wallows in its theme of mother-lurv,
garnished with district attorney’s lurv
for Portia; ex-husband’s lurv for an
English lass, who bumps him off; gran’-
pa’s lurv for the cheild, and the cheild’s
lurv for gran’pa and Portia.
“White Cargo” on Sunday
Night.
Those responsible ought to be told
that this sort of thing really isn’t done.
A stage show ... on Sunday night ...
at Sydney Royal! Surely this is tempting
Providence to make it wet for the Agri-
cultural Show on Good Friday!
Admittedly the cause was a good one.
It was stated that the money —donations
to a collection-box —was to go to help
some former acting people now fallen
on hard ways. It was hinted that they
were once well-known names, and that
even a little money would be welcome
to them.
But surely there could be some more
seemly way of doing it. Why not a lot-
tery? Or a race meeting? Or a night at
Harold Park? In any case, that’s only
one aspect. Why this extravagant abun-
dance of dramatic art? In Sydney? This
must make at least three dramas enacted
at our city’s theatre in little more than
five years. Or it might be two dramas.
The city hasn’t time to get over one such
shock and here it gets another.
And to put on this show 10 acting per-
sons rehearsed in spare time snatched from
broadcasting and the other ways they
make a crust these days, and then came
along and acted the thing for nothing!
Not only that—they acted it with relish.
They put on a fresh, arresting dramatic
performance. Frank Bradley, for one. He
will have to stand as the arch-villain in
this heartfelt complaint. These days we
see his name if we happen to read broad-
casting programmes, and we might catch
a glimpse of him in person in the street.
On stage, never. Yet he turns out in
this show to make of the Doctor not
only as sterling a performance as he has
ever done —and he’s never done a bad
one —but as good a job as has ever been
done of the Doctor in our experience.
He enjoys acting. He treats it as an art,
and practises it as an artist. He can con-
vey not merely the physical state of the
character but the mental state as well.
He gives not only the appearance of the
Doctor but the Doctor’s state of mind.
It happens to be a state of mind well
pickled in whisky, and Mr. Bradley
happens to be so talented in his art
that he conveys with extraordinary
subtlety the little bit of that mind that
still clings to the vital spark and the
large lot of it that is thoroughly muddled.
Hang it all, it became almost a pleasure
to see him again.
And then Mary Macgregor—another
whose name can be read in broadcasting
programmes, and who isn’t seen on stage
at all. Yet Miss Macgregor turns out on
this occasion to give Tondeleyo the bene-
fit of a nicely-restrained piece of acting.
And it needs a pretty firm grip of the
real requirements of dramatic art to be
restrained about Tondeleyo. The ques-
tion is, how on earth do these acting
people keep up to this standard? You’d
think they’d rust.
As for James Raglan—his is an
uncommonly good performance. He is a
direct and positive actor, who could cer-
tainly be a topliner. The more outstanding
of the remainder were Harry Dearth —no
doubt the chap who does the running
commentary on the newsreels, and here
proving himself a very neat actor, his
performance of Langford standing up
even beside Mr. Raglan’s exceptionally
well done Witzel —Ben Lewin (who made
a good job of the missionary, besides
producing), Peter Finch (Ashley) and
Marshall Crosby (the Skipper; rather
noisy, but a hearty bit of character).
Peter Macgregor, Ronald Morse and Joe
Thomal had the smaller bits, and did
’em well.
No doubt this is no way to treat the
company at all. They deserve being
pounced on. They excuse themselves
by appearing before us as helpers of in-
digent acting people, but on this showing
they’d act a season of drama as soon as
look at us if they had the right sort of


SCHICK
HtttL
aAt
Schick takes the curse |
right out of shaving.
Plug in any time—any
place (A.C./D.C.)
and enjoy the sweet-
est shave invented.
Over a million and a
half Schick shavers
in daily use.
If unable to obtain locally write to
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. Industries, Ltd.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Price,
£5/10/- am
NO MORE SOAP OR WATER
GOODBYE TO RAW FACES
m
m
m
mm
" PULL'
the Rubber
Band to
C Open. J
All
the patent
in
Evevfvesh
2/6
tins
at
oz
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink—
be thankful ♦ ♦ ♦ don’t think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to . ♦ ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson’s Pleasure , the mild blend.
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
• • 1
oAt all good tobacconists
ask for
JSatncjis
The Ideal Tobacco
UlB7O
encouragement. And then what would
happen to Sydney’s reputation as a cul-
tural backwash?
Kipnis Broadcasts.
Alexander Kipnis has a voice of just
the right timbre for broadcasting, and
the bright Schubert lieder he sang on
Thursday and the soulful and lugubrious
Richard Strauss offerings of Saturday
night were, musically, just as satisfactory
as if the listener had undertaken the
trek to the Town Hall. But, unbacked
by Kipnis’s impressive platform presence
and expressive face, his singing loses
much of its effect.
There has been only one of the
A.B.C.’s vocal celebrities —Lotte Leh-
mann —who could project her complete
charming personality through the ether.
The others, Kipnis included, are no
better and no worse than their gramo-
phone recordings when heard through the
best of radio receivers,
Ujhelyi Heard Again.
Ujhelyi, Hungarian violinist of high
merit, who gave a recital in Sydney some
months ago, was put on the air by the
A.B.C. the other night.
He played the Tartini variations, Beet-
hoven’s Romance in G and a Mozart
rondo, demonstrating his mastery of all
these varied styles and surmounting the
Tartini intricacies with consummate ease.
If Ujhelyi were half as good a show-
man as he is a fiddler he would have
been made one of the great features of
the musical part of the Sfesqui.
First Academy Show.
The current show of paintings at the
Education Department’s Galleries, Syd-
ney, is the first corporate demonstration
by the newly-formed Australian Academy
of Art.
The general level is certainly no higher
than that of the shows of any of the old-
established N. S. Wales societies, despite
that the Academy purview embraces all
States.
About 40 of the 60-odd members sent
in exhibits, and it seems unlikely that any
of their offerings were chucked out. Non-
members, who accounted for 80 of the
206 exhibits, presumably were subjected
to a winnowing, for their percentage of
duds is much lower.
However, Elioth Gruner’s “Path to
the Town” and “Bellinger River” repre-
sent him at his best; Longstaff’s por-
trait of David Watterson is a virile bit of
work; W. B. Mclnnes makes Prof.
Wood-Jbnes, of Melbourne, a living
figure; Hans Heysen maintains his
steadily high standard, and there’s some
good work by the Rowells, John and
William, excellent water-colors by Harold
Herbert, J. R. Eldershaw and G. K.
Townshend (non-member), and a first-
class bit of flower painting by Violet
Mclnnes. E. A. Harvey’s still-lifes and
James R. Jackson’s landscapes would
make a good impression in any company,
and Ivor Hele, another non-member,
dominates a whole side of the gallery
with his prize-winning historical picture
of Sturt deciding to go no further. Some
beautifully-finished nudes by the late
Bernard Hall set a good technical level in
that department, but it isn’t reached by
other practitioners. Many Academicians
with well-known names—Lionel Lindsay,
Norman Carter and A. D. Colquhoun,
for example—are represented by work not
of their best. The sculpture section is
interesting, but some of the exhibits are
more than a mite eccentric in composi-
tion.
Priminister Lyons decided to open the
show by telephone, from a possie 140
miles away.
George Finey Shows ’Em.
Tired of being regarded as a political
cartoonist, George Finey shows the
world, or such part of it as calls at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, that he has
a soul for higher things. He has gone in
for flower painting.
Like everything else he does, Mr. Finey
does flowers with a flourish. The
flourish has been lacking from Austra-
lian art since Lambert passed over, and it
is good to see it sprouting again, if on a
rather different sort of stand. Different,
because Mr. Finey could never be mis-
taken for a respectable artist. For one
thing, he paints in duco enamel. His
flower pieces are impressionistic in the
sense that they are broadly treated, but,
unlike some other impressionistic works
of the kind, they look exactly like flowers
fresh cut at that. Duco doesn’t
lend itself to poodle-faking. If it isn’t
slapped on just right it’s past praying for.
So, with duco and an infallible color
sense, Mr. Finey has produced his bright
decorative pieces. Their effect is im-
mediate. They probably will be damned
north, south, east and west, because they
knock the luckiest efforts of the highbrow
impressionists into a cocked hat. It is
difficult to believe they were all done with
the tongue in the cheek, though when
3'ou find a pot of cacti done not even in
duco, but in boot soles, brads and a bit
of butter-box (and looking simply charm-
mg), it’s evident there’s a chuckle behind
the collection.
Just a few political cartoons and carica-
tures are included. An excellent portrait
of Mr. Lang is done in deep blue. Well>
he isn’t exactly a sunbeam.
New Melbourne Gallery.
The collection of Australian art pre-
sented to Melbourne University by Dr.
S. A. Ewing, of St. Kilda, ranges from a
couple of Buvelots through the art years
to a couple of Meldrums. There are five
Hilder water-colors, including “The Island
Trader,” “The Bridge” and the delight-
ful impressions “Children PJaying” and
“End of the Day.” There are Streeton’s
“Sydney Harbor from Cremorne” oil and
his “Domes of St. Mark.”
The Longstaff portrait of Dr. Ewing
faces a Mclnnes portrait lent by the
family. Several Hans Heysen gums, his
“River Flats” oil and his Centralian “Red
Hills of Aroona” water-color are among
the nine Heysens. Harold Herbert,
Blamire Young, Frederick .McCubbin,
Norman Lindsay, Alf Vincent, Van
Raalte, Charles Wheeler, Lionel Lindsay,
Lindsay Hall, Bunny, Fox, Officer,
Loureiro, Chevalier, David Davies, Con-
stance Jenkins, Frances Hodgkins, Flor-
ence Rodway, Fullwood, Withers, Conder
and Penleigh Boyd are others represented.
Another Prodigy?
Allison Nelson, at 10, promises to take
the place in S.A. vacated by Philip Har-
grave, who grew tired of being a child
marvel as pianist.
“Technical brilliance,” “wrist of
steel,” “finger ability dazzling,” “flair for
the concert platform,” “memorising an
easy task for this young brain,” “powers
of concentration those of an adult,” are
some of the tributes of Adelaide’s lead-
ing musicians.
From London: Australia’s old friend
Dante is surprising London at the Winter
Garden with his illusions, the supporting
co. now numbering over 30. He has the
levitation, water-jets and all the old
tricks; with one new feature in which,
facing a dummy audience, and with his
back to the real one, he lets the latter
see how a “vanishing” girl slips into a
trick box —though how she there
changes into a colored boy remains a
mystery still.


BOWRAL
MAGNIFICENT RESIDENCE standing on an ISLAND BLOCK of 31 h
i acres.
The Residence is of brick, having SPACIOUS VERANDAHS, comprising about 10 ROOMS
and MAIDS’ ACCOMMODATION, well-equipped BILLIARD ROOM, all other usual offices.
HOT WATER SERVICE. SEPTIC SEWERAGE. ELECTRICITY. GARDENER’S COTTAGE
of 3 rooms and offices at the MAIN ENTRANCE. OUTBUILDINGS include STABLING,
B VRNS TOOLSHEDS, GARAGES, etc. The whole is in first-class order; a well-kept GARDEN
surrounds the house. There are also VEGETABLE GARDEN and large ORCHARD. The
balance of the land is admirably suitable for grazing purposes.
For full particulars, price, apply
RAINE & HORNE, LTD., 70 Pitt Street. 86644.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN DENIS McCarthy ask him to com-
municate urgently with the DISTRICI PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Invercargill. New Zealand?
WILL JAMES ARTHUR KITCHEN com-
municate with his father in Cremorne, N.S.W.,
or with PIGOTT, STINSON, MACGREGOR
& PALMER, Solicitors, Sydney, when he will
hear of something to his advantage?
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last heard of in New Zealand in
1926, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei, New Zealand.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and S® 4
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be
come clogged with poisonous waste> the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly iac F® as ®“;
This acid condition, brought about by poo
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches ,eg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankle
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pams and
dl Most S people "watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles otray
tubes and filters. If these tubesorfiltersbe
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don t run any ris ••
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN S ®£CRACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
world over by millions of P e °P le - L B th e
quick relief and will help to flush out tn
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN&
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at jour chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Quite the belle of her own party was
Lady Wakehurst. With the Governor
she stood just inside the drawing-room
door receiving the guests, a tall, graceful
figure in fluid silver brocades. The frock
drew a long train. Diamonds glittered
in her hair and in her ears. The vice-
regal party was a sort of ringmaster’s
whip, cracking “go” to the second part
of the 150th Anniversary circus. The
lodge and Government House were flood-
lit. Chinese lanterns gleamed in the trees.
Port Jackson, the giant juggler, played
amazing tricks with a thousand and one
reflections from warships outlined in
electrics. In Farm Cove, just beyond the
grounds, lay the Supply. The night was
soft and warm, and the party became
practically an open-air affair.
The dahlias and the gladioli brought
the flame of autumn garden ways to the
reception-rooms. But the prettiest flower
conceits were the two ships under full
sail, a reminder of the First Fleet.
Fuchsia, pansy and rose blent their sweet-
ness here. Pictures on the walls were
old friends to National Gallery Director
Will Ashton, for many of them were on
loan from the National. Incidentally,
Mrs. Ashton looked attractive in her
black-and-white flowered chiffons. The
sleeves of the Hon. Henrietta Loder’s
white chiffon frock were all ruched and
puffed. She did her share of the enter-
taining. Hermione Llewellyn, very slim
in sleek pastel satin, worked hard for the
first half-hour keeping the hundreds of
ingredients circulating. One matron
told of her coming-out in the G.H. ball-
room. Two granddaughters of Sir Harry
Rawson, one-time N.S.W. Governor,
were among the hundreds.
Acting-Governor-General Lord Hunt-
ingfield and Lady Huntingfield held a
little court. Lady Huntingfield is tall,
and was striking in flame and gold lame.
Her fan was a plume of ostrich feather
in the same richness. Diamonds and
pearls were her ornaments. Philip Street
was there with his lady. Granddaughter
Belinda, too, came, pictorial in blue net
and moire. Sir Hugh Poynter and his
wife, off soon to England in the Fran-
conia, made popular progress from room
to terrace, from terrace to lawn. One of
the night’s prettiest was the wife of
Chief Justice Jordan. There was a sort
of lily-of-the-valley look about her white
frock. A true garden lover, she was
all enthusiasm for the flower pieces.
Mrs. Alexis Albert in black velvet,
Gloria Moore Cosgrave in black taffeta
and a shoulder-length bob, and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly in deep lilac satin were
notable in the groups on the terrace. Mrs.
Florence Taylor gave distinction to mag-
nolia satin. Lace was worn by many,
including Mrs. Alan Foott, of Mel-
bourne', who came with her parents,
General and Mrs. Anderson. Her color
scheme was tea-rose pink.
Very handsome was the McMaster
lady’s pink lace frock. Lagoon green
and silver suited Mrs. F. J. Davy’s fine
skin, pastel lace Mrs. E. Baume’s russet
hair. The wife of television wizard
Baird was a pretty visitor. Rose satin
threw into relief her brunette coloring.
Brig.-General I. Mackay and Mrs.
Mackay were there. Her frock was
bright with flowers. Enid Halloran and
Graham Wallace were two pretty guests.
One of the most gazed-on was the officer
from the Dorsetshire who came bearded
like the pard; that is, if the Bard’s pard
could have been so dark and glossy
about his mouth embellishments. Grace-
ful the Owen, blithe the Gordon lady.
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and Jeanie Ranken
held each other’s hands. Placid and
poised was Mrs. F. A. Chaffey in gold
satin. Amethystine were Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax’s satins. The D. G. Mac-
dougalls and Mrs. Bernard Muscio re-
minded of the resurrection of the cele-
brations. Premier Stevens came with
daughter Lorna. Black lace was worn
by the Sheldon lady, ivory by Dame
Mary Hughes. 5
Police along the route of Saturday s
procession were kindly. From every
grown-up they saw with a newspaper
they begged it, and spread out the news-
print for kiddies to sit on. Imagination-
stirring was the forestry float —the trunk
of some forest giant, its length and girth
staggering. It was attended by four or
five stalwart axemen. A jackeroo in the
foreground, his neighbor a merino ram,
and in The background a wool auction,
made one spirited scene. There were cars
of all makes and powers. One small car
was seen drawing eight horses. Another
was completely silver. The old family
coach drawn by black and white horses
got a good hand; so did a group of
splendidly marching hockey girls and a
company of surf girls. There were bands,
mounted police on bay horses and stal-
wart surf men, and there was a contin-
gent of monkeys and parrots and other
denizens of the Zoo. There were an
elephant, a lion and a lioness from
Wirths’. There was a bride in pearly
satins stepping from an engagement-ring
into a wedding-ring. There were tiny
girls and boys from a city riding school
on small ponies. There was a bold, bad
pirate craft complete with pirate king.
Every big industry and business had sup-
plied a float for the great march, which
came finally to rest at the Showground.
Mrs. W. E. Hopkins has been an excel-
lent leader of the junior workers for the
Legacy Ball. This is snaring a record-
crowd for the Trocadero on April 21.
Acting-Governor-General Lord Hunting-
field and his lady and Lord and Lady
Wakehurst will receive the debs. Dorothy
Welding photograph.
The Show doesn’t really open till to-
day, but since last Saturday one of the
busiest bits of Sydney has been the Show-
ground. The opening of the 150th Anni-
versary Exhibition was the big moment
of Saturday. This was Lord Wake-
hurst’s good deed for the day, and there
was a company of R.A.S. importants to
applaud it—Sam Hordern and Colonel
Somerville, the Premier and Ministers
Dunningham and Bruxner. The two
new pavilions were the goal of most of
the sightseers. The wool cottages of the
C.W.A. exhibit were greatly admired —
almost fleeced, too, by souvenir-hunters.
The vice-regal party (Lady Wakehurst
and daughter Henrietta were there)
sipped tea in the room of the council
stand. The Philip Streets and the Tony
Horderns were in this tea-drinking. The
big moment of the ring was the proces-
sion of floats that had already journeyed
through the city.
Striking the moment when the big
money comes to town, the committee for
the Veterans’ Ball has dated this for
Easter Saturday night. The committee,
all males, has picked the centre of things
for the fun, and already the Australia
ballroom is practically booked out at a
guinea a ticket. The ball is to help the
fund for the new Veterans’ Home at
Narrabeen. Lord Wakehurst will lay
the foundation-stone on the 23rd.
An almost Adamless Eden was the
garden of Government House last
Friday afternoon when 500 or more dele-
gates to the Red Cross conference were
entertained by the Governor and Lady
Wakehurst. Lady Wakehurst has a nice
taste in millinery. Her brimmed navy
straw hat wore a knot of deep blue and
white flowers. Lady Huntingfield came
to the party accompanied by Mrs. Helme
Pott. The Hon. Henrietta Loder, in a
girlish navy-and-white outfit, helped to
look after the guests in her friendly way.
Hermione Llewellyn, wearing a trig white
bolero with her deep blue frock, also saw
to the needs of the guests. Among Red
Cross chiefs were the Hughes lady, Miss
Kate Egan, the Philip Streets and D. J.
Mackay Sim.
Randwick staged a curtain-raiser to the
Easter meeting. The A.J.C. picked its
time well. With the grey sky and the
feel of rain in the air woman felt justi-
fied in wearing her autumn outfit. An
example of how smart our cold-weather
days will be was Mrs. Max Corbett, from
Malaya. Her snugly-fitting navy frock
had its navy coat closely appliqued in
white braid. The McKelvey lady’s daffo-
dil woollen suit and wide-brimmed felt
hat (where does she get them?) were
fascinating. Colored gloves were worn
by 25 per cent. Pamela Laidley Dowling
was there with her mother. Blue Angora
clothed Joy Barrington. Navy was the
dominant note in both Barbara Knox’s
and Mrs. T. Rutledge’s silk suits. Joce-
lyn Poynter has trapped a silver fox cape,
and wore it with her black frock and
upturned hat.
The Artists’ Ball was the excitement
of Friday night, the engagement of
Pamela Laidley Dowling to A.D.C. Blake
Pelly the extra volt slipped into Satur-
day. The ball was even more so than
usual, with Minister in Charge of Cele-
brations Dunningham in an artist’s
smock twirling on lissom toes —his own
or someone else’s. If the moocows on
the wall were the sort Unk White met
mooching along Costa Rica it’s no won-
der he came back to Sydney, where he
can collect his morning milk in a bottle
from the front porch. George Finey
arrived looking like a Lapland R.A. dis-
turbed by a ring at the front door just
as he was getting ready for bed. Mrs.
Unk White had thought to come as a
milkmaid, but had picked up her costume
in Hawaii instead. The Stan Cross couple
would have done credit to Regency Bath.
Unk White and Dan Russell were two
Dons who didn’t in the great bullfight
wnich was the Trocadero floor show of
the night.
Karen Greyson, with Mollie Kirwan,
is producing “Completely Incomplete,” a
play by Kenn Brodziak. This will be
presented for the first* time at the
Y.W.C.A. Hall on April 28 under the
patronage of knight Ben Fuller and his
wife. Besides being associate-producer
Karen plays a part. Jack Cato photo-
graph.
While hysteria reigned at the gates of
the Sydney Cricket Ground, owing to
thousands for whom there was no room
demanding entrance ; while mothers got
in and children were left out, or children
got inside the gates and mothers were on
the wrong side, the school-children’s dis-
play was working smoothly in the arena.
Here young Australians dressed as mag-
pies, galahs, bower-birds and kookaburras
disported in gay groups. It was a great
display of bird calls, for, as each brancn
of the bird family made its bow to the
vice-regals and to Ministerial groups and
invited guests, the air was merry with
its particular note. The kookaburras
laughed most realistically.
The wool display, at one moment
white as the snow, next became as many-
colored as a Fair Isles jumper—all done
by dancers in gay little tunics pranc-
ing among the white. The story of
wheat was prettily told. An army
of youngsters crouched low to represent
the first shoots, they rose slowly to
show the growth. Then they were
fully grown and all gold, like a
prize crop. A storm came, they were
laid low. Then they rose again, only to
be swept upon by a group of reaper
children. There were kangaroos ; and
soldiery and citizens of our early days,
an Anzac tableau and a Wheel of Pro-
gress with 12,000 hearty young
singing “Advance, Australia Fair!” The
Celebration ode, “Song of Sydney,” and
“God Save the King” were other musical
outbursts.
The big ripple in the art pond was the
first show of the Academy of Art. All
the big names were lined up for
Thursday’s private view. John Long-
staff, quite recovered from his illness,
was one of the decorative pieces. What
a color harmony were his tie and
suit! They put Elioth Gruner’s into
second place. Elioth generally gets top
marks from this Letter for harmonious
outfits. Sydney Ure Smith, Dr. Abbott
and Howard Hinton, too, had nothing
to upbraid their tailors about. Two
other people welcomed after weeks of
illness were sculptor Theo Cowan and
Mrs. W. A. Holman. The latter was
with Miles Franklin. Mary Gilmore,
with the little widow of Rayner Hoff
under her wing, collected autographs for
the Mitchell Library.
Brian Cannell did the rounds with
Coralie Jagelman and Bobbie Larnach.
Two interested girls were Sir Harry
Rawson’s granddaughters, who are visit-
ing Sydney. Mrs. Tony Hordern and
the Stephen lady, Helen Soutar, Harry
Julius and the Jimmy Jacksons were
noted. Priminister Lyons had sent word
he could not be present in the flesh, but
would open the show by wireless. John
Longstaff, cast for the part of introduc-
ing the speaker, remarked thoughtfully
that he had often introduced a man to
his audience, but this would be the first
time he had introduced a microphone.
Of all the conferences, and last week
was bursting with them, that concerning
radio netted the celebrities. England,
the U.S.A., Scotland and Holland spoke
through the mouths of F. S. Hayburn,
television wizard Logie Baird, Major-
General Harbord, Dr. Van der Pol and
Sanders (not of the River but of Ban-
doeng, which is in Java). This is the
first World Radio Convention to be held
within the Empire, and it opened in the
Great Hall of the Uni., with the speech
of the Duke of Gloucester wirelessly
telephoned from London. Our own
Ernest Fisk made a distinguished chair-
man. Haraden Pratt and Dr. J. D.
McGee helped to uphold the U.S.A.
The sociabilities were not scorned by
the visitors to the Radio Convention. The
first kickshaw was a banquet in the Aus-
tralia. The Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst' sat with officialdom at a table set
about with tall baskets of red roses.
Here Ernest Fisk presided, his wife
doing her part in a shimmer of lilac.
Flame and silver tissue gleamed in Lady
Wakehurst’s frock and short jacket. The
good-looking Mrs. Logie Baird was all
in white, and so was Mrs. Haraden Pratt
from U.S.A. Turquoise was Mrs. Hay-
burn’s color. Dame Mary Hughes
brought black laces and her decoration
to the feast.


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated in England by Royal Charter, 1835.)
The liability of members is limited.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the bank) . .. 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 4,500,000
£13,475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 1 Ith OCTOBER, 1937.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 31st MARCH, 1938.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at l Ith October
last, with the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing
for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes,
and making a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which account
provision for all bad and doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for the year
amounted to £309,500/15/6.
To this has to be added £193,329/3/4 brought forward from the previous year’s
account, making a total of £502,829/18/10. From this, £129,937/10/- was paid
as an Interim Dividend on Ist October last, and the Directors have now appropriated
a further sum of £ 167,062/10/- to pay a Final Dividend of 4/6 per Share, less
Income Tax at 3/6 in the £, making, in all, £297,000, equal to 8/- per Share, less
ax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate of 8 per cent., less Tax.
ere will remain £205,829/18/10 to be carried forward to the next account.
. dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on Ist
April.
„ Edmund Godward vacated the office of London Manager on 1 Oth April last.
e irectors wish to record their high appreciation of the invaluable work which,
during his lengthy service of 51 years, he has rendered to the Bank. Mr. G. C.
owan, who has been Secretary for several years, and has recently returned from a
engthy visit to Australia and New Zealand, has been appointed London Manager.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Rt. Hon. The Earl of Midleton, K.P., P.C.;
ona d Forsyth Anderson, Esq.; and Sir John Sanderson, K.8.E., who, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for
re-election.
, Since the date of the last Report, Branches have been opened in the Melbourne
Juourbs of Box Hill, Kew, and South Camberwell; in the Sydney suburbs of Burwood,
row s Manly, and Roseville; and at Dalby, Innisfail and Mackay, in Queens-
and. In addition, an Agency has been opened at Port Kembla, New South Wales.
. _ JOHN SANDERSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 21st March, 1938.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 13, 1936, TO OCTOBER 11, 1937. |
Balance brought forward from October, 1936 £193 329 3 4 <
Pr ° fi / the year t 0 october 11, 1937, after deducting Rebate
( £7083/5/2) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making a ' 2
transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account, out of which ]
account provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made .. £1,281,759 6 11 <
f.tss: i
!•—Charges of Management—Australia and New <
Zealand— ?
Salaries and allowances at 243 Blanches and j
Agencies . t £536,375 13 2 l
General Expenses 115,022 11 4 }
London— 2
Salaries and allowances.. .. .. ■.. 22,942 16 3 2
General Expenses, including Directors’ X
remuneration .. . . . . .. 28,153 311 Z
ll.—Rates and Taxes—
Australia, New Zealand and London ..
From which deduct—
Dividend paid October 1, 1937 ..
Dividend payable April 1, 1938 ..
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet .. . . .. .. . . .. .. £205 829 18 10
£702,494 4 8
269,764 6 9
972,258 11 5
129,937 10 0
167,062 10 0
- 309,500 15 6
£502,829 18 10
297,000 0 0 $
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 11, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. .. £2,773 0 0
Deposits at Interest .. .. 25,174,224 0 9
Current Accounts .. .. .. 15,601,239 19' 0
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
and other Liabilities, including
provision for contingencies . . 5,317,749 19 4
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra .. .. .. .. 403,059 9 5
£46,499,046 8 6
Capital:—-
900,000 Shares
of £5 each,
fully paid .. £4,500,000 0 0
(There i s
under the
Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business o f
the Bank) .. 2,475,000 0 0
Currency Re-
serve (used
in the busi-
ness of the
Bank) . . 2,000,000 0 0
Dividend pay-
able April 1,
1938 .. 167,062 10 0
Profit and Loss
Account
Balance .. 205,829 18 10
9,347,892 8 10
£55,846,938 17 4
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances
British Government Securities . .
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities and other
Investments
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit
Advances on Securities and other
Assets
Liability of Customers for Accept-
ances as per contra ..
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and London,
at Cost, less amounts written
off _
Note.—The Australian and
New Zealand assets and lia-
bilities are included at the par
rates of exchange, and the net
difference which would have
arisen had 'they been ’ converted
at the rates ruling at the date
of the Balance-sheet is covered
by Currency Reserves.
£10,055,805 8 4
2,113,057 1 4
6,289,354 17 9
2,917,106 13 4
33,460,836 17 11
403,059 9 5
607,718 9 3
£55,846,938 17 4
G. C. COWAN, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
l a i VC . the above Balance-sheet with the books of the Bank in
London and with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia
and New Zealand. We have verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Invest-
ments and Securities held in London. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required, and, in our opinion, the above Balance-sheet is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s
affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us
and as shown by the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors
London, 16th March, 1938.
VERY BEAUTIFUL!
and VERY NEW!
MAMMOTH LIGHTING WARE PIECES!
AN ALL-GLASS COCKTAIL BAR!
?. v*
Wj
.
i
H
Hi
n-,:
111
Mui
Daylight through solid walls—AGEE GLASS
BRICKS are becoming more popular every day.
Their popularity is due to their versatility, high
light transmission, maximum privacy, beautify-
ing qualities, comparatively low initial cost, low
maintenance cost, sound-deadening qualities,
resistance from attacks of moisture, vermin,
acid, non-absorption of grease.
Agee Glass Masonry has been passed for use as
fire-protective panels by the Fire and Accident
Underwriters’ Associations of Australia, subject
to certain simple fixing details being observed.
Agee Glass Bricks are now obtainable in a
variety of sizes and patterns. Details can be
obtained from the manufacturers—Australian
Window Glass Pty., Ltd.
The modern trend of improved lighting.
The artistic combination of new glass in the
most-recently-known decorations with metal,
and an infinite variety of colour and finishes.
Giant pieces of artistic blown ware in the world’s
latest colour combinations.
Achievements for the true artist and lover of
good glass.
A range that amazes and pleases.
A glass desk. An all-glass dressing table. A
cocktail bar, modern and of all glass.
Everything in glass.
Everything in really good glass.
Stand No. 128-133,
Hall of Industries, R.A.S.
Crown Crystal Glass Pty. Ltd. &
Australian Window Glass Pty. Ltd.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2128 of 1937.
BETWEEN JOHN HALL Petitioner
And ELAINE HALL Respondent.
TO ELAINE HALL formerly of Kirup Western
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOHN HALL
las commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Thirtieth day of June next and in the event
of your not doing sq within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of April One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
MARY ANN BRUTTON, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 19th day of October 1936 and made in an
action In the matter of the Estate of Mary
Ann Brutton deceased late of 18a Samos Koaa
Anerley in the County of Kent who died on
the 18th day of December 1933 the Public
Trustee against Brutton 1936.8.63 Whereby the
following inquiry was directed viz.: ■
An inquiry what person or persons upon
the death of the abovenamed Mary Ann
Brutton on 18th December 1933 became
beneficially entitled to any property ol hers
as to which she died intestate and for what
estates and interests and in what shares and
proportions and whether any such persons are
since dead and if they died entitled to any
vested share or interest who are their per-
sonal representatives.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled-under the said inquiry
are on or before the Ist day of July 1938 to
send by post prepaid to Norman George Welch
of 90 Cannon Street London E.C.4 their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders Thurs-
day the 14th day of July 1938 at 2.30 o clock
in the afternoon is the time appointed tor
adjudicating upon the claims before Master
Newman at the Chambers of the Judge Room
No. 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand Lon-
don. A claimant not residing in England or
Wales must send with particulars of his claim
the name and address of a person in England
or Wales to whom notices to the claimant can
be sent.
DATED this 22nd day of March, 1938.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master.
BENNETT, WELCH & CO., 90 Cannon
Street, E.C.4, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
NOTE. —The persons sought are (a) the
issue (if any) of the abovenamed Mary Ann
Brutton ( b ) John Brutton (a brother of the said
Mary Ann Brutton) who is stated to have emi-
grated to New South Wales and if he is dead
his issue (c) Henry Ford Brutton (a brother of
the said Mary Ann Brutton) who is stated to
have emigrated and if he is dead his issue and
(d) the issue of Richard Brutton (a brother of
the said Mary Ann Brutton) who died at Man-
chester in 1898.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
No. 83 of 1938.
BETWEEN ROB DAWSON McEWEN Plain-
tiff
And ROY ALBERT JACOBSON De-
fendant.
TO the abovenamed Defendant ROY ALBERT
JACOBSON formerly of 311 Gilles Street
Adelaide in the State of South Australia
and Mundy Street Port Adelaide in the
said State.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
Bth day of February 1938 commenced against
you and that the Plaintiff by his Writ of Sum-
mons for service in the State of South Australia
and concurrent Writ of Summons for service
out of the State of South Australia and in the
State of New South Wales or the State of Vic-
toria claims “That the partnership heretofore
subsisting between the Plaintiff and the De-
fendant under the style or firm name of Blend-
well Chemical Company be deemed dissolved
and That it be so declared accordingly and
That Kenneth William Neill of Grenfell Street
Adelaide in the State of South Australia Char-
tered Accountant (Australia) or some other
fit and proper person be appointed Receiver of
the partnership assets and That an account be
taken of the partnership dealings between the
Plaintiff and the Defendant and the partnership
affairs wound up” AND THAT by Order dated
the 29th day of March 1938 service of the said
Writ of Summons or concurrent Writ of Sum-
mons on you by this advertisement (inter alia)
was authorised AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that if you desire to defend the said
action you must within 21 days from the pub-
lication of this advertisement inclusive of the
day of such publication enter an appearance
at the Office of the Master Supreme Court Vic-
toria Square Adelaide in the State of South
Australia AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
THAT in default of such appearance the Plain-
tiff may proceed in the said action and judg-
ment may be given in your absence. A copy
of the said Order and Writ of Summons has
been posted to you at No. 7 Campbell Grove
Northcote Victoria.
DATED the Bth day of April, 1938.
L. A. WHITINGTON, DAVIES & WHIT-
INGTON, Epworth Building, Pirie Street, Adel-
aide, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 198 of 1938.
BETWEEN ADA BARBARA McQUILLAN
Petitioner
And ALEXANDER STURT McQUIL-
LAN Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER STURT McQUILLAN late
of Broken Hill New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADA BAR-
BARA McQUILLAN of 376 Cobalt Street
Broken Hill aforesaid has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the propei
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the First day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-eight and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of April, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
CECIL F. HURLEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Flemington on Saturday was the
scene of the biggest demonstration of
its resources yet staged by the R.A.A.F.
It drew a huge crowd, and there was
literal gate-crashing, the locks being
burst off closed gates. The stream of
motor-cars to the course constituted the
heaviest traffic yet seen on that route —
denser than a Melbourne Cup day.
Eighty-five ’planes took part in the dis-
play. Several squadrons flew very low
over the course and then passed over
the Zoo, where the animals were terri-
fied. Perhaps they had ancestral memo-
ries of pterodactyls. It was an impres-
sive spectacle and conducive to patriot-
ism, particularly at that stage where a
Wirr,away machine, completely made in
Australia, demonstrated its speed and
grace piloted by Squadron-leader Scher-
ger. Lastly, and most importantly, a
call for recruits through loudspeakers
was answered overwhelmingly, 7000
young men handing in application
forms during the afternoon. Now who
says Australia isn’t airminded?
In the comprehensive programme were
squadron formations, demonstrations of
low bombing, a battle royal waged upon
a munitions factory with smoke and noise
enough to thrill the children and wake up
all the babies who had thus far slept
peacefully through engine noises. There
were all sorts of aerobatics, balloon
chasing wherein each pilot competed in
cutting down floating balloons with his
propeller, and an interesting (and to
motorists) new kind of tow home. A
Moth with its propeller removed was tied
behind a Wapiti and seemed so comfort-
able in that position that it did stunts
en route. Profits from the day went to
Air Force charities.
Part of the members’ stand was re-
served for special guests, and included
Air Vice-Marshal Williams and his party,
various other Air Force officers and their
wives and a large number of political
people. The Federal Treasurer was there
with Mrs. Casey, who wore a grey suit
with a red-and-blue band on her grey
hat. Nearer to the members and jockeys'
stand (women racegoers had the unique
experience of entrance to the territory
sacred to men members of the V.R.C.)
were the Ross Grey Smiths. Mrs. Tom
Hudson was noticed in black, and Mrs.
Arthur Tilley in navy blue with a
quilted scullie cap on her fair page-boy
hair. Joyce Dixon and Block Whitehead,
who became engaged last week, were
there, Joyce wearing a pavement-blue suit
and accepting a spot of help from her
green-hatted fiance in being lifted over
the rail to join the foot danglers on the
edge of the grandstand parapet—once
attained, an excellent vantage point for
seeing all aircraft in the air and in the
arena.
Melbourne weather played no pranks
of temperament during the visits of the
Reliance and the Empress of Britain, but
went instead to the other extreme of
good behavior with two such flawless
days that the globetrotters will go back
to their wealthy homes singing the
praises of our sunshine, clear blue skies,
dustless drives in the hills and blaze of
autumn leaves along St. Kilda-road. It
certainly was a stroke of luck. Mel-
bourne would have been a dog with a
bad name if the cruise ships had
arrived during the previous week of
fierce north wind and red rain.
The Government Tourist Bureau
coped safely with the occasion. On the
second day, when both ships were at
Station Pier, 95 cars took the trippers for
drives through the city and up into the
hills, and coped also with parties of
stewards and stewardesses at cut ‘rates.
Traffic arrangements at Port Melbourne
were well carried out, and everything was
made easy for the six visitors with a pass
apiece allotted to each of the embarking
passengers on the Empress of Britain.
It wasn’t such plain sailing for the
people who claimed to have round-trip-
ping friends on board. Telephones, tele-
grams and furious waving from the pass-
less ones, like needles in the haystack of
the seething crowd on the wharf, were pre-
liminaries before the visiting Americans
were picked up and taken away to be
entertained privately. Owners of cars
which got on to the wharf in the late
afternoon were lucky if they didn’t have
dinner engagements, for everybody
wanted to leave at the same time, after
the ship had pulled out. The getaway
from Flemington on Cup day was some-
thing speedy in comparison.
Visitors to the Empress of Britain ad-
mired the three sports decks, swimming
pool, squash court, gymnasium, hanging
baskets of ferns on the sunporch deck
and the pink-and-grey theatre (though
there was some surprise expressed at its
pink ostrich-feather decorations). The
fact that the lowly “cabin” is no more
and that passengers occupy “apartments”
was also noted and absorbed. But Mrs.
Phillip Gell only got as far as the May-
fair lounge ; once there she had no wish
to roam further among the ten decks.
Her hobby is astrology, and she has
fathomed enough of its mysteries to have
her palm accustomed, to the crossing
of silver at charity carnivals and
gymkhanas.
In gold relief among the leadlights of
the Mayfair room are the signs of the
Zodiac, Taurus (the bull), Sagittarius,
Scorpio, Libra, Capricornus and Cancer
and all the other interesting and decora-
tive destinies. The Greek Horn of Plenty
is over each doorway, and at each end of
the leadlight ceiling are designs depicting
the abundance of Canada, its lush pro-
duce heaped into Indian canoes.
In Ronalcl Esler’s photograph is Peggy
Glanville Hicks, a young Australian
composer who has spent four years
abroad and whose holiday to Melbourne,
her home town, is lasting only a few
weeks. She has to be back in London
in June in connection with the perform-
ance of her suite for chorus and orches-
tra at the International Music Festival.
Miss Hicks studied piano and composi-
tion at the Albert-street Conservatorium,
and after she went to London won a
scholarship at the Royal College of
Music, and later a travelling scholarship
on which she went to Paris, Vienna and
Italy. She and her brothers, one of
whom is an architect and the other is
studying medicine, are the (family of
three belonging to Mr. and Mrs. E. Glan-
ville Hicks, of Barker’s-road, Auburn.
An event of the University Com-
mencement Week was the opening of the
Union House, when several hundreds of
people gathered in mass formation on
the lawn between the lake and the new
building. Erected for the occasion was
a platform spread with layers of red felt,
several chairs for official guests and a
couple of imposing thrones to seat the
Lieut.-Governor and the Chancellor.
Some of the speeches were on the long
side, so that the audience did a bit of
shifting its weight from foot to foot
before the Yale key was actually inserted
in the lock of the green door. Once
inside the crowd swept along through
the theatre and up a series of steep wind-
ing stairs, with consternation on every
landing, for from the bottorn no one
could see how much climbing lay ahead.
The destination achieved, a snug little
eyrie high up under the roof, was the
Ewing Art Gallery. Both the gallery and
the pictures, which are valued at several
thousands of pounds, are gifts from Dr.
and Mrs. S. A. Ewing and from George
Ewing. Those who were in the van of
the crowd did their climbing in time to
see Arthur Streeton unveil John Long-
staff’s portrait of Dr. Ewing, and a little
further on in another wing they watched
Helen Balfour, who is the president of
C.M.U.W., pass the key of the library tc
Dr. Rowden White, who declared open
the new and attractive browsing room
for students which has been called after
him.
Melbourne University students are for-
tunate in having such a fine Union
House, certainly worth waiting for
throughout the long tin-shed era. There
are the theatre with its well-proportioned
stage, high ceiling, good acoustics and
ventilation and pleasant white walls and
sapphire velvet curtains; a billiard-room
with several • tables; an aesthetically-
panelled library, a donation from Dr.
A. E. Rowden White. (The bocks hadn’t
arrived on the opening day owing to the
rush of finishing the building and hustling
the workmen out of the way. They got
out, but only just in time, running back
for an occasional ladder just before the
procession came round a near-by corner.)
At the top of an imposing red brick
stairway is a women’s lounge, large,
airy and well-lighted, and furnished in
green and brown. Opposite is a men’s
smokeroom, of equal size, but with a
more austere masculine background.
Steam heaters are in every room, and
there are also fireplaces. The dining-
room, with cafetaria, seems to equal the
floor space of the Town Hall, and it col-
lects cheerful sunshine at all hours of the
day through its full-length windows.
Another event of Commencement
Week was “Storm Song,” the University
Dramatic Club’s initial effort in the new
Union Theatre. Keith Mackartney pro-
duced this unusual play by Denis John-
ston, author of “The Moon in the Yellow
River.” The cast of 24, plus a bunch of
extra walking-on guests, showed signs of
his prolonged rehearsing. Among those
who had a lot to do were Frank Brooks
(as Szilard), who as well as straight
drama is partial to rfiusical comedy, and
is a member of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Society. Keith Dowding (Chenevix) off
the stage is at Queen’s and studying for
the ministry. Colin McAlpin was
Gordon King, a young man bound for
Russia, with blighted illusions. David
Thomas, who is at Ormond, played comic
relief Alf Quilt. Cynthia Sutton did well
in the small part of Sibby of the Crioch
Islands, and Hazel Upton gathered con-
fidence as the play progressed in the dif-
ficult role of Jal Joyce. Max Brodribb,
who’s an engineering student, deserves a
word for his sound effects of a storm off-
stage.
On the opening night the 499 spec-
tators (seating for 500 would have tied
up the dramatic club in the red-tape of
a fireman on duty) were guests of the
Union, a gesture extended in apprecia-
tion of help given during the Union
appeal. An official party was present
containing the Lieut.-Governor and the
Chancellor.
No one was in the least surprised when
Molly McAuley and Alan Scott, who
have been pals for a number of years,
went off quietly last week to the Collins-
street kirk to keep a prearranged date
with the Rev. James Forsyth. The
couple did noi announce Iheir engage-
ment as a preliminary to the ceremony,
and only a handful of relations were
asked to come along afterwards for cock-
tails and dinner at the Oriental. Anne
McAuley was bridesmaid, W. J. M.
McAuley gave his sister away and the
’groom’s brother, John Scott, was best
man. The honeymoon is a motor-
ing trip to Sydney, where doubtless the
newly-wedded pair will remain for
Easter, for, coupled with hunting, racing
is a favorite interest of both of them.
Their new home is a flat in Orrong-road.
Mrs. Scott’s photograph by Jack Cato.


BUILDING AUSTRALIA SERIES
m
,^' y m
The Courage of
McCAUGHEY
By dint of brains, courage and financial
genius, Samuel McCaughey rose from the
position of station overseer to wealth* and a
knighthood. He converted a large holding at
Narrandera, used mostly for cattle, into a
prosperous sheep run on which he demon-
strated the value of water conservation and
irrigation. Later constructing over 200 miles
of irrigation channels, he transformed rolling
sheep country into a veritable oasis. He spared
no effort to improve the standard of his
famous flocks .. . his wheat, oats and lucerne.
He was a pioneer and an inspiration to
Australian farmers.
To-day, others are continuing the develop-
mental work that Sir Samuel McCaughey
initiated along sound lines . . . and helping
them financially in their useful work stands
your bank . . . the Rural Bank.
As another part of its service, the Rural Bank
accepts interest-bearing Fixed Deposits from
£5 upwards and opens cheque accounts.
Money lodged with the Rural Bank enables
it to expand its useful functions.
fd
f
df
d
fd
f
df
Rural Bank
OF ♦ NEW* SOUTH ♦ WALES
Head Office . . . MARTIN PLACE . . . SYDNEY
Commissioners
C. R. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Miss 1938 rocked with mirth when
sports wear of the ’nineties and the early
years of the present century were demon-
strated at the revue staged at the City
Hall by members of the Brisbane
Women’s Hockey Association. Lady
golfers, very nipped as to the waist and
long as to skirt, bathing belles with
neck-high, long-sleeved garments in two
pieces, the lower half reaching well
below the knees, and cycling ladies with
“gem” sailor hats perched atop of their
heads contrasted with girls in the looser
and lesser wear of to-day.
Mrs. A. Courlander, of London (Rita
Collins, of Brisbane, that was), is en route
to Australia, and after spending a few
weeks in Sydney with her mother will
come to Brisbane to visit her sister Mrs.
Ewald Gross. Rita is a cousin of Brisbane
composer Arthur Benjamin, and before
she married Mr. Courlander was Mrs.
George Brown. Daughter Nancy was
• the Maid in the screen version of “Maid
of the Mountains.” Music is in the
blood Uncles Abe and Mo Barrington,
two well-known Brisbane identities, were
stars with opera companies in the long
past.
Every road leading to Stanthorpe
heard the hum of motors as guests sped
to the wedding of Judith Valerie Mar-
shall, daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Mar-
shall, of Mt. Malakoff, and Gordon
Douglas, son of Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Douglas, of Brisbane. Bride wore a
Grecian gown of white cloque, with a
silver thread woven into the fabric, and
a matching bolero. Judith Beet, of Beau-
desert, one of our champion golfers, and
Jocelyn Marshall, the bride’s sister, were
a brace of attractive ’maids.
Two of our best-known Western
families were linked when Peggy, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Stumm,
of Clayfield, and formerly of
Downs, Longreach, was married to John,
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. James
Crombie, of Beryl, Longreach. The
Voice was heard at Scots kirk, Clayfield,
which was bright with red roses and gar-
lands of antignon. The bridal gown was
of magnolia satin, cut on classic lines,
and veil of cut tulle. Nancy and Nell
Stumm, in misty-blue net over satin
and quaint French caps, ’maided.
Another important wedding was that
of Mrs. Nell Macarthur, daughter of the
late Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Gribb, and Clem,
son of C. L. and the late Mrs. Fox. The
wedding was celebrated at the home of
Dr. and Mrs. N. L. Sherwood, Toowong,
without bridesmaids. There was a cock-
tail-party at the Sherwood home alter
the ceremony. Bride defied superstition
in two shades of green—lily-green frock
and moss-green coat and har.
Some new engagements are providing
the four-o’clockers with lots of talk.
Beryl Collins, daughter of Mrs. William
Collins, of Nindooimbah, and Robert He
Burgh Persse, of Wyambyn, are one pair,
and Pam Persse, of Tabragalba, Beau-
desert, and Percy Cooper, or
Warra, another. Marjorie Kent, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Bill Kent, of Jondaryan,
also is wearing a new ring. Her lucky
young man is Jan Elliott, of Winton.
A boudoir cap which was worn by
Queen Alexandra on her honeymoon and
a Chinese opium set of filigree silver
over 200 years old, together with quan-
tities of antiques ranging from samplers
in fine cross-stitch to old silver and
glass, were displayed in the exhibition
of antiques and handcrafts which was
run in aid of the funds of the miscel-
laneous stall at the Government House
fete. Mrs. F. H. Barber and Mrs. E. L.
Harris are the conveners of the stall, and
Mrs. L. J. Harvey had the job of gather-
ing in the curios and' ancient treasures
for the show. Lieut.-Governor Blair
opened the show.
Evelyn Gedge, of Bombay, who is visit-
ing Brisbane under the auspices of the
Q’land State Council of the Australian
Student Christian Movement, is the guest
of Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson at Gov-
ernment House.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The vice-regal Dugans, with their new
staff—Captain R. E. G. Mortimer and
T. M. Steele, aides-de-camp, and Mar-
jorie Forbes, private secretary to Lady
Dugan—arrived in the Orford after a
dreadfully rough passage through the
Bight. Lady Dugan had been hurled
across the saloon, and a large couch
had struck her on the head, giving her
concussion ; she was also very bruised.
His Ex. had come into collision with a
table, so they will have occasion to
remember their return trip to South
Australia.
To welcome Lady Dugan home
Government House was simply
smothered with floral tributes, and
the recipient said that at every port
throughout the trip flowers ordered by
Australians both in England and Aus-
tralia were showered upon her.
At the Town Hall representatives of
seven patriotic leagues and societies
united to welcome back his Ex. and
Lady Dugan. The stage was massed
with huge brass bowls of mixed dahlias.
Kathleen Kyffin Thomas, secretary of
the Victoria League, presented Lady
Dugan with a posy of Cecil Brunner
rosebuds tied with pale-pink satin
ribbon. Knight Lavington Bonython,
who is president, represented the Royal
Society of St. George.
Biddy Cummins was hostess at a
cocktail party at her home at Toorak
Gardens to say farewell to W. C.
McCann, son of the Agent-General in
London, who has been spending a few
weeks in Australia. Pink dahlias and
phlox were used to decorate the recep-
tion-rooms.
The women members of the Mount
Osmond Country Club held their first
party of the season on a very warm day,
and frocking was of the lightest. The
spacious lounge was gay with floral
decoration in autumn tones. Golf,
tennis and bridge were all enjoyed.
Hawthorn kirk was the scene of the
wedding of Alister, younger son of Dr.
and Mrs. H. N. Turner, of Castle
Bytham, Rutland, England, to Florence,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. Neil
McGilp, of King’s Park. The bride’s
magnolia satin gown was trained, and
the tulle bridal veil was held in place by
a coronet of orange blossom. Bride’s
sister Mary, cousin Pamela Reid and
Constance Martin were bridesmaids,
frocked alike in picture gowns of ombre
taffeta and caps of autumn flowers. A
reception was. held afterwards at the
South Australian.
The statue of Colonel Light, who fixed
the site of Adelaide against keen oppo-
sition from Governor Hindmarsh, has
been removed from the middle of King
William-street, by the G.P.0., where it
has stood since erected in 1906. The
practical reason for removal was sup-
posed obstruction to traffic, the senti-
mental one a wish to have the “founder”
on the new North Adelaide lookout,
above the Cathedral, Oval and river, his
hand pointing downward with a “Let it
be there” gesture. The bronze statue
proved strangely light—under a ton ; but
the granite base took some lifting.
WESTRALIA.
To celebrate the opening of W.A.’s
new Pearce Airport the Naval and
Military Club gave a dance in the club-
rooms. Miniature flags festooned the
walls, and cunningly-mirrored electric
candles made a festive background for
the gay uniforms and decorations snorted
by the menfolk and the best bibs and
tuckers of their wives. Colonel and
Mrs. Margolin stood at attention in the
lounge, her creamy moulded satins
sprayed with o.s. blue flowers. Among
the guests was Major-General Philip
Quartermaster-General of the Army
Headquarters, Melbourne, who is over
here on a short visit.
On their twenty-first birthday the
Cuthbert twins, Betty and Frank, of Mt.
Lawley, invited hordes of young things
to sip and dance at the Karrakatta Club
at cocktail-time. Mrs. R. Cuthbert pre-
sided over the doings in braided black
crepes and matching headgear, and
Betty coped with congratulations in black
cloque panelled from neck to floor with
floral lame.
Dorothy Burge’s attainment of voting
rights was marked by two parties—one
for the younger fry at the London
Tavern by candlelight and the other an
affair for older family friends at the
Burges’ home in the hills.
The C. H. Guys poured six-o’clock
drinks in honor of daughter Dorothy,
another new voter, at their Adelaide
Terrace home.
For Karrinyup Country Club’s open-
ing dance of the season members rolled
up in force with carloads of guests.
Newly-weds of the year figured largely
in the ballroom. Brian Simpson guided
his willowy brunette in be-strapped and
flowing scarlet ninons, Mrs. Frank
Ruse’s white satin sheath was a fitting
foil for her raven locks and golden skin,
and Mrs. Gordon Law flung gold-dust
spots over her deep blue-green crepes.
Wesley Church was the setting for the
exchange of vows between Daisy Jenkin-
son and Victor Cerini of Mt. Lawley.
The wedding garment of white embossed
satin was deeply yoked, with double
tulle outlined with appliqued satin roses.
The flowing train was edged with double
tulle and appliques, and a coronet of
orange blossom held the foams of tulle
veiling. Bride’s and ’groom’s sisters
attended in draped gold satin over which
fell matching tulle veils sprayed with
gold sequins and held with a glittering
gold butterfly.
TASMANIA.
A group of hostesses, Mrs. Holman,
Mrs. Harris, Mrs. C. Craig and Mrs. J. B.
White, engineered a jolly dance at Dr.
and Mrs. Holman’s house as a farewell
to Mr. and Mrs. Guy Natusch, who are
leaving Launceston to settle in Sydney.
Lovely flowers in masses and gaily-
colored balloons made a bright back-
ground for the dancers. Mrs. Natusch
was in black-and-gold lacquered satin.
Bessie Crisp was given a foursome en-
tertainment the other night, one among
many pre-wedding parties. A group of
her friends, with herself as chief guest,
met at the Grays’ house for cocktails and
soup, went on to the Harrie Thompsons’
for the meat course, to the Courthopes’
for sweets and finished up with the Basil
Crisps for supper and dancing.
Mrs. A. G. Pegler gave a good-bye
party to a number of her Launceston
friends at the Launceston Hotel before
going back to her home in Western
Queensland. Gladioli and dahlias, with
marigolds in different shades of yellow
and gold, were used in decoration. The
hostess wore a black-and-white turnout,
with a spray of violets and autumn-
leaves. Mrs. Pegler has been staying for
months in the Speck with her sister, Mrs.
C. Ryan, at Newstead House.
Launceston’s main social do recently
was the opening of the Riverside Golf
Club. Golfers from far and near rolled
up, the weather was perfect, and presi-
dent and Mrs. Docking entertained over
200 guests at tea during the afternoon.
The day was rounded otf by a dance at
the Clubhouse.
Mrs. E. O. Bisdee was supported by
her two sons, Alan and Lewis, at the
late-afternoon party which she gave at
Hadley’s. About 100 guests enjoyed the
function. Mrs. Bisdee’s all-black rig was
very smart. A big centrepiece represent-
ing a gondola full of flowers was on the
long buffet table, and masses of pink and
gold dahlias made color about the lounge.
The two Bethune girls, Mary and
Helen, ran a bridge party at their own
home in aid of the Crippled Children’s
fund. Mrs. John Chisholm and daughter
Jeanne did the same thing at Kinnoul,
Holebrook-place.
Vice-Admiral and Mrs. Alister Beal
sailed for England in the Orcades.
Before leaving they returned hospitality
by bidding a throng of guests to tea. at
Hadley’s.


HOTSPOTS PROM HISTORY
. THE REAL REASON WHY
NELSON DIDN'T SEE THE
SIGNAL AT COPENHAGEN'
f*L
-/ m
2\
A IN
.of '
Si
HE WAS
LISTENING
TO ONE
OF THE
NEW
AUDIOSCOPIC
PHIL
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
. l
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PAGE STATION BOOK
Mil
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount ol useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Statu—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
r
RADIO NEHS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
demagnetising Coil.
It is essential that the magnets in a
ribbon-type microphone of the perma-
nent-magnet type be magnetised to
saturation, otherwise the output from the
microphone will be very low. The ex-
perimenter making such a microphone
usually adapts magnets from old-type
magnetic loudspeakers; they should be
remagnetised before assembling.
It is a simple matter to make up a
coil for the purpose. It consists of 196
turns of No. 16 D.C.C. copper wire
wound in 14 layers of 14 turns each. A
winding form is shown at A. In order
to recharge a magnet, a piece of cold
rolled steel of the same cross section is
needed. The coil is slipped over one
leg of the magnet and the open ends
bridged with the piece of steel. This
completes the path for the charging flux.
The two ends of the coil are connected
to the terminals of a fair-sized six-volt
accumulator. This connection need not
be made for more than a second, as the
magnetising process is instantaneous.
Current drain will be about 12
amperes, well within the limitations of
the average car or radio accumulator.
Such remagnetising coil will be useful
for treating small permanent magnets of
all kinds, and is a handy thing to have in
the service workshop.
D. B. K.
New Sirufer Iron Cores.
Since the modern iron-dust core
appeared in Australia a little over two
years ago, the Sirufer “cross” type in-
troduced by Ducon
Condenser Co. has
become practically
standard in most
com m e r cial re-
ceivers. Now come
several new core
shapes, one being
in the form of a
plug with a
threaded brass in-
sert, which is par-
ticularly useful
where an induct-
ance-tuned inter-
mediate frequency
transformer is re-
quired for superhet
receivers. An in-
ductance variation
of plus or minus
10 p.c. from the
mean value is avail-
able. The per-
formance obtain-
able with inter-
mediate assemblies
using this type of
core depends
greatly on the
quality of the
honeycomb wind-
ings, and is com-
parable with the
best air-core prac-
tice.
Another type is
that of a roller core
with flanges. This is a particularly high-
quality core, with good mechanical fea-
tures. The flange at each end is moulded
just the right diameter to fit snugly 12mm.
outside diameter paxolin tubing. Thus it
is suited for use in high-impedance aerial
and R.F. couplers. This core has a very
high effective permeability, resulting in
a high Q over the broadcast spectrum,
due to a greater mass of mixture than
is found in the standard roller or cross
core.
Finally there is the “pillbox” core,
which includes a moulding in the shape
of a cylindrical box fitting over the core.
The box acts as a shield and completes
an efficient magnetic circuit at the same
time. With this type of core extremely
compact assemblies are made possible,
and small tuning condensers and high in-
ductors will give high gain, whilst the
high Q ensures excellent selectivity. De-
velopments such as these new Sirufer
cores make for still higher efficiency in
the tuned circuits of modern radio re-
ceivers.
D. B. K.
1st Div. Signals A.I.F.
Association.
On Anzac Day, April 25 next, the re-
union luncheon of Ist Divisional
Signals A.I.F. will be held, after the
march, at the Austral Salon, 152 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. The hon. secretary
of the association, L. T. Pearce, 11 Bligh-
street, Sydney, wants to hear from those
intending to be present.
Radio Comment.
“Norwood”: The 8.8. C. has inaugu-
rated a “wired wireless” service, which
cable agencies apparently regard as an
innovation in the Old Dart. Actually it
started in 1927, when a private company
put in an installation at Clacton-on-Sea.
Later on operations were extended to
Hull, where alternative programmes have
been available for some years at Is. 6d.
per week for the service, and an extra 6d.
per week until the speaker is paid for.
The company finds its own wiring. The
last figures I have available are for 1935,
when 100,000 out of 5,000,000 British
listeners were served by wire instead of
wireless. When one person out of every
fifty was connected in those days, it is
reasonable to suppose that the percen-
The Philips-Miller sound-recording system in use at the
B.N.C.’s auxiliary studios at Maida Vale, London. Sound is
recorded on film in very much the same way as for
talking-pictures. In the centre is the double turntable record-
ing and reproducing machine. The amplifiers for this equip-
ment are mounted on the rack in the foreground. The
rectifiers for supplying power to these amplifiers are mounted
on the rack in the background.
tage is much higher to-day, and may have
something to do with the 8.8.C.’s sudden
show of interest. Incidentally, it is more
than strange that greater attention has
not been paid to this avenue for dis-
seminating television programmes—
wiring would cut down immensely the
cost of some of the dearest components
in the television receiver.
Television and the Radio
Trade.
In his general survey of television at
Sydney Uni. on 6/4/’3B, J. L. Baird
claimed that television is already com-
mercially practicable in Australia. If
radio manufacturers were to take a keen
interest in television, he said, there would
be the same technical knowledge and
keen competition that there are to-day in
England.
Baird dealt with television from the
beginning, illustrating his lecture with
lantern slides and a modern television
receiver and accessories.
Chairman E. T. Fisk raised the point
that there had been a monetary loss in
the operation of television services so
far. L. P. R. Bean, vice-president of
I.R.E. (Aust.), disagreed with the view
that television is 10 years away from
Australia. Asked for a prophecy as to
the future of television the lecturer sur-
mised that as large screen projection
develops it will actually supersede the
cinema. Furthermore large screen tele-
vision will be developed in natural color
and with stereoscopic effect.
D. B. K.
Television and the Amateur.
Major-General J. J. Harbord, of
Radio Corporation of America, in Syd-
ney for the World Radio Convention,
has had something to say on the future
of television. Television is not yet being
developed commercially in the U.S., a
there is no great sale of seceivers
development is so rapid that existing se
may possibly become obsolete within six
months. For the test broadcasts from
top of the New York Empire State bui -
ing, receivers are distributed by R-'-'-
among experts and capable amateurs o
supply reports on transmissions.
There seems to be no foundation tor
reports that Sydney is likely to have a
television station in action in the nea
future. Baird himself denies that he nas
come to Sydney with any commercia
intentions, and the E.M.I. representative
remains completely silent on the subject.
But when the time does come for tele-
vision transmissions in Australia, h will
be well to take a leaf out of the R.C-A.
book and seek the co-operation of ex-
perimenters of the right kind. Radio
grew up out of the beginnings of the ex-
perimenter, and it seems that television is
following suit.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
VKSZU, of Prospect, S.A., has emu-
lated VK2NO’s effort by putting 56mc.
C.W. signals across the Tasman to M.L.,
copiable at RB. With two VKs having
been logged in M.L. on 56mc., it now
remains for a ZL to get a good TX into
action and to secure the first two-way.
Word comes from H. K. Love
(VK3KU), president of the ’phone sec-
tion of Vic. division of W.1.A., of a big
onslaught on 56mc. DX arranged for
21 /5 / ’3B on a 24-hour basis. Three
camps are to be formed at elevated posi-
tions where 240 A.C. is available, each
to have stations on 14mc., 28mc. and
56mc. respectively. Americans and Eng-
lishmen have been notified, and it is
hoped that this time some 56mc. results
will go into the bag. There is a good
chance for VK2’s on 56mc. during this
test, as when beams are aimed for
U.S.A. the signal path will just about
take in the N.S.W. coastline. The Vic.
Directional 56mc. transceiver designed
by VK2NO. The aerial is of the square
Reinartz type and rotatable.
division is to be commended on the
organisation of such a test, which is in
distinct contrast to the U.H.F. apathy in
the VK2 division.
The 14mc. band suffers many changes.
Two weeks ago Europeans couldn’t be


Tradesmen’s
TOOL
CATALOGUE
m
POSTED FREE
& KIRBY'S 60-
page, profusely illus-
trated, Tool Catalogue is
just off the press. It con-
tains Tools suitable for
every Tradesman as well
as Power Machinery, etc.
Write or call for your
FREE copy.
fIOCK &,
**»
GEORGE S T.. SY D N E Y
o
33 fa
Si
i
m
twii** 1
aw.
ste
PsM
<sw«: :
&
mz
<sss
feSSS
sa»
MOTORING
KS
l\\>
Z*'
H
CAMPING
m
■*m M
m
m.
BY THE BEDSIDE
m j nfiwi
‘•4**
Jrf Nature has equipped the cat with "eyes
* that see inthe dark"—but foryou to move
around safely at night, or to do any of those
countless little jobs that so often need doing
after sunset—YOU MUST CARRY A TORCHI
Dependable Ever Ready Torches—fitted with
"factory fresh" Ever Ready Torch Refills—
shed light on many a dark subject. Helped by
its friendly brilliance, the motorist fixes a "flat"
tyre more easily, the lost camper finds his
way back, the householder feels more secure.
If you haven't got a torch, BUY ONE
TO-DAY. If you have got one, keep it
loaded. You may need it to-nightl
Ever Ready
TORCHES- REFILLS
EVER READY CO. (AUST.J PTY. LTD., Sydney
T7A.
If your radio set is out of
tune, the trouble may be just
one valve. Have your valves
tested by modern equipment
and remember to . . .
R E'VALVE W| tu
■
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
heard in Sydney in the mornings until the
sun had risen over the horizon. Now Gs
are conspicuous with strong signals at
about 3 a.m. On the morning of 3/4/’3B
the writer had an hour’s QSO with
GM6JH in Linlithgow, Scotland, with R 8
signals at both ends and no fading.
QRM was also completely absent.
Tests have been conducted by the
writer with U.S.A. and Canada compar-
ing a vertical J-type
aerial with the Jones
horizontal 67ft. sys-
tem. Contact with
VE3ZL in Toronto
showed R 9 ’phone at
both ends, and a
change to the hori-
zontal aerial produced
a drop of three Rs.
The Canadian was
also using a vertical
half-wave aerial.
When working with
several Ws, the use of
the vertical aerial re-
sulted in a heavy drop
in signal strength, ac-
companied by a flut-
tering type of high-
speed fading, and the
horizontal aerial re-
stored signals to good
strength minus the
fading. Tests on re-
ception, using both
aerials alternatively,
show the same effect
reported by the over-
seas stations. It pays
to observe reception
on various aerials be-
fore transmitting. If
a strong, steady signal
is heard on one aerial,
then that is the aerial
for transmission in
that particular direc-
tion. The ideal rotary
system would pro-
vide for both rotation and tilting from
horizontal to vertical.
The Pitcairn Island station, previously
signing VR6A, has added a Y to the
call, presumably in honor of the new
owner, Andrew Young. This station was
heard making history last week by two-
way ’phone communication with GSML,
in Kenilworth, England. Quite a long
stretch from a lonely mid-Pacific Island,
and doubly interesting in view of its
ancient associations.
A bright magazine dealing with the
affairs of English amateurs is the
“Short-wave Magazine,” of which G6FO
is now editor. Some very good techni-
cal articles have appeared in recent
issues. The February issue has two use-
ful articles on aerial design, one dealing
with practical aerials for the average loca-
tion, and a great deal of information on
short-wave broadcasting stations.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
Australians are well ahead in the
B BC. s choice of Empire broadcasting
artists. During the last months of 1937
Inside the, directional 5.6mc. transceiver. Valves are 76
and 41, and power supply 180-volt B battery, with six-volt
accumulator.
representation of the various Dominions
was: —■
Engage-
Artists. ments.
Australia 63 126
Canada and West Indies .. 25 60
South Africa .. .. 29 54
Maoriland .. .. .. 24 43
* * * *
On 29/3/’3B, the Waverley (N.S.W.)
Radio Club, the oldest in the State, held
its nineteenth annual reunion. Founda-
tion member Malcolm Perry, who was a
guest of honor, in proposing the toast of
the club traced its history and mentioned
that he first punched a Morse key 33 years
ago. He argued, too, that radio ama-
teurs had a good case for a Government
subsidy in the formation of a national
emergency network for defence pur-
poses. Practically every country town
now had one or two amateur stations,
and these could be of great value.
Overseas Ultra-short-wave
Broadcasters.
Many U.S.A. stations around the ten-
and five-metre marks are broadcasting
on ultra-shorts. Although the higher fre-
quencies are not likely to be heard often,
if at all, in Australia, the nine-metre sta-
tions can be heard on occasions, mostly
between 7 a.m. and noon Sydney time.
This list gives details of several stations,
and may be of use to listeners interested
in reception below 12 metres:
Monumental Radio Co. W3XES,
35.6mc., Baltimore, Md., uses 300 watts
to a half-wave vertical aerial 165 ft. above
ground. Schedule time (local) is 6 p.m.
to midnight.
W3XEY, 31.6mc., Baltimore, Md.
Operates from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
Power is 100 watts to a half-wave dipole
244 ft. above ground. Report list of this
station now totals eight countries. Ad-
dress, Baltimore Radio Show Inc.
WIXEQ, 31.6mc., New Bedford, Mass.
2 p.m. to 6 p.m. daily. Power 100 watts
to single-wire fed aerial one-half wave
long. Address, E. Anthony and Sons
Inc.
WIXER, 41.0mc. Located on the sum-
mit of Mt. Washington at 6000 ft. 500
watts power. Address, Yankee Networks,
Brookline-avenue, Boston, Mass.
W9XJL, 26.1mc. This station is heard
consistently overseas. Address, Lakes
Broadcasting Co., Superior, Wis.
WBXH, 41mc., Buffalo, N.Y. Operates
from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. and 5.45 to 9 p.m.
Uses turnstile non-directional aerial.
Address, c/o WBEN, Hotel Statler.
W2XQO, Flushing, N.Y., 26.550mc.
Address, Knickerbocker Broadcasting
Co., 1697 Broadway, New York.
W2XHG, 41mc., New York. 9 a.m.
to midnight. Address, N.B.C. Rocke-
feller Plaza.
W3XKA, 31.6mc. 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
daily. Fifty watts power to a half-wave
vertical aerial 350 ft. above ground.
Reports to Westinghouse Electric Co.
W3XEX, 26.05mc.,. Norfolk, Va.
Fifty watts power to half-wave vertical
aerial 200 ft. above ground. Address for
reports, c/o WTAR Radio Corporation.
WIXEH, . 63.5mc., Hartford, Conn.
Address, c/o Travellers’ Broadcasting
Service.
W9XER, 31.6mc., Kansas City, Mo.
W9XPD, 31.6mc., St. Louis, Mo. Re-
broadcasts from KSD from 9 a.m. to
1 a.m. daily. Half-wave vertical aerial.
Station has been heard in six countries.
Address, Pulitzer Publishing Co.
WSXAU, 31.6mc., Oklahoma City.
Transmits programmes of WKY from
12 noon to 2 p.m., 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. and
11.30 p.m. to 12.30 a.m. daily. Radiates
100 watts from horizontal half-wave
doublet 175 ft. above ground. Address,
WKY Radiophone Co.
W9XHW, 31.6mc., Minneapolis, Minn.
9 a.m. to 12.30 a.m. daily. Fifty watts
to a vertical aerial 180 ft. above ground.
Address Nicollet Hotel.
W9XOK, 35.6mc., St. Louis, Mo. 100
watts to half-wave vertical aerial 385 ft.
above ground,
W9XBS, 4line., Chicago 111 Vertical
radiator 600 ft. above ground. Power 50
watts.
W4XCA, 31.6mc., Memphis, Tenn 10
a.m. to 10 p.m. daily with 250 watts to
horizontal half-wave doublet 110 ft. above
ground.
W9XAZ, 26.4mc 500 watts From
1 p.m. to 12 a.m. Address, The Journal
Co.
Other stations known to be actiye with
u.-s.-w. broadcasting in U.S.A. include
WIXKA, WIXKB, W2XDG, W2XDV
W4XBW, WBXAI, WBXKA, WBXWJ
and W9XUP.
Radio Nations——Australian
Schedule.
T cm • i ,
J e Nations broadcasting
statlon . Radio Nations, transmits for
Australla and ML. each Monday. Times
of transmission are:—l/5/’3B to
qmT'' 1 f 6 f3B SsS HBO
Sni HRlnfim ruT uL HB ?’
n't » , “J o** 0 **
2a64 me”es (14 535 kc ) J ° n
inquiries regarding these broadcasts
should be addressed to the Information
Section, League of Nations Secretariat,
Geneva.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
Otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I have a Raytheon rectifier of the BH
type, and 1 wish to use it in a small medium-
voltage power supply. Can you give me a
circuit showing how to connect the tube ?—657.
Here it is. It will be seen that this is a fila-
mentless rectifier of the gaseous type.
* * * *
Reference is made in B. 30/3/’5B to the
properties of catalin. Can this material be
obtained in Australia ?—658.
Yes, from Thomas Herbert and Co., 137-139
Clarence-street, Sydney.


Salt FODDER (Mineralised)
Manufactured by
VITA-LICK, LTD.
For Supplementary
Sheep Feeding.
After using a half-ton of the Salt
FODDER (Mineralised) manufac-
tured by Vita-Lick, Ltd., Mr. G. L.
Burgess, of Molong, reported excel-
lent results and expressed his full
confidence in this FODDER.
£9/10/- per LONG TON.
Delivered at Wharf or Rail-head,
Sydney.
Obtainable from Vita-Uck Agents in
all Sheep and Cattle Centres.
VITA-LICK, LTD.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney.
IP
US
MANAGING THE DRY SPELL.
“Tri-cal”: Don’t forget in your down-
heartedness because you have had to
move your sheep so far for pasture that
they can do well on the feeding stuffs
available in dry season provided that
they are given a good phosphate mix-
ture. A liberal use of Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour is of great assistance, enabling the »
stock to make the best use of the poor,
coarse fodders which are generally low
in feeding value. The simple Tri-cal-os
and salt mixture I think has helped to
maintain my sheep in all-round good
condition, and it can do as much for
yours. I got the folder about using it . ■>
from Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Tell them you are interested
in wool. Old Farmer.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
BEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Small Clips.
“C.V.S.”: “Albarmount” (B. 20/3/’3B)
overestimates the cost of treating a
15,0001 b. clip in store. Usual charges are
id. per pound for reclassing and fd. for
bulk-classing.
A clip of 15,0001 b. would contain,
about 40 per cent, oddments, leaving
90001 b. of fleece for Cost at
fd. per pound would be £l4 Is. 3d., with,-
perhaps, a few shillings for bulk-classing
odd unmatchable fleeces, as against
“Albarmount’s” estimate of £3l 55..
In mixed clips oddments may be kept
even enough for sale by drafting.
Sheafing time for the 2000 sheep or
thereabouts would be about two weeks in.
a two-stand shed. So a classer at £7 per
week would be preferable to store class-
ing. Classing rates are by individual
arrangement in sheds of under 3000
sheep. !
Lots marked “reclassed” in the brokers’
catalogues have the confidence of buyers,
and at least one Vic. store has treated
and pressed over 9000 bales on the class-
ing floor for the present season. Clips
ranged from four to one hundred bales
and averaged about 12 bales per clip.
“Murrawong”: By sending his clip
to a reliable firm which specialises in
pooling, the owner knows that it will be
handled by expert woolmen closely in
touch with market needs. It will be sold
in the “big lots,” thus meeting full market
competition. There has been ample
evidence this year that the prices thus
obtained more than pay for the small
handling charge.
Practically every market report within
the past few weeks has complained of
the faulty preparation of small clips
now reaching the catalogues. Gn a good
market, these badly classed clips would
have been bought cheaply by local specu-
lators. To-day, repackers are off the
market, and the Japanese, who used to
pay good prices for unclassed wool, are
also beginning to discriminate.
Some Continental buyers operate in
these lines. They state frankly that they
can get their wools sorted in their own
countries at a fraction of the local cost,
and that so long as they can buy un-
classed wools cheaply enough they will
take them. . The owner who puts his
wool on the market badly classed is
therefore not only suffering directly by
having his clip bought under market
rates, but is giving employment to cheap
labor overseas at the expense of Aus-
tralians.
Sheep on the Coast.
“Cockyson”: Sheep could be made a
profitable proposition on the coast in
many localities.
At present only handfuls are main-
tained on improved areas. Wool was
the staple industry of many of our
pioneer coastal squatters. It was only
when a run of exceptionally good seasons
compelled sheepmen to seek drier coun-
try that the coast was abandoned.
Considerable tracts of country which
now carry a few head of cattle, could
with advantage be stocked With sheep.
The coarser grass could be made palat-
able by keeping it fresh and short
through frequent burning-off. Thick
country could gradually be improved
by systematic and judicious thinning out
of small timber and undergrowth, the
foliage of which in many cases is readily
eaten by sheep.'
In times of : feed scarcity a liberal
supply of fodder could'be provided in
this way. The sheep would also eat the
shoots of suckering stumps and roots.
In wet weather flocks could be kept
on the hills, the lowlands being grazed
during the- drier months. In some dis-
tricts' sheep at night might have to,-be
confined against the dingo ; but systematic
laying of baits should overcome that
trouble. Dingoes were more numerous
80 and 100 years ago than they are
to-day.
Lambs for Overseas Markets.
“Ghanam”: John Hammond, director
of the Animal Nutrition Institute at Cam-
bridge University, spoke some home
“Never seen ’er take to anyone so quick before, lad.”
truths to the Victorian Farmers’ Con-
' vention the other day. He said that
recent investigations in Britain showed a
new trend in food consumption. It'had
been found that those in good position
ate a lot of fruit and little bread, while
poorer families made bread a staple and
saw little fruit. Well-to-do families were
strong on lamb ; those with middle-class
incomes plumped primarily for nautton
and pork. Then came a stratum of pork-
and beef-feeders, but the poor rarely saw
any meat but beef.
The trend was towards smaller joints,
in keeping with the smaller families and
the habit of mealing away from home.
Quality and price counted heavily in
securing a market. Prices dropped enor-
mously with the increase in joint sizes.
In lamb-breeding the butcher has to
be considered. His profits come from
high-class leg, shoulder and loin cuts,
and the development of these joints is
a matter on which the breeder must keep
a particular eye. Legs largely determine
the price of an animal, and the first stage
of improvement in lambs must be to
shorten the leg. Breeders in Britain and
the Argentine are earnestly engaged on
improving lamb types through competi-
tions," and Australia must learn from
them and breed an early-maturing type
with a high flesh-and-fat-to- bone propor-
tion.
In overseas contests, awards are usu-
ally made on the basis of 10 points for
width and fullness of loin, 30 for legs
short-boned and well-filled and 10 points
for fat. Twenty points are awarded for
proper proportion of fatting over the
loin, 15 points for depth and size of eye
muscle, 10 points for rib covering and
five points for lean-meat color.
Dr. Hammond remarked that, while the
ideal animal came from crossbreeding,
the kind of crossbreeding indulged in by
some Australians which tended to pro-
duce an “agricultural zoo” of varying
types was all wrong. Hard culling was
needed.
Wool and Artificials.
“Merino”: R. Marston, head of the
C.S. and I.R. Nutrition Research Insti-
tute at Adelaide, apparently holds the
same views as The Bulletin about the
measures most needed to combat arti-
ficial-wool competition and the danger
of high values.
Marston, who has been abroad for a
year on research work, says, that the
German artificial-wool industry is mak-
ing great progress, but that, the cloth pro-
duced is in no way a competitor with
wool, fie thinks there is not much to
fear so long as wool can be produced
at a reasonable price:—■
Very high prices for wool are really
dangerous for Australia because such prices
favor the establishment of the artificial-
wool industry in countries other than those
which are attempting to be economically
self-supporting.
He adds that Italian efforts to make arti-
ficial wool from casein are not so success-
ful as the German work with cellulose.
The Blowfly Problem.
“Corriedale”: The chance of discover-
ing a permanent fly repellent (B.
23/3/’38) that will not spoil the market
value of wool seems more remote than
the possibility of breeding strike-resist-
ing sheep.
Plain-bodied sheep with wrinkle-free
crutches and with no “devil’s grip
behind the shoulders are less often struck
than Vermont types. They do not neces-
sarily, yield less wool, quantity being de-
pendent on effective • skin area density
and length of staple. A big frame with
a loose healthy skin can'grow the same
weight on a plain-bodied animal as on a
“wrinkly.” ’ .
Secondly, some sheep carry body sub-
stances that attract flies ; others don t.
Whether these are hereditary charac-
teristics or not is not known. There is
scope for the C.S. and I.R. to work on
at the new experimental station, Gilruth
Plains (Q.). To breed a strain of almost
completely fly-resistant sheep should not
be impossible.
Stock at Sydney Royal.
“Derrimut”: There have been many
changes at Sydney Showground this
year. Cattle stalls and the beef-cattle
judging rings have been moved and the
stock-judging arrangements generally
consolidated. Conditions, too, have been
altered to reduce “tails” —no more than
three entries may be made by any
breeder for a single class.
Among the beefs, Herefords scored an
increase—3o9 as against 213 last year-
but Shorthorns were 15 less —238. Aber-
deen Angus show a decrease from 140 to
117, while there are 110 Red Polls. The
total in the beef classes is 895 against
785 in 1937.
In the dairy breeds entries totalled
887, of which Ayrshires show an increase
from 131 to 218 and Illawarra Short-
horns a decrease from 257 to 207. There
are 22 groups, distributed among five
breeds.
The beefs were judged on April 11 in
rings formerly used for dairy judging.
And there was a sensible innovation in
making Tuesday judging day for dairy
stock, thus allowing cattlemen to see
both beef and dairy animals earn their
ribbons.
i
1 Scrub Bull Losses.
“Ek D.”: Charles Merrett, president
of the Melbourne Royal Agricultural
Society, told a conference of farmers the
other day that the elimination of scrub
bulls in Victoria would send butter-pro-
duction up 251 b. per cow and result in
a return of £1,000,000 more per year
almost immediately to Vic. farmers. He
suggested legislative action.
Victorian dairy sires are better on the
whole than in any other State, and in
(Continued on page 44.)


R^KPPI
V" • V"
< < s i ‘• ' '•<<<:'' «A % -»»ttS3MaBS&B3g3S?ffi^BSS
- .. s\-- f > '
I
:■ -
PM*
m
Wmmmm
wm
w®
: if!itl
f ff®ii^®liiSiilill#liili^l>»liiiiiiilii
g s ' m -/, &#•&& M v , &>l s s -;
n ’l ■
MONEY BUYS MORE!
■■■Nil
- - , - /
, :
_
1
mMMmrnm
% £
wmm
Ifllll
Sp
w
Mi
i .. •
iii
I
:;. •
wwmwwigw
•••:. .
r BUILT
TO EXCEL
... IN STYLE
PERFORMANCE
k LONG LIFE /
d
HUDSON
We say your money buys more advanced style
outside... added comfort, increased room inside.
More miles and better miles because Hudson’s
championship performance is smoother and finer
than ever. Greater safety because no other car
has Hudson’s Exclusive Safety Brakes (finest
Bend’x hydraulics plus two mechanical reserve
systems for added safety. Remarkable economy
and long life . . . proved in certified tests. Drive
Hudson Terraplane, Hudson Six, Hudson Eight...
the cars that cost you less for what you get than
any others in the world!
® HUDSON Terraplane
• HUDSON Six - - - -
® HUDSON Eight - - -
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALOETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND^
VICTORIAN
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide}
AUTHORISED
DEALERS IN ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
153-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
2X-N2-F.P,
a


USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR ....
use ABBEY’S for quality
A fitting companion for the
man on the land is this
Abbey Working Cossack.
Strongly made with heavy
double sole and leather
lining and an upper of tough
wearing calf, it’s built to last.
The Comfort, of course, is
the same as any Abbey
Model . . . perfect.
1308.
'’lf it’s an Abbey Shoe, It’s a
good Shoe.”
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Made in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half .sizes.
Prices: Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
Also order a tin of English Dubbin to
keep Working Boots soft and supple.
Price 2/6.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
(BY His
DJ
mt'
Ik
Bl
M
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
: *- 7
a ■ - -i
W
i:l!i
ill
i; •■ t
'T''
S ■■
EVERY year at their Newcastle
and Port Kembla works Ly-
saght's use 130,000 tons of Austra-
lian steel and 20,000 tons of
Australian zinc for the production
of over 10,000,000 sheets of galvan-
ized iron. To all parts of Australia,
the railways and steamers bear
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, every
sheet carrying with it Lysaght's
guarantee and an assurance of
quality and service to every user.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.. Box 196 D.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The Despatch
Yards at
Lysaght's
Mills.
LYSAGHT
dfiD
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
For Sale.
SEEDS.—Wim. Rye 6/- & 7/-, Perr 10/- bus.,
Sub. xd 1/4, Mt. B. 1/5. F’gt paid. All other
seed stocked. Best grades only. Write Haw-
thorne Bros. Pty., Ltd., Kerang, Victoria.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER’S ACCOUNT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
some of the others the elimination of
the scrub would be worth considerably
more than an extra 251 b. butter a year.
Both N. S. Wales and Queensland have
had better-bull campaigns, but they have
been unsuccessful. Denmark has adopted
compulsion in these matters, and it might
pay here if enforced both in the meat
and milk industries. Queensland, in par-
ticular, leases thousands of square miles
at cheap rentals to graziers whose job
is beef and dairy production. Some
breeders are content to raise animals
which produce third-grade beef or about
a third of the butterfat which they should
be turning off. Their land areas are
much larger than would be needed if
they went for quality and production in
stock, and their interest and improve-
ment bill is out of all reason.
It is surely a fair thing that when the
Government leases productive land it
should stipulate that it must not be eaten
out by unprofitable scrubbers.
More Drought.
“J. Want”: Parts of Queensland and
N. S. Wales are going through the worst
drought for years. In the dairying dis-
tricts butter production and export were
seriously affected last year, and wheat,
wool and lamb-raising will suffer this
year.
On the central eastern slopes (N.S.W.)
they are cutting tree-fodder. On the
Riverina March rainfall was only nine
points in most parts. Hand-feeding is
general, and a lot of stock is on half
rations. The same applies to country
round Gunnedah, and many western
Hunter Valley herds have been taken to
the coast on agistment. Production is
on the decline, too, in the Illawarra, but
the North Coast has had bumper rains,
particularly along the Richmond, though
there is a dry patch southwards from
Grafton to Nambucca,
The N.S.W. central-west had no rain
in March except for isolated thunder-
storms—none in February either. Tank
water has been used up on many home-
steads. Further west conditions are
bad from Dubbo to Coonamble and
round Narromine, Trangie, Collie and
Warren. Wheat stubbles have helped in
districts where there was a good crop
last year. It will need fairly heavy winter
rains to save the wheat position in some
areas for next season.
The central N.S.W. tablelands are
in much the same box. Round Orange,
Forbes and Parkes the drought persists,
there is no growth, and the grasshopper
flourishes wherever there is a meal for
him.
In s.-west Queensland many graziers
are having a hard fight to keep their
sheep -alive.
The Westralian Wheat Pool.
“Wundi”: At the Empire Farmers’
Conference in Sydney, T. H. Bath, a
W.A. delegate, gave details of the work-
ing of the Westralian wheat pool, a
voluntary concern which has no associa-
tion with the Government.
After the war there was a compulsory
pool in W.A. When it was discon-
tinued, a meeting, at which the chief
movers were the Co-operative Federation
and the Primary Producers’ Assoc.,
formed a co-operative pool, for which
grain was first accepted in the 1922-23
season.
Contributors are under written promise
to deliver at least a third of their crop
to the pool, which since 1932 has been
incorporated by statute. Its affairs are
managed by four trustees elected by a
Wheatgrowers’ Council of 20 members,
who form a supervisory committee on
behalf of the farmers.
Wheat is received at all bulk-handling
points and disposable warrants issued
for it. The pool undertakes the market-
ing, charging only expenses. Advance
payments are made at the opening of the
season and further interim payments
until the crop is cleared. p
The pool has gradually accumulated
interests in a number of facilities jointly
with its supporting co-operative concerns
—among them W.A. Stevedoring Cos.,
Australian Outturns, which supervises
the outturn of cargoes in Europe, and
Berry, Barclay and Cos., a London grain
marketing house which, besides the Over-
seas Farmers’ Co-op., is the main
channel through which W.A. wheat is
sold in London.
Since its inception the pool has
handled 179,000,000 bushels of wheat up
to the 1936-37 season. Its installations
have cost £345,000, but the W.A. Gov-
ernment will in future relieve it of the
need to erect terminals.
It finances its advances by discount-
ing bills on the London market, and the
cost has never been more than 3 p.c.
Handling charges work out at 1.125 and.
per bushel, country handling; 0.42 and.,
port handling, and 0.625 and. toll; total,
2.152 and. Added to this is a storage
charge of one-tenth of a penny per
bushel per month after March 15, and
sheetage and tarpaulins are also charged
extra.
There is an idea in the system for
woolgrowers, who have no method of ob-
taining interim seasonal finance, save by
borrowing from banks or pastoral com-
panies at bank-interest.
Sowings for April.
“Zedo”: April is about the best
month for central coastal N. S. Wales
lucerne planting, though further north
the crop should have been in earlier.
Everywhere it is the right time to get
oats and barley in ; also the season to
operate for those’ who have been edu-
cated up to the value of turnips and
swedes as stock feed. Rye and winter
grasses, including phalaris, should be ger-
minating soon, and clovers are season-
able in suitable districts.
Of course the time to plan autumn
sowing, like all other seasonal sowing,
is a year ahead. One of the great weak-
nesses in Australian farming, outside
wheat, is lack of method and regu-
larity. There should be no farming
without a regular plan of rotation, fer-
tilising and proper soil preparation.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kyamba”: Swelled head in sheep is
often chiefly due to malnutrition. Give
3oz. of Glauber salts in one quart of
warm water, followed each day until the
animal goes on feed by a level table-
spoonful of a mixture of lib. powdered
nux vomica, 21b. powdered gentian root
and |lb. powdered aloes in a pint of
water.
“Kyamba”: Although on ordinary
soils carpet grass (Paspalum compression )


T
&
/////
MEW FORD V'B CARS
TH I B
S[o A S
WMMMi
'".a, %
111
I
Wmmmmm
mm
<Xv.;.;.»;.; >: •; :>Xv4W^SAwy^-.;
; ;^wwv:
fclli I
V
i
M
:x¥:
s*#
■I
:v:: ; ;'. ; :v
Each in Three Body Types mc&ufaujr "the 6iyy£ffTS-ed&n
THE two new cars differ in
appearance, size, appointments
and price. Both new cars are
priced low. Both are bigger,
roomier, more handsome than ever
before. Both are powered with
Ford’s famous V-type, 8-cylinder
engine, proved by more than
4,000,000 owners to give the
economy of a "six.”
THE DE LUXE SERIES
Star of the De Luxe Series is the new
De Luxe Sedan, biggest Ford V-8 yet
built. It is notable for its flowing stream-
lined grace, from forward-reaching bonnet
to smooth-sloping rear end. With new,
exclusively designed interior ensembles,
lavish appointments, and new distin-
guished body colours, it sets a standard
in appearance, in luxury, and in operating
economy, coupled with V-8 performance
previously unobtainable in any other car
irrespective of price.
Also available in the De Luxe Series are
the Club Coupe and Club Roadster.
THE BUSINESS SERIES
The low-priced, economical-to-operate
Ford V-8 Business Series cars are smaller
and lighter than the De Luxe Series cars,
but they are so completely equipped that
they are of de luxe type in their class.
Considerably lower-priced than the De
Luxe Series, they bring a further exten-
sion of Ford V-8 usefulness and economy
to a wider field—the field of industry and
commerce. A Business. Coupe and Busi-
ness Roadster are also available.
FIT YOUR CAR TO YOUR NEEDS
With two distinct designs, two body sizes,
two price ranges, six body types, you will
find a 1938 Ford V-8 to fit your personal
FORD V'B
FOR 1938
' 71 5 H £ M f I R t
YOUR
LOCAL FORD DEALER
needs exactly. Whichever one you choose
will give you time-proved Ford V-8 per-
formance., owner-proved V-8 economy.
At new, low prices you can own a car
built soundly, to serve you well... That’s
the Ford way. Visit your nearby Ford
Dealer. Test these great new Ford V-8
cars at any time convenient to you.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty.
Ltd. (Incorporated in Victoria). F226.48V
QUICK FACTS ON THE NEW FORDS
BOTH DE LUXE and BUSINESS CARS
have: V-8 engine, proved for economy.
Ford all-steel closed bodies of girder-type
construction, one-piece steel roof, steel
sides and floor. Improved easy-action, self-
energising brakes. Centre-poise riding
comfort. Safety glass all round. Larger
interior space. New, distinguished range
of 8 body colours. Choice of new, exclu-
sively designed interior ensembles. New,
foot-control headlight beam switch with
pilot light on instrument panel. New
design instrument panel and instruments.
New design interior hardware and fittings.
New car radio (optional at extra cost).
cannot compete with the more popular
paspalum ( dilatatum ), it is decidedly
valuable for poor or sandy soils. A
perennial running variety, horses relish
it, particularly when the fine pink stalks
are in seed The grass grows and spreads
quickly and, being a surface rooter, is
earily eradicated. I have noticed land
near the sea previously infested with
ferns splendidly grassed with it. Now is
the time to plcint.
utt t ” ai
eradicate’ergot (8.°23/3/’3B)
but the cost for 200 to 300 acres is pro-
hibitive. Most farmers are finding in
actual practice that it is cheaper to
plough out the paspalum and replant
ergot-free grass.
“M.L.W.”: Dirty stable floors are the
cause of half the hoof ailments in horses,
Canker, thrush and greasy heel may all
be caused by the animal standing in
refuse. These conditions also harbor
tetanus germs.
“Illawarra”: Australia’s champion cow
is one of J. T. Cole’s old Darbalara
strain, bred and owned by the Plashett
Pastoral Cos., Jerry’s Plains Singleton
(N . S .w.). She is b Venture of Dar-
balara QUt f p]ash p m and
• . , 1 . “
... " y ", ‘ F ‘
. ’ • ’ butterfat 1358.491 b., yield-
'' commercial butter. Yet there
hunch eds of dairymen in Austrslici
who are content to knock along with
iSSSe 25 ®’-
ar ® consicleretl remarkable,
“Ghanam”: The Argentine woolclip
this season comes from over 40,000.000
sheep and totals 325,000,0001 b., or about
7.91 b. per sheep ; but the bulk of it is
competitive only with Australian subsi-
diary types—ss p.c. is medium to fine
crossbred, 31 p.c. coarse crossbred and
only 14 p.c. merino. Nevertheless,
Argentine wool standards are improving
considerably, and tending every year
towards fineness and greater yield. A
dozen years ago coarse crossbreds made
up nearly half the clip, and under 40 p.c.
was in fine and medium lines.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Can wasps be poisoned by food baits? Is
any lure known? —59121.
“Wasps” include many types, some of which
may be attracted by nesting facilities, others
by fallen fruit or flowering shrubs. If the de-
struction of the nests is insufficient, the source
of attraction must be removed. Wasps should,
however, leave if the nests are singed with a
flare and detached and destroyed to exter-
minate the insects inside. Failure to destroy
the complete nest is often the cause of unsatis-
factory control. An alternative is a cotton-
wool swab soaked in carbon bisulphide intro-
duced into the nest to kill the colony.
. * * * *
Is corn more liable to cause mange in a
horse than grass ? Would treatment for mange
be assisted by discontinuing corn feed? —59007.
The mange is probably coastal or summer
itch. Provided the diet of a corn-fed horse is
balanced, it should not develop itch; but if
corn be overfed the blood becomes heated and
itch may appear. The exact cause of itch
is not known, but when treating it is advis-
able to cease giving hard feed. Place on a
laxative diet, and keep the bowels in order
with loz. Epsom salts daily , for 10-14 days.
H: * sf: *
I have a saddle horse with hooves which gel
very brittle in the hot, dry weather. It is not
convenient to shoe. Can you suggest a cure ?
—58734.
Brittle hooves are caused probably by lack of
growth of horn, due to lack of nerve tone.
Possibly the general health of the animal is not
the best. Try to stimulate a growth of fresh
horn by rubbing 1-16 biniodide of mercury
around where the horn and hair meet, about
once every week A fresh ring of horn should
take the place of the old.
* * * *
A method of keeping oranges after the crops
are finished? How long can they be kept in
N. Q’land? Would treatment make them less
valuable for young children ? —59075.
Cold-storing is the only effective method
of storing oranges. The keeping qualities, how-
ever, can be materially improved by care in
harvesting. When the fruit is mature, clip it
—don’t pull it. After picking, it should be
placed in shallow trays and allowed a day or
two to sweat off surplus moisture. The fruit
may then be loosely packed in cases and kept
in a cool room, examined at frequent intervals.
Any showing decay should be removed.
Climatic conditions in the Mackay (N.Q.) dis-
trict make the holding or storing of oranges
and mandarines hazardous.


Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to Service Department, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney or Melbourne.
“ Bulletin’' Service Coupon
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
13/4/’3B.
BRANDAUER3
m
*
w.v
f PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUEB * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Aircraft Maintenance.
■ (“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence),
i Aero Engine.
1 (“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AV/&TICN
Dept. 14, 250 a George Street, Sydney,
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from this page.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Fhe right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Q’land, wants position as governess
in New Guinea or Northern Australia.—9l69.
Lady help (Protestant) wanted for country.
All duties, two in family and infant; 255. per
week.—9l6s.
Experienced guest-house manageress (N.S.W.)
wants position anywhere. Full responsibility
for staff welcomed. —9158.
First-class mechanic, Vic., Diesel exp. in
U.S.A., wants constant job anywhere.—92ol.
To buy Bushman and Buccaneer: Harry
Morant, His Life and Verse. —9192.
Country woman, Q’land, starting collection,
will give good reading matter in exchange for
old coins, medallions, medals or stamps, loose
or collection, or buy if cheap.—92ll.
Copy of book of experiences in Australia
written by Alexander Macdonald, Scottish en-
gineer and writer, who visited these parts
about 1900.—9230.
Words of the poem “Kidman and His Boys.”
—9209.
Words of verses “How We Won the Fish-
creek Cup” and “Flying Kate.”—92ls.
To buy Murty Brown, by E. S. Sorenson. —
9220.
Information Sought.
I am employed by the Defence Department.
If 1 die single, what happens to the money 1
have paid into the superannuation fund? Does
it go to my next-of-kin ? If not, who gets it ?
—9083.
The matter is covered by Section 34 of the
Superannuation Act: “Where a contributor who
is unmarried or is a widower without children
under the age of 16 years dies before retire-
ment, the contributions made by him shall be
paid to his personal representatives or, failing
them, to such persons (if any) as the board de-
termines.”
* * * *
One is often advised to wear a block of
camphor as a preventive of disease. What
foundation, if any, is there in this advice? —
9128.
It is a not-uncommon practice during epi-
demics for camphor to be carried or worn
about the neck in a bag, in the hope of ward-
ing off infection and killing germs. The
camphor is entirely worthless for the purpose;
it is merely a deodorant and has no power to
slay germs.
* * * *
Are there any shark-fishing stations in
N.S.W. or other States? If so, is the industry
profitable ? —9074-
N»x apart from meshing Sydney beaches to
reduce risk of shark attack. Five attempts have
been made to exploit Australian sharks commer-
cially, two in N. S. Wales, two in Q’land and
one in W.A., and all have failed, principally
because of irregularity of supplies. The hides
may be tanned into leather which is both hand-
some and hard-wearing; the fins are exported to
China or Singapore, where there is a regular
demand; and the oil is marketable in Australia
if the stearing (the whitish deposit that accumu-
lates at the bottom) is extracted at a low tem-
perature. The oil brings about 2s. 9d. per
gallon.
* * * *
(1) Method of extracting oil from shark liver?
(2) Yield of oil per shark? (3) Best species of
shark for oil producing?- —9240.
(1) The oil is extracted in a steam-jacketed
kettle of 50 gallons capacity. The livers are
placed in the kettle and steam from a boiler is
circulated round them till the liver cells break
down and give up their oil. (2) Approximately
28 per cent, of the weight of the liver, or 18
gallons to a ton of shark. (3) The tiger-shark.
* * * *
What makes the sea salt ? —9264.
It is held by some authorities that the sea
originally consisted of fresh -water, and became
saline by the washing out of salts from the
land by rain and rivers, but the generally-held
theory is that the sea was salt from the be-
ginning. The principal saline constituent of
ocean water is common salt (sodium chloride)
2.7 per cent. ; other salts, including those of
magnesium, gypsum, potassium and calcium,
make up the proportion to 3.5 per cent.
* * * *
What were the circumstances in which Lloyd
George and other British politicians were
attacked respecting Marconi shares? —9225.
In 1912 the then Attorney-General, Sir Rufus
Isaacs, bought shares in the American Mar-
coni Co., just after the Postmaster-General had
accepted the tender of another Marconi Co.
for the erection of wireless stations. Shares
were also bought by Lloyd George, then Chan-
cellor Of the Exchequer, and Lord Murray,
the Chief Whip. A Parliamentary committee
inquired into the matter in 1913, and the
House of Commons by 346 to 268 accepted the
Ministers’ statements.
* * * *
How to play the “draw” game of dominoes ?
—9228.
This is a variation of the block game, the
only difference being that after the first down
any player may, whether he is blocked or not,
draw as many dominoes from the stock as he
likes, provided two are left on the table un-
drawn. If a player is blocked he is obliged
to draw until he obtains a bone that can be
played, or until he has drawn all but the last
two. When playing four-handed six dominoes
are drawn. Drawing gives additional interest
to the game and makes it harder.
* * * *
Whence is the word “garrotting” de-
rived, and what form of robbery is it ? —9231.
From “garrote,” a Spanish word for an
appliance used in the execution of criminals.
The criminal is seated on a scaffold and fastened
to an upright post by an iron collar (the
garrote). A. knob worked by a screw or lever
dislocates his spinal column, or a small blade
severs the spinal column at the base of the
brain. Garrotting is the name given in England
to a form of robbery with violence which be-
came common in the early ’sixties. The thief
came up behind his victim, threw a cord over
his head, and tightened it nearly to strangula-
tion-point while robbing him.
* * * *
(1) Did Pete Sarron, who was defeated by
Johnny Leckie and Tommy Donovan in M.L.
about eight years ago, win the world’s feather-
weight championship when he returned to
America ? (2) Who are the world’s champion
boxers in all divisions? —9l6o.
(1) Yes, by outpointing Freddie Miller in 15
rounds at Washington, D.C., on May 11, 1936.
He lost the title when Henry Armstrong
knocked him out in six rounds at New York on
October 29 last. (2) Flyweight, Benny Lynch
(Great Britain); bantamweight, Sixto Escobar
(Puerto Rica); featherweight, Henry Arm-
strong (U.S.A.); lightweight, Lou Ambers
(U.S.A.); welterweight, Barney Ross (U.S.A.);
middleweight, Freddie Steele (U.S.A.); light-
heavyweight, John Henry Lewis (U.S.A.);
heavyweight, Joe Louis (U.S.A.).
* * * *
(1) How many enemy aeroplanes were shot
down by members of the Australian Flying
Corps in France and Belgium ? (2) How many
Australian machines were shot down on the
same fronts by enemy airmen ? (3) What Aus-
tralian pilot was credited with the destruction
of the greatest number of enemy ’planes ?
9234.
(1) Destroyed 247, driven down out of con-
trol 145, driven down 53. (2) 48. (3) Capt.
A. H. Cobby, D. 5.0., D.F.C., 24 destroyed
and five driven down out of control.
* * * *
Why do whirlwinds always revolve from left
to right? —92l6.
That law applies only to the Southern Hemi-
sphere. In the Northern Hemisphere. they re-
volve from right to left. As the earth revolves
on its axis from the west to east, winds in the
Southern Hemisphere are deflected to the left,
and in the Northern Hemisphere to the right.
Hence winds moving, from a high pressure to a
low pressure (cyclone) reach the latter at a
point to the left of the centre in the Southern
Hemisphere, and move in a clockwise spiral
towards the centre.
H? H*
Ages for retirement of officers of the Royal
Australian Air Force in General Duties branch ?
—9150.
Air vice-marshal 60, air commodore 57,
group captain 53, wing commander 48, squadron
leader, flight lieutenant and flying or pilot
officer 45.
* * * *
Value of goods exported by United Kingdom
to principal purchasing countries, and percentage
of total exports? —9l44.
Australia, £37,530,725, 7.2 p.c. of total;
British India, £39,103,728, 7.5 p.c.; Canada,
£27,561,603, 5.3 p.c.; Irish Free State,
£21,596,548, 4.1 p.c.; New Zealand,
£20,252,516, 3.9 p.c.; South Africa, £41,432,399,
7.9 p.c.; other British countries, £64,632,597,
12.4 p.c.; Argentine Republic, £20,051,421,
3.9 p.c.; Belgium, £11,160,757, 2.1 p.c.; Den-
mark, £16,881,929, 3.2 p.c.; France, £21,404,515,
4.1 p.c.; Germany, £21,623,971, 4.2 p.c.; Italy,
£4,940,941, 0.9 p.c.; Netherlands £15,031,919,
2.9 p.c.; Sweden, £13,019,026, 2.5 p.c.; Soviet
Union, £3,083,023, 0.6 p.c.; other foreign
countries, £110,862,249, 21.3 p.c.
* * * *
Particulars of three-act-play competition
being conducted by the National Theatre Move-
ment, Melbourne ?—-' 9113.
Entries are invited from any Australian citizen
of a stage play in three acts, lasting not less
than 2| nor more than 2| hours. Prizes,
donated by the president, are: First £l2 125.,
second £5 55., third £3 3s. Entries are due not
earlier than August 1, and not later than Sep-
tember 30. No entry fee. Entry forms and full
conditions available from the secretary, Room
13, 2nd Floor, Nicholson Buildings, Swanston-
street, Melbourne, C.l. The play winning first
prize will be produced on at least one occasion,
and the author will receive a royalty of £3 3s.
in addition to the prizemoney. Other plays
may be produced, if found suitable, and a
royalty paid. Previous publication or per-
formance will not debar a play from winning a
prize; but the winning of a prize in a previous
competition of a similar kind will prevent
that play winning a major prize in this com-
petition.
* Hi H? *
Over six months ago 1 submitted entries for
the Melbourne Sheridan Club's one-act play
competition. Has the competition been decided,
and, if not, when will it be ? —9099.
Mostyn Wright, Sheridan Club producer and
one of the judges, explains that the sec. has
been absent in Maoriland and that results of
the competition will be announced in a few
weeks. As one of the judges he could not
handle correspondence relating to the entries.
* * * *
I propose to establish in Sydney an aviary
of native birds of the small, brightly-plumaged
type. (1) Best hardy breeding types? (2)
Type of aviary? (3) Type of box-nests? (4)
From whom can l obtain further information,
apart from dealers? —9223.
'(1) Diamond sparrows, zebra finches, nutmeg
finches and redhead finches. (2) Type depends
on situation. It should face north-east and be
protected from the westerly and southerly winds.
Size depends on the number of birds you pro-
pose to buy; 6ft. square may be suggested.
The roof should be slanting. On the bottom
of the aviary, which should stand on legs, a
movable tray should be installed. (3) The
finches would build in ordinary wire nests or
small cigar-boxes, with a hole sufficiently large
to allow the birds to gain entrance. The aviary
should contain some shrubs or dead trees, which
are more satisfactory than perches. (4) Call
at Taronga Zoological Park and have a talk
with the secretary.
* * * *
(1) What was a diprotodon? (2) Where did
it live? (3) What led to its extinction? —9253.
(1) Diprotodon Australis, “the two-front-
toothed animal,” was a heavily-built marsupial,
the size of a large rhinoceros. (2) Remains have
been found in the great central plains of
Queensland, N.S.W. and S.A. near what were,
over 100,000 years ago, lake beds, mud-springs
and river beds; never in coastal regions. (3) It
was herbivorous, and it is conjectured that,
through a vast diminution of rainfall in late
Pleistocene times, its food disappeared.
Jfc ifc H* *
(1) Particulars concerning the regulations
applying to radio servicing in N.S.W. ? (2) Is
an apprenticeship necessary, and is there an
examination ? —9079.
(1) and (2) There is nothing to prevent any-
one in N.S.W. from setting up as a radio
service mechanic irrespective of his trade
qualifications, if any, but the Professional Radio
Employees’ Institute of Australia has made rep-
resentations to the Department of Labour and
Industry with the view to introducing a certifi-
cate similar to the one now in force in M.L.
The matter is under consideration.
* * *
(1) How many species of timber borers are
there in Australia, and which are the most
common ? (2) Names of books on the subject ?
—8971.
(1) The species of borers recorded in Aus-
tralia are fairly numerous, but those most com-
monly met with and which do the most damage
are the shot-hole borer, which bores through
the timber of the live tree or after it has
been felled and before it has been seasoned;
the powder-post borer, which confines its atten-
tion to sapwood, and the furniture borer,
which destroys softwoods such as pines. (2)
A pamphlet dealing with all these borers, their
habits, methods of treatment, etc., may be had
on application to the Tephnological Museum,
Ultimo, Sydney, Is. Id. posted.
* * >s *
Formula for spa water for manufacturing
purposes ?—' 9066.
The following, one of many available recipes,
resembles Hunyadi water: Water 1 quart, mag-
nesium sulphate 400 parts, sodium sulphate
400 parts, potassium sulphate 2 parts, sodium
chloride 31 parts, sodium bicarbonate 12 parts.
The chemicals are combined in the order
given and dissolved in some of the water given;
the whole is then made up with water to taste,
filtered and charged under pressure into bottles
or fountains. The technique of aeration should
be studied if you contemplate commercial
manufacture.
* * * *
(1) I have an old six-volt car generator; is it
possible to rewind same so that it will deliver
350 volts, and, if so, number of turns of wire
for armature and field windings, also gauge?
(2) If not, where can I obtain a machine that
will deliver this voltage? —9l3B.
(1) It would not be satisfactory, and, in any
case, it is necessary to know the current the
machine is required to deliver and the r.p.m.
at which it will be driven. (2) Send particulars
to Machining Electrical Co., 294 Oxford-street,
Sydney, stating r.p.m., required current, voltage,
method of driving and the use to which it
will be put.
* * * *
(1) What caused the Franco-Prussian War of
1870? (2) How long did it last? (3) What did
it cost France ? (4) How much did France pay
to Germany, and how long did it take to com-
plete payment ? —9262.
(1) France was alarmed at the increased
power of Prussia through victories (aver Den-
mark and Austria. The nomination of a
Hohenzollern to the Spanish throne brought
matters to a head. The nomination was with-
drawn, but France asked for guarantees
from Prussia against a repetition of such action.
These were not given and France declared
war. By doctoring a telegram Bismarck made
it appear that request and refusal had been
expressed more abruptly than was actually the
case. (2) July 15, 1870, to February 16, 1871.
(3) The cost was stated in 1875 to have been
£395,400,000. Arising out of the war the
French national debt increased from
£469,500,000 to £748,700,000. (4) £200,000,000.
Last instalment was paid September 5, 1873.
Brief Answers.
L.S.H.: (1) From Bradley Bros., 55-59 Went-
worth-avenue, Sydney. (2) 55., postage 6d
C.W.A.: Particulars may be obtained from the
District Naval Officer, Beach-road, Edgecliff,
N.S.W L.R.M.: There is no fixed time, but
it should not be unreasonably extended. Whilst
a solicitor is not obliged to consult his client
or seek specific instructions from him prior to
each successive step it is usual for him to keep
his client in touch with the progress being
made in the matter... .K.E. A.: (1) This pre-
paration is not obtainable in Australia. (2)
Russell’s Yeast... .E.C.: (1) 161 a Bourke-street,
East Sydney. (2) The After Care Association,
350 George-street, Sydney... .8.C.: Any asset,
apart from the home in which a pensioner is
permanently resident, which exceeds £59 in value
will cause a reduction in the pension rate. The
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act provides that
where a pensioner has property other than
the home in which he permanently resides the
rate of pension otherwise payable shall be
subject to a reduction of £1 for every complete
£lO by which the net capital value of such
accumulated property exceeds £5O. Where the
net capital value of such accumulated property
exceeds £4OO no pension is payable... .8.E.M.:
The possession of £4OO would render a claim-
ant ineligible to receive an old-age pension, but
if the money were invested in a home in which
she takes up permanent residence the property
would be exempt for pension purposes
C.G.: K. G. Miller, 171 Botany-road, Water-
loo, Sydney, can supply a few spare parts....
8.E.M.: A Public Exhibition entitles the holder
to exemption from the payment of matricula-
tion, tuition and degree fees at the University
of Sydney. It does not carry any monetary
allowance to the holder... .T.J.W.: The great-
est height ever attained by an aeroplane is
53,937 feet at Farnborough, England. The
aircraft was a Bristol Monoplane, type 138,
powered by a special type Bristol Pegasus air-
cooled radial engine equipped with a four-
bladed wooden propeller, and was piloted by
Flight-Lieutenant M. J. Adam... .J.F.: Get
in touch with the officer-in-charge, Base Records
Office, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne....
M.C.: Your cousin’s children are your cousins
once removed, and your children and your
cousin’s children are second cousins, and so
0n... .K.F.T.: The transaction discloses serious
illegal features. Cannot advise you how to
avoid the consequences, but you may be able
to show that you acted under compulsion....
H.D.: Everything a testator possesses cap-
able of transfer may be disposed of by will.
Rights to property on the happening of events
which may not occur until after the death of
the testator may be disposed of in accordance
with the terms of the wi11... .A.H.: The car,
you say, was not included in the schedule of
her deceased husband’s assets, it having been
purchased by the wife out of her own personal
allowance during his lifetime, thus being part
of her separate estate. Being so, it may be
licensed in her name in the ordinary course
of procedure S.G.: (1), (3) and (4) No,
you must not pollute the river. It is not a ques-
tion of jurisdiction but of Common Law. As
against those below you must not “injure the
quality of the water nor sensibly diminish its
quantity.” (2) Probably you could do so, but
you should consult the health officer of the
council before digging your pit... .K.P.: Appli-
cation should be made in writing to the Ac-
countant-General, Royal Courts of Justice,
London. The application must quote the cor-
rect title of the matter and be signed by the
applicant and state the grounds upon which
he claims to be beneficially interested in the
fund. It should be accompanied by a money-
order for 2s. 6d. drawn in favor of the Com-
missioners of Inland Revenue... .A.L.S.:
“Furniture Trades Review,” published by
Furniture Manufacturers’ Assoc, of N. S. Wales,
12 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .J.M.: Get in
touch with Brydon Brown and Co., 30 Gros-
venor-street, Sydney D.H.: Write Agricul-
tural Department, Brisbane, for pamphlets deal-
ing with sown pastures in Queensland... .W.T.:
The John o’ London Literary Circle, Sydney
branch meets at the rooms of the Overseas
League, 3rd floor, Bull’s Chamifers, 28 Martin-
place, on the second, fourth and fifth Tuesdays
in the month at 8 p.m W.L.M.L.: Poem
will be found in Beyond the City Gates, by
Jack Moses... .P.R.: 1933 census figures were
Quirindi 2589, Richmond 2343.... W.C.: Not
known to us Inquirer: Parliamentary privi-
lege does not extend to statements made out-
side Parliament D.J.S.: Write Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.
. ...F.A.J.: See The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook, available most public
libraries; obtainable from leading booksellers.
.... W.0.L.: Write Poultry Officer, Agricultural
■Department, Hobart... .D.M.8.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of Defence, Melbourne.
I.D.: No trace of incident in standard
histories. .M.M.C.: Will search if you can
give approximate date E.M.H.: Write Chief
Inspector, H.M. Coastguard Service, Board of
Trade, Great George-street, London, 5.W.1....
W.S.: Matter of opinion. Consult list of
principal events of the year published in stan-
dard annuals, such as Whitaker’s Almanack.


5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
•IXVINCIBLE” J
sin cm
1906 j
V" !/ V/
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, Jf.S.W.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY' SYSTEM.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
fd
fd
No stench, flies,
germs, or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in private
homes, schools,
theatres, etc.
Ihell Oil Co. 60
repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
l5. Can be in-
stalled where septic tanks are impracticable.
Cheap to run. Automatic. Price, £l5/10/-
P. 0.8. Sydney. Write for Free Pamphlet.
See it at Everyday Products Co., Stand 108,
R.A.S., opposite new concrete stand.
Hygeia Sanitary Co., 30 Bridge St., Sydney.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
In the Middle Ages, art languished. It was
considered sacrilegious to portray biblical
characters in anything but the conventional
forms of the so-called “primitives.” In the
1 3th century there came an intellectual revolt
—some say it was engendered by St. Francis,
whose unconventional teaching heralded an
era of realism. Florence became the centre of
the Renaissance, and it is in the cities of
Tuscany and Umbria that we now find the
finest works of Giotto, Raphael, Michael
Angelo and Della Robbia.
You simply must not omit Florence
when planning your European Tour.
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS at 5/- to 18/- (sterling)
a day, absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
50% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY
FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets, apply to: —
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret_ St., Sydney,
or ANY TRAVEL AGENCY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
M.L.: Yes, but you’ve sent us the wrong
half... .E. 0.5.: Nothing in that batch....
1.M.: Another to join the death-in-the-desert
school... .R.H.A.: That one’s a lightweight
. ...W.F.T.: That spirit didn’t help us raise
a giggle Tib. Mitch: We’re not surprised
you found that an effort... .Z.V.W.: Not
that one... .T.H.F.: Too long-winded....
F.NJ.: No syndicated stuff, thank you
N. 8.: Tell it to the lady... .H.D.P.: You’re
browsing in another man’s pastures and not
getting much out of them F.M.G.: Try
your hand on something lighter 8.G.5.: Has
its points, but it’s shockingly handled....
F,N 'Jo T You ’/ e mercly mutilated good paper.
P.a.l.. 1 hope you let me off lightly.
Well, this time perhaps, but don’t do it again.
N.DJ.: We’re thinking of blacklisting any-
one who sends us another yarn about a pros-
pector dying in the desert after murdering his
mate MJ.S.B.: A bit underdone L.H.:
Too savage... .R.E.R.: Except for verse eight
lt squelches with moonlight... .E.L.M.:
Shorten and try elsewhere... .K.W.: Close.
... .M.P.: Might interest children’s supplement
of a daily... .M.L.L.: Jack’s a bit falsetto....
F.E.F.: That’s a pretty light bluey... .C. 8.:
Want ’em shorter and less sweet... .J.E.C.:
Four lines: —
Ho ho, my little silverfish,
Thou foolish little sprite,
Why didst thou come into my bath
to indulge thy appetite?
. ...R.1.G.: Too much water in the fish ballad,
. ...F.J.: Not for us, but the pub might like
rt-*"W.B ; : Better luck at the Show
R.M.S.: “Cigarette” more like it, but you roll
em pretty rough... .H.0.W.: Deaf to eerie
0w15... .H.E.8.: “Flute” a bit airy; let’s hear
you on the tin-whistle... .M.S.: Have yet to
see “dew-drenched earth” get excited enough
to “leap”.... W.J.M.: Interesting, but it
doesn’t make a yarn... .G.G.: P00r... .M.H.:
Not what we want.. . .M.C.: Nothing there,
C.G.: Fair enough of its kind, but it’s off
our beat... .M.R.: Pointless... .A.F.: Read
the first and skipped the rest C.W.: A. C.
Headley looks after that sort of thing
A.P.W.: Dunno what you could do with that.
.. ..J.D.: Too slight... .P.D.S.: No, we won’t
“cough up” for that or anything like it
J.G.H.: You’re a bit stale; relax for a while,
then try again... .W.J.S.: Rambling....B.S.T.:
Cut it by half, find another finish, then try
again... .8.Y.: A bit beyond us... .C.V.G.:
Yarn is swamped by “the swell”... .F.8.R.:
Basketed... .M.T.L.: You want us to post it
back after we paid 6d. to read it! D.M.W.:
A monthly might consider it....M.8.: Where
did you rake up those old bones?... .D.R.N.:
The sporting editor says he’ll try your “sys-
tern” if he can borrow a few bob... .8.C.L.:
Hopeless... .D.G.R.: Should make pars
8.H.5.: Sentiment is too moist... .V.T.:
Added it to your list of offences H.F.P.:
Even a flapper mag. would shy clear- of those.
T.R.B.: Dump them on a daily’s doorstep.
J.H.C.: No improvement... .T.P.: Read
some decent literature, then try us in two or
three years’ time T.S.T.: For the nth time,
we only consider original unpublished yarns.
. ...G.C.L.: Not bad for his age....C.R.:
O. Flenry covered most of that ground....
K.L.S.: Stodgy L.R.H.: You don’t make
a yarn of it W.R.: Very nearly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.: By what invisible agency are your
characters supported in mid-air? C.T.8.:
You’ve still got a long way to g 0... .J.D.C.:
You might have the ambition to be a black-and-
white wag, but you lack the ability A.S.:
Not attracted by the lady with arms growing
from her waist L.T.: Returning those
atrocities... .M.N.: A rusty collection of jokes
and a wooden lot of drawings... .F.A.C.: Begin
at the beginning C.W.: That wheeze has
been going the rounds for years... .A.P.J.: As
appealing as a couple of shopworn dressmaker’s
models... .J.L.C.: You were about two months
late with your St. Valentine’s Day cartoon....
T.A.: Couldn’t pick one we recognised among
that batch of caricatures... .E.M.M.: It
hovered on the brink but finally landed among
the discards... .JJ.: The Teutons are goose-
stepping it back to Cloncurry F. 8.: Sorry,
but we’ll have to struggle along without your
masterpieces... .N.S.: Even the world’s most
supple contortionist couldn’t tie himself in
such a tangle F.T.C.: You manage to get
a straight line down only with difficulty....
A.C.: A rough count revealed about 33 artistic
blunders... .P.J.: Provided you are prepared
to devote the next few years to hard study you
should get somewhere in the game H. 8.:
Fluent linework, neat poses, but a very stale
lot of jokes C.R.8.: Not swapping a
Bulletin cheque for that pair of fashion-
plates... .T.S.: You should rank high—in a
children’s supplement... .W.G.D.: Not this
week’s worst, but very close to it J.K.K.:
Dispatched to the office morgue after a first
rapid glance... .A.M.W.: Gent, with head de-
tached from body and lady with goitre were
consigned to the w.p.b T.H.: You’ve got
the abo.’s toes looking all right, but that’s
about a11....5.C.: As comprehensible as a
half-completed jigsaw puzzle... .B.B.: Grow-,
ing a little weary of the face-licking cow and
the gent, who is always being butted over a
cliff by a g0at....V.D.: They wouldn’t earn
the price of a new pen-nib.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Zedo”: England the home of aristo-
cratic privilege? Nonsense! Next to
royalty, the Dukes of Wellington hold more
titles than anybody in the realm. Their
~/ . ,
town house is in a regal and privileged
position, their country estates the gift
of a grateful nation. But the other day
the heir to the dukedom, a second-lieu-
tenant in the regiment named after his
illustrious ancestor, had to roll up before
a small-town English J.P. Bench and ask
them humbly to restore his driving
license, cancelled for dangerous driving,
because his regiment was about to be
mechanised and without a license he
could not carry out his duties. The
Bench sternly refused, remarking that
“If people will be so foolish as to commit
crime, let them suffer.”
* * * *
“James W.”: British thoroughness
was carried to fine lengths in the
construction of gifts made to the
Federal House of Representatives. The
Speaker’s chair is a faithful reproduc-
tion of that which, for centuries, has
borne the august frames of Speakers in
the Mother Parliament. The royal arms
over the canopy are carved from a slab
of oak ; the slab, like the one in the
Commons, was once a part of the
original Westminster Hall. The flaps
on the armrests were carved from
a plank from Nelson’s Victory. The two
dispatch-boxes, resplendent in silver and
enamel decorations, which appear on the
table of the House during sessions, were
gifts from George V., and, except
for a necessary alteration in the royal
monogram, are identical with those on
the table of the Commons. The Budget
box, in which the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer stows particulars of the fate of
the British taxpayer, suffered, from time
to time, some healthy wallops from
Gladstone’s fist, when that gentleman
was emphasising his points in Parlia-
ment. In 1927 the Empire Parliamen-
tary Association sent a copy of the box
to Canberra —an exact replica, not for-
getting the dents.
* * * *
“K.”: The tops of the trees in Sydney's
Hyde Park could be seen through the
open windows, and Alexander Kipnis
flung a fleeting glance at the tree-deco-
rated, sunshiny afternoon when he told
his listeners that until he saw Sydney he
had thought San Francisco the most
beautiful city in the world—the one city
to live in when he retired. Mrs. Kipnis
is making a temporary home for hus-
band and small son Igor at Wylde-
fel Gardens, Potts Point. Before her
marriage she was Mildred Levy, daugh-
ter of a Chicago pianist. Her grand-
father was known in New York music
circles. Her brother, Hans Henriot, is
keeping up the family reputation.
* * * *
“Petronius’s Ghost”: To a London
“Times” discussion about the pronuncia-
tion of Latin, Australia’s Gilbert Murray
brought some humor and a few
reminiscences. He recalled that at the
school he first attended in the Aus-
tralian bush they used “a simple, manly
and patriotic pronunciation both for
French and Latin.” In French, their
dans and en rhymed with “pans” and
“pen.” Their Caesar was “seize ’er” and
vides was as in “provide ease,” which,
he says, their system undeniably did.
Then a French lad turned up, and Murray
says that he “was highly unpopular for
a time, though it is a gross exaggeration
to say that we killed him.” However,
the schoolmaster—“a good fellow, though
he drank”—was willing to live and learn.
* * * *•
“F.Y.7”: Scorfield’s drawing of a
Columbia hand-printing press in that page
ad. dealing with Sydney’s Show reminds
me that the first specimen of the Archi-
medean lever I ever encountered was in
the printery of the Queensland “Western
Champion,” then published in Blackall by
editor-proprietor Peter Campbell. The
part of it that impressed me as a small
boy was the disproportionate American
eagle with outspread wings which topped
the contraption. It is a feature of every
Columbia hand-press, and there must be
hundreds of ’em scattered about Austra-
lasia. Scorfield omitted it in his drawing,
* * * *
“Stoo”: Besides oranges, wax-eyes,
Priminister Savage, Public Works Mini-
ster Semple and Prof. Roberts’s views
on foreign affairs (Auckland’s “Granny”
has fallen for them), Australia gave
M.L. one of its national emblems. The
silver fern worn by All-Blacks, soldiers
and returning tourists was first manu-
factored by a Sydney jeweller, in whose
window it was spotted by a man over
with the Maori footballers in 1886. He
ordered 50, and now, besides being a
more popular emblem than the kiwi, it
has given the country the name “Fern-
land.”


RUPTURE SUFFERERS
USE THIS NEW SCIENTIFIC APPLIANCE
FOR A FORTNIGHT AT OUR RISK!
IF YOU FIND YOU CANNOT DO YOUR WORK OR INDULGE
IN YOUR FAVORITE SPORT WITH GREATER EASE AND
COMFORT IT COSTS NOTHING.
MANY SUFFERERS HAVE ENTIRELY OVERCOME THEIR TROUBLE BY
THE AID OF THIS INVENTION.
m
m
There are principles about the ordinary old-fashioned Trusses
that are seriously wrong. The pressure is not only incorrect,
but often even brutal, causing not only internal injury round
the part, but very often kidney and spinal affections. The cir-
culation is also impeded, and by their use many a simple
Rupture develops into a larger, more distressing, and dangerous
one, because it is not safely and properly supported.
Even in most of the Elastic Webbing Trusses the Supports are
wrong and unreliable, the fastenings rust and stick, the Rupture
slips at a critical moment, and the wearer is m a state oi
Physical and Mental torment. All these serious defects are
overcome by
THE ROUSSEL SCIENTIFIC APPLIANCE
It covers and stays over the breach. It will hold your Rupture securely and comfortably,
and has specialised Supports and simple, effective, and reliable fastenings. It is Hygienic, Sa e
Comfortable. The pressure is natural, and conforms exactly to the requirements of the abdomma
muscles. No buckles to stick, no smelly understraps; adjustable in a few seconds. The resilien ,
specialised Supports have a massaging effect, strengthening the abdominal muscles, and, by
inducing the formation of new tissue, reduce the size of the breach, and very often close it
altogether. We believe our principle is the best in the world. Doctors in all the States recom-
mend it, and we hold hundreds of letters, copies of which we are prepared to send you, and
which speak for themselves. The Roussel Appliance will enable you to run, jump, cough, sneeze,
and work without fear.
If you are interested, CUT OUT, PILL IN, AND POST THE FORM below, with 2d in stamps,
or send your name and full address, and we will send you under plain sealed cover an interesting
Leaflet, which gives you full -details of the Roussel Modern Scientific Appliance, and tells you
how it differs from all others. Learn also how YOU CAN WEAR THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE
FOR A FORTNIGHT, FREE AND ENTIRELY AT OUR RISK. We make an appliance specially
to suit your individual requirements. TRY IT OUT FOR 14 DAYS in any way you think fit, then
if you are not satisfied, send it back. YOU ARE TO BE THE SOLE JUDGE.
ADDRESS: The Roussel Appliance Co. (Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
. (Box 3727 S.S., G.P.0.).
14 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
The Roussel Appliance Co. (Dept. 27),
84 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. (Box 3727 S.S., G.P.0.).
Send me under plain sealed cover, without obligation, your Free Literature, giving
full details of the Roussel Modern Scientific Rupture Appliance, and tell ine how I may
use one made specially for my individual requirements on 14 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
AND ENTIRELY AT YOUR RISK. I enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
Name
Address
S'tate
WRITE PLAINLY AND GIVE FULL ADDRESS, PLEASE.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
"The Macleod Gallery”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
IX.
Easter over, carefully-censored cable-
grams brought the news that there had
been a rising in Dublin. An insignificant,
even ridiculous, shindy compared with the
operations in France and with the siege
of Kut, now decided in favor of the
Turks. The name of only one of the
leaders was familiar, and that only in
militant Labor circles.
Nobody foresaw the far-reaching
effects that the thing would have in Aus-
tralia.
At first the Irish organisations in the
Commonwealth condemned it utterly.
They had an old connection with John
Redmond’s Nationalists, and realised
with indignation that the rebels had given
the English Government another excuse
for delaying the proclamation of the
Home Rule Act. They passed resolu-
tions disowning Plunkett, Pearse and
Connolly, and calling upon the Govern-
ment to place the Redmondites in a posi-
tion to restore order and introduce gen-
eral happiness by setting up a Parlia-
ment on College Green. The Perth Irish,
for their part, arranged a meeting and
invited the State Premier to speak.
The State Premier, Mr. Scadder, ac-
cepted the invitation with alacrity.
Although Cornish by extraction, he had
that sentimental interest in Home Rule
for Ireland which nearly all Australian
Labor politicians professed at that
period. It was good for votes ; and if
the sentimentalist was known to be a
Methodist or a Presbyterian he passed
for being broadminded.
Besides, circumstances had made Mr.
Scadder anxious to effect a diversion and
gain support in an influential quarter.
A suave Jewish gentleman, Mr.
Havanas, had arrived from London with a
plan for building Government meatworks
at a tropical port much cheaper than the
Government could do it by its day-labor
system. To the annoyance of some of
his colleagues and many of his fol-
lowers, Mr. Scadder had yielded to the
arguments of Mr. Havanas, and had not
improved the situation by acknowledg-
ing that Mr. Havanas, learning that the
Premier had a passion for music, had put
him in the way of buying a pianola at
reduced rates.
It is due to Mr. Scadder to say that
only the incurably suspicious suspected
him.
He was known as “Happy Jack,”
and it was generally agreed that his
transactions with Mr. Havanas, who was
an unusually dark Jewish gentleman, ex-
hibited nothing more than a boyish im-
pulsiveness and ingenuousness which had
survived the onset of years. Before he
turned politician he had been an engine-
driver in a goldmine, and his favorite
pastime Tn those days had been socking
visitors on the face with well-aimed
handfuls of cotton waste soaked in oil.
Mr. Scadder’s first stroke of business
as head of the Government had
been the purchase of a run-to-seed
tramway system. Charged by the Oppo-
sition .with having given twice as
much for it as it was worth, he defended
himself by producing a letter in which
the managing director of the expropri-
ated company, an English gentleman
named Stonejaw, congratulated the
people on their acquisition and on their
possession of a Premier who knew a
bargain when he saw one.
Through the influence of Mr. Minogue
Terry had become acquainted with many
of the Perth Irish, and he was present
at some of their private discussions on
the events of Easter Week. They were
still indignant with the rebels, but when
executions were reported a note of criti-
cism began to be heard. And Danny
Duveen, the publican, maintained that
the English had mismanaged the whole
affair —“as they always do and always
will do.”
“The cintre of hostilities,” he pointed
out, “was the pawst office. Our lads
tuk it, and the English brought up their
guns and started to blow ’em out of it.
Why the blazes didn’t the English let
thim stay in the pawst office till they got
tired? Is there anny lad in the wurrld
would want to stay in a pawst office
when the tucker and the drinks give out ?
“If the English wasn’t born fools they
could have drawn their corrdon round
the pawst office, an’ at the ind of t’ree
days the lads’ tongues’d be hangin’ out,
an’ the very sight of the pawst office
walls an’ shelves would make ’em ill. An
thin there would have been an arrmis-
tice, and muchual congratulations on the
gallant behavior of both soides, an’ ex-
planations that it was all a misunther-
standin’, an’ iverybody would be feelin’
good.
“And what harrum could the lads have
done be campin’ t’ree days in the pawst
office? Would anny of us be the worse
off in anny way if our pawst office was
out of action for t’ree days?”
Terry mentioned diffidently that a
biscuit factory had also been occupied.
“That only strengthens me case,” Mr.
Duveen replied. “After t’ree days in a
biscuit factory the name an’ shape of a
biscuit would be ojious.”
Terry went early to the meeting at
which the Premier was to speak. He
thought there might be some difficulty
in getting a seat, but there was none,
although the organisers had secured a
goodly collection of speakers from both
sides of the House.
“Don’t think it’ll be much of a meet-
ing,” the man in the next chair whis-
pered. “Nothing like the one we had
over the case of Lieutenant Donohue.
You were at that, of course?”
Terry explained that he was a stranger
and had never heard of Lieutenant
Donohue.
“He was an area officer,” the man in
the next seat whispered ; “and a damned
good area officer, too. Had his heart
in his job—used to take his boys on
hundred-mile marches and things like
that. He was a fine figure of a man; and
he looked bonzer stepping it out at the
head of his cadets.
“Naturally when the war broke out
Donohue wanted to go, but the military
wouldn’t let him. Said he would have to
stay in Australia and be satisfied with a
training-staff job.
“He stood it for nine months eating
his heart out. Then he smoked to Adel-
aide and enlisted —as a private of course
—under another name. Somebody blew
the gaff, and he was arrested.
“The papers got to hear of it and his
friends rose to the occasion. The night
they had that meeting, this old Town
Hall was packed to the doors, and hun-
dreds couldn’t get in. And the ringing
speeches that were made, demanding in
the name of the Irish-Australians, twenty-
three ’ per cent, of the community, that
this Irish-Australian should be allowed
to fight for King and country, as he
had shown he wanted to do by throwing
up his commission and starting again
from the bottom!”
“What happened?”
“The authorities climbed down, and
let Donohue go to the war as a com-
pany sergeant-major. He is at the
front now.”
But he wasn’t there long. Poor
Donohue was killed in his first battle.
It was a queer meeting altogether.
Totally unlike other Home Rule rallies
that Perth had known.
Some of the gentlemen on the plat-
form seemed uncertain of themselves and
of their audience. There were disapprov-
ing murmurs when the chairman called
upon a Liberal, a Queensland-Irish
knight, who had made his pile as a gold-
fields contractor and had been a mem-
ber of the last Administration, and the
speaker was plainly nervous. He had
some reason to be, for the stumbling
sentences in which he declared himself a
lifelong Nationalist and a believer in
Home Rule “at the earliest possible
moment” were rudely interrupted more
than once. He looked relieved when he
sat down amidst very faint applause.
Mr. Scadder had a much better re-
ception. He was a jolly-looking person,
large of body and head ; and even the
Liberals liked him. But so many of
the faces that gazed at him were un-
wontedly serious, and in some cases sullen,
that even Mr. Scadder’s high spirits were
momentarily affected. However, there
was polite hand-clapping when he said
he had been for Home Rule since boy-
’ood, though Irish on neither side of the
’ouse (like Sir Henry Parkes, Mr.
Scadder dropped his aitches, though he
was rarely at a loss for a word); and it
emboldened him to refer to recent events
which the other speakers had carefully
avoided.
He said he had read with ’orror what
misguided fellers ’ad done in Ireland on
Easter Monday and follerin’ days, and
he was sure the ’orror was gen’ral.
At this there was dead silence in the
hall. The gentlemen on the platform
looked at one another anxiously, obvi-
ously wondering what Mr. Scadder would
say next.
Mr. Scadder said he was certain no-
body in that ’all ad the slightest sym-
pathy with the Sinn Feiners or approved
of their proceedings in any way what-
soever. Nobody in that ’all!
He paused, expecting a confirmatory
cheer; but silence fell again. It was
broken by an old man, dressed like a
laborer, who rose from his seat and
in a thin, high-pitched, tremulous voice
uttered two challenging words: “Oi do.’
Mr. Scadder looked startled and
brought his speech to a hasty conclu-
sion. An innocuous resolution was car-
ried, and the audience, still strangely
silent, melted out into the night.
Every succeeding day brought evi-
dence that Irish Nationalism, now embit-
tered by 15 executions, was coming round
to the old man’s way of thinking ; and,
though Mr. Scadder continued to play
“The Minstrel Boy” and “Believe Me if
All Those Endearing Young Charms” on
the pianola that Mr. Havanas had got for
him at a cut price, his sentimental inter-
est in Home Rule vanished.
While these things were happening in
Ireland and Australia, the Prime Min-
ister, Mr. Pew, was making a hit in
England. He had arrived there in
February, in response to a summons
from the British Government, and the
British public, weary of its own Prime
Minister, and longing for someone who
would ginger-up its war effort, greeted
him as if he were the destined saviour.
King, Church, army, aristocracy, uni-
versities and cities united to honor
little Mr. Pew. Mr. Asquith conceived a
dislike for him —Mr. Asquith disliked
Dominion politicians on principle, though
he was pleased to make exceptions in
favor of Canadian French- and South
African Dutch —but found it expedient
to admit him to Cabinet meetings, even
before he had been sworn of the Privy
Council.
The French were arranging an econo-
mic conference, and Mr. Asquith en-
deavored to arrange that Mr. Pew should
not be present; but his hand was forced
by the King himself. Mr. Pew was de-
manding a ruthless economic war against


df
WINTER CRUISES
EARLY JUNE "ORONSAV *FIJI
EARLY JULY "ORONTES” fP/^PUA
Via Great Barrier Reef.
LATE JULY ........ "ORAMA" *NOUMEA
Via Great Barrier Reef.
LATE AUGUST... "OTRANTO" *FIJI
t First and Tourist Classes. * First and Tourist B Classes.
ORIENT
df
LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited (Incorporated ii
England).
Think it out! Every day of
your life your smartness
depends upon your morning
shave. Why not have the very
finest seif-stropping razor?
fk.
SI
P 7
VALET
Shave with a "Valet”—it is simple, quick and efficient.
For with a "Valet” there is nothing to take to pieces,
nothing to unscrew. Stropping and cleaning are a matter
of seconds, and every blade gives a perfect shave
for weeks on end. Get a "Valet”—the original self-
stropping razor —still the simplest and best.
The Set illustrated is the No. 55 NICKEL SET. In highly-
polished nickelled case lined with velvet. The Set comprises a
self-stropping "Valet” razor, three "Valet” blades £
and a strop of good quality in hinged container. IMm m
OTHER SETS FROM 4/6 TO 65/- . . . OF ALL DEALERS . . . BRITISH MADE
• Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydnej
AWAKE ALL NIGHT
WITH INDIGESTION
Now Sleeps Like a Top
—Thanks to Kruschen.
This man used to pass night after night with
hardly a wink of sleep. All the remedies he
tried failed to help him, until he started taking
a daily dose of Kruschen. That was what he
needed to put him right, and his letter is a
real proclamation of victory:
“I first started taking Kruschen Salts three
or four years ago. For y§ars previously I had
suffered agony with indigestion. Night after
night for weeks on end I had very little sleep,
and I was becoming a wreck. Then I started
taking Kruschen —half-heartedly I will admit—
but after the first few doses my attacks grew
less and less. I kept on, and they completely
disappeared, and I have been a regular
‘Kruschenite’ ever since. lam now 50 years
of age, and I can eat anything at any time
without any ill effects. I sleep like a top-
thanks to Kruschen.”—J.H.C.
Kruschen is a combination of six natural
salts which stimulate your liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy, regular activity. They
ensure internal cleanliness, and keep the blood-
stream pure.
Germany, and intimating that if he had
his way he would not only compel the
enemy to pay huge indemnities but would
never admit German goods into Aus-
tralia again. These views horrified Mr.
Asquith, nor for the moment were they
congenial to Mr. Lloyd George.
Mr. Pew returned Mr. Asquith’s dis-
like with interest. “Life terrified him,”
he wrote. It didn’t, of course, terrifv
Mr. Pew; Mr. Pew was afraid of no'-
thing except losing office.
He had never forgotten the anguish he
felt when the first Government of which
he was a member had to get out in its
fifteenth week (he expressed it so poign-
antly that an old Parliamentary hand
likened him to “a boy dragged scream-
ing from a tart shop”), and he was de-
termined not to suffer it again if he
could help it.
The French also made a fuss of Mr.
Pew. The A.I.F. was arriving in France,
and when the French learned that Mr.
Pew.™ coming they—in the words
of Swanton, of “L’lllustration”—ex-
pected to see “one of those powerful
Australians who look capable of carry-
ing the world on their shoulders.” In-
stead there flashed upon their gaze “a
little man of frail appearance, narrow-
shouldered, rather stooped,” with a “long
face, seamed with lines,” like that of a
Breton peasant. But in council, though
he sat doubled up and was hard of hearing,
the tremendous force embodied in that
debilitated frame ’ was made so evident
that one understands the ascendancy
which this little Welshman, who re-
sembles a black spider, has been able to
obtain, not only over audiences in Aus-
tralia and England, but over the oldest
Parliamentary hands in Europe.”
At the economic conference, Mr. Pew
demanded an aggressive post-war com-
mercial policy,” based on “the prohibi-
tion of goods from enemy countries ’ ;
and the French were delighted.
After a few more exhortations to the
English to be “up and doing” (the
burden of most of his speeches to them),
Mr. Pew embarked for Australia, satis-
fied that the Allies were now safe, or
could at the worst save themselves by
his example.
In France some of his soldiers on
reaching the front line had been greeted
by the foe with trench signboards bear-
ing the inscription “Advance Australia—
If You Can.” And a general from Syd-
ney had been ordered home after an
unlucky raid in which too-enterprising
Germans had grabbed a couple of
“secret” weapons—an incident cele-
brated in a Digger-Tommy dialogue that
had a wide currency:
Digger: Got a fag, choom?
Tommy: Aye, lad; and we’ve still got
our Stokes goons.
And the Fifth Australian Division had
been uselessly sacrificed at Fleurbaix.
Somebody had planned a feint or a
reconnaissance in force or something, and
it developed into a blundering battle in
which 6200 Australians were killed,
wounded or captured. Many of them
were farmers who had enlisted in the
autumn of 1915 after they put in their
crops, having been hard hit in the 1914
drought.
After the slaughter groups of dis-
tracted survivors hailed an officer of high
rank as “Murderer,” and another officer
of high rank was degraded. Both had
fought with distinguished gallantry in
Gallipoli.
But the truth about Fleurbaix was
kept from the Australian people ; and
Mr. Pew, arriving in Australia 12 days
after the tragedy, and making speeches
in all the mainland capitals, was received
everywhere as a conquering hero.
(To be continued.)
What Sydney “D.T.” doesn’t know
about French and Spanish history would
fill a forest of pages reserved for syndi-
cated stuff in its flapper weekly. Its odd
idea that France is one of the Low
Countries, and that it has been a car-
dinal point in British policy to protect
that Low Country for a hundred years—
that is to say, for 32 years before the
Franco-Prussian War, and for the subse-
quent 28 years to Fashoda, as well as
since—is paralleled by its grave fear that
when the side it is still backing has lost
the civil war Spain will be carved up
by Germany and Italy. Relatively to
the Europe of his day, Napoleon was
more powerful than Hitler and Mussolini
combined ; and even the “D.T.” Should
know what happened when- Spain was
added to the Bonapartist empire. And
though the “D.T.” has a low opinion
of Hitler and Mussolini—wowsers like
Spooner-—they are not altogether mad.
Maoriland’s historian Lindsay Buick
has sprung a surprise by leaving an
estate of £14,000, which is not bad for
a journalist. Of this, £lOOO goes to the
Otago University, and the interest on
£ll,OOO is given to the National Art
Gallery in Wellington for the purchase
of paintings, etchings and statuary. The
Hocken Collection in Dunedin also gets
a help along.
.** * *
“Aigburth”: If it can be squeezed in
Ele , ve " m ?y ? u holi -
- V C ' agathSt Hambiedon club On
Broadha'penny Down tn Hampshire.
S-Te H°£ ,S F PP ,° Se ? 1° , be ,he ol * S ‘
S c ub ln England, but as a matter
who a wo;Le"e e eZe 0 s £ oSS
owners and played against each other for
stakes provided by their employers, who
usually betted on the result with the sky
for limit. Of late years the club has
been copiously written up by swarms of
Neville Carduses, most of their stuff
being based on the published maunder-
ings of one Richard Nyren, who, on his
own account, was one of the club’s cham-
nirm<! ’ c-jiain


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
m
m
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
E
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty.Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3SO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
The Debunking of Errol Flynn
(BY FRANK CLUNE.)
DURING our two hours’ wait
on Restoration Beach (Q.) I
whiled away the time beneath a
, , , ~ -r-, i
pandanus palm by reading Errol
Flynns Beam Ends , which a friend had
given me before I left Sydney.
“This,” my friend had said, “is the
dinkurn oil about Queensland.”
Idly flipping its pages I read on page
197, after Errol had left Cairns sailing
north for Cooktown :
On the way we called in at Restoration
Island out of pure curiosity. I wanted to
see the island which had once been the sal-
vation of the Bounty....We left Restora-
tion in the late afternoon in time to reach
Cooktown early next morning.
Restoration Rock is almost 200 miles
north of Cooktown, so it could not pos-
, ~
sibly have been passed on the way
between Cairns and Cooktown.
This line of thought caused me to read
Beam Ends right through very carefully,
and on my return to Sydney I wrote a
few letters to check up on Errol Flynn’s
voyage from Sydney to New Guinea.
Flynn says in Beam Ends that he pur-
chased the Sirocco in the following cir-
cumstances: —
T ~ . . .. XT /-< ■ ii
r ;, solda " a ™ on d ’ e Ne w Guinea gold-
fields for £lOOO. The sudden transition
from poverty to affluence was intoxicating
m every sense of the word. A couple of
weeks later I woke clear-headed one morn-
ing, and taking a census found myself the
possessor of a yacht and about £2OO. It
will always be something of a mystery to
me how l came to acquire the yacht
Sirocco. A friend named Rex said he had
been one of the guests at a party I had
apparently given on board. He had, he
said, tried to stop my giving the owner the
cheque, but I was insistent that nothing
less than the yacht itself would serve me
for a souvenir of the party. I hurried
around to the bank, hoping against hope.
But it was too late. The cheque had been
cashed. (Page 12.)
Such is Errol Flynn’s statement.
rr u tt 1 . ~„a
Harold Halvorsen, the boatbuilder, of
Neutral Bay, Sydney, has a different ver-
sion. In a signed statement which I hold
he says -
y ‘ , . . , , „
Errol Flynn after inspecting the yacht
Sirocco paid £5 deposit on January 3, 1930,
in cash. Mr. Flynn’s mother on January 15,
1930 > P aid £270 by cheque, making a total
Purchase price of £275 Errol Flyfio
ordered new gear and refitting costing £9O,
which was pa s id as follows: February 10,
1930, cash £25; February 28, 1930, cheque
£25; and gave an lOU for the balance of
£4 ° payable on June 10, 1930, which has
never been paid-
So Errol Flynn sets out from Sydney
Harbor on a three-thousand mile jour-
ney to New Guinea. In due course he
came to Gladstone. Says he:
The town is chiefly remarkable for its
chief lighthouse-keeper, who, contrary to
a ii precedent, is a woman, affectionately
anc j widely known as the “Captain.” She is
old an( j bent an d incredibly wrinkled, and
has as fine a command of sulphurous lan-
g“age ds , h « father a shellback skipper
of a wool-clipper in the eighties, once pos-
sessed. She wears an enormous pair of
gum seaboots, drinks vast quantities of
whisky and beer, or when she can’t get that
methylated spirits. She emphasises her con-
versation with lusty seaside oaths. The
town 1S nghtly proud of her ' (Page 82 ’> ,
I wrote to the Town Clerk of Glad-
stone, who replied on February 4, 1938,
as t°fl° ws:
None of the local residents- have any
knowledge of a lady lighthouse-keeper ever
bei s t ationed near Gladstone. The
Harbor and Rivers Department advises that
women are not appo inted as lighthouse-
keepers in Queensland,
Errol’s next port of call was Rock-
hampton, where, he says,
. , , . , rcn „
f U was , a J. oyful "u whe " f° came
f /° m lre and as a birthday gift from my
a er ' age '
We must remember that this was the
year 1930. lam informed by the Regis-
f rr • - f f Tasmania in -i
rar ot University of Jasmania in a
letter dated February 23, 1938, that:
Professor Theodore Thomson Flynn was
Ralston Professor of Biology in the Univer-
sity of Tasmania from March, 1909, until
June, 1931. His son Errol Flynn took the
intermediate examination m 1925.
.
This statement is supplemented by Ex-
tract on Search No. 4556, dated Hobait,
March 3, 1938, which I have received
from the Registrar-General’s Office in
■ Th - rpr tjfimte states that
Tasmania. lhis certificate states that
Errol Leslie Flynn, son of Theodore
Thomson Flynn, was born on June 20,
1909, at Hobart.
In his book (page 5) Errol talks about
his school days in Ireland and about
how homesick he felt when Trelawney
Adams
reminisced about Ireland, told me family
news, spoke of horses, of green Irish fields,
with such fluency that I could almost smell
the rain and mist of a good hunt morning.
He says he had a desire to see the old
home again (page 6).
Our hero, according to himself, next
meets a most attractive lady. On Dent
Island, which is in Whitsunday Passage
near Lindeman Island, he met a Mrs.
Wilson, and was introduced to her eldest
daughter Lucy.
Says Errol:
I was smitten hard by Lucy. One day
we went to where a shimmering mountain
stream emptied in a cool, clear rock pool,
and we swam in it. Unashamed and laugh-
ing she (lung her clothes from her and
plunged in.
Then Lucy announced that she was sail-
ing with us. (Page 141.)
Errol declares that Lucy swam out to
the ship and would not budge until the
four hefty men on board threw a blanket
over her head, trussed her up like a
fowl, and then:
Cursing and well tied up, she was care-
fully deposited oh the beach. (Page 143.)
Anxious to know more about Lucy, I
wrote to my friend Angus Nicolson,
owner of LindemanTsland, who replied:
About this Miss Wilson on Dent Island.
In my 14 years here I have never heard
of a female with a girl of that name and
age. This is all rot. I met the Sirocco
men in 1930, who told me they did not
call at Dent at all. It was rough weather
at the time.
Errol next proceeds to Cairns, where,
after an incident of smuggling opium for
the Chinese fan-tan dens, he says:
Rex and I decided to visit Mareeba, a
town several hundred miles from the coast.
(Page 186.)
He describes a train journey lasting all
day and all night, and mentions he was
26 hours in the train, travelling across
the desert.
I have a letter from Mr. J. Wilson,
manager of the Queensland Government
Tourist Bureau, Sydney, dated February
22, 1938, containing the following official
information:
(1) Mareeba is situated 46 miles from
Cairns. (2) The journey occupies three
hours. (3) There is no desert country be-
tween Cairns and Mareeba.
Proceeding from Cairns to Cooktown
via Restoration Rock, as previously men-
tioned, Errol states that when they tied
up at the pier:—
In prodigious numbers goats ambled on
to the pier and stared down at us.
He says that one of the Siroccans
lassoed a goat and also souvenired some
fowls belonging to the sergeant of police,
Says Errol:
The sergeant, mayor, harbormaster of
Cooktown turned out to be one of the best,
and a fine drinking man to boot. Without
any difficulties we settled down to a few
days’ steady drinking. I think Cooktown
must hold the record of being the most be-
pubbed little town in the world. There are
59 licensed drinking houses to cater
needs of a town population of about 300.
In a letter to me dated February 15,
1938, Mr. S. Murray, Clerk of Cook
Shire, writes:
There are only five hotels here, and the
population is well over 600 in the town,
and about 1000 in town and imrnedia
vicinity. The police sergeant is only *i<-
police sergeant. The harbormaster is t
Clerk of Petty Sessions. The chairman o
the Cook Shire Council is Mr. A. Stana-
field Sampson. The four-legged goats or
Cooktown usually keep to the hills an
are very seldom seen about the main streets.
The harbormaster advises me that the aux-
iliary yacht Sirocco arrived from south on
August 15, 1930, and sailed for New
Guinea on August 26, 1930.
And so our author proceeds to New
Guinea. He describes (on page 244) the
wreck of the Sirocco there and the death
of Trelawney Adams.
Kindly, lovable old Dook. His death
was a tragedy that left me stunned and
dazed for a long time. We all felt it
deeply. The Sirocco’s bones and his are
scattered over a coral reef in the South
Seas, as are the bones of many a fine
ship, but never of a finer man.
Compare this with the version in the
Sydney “Morning Herald” of December
12, 1930:
Port Moresby, December 11. It is
feared that the launch Sirocco, which
smashed on the reef at Tauraura Point this
morning, will become a total wreck. Foi-
tunately its three occupants reached shore
in safety.
The same news item in the “S. M.
Herald” states that the occupants of the
launch at the time of the wreck were
Messrs. Errol Flynn and Long Innes,
with Miss Annie Haywood as a pas-
senger.
So where was poor old Dook Tre-
lawney, whose bones were scattered on
a coral reef?
The “S. M. Herald” report states that:
After many attempts to launch the dinghy,
the party swam ashore, landing at Pari
village, where the natives made a fire to
dry their clothes. None of them is any
the worse for their experience.
The newspaper mentions that the Sirocco
came to Port Moresby three months ago
from Sydney.
Which makes it appear that 14 days after
leaving Cooktown the Sirocco reached
Port Moresby, and was not wrecked,
until three months after that; but Errol
claims that the wreck occurred before
they reached Port Moresby.
We were now only a couple of days
from Port Moresby, and it was here,
near the village of Bukansip, that tragedy
struck and struck hard. The details of
that ghastly day are as vivid in my mind
as if they had happened yesterday. (Page
241.)
He then describes the wreck and poor
old Dook’s death, but his memory for
details in this matter seems to have
slipped.
Flynn is now in Hollywood, as all
flappers know. Part of the flapdoodle
issued by his publicity agents for his pic-
ture “The Perfect Specimen” :
Flynn’s casual remark to the effect that
he had been a member of the Irish
boxing team at the 1928 Olympic Games
in Amsterdam was verified recently by
Frankie Summers, who was in Amsterdam
during the 1928 Olympics. “I saw Flynn
fight, and he knows how to take care of
himself,” Summers said.
Compare this with a letter which I hold
from Dalgetys, Sydney, dated March 2,
1938: —
Our records show that Mr. Errol Flynn
entered the service of our company on Sep-
tember 13, 1926, and was employed at our
wharf department, Miller’s Point, until Sep-
tember 30, 1927, on which date he re-
signed.
In a letter which I have from Mr.
James W. Eve, secretary of the Austra-
lian Olympic Federation, dated March
8, 1938, Mr. Eve states:
It is hardly likely Flynn would have
represented Ireland in the national sec-
tion as the rules provide —Rule 3, Section
11—“ All persons who have been resident
in Ireland during the 12 months prior to
August 1, 1928.”
Mr. Eve gives names of all the Irish
boxing competitors of 1928, and there
is no Errol Flynn among them.
Errol Flynn is an Australian who has
managed to put it over the simple sooks
of Hollywood, and good luck to him ;
but why all that rubbish about the boat-
builder of Sydney, the lighthouse-keeper
of Gladstone, the lass of Dent Island and
the police sergeant of Cooktown? Surely
he is not ashamed of Australia or
ashamed to admit that he was a Hobart-
born shipping clerk who got a start in
films at Sydney in Charles Chauvel's
“Wake of the Bounty” in 1932, playing
the part of Christian?


OVER 300,000 MOTORISTS IN ENGLAND
AMERICA, EUROPE AND AFRICA ENDORSE
OVRHAUL
AND ALREADY
THE MOTOR
conservative, and among
the most reliable of motor
journals , has tested
OVRHAUL
Read this fine report:
Extract from May 11. 1937, issue: —
CURATIVE FOR WORN ENGINES.—
A new Substance which can be intro-
duced into Cylinders to Seal Pistons and
Rings. Compression Improved and Oil
Consumption Reduced.
There must be many motorists who run
engines which are in a bad condition, put-
ting up with heavy oil consumption,
fumes and loss of power, simply be-
cause they cannot face the time and cost
involved in reconditioning. People in this
predicament should be interested in a
new piston-sealing material which con-
tains no injurious chemicals and consists
of a finely-divided mineral called Vermi-
culite, which is mixed with oil.
A peculiar feature of this mineral is the
way in which it expands (the technical
term is “flexfoliates”) when suddenly
heated, but it remains soft and pliable. It
is due to this feature that a sealing effect
is obtained between piston rings and
their grooves and between piston skirts
and cylinder bores, when wear has un-
duly increased the working clearances.
We have tested the material in the engine
of “The Motor” mobile photographic
van, which, in size and design, is com-
parable with a car engine. Soon after
the initial treatment, a piston slap, for-
merly rather pronounced, became in-
audible, the compression increased notice-
ably, the road performance showed im-
provement and the oil consumption was
very much reduced.
OVRHAUL has also
won the approval of
“AUTOCAR”
and
BRITISH SCHOOL
OF MOTORING.
OVER 10,000 AUSTRALIANS HAVE
USED OVRHAUL TO RECONDITION
THEIR CARS AND TRUCKS
What Ovrhaul Does: OVRHAUL restores the compression of a
motor lost because of worn cylinders, pistons or rings, and does this while you drive,
avoiding the inconvenience and expense of laying up your car. Costly rebores and
new rings are unnecessary. To treat a motor, merely deposit OVRHAUL on top of
the pistons through the spark-plug openings. As the motor works, OVRHAUL is
carried behind and between the compression rings and ring grooves. It works into
scores of the cylinder walls and into pits in the valve seats. Under the heat of the
engine OVRHAUL expands but remains soft and pliable. This expansion of the
OVRHAUL compensates for both ring and cylinder wear, and, perfecting the
sealing, it increases the compression, restores New Car zip and power, smooths
the running of the engine, checks oil pumping, smoking and piston slap. Oil and
petrol consumption is automatically reduced, and the savings more than pay for the
cost in no time. ■ ■
Australian OVRHAUL users are enthusiastic . . . read these letters
“The car was in a condition fit almost to
scrap . . . the results are remarkable . . .
speed and power has returned, and the oil
bill less.”
(Dodge, 1932.)
C. M. White, Toronto, N.S.W.
“Before using Ovrhaul, compression aver-
aged 401 b. . . . now just over 70lb. ... oil
consumption 50 p.c. lighter and 5 miles more
to the gallon of petrol."
(Rugby.)
H. J. R., Milleara, via South Grafton.
“Marked improvement in compression
. . . average of 181 b. per cylinder and a
saving of 50 p.c. in oil consumption.”
(White,)
W. E. Bramble & Sons, Ltd., Newcastle.
“The oil consumption was reduced from
1 gallon per 300 miles to 1 pint per 1000
miles . . . general performance of engine
improved definitely 100 p.c."
A.D., Male Used Cars, Melbourne.
“Acceleration, speed and hill-climbing per-
formance increased enormously ... car ran
practically as well as it did when new.”
(Dodge, 1934.)
I Newcastle “Sun.”
“Have Had Wonderful
Results”
“Evestor,” Gundaroo, N.S.W.,
• 13 /6 / ’37.
Dear Sirs, —
My Dodge Standard 1928 Model car
required a rebore and overhaul badly. The
car was sluggish, had piston slap, was eating
oil and petrol—in fact, it was eating money.
Since using “Ovrhaul” I have had won-
derful results.
I have done 1250 miles of hard, fast driv-
ing since I installed “Ovrhaul,” with —
1. Compression: Improved out of sight.
2. Starting: 100 p.c. easier.
3. Petrol Consumption: Improved from
17 to 23 m.p.g.
4. Oil Consumption: Greatly reduced.
5. Pick-up and Get-away: Improvement
100 p.c
6. Engine Noise: Reduced considerably.
7. Pace and Pulling: Wonderful improve-
ment. Thanks to “OVRHAUL.”
I am, yours faithfully,
(Signed) Wally Johnson.
“The mileage covered by the Ford Model
A prior to installing Ovrhaul was upwards
of 200,000. Pulling power largely increased,
piston slap reduced and oil pumping elimi-
nated.”
J. North, Southport, Queensland.
“I have treated a Standard 9, a Buick
Master Six, a 1926 Dodge, a Willys 77 and
a McCormick-Deering Tractor ... all are
getting better mileage per gallon and using
less oil.”
A. H. Conroy, Ayr, Queensland.
“This remarkable saving in oil came as a
surprise to us . . . the engine is running
fully 50 p.c. better.”
(Oakland, 1930.)
A. H. Paterson, Car Sales, Melbourne.
“The result up to date is marvellous, and
the further I drive the better the car is
getting.”
(Ford V-8, 1932.)
R.J.M., Queanbeyan.
RECONDITION YOUR MOTOR WHILE YOU DRIVE
WITH..
OVRHAUL
Ovrhaul is obtainable throughout Australia from the following Distributors:
VICTORIA,
TAS. and S.A.
THE MYER EMPORIUM,
LTD.,
Bourke St., Melbourne.
JAS. McEWAN & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ACCESSORIES
PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
226 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CORFIELD PTY., LTD.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MU1727.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
SYDNEY—
HISLOP, LLOYD, LTD.
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.
WESTCOTT, HAZELL & CO.,
LTD.
J. M. HISLOP
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
LTD.
GRACE BROS., LTD.
NU ENAMEL STORE
H. C. WALKER PTY., LTD.,
60 YORK STREET.
NEWCASTLE—
HISLOP, LLOYD (N’CASTLE),
LTD.
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.
WOLLONGONG—
ADVANX TYRE SERVICE
GOULBURN—
QUEENSLAND.
All reputable Accessory
Houses and State
Representatives:
HOWARDS, LTD,
317 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
Also at Toowoomba.
LISMORE—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.
KEMPSEY—
HALL’S TYRE SERVICE DICKSON & McKAY
GRAFTON—R. W. ROBINSON’S GARAGE
Advertisement Authorised by the Sole Australian Representative, H. C. WALKER PTY., LTD., 60 York Street, Sydney, N.S.W
REPRESENTATION
Enquiries are invited from progres-
sive Motor Accessory Firms or suc-
cessful specialty salesmen for the
attractive Ovrhaul dealership Fran-
chise. A few territories are still
available to the right people. For-
ward your enquiry without delay.
POST FREE
for up to 10,000 miles of
“NEW CAR” Motoring.
USE THIS COUPON . . . NOW!
1 enclose herewith the sum of 251- for one
tube of OVRHAUL.
Please send Post Free >o:
NAME
ADDRESS


Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
* J?'-' *
•V'.y/ ‘ *'v»'
wVH
S\
►>
“WARATAH”
FENCING PRODUCTS
For Complete Satisfaction
Fencing problems are easily solved when you buy from Rylands’ Waratah
range of fencing products. One Hundred per cent. Australian —from the ore
to the fence—they meet the successful farmer’s every need. For the buyer’s
protection every coil of wire and roll of netting bears Rylands identification disc.
WIRE NETTING
FENCING WIRE
STAR STEEL FENCE POSTS
HINGED JOINT FENCE
“Waratah” Wire Netting is carefully woven from high-grade wire and hot
galvanised after weaving with pure electrolytic zinc. Supplied in a wide range
of gauges, meshes and widths. Rylands’ “Waratah” Fencing Wire in black or
galvanised finishes is made from selected high-grade B.H.P. Steel. ‘ Waratah
Star Steel Fence Posts are more economical than wooden posts. A man and
a boy can erect 200 posts in a day. They are fire and ant proof and are
available in a variety of sizes and spacings. “Waratah” Hinged Joint Fence is
particularly suitable for fencing sheep, cattle and pig enclosures. The special
woven construction withstands many conditions which would wreck other fences.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from B.H.P. STEEL by
RYLANDS BROTHERS (AUST.) PTY., LTD.
Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Head Office, 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Write for Our Farmer’s
Hand Book—lt’s Free.
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
