

''/»»// »\' inri/«\\)> ///
\
*
00**
uum
\
■
\u
miiiiWlSiti
iwi/W*'* .'TWffr •//(>..
?s/7 ’t Cricket ..
z; 1
i T
V v®
</
said Johnnie Walker
M
im
v*z,
... .that makes us take a short holiday from distilling in the
summer months. It is because there are certain processes in
the distilling of whisky which call for cool weather and naturally
cool fresh water; even a swift-running Highland stream is not
quite cold enough all the year round for all the processes of
fine distilling.
“This holiday we give to whisky-making is just one instance of
the care taken in distilling, maturing and blending the Johnnie Walker
you enjoy on a fine summer day. When you hear the soda fizz into
the glass and the ice tinkle, you know (if you have asked for Johnnie
Walker by name) that you are going to have a really good drink.”
Johnnie Walker
Born 1820 still going strong.
JOHN WALKER & SONS., LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3027.
Wednesday, February 16, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
"BULLETIN" LITERARY
COMPETITIONS.
In bulk, at any rate, the short-story competition
run by The Bulletin and Cinesound Productions,
Ltd., in conjunction turned out as successful as the
wildest optimism could have hoped.
It brought in the huge total of 973 entries, a
formidable stack which the judges are now coura-
geously tackling. The competition closed on January
31, and some of the entries had been read as they
came to hand before that, but it will be a few weeks
yet before the results are available.
For this competition The Bulletin offered
prizes of £3O, £l5 and £5, with an additional special
prize of £5 for a brief story, and, of course, payment
at Bulletin rates as well for all chosen for
publication.
Cinesound Productions offered £lOO for the best
story for film-making purposes. All entries con-
sidered to be likely contenders for that particular
prize, whether suitable for Bulletin publication or
not, will be sent on to Cinesound Productions, who
will judge their part of the competition separately.
They are trying hard to find original Australian
stories suitable for filming, and it will be up to them
to decide which of the entries warrants their prize.
The bulk of the entries, of course, are not up
to the mark, but The Bulletin welcomes these as
much as any, since the underlying idea in these literary
competitions is to give a practical encouragement to
writers in Australia, Maoriland and hereabouts, and
an impetus to creative writing.
It is a bit early in the judging yet to say what
general influences are operating just now among
Australian writers as represented by these competitors,
but it is noticeable that the plotless incidental sketch
appears to be having something of a vogue. Well
done, these can be good—they can be good literature
—but they don’t come out so well regarded as short
stories. They tend to be slick and thin, without
literary body. On the other hand, a few very soundly-
constructed and well-written stories have already been
brought to light; genuine original short stories which
give the judges ground for some hope in facing up to
the huge bulk still to be read.
The Bulletin’s idea in this competition is also
the underlying one in the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize. Closing date for this annual competition is
June 6. It is this year for novels only, and full
particulars regarding it can be had from the secretary,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, George-
street, Sydney.
The Changing Outlook.
Re-reading Henry Kingsley’s chronicle of coinci-
dences, The Recollections of Geoffry Hamlyn, I was
struck by the contrast between the ending of that
book and that of Miss Miles Franklin’s All That
Swagger —the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize winner for
1936. The contrast is that between literature about
Australia written by Englishmen and Australian litera-
ture by Australians for Australians.
By the time the logical ending of Kingsley’s story
is reached, Miss Thornton has died of old age, James
Stockbridge and Charles Hawker have met tragedy,
the villyun, Hawker’s father, has been (after suitable
deathbed repentance) hanged, and Lee, who, despite
all double-crossing of his old comrades, had too bad
a past to allow him to mix with the polite society of
a happy ending, has been murdered.
The rest of the principal characters, all alive, are
in Australia, and to all appearances are happy. Then
Kingsley seems to have thought that to leave his
characters —aristocratic and semi-aristocratic English-
men —out in that country in which he himself spent
“many weary years of separation” is not a happy
ending. He sees the solution. They have all made
money in Australia, so there is nothing else they want
with it. Back they go to the castles, the manors and
the gentlemanly cottages of England.
Miles Franklin’s book ends its compelling sweep
of history with the tide running the other way. Young
Brian, descendant of old Danny, tires of Europe and
flies home to Australia to begin a career here, a career
which will be guided by thoughts not so much of
making money out of the country as of doing some-
thing for it and helping its development.
Nearly eighty years elapsed between the publica-
tion of Geoff ry Hamlyn and All That Swagger, and
one of the healthiest productions in that time has been
the changed attitude to Australia represented by Miss
Franklin’s book.
LAN MUDIE.
Sequel to "Holy Ireland."
Norah Hoult’s Coming from the Fair (Heine-
mann) is a companion to her earlier book, Holy
Ireland, but is complete in itself. The aim of the
two books, as the author herself explains, is to portray
“something of the life of an older Dublin that I
myself knew.”
Both Holy Ireland and Coming from the Fair are
concerned with the history of the O’Neill family, first
in their prosperity, then in their decline. The second
book—the title is suggestive of a return from prosperity
—begins with the death of Patrick O’Neill, a cattle
jobber, a stern man, honest and respected. The
business passes to Charlie, aged twenty-three, and
to a younger boy, Johnnie. Charlie, reacting from
his father’s sternness, ravels away, and the business
with him.
Johnnie leaves it to become a bookmaker’s clerk,
stepping out of the narrow frame of the family’s
respectability. Of the two daughters, Margaret
marries an Englishman and a Theosophist and dies
young, disappointed and unsatisfied. Lucy becomes
a nurse and wears out her nerves and spirit in love
for a man who cannot marry her. The war carries
Charlie to London, where he dies of pneumonia as
a result of years of dissipation, and Johnnie to France,
where he dies of wounds.
Summarised like this the novel sounds intolerably
gloomy, but, despite its propulsion towards doom —
the dragging end of a way of life as exemplified in
a family history—it is by no means a drab or morbid
book. Events are sunk beneath the surface of daily
life which is always racy, full of incident, humor
and movement.
The structure is very loose. Incidents string out
over thirty years— 1903 to 1933 with gaps and
chasms which the author bridges most casually.
Long meandering conversations are reported in full,
characters who have no bearing on the plot are
minutely described, small incidents are given in detail
while large and important ones are passed over.
Out of the conjuring of random objects, people
and events there arises a picture of life vivid and
convincing. It is warm and natural. It has the feeling
of life. There is the sense of deep water under it.
The characters, presented piecemeal, come together in
the reader’s imagination.
It is a surprise that this book should be by a
woman. It moves with complete freedom through
all manner of scenes not habitually open to women
novelists —the hold of a cattle-ship crossing the Irish
Channel on a stormy night, the bars of endless Dublin
public houses, sundry “kips,” as well as streets,
churches and domestic interiors ; the minds of cattle-
men, beggars, old soaks, young bloods, as well as
of pious old women, young children, wives and
mothers.
Coming from the Fair is deeply influenced by
the style and manner of James Joyce. Norah Hoult
uses a similar, though modified, surface treatment —
though it is by no means a difficult book to read or
understand—and she has a like conception of litera-
ture as a plastic art, modelling her style upon her
subject-matter. This is more, you feel, than imitation ;
it is the result of something kindred. It may be
something that the air of Dublin does to authors who
surrender themselves to it.
Men as Husbands.
Marital relationships are the burden of Fain Would
I Change, by Frances Harris (Duckworth). The blurb’s
allusion to Jane Aust-n is unfortunate—and perhaps
unfair to the book —in arousing expectations doomed
to go unfulfilled. The author has a small, delicate
talent for revealing the nuances of human relation-
ships. It doesn’t carry her as far as she attempts to
go, but it is authentic.
She deals with the family of an English gentleman
farmer, a man who abandoned a provincial law prac-
tice when he unexpectedly inherited his brother’s
country estate, and whose wife has devoted herself
uncomplainingly to maintaining their position in the
country on an inadequate income. Theirs is outwardly
a successful marriage, though there is a grub devour-
ing the core.
Of their two daughters, Theodora, who “read
books with a lively intelligent interest, extracting what
was revitalising and amusing, and shaking herself
quickly free of any emotional reaction,” marries David
Gore, a London journalist, and Alison, a dreamy,
passionate girl, clears off to the Riviera with Harry
Detterling, architect and married man. David Gore
is not “county,” therefore not very welcome. The
other man, of course, is a rank outsider. Family
reactions to these events —extending to near relations
of Mr. and Mrs. Suckling—provide the writer with
exactly the material suited to her gifts.
Alison and Harry build and run a small guest-
house, and are reasonably happy, though they would
rather change to a legally-married state. Theodora
and David are ideally happy for about three years,
but they gradually come to realise that it would have
been better if they’d never met.
While these stories are being worked out Romola
Suckling, on a visit to the local cinema, falls in love
with a film actor. Through this uncontrollable erup-
tion of suppressed romanticism Romola comes gradu-
ally to understand the exact nature of the difficulty
between herself and her husband Reggie. Their life
together has been a record of duty faithfully dis-
charged on both sides, but with a lack of sympathy.
She sees her life in retrospect, and traces the trouble
back to their honeymoon. She had been a girl of
little knowledge, Reggie a lover too easily discouraged
and thrown back upon himself. They had never come
to mutual recognition of their needs.
The book fails in that the author has not related
her characters to life in general. Though she makes
a gesture in the right direction, she is not really inter-
ested, for instance, in Reggie as a farmer, David
as a journalist or Harry as an architect; they have
no value to her except as husbands. This, though
she shows delicate perceptiveness as far as her main
preoccupation is concerned, leaves Fain Would l
Change a two-dimensional book, a study in the flat.
An Off-white Aristocracy.
Lack of experience in story-tellmg is evident in
Children of Strangers, by Lyle Saxon (Bodley Head ,
Angus and Robertson), but interest is maintained in
spite of this. A stiff gait is offset by the freshness
of the material, the inherent soundness ot the story
and the writer’s feeling for life.
Miss Saxon deals with a group of Louisiana
mulattoes, distinct among American colored people in
being of aristocratic descent, bilingual and property-
owners by inheritance. The early French planters or
Louisiana brought quadroon and mulatto women
from New Orleans to keep them company in the
wilderness. The position of these unofficial wi\es
was quite different from that of the slaves. In greater
or lesser degree they shared the lives of their masters,
acquired an Africanised version of manners and aris-
tocratic outlook, and in many cases then children
became heirs to estates and themselves slaveowners.
Tradition persists among them, though the breed
has declined. Subdivision of property through suc-
cessive generations has brought all to a negro level
of subsistence ; but they don’t mix with the negroes,
and the white planters, with whom some are forced
to take service, recognise a distinction. In their cabins
manners are maintained —amid pathetic poverty—and
genealogies are remembered. To part with the
ancestral plot to a white planter is to fray the social
painter, and to marry a negro is to be cast off for
ever. They practically conspire to make their breed
whiter. For a young girl to have a black baby is a
calamity, a white one—though evidence of a regret-
table moral lapse —is a happy event.
Famie Vidal, Miss Saxon’s heroine, is courted
by a young mulatto, Numa Latour, whose suit has
the endorsement of their families, but Famie s atten-
tion —though she has confessed fondness for Numa—
is caught by a strange white man camped across the
river from her home. She visits him at night, rowing
across the water after the household has gone to bed.
Numa discovers this, spies on the couple, and is driven
nearly mad with jealousy. .
He learns by accident that the stranger is a fugi-
tive from justice, a Texas gunman, and secretly gives
information to the sheriff. The gunman is killed
resisting arrest. His death brings comparative calm
to Numa, but he inadvertently betrays his knowledge
of her association with him to Famie. She instantly
accuses him of having been the informer. He denies
it, swearing the most solemn oath known among their
people, and is believed.
Eventually they marry, but as they enter the
door after the wedding the white man’s baby cries
and Famie rushes to him, leaving Numa standing.
That night he hears her crying for her dead lover.
The years pass. Numa dies of tuberculosis, a
common complaint among his people. At fourteen,
the boy, a red-head like his father, persuades his
mother to let him go north to Chicago. Famie devotes
her days to earning money to send him and her hours
of leisure to dreaming of him. Fie is very like his
father, and in her mind the two images become con-
fused.
She sees him again—and for the last time —in his
early twenties, when he comes home to persuade her
to sell her bit of land so that he can set himself up
in California, where people are not so clever at detect-
ing a trace of negro blood as in the east and south.
She agrees and asks him just where he will live in
California. He refuses to tell her. He is going to
“cross the line” —pass himself off as a white man.
Famie, her unconscious aim achieved, and her spirit
broken in the process, marries a negro neighbor who
has befriended her through the years. Mother and
son, moving in opposite directions, are lost to each
other and to their people.
Children of Strangers begins and ends well. The
heaviness is in the middle. There was not much rele-
vant drama in the period between Famie’s youth and
her middle-age, and the author can be heard toiling
to get over this difficulty. 'The book has a strong and
apparently authentic sense of place. The reader is
introduced into the intimate lives of the characters,
there are good descriptions of scene, and the mentality
of the Louisiana mulattoes is successfully conveyed.
Peking to Kashmir.
Peter Fleming, as author of News from Tartary,
comes in for a good deal of ragging in For-
bidden Journey, by Ella K. Maillart (Heinemann),
the Franco-Swiss girl who was his companion on the
overland trek from Peking to Northern India. Unless
you had read her Turkestan Solo, an excellent job,
the Ella of News from Tartary was rather an enigma.
Fleming was so grateful, so anxious to give due credit
and yet so careful to leave Miss Maillart room to
speak for herself.
Although they disputed at the beginning as to who
was taking whom on the hazardous expedition, to
Fleming—perhaps by virtue of the mere advantage
of sex —went the leadership. The journey is scarcely
more than well begun before Miss Maillart, who has
previously always travelled alone, discovers that
“Peter’s presence has blunted my capacity for making
decisions,” She records her admiration of his ability
in overcoming difficulties, but she takes it out of him
in other ways.
In News from Tartary, Fleming, a fine observer,
was at all times the foreign correspondent, generalis-
ing as he went, his Western mentality kept intact, his
European public well in mind. Miss Maillart records
that at the end of each day’s march he would say,
“Sixty lis nearer London.” She, on the other hand,
sunk herself in the life about her. “I wanted to forget
that we had, inevitably, to return home. I should have
liked the journey to continue for the rest of my life.
There was nothing to attract me back to the West. I
knew I should feel isolated among my contemporaries,
(i Continued on page 8 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS
\
saw
am
m
m
mF 5 -
<
.df
.22 calibre Mauser Rifle, model 3408, single shot. The standard small-
bore rifle for clubs. 26J-inch barrel, with wind gauge. 7flb. -weight.
Price £6/15/-
Sale Price £6/5/-
3i*32s
mu
.22 calibre Mauser Repeating Rifle, model 4208, with wind gauge.
Magazine holds five cartridges. Barrel inches; heavy model, 6^rlb.
Price £B/7/6
Sale Price £7/15/-
Barrel inches, heavy model, 81b. Price £9/10/-
Sale Price £B/17/6
Browning Auto-Loading Rifle, solid breach, hammerless, will fire Rim-
fire .22 calibre Long Rifle Smokeless Cartridges. 20-inch round barrel.
Weight 4-4-lb. Magazine holds eight cartridges. Price 92/6
Sale Price 87/6
sS=
sg3§B
Browning Trombone Repeating Rifle, .22 calibre (15 short or 12 long
or 11 long rifle). Will shoot these different cartridges mixed. 22-inch
barrel. Exceptionally accurate. Weight 51b. Price £5/7/6
Sale Price £4/17/6
Guns—Lower Ground Floor , Pitt Street. Freight paid on Firearms
value 50/- or over only .
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Made by W. W. Greener, stamped J. V. Needham. 12
gauge D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun, bar lock, treble wedge,
fast cross bolt, rebounding hammers; barrels 30-inch or
32-inch, both choke chambered for 2f-inch cartridges.
Price £l5/10/-
Sale Price £l3/10/-
Made by W. W. Greener, stamped J. V. Needham. 12
gauge D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, 30- or 32-inch barrels,
both choke; treble wedge, fast cross bolt, the strongest
breech action, nitro proved and chambered for 2f-inch
cartridges. Fully guaranteed. Price £2l
Sale Price £l9
Chas. Boswell’s 12 gauge D.8.8.L. Special Hammerless
Pigeon Gun. Anson and Deeley action, side clips, 30-inch
steel barrels, both full choke bored, chambered for 2f-inch
cartridges, high flat file cut rib, Greener cross bolt, proved
for nitro powders, walnut stock. Price £37/10/-
Sale Price £35
20 gauge English Hammerless Gun, 30-inch side barrels,
nitro proved, left choke, right modified. Made by Fred.
Williams, Birmingham. A good, light, strong gun.
Price £l4/10/-
Sale Price £l2/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Problem for Australians
MARLENE
BY KATHARIVE
SUSANNAH
ILLUSTRATED
BY SUCH.
COMING out from the trees, the camp on the
hillside was almost invisible. It crouched among
rocks and wet undergrowth, with the township
lying under cloudy mists in the valley
below. The wurlies of bark, bagging and matted
leaves had taken on the coloring of the rocks and
tree-trunks. They were shaped like mounds of earth:
crude shells with open mouths. A breath of smoke
betrayed them. Pale-bluish, it hung in the air and
drifted away among the trees.
The two women riding along the bush track
detected the first humpy, then another and another,
until half a dozen were in sight about a rough open
space. Dogs flew out, barking fiercely. Two or three
children, barelegged, lean, sallow, bright-eyed, with
black tousled hair, got up from before the wurlies.
A man lying beside a fire at the entrance to the
nearest sat up and glanced at the women.
“Hullo, Benjy,” the elderly woman on a grey
horse called. “Sleeping in this morning? Where’s
Mollie?”
The man grunted, staring sullenly over the rain-
sodden clearing. Men and women appeared at the
open mouths of other wurlies, all dressed as they had
been sleeping, in faded dungarees and khaki trousers,
shirts grey with grime and grease, thin cotton and
figured-silk dresses, threadbare woollen jackets and
coats —the cast-off clothing of the townspeople.
“Hullo, Mrs. Boyd,” some of the women called.
“Miss Allison,” the elder woman explained, in-
troducing the girl on the chestnut colt. “She’s from
England ; going to write a book about the aborigines.
She wanted to see your camp.”
“We’re half-castes here—not abos.,” a morose,
middle-aged man replied.
“And not ‘at home’ so early in the day,” one of
the young men added sarcastically. “It’s a hell of
a place to see, anyhow.”
One of the women giggled shyly. “How’s y’self,
Mrs. Boyd?”
“I’m well, Minnie. But you’re looking like
drowned rats, the lot of you. Why don’t you shift
camp for the winter, George?” Her manner was
authoritative but kind and friendly.
“Where’d we shift to?” a fat, youngish woman
asked jocosely. Barefooted she stood, a once-white
dress dragged across her heavy breast and thighs, a
youngster slung on one hip. A little laugh nibbled its
way through the crowd.
“This is the only place we're allowed.to camp
in the district,” the man who had first spoken said
sourly. “You know that, Mrs. Boyd.”
“The rain’s been cornin’ down steady for two
months,” one of the other women raised a flat, un-
complaining treble.
“How on earth do you manage to get a dry
spot in the humpies or keep your clothes dry?”
“We don’t.” The crowd laughed as though that
were a good joke. “Our clothes are all soakin’. There’s
not a dry blanket in the camp.”
“We ought to be ducks. The rain’d run off our
hacks then.”
“It’s a disgrace you should
have to live like this!” Mrs. Boyd
declared. “But what I came about
this morning is Mollie. Where is she?”
The crowd shifted uneasily. Eyes
encountered and glanced aside. A wild crew
they looked in their shabby clothes, the women
wearing remnants of finery, a bright scarf or colored
cardigan over their draggled dresses.
Brown-eyed, black-haired, they all were, but their
skin varied from sickly yellow to weathered bronze.
The women were sallow and tawny, the men darker.
On most of the faces, thick noses and full lips denoted
the aboriginal strain ; a few others had sharp, neat
features, showing no trace of their origin except in
their eyes.
“Where is Mollie?” Mrs. Boyd demanded. “I’ve
been letting Mr. Phillip drive her in to the pictures
on Saturday nights when he goes into town himself;
but she didn’t come back last week. He waited an
hour for her” ...
“She’s fair mad about the pictures, Mollie,” Ruby
burbled.
“That’s all very well, but it’s not very considerate
of her to run off like this. She knows how busy we
are just now, with all the cows coming in. Mr. Phillip
and Mr. Edward have got their hands full. I had
to ride in with the mail myself this morning. And
Mollie was very useful, helping with the milking and
feeding the poddies.”
“She’s a fine kid, Mollie,” Albert declared.
“But where is she? What’s the matter?”
The crowd surged. Obviously the question was
disturbing: had to be evaded. Exclamations and sug-
gestions clattered. But there was no surprise, no
consternation, although everybody seemed upset, a
little. nervous and amused at Mrs. Boyd’s query.
Mrs. Boyd guessed they were hiding Mollie. The
child had got a quirk about something: one of those
mysterious urges to go bush with her own kind.
“Did y’know Bill Bibblemun took bad with the
p’monia and died in hospital Sunday week?” some-
body asked.
Others joined in eagerly.
“It was a grand funeral, Mrs. Boyd.”
“The Salvation Army captain said Bill’d go
straight to glory because he was a good Christian.”
“He was, too. Testified at street meetings and
sang hymns—even when he was drunk.”
“They said some beautiful prayers.”
“All about his bein’ washed in the blood of the
lamb and his sins bein’ whiter than snow.”
“And the kids have all had measles,” Ruby
boasted.
“What’s happened to Wally Williams?” Mrs. Boyd
inquired, willing to humor them, “He was to come
over and cut fencing-posts for me last month.”
There was a lull in the rattle of voices, eyelids
fell, wary glances slid under them. Coughing, a
hoarse whispering filled the pause.
“He’s gone up-country,” George said.
“You mean, he’s in gaol. What’s he been up to
now?”
“Well, you see, Mrs. Boyd, it wasn’t hardly
Wally’s fault,” Minnie Lewis explained. “Jo Wiggins
said some steers had got out of his holding paddocks,
and he offered Wally two bob for every steer he could
track and bring in. Wally took in a couple of clear-
skins. He thought they were Mr. Wiggins’s steers,
natcherly”
“Naturally—at two bob apiece,” Mrs. Boyd
agreed.
“But when the mounted trooper found a couple
of red poley steer skins in Jo Wiggins’s slaughter-
yard, Mr. Wiggins put the blame on to Wally—and
Wally got two years.”
“Everybody knows Jo Wiggins’s game,” Mrs.
Boyd admitted. “But Wally ought to keep his hands
off clear-skins.”
“Oh, he’s not like that, Wally, Mrs. Boyd. He’s
a real good stockman. But if he can’t get a job he
doesn’t know what to do with himself. He’s jest got
to be workin’ cattle”
“I know,” Mrs. Boyd laughed good-humoredly.
“I suspect he’s worked calves from our back hills before
now. We had an epidemic of milkers coming in with-
out calves last year.”
“If a cow drops a calf in the bush, Mrs. Boyd,
the dingoes are as likely to get it as”
“Wally! Of course. But my money’s on Wally.
I reckon Jo Wiggins has had more of our calves than
the dingoes.”
L_J ER horse cropping the young grass swung Mrs.
1 * Boyd sideways. She saw the figure of a man
sleeping before a smouldering fire at the entrance to
his shack. Steam was rising from the damp blanket
that covered him.
“Who’s that?” she asked.
“It’s Charley,” a woman who had been coughing
incessantly said. “He’s not well.”
“Better put that bottle away then,” Mrs. Boyd
advised. “If the trooper comes round somebody’ll be
getting into trouble for selling Charley pinkeye again.
Where does he get the money to buy drink, anyhow?”
“The shopkeepers take his drawings for show
cards sometimes.”
“He’s quite an artist in his own way, Charley,”
Mrs. Boyd explained to her companion. “Self-taught.
Could you show Miss Allison some of Charley’s draw-
ings, Lizzie?”
Charley’s wife slipped away, burrowed into the
wurley, and returned with a black exercise-book in
her hands. Miss Allison dismounted to look at the
drawings, crude outlines of people and animals,
a football match, the finish of a race.
Pleasure in Charley’s drawings, awed interest and
expectancy animated his friends and relations.
“Well”—Mrs. Boyd yanked her horse’s head
round and straightened her back, smiling but implac-
able—“have you made up your minds yet to tell me
about Mollie?”
The faces about her changed. There was a
moment of sombre, unresponsive silence.
Then Minnie Lewis exclaimed delightedly: “Why,
it’s Mrs. Jackson! She’s been bad with the rheu-
matics ; but got up —and put on her hat for the
visitors! ”
A withered little woman, a neat black hat perched
on her head, walked across the clearing, wearing a
dingy black dress and frayed grey cardigan with an
air of forlorn propriety.
“Good morning, Myrtle,” Mrs. Boyd said. “I’m
sorry to hear you’ve been having rheumatism.”
“What can you expect, Miss Ann?” The half-
caste held herself with some dignity: her faded eyes,
ringed like agates, looked up at the pleasantly smiling,


healthy, fresh-complexioned woman on the big horse.
“I’m not used to living out of doors.”
“No, of course not,” Mrs. Boyd replied.
“You know I was brought up at the mission
station. And I’ve worked in some of the best homes
in the district; but now —you wouldn’t keep a sow in
the place where I’ve got to live.”
“It’s not right, Mrs. Boyd,” George muttered.
“No, it’s not right,” Mrs. Boyd agreed. “But
what can Ido about it? Would you go into the Old
Women’s Home if I could get you in, Myrtle?”
“I’ve been there. The police took me from the
hospital after I had the rheumatic fever. But I ran
away”
“She did, Mrs. Boyd!” eager voices chimed.
“She walked near on a hundred and thirty miles
till she got here.”
“Cooped up in the city —with a lot of low-down
old women treatin’ me like dirt. I’ve always kept
nnself to myself. I’ve always been respectable, Miss
Ann”
“Oh, yes, she’s terrible respectable, Mrs. Boyd,”
the chorus went up.
“Nobody can’t say Mrs. Jackson isn’t respect-
able ! ”
“All I want’s to die in my own place—like any
respectable person. It is my own place, Miss Ann,
the house your father gave Tom and me ; and Mr.
Henry had no right to turn us out.”
“She’s breaking her heart, like any old abo., for
the hunting-grounds of her people,” Albert said cyni-
cally. “They always want to go home to die, but,
being half-and-half, it’s a roof over her head Mrs.
Jackson wants, and a bed to lie on.”
“I’ll see what I can do about it, Myrtle,” Mrs.
Boyd promised.
“jUTUNNY, isn’t it?” Albert’s lounging, graceful
* figure tilted back as he gazed at her. “You’re
the granddaughter of one of the early settlers who
shot off more blacks than any other man in the
country. Mrs. Jackson is the granddaughter of one
of the few survivors, and related to the best families in
the district. But you’ve got the land and the law on
your side. They put the dogs on to her if she goes
round the homesteads asking for a bit of tucker or
old clothes.”
“And this is the only spot where we’re allowed
to camp in the district.”
“Something will have to be done about it,” Mrs.
Boyd declared.
“What?” Albert demanded. “All the land about
has been taken up. It’s private property. We’re
not allowed to work in the mines. We’re not
allowed to sell the fish we catch not allowed to
shoot or trap. They don’t want us on the farms.
They won’t let us work on the roads. All we’re
allowed to do is draw rations and rot . . . though there
is some talk of packing us off to one of those damned
reservations ‘where the diseased and dying remnants
of the native race are permitted to end their days in
peace.’ Excuse me quoting the local rag.”
“You can’t say I haven’t tried to help you,” Mrs.
Boyd protested. “I’ve always given you work on my
farm when I could.”
A wry smile twisted the young man’s mouth.
“And paid us less than half you’d have had to pay
other workers.”
“Albert!” some of the women objected. “Don’t
take any notice of him, Mrs. Boyd.”
“You’re talking like one of those crazy agitators,
Albert,” Mrs. Boyd cried hotly. “If you’re not
careful you’ll find yourself being moved on.”
“I’ll remember you said so, Mrs. Boyd.” Albert
grinned maliciously.
“It’s hard on Albert not being able to get work,
Mrs. Boyd,” Ruby expostulated. “He’s real clever:
can read and write as good as any white man. When
he went to school he could beat any of the boys.”
“Lot of good it’s ever done me,” Albert sneered.
“If I’d been a myall I’d’ve had a better life. The
blacks of any tribe share all they’ve got with each
other. The whites grab all they can for themselves —
and let even their own relations starve.”
“Do the aboriginals treat half-castes better?”
Miss Allison asked, her voice rising clear and chilly
against his wrath.
“They don’t treat us like vermin.” Albert might
have been admiring the gleam of her hair or the horse
she was holding. “Up in the nor’-west, when I was a
kid, I went around with my mother’s tribe. Never
knew I was any different from the rest of them. Then
my father got interested in me. Sent me down here
to school. He died, and I’ve been trying to get a job
ever since.”
“Do you want to go back to your own people?”
Albert’s anger resurged. “My own people!” he
jeered. “Who are they? My father was as fair as you
are. I couldn’t live in a blacks’ camp now —though
this is as bad. But I don’t belong there. I think dif-
ferently. We all do. We like soap and clean clothes
when we can get them, and books. We want to go
to the pictures and football matches. I want to work
and have a house to live in, a wife and kids. But
this is all I’ve got. These are my only people—mon-
grels like myself.”
“You shouldn’t talk bitter like that, Albert,” Mrs.
Jackson reproved. “It does no good.”
“Nothing does any good.” He flung away from
the crowd and stalked off behind the wurlies.
“He’s sore because he can’t get work and the
Protector won’t let Penny Carnarvon marry him,”
Ruby said. “Penny’s in service, and she’s such a good
servant they don’t want to lose her. But she’s fond
of Albert. She says she’ll learn the Protector.”
“She will, too.”
“Stella did, didn’t she?”
“Too right, she did.”
“She dropped a trayload of dishes to get herself
the sack because she wanted to marry Bob.
But the missus forgave her and took it out of her
wages. Stella had to get herself in the family way
and make up to the boss before the Protector decided
she’d better marry Bob.”
“Penny’ll be going for a little holiday soon,
Albert says. Then perhaps they can get married and
go up north. He’s almost sure he can get a job
on one of the stations.”
“But where’s Mollie?” Mrs. Boyd returned to
the attack. The crowd closed down on their laughter
and gossip. There was a disconcerted shuffling and
searching for something to say.
“Mollie?”
“Yes, Mollie. It’s no use pretending you don’t
know where she is. If she’s hiding, doesn’t want to
come home, I’m not going to worry about her. But
I’ll have to let the department know”
<‘J_|ULLO, Mrs. Boyd!” A girl in a pink cotton
* ' frock stood in the opening of a wurley behind
the horses. A pretty little thing, sturdy and self-
possessed, but rather pale, she stood there, a small
bundle wrapped in a dirty shawl in her arms.
“Mollie,” Mrs. Boyd gasped. “Have you been
getting a baby?”
The girl nodded, smiling.
“But you’re only a child,” Mrs. Boyd cried.
“You’re not sixteen.”
“I was sixteen last month,” Mollie replied calmly.
“It’s scandalous,” Mrs. Boyd exclaimed indig-
nantly. “Who’s the father?”
The girl’s eyes smiled back at her. “I been going
with two or three boys in town.”
The little crowd before her quivered to a breath-
less excitement: a sigh, as of relief, and a titter of
suppressed mirth escaped them.
“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” Mrs.
Boyd declared furiously. “You know I thought better
of you, Mollie. I thought you were different from
the other girls. You’ve lived with me so many years,
and I trusted you to behave yourself.”
“Don’t be angry,” the girl said quietly. “I
couldn’t help it ... . and I like the baby.”
“When did it happen?”
“Last night.”
Mrs. Boyd stared at the girl. She looked a little
wan, but quite well.
“Is she all right?” she asked the crone who had
come out of the hut behind Mollie. “Had I better
get the doctor to come out and see her, or arrange
for her to go into the hospital?”
“I’ve never felt better in my life,” Mollie said.
“Aunty May can look after me.”
“No need to bother,” the old half-caste beside
Mollie mumbled soothingly. “She hadn’t a bad time.
I’d have sent her to the hospital—but everything hap-
pened in such a hurry.”
“Let me see the child,” Mrs. Boyd demanded ;
turned her horse and rode to Mollie.
“She’s very little and red,” Mollie apologised,
tenderly lifting the dirty shawl that covered the baby.
Mrs. Boyd leaned down from her saddle. It was
the ugliest scrap of humanity she had ever seen ; but
there was something vaguely familiar in its tiny
crumpled face. Cicely Allison dragged her horse over
the grass to look at the baby, too.
“Ra-ther sweet, isn’t she?” she fnurmured
mechanically. “What are you going to call her?”
Mollie drew the shawl over the baby’s face again.
“Marlene,” she said happily.
The rain descended in a gusty squall, driving the
half-castes into their wurlies, the horsewomen back
in among the trees. As they rode the older woman
sagged in her saddle, curiously aged and grim.
“The sooner they’re cleared out of the district
the better,” she said viciously. “They’re an immoral
lot, these half-castes.”
“What about the whites who are responsible for
them?” the girl on the chestnut colt asked.
She wondered whether it was a tragedy or a
comedy she had been witnessing. They might live
like dogs in their rotten wurlies, with the dark bush
behind them and the prosperous little township spread
in sunshine at their feet; but what was tragedy for
the whites was comedy for them, the outcasts of both
races. She suspected that they had tried to spare the
white woman with simple kindliness, knowing the
truth behind Mollie’s bravado. But had they altogether
succeeded?
The camp on the hillside was moved on before
the end of the month.
A girl in a pink cotton frock stood in the opening of a wurley behind the horses —a pretty little thing,
sturdy and self-possessed.


A Punch Is All Right, But —
Bruisers need
BRAINS
BY A.C. HEADLEY
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
j O in fightin’!” Joe Cooper delivered the
| "”1 injunction, waited for the brief nod and
climbed down from the ring. The boy sat
there, perched above him, steady in a rising
mist of blue tobacco smoke.
The boy was nervous. That was a good sign,
but, even so, Joe was troubled, and his anxiety was
reflected in the squint of his sunken eyes. It seemed
not so long ago that Joe Cooper had sat in that same
corner waiting. He remembered the empty feeling
at the pit of his stomach. Somehow just being
manager to a championship contender made him
feel the same way. But there were other problems
troubling him.
Jimmy had said: “We’re through, Joe—after this
fight. I’ll be champ, then an’ you ain’t gonna be the
champ.’s manager. Get it, Joe?”
Joe got it. He hardly knew how it had come
about; something about fighting and women not
mixing. But there it was. After to-night he was
through.
The referee called the two boys together, and
now Joe sat staring unseeingly at the big clock over
the centre of the ring ...
Joe Cooper had been in the glove game since he
could remember. He had been a paper boy hanging
around the gymnasiums, big barns of places, bare
and plastered with pictures of fighters, a single, well-
patched punching-bag swinging from the ceiling, a
skipping rope or two, and the heavy smell of sweat-
ing flesh. And so to his first fight, a gory battle
with no quarter on either side, and ten shillings
waiting for the winner. Days of aching muscles, and
bruises, and the sharp agony of drinking through cut
lips and mouth.
A six-rounder every once in a while, and the
sparring with the regular fighters, until presently your
ears lost their original shape and became misshapen
blobs of flesh ; your nose was broken, but you did
nothing about it, and presently it was all right except
for being a little flatter. More fights. Fights you
had to keep on winning, and after a bit you were
fighting the main bouts, and there was talk of a
championship match. And the championship. Joe
remembered it clearly. The last heavy smash of fists.
The champion on the canvas. A referee waving out
the seconds. Crowd sound, fierce and excited, pro-
testing itself on his jangled senses. Joe Cooper, middle-
weight champion!
The sound of the bell shattered his thoughts.
He had told Jimmy to go in fighting.
Jimmy went in fighting. He led at the champion,
but the counter was swift, catching him high on the
head. The blow had brought the other forward.
Jimmy snapped a short right to the body, but the
champ, was too close to him. They clinched and
broke amid a brief flurry of fists. It was an unevent-
ful round.
At the bell, Joe climbed up into the ring. “Jist
keep at ’im. You’re doin’ orright.”
Then he was in his place at the ringside,
his thoughts reverting to those other days—the days
when he had been champion, when he had had an
acquaintance with the good things of life. Champion ;
and a few fights when you were on the top, and then
lomeone to come along and bust it to bits, and you
were ex-champion, and on the down. It was like a
journey up a hill and down the other side. A little
while and you were finding it hard to get a main
bout even in some of the smaller stadiums, and you
were beginning to find out what it was like to be
broke again. That was when you found that the
snap had gone out of your punches and your legs
had lost a great deal of their elasticity. Joe knew
it all.
When that had come, he had started out with his
tent show, making a round of the bush towns. He
had borrowed the money, and in the borrowing was
made conscious of how few his friends were. But
the troupe had done reasonably well. The life was
hard, but Joe found that no new experience. One-
night stands, finding sleep when you could, being
flooded out —they were all part of it.
'T' HE roar of the crowd roused him. The fight was
1 on again, and Jimmy was flailing the champion
with his gloves. The crowd was on its feet, excited,
yelling. But Joe knew that it meant nothing. Blows
were thundering on the champion, but they were
doing no damage. Elbows and shoulders were taking
all their force. Jimmy was fighting all right, if you
could count heavily charged punches, but it was sheer
waste of energy. And Joe Cooper grinned. It was
spite, that was all, he told himself. But he was
conscious of a glow of satisfaction. If he wasn’t
to be the new champion’s manager there wasn’t going
to be a new champion. That was why he had told
the kid to go in fighting. That was the policy that
was going to defeat him.
Joe wasn’t interested in the fight now. He was
thinking of a time, not so long ago, when Jimmy
had climbed into the ring from the crowd in the
little tent to answer the request for someone to step
up and stay four rounds with Tiger Fagen for a
pound. Joe could remember him then, tall and
scraggy, with his hair half-tumbled over his face. But
he had stayed the four rounds with Tiger, and not
only stayed them, but the bout had finished up with
Tiger stretched horizontally in the sawdust that made
the floor of the ring.
And Joe was passing out the pound for the first
time in ages and wondering what had happened.
“Like to join the show, son?”
He could remember the kid, standing there in
front of him, his eye puffing already and beginning
to color, wincing suddenly as moisture filled the cuts
in his lips, and the slow grin. “I’d like to.”
That was all, and the drudgery of town after
town, fighting every night, toughening up, growing
hard. All the time learning. Joe teaching him shifts
and stops until the kid was beginning to act like a
fighter. Then suddenly waking up to the realisation
of how good the kid really was. That had grown
and grown until Joe gave up the tent show and
brought the kid to town.
Then, owing to Joe’s efforts, no interminable run
of four-rounders to be gone through. A couple of
sixes, an eight, and then main bouts at some of the
smaller stadiums. Winning always until there began
to be talk about a championship, and the sporting
pages were giving Jimmy bigger paragraphs. Cham-
pionship talk, and then the actuality of it. And
here it was.
Joe was back in the present again, looking up at
the big clock. The eighth round. His attention
returned to the fighters. Jimmy was still making the
fight, crowding the champ., but Joe noticed that his
punches had lost just a little of their snap.
Soon the champion would begin, and tired muscles
would find it hard to cope with. Jimmy would begin
to feel the waste of that early energy. But somehow
Joe’s sense of satisfaction was tinged with uncertainty
now. It was funny him wanting the kid to lose. It
was like lying down in your own fight.
The way the kid had grown when he had started
winning a few good fights ; as though the world were
too small for him. Forgetting the tent show and
everything except the present. Parties and women ;
finally—“ We’re through, Joe. After this fight.”
That was why he had told him to go in and
fight. Sending him in over the early rounds was the
way to do it. He was tiring already, and the champ,
was beginning the steady process of aggression.
He was taking Jimmy’s punches now, hitting back
with greater force. There were still moments when
Jimmy crossed a punch that rocked him, but he was
falling into clinches now, and the champ, was having
the better of it, leaning his weight on the boy and
forcing him to make the break. Of a sudden, Joe
realised that he should have been pleased, but he
wasn’t.
[ N the tenth round Jimmy began to take his leather-
I ing. He covered up, but the champ, wasted no
energy. He picked his punches and waited for the boy
to uncover. He had him now. Jimmy’s eye was
bleeding from a cut, his mouth felt as though it
had been minced. He was tired, almost too tired to
make any defence. Blows rained on him. Of a
sudden h£ was down. His head was dull. Only
vaguely he heard the counting of the referee. He
wanted to stay there. Crowd noise was filling his
head. He seemed to have been on the canvas an
interminable time, yet the referee was saying “four.
And then it was he heard Joe Cooper’s voice,
high-pitched, anxious. “Jimmy, git up! You gotta,
Jimmy. You gotta!”
It set something going in Jimmy’s brain. “You
gotta.” Good old Joe. He raised himself on one
knee. “Eight—nine!” He was up.


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
,£2o©
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
He heard Joe’s frantic exhortation. “Stall ’im,
Jimmy. Stall ’im.”
Almost before the thought had time to seep
through his mazed brain, the bell had gone for
the end of the round, and seconds were helping him
back to his corner. Joe was there, too, taking the
guard out of his mouth, holding out his trunks,
helping him to breathe some air into his lungs. He
was tired, and his mouth was full of the salt taste of
blood, but he began to feel better. Joe was telling
him what to do.
“Keep away from him this round,” adding as
spur to his flagging confidence, “We’re gonna win
this fight, Jimmy.”
The buzzer sounded for “seconds out,” and Joe,
a last encouraging pat on the boy’s shoulder, slid
down from the ring.
All his attention was claimed by the fight now.
Dimly he realised that the knockdown had done it.
What did it matter if they were through after the
fight? This was the fight. And he could make a
champion. Keep away from him —he was almost
voicing the thought.
The boy was doing it. Scarcely a glove had been
laid since the start of the round, and the crowd
was beginning to demand its money’s worth. But
Joe knew what he was doing. Giving the boy a
chance to harness his forces. The champ, had a way
of letting his right drop as he led with his left. It
was almost instantaneous, but Joe had noted it. That
was what was going to beat the champion.
Joe was in the corner again. “Keep away from
him, Jimmy. Just this One round, and then we go
to work.”
He climbed down from the ring, his eyes gleam-
ing with excitement as the two fighters came together.
The champ, was out to force the pace now. He
flicked out a left, Jimmy ducked, catching the stabbing
right which followed on his glove. Then he was
back-moving out of range. But he had to fight going
away. And he had to withstand a brief flailing of
fists when he allowed himself to be forced into a
corner. He slid out under a vicious swing, dancing
away to the centre of the ring. Joe Cooper nodded
approval. The round was over at last.
Joe climbed back into the ring. He wiped a
sponge over the boy’s face. “ ’Ow’re yer feelin’,
Jimmy?”
Maybe another round of stalling. But he
realised that the shorter the distance the better. He
decided suddenly. “You’re well back on points.
Think you could take a couple of punches without
buckling?”
Jimmy nodded. “What’s it, Joe?”
“Listen” —Joe’s face was serious—“let him lead
that left into your face and take it, kid, no back-
movin’, no nothin’. Jist remember that when he
does it ’e opens the gate. Cross your right and give it
everything. That’s all.” He waited for the nod.
“0.K., Joe.”
Joe came back to the ringside to wait. The
round was half-over before the moment came. The
champ, whipped a left that snapped home in Jimmy’s
face. The next moment he was staggering from the
impact of*a right cross. He led again to Jimmy’s
face. Again the sizzling right cross crashed home.
The champ, was groggy. Above the crowd Jimmy
could hear Joe’s voice urging him to go in. He went
in, releasing punches from every angle. He snapped
a vicious uppercut home. The champ, was down.
The crowd a frenzy of noise. The referee was count-
ing. “Eight—nine— out! ”
T OE helped him back to the dressing-room, his
arms fending off the enthusiasms of the crowd.
Now that it was over he could feel the sudden wild
jump of his nerves. Back in the dressing-room he
sat on the bench while the rubber-down took hold
of Jimmy.
He found his voice at last. “So you’re champion,
eh? How’s it feel? Great, eh?”
Jimmy lifted his head from the pillow of his arms.
“Yeah, Joe.” He laughed, and felt the sting of
his mouth. “Where do we go from here? Now
you made me champ., what are you gonna make me
next? Your brains, my strength ; we’re goin’ places,
Joe.”
Joe tilted his hat forward on his head. “Wasn’t
there some talk about you goin’ on yer own?”
Jimmy grinned. “That was nerves, Joe. Nothin’
else. Big-fight nerves. I got sense, ain’t I? It took
you to* make me champ., didn’t it? Well, it’ll take
you to keep me that way. Bruisers like me needs
brains, Joe. You got ’em, Joe. You got ’em.”
THREE FOR LUCK
BY CON DREW
JT\ MONTH or so after Lord Cardigan’s Cup me
f \ and “Thimble” Kerrigan took a trip out Char-
V. I leville way to introduce the shell game at the
shearin’-sheds. We’d have done a lot better if
we’d anchored in Brisbane. The shearers didn’t mind
clippin’ the wool off the sheep but they didn’t fall
for bein’ shorn themselves. They said they was glad
to have our company and all the rest of it but they
wasn’t takin’ on no shell game.
“If you’ve got a sundial or two to sell,” says a
big shearer bloke to Thimble, “we might do a little
business, but nix on the shells.”
Not wishin’ to outstay our welcome, we moved
on to Cunnamulla, but things got worse instead of
better. At Eulo we put in a week, but Aladdin forgot
to rub his lamp. As funds were gettin’ mighty low
we decided to sky the towel and break back to
Brisbane.
We got as far as Maloo and decided to break our
journey there as there was a race meetin’ in the offing.
The town was full of gents who had come in for the
races, and every available bedroom was taken. Me
and Thimble fluked a shakedown in a harness-room
at one of the pubs and was lucky to get it, seein’ that
we were only ten bob strong. We thought we might
snare some coin at billiards, and we did. The first
night we ran our ten rogues into seven quid, and
would have captured some more only the mob woke
up to Thimble bein’ a real good player.
On the followin’ night, havin’ nothin’ better to
do, we played a friendly game between ourselves.
We were puttin’ away our cues when a flash-lookin’
gent, who we hadn’t noticed before strolled up to
Thimble and says: “You and me would make a good
match. Would you care for a hundred up?”
Thimble looks him over. “I ain’t itchin’ for a
game,” he says after a bit.
“Well I could do with a run around,” says the
flash bloke. It’s only a hundred up.”
“Oh, all right,” says Thimble, and they started
to play.
It was a good game to watch. Thimble would
make a break and the flash gent, would follow with
another. Then Thimble would hop in off a red or
two and his opponent would reply in kind. Although
Thimble was holdin’ himself back I could see that
Flash had a lot up his sleeve. He gave himself away
a couple of times by playin’ shots that only a real
good player would take on. All the time they were
playin’ gents kept dribblin’ in from the adjoinin’ bar
and the room got full of smoke and onlookers.
They got to eighty-five all, with Thimble to play,
when the flash bloke says: “Care to extend it to two
hundred?”
“Just as you like,” says Thimble.
“Good,” says Flash. “What about a bit of a
wager to make it interestin’?”
“You’re too good for me,” Thimble come back.
“I’ll take a start.”
The flash bloke shakes his head. “I couldn’t
give you no start,” he says.
“Oh, yes, you could,” says Thimble. “You’re
a lot better than me.”
I seen the marker slip a wink to Flash. “I think
you could give him a small start, Mr. Thompson,”
he said.
“I could give him nothin’,” says Flash.
Things looked to be cornin’ to a deadlock when
Thimble says, “I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll play you
for a fiver if you undertake not to make more than
the bare two hundred. If you make two hundred and
one you burst.”
“This ain’t devil’s pool,” says Flash.
“I know it ain’t,” says Thimble, “but I’ve got to
have somethin’ in me favor. You’re too good for me
at level terms. Is it a bet?”
“Aw, I suppose so,” says Flash. “We’ll stake
the money with the marker.”
“No, we won’t,” says Thimble. He looked
around the room and seen the hotel proprietor. “We’ll
stake the money with the owner of the pub if you’re
agreeable.”
“Yes, that’ll do me,” says Flash, and the money
was staked.
'“T HE game being extended to two hundred meant
* that the players had to make another hundred and
twenty-five. It was Thimble’s shot. He made sixteen
and left the balls in line across the table, about a
foot from the top cushion. Thimble’s ball was in the
middle. It was a difficult shot, but it didn’t worry
Flash. He ran through the white and cannoned the
red over neair the right-hand top pocket. Then he
sunk the cherry and ran the break into twenty-one.
That made the scores 101 - 106 in Flash’s favor.
By this time the onlookers had got real interested
and started bettin’ among themselves. The local
bookie was offerin’ to take five to four about Flash’s
chance and lay even sugar Thimble. He did some
business, too, but most of the money was for Flash.
The mob had seen him in action before.
Thimble’s next go brought him in twenty-four,
and Flash hit back with thirty-one. Both failed to
score with their next two shots, then Flash trundled
up thirteen. He’d reached the hundred-and-fifty mark
twenty-five points ahead, and the mob gave him a
real good hand.
You could see that he was a more finished player
than Thimble. He was a dabster at gettin’ position
and he played with beautiful strength. Still, Thimble
was chock-full of confidence. He gave a safe miss
when he next went in to bat. Flash got twenty-five
out of it, and things looked mighty serious. The
local man now wanted only twenty-four.
The balls had been left in an awkward position,
and Thimble had a good screw round before he played
his shot. At the finish he decided to play a cannon.
He had to travel all round the table to get it, and
when he clicked the crowd gave him a go*)d hand.
After the cannon he got set for a bit and ran the
break into Jhirty-three. This brought him to within
eighteen of Flash, and he called me over and slipped
me a quid. “They’re bettin’ two to one about me
over there,” he says. “Go and put this on me.”
“I suppose you know it’s the only quid we’ve got,
says I, “and Flash only wants twenty-four.”
“I know,” says Thimble. “Go and put it on.”
“But you can’t make forty-two while he’s makin’
twenty-four,” I says. “You must be mad.”
“Put it that way if you like,” says Thimble, “but
go and put that quid on.”
I done it, but I felt mighty sorry when Flash got
properly into action again. In makin’ his openin’
cannon he lost the white in the middle pocket. That
left him only the red ball to play with, but it didn’t
worry Flash. Slammin’ the red into the left-hand
top kick he got into position for an easy in-off. The
red came down past the middle pocket after his next
and he bounced in off it again. He did this three
more times as easy as a sandshoe, and that left him
wantin’ two to go out. Then he played a snifter shot
from the D and brought both marbles into balk.
It was a hot one to put on Thimble, and the mob
was dead silent as he went to the table. Flash hid a
smile behind his hand. Thimble chalked his cue and
looked around the table for a bit as if examinin’ the
angles. Then he beckoned to the stakeholder.
“You know the conditions of the game?” he says
when the publican came over.
“I do,” answers the landlord. “Mr. Thompson’s
score has not to be more than the bare two hundred.”
“If it exceeds two hundred he loses his wager. Is
that correct?” asks Thimble.
“It is.”
“That bein’ so,” says Thimble, “we’ll finish the
game.” And he fires his ball into the middle pocket.
Oh, yes, there was a squeal from Flash, but the
publican declared in favor of Thimble. He ruled
that Flash had taken the miss that Thimble had given
him earlier in the piece and he had to take the other
three points. And, bein’ an honest stakeholder, it
was the only way he could have ruled.


for their ways had ceased to be my ways.” This
difference of viewpoint explains why her book, though
it follows his, is equally readable. Besides humor, she
has a gift for the descriptive phrase. “Little Japanese
men, tireless pioneers of the Nippon Far West, trying
to forget they are islanders on a continent so large it
makes them feel giddy.” Or, “At a time of the year
when watchdogs are no more than balls of hoar-frost
crystallised round a warm sleep.”
For the greater part of her book* she leaves
generalities to Fleming and lives within the caravan,
recording daily events, noting the habits of the beasts
of burden, making vivid Tittle sketches of characters.
She can bring people to life with a few quick strokes,
as when she tells of an aged, misshapen but still vigor-
ous Tartar woman in a conical hat who rode at the
head of the caravan on a shaggy pony. When cold
she dismounted and, though stiff with rheumatism,
plodded resolutely on. “The steady, implacable walk
of the old Norn fascinated me, produced an impres-
sion of inevitable destiny.”
At the beginning and near the end Miss Maillart
takes her place with Fleming as a citizen of the world,
giving her impressions of the current inter-racial situa-
tion. Nowhere in China were the travellers treated
with a marked degree of respect. She says, “Since the
Great War broke up the solidarity of Europe people
of the white races in China have ‘lost face,’ and, are
losing it more and more every day. We are not feared.
We are mocked.”
Dramatised Holiday.
George Dunn, who recently made his bow to the
literary world with a volume of poems, has now
produced a prose work, Ten Days Off (Cape). A
record, half-novel, half-travelogue, of ten days’ leave
from barracks, it is written in the first person plural,
the other party to the “we” being Frieda, the motor-
bike. She is a patched-up job and provides the comic
relief in a rather idealised English landscape full of
quaint and lovely villages,
where even to-day there are lilac sunbonnets flowering
round the lined faces of old ladies, where the farrier
is always busy and the air is kaleidoscopic with colored
butterflies fluttering about the thatched cottages.
Also, there are fantastic characters that might have
walked straight out of the plays of Sir James Barrie
and decorative incidents from both high and low life.
As a travel record Ten Days Off is weakened by
the use of imaginary place-names—lronchester, Purse-
haven and the like —though it must be admitted that
this practice opens the gate wider to the imaginative
and fictitious side of the book. Dunn handles
scenery better than human beings. His people are
too rigorously edited. The quiet passages are far
more pleasing than the dramatic incidents, which have
an air of being introduced now and then from a sense
of duty. The reflections which he adds from time to
time are a patent of youth but otherwise not very
interesting.
The book as a whole is not a complete success,
but it has many good passages, and as it contains a
little of everything most people will find something
in it to their taste.
Study in Remorse.
L. A. Pavey’s Lost Survivor (Michael Joseph) is
the story of remorse eating into a man’s mind and
heart, and while it follows this theme deeper and
deeper into life it is a very sensitive and interesting
study, often both poignant and beautiful in the
handling.
Two young men, John Tebbutt and Frank
Marvin, joint owners of the sailing-boat Corsair, took
her out one day in bad weather. Tebbutt was the
confident one, the better seaman, the leader in every-
thing, a man with a careless, easy gift for living.
Marvin took the orders on the boat, and it was Marvin
who, in a moment of carelessness during a squall, let
go a boom which knocked Tebbutt, stunned, into the
sea. Then Marvin lost his head. He tried to pull
-the dinghy alongside with some vague idea of rescue,
but only managed to lose one of the oars. He was
helpless, and did nothing. The Corsair grounded
on a mudbank. Barrowby, a fisherman who had
seen the accident and had been in difficulties himself,
came and rescued Marvin. A search, futile and too
late, was made for Tebbutt.
At the inquest the coroner expressed his sym-
pathy for Marvin as well as for the dead young man’s
parents. No one blamed Marvin, except himself. That
moment of carelessness was no shallow accident; it
grew out of an inadequacy deep in his character. He
had done nothing to save his friend, and even if he
had known what to do he realised he would have
been too frightened and confused to do it. This
knowledge, together with a habit of comparing him-
self with the dead man, grew up in him.
Barrowby, who suspects there was more in the
accident than came out in court, and his daughter
Sally, who had had an affair with Tebbutt, practised
a sort of petty blackmail upon him, exacting an exor-
bitant commission on the sale of the Corsair and in
other ways. This gave Marvin’s misery a footing, as
it were, in reality. Another man, Poulton, discovered
his weak spot and practised on it obliquely, out of
cruelty.
Mary, Tebbutt’s fiance, understood Marvin’s state
better than anyone. She tried to reassure him and
bring him back to his normal outlook. He grew to
depend on her. Only with her could he feel safe. At
last she promised to marry him. Again and again he
tried to confess to her; each time he failed, and each
failure dragged him further down. With his marriage
all seemed well again ; but slowly the trouble broke
through. Mary’s goodness no longer comforted him,
her understanding appeared to be a form of spying
past bearing. Sent to London on business, he found
it impossible to return home.
His indecision, his meaningless manoeuvres which
cover a purpose already fixed, and the brief interval
of relief that follows his breaking away are all very
well done. But from this point the fabric of the
book begins to decay. It appears like a story made
over, as if an ending originally unintended had been
half-heartedly dabbed on to the main structure. The
story of Marvin’s rehabilitation is obviously synthetic.
His wife, who has been struggling gamely to keep
herself and her child —she is really a little too angelic
—finds him, takes him home, and they begin again.
He frees himself (a) by bringing in a timber boat in
a storm, ( b ) by punching Poulton’s nose. Barrowby
suffers a change of heart, and Sally reveals a heart
of gold. All is well—but not with the book.
"Bluebush" Bourke.
I quite concur in W. K. Robertson’s appreciation
of “ Bluebush ” Bourke (R.P. 2/2/’3B), but he is
entirely wrong in his version of what led to a cessa-
tion of the goldfields rhymer’s contributions to The
Bulletin.
The verse in question —“I Promised Sue to Be
Home by Nine” —was never sent to The Bulletin by
Bourke or anyone else after it had been printed in the
Kalgoorlie “Sun.” Actually, it went to the red-paged
journal first. It was hung up there for so long that
the author, hearing nothing more of it, assumed that it
had been rejected. Then he sent it to the “Sun,”
which published it (I was the editor at the time).
The trouble arose, of course, when “I Promised
Sue” appeared also in The Bulletin a little later,
illustrated this time. It was a misunderstanding
for which Bourke could hardly be blamed and which
he could easily have cleared up if he had taken the
trouble. He was in Sydney two years before his death
in 1913.
A. H.
Film Influence on Fiction.
The flood of movies poured each year into the
public consciousness is having one clear effect on
the novel. The example of succinct narrative style is
being reflected in the technique of the story told in
words —speeding and tightening it up.
This does not mean that the film has tended to
shorten novels. There are still plenty of long ones,
but not of the old style, whose length was at least
a third padding. The long novel of to-day is long
because it has a lot to say. It neither lingers nor
moralises as did its predecessors. A public that attends
the cinema once or twice a week and gets its enter-
tainment crisp and condensed will not put up with
slowly-ground-out fiction.
The screen has taught the novelist to move in
short flights instead of long slabs. Dickens, Scott,
Thackeray and the stream of lesser men who came
after generally followed up one thread of their story
for a considerable distance and then, with a word of
apology or explanation to the reader which, inci-
dentally, never failed to tear the illusion —went back
and picked up another thread, spinning it until even
with the first. Now the tendency is almost every-
where towards simultaneous treatment of the story ;
everything kept rolling at once ; movement by a series
of flashes.
Of course much had been done toward tightening
up the technique of the novel between the great
Victorian writers and the cinema of to-day, but it
was left to the screen’s continuity man to bring this
style of story-telling to perfection.
In the application of this technique to the novel,
the more complex the book, the greater sweep it takes
in, the more the method suits it. David Pilgrim’s
large and involved story of Napoleon, So Great a
Man, recently reviewed on the Red Page, is a notable
case in point.
J. J. B.
Reviewed Briefly.
Anniversary Souvenir Brochure . . .
Two of the best publications for the 150th Anni-
versary which this Page has seen are A History of
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd. (reviewed B.
9/2/’3B), and Souvenir of the Hall of Fame, pub-
lished by the same Australian trading house. Launched
only 35 years after the landing of Phillip, Anthony
Horderns’ is now well on the way towards its own
150th, and, as the great trading house of Sydney
from the earliest days to well over the century, its
history is inseparably interlocked with the history of
the State. The Souvenir brochure is beautifully turned
out, recording through excellent pencil drawings and
appropriate letterpress the firm’s contribution to the
150th Anniversary celebrations —the beautiful decora-
tive scheme at the George-street address, depicting
leading events in the story of Sydney and the old
colony, and also modern achievements.
Fiction . . .
Mr. Strang: John Carroll Daly (Robert Hale).
Deals with the American parole system and the
alleged web of intrigue between “the lowest gunman
of the gangster world” and prominent citizens. Liberal
allowance of thrills and corpses.
McGlusky, Empire Builder: A. G. Hales (Wright
and Brown). Possibly the last adventures of the
renowned Scottish-Australian character created by the
late “Smiler” Hales. This time he sails for southern
seas with a crew of ex-gaolbirds whom he disciplines
into loyal henchmen. After adventures by the way he
has a set-to with Japanese on the Westralian pearling
grounds, and ends by triumphantly planting his coun-
try’s flag on a hitherto unknown but very valuable
island.
The Pieces of a Fan : Vincent Sheehan (Hamish
Hamilton). Short stories reprinted from popular
American magazines. Cleverly devised, well written,
but of not much significance.
The Man Who Stole the Crown Jewels: Augustus
Muir (Methuen). He didn’t get away with them. His
plot, Colin Elliott’s counterplot, and the part played
by a beautiful damsel make up the yarn.
Blood and Caviare : Maurice Dekobra (T. Werner
Laurie). Two short novels about expatriated Russians:
a cabaret dancer whose love for a young naval officer
goes awry and a one-time revolutionary executioner
who comes finally to madness and death. Rational
in outline, but rather strained in treatment.
General . . .
Just Pups (Country Life), appropriately by one
A. F. Barker, holds a delightful lot of the author’s
pencil sketches of small tykes of most breeds, with
brief, light story-essays accompanying them. It is
an addition to the fine library of large books of this
kind which the English “Country Life” people do so
well.
/ Joined the Army: Frank Griffin (Seeker and
Warburg). Six years’ service, six years’ grouch. Has
a most familiar ring. He enlisted in the post-war Tank
Corps, and begins with an observation about the “crass
stupidity” of not transferring recruits from home com-
fort to the crudenesses of military life by “a process of
gradual change.” Some of his grievances are well
founded, but on his own showing he was often a
shade too clever for his own good—a parade-ground
barrister. A sample of his complaints is that fried-
bacon sandwiches served for breakfast after a strenu-
ous night on manoeuvres were “tasteless.”
Inside India: Halide Edib (Allen and Unwin).
An inquiry into the present and future of India by
a modern —and well-informed —Turkish woman.
Essentially a book for the serious student.
Brigade of Spies: W. J. Makin (Hale, Ltd.; 12s.
6d.). Despite the author’s extraordinary luck in being
on the spot at the crucial moment —he was, for in-
stance, in a near-by cafe when Jean Jaures was shot
in Paris on July 31, 1914 —and his apparent familiarity
with scoundrels like Trebitsch Lincoln, the book leaves
an impression of having been written from outside
rather than from behind the scenes. Some of the
material has been covered before, but a good deal
is new and topical, such as the account of Lydia Stahl,
the Switz and Berkouiz couples and others not long
since rounded up in Paris. His descriptions of the
methods of the Irmo in Bulgaria and the Black Dragon
Society of Japan, though somewhat outside the scope
of the book, are interesting, as are his slightly second-
hand accounts of the precautions taken to guard
Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini and Kemal Ataturk. An
Australian inventor, H. Haydon, and a lady said
to own a mine near Alice Springs get a mention. The
writing is crisp and lively.
100 Enchanting Tales, compiled by Clemence
Dane (Michael Joseph). An omnibus of fairy stories,
and one of the finest collections of such tales ever
put together. Every old favorite this reviewer looked
for was there, while at, least half the contents were
new to him.
Obstruction Danger : J. Thomas (Blackwood).
Stories of memorable railway smashes in England and
elsewhere. Much better-written than is usual in work
of this kind.
The Voyage of the Teddy : Erling Tambs (Cape).
Round the world ih a 40-foot cutter. The writer and
his wife saw strange sights and dodged disaster time
and again. Tambs makes an interesting tale of it.
Bloomers: John Audrey (Angus and Robertson).
Collection of newspaper misprints, schoolboy howlers,
quaint letters from native correspondents, amusing
epitaphs, advertisements, etc. Good of its kind.
Verse . . .
A Symphony in Trees: A. Safroni-Middleton
(Mitre Press). Inscribed to “Adolf Hitler, Member
of the Universal Academy of Art, Culture and High
Endeavor,” and is full of high endeavor at any
rate. Doubt if his self-portrait, “The Maestro,” would
appeal to the Fiihrer’s love of he-men:
And on my bedrail, wailing o’er the din,
A gnat sits playing on its wondrous violin
Bull-terrier Doggerel: T. W. Hogarth (A. Walker,
Galashiels). Doggerel about bull-terriers.
Solitude: Enid Moodie Heddle (Hassell Press,
Adelaide). Words, phrases, occasional lines in it
are the real thing:
But morning sunlight shows
Where Frost’s cruel teeth
Have streaked the leaves
Of every bush and tree
With crimson blood.
Too much of it is vers litre, which is laziness, not
literature.
The Chaplet: Patrice Morant. Eighteen-year-old
Gloria Rawlinson, leaping suddenly from childish
verses to the strong maturity of “Vires Vitae” in the
1936 New Zealand Best Poems, showed that any bright
youngster who can rhyme and scan well is worth keep-
ing an eye on. Patrice Morant, who hails from
Weheka, South Westland, is another young Maori-
lander who may do the trick, too. At 17, her verse
is unusually competent, and if she avoids the tags
“halcyon days,” “chain of memory,” “Olympian lyre”
and develops the deeper feeling of the poems “L’Annee
Passee” and “Reliance” there’s no reason why she
shouldn’t rise from charm to power. Westland Print-
ing Works has made as good a job of the booklet as
she has of the contents.


Brt
\lU*
rit
inl°° 0 tin M>
RriU' an '
NJEWI93B
HUDSON SIX
M
n
r~:
m
BUILT TO EXCEL ... in Style, Performance, Long Life
This is the Hudson Six for 1938 . . . distinctively new in
outside style .. . superbly new in inside luxury. The
car that has won so many official performance records
now handles even more easily, rides even more smoothly.
More than ever, it is engineered and built to assure
not only long life, but unusually low upkeep cost.
Yet, surprisingly, its price is one of the very lowest
for a luxury Six. It is one of three brilliant new
Hudsons . . . Hudson Terraplane, Hudson Six and
Hudson Eight. . . that cost you less for what you get
than any other cars in the world. You’ll drive any
one of them as proudly as Hudson presents them.
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
MEET HUDSON
FOR
1938
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated In Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
3 Brill
l ant M.
eiv
r^SOiY
Cars
T,
err «pla
hudso N
Hudson
He
Six
Bight
DRIVE WITH HUDSON’S SELECTIVE AUTO-
MATIC GEAR CHANGE (optional extra) . . . now
in its fourth year, better than ever.
MORE Size . . . MORE ROOM and New Luxury
Inside.
DUO-AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES: Latest,
most advanced hydraulics; and the ONLY braking:
system with a separate mechanical system in reserve,
working: from the same brake pedal. Easy handling
parking: brake under dash. SAFEST BRAKES ON
ANY CAR.
BODIES OF ALL STEEL, including roofs of steel,
for greater safety. SAFETY GLASS in windscreen,
all side windows and deflectors.
WHEELBASES: 117 inches in Hudson Terraplane;
122 inches in Hudson Six; 122 and 129 inches in
Hudson Eight.
HORSEPOWER: 96 and 101 in Hudson Terraplane;
191 in Hudson Six; 122 in Hudson Eight.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street,
HOBART
Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON
HUDSON DEALERS IN ALL MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
IT’S “VALUE YEAR” IN HUDSON SHOWROOMS


1
JWr
IMPERIAL RESERVE
(&
■
u
-
x;
■n -
io
h. ;
iASAi
2S?
■J'
A A
*&i£ v
■ ■■llfNllllfa*
AWIA
S? /JfoRV
m-'; !
1
%
=. / Mini. \ \
7i, '/<
UIU
ll' AW
Sr
m
wmmsd
NSV
\
>
N X
m
M'Mtwh.
S^'ii
5®
■


THE LONE FISHERMAN.
"No alliance, agreement or understanding exists or is contemplated with Great Britain regarding war or the possibility of war. There is no understanding or agreement,
expressed or implied, with any nation that the United States Navy, or any part of it, should police, patrol, or be transferred to any particular waters or ocean.”
Secretary Hull.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE ISOLATIONIST.
During the last four months Australia has received
a great deal of information from newspapers and
politicians about the intentions of the United States.
It was assured by the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” that
the President declared in October for “positive action
against Japan” and that “an Anglo-American bloc in
defence of peace and democracy” was as good as
formed ; assured by the Sydney “Sun” that “Britain
and America are acting on parallel lines” and that
the “bloc in defence of peace and democracy” would
be joined by France, the Netherlands and the
U.S.S.R.; assured by Minister Foil that “a union
of the English-speaking races” was in sight and would
be the natural consummation of “the trade and
diplomatic agreement” under negotiation.
Other eminent authorities quoted Mr. Eden’s
statement in the House of Commons that, in the
affair of the Chinese war, Britain was “constantly in
consultation with the United States” and had “over
and over again taken parallel action, indicating the
closeness of their collaboration.” They chose to
ignore Washington’s tart reply that the U.S.A. was
“still following a course of independent action and
judgment without contemplation of joint action” and
went on to prescribe their duty to Australians whose
interests might be damaged by the agreement designed
to effect “a union of the English-speaking races.”
Manufacturers and Murray farmers were told, in
effect, that if they didn’t accept “sacrifices” they would
be selfish clods.
“In foreign affairs to-day,” said the “Daily Tele-
graph, blithely improving the shining hour, “isolation
is impossible. It is this fact that President Roosevelt
is trying to impress on his country.” Then he has
a queer way of doing it. Last week he explicitly
endorsed a statement of policy made in writing by
his Secretary Hull in reply to a resolution on the
Senate notice-paper—it demanded to know “whether
the United States Government contemplates any
foreign alliance or understanding.” This was the
statement:
No alliance, agreement or understanding exists or is
contemplated with Great Britain concerning war or the
possibility of war. There is no understanding or agree-
ment, expressed or implied, about the use of the
United States navy in conjunction with the navy of
any other nation. There is no understanding or agree-
ment, expressed or implied, with any nation that the
United States navy or any part of it should police,
patrol or be transferred to any particular waters or
ocean.
So there will be no alliance. Australia has in this
matter been misled as grossly as it has been misled
about the issues and the course of the fighting in
Abyssinia, Spain and China and about the might and
sweet reasonableness of Russia. The U.S.A. has rejected
the part assigned to it by writers who complacently
lined up Americans, French, Russians and the young
manhood of Britain and the Dominions against “the
Fascist Powers.” It is after a trade agreement only,
and if the gentlemen at Canberra condemn any section
of our people to “make sacrifices” so that they may
continue the fatuous pursuit of the unattainable it
will be the worse for them.
“In foreign affairs to-day isolation is impossible.”
The Americans are showing by word and deed that
it is possible, and that it can be practised as success-
fully as when the policy was laid down for them by the
wise Washington. It is possible for the British Com-
monwealth of Nations also, and might be as successful
in action. It does not mean that the United States
would stand by and see the British Commonwealth
of Nations conquered, or that the British Common-
wealth of Nations would stand by and see the United
States conquered; but it does mean that each great
division of the English-speaking race would “dedicate
itself to the proposition” that it can best serve its
own interests and the interests of mankind by looking
after its own concerns and letting other peoples look
after theirs.
What a relief it would be to the Dominions
if Britain withdrew from the affairs of the Mad Con-
tinent! No more blither about “our frontier” being
“on the Rhine” or the Danube or the Vistula! No
more strident demands for crusades by lying journalists
and angry old fools —some with coronets —because
a criminal lunatic has shied a bomb at a blockade-
running tramp owned by some “Rock scorpion” or
scrofulous Levantine, or because some foreign faction
is whipping another in a civil broil! The peoples of
the Mad Continent have got to live on it. If they
are crazy enough to go to war in the full knowledge
that war in the 1914-1918 form means the sacrifice
of the flower of their embattled manhood, and in
its new form may mean the wiping out of most of
their civil population, let it be their own funeral —not
ours.
But even on the Mad Continent there are positive
forces working for peace. There are nations which
contrive to live usefully and happily without ever
wanting to fight their neighbors. There is a little
republic in which Germans, French and Italians have
shown for centuries that they can dwell together in
amity, and whose only grievance at the moment seems
to be that it has been compromised by the League
to which it gives house-room —involved in a demented
experiment in “sanctions” when its traditional policy
is neutrality. The happy political settlement known
as Switzerland was a European settlement exclusively.
No forerunner of Mr. Anthony Eden had any part
in it.
It is conceivable, though Mr. Eden and the
editors of the “Daily Herald” and the “News
Chronicle” would never admit it, that the nations of
Europe could work out their destinies better without
Mr. Eden’s assistance than with it.
Build Them Here!
Loud cheers should ring down the Clyde when the
news reaches Scotland that the Commonwealth
Government, in ordering a shipbuilding inquiry, is
“not actuated by the idea that the industry on a large
scale might be established here in the near future.”
Ordinary Australians may have harbored some such
hope ; but no adventures of that sort for Mr. Lyons!
Mr. Lyons’s mind sails the Cotter River, not the Pacific
Ocean.
Of course, Australian workmen were quite com-
petent to build the ten-million-pound Sydney Harbor
Bridge. No preliminary inquiry was needed in that
case. Also, the capital harbors of Australia are lined
with expensive quays, breakwaters, dredged approaches
and other facilities, materials and labor being all
Australian. Nobody has questioned their economic
necessity, though labor is the cardinal factor in deter-
mining costs. But ships—that is another matter.
Hitherto, the Lyons Government has refused
to accept the belief that Australia can build
vessels larger than 500 tons, though a five-thousand-
ton cruiser was constructed here during the war, and
the first actual Australian steamer was put together
in Sydney Harbor more than a century ago. All that
Mr. Lyons is now trying to do is to find a way of
assisting the building of small vessels.
The situation in Britain meanwhile is that if
Australia wants more merchant ships Australia cannot
buy them unless it can get them second-hand. Lord
Craigmyle, chairman of the P. and 0., says his com-
pany’s building programme is completed for the
present. The proposal for the construction of two 26,000-
ton liners for the N. S. Wales-North America run
seems to have fallen through, leaving the field to Uncle
Sam, who is dickering with the idea of putting another
large liner on the route.
According to Lord Craigmyle, British naval con-
struction has caused such a rise in costs that the lay-
ing-down of new merchant tonnage has become
economically impossible in Britain. That does not
apply to Australia, because the Australian naval con-
struction in progress is not worth a sailor’s boot.
But what is as true of Australia as it is of Britain
is this fact put forward by the noble lord: —-
If the British mercantile marine is not numerous and
strong, the British Navy is useless. Great Britain
could be starved out in a few weeks unless multitudes
of merchant ships could be relied on in time of war
to carry on communications from Australia and the
other Dominions.
Australia could not be starved out, but it could be
deprived of all its overseas markets. In the last war
it was necessary to draw heavily on foreign vessels
to carry war supplies to Europe, and necessary it
still is in time of peace. The necessity would diminish,
and might cease altogether, if ships for the deep-sea
cargo and coastal trade were built in Australia.
When B.H.P. entered upon its great second innings
at Newcastle (N.S.W.) there were timorous poli-
ticians who felt about iron and steel as the Lyonses
to-day feel about shipbuilding; but, fortunately, they
were not in the Commonwealth Government. And
when the proposal was put to the Commonwealth
Bank, Denison Miller found a million pounds for the
Newcastle enterprise after an hour’s discussion. Not
25 years afterwards, the expansion of the business has
become so great as to call for new works on a gigantic
scale.
There is never any trouble about money when
Canberra or one of the State Governments feels
expansive. Insurance companies weighed in gener-
ously to help along the Mackay harbor scheme and
the Brisbane bridge. One of them is providing
£315,000 for the Derwent bridge. There should be
no more difficulty in raising the money for shipbuild-
ing, especially if it were backed by a corporation on
the A.W.A. plan.
The shipbuilders are not pessimists. Norman
Frazer, of Cockatoo Dock, says he has “always
regarded it as absurd that Australian shipowners should
have their vessels built abroad.” A country which
produced the Michell thrust-bearing, which has made
the biggest vessels of modern type and power possible,
should have no craven fears of being a great ship-
building country, and if there are politicians with such
craven fears it should dismiss them.
A Fortnight to Forget.
On February 2 a fortnight ago Sydney “Sun’s”
cable page flaunted the headlines:
“50,000 Italians to Help Franco.”
Defiance of France and Britain Expected.
Thereunder it printed a cable from that authoritative
source the “News Chronicle,” published the previous
day, reporting that “Mussolini contemplated prepara-
tions for a new army of 50,000 soldiers, with artillery
and mechanised equipment, to leave for Spain within
a fortnight.”
The fortnight is now up, and it turns out —as
could have been forecast with absolute certainty—
that there was no more in this nasty lie than in the
scores of equally loaded lies that had gone before it.
But there was a difference. In this instance a fort-
night’s grace was allowed people in which to forget.
Papers like the “Cronk-News” have the lowest opinion
of their readers’ ability to remember anything for
more than 24 hours. Australian papers evidently
have a like poor opinion of their readers’ intelligence.
The nasty bit of lying was, of course, paraded
again in the “S. M. Herald” of February 3, as well as
in most other —nearly all other —Australian dailies.
“Granny” headed it bluntly “Italians for Spain.” It
was identical with the “Sun’s” cable, though it has
often been protested that cables do not come from
the one source. “Granny,” as usual, swallowed it at
a gulp.
“News” as palpably false, from the “Cronk-
News” and other sources, has shaken confidence in the
reliability of cables time and again. Time and again
they have been bowled out, either by subsequent
denial, contradiction or correction or by the process
of events. The reported intention of Germany and
Italy to invade Spain openly in Coronation Week
was only one of a library of lies. It makes no
difference that—within a day, or a fortnight, or a
month —they have invariably been demonstrated to
have been false and groundless. Next week, or the
week after, another as grossly false and tendentious
as this “50,000 Italians” furphy will get into the cables
from some such source as the “Cronk-News,” and
up will go the sensation-press headings and posters
and out will come “Granny” with a leader, assuming
all to be gospel.
As usual, “Granny” honored this “50,000 Italians”
invention with a leader. This appeared in the same
issue as the “news” item —a fortnight ago—and it there
struck “Granny,” as well it might strike anyone, that
the report was curiously contemporaneous with the
torpedoing of a British ship off the coast of Spain.
It did not occur to “Granny”—what by now should
be apparent to anybody of ordinary intelligence—
that it is always on such occasions as that torpedoing
that the sensational journalist trots out his liveliest
efforts. Failing to appreciate that simple first prin-
ciple of modern journalistic ethics, “Granny” found
the “Cronk-News” story “very circumstantial.” The
old lady of Hunter-street, in fact, swallowed the
furphy whole, and commented that “Mussolini must
hold his own position to be desperate if he is pre-
pared to throw down so patent a challenge to Britain
and France.”
“Granny” also found that there was “nothing
inherently improbable” in the Valencia Reds’ charges
that Italian warboats were actively aiding Franco ;
this, of course, linking up with the sinking of the
British steamer. Before the week was up a cable
had come along definitely stating that there was now
“little doubt that the submarine that torpedoed the
British steamer Endymion was not manned by
Italians.” This, of course, was passed over without
comment by papers that had found “nothing inherently
improbable” in the Valencia implication.
With the fortnight for forgetting the “50,000
Italians” furphy now expired that yarn is also
dropped into the limbo of things that have served
their purpose. In their stead it becomes evident that
those in both countries who are working for a better
understanding between Britain and Italy are having
an innings. The Italian Ambassador has sought a
meeting with Britain’s Foreign Secretary, which —the
cables now coolly announce —“may be a prelude to
Italy’s steady withdrawal from Spain.” On the sub-
marine-piracy aspect of the tangle the “Times”
acknowledges that “Italy’s readiness to co-operate
in the defence of common interests is appreciated.”
Meanwhile, the “Cronk-News” fortnight is up,
and those of Our Glorious Press which added the
“50,000” furphy to their cable-lie heap are reminded
of it, in case they should feel impelled to apologise
to their readers, if to no one else.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lord Nuffield and Dr. Dalton.
Australians were glad to learn from Lord Nuffield
that he doesn’t believe the international position “to
be as black as some people paint it.” Glad because
black is the only color used by collectors and manu-
facturers of much of the foreign “news” served up
to us, and because Australians regard Lord Nuffield
not only as a philanthropist but as a realist with a
contempt for cant. And also because Dr. Dalton,
M.P., gave Australia a very different account of the
international outlook.
Before Dr. Dalton arrived in Australia he was
described by a veteran British politician in a letter
to The Bulletin as “a characteristic representative
of Labor’s inept Front Bench.” Perhaps the descrip-
tion was too flattering. Anyway, to Dr. Dalton there
“is definitely a grave danger of war on a greater
scale, and much more destructive and unspeakable,
than ever before.”
It might break out in more than one place. There
are many danger spots. Germany, Italy and Japan are
all potential aggressors.
On the other hand:
The Russians appear in many respects a most con-
servative people. They do not want war. They are
a pacific force in the world in the same way as the
British, French and Scandinavians are.
What the Paris “Matin” says counts for a great
deal more in Europe than what Dr. Dalton says, and
the “Matin” has necessarily been making a study of the
“conservative” and “pacific” Russians, with whom
its country has a pact. The “Matin’s” views on the
“conservative” and “pacific” Russians were published
synchronously with the appearance of Dr. Dalton’s
fustian. “M. Stalin” it indicts as “a man of blood.”
He works for war, hoping that we shall be dragged
in. He solidifies hostilities which might be lying in wait
for us, liquidates friendships which might aid us. Cer-
tainly he has not massed troops on our frontier, but
his army of agents and spies cause disorder wherever
they go, sowing hatred, undermining institutions and
laws, defying justice and the police, setting citizens
against each other —ruining the soul of the nation,
the better to dissipate its strength.
Lord Nuffield believes that “trouble can be
diverted by diplomacy—by allowing other nations to
fight out their own squabbles.” The Bulletin likewise
believes it. It holds also that the Dominions have a
right to expect British statesmanship to keep it out
of these squabbles, and above all to preserve them
from a war in which they would have to fight for
the Red republic.
Harbor Tragedy.
The very successful visit to Sydney of the U.S.
cruisers closed in tragedy. On Sunday afternoon a
new launch, the Rodney, carrying passengers—mostly
girls who had embarked at Woolloomooloo to
follow the departing Louisville to the Heads, capsized
off Bradley’s Head and went to the bottom. There
was cruel loss of life.
The cruiser was moving slowly down the harbor,
led by a launch with a police band on board. It was
a dull day, but the water was calm. The men of
the Louisville were just leaving parade stations ; the
people aboard the Rodney were laughing and talking
and calling to them. As she passed behind the
cruiser to circle her, the passengers moved across
the deck. She heeled badly, there was a confused
surge, and in an instant her people were struggling
with death.
A few seconds later boats were overboard from
the Louisville. Officers and men broke their stations
and dived into the water. Hundreds of lifebelts flew
through the air. The warship stopped, and the police
boat rushed to the rescue.
The Rodney sank, spouting debris detached from
its interior by the weight of incoming water. Soon
there were more rescuers than passengers in the strong
current which runs off Bradley’s Head.
Police, sailors and ambulance men alike lived up
to their traditions, as did the civilian sailors of
Harbor pleasure-boats. Most of those in danger
were rescued, though it was a long job bringing some
of them to life. Many had to be treated in hospital.
The bodies of four girls and a middle-aged man
were recovered. On the grim record there followed
the names of 17 passengers “missing ; believed dead.”
They were nearly all girls.
A marine inquiry and a coroner’s inquest will,
of course, have to be held before the exact circum-
stances of the accident are determined. Mean-
while there is ample evidence of the coolness and
promptness with which rescue was brought to the
drowning people and the heroism of many persons
unknown.
A Stupid Omission.
The Commonwealth Government has handed over the
job of selecting a site to replace Rabaul to a committee
composed of General Griffiths, a Treasury official
(C. W. Thomas) and a Department of the Interior man
(L. Thornton). Mr. W. M. Hughes has stated that an
immediate decision is necessary.
Volcanic risks being excluded, the outstanding
factor in selection of any new site is that it shall be
malaria-free, or, at any rate, capable of being rendered
and kept malaria-free at small cost. Practical proof
of the vital importance of this factor was afforded
on a dramatic scale some 20 years ago, when, in spite
of regular dosage with quinine and other protective
measures, three-fourths of the Australian occupational
force went down with a severe form of the disease
as soon as they got into cold weather on the return
voyage. Until some years later, when the Common-
wealth Department of Health took the matter in
hand and sent a malariologist who identified the
species and breeding-places of the local malaria-
carrying mosquitoes, Rabaul remained a malarial
hotbed.
Neither a general, a clerk nor a town-planner
can be expected to possess the technical knowledge
required for detecting and estimating this vital and
outstanding , risk in selecting a new capital site. A
skilled malariologist should have been included. It
is a stupid omission. Mere calling of medical evidence
will not meet the situation. The committee is not
capable of judging such evidence in any case. Proper
judgment can be given only by a scientific member,
expert in malarial matters.
It is not even now too late to remedy the mistake.
Dr. Heydon, who freed Rabaul from the disease, and
whose work kept it free afterwards, is still in the
service of the Commonwealth Department of Health.
He should be sent to join the committee as fourth
member, and the final decision as to the suitability
of the site as a reasonably healthy place of residence
for a white population should rest in his hands.
Two Lessons from Britain.
The England-Australia goodwill flight of the five
Royal Air Force flying-boats should remove the last
vestiges of Australia’s old “leave-it-to-Britain” defence
complacency. From Plymouth to Melbourne the
flight was a succession of disturbing engine-fault
delays. One of the original starters didn’t stay the
distance. The relief machine, which caught the rest
of the squadron at Singapore, crippled itself when it
shed a propeller over Melbourne and just made the
safety of the bay.
The squadron cleared Plymouth on December 2
after having been delayed a couple of hours by bad
weather. Its progress then was:
Dec. 3. —One machine lost itself over France and
another waited for it at Etange de Berre, near Mar-
seilles.
Dec. 15.—The Air Ministry announced in London
that one boat had met with engine trouble beyond
Calcutta —it lost a propeller near Akyab, where it
remained.
Dec. 20.—Three arrived at Singapore, the fourth
being delayed at Penang with engine trouble.
Jan. 10. —A relief machine having arrived from Eng-
land, the five continued their flight. Engine trouble
delayed one machine at take-off time, and another was
back within half an hour with further mechanical
trouble.
Jan. 15. —The five reached Darwin after another
day’s delay at Koepang, rain having affected the engine
of one.
Jan. 21. —The squadron made Brisbane, but one
machine was engine-delayed for three hours at
Bowen.
Feb. 7. —Melbourne . . . there a hundredweight and
a half of propeller from one ’plane crashed through
a platform roof at Flinders-street railway station, another
of its blades fell into the Yarra and the third on to the
roof of a Collins-street theatre.
The flight was made to a leisurely peace-time
schedule. So many of the engine faults occurred after
there had been plenty of overhaul-time at the various
stops that it is not unfair to assume there would have
been more worries had the flight been a forced
one, In war-time, such delays might be very
dangerous.
The flight has been nationally valuable. It
has revealed the importance to Australia of a powerful
Singapore air base and provided reasons why Aus-
tralia should build its own flying-boats as well as
land machines—machines like the R.A.N. Hawker
Hurricane, which has flown from Edinburgh to London
in 48 minutes (409 m.p.h.), mostly at 17,000 feet, at
which altitude it would be normally invisible from the
ground and almost inaudible. That would mean
Sydney to Melbourne inside an hour and from
Asia to the North Australian coast in under four
hours. A Hurricane has not the range to do the latter
trip and return, but it is obvious that a ’plane to
accomplish the task could be built. Meanwhile, the
R.A.A.F. paddles along with five-year-old ancestors
of the Hurricane which can do 200 m.p.h. when
pressed.
Clear the Radio Air!
At the end of November a million Australians had
taken out listeners’ licenses. It means that the
occupants of more than 60 p.c. of Australian homes
are interested in broadcast programmes and, through
them, in the control of Australian broadcasting. No
Government can afford to be unmindful of so many
electors, and before June the Lyons Government will
have to come to some decision about broadcasting
policy.
In August A.B.C. chairman Cleary was voted an
honorarium of £2OOO over and above the £5OO p.a.
he normally receives. Four other commissioners
receive part-time payment; general manager Moses
draws £2OOO a year. The commissioners run the
national service through managers and officers in each
State ; in addition, there are Federal supervisors or
managers of programmes. This suggests overlapping,
and there has been some clashing of authority. Nor
are the direct responsibilities of the commission and
of the general manager properly defined. If it were
a private business the g.m. would be the servant of
his directors, the commissioners, and would be
expected to put into effect their policy decisions with
the money voted for the purpose. The directors
would seek his professional advice, but his would
not be the deciding voice.
It is for Canberra to decide whether the com-
mission is doing the right job or whether a full-time
body of three could do it better. If £2500 has to be
paid to the chairman in one twelvemonth, the million
contributing listeners are surely, entitled to his full-
time services.
The legislative review necessary before June
should go further. Australia has 90 commercial
broadcasting stations, and they have a federation
which, early in November, asked the Government
to create a board to regulate all commercial broad-
casting. It was suggested that this board should issue
commercial station licenses, review and renew them,
fix wave-lengths and power, and arbitrate on all dis-
putes of a general nature between commercial stations
and other organisations or individuals, and that
expenses should be met out of listeners’ license fees.
Daily-newspaper reports of late November pre-
dicted “interesting changes in the control of B-class
stations,” adding that anticipated revision of the
Wireless Broadcasting Act would probably deal with
the future of commercial stations as well as the con-
duct of the national service.
So it should. B-class licenses should be issued
for longer periods than the 12-month minimum, and
their license fee, fixed at £25 a year in the days
when commercial broadcasting was an experiment,
should be increased substantially now it has become
a money-making business. This increased revenue
could be drawn on to meet the expenses of a board,
if a board is necessary, which is doubtful.
Wings Over Darwin.
Not for the first time, Darwin residents have stated
that mysterious aeroplanes flew over the town at
night. Last October surveyors reported having seen
strange machines a few miles away, but the authorities
were inclined to believe that the observers were a
week out in their time, since Dr. Fenton had flown
across the area a week before.
In the recent case one machine was seen by Mr.
Holtze, the power-house engineer. He declared that
it flew low over the powerhouse at 4.30 a.m. ; it had
a lighted cockpit, and was travelling at high speed.
Holtze is not the kind of man to have illusions. Other
residents say they saw other ’planes the week before.
Why any foreigner should bother to fly over
Darwin secretly and in the dark is a greater mystery
than the origin of the ’planes. There is no military
aerodrome, nor anything of strategic importance
except the pubs.
Moreover, we are a hospitable people, and any
foreigner merely has to ask to see the place from the
air to bring about the issue of a cordial invitation.
No foreign warship ever visits Sydney without
sending up a few machines. Sydney people have
become familiar during the Anniversary celebrations
with the sight of foreign flights in the air.
One little gathering first of all sectored the whole
Sydney area thoroughly, and even seemed to be having
a little diving practice towards various vulnerable
objectives.
Sydney newspapers have been allowed to take
altitude pictures of the whole terrain, showing wharves,
powerhouses, railway stations, naval depots, ship
anchorages, dockyards and every other feature in clear
relief. These are certainly published without instru-
ment records, but, co-ordinated with ground maps,
they would be useful to the ill-disposed.
Moreover, there is nothing to prevent visiting
foreign naval men, among whom are architects and
surveyors, approaching coastal batteries, naval oil-
tanks—placed conveniently near a popular holiday
resort —and other points of defensive interest. On
one defended headland there is even a public golf
course for their convenience.
The official attitude needs a thorough tightening
up.
Electricity-supply in War-time.
“Metax”: I should like to know what military
experts think of our centralised electric-power systems
as links in our defence scheme.
In the Speck there are miles of canals, pipelines
and transmission lines radiating from key points such
as dams, power-stations and sub-stations. All present
targets for aerial attacks. One hit could paralyse
all the industries dependent on electricity and possibly
drive the population to panic.
Victoria is, in like case, and other States
seem to be getting into similar boxes. England, with
its grid system, may be somewhat better off because
of its large number of scattered power-stations.
From this viewpoint there seems to be something
to say for the development of many small schemes
of electricity supply instead of a few large ones.
The Fireside Touch.
Most official visitors to the Foundation celebrations
have had to sail carefully with public opinion, but
Lord Nuffield felt able to say what he thinks:
I dislike humbug. If I had my way I would abolish
all conferences. You never get anywhere with them.
There is talk and more talk. If you want results you
want to get a few fellows round a dinner-table or a
fire and have a frank discussion.
Of late years the dinner-table and the fire haven’t
played much of a part in British history, but they
did once. In Wellington’s time, for instance. After
Waterloo the Duke and Castlereagh settled most of the
problems of the peace in that way, and did it well.
Except for a few days at Fashoda, France, the
“traditional” enemy, has never since given Britain a
moment’s qualm ; indeed, it has become almost too
friendly for Britain’s own good.
The old fireside method was the heart of the tech-
nique of an earlier diplomacy. For it has been sub-
stituted the expansive public meeting, and the results
are not striking.
Versailles produced a world condition which has
kept Europe in trouble for 20 years. The interminable
debates of the League have led to nothing but
misunderstanding and dissension. The Washington
Conference merely ended in the covering up of a sore
which festered and began running worse than ever.
The World Economic Conference was a complete
flop; and the London Naval Conference did more
harm than good. Imperial Conferences? One of them
certainly gave birth to the Statute of Westminster,
but even Mr. Menzies considers it a very mixed
blessing.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Kerriki”: It sounds almost too good
to be true, but the South African marks-
men at the Anzac rifle range (N.S.W.)
vouched for it. They were to come on
by train from Melbourne, and they tele-
graphed for “sleeping accommodation
for 13 Springboks from Albury.” Upon
arrival they found two cattle-trucks pre-
pared for their reception.
“Isandlwana”: Spectators at the
Empire Games have been interested in
the South African practice of emitting
short, sharp hisses whenever a Spring-
bok scored. The local press alleged this
was taken to be an insult hurled at the
beaten competitor until someone dis-
closed it was part of a Zulu war cry
adopted by the Afrikanders. In cold
fact, it was the Zulu accompaniment in
charges to every stab of the deadly
assegai which the impis wielded with
such effect, and had nothing to do with
the old battle slogan: “If we go for-
ward we die, if we go backward we die ;
let us go forward and die.”
* * * *
“Esters”: “Wodgil” needs to get his
palate reupholstered if he rates Italian
Chianti as a “claret type” (B. 9/2/’3B).
Chianti is a thin, hard red wine lacking
the characteristic odor and silkiness on
the palate of the Medoc vintages, charac-
teristics their Australian imitators have
not entirely missed. It is the vin ordi-
naire of Italy, and all Australians
familiar with “van rooge” in France
know what that means. It is a harmless
and cheap beverage, and much in vogue
among Italians and Greeks in Egypt. As
mess president of a Light Horse regi-
ment after the Evacuation I ordered half
a dozen flasks of it, hoping it would sup-
plant spirits and the heavy English beers
—besides, at 6d. a nip it showed a good
profit. After tasting it the other members
of the mess blasphemously refused to try
it again, and to save face I was com-
pelled to drink the whole consignment
myself, a souring and ungratifying job.
* * * *
“T.”: What’s the use of arguing
against women going in for track and
field sports when a girl can run 100
yards round 11 seconds and 220 yards
round seconds, and do a 19ft. broad
jump? Not 10 p.c. of the other sex
could perform any of these feats, yet
at the Empire Games the Westralian
Decima Norman accomplished all three.
In the newspaper comment on Miss
Norman’s achievements there was a
, strange neglect to mention the case of
the young woman whose omission from
the Olympic Games team led to such an
outcry in the Sydney flapper press and
even in the House of Representatives.
To show that the selectors were hope-
lessly biased or something, the “Sun”
arranged a time trial, with portraits, in
one of which the subject of the agita-
tion was shown starting a 110-yards burst
without a hat and finishing with one.
And the eminent Ward (Labor) moved
the adjournment of the House to call
attention to the “scandal” of her being
left out of the team. U.A.P. members
from Sydney were equally eloquent in
her cause. A South Australian member
who ventured to remark that it was
scarcely a matter for a national Parlia-
ment was nearly howled down. And all
the while there was in the West a girl
who could have given the press- and
politician-boomed damsel at least five
yards in a hundred and two feet in a
broad jump.
$ * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Search for a
moderate lodging during a term of
bachelorhood led me to a house in Pad-
dington which I knew in its better days,
when (finally) the 12 rooms were too
small for a single family and its domestic
helps. When some conversions are com-
pleted in one wing still unoccupied, there
will be 12 flats or flatettes in the place,
even the old roomy kitchen being now
an independent flat —probably one of the
best of them. That’s how they crowd ’em
in Paddington; but I was particularly
intrigued by an offer of the obliging land-
lady. She was showing me the wing still
in course of eruption. “This extra bath-
“ Don't let on, Bill — mine's full of beer!”
room,” she said, “is not wanted, reqlly.
If you like, I could have it turned into
a self-contained flat, which you might
have cheap.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: This summer, like quite
a few colleagues elsewhere in S.Q. and
about the Northern Rivers, N.S.W., I’ve
been seeing a good deal of a disease which
isn’t in the textbooks. It begins with
soreness at the back of the nose, suggest-
ing an oncoming cold, and proceeds with
poor appetite, a slight temperature, pains
and aches in muscles and joints to a feel-
ing that life simply isn’t worth while.
Then begins a definite enlargement of
the liver, commencing on the right side
and proceeding to quite substantial
dimensions, with tenderness, but without
the irregular lower edge to the organ
which accompanies definite inflammation.
After six weeks or so it gradually clears
up, apparently with no after troubles in
its wake. The laboratory people can
make nothing of blood smears or other
diagnostic material, but suggest that it
is probably due to one of the rickettsia
group of spirillae which have already sub-
divided the mild type of typhus fever
into seven sub-groups.
# # * *
“Mak”: Those nags that clattered
across the Collins-street intersection and
bashed a tram and a transport (B.
9/2/’3B) began a series of near-accidents
which harried one Melbourne man. The
horses missed him by a whisker, and he
merely wiped his forehead. Then he was
eating a midday sandwich in a first-floor
Collins-street teahouse when an explosion
in an upper storey photographic studio
dumped a pile of bricks on the rein-
forced-glass light-well floor just above his
head, and people started telling him
about acquaintances who had died with
their boots on. Finally, he was waiting
for a Flinders-street train and craning
an inoffensive neck at the R.A.F. flying-
boats sailing over the city, when a chunk
of red-hot propeller-blade buried itself
in the platform pavement not ten yards
away. A few hours later a life-insurance
salesman was in a position to buy his
missus a new hat.
* * * *
“Per Mare, Per Terram”: One can
forgive the organisers of the Sydney
pageant for lapses over mediaeval heralds
(B. 9/2/’3B), but what can be said of
the arming of the Marines with long
Lee-Metford bolt rifles and short sword
bayonets of the Boer War period? Even
if the old flintlock muskets were not
available, to writer’s knowledge there are
numbers of clumsy old Snider rifles to
be had, closely resembling, though
breechloaders, the firelocks of the
eighteenth century. Further, the Sea Regi-
ment did not wear the “tricorne” cocked
hat, but a lid resembling a “topper,”
with the crown some inches less in cir-
cumference than the head orifice. There
are countless prints and paintings show-
ing details of the uniforms of those days,
and a letter to the R.M. depot at Ports-
mouth would have resulted in the Sydney
organisers getting absolutely correct
details and patterns of the uniform and
equipment.
“Harold Hardupp”: Just 70 years ago
Sydney (and Australia) got its first block-
watchman, as the result of some King
and adjacent Pitt and George streets
jewellers wanting guardianship. John
Mansergh, a huge man who had been lock-
up keeper at Singleton, took the job, and
his family still guards the same block.
His son John followed him, and that
son’s son, also John, is now head of three
brothers who carry on the business, while
his son, another John, now at school,
will probably make the fourth genera-
tion in the game.
* * * *
“Queen-street”: We are not so somno-
lent in Brisbane as southern scoffers like
to make out. One night recently a big
plate-glass window in one of the local
rag shops was smashed. There was
enough of it left to support the follow-
ing notice next morning:
Five pounds reward for information
leading to the conviction of the person who
fainted and broke this window when he
saw the outstanding values.
Sydney and Melbourne, cap that!
* * * *
“El V.”: About the only Sydney Gov-
ernment building not lavishly decorated
during the Anniversary celebrations is
the one which is designated by a sort of
tombstone erected by the Royal Austra-
lian Historical Society as standing on the
site of Australia’s first Government
House at the corner of Phillip and Bridge
streets. But, then, it needs little to add to
its charm. It was designed by some
modern Greenway in the Renaissance-
Goondiwindi style, and the fluting of its
galvanised-iron is perpendicular so that
the rain reaches the earth by the short-
est route. It is embowered in a grove of
the kind of trees which look as if they
had had a severe fright in their early
youth, and it bears an inscription over its
portals which must bring a warm glow
of historical pride to the heart of every
politician who gazes on it: “The Un-
employed Workers’ Homes Trust.”
j|; * * *
“C.V.S.”: Queer signs? A barber in
Queenstown (Tas.) invites all and sundry
to “Have a close shave with Death.”
That’s his name.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Something new in the
marine steam-engine line reached Aus-
tralia recently in the British freighter
Llandaff, launched last March at Sun-
derland. A British invention, it is
claimed to halve former operating costs
and to take up only a sixth of the space
needed by the older type, with half the
bunker and boiler space. Forced lubri-
cation does away with the need for
greasers, and only two firemen are re-
quired for stokehold watch under way,
with one watch engineer. She burns 15
tons of coal a day at 10 knots ; the usual
type of engines for her tonnage need 33
tons. The job consists of a new type of
high speed twin compound reciprocating
engine driving the shaft through a single
reduction gear. The exhaust steam passes
to low-pressure turbines working through
double reduction gear.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Not only the films make
gobs glamorous in the eyes of Sydney
flappers who have rushed them with such
abandon these last few weeks (B.
9/2/’3B). Alleged Australian news-
papers, written in the American lan-
gUage, help to foster the impression that
Americans are a race apart. For one
tbing tbey j ssue acres G f sugary Holly-
wood ’ sentiment} collected by imbeciles
fof imbec ji es an d the young female of
he ies laps it all up . Hence, to some
extent tbe per i o dical spectacle of ordi-
nary4ooking gum-chewing blokes pacing
Svdney streets in triumph with yards of
c ' mely girl hood on each side while finer-
looking specimens of Australian youth in
the smarter R.A.N. get-up have their
company to themselves. Apropos, I have
never seen a U.S.A. squadron—and I
bave seen a n that have come to these
parts during 30 years—without wonder-
j ng bow would get on in a real sea-
figbt The lads would be dead game, no
doubt, but their port discipline is so
astonishingly slack that it engenders
d bts as to their battle discipline and
, , •. . been
other things And unless it has been
introduced of recen years, toere doesnt
seem to be an age-limit in Uncle bam s
Navy. In 1908, 16 battleships were sent
into the Pacific with orders to be pre-
pared for any emergency; but the nig
admiral was an old, old man who cer-
tainly would not have been employed in
the Royal Navy. I stood beside him in
an Australian port when he made a
speech in feebly-whispered sentences-
was near enough to touch him and To
catch him if he fell. A charming °W m ,
but, physically and intellectually, he wa
nearly done. He died noMong
wards. The voyage probably hastened
the end.
DINKY-DYE.
“A witness before the Workers’ Compensation Com-
missioner (Sydney) claimed damages for injuries
to her hands allegedly sustained by ‘dyeing customers’
hair different colors according to the changing
fashions.’ ”
How true the adage “Tempora mutantur —
And we with them” to new modes, ill or
good,
Fresh-minted phrases, words of cheer or banter,
New pleasures and new ways of livelihood,
New fancies for the wine in the decanter
And for the beer in bottle or in wood,
And for new colors in which women dare
To deck the crowning glory of their hair!
Time was they were content to ring the
changes
On locks of raven black or aureate blonde
Or Titian red, but now —how swift and strange
is
The transformation wrought by Fashion’s
wand! —
They’ve broken past those immemorial ranges,
Travelled such primitive ideas beyond,
Till almost any hue that rainbows wear
May be reflected in a woman’s hair.
No longer plumage like a golden plover’s,
Such as (in Helen) devastated Troy,
Or Cleopatra’s dark-as-midnight “covers”
Need witching dames and damosels employ
To form a lure for beauty-loving lovers
Or give impressionable artists joy.
There’s scarce a limit to what color-snare
May lurk in any modern woman’s hair.
Who is there craves a “purple crown of
folly,”
A mane as scarlet as a pimpernel
Or as the berries on the Christmas holly,
Or fancies one whose greenness would excel
That on the feathers of a Pretty Polly?
Step up, you girls—they’re all available.
There’s nothing left to cause a startled stare
At any color in a woman’s hair.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Stoo”: “Mystery ’planes,” now that
they’ve been spotted over Darwin, will
probably swarm like locusts all over Aus-
tralia in the next few months. People
when they get jittery seem to be able
to imagine an aircraft in anything from
a motor-bike to a mosquito, as witness
the number of honest Maorilanders who
“saw” Hood and Moncrieffs ’plane after
it had crashed into the sea. London, in-
cidentally, had a mystery ’plane, too,
about six months ago, which used to
cruise over the city at night and which
obviously belonged to a “foreign Power”
—until the pilot revealed through the
press that he was just trying to demon-
strate to the authorities how easily foreign
’planes could fly over the city if they
wanted to. He promised to bomb St.
Paul’s with a flourbag, but the stunt
fizzled.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: As expected, the
“patrol” at the Victorian border could
no more keep infantile paralysis out
of N. S. Wales than a paling fence
can keep the birds out of an
“The beach inspector booked me, so I gave ’im me Wrong address .”
orchard. Epidemics or not, the virus
of the disease is always among us, just
as the germ of tuberculosis is, and its
toxicity is subject to seasonal variations.
It looks as though most of us, by con-
tracting minor and unnoticed infections,
become immune to the paralysis. Dr.
Aycock, of Boston, has shown that where
the infection is endemic (and it smoulders
almost everywhere) only one person loses
the power of a limb or limbs for every
100 who acquire a mild, harmless dose
of the disease. That, perhaps, is why
the scourge often crops up suddenly in
remote country districts, attacking, say,
one or two children and leaving the rest
untouched. And a glance at the latest
statistics is good evidence that a child
has a far better chance of dodging in-
fantile paralysis than of escaping diph-
theria, scarlet fever or the wheels of a
motor-car.
“....so to fire the torpedo you only have to pull this ’ere lever.”
“ Dhas ” ; Jf command of languages is
one t he essentials, Sydney will find it
jj ard to live up to its reputation as a
cosmopolitan city after the visit of the
p rencb warships. I was one of six Aus-
tralians, all well educated, trying to talk
tQ some c f the Froggie officers the other
nighf and not one of us could even
finish a sentence , except for the one
about the aunt of the gard ener. We
ended b singing “ The Marseillaise.”
* ° * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has at last decided
to turn to profit its graveyard of old ships
in a backwater of the Port River. Juno,
Flinders (with memories of the West-
ralian gold rush), Dorothy Sterling
(U.S.A., and six-masted) and many others
once famous lie among the mangroves,
the oldest of them having rusted there
for half a century. The hulks have now
been bought from the Harbors Board
and are being cut up with oxy-acetylene
jets, several thousand tons of scrap being
estimated as available for sale to either
N.S.W. or Japan.
* * * #
“Slangster”: I don’t share the admira-
tion of some other contributors to this
page for American slang. It seems to
owe its currency in the country of its
origin (at least, in these latter days) not
so much to its aptitude or expressiveness
as to the fact that each new addition to
the slang vocabulary, no matter how
inane, is industriously “plugged”—re-
peated ad nauseam through radios,
talkies, phonographs and the vast tide of
cheap periodicals. Just consider some of
the synonyms for lying that have been in
use during the last few years—“banana
oil,” “horse feathers” and now “mullar-
key.” And the transmutations of “to
depart”—to “mizzle,” to “take it on the
lam,” to “take a sleeping powder,” to
“go into smoke,” to “scram.” Only one
of these, the last, has any merit of brev-
ity and expressiveness, and, like many
another alleged Americanism (“hike” for
walk is an example) it probably is Eng-
lish village vernacular dating from the
seventeenth or eighteenth century and
preserved in isolated American com-
munities.
X * X X
“Avon”: News that Sydney G.P.O. is
going to instal automatic stamp-selling
machines (which have been operating in
M.L. very successfully for 20 years) re-
minds me of my first experience of the
august institution in Martin-place. I
went in to buy a tuppeny stamp. There
were seven or eight stamp-selling coun-
ters, but, possibly because this happened
at the busiest hour of the busiest day of
the week, all but one of them were closed.
I approached the open one and tendered
my tuppence. “Take your place in the
line,” thundered the attendant. Then I
noticed a long crocodile of folk reaching
back under arches and through several
lofty apartments —all waiting patiently
for their turn to buy stamps. As most
of them seemed to have several pounds
to spend on stamps, and put in long lists
that had to be checked, it looked as if
half an hour would be required before I
could post a letter. Went outside and
asked a policeman if there was anywhere
else in Sydney where one could buy
stamps. He meditated awhile, and then
brightly suggested the George-street
North post office. I’ve dealt there ever
since; it seldom takes more than ten
minutes to buy a stamp there. In M.L.
every stationer’s shop and corner store
sells stamps. In Sydney the privilege
seems a very rare one. After many years
of conning over the problem I’ve decided
it is because Sydneysiders love to stand
in queues. If the slot machines don’t
foster queues they’ll soon be heaved out.
* * *
“Kitty”: Examiners are not always
devoid of a sense of humor. At an
examination at one of the Australian re-
ligious colleges a budding cleric in dis-
cussing the Prodigal Son said that “he
fain would fill his belly with the tusks
that the swine did eat.” Back came the
answer with the examiner’s marginal
note: “No wonder his conscience pricked
him.”
$ it * *
“Say 99”: Sydney, like London (B.
1/2/’3B), might do worse than get rid of
its flocks of ownerless pigeons. They
are dirty brutes, and have an incurable
habit of gobbling fatuously to one an-
other and scratching their outsize feet on
the roof in the middle of the night. Be-
sides all this, I note with professional in-
terest that the unsavory fowls are prob-
ably capable of transmitting tetanus to
human beings. According to a recent
“British Medical Journal,” a pigeon be-
came infected with tetanus bacilli through
pecking at horse manure ; the droppings
of the pigeon infected the ground below
its loft, and a child playing there con-
tracted tetanus through its skin, which
was scratched. The patient died of lock-
jaw 44 hours after the onset of the ill-
ness. All this looks as though pigeons,
though themselves resistant to the disease,
may be carriers of it.
* * X X
“Hamer”: “Australians First,” I always
say, but Tony’s shop is convenient, and
the fat little Athenian is obliging.
The second time I went into his
place he let me have credit without
a murmur; it has been revived fre-
quently and always honored ; but when,
after a long spell of cash dealing, 1
wanted to “stick up” a few things, he
demurred. “Some-a-times you owe-a me
da money ; some-a-times you notta owe-
a me da money. You come-a in ; you
pay-a da cash ; you pay-a da cash ; you
pay-a da cash! Never say ‘I owe-a you
for dese.’ Then I tink you angry with-a
me. Why not owe-a da money all-a da
time?” As I have never caught Tony
overcharging on an account, his quaintly-
worded demand that I should make it
regular seems purely a friendly gesture.
Anyway, it is the first time anyone has
been annoyed with me for not owing
him money.
THE BRUSHWOOD BOYS.
‘‘lf disgruntled, Communist-led individuals try to
hinder you at the coming elections, you must kick
them .aside as you would brush off a fox-terrier
yapping at your heels.” — Mr. Lang to his followers.
If your frame in the billows you’re splashing
Where sharks are occasion’ly found,
And one—or a couple—come thrashing
And snooping and snapping around,
Don’t yell apprehensively lest your
Plump limbs their next meal should provide,
With a mildly imperious gesture
Just brush them aside!
If, straying ’mid paddocks of clover,
Whence insects their sustenance seize,
You should have the bad luck to knock over
A hive of irrational bees,
Don’t run as they hasten to settle
Malevolent stings in your hide;
It’s a sign of superior mettle
To brush them aside.
If you chance to be batting at cricket
And facing a bowler who thumps
Fast balls never wide of the wicket
Or googlies that curl to the stumps,
The way to impress you’re a tighter
Undaunted, it can’t be denied,
Is to show a broad blade to the blighter
And brush them aside.
When you’re camping, it’s useless to mutter
The formula starting with D n
At the flies who’ve invaded the butter
Or the ants who encumber the jam,
Or the cloud of mosquitoes who hurry
T t * l?. f east when your bunk they’ve espied.
It s foolish to rage or to worry,
Just brush them aside!
The best of all methods to land on
The pests from which none are exempt
Is to chill them with haughty abandon
Or scorch them with silent contempt,
Or, to euchre their stupid illusions
At putting you out of your stride,
To treat them With airy insouciance
And brush them aside.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


10 for 9'
20 for 16
D3Ba
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
»
m
mmmm
•• >■ '< •-
I
.
HI
■
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE C
G E
ATI O N
POLITICAL POINTS
Members of all parties and journalists
representing all shades of opinion recog-
nise McEwen as one of the coming men
at Canberra. After only one term as
private member he was named Minister
of the Interior; and, barring accidents,
he is certain to go higher. So-called
radicals on the Victorian C.P. central
council seem determined to provide the
accidents. They expelled McEwen for
something or other, and now they refuse
to let him take his case to annual confer-
ence. They have had the gall to pass a
resolution to the effect that if he wants
to put his case to annual conference he
will have to resign from the Ministry.
McEwen says bitterly that his judges
(also counsel for the prosecution and the
jury) include “a State Bank Commis-
sioner, a Harbor Board Commissioner
and a member of the Farmers’ Debts Ad-
justment Board.” Since then another of
the judges has been named Rivers and
Water Commissioner. Victorians are be-
ginning to wonder whether the “party”
will be able to gather enough members
under the tree to catch the plums as
they fall.
Giving evidence at the inquiry into the
sale of the N.S.W. Government brick-
works, Weaver, the Speaker, who was
Minister of Works, said that in 1934 he
rejected a proposal made by Howie,
afterwards Lord Mayor, that “some
arrangement should be entered into
whereby the price of bricks could be
raised.” He said also that he “objected
to the authority given to Mr. Barton,”
one of the accountants with which the
Government surrounded itself, Barton
being “a sort of Pooh Bah who did things
on his own account without reference to
me.” That was Weaver’s tit for tat with
Stevens, who dismissed him from the
Ministry.
Craigavon has won another Ulster
election, and expects to have 38 seats in
a House of 52. His majority has always
been something like that, and this time
Labor has suffered —it has lost its leader,
Midgley.
The Riverina transport inquiry is
being conducted by a Sydney official,
with two other Sydney officials and four
Melbourne officials to assist. All in the
transport-strangulation line, of course.
At an early stage of the proceedings, an
assurance was given that “departments
and Governments do not contemplate
the slightest interference with air ser-
vices.” Departments and Governments!
Sounds like rank bureaucratic impudence,
but it is the order of precedence that
actually exists.
Blackwell, M.H.A., to whom a lady,
Mrs. Skitch, was preferred as the Labor
candidate for Thebarton by the few-
score delegates who did the nominating,
is appealing from the delegates to the
electors. There are 16,000 electors in
Thebarton.
A “decisive victory” was claimed for
the Reds of Spain and other countries
when they took Teruel or said they did,
and Sydney daily newspapers did some
of the claiming. The other side claims
an even more “decisive victory” in the
same region, and asserts that the Reds
lost 20,000 in killed, wounded and
prisoners. It alleges, in particular, that
it pulverised the Karl Marx unit of the
International Brigade; and perhaps it
did. In a contest between Marxian
whiskers and race pi us tradition, the odds
are against whiskers.
In the Sydney U.A.P., which is going
to the country on the day thought to be
most advantageous, there is much talk of
“safe” and “unsafe” seats. For “safe”
seats, more than one U.A.P. candidate
will be graciously permitted to nominate,
but “unsafe” seats are to be restricted to
the sitting member. For example, S. A.
Lloyd, of Concord, who scraped in last
time and has lately been emphatically
scraped off the County Council, of which
he was first chairman. If U.A.P. elec-
tors are not to be offered an alternative
to Lloyd, Concord will be distinctly
unsafe.
What has really happened in Ger-
many? “The Ftihrer has come down
definitely on the side of the party against
an army cabal,” says “S. M. Herald.”
THESE SPRINGBOARDS.
“The Randwick Council has proved a springboard for men entering public life.”
Moverly, M.L.A. ( N.S.W. ).
“Hitler is now both Dictator and War
Lord,” says the “D.T.” “The army has
prevailed,” says the “Argus” ; “the mili-
tary caste has wrought its will.” “The
discontent of the army has at last
come to a head,” says Professor
Roberts. “The old-time military leaders
seem definitely to have received a
check,” says the “Age.” You pay three
ha’pence each for these opinions and
take your pick.
In ruthless disregard of its own
“Worker” the A.W.U. Convention re-
fused to support the Sydney wharfies’
boycott on lead, tallow and other Aus-
tralian commodities consigned to Japan.
The delegates said, in effect, that such
matters should be dealt with internation-
ally, and not by individual unions in any
one country; and that is substantially
what the American Federation of Labor
said. The “Worker” had urged that the
boycott would be balm to the soul (if
it has a soul) of “the great Soviet Re-
public.”
Senators get their money easily. Can-
berra returns show that they have had
only 113 sittings in three years—37 in
1935, 49 in 1936 and 27 last year.
Salaries are now £950 p.a. and are ex-
pected to go to £lOOO p.a.; there are
free passes over all the Commonwealth
and Maoriland Government railways, and
no irksome committee or deputation
work. If the Senate did some com-
mittee work —on foreign affairs, for
example—and ceased to be the other
House’s humble servant, it might regain
its old standing.
“A dispatch published in an Austra-
lian newspaper” was mentioned in the
U.S. Senate the other day. It “purported
to reveal that American ’planes searching
for Mrs. Putnam obtained strategic in-
formation about Japanese positions
which was turned over to the Admiralty.”
The comments of Ministers and Senators
were enlightening:
The Secretary of State and the Secre-
tary for the Navy denied emphatically
that the United States had obtained
any such information. Two Senators
objected to the insertion of the article
in the Congressional record, saying they
could not see how “this kind of stuff is
going to help our foreign relations.”
It doesn’t help Australia’s foreign rela-
tions either. Neither does 80 p.c. of the
stuff published in the cablegrams about
Germany, Italy and the campaigns in
Spain and China. But the offal is still
delivered.
The Californians want the Common-
wealth to send a warship to their San
Francisco Exhibition. Canberra replied
with a polite refusal, but may reconsider
it, some dull persons having discovered
that “it would be an excellent advertise-
ment for Australia.” Persons of the same
type apply the same coarse standard to the
agony and sacrifices of our soldiers —
“the Diggers advertised Australia.” It
is the sort of “argument” that should be
left to blatherskites of the air who
promise fortunes to mug punters and
undertake to cure duodenal ulcers with
a few doses of medicine.
The great minds of Sydney’s Trades and
Labor Coupcil and League of Nations
Union are .all for Australia being expen-
sively represented at the ’Frisco Exhibi-
tion. Thus Mr. Raymond Watt (Union):
A number of representative citizens
should be sent to help the people of the
United States understand our country.
Those citizens should visit other countries
also.
Thus Mr. King (Council):
Send a large and representative delega-
tion, including representatives of trade
unions, as a goodwill gesture.
It is understood that Mr. Watt will pro-
pose that Mr. King and friends should
be in the party, and that Mr. King will
move for the inclusion of Mr. Watt and
friends. They are all in the collective-
security business, and the more they are
together the happier they’ll be.
The public debt of Australia has
reached £1,275,876,100, of which
£890,291,400 is owed by the superfluous
States. On July 1, 1929, the total debt
was £1,104,028,000, of which the States’
share was £726,406,000. At least two of
the superfluous Premiers talk as if Aus-
tralia had borrowed its way out of the
depression. It may borrow its way l in
again if they aren’t stopped.
In Australia last year number of immi-
grants exceeded number of emigrants by
5075 ; but, as usual, the excess was all
foreign, and principally southern Euro-
pean. There was a net loss of 681 of
people of British stock. Canberra says
it is going to do something about it; but
it can’t or won’t do anything about
State taxation of income from abroad —
the principal reason why Australians go
away and Britons stay away.
In denying the frequent yarn that his
Government has an understanding with
Mr. Eden, U.S. Secretary Hull turned
savagely on the Australian-born Gilbert
Murray, whose version was that Britain
had assured the U.S.A. of its support in the
event of its becoming involved in China.
Hull replied, in effect, that there was
not a vestige of truth in it, and that
people like Murray would be better
occupied minding their own business than
airing their ignorance and giving people
“the jitters.” Gilbert is a great Greek
scholar, but as a politician he is just one
of the noisy mob of professors.
one of the oldest
Australian industries, may be revived as a
result of Defence Department experi-
ments with motor vehicles driven by
charcoal gas. According to one account,
a lorry with a three-ton load did a 120-
mile journey from Melbourne to Sey-
mour and back on charcoal that cost ss.
If further experiments are as satisfac-
tory, Canberra may offer charcoal-burn-
ing contracts to unemployed youths. So
far it has given them little but lavish
promises.
As well as being champion extortioners
Stevens and co. are champions at chuck-
ing away the people’s money. It trans-
pires that they guaranteed £lOOO towards
the cost of a “London-Australia” flight
which ended at Adana, though it was
just a flapper paper’s circulation stunt.
They found £20,000 for a shark-catching
show, and when David Stead, the former
Director of Fisheries, estimated that it
was costing £lOO or so to land every man-
killer, they had no convincing reply.
And three of their idiotic royal com-
missions have run away with at least
£50,000 in 18 months.


ONE .
TWO.
THREE
FOUR .
FIVE .
5\X .
SEVEN
EIGHT.
NIKE.
OUT,
ONE NIGHT OF BLAH.
“The N.S.W. Minister in charge of the Anniversary celebrations admitted that Sydney had been talking its guests to death.”


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street. Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of idle Assurance, including ■
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sicknesß, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST"
IVn'td jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ENGINE RELIABILITY
DEPENDS OH SPARKING HOBS
-YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Champions
To keep your car lively
in good and bad weather
... to help it to be your
reliable servant... install
new Champions once
every year. They reduce
carbon formation. They
save money!
An Empire Product
made in Windsor, Canada
mm
WMi
mm
W///A
M/I
m
film
•Jib! m
yi II n m
ki 111
’ /l,''
ifiMfi'ft’ii
y6
vi |3, i? r 4*
C rfifl< p
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
The A.W.U. Convention lived up to
its reputation for choosing solid men by
electing J. C. Lamont national president.
Lamont is a Gympie (Q.) native, a
determined, clean - shaven, spectacled
man, and a fine rough-and-ready speaker.
He spent his early days on the northern
mining fields, and helped to found the
A.W.A., of which he became organising
secretary in Mt. Morgan, and which put-
Theodore and McCormack into politics.
When that union amalgamated with the
A.W.U. he plunged into A.W.U. affairs,
and has since sat at various times
on the executive of the Australian Labor
party. Since the war, most of his time
has been spent as a permanent officer of
the big union, though for a time he was
in the Queensland Department of Labor.
William McKie, who came in for a
great deal of adverse criticism from some
of his employers for raising the Mel-
bourne City Council free organ recitals
into the realm of first-class concert pro-
grammes, has been elected organist of
Magdalen College, Oxford, thus continu-
ing a succession which includes musicians
like Sir John Stainer and Sir Walter
Parratt In addition to getting his lunch-
time concerts talked about wherever
musicians or music-lovers forgathered,
McKie made an important survey of
musical teaching in Victorian schools
which is guiding the committee pledged
to revise the Cabbage State’s system of
musical education. Melbourne’s City
Fathers can’t congratulate themselves
over losing this good Australian.
Lauri Kennedy, the ’cellist who has
pleased all the critics, and who has come
to Australia to play for the A.8.C., was
born in Sydney. When a lad Lauri took
his ’cello to New York, and got lessons
there from a topnotcher. He toured
with John McCormack, Melba and
Tetrazzini, and then the 8.8. C. claimed
him as soloist and principal ’cellist in its
symphony orchestra. From Australia
LA URI KENNEDY.
Kennedy goes to New York, to be first
’cellist in the National Broadcasting Co.’s
orchestra, which is conducted by Tos-
canini. Kennedy plays on a Grancino
’cello, date 1713. He married an Adelaide
girl, Dorothy Mcßride, to-day one of
the world’s best pianoforte accompanists.
A quiet little Australian-born man
with the heart of the proverbial lion
passed over when Robert P. Lord died
in Sydney. The qualities which made
him what he was were ancestral, for his
great-grandfather, Simeon Lord, also
Australian-born, pushed a pioneering way
into Western Queensland 80 years ago.
His descendant was no less of a pioneer
than Simeon, for he made of Victoria
Downs, against every heartbreaking dis-
appointment that a sheepman can meet,
one of Australia’s greatest merino sheep-
breeding studs. It was done by a life-
time of dauntless, unceasing effort, com-
bined with an always-present apprecia-
tion of the other fellow’s difficulties.
E. H. Rainford, who died in Brisbane
at 84, was a world-famous authority on
Australian corals. One of his Great Bar-
rier Reef collections, tinted in its natural
colors, is a leading exhibit at the Queens-
land Museum. Another is in the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney. In early life
he took up vine culture and winemaking
in Southern Italy, and for seven years
managed a large estate in Sicily. He
went to Queensland as viticulturist to the
Department of Agriculture, and for long
afterwards was an inspector under the
Diseases of Plants Act. Long residence
at Bowen (N.Q.) put him into the midst
of the Barrier Reef marine biological
area, and, having a natural bent as a
naturalist, he made some remarkable dis-
coveries.
Alec Ross, passed over in Adelaide at
81, was a son of the John Ross who man-
aged Umberatana station. Alec accom-
panied Ernest Giles on his exploring
trip, and had charge of the first camels
imported into Australia by Thomas
Elder. Later he managed the Finniss,
Undoolya, Dalhousie Springs and Bar-
row Creek runs. When the Fitzßoy
divorce case was being headlined by the
London newspapers Ross was one of the
few people on earth who were not sur-
prised by the story told in court; Colonel
Fitzßoy, under an assumed name, had
been one of his mates on Beltana station,
and had made a confidant of him.
Victoria’s “Brother Bill,” radio
preacher and youth worker, is the R. G.
Nichols whom Sydney and Townsville
(Q.) knew 20 years ago as an energetic
young man in Burns, Philp. He went
to Victoria in 1911 after having en-
tered the Anglican ministry, and for the
last 15 years has been at St Mark’s,
Fitzroy. He has added five university
degrees, two of them from London, to
his Fort-street School distinctions, has
kept in touch with economic develop-
ments, and nearly three years ago con-
ceived the idea of a training farm for
unemployed boys. He wangled the
necessary funds from sympathisers, and
the result is the Lysterfield Boys’ Farm,
26 miles out of Melbourne. Now he’s
off to England to raise £50,000 for more
farms of the Lysterfield type. He wants
them to train 14-year-old United King-
dom orphan migrants side by side with
local 14-year-olds.
No stranger to Sydney is Bishop Brodie,
of Christchurch (M.L.). Bora in Auck-
land (M.L.) 66 years ago, he received
his training for the priesthood at Hunter’s
Hill College and at St. Patrick’s
College, Manly. After a few years
of parochial service he became Admin-
istrator of St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Auckland, was elevated by Pius X.
to the dignity of Domestic Prelate,
and when Bishop Grirpes died in Christ-
church was elected as his successor. He
was, at the time of his consecration by
Papal Delegate Cerretti, one of the
youngest priests to attain the rank ot
bishop in M.L.
Westralian politician J. M. Drew came
over to Sydney to see son Frank putt the
weight at the Empire Games. The ex-
Minister must be about the father, by
this time, not only of the athlete but of
the Perth Leg. Council, for he arrived
there in 1900 and has sat there with a
single break (1918-24) ever since. He
has held office in every Labor Govern-
ment that Westralia has had, although
he wasn’t a pledged Laborite until 1911,
and the leadership of the Upper House
has always gone with his job. After the
last election he resigned his portfolio on
the score of advancing years, but re-
tained his seat for the Central Province.
In the ’nineties, before abandoning
journalism, he was a fairly frequent
contributor to The Bulletin.
“Avon”: Truby King, the Maoriland
medical knight who added so much to the
world’s knowledge of infant nutrition,
got on to the track of his system as a
cattle-breeder, not as a medico. Born in
New Plymouth 79 years ago, he was an
Edinburgh graduate, and had his early
experience in Scotland as resident
physician in great hospitals. Returning
to M.L. in 1888 he became superintendent
first of Wellington Mental Hospital and
then of the similar institution at Sea-
diffe. Seacliffe Hospital was famous for
its herds, and Truby King made them
still more famous. He was as good a
farmer as he was a doctor, and he was
DR. TRUBY KING.
an excellent doc-
tor. Like most
mental - hospital
sup erintendents
who have lived
for years among
the mentally un-
balanced, he was
a little eccentric,
nervy and im-
patient. I remem-
ber being in a
newspaper office
when he came in
to correct the
proof of a report
of one of his lec-
tures. His eyes
were weak, and,
finding an error,
he leaped on to
the editor’s table
to hold the proof
right under the
electric light while he made slashing
emendations with a leaky fountain pen.
Acceptance of his methods of infant
feeding was hampered for a while by
the chaotic way in which he presented
his views in his first book on the subject.
But his methods were sound, and Plunket
Societies all over , the world (the wife of
M.L. Governor Plunket became patron
of the first one) carry them on with great
success. Karitane Hospitals are another
institution flowing from the work of this
remarkable man, who died last week.
Alan Bakker, g.m. in Australia of the
Royal Packet Navigation Co., who has
been so long in Sydney that his friends
are beginning to forget he is a Dutchman,
is celebrating the silver jubilee of his
entrance to the co.’s service. He had six
years in the home office before he came
to Australia 19 years ago. A morning
gathering at the Wentworth last week
enabled Sydney friends to bestow con-
gratulations. The co. will give him a
luncheon in the Nieuw Holland next
week.
A widely-travelled man, who got half
of his education in his native Essex and
half in Chicago, is Sir Sydney Robinson,
now on a visit to Australia. A highly-
successful building contractor who took
to farming, he breeds prize pigs (Large
Blacks), Shorthorn cattle and hackney
horses. He had one year in Parliament
as member for Chelmsford, and at 60 is
one of the oldest serving aldermen of the
Essex County Council.
Prof. J. B. Brigden, chosen to be
acting-Director of National Insurance,
will be 51 in July. He was born in Vic.,
Professor BRIGDEN.
got his degrees at Oxford, saw service in
France, and did his professing at Hobart,
between 1924 and 1929, mainly in eco-
nomics. Has sat on various heavy com-
missions and latterly has been one of the
tall poppies of the Queensland civil ser-
vice, as Director of the Bureau of Indus-
try and State Statistician. Midway
through the slump he wrote Escape to
Prosperity and Railway Economics.
A visitor to Australia who probably
won’t leave until he’s had a good whiff
of the forges at Broken Hill is Sir John
Randle, of the English ironfounding firm.
He’s had 10 years in Parliament (Union-
ist), is a director of Eagle, Star and
British Dominions Insurance Co., and in
his engineering days collected decorations
from the grateful monarchs of Belgium
and Japan. At 80 he is still active, and
is honorary president of the International
Parliamentary Commercial Conference.
Though first and last a naval man,
Lieut.-Commander Sir Sampson Sladen,
now on a visit to Sydney, spent the main
part of his early career in the service
of the London Fire Brigade, to join
which he resigned his naval commission.
After 19 years of fire-fighting, for nine
of which he was Chief Officer, he re-
joined the Navy in war-time, his com-
mission having been restored in 1904 on
his volunteering to serve in case of war
or other emergency. Promotion to his
present rank came in 1914. After the
war he was for a while Technical Adviser
to the Ministry of Munitions, and then
had a year as Transport Commissioner
for London before he retired. He will
be 70 this year.
A clergyman who owns a master-
mariner’s ticket and who claims to be
vicar of the biggest parish in the world
called in at Auckland, M.L., the
other day. He’s Archdeacon Mayo-
Harris, vicar of Suva Cathedral, a
diocese that covers the 7,000,000 square
miles of Polynesia. The Archdeacon’s
parochial calls are made on 600 islands,
and he probably doesn’t get a cup of tea
on any of them. He’s been in England
for half a year, preaching to scare-up
funds for his mission. His master’s
ticket is a souvenir from his secular days,
when he was in the employ of the Wel-
lington (M.L.) Harbor Board; it comes
in handy to a padre who spends most
of his life afloat.


tttjtuw sS7/S=?S~=- ■*
i
'J t li Si ■ j:
M
Vfc \
rfi I
St
§3
*«CSW>M
iro
&
f 2&
tZz
s<&S
m
J&5
yr
A Symbol of
SECURITY... SOLIDITY AND SAFETY
For more than 250 years a LLOYD’S POLICY has set the
standard for insurers, and year by year an increasing number
of manufacturers, business firms and householders acknowledge
its worth.
MOTORISTS OF NEW SOUTH WALES!
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) PTY., LTD.,
introduces
LLOYD’S WHITE STAR
MOTOR CAR POLICY
—which is already famous in other States—into New South Wales. This
is the first occasion on which this policy has been offered to the public in
this State, and is available to owners of private cars, whether members of
Clubs or not.
SPECIAL NO CLAIM BONUSES
ranging from 25 per cent, to 33 1-3 per cent, are featured, and all new
Insurers entitled to a No Claim Bonus receive a discount of 25 per cent.
Inquiries are invited by:
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) PTY., LTD.
7-13 Bond Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W2131 (11 lines).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “Barbwire,” a tough old
Murray River roamer, struck the sta-
tion the same day as a wandering parson,
and when the latter invited all hands to
a service in the woolshed “Barbwire”
was among those present. The parson
made a moving appeal for funds for
foreign missions, and “B.” took up the
collection in his greasy old hat, all hands
watching him closely. The pleased
parson announced the sum, then led a
hymn of thanksgiving. It had a swinging
air that carried “Barbwire” away, and
he automatically began to beat time with
his hat —until 2s. 4d. in small change
shot out of the lining, whereupon he
shot into a woolbin, propelled by the
boss’s boot.
* % * *
“Dungeness”: No, “Cootca” (B.
26/l/’3B), Binghi—-I mean, proper
northern Binghi —did boil his tucker at
times, dropping red-hot stones into water
in a bark or wooden coolamon, the scran,
usually fish or eggs, already there. Also
he concocted —still does —excellent stews
by means of a koppamowrie. For this,
he digs a hole, lines it with flat stones
and lights a fire in it. When the stones
are well heated, the hot ashes are raked
out, a layer of green grass or leaves
put on the stones, and the yams, pork,
fish, dugong or other provender placed
on it, wrapped in parcels in green leaves
or grass. The hot ashes are then raked
back, and covered with more leaves and
earth. Results are most gratifying, even
to a white palate.
* ;}: * s*
“Bray Rock”: One objection to
“Gamawa’s” suggestion (B. 26/l/’3B)
about importing sea-lions as beach-
guards for surfers against sharks is that
they can’t live in the sub-tropic and
tropic waters in which the vast majority
of shark-bite accidents occur. Ameri-
can sharks are no evidence. In my sea-
faring days I watched some Japanese
sailors swimming round their ship at
Manila, and asked a much-travelled
American doctor about local risk from
sharks. He uttered a loud raspberry and
bet me five to one in dollars that I
couldn’t produce a satisfactory hospital
record that anyone had been killed or in-
jured by a shark anywhere. On the home-
ward voyage the Thursday Island hos-
pital records panned out at 40 dollars,
Cairns 10 and Townsville 15. I was all
set for a hundred when he compromised
for 50 and an apology to Australian
sharks, including myself.
“Dickie Beech”: Australia’s famed
man-eating sharks are harmless bath-
pets compared with the monsters British
scare-scribes are reporting from the west
coast of Scotland. Threshers up to 50ft.
long, with a 2ft. iron-hard spike project-
ing from the back which they use to
sink boats, are only one item. When
their snouts touch any object they
bound forward into battle, teeth, spike
and tail, all at once. If you kill one and
get it ashore a dozen more maintain an
offshore patrol to seek revenge on any
passing boat. There is another kind
which runs up to 80ft. or so. A small
specimen, when opened, was found to
contain two tons of herrings. Some of
them leap 15ft. into the air, and are
beastly careless where they do the silly
trick one fell on a boat. By latest
reports they are chasing steam trawlers
off the fishing grounds and pursuing
them into port. My colonial oath, I’m
glad we haven’t got those kinds here.
A « i
“Cudgerie”: There has never been
hatched a fowl more capable of fend-
ing for itself than the scrub turkey. I
came upon one of their bush incubators
in the Bunya Mountains (Q.), and
watched as leaves and debris forming the
mound were disturbed and a chick
pushed its way into the light of day. The
youngster stood for a moment or so, the
moisture still ashine on its downy feathers.
Then my dog rushed forward, and I saw
the chick shoot like a streak of light
"Just puttin' in a few pansy seeds, Joe."
through the scrub, rise clumsily from
the ground, land and balance awk-
wardly on the bough of a low tree. Not
a bad performance for a two-minutes-
old.
* * * *
“Garlic”: A German farmer on the
lower Murray (S.A.) had a telephone in-
stalled. One night some of his cows
got into the paddock of a neighbor, and
at 2 a.m. they rang to inform him of
the trouble. “Hello,” he bellowed down
the mouthpiece, “who ist dat?” “This
is Mrs. Schmidt here,” said a feminine
voice ; “your cows” “Mrs. Schmidt?”
bawled the old man. “Ach! Mein Gott!
Did you zay Mrs. Schmidt? Den you
must vait a minute vile I put on mein
drousers.”
❖ * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: There is no proof
that Harry Morant (“The Breaker”) ever
rode Dargan’s Grey (B. 26/l/’3B). The
late Bill Martini, who brought the buck-
jumper to Queensland 30 odd years back,
drifted into the office of the now defunct
“Port Denison Times” (Bowen, N.Q.) one
day when I was assisting to produce that
rag twice a week, and told me he was the
first to circulate the yarn, and as Morant,
owing to his tragic death in South Africa,
was then much discussed wherever bush-
men congregated, it was a good lure to
attract crowds within the hessian walls
of his buckjump show. The Grey, when
he had his off-nights, was as docile as a
rocking horse ; even at his best I doubt
if he was as dangerous a buckjumper as
Bobs or Snips, who emptied the best
riders in Australia out of the pigskin.
Then there was the late Tom Hireland’s
bucking wonder Carrandotta, which
ruined the reputations of scores of
Bananaland’s best riders for over 20
years. At the last two big buckjump
shows held at Mt. St. John, Townsville,
none of the riders stayed on his back
more than a couple of seconds. The
cheers of the crowd as the old horse
trotted out of a ring for the last time
was a fitting requiem to this bucking
marvel. A few weeks later he was dead.
* * * *
“Kerriki”: The fellow who shaves
with a blowlamp has passed into the
realm of proverb or else has left the bush
and set up as a city commission agent.
On the other hand, the isolated boundary-
rider who gives himself a haircut by
pouring kerosene over his thatch and
setting fire to it until the time comes to
apply a wet bag still commands reason-
able credence among even practical bush-
men. A gullible jackeroo I knew’swal-
lowed the tale and tried it out on his
own locks. The idea didn’t work too
badly, either, until the wet bag failed to
operate in accordance with the instruc-
tions. It wasn’t premature baldness the
victim regretted so much as the nasty
and distinctive scars the conflagration
left on his scalp.
# * *
“ Notaden ”: Heavy weather has
brought in quite a few sea-snakes on
S.Q. beaches of late, mostly the black-
and-yellow species. All kinds are
poisonous, but once out of the water
they are blinded by daylight and can’t
see where to strike. The true sea-snakes
are helpless on land, having no belly-
scales, only a smooth keel. The nostrils
are fitted with valves to keep out water
when below, and the very capacious
lungs enable them to stay underneath
for long periods. The tail is flattened
at the sides and serves as a propeller
and rudder combined also, on occa-
sion, as a hooked mooring to any fixed
object in a current. When the fixed
object happens to be the anchor-chain
of a boat there are lively happenings
for’ard while the pick is being got
aboard. The young are born alive in
the water. Sharks and sea-eagles are
their principal enemies—sea-snake bones
lie thick round the great eagle nests of
many a Barrier islet.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: Record rides? Out in the
Flinders and Mitchell grass country 40
miles a day is a good average, but in
Bananaland’s coastal. north, where the
grass is soft and often sour, 30 miles is
a long day’s ride and 20 a good average.
Besides, in that steamy heat a horse is
liable to gall readily. My record ride
was 80-odd miles from Mount' Oxide to
the railhead at the Dobbyn (n.-w. Q.) be-
tween sunrise and sunset. My mount,
however, was a pack camel. I was almost
a cot case for weeks afterwards, perhaps
mainly owing to the fact that I had
ignored the ’Ghan’s advice to corset my
body in calico bandages, and also that I
had ridden the mangy brutes only about
half a dozen times before.
* * * *
“Huglow”: Camped near a W.Q.
creek, I came on a wire fish-trap, and
was just extracting two prime yellow-
bellies when the local Johnhop came on
the scene. Even though the illegal con-
traption wasn’t mine I was prepared for
trouble—and I got it. I still shudder
when I remember the dressing-down he
gave me for raiding his trap.
* * *■ *
“Groper”: Decay doesn’t set in when
a boar’s tusks are cut off short because,
unlike human and most other ivories,
the tusks possess the faculty of regrowth.
The old boar on one Westralian farm
had no vet. to prune his teeth. With
the help of a lasso, a strong post and
all the men available, the tough old pork
was hauled up and the job done with a
cold chisel and a hammer. One sharp
smack fetched the ivory off neat, though
inside a couple of years the job had to
be done again. A neighboring cocky
used to do it with a pair of bolt-cutters.
Boars left to run with tusks unshorn are
very dangerous, and when one fetches a
man down with a gashed calf he invari-
ably turns to the victim’s groin. Right
at the time that Bulletin par. was pub-
lished (19/1/’3B) a W.A. coroner was
holding an inquest on a farmer who had
been killed by his own boar, fatally
gashed in the abdomen.
* * * *
“Tid’apa”: The Malay never took to
the bow-and-arrow because in his Donny-
brooks the savage
little fighter always
liked to get to close
quarters, where the
stabbing spear and
the kris could do
deadly work. Even
the spears were con-
structed specially for
infighting, being
fitted with forked
blades, both barbed
and one 6in. longer
than the other. The
idea was to impale
the opponent, on the
longer blade, while
the shorter one would
effectively prevent
the wounded man
from running up the
spear and getting in
some good work
with his kris before
passing 4 'out, a not
infrequent happening
in the peninsula be-
fore the invention of
the new weapon.
As well as being a
favorite weapon of
the Dyaks, the blow-
pipe was used exten-
sively by the Sakai,
the aborigines of the
Malay Peninsula,
and it was eventu-
ally adopted in the
armaments of the
men of Pahang, per-
haps the only
Malays whose variety
of weapons exceeds
the spear and kris.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I thank my
young friend “Upper Sixth” (B. 26/l/’3B)
for his well-meant attempt to correct my
English, but when he goes up a few more
classes he will hear of the Oxford Dic-
tionary. It is the final authority on such
subjects, and it defines “under fire” as
being shot at. It defines “shoot” as dis-
charge or propel quickly (of gun, bow,
etc.). I was speaking of bows, and if he
appeals to his English master he will
probably be told that the O.D. is quaite
reliable. As for ancient war uses of fire
being confined to the cookhouse, his
history master could give him all sorts
of exciting information about fireballs
and fire-arrows shot —or fired —from
catapults and mangonels, and also a
mention of that alarming naval missile
Greek fire, which the Senior Service of
the day and place used with decisive
effect.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Even in the tropics it takes
a white man to beat a white man where
hard manual labor is concerned —and
canecutting is tougher than most jobs.
Kanakas, Japs or Hindoos never cut
the tonnages put out by the crack
British and European gangs in N.Q. to-
day. And every district boasts its
“guns” whose record daily output is, to
anybody familiar with the sugar industry,
astounding. One canegrower who has
had Kanakas working under him told me
that the best daily effort he has seen put
up by an Australian cutter equalled the
output of five Kanakas of average ability.
ON BRADLEY’S HEAD.
Cloudless are the skies,
And the harbor seems
Like a silken queen
Bosoming deep dreams.
On its shining breast
Silver ripples flame,
As they did before
Keel and captain came.
As they did years gone
When with wondering gaze
Phillip’s mariners
Saw its shining ways.
Rows a fisherman
With bright-bladed sculls
Flashing in the sun,
While above white gulls
Wheeling, screaming, fly
On the velvet breeze
That strays gently in
From the wide salt seas.
Far from town and toil,
Far from dust and din,
Ship and ship I watch
Passing out and in.
Trudges yon a tramp
Freighted deep with wool;
Yonder glides a yacht
Trim and beautiful.
White of wake and bright,
Trailing sombre smoke,
Hither, thither haste
Ferries thronged with folk.
Strange to think that once
By yon shores of green,
White against the trees,
Never sail was seen.
Strange, dream-strange, to think
That, beheld of none,
Lay such loveliness
Under moon and sun.
Could dead men arise,
See and speak again,
What would Phillip say,
What his sailormen?
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“Ellenvale”: The flapper visitor from
the city was “thrilled to bits” at the
way in which the strenuous farm life
had taken off her surplus fat. “It’s
better than dieting,” she told Dave.
“Why, I’ve lost pounds and pounds—
you can count my ribs now.” Dave
shuffled uncomfortably. “Thanks all the
same,” he replied, “but you’d better let
Dad do it I never was any good at
figures.”
* * * *
“Tam”: When I was managing a plan-
tation in the Mandated Territory, light-
ning struck several times close to the
bungalow during a storm. Three palms
were struck, but they were little damaged
except for shattered fronds. A week
later they were dead. In the next six
weeks 63 palms withered and died, the
order of their death being in a gradually
expanding circle around the palm which
had received the full force of the elec-
trical discharge. Apparently the inter-
laced fronds carried the current from it
to the others.
* * * *
“Ukinlaff”: To our pet butcher-bird
and his missus I read out “Leaf-cutter’s”
par. (B. 26/1/’3B) anent the way to get a
free feed by making a jackass laugh.
Now, instead of chasing round for their
tucker as usual, they hang about till they
see a laugher grab up something eatable.
Then they plank down, one on each side
of him, and laugh kookaburra fashion till
the tears trickle down their tail feathers.
The result is always the same. Not con-
tent with their achievements, the flute-
throated ones are broadcasting the infor-
mation, and unless drastic steps are taken
all the district kookaburras must very
shortly be starved to death.
”Is this YOUR idea of a flying start?”
“Nitric”: Real fishermen know the one
spot in a flathead where the knife-point
will pierce—the back of the head; it is
marked by a perfect “map” of Tasmania,
Take a look next time. Frequently in
Queensland rivers these fish are quite
black except for the one white marking,
The fresh-water catfish also has a “map”
oi Greenland around each lateral fin.
Keep your hands away from its spikes,
though, while you do your map-reading.
The pain is almost as intense as that of
a stonefish.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat, after harvest-
ing with a mallee cocky as big as him-
self, complained he’d been paid £1 short.
After a hot argument Mat departed,
minus the quid. In the town, half-shot,
he told several of the affair, and prom-
ised to take the debt (alleged) out of the
cocky’s hide. Later, it was conveyed to
him that the cocky was willing for him
to try. They met at the creek bank.
After a bit of sparring, the cocky kicked
his boots off and, barefooted, sailed into
Mat and gave him the father of a hiding.
Mat hung round till the following Satur-
day, when the cocky duly came to town.
Once again the farmer shed his footgear
and sailed in; but he lost, for Mat was
wearing the football sprigs he’d made
specially for the occasion.
* * * *
“Bungarrer”: Must be something
wrong with “Ellenvale’s” taste to turn
down wheat as a dessert (B. 19/1/’3B).
Boiled until tender (and the variety sold
for poultry in suburban stores does re-
quire anything up to six hours), then
sugared and turned into a piedish with a
liberal handful of sultanas and spread
with butter and baked it’s the old Eng-
lish dish of “frumenty”—far tastier and
less glutinous than hospital sago or
tapioca.
* * * *
“Kulkah”: Tell “Talus” (B. 2/2/’3B)
that Binghi was never capable of cutting
wells in solid granite even if there had
been need for him to do so. The holes
on Magnetic Island (N.Q.) are not wells,
but simply cavities formed by nature.
Such holes are not uncommon in granite
country ; they are numerous on the bars
of the Roaring Meg River at China
Camp, south of Cooktown. No doubt at
times they have been used as native wells.
I once found an emaciated rock python
in one of them, the hole being about 6ft.
deep and half-empty. The sides were
almost perpendicular, and the action of
the water had made them so smooth that
the wriggler was incapable of crawling
out.
“Mulyan”: One-Tree Plain, the shim-
mering greyness of which stretches away
to the horizon from Hay (N.S.W.), is
now a two-tree plain. The solitary big
gum that gave the plain its name was
blown down in 1897. Some years ago
a tree-lover planted seven young gums
round the old stump. Five died, but the
other two are now tall trees. The old
gum for many decades was a haven for
teamsters, who halted their teams in the
shade while they paid their respects to
the One-Tree Hotel, which is still doing
business a quarter of a mile away. It
was also a great haunt of birds of every
kind. An old-time teamster—Mick Quin-
lan—became famous for colliding with
the tree, the only obstacle on the grey
expanse to hit.
“ Countin' eighty to the pound, Cap'n, there Was nigh ’pon lower ’underd
in chapel 's mornin .”
“Loulalo”: Queer trade titles? A seller
of mussels and shrimps for fishermen
near a Murray River camping resort dig-
mfies his shack with the word “Battery,"
burnt on a board with a heated wire.
A brother in the trade on the s.-w. Vic.
coast has different ideas on the subject.
Ms sign reads: Fish Lure Specialist.
“Walkabout”: Those stations to which
were delivered a ship's tank full of rum,
„ . „ f f--.
a ton of fruit salts and the same weight
of long-handle shovels or toothpicks fade
• , +l a
into insignificance alongside the consign-
ment Stirrup-iron Mick once received.
Unable to read or write, Mick had a
mission-educated half-caste pen his order
for 100 yards of dungaree required for a
sheep-brake. “How many noughts have
ye got down?” asked Mick after the
penman had recited what he’d written.
“What, only two!” snorted Mick. “Put
in another couple to make sure I get
Sfpu, his°tenthousand
dungaree to was repairing barbed-wire
fences.
’* * * *
“L. de F.”: A Somerville (Vic.)
cocky, assured that the acid had been re-
moved from the apple residue of a cider-
making plant, and that it would make
bonzer fodder, carted home a supply of
the cheap food. Result, half a dozen
cows dead, blown up like balloons. But
there was some slight compensation. The
remainder of the pulp was dumped on to
a patch of blackberries and killed that
hardy pest in record time.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: “Them C.S. and I.R.
blokes,” said Old Dan, my neighbor,
d0 i n 1 t everything. 1 reckon I
“ uld sl ; 0 . w u, em fl ° ne W c ay ?^ WI ?i nS S" 1
the blasted blowflies. See this old cellar
of mine? One of the real old-timers,
built separate from the house. We gave
up using it long ago as a cellar, but
from now on I’m using it as a fly-killer.
Come and see.” I followed him ; it was
a blazing hot morning, the door was
open and from where I stood I could see
that the walls below were literally black
with blowflies. Old Dan gave a heave
on a rope and the door slammed shut;
then he put the nozzle of a fly-killer
spray to a hole in the door and pumped,
From inside the cellar came a buzz
which swelled to a noise like that of a
’plane flying low, then the sound died
away. When the last buzz had stopped
Old Dan entered with a dust-pan and
broom, to sweep up sufficient dead
blowies to nearly fill a four-gallon tin. “I
do that every morning,” he told me,
“and I reckon if everyone had a cellar
like mine and did what I do there’d be
no blowies left outside a museum in a
year or two.”
* * * *
“Dingo”: Set out on a mustering trip
in nor’-west N.S.W. with an old-timer,
When the dealer left the stores for our
packs, he apologised for having no fifties
0 f flour in stock, but explained that he
had put in 301 b. in packets and would
send the rest on later by rail when it
came t 0 hand from the mill We duly
made cam p and a t e the rest of the baker’s
d £ d . h j d ,
set Qn , he third day , 0 find , he old . timer
B° n £ leaving a note to sayjte would
be babk , by sunset tlic fo lowing day wi h
urgent stores that had been left behind,
T £, . connle of daTrmpr - carriefi
1 bax s d J couple °\S am F? 1 ? d *, •
on. Dead on sunset the old-timer rode in.
“t us * „ o : n ’ t’ hake a damner ” he ex-
, . f 0 1” / bak | a be ex
when I find the silly cow of
a d f'f ad '? rgol, . e " ‘ P ut ln . ,he cr ? a "
° £ , ,artar ’ Man rides 60 miles an all
lh goat can do ,s laugh at im an ask im
ca " e r f. ad! . . The . fl ° ur dellvered
of the variety.
-Harry N”: Add the little tuan, or
brush-tailed bush-rat, to the list of
expert poultry-killer,. Tremendously
Powerful for its size this agile marsupia
can worm lts wa Y through a very small
opening and has been known to tear a
hole in wire netting to effect an entrance
to the fowlhouse. Once inside it can
dispose of a dozen chooks in quick time,
and seems to kill for the love of
slaughter, as it seldom eats from more
than one of its prey. The tuan is prob-
ably nearly as plentiful in suburbia as
it is in the bush, but owing to fleetness
and nocturnal habits it is rarely sighted,
* * * *
“Atrax”: The spiders which are just
now calling down domestic vengeance on
themselves are a strange folk. Except
f or ffl an and a species of caddis larvae,
they are the only living things which
build a trap to catch their food. The
j|k wi which th bui|d it is oduced
c : .
>” th f' r bod > es from the waste products
of other food-a truly economic arrange-
ment - At first a viscous fluid, it hardens
on exposure to air until it has a tensile
strength second only to quartz fibre and
remarkable elasticity. Nothing else is so
suitable for the threads used to mark the
vision-centre of lenses on range-finders
and other high-power optical instruments,
The finest diamond-scratch is clumsy by
comparison. But it has no other practical
use for man. Stockings have been made
from the cocoon silk, but it would need
57,000 average spiders to produce a
pound of it, and they would all have to
be kept separate on account of their
cannibalistic appetites.
BUSH MOOD.
Red roads climb and brown roads climb
Over hills I know,
And magpies call in the sunset-time
Where rivers go.
Bent companionable trees stand
Under mirage and sun,
Yielding to patient cattle shade
On the outback run.
Black gibber plains blaze fire at dawn
And flout the sky,
While crimson, past white monodnocks,
Galahs scream by.
Deep in the bush, when the star-tribes stalk
High in the dark,
I would hear the mopoke taunt, and walk
On the dew-glint bark.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner lrom 5.80 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED IST2.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
mi
■
i
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
'to To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 15,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. ... 57,449
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66,723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 .. .. 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. 567 Nil Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3.969 Nil Nil 3,969 45,064
*lncludes bad debts written off.
The outlook for both shareholders and
clients is a lot brighter than the last line
in the table suggests. The activities of
this big semi-co-operative organisation
cover all the most important branches of
primary production in its home State,
and include merchandise, insurance and
chartering arrangements, too. When the
bottom fell out of the markets over seven
years ago, there was nearly £250,000
coming to the co. from wheatgrowers
for over-advances on the grain, and the
co. had gone to its bankers, the E., S.
and A. and the Co-operative Society
Wholesale Bank (Eng.), for the money.
On Oct. 14, 1937, the last of this large
sum had been repaid. Meanwhile, over
£356,000 had been written off advances
made before 1930. Bad debts incurred
since have been negligible. “The pro-
vision already made, together with part
of the profits expected at next balance,
will be sufficient to take care of all debts
regarded as bad or doubtful, including
anticipated writing-down under opera-
tions of the Rural Relief Act,” the board
says.
It is an achievement for which the
management deserves high praise ; it has
helped greatly the economic rehabilita-
tion of the State and added to the good-
will of the business and the co-operative
movement generally. Given satisfactory
seasons and prices, it should not be long
before dividends to shareholders and
bonuses to clients begin to flow again ;
both have experienced a dry spell for the
last nine years.
During the last term the wheat section
of the business little more than covered
exes., and fruit export showed a substan-
tial loss. Crop failure was the prime
cause in each instance. The next table
shows what happened throughout the
State in connection with wheat:
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel, t per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. B£d. £2/15/4
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7£d. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 10|d. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. B|d. £l/15/7
'1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. sd. £l/9/9
1934.. 37,305,000 11.7 2s. 2£d. £l/5/7
1935.. 26,985,000 9.8 2s. sd. £l/3/8
1936.. 23,315,000 9.2 3s. 2£d. £l/9/4
1937.. 21.291,000 8.3 ss. oi>d. £2/1/7
1938”. 31,659,000 10.7
* Estimate. f Excludes bounty.
To the grower, however, the rise in price
more than offset the drop in yield. Since
the close of accounts the price has
dropped, but the yield has gone up. The
loss on fruit was the result of the co.’s
chartering of fruit boats. Still, the ship-
ping section as a whole earned a “satis-
factory profit.” The co. has four vessels
dn lengthy time charter and three on
voyage charter.
Commission earnings (£76,710) were
£9442 lighter, but other income (£153,792)
was £36,681 better, leaving total income
up £27,239:
Gross Profit. Exes.t Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340,809 306,013 34,796
1929.. 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254 217 259,089 4,872
1931.. 264,830 319,180 54,350*
1932.. 232,391 249,244 16,853*
1933.. 201,137 201,137 *
1934.. 198,839 198.839 *
1935.. 202.686 202,686 *
1936.. 203.263 203,263 *
1937.. 230,502 230,502 *
*Not allowing for reserve adjustments.
tlncludes allowance for bad debts, etc.
Ordinary trading exes. (£195,618) were
up £16,673, leaving surplus of income
over outgo £10,566 stronger at £34,884
(16.3 p.c. on capital), which was added
to the reserve for doubtful debts, making
it £40,179. The small profit shown in the
introductory table arises out of reserve
'adjustments, etc.
The financial position improved:
1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £213,790 £213,862 £213,845 £213,912
Debentures .. 107,730 108,768 108,169 109.468
Other liabilities 693,434 546,117 535,881 588,083
Freeholds, etc. 148,058 123,449 119,412 98,036
Plant, etc. .. 37,190 31,198 33,206 41,407
Shares in other
cos. . . 48,705 78,221 79,221 82,185
Stocks .. 119,311 89,035 108,148 155,722
Debtors . . 599,279 477,421 450,965 499,324
Cash, etc. .. 12,907 18,226 17,910 23,925
Including stocks but not shares in other
cos., more or less liquids exceeded the
floating debt by £90,888 when the books
closed, or £49,746 more than at the pre-
vious balance.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends N To Re- lte-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1927.. 63.384 6 p.c. 10 ,p.c. 35,560 27,824 380,173
1928.. 47,524 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 15,364 395,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7 „ 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930.. 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 414,855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5„ 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24.360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 ~ 6 „ 21.960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28,731* . . 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,900 483,113
To staff fund, £24,260 . . . . 458.853
Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 506,756
1937.. 34,180 6 p.c. 61 p.c. 23,000 10,520 517,276
profit on sale of Consols.
The fleet consists of the Duntroon, a
10,000-ton passenger-and-cargo motor-
vessel, which took up the inter-State run
between Sydney and Fremantle a couple
of years ago, four cargo vessels (aggre-
gate displacement 13,290 tons gross), two
tugs and some hulks and lighters. The
forays of the seamen spoiled the 1936
result, but the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts were free of industrial
trouble on the waterfront, more pas-
sengers and goods were carried, and
the subsidiary, Hobson’s Bay Dock and
Engineering Co., again sent along a
“small div.” Declared net earnings
sprang £13,936, reaching £34,180, which
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 9.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
5.5, 10 and 8.8 p.c. for the three preced-
ing terms. Half a point was added to the
div., making 6\ p.c. for the year, the
final being at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a. An
interim at the same rate has been declared
in respect of the current term.
Last year’s result was written after
£47,903 dropped from somewhere into
reserves (mainly provision for deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, £402,287),
which were also drawn upon for £24,260
(£17,260 of it was paid in cash) in con-
nection with the establishment of a
staff superannuation fund. Assuming
that depreciation at the rate of 5 p.c.
p.a. was allowed for the fleet (it
figures at cost, £799,567), this would ac-
count in round figures for £40,000 of the
unexplained addition. The large accu-
mulation of reserves (the heap was piled
£151,276 higher than paid capital when
the books closed) is partly the result of
the sale of surplus tonnage when prices
were high, and partly owing to liberal
allowances for depreciation, etc., during
the boom years. Cash and investments
totalling £362,659 had piled up in 1934 ;
so the co. was able to pay for the Dun-
troon, reputed to have cost over £400,000,
without either going outside or asking
shareholders for more. Also, the change
in the nature of the asset should do earn-
ings no harm.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £366,000 £ 366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities . . 44,760 71,948 133,853 119,819
Steamers, etc. 414,525 727,831 792,409 799,567
Freehold, plant 51,698 54,229 54,521 54,165
Stores, etc... 8,031 17,133 26,263 27,481
Book debts .. 57,874 57,565 77,341 74,857
Investments,
cash .. 291,633 104,007 43,414 59,705
Outstanding movements last year were a
reduction of £14,034 in the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc. —the etcetera
is an unspecified amount of “sundry bal-
ances”—and the addition of £16,291 to
cash and investments, despite the pay-
ment to the staff fund already referred
to. The book value of ships increased
by £7158. The net improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£42,224) was
£29,059.
Since the close of accounts there has
been a steady increase in the volume of
inter-State cargoes, and Sydney’s sesqui-
centenary celebrations have given a fillip
to passenger trade, all of which augurs
well for the showing at next balance,
though mounting costs can be expected
to gobble some of the gains.
At 30s. 3d. the pound ords. return 4.6
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
Including reserves for depreciation, etc.,
equal to 235. Bd. per share, the net tan-
gible cover is 50s. sd. The well-pro-
tected prefs. (there are 26,000 of them,
carrying a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.) at
275. 6d. yield 4.3 p.c.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit, Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 32,991 20 p.c. = 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 „ ~ 29,201 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 ~ „ 29,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 134 .. 19,467 .. 23,658
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 35,570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 3,063 109,629
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 . . 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6 „ „ 28,389 17,123 28,065
This co.’s runs are in the south-west of
Queensland and the west of N. S. Wales.
Seasons are the big gamble, and then
come market and prices, and seldom
is there a favorable combination of the
two. When such a happy state of affairs
does occur, attractive returns are won.
Still, for the investor, scrip in a squat-
ting concern is a question of averages
rather than immediate returns.
Last sale of the co.’s fully-paid 30s.
shares was at 355., before publication of
the accounts; sellers now ask 40s. On
an 11.6 p.c. div. basis, the return at 355.
would be 10 p.c., and at 40s. 8.7 p.c. The
net tangible cover (book value) is 265. 7d.
Divs. averaged 4\ p.c. for the 23
years to the close of accounts in 1923.
Then half the capital was jettisoned to
cover amortisation of the leases. On
the reduced figure (£146,002) an average
of 20.7 p.c. was paid for the five years
to the end of 1928, thanks to a run of
good seasons' and exceptionally high
prices. Next', £275,000 of fresh capital
was gathered to buy Quantambone, near
Brewarrina (N.S.W.). Drought followed,
and a loss of £101,680 showed up in ’29
and another of £35,570 in ’3O, and the co.
went to its bankers for £151,000-odd
(since repaid out of earnings) to save the
breeding ewes, rams and young wethers.
For the next three years slump and
seasonal fluctuations made it difficult to
squeeze much profit out of the business ;
but things have looked up since, and de-
clared net earnings have averaged 15.6
p.c. over the last three years.
Last year’s rainfall at Thurulgoona
(Q.) and Quantambone (N.S.W.) was
about half that for 1936, but it came at
the right moment, and the co. was able
to market its clip while prices were
around their peak. So, although 14,471
fewer sheep were put over the board,
the clip fetched only £9571 less than the
previous one:
t Sheep
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,567 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44,081 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1933.. 173,260 137,904 3820 74,274 19/8/10
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,691 4086 69,075 16/18/-
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 1141,696 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
Sale of livestock (mostly sheep) brought
in £40,606 (up £14,407), making total
income £107,804 (up £4836). Exes.
(£62,292) took all but £832 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result at 18.7 p.c.
on capital as against 18.3, 9.9 and 9.8
p.c. for the three preceding years. Those
on the register were handed an extra 6d.
per share, making 11.6 p.c. for the year.
The now-comfortable financial posi-
tion was further strengthened:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities . . 151,689 7,332 292 1,179
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 192,522 125,141 118,683 107,718
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 87,150 75,599 79,324 62,132
Wool unsold.. 1,900 1,317 460 10,267
Cash, etc. .. 2,085 3,189 38,252 81,612
Outstanding features last year were the
reduction of livestock by £17,192, owing
to sales, and the strengthening of cash,
etc., by £43,360. When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded liabilities
by £152,832, an improvement of
£213,386 over the last seven years.
As for the current term, owing to
drought conditions, it has been impossible
to muster all the breeding ewes, and only
3681 lambs have been marked as against
48,450 in 1936. However, if rain falls
in time a lot more will be marked, though
heavy losses seem inevitable. In Janu-
ary the Australian average for the staple
was £l5 11s. 2d. as against £23 15s. Bd.
for July last, and there has been talk of
curtailing offerings with a view to lifting
the price. One trouble is that production
cannot be curtailed at the same time as
offerings are restricted, and stocks ac-
cumulate.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 9,594 3 p.c. = 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 54 „ „ 15,515 69,677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 2£ „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 2£ „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
1935.. 16,141 5 „ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 ~ „ 14,195 2,205 71,615
Royalty rights disclosed, £4143.
1937.. 16,550 54 „ „ 15,614 936 72,551
Although the co. has been distributing
milk in Sydney and its suburbs for the
last 62 years, it has rarely skimmed much
cream from the business, which now in-
cludes ice-cream, bread, butter, fish,
game, poultry, ice and cold storage. The
richest patch was the decade to the close
of accounts in 1920, when divs. averaged
10| p.c. For the 17 years since the co.
has never failed to pay a div., the high-
est being 8 p.c., the lowest 2j p.c., and
the average 5.3 p.c. The net addition to
reserves since 1920 is £10,158. The busi-
ness has kept on expanding, but some of
the plant was not so up-to-date as it
might have been, and competition and
mounting costs kept profit margins so
narrow that the co. got little benefit
from its expanding turnover.
Over the last five years turnover has
continued to expand with the improve-
ment in conditions generally, and some
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


GOODYEAR NOW GIVES YOUR TRACTOR
WITH THE NEW
SURE-6RIP
TRACTOR TYRE
FOR MUD! WET CLAY!
BLACK SOIL!
This is the surest-footed, hardest-
pulling tractor tyre ever developed for
mud, wet clay or black soil. Look at
the high lugs in its tread. See the wide
spacing between those sure-gripping
rubber cleats—the wide angle of pitch
—the big earth-cutting shoulders and
lug bars extending down the side walls
—all for extra traction.
Hefty, tough—this great Goodyear is
built of special chemically-toughened
rubber to resist cuts and retain the
sharp, biting edges of its lugs. And
inside —Supertwist Cord in every ply
of its huge carcass gives it stamina for
more than the punishment in store
for it.
The new Sure-Grip Tractor Tyre is the
most efficient self-cleaning tyre obtain-
able.
SURE-GRIPS BEAT CRAB HOLES!
“W arracknabeal, Vic., 21 /!/’ 3B.
. . . “my land is typical Wimmera crab-hole
country, the worst of its kind around here;
with my tractor fitted with another make of
tyre, I found it impossible to work. Fitted
with Goodyear Sure-Grip Tractor Tyres, the
tractor pulled a 16-tyne combine cultivator
through a crab-hole covered with about a foot
of water with the usual sticky mud under-
neath” W. P.
Goodyear Tractor Tyres and
Wheels are available on Hire
Purchase Terms. For particulars
write the Goodyear Branch (all capital cities).
TERMS!
n
i
m
&
S
B
1
I
:,\\\\
mz
a?
m
Ms////.
VS&Mfy.
vSw///////
a
VS3&A
Send for interesting literature on the advantages of pneumatic
tyres for tractors and farm machinery. Goodyear branch
(all capital cities).
Name
Address
228.
X
I
I
A
r\
10-C3-38.
TRACTOR TYRES


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London,. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
1§!
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
* POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen's Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys..
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
•£ *»•
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing- Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—rAsk 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
GoLF on top of the world
at Banff, in Canada’s Rockies,
on your way to Europe. New
experiences plus Canadian
Pacific Service all the way.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
of the old equipment has been replaced
with modern plant, to the benefit of
costs and the outlook for shareholders
generally. During 1937 sales increased
in every department of the business,
especially in the ice-cream section, for
which a new factory, claimed to be the
most modern of its kind in Australia, has
been built. The improvement in gross
earnings (£324,256) was £35,125. But
exes. (£307,706, including £10,783 for
depreciation) took all but £l5O of the
increase, mainly owing to the lift in the
basic wage, leaving the net result at 5.8
p.c. on capital as against 5.7, 5.6, 5.5,
2.4, 1.4, 2.8 and 5.4 p.c. back to 1930.
Half a point was added to the div., mak-
ing 5| p.c. for the year, the final being
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the business:
1929. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £282,091 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 65,186 46,392 42,970 69,208
Property . . 228,209 229,212 229,212 236,010
Plant ‘ .. 121,743 151,900 161,554 166,425
Rolling stock. . 44,488 35,847 35,848 38,204
Stocks . . 43,743 24,654 25,044 23,369
Cash a n d
investments. 16,362 10,957 2,011 397
Book debts .. 76,982 60,292 51,921 62,485
S'hares subsid. 13,149
During the year £13,149 was paid for
shares in a subsidiary (nature of business
not disclosed), and £4143 net for rights,
not treated as an asset herein. To meet
the outlay, carry an extra £10,564 of
book debts and add £6798 to the book
value of property, £4871 to plant and
£2356 to rolling-stock, the board went
outside for an extra £26,238. Including
stocks but not shares in the subsidiary,
more or less liquids exceeded the floating
debt by £17,043 when the books closed.
The debentures, which carry 5 p.c. p.a.,
mature at the end of Sept., 1939, and are
secured by a charge over the co.’s Liver-
pool-street and Harbor-street freeholds.
Portion of the Harbor-street frontage
is to be resumed by the City Council and
an extra storey is to be added to the ice-
cream factory, for administrative pur-
poses.
As for the current term, much is ex-
pected from the new ice-cream factory,
and the management hopes for a bit
better treatment from the Milk Board,
which is now inquiring into costs in all
sections of the industry. There is no
certainty, however, that the year will
continue as well as it opened.
The market expresses its opinion by
pricing the fully-paid pound shares at
18s. as against 17s. 4d. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 6.1 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. The backing is
255. Id. in net tangibles, mainly fixed
assets, worth what they can earn.
Loloma
Having overcome the oil-firing difficul-
ties in the roaster, and with the mill and
cyaniding sections of the circuit now
run in, Loloma, on the Tavua field (Fiji),
has greatly improved its recoveries.
Results of the last three clean-ups com-
pare as follows:
Nov. 24.* Dec. 22. Jail. 29.
Ore treated, tons . . 1580 1700 1663
Gold, fine oz 1669 1999 1790
Dwt. a ton . . . . 21.13 23.53 21.03
Silver, fine oz. .. . . 757 755 591
Tailings, assay, dwt. . . 8.1 3.4 1.5
* On raw treatment 75 per cent, of period.
The drop in last month’s grade of ore
is attributed to moisture in the hanging-
wall causing extra dilution. The January
recovery was 92.8 p.c., compared with
85.5 p.c. for December. A 95 p.c. extrac-
tion or better is aimed at. The rated
capacity of the plant is 500 tons weekly.
Costs are not stated in the monthly re-
turns, but the management hopes to get
the figure down to about 40s. per ton,
including expenditure on development.
High-grade ore continues to be exposed
in the crosscut at 60ft. on the 224 ft. level.
Driving from 474 ft. to 559 ft. has ex-
posed widths and values as follows:
First 12ft., 17dwt., 57 inches; next, 12ft.,
low values ; next 17ft., 23dwt., 60 inches ;
next 20ft., 23dwt., 78 inches; next 13ft.,
44dwt., 84 inches ; last 23ft., 32dwt., 77
inches, with the face still in the lode.
At the end of July, 1937, ore reserves
were figured at 138,960 tons, made, up as
follows:
Av. Value, Content,
Ore. Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz.
Positive . . .. 110,340 29.26 161,431
Probable.. .. 12,620 16.60 10,477
Possible . . . . 16,000 18.12 14,500
Total . . . . 138,960 26.83 186,408
On ’Change the ss. shares, paid to Is. 6d.,
advanced from 16d. 3d. in December to
19s. in January, and then dropped back
to 18s. last week-end. They went as high
as 275. early in 1937. At the current
price, and assuming that ore values live
up to estimates and that costs are got
back to 40s. per ton, the investor can
see his money back and approximately
10 p.c. p.a. over the next half-dozen
years with gold at its present price.
With its new 3000-ton-a-week plant
now running Emperor (Fiji) should soon
be able to show what it can and can’t do.
Here are treatment figures for the last
three four-weekly periods:
Nov. 27. Dec. 25. Jan. 26.
Tons crushed .. 2600 2400 11,426
Head value, dwt. 8.3 8.8 6.8
Yield, oz. (est.) 952 951 3,044
Dwt. a ton .. 7.3 7.9 5.33
The management makes no comment on
last month’s drop of 2dwt. in the head
value of the ore, but it was presumably
due to a different class of stone. The re-
covery of 5.33dwt. was equal to 78.3 p.c.,
but a lot of gold was absorbed by the
plant, as always with new equipment. The
residues assayed only o.63dwt. per ton,
so the recovery figure can be expected to
improve as plant is run in. Milling opera-
tions are now on the scheduled 12,000-
ton-a-month basis. Costs are not stated,
but T. R. Victor expects the all-in figure
to be around 17s. 6d. (Fijian currency)
when the plant is in full swing. Last
estimate of ore reserves was 906,300
tons, with a gold content worth
£3,046,408, or approximately 675. per
ton. That excludes the Regent lode, in
which some high-grade stuff is known
to exist.
*** * '
To bring its Moresby King mine,
Papua, to full production, Mandated
Alluvials is issuing £3OOO worth of 10
p.c. debentures, having six months’ cur-
rency. Latest minimum estimate of golden
wealth in sight is £lOO,OOO. The figure
is based on Messrs. Victor and Mur-
doch’s estimate of 16,500 tons of oxidised
ore assaying 13dwt. gold, 25dwt. silver and
1.25 p.c. copper—development is said to
have disclosed higher average values—
and excludes “other extensive deposits
which may be proved at a later date,”
which the present plant has been de-
signed to handle. On a monthly through-
put of 1500 tons, returns are expected
to exceed £7OOO and profits £4OOO. On
that basis, which assumes costs at a
little over £2 per ton —£3 was mentioned
in May last —mine profit from more or
less proved ore, allowing for redemption
of the debentures, works out at £54,000-
odd, or 11s. per ss. share. Buyers are
offering Is. for the scrip ; a few days ago
sellers asked for Is. 6d.
* * * *
Shareholders in Rothsay (W.A.) have
been asked for another 3d. a share,
making the 2s. shares paid to Is.
each, and the remaining lid. might yet
be wanted to meet debenture interest
(£1400), payable May 1. Unexpected
difficulties were met with in unwatering
the mine ; and driving on No. 2 level,
scheduled for completion about the end
of January, will not be finished be-
fore the end of March. It is expected
that the mill will begin production about
the middle of March. The feed, which
has a little copper in its make-up, is
not expected to present any treatment
difficulties. Ore exposed by winzing be-
tween Nos. 1 and 2 levels has not come
up to expectations, but in the south drive
on No. 2 level 89ft. of 20.8dwt. ore, 56
inches wide, has been exposed, with
the face still in high-grade material.
From the beginning of April gold re-
covered by amalgamation is expected to
more than cover current mine expendi-
ture. Present estimate of ore reserves
down to No. 2 level is 15,000 tons, aver-
aging B.sdwt., proved, and 10,900 tons
probable. Old mine assay plans of No.
2 level showed that two shoots of ore
had been driven on for 316 ft., one assay-
ing 9.2dwt. over 52 inches, and the other
assaying 9.6dwt. over 42 inches. The
drill has disclosed payable values and
widths between 280 ft. and 450 ft.
* * * *
At Youanmi’s annual meeting in Lon-
don, Lord Lee of Fareham spoke con-
fidently of the co.’s future. Earnings,
however, will now be spread over a big
share-register shareholders last term
exercised their option over all but 8000
of a million 2s. shares, raising paid capi-
tal to £599,202 in half a million 7 p.c.
cum. par. prefs. of 10s. each and
3,492,020 2s. ords. Up to June 30 last,
the co. had spent £262,337 on reopening
and equipping its East Murchison (W.A.)
properties, or £62,337 more than original
estimates. During the last term, when
the plant was being run in on low-grade
ore, 35,864 tons was treated for 621 loz.
gold, valued at £43,595, a recovery of
3.6dwt.; mill head values are now
around 7.Bdwt. Costs and extraction
aren’t mentioned. Most important de-
velopment was discovery of a new sul-
phide lode between Nos. 3 and 7 levels.
On No. 3 a winze is down 136 ft. on
ore, width 50in., while on No. 4
pay-ore has been opened up for 70ft.,
averaging 15dwt. over 12ft. ; on No. 6
for 245 ft., averaging lldwt. over 6ft.;
and on No. 7 for 60ft., averaging 4dwt.
over sft., with some Bdwt. stuff showing
in the face. In. the - Pollard shaft, the
new west lode, where opened up, is
30ft. wide, averaging 12dwt. Proved,
probable and possible ore reserves are
now put at 144,069 tons of
stone. The new 5000-tons-monthly sul-
phide unit will raise total plant capacity
to 120,000 tons annually.
* * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, which used to
be the old White Hope, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), is getting a little more publicity.
This time a local (Kalgoorlie) director
says the only means of determining the
value of the mine is to have large repre -
sentative parcels of ore treated. He
adds that parcels already treated by the
co. cannot be taken as a guide, as they
were selected from a high-grade 'patch
found on the 200 ft. level. A Bulletin
man says the history of the mine is simply
this: First some payable sulphide ore
was exposed during the 1920-21 Hamp-
ton boom; then blanks became more
plentiful than shoots, and the London
co. operating gave up. A local syndicate
carried on for a time, and later the
present co. was floated to have a go.
Although provided with plenty of cash,
it has not been successful, and present
prospects have their dark side.
* * * *
During the last 3 \ years shareholders
of Norseman Gold Mines (W.A.) have
received £197,000 as their share of gold
won from the old Golden Butterfly at
Norseman (W.A.). In about 4\ years
the property has produced gold valued
at £657,000, or 61 times the subscribed
capital of the co. Ore reserves are
steadily bulging. Shareholders decided
at the annual meeting on Jan 28 that
100,000 Norseman Development Co.’s
shares, received as consideration for
transfer of leases and lease options, be
held until the next annual meeting. Re-
muneration of directors was increased to
£l5OO without a murmur.
* * * *
Triton, Cue (W.A.), has got its new
treatment plant going. During January
7364 tons was milled for 20690 z. gold,
a recovery of 5.6dw1. When full pro-
duction of 9000 tons monthly is reached,
about 4s. a. ton is expected to be chipped
off costs, which will permit lower-
grade stuff to be crushed profitably.
Values have fallen away on No. 3 level
on the Emu South shaft, but on No. 6
level in the Emu North section, the chief
ore-producer, 15.2dwt. stuff is being
driven on in the south drive over good
widths.
* * * *
On geological advice, New Golconda
(W.A.) has suspended operations ; selec-
tive mining oh a very small scale by a
party of tributors may be done later.
Although continuations of rich shoots
worked years ago by a since-deceased
co. were found, no extensions at depth
were discovered, and prospects are not
considered hopeful. Altogether 5000
tons of ore was mined by New Gol-
conda, but owing to excessive and un-
avoidable dilution and high operating
costs, due mainly to the distance the
ore had to be conveyed to the mill, and
heavy water, treatment proved unprofit-
able.
* * * *
Murchison field (W.A.), which was
worked before Coolgardie, produced
more gold in 1937 than for many years.
The value exceeded a million and three-
quarter pounds. Wiluna accounted for
nearly half of it, and Triton, Mt. Magnet,
Moonlight (Wiluna’s neighbor), You-
anmi, Hill 50 and Big Bell (three months'
output) for nearly all the remainder.
When producing, Great Fingall (shut
down years ago) was Murchison’s great-
est source of wealth. Over a million
ounces were extracted from it.
* * -!' *
Blue Bird (W.A.) started laying golden
eggs last year, and is still doing so. Three
divs., amounting to Is. a share, have been
paid on the 100,000 issued, and mainten-
ance of this rate for at least a couple of
years is said to be assured. At the end
of December liquid assets were estimated
to be worth £15,347, equal to more than
3s. a share. The co. is working a narrow
high-grade reef at Norseman which dips
at a flat angle.
* * * *
From London: The city’s interest in
gold shares is increasing, and prospects
of leading Westralian stocks are being
discussed. One financial journal draws
attention to the soundness of Lake View,
Sons of Gwalia and Great Boulder. It
says, in its enthusiasm, that Lake Views,
with a backing of about seven years’ ore
reserves and solid prospects, are better
holding than Government bonds. Gwalia
is stated to have had an exceptionally
good year as regards revenue, and to
have bulged its ore in sight. The defla-
tion in value of Boulders is difficult to
understand in view of recent good de-
velopments, expansion of ore reserves and
a promised early increase in profits.


A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
* Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia
STANDARD
TYRE ,
CAUCES
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
The '
De Lim.
Model,
9/6
The
‘Popular
Priced”
Model,
7/6
SMOKE-OH!
Paradoxically, the tighter a man is
the more likely you are to get money out
of him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was still alive —still breathing. He cursed
at the realisation.” —Short story.
He “hell”-ed his breath, in short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The black’s skill in making fire was con-
siderable.” — “S.M.H.”
Matchless, in fact.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He awoke to find himself lying on the
beach. Morning had come.” —“Sunday Sun.”
It just dawned on him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a Viennese physician, honey
will cure almost any wound if persisted with.”
Just a matter of sticking to it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Stars Look Down.
There is quite a lot in astrology, as I
found when I was appointed captain of
our cricket team.
Joe Slasher, our best bat, was an
astrologist. The first time I told him to
put the pads on Joe consulted his horo-
scope, then said he couldn’t go in until
eighth wicket down. However, I was
firm, and in Joe went, to make a duck.
I had a devil of a time with him after
that. When Mars was opposed to Nep-
tune it was a waste of time his going
in to bat. If, however, the stars were
favorable, he dared not attempt a forc-
ing stroke unless the sun was well into
Scorpio.
Finally, I got sick of Joe and his sex-
tiles and quadrants and so on, and told
him he was to open up whether the moon
developed smallpox or the heavens fell.
Muttering sourly about Castor and
Pollux, Joe went in and made a century'
in great style. That night when I met
Joe down the street I asked what he
thought of his astrology now.
“All you sceptics are alike,” he snarled.
“You don’t know what you did to me
to-day. I told you it wasn’t lucky for me
to bat.”
“Well,” I pointed out, “you made.a
hundred.”
“That’s all right,” Joe snapped, “but
the wife’s just had twins.”
Turoar.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The greatest sensation in connection
with the recent Arsenal espionage trial
is that the flapper press hasn’t once re-
ferred to Miss X as being beautiful.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In a recent broadcast of a play a cat-and-
dog fight took place.”
The station management has been
puzzled by the large number of letters
it has since received congratulating it on
the discovery of a new pair of crooner-
duettists.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Not a Drop!
“Convictions for drunkenness are on the
increase.” —Temperance lecturer.
A sweeping claim. But, apropos,
No quoted figures does he bring
To bolster up his claim; although
No doubt they’re simply staggering.
True Love.
“She was one of those baffling women who
prove their love by injuring the object of their
affection. ’’ —Biographical item.
That night when she first sank into
my arms, stroking my hair and calling
me “Darling,” I’ll confess I was pleased.
But I soon began to wonder if she was
sincere, if she really meant all this, or
if it was just her usual behavior with
men.
When she kissed me passionately and
cried hysterically . because I didn’t re-
spond, I was gratified, but again fell to
wondering if she was merely deceiving
me.
I voiced my doubts, and she became
indignant. We had words. Her eyes
flashed. Her bosom heaved. Suddenly
she picked up a house brick and crashed
it down on my skull.
I recovered consciousness in hospital.
My life was despaired of, but I surprised
everyone by pulling through. You see,
I was buoyed up by the thought that I
had something to live for. At last my
"It's no good, Jim ; ’e keeps on suckin' the bait orf!"
adored one had proved that she really
loved me!
Nat.
4* + 4* 4*
A Trim Up.
“Racing tipsters, according to a correspon-
dent, charge exorbitantly for their information.”
Let me say, here and now, that this pro-
test I hail,
For picking ’em’s one of MY vices.
It’s disgraceful to think that us punters
they’ll scale;
Why, a lot of my betting I’ve had to
curtail
Since the increase in haircutting prices!
K.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Here They Go, There They Go.
“What’s the strength of a proposal I
see here to revive a vigorous immigra-
tion policy?” demanded the Visitor from
Mars, handing over his paper folded at
the paragraph in question.
“Oh, that’s one of the benefits of
Empire,” his host informed him proudly.
“You see, England is overpopulated and
the Dominions are underpopulated, so
what could be simpler than to transfer
the surplus people from one to the
other?”
“Simplicity itself!” agreed the Visitor.
“There is one little thing that puzzles
me, however. I see that many of the
Dominion spokesmen object to any
attempt to absorb fresh immigrant labor
until the last of their own unemployed
have been placed in positions.”
“Oh, yes, that’s only reasonable, as
you’ll admit yourself.”
“Quite. Then I take it that the minute
good times arrive there will be a flood
of overseas immigrants?”
“I’m afraid you’ve missed a point
there. When we have good times here,
they have good times overseas, too, so
there is really no need for anybody to
migrate to the Dominions, is there?”
“Then wherein lies the benefit?” asked
the Visitor.
“Ah! That’s the point. We always
have something up our sleeves in reserve
for an emergency, and this tends to stabi-
lise business confidence generally through-
out the Empire.”
“Oh, yes, I see now,” agreed the Visitor
from Mars.
Cloon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A few drinks or a bet upon his fancies for
the races are of more importance to many Aus-
tralians than the subject of defence.” — “Sun.”
They spend their time backing and
filling.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doctor gives two-hour lecture on insomnia.”
—News item.
It probably effected an immediate
cure.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man in court says his wife treated him as
if he had been a lodger.”
Few men, however, can hope to have
wives like that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Western Australia has over 6500 acres under
irritation.” — W.A. paper.
Caused, doubtless, by farmers scratch-
ing for a living.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
IV* — Jim Cook.
Following his unhappy gastronomic
experience in Westralia, Dampier made
a dash for the East Indies to get some
bisurated magnesia, but on the way one
of the drink waiters, short of a cork,
impatiently yanked the one out of the
bottom of the Roebuck, and it sank on
a reef at Ascension Island. Will tried
to patch it up with slabs of the ship’s
beef, but he didn’t have a nail in his
stores stout enough to penetrate it.
Moreover, the islanders couldn’t supply
him with any stronger than No. 6 gauge.
Dampier abandoned the vessel and even-
tually got back to England. Nobody
seems to know how he got there, but if
it was under his own power he seems to
have arrived little the worse for his 4000-
mile swim.
It was not until 70 years later that the
Admiralty decided to make a really de-
termined effort to find the southern con-
tinent. This had now become an urgent
national necessity, for if it was proved
that there was no great mass of land to
counterbalance the weight of the
Northern Hemisphere then Ike Newton’s
recently-discovered law of gravity went
up in the air, with a consequent loss of
British prestige. Looking around, they
selected as leader of the expedition James
Cook, who had just got his three pips.
Cap’n Jim, a braw Yorkshireman, son
of a well-to-do retired laborer, was first
a farm-hand. The way he handled the
pump after morning milking, however,
and his habit of eternally hitching up his
pants as he boundary-walked the weasel-
proof fence convinced his parent that the
sea was his natural habitat, and accord-
ingly he apprenticed Jim to a Whitby
shipowner.
After some years in merchant ships and
the navy he came under the notice of
the Royal Society when, following a
double issue of rum to celebrate a small
naval defeat off Newfoundland, he idly
drew a sketch of the sun as he saw it.
The R.S. was greatly impressed with this
observation of an eclipse, and, as the pro-
posed expedition was also going to watch
the transit of Venus across the sun, it
put in a word for him. Jim, a bit of a
lad, had often watched the passing of
Venuses between himself and the sun, but,
owing to the multiplicity of skirts worn
at the time, with little success.
He was allotted by the Admiralty the
Endeavour, a square-rigged, 2|-masted
vessel with a telescopic fore-t’g’l’nt
m’ns’l, provision for an aft spinnaker,
but with a copperless bottom.
Jim was bitterly disappointed. He
had set his heart on an oblong-rigged
ship ; and, anyway, with only half a mast
at the back, he’d have to get all those
O.S. suits of sails he’d bought up cheap
at a fire sale cut down and hemstitched.
To his protests anent the bottom the
Admiralty intimated that it wasn't tak-
ing a risk on a
possibly mutinous
crew careening the
ship and pinching
the copper to make
coins with; any-
way, George 111.
was on a bender at
Brighton and he’d
ratted the Peter be-
fore he left, so
Cap’n Cook would
have to make do
with a plain
wooden bottom.
The young navi-
gator, however, sus-
pected that Lord
Sandwich, the First
Lord, had deliber-
ately foisted this
old tub on to him.
Not long before, he
had attended an
amateur theatrical
performance for
charity in which
Lord Sandwich, in
the leading role,
had acted as badly
as an opera singer.
Jim’s facetious remark to some pals that
as a “sham” Sandwich stuck on his chest
was overheard by some Admiralty
officials.
From the outset of the voyage Cook
was beset with difficulties, the chief of
which was making himself understood by
the rest of the crew, who, drawn from
various counties, spoke a babel of con-
flicting dialects. To add to the trouble,
the Admiralty had forgotten to include
.interpreters in the ship’s complement.
For instance, when Jim sighted black
clouds piling up in the offing and sang
out to his Cornish mate, “Ba goom,
laad, yon grairt booster coomin’; think
wanst shoorfen sairl an’ arl,” that worthy,
unable to make sense of his skipper’s
furious mouthing, just muttered, “Damn
’un —whay can’t boay talk King’s Hing-
lish neow?” and slipped below to save
embarrasment. By the time the order had
been chalked on a board and taken
around for all the crew to read the squall
had altered the sails into a bunch of
streamers. Before the Endeavour reached
Tahiti the navigator’s own underpants
and abdominal belt were doing service
aloft.
S. W. K.
Modern Lullaby.
Go to sleep, my baby,
Jazz is on the air;
Mother’s kiss of lipstick
Smears your downy hair.
Mother holds her darling
Safe in scarlet claws;
And her mouth a-smiling
At a gasper draws.
• Mother bends above you.
Naughty cigarette !
Did it drop its ashes
On my little pet?
Sleep my little baby,
Sleep the hours away;
While your ma sips cocktails
Till the break o’ day.
F.


Complete your Kit
an Fver Ready
TORCH
m
mm
m
m
just the thing for the
camper and outdoor en-
thusiast. Sturdily built,
they stand up to rough
handling, and charged
with Ever Ready Torch
Refills give many hours of
steady, brilliant light.
Obtainable everywhere.
Fver Ready
TORCHES & TORCH
REFILLS
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Cumberland Paper Contribs.
At last week’s price of 245. 3d.
a very satisfactory yield of 6 p.c.,
on the basis of existing 8 p.c. divs.,
is offering from Cumberland Paper
contribs. when fully-paid —final
call of 2s. 6d. is due at the end of
March —as against 5.5 p.c. from
the old fully-paids and 4.9 p.c.
from Australasian Paper ords.
Revenue of each co. is derived
principally from an ord.-share
holding in Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, which last term cleared
14.2 p.c. on its ord. capital, after
meeting pref. charges, and paid 10
p.c. A lot of money, tied up in new
plant, has yet to contribute towards
its keep. The working co. enjoys
practically a monopoly of Kraft
paper and board manufacture in
the Commonwealth, many of its
products being turned out below
estimated duty-free landed cost of
similar articles made overseas.
An interim announcement from
Cumberland is due next month.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Lucknow Field
Purplest patch in Sydney ’Change gold-
dealings last week was provided by Luck-
nows. Strong demand set in early,
though there was some waning of interest
towards the week-end. Up to Thursday,
some 24,300 shares were officially traded,
10,200 of them on Monday. Main price
movements:-
“High” Sales, February
2. 7. 10. 11.
Bismarck Range, pd. -/8 2/- 1/8 1/6
Bismarck Range, ctg. ~/3Jt ~/9* 1 /—t
Bismarck Deeps, pd. -/6 1/9 1/8 1/7
Bismarck Deeps, ctg. -/3 1/6 1/6 1/4
Wentworth, paids .. —/11 1/5 1/2 l/3f
Mt. Marshall, pd. .. -/5* —/11 -/6*
Mt. Marshall, ctg... -/3* -/5* -/3*
* Buyer. t Seller.
Principal attention was paid to the Deeps
and Range cos., the latter the luckiest of
present-day operators. On its Wentworth
tribute block the Deeps co. has en-
countered rich pyrites ore over a width of
3ft. Driving to reach the contact joint,
where best values are usually won, is in
progress. The co. has considerable share-
interests in other shows in the district,
including Mount Marshall and Bismarck
Deeps.
What speculators and others at last
week’s prices need to realise is that the
Lucknow field is among the trickiest in
the Commonwealth. Outstanding feature
of operations to date has been the large
amount of driving and shaft-sinking done
relatively to the amount of stoping. But
when pay-ore in quantity is found —shear-
ing has caused the stuff to accumulate in
pockets—the results are usually dazzling.
The present Bismarck Range co., for
example, up to Feb., 1935, won bullion
worth £109,800 from 2642 tons —over
£4l per ton. The co., which is equipped
with a 12-head stamper battery, concen-
trating table and cyaniding plant, paid its
last div. in June, 1935, and has had little
luck since.
Situated six miles from Orange, the
field, discovered in 1851, was most profit-
ably worked between 1881 and 1900,
when Wentworth Goldfields Pty. and its
subsidiary, Aladdin, extracted some
£BOO,OOO worth of yellow metal. A
double serpentine and andesite contact
exists for 3000 ft., maximum width of
exposed serpentine being 1200 ft. In
general, the north-eastern or hanging-wall
is formed of serpentine, the footwall of
andesite. The western contact of the
two rock types is known as the main
fissure or joint, and has been developed
for some 4000 ft. along its strike. The
dip varies from horizontal to vertical,
indicating the erratic nature of the de-
posits, with an average of 60 degrees
towards the north-west.
A series of quartz veins, ranging any-
thing from a few inches to 15ft. in width,
make within the andesite of the foot-
wall. At and near the junction of the
veins and the main fissure the rich gold-
carriers are often found, the gold being
invariably associated with calcite.
Prospecting in the past was carried on
down to 1000 ft., but between 780 ft. and
that level no productive ore-bodies were
found—which, however, does not mean
that they do not exist.
Seven months’ Australian wool figures
(greasy and scoured combined), prepared
by the National Council of Wool Selling
Brokers:
Seven Bales Av. Per Per
Months. Sold. Value. Bale. Lb.
1936- 1,763,110 £35,530,176 £2O/3/- 16.1 d.
1937- 1,471,773 25,305,625 17/3/11 13.7 d.
To date the current clip has realised
£10,225,000-odd less than its predecessor,
291,337 fewer bales being disposed of.
Withdrawals from the market have been
heavy. At the end of January stocks on
hand in Sydney amounted to 1,101,277
bales.
The cry has been raised again that
offerings should be controlled to bolster
prices. Such a procedure is not
necessarily a solution of the problem.
Australia has in the past sold wool freely
at prices much below those now pre-
vailing. The position of wool is different
from that of tin, where control of
supplies by curtailment of output has
proved beneficial to producers. Pro-
duction of wool, however, cannot
be easily curtailed—nor is it desirable
that it should be and the effect
of a substantial carry-over from one
season to another would not lessen the
year’s supply; it would remain as a
market influence, and possibly have an
effect adverse to that intended.
What is wanted to improve the
market is more active demand. Present
low prices are more the result of world
conditions than the activities of bears,
the effects of, which have been over-
stressed. Commodity markets the world
over have suffered, cotton—the .textile
most closely, allied to wool—especially.-.
All things considered, the maxim of one
big Sydney woolbroking house —“Sell and
repent, but sell” —has a lot in its favor.
Another factor to consider is that some
shipping cos., which are sending ships
away far from full, have intimated that
freight concessions are likely to be can-
celled unless better cargoes offer. In any
case, present prices are quite remunera-
tive to growers. Too high prices, though
very acceptable from the individual
aspect, may carry a nasty sting in the
long run by creating unhealthy boom
conditions, as well as intensifying the
quest for cheaper, if inferior, substitutes.
* * * ♦
Yellow Cabs were the talk of Collins-
street, Melbourne, last week. A 4 p.c.
interim has been declared, and a 6 p.c.
final later in the year, making 10 p.c., is
freely tipped in the byways of the
market. An 8 p.c. handout would cer-
tainly seem the least to be expected if
the management has given full considera-
tion to the present declaration. Last year
6 p.c. went out. Sydney sesquicentenary
.revenue, it appears, isn’t the only thing
expected to put profits up; market
backers say that extra takings have been
the order for months, and that this year’s
profit should be a pretty one. The co.
collects a mileage rental from drivers
who lease its cabs,, and business, especi-
ally in Sydney, at the moment is good.
Still, many people buying the shares at
last week’s prices were punters, not long-
term investors; they will be wanting to
take a profit sooner or later, and buyers
for longer holding will ask for a high
yield. At £32,532 last term’s allowance
for depreciation, etc., was equivalent to
50 p.c. of reducing values of the chief
working assets. Part of the co.’s trouble
in the past arose from the insufficiency
of amounts annually written off its cabs.
* * * *
Holders of Australasian Paper old ords.
should find a switchover to the new
shares to advantage. The latter, on which
a final call of 2s. 6d. is due at the end of
next month, are obtainable in Mel-
bourne at 275. 9d. The old shares stand
at 325. 6d. Allowing for selling broker-
age and slight loss of div., there is thus
around Is. 6d. a share profit to be
picked up.
* •-!: *
For the second year in succession
Queensland Brewery is following the
C.P. organisation into, the market for
more ord. capital—this issue is one for
three, to all classes, at par. The market,
which had expected something of the
kind, lifted its bid for the old ords. only
a few pence following the announce-
ment ; then quotes sagged suddenly to
265. 9d. Results for the year just closed
have not yet been broadcast. Div., how-
ever, has been maintained at 7 p.c., and
on that basis the old ords. at 265. 9d. cum
rights yield a net 5.6 p.c.—an attractive
return from a sound brewing stock. The
co.’s strength lies in the southern portions
of the-northern State. Disclosed earnings
of recent years have been barely sufficient
to cover the div., but appearances are
that that isn’t the whole story.
*„. * * *
While softgoods retailers presented a
firmer front last week chain stores were
appreciably weaker. Assuming that last
year’s div. will, be maintained, a yield of
4.7 p.c. is now obtainable from G. J.
Coles at 795. It is some time since
the scrip could be bought on so favor-
able a basis. The co. is facing a period
of higher costs. Still, the business con-
tinues to expand, which may have an
offsetting influence by reducing average
overhead.
* * ~ * *
Buyers of Holeproof ords. on this
page’s recommendations at various prices
down to 265. 9d. have no cause for regret.
Record profits (up £2520 at £25,150, and
equal to 21.7 p.c. on ord. capital after
satisfying the prefs.) are signalled in a
preliminary statement of the past year’s
result, and though the div. has been
maintained at 10 p.c. a two-for-five ord.
issue now announced represents a nice
bonus to shareholders. In the market
the old shares fetch 305., equivalent to
275. 6d. ex rights, which isn’t paying too
much for prospects. Among other things,
the co. turns out good-quality men’s hose
at moderate cost; demand for hosiery is
said to be running well ahead of plant
capacity. Industrial disputes in some
other Victorian mills have not yet spread
to the Holeproof works.
* * * *
Producers’ and General £1 ords. have
sagged further. No announcement as to
an interim div. has yet been made, and
sellers at Bs. 6d. are unable to raise
buyers above 7s. The 7 p.c. prefs. were
dealt in at 13s. For those speculatively
inclined these may prove better buying
than the ords. Few investors, however,
were prepared to take a dip at either last
week.
* * *
Some of the slack between share-
market yields from Australian Cement
and Kandos was taken up last week,
Kandos 165.-paids moving up to 265. 3d.
Though they enjoy a less active market,
Kandos Bs. contribs. at 12s. were better
buying than the f.-ps. for income. There
is little likelihood of a call.
*** . *
In Melbourne last week:
With more buyers than sellers about, ship-
ping issues brightened. Adelaide Steam were
booked at a new high level of 345. 9d., Mel--
bourne ords. sold at 30s. 3d., and offers of 445.
6d. for Huddart Parker ords. found no parters.
Carriers, support for which has always been
most marked in Melbourne, sold at 225. 6d.
after 19s. the previous week. The few sellers
declaring now want 255.
Bank scrip lost some ground. Commercial of
Sydney and National of Australasia, both
yielding well above 4 p.c., and the ’Wales are
the pick of the group at current quotes..
One-time star Bendigo producer Hercules,
lately reduced to the call list to keep going, pro-
vided fireworks in a dull gold section. The
shares went from lOd. to 4s. 3d., then back to
3s. At 2400 ft. 4ft. of bedded spurs carrying
colors have been cut, quartz still showing in the
face.
Cocks Eldorado, which has many admirers,
were also taken higher on declaration of the
best monthly gold yield to date. A fourth
shilling div. has been declared.


m ?i
mmmmt
m
mm
M
m
H
SUPER DRIVING-THRILLS WITH
BUlGKml938
One is the
Engine ... an engine i us. & , gating pace and
but cyclompresswn to g \Y ; s the jarless flying
smoothness to your travel. springing that gives
ride of the AU-coll Spring g • hugging the road on
W earl .
And then add “ ““ e f' uTwre^Top"Bod/by
setting luxuryof Bu com£ortable , more attractively
fimdshed and safer than ever before.
VISITING ENGLAND? Jou«n«dej B y»™
before leaving and take , will give you full deLaib P
in England. Your Dealer _ HoldeI , 9 Limited
this special overseas service. . M
9
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
buick
N45
B"v* ,ep 'r; h S e “i“oS
«as :f«s Sw
»d U »d
absorbers. ® a * iat or dis-
wheels cannot tw st " ing ,
tort, cannot affect steering
greatly k-ds red N« n shacWe S , no
from skids. «v»«tter no
grease points, no chatter, no
premature rear tyre wear.
%rjr ssir^rr
furious explosion, giving
almost 10% niore power.
“AIR CHIEF”
CAR RADIO.
specially designed for
Buick, ‘‘Air Chief
features controls to
harmonize and give
a “built in” appear-
ance—an 8-inch Dy-
namic Header Bar
Speaker and, tne
“Accoustinator”, a
device which obtains
the best reception
of all programmes
under all conditions.
Ask for a demon-
stration:
Figures produced by the British Iron
and Steel Federation illustrate the busy
year 1937 was for John Bull’s heavy in-
dustries. At 12,900,000 tons, output of
steel ingots and castings reached record
proportions, being some 3,000,000 tons
better than in the two previous years and
4,300,000 tons up on 1929 figures. Over
the past two years £20,000,000 has been
spent on new mills, etc., and an esti-
mated outlay of a further £10,000,000 in
the current year is expected to raise
steel-furnace capacity considerably in ex-
cess of the 14,000,000-ton mark. The
statistical position, while not easy, has
recently shown some improvement, and,
though contracts in hand represent a
large proportion of output for several
months, less difficulty should now be ex-
perienced in keeping abreast of obliga-
tions. Owing to the Far East situation,,
a falling-off in the sheet trade is apparent.
Shipbuilders’ requirements are also likely
to be a bit lighter, but the size of the
railways’ programme for 1938 indicates
that the steel industry’s wage bill for the
current year will probably exceed the
£49,000,000 paid away in 1937.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Papua, whose show is
next-door to Cuthbert’s Misima, has got
to the testing stage. The plant—2o-head
battery, plus slimes-cyaniding unit —has
been started up, and, pending first re-
turns, the 55.-paids are marking time in
the market round 9s. lid. If the anti-
cipated £1 a ton profit from the 250,000
tons of estimated oxidised reserves materi-
alises, it will represent 9s. 3d. per share.
Value of the sulphides—probably 150,000
tons down to drainage level—has yet to
be proved. The co. has some enthusiastic
backers.
3= * :[:
N.S.W. real-estate dealings for the 12
months ended Dec. last represented a
post-depression record at £37,353,000,
being £3,807,000 up on the 1936 experi-
ence, and more than double the 1933
figure. New mortgages and renewals
registered also advanced in total to
£23,811,000. Land values are now
estimated to be back to 90 p.c. of pre-
slump level.
* * * *
At Golden Plateau’s annual roll-up in
Nov., acting-chairman T. R. Victor men-
tioned that future crushings would vary
little from the then-current experience—
recoveries were averaging 7.3dwt. at the
time. Last two monthly millings have
yielded better than 10dwt., which is well
above average mine head value. No ex-
planation is offered, but apparently all
the rich ore in No. 1 shoot has not yet
been exhausted. The scrip weakened last
week. The fully-paids—as always, for
some obscure reason —could be picked
up cheaper than the contributing issue,
which sold at 14s.
* * * *
Three new bank buildings are going up
in Collins-street, Melbourne. The ’Wales
and the Union will smile politely across
at each other up the east end, while the
National is putting ,up a nine-storey
western branch. The National’s eastern
branch was extended a couple of years
ago.
* * * *
Declaration of an interim 4 p.c. by
Simmons, Sydney (B. 9/2/’3B), places
the co. on an 8 p.c. p.a. basis, with
prospects of better. Last dealing in the
ords. was at par. Buyers now offer at
that figure, but sellers want 21s.
* * * *
Below par in the market, ord. shares
in Swans, conservatively-managed hard-
ware merchants, of Sydney, Hurstville
and Parramatta, yield 7.2 p.c. on the
basis of the 7 p.c. (recent interim was at
the same rate) sent out last year, when
less than half the amount available for
ord.-holders was distributed. Finances
are in good condition, and net tangibles
are equal to 265. 7d. per share. The
hardware trade has lately been very
active.
* * * *
On Friday there was inter-State buy-
ing of Finney Isles (Bris.) in Sydney at
295. 3d. The co. ruled off its books at
the end of January, and a final div. an-
nouncement is due in March. The interim
was of 4 p.c. If no more than that goes
out as a final, the yield, allowing for
div. accrued, will be 5.5 p.c. Trade has
been very brisk over the last 12 months.
* * * *
At 50s. 6d. the ords. of Angus and
Robertson, Sydney booksellers, etc., are
down almost 10s. on the 1937 “high.”
Yield from 15 p.c. divs. is 5.9 p.c. The
margin between last term’s earnings and
distributions wasn’t wide, but the co. is
in a class of business that is faring well
at present..
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
As It Seems to the Minister
The McGowen Government established
the N.S.W. State brickworks, metal quar-
ries, etc., to prevent predatory combines
from exploiting the public. The Stevens
Government abolished them ; and to-day
these people are doing this very
thing with great enthusiasm. — Arthur
Griffith (N.S.W.). [Mr. Griffith was
Mr. McGowen’s Secretary for Public
Works.]
The Afrikander Way
South Africa has published an inter-
esting resume of its new defence scheme.
The Union hopes to manufacture its own
munitions, from big guns to s.a. ammuni-
tion, and is to mechanise one brigade.
Presumably this will be an infantry unit,
for the plan provides for 10,000 mounted
troops drawn from the S.A.C. and the
commandoes. It is stated that the
mobility of these troops will enable them
to keep out of the way of heavy enemy
mechanical pursuit. Maybe, but those
who recall how armored-cars made
a quick job of the once-elusive De Wet
in the 1914 rebellion will have their
doubts.
A feature worth Australia’s notice in
the plan is the provision of a special
fleet of weight-carrying aeroplanes to
keep supplies up to troops operating in
the difficult bushveld along the Rhodesian
and northern Portuguese borders. What
arrangement have our warlords made to
supply the Australian forces dumped
down in Northern Australia with no
communication with the South save by
sea roads which would be closed at once
by an enemy?— Der Jong (N.S.W.).
The Rant Against Machinery
It is overdone. A box of matches
made by machinery costs }d. If every-
thing connected with it were made by
hand it would probably cost about 2s.
Road-making machinery opens up virgin
country, rendering possible the settlement
of thousands on the land. If there were
no machinery, there would be no picture
shows, no newspapers and no swift
transport.
The most passionate denouncer of
machinery I know is a barber whose
saloon bristles with all the electric de-
vices that money can buy. His wireless
entertains his customers. He is an expert
with guns and rifles manufactured by the
most elaborate machinery. In war, a
mechanised nation would easily destroy
a nation that prohibited the use of
machinery by Act of Parliament.
Fifty years ago, the dairy-farmers on
the North Coast of N.S.W. lived from
hand to mouth making butter by primi-
tive methods. Mechanised butter fac-
tories transformed the North Coast into
a paradise, and nowadays many a
dairy-farmer is well-to-do.— Clifford
(N.S.W.).
Sydney Ferry Services
Sydney is suffering from growing
pains and transport troubles. One of
the transport troubles is the shrinkage
of ferry services, which, generally con-
sidered, are not a patch on what they
used to be.
The ferries are fed by Government-
owned- trams and buses. If the co. can-
not give more efficient service, it should
have competition from others with
longer vision.
Citizens are invited to make sesqui-
centenary suggestions. Mine is restora-
tion of ferry services to pre-Bridge stan-
dards and the institution of water-buses
or launches to ply occasionally across
the Harbor—say, from Nielsen Park to
Athol.
These water roads cost nothing to con-
struct or maintain. —L. L. A. (N.S.W.).


150th ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
ds
CRICKET MATCH
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, FEB. 18, 19, 21, 22.
Play commences 11.30 a.m.
McOABE’S TEAM: S. J. McCabe (Captain), B. A. Barnett, A. G. Chipperfield,
J. H. Fingleton, L. O’B. Fleetwood-Smith, A. L. Hassett, E. L. McCormick, W. J.
O’Reilly, R. E. Rogers, M. G. Waite, F. A. Ward. , .
RIGG’S TEAM: K. E. Rigg (Captain), S. G. Barnes, R. G. Gregory, C. V. Grimmett,
Y. Jackson, I. S. Lee, L. O’Brien, W. A. Oldfield, W. Pearson, R. H. Robinson,
E. S. White. J. Fitzpatrick, emergency fieldsman.
ADMISSION: Outer Ground —Adults 1/6, Children 6d.
Grandstands—Adults 2/6, Children 1/-.
IJ Heydon, Sec. N.S.W. Cricket Association,, 2o’,a George Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There were several great galloping per-
formances at Caulfield on Saturday, but
Nuffield’s win in the second division of
the Federal Stakes eclipsed even what
Pamelus and Hua accomplished later on.
• • • • • •
C. B. Kellow’s chestnut had 9st. 101 b.,
and the heavy impost caused punters to
be chary about supporting him, especi-
ally as Nuffield hadn’t raced since he
beat Bush Bee in the Maribyrnong Plate.
Stable money made Belvoir favorite tem-
porarily, but at the death-knock he and
Nuffield were in equal request, the ruling
quote being 5 to 1.
Belvoir (Fox Earth-Bambina) cost
1100 guineas as a yearling, and is trained
by Pat Quinlan for knight Sydney Snow.
In a track trial he had beaten Fort Regal,
with whom Quinlan won at Williams-
town on February 5. Local admirers of
Belvoir wouldn’t entertain the thought
that Nuffield was able to concede him
291 b.
After experiencing every chance in
running and being well placed at the
home bend, Belvoir faded out and beat
only two of his 15 rivals. How different
the display of Nuffield! Obviously in
need of a race, he began slowly, and was
fourth-last at the turn. Success seemed
hopeless, but as soon as he faced for the
judge Nuffield began to cut down the
leaders.
His sire, Heroic, never won in finer
style than Nuffield did. He reached the
judge less than a length in advance of
Kaolin (Thracian-Quartz), with Bofield
(Sion-Foxy) half a length farther off ; but
the winning margin could have been
much more considerable had Ray Wilson
so desired.
Clem Hill had handicapped Nuffield to
give Pandava, the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate
winner, 31b. These rivals weren’t drawn
together, but the fact of Pandava being
beaten in the second division strongly
suggests that he is not in the same class
as Nuffield, even allowing for half a
second faster time being made on the
journey.
Alan Cooper had allowed Bofield to
go out at 25 to lin Nuffield’s event; but
Early Bird (The Buzzard-Early Girl), his
representative in the second division, was
favorite at 9 to 4, with Pandava at fives
and Liana (Melfort-Lalaguli) merely
moderately backed at 12 to 1.
Frank McGrath, over from Sydney
with Brown Baroness, pronounced Early
Bird to be a good thing. The filly ran a
good race, but couldn’t quite do it. Liana
squeezed home by a head from Pandava,
who vanquished Shean’s mount by a
margin so narrow that only the judge
could distinguish it.
High-priced youngsters by imported
Melfort are turning up trumps. Fort
Regal (1550gn5.) scored at Williamstown
on February 5. Scobie gave 1300gns.
for Liana on behalf of E. E. D. Clarke.
The colt was not as great a bargain as
Hua, bought for 750gns., but he is sus-
ceptible of improvement, and when next
produced will have far more than 7st.
61b., with a 7st. minimum.
The St. George Stakes (standard
weight-for-age) was a cakewalk for
Liana’s stablemate, Hua. In a field of
five he figured at 5 to 4 on, with Gold
Rod (4 to 1) a slightly-better second
choice than Avenger. After setting a
pace that suited Hua sweetly, Gold Rod
knocked up and Hua romped home, with
Ray Wilson sitting against him down
the straight.
Damalis, to whom Hua had given 201 b,
in the C. F. Orr Stakes at Williamstown
on January 31, ran second. Avenger
(third) shaped satisfactorily, seeing that,
through shoulder soreness, his track tasks
for several weeks previous had not been
strenuous.
Frank Musgrave did not accept for
Ajax in the St. George Stakes or the
Oakleigh Plate, but had King’s Head
and Beechwood to represent him in the
Plate. The. veteran trainer was rather
sanguine about Beechwood.* Because of
a propensity for “getting down behind,”
Beechwood had raced on previous occa-
sions in fetlock boots. This time they
were dispensed with, Musgrave deciding,
as he expressed it, to “take a chance.”
Beechwood was a long way back in the
field at the half-mile, and did well to finish
a close fourth. Following the pace set by
Easter Maid and Aurie’s Star (5-to-2
favorite), Pamelus proved his high class
by carrying 9.11 to victory by a length
from Amiable, winner of the last Standish
Handicap, with Othello a neck away.
The success of Pamelus —second choice
at 7 to I—was1 —was popular. Bought for 25
guineas as a yearling, this Queenslander
had been unlucky in big races on Mel-
bourne and Sydney courses. He might
not have won on Saturday if Othello had
come on the scene earlier. Othello was
last into the straight.
George Price had a winning turn with
Egmont in the Bond Handicap. It is
getting on for two years since this son
of Limond ran second to Contact in the
Sydney Cup. He has been hard to train,
but Price was hopeful on Saturday, and
E. J. Watt’s stallion had backers at 10 to
1, the favorite being Le Grand (7 to 2).
Gaining control a furlong from home,
Egmont won nicely from Elmdale, with
Le Grand a close third. The unlucky
horse of the race was Bellevue. He lost
six lengths at the start but looked a pos-
sible place-getter at the turn. Bellevue
knocked up then. All the same, his effort
was impressive.
Ashley Reed got Irving home by the
narrowest of margins from Dolphin in
the Salisbury Welter. He had been
second to Chelandric at Williamstown a
week before. Caulfield punters poured
money on Chelandric, who let them down
badly. Beaustone and Sunraysia ran
pretty well.
The Warrein Hurdle went to the 2-to-l
favorite, Turf Boy. In this race Jupiter,
a dashing performer over the battens,
fell opposite the stand and, breaking a
leg, had to be destroyed.
Bush Bee was galloped on in the
Federal Stakes and sustained a cut on
the near hind tendon. She will have to
be thrown out of training—for the time
being, at all events.
* * * *
Since Phar Lap was taken to Adelaide
to win the King’s Cup, races for that
trophy held in cities other than Mel-
bourne and Sydney have been confined
to local horses, supplemented now and
then by a second- or third-rater from a
neighboring State. This was the case
with the Tasmanian Turf Club’s affair
at Mowbray, though the club put up a
£lOOO prize in addition to the bauble
which should be prized so highly. It is
a pity this has come to pass; racegoers
all over Australia would prefer to see
the best horses of the season racing for
the King’s Cup.
At Mowbray Prince Sion, from Vic-
toria, was a 5-to-4 favorite; but,
squeezed out at the start, he failed to get
a place. Victory went to Debater (10
to 1), who had a couple of mares, Val-
sard and Princess Pam, behind him.
Debater, who is trained at Launceston,
was bred in Victoria by A. G. Hunter,
and at recent appearances in Tasmania
has shown some indications of stamina,
but probably the best thing about him is
his name. He is by Windbag out of a
Kenilworth mare.
* * * *
Jeanne d’Arc added to the long list
of striking performances by mares this
season by winning the Armidale Cup
from a big field of sprinters—some from
Sydney, others from Brisbane and a
couple from Newcastle. Red Thespian
was favorite at 3 to 1 (Jeanne d’Arc was
one of four at 10 to 1), and his showing
suggests a return to his fine form of a
year ago. Anyway he was always well
up, and was conspicuous in a most excit-
ing finish. An opening on the rails of
which Hanley, Jeanne d’Arc’s rider, in-
stantly availed himself enabled the mare
to score, but she was only a head in front
of Canadian; and Tickle, King Pyrrhus
and Red Thespian were also divided by
heads. It was a seven-furlong race, run
in lmin. 26 l-ssec.
* * * *
Lolorua did not meet his engagement
at Moorefield. He was given a race in the
Flying Welter at Ascot (Sydney) on
Wednesday, and won it so well in fast
time for the course (lmin. that
a journey to Melbourne was decided on
for him. Lolorua is a handsome-looking
chestnut by Heroic-Weela, in appearance
a racehorse every inch. His barrier
manners are bad, but he has sometimes
contrived to get away smartly when the
jockey had him on the move, and walk-
up starts should suit his complaint. In-
deed, he is quite likely to shape better
in Melbourne than Sydney. He has
only 7st. 51b. in the Newmarket. That
race may be beyond him, but he may
pick up a race at Flemington.
* * * *
Two years ago Lucky Kid put up some
capital performances in Sydney, and was
talked of as quite a possibility for one
of the richly-endowed mile handicaps in
spring and autumn. But she completely
lost her form, and after many disappoint-
ments was sold to C. A. Russell. Rus-
sell is a strong believer in the benefits of
travel for jaded nags, and under his care
the mare, now a five-year-old, has come
good again. She credited him with an-
other win, at 9 to 4, in the Mascot Fly-
ing Mile at Ascot. Second to her was
Wise Boy, who is pretty good on his day.
Lucky Kid is a daughter of Dunnottar-
Lady Christina. Rosehill is a course she
fancied when a three-year-old, and she
should be worth bearing in mind for a
suitable handicap there.
* * * *
Improvement was the good thing of the
day at Moorefield. He had won twice in
fair company, and was not badly treated
with Bst. 31b. in the Moorefield Handi-
cap, so 6 to 4 was a nice price. At the
finish he was only a neck in front of
After Six, Panaster being another neck
away, but Bartle did not ask him to do
too much. Celebrate broke down half
a mile from home. Journal was too
much of a handful for his apprentice
rider.
This Page chose Improvement and also
Let Slip (8 to 1) for the first division
of the Flying Welter. After Electron had
made the running Let Slip came fast in
the straight and won cleverly from Gay
Chou, who was favorite at threes. Berani
was third, ahead of Fernacre, who is in
line for a win. The second division
proved a soft snap for the Lithgow-
owned Salamyne, by Salmagundi-Bonnie
Margaret (6 to 1). Strathisla was second.
This fellow should be tried at a mile.
Clever riding on the part of Andy
Knox enabled Morning Gift (4 to 1) to
capture the St. George Handicap. This
Corban mare was taken to the front six
furlongs from home. Going up the hill
Knox got the required break, and after
that it was only a question of what
would be second and third ; Wise Boy
and Housemaster filled those positions.
There was a rush to take evens House-
master, who is a stablemate of Improve-
ment. He merely plugged along.
Last Chance was cheered by the
bookies when he won the first division of
the Juvenile Handicap from Orontes and
Bull Chase. He started at 20 to 1. He
is owned by an Ashfield man, C. Wise,
and though a very plain bay can gallop.
He is another of the Salmagundis, out of
War Bride, a mare bought cheap at a
dispersal sale. The hot favorite, Brigand,
cut it badly after leading for half a mile.
Beau Verre did not give her backers
much anxiety in the second division. She
had to be driven along to keep her posi-
tion on the rails, but fought on gamely
to beat Areas and Countersign. She
started at 7 to 4. Radio Queen lost her
chance at barrier-rise.
The Jilt had scored at Ascot in taking
style, and on that run should have been
favorite for the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap. As it was the price eased
from 5 to 2 to 9 to 2. The finish was
confined to The Jilt and Careerbra, and
The Jilt got the better of it. Peanut
narrowly beat Maid of the Mountains
for third. Slow away, Maid of the
Mountains made up her ground too
quickly and was left without a strong
finishing run.
“Woogaroo”: Brisbane golfers have
been experimenting with an American
innovation, in the expressive argot of that
country called “kicker competitions.” It
allows a golfer enraged with the result
of a stroke to play another on payment
of a small fine. One extra stroke in
addition to handicap is permitted at each
hole, and proceeds from fines go to chari-
ties. The financial results have so far
been surprising.
* X X *
The 500-guinea first prize of the sesqui-
centenary King’s at the Anzac range was
won by V. Buttsworth, a young farmer
from Queensland, with 347 points out
of 355 —a record for the big event. Letts,
of Victoria, and Gall, of Queensland,
were next with 345 each, but Letts’s
score of a point better than the other
at the 900 range placed him second, with
£2OO in his pouch, Gall ranking third,
with £lOO. Parker, of N.S.W., was placed
fourth from Pavey, of Victoria, both
men scoring totals of 344. Sixth, seventh
and eighth possies went to Ritchie, Mc-
Ivor and Wohlers in that order, all with
343. Marvellous shooting.
Empire Games
In Sydney last week it was all Empire
Games. Boxers and wrestlers did their
stuff at the Stadium ; there were track
sports at the Cricket Ground on three
days; the rowers put on their show on
the Nepean on Wednesday ; the swimmers
were at it afternoon and night; the
cyclists squeezed in three night affairs and
bowlers rolled ’em down during the day.
Very few Empire Games records stood
up under the strain. Australia’s men did
well at everything but athletics and box-
ing ; the women more than held their
own in all departments.
Outstanding among both men and
women was the Westralian girl Decima
Norman. She was the only competitor to
take three titles —during the week she
added the 220 yards to her 100 yards and
broad-jump wins. She had made new
Empire and Australian figures in both
those events, and she twice bettered the
records for the 220—24.55ec. in the semi-
final and 24.75ec. in the final. In that
event two other Australian girls, Jean
Coleman and Eileen Wearne, were near-
est her. Next to Miss Norman came the
Canadian swimmer Bob Pirie. He was
first in the 110 yards and the 440 and
second in the 1650 yards.
In one event only were world figures
improved upon—by T. P. Lavery, of
South Africa, whose time for the 120
yards hurdles was 14sec. dead. Lavery
was cheered, clapped on the back and
photographed ; then the referee chipped
in with an “assisted-by-wind” decision.
That doesn’t necessarily mean that the
time won’t stand. Some international
body or other has yet to consider the con-
ditions and give its verdict. And it
should be favorable. What breeze there
was, a slight one and inconsistent, bL?w
diagonally across the track.
English sprinter Holmes added the 220
to his hundred title, again in record time
—2l.2sec. Never headed in heats or
semi-finals he was one of the most im-
pressive athletes competing. The Aus-
tralians Mumford and Best chased him
home again.
Another to score a double was
Matthews, the Maoriland distance man.
He put up a sterling performance to take
the three-miler, and was 180 yards ahead
at the end of the “six” ; that, too, in
record time, 30min. 14.55ec., and only
half a minute slower than Nurmi’s world
best. Rankine (Canada) and Hayward
(S. Africa) were behind him.
) South Africa took the marathon. The
winner, Coleman, a Natalian of Dutch
FOR CAULFIELD.
Futurity: Ajax; next, Hua.
Woodcliff Handicap: Avenger:
next, Elmdale.
Hawksburn Handicap: Othello ;
next, Amiable.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Brazandt, if
started. Otherwise, Salamvne ; next,
Mordent.
Canterbury Handicap: The Jilt;
next. After Six.
Highweight Handicap: Brazandt
or Duke Caledon ; next, Shackleton.
Ashbury Handicap: House-
master ; next, Wise Boy.


TRUCK OWNERS!
Ride the road that leads to
I
§
«' v % $
m
jjj
m
m
■
m
i
:••••/
74
MT.90.14.37.
Barnet Glass
TRUCK TYRES
are your greatest Profit Builders
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
• TREAD and CASING
protected by heavily
ARMOURED WALLS.
•GREATER RIM
STABILITY because
of twin Bead Wires.
• MORE MILES AND
SAFER SERVICE be-
cause of greater con-
structional strength.
\%
A*
w
to®'
A«
A©’
6 cc«
\>C
C*
GO*
Ao^
iY»®
AftC
felO 1
,CC
i 7
69
iffl
OF C
\S
4 the
Perfect
Pair
WHOLESOME
& DELICIOUS
MADE FROM
jie&k
liuit
NO ESSENCE
USED
¥''
colly
IORDON's
[ jmasm i
jTANOuERAy CORDON i C* ■
ordons
lemon
GIN
Gordons
ORANGE GIN • LEMON GIN
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND ! dhe Irtigett gin diMillM in the ivoild
extraction, led all the way, though his
team-mate, Gibson, was with him some
of the time. It was a splendid run, the
time for the 26 miles 385 yards, 2hr.
30min. 49.85ec., being an Empire record,
and only eight minutes outside world
time. Over the last five miles Coleman
was going away ; the Englishman Norris
(2hr. 37min. 57sec.) cut Gibson (2hr.
38min. 20sec'.) out of second place. Aus-
tralians, surprisingly, are no good at this
sort of thing.
In field games the Canadians excelled.
Courtright took the javelin throw on the
opening day, and another Canadian, Coy,
bettered Empire and Australian figures
by throwing the discus 146 ft. 10£in. A
Scot, Young, and yet another Canadian,
Sutherland, were nearest him. Suther-
land bagged his first place by tossing the
161 b. hammer 159 ft. 9|in. (record). But
the Canadian Coy had to be content
with second to the S. African Fouche
(47ft. 6in.) in putting the 161 b. shot. The
Canadian ladies, too, can hurl these ob-
jects to some effect. One of them, Miss
Higgins, threw the javelin a record
125 ft. 7|in.
Australia had to wait till the last day
for its lads to score in athletes —the hop-
step-and-jump. Metcalfe (50ft. lOin.)
did best; Miller and Dickinson were in
places.
Australians expected Dickinson to win
the broad jump, but he finished in third
place to the Canadians Brown (24ft. 4|in.)
and Panton (23ft. 9iin.). It was feared
by the Canadians that their runners
would be short of a gallop, but they were
two yards better than England in the
440yds. relay (four runners); Australia
third.
A South African, Du Plessis, collected
the pole-vault title, 13ft. s£in. his best,
And another Springbok, D. V. Shore,
was reckoned a certainty for the 440. In
a semi-final Shore was timed at 47.95ec.,
a record for the Games, but, though the
final was cut out in the same time the
S. African could finish only third, with
Englishman Roberts and Fritz, of Canada
—inches separated them —ahead of him.
Wales sent the best miler, J. W. Alford,
who covered the four laps in record
time, 4min. 11.6 sec. Australia’s Back-
house was only four yards behind him,
and also bettered the previous figures.
The mile relay resulted: Canada, 1 ;
England, 2 ; Maoriland 3.
The place-getters in the women’s 220,
Decima Norman, Jean Coleman and
Eileen Wearne, won the 440yds. relay for
Australia. The time was another record,
49.1 sec slower than the world’s
best.
And Misses Norman, Coleman, Wood-
land and Mrs. Peake gathered in the
660yds. relay also.
Other women’s events went to South
Africa —Barbara Burke, a record 11.7 sec.
for the 80 metres hurdles—and England
—a sft. 3in. high jump by D. B. Odam.
Australian cyclist Duncan Gray, who
held the title, was a strong tip for the
1000 metres time trial. He finished out
of a place, but first and second were
other Australians —Porter (lmin. 15.25ec.)
and Johnson (lmin. 15.7 sec.) —with an
Englishman, Mills, next to them. Porter’s
time broke the Empire record, but it was
2.3 sec. slower than Gray’s Australian
figures.
The 1000 metres sprint found Austra-
lians first and second again. Gray on top
this time, with Porter next. Maorilander
Giles was third.
The 100 kilometres road race was con-
ducted in and out and round Centennial
Park. There were spills, punctures and
broken wheels, and it all made a fine
show. A South African, Binneman, won
—the Afrikanders take to endurance rac-
ing of all kinds —with Brown (M.L.) and
Jones (Eng.) pedalling in behind him.
Time, 2hr. 53min. 29.65ec.
English riders took the first two places
in the ten-mile event: Maxfield, and
Hicks, with Rose (S. Africa) third. Time
was slow: 24min. 44sec. The Indian,
Janki Dass, fell.
In swimming, too, the girls shone for
Australia. And, like Decima Norman,
the best of them were from the West.
In the 110 yards freestyle event West-
ralians Evelyn de Lacey (lmin. 10.1 sec.)
and Dorothy Green were first and
second, and Dorothy Green won the 440.
Her time, smin. 39.75ec., was another Em-
pire record, and, too, it bettered her Aus-
tralian figures. Canada (Miss Lyon) pro-
vided third placegetter in the 110, and
England (Miss Jeffery) and Maoriland
(Miss Leydon) filled the minor places in
the 440. The women’s 110 yards back-
stroke event was Australia’s also. In this
Pat Norton’s time was lmin. 19.5 sec. Aus-
traliennes rounded off a most successful
day by bagging first places in both diving
events. Victoria’s Miss Donnett topped
the list from the springboard, three points
above the Canadian Miss Adams, with
another Canadian, Miss Sharkey, next;
and Lurline Hook —she was the N.S.W.
girl whose selection caused a bit of
bother —was best from the high tower.
Miss Donnett got third place in that lot,
Miss Adams (Canada) separating her
from the winner.
The women’s 330yds. medley relay was
England’s.
The Canadian Pirie's time for the 110
was 59.65ec. No Australian has ever
broken the minute. Collard (S. Africa)
and the Australian Fleming followed him
home.
The 440 was an excellent race. Leivers
and Wainwright, both from England, and
the Australian Biddulph swam stroke for
stroke most of the way, with Pirie tail-
ing only about a yard behind them. Bid-
dulph lost a little each time on the turns,
the visitors appearing much smoother.
As they turned for the last lap Biddulph
led by a foot, but then Pirie put in his
finish. It was Pirie (4min. 54.65ec.),
Leivers (4min. 55.45ec.), Biddulph (4min.
55.55ec.). Biddulph had previously done
4min. 54.25ec., the best by an Australian.
Perhaps the finest piece of swimming
was that of the Englishman Leivers in
the 1650 yards event. He kept behind
his team-mate Wainwright for the first
couple of laps ; then he went ahead and
made the pace a cracker. • Pirie held him
for a while, but at the finish Leivers was
13 seconds ahead and going further
away. It was the best swim ever over the
distance in Australia ; the time, 19min.
46.45ec., was two seconds better than
Arne Borg’s.
Yet another Westralian, Percy Oliver,
bagged the 110 yards backstroke. His
time, lmin. 7.95ec., improved on Oliver’s
previous Australian figures.
England took the 880 yards teams
race, for four swimmers; Canada and
then Australia next. Time, 9min. 32.95ec.
Davies (England) smashed the Austra-
lian record in the 220 yards breaststroke
—2min. 51.9 sec. The veteran Spence
(British Guiana) was second, Canadian
Prentice third.
Masters (Australia), Tomalin (England)
and Athans (Canada) shared diving
honors. Masters beat Tomalin by two
points from the springboard ; from the
high tower the positions were reversed,
with six points between them. Athans
was third in both events. Men and
women, the diving was one of the best
bits in the whole programme.
Rowing, the Australians came into their
own. They lost the eights, but won the
fours and the sculls.
The race for the eights was a clinker.
There was little difference in weight be-
tween the three crews —England aver-
aged 12st. 81b. ; the Maorilanders about
half a pound heavier and Australia 12st.
51b. From the start Australia went ahead,
to lead by about a length, but at the half-
mile mark England had snaked them out
of the lead and was about three-quarters
of a length ahead. Maoriland, rowing
with poppets, kept plodding along about
a length further away. Over the last 300
yards the Australians increased their
rating, but couldn’t make any impression
on the English crew —England, Australia,
M.L.; three-quarters of a length, two
lengths ; 6min. 29sec. for the \\ miles.
The Englishmen, shaky just after the
start, settled down to beautifully even
rowing.
The Maorilanders and then the
Canadians followed the Australian four
home, a length and a quarter and three-
quarters of a length separating them.
Time, 7min. 16.8 sec.
Turner wasn’t troubled to win the
sculls. He cut out the \\ miles in Bmin.
24sec., and finished five lengths ahead of
Jackson (England), with Smith (M.L.)
another four lengths back.
A South African, R. Harvey, was the
best of the bowlers, taking the singles
title, but Maoriland snared the two other
events —pairs and rinks. L. L. Macey
and W. Denison were the M.L. pair;
Whitaker, Robertson, Jury and Bremner
the rinks team.
And so the Games were brought to an
end. On the whole they were magnifi-
cent ; nothing finer of the kind has been
seen on this continent. The only jarring
notes were struck by yelping newspapers.
(Sporting continued on next page.)


PLAY ANY TUNE
after only a few hours’ practice
Learning to play a Hohner Mouth Organ is simplicity
itself . . . you can quickly master your favourite tunes
although you may have no previous musical
knowledge. Notes are numbered to make learning
easy—anyone can follow the Hohner system and
ensure endless hours of amusement.
HOHNER
AUTO-VALVE-HARP
MOUTH ORGAN
FREE! Send your name and address and 3d. in stamps,
to cover postage, to Dept. SBB, Box 855 K, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, and we will send you a FREE MOUTH
ORGAN TUTOR.
See the New Hohner AUTO-VALVE VAMPER, *' iSi sssßs sa _
sold by all music and fancy goods stores.
Price 3/-.
Mr. Kurt Jacob, our technical and musical expert, will be in Sydney until March 12 and
will be pleased to answer your enquiries. Address Mr. Jacob, c/o C.T.A., Martin Place, Sydney.
'SV,1
m.
JfJ
"silver edge 4 '
BRAKE LINING
wwmm
TRADE MARK, THE RAYBESTOS CO. .
SAVE MONEY/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
f you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Kep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Vic.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Miller v. Covelli
If the return bout between this pair
doesn’t draw in every scrap-addict from
Rushcutter Bay to Bourke the Sydney
Stadium people ought to declare the
game null and void and cater for the
popular taste with a few knitting com-
petitions.
The vast numbers who stayed away
last week missed the cleverest 12 rounds
of fighting seen at that address —or in
Sydney, either, for that matter —for a
tidy stretch of time. It was willing, clean,
tigerish, extremely fast and hard-hitting
from the opening bell till Joe Wallis
laid hands on the dandy little pair and
declared them inseparable. And nobody
who might reasonably be suspected of
being strictly sober could be heard mur-
muring one way or other against that
Wallisian decision.
Micky Miller was Bst. 12|lb. on the
hoof, and looking prime. He’s a com-
pact, solid-visaged, slant-eyed, very mus-
cular little chap, as good and game as
they make ’em ; well balanced, sound in
defence, with a hit in each hand and an
especially effective right cross. He stands
erect, looking firm and blocky, responds
aggressively to a bit of punishment, and
has proved himself —on this occasion and
on others —quite a respectable champion.
For a featherweight he carries a terrific
knockout punch, and early in this scrap
looked like getting away with it.
The other party—described across his
back facade as Frankie (Kid) Covelli—
tipped the beam at 9st. lib., but looked,
if anything, the lighter. He is of more
rangy build, even though he’s shorter
than Miller; has a crouching shape,
which suited Miller’s pile-driving right,
and is very quick on his feet, which
didn’t suit Miller at all. He hits with
both hands, and hits hard, scoring best
with a left hook. He has one peculiar
punch—a sort of civilised swing—and
his defence is so good that he made Miller
waste himself a lot walloping body rips
on elbows and gloves.
The first round made even the most
pessimistic take the kinks out of their
backs. After the mauling exhibitions of
the lilywhites slogging in the Empire
Games bouts the night before it was like
breaking suddenly into a startling dis-
covery of what boxing ought to be like.
They came together and they began to
fight. It was crisp, clean hitting by both,
against splendid defence. In the first
minute Covelli, flashing out his hooked
left and backmoving swiftly, had made
it clear that he was the best match Miller
had yet encountered —at any rate, at this
address. They fought the round out in
fine, clean style—a determined exhibi-
tion of real glove-fighting—and so they
fought out the entire engagement.
In the second Covelli attacked the
Miller visage with his left hook and gave
Miller—who’s no mean hand at it him-
self —a lesson in unhittableness in mobile
warfare over a shifting front. Probably
for the first time in his busy career
Miller was presented with the puzzler of
a head well within hitting range that he
simply couldn’t hit. Miller even sus-
pended half-foot blows undelivered and
looked at the Covelli crown as if suspect-
ing it was fake. But presently he got his
right cross home, a bit high, but weighty,
and it was Covelli’s turn to do a bit of
thinking. He got it in again, too, fol-
lowing a thumping left rip to the body,
and he finished, perhaps, a bit ahead of
it on the round.
More Miller. right cross in the next,
which was his round quite definitely. It
was still continuing a pretty fight, and it
went on doing so. Miller had Covelli
missing him in the fourth, and started a
battery on the Covelli body, but there
was nothing much between them. They
were both still fresh and in great fettle,
and their defence excellent. Miller was
fighting with complete confidence in the
fifth; Covelli, who’d been hitherto in-
dined to take risks with Miller’s right,
had bottled himself up more. They were
toe to toe pretty well throughout the
round. In the sixth Covelli let loose his
curious right swing; it connected; he
followed it with a couple more, and
Miller, shaken momentarily from his
balance, stopped a fair battery against
the ropes. Covelli took the round, and
went in for more of his patented swing-
ing in the next, Miller meanwhile try-
ing to end the business with his right,
but not getting past the enemy’s fine
defences.
Miller took the worst of the next
couple of rounds ; he looked to be tiring,
as well he might. They had now been
fighting for nine rounds without clinch
or any other sort of let-up. The local
lad did better in the tenth, and in the
eleventh got a breath of second wind,
and for a bit had Covelli fighting back
from a nasty possie against the ropes.
The last round was the keenest fought
of all. Both were a shade tired, notice-
“Get a bag!”
able mainly in their abandoned defence ;
but they went into it with everything they
knew, and when the bell sounded were
in the middle of the ring fighting like a
couple of intoxicated dynamos, with
Covelli having a bit the better of it.
The Amateurs
The Miller-Covelli display occurred in
the midst of pretty near a week of ter-
rible slaughter at the same address. Lily-
whites from England, Wales, Ceylon,
S’Africa, Scotland, Maoriland, Canada
and other breeding grounds put in there
to wrestle and fight for the Empire
championships. They stoushed and
grappled forenoon, afternoon and night,
filling the ring with bash and blood and
the surroundings with bellow, and gener-
ally having the time of their young lives.
True addicts declared the grappling to
be “real wrestling,” “scientific” and
“beautiful”; it was undoubtedly very
polite and refined. Much of the scrap-
ping was mainly interesting in demon-
strating the use of the boko as a weapon
of offence. Left and right nostril lead-
ing must have played the deuce with
wrists and knuckles. As a result gore
spouted in splendid geysers, and corner
efforts to wet-sponge it off the singlets
they all wore produced effects that
couldn’t be outdone by the Aurora
Borealis.
Each of these lilywhites had come
half-way round the world, or thereabouts,
to fight his three rounds, and each of
them went in—for the most part as wide
open as the Nullarbor—determined not
to waste a second of his nine minutes. It
was all very willing and enthusiastic;
well conducted, and carried through in
the fresh and pleasant atmosphere that
clings to amateur sport. Students of
riotous conduct may make what they will
of the fact that Australians just about
cleaned the rest of the Empire off the
mat in the grappling, but made a lament-
able showing as boxers.
The finals—put through on Thursday
night—produced one or two excellent
scraps, notably the flyweight discussion
between S’African J. Joubert (7st. 12|1b.)
and Canadian J. Gagnon (Bst.). Both
dead game, and cleverer than the general
run, they put on as pretty a three-rounder
as anyone could wish to see. The judges
favored S’Africa; there couldn’t have
been more than one punch between ’em.
Featherweights A. W. Henricus (Ceylon;
9st. lib. 20z.) and J. Watson (Scotland;
9st. ilb.) also put on a capital fight, the
judges plumping for Ceylon. It was cer-
tainly a popular win, for the spiderlike
Cingalee has a likeable ring manner, and
is a nice boxer as well. Also, it was no
doubt gratifying to see Ceylon have a
win. Another good scrapper was the
English boy H. Groves (9st. Bilb.), who
took the lightweight honors at the ex-
pense of H. Hurst (Canada; 9st. 9ilb.).
Other champs.: Bantam, W. H. Butler
(Eng., Bst. 61b. lOoz.) beat K. Knoesen
(S’Africa, Bst. 71b.); welter, W. Smith
(Aus., lOst. 61b.) beat A. J. Heeney
(M.L., lOst. 31b.); middle, D. P. Reardon
(Wales, list. 51b. 60z.) beat M. Dennis
(Eng., list. s|lb.); light-heavy, N. Wol-
marans (S’Africa, 12st. 71b.) beat C.
Overall (Aus., 12st. 41b.); heavy, T.
Osborne (Canada, 14st.) beat C. B.
Sterley (S’Africa, 13st. 41b.).
Grappling champs.: Bantam, E. Purcell
(Aus.); feather, R. Purchase (Aus.);
lightweight, R. Garrard (Aus.); welter,
T. Trevaskis (Aus.); middle, T. Evans
(Canada); light-heavy, E. Scarf (Aus.);
heavy, J. Knight (Aus.).
Ins and Outs
South Australia beat Victoria in the
last Sheffield of the season at Adelaide.
Tht match suggested that the wicket was
off-color br that the batsmen were fed
up with the game. Victoria got 195 in
reply to the Croweaters’ 157, but the
latter hit back with 340 (Whitington 86,
Bradman 85), and outed the Cabbage
Gardeners again for 177 (Barnett 41,
Pearson 36). To many the feature of
the match was the fine ’keeping of little
Horsell, the Sturt stumper dismissing five
Victorian batsmen and allowing only 10
byes.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The crocks in the Australian
Eleven have been vetted, with varying
results. Walker’s broken finger has been
passed, but Brown, out of the final game
in Sydney resting a strained leg muscle,
has undergone a tonsil operation which
is not likely to stop him. Badcock is on
the peg for the present until the doctors
satisfy themselves about a tummy trouble
which developed on the eastern tour.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Oldfield is to go to Eng-
land to write up the Australian tour for
a London daily and also do some broad-
casting. The ’keeper sails for England
on February 23, and will be available
on emergency for the Australian Eleven
unless his . contract forbids.
* * it A
“Old Q.”: Playing for his club in Bris-
bane, Hornibrook took six wickets for
13, bringing his bag for the season to
34 at 16.05. In 18 seasons he has
taken 745 wickets for Toombul at
12.06. On his only tour of Eng-
land in 1930, Hornibrook’s bag was 103
wickets at 18.37. Queensland could do
with him in the State Eleven, for he is
of the long, lean, indestructible type, but
he has definitely shaken the big side of
the game.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: In the final Test at
Madras, India beat Lord Tennyson’s


I
l
> i
10,000,000 sheets of
galvanized iron are
subjected every
year to this rigid
inspection.
LYSAGHT
ORQ
AUSTRALIA
roj
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
CAREFULLY
trained men
carry out the critical
inspection which is
given to every
sheet of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron. Only after a searching
examination can the Red Orb
brand be placed on a sheet, and
once branded it bears Lysaght's
guarantee your assurance of
a perfect, flawless sheet.
FREE a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of
useful information for ironworkers, store-
keepers, and the man on the land. Write for
your copy to John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd..
Box 198 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
COUTH AFRICA is one of
the most attractive coun-
tries in the world. The per-
fect climate, the rolling
veldt, the mountains, valleys
and woodlands, the quaint
native life —these are all a
part of its charm. But its
fascination lies deeper, for
to those who live there, and
even to those who have only
visited, this is the one coun-
try to which they always
desire to return.
m;
ite
tftvll
m
a
en
n.
t
in SOUTH AFRICA
For full particular*, apply to all offices of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
And from the Director, Publicity and Travel Bureau, South Africa House,
Trafalgar Square, London.
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand.
ach tv© e /
ihsi
? it
mm
(ifij,
ii
R!!S;
Fin M»
«k?l !»•<
!tll ?l f
m
• .'Vjilaatitl'iP »«!
in ■* »i u’ a
sms*.; as*'.'
ilHSiss:ii!i'»!a's ss<» ki.<• >. •
lBnl|Bl*‘*"* *»»»«« «n a «>«.»»• ii>
SI&ii!!!!!! ,N 11161191 *» y*■ * *
SSBhSRTiSSS?!'
■ nil'll I ...
%
Ii ivitiMttiiiJt
SS SKWEiKVX*
RVRVStSSSi
j{sgt;g§s»r
3rSr
bss»
r.:
m
ws:i; •
il'Sfli-
!!!??.’
Socviwcii -
my
m
snrnmsv*-
*' ' T«*»
ic tflOt®
® aUg v e f 0 read
ea> \ v “TVAi-
> cVlvad f le ivow
\,tainao‘ e
garage B
Trada Mark
No experienced motorist neglects
to test his tyre pressures at regular
intervals. He knows how much it
contributes to the safety and com-
fort of his motoring.
A small but appreciable loss of air
in the tyre is unavoidable, and
regular testing is essential to keep
the tyre pressures safely balanced.
So make a habit of Schrader-testing
your tyres each week-end. You
will be surprised to find the differ-
ence it makes to steering, braking
and general comfort. Testing and
inflation can be carried out in a
few minutes, thanks to the Schrader
Valve, standard throughout the
world and fitted by every tyre
manufacturer.
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, C.l.
team by an innings and six runs. Eng-
land could get only 94 and 163 in reply
to India’s total of 263. Amar Singh,
who has played for a Lancashire League
team, took 5-38 and 6-58.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Tom Garrett, 80 years
old in July, and last survivor of Gregory’s
1878 Australian eleven, is to bowl the
first ball in the sesqui-etc. match in Syd-
ney, which begins at the Cricket Ground
on February 18. Garrett, a right-hand
slow-medium bowler, went to England
also in 1882 and 1886, and took over
100 wickets on each occasion. On the
three tours he bagged 403 at 12.80; in
19 Tests at home and abroad, 36 wickets
at 26.90. With the bat his Test average
was 12.59.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Australian golfers
learned with regret of the sudden death
of Michael Scott, at 60. It happened
while the veteran was big-game fishing
in Florida. During a long stay in this
country Scott won two open and five
amateur championships of Australia, as
well as the N.S.W. and Victorian titles.
He crowned a long career in the game
by taking the British amateur champion-
ship in 1933. Australia last saw him as
captain-manager of the British team of
golfers here in 1934.
♦ * * *
“Divot Digger”: Sloan Morpeth,
chosen as manager, having dropped out,
the Australian amateur golfers in Britain
will be managed by C. W. Rundle, of
Sydney. The new bear-leader is skipper
of Royal Sydney, and was for a time
president of the N.S.W. Golf Council.
He departs with his charges on March 31.
* * *
“Brassey”: The tremendous entry of
520 for the N.S.W. A.I.F. golf tourney
made it necessary to split the affair in
two, the two batches being worked off
this week. This left 26 leading competi-
tors eligible for a final go, and they
will play off on Wednesday, February
23. All enlisted men may now compete.
Originally only those who went overseas
were eligible.
Racquet and Bawl
“King’s Park”: Though they scraped
home against Australia, represented by
Quist and McGrath, at Perth, Cramm
and Henkel boarded the boat for home
well and truly tired of tennis for a bit.
Since the middle of September they had
played from Brisbane to Perth, in special
matches and big tourneys, and towards
the end were showing unmistakable signs
of fag. But they never complained. The
Americans had a much easier time, play-
ing only in N.S.W., Victoria and Adel-
aide. They wisely stipulated beforehand
for a sensible programme.
sj: * H*
“Cut Shot”: Cramm and Henkel have
been summing up Australian tennis-
players. Cramm thinks that Hunt and
Riggs are better than our best juniors,
but that, after the U.S.A., Australia is
far ahead of other tennis countries in
the quality of the youngsters. Cramm
tips the Australians to win the American
zone, and expects to meet them in the
inter-zone final. In Europe he thinks
Germany, France, the Yugs and the
Czechs are good bets for the semi-finals,
but doesn’t give England a hope.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: In the first Davis Cup
round Australians will meet Mexicans in
the U.S.A., and it is fairly certain that
Australians and lapanese will play out
the zone final. In Europe Germany has
a bye in the first round and an easy trot
against Norway in the second. Maori-
land also takes a first-round bye, and
tackles Hungary in the second.
Miscellaneous
“The Galfer”: Professional ped pro-
moters in Victoria are in a dither over
an allegation that runners are being
doped like racehorses and tin-hare
hounds. The tale is that the ped is given
a shot before the race to supercharge
him, so to speak. It is said the stuff may
be administered without his knowledge,
which is likely unless the hypodermic
needle is used. In my time some
men were smariened up with a stiff nip
of brandy if they were nervy. Doping
opposition runners called for care and
skill, for peds were watched night and day
before a big betting race. Even if a joke
was put over you couldn’t rely on the
chap you’d fixed not double-crossing you.
One instance shows what I mean. Half
an hour before a big Sheffield in N.Q.
the man we feared was locked up by his
gaffer in a bedroom of his pub, which
was only a few yards from the tracks.
It was a two-storey room, but one of my
lieutenants got a ladder and sneaked in
through the bedroom window with a
quart-jugful of beer. He offered the
ped a tenner to drink it, and he obliged
like a bird. I needn’t say how horrified
we were when he bolted and won the
race he had been stiffened for. We found
out that as soon as our man had gone
down the ladder he put his fingers down
his throat and got rid of the beer.
* * * *
“Sea Anchor”: The trans-Tasman
yacht-race came to a finish when the sur-
viving contestant, the Aurora Star —the
other one had to go back to M.L. early
in the piece—limped into Sydney after
abandoning all further attempts to reach
its goal, Tasmania. The yacht ran into
a howling gale, and when he found him-
self at Lord Howe Island, some 400 miles
north of his course, the skipper decided
to call it a day. The craft is a staysail
schooner, 41ft. overall, and should be
able to go anywhere. The Tasman, how-
ever, can supply some of the dirtiest
weather on the face of the globe, and
tackling it in an ugly mood in such a
craft is no job for amateurs.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Australian Film at Last.
At last the Australian-made “A Nation
Is Built” has been trotted out for public
inspection showing at the Prince
Edward, Sydney—and it turns out to be
so good that the delay in presenting it
becomes more of a puzzler than ever.
One film addict, at least, would very
much like to hear what explanation
there might be for the delay. The film
carries the statement that it was specially
made for the N. S. Wales Government
and the 150th Anniversary celebrations
committee. The celebrations began
with some small unofficial affairs a full
month back, bursting into their official
stride on January 25-26 ; in publicity and
other preparation they had really been
under way for months. Yet the showing
of this film —specially made for the occa-
sion—synchronised not with the begin-
ning but with the end of the main part of
the celebrations.
Over the past three or four weeks Syd-
ney has been crowded with visitors. The
first period of the celebrations ending
on Saturday—when the film’s showing
began—many of these visitors are already
getting away. The army of Empire
Games athletes—as fine types as could
be attracted here—are clearing off this
week. The film could have been shown
to them very effectively. They and most
of the other celebrations visitors must
still have only the sketchiest idea of Aus-
tralia, and this film is so good that it
would have filled the gap for them.
And not only visitors. Still very few
Australians have the awareness and the
conception of Australia that this fine film
provides. On its showing at the Prince
Edward on Saturday night it was
applauded as films very rarely are. It
deserved that on its |sheer merits as
documentary film; but, apart from this,
Australian sentiment has been running
so high since the celebrations started that
if the film had been showing over this
period it would by now have returned
whatever it cost —would have cashed in,
in fact, on those feelings—and would
have been extra-keenly enjoyed by many
thousands.
While the period of celebrations —and
high spending—was on neither this nor
any other Australian film was showing
in Sydney theatres. Things will now be
comparatively quiet till April, when the
other celebrations outburst occurs, and
it would be a safe enough bet that by
then this Australian-made film will be
back in storage.
Meanwhile Sydney’s movie houses,
almost without exception, have been
showing American-made films, including
one also specially made for the celebra-
tions ; there was a place for it! One or
two of these —much boosted ones —have
been horrible flops. Yet this Australian
film, which any independent film ex-
hibitor in his senses would have rushed
as a certain money-maker, comes yon
belatedly now.
Some explanation seems to be palled
for. If it is mere Governmental or com-
mittee tardiness the responsible ones
should take out their thinking gear and
brush it. If the explanation is that Syd-
ney film houses are tied to American
production concerns to such an extent
that one Australian film of the quality
of this one could not be given a place,
it provides an unanswerable argument for
a genuinely independent Australian
theatre in Sydney.
“A Nation Is Built.”
In the generally entertaining bill at
Sydney Prince Edward this film is out-
standing.
It had the services of a master photo-
grapher in Frank Hurley. He and his
Cinesound unit spent six months making
it, travelling 12,000 miles in N. S. Wales
and shooting 20,000 ft. of film. In view
of that, and especially in view of the
title’s implication, it is somewhat a pity
that any State exclusiveness should have
entered into the matter.
There is an expansion as far as Port
Pirie —to round off the Broken Hill sec-
tion —but generally the film is restricted
to depicting N.S.W. In this it carries
the brand of the 150th Anniversary cele-
brations, these having remained ex-
clusively a N.S.W. jamboree, if not
almost purely Sydney. In the film there
is an impression that even Canberra —
the one common Australian construction
touched upon—is a N.S.W. State posses-
sion. The implication of the title, how-
ever, is realised to the extent that the big
primary industries so well depicted are
common Australian property, though
even here there is a parochial insistence
on the State’s large whack in the total.
With a little less insistence on such
points and a little more expansiveness in
the original mapping, the film, without
being much longer, could have stood as
comprehensively for all Australia as it
certainly does stand for N.S.W. Still,
that might be to the good if it happens
to inspire or provoke other States to go
and do likewise.
There could not be a finer model for
a complete documentary film mapping of
the whole of Australia. It pictures such
wealth-producers as the wool, wheat and
mining industries splendidly, both from
Oscar Homolka, Barry Fitzgerald and Lloyd Nolan in “Ebb Tide," at the
Prince Edward, Sydney.
the point of view of informativeness and
entertainment. It gives an excellent ac-
count of such great concerns as B.H.P.
and Amalgamated Wireless, and shows
Sydney in a manner that will be an eye-
opener even ,to Sydneysiders.
The picturing of the harbor is magni-
ficent. Better photography than this
could not be had, and the same goes for
such shots as those depicting flocks of
sheep, especially one part in which
masses of jumbucks are shown rolling
in a living woolly flood over undulating
land. The wheat lands, too, are very
beautifully, photographed, as are some of
the main scenic parts, such as the glori-
ous views of the South Coast.
Views of the North Coast could have
been better than the few shots of Mount
Warning; the whole Tweed Valley is
glorious, and views of it from Terra-
nora Heights and other points would en-
hance any scenic film. The Blue Moun-
tains, too, could have been better done.
They appear, oddly enough, somewhat
forbidding, and. the Jenolan Caves are
completely overlooked. There are fine
shots of Kosciusko, of the loading of
ships, of splendid cloud effects and many
other interesting matters.
In addition to Frank Hurley, whose
well-established fame as a photographer
the film enhances at every point, and
Frank Coffey, responsible for its being
an excellently edited film, Harry Dearth
wins this Page’s heartiest applause for
his commentary. This is as clear as the
photography itself, engaging and to the
point all the way.
t( Ehb Tide.”
The film of Stevenson’s robust roman-
tic yarn at Sydney Prince Edward is in
color, and, curiously, the yarn seems to
be damaged thereby. The screening
might well have left many with the im-
pression that the color was wonderful
but the story not up to much.
It may be that the color is over-
rich ; there will probably have to be a
compromise between actuality and credi-
bility before the perfect color-film is
made. On the same Prince Edward bill
there is a bit of color in another film
as near perfection as most could wish.
It is of horses, and gives an arresting
impression of their being actually seen
alive. Incidentally, horses almost in-
variably come out most convincingly in
color-film.
In “Ebb Tide” the color is unbeliev-
ably rich. Since the setting is the South
Seas it probably isn’t at all overdone,
and some sea bits are very beautiful,
but as film it doesn’t convince. Especi-
ally it seems to miss with the characters,
who look much too richly tanned to be
true. The color comes between the on-
looker and the basic yarn. To be suc-
cessful color will probably have to be
modified. It will need to aid, not over-
lay, the drama.
It is all, of course, very nice and ro-
mantic, and that is the most serious fault
with it, since the gloss of romanticism
tends to take the dramatic kick out of
the story, particularly in the tense climax.
The characters are so romantically in-
vested that it is impossible to believe
at the same time in the utter ruthlessness
of one or two of them. Most handi-
capped in this respect is Barry Fitzgerald,
whose Cockney among the three beach-
combers is otherwise a dandy job. Even
with the coating of chocolate-box color
he acts so well that something of the
ruthlessness of the part gets through.
Better served by the coloring is Oscar
Homolka, who makes thoroughly con-
vincing the Scandinavian skipper getting
the job of taking a pestilence-ridden
schooner to Sydney and taking his two
fellow-beachcombers with him, to decide
subsequently on heading for South
America and selling the craft instead,
with complications caused by the appear-
ance of the schooner’s ex-skipper’s
daughter on board, the Cockney and
present skipper going on a bender and
arrival at an unmapped island occupied
by a psalm-singing murdering maniac of
a pearler. Lloyd Nolan —most unreal of
all .in the coloring—is the one piece of
bad casting in the film. He overacts
the island maniac enormously, with too
much studio polish for such a part. Hero
Ray Milland, who’s the third of the
beachcombers, and Frances Farmer, the
goil, do their rather minor parts very
well.
Taken purely as an entertainer the
film is tip-top. Its extra attractions in-
clude humor, good plot twists and a fair
bit of violent action when the schooner
runs into a typhoon.
“Bulldog Drummond Comes
Back..”
John Howard, John Barrymore.
“Sapper’s” stretches of imagination
should adapt themselves to f.a.q. beller-
drammer; they are well put together,
move at a good pace and have a liberal
sprinkling of moiders and dash of lurv,
which is about all asked for by those who
like that sort of thing. Possibly their
failures are due to hazy apd varied depic-
tions of the extraordinary Mr. Drum-
mond.
According to his creator, that aston-
ishing gentleman should be possessed of
a McLaglen appearance and a Colman
personality, a pretty tall order for any
casting office; Colman tried the job
twice and nearly got away with it, but
succeeding efforts have lent a chamelion
aspect to the character. If he is to pursue
his remarkable adventures in a series of
films similar to the “Hopalong Cassidy”
or “Charlie Chan” varieties —and that
seems to be the general trend of things
—it might be a good idea for someone to
establish and maintain a definite iden-
tity.
In present offering at Sydney Cameo
and Civic John Howard conceives a
somewhat different personage, and wan-
ders through some unconvincing scrapes
in a sort of treasure-hunt with a goil at
the other end. Barrymore as Inspector
Neilson is a sympathetic gent, from Scot-
land Yard (as “Sapper” had it, the pair
of them were always at loggerheads), and
finds reason to utilise a couple of start-
ling disguises. Reginald Denny and E.
E. Clive struggle to raise a laugh here
and there.
“Two Wise Maids.”
Alison Skipworth.
Despite one or two weak moments this
little whimsicality at Sydney Capitol gets
a cheer from present film-taster for its
crowd of plausible youngsters. The
grimy, tousle-headed bunch of rapscal-
lions skylarking in their rags and tatters
is something worth seeing after a dosage
of Breens and Temples.
Story concerns the troubles of Miss
Skipworth, a schoolmarm of the old
vintage in N’Yark’s lower east side. To
prove there’s something soft beneath a
rugged exterior she spends most of her
time saving young larrikins from the re-
formatory, but unorthodox behavior
earns disapproval from authority and
loses her the anticipated job of principal.
When the nasty specimen of her class
(Jackie Searl) damages his countenance
while snaffling examination papers, she
shoulders the blame and is due for dis-
missal, but her charges suffer a change
of heart and rally to the rescue by hunt-
ing up several of her former pupils, in-
cluding a banker, an actress and a pug
(Maxie Rosenbloom). The standards of
idealism being American, these are ac-
cepted as satisfactory evidence of her
good work, so she holds her job.
Take away the youngsters, particularly
a delightful hooligan in the form of
Marcia Mae Jones, and the offering
would probably fall flat, but as done it’s
a pleasant enough stretch of sentimen-
talism.
State Theatrette Newsreels.
The current bill is particularly interest-
ing for its excellent shots of the Empire
Games. They now make films of this
sort in Australia as good as any made
anywhere. In this series photography is
exceptionally clear—much better than in
many others on the same bill.
The film gives a good idea of the
Games —something of the opening day,
with the teams of athletes marching on
to the Cricket Ground, the pigeons being
released and other items of the ritual,
then some of the events. Through the
services of slow motion, some of these
are even better on the screen than they
seemed to the eye, notably the high-jump
winner’s efforts, each a miracle of grace.
The jumper goes up, over, down and
recovers himself in a continuous, fault-
lessly rhythmic movement. A discus-
thrower and some of the divers, treated
in like fashion, are also very graceful;
but that high-jumper’s action is classic.
Also of especial interest on the bill is
a depiction of U.S.A.’s splendidly-organ-
ised and -conducted commercial flying.
Other Current Offerings.
On stage the splendid musical show
“Balalaika” is still drawing crowds to
Sydney Royal, and at the Tiv. a bright
and snappy bunch of vaudevillians con-
tinue to say “Hello, 1938.”
Two of the current flicks, as well as
one just ended, are historical drama and,
according to the ads., fairly ambitious


WINTER
CRUISES
EARLY JUNE
EARLY JULY
LATE JULY
LATE AUGUST
FIJI
PAPUA*
NOUMEA*
FIJI
ORONSAYf
ORONTESf
O R A M Af
OTRANTOf
*By way of Great Barrier Reef,
fFirst Saloon and Tourist Class,
f First Saloon and Tourist-B Class.
ORIENT
LINE
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO,
. v Av-'ifc.. 4.-t • * - -P-.-Vt
>- W/SSV Jte SS®
L XP.
NCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
Y. 71
productions, yet all of them fall short of
expectations inspired by their titles.
The just-ended “Parnell” missed badly
from a historical viewpoint; it had
several shortcomings, all emanating from
the old fault of corrupting chief charac-
ter and event to suit the actor con-
cerned. In this particular case the real
Parnell was shamelessly mangled, pos-
sibly to air the Windsor-Simpson busi-
ness and certainly to soothe a few femi-
nine bosoms and stir them with the
Gable countenance. It has had a brief
run at the St. James, giving way there to
“The Firefly,” a very pleasant and tune-
ful offering with Jeanette MacDonald
and Allan Jones.
“Victoria the Great” at the Embassy
is good entertainment, but could have
been a much better film; it has some
very fine scenes, authentic atmosphere
and splendid acting by a strong cast, but
suffers from unnecessary padding made
essential by the occurrence of two dis-
tinct themes infringing on each other
throughout.
The new Century’s offering reaches a
higher standard. “The Life of Emile
Zola” has all the strong points of the
Victoria film as well as better directing,
more powerful material and Paul Muni
at his best; consequently its defect,
though somewhat similar, is more obscure
and less detrimental to the entertain-
ment value of the film. Setting out to
portray the life and character of Zola
it neglects and abbreviates much promis-
ing material to deal at length with the
Dreyfus case. Still, it makes a fine job
of that, and should take a place as one
of this year’s best.
Easily the most outstanding drama
for a long time, “Night Must Fall” is
due to wind up at the Lyceum. A
finely-toned psychological study of a
murderer, it is one of those rare films
that give opportunity for histrionic ability
seldom seen off the legit, stage. Robert
Montgomery rises to the occasion and
sustains a difficult role, the finest per-
formance of his career.
In a different class but just as good
is the delightful matrimonial comedy
“The Awful Truth” at the Regent. With
sparkling wit and repartee it bubbles
hilariously through smooth interplay
of side-splitting situations in a manner
that definitely establishes Irene Dunne
and Cary Grant as a first-rate comedy
team.
The musical “Maytime” is in its 23rd
week at the Liberty. In lighter vein-
Eddie Cantor is reeling off wisecracks
and goggling at assorted hipswingers in
“Ali Baba Goes to Town” at the May-
fair. Fred Astaire hands out his usual
ration of songandance at the State, and
a much heralded film, “Dead End,” goes
on this week at the Plaza.
“Reported Missing," at Sydney Capitol,
allows William Gargan to invent some
aviation gadget and see the first two
’planes that use it crash with all hands.
Of course, he smells a rat, disposes of
it in the usual manner and goes into a
clinch with air-hostess Jean Rogers.
There has been wearying surfeit of these
aerial concoctions lately, and all that
saves this one from being altogether
plagiaristic is Hobart Cavanaugh’s logical
suggestion that men might fly like birds
when they tumble to the fact that a sen-
sible bird goes to roost in rough weather.
Australian Films.
Though this film-taster hasn’t sighted
it yet, a film just finished by Ace Pro-
ductions will have him early on the mat
when it shortly comes up for showing.
Titled “Below the Surface,” it’s a coal-
mining story filmed at Pagewood and
Newcastle. If the makers have had the
good sense to embody a sound documen-
tary depiction of our coalmining, the film
should be uncommonly interesting.
There’s a story in it, with Neil Carlton,
Phyllis Riley, Stan Tolhurst and Reg
King in leading parts.
Radiola Concert.
A.W.A., which once a year hires Syd-
ney Town Hall for a concert, gave its
annual entertainment last week, mus-
tering a fair crowd to listen to a long
musical programme and an address by
E. T. Fisk, and to inspect samples of
the co.’s 1938 broadcast receivers.
The Radiola Symphony Orchestra,
conducted by Franqois Stempinski,
played selections from Dvorak’s “New
World” symphony, “Lohengrin” and
Gounod’s “Faust,” transcriptions of some
of Eric Coates’s songs (which seem to
have been translated by their industrious
composer into every musical language
save the bagpipes), Coleridge-Taylor’s
“Petite Suite de Concert,” and “Land of
Hope and Glory.” ’ The band also sup-
ported Isidor Goodman in a spirited
performance of the first movement of
Tschaikowsky’s B Flat Minor concerto.
There were songs by Eileen Boyd, Marie
Bremner and Stanley Clarkson, quartets
and octets and occasional appearances,
in conjunction with other performers, of
the Phil, choir.
.
Uino ISorgioli.
For his second Sydney concert Dino
Borgioli, just recovered from a heavy
cold, wisely chose a programme designed
to put the least strain on his voice. & The
operatic group was limited to the “Una
Furtiva Lagrima” from Donizetti’s “Elisir
d’Amore”—beautifully sung—and the
live iy “Ecco Ridente” from Rossini’s
“Barber of Seville.” He topped these
of f wit h a fine rendering of “The Dream”
f rom “Manon.”
While permitting himself in these an
occasional flight into the vocal strato-
sphere, for the most part he confined
himself to songs set in the middle register,
and these were sung with rare artistry.
Few exponents of bet canto have better
enunciation or control of breathing
Fifteenth-century Italian and German
songs> mostly jn the ha] f. voice;
were full
of charm , and gr of modern French,
English and Italian songs followed. Of
these Debussy’s “Romance,” Pizzetti’s “I
p asto ri” and Hageman’s “Do Not Go,
My Love”—the latter sung in faultless
English—were outstanding
A.B.C. Pop.
*
Highlights of Saturday night’s “popu-
J? 1 ' concert by the A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra (Sydney) were the overtures
tO . “Oberon” and “Tannhauser,” played
wd h dash and spirit, and the d6but in
first-class company of young Vaughan
Hanley violinist.
Hanley was soloist in Wieniawski s
' on 8 a ?d exacting D Minor Concerto,
a " d displayed commendable courage,
The fireworks were not very brilliant,
but the tone, save on the highest notes,
was good, and the player showed imag-
ination and intelligence.
A performance of an orchestral ver-
sion of Liszt’s “First Rhapsody” sounded
ploddingly mechanical, and music from
Tschaikowsky’s “Swan Lake” ballet
needed a lighter touch.
Raymond Beatty sang Mendelssohn’s
“I’m a Roamer” splendidly. Percy Code
conducted the orchestra.
.......
Show at the Mitchell Library,
At first presentation the idea of “the
Mitchell” putting on a show may seem
a bit like Homer, asked for parlor tricks,
proposing to give a demonstration of
nodding, until it is remembered that the
half-finished building is a museum of
history as well as a repository of books
and documents, and that the upper-floor
galleries are permanently open for in-
spection
The c e *n„i show i* nracticallv
I he enlarged s squi show is p Y
an encyclopaedia of Australian mstory.
view, 'and hundreds®! pieces. It is a
, r , ■ * v
place for browsing. Anyone who goes
there with the idea of having a quic
£on Ce and JSicTtf
historical figures in whom they have
some special interest People who can
e, h“,iHwri,;n7„ C
can have an especially entertaining B
. i T ./ . . ,
sorts. Here is the numerously-signed
manifesto of the conspirators who ousted
Bligh ; here the nice little note sent by
Tennyson to Henry Parkes, acknowledg-
ing receipt of the latter’s book of poems.
The Laureate expresses no opinion about
the poesy, but says he hopes Henry will
be “the first Australian Premier.”
There are billboard notices of meet-
ings held in London (under the patron-
age of long lists of lords and esquires)
to form new colonies. There are very
black notices posted up in Ballarat (then
spelt “Ballaarat”) in 1854, warning the
populace against unlawful assemblies,
There are the notebooks of explorers,
from which it may be deduced that the
first essential towards a career of ex-
ploration is an ability to write the Lord’s
Prayer on a threepenny-bit. Stuart, the
first to cut right through the heart of
the continent, from Adelaide to what is
now Darwin, must have had nerves of
steel and microscopic eyes to inscribe his
observations in never-varying Vere
Fosterish script with letters one-thirty-
second of an inch high,
th ? matter of portraits the Mitchell
suffers from an embarrassment ot riches,
must have at least a dozen paintings
or engravings of Cook, al so diverse
* hat V S difficult to credit they were
fr ° m the same model The only believ-
portrait in the bunch is that by
Hodges, R.A.—no fancy piece, but show-
ing the ca P tain ( he was onl Y a lieutenant
w hen he discovered Port Jackson) as a
red . n d (and red . nosed) who
shaTCd bluE a " d who had a ° f
b “™ r ” *"»<**• . In « he ca case » f Mac-
quarie it isnt (as in the case ot Cook)
, he best . painted portrait that looks most
likely, but the worst, because it is the
“"'V one that d °“"’« V to make a very
P la ' v n er ™ n '°° k beaU,i£ul because he ’ s a
No f , hi h however
brief ' should omit mentioA of the
S f tlon devoted to ver V old nor to
of f si c,ures - of
scenes in the early days of the various
§ tates 3 3
*
A j I * j a
Aaelaute Amateurs.
John Tait, who saw the Adelaide
Musical Comedy Co. play “The Vaga-
bond King” in November, has made a
sporting offer on behalf of the William-
son firm to transport the whole amateur
co. to Melbourne to repeat it at His
Majesty’s this winter.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GLUT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
"The Bulletin," Box 252188,
Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY THURSDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every month six to nine
patterns are given away free
for a penny stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
♦s
iff
!H1
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
With hundreds of others, this Letter
paid a visit to the Coronation robes in
the National Gallery. With good show-
man instinct, Director Will Ashton has
the display arranged so that the eye is led
from the bright fields of royal and
Dominions’ standards to the ultimate
dazzle of purple and ermine. The green
maple leaf burned on a white ground—
in the standard of Canada; there were
also a harp on a blue ground, red lions
rampant on gold and other heraldic
beasts, gold on a red ground. The green,
orange, white and blue of South Africa
were alongside. Standing in neighborly
fashion were the royal golds and
maroons, the reds and golds of Scotland
and England. There was Ireland’s harp
on a blue that might have been a bit of
the night sky.
There hung Australia’s emblem. In
it a black swan swam on a gold lagoon.
Stars and crosses, and a shrike —he’s a
mixture of crow and magpie—were
woven in brilliant color harmony. The
Welsh standard is heavily populated with
red animals rampant on gold fields,
while gold ones are equally sportive or
ferocious on red. They suggest some-
thing that might be dreamed after a late
supper of Welsh rabbit. Sheep and
wheat and ships, though the sheep, poor
dear, seemed to have lost interest in
earthly pastures, made spirited pattern on
Maoriland’s; while a five-pointed star
on a burning sun told of India.
The splendor of the robes was behind
a high glass case. Such visitors as the
Gallery has probably not seen before
milled around with bated breath. Elderly
ladies refreshed themselves with dabs of
eau-de-Cologne and threepenny paper
fans. Father carried a suitcase for
mother, who was evidently “going Abbey”
between bursts of Friday’s shopping.
“Mother, Flo’s got a cape of that!”
nudged one elderly man. “Oh, Father,
where’s your sense? That’s ermine. More
germ than erm in Flo’s.” Looking at
the shoulder cape of ermine, the flowing
cloak of purple velvet with its long train,
heavy with three bands of gold bullion,
leading to its ultimate border of the
ermine, one perspiring onlooker whis-
pered : “Poor young man, I hope it
wasn’t a hot day.” Her friend replied:
“I always say they should hold these
things in winter.”
But it was the flowers richly embroid-
ered in gold that decorated the Queen’s
train, spraying out up the middle of the
train, deeply scrolling the hem and side
borders to the shoulders, that called forth
the loudest exclamations: “Mother, look,
there’s the waratah, and is that wattle?”
“There’s the thistle and the rose, but
they’d never leave out the shamrock. No,
there it is! ” “There’s the leek —that’s for
Wales,” smiled another; “and that’s a
lotus.” “Look at the gauntlet on the
royal glove. It must be elbow-length,
and it’s all gold!”
Strolling gipsy players, a brightly bur-
nished moon and the beflagged decks of
the Nieuw Holland combined in giving
the dance in honor of the commander
and officers of the Dutch sloop Flores a
touch of romance. The givers of the
party, Mr. and Mrs. A. Bakker, and
Commander J. Blaauboer mixed the right
bowl of wassail with the best class of
turkey— not a pioneer among them.
There is always a great roll-up to the
parties given on the Dutch ships. Easy
friendliness emanates from the hosts to
the guests. There are iced drinks every-
where and cold shoulders nowhere. Last
week’s merrymaking lived up to the old
tradition.
With her black frock Mrs. Bakker
wore a little Eton jacket of hyacinth-
pink. Near by, helping to receive, stood
daughters Elaine and Jean. Jean’s frock
was a souffle of green net on which little
knots of blue and pink flowers occurred.
Pale lilac were Elaine’s crepes, deep lilac
her sash ; a long cape was a graceful
accompaniment. Consul-General for the
Netherlands Elink Schuurman and his
wife were importants. Her rose-red silks
were worn with a cream satin Chinese
coat embroidered in blue. The military
was present in force, and a happy party
gathered around the Brigadier-General
Hardies’ table, Mrs. Hardie’s black-and-
white chiffons being offset by Mrs. Lor-
enzo’s flowered taffetas and Mrs. Mere-
dith’s blue-and-silver cloque. Her hus-
band is Colonel Meredith, and they are
not long from India.
Black tulle with cobalt-blue spots set
off Leonie Bond’s slimness. White and
green suited Mrs. Vigevenp. Warringah’s
new member of Parliament, Percy
Spender, and his wife were among the
dancers, her black-lacquered satins
bright with flowers. The R. Mowats
and the Leo Burings formed a group. A
flash of silver was Jean Gillespie. A
black net cape kept company with her
glinting frock. Black Persian lamb
banded the black chiffons worn by Mrs.
D. Lammers. Chief Secretary Chaffey
and Mrs. Chaffey were among the
popular.
Pictured here is Norda Mata, the
dancer, who gave two recitals at the Little
Theatre in Phillip-street last week, and
who is about to start a broadcasting ses-
sion in rhythmic exercises and body
development.
The great moment of the Jeanne d’Arc
reception was the ceremony of the lower-
ing of the colors. This was attended with
ceremonial, and after the tricolor fluttered
down at set of sun the ship’s band played
the national anthems of France, Great
Britain, the U.S.A., Italy and other coun-
tries in honor of the many Consular
visitors. Captain Auphan and his officers
received at the head of the gangway.
The decks were gaily awninged-in, there
were champagne cocktails and French
pastries. France’s pretty young daughters
smiled among a crowd that was thick
with Sydney’s important citizens.
There was quite an air of uplift about
the Parliament House reception last week.
The tennis court had almost a reckless
look with its marquees, palms and flags.
Tea was a pleasant interlude in this out-
door setting, and the music of the Police
Band made the pulse beat blithely. Presi-
dent of the Legislative Council knight
John Peden, daughter Barbara, Speaker
Weaver and Mrs. Weaver were the hosts.
The party was in honor of visiting dele-
gates of the Empire Parliamentary Asso-
ciation. Mrs. Weaver’s tunic frock was
Parma-violet in tone. Barbara Peden’s
silks were patterned in green and white.
Mayor Norman Nock arrived with
Mrs. Nock, deep-blue romaine with
touches of silver her choice. Beige-pink
was worn by Dame Maria Ogilvie-
Gordon. Hugh Denison’s lady had one
of the most attractive hats. Darli Mc-
Court came with mother and father —
he’s Clerk of the Assembly. Two of the
afternoon’s well-dressed were Mrs. Frank
Chaffey and Mrs. Moore Cosgrave.
Empire Games Sir James Leigh Wood
and Lady Wood were tea-sippers. Also
glimpsed were Sir Henry Morris-Jones
and his lady and Sir Howard d’Egville.
Slowly cooking in the basement of
the Commonwealth Bank is the Histori-
cal Society’s exhibition, another ribbon
on our 150th birthday. In last week’s
humidity the portraits in the Surveyors-
General gallery seemed to be perspiring.
Not so the figures dressed in the fashions
of other days. They stand demure, com-
manding, graceful, grim, down every
turning of the exhibition. Naturally a
great deal of this exhibition is pictorial,
and it would seem that the business of
portraiture must have been a thriving one,
for there are portraits of all the early
explorers, doctors and clergymen. The
O. E. Friend loan shows the changes that
have crept over such spots as Hyde Park
and George-street North. The Govern-
ment Printer, too, weighs in with some
nice bits of “as we were.”
The sentimental will be pleased at the
inclusion of the wedding dress of Anna
Blaxland, who married Thomas Walker
in St. John’s, Parramatta, in 1823. The
Ranken family coach and the glass cases
displaying the fine china and glassware
belonging to early Wentworths and
Daileys show that the niceties were not
overlooked. Ned Kelly in his armor and
a picture of the death of Starlight
murmur of bushranging days. Here is
the first word in railway engines, there
the last word in aeroplanes. The found-
ing of all the States is depicted on large
canvases. Here are ships and churches
and pioneer household gods. A set of
copper kitchen utensils attracts the gleam
of envy from housewifely eyes.
This vivid-looking girl is Jean Bakker,
elder daughter of the A. Bakkers, of
Pymble. Father is general manager of
the Royal Dutch Navigation Company.
One of Jean’s enthusiasms is flying. Here
you see her stepping from one of the
Douglas airliners of the Royal Nether-
lands Indies Airways.
Disaster by water marred yet another
Sunday. As the cruiser Louisville, its rails
lined with friendly, smiling faces, steamed
down the harbor, a launch filled with
Sydneyites anxious to wave a last fare-
well to the American visitors overturned.
The capsize occurred when the passengers
rushed to one side to get a closer view
of the warship. Before the launch sank
many lifebelts had been fired from
the Louisville, sailors dived from the
deck, and lifeboats were lowered. Men
from the police launch, many of whom
had been part of the stirring band, leaped
to the rescue. Private launches and
rowboats and the Manly ferry Barren-
joey all did their bit. As usual, heroism
rose swift to the call of danger. And
yet Sydney mourns her dead.
Helene Kirsova, who delighted Sydney
with her dancing in the Monte Carlo
Russian Ballet company, married her Dr.
Erik Fischer, Vice-Consul for Denmark,
last Thursday afternoon. St. Mark’s
blessed the vows, and later on a small
wedding party drank toasts at the Bertie
Kellys’ home near by. Chiffons in an
ethereal shade of blue made the wedding
dress, which was girdled with matching
cord. A toque of the same blue had
for complement a veil in a darker tone.
Bride’s flowers were lily-of-the-valley and
cream roses. Little Juliet Winchcombe,
in pink organdie, was at hand to hold
the bride’s bouquet. Consul-General for
Denmark G. L. Host best-manned.
Up in the gallery of the Education
Department they are showing the entries
in the sesquicentenary art competitions.
Bulletin’s old friend B. E. Minns is one
of the prizewinners. Looking at his
aborigines you feel the primitive instincts
burning through lean, lithe body and
questioning eyes. Another friend plucked
off the prize in his section. He is Mick
Paul, and he shows a group of early
colonists gathered together under a
spreading gum-tree for the first religious
service. Howard Ashton’s fresh land-
scape got the judges’ A 1 seal, and so
'did his father Julian’s “St. Mary’s from
the Domain.” You simply can’t keep
these Ashtons down. Howard’s son’s
entry got a “highly commended.” Ethleen
Palmer (you’ve seen her photograph in
this Letter) shows a lino.-cut in which the
delicacy of the old Chinese and Japanese
prints seems to breathe. Egrets are the
subject, first prize the reward.
The U.S.S. Louisville’s quarter-deck
was garnished twice last week for after-
noon parties. Sydney girls are certainly
popular with their American cousins in
the Navy. At the second at-home, guests
were confronted by an impressive visitors’
book. This was on a desk beside the
gangway, and set about were pens and ink.
Mrs. A. M. Doyle, wife of America’s
Consul, drew the gaze with her
amethystine frocking and large grey hat.
The wives of three of the officers, the
blonde Mrs. J. S. Lehman, Mrs. Robert
Duncan and Mrs. W. G. Livingstone,
were a pleasant trio. Helen Bruxner was
one of many pretty girls—delphinium
blues in her frock and hat.
The Wentworth was gay with the tri-
color when French citizens in Sydney
gave a dance for the officers of the
Rigault de Genouilly and the Jeanne
d’Arc. A centre of interest was the
boar’s head on the long buffet table.
From it radiated blue, white and red
streamers. Sydney’s Harbor Bridge was
modelled in bread and what the Ameri-
cans call sea food (prawn and lobster to
you). Consul-General Tremoulet, aided
by the Vice-Consular Puaux couple, re-
ceived the guests. Previous to the dance
the C.G. had been host at a dinner-party
in Petty’s Hotel. His principal guests
were Captain Auphan and Captain
Plante.
The, Parliamentary delegate from
Ceylon made the speech at the Inter-
national Society’s lunch. He has an
eloquent tongue and a clear-eyed mind,
and he does not fear to speak the truth
as he sees it. No platitudes, no time-
worn phrase for him. Sir Henry Morris-
Jones was clear-cut, too, but very brief.
The Snowden lady was in the chair, and
Aubrey Halloran made the speech in
reply, very bright and typically Aubreyish.
There was a crush attendance, and Usher’s
Blue Room buzzed like a beehive. At
Oswald Cheeke’s big table were Lady
Tempest and Ella Shields, the latter
wearing in the front of her camellia-red
frock a spray of frangipanni. The end
of the spray was fastened under the front
of her turn-down collar, and the spray
formed a cascade of creamy sweetness.
Robin Eakin was there with her father,
Ruby Adams and Gag Beaton, Mrs. Jean
Moreing and an even number of men.
Lady Morris-Jones came with her hus-
band. Mrs. Kveton was with the Nor-
man Macleods.
From 9.30 last Sunday morning the
Town Hall seethed and frothed with the
dress rehearsal of the Pageant of Nations.
This made spectacular display on Mon-
day night at the same address in the pres-
ence of the vice-regals, the Consular
corps and many of the mighty. An 80ft.


■ ■
■
m -ru #* A yz*otoe% * *#■
3 I£*‘ ■• , vrf« fw. a *«, \
t *T™, Sv- »“»«; t y* »* t ** t l
<.-.■■■
Hi
MM
V*» «»:
B
f'<-
n
. .
Series of
8 cards
X
Sesqui Centenary
Cards
of Old Australia
Reproduction of etchings engraved a hundred years or more ago
are the subject of these interesting cards. They cover emu-hunting,
spear-making and early colonial identities and institutions. Printed
on excellent paper and beautifully finished.
Usual Price
3/-
Cash with Order.
Special Price
2/6
Mail Your Order Now.
WCPENFOIDtfcPI
Phone 86464
PRINTERS, STATIONERS.SYSTEMATISTS.
88 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
AS TIMELY AS THE MOMENT!
Simultaneously with our National Celebrations
comes Australia’s Supreme Screen Achieve-
ment for Pre-eminent Presentation at Sydney’s
mighty
STATE THEATRE
(Watch Daily Press for commencing date.)
UOVD HUGHES
(POPULAR HOLLYWOOD STAR)
C I NcsOU ND'S
LOVEPSw/
LUGGER
WITH
SHIRLEY ANN
RICHARDS
Produced and Directed 4
by KEN G. HALL
JAMES RAGLAN, ELAINE HAMMIL,
SYDNEY WHEELER. ALEC KELLAWAY.
RONALD WHELAN
CINESOUND’S GLORIOUS
ROMANCE OF TROPICAL
ADVENTURE—bIood-tingling new
adventures . . . heart-warming new
romance . . . with all the elemental
thrills of life—lN RARE AND
FASCINATING NEW
SETTINGS!
-/Tty
JAMES RAGLAN
SHIRLEY ANN
RICHARDS
ALEC KELLAWA
1-d
ELAINE HAMMIII
Now delighting audiences at
PRINCE EDWARD THEATRE
SYDNEY.
FRANK HURLEY’S
epic production
“A NATION IS BUILT”
Australia’s own romantic story of a proud
century and a half of National progress and
achievement.
by 40ft. Union Jack and 100 white doves
were star items of the display. Sydney
girl Eugenie McNeil designed the cos-
tumes for the British Empire section.
Wando Aldrovandi has composed the
music for Italy’s part of the International
Pageant. This musician, who came to
Sydney as conductor with the Imperial
Grand Opera of 1932, has written for
this occasion a hymn to the sea. This
is being sung by Evelyn Lynch. It ex-
presses “the impetuous and lyric joy that
springs from the vast ocean.” Sheila
Whytock and Vera de Vare have
arranged the classic dances. The whole
scene has ben organised by Mrs. Ferrari
Passmore.
The Racial Hygienists gave an even-
ing party at the Carlton in honor of
Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon. Speeches
were a feature of the night—acting-
president Ruby Rich and secretary Mrs.
R. E. Goodisson, backed up by Canon
Hammond and Minister for Education
Drummond, bade the visitor welcome.
The distinguished one is a vice-president
of the British Social Hygiene Associa-
tion. Later in the evening there was
coffee with conversation.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, of the Queensland
Government Bureau in Melbourne, be-
lieves in taking the holiday she recom-
mends to others. She passed through
Sydney last week after a month at the
Barrier Reef. Lindeman Island was her
chosen spot —golfing and swimming and
long lotus-eater hours were her pro-
gramme. She declares it ideal.
Off to London in the Oronsay went
Mrs. A. A. Hall, of Elizabeth Bay House,
and son Clive. Mrs. Hall goes to see
what frpsh flowers in the way of enter-
taining are to be plucked in English and
Continental pastures. The Hall cocktail
party gained high award in a week dizzy
with cocktails, home-grown, Italian,
French and Dutch. The hostess’s black
grosgrain frock showed the latest in
boleros; her large hat was of black
velvet. While Mrs. Hall is on holiday,
Olive Hurt will be officer-in-charge.
Mrs. Bernard Muscio’s farewell to
Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon filled the
drawing-room of the Lyceum Club last
Friday. Dame Maria, all white-and-
black-patterned sheer, red roses and
smiles, looked as though long voyages
and conferences were as good for her as
a tonic of iron and Peruvian bark. Mrs.
Muscio, also in black-and-white, was the
perfect hostess—her memory for names
is amazing. The room was bright with
tiger-lilies and hydrangea. Mrs. B. S. B.
Stevens was a guest, and with her sat
Dame Constance D’Arcy and, later on,
Grace Scobie, of the direct blue eyes.
Pink tiger-lilies on a fuchsia-toned frock
suited Mrs. F. J. Davy. Mrs. Wheaton,
from Adelaide, and Miss Melville, of
Auckland (M.L.), were notables. Mrs.
Goodisson was there, and Ruby Rich,
whose pinky-beige suit had a waist-
length cape. Dame Mary Gilmore, Mrs
P. A. Cameron and Mrs. B. Rischbieth
were others. Mrs. Fabian Chow and
Mrs. Elsie Soong were a picturesque pair.
Seats were all booked days before the
Lyceum Club gave a luncheon to dele-
gates—or a few who could be caught on
the wing—on Friday last. Two pretty
little Chinese ladies —one of them born,
by the way, in Victoria, Mrs. Fabian
Chow and Mrs. Elsie Lee Soong, were
the principal speakers. Mrs. Fabian
Chow wore a gauzy amethyst dress like
the wing of a butterfly, and Mrs. Lee
Soong was gowned in golden orange-
tinted silk. Of Eleanor Hinder, an Aus-
tralian now in Sydney and till recently in
Shanghai attached to a municipal ser-
vice, Mrs. Chow said: “She is the most
wonderful woman I have met.” Presi-
dent Mrs. A. G. Thomas, in the chair,
asked poet Mary Gilmore to propose a
vote of thanks to the visitors from China,
who are members of the International
Red Cross and work with the Y.W.C.A.
of Shanghai.
An example of how money grows is
the new Psychiatry Pavilion at P.P.A.
This will be opened on the first of March,
and represents a cost of £34,000. This
has grown from an original grant of
£15,000 made available in 1920. It was
not possible to commence the building
until last year, and in the meantime the
capital has grown to twice the first amount.
The British Red Cross Society and the
Order of St. John of Jerusalem in Eng-
land donated the funds for the new
pavilion. The Hospitals’ Commission
has handed over £4200 for equipment,
and has undertaken to provide the extra
subsidy for the maintenance of patients.


SONG POEMS WANTED.
Songs and musical compositions also con-
sidered for publication. Send MSS. to
Peter Derek, Ltd. (Dept. BU.),
140 a Shaftesbury Avenue, London, W.C.2.
VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloomsbury Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatre?
and Shops. 250 Rooms, H. & C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/- per day. Illus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
Jlode/uuAe if oat kom£
with 3 - -
FEE
Quaxanked JKoth.
ipnaoj jot/ty!.
COVER!* 10
OOR
For samples and illus folder post
free write to Dept. .5, Box o~ oi
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
Melbourne
Chatter
Officers of the visiting flying-boats
were guests of honor at the first dance
held in the new mess at Point Cook. It’s
the sort of mess that any squadron would
be proud of; somewhat austere, because
only men live in it, but comfortable all
the same. A new fixture is a 24-hour
clock, which bluffed some of the guests ;
they looked at it with perfectly blank
expressions and then asked the time of
someone near by who owned a watch.
Womenfolk had a pleasant surprise when
they found that the new building in-
cluded a boudoir with plenty of coat-
hooks, mirrors and a carpet. Supper at
the dance was a special affair, including
oysters sitting on brown bread and
butter, slices of fried whiting to be eaten
in the fingers, and bacon - and - egg
savories.
The officers of the flying-boats all
seem to be of a size, or at least of the
same light weight and wiriness. Wing-
Commander Lloyd and Squadron-Leader
Feather wore their ribbons denoting war
service. As a mascot one of the boats
carries a bunch of mistletoe—a mystery
bunch, for no one will say where it came
from or where it’s going to.
Committee members and other folk
who are helping with the disposal of
tickets for the Stratheden Ball for St.
Vincent’s on February 21 had their en-
thusiasm aided and abetted with cock-
tails and savories at Menzies, with Mrs.
Len Buxton as hostess. It was definitely
a women’s party, but a few men brought
along by their wives were drawn into
the circle of things with “Ladies and
very scattered gentlemen,” the opening
words of Gengoult Smith’s address.
Among those interested in the proceed-
ings was Marie de Bavay, looking well
in black with whirligigs round her neck.
Edith Hoare was there, out of her golfing
clothes and deciding to be super-feminine
in a patterned frock and a lilac hat, its
mooring line a daisy-chain of flowers.
Mrs. Sep Miller was in green frock and
hat, and Mrs. T. J. K. Whittam chose
copper-rust for her dress and small toque
with loose veil. Blonde Shirley Carroll
in pale-blue wasn’t going to get lost in
her travels, for her initials in large white
letters were gummed on to the upturned
brim of her black beret. Margaret
Donald’s black sheer dress was embossed
with lacquered flowers, and her cap was
a trifle of latticed ribbon. Mrs. Charles
Nodrum looked charming as always, this
time in the simplicity of pale-blue with
white gloves and toque. Also in blue,
but in a shade verging on turquoise, was
Mrs. W. R. Burston, who, as one of the
founders of St. Vincent’s Nurses’ As-
sociation, is interested in a very pleasant
function to take place this week, bright
and early when the dew is on the grass.
It’s a breakfast for members of the
association, to be served at the hospital.
Speaking at the International Club,
where she entertained national members
and members of the executive committee,
Mrs. Herbert Brookes gave an outline of
the busy but interesting time she and all
other women concerned had in Sydney
during the International Women’s Con-
ference. They were kept hurrying from
lecture to lecture, from discussion to
discussion, and from social function to
more social functions. Among those
present at Mrs. Brookes’s party was Mrs.
Harry Emmerton, who is a wonder, for
there are so many parties at which she
stands up to help receive the guests, and
if she’s tired she never lets anyone know.
Mrs. Borhaven was also there, very
pleased about the club’s library, which
is to open shortly and will contain books
printed in many languages.
Special guests were Dr. and Mrs. Fritz
Duras, who are now the proud parents
of a real little Australian, Annette, who
was born three months ago. Eva, who
has not yet celebrated her fourth birth-
day, learnt to ski in Germany as soon
as her plump little legs were steady
enough to carry her weight. Her Eng-
lish is now fluent, but her accent is a
source of argument between herself and
her mother. Small Eva, who has a will
of her own, admires the variety known as
“Australian.”
It isn’t to be wondered at that the nick-
name “Charm School” has been bestowed
upon the party of ten who are leaving
in the Orion on March 1. Valerie Purves
is guardian of the nine girls, and the roll-
call for a tour of Europe and England
which will be partly social and partly
educational comprises Verlie Anderson,
Margaret Mills, Peggy White, Margot
Ardlie (of Warrnambool), Sheila Taylor,
Marie Keith, Annette Power, Diana
Daniels (of Frankston) and Barbara
Brougham, whose people have a home
in Adelaide and a station property up
near Broken Hill. The girls are aged
between 18 and 23, and their mothers are
all being charming about providing lots
of pretty clothes. Home backgrounds,
their own and their parents’ friends
abroad, the goodwill of Sir James and
Lady Leigh-Wood, who have promised to
give them a party in London, and the
smiling countenance turned in the right
direction by the Royal Empire Society
all augur well for the social aspect. In
cidentally, Miss Piirves has been invited
to become a member of the Royal Em-
pire Society from the day she arrives in
London. Through the junior branch she
has taken an interest in the movement
for some years. The tour, which is ar-
ranged by the Orient Lloyd Travel Ser-
vice, officially comes to an end in June,
but most of the girls mean to stay away
for some months longer. Several of
them hope to be presented, and there
might be invitations for Ascot’s Royal
Enclosure. Whatever happens, Diana
Daniels has made up her mind to see
Norway and Sweden, and has friends
whose thoughts lean in the same direc-
tion.
Mrs. A. L. Bussau, who is seen in the
Broothorn photograph, is the wife of
the Agent-General-elect. So far Mrs.
Bussau’s interests have been domestic
rather than political and social on a
large scale. She has not been abroad
before, and is looking forward to the
responsible position ahead of her.
Flight-Lieut. Nugebaurer is coming in
for a good deal of chaff over losing two
propellers—the first over Akyab, the
second over Melbourne last week, with
damage to the Flinders-street station, the
roof of the Metro Theatre and (it is
thought) to the eels in the Yarra.
While with other officers Group-Cap-
tain Harrison watched from the windows
cf the barracks the flying-boats sail over
Melbourne on the day of their arrival, he
had the new experience of actually see-
ing an accident which it became his job
to investigate—which was all to the good.
He knew it was a “prop.,” knew also that
the ’plane was safe on its second engine,
and remembered that as he was an eye-
witness correspondence pertaining to the
accident would be considerably simpli-
fied. He has reported on hundreds of
accidents during the years he has served
on the Air Accidents Committee, but this
is the first time he has seen the subject
of one of his investigations in the act
of happening.
Now that the musical season is just
ahead of us, symphony orchestra sub-
scribers are getting their ears back at the
way the city fathers stick to their guns
in their declaration that it is impossible
to get quieter or more comfortable chairs
than those at present in use in the Town
Hall. Those chairs still squeak through-
out the orchestra’s most soulful pianis-
simo passages, and it would be difficult
to find more Spartan pieces of furniture.
Last year the Town Hall and baths
committee put aside £2OOO for new
chairs, but the fathers didn’t spend the
money, saying they couldn’t find suitable
chairs. For 1938 their chair allowance
is £B5O, which may be used in squeak
preventives. But the chairs, treated last
year with squeak-absorbing rubbers, show
signs of relapsing into their old habits
at inopportune moments. A few radical
folk are all for no chairs, but bring your
own campstool in the style of the “prom.”
concerts in the Queen’s Hall in London.
Preparations for the Polo Ball on
March 4 are going ahead, sometimes in
the G.-H. drawing-room over cups of
morning- or afternoon-tea, for Mrs.
Helme Pott and Hermione are on the
committee. Mrs. Alex. Creswick, whose
photograph is by Dickinson-Monteath,
is also working for the success of this
important Polo Week fixture, and has
promised to provide and sell shoulder-
sprays and buttonholes on the night of
the party.
Among presents which Mrs. Edward
Stevens received on her eightieth birth-
day was an imposing pink-and-white cake
which came all the way from Buszards
in London. In 1883 Buszards also baked
a cake for Mrs. Stevens, her wedding
cake. One slice of this cake was neither
eaten nor slept on (in keeping with popu-
lar superstition for inspiring romantic
dreams), but was put aside for senti-
mental reasons. For 54 years it remained
still moist and well preserved. Last year
Mrs. Stevens thought it was time that
Buszards knew about their excellent per-
formance of a couple of generations ago,
and sent them the slice of cake with her
compliments. They acknowledged its
arrival by offering to make her another
cake, this time as a gift. It arrived in
good time for the birthday, with a curly
“80” traced underneath the “Congratu-
lations and Good Wishes.”
The sesqui doings didn’t' keep Dr. Dora
McMahon and her sister Dorothy at
home in Sydney. They are at present
spending a holiday in Melbourne on their
way home from a visit to Adelaide,
where they enjoyed an orgy of tennis —
nine consecutive days of watching the
championships and international matches.
They met Cramm at several social func-
tions, and, like everyone else of their
acquaintance, think he is one of the
nicest people they have ever met. Dora
and Dorothy are two of five sisters, most
of whom are either married to, engaged
to or have become doctors. Dora at
present is at the Children’s Hospital in
Sydney. One of their sisters is Mr. J. J.
Daly, of Melbourne.
“There’s Billy coming in our front
gate. Let’s run away and hide.” Thus
some children whose parents have kept
them isolated throughout the infantile
paralysis epidemic react to the sight of a
young friend who has not been in
quarantine. In this phase many parents
are meeting another problem of the epi-
demic, for their children have got an
isolation complex. Other children who
have been at school but have had the
dread words rammed into them so hard
do a lot of worrying on their own
account. For instance, when a masseuse
suggested to a lad of 16 who was being
treated, not for i.p. but for an injury
in a car accident, that swimming would
be good for him, he replied that he
wouldn’t dream of bathing from any
beach with so many germs about. Psy-
chologically it’s a bad business.
. News comes from London of the
possible change of plans of Mauricette
MacGillicuddy, who left Melbourne a
pianist and may return over the air at
any moment as Mary Mauricette, a
whistler. “Bill,” as she is known to both
musical and non-musical friends, has
done some serious thinking. Where
there are thousands of relatively good
pianists, and few of them earning enough
money to be comfortable, there are only
one or two whistlers, and Bill’s com-
mand of this art is unusual; she even
includes the classics in her repertoire.
She has had several broadcasting and
two television engagements, and there is
a prospect of her whistling in Holland.
On advice that she might be suited to
musical comedy she is taking singing
lessons from Anne Williams, who is so
well-known to all musical Australians
abroad. Bill’s younger sister Joan is
studying the violin under the tuition of
Andre Margeot, who married Beatrice
Hutton, of Melbourne.
Mrs. D. R. Booth, 0.8. E., of New
Guinea, who is at present spending a
holiday in Australia, is one of the very
few people who have been to King
Island for a week-end. Her fame has
spread—even little King Island had heard
of her as a woman who runs her own
mine in New Guinea, so that when she
alighted on the island’s ’drome the
population jumped to the conclusion
that her visit was scientific. But it was
merely friendly, an opportunity of seeing
a pal of many years’ standing, Matron
Lydia Shaw, who has charge of the
hospital. Mrs. Booth went sightseeing
in Tasmania with another friend, Miss
Maud Cowen, who is a biochemist in
Melbourne.
The two mascots which accompany
Mrs. Booth everywhere are a lucky
nugget, one of the first she found on
the Bulolo River, and a gold cigarette-
case weighing three ounces made of gold
from her own mine, Cliffside. She
brought to Australia picked pieces of
New Guinea cedar (cut on Cliffside),
which she is having made into furniture
for her own flat in the block of flats
she has built in River-terrace, Brisbane.
There’s sentiment in the bricks and
mortar of the building, for it’s called
Cliffside and is only a few feet away
from the Wilde family’s old home,
where Mrs. Booth grew up in a family
of eight girls and boys.
The New Guinea Cliffside, with its
flower and vegetable gardens, dairy and
tennis-court, is approached by way of
over one hundred very steep steps •
strenuous, but good for the figures of
all who use them. Before the steps are
tackled the turbulent Bulolo must be
crossed on a foot-wide plank, which is
very good for one’s balance. For many
years this bridge was a more primitive
affair the curved trunk of a tree washed
downstream from Cecil Levien’s claim,
where it had been his bridge. When he
heard that the flood had left it high and
dry at Cliffside he made the best of his
loss and formally presented it to Mrs.
Booth with his compliments.


To Businessmen and Others.
A mistake may prove costly. Advice
is cheap, but Good Advice, at a
reasonable price, may save you
worry and money. Fee from 5/- for
interview and advice. No advice,
no charge. Call, ’phone 8W6115,
or write.
Everard Hedemann,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you:
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead-
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you can
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
JSstrauan
20
pAN' £S
COW
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry” session
each Wednesday night at 9.30 from 2UE.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste, matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of- kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“E.V.”: We Queenslanders are not
going to be outdone by any so-called
sesquicentenary celebrations. We intend
to keep a good thing going. We have
already—l924—celebrated the State’s
centenary, and this year we are celebrat-
ing locally the centenary of the arrival of
German missionaries. Now a movement
is on foot to make a State-wide jam-
boree in 1940 as a reminder that the
first pastoral settlement took place
on the Downs in 1840. The only objec-
tion I have is that the thing is done in
such piecemeal fashion. If every State
would draw up a standard roster for the
next century, we could have a worth-
while centenary every year until such
time as sesquicentenaries called for bigger
and wetter celebrations. After that would
come the really imposing bicentenaries,
the swelling sesquibicentenaries how
organisers must long for the opportunity
to use that lovely word! —the tercenten-
aries, and so on down the ages. We
need worry no more about the price of
wool and the height of taxes. There
would be a good living for everybody
in the float, firework and bunting busi-
nesses, and life would become one long,
glorious hurrah, with a Union Jack on
every lamp-post and a foreign sailor for
every girl.
* * * *
“XT.”: A serious controversy is rag-
ing in Queensland on how to eat a mango.
I favor the Garden of Eden method.
You take your mango to the banks of
a large waterhole. You then delicately
remove its overcoat with fingernail and
molar and put your face into the fruit,
keeping it there until nothing but the
stone is left. This is a prodigal tech-
nique, because a lot of the juice
trickles wastefully down your abdomen,
but it is cooling and enjoyable, and I
never realised that there was any other
way till I saw Lord Chelmsford, a man
of many talents, do the deed. His Excel-
lency was in a spotless white uniform.
He poised his fruit delicately on one end,
like Columbus’s egg, and slit it down the
sides with a sharp knife, dividing it into
two segments. Sticking his knife gin-
gerly into the stone, he cast it aside
with a graceful motion and then pro-
ceeded to dice the meat into squares
which, daring all convention, he con-
veyed to his interior on the point of the
knife. Not a drop of juice disfigured his
immaculateness, and nothing was wasted,
but the whole operation was carried
through with an elegance only possible
to swordsmen and highly-trained geishas.
In fact, the performance was a feast in
itself to watch.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Economy in Govern-
ment affairs is a good principle, seldom
seen in practice, but it can be carried
to extremes. Certainly Foundation Day
in Brisbane was wet, but both the occa-
sion and the presence of some 900 visit-
ing tourists on the Oronsay deserved a
better attempt at flag-display. The State
Treasury showed some tattered strips
which might have been the Queensland
flag, together with the Australian colors
frayed into long streamers at the fly, and
a Union Jack from which the colors had
run. Over the Premier’s Department was
an Australian flag consisting mainly of
large and badly-stitched patches.
“El V.”: Work on Queensland’s new
University at St. Lucia is to begin at
once, and about time, too. The institu-
tion opened in 1911 in old Government
House, in the Domain, and round it have
since grown up clusters of other Univer-
sity buildings and a teeming technical
college. The new site is well out in the
southern suburbs, isolated at present
from the centre of the city, but soon to
be made accessible by a new bridge at
West End. The design shows a long
fa9ade centred on an imposing clock
tower which will form the main entrance
to a semicircular “quad,” round which
are to be grouped the buildings of
various faculties and the students’ union.
Behind that again, other buildings will in
time be erected in harmony with the
general layout. The University will be
built section by section at a cost of
£lOO,OOO a year, and ultimately will cost
£1,000,000.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Narrow escapes? Bananas in
Queensland are grown on steep volcanic
slopes on which there is often several
feet of loose soil supporting rocky hill-
summits. While the mountains are tim-
"Now Were all set, Ma, case anyone sends us a letter."
bered, the hillsides are reasonably
secure, but when a weight of water is
added to cleared soil by summer rains the
position is nearly always dangerous. One
grower was sitting in his dwelling near
Austinville (S.Q.), when a rumble like an
earthquake announced the arrival of
20,000 tons of soil, boulders and logs from
higher up which went roaring past, all
mixed up with an acre of bearing
bananas. The avalanche grazed his house
and piled up 30 feet high on a roadway
below. The occupant has settled down
in a tent to wait for Mother Earth to
quieten down. Then he intends to build
in a safer position.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Four generations gathered to do
honor to J. D. Englart, of Toowoomba,
and his wife, who celebrated the sixtieth
anniversary of their wedding, which took
place at Green wattle Ridge, near Too-
woomba, in January, 1878. The party
was held at the home of Mrs. G. Millar,
a daughter, and afterwards the congrega-
tion of the Lutheran Church went along
to Mr. and Mrs. Englart’s home for a
„orTh
P
Burnage, son of the late E. A. Gill and
of Mrs. Gill, of Brisbane, is engaged
to Angela, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Stanley, of Taringa. Bride-
groom-elect is connected, through his
mother, a member of the Atherton Grif-
fith family of Toowoomba, with one of
the oldest and best-known Downs
families. His sister Laurel is well
known as a dancer and choreographer
in London.
A . AA - .. c
Among recent weddmgs those of
f * S a e’ a S d
Russell eldest son of the W S. Russels
™ ° a^ y ,’r and , °l- Mur f le \ i^ ter °, £
S* and Mrs Luekte. of Chmch.Ua, and
Pat White, of Dalby interested a wide
circle of friends, both in city and
countr y- .
Mrs. Elizabeth Hall, widow of Fergus
O’Connor Hall, is dead. The old lady,
who was 90 years of age, came to' Aus-
tralia with her husband and two chil-
dren in 1866. Their first home was on the
Logan River. A few years later they went
to Southport, where only four families
were settled at that time. A blacks’
camp occupied the site of the present
Southport bowling green, and there were
no roads. Mr. Hall made the first roads,
including the one that no\y is the main
street. Of 11 children, eight still are
living—the eldest, John, is 72. In all,
69 descendants of the fine old couple are
in Queensland to-day—36 grandchildren
and 25 great-grandchildren.
February 24 has been set as the dale
for the wedding of Minette, third daugh-
ter of the late Fitz-Pierce Joyce and of
Mrs. Joyce, Eidsvold, to J. T. N. Bell,
son of the late Ernest Bell and of Mrs.
Bell, Ascot. His grandmother is Mrs.
Bell, of Coochin Coochin, and his
mother was the youngest daughter of
the late Dr. Taylor, of Brisbane. The
wedding will link two of Queensland’s
oldest families.
Mrs. Bruce Henderson found her
sister,' Mrs. M. A. Fihelly, and two
nieces, Lenore Fihelly and Anne Staley,
waiting for her on the wharf when she
stepped ashore from the Nieuw Hol-
land, in which she had travelled from
Medan, where for the last 4\ years her
husband has been British Consul. He
Wl “, be in „ Juae ’ , , ..
e South Coast branch of the Police
Welfare Club staged a Police Ball at the
Pier Theatre, Southport, and had a huge
crowd, including James Blair and his
lady. Inspector F. M. O’Driscoll and
his wife were official host and hostess,
the lady wearing floral crepe in autumn
shades.
Never since Amy Johnson landed in
Brisbane has a woman addressed the Con-
stitution Club. Miss P. Gordon, M.A.,
h a *ls from Southern Rhodesia,
broke the hoodoo, or whatever it is, and
gave an address on “Cecil Rhodes’s
Country To-day.” The mere males rose
<° lhe occasion and had the tables
decked with S - Atrican flowers
Jim Wansey, of Quirindi (N.S.W.), son
o£ the Ac|and Wanseys and N " ssie
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs!
Qrahame Mylne (Mrs. Mylne succeeded
Mrs. J. H. Fairfax as State president of
the C.W.A., and has hundreds of friends
all over Queensland), are to be married
within a week or two. They will dig in
at Quirindi.
Mrs. Arthur Broadbent and her daugh-
ter, Mrs. John Henderson, who leave for
Colombo in the Stratheden, have been
farewelled almost daily for the last week
or so. Last big affair was a cocktail
party followed by dinner at the National
Hotel. Poppy Irving dispensed the cock-
tails, and Hazel Henderson was hostess
at the dinner party. Later the male
guests gathered up the female half of the
gathering and took them on to the Belle
Vue to dance.
Announcement has been made of the
engagement of Pat Macrossan, son of
Mr. Justice Macrossan, to Attorney-
General Mullan’s pretty daughter.
Mrs. Harold Giles, who has been in
Brisbane for about a year with her
children, who now have settled down
comfortably at school, is going back to
her home —historic Elsey station in the
Northern Territory. Mrs. Chessel Hayes
gave a farewell party for her, and the
guests, numbering over 30, all had
trained at Brisbane General Hospital.


\
h
\
V
£
V'
p A
/ *4
' J> \\ %
rf\s‘
sr jfc
\V
cf
/Air
Well, don’t you think it is
When a MA N
tells you
that it is years since he had
his last dental trouble,
that his dentist recom-
mended a good tooth
powder and that he has
used Calvert’s ever since
that as a result he has, at
46, sound white teetu
which are the envy of
his friends
worth
trying for your teeth!
E “ tod
,'mvekt& cu ” —-
Personal and Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF GEORGE JAMES
MULLOY, late of Seaview Road, Henley
Beach South, South Australia, deceased.
WILL ANY PERSON having information of
the present whereabouts or decease of
DOUGLAS WILLIAM McAULIFFE, son of
the late Michael McAuliffe, of Manoora, and
nephew of the abovenamed George James
Mulloy, now if living approximately 44 years
of age, formerly farmhand employed by the
abovenamed George James Mulloy at Wil-
mington, South Australia, and last heard of by
relatives in New South Wales between 1909
and 1914, kindly communicate with the under-
signed?
ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR
COMPANY, LIMITED,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
The next-of-kin of Mrs. RUBY SAMUEL,
daughter of Mrs. James Sievwright, late of
Toowoomba, are requested to communicate
as soon as possible with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand.
WILL JAMES ARTHUR KITCHEN com-
municate with his father in Cremorne, N.S.W.,
or with PIGOTT, STINSON, MACGREGOR
& PALMER, Solicitors, Sydney, when he will
hear of something to his advantage?. J_
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —Complete sets of unobliterated
Coronation stamps of New Guinea (Mandated
Territory), ss. per set. New Guinea pennies
6d. each. W. R. Thomas, P.O. Box 117,
Rabaul.
Next of Kin.
Baker or Gilbert.
FOR the purpose of an inquiry directed by
Order dated 12th April 1937 of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice England
re Baker deceased Hall v. Gilbert 1937 B 855
to ascertain the persons entitled to any property
of William George Baker as to which he died
intestate on 20th January 1936.
ALL persons claiming to be entitled are
by 14th June 1938 to send to Ernest Goddard
Esq. at 3 South Square Gray’s Inn London
W.C.I England full particulars of their claims
and if not residing in England or Wales the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the claimant can be
sent. In default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the Order unless
the Court on application otherwise orders. Ad-
judication on claims will be on Tuesday 28th
June 1938 at 2.30 o’clock before Master New-
man Room 162 Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London England.
DATED the 19th day of January, 1938.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master.
Note: William George Baker was a son of
Richard Baker (a revenue officer), born about
1814 at Sedgley, Staffs), and a grandson of
William Baker (a miner) and Elizabeth Baker.
The following may be interested:
(a) Any descendants of the said William and
Elizabeth Baker and
(b) William George Gilbert (a son of George
Gilbert, of Birmingham, and Annie
Jopes), who may have gone to Australia
shortly after 1896, or, if dead, his issue.
Legal Notices.
JOHN ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL late of
Bicheno in Tasmania Mail Contractor deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 23rd day of
July 1937 in the matter of the Estate of JOHN
ALFRED DOUGLAS HILL late of Bicheno in
Tasmania deceased intestate who died on the
19th day of July 1936 AND in the action
Pearl Margaret Hill against His Majesty’s
Attorney-General for Tasmania whereby the
following enquiry was directed —
An enquiry who were the persons en-
titled by virtue of or according to the
Statute of Distribution or otherwise to
the estate of the said John Alfred Douglas
Hill deceased intestate in the Originating
Summons named living at the time of his
death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who are their respective
legal personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are on or before the 18th day of
March 1938 to send by post prepaid to the
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania
Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claim or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by
their Solicitor before His Honor the Judge at
his Chambers Franklin Square Hobart on
Friday the Ist day of April 1938 at 10.30
o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in the State of
Tasmania must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in the
State of Tasmania to whom notices for the
claimant can be sent.
Enquiry is made for Lucy Maria Hill the
wife and Herbert Alfred Hill and Vera Lucy
Hill children of the deceased who left Tasmania
25 years ago.
Dated the 3rd day of November, 1937.
PAGE, HODGMAN, SEAGER & DOYLE,
of National Mutual Buildings, 119 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania, Agents for S. F.
Evans, of St. Helens, in Tasmania, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
THOMAS WALKER DECEASED.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 30th Novem-
ber 1937 and made in a matter Number 1421
of 1937 intituled “In the Matter of the Trusts
of the Will and Codicil of THOMAS WALKER
late of Yaralla Concord near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales Esquire deceased
Between PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED) and ALFRED CONSETT
STEPHEN Plaintiffs And Egmont Palmer
Walker Defendant” WHEREBY the following
enquiries were directed namely What persons at
the time of the decease of the daughter of the
abovenamed Thomas Walker deceased namely
the eighth day of October 1937 were of his
blood and next-of-kin to him and entitled if he
had died intestate at that time to his personal
Estate under the Statutes for distribution of in-
testate effects and whether any of such per-
sons have since died and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiries
are to send by post prepaid to the undersigned
at the address given below so as to reach
them on or before the 2nd June 1938 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before the Master in Equity Supreme
Court Elizabeth Street Sydney aforesaid on
Thursday the 9th day of June 1938 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims A claimant not
resident in New South Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this ninth day of December, 1937.
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Plaintiffs. Address: 70-72 King
Street, Sydney, Australia. ...
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Smooth green lawns and cool shrub-
beries, gay sunshades and well-patronised
refreshment booths helped the crowds
.. . ■ „
at King s Park toi the tennis to com-
bat the terrific heat. In cool white
embroidered organdie and ice-blue straw
halo, Mrs. V. B. Mursell, wife of the
acting-president of the Lawn Tennis As-
sociation, entertained the Governor and
his lady. Mrs. Fred Heron overcame the
glare with sun-glasses tinted to match
f , if-. . .. .
her navy-and-wh.te linen tailorings, the
brown of Mrs. Ray Sandover’s lenses
matched hatband, belt and shoes, anil
Rita Mac Gibbon’s rose-toned eye-piotec-
tors were two shades deeper than her
crdpe frock. Mrs. Keith Barker, whose
newly-acquired other half is one of our
former champion wielders of the.racquet,
matched o.s. pearl earstuds with her
sleeveless amber crepes, and Mrs. Freddie
Clarke perched a jaunty scarlet hat above
dull reseda green sheer.
Ross Memorial kirk, West Perth, was
the setting for the exchange of vows be-
tween Jean, Public Service Commissioner
G. W. Simpson’s second lass, and the
A. B. Moullins eldest son George. The
brides draped delph,mum-blue ntnons
were topped w.th an at ract've Juhet cap
fashioned of blue delphinium tips, with
a billow of blue tulle falling to the waist
~. ~ « , ta 1 • c- r « 1
a. the back. Dulc.e Simpson followed
in swirls of a deeper shade of mnon, with
a semi-circlet of the same buds across her
fair locks. After toastings and cake-cut-
ting at the Karrakatta Club, the bridal
pair departed for the cool breezes ol
Albany before settling down to country
life at Mukinbudin.
The George Moseley couple, of Mar-
dee station, commandeered the Karra-
katta Club for a threefold celebration.
Daughter Dorothy received congratula-
tions on her recent attainment of the vot-
ing age in swinging folds of turquoise
atm garnished with a turquo.se neck-
lace and bracelet set an heirloom that
had belonged to her grandmother.
Younger sister Margaret made her debut
m bouffant white taffetas, belaced of
bodice and puffed of sleeve, and the third
guest of honor was cousin Douglas
Moseley, of Melbourne. Banks of
dahlias and zinnias made a brilliant set-
ting for the orchestra in the ballroom,
and the small tables in the supper-room
held bowls of roses and carnations.
After a sleep of over two years as far
as imported entertainments are con-
cerned, His Majesty’s has the Marcus
Show. Medico Gordon Hislop shep-
herded a large party, with Mrs. His-
lop, in tiers of shining black cire satin,
to help him. Mrs. Roland Nattrass clus-
tered gardenias in her blonde curls above
a full-length white taffeta coat, and Mrs.
Lyndon Brady sparkled in silver-spotted
tee-blue satin caught with filigree motifs
on her shoulders.
Government heads and representatives
of the educational sphere gathered on a
hillside at Attadale overlooking a stretch
of the Swan for the official opening of
the new Santa Maria Ladies’ College.
Archbishop Prendiville officiated and paid
tribute to the new system of education,
the Winnetka, which will be introduced
there. Visitors roamed over the impos-
ing three-storeyed building, and later
sipped tea under surrounding gum-trees
which clothe the slopes to the river.
Yet one more lass to be claimed by
a t’othersider is “Diddy” de Pledge, elder
daughter of the T. F. de Pledges, of Yan-
rey station, Onslow', and Craigmore, their
King’s Park-road town home. Thomas
Alston, of Oaklands (Vic.), only son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. Alston, of Toorak, is
responsible for the flash of diamonds.
Sister Pat, after several months abroad,
has decided on England as her next port
of call.
Another coming-of-age was that of a
recent bride, Mrs, Dudley Law, which
was celebrated at the cocktail hour in
Mr. and Mrs. R. O. Law’s lovely garden
in West Perth. A dance orchestra in-
vited guests to tread a measure in be-
tween sips.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The white ballroom at the South Aus-
tralian was decorated with rose-colored
phlox and gladioli when Mr. and Mrs.
Theodore Day entertained about 100
guests at a farewell afternoon for their
daughter Kathleen, who left in the Lahn
for Durban, where she is to be married
to Charles W. Reeves. The Days’ mar-
ried daughter, Mrs. Colin Coats, arrived
by ’plane from Perth on the day of the
party.
Eringa, at Millswood, was the scene
of two parties on consecutive days. The
first was held in the beautiful garden
with the thermometer at a hundred in
the shade. The next day a tremendous
fall in temperature necessitated an in-
door affair. Mrs. Sidney Ayers, the Kid-
man lady’s youngest daughter, and her
husband, who are residing at Eringa
during the Kidman lady’s absence over-
seas, were host and hostess. The par-
ties were given for Mrs. Nelson Clover,
in Adelaide for a few weeks before re-
turning to her home at Torquay, Devon-
shire. For the garden party large gay-
colored umbrellas were set about on
the lawns, and drinks were served in
two large marquees. For the indoor
party the lounge and drawing-room were
decorated with gladioli and mixed
flowers. There were about 80 guests.
Mrs. Clover will leave for England in the
Orion on March 3.
The Baillieu lady, who passed through
Adelaide in the Orion with her husband
and son, found time to attend a morning-
tea given in her honor by Mrs. Julius
Wendt. Many years ago the Baillieus
resided in North Adelaide, and the guest
of honor enjoyed meeting many old
friends.
The fete in aid of the Church of the
Epiphany at Crafers, held in the garden
of Mrs. Guy Fisher at Pine Hill, Mount
Lofty, netted £ll7, though the day was
rainy. The stalls had to retire to the
verandah, or have tarpaulin over them,
and a tennis tournament that figured in
the programme was abandoned. Mrs.
H. W. Hodgetts performed the opening
ceremony.
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Barwell, of
Medindie, lent their home to Rosemary
Brooks, Mrs. Barwell’s sister, for a cock-
tail party in honor of Betty Hope, who
is to be married soon to John Ritchie. The
drawing-room, where the young hostess
received, was gay with roses and zinnias.
The marriage of Audrey, elder daugh-
ter of A. T. Sutton, of Stannington-
avenue, Tusmore, and the late Mrs.
Sutton, to Louis, son of Mrs. M. C. King,
of Helmsdale, and the late Mr. King,
was celebrated at the Spicer Memorial
Church, St. Peters. The bride chose a
golden-amber silk crinkled crepe cut on
princess lines, with long sleeves and
amber buttons. Her stitched silk turban
was finished with a flared tulle veil to
tone. Her sister Nina was bridesmaid,
wearing a waltz-blue satin-backed crepe
frock that fitted to the figure, high at the
neck with long sleeves, and trimmed with
tiny buttons down the back. Like her
sister, she wore a stitched turban that
matched her toilette. A reception at the
Wentworth, North-terrace, followed the
ceremony.
TASMANIA.
The Governor and Lady Clark got
back from Sydney and were present at the
Gladioli Show, which was a blaze of
color, the best in the Horticultural
Society’s records.
A big committee of town and country
girls ran a dance in aid of the Victoria
Convalescent Home at Lindisfarne. Sheila
Parsons and Molly Swan worked like
bees as joint hon. secs, and raised a
goodly sum to hand over to the home’s
committee. The dance was held at the
Belvedere, where the decorations were
masses of agapanthus, perennial phlox,
gladioli, dahlias and other brilliant
blooms. Supperrroom effects were all
orange and gold, with amber shades to
the electric light. Frocking was gay and
.attractive, and about 400 dancers enjoyed
the show.
Edith Bisdee is back from Colombo,
where she had a fascinating holiday, stay-
ing for the most part with her brother,
Dr. Morris Bisdee, R.A.M.C. On her
return her father and mother gave a
sherry party at their own home.
The Great Lake has seen a succession
of visiting fishermen and -women this
season. Among the latter is Mrs. C. T.
Jones, a Shropshire sportswoman who
wants to compare English and Tassie
trout fishing.
The Eric Waughs gave a sherry party
at their own home in Sandy Bay. About
150 guests rolled up. The rooms were
all thrown open, and the flowers were a
show in themselves.
Mrs. H. Minton Taylor, of Sydney
(Jean Mandeville that was), is being wel-
comed by many old friends on her visit
to the Speck. She stays at Hadley’s for
the most part.
Mrs. Arthur Procter, of Alloa, Scot-
land, is back in the Speck on a short
visit with her two youngsters, Hendy and
Mary Elizabeth. Her husband was in
Launceston for a time as manager of
Paton and Baldwins’ woollen mills.
Mrs. James Murray was hostess at a
buffet lunch party at the Queen Mary
Club. These functions are becoming a
very popular way of entertaining. Guests
sometimes stay on for bridge.
Catherine Stops has Diane Ensor stay-
ing with her. She is to come out this
season, and will probably be collected
by her parents afterwards and taken with
them to Noumea. Catherine gave a
buffet lunch party in her honor the other
day.


tevokt/
Don’t let your life be domina-
ted by pestilential flies and
other insects —destroy them
utterly with lnsectibane...the
powder that positively cannot
fail. Safe and non-irritating,
unable to stain or taint,
LNSECTIBANE is the ideal
weapon for eliminating
insect pests. Sold by chemists
and stores everywhere: just
say "Insectibane.”
INSECTIBANE
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Tariffs, Quotas and Trade Pacts
Outlook for Industrials
Banking Position
Wool—Tin—Rubber
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED .
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 2£>2 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
sd
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
The Long White Cloud
Social Insurance Pointers
According to Harold Butler, director
of Geneva’s International Labor Office,
social insurance came through its depres-
sion ordeal stronger than ever. Insur-
ance funds in most countries were
strained by unemployment increases and
subsequent decreases in the numbers of
contributors, but by June last member-
ships were expanding again, revenues
were rising and slump restrictions were
being removed. Mr. Butler’s 1937 com-
ment was:
The proved value of social insurances
during the depression is shown by the fact
that.... they have nowhere been abandoned
but are being adopted in extra-European
countries.... indifferent to them prior to
1929.
At the time Mr. Butler said this, Chile,
Ecuador and Peru had just established
general schemes of workers’ insurance ;
Bolivia, Colombia, Mexico and Vene-
zuela were preparing similar plans;
Argentina and Brazil were considering
extension of existing schemes; U.S.A.
was toying with the idea of a Federal old-
age benefits scheme for 26,000,000
workers ; Egypt, Iraq, India and Pales-
tine were making a start with workmen’s
compensation.
Australia and Maoriland have nothing
to learn from any of the mentioned
countries regarding pensions and com-
pensation, but contributory social in-
surance is another matter. Even a few
South American States which Tasman
Sea peoples like to believe
specialise only in political re-
volutions have had experience
of social insurance which
should benefit Australia and
Maoriland.
For the industrious Mr,
Butler, with Geneva informa-
tion at his fingertips, also
sounded a June warning.
While immediate social-insur-
ance prospects are bright, there
remain difficult problems to
overcome. Modern industrial
tendency is toward a younger
full-earnings-and-efficient - ser-
vice age, which means heavier
demands for earlier old-age benefits;
on top of this, the general fall of
the birthrate —which some people believe
may be checked by improved social-
security prospects—and the decline of the
deathrate must gradually transform the
age of distribution.
Social insurance is not a project to be
lightly undertaken. It is a technical one
in which both Australian and Maoriland
Governments should be guided entirely
by the caution of acknowledged experts
rather than by the doubtful wisdom of
vote-minded Cabinets. Partially ignorant
1938 generosity could easily overtax the
ingenuity and pockets of the next
Tasman Sea generation.
Maoriland Minister of Internal Affairs
Parry, himself an Australian, suggests the
two Tasman Sea countries should arrange
reciprocal social-insurance benefits. Can-
berra should be willing: four per cent.,
or about 65,000, of Maoriland’s popula-
tion are Australian-born, and there are
only some 45,000 Maoriland-born in
Australia.
* * * *
“Dhas”: An article in the English
“Sunday Times” recently attacked M.L.
for neglecting Robert Louis Stevenson’s
grave on Mt. Vaea; but according to
Samoan leader O. F. Nelson there’s
nothing much the Government can do
about it. The situation of the tomb on
a mountain-top makes it difficult and
expensive to appoint a curator ; and only
a curator could stop the vandals,
who are even removing pieces of
the concrete slab which covers the
grave. Nelson knew Stevenson, and
gently pricks the inflated Tusitala legend:
“He was practically unknown to the
Samoan people, and those who did know
him were naturally unaware of his
greatness as an author because they
could not speak English.”
* * * *
“Waipiro”: As much of an institution
as the post office and the racecourse in
any sizable town in M.L. is the S.
African war memorial —usually a fear-
fully wooden figure of a trooper in
white marble mounted On a tombstonish
slab of mottled marble, pink or blue, to
taste. Napier rejoiced in one of these
sculptural triumphs, but the earthquake
of 1931, which bowled over such a lot of
the town’s buildings, laid the S. African
trooper prone. Months later, when he
was assisted to his feet again, he was
headless. The whole locality was
searched and dug over without result.
Information received by the police led
that fine body of men to do a lot of use-
“Me mother always says I was bom to be ’ ung . ’Ope she's right.”
less work following up clues that led to
Gisborne, New Plymouth and to Pahia-
tua, but not to the missing head. The
Napierian City Fathers, when other sub-
jects cloyed, used for a while to dally
with the idea of getting a new head
made, but had forgotten all about the
matter when one of the borough work-
men excavating on the bank of the
Tutaekuri River (which runs nowhere
near the site where the trooper used to
stand) turned up the missing head —hat-
brim a little chipped but features intact
and as inscrutably phlegmatic as ever.
Joy at the prospect of being able to re-
instal the memorial at very little cost
is shadowed by dark musings as to how
the head came to wander so far from
its body. Local majority opinion is that
the head was stolen and that the thief,
alarmed by the hue and cry, got rid of
it by burying. The possibility that some
citizen with aesthetic leanings may have
buried it as soon as it was found after
the earthquake doesn’t seem to have
occurred to anyone.
* * * *
“Sefton”: Mountaineering history was
made in a mild sort of way a few weeks
ago when Mt. Dampier, first climbed by
Sydney girl Freda du Faur (guides,
Peter Graham and Charles Milne), was
conquered for a second time, after a
lapse of 24 years, by a Miss M. Edgar
Jones (guides, Jack Cox and Syd
Brookes). A few days later L. V. Bryant
and C. L. Mahan (no guides—they are
two of the most experienced alpinists in
M.L.) conquered the eastern arete of
Mt. Cook for the first time in history.
With the exception, possibly, of the most
awkward approach to Tasman, this is the
most difficult climb in the Southern
Alps, and even men of the calibre to
tackle Everest (Bryant has had a go at
that peak) regard Cook with deep respect.
Yet in the newspapers Miss Jones’s
achievement got a lot more publicity
than that of Bryant and Mahan. I have
never been able to understand why, in
guide-conducted climbs, the paying guest
should reap all the kudos. Freda du
Faur was really a great climber, and
Miss Jones may be as good; but
anybody who knows anything about
alpine climbing knows that in nine cases
out of ten the guide or guides do 90 p.c.
of the work and practically have to
carry their passenger.
* * * *
“Tham”: Sir Josiah Stamp, on arrival
at Auckland from Sydney, hoped that
Maoriland “will not try to be too much
the pioneer in new forms of finance but
will let them be proved elsewhere first.”
Thundering taxation —and M.L. is now
paying £22 per head of population—is
hardly a new form of finance, as Aus-
tralians will agree; but the warning is
useful when applied to Labor’s repeated
declaration that it is “carrying on where
Seddon stopped” and is going to make
Maoriland once again the “economic
laboratory of the world.”
* * * *
“Stoo”: Living at Wellington is the
sole survivor of the 50-odd men who
escaped with their lives when Khartoum
fell. The veteran, Samuel George Jones,
holds the Afghan medal and fought
under Roberts at Kandahar after the
march from Kabul. In the slaughter of
Maiwand, when the British left 350 of
their 427 dead on the field, he was the
only one of four of the Jones fraternity
to escape with his life.
* * * *
“Avon”: Christchurch, M.L., which
every now and then suffers from the
depredations of some daring juvenile
gang there was one a few years ago
which specialised in arson has just
ended the glorious week of a band of
four small robbers —eldest 15, youngest
12L The youngest (one almost says
“of course” in these cases) was the
leader. For six consecutive days they
accomplished two burglaries per night.
Their swag, mostly jewellery, was valued
at well over £2OO. But they weren’t
content with theft and with spending
money, all four of them, at the rate of
£lOOO a'year. They had a lot of fun in
the houses they entered. In one case
they upturned and mixed the contents
of a pantry, poured brandy over the
beds and perfumes over other furniture,
cut up mattresses and strewed the con-
tents all over the place. One would have
to be a New Educationist and well up
in psycho-analysis to understand such
capers. A prosaic S.M. didn’t attempt
to. He put all the lads under official
supervision.
*l®
“Tham”: Petrol tax (B. 9/2/’3B) hits
Taranaki motorists harder than most
other M.L. road-users because they have
to pay an extra 2d. per gallon railage
from Wellington. Despite a protest by
the Auto Association, the surcharge was
imposed by the Government when it
brought in its zoning and price-fixing
scheme, and the only reply to a recent
further protest was that Taranaki could
make its own arrangement with the oil
companies when the present agreement
expires. All Taranaki’s petrol could be
landed direct at New Plymouth, so that
railing it from Wellington is uneconomic
from the port’s as well as the motorists’
point of view.
* * * *
“S.A.D.”: Maoriland has been getting
excellent publicity from the perform-
ances of Boot and Matthews and their
confreres in the sesqui events, and Jean
Batten and latterly Clouston have been
helping England to realise that it’s not
just an outlying suburb of Brisbane, as
a Cockney landlady of mine in Blooms-
bury once thought. The official float in
Sydney’s March to Nationhood was a fine
effort. Only time I’ve seen M.L. out-
shone in a procession was in the last
Lord Mayor’s Show in London, when,
after Australia’s sun-tanned young heroes
throwing wheat-sheaves about their float,
Maoriland swam along with a cardboard
gentleman pointing at an apple. New
Zealand House window displays in the
Strand, though, beat anything ever seen
at Australia’s seven Houses.
* * * *
“Xo”: There’s not much difference
between the Maori and the Samoan as
far as an easy outlook on life and politics
is concerned (B. 2/2/’3B). Neither can
be bothered for long with tedious pakeha
red-tape methods, and each has an in-
herited antipathy to the constant work
regarded as socially important by white
people. Each has his own racial aris-
tocracy, and, however much Prime
Minister Savage’s Labor mouthpieces
preach the equality of all men in all
things, he will continue to regard his
blue-bloods as natural peers. And the
Maori understands the Samoan just as
well as he himself is understood by the
capable Native Department officers
really responsible for the Maoriland
Government’s successful native policy at
home. Last time I saw the O. F. Nelsons
they were honored guests at the Waitara
tangi for the burial of Maui Pomare’s
ashes; as the representatives of, and
exiled advisers to, a misunderstood
Samoan Mau, they were*accorded all the
respect lavished on surviving members
of the Pomare family.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Wellington’s Labor “Stand-
ard” may have momentarily overlooked
the fact that Gordon Coates is no longer
leader of the Maoriland Opposition (B.
2/2/’3B), but judging by its constant digs
at S. G. Holland it now regards the
member for Christchurch North as a
greater menace to the Labor regime than
the member for Kaipara. When Hol-
land talks Opposition aims, as he has
been doing in various parts of Maori-
land, he always dwells on the Opposi-
tion’s belief in private enterprise, private
ownership and tax reductions. But even
Holland shares a general Maoriland un-
certainty as to whether or not November
election issues will represent the simple
division of Savage socialism v. National-
ist individualism. In a recent Auckland
address he suggested that a third party
may contest the election —presumably
Douglas Social Credit.


THATS T-HL philips
TWILIGHT DIAL "
IT'S one of the many out-
standing and exclusive features
found ONLY in Philips Radio-
players. Hear one in your own
home!
Models from 16 gns., and terms
are available to you.
PHILIPS
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange, free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PACE STATION BOOK
THE NEW
AMPUOH
“T” MODEL
AUDITORIUM TYPE
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
This new audi-
torium speaker
is Amplion’s
latest and finest
product, and is
a masterpiece of
Australian
design and
manufacture.
m
Fitted with Amplion’s latest multi-
impedance transformer (large TS type),
with optional impedances available from
2500 to 12,000 ohms, single or push-pull.
PRICE £7/10/-
SEND FOR PUBLICATION 55,
GIVING DETAILS OF THE
COMPLETE AMPLION RANGE.
AMPLION (A/SIA), PTY. LTD.,
66 Clarence Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Build the
SEMI-TUNED R.F.
TWIN
with a
RADIOMAC KIT
Complete Kit of Parts, in-
cluding Valves, Batteries
and ’Phones,
£615/-
Add this R.F. Unit to Your
LITTLE TWIN.
Kit of Parts, £2.
PRICE'S RADIO SERVICE
(D. G. McINTYRE),
5 and 6 Angel Place, Sydney.
BRB
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
SEMI-TUNED R.F. TWIN.
One of the most popular small receivers described on this page
was the Little Twin (B. 29/1/’36). This midget receiver made use of
a dual valve of the Class-B battery type in a double role; that of
regenerative detector and headphone audio stage. Despite the experi-
mental nature of the design, excellent short-wave and broadcast recep-
tion was obtainable with it. The model described here, intended for
short-wave reception only, will give better signal strength than the
Little Twin, owing to the inclusion of a partially-tuned R.F. amplifier.
Although this Semi-tuned R.F. Twin
receiver is not particularly suitable for
use at broadcast frequencies near local
broadcasting stations, it could be used for
the purpose in far-distant locations. The
reason for the difference between this re-
ceiver and the Little Twin is that the R.F.
amplifier is only semi-tuned. By selec-
tion of the coils for this stage a resonant
peak is obtained over a fairly wide range
of high frequencies. At lower frequen-
cies it naturally follows that the R.F.
stage, which is really an aerial coupling
valve, will be inselective if used near
local broadcasting stations.
Details of coils for the broadcast range
are not given. All that is necessary is to
conform to the coils as specified for the
Little Twin and to wind R.F. coils ex-
perimentally to suit. As a rough guide,
a suitable coil for the R.F. stage at broad-
cast frequencies would need about three
times the number of turns of wire as
the grid coil of the detector, on the same
size former. Experiment will be neces-
sary, depending on the length and capa-
city of the aerial used.
Like the Little Twin, this is a battery-
operated receiver, identical with the
earlier design excepting that a 34 is used
before the 19 as an R.F. stage. It is not
essential to stick to the 34 type ; other
suitable valves are the IC4 or the KF3.
The type-19 valve is used as a combina-
tion detector and audio amplifier, and
the section used for audio is resistance-
coupled to the detector.
Resistance coupling is chosen because
of the low cost and simplicity, but there
is no reason why audio transformer
coupling should not be employed if
slightly higher audio gain is desired.
Owing to the high-amplification constant
of the 19 it is well suited to use in re-
sistance-coupled circuits. The type-34
valve in the R.F. stage is, like the 19, of
the two-volt filament kind.
As shown in the coil chart, the range
covers from below 20 metres to over
160 metres on the short waves, and in
each instance the R.F. coil is wound on
a 7-16 in. former, with the wire turns
specified for each range.
The semi-tuned R.F. stage increases
the sensitivity of the receiver, and in-
creases the selectivity (on short waves)
by reducing cross-talk from near-by
broadcast stations. Further, some real
gain is obtained without the necessity
for an extra tuning control.
The R.F. coil, LI in each case, is con-
nected between the grid and earth return
of the R.F. valve, and the aerial is
coupled through a 25mmfd. midget vari-
able condenser. This condenser is used
to overcome any dead-spot effects where
the detector may go out of oscillation
when certain portions of a band are
being tuned over. When changing bands
it is usually necessary to readjust this
aerial condenser. It also helps to tune
the R.F. stage broadly to resonance. It
may be an advantage to have this con-
denser short-circuited under some con-
ditions, and, instead of connecting a
switch across it, it is a simple matter to
bend up one of the rotor plates at a
corner so that when the condenser is at
full capacity it shorts itself out and
connects the aerial direct to LI. Even
though this is not a fully-tuned R.F.
stage, the valve must be well shielded.
It may be an advantage to shield the
19-valve also.
Coupling between the R.F. and de-
tector portions is through the 3-30mmfd.
trimmer condenser between L 2 and the
R.F. valve plate. This is adjusted to the
maximum capacity that will still allow
the detector to oscillate on the shortest
wave-length to be received. In construe-'
tion it is necessary to ensure that the
correct connections are made to the sec-
tions of the 19 valve. Grid No. 1 and
plate No. 1 comprise one section, used
as detector, and grid No. 2 and plate
No. 2 make up the second, or audio
portion. Reference to the usual valve
chart will show the correct connections,
with the socket viewed from underneath.
So that the receiver may be used
from three volts of dry cells for
the filament, a six-ohm rheostat con-
trols the filaments of both valves,
and as a rough guide to correct voltage
this rheostat is adjusted until the two
filaments just show a dull red glow. If a
voltmeter is on hand, so much the better.
The filament voltage can then be accu-
rately checked. If a two-volt accumu-
lator is used, the rheostat can be omitted.
Care is necessary in the wiring of the
circuit, so that the positive and negative
leads are connected in the proper man-
ner. All necessary values are indicated
in the circuit diagram, and care should
be taken to wind the coils as shown in
the tables. If the correct values are not
used there will be little or no gain from
the R.F. stage. Should the R.F. coils
be smaller in diameter than specified a
small mica trimmer condenser qan be
LI L 2 L 3
(RF. Coil). (Secondary Winding). (Reaction Winding).
For 35 turns No. 22 D.S.C. Wire. 7 turns No. 22 D.S.C. 31 turns No. 22 D.S.C.
20 metres. Winding space lin. long on a wire, space wound to wire, space wound to
7-16 in. dia. tube. cover lin. wind, space, cover lin. wind, space.
For 60 turns No. 26 enamelled 14 turns No. 22 D.S.C 5 turns No. 22 D.S.C.
40 metres. wire. Winding space lin. long wire, space wound to wire, close wound,
on a 7-16 in. dia. tube. cover lin. wind, space.
For 160 turns No. 36 D.S.C. wire. 27 turns No. 22 D.S.C. 9 turns No. 22 D.S.C.
80 metres. Scramble wound on a 7-16 in. wire, close wound. wire, close wound,
dia. tube, lin. long.
For 300 turns No. 36 D.S.C. wire. 60 turns No. 22 D.S.C. 15 turns No. 32 enam-
-160 metres. Scramble wound on a 7-16 in. wire, close wound. elled wire, close wound,
dia. tube, lin. long.
LI wound on 7-16 in. tubing. L 2 and L 3 both wound on same form. Use 4-prong 1 lin. dia.
forms. L 2 is the upper winding on the form, L 3 the lower winding. L 2 and L 3 are spaced
about lin. from each other.
connected across to peak the R.F. coil in
each band.
If the receiver fails to regenerate, the
trouble may be due to any of a number
of things—wrong direction of reaction
(tickler) winding ; not enough (or too
many) reaction turns ; filament voltage
too low or faulty 19 valve; mistake in
wiring of circuit; short-circuit in tuning
condenser or coil circuit; insufficient B
battery voltage (use 135 volts).
If the R.F. stage fails to give enough
gain, check for fault in R.F. valve or
incorrect plate or screen voltage.
Lack of resonance in the R.F. coil
may be due to too many or not enough
turns on the small R.F. coil form.
The R.F. chokes in the diagram are the
usual four-pie short-wave type of Eddy-
stone or similar design. A simple mount-
ing for the R.F. coils would be to make
use of old cartridge-type fuse shells.
These are of reasonably good insulating
material and plug handily into clip
mountings. On the other hand, it is easy
to obtain insulating tubing of the
diameter specified and to mount this on
a valve base, with a valve socket for the
plug-in mounting.
The coil chart is intended to peak the
bands for amateur reception mainly,
but because a 50mmfd. variable con-
denser is used as the’ main tuner, with
15mmfd. bandspreader, there is con-
siderable leeway, and the coils will take
in all the useful short-wave broadcasting
ranges without any trouble.
Such a receiver is useful for the ama-
teur for portable work, and is capable
of excellent results ' on short-wave
signals for general headphone reception.
It is not intended, however, to be used
with a short indoor aerial, even though
results may be obtained. The better the
aerial with a receiver of this nature, the
better the performance.
D.B.K.
What's What in Radio.
A.W.A.’s 1938 Radiola Conference
opened in Sydney on 7/2/’3B at the
Town Hall. The new models displayed
revealed entirely new lines, and the new
“push-button” tuned Radiola attracted
considerable attention. The conference
helps celebrate A.W.A.’s twenty-fifth
anniversary.
* * * *
Ultra-short-wave broadcasting was in-
augurated in Italy last December by the
opening of a station at Monte Mario,
near Rome. The wave-length used is 6.9
metres, and the station is at present in
operation from 6 p.m. to 9.30 p.m.
G.M.T. daily. Although the normal
range of the station is quite short, it is
not unlikely that long-distance reception
may be had when freak conditions exist.
* * :> *
Italy is following Holland’s example
and installing very high power short-
wave broadcasting stations with direc-
tional transmission controllable at will.
Instead of rotating the complete aerial
system, a number of aerials will be
arranged for the required directions, and
the transmitting equipment rotated on a
turntable for connection to the particular
aerial system selected.
* * * *
The Baird Television Co., England, has
succeeded in radiating a picture in color,
using an analysing system based on pri-
mary colors. The system is stated to be
capable of incorporation in the modern
high-definition transmissions,
* * * *
An American radio manufacturer has
introduced an unusual range of inter-
mediate frequency transformers for
superhets. They can be tuned over a
very wide range, and with only four
transformers of the new design any in-
termediate frequency may be tuned to
from 121 kc. to 650 kc. without skip,
Other ranges cover 1500 kc. and 3000 kc.


Somebody's got
Better Radio
Now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices front £l2 / l!P (i.
1!
)U
MOTORISTS !
The Set you’ve been looking for,
THE “CKOYDEN”
Bakelite Universal Mantel Model.
Works off a car battery or off 240 volts A.C.
£lB/18/- Retail.
Particulars from
ECLIPSE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of WA . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
B E VALVE WITH
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
'WIRELESS
ft) (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL
ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL,
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
8½ Watt 6V6G Amplifier.
The method of phase-splitting described
by A.W. Valve Co.’s engineers as “float-
ing paraphase” enables series inverse
feedback to be applied to a push-pull
amplifier, and thereby provides good
fidelity combined with economy. One
of the most interesting applications of
this circuit is in connection with Class
ABI operation of Radiotron 6V6Gs
whereby an output of 8.5 watts may be
obtained. The circuit is illustrated, and
it will be seen that the amplifier has four
valves in all. The first stage is a 6J7G
(or 6C6), the phase-splitter is a similar
valve, and the output stage consists of
two 6V6Gs operated under Class ABI
conditions, with 250 volts between plates
and cathodes.
The rectifier is a SV4G (or 83V) and is
used in order to obtain a high D.C. volt-
age from a 385-volt transformer. By
using this it is practicable to employ
standard electrolytic condensers without
risk of failure. If a rectifier valve having
higher impedance than the SV4G is pre-
ferred, it will be necessary not only to
increase the transformer voltage but also
to watch carefully the peak voltage on
the first electrolytic condenser. Pro-
vision has been made for one or two field
coils, each of 750 ohms and excited by
11 watts. If only one field is required,
the other may be replaced by a suitable
choke together with a series resistance to
make up a total resistance of 750 ohms
in this section. The input to this ampli-
fier, with the degree of inverse feedback
shown, is 0.318 volt R.M.S. (0.45 volt
peak).
If it is required to operate from a low
level one Radiotron type 1603 may be
used as a resistance-coupled pentode pre-
amplifier. With the constants shown in
the circuit, it is possible to operate very
satisfactorily from a crystal microphone
into the pre-amplifier grid, and from a
crystal or sensitive electro-magnetic type
of pickup directly into the 6J7G grid.
An interesting point arises in connec-
tion with the application of a crystal
microphone, since the microphone is
generally required to operate into a load
of five megohms, while the maximum re-
sistance in the grid circuit of a valve
used as a resistance-coupled pentode pre-
amplifier should not exceed two meg-
ohms. This difficulty has been overcome
by placing a load of five megohms across
the crystal microphone and by tapping
down to a suitable point on this load so
that the grid circuit resistance shall not
exceed two megohms.
The values of plate load resistor, screen
dropping resistor and cathode bias re-
sistor in the 1603 are identical to those
used for the 6J7G or 6C6. In this cir-
cuit 10 p.c. effective negative feedback
is obtained from the resistors of 9000
a nd 50,000 ohms arranged as a voltage
divider across each half of the output
load. The load resistors on the two
6J7G valves have been made 0.1 megohm
in place of the more usual 0.25 megohm
on account of the lower resistances in the
grid circuits of the 6V6G valves.
This amplifier is ideally suited to large
radio receivers, and a receiver current
drain of 30 milliamperes has been allowed
for from the power pack. This will cover
The internals of a special u.-s.-w. receiver, designed recently by VK2NO, showing
the layout and plug-in coil mountings. The 956 R.F. valve can be seen projecting
through the interstage partition.
any normal tuning unit of from three to
five valves. A very satisfactory tuner
would consist of a 6U7G R.F. stage,
6ABG converter and 6GBG I.F. stage.
If an additional I.F. stage were desired,
this could be followed by a 6U7G
arranged immediately following the con-
verter, and the 6U5 or 6G5 Magic Eye
could be used to facilitate tuning.
The amplifier might also be used for
a small public-address system, and in this
case it could be operated if desired either
from A.C. throughout or from six-volt
accumulators for the heaters and gene-
motor for plate and screen circuits. Owing
to the low heater current (0.45 A) of the
6V6G valves the A-battery drain is light.
The amplifier as a whole could be
made really portable, since no trans-
formers are used. Radiotron 6L6Gs
could be applied in a similar way to the
6V6Gs in order to obtain greater output,
and such an amplifier will be described
at a later date for an output of about 30
watts.
V.C.
Amateur Chatter.
The proposal to maintain an active
group of stations on 56mc. in the Sydney
area has met with satisfying response,
and VKs 2MQ, 2NO, 2EM, 2AZ, 2ZO,
2ABZ, 2ACB, 2ZN, 2SQ, 2JE, 2PN,
2XK, 2WJ, 2ZH, 2YE and 2VU have
agreed to co-operate. VK2WJ, who was
very prominent on mobile test days a
few years ago, has been closed down
owing to change of location and the un-
suitability of the position. Recently,
however, he returned to the original
location in Maroubra and wasted no time
in getting back on the air on 56mc.
VK2AZ is experimenting with “in-
phase” arrays and getting good results,
and at Ermington (NS.W.) VK2ABZ is
surrounded by a network of aerials. His
most successful appears to be the folded
Bruce. A new transmitter is planned for
this station, using 6L6 e.c. oscillator
from 28 to 56mc., 802 buffer and push-
pull 809’s in the final. VK2WJ plans a
similar transmitter.
Visiting Sydney is an operator of
lengthy N.T. experience, Peter Sinclair,
of Wave Hill radio station. This is his
first trip south since taking over the
Wave Hill station eight years ago. From
S.A. Bob Gregory, of VKSGU, called in
to relate the latest 56mc. doings of the
VKs’s. Extensive tests have been run
between VKs SGF, SGM, SBF, SGY and
SKL from such vantage points as Mt.
Barker and Mt. Lofty. All apparatus
was of a portable nature, and 75 miles
was covered. Also in Sydney is Frank
Brandon, VKSFB of low-power and
high-mast fame. He is attending a
course for a commercial ticket at the
Marconi School.
Nothing has eventuated in the overseas
tests, and it seems that occasions when
56mc. radiations cover long distances
from or inside Australia must be ex-
tremely rare. The would-be DX worker
on this band is certainly under a serious
handicap in Australia owing to the diffi-
culty in securing co-operation at vary-
ing distances. In the U.S.A., where ex-
perimental stations are as numerous at
56mc. as at other frequencies, unex-
pected long-distance contacts may and
do take place. England also is very
favorably placed for communication with
France, Holland and other European
countries. Recently Belgians have
worked with Dutchmen, and Frenchmen
with Englishmen, on 56mc.
The U.S.A. warships which visited
Sydney recently make extensive use of
ultra-short waves for inter-ship com-
munication, frequencies around 45mc.
being employed. Co-operation was
offered for a test with Sydney 56mc.
stations, but owing to pressure of official
traffic the u.-s.-w. transmitter could not
be made available at the time.
At the W.I.A. N.S.W. Division general
meeting, to be held on Friday, G. Beard
will give a talk on “Design and opera-
tion of radio equipment for railways.”
Recently he designed special collapsible
aerial masts for the Railways Dept., and
his remarks should be of considerable
interest to experimenters. The monthly
general meetings are held at the
Y.M.C.A., Pitt-street, Sydney, commenc-
ing at 8 p.m., and visitors are welcome.
Following on the burst of sunspot
activity during which world-wide short-
wave communication was seriously
affected, a remarkably good DX period
has been noted, commencing around mid-
night. From 20 to 50 metres exception-
ally strong and steady signals were heard
from all parts of the world on 5/2/’3B.
As that week-end was the first for the
senior B.E.R.U. contest for this year, it
seems likely that a lot of points were
piled up.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
(1) 1 like the look of the single-valve short-
wave converter described in B. 19/1 / ’3B.
Would there be any chance of double-spotting
with this converter? (2) / am also interested
in the crystal circuit and need more details.
Are the three windings on the one former as
shown, and in one direction, or wound on top
of each other? —64l.
(1) As this is just a frequency changer of the
autodyne type without any pre-amplifier,
double-spotting will naturally be present. (2)
The three windings are on the one former,
side by side, and not wound over each other.
* * * *
Considerable overloading seems to be present
in the detector of my short-wave T.R.F. re-
ceiver. The valves used are IC4 for R.F. and
34 as electron-coupled detector. Would it be
possible to incorporate some form of auto-
matic volume control so that strong signals do
not overload the detector? —642.
A circuit diagram is shown in which A.V.C.
is applied to a triode detector, with a screen-
grid R.F. amplifier. The application will be
the same with the screen-grid detector.
Although the idea is experimental, it should
enable you to obtain the maximum from the
receiver, but on peaks the input to the de-
tector will be limited. Tests can be made
with varying values for R 1 and R 2.
* * * *
(1) Windings for coils using lsin. diameter
formers in the High Gain Battery Portable (B.
31 /7/’35) ? (2) Capacity and types of aerial
and three-gang tuning condenser? —64o.
(1) Secondaries 95 turns of 30 enamelled
copper close-wound and primaries arranged on
bobbin formers, with 100 turns of 36 D.S.C.
inside “earth” end of secondaries. (2) Aerial
condenser approximately .00036mfd. and three-
gang condenser similar. Any standard make
will do.


BUILD SHEEP UP WITH
VITA-LICK
Strengthen Resistance
to Worms.
Mr. J. C. Tanner, Tenterfield, N.S.W.,
writes, 22111’29': —
“I have used Vita-Lick for the
past six years and always found it
a preventative against worms, also
a big factor in keeping sheep
healthy in the Coastal and Table-
land areas.”
VITA-LICK AGENTS IN ALL
SHEEP & CATTLE CENTRES
Vita-Lick, Ltd.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney
THE FINER THE BETTER.
“Tri-cal”: Was interested' to see that
animal nutrition specialists recommend
a mineral supplement of fine grind. I’ve
found an excellent one which exactly
fills the specification and is pure, whole-
some and palatable and easily digested.
It is Tri-cal-os Bone Flour. It contains
plenty of that phosphoric acid —more
than any other mineral food I’ve used.
Suggest you get some. You’ll find it
much more economical and effective
than that meal you are using. No, I’fn
not a crank, but I have a healthy re-
spect for science and the help it gives to
those who are prepared to progress with
it. Yes, I recommend Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour. Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty.,
Ltd., G.P.O. Box No. 35835, Sydney,
will send you a folder about it. Tell them
what stock you want it for.
Old Farmer.
r
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Crossbred Lambs’ Wool.
“C. V»S.”: Growers sometimes pay
little attention to coarse lambs’ wool,
assuming that careful picking is not war-
ranted. But recently red-tipped, bulk-
classed lambs’ wool of different spinning
qualities but otherwise even type
brought merino B|d., comeback lid.,
half-bred 12*d., three-quarter-bred 13|d.
—good prices.
The higher prices for the coarser quali-
ties are due to greater length and better
yield.
In very mixed-quality lambs’ wool a
fine, medium and strong of the top line
should be made, and a fine and strong
of the seconds, if enough wool is handled
to make bales. Otherwise, bulk-classing
by brokers or classing stores is payable.
Wool Colors.
“Geelong”: When different colored
wools occur in a clip, care should be
taken to separate them, as hhey may re-
quire individual scouring treatment.
Color also affects yield, and buyers will
not bid confidently for wools of mixed
colors.
White, red, pink, grey, blue (charcoal)
and ticky are the generally recognised
colors. Reds, pinks and greys owe their
color to dust, reds (Mallee type) being
very low yielding.
The lowest-yielding wool is that con-
taining white river or sea sand. It should
never be mixed with other wool, as it is
impossible to estimate the clean-scoured
yield.
Grass- and bushland properties may
produce white and blue wools. Whites
and greys, reds and greys and other
colors are sometimes found in clips from
patchy country. They , should never be
mixed.
Light tick discoloration does little
harm, but heavy infestation results in a
thin, hunger-fine; staple.
Fern stain, perished-yolk wool from
damp bushland, canary stain, tar brands
and urine stain will not wash out. Blues,
all dusties and tickies- will scour clean.
Green dung tip-stain caused by rubbing
in a packed shed will also scour. ’
Cheviots Again.
“W.D.McC.”: “Sheepo” is right when
he says (B. 26/1/’3B) that half-bred
Cheviots are the most popular ewes for
raising fat lambs in Scotland. But he is
all wrong when he states that the wool
from the cross is an improvement on
that of the Cheviot.
The Scottish Cheviot wool average for
last season was 13id., and for half-bred
10jd.
As showing the demand for the
Cheviot cross, at the first big 'British sale
for the season 13,806 half-bred ewe
lambs were sold at an average of £2 12s.
lOd. per head, and at Hawick 9500 half-
bred ewe lambs averaged £2 ss. Id. At
dispersal sales Cheviot flock ewes with
single lambs sold at from £4 ss. to
£l3 10s. each.
Northern N.S.W. Pastures.
“Rom Ney”: For improving pastures
on northern N.S.W. tablelands, subdivi-
sion of paddocks is a first essential. Then
come rabbit-eradication, choice of suit-
able grasses, sowing of lucerne on deep
soil with good natural drainage and top-
dressing with super, or basic slag.
The most plentiful native plants are
tussocky pea, kangaroo and red and blue
grasses. They make good feed at the
beginning of winter, but dry off rapidly,
become hard, poor feed and cause loss
of condition and impaction.
Wallaby, prairie, barley and windmill
grasses should be encouraged. Allow
them to seed occasionally, and scatter
the seed over bare patches. Carrying
capacity can be more than doubled with
such introduced plants as Phalaris tube-
rosa, cocksfoot, tall fescue, tall oat, per-
“Ai don’t think Ai’ll have mutton to-day. Bring me some underdone roast beef and Yorkshire pudding."
ennial and Wimmera rye, most of the
clovers and sheep’s burnet.
; Areas must be thoroughly prepared to
receive the seed. A fine compact bed
us the ideal. It should be moist, with a
•fine surface mulch. Artificial fertiliser
is essential; best is superphosphate (at
-least lcwt. an acre). For a quick build-
ing of sward, try lcwt. per acre each of
• super, and sulphate of ammonia.. • ,
Next month isi sowing, time. /Try for
basalt and good-quality granite soils 31b.
each of Phalaris and perennial. rye, 51b.
of N.Z. superfine white clover; 21b. of
N.Z. perennial red. Add lib. of Eng-
lish trefoil if the soil is a .bit t clayey.
For trap soils, inclined to be dry, 51b.
of Akaroa cocksfoot, 21b. of- N.Z. peren-
nial red clover, lib. of, ball clover, 21b.
of sheep’s, burnet; for those moister,
•51b. perennial ; rye; 41,b. cocksfoot, 21b.
sheep’s burnet, lib. ball,'2lb. N:Z. per.
red clover. • ,
On well-drained volcanic stuff use 31b.
lucerne, 21b. Phalaris;. on ironstone and
on poorer granite, 51b. per. rye, 41b.
cocksfoot, 21b. sheep’s burnet, 21b. sub.
and 21b. N.Z. per. red clover.
To restore fertility on the poor stuff,
31b. sub. and 31b. N.Z. per. red clover.
Sow 61b. to 81b. per. red clover on
soil too shallow or too wet for lucerne.
And make sure all seed is certified.
Slaughtering Calves.
“Zedo”: Slaughtering calves for the
veal trade may seem profitable, but it
isn’t doing anything to improve Austra-
lian herds in quality or numbers.
Potential breeders are being destroyed
wholesale for export. It is a short-
sighted policy.
The record number of calves slaugh-
tered for export in Queensland up till
1936 was 7000. Last year over 500,000
went west in the baby stage.
One of the troubles of the situation,
apart from the loss of numbers, is that
the animals slaughtered are usually of
fairly high quality. Kept for 18 months
longer they would yield a net return of
four to six times their bobby price. And
many heifers which die young should
never be slaughtered at all.
More Fertiliser Trials.
... “Hortus”: Results in Canberra district
wheat tests since 1932 average out as
follows:
No fertiliser .. .. .. 21bus. 31b.
i-ewt. super. .. .. .. 29bus. 201 b.
lcwt. super. ... .. .. 31 bus. 291 b.
super . . 35^bus.
With wheat at 3s. a bushel, the net return
to the grower has ranged from 225. 3d.
to 365., with super, at £5 a ton.
The net return, with wheat at 55.,
hovered betweeh 38s. 9d. and 655. an
acre.
The trials are conducted on different
properties each year, so they may be re-
garded as representative of various farm-
ing methods.
Dorrigo potato trials confirm the
recommendation issued last year that
lcwt. sulph. amm., 3cwt. super, and
lcwt. mur. pot. produces best results.
Factors were sown in July, 1937, and
dug in December. Land was planted to
potatoes in 1933-34, and sown to oats
in 1935-36.
Results were as follows:
Tons. Cwt.
2cwt. sulph. amm. 1
3cwt. super. 1 11 17y
lcwt. mur. pot. I
2cwt. sulph. amm. ]
3cwt. super. j 11 17
2cwt. mur. pot. I
lcwt. sulph. amm. ]
3cwt. super. , .[ 11 15
lcwt. mur. pot. )
2cwt. sulph. amm. | in ni
3cwt. super. f 4
lcwt. sulph. amm. | in
3cwt. super. .1
3cwt. super. 9 6
The potash in all cases was applied six
weeks before planting.
Dundee Scores Again.
“N.T.”: Dundee seems to be sweep-
ing the pool in Australian wheat
competitions. Following its win in
Riverina, it produced the champion crop
in S.A., in a competition in which 540
farms entered. Last year it shared the
honors with Ghurka.
The S.A. system is to award 18 dis-
trict championships, from the winners of
which the State champion is chosen ; 35
points are allotted for apparent yield, 25
for freedom from weeds, 20 for health,
15 for type and five for crop evenness.
The winner was E. H. Wilsden, of
Andrews, whose Dundee produced the
highest yield and was smut-free. Second
place was filled by J. E. K. Ridgway with
Sword, _ which has won more S.A. cham-
pionships than any other wheat, and
which was bred at Roseworthy Agric.
College. The third award also went to
a crop of Sword, grown by C. S. R.
Shackley, of Owen.
The judge commented that in the
general run ot the exhibits it was the ex-
ception to find a big percentage of ears
in which some spikelets had set three
grains across, despite the fact that many


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
I
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
c
89
C 9
IN
NO EXTRA CHARGE
EASIER TO HANDLE
94 lbs. INSTEAD OF 187 lbs.
PACKED BY
ALL THE LEADING
SUPERPHOSPHATE
MANUFACTURERS
HANDLE
TH U S
LIGHTEN
YOUR
y\AA D E BY
[ A/SIA)
□
Miff
» ;
SEPARATE WALLS
OF
TOUGH, PLIABLE,
MOISTUREPROOF
PAPER.
(f
: v,
.3
g=
C.
fr
were otherwise dense and well headed
enough to produce high yields, if grain
formation had been better.
A number of entries, despite this,
promised 40-bushel yields.
Tree Lucerne.
“Bogaduck”: Give tree lucerne a trial
for shade and breakwinds. Seed is cheap
and will grow on poor sand as well as on
good loam, and the plant stands up well
to dry spells.
When young, the plants are eaten
readily by stock and rabbits, so it is
necessary to fence off and riet for a few
years. Sheep can be turned in when the
plants are six feet high, but when cattle
and horses have access to them the bark
of the trunk should be protected with
stakes.
Once established, the trees provide a
fair amount of fodder. There is no need
to lop them, even in a bad season, as
sheep will pick up and eat leaves and
dried seed pods as they fall.
It is a good idea to mix some lucerne-
tree seed with wheat or oats when put-
ting in a crop. The young 1.-t. plants are
never high enough to interfere with har-
vesting, but by the time stock are turned
into the stubble there is valuable green
fodder available.
If stock can be kept out of the stubble,
you can make use of this green picking
at the time when it is most valuable—in
early autumn.
Stock will eat every scrap of young
plants, even to trunk-stems an inch in
diameter.
Lucerne on a Large Scale.
“Hornsby”: When dealing with large
areas, cost is a vital factor. Seed must
not be wasted. If drill or combine drill
is used, it is best to sow seed mixed with
super, through the manure box. Remove
the seed tube conveyors. This gives a
broadcasting effect. Use a light set of
broadcasting harrows for covering.
It is not sound practice to sow lucerne
too deeply, but it is better to cover seed
with not less than lin. of soil than to
allow it to lie on the surface. More
failures occur through too shallow sowing
than from planting too deeply.
On heavy, self-mulching soils, sow to a
depth of lsiri. to 2in. On these and light
sandy soils, more uniform stands would
follow sowing with a cover crop.
On the heavy soils a cover crop tends
to check thistle-growth. During cooler
months the cereal covers the surface,
and to some extent acts as a mulch.
Thus the soil is not packed down readily,
drying out is retarded and the lucerne
germinates freely. Also, the young seed-
lings receive some protection from frost.
A wheat or oat stubble provides pro-
tection to the surface soil and young
lucerne during the heat of the first
summer.
Cover crops will yield as much as 12
bags per acre with apparently no detri-
ment to the lucerne, and a crop of wheat
or oats sown with lucerne can be grazed
fairly heavily during the winter.
Excellent stands are obtained from a
seeding of lib. to 31b. sown with 45-551 b.
wheat per acre.
Keep Pigs Healthy.
“Silky Bag”: Our two worst swine
diseases —swine plague and necrotic en-
teritis are animal-health problems
rather than problems of contagion, and
can be eliminated by keeping pigs clean
and giving them an adequately balanced
ration.
Both kinds of germs live in pigyard
troughs, manure and wallowing pools.
To a healthy pig they cause no trouble.
Swine plague affects pigs kept in cold,
wet sties. Deaths occur in one or two
days, and few animals recover. With
neither this nor necrotic enteritis has
vaccine proved of any benefit.
The only thing to do when s.p. occurs
is to remove all the pigs from the pen,
separate the healthy ones from the sick
and place each lot in clean, dry yards
with a warm shed raised above ground
level. Then feed the best of clean food,
especially milk and crushed grains.
Necrotic enteritis mostly gets pigs kept
in dirty yards and poorly fed or given
contaminated slops.
The usual symptom is a series of
“button-ulcers” on the bowel wall. Death
follows. Sometimes the lungs are pneu-
monic, arid occasionally typical blood-
poisoning is present.
Cure follows separation of infected
stock from the others and the provision
of better feed and cleaner quarters.
(“Man on the Land.” continued on
next page.)


%
m
C 3
3258.
THE EXTRA WEAR IS ALWAYS THERE.
Wallaby skin, lined throughout and made from high-grade Velour Calf,
this full golosh Oxford Shoe is made for long wear.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in medium and wide fittings.
Prices: Brown, 48/6; Black, 47/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY ”
A
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRALIA
O
GEORGE BASS...
The exploration of 600 miles of the Australian coast
in an open whaleboat by the naval surgeon, George
Bass, ranks as one of the most notable achievements
in navigation.
With a crew of six naval ratings and provisions for
six weeks, he left Port Jackson in December, 1797.
He followed the coast southward, put in to Port
Hacking, Shoalhaven, Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay,
rounded Wilson’s Promontory and discovered and
named Western Port. The voyage occupied eleven
weeks.
His most important discovery was the strait that bears
his name. Until his voyage, the belief had been held
that Tasmania, discovered by Abel Tasman in 1642,
was part of the mainland.
On the 150th Anniversary of Australia ,the Bank of
New South Wales, the pioneer Bank of Australia,
honours Surgeon George Bass and other fearless
explorers who opened the way for the development
of this great country.
ESTABLISHED 1817
3 10F.1938
TTie'^'aUeS/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Pound Hints.
“Murramac”: A council’s impounding
officer is the only person who can im-
pound stock straying in a road or public
place. The owner or occupier is the only
person who can impound on private
property.
An impounding officer can impound at
any time, but a private person can only
do so between the hours of sunrise and
sunset.
An owner may not rescue his stock
from the impounding officer’s charge. He
must not open the pound gates or break
the fences to let his stock out.
A shire council’s officer can only im-
pound off the roads in villages, towns
and urban areas, and the roads must be
“sufficiently fenced” on both sides before
he can take action.
Animals which may be impounded are
cattle, horses, mules, asses, sheep, goats,
swine, camels and dromedaries.
Painting Machinery.
“S.J.”: Scarifiers and ploughs, etc., left
in the open need a coat of paint often
(B. 2/2/’3B), but painting harvesters,
binders, headers, drills and the like is
only a waste of time.
Harvesting time is fine and short, and
the machine should be returned to the
shed promptly. A combine of ours was
covered only by a double-bag rug for
eight years, and still had a full coat of
paint when sold for over half its initial
cost, after heavy service.
Spend the time cleaning machinery.
Drills and combines should be emptied
completely, and fertiliser stars removed
and scraped. Excess grease can be wiped
off.
Clean out all the grain and chaff runs
in the header or harvester, as these cause
it to deteriorate more quickly than any-
thing else save wear, especially if wet.
Soften all the belts—elevator belts
included —with plain neatsfoot oil. And,
finally, keep fowls away from valuable
machinery.
Hints for the Farm.
“Murramac”: For blood scours in
calves, crush three fresh eggs, with shells,
into the calf’s mouth. Twenty-four hours
later give one more.
“Lam”: Always disinfect the umbilical
cord when a calf is born. Tie with a
string in a 5 p.c. carbolic solution, and
then paint the cord and the skin round
about with a 5 p.c. iodine wash.
“M.L.W.”: It is largely a matter of
chance whether a freshly-skinned hide
will turn out good greenhide, but it helps
to salt lightly and roll it up for 24 hours
as soon as it is removed from the beast,
then wash it with clean water. Peg out
in the shade and cover the flesh side with
lin. of wood ashes. If placed where it will
be walked on, so much the better. Leave
for at least a month. Select a hide of
even color—it is usually of an even thick-
ness.
To make a binder for an axe-
handle try a section of tail skin from a
freshly-killed wallaby large enough to
thread the handle through. Put it on wet.
If the skin is a little loose it will tighten
up in drying. The skin is worked over
the handle, hair side out, and left until
dry. Then the hair is scraped off.
“L.F.”: To prop bananas against
cyclone weather use two 2x2 inch
stakes, 9ft. to 12ft. long, according to
variety, tied across each other with wire
to form a crotch about Ift. from one
end. Leave about 2ft. of loose wire.
Support the plant in the crotch the
other ends of the stakes being in the
ground—and run the wire round it with
a bit of sacking on the outside to pre-
vent cutting. Stakes should go in as
soon as bunching has taken place.
“Zedo”: The Queensland Agricultural
Dept, is canvassing the merits of Rhodes
grass, which covers a lot of the North, *as
a hay crop. Rhodes is a perennial which
is usually ripe for cutting in summer
when only annuals—outside lucerne—are
available. It is cheap to keep up, and
does not suffer the storm damage of
annuals. Its main disadvantage in south-
ern districts is that it suffers severely
from frost, but where the climate is
hotter and dry it will normally give from
1-1 tons to two tons of hay per acre. It
should be stacked within 48 hours of
cutting.
“Dicta”: British and American ex-
periments in artificial insemination (B.
26/1/’3B) have been successful. The
Animal Nutrition Research Institute col-
lected seed from a Friesian bull, Odin,
in Holland. It was carried to England
by aeroplane in a test tube, packed in
ice in an ordinary thermos flask, and
28 hours later Lord Rayleigh’s British
Friesian cow, Terling Torch 76th, was
inseminated. She has now produced
a thriving heifer calf. Spermatozoa
obtained from cockerels in Maryland
(U.S.A.) were placed in test tubes,
transported 200 miles to a New Jersey
hatchery and then injected into hens.
Their eggs were hatched at a New York
exhibition.
“St. L.”: C. W. Wright, of Waverley,
in the comparatively dry plainland near
Marlborough (C.Q.), is conducting inter-
esting experiments with Indian cattle —
the Guzerat and the Nellore, which is a
smaller breed, more suitable for traction
than for beef. The results of various
crosses give a tickproof beast, but the best
and most stable conformation so far has
been obtained with Aberdeen Angus
crosses. All breed mixtures so far have
produced an earlier maturing animal,
weight for weight, than the straight
breeds. The stock is on native grasses,
and the hump disappears after the first
generation. It is a pity a few of the
animals cannot be taken to the Northern
Territory within the buffalo-fly range,
since the zebu is highly resistant to the
fly.
“L.M.”: The multi-wall paper bag
will soon be used universally as
a container for fertiliser. Half a
dozen years ago the old 1871 b,
woven container was standard. The
paper bag is easier to lift, and fer-
tiliser cannot be wasted by working into
the fabric. Furthermore, it is weather-
proof in all reasonable rain and the cost
is no more than for ordinary bagging.
The trade now handles several millions a
year of the new containers; and last
year 34,000 tons of fertiliser was paper-
packed.
“Stump Jump”: During the past 18
months Clydesdale importations have
given the lie to the idea that the breed
is slowly becoming smaller in size. Last
year the champions at both Melbourne
and Sydney Royal Shows were imported
big horses. Woodbank Specialty (imp.).,
by Woodbank Majestic, champion in
Melbourne, stands 17.2 hands. The
others are not far behind. The new
stock show cleanly-muscled limbs with-
out any superfluous leg padding, and bone
is equally fine and flat —qualities we
thought were possessed only by small
horses to-day.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) The best treatment for a new stock saddle
to ensure a long life ? (2) The most satisfactory
method of laying a dirt verandah floor ? Ant-
bed is scarce. —58331.
(1) Rub neatsfoot oil well in, then a paste
made with the white of egg with a little castor
oil. When the saddle has been in use for some
time it can be washed with Harris’s saddle
soap and a little coacholine. Another method
is to rub the saddle well with mutton fat and
then with dry cloth. (2) Depends on the class
of soil. A good clay moistened with water and
well tamped down and lightly covered with
ant-bed or with sand if ant-bed is not avail-
able is good. When the clay is dried the
upper surfaces can be well swept. The firm-
ness will depend upon the nature of the clay.
* * * *
(1) What are the prospects of turkey-raising
in Queensland for open market or for door-to-
door sale ? (2) Where can I get a book on
the subject? —SB43B.
(1) Turkey-raising as a sole source of income
in Q’land is not profitable. It is carried on to
some extent by mixed farmers with large tracts
of country where it is possible for turkeys to
gather natural food. (2) Try the trading de-
partment of “Poultry,” 13 Goulburn-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
Any practical method of preventing horns
growing on cattle when young? —SB3o2.
Try a mechanical dehorner. It should have
a curved blade so as to remove the horn bud
completely to obviate later growth. It is best
done at marking time. Keep the dehorner as
clean as possible. A fly-repellent dressing such
as castor oil and turps should be applied
after dehorning. If it is not desired to cut the
horns off, try an application of caustic potash
stick to the horn buds. This method is not so
satisfactory as the mechanical removal. The
skin around the horn buds should be protected
by vaseline to limit the action of the caustic.
Any age from one to three weeks is suitable.


The Miraculous
Recovery From
m
m
V:-:
m
Trouble
of George M. Henry
of 132 Layton Street, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Once the victim of
a ghastly nervous
break-down, tor-
tured by insomnia,
“nerves,” depression
—now a virile man
again in the pink of
physical and mental
condition.
One of the most remarkable cases
where BIDOMAK has performed what
seemed a medical miracle is that of Mr.
George M. Henry, of 132 Layton St.,
Camperdown, Sydney.
He was. a shattered nervous wreck —
tortured by sleeplessness racked by
gloomy forebodings. Even after months
in hospital he could not read or con-
centrate —and life became an intolerable
burden.
Yet in a few short weeks he has made
a miraculous recovery, and in a wonder-
ful letter he gives full credit to
BIDOMAK for what this concentrated
mineral tonic has done to restore his
health to its present happy pinnacle.
Mr. Henry writes.'
“Words in cold ink are poor ex-
pressions of gratitude for the benefits
1 have derived from the use of
BIDOMAK.
“After being at Death’s door, with a
complete breakdown of the system,
suffering from insomnia, ‘nerves,’ de-
pression and loss of memory, and having
been an inmate of a hospital for nearly
four months, before I was finally dis-
charged, I was still very shaky.
“For over 25 years I had been a public
speaker in N.S.W. and Queensland, and
prior to my illness was doing 3 meetings
a day at times, besides a lot of writing
and running about. It is only natural
my health broke down.
“During 1936 I was a bundle of
‘nerves,’ and suffered the torture of
insomnia, lying awake night after night.
Life was unbearable —I was becoming
a nuisance to myself 'and those con-
nected with me.
“I was under treatment, but only went
down the hill farther and farther away
as the days went on.
“In September of 1936 I collapsed,
and what transpired for a few weeks was
a blackout. I was an inmate of a hospi-
tal till December, and what with rest and
proper food my mentality came back.
“December of 1936 came, and I went
home, but had to see the doctor at inter-
vals. It was here I started to take
BIDOMAK, and cannot express myself
in writing the miracle it performed. My
general health was built up and I was
made a new man.
“From a physical and mental wreck it
transformed me into a new man, keyed
up with the desire to enjoy life —facts
hard to believe to those who do not
know me.
“Only those who have suffered the
hell of nerves and bodily weakness will
not be amazed at these statements of
mine, because they can understand what
nerve suffering is like. ‘lt’s an eternity
of suffering.’ I will swear before any
body of persons and also elaborate on
the health-building elements contained
in BIDOMAK. IT MAY BE IMI-
TATED BUT NEVER DUPLICATED.
It acts on the blood stream, soothes
the nerves, builds up the tissues, ban-
ishes • insomnia, and renews the weak
physical condition; and helps the brain
to function properly.
“I hesitate not a moment to recom-
mend it to sufferers, and will feel it a
pleasure and delight to answer any cor-
respondence sent to me relevant to the
truth of this testimonial.
“There is one thing I noticed, and
that is that the effect of BIDOMAK
is permanent. Its effects are noticed
quickly, and after a satisfactory course
of treatment has been taken it is un-
necessary to continue. This is, of course,
very different from many drugs which
form a habit, and that is why I have
recommended BIDOMAK so strongly to
dozens and dozens of my acquaintances
who were amazed at the difference your
wonderful tonic made to me.
“I have become a walking and talk-
ing advertisement for what BIDOMAK
can do.”
MY CHILDREN
no longer have a
Cranky Mother
These are phrases from a letter written us by Mrs.
, * of Excelsior Street, Leichhardt.
Please read the rest of her letter which follows, for
hers is a common case with thousands of Mothers who
feel so completely run down and exhausted that they
snap the heads of husbands and children simply
because they can’t help it.
Here is the letter:—
1 feel 1 must to you out of sheer gratitude,
to tell you how much your wonderful tonic “BIDO-
MAK” has done for me. Until a few weeks ago I was
housekeeping for ten people and doing all the work
in a ten-roomed house. Having all that work, washing
and cooking, etc., to do myself, without any help, and
having three children of my own to care for, I can
tell you it wasn’t very long before my nerves became
all “edgy.”
SCOLDED CHILDREN INCESSANTLY
Every time the kiddies came home from school I’d be
saying, “don’t do this” and “don’t do that” for no
reason at all. I was that cranky I’d wake up every
morning in a bad mood and with a headache. I got
into the habit of taking Headache Powders.
TOOK UP TO 14 HEADACHE POWDERS DAILY.
Some days I took as many as fourteen powders a day.
Gradually my nerves became worse. I had different
tablets, pills and tonics—all of no avail. I heard
about “BIDOMAK” over the radio, and decided to
try a course of it. I felt better after the very first dose.
It really seemed unbelievable, but nevertheless it was
true. I cannot speak too highly of “BIDOMAK." I
told one of my friends to try a bottle, as her nerves
were in a bad state, and she laughed when I said the
first dose made me feel heaps better. However, to
cut a long story short, she got a bottle, and next time
I saw her she said that “BIDOMAK” was all I had
told her it was. Thanks to your wonderful tonic, my
nerves are now back to normal. I eat and sleep better
than I have done for years, and the children no
longer have a "cranky” mother. A pal told me
BIDOMAK” was worth £3 a bottle instead of 3/-
to see the change it has made in me.
* Full name and address on our files.
THIS IS WHAT
BIDOMAK
WILL DO FOR YOU
1. Ends MINERAL STARVATION by adding
ferrum (food iron), calcium, potassium,
sodium, phosphates, glycerophosphates and
sucrose.
2. Gives you a good appetite.
3. Brings sweet sleep to the weary sleepless.
4. Strengthens nerves that are tired and in-
flamed.
5. Relieves stomach upsets and dyspepsia.
6. Builds energy, “pep” and endurance.
7. Clears out body wastes from every cell of
the body by increasing the amount of
oxygen in the bloodstream.
8. Creates rich red blood, new healthy nerve
cells and nerve fluid.
9. Makes you feel well all over.
10. Tastes so good you’ll like taking it.
Iwlp 1
wm
MB
n
ee»?
AH Chemists and Stores.
31 for a large
/ m bottle.
New Zealand, 3/6.
GET A
BOTTLE OF
BIDOMAK
TO-DAY
MONEY BACK
GUARANTEE
So certain are we that you will notice
these benefits quickly that we guarantee
to refund your money if the very FIRST
bottle of BIDOMAK does not benefit you
and you return the nearly-empty bottle to
your nearest distributor, addressed below,
within 14 days. Nothing could be fairer
than that.
BIDOMAK
—— The Tonic of the Century —■■■
For Nerve, Brain and |
that “Depressed” Feeling 1
Bidomah is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Tasmania: L. Fairthome & Son Pty., Ltd., 42-48 St. John Street, Launceston.
Sole New Zealand Distributors: Q-Tol-Fluenzol Laboratories, P.O. Box 1018, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
There
is Jfo
Substitute


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Position, with or without son, as caretaker,
or any position of trust, wanted by middle-
aged, reliable, active woman, N.S.W., good
housekeeper, nurse; son good driver, running
repairs, handy with tools, taking night course
at Technical College.—Bs66.
Lad (16), inexperienced, wants job on bee
farm near Penrith (N.S.W.), keep and small
wage. Start first week in March. —8560.
Wanted partner in growing business, South
Coast, N.5.W.—8505.
To buy, reasonable condition, copy Admiralty
Handbook of Wireless Telegraphy, 7957.-8533.
Spare letters or a second-hand series of
letters for a “Mercantile” printing outfit, C.V.
series No. 10. —8553.
Words of poem beginning “When the heart
of man is heavy, sad and weary.”—B424.
Words of poem beginning “ ’Tis a good
world, and fair and excellently lovely.”—B4sl.
Information Sought.
Besides the rumpus when umpire Crockett
gave Hill run out {mentioned on this page
recently), what was the other demonstration
at Sydney Cricket Ground during the visit of
the 1903-4 English Eleven ? Who were the
captains of the teams, and what was the result
of the fixture? —8509.
During the fourth Test at Sydney C.G.,
February 26-March 3, 1904, light rain stopped
play, and when the players were tardy in
returning the crowd howled and hooted and
threw bottles and peelings on the field. Warner
(England) and Noble (Australia) were the cap-
tains, and England won by 157 runs.
* * * *
(1) What help did Sammy Woods give in
Test matches to the Australian Eleven in Eng-
land in 1888 (B. 2/2/’3B) ? (2) Where did
Woods play in Australia before he went to
England? (3) How old was Woods when he
played in these Tests? —BsBo.
First Test at Lord’s, July 16 and 17,
18 and 3 and 1 wicket for 6; second Test at
Kennington Oval, August 13 and 14, 0 and 7
and 2 for 80; third Test at Manchester, August
30 and 31, 4 and 0 and 2 for 315. (2) Woods
played in club matches at Manly (N.S.W.).
(3) Twenty-one.
* * * *
(1) Who were the Australians who batted
when the record of 729 for six wickets {closed)
was jnade in the second Test at Lord’s in July,
1930 ? (2) The English bowling figures? —Bs72.
(1) Bradman 254, Woodfull 155, Kippax 83,
Ponsford 81, McCabe 44, Oldfield 43 n. 0., V.
Richardson 30, Fairfax 20 n. 0., sundries 19.
(2) White 3 for 158, Tate 1 for 148, Robins 1
for 172, Hammond 1 for 82, Allen 0 for 115,
Woolley 0 for 35,
* * * *
(1) What should be the top speed of a Ford A
roadster, 1929 model ? (2) Cruising speed ?
(3) Suggestions as to how cruising speed could
be raised? —B464.
(1) 60 m.p.h. (2) 38 to 40 m.p.h. at the
discretion of the driver. (3) If you mean how
can the engine revolutions be increased with-
out undue vibration, this can be accomplished
by a careful valve grind executed by a Ford
dealer according to the Ford formula, coupled
with a carburettor and ignition tune-up. If
extra top speed is required, 1 / 16th inch could be
planed off the cylinder head. It is presumed,
of course, that the other parts of the motor are
in reasonably good condition. Attention should
also be paid to the motor mountings.
* * * $
At what age and how should a terrier pup’s
tail be docked? —B6os.
At three weeks to a month old. Clip the
hair around the joint and paint place to be
cut with tincture of iodine. Tie a ligature
of silk thread above the joint. A sterilised
knife or pair of scissors should be used. Apply
a little tincture of iodine to the raw end, and
in about half an hour’s time remove the liga-
ture.
* * # *
(1) Who invented smoke-writing in the sky
by the use of aeroplanes, and when was the
first public exhibition given? (2) Type of
’plane generally used for sky-writing ? (3)
How is the smoke produced and the letter
written ? —8547.
(1) It was invented by John Clifford Savage
in 1910, and was the subject of exhaustive
experiment and research during subsequent
years. It was first produced publicly in May,
1922, over the Epsom racecourse on Derby
Day, the aviator being Capt. Cyril Turner. (2)
High-altitude fighting scout. (3) A chemical
mixture, which can be cut off by the pilot
when required, is burnt and projected from
the exhaust pipe of the aeroplane motor. The
machine must follow the course of the letters
to be written.
* * * *
How can ambergris be identified? —8503.
Hold a needle in a flame for about 10 to
20 seconds, then press into the substance to
a depth of about |in., when, if it is genuine
ambergris, a dark brown to black resinous
liquid forms around the needle and appears
to boil. The needle is withdrawn, and before
the melted material on the sample cools it is
touched with the finger, when tacky, pitchlike
strings should adhere to the skin. The odor
of the smoke should be something like that
of burning rubber. A piece of ambergris about
the size of a pea, when immersed in three
teaspoons of alcohol and warmed or allowed
to stand for some hours with occasional shak-
ing, is almost completely dissolved, any in-
soluble black specks settling to the bottom of
the vessel. The solution when placed in sun-
light exhibits a greenish or bluish effect similar
to that noticeable in motor lubricating oils. In
diffused daylight the solution may vary from
light yellow to golden brown according to the
quality of the ambergris. If rectified spirit has
been used for dissolving the ambergris, a piece
of muslin or blotting paper may be moistened
with the solution and allowed to dry in the air.
The characteristic musty odor of ambergris is
thereby fully developed, and, in the case of
good ambergris, the odor is retained by the
cloth after washing with soap. All ambergris
will float on sea water.
* * V *
Cause of fingernails becoming corrugated ?
—8430.
Corrugation, “spooning” and Assuring of the
fingernails commonly occur after any severe
or prolonged illness ; they may also occur in
persons of gouty tendency or accompany infec-
tions of the nail-bed due to tinea or to the
common pus-forming organisms. Most fre-
quently, however, the condition is nothing more
than an individual peculiarity for which no
treatment is of avail.
* * * *
(1) What is bilharziasis ? (2) Symptoms ? (3)
Usual treatment? (4) Does the disease exist
to any extent in Australia? —8600.
(1) It is a disease caused by worms {Schisto-
somatidoe), of which there are several species.
The small immature worms enter the system,
usually through the skin when bathing or
washing and possibly also when drinking water
to which they have gained access. The imma-
ture worms develop in the human body and
in their mature state lodge in the blood vessels
of the bladder or lower intestine. Here the
female worms lay their eggs. (2) The eggs
in passing through the walls of the bladder or
bowel cause irritation and pain, and often
considerable loss of blood. (3) The accepted
treatment is the injection into the veins of a
solution of tartar emetic, given in gradually
increasing doses until a cure is effected. (4)
No. A considerable number of Australian
soldiers contracted the disease in Egypt and
returned to Australia with it, but these have
since almost all been cured.
* * * *
Cause of and cure for warts ? —8432.
Warts are little tumors of the superficial
layers of the skin. Since they often appear in
epidemic form in schools, etc., they are very
likely due to some contagion the nature of
which is not yet known. They may be snipped
off with scissors after freezing with carbon
dioxide snow, treated by means of diathermy
or exposed to suitable doses of X-rays—all
matters for the doctor.
* * * *
(1) Minimum cost of equipping a brass band
with instruments ? (2) How many performers
are required? (3) What salary would a band-
master-teacher expect? —BsBB.
(1) About £5OO. (2) 20 to 25. (3) £4 a week
at least for a competent instructor, and he
would expect either a fairly remunerative
private teaching practice or a decent job in
some other capacity to supplement his band
stipend.
* * * *
A brief account of the career of the late
Clement Wragge, one-time Queensland meteorol-
ogist?—Bs4l.
Born in Worcestershire (Eng.) in 1852;
studied for the law, but abandoned that to
go to sea. Later, migrating to S. Aus., he
joined the Surveyor-General’s Dept. Return-
ing to England in 1878, he took up meteorology,
and in 1881 he founded Ben Nevis observatory.
Returning to Australia in 1883, he instituted
the Torrens and Mt. Lofty observatories. He
became Government Meteorologist in Queens-
land in 1887, and issued, using very original
methods, most accurate weather forecasts. He
reorganised the Tas. meteorological service, and
founded the Mt. Wellington, Mt. Kosciusko
and other Australian observatories. He resigned
his Queensland post in 1902, and his last
days were spent in Maoriland.
* * * *
What is the meaning attached to George
Lambert’s picture ‘‘lmportant People” ? —8532.
Here is Lambert’s own interpretation: “The
baby is the centre of the composition, as
motherhood is the dominant factor in human
life. Health and strength, physical develop-
ment and sport are symbolised by the pugilist,
and commerce by the gentleman with the
cigarette. The wheel of the cart, the com-
position motive of which is repeated by the
sickle in the right-hand corner of the picture,
represents life and death.”
* * * *
(1) Procedure to be followed for transfer of
pension by old-age pensioner moving from Vic.
to N.S.W.? (2) When invalid pensions are
granted is the maximum amount always given ?
(3) Is the recipient of an invalid pension allowed
to earn money in addition to the pension ?
8581.
(1) Application for transfer should be made
to the postmaster at the pay office where in-
stalments are now collected. (2) The rate is
governed by the applicant’s income and prop-
erty, and is not always paid at the maximum.
(3) Invalid pensions are paid in respect of total
permanent incapacity for work or blindness.
Cases are treated on their merits when the
question of earning arises.
* » * *
(1) Is there a living in hawking fish in a
N.S.W. country town? (2) If not, what lines
are suitable to carry with fish? (3) What
weight of fish would one need a day to make
a living? (4) What space would this require?
(5) Best material to make container for carry-
ing fish ? (6) Population of the town I am
interested in is about 12,000. Would this keep
a man busy? (7) What laws control such
businesses ? —8319.
(1) There is no reason why a good living
could not be made hawking fish in a good
town provided that adequate supplies can be
obtained and the fish sold at a reasonable price
and handled under hygienic conditions. (2)
Oysters and smoked fish could be handled in
addition to fresh fish. (3) and (4) Depends
on the class of fish handled, the amount paid
for supplies and the margin of profit obtained
by the vendor. (5) If using a motor vehicle
the most hygienic containers would be boxes
constructed of pine and well painted with white
enamel paint; these can be washed and kept
free from smell. (6) This would depend on
the ability of the vendor as a salesman. (7)
The vehicle and containers would have to
comply with the provisions of the Pure Food
Act, which Act is administered by the Depart-
ment of Public Health, and if oysters are sold
it will be necessary to obtain an oyster vendor’s
license from the Chief Secretary’s Department.
It may also be necessary to obtain a hawker’s
license from the municipal council.
* * # *
(1) Steps to be taken to form a limited com-
pany in Queensland? (2) Cost of registration
and other expenses ? (3) Can a minor be a
member? (4) Any advantages over an ordinary
business agreement between members of a
family ? —8442.
(1) and (2) In Queensland seven or more per-
sons may constitute a company, no subscriber
taking less than one share. Articles of associa-
tion to be drawn up, signed, attested, and fees
paid to the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies.
Several requirements must be complied with,
such as the keeping of a register of members,
their occupations, and so on. Directors must
be elected and their names furnished to the
registrar, fees paid and numerous other details
attended to. (3) There is no prohibition, but
it would be undesirable in view of necessity
for ratification when majority was attained. (4)
A professionally drawn up business agreement
would involve less trouble and expense.
* * * *
Car landowners prevent persons fishing in
fresh-water streams running through their
property? —B4Bs.
In flowing water the public has a right to
fish in the centre of the stream but must not
trespass on the properties of owners on either
side.
* * * *
When does the moon complete its nine years'
northerly course and commence on its southerly
course? —8422.
Actually, the moon moves north and south
once each month, much as the sun does once
in each year. However, the inclination of the
moon’s orbit varies over a period of about
18 years, increasing during nine years and
decreasing during the following nine years, so
that the monthly range of its movement from
north to south varies during this time. The
range of movement at present is increasing and
will reach a maximum in February, 1941.
* * * *
(1) Briefly, what is the history of Volapuk?
(2) Whence are the roots derived, and number
of letters in alphabet ? (3) Textbook on sub-
ject?—Bs3s.
(1) Volapuk was the first artificial language
to attain any measure of practical success.
First published in 1880, it was the work of
J. M. Schleyer, a South German priest. He
taught it successfully in Paris, and it was
advocated for diplomatic and scientific pur-
poses by the Philological Society of London.
•It fell into disuse through dissension among
its supporters. (2) The roots are chiefly bor-
rowed from Romanic, Germanic and English
languages, shortened. The alphabet consists
of 27 letters —eight vowels and 19 consonants
—and each letter has but one sound. (2) The
International Language; Handbook of Volapuk,
by C. E. Sprague (1888).
How many etchings may be printed off an
etched plate, and what denotes an original
etching ? —8540.
Depends on how the plate is bitten. If
a large number of prints is desired the plate
is usually steel-faced, and from this thousands
of proofs may be printed. Etchings are issued
in numbered editions, usually of from 30 to
100. The artist declares the number of the
edition to be printed from any plate and keeps
a register of proofs sold, and when the declared
number is sold the plate is destroyed. An
original is distinguished by the artist’s signature
on the margin of the proof on the right-hand
side and the edition number on the left.
* * * *
Colors of the galah, size and when do such
birds commence to talk? How should they be
fed and looked after? —8521.
Back and tail, light grey; wings, darker
grey; crown of head, pinky white; face, neck
and underparts, rich rose pink; total length,
Min. Some galahs make very good talkers,
and may commence talking at about six
months of age. Feed on cracked corn, with
an occasional raw carrot or any green food,
also fruit. Some fanciers feed their birds on
a mixture of two parts canary seed, two parts
white millet, one part hemp, one part oats,
one part sunflower seed, one part peanuts. A
small piece of hardwood with bark on should
be placed in the cage to provide exercise for
the bill and to keep it in good condition. The
cage should be large enough to allow the bird
to flap its wings. The galah must have an
occasional spray bath.
* * * *
How to make a water filter out of a wine
barrel ? —8389.
Procure a piece of fine brass wire cloth of
sufficient size to make a partition across the
barrel about Min. above the bottom. Support
this with a coarser wire cloth placed over a
light wooden frame to keep the cloth from
sagging. Fill the barrel to a depth of about
3in. with clear, sharp- sand, then 2in. of char-
coal broken finely, but no dust, and, finally,
place 4in. of sand on the layer of charcoal.
Fill with water and draw from a tap placed
at the bottom of the barrel.
ifc Jjc * *
Methods of catching crayfish on the Murray
and its tributaries? —8574.
(a) A line weighted with sinkers is laid
across the river. Attached to this line every
3ft. or 4ft. are smaller lines about 2ft. long
baited with meat. The long line is gently lifted
to the surface and any attached crayfish are
scooped into the boat. ( b) Baited traps similar
to salt-water lobster pots, (c) An acetylene-
light is used at night when the water is clear
to locate the crayfish, which are landed by hand
net about 2ft. in diameter, (d) Wire-netting
of about Hin. mesh attached to strong fenc-
ing-wire, with meat or other bait in the centre,
is lowered to the bottom. This net is hauled
vertically to the surface, and the crayfish
attracted by the bait are secured.
Brief Answers.
F.A.W.: Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney, obtains
the fish for its aquarium from Honolulu and
other parts of the Pacific. They are carried
free by shipping cos., a concession which
would not be available to others. Most large
aquariums are away from the sea or harbors.
London’s, Chicago’s and San Francisco’s are
quite a distance from the water’s edge. London
Aquarium is said to obtain its water from the
Bay of Biscay J.H.: The outstanding
balance on the shares is due and would have
to be met, but you could write to the Receiver,
asking for time in which to pay off the liability.
In the circumstances the request might receive
consideration... .M.W.: The legal procedure
for change of name is by deed poll, a single
declaration of the intention to make the pro-
posed change, and by advertisement of the
fact. Any solicitor would for a small fee draw
up such a deed. It would require to be regis-
tered by the Registrar of Births... .D.M.K.:
The council, having purchased the pipe-line,
may make its own terms for the supply of
water. If you want the water and the council
agrees to supply it conditionally on a certain
type of meter being installed you will have to
comply with its condition or do without the
water. You cannot compel the council to
adopt your meter... .L.H.H.: (1) Gilbert and
Barker Manufacturing Co. (Aust.), Ltd., 49
Salisbury-road, Camperdown, N.S.W.; E.R.L.
Products Pty., Ltd., Park-road, Glebe, N.S.W.;
Eudio, Ltd., Bowden-street, Alexandria, N.S.W.
(2) A G. Healing, Ltd., 164 Goulburn-street;
Bennett and Wood, Pitt and Bathurst streets;
Westcott, Hazell and Co., 225 Castlereagh-street
—all Sydney G.W.: (1) Nautical School
(Capt. Bayldon), Royal Exchange, corner Pitt
and Bridge streets, Sydney. (2) Sydney Tech-
nical College, Ultimo. (3) Marconi School of
Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney....
J.W.A.: Three-blade propeller, diameter llin.,
pitch lOin. Cost in Sydney about 305., bored
out and ground... .P.W.A.: Continuous buzz-
ing in the ear is frequently a premonitory
symptom of deafness if the presence of wax
or foreign bodies has been excluded. The
trouble is often relieved by a special method
of inflation of the Eustachian tube. If the
complaint persists consult an ear specialist
J.W.M.: The history plainly indicates that
further allergic tests and close observation will
be required to identify the irritant which is
causihg the angio-neurotic oedema. Would be
as well to try abstinence from tobacco; it is a
rare but not unknown cause of the trouble....
E.T.A.C.: (1) Cases of equal or longer dura-
tion are common. (2) No need to fear any
serious internal complication T.W.F.: Write
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for free leaflet
“The Passion-fruit”... .D.R.: A good prepara-
tion may be made by stirring together equal parts
of soft green soap and powdered pumice-stone.
Another consists of white soap fine
sand (lib.) and water (5£ pints). Stir in the
grit as the mixture of soap and water cools
and sets....J.Y.: Save Your Hair, by Oscar
L. Levin, 55., or The Hair and Scalp, by Agnes
Savill, 195.; Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
R.A.: “Rheumatism” is a term loosely applied
to several varieties of arthritis. Without diag-
nosis it is impossible to suggest treatment ....
M. : The line is from W. B. Yeats’s “He
Wishes for the Cloths of Heaven”... .R.D.: (1)
There are no fixed dates for the holding of
medical and educational examinations for en-
trance to the N.S.W. police force. (2) Full
particulars from secretary, Police Department,
Box 45A, G.P.0., Sydney....A.M.G.: Write
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research,
314 Albert-street, East Melbourne, Vic
G. : The name of “Night Riders” was given
to an organisation of farmers in Kentucky and
Tennessee who in 1908-09 resisted the attempt
to create a powerful monopoly in the purchase
of tobacco for manufacture. They committed
attacks by night on tobacco-growers who re-
fused to join them... .E.N.: Agent for Wil-
liam Heinemann, Ltd., in Australia is E. E.
Bartholomew, Cathedral Building, Flinders-
lane, Melbourne... . J.S.: Conmurra is a S.A.
abo. place-name meaning “a stony hill”
H. : Basic slag is not now obtainable on
the Brisbane market. This material is obtained
as a by-product in the manufacture of pig-
iron. It contains phosphoric acid in a more
available form to plant growth than the phos-
phoric acid in bonedust, but the phosphoric
acid in basic slag is not so quickly available
as the phosphoric acid in superphosphate....
T.M.A.: (1) No reliable data available. (2)
Males (aboriginal) sft. 5 7/Bin., males (British
stock) sft. Sin WJ.: The job is not one
for an amateur. Send the instrument to W. H.
Paling and Co., 86 Queen-street, Brisbane
M.E.F.: In order to advise as to the best top-
dressing, it would be necessary to know the type
of material that the present court consists of
so that a like material could be used. If the
court has already been in use and it is found
necessary to level it and fill in worn patches,
the usual procedure is to roughly rake the
whole area, and the best topdressing has been
found to be loam, with a not very high percen-
tage of sand A.M.D.: Write Lecturer-in-
charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Water-
loo, N. S. Wales M. 8.: Communicate with
the High Commissioner’s Office, Australia
House, The Strand, London M.H.: Ad-
dresses of contributors cannot be furnished, but
any letter care of this office will be forwarded.
S.E.: Write Dr. F. W. Wheatley, 10 Barn-
cleuth-square, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney J.G.:
“Cats on the Roof,” by Edward Harrington,
appeared in The Bulletin of Dec. 12, 1934
M.C.: Write Dept, of Agriculture for leaflet
on the subject... .F.A.S.: The poem “The
Gasometer” was written by Adam McCay, and
appeared in The Bulletin of September 17,
1914 C.H.: Have forwarded your inquiry to
the “Woman’s Mirror.” Reply will be printed
in that paper... .A.H.C.: Get in touch with
Mick Simmons, Ltd., George-street, Syd-
ney A.E.S.: The answer was correct.
The verse had been printed some time pre-
viously, but was reprinted in the issue men-
tioned N.C.: The batting average is
obtained by dividing the total number of runs
by the number of completed innings... .L.F.:
Communicate with Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
patent attorneys, Asbestos House, Barrack-
street, Sydney J.W.: The Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, will forward on
application literature dealing with the sub-
ject. .. .L.8.H.: Sir Geoffrey Whiskard is High
Commissioner for the United Kingdom in Aus-
tralia... .M.H.S.: On September 13, 1931,
Great Britain won the Schneider Trophy for
the third time in succession, Flight-Lieut. J. N.
Bnothman, the winner, setting up a record of
340 miles per hour.


AERO'
Mf CHANIIS/
Study for Good HangarJobf\
Aircraft Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
W. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION
Dept, Kembla Bids., Margaret St., Sydney
s
EARN AN EXTRA INCOME WEEKLY FOR LIFE
—WRITING FOR THE PRESS!
Thousands of STORIES and ARTICLES are wanted annually by
Australian Editors. If YOU have THOUGHTS, why not turn them
into CASH and make a regular EXTRA INCOME weekly? Send
for STOTT’S New Free Booklet, “How to Write for Profit.” No
letter is necessary. Simply cut out this advertisement and mail
it with your full Name and Address to Dept. 8100, STOTT’S
CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 100 Russell Street, Melb., Vic.
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
HARDENED ARTERIES-
m
HOW TO END HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE ....
The left illustration shows your colon clogged with
fermenting acid waste and lime deposits. Because
your bowels act regularly is not proof that all the
waste is being evacuated. Instead, it encrusts on the
colon walls and poisons the whole system. You suffer
from dangerous high blood pressure, hardened ar-
teries, in addition to other aches and pains. You feel
tired, depressed, exhausted, always drowsy. You have
no vigour or vitality. Perhaps you have rheumatism,
Clogged bladder complaint and stomach distress. Laxatives
Colon are useless —they only purge the lower
end of the bowel. They do not clear away the acid-
developing wastes from the colon walls. ‘Coloseptic,’
however, clears the entire colon of waste matter as
shown in the right-hand illustration. It neutralises
all acid conditions. It restores the body’s alkaline re-
serve. ‘Coloseptic’ also activates the kidneys, skin
pores and the lungs—other vital organs your body
uses to get rid of surplus poisons. Get rid of
dangerous High Blood Pressure. Enjoy the evening
of your years in peace, comfort and contentment.
Clear your clogged colon with ‘Coloseptic’ NOW.
AT ALL CHEMISTS:
Unclogged
Colon
SIZE, 2/9
ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6
If unobtainable locally write to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tl&w Ssdsmitfk
Jhoaimsurd (BhinqA
Quick <Rsdh@ ....
High Blood Pressure and Hardened Arteries
arise primarily from self-poisoning (Autoxima).
leading specialists now say. The clogged
colon, where the self-poisoning actually begins,
must first be cleared of fermenting, acid food
debris before real relief from dangerous blood
pressure, hardened arteries, dizziness, giddi-
ness, pounding heart, head noises, shortness
of breath, trembling, drowsiness, exhaustion,
loss of memory and lack of vitality can be se-
cured. Clear your colon of the acid, disease-
causing waste and so reduce the pressure, thus
removing the danger of a "breakdown."
HOW SELF-POISONING CAUSES
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE . . . .
Civilized life guards us against many dangers
and diseases, but exposes us to hidden ones,
such as self-poisoning. Modern foods often lack
essential elements that give exercise to the
walls of the colon (large intestine), thereby los-
ing their power of normal movement and are
unable to get rid of the lime and acid-forming
deposits which encrust in the colon folds.
These acids and lime deposits are absorbed
into the system and circulate in the blood
stream. They settle on the walls of the ar-
teries and nanow the channel. The arteries
become "hard" and fail to expand when the
blood is pumped by the heart. This causes
the distressing symptoms experienced by suf-
ferers from high blood pressure and hardened
arteries.
TESTIMONIAL
Devonport , Sept . 8 9 1936 •
“/ have been m user of ‘Coloseptic 9 for years—in
fact, ever since it saved me from a serious opera-
tion , when / was obliged to have two nurses and an
ambulance to take me to a hospital , when I begged
for a dose of ‘ Coloseptic, 9 which was administered
with wonderful effects . / have lost count of the
number of people to whom I have recommended
‘Coloseptic 9 . 99
PPEC_Liberal Sample of ’Coloseptic'
rlVCL'Moil Coupon for a Free Sample.
I>earn more about this vital subject. Mail
the coupon for a free sample of
‘COLOSEPTIC’ to-day, and you
will receive a book telling
you all about this highly
important subject.
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
1C
CHECKS SELF-POISONING
AIDS NUTRITION
COMBATS ACIDITY -BUILDS HEALTH
C oV> SC V e ’
*e e,V '
*V>Je*V*
o ,c °tv> c »*
U A ’ v«o^-A*'
,«,v-' «® . N v° ,--
*.A V _ /
v»
\< e
ds
A MIXED GRILL.
As venturesome and hardbitten a tug
skipper as ever passed a towing hawser
was Captain Carl Larsen, who passed
out recently in the Tweed (N.S.W.) dis-
trict at 75. He towed the disabled
Frenchman Beaumanoir from Suva to
Sydney, 1743 sea miles, in 13 days. But
his star performance was in January,
1902, when, returning from a Sydney-
Melbourne tow, he sighted the 1595-ton
Port Patrick in a gale of wind near
Wilson’s Promontory, abandoned and in
a dangerous position. As he stood by for
the weather to moderate a rival tug
showed up. By a miracle of manoeuvring
and seamanship Larsen got a salvage
party on board, with orders to keep the
others off by any means at hand. They
armed themselves with axes whilst the
skipper performed evolutions of an ex-
citing and risky nature with his craft.
He won, and cleaned up a tidy sum for
salvage.
* :fe H*
A breezy prelate attending the R.C.
Centenary celebrations in Auckland
(M.L.) is Bishop Kelley, of Okla-
homa. Canadian by birth (Prince
Edward Island), he calls himself the
Bishop of the Sooners. Oklahoma was
settled all at one jump after a great race
in which the prospective settlers took
part (it was reproduced in a Hollywood
film a while back). Those who got there
first staked out the best land claims.
They were the Sooners. Another of this
bishop’s sobriquets is “Extension Kelley”
he founded and was first president of
the Catholic Church Extension Society
of America, now a very powerful organ-
isation devoted to the planting of new
schools and churches.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Sydney’s old Hyde Park
Barracks—which some wish to preserve
as a historical monument —has many
quaint legal associations; one that
particularly appealed to me was the office
of the veteran who for years was “the
oldest solicitor in Sydney.” It was on
the rickety stairs connecting the main
building with an annex. If you had papers
which had to be sworn, sympathetic
clerks referred you to the old lawyer,
who thus collected the fees that other-
wise would merely have gone to the Gov-
ernment. The veteran gave the money’s
worth of ceremony, and everybody who
had helped to put a few half-crowns into
his pocket felt good.
* * * 9
“Dhas”: If Bradman’s not fed to the
teeth with meeting admirers, he might
give poet Edmund Blunden a chance to
say hullo to him in England. Blunden,
who is now a lecturer at Oxford, and
whose Undertones of War was one of
the best things that came out of the
mud in Flanders, has an extraordinary
resemblance to Bradman, and feels much
more at ease talking about Australian
cricket than about the misfortunes of
Georgian poets.
* * * *
Lansdowne”: Quaint names some of
these cricketers spring on us. A few
years ago a batsman surnamed Bill came
bounding into the light of fame at
Sydney and the reporters were sorely
puzzled over his moniker for a time. To
write that Bill did this or that looked
somehow out of place in cold print, so
they got over the difficulty by throwing
in his Christian name until the public
had got used to the other one. This
year a bowler who was rated by many
as a possibility for international honors
turned up in Queensland with the name
of Christ. The cognomen, according to
a cricket authority, is pronounced with
the “i” soft (? short) so that it rhymes
with “fist.” This is reassuring, but if
the owner of it had made his way into
Bradman s little lot I conjecture that
it would have taken some time for the
English public to get used to it.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
T.D.L.: If you must write racing yarns, why
give them an American setting? D.G.T.:
“What do you think of this?” Quite good,
but O. Henry wrote most of it H.G.R.:
As weary a stretch of bellerdrammer as ever
provoked a yawn H.Y.: “‘Stick ’em up,
youse guys,’ he rasped. ‘l’ll blow youse full
of holes even if dey gives me de hot seat.’ ”
Send him back to the U.S H.L.S.: Vapid
wanderings 8.N.F.: If you spent half the
time you give to writing on reading what we
use, you’d stand a better chance N.H.D.:
So that’s your idea of realism? H.P.C.:
Sorry, we don’t hand out cheques until we have
the completed yarn T.S.H.: We thought the
dream-in-the-dentist's-chair idea had been for-
gotten long ago H.C.S.: We’re getting a
little tired of those sketches 8.L.T.: If
that’s the best missile you can find with which
“to assault our defences” you might as well
beat a strategic retreat L.F.P.: The w.p.b.
is overflowing with titled swaggies... .R.D.T.:
Possibly, possibly M.J.R.: That batch
might have carried some weight 50 years ago.
M.T.F.: Breezy enough, with a laugh here
and there, but it doesn’t make a yarn....
H.V.D.: “I wrote this because my friends”
That’s no excuse 8.T.P.: No, we don’t
want yarns with a strong sentimental interest.
T.S.F.: Nor can we use 50,000 words of
an African animal story F.H.T.: We feel
the same, but can find no reason to tell the
world about it 8.H.5.: Katharine Prichard
has a better way of dealing with such things.
F.L.T.: We won’t pay 2s. postage on your
or anyone else’s contributions L.J.1.: “My
’plane is rushing forward through the mid-
night to its base.” It crashed M.K.8.:
“Not Yet” not up A.F.: It has its merits,
but don’t know where you’d place it at that
length... .C.M.D.: “Soil” lacks fertiliser....
W.A.C.: Not here.... V.C.: Ducks didn’t
score L.D.G.: Have another shot
A. 5.8.: Watery H.H.: Thought that “a
million mouths are muttering of love” is
enough to put anyone off poetry F.E.P.:
N 0... .A.E.8.: Sentiment does you more credit
than the verse J.H.S.: Suspected that
ballad of little Mary in the bushfire would
end happily, but this was new:
We’s been asleep, me an’ Dolly we has,
In the pen where our poor piggy died....
A.E.S.: “Shortshirts” chilled us to the
marrow... .D.E.: Sissie pained us... .M.L.L.:
A lightweight M.H.H.: Rupert Brooke said
it better J.H.: Trees really feel tragic very
rarely, considering all the verse that’s written
about them. Try again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.L.: Wash drawing too foggy for success-
ful reproduction N.P.: Cannot understand
why the prehistoric monster is perched on the
roof of the wayside shanty... .8.H.: This
week’s grimmest D.C.: The wheeze has
been pirated, and the sketch is an eyesore....
R.PJ.: When you upset an ink-bottle on a
sheet of paper don’t send the result to u 5....
G.S.T.: You’ve a long way to g0....M.T.:
Linework has a nice sweep, but the figures are
badly posed M.M.: Not wanting fairy-book
illustrations nor juvenile gags. •. .E.D.: The
coach is well drawn; can’t say the same for
the horses and driver... .F.A.: Figures appear
to have been hacked out by a demented monu-
mental mason and the gag coined by an under-
taker J.S.M.: You’re still tying inscribed
balloons to characters’ lips P.J.: An Amos
and Andy gag tagged to an awful drawing
0.P.: Any 10-year-old nipper could teach you a
few points about the game... .S.F.G.: You were
missing when artistic talents were being be-
stowed by Nature... .W.N.: Cross-hatching is
harsh and ugly, and drawing is out of focus.
C.H.M.: You can’t draw hands C.E.:
Swagman drawing is the best of the bunch....
8.R.: You’re still in the cup-and-saucer stage.
I.J.: Norman Lindsay covered that subject.
. ...H.H.: Subdue your shadows and get more
crispness into your drawings P.F.: What’s
wrong with your characters that {hey all must
stand at an angle of 45 degrees?.K.W.: A
search of our morgue brought to light a twin
brother of that drawing G.T.: At least
you’re consistent —you’re still repeating the
blunders you made two years back.... A.G.:
Prepared to wager that sketch of the Never-
Never will never see print J.S.: The Art
Editor regrets C.F.: The lad shows talent,
but he’ll need to attend an art school H.D.:
We can remember the laughter that rippled
around Australia when B. E. Minns first illus-
trated that joke D.H.F.: Received with
yawns... .P.R.: The idea was good, but the
execution was feeble J.G.M.: It’s an effort
for you to draw a straight line G.W.: No
place for those misfits H.R.A.: If you must
draw natives draw the Australian variety.


WIRE-FARM & BUILDING SUPPLIES
m FENCING WTTb*
FENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrerw Droppers
H
fr
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES* LIMITED.?-.
JUST ARRIVED !!!
100 tons British Hibiscus Quality 12^g.
GALV. HIGH TENSION WIRE, 1500
yards to the cwt. coil, yet same strength
as Bg. galvanised wire. This wire saves
freight, and when erected it won t
stretch. Every coil fully guaranteed.
Price .... £29 per ton or 30/- per coil
Full stocks now available of Bg. and lOg.
GALV. PLAIN WIRE and of all BARB
WIRE. Immediate delivery guaranteed.
We also have full stocks of STEEL
FENCING POSTS and AUTOSCREW
DROPPERS. Specify "Hibiscus” Barb
because it is the only Barb Wire made in Queensland and it is in full cwt. coils.
Keep your money in Queensland.
Also K. Wire, Chain Wire, Gates, and latest Hibiscus High Tension Field
Fencing for Sheep, Cattle and Pigs, from 19/3 per five-chain roll. Write
for full details.
NEW ERA SEPARATORS: Up to £9 cash allowed on
trade-in separators of any size, make or condition to
every purchaser of a new 60- or 90-gallon model New
Era.” List prices, £22/10/- and £27/10/- respectively.
Also small sizes available at keenest prices. Money can’t
buy a better separator than the New Era—awarded first
prize at all leading shows. Lowest prices for Cream
Cans and all other dairying requisites.
'T
¥
DOORS AND JOINERY:
Best Queensland Pine Doors,
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. x 1
morticed, tenoned and moulded, at 17/6 each nett.
Equally low for other joinery. Send us your build-
ing specifications and see the big savings. “Fibro-
cene” hrst grade rtsuesios Cement Sheets from 2/-per square yard, less 3%
cash discount.
COTTONSEED MEAL: Twice as rich in protein as bran, pollard. Standard
Grade (30% protein), £8 per ton, or 8/6 per 1001 b. bag. Special Grade
(40% protein), £9/10/- per ton, or 10/- per bag.
Lowest also for: Dover Stoves (No. 7 at 70/- and No. 8 at 80/-). Cement
(4/- per bag, 95/- per ton or 92/6 per ton in six-ton lot's). Linseed Oil.
Fibrocene Corrugated Sheets for Roofing. Sheep and Cattle Troughing.
Lawnmowers. Wire Gauze. Hardware. Tools. Chemicals. Fertilizers.
Carbide. Lampware. Furniture. And our big line, Groceries, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
IT WILL SAVE YOU POUNDS.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES
PTY. LTD.
BOWEN ST (NEAR FIRE BRIGADE) BRISBANE
Victoria’s Favorite Featherweight
and One of the Best
Since the days when Jem Mace kept a
pub there, Melbourne has been greatly
interested in featherweights—more so, as
a rule, than in any other boxing division.
And it has had some uncommonly good
ones. Such little fellows as Nipper
Peakes and Billy Williams when the
memory and influence of the Norwich
Gipsy were still strong ; in later days,
Hegarty, McGowan and Micko Walsh;
later still, Mehegan and McCoy, who
boxed as featherweights before they grew
CHARLIE SIMPSON.
out of the class ; and, following them,
Bert Spargo. And there were other busy
little biffers primed with the knowledge
that old hands like Sammy Gray and
Fred Porter could impart.
Spargo might conceivably have been
the greatest of them all had he stuck to
the game as the others did. But when
22, and going from strength to strength,
he retired for what are generally the
three most formative years of a pugilist’s
• career.
A native of Bendigo, Spargo had his
first important scrap on July 31, 1915 —
the date of Darcy’s first meeting of
McGoorty—at the West Melbourne Sta-
dium. lie weighed Bst. 121 b. and was
still under 20.
Simpson was a nine-stoner, and a
rugged and experienced little fighter.
Comparative novice as he was, Spargo
made a profound impression with his fine
scientific style. The encounter went 20
rounds, and the decision for Simpson
had a very mixed reception.
Two weeks later at the same place
Spargo boxed another experienced
featherweight and a tough one —George
Taylor, of Westralia. Taylor was a
strong, confident fellow whose scythe-
swinging rights and lefts had demoralised
most of his opponents ; but they didn’t
demoralise Spargo. After studying his
queer style for three rounds, Spargo
clipped a quick right to the reaper’s jaw
and put him out of business for eight
seconds.
That was a preface to the finale.
Spargo fairly paralysed Taylor with a
hail of well-placed blows, especially in
the infighting. The gong saved the
Jarrahlander in the twelfth round, and in
the thirteenth referee Quirk placed his
hand on Spargo.
On October 23, 1915, Spargo put all
the signs of the Zodiac over Jimmy Hill,
then the best of the Sydney fedders, at
Melbourne. In spite of Jimmy’s advan-
tage of plus a shrewd head, Spargo
bogged in from the start, sending in every
variety of wallop in his catalogue. Hill’s
frequent retaliation was to bang with the
left and clinch, whereupon Spargo would
methodically cuff him on ribs and ears,
occasionally varying the menu by upper-
cutting half a dozen times in as many
seconds. From the ninth round, Hill’s
stocks began to slump, and at the end of
the nineteenth his backers were satisfied
to pay out. One of Hill’s seconds
credited James with superiority in six of
the 20 rounds. James himself reckoned
that six less half a dozen would have
been nearer the mark.
Towards the end of that year Llew
Edwards, holder of the Lonsdale belt,
which signified that he was the British
champion at his weight, came to Aus-
tralia. Mild of countenance, with long
fair hair, a pallid skin and a fine-drawn
JIMMY HILL.
frame almost devoid of muscular de-
velopment above the waistline, Edwards
didn’t look the aggressive performer he
was to prove himself. “As good as Kid
Lewis,” was the verdict of the Sydney
Stadium crowd after he had knocked
skin and hair off Jimmy Hill in 13
rounds. It happened on December 18.
A month later at Melbourne, Hill was
knocked into a cocked hat by Spargo in
the fifth spar-up.
The colors of Llew Edwards were
fated to be lowered at Melbourne on
April 15, 1916, and it was Spargo who
lowered them. In the early stages Spargo
attacked both flanks and the centre, cov-
ering up when Edwards started reprisals.
In the ninth round Llewellyn revived the
spirit of ancient Cambria, and began dis-
tributing bewilderment with short-range
left and right hooks. After the fifteenth
interval, Spargo came back with suffi-
cient emphasis to receive the referee’s
fatherly pat. Then the crowd took a deep
breath and yelled its approval.
But in a return match at Melbourne
the following month, Edwards disposed
of Spargo in the fourteenth round. He
was growing out of the lightweight class,
and, although he had managed to make
the stipulated weight, he was doubtless
the heavier when he entered the ring.
By the ninth round he had the situation
well in hand. In the tenth and subse-
quent rounds Spargo displayed his ability
to take a lot of punches, and gave an
excellent display with the left. But
Edwards boxed at wonderful speed, and
used both fists with effect. Though it
was a rainy night there was a big crowd.
*A fortnight later, boxing as a light-
weight, Edwards outpointed Herb Me-
BERT SPARGO.
Coy from the first round to the twen-
tieth.
Arlos Fanning came to Australia with
the reputation of being a high-class
American featherweight. He claimed 40
successive victories over American pugs,
and there was no one to gainsay him.
On his performance against Spargo at
Melbourne on July 29, 1916, they might
easily have been steer-throwing contests.
Fanning was in such a hurry to grab
Spargo by the neck, bash him, endeavor
to wrench his head off and deposit his
carcass in the front stalls that the
referee gave him his walking-ticket in the
seventh round, after the 37th warning.
Spargo had had much the better of
things from the beginning. His massed
attacks kept America on the edge of
preparedness for disaster. Occasionally
Fanning cut loose and presented some-
thing heavy, but his all-in tactics took
the gilt off his good work. By the time
the referee thought fit to interrupt the
crowd had warmed to its work, and its
crowning effort blew the lid off.
Much chastened in spirit, Fanning was
given another chance against Spargo at
Melbourne on August 12, 1916. During
the first half of the fight, Spargo tore in
hurriedly, landing three wallops to Fan-
ning’s one. When America’s contribu-
tions began to roll in, Spargo quietened
down considerably, but he was always
prepared with unpleasantness and a hop
out of danger. In the nineteenth interval
the voice of Israel was heard crying “Ten
to one Fanning.” And then the referee
declared Fanning the winner. Why,
neither Fanning nor anyone else seemed
to know.
To Melbourne in September, 1916,
came Patsy Brannigan, also of the
U.S.A., whose crowning glory was dis-
tinctly red. 'Spargo was the other party
LLEW
EDWARDS.
to the contract.
Patsy put much
trust in bull-
headed rushes,
left rips, good
luck and the in-
vulnerablity of
his jaw. As a
rule when P.
hastened in,
Spargo stepped back,
dodged the disaster and
landed left and right
swings which anyone but
Patsy would have taken
seriously. Straight lefts
to the nose and a plaster
of rights to the ribs in
clinches were also served
up to Patsy, who, though
he claimed to have been
in 500 fights, had not
cultivated the artistic
side of his profession.
Patsy’s rhetoric when the
referee passed him by
was as vivid as his
thatch.
Brannigan was no
mug. In November he
outpointed so dangerous
a fellow as Sid Godfrey
at Sydney, though in an-
other argument a fort-
night later Godfrey beat Patsy —at least
the referee was convinced thereof —in 17
rounds.
Another American, Babe Picato, gave
Spargo as little trouble as Brannigan had
done. At Melbourne on October 7, 1916,
Picato swooped down on Bert with
ginger-laden punches; but Bert evaded
them all, and at infighting was easily
Picato’s master. As the scrap grew older
he exhibited decided superiority in every
branch of the game, carrying hostilities
to Picato with much vim. The betting
had been 2 to 1 on Picato. It soon
altered in Spargo’s favor, and the Vic-
torian’s fine defence and effective two-
handed attack gained him the verdict.
The featherweight championship of
Australia was then in dispute. It was
agreed that Jimmy Hill had possessed it,
but when whipped by real featherweights
like Spargo Jimmy always contrived to be
overweight. At length he decided to do
his future boxing as a lightweight, so
Spargo and Godfrey boxed for the
featherweight title at Melbourne on Feb.
10, 1917. Godfrey was a worried youth
all through, frequent jabs in the pantry
giving rise to severe attacks of pessimism.
He boxed well but not hard enough.
Spargo carried too much pep, and handed
it out with both hands. A body blow
settled Sid in the fourteenth round.
Sam Saunders made an effort to tear
the championship from Spargo at Mel-
bourne, and took a hiding instead. Sam
was troubled with the slows. He could
hit hard, but generally deposited his


CRAWLED UPSTAIRS
LIKE A CRAB
Owing to Rheumatism
in Her Knees
It was not a very dignified way of going
upstairs, but she had rheumatism in her knees,
and it was the best she could do at the time.
Since then, she has been taking Kruschen
Salts, and now feels 20 years younger. Read
her letter: —•
“I had very painful gout in my big toe and
could only get upstairs like a crab owing to
rheumatism in my knees. It is over three
years ago‘since I commenced taking Kruschen
Salts. I must say on damp days I still have
a little gout, but my knees are quite better.
I am over 60 years of age, have a complexion
like a girl’s, and feel very fit. I am fully
repaid for taking a half teaspoonful of Salts
each morning in a cup of hot water.”—(Mrs.)
A.W.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of needle-pointed uric acid
crystals in the muscles and joints. The six
salts in Kruschen stimulate your liver and
kidneys to healthy, regular action; assist them
to get rid of the excess uric acid which is the
cause of all your suffering.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
fr
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
IP
SYUNtT
caan n
NfIUCKLfIND
w
UKCUNCTO
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(. Incorporated, in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
u
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
AW ATE A”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
wallop where there was nobody to re-
ceive it. Spargo hit him aloft and alow,
and, for the sake of variety, smote him
sideways, backways and all the other
SAMMY GRAY.
He coached many good Victorian boxers.
ways. At the ninth clash the referee de-
tected Sam on the ropes hopelessly
groggy ; he dragged Spargo off and told
him it was all over.
After another scrap or two, Spargo
entered on his long retirement. For
obvious reasons the game had been de-
clining in popularity. There was no
money in boxing Australians, and impor-
tation of pugs with reputations had
ceased. But no young fellow proficient
in any vigorous form of sport can give
it up for three years and come back as
good as he was, much less become as
good as he might have been. By hanging
up his gloves for so long, Spargo deprived
himself of such knowledge as was gained
by Fitzsimmons, who learned something
from every fight in which he was engaged.
All the same, when Spargo returned
to the ring in 1920 he wasn’t long in
demonstrating that he knew too much
for the homebred featherweights who had
sprung up during his absence. He
knocked over a few of them, and was
then matched with Eugene Criqui, who
had already demonstrated that he was a
class above the Greens and Sullivans who
FRED PORTER.
Drawn when one of his pupils was doing
well.
then disputed supremacy in the feather-
weight division.
For Criqui, Spargo deserted his favor-
ite stamping-ground and came to Sydney,
EUGENE CRIQUI.
The affair took place on December 18,
1920, and to Sydneians Spargo’s showing
was a revelation. They had told them-
selves that no one in Australia, except
Sid Godfrey (and Godfrey was presently
to be knocked out by Criqui in ten
rounds), had the slightest chance with
Criqui; but for 16 rounds Spargo gave
the Frenchman a boxing lesson. The
frequency with which he hit Eugene was
as remarkable as the consistency with
which Eugene missed him. On every
side prosperous-looking men breathed
stertorously through arched noses in a
manner indicative of anxiety, for they
had freely laid 4 to 1 against Spargo at
the races.
Then Criqui hit Spargo on the ear ;
and it bled profusely. Gore began to
dominate the proceedings. The smitten
boxer slowed down. Grimly awaiting
his chance, Criqui landed a terrific right
on the Melbourne man’s jaw. Spargo
took nine seconds, and with misguided
bravery staggered up and went on fight-
ing. Another smash on the point and
he went down again. Up he climbed
once more, and this time only blind
instinct kept him erect and on the defen-
sive. With a wallop on the shattered
ear, Criqui knocked him cleap through
the ropes and was crowned victor. At
LEAN, OF THE MELBOURNE
STADIUM.
the same moment a large glass object
hurtled into the ring and smashed be-
neath the startled countenance of a Syd-
ney “Morning Herald” reporter, and a
patron in one of the pound seats had
a fit.
The ageing Kilbane was then
featherweight champion of the
world. He hung on to his title
chiefly by avoiding matches with
featherweights of real class ; but
he had to meet Criqui, and
Criqui knocked him out in six
rounds. But for that long lay-
off, Spargo might have beaten
Criqui, and then —with the war
over and boxing booming in
Australia again—he might have
got a match for the world title. All the
evidence suggests that he had it in him
to be a better man than Kilbane, who
wasn’t much of a champion.
After the unfortunate experience with
Criqui Spargo remained in the ring for
five years. He regained the local feather-
weight title by whipping Green, and
finally lost it to Billy Grime, whom he
had beaten in 10 rounds. He twice
knocked out the Englishman Joe
Symonds in short order, and met other
importations—Tommy Noble, Jamito,
Goozeman, Garcia, Ridley, Kramer,
Ramies, Jacks, Villon, Fox and Bell.* He
defeated them all, though some of them
gained decisions over him in other
matches. Towards the end of his career
he was meeting and beating boxers ten
years younger. When he had turned 30
he retired.
Spargo is still on deck in Melbourne,
where he never misses a fight.
Jimmy Clabby.
“Third Officer”: Thank you for the
splendid article about Jimmy Clabby (B.
2/2/’38); but in justice to that glove
artist I should like to correct one small
error. It is stated that Clabby joined the
A.I.F. but was not called upon to go
overseas. Actually he left in September,
1918, in the troopship Wyreema with
about 800 Australians, most of whom
had had to wait until they left school
before they could enlist. The Wyreema
had got as far as Cape Town when the
Armistice was signed. So the troops
had a trip of 12,000 miles without setting
foot on any country except Aussie.
In a ring on top of No. 2 hatch Jimmy
gave us many a delightful exhibition.
He was as elusive as the winning ticket
in the lottery. I, for one, bear him no
grudge for making me look foolish try-
ing to get a smack at him or for having
to listen to the Old Man’s lecture on
my appearance in uniform with a black
eye or the skin off my nose. Peace be
to the ashes of one of the best pugs who
ever visited this fair land!
“P.”: Jimmy Clabby was not only a
good boxer but a good sport. Back in
the U.S.A. after his* first mill with Darcy
he said he had no excuse to offer for the
rough handling he had received. “When
I arrived in Australia,” he went on,
“people told me Darcy wasn’t clever ; but
I found it almost impossible to hit him,
and found he had a way all his own of
hitting you with both hands at the same
time. And strong! He’s like a heavy-
weight. If Darcy isn’t a clever man he’s
the best imitation of one I ever saw or
heard of.”


Flowers from the Fourth Estate
At least one Australian —-N. S. Wales
Premier Stevens —wins a place in the col-
lection of elegant extracts from the
British press put out by the “New States-
man and Nation” under the title This
England. Evidently Mr. Stevens in Eng-
land capped his classic reference to Mr.
Weaver’s “enjoying bad health” with the
further happy thought illustrated on this
page by Low. The cx-Bulletin artist
was borrowed from the “Evening
Standard” by the “New Statesman’
people to illustrate some of the selections
on their merits, and acknowledgments
are hereby made all round —a little
matter, by the way, that Lloyd George
overlooked in lifting a Bulletin car-
toon by Low to enliven his Memoirs.
The publishers claim for the snippings
that they “illustrate Anglo-Saxon atti-
tudes.” Some of them have, no doubt, a
peculiarly Anglo-Saxon flavor, and a few
of them a, peculiarly English flavor, but
the bulk of them were worth bottling as
little masterpieces of unconscious humor ;
to claim a particular nationality for them
is outright hoggery. The prolific and
mostly pseudonymous school of authors
who inscribe Letters to Editors from
“Indignant Poultry Farmer” and the like
are heavy contributors ; so are earnest
moralists of one sort and another and
cranks of various varieties. Mostly the
items —as with the best of unconscious
humor always—are the pretty by-
products of superior solemnity. A few
of them arise out of situations and asso-
ciations of ideas, and some —including
some of the best —from sentimentalism
slopping over.
Of those of peculiarly English or
Anglo-Saxon flavor Monarchy is a fruit-
ful inspiration, and some of the things
that have latterly been happening to
Monarchy have given this field an ex-
ceptional fertility. The Jubilee, for in-
I think it is correct to say that there is
not one country to-day on the face of the
earth, even if its politics for the time
being are hostile, that does not thank
God for Great Britain. — B.S.B. Stevens,
Premier of New South Wales, at Man-
chester reported in “North Eastern Daily
Gazette ."
stance, gave the “Daily Express’s”
descriptive writer his opportunity: —•
Cheering, singing, shouting and crying!
And then the King!
A pale radiance, a slender-whited shadow, with
the Queen behind him
The Queen then did a strange, an unusual
thing.
She outstretched her arms, so that all.might
see that she was real and human.
On that occasion, of course, the “Daily
Telegraph” was able to report that the
“prize-winner at a baby show at Abbey
Wood had a complete representation of
the Crown of England on his back,”
while the “Evening Standard” reported
that “a curious method of honoring the
Jubilee” had been adopted at Southport:
“The magistrates there have decided that
during the celebrations children over 14
shall be allowed to see films licensed for
adults only.” Lord Derby weighed in
with his bit ip happy reference to the
King and Queen: “Hour after hour
they go round and round showing an
honesty of purpose T should like many of
my horses to have,” and the “Daily
Herald” had the glad tidings that “an
egg laid by an ordinary hen in the
chicken house of a Chatham innkeeper on
Jubilee Day has a perfect T embossed
on the narrow end.”
The owner of that auspicious goog
“refused £5 for it,” and contemplated
“sending it to the King.” At the Corona-
tion (of the present King) a small Aus-
tralian’s enthusiastic keeper got beyond
the “contemplating” stage, as described
in this happy little vignette from the
“Chatham News”:
Even denizens of the feathered world,
apparently, can be taught to express loyalty to
the King. Mrs. Mary Durling, of Vernonville,
21 Edwin-road, Rainham Mark, has a bud-
gerigar which she taught to say “God Save
the King,” and this the clever bird repeated
all the time the Coronation ceremony was in
progress. Miss Durling thus wrote to King
George informing him of the patriotic feelings
expressed by one of his most minute subjects,
and in reply she has received a gracious and
charmingly-worded letter of thanks from his
Majesty’s private secretary.
Not to be outdone by anything the
feathered world in Chatham might pro-
duce, “Grays and Tilbury Gazette” re-
ported: “Even the local poultry is play-
ing its part, for it appears that a Little
Thurrock hen has laid an egg with an
undoubted ‘C’ on its shell; that the letter
stands for ‘Coronation’ will not be dis-
puted by anyone.” It took the “Sunday
Express,” in communication with Allaha-
bad, to produce the greatest miracle of
the occasion:
An Indian radio listener at Allahabad hoisted
a Union Jack from one of his aerials on
Coronation Day. As long as it was flying he
received nothing but the Coronation broadcast.
When it was lowered there were constant inter-
ruptions from foreign stations.
The “Daily Express” reported that at
a meeting of a Plymouth lodge of the
International Order of Good Templars
“a protest was made against the
Speaker’s Coach at the Coronation being
drawn by brewery horses,” and a letter-
writer in the “Sunday Referee” perti-
nently asked: “Is not Bloody Point
House a disgraceful and indecent name
to give a house, especially a house where
royalty is staying?” There could be no
doubt about the quality of the loyal feel-
ings in a house in Stepney, where, re-
ported by the “Evening Standard,” Mrs.
Bee “apologised for feeling rather tired
this morning”:
She had been up all night, she explained,
painting the linoleum in her kitchen red, white
and blue. Now the flat is all red, white and
blue —the chairs, the tables, the picture-frames
around photographs of the royal family, the
floors, the fireplaces, even the spring of the
bed. There are red, white and blue curtains,
blankets, pillows, tablecloths and ornaments.
An advertisement in “Exchange and
Mart” featured “quite unique kittens,
born during Coronation procession” ; the
“Daily Sketch” suggested that “lazy girls
should be jogged into action by the news
that the Duchess of Kent is doing her
own nails”; a letter-writer in the “Daily
Mirror” protested that the act of giving
even his Majesty’s “effigy a blow on the
jaw with the fist is opposed to loyal feel-
ings, and yet it is done millions of times
daily in affixing the postage” ; and the
“Church Magazine” hit out hard:
We say quite frankly that any man who
doesn’t come to church and say his prayers at
the Coronation has the intellect of a rabbit
and the emotions of a caterpillar.
At the Abdication the “Stamp Collec-
tor’s Fortnightly” was able to console
itself at the loss of Edward VIII.: “Much
as we admired —almost worshipped —•
King Edward VIII. as Prince and King,
it was well known that he was not per-
sonally a philatelist,” and the “Sunday
Times” gave its readers the great thought
that “When our Sovereign was born he
was given, among many qualities, the
rare boon of youth.” Also, the “Sunday
Pictorial” was able to feature an arboreal
phenomenon:
King Edward VII. and Queen Alexandra, as
Prince and Princess of Wales, planted trees
which have flourished. King George V., Queen
Mary and the Princess Royal each planted trees
now of sturdy growth. But not so Edward,
Prince of Wales. His tree, planted 26 years
ago, has grown only 6ft. and is sickly. This
is regarded as of ill-omen to-day.
These royal matters are all very happy,
but the choicest flowers of the collection
are those plucked at random from the
field at large, such as the suggestion for
brighter golf with which the collection
opens:
For two hours the committee of a golf club
in south-east England debated whether women
players might be allowed to wear trousers on
the links. Their decision was: “Trousers may
be worn by women golfers on the course, but
must be taken off on entering the clubhouse.
1 —“Daily Mirror.”
An assorted lot for which thanks are
especially due to pure solemnity.:
We have to thank the bad ethics taught by
such plays as “She Stoops to Conquer” for
nearly all the irregularities, for all the adultera-
tions of food, tricks of trade, sweated labor,
slacking and faking by men, jerrybuilding and
hoodwinking which are deeply rooted in our
commercial, industrial and political life. m
— Rev. L. Short, reported in the “Daily Mail.
The piano is.a bourgeois instrument.
—“Left Review
The world grows worse, not better; while
the Green Hell of the Chaco, written in letters
of blood and oil, squats like some giant toad
on the brow of the angel of peace.
—Letter in “Kent and Sussex Courier.”
During the past two years mothers in
Great Britain, Holland, Germany and
New Zealand have had quadruplets,
while in America the Dionne quintuplets
were born. There was also a record
number of twins and triplets born during
the same period. Is this Nature's method
of avenging birth control? —Letter in
“News Chronicle.”
Gilbert converted, giving New Zealand a
12-10 lead, and tears streamed down a number
white and silent faces.
—“Manchester Guardian.”
There is something in the blood flow and
make-up of Britons which must give us an as-
cendancy in any sport, if our representatives are
wisely chosen and properly trained.
—“Evening News.”
“I have no doubt that this man deliberately
took poison, and he appears to have done so
in a most cold-blooded and heartless way,” the
coroner remarked in summing up.
—“News of the World.”
Capt. L. C. Schlotel, an anti-gas expert,
speaking at Plymouth about air-raid precautions,
said: “It is difficult to fit bearded men with
gas masks, and should an emergency arise
The Countess of Rosebery’s gift to her daughter is an ermine fur
coat, a black broadtail fur coat and diamond clip earrings, and the
Earl of Rosebery has given her a blue fox fur cape. Their presents
to the bridegroom are two ice machines and a bay brood mare
named Lavinia. —“The Times.”
those with beards more than a hand long might
be faced with the alternative of either cutting
their beards off or being gassed.”
—‘‘Evening Standard.”
Lord Swinton said that he could not agree
that a fighting formation, such as the reserve
would be, should recruit women pilots. War
was a beastly enough thing, and he did not
want to add to it. —“Daily Herald.
Anxious to hear their grievances the Bishop
of London invited 16 unemployed dockers to
tea with him at Fulham Palace.
They produced their balance sheets showing
that they received only sd. a day and 2d. for
each child. , . „ ~
“So I produced my balance sheet, • said
the Bishop at Bournemouth yesterday, “which
showed that I received £lO,OOO and my ex-
penditure was £10,600.” — “News Chronicle.
I have a strong feeling that I want to live
the life of Tarzan, to live in the woods on my
own. My friends can’t believe me when I tell
them that I have spent a bank holiday climbing
trees. I tell them they will never understand.
To be swaying in the treetops in the dead
of night is a thing I have experienced on no
less than three occasions. My only regret is
that I cannot live in the trees. >f
—Letter in “Pearson’s Weekly.
The films have heavy responsibilities,
including also the “Daily Express” re-
corded happy thought of Viscount
Castlerosse that “Mr. Alexander Korda
has by this film shown to the whole world
that naturalised Englishmen can direct
films better than anybody else,” and this:
Bob bowed, smiled and waved to them, and
finally threw the cigarette-end which he had
been smoking over the balcony outside the
window into the street below.
Instantly the girls flung themselves across
the rpad in front of oncoming cars and fought
madly among themselves as to who should get
the piece of the coveted cigarette which had
touched Bob Taylor’s lips.
In the end only a few remnants of tobacco
and cigarette paper were carried away in
triumph by the few who were strong enough
to keep them. — “Sunday Pictorial.”
A few more which illustrate one thing
and another:
Wanted. Six beautiful blondes. Must be
comely of limb, pretty of face and completely
lacking in personality.
— Advt. in “Welwyn Tunes.
My husband did not look any the worse for
the punishment he had received, although his
face was bruised beyond recognition.
—Case reported in “Evening News.
“Those of you who go to sherry parties and
cocktail parties,” Lady Montgomery-Massing-
bred added, “finish what is in your glasses.
Do not let it go away to be drunk in the
pantry by someone who, perhaps, has not taken
it before or has not acquired the taste.”
—“Lincolnshire Echo.
Five thousand books wanted by gentleman,
for recently-purchased country house, to fill
library. Subject immaterial, but must be
clean. — “South Bucks Free Post.”
Perry to remain an amateur if he can make
£20,000.— “Daily Telegraph.”
The Clerk: It is for the magistrates to form
an opinion as to whether damage was done,
no matter what the amount is.
Admiral Pelly (presiding): The Bench will
convict. .
Mr. Bailey: I hope you will not, sir. You
have not heard the defendant yet.
—“Surrey Advertiser.”
I find on looking back in my diaries that I
always fall in love on Thursdays. Do you
suppose that there is any reason why this
should be sol—Letter in “News Chronicle.”
“I have a closed car for London, and I
always have an open one. Then I have a car
for shooting, a car suitable for taking people
to the station, and a car for my domestic staff
and a car for taking my children to parties.
So that you see I really have these motors for
necessity.”— Viscount Scarsdale, reported in
“Daily Express.”
I cannot imagine a clean-minded Englishman
taking it calmly when his bride-to-be confesses
to him that she formerly belonged to a nudist
colony.— Letter in “Daily Mirror.”
It may explain why the cable columns
are about the happiest reading provided
by Australian dailies, one of which, by
the way—the “S. M- Herald” —-had this
example to offer last week:
Mr. Bernard Shaw has declined an invitation
to take part in the annual marbles tourney to
be held at Castleford on Shrove Tuesday in
aid of hospitals.
The invitation stated that the organisers
appreciated the fact that Mr. Shaw did not
preside at bazaars and similar affairs, but
pointed out that he had never, so far as they
were aware, refused to play marbles.
But anyone starting a private collec-
tion here would probably find war cables
as rich a field as any, with the pro-
nouncements of professors also fairly
good.


Is
yOUR health depends mainly on
the condition of your kidneys ...
You feel fit and well when your Kidneys are
functioning properly, but the moment they
become weak, impurities quickly accumu-
late in the blood streams .... What
happens then . . . most people get Back-
ache and feel generally run-down . . .
others develop Rheumatism, Lumbago or
Swollen Joints .... But in every case
Weak Kidneys undermine the health, and
cause a great deal of bodily suffering.
Begin with Gin Pills to-day ...
If your Kidneys show signs of weakness do
not delay ... it is time for action, for it
is unlikely that your Kidneys will get
strong and well again without assistance
• • • give your Kidneys the best possible
assistance that money can buy .... Place
your trust in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills . . .
a thoroughly reliable Kidney Tonic, which
has been proved by tens of thousands of
people during the past 25 years, who, like
you, were once worried about their
Kidneys, but who now, thanks to
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, are enjoying
perfect health again.
Gin Pills are specially made to
correct Weak Kidneys ...
Gin Pills will surely and speedily make
your Kidneys strong and healthy again and
in so doing also remove Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Swollen Joints and other forms
of Kidney Trouble.
Anyone can take
Gin Pills with abso-
lute safety, as they
contain no harsh
ingredients ....
There’s no better
Kidney Tonic sold
in Australia.
3h Jheldem
GIN PILLS
For BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM. LUMBAGO, Joint
PAINS, and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES.
Sr
* JO
(n
QiSHLLDONs^
d Urm«r» System.
DOSE:—i to 3 Pills
thmck riMca a day
k
27 Pills 1/9
60 Pills 2/9
or< s
S«
9
$
e?
Xc£i
oO“
Sy\W
#
Indigestion
& Dyspepsia
The terms —Indigestion and Dyspepsia
—simply mean illness of the digestive
organ, and apply to a group of
symptoms which accompany every
disease of the digestive system.
The CAUSE
Overeat ing,
hurried or
irregular eating, improperly prepared
and unsuitable food, overwork (mental
or physical) irritants (such as tea,
coffee or alcohol) in excess.
The EFFECTS:
Many and
varied, all
originating from a disordered stomach.
Food not digested, constipation, lack
of nutrition, blood impoverished,
poisons absorbed into the system, and
other organs so affected they cannot
perform their work.
The RESULT:
System run
down, brain
becomes tired, muscular system
weakened, insomnia, excessive debility,
bad blood, skin blemishes, low vitality
and susceptibility to serious disease.
The REMEDY:
Assist
nature b y
the use of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules, which digest what you eat,
relieving the inflammation of the
mucous membranes lining the stomach,
protecting the nerves and enabling the
glands to secrete the natural juices of
digestion.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules create
a healthy appetite, and enable the
stomach and digestive organs to trans-
form the wholesome food that may be
eaten into rich, red blood that makes
health, strength, tissue, brain, brawn
and bone.
(DTsHEipoN^-rfABULEs
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT"
RELIEVES INDIGESTION
Small Size 1/9 Large Size 2/9
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ds
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c t he Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
ev*
AO
s
CP
b
<0
r\
V"V
\o
<«. NV
<<*\> 0 .
. o' 0° •
.*%£**'
'S'Vt it
<** A&.
\\®
t*’
M
iO® &
eg?*'
,iS®
..v- 4
*<*• ..••■ ..•- <?• ' 4 T
>£? -«•*
.. * * s
■*’
A W*
sC AC e^ ° 1
•• .
•' <$ \° vV< A e
• AC®’l 6^°°


RATIONAL RADIO
Above—Briton Console De Luxe features:
MODEL 19.—6/7 A.C. Dual-wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported Magnavox
Speaker, ELS output tube, built-in line
filter, complete in De Luxe Console
Cabinet. List Price 39 guineas
MODEL 18.—7-valve Dual-wave Battery-
operated Receiver, complete in De Luxe
Console Cabinet, with four B Batteries and
one (1) 14S amp. A Battery. List
Price 40 guineas
jvjrra?
Above Mantel Model Cabinet features
two Models:—
MODEL I.—“ The Buccaneer,” 4/5 Dual-
wave A.C. Receiver, in Mantel Cabinet.
List Price 18 guineas
MODEL 15.—4-valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver, with full A.V. control, 6in.
Permag. Speaker, complete in Mantel
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of
lima. List Price 21 guineas
Rational Radio by Briton gives you everything
worthwhile in modern Radio. Satisfaction is built
into every Rational Model.
Hear the glorious tone of these modern radios; see the
fine examples of the craftsman’s art in beautiful polished
walnut veneer cabinets. Rational Radio is Rational in
construction, in performance and in price.
Remember, too, that every Rational Model is available
on Rational Terms.
RATIONAL RADIO
BRITON
mm
i 5
I MjHS
■ «
m « *’ -
At Left—Briton Con-
sole Cabinet features:
MODEL 11.—5/6
Dual-wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C.
and 12in. Speaker.
Complete in Cabinet.
Price . . 33 guineas
Also Models 12, 17
and 21, at different
prices.
At Right Briton
Loughboy Cabinet
features:—
MODEL 9.—4/5
Broadcast A.C. Re-
ceiver, with A.V.C.,
complete in Cabinet.
Price ... 23 guineas
Also Models 10, 13,
16 and 20 at dif-
ferent prices.
m
■
m
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty. Ltd
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Distributor:
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.
“The Brightest Spot in Melbourne”
416 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributor:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
