

HASTINGS
mm?
••'•'S''' '* ..
m
VS;
2R
yi
V
im
m
■'s'.
'-V
m
>■ .*•:
■
;SS
m
%
*****
jjjr^g#
m
•••:
& S
NEW SYDNEY HOME FOR FORD
Sales and Service
Demonstrating Hastings Deering leadership in the Motor
Industry, this new service station and works, off William
Street, Sydney, will be one of the show places of the City
during the Anniversary Celebrations. Two minutes by ear
from the centre of Sydney, the building is the most modern
and best-equipped of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere.
Costing £125,000 without its equipment, it will house the
Metropolitan Service and Distribution of Ford Cars and
Commercial Vehicles.
A system of one-way ramps, the subject of a world patent,
enables an uninterrupted flow of traffic to all six floors.
The staff of 452 is in charge of Hastings Deering trained
engineers. A special feature of its activities will be a 24
hours’ continuous service, with equal day and night shifts, so
that a car may be left overnight and be ready for the road in
the morning.
NOW IN SERVICE
HASTINGS DEEDING SERVICE LIMITED
Riley, Crown, Kennedy & Suttor Streets (off WILLIAM STREET), Sydney
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3025.
Wednesday, February 2, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOOCS LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
POEMS FROM MAORILAND.
C. A. Marris’s New Zealand Best Poems is a good
tree that flowers* every summer in Maoriland, and if
the 1937 blooms aren’t quite as good as the previous
year’s, except for Eve Langley’s colorful luxuriance,
Arnold Cork has given bole and root a fine sturdiness.
His “Prayer to Trees” has the strength and peace of
its subject, a flow of thought and rhythm like a
movement of sap:
So to the grace of your submissiveness
I bring blood’s chaos, all its restiveness:
A flesh that wanders at the touch of sense,
A heart that wearies, not for recompense
But less confusion and your cool defence.
O quiet fathers of another sphere,
Your voice falls silent, mine you will not hear,
Though I, perchance, in equal grace have stood
Before that dust was symbolised in blood.
In his first stanza Cork gives way to an old habit
of Cosmic Capitals, an attempt to bludgeon the reader
with capital letters into accepting his personification
of “young Earth” and “Dust’s cradle” and, worst of
all, “the Spirit Natural,” so that the flow of the
thought, like the flow of the print, is broken; but the
poem as a whole is as satisfying in thought and tech-
nique as you could wish.
“Prayer to Trees,” a poem of the intellect
expressed in naturalistic imagery, is the type of verse
which Maoriland —where town and country are one
and where there is no purely city civilisation that
might call for the Stephen Spender ferro-concrete
touch or the Auden “clinical” vocabulary should
most naturally produce, but, apart from Cork and
Robin Hyde, the poets in this book hardly seem to
live in M.L.
Robin Hyde, who inhabits most of the time a
queer mindscape of her own peopled with hedgehogs
and the prophets, responds splendidly to Maoriland
with
But the last black horse of all
Stood cropping the green-bud wind
And the last of the raupo huts
Let down its light behind.
Sullen and shadow clipped
He tugged at the evening star
(New-mown silvers swished like straw
Over the manuka).
As for ■ the hut, it said
No word but its meagre light,
Its people slept as the dead,
Bedded in Maori night.
Another of the poets, who has the lovely thought
that the gorse, filling and overbrimming the valleys,
drips like honey from green combs, knows his Maori-
land too, but the gullies of his vers libre are rough
going. Dora Hagemeyer is delicate and close to the
earth, and Isobel Andrews, in the first half of “Christ-
mas —Aotearoa,” paints a good landscape, with some
sheep real enough to smell.
Arnold Wall, from his university, and Eve Lang-
ley, whose shack in Auckland is a palace in Samar-
kand, stand out among those whose minds don’t live
in Maoriland. “Atlantiades,” easily the best poem in
the book, says
Alas, alas ye soft roads shrink from me!
I pluck black flowers from the almond-tree.
I gnaw sour wood dragged from the leaf’s green shawl,
And bathe in rust where I saw white waters fall.
Black is my robe and woven through its thread
Are perilous lions and hermits burnt and thin,
Behind them like spilt tears of white and red,
Their footprints lie.
Before me lies the sea,
The blue bird that will pluck from me this breast,
Pained with the moving milk of memory,
Trembling beneath the rich robes of unrest.
While she can write like that no one, however
much he pines for the mint along the Waingongoro or
the scent of the kelp at Makara, is going to ask Eve
Langley to be a “New Zealand” poet, but it would be
good to have others with her ability writing about
Maoriland.
A Big American Novel.
Turning from drama, Elmer Rice has written a
novel, Imperial City (Gollancz; Moore’s Bookshop),
which gives the impression that in this literary form
he has found the breadth and complexity the stage
denied him, though he has brought to Imperial City
the compression and direct attack of the theatre. It
is a big book —670 pages—but its long, winding story,
its infinity of characters, its numerous threads of
interest (big business, politics, social work, the theatre)
are neatly compacted.
The relationship between Imperial City and “Street
Scene,” Rice’s most successful play, is clear. “Street
Scene” portrays upon the stage the life of an apartment
house in a back street of New York, the interlinked
lives of the various tenants brought together by cir-
cumstance ; comedy, tragedy, futility thrown together
by chance, with life as the common denominator.
In Imperial City he has repeated this technique
on a big—almost a vast—scale. The unit is not an
apartment house ; it is New York, a city that the
author loves —on his own statement. The labyrinth
of the story involves people of every rank and station,
from Christopher Coleman, financial magnate, and
his powerful and important friends to mentally
defective lift attendants, out-of-work electricians,
worn-out vaudeville actors and, in the east-west
direction, from professors to agitators. It is as if a
great net had been cast at random and had brought
up life. There is no hero and no heroine, no plot in
the accepted sense of the term. It is a picture of life
in action, and in that lies its exciting and stimulating
quality.
Imperial City has a paradoxical aspect. It is at
once intensely individual and widely typical. Like
Stribling’s Sound Wagon, it belongs to that growing
class of American novel which presents a picture of
national life, accepting all its aspects as equally real
and worthy of attention. It is founded on a social
concept without being a propaganda novel. Its very
lack of prejudice is amazing. It is entirely of the
present and accepts without question the material bases
of modern civilisation while searching into its moral
bases. On the other hand, Imperial City is neither
imitative nor derivative.
. It is alive in every fibre. Each character is fully
imagined and presented in the round. Even the least
of them is shown from a number of aspects. The
truth lies in the equation of those aspects. In every
case the author gives different data for the reader to
judge. This is a galvanic method of character-drawing
and gives the reader a sense of intimacy, of co-
operation with the author, and of personal contact
with the people of the story.
The size of the book, its complexity and variety
give the impression of a random cast, but this is
misleading. There is nothing either automatic or
slipshod. All is the product of clear and subtle think-
ing and of the most dextrous technical skill. It would
be interesting to make a graph of the book, plot each
character as a point, and trace between them the lines
of their relationships. There is no end ; the pattern
must go on and on. The abrupt cutting short of the
thread at a moment of suspense is a calculated enforce-
ment of the book’s philosophy.
Germany's New Religion.
The theological translators and editors of Ger-
many’s New Religion, T. S. K. Scott-Craig and R. E.
Davies (Allen and Unwin), make it clear that that
“new religion” is neither atheistic nor political and
assert that its chief prophet, Wilhelm Hauer, is a
sincerely religious man who takes place as a successor
to Goethe and Nietzsche.
In an attempt to explain the form of the new
faith they describe it as a combination of Pantheism,
which regards God as immanent in the world, dis-
coverable only in nature and the human genius, and
the peculiar race-consciousness of the German, which
makes him believe that he possesses an indwelling
power richer than that of other Europeans. This is
quite mysterious to other races, but is nevertheless
real, as evidenced by the constant references to “the
depths of the German nature,” the “German genius”
and “the Nordic soul.” The most concrete political
expression of this race-consciousness lies in the deter-
mined exclusion of all that is biologically or culturally
Jewish from the life of the German people, while its
religious form lies in its rejection of Christianity
because Christ was a Jew.
The chief propagandist of the new faith, Wilhelm
Hauer, was first a missionary in India, and later went
to Oxford for training. After the war he became a
pastor in Germany, but, gradually moving away from
the Christian position, became a professor in the
University of Tubingen.
Hauer describes the German Faith movement as
a phase of the old revolt against that form of Chris-
tianity “which is Near-Eastern, Semitic and Roman.”
It is a struggle for “a philosophy and a religion which
is German, in contrast to Christian credalism, which
is alien, ecclesiastical and dogmatic.” As a movement
it arose out of the rejection of Hauer’s attempt to
write all non-Catholic Germans into one national
religious fellowship.
Hauer sees in the German revolution “an event
born of the nation’s primal will,” in which eternal
powers are revealing themselves by the accomplish-
ment of newer and greater things, an urge which
he regards as a divine movement. “It is God
advancing over German soil, seeking His instruments
and moulding events according to His purpose.”
The “Faith” as promulgated by Hauer is spiritedly
attacked by Karl Heim, one of Germany’s leading
Protestant theologians, and by Karl Adam on behalf
of German Catholics. All three are professors in the
University of Tubingen, and this book, with its
unusually clear statement of a religious movement,
helps to an understanding of the political policy of
Nazi Germany.
A Communist Cocks His Thumb.
Egon Kisch, who has written on his experiences
hereabouts in Australian Landfall (Seeker and War-
burg ; 10s. 6d.), has reason to remember Australia
with gratitude, though gratitude is not prominently
displayed in his book.
This continent handed him on a plate all the
things a Communist publicist dreams about but very
seldom obtains —mild martyrdom, oodles of news-
paper advertising, a first-class opportunity to make
Lawanorder look ridiculous, and the sympathy of
thousands of people who would never have heard of
him had not Ministers at Canberra staged their
famous imitation of a Gestapo agency.
To Kisch, who has many of the attributes of a
successful reporter, including a breezy style, lively
curiosity and a sense of humor, his Australian visit
was one big luscious slice of pie. His account loses
nothing in the telling. Kisch throws in a couple of
attempts to shanghai him on Nazi ships, for good
measure. This may be true —it wouldn’t be out of
keeping with the fantastic idiocy of the rest of the
proceedings—but Mr. Kisch does not recommend him-
self as a witness of truth.
Among his little essays at the back of the book
are chunks of alleged Australian history taken from
Das Kapital, from scurrilous pamphlets and from
the pure wool of imagination. People in other parts
of the Empire who read this translation from the
German to learn about Australia will discover from
its pages that our “wool kings” are “followers of
‘Douglas Credit,’ a movement which has a vague idea
of dilettante currency reform” ; that “all the unem-
ployed of the world could find a place in Australia,
including demobilised armies,” and that the nightly
parade of harlots between Palmer-street and King’s
Cross (Sydney) outdoes Piccadilly. Kisch credits The
Bulletin with having published, from the pen of a
Mr. Pletwichka, an essay “Our Day of Commemora-
tion —Some Thoughts on Political History.” Not
guilty, m’lud.
Still, it is a lively book, not the less so for its
contempt of exactitude. Its concluding chapter, on
“Bodyline,” is almost a classic example of Teutonic
humor. And right near the end the author borrows
from Lenin the most devastating epithet ever hurled
at the Australian Labor party — Kapitaloposlooshny .
An Indictment of Lynch Law.
Black Ccesar, by Theodore Strauss (Heinemann),
is set in what Americans call the Deep South. In
effect, it is an indictment of lynch law, and is far
from being a pretty story, either in regard to what
it reports or in the manner in which it is told. The
characters are in two groups: the men employed by
a road-building contractor working in a hilly rural
district in one of the Southern States, and the citizens
of a small near-by town.
The first are met as they sit yarning under some
trees during the midday spell: Barney; George, a
truck-driver ; Wilson, the timekeeper ; Caesar, George’s
negro offsider. Their attention is attracted by a white
girl who passes and repasses at a little distance, swing-
ing her hips.
That night the girl returns home from a visit
to some friends with a tale of having been raped by
a negro. Caesar, who was late getting home to his
boarding-house, is arrested and gaoled. He had gone
with George in the truck to get supplies at the rail-
way. The truck had broken down, and it was the
small hours of morning before they got back to the
construction yard. The alibi satisfies the prosecuting
attorney, and gets Caesar out of gaol, but it only adds
to the wrath of the townsmen, who have been baulked
of their victim by Northern “nigger-lovers.”
That night George is captured by hooded men,
stripped and flogged for his share in obtaining Caesar’s
release. Brushes occur between the townspeople and
the road gang, who refuse to hand the negro over
to lynch law. A battle ensues, the roadmen barri-
caded in their construction yard, and the mob —chil-
dren and women as well as men —attacking, while
some of their number fire every negro dwelling in
the vicinity. It ends with deaths and injuries on both
sides, and with Cassar killed by being dynamited
out of the gravel elevator in which he had hidden.
The facts of the case were that the girl, after
leaving the home of her friends, had gone out of
her way to pass close by the roadmen’s camp. She
had run into Wilson, the timekeeper. Late home,
flustered and in fear of punishment from her father,
she had invented the story of her encounter with
Cassar. Wilson, alarmed by the townspeople’s thirst
for a killing, had been too cowardly to come forward
with the truth.
The tale purports to be told by George, the truck-
driver. The author, perhaps in the interests of veri-
similitude, allows him to be a little long-winded at
times over non-essentials, as such a man might reason-
ably be, and lets him occasionally, again very reason-
ably, indulge in coarsenesses not strictly relevant to
the story. That is the debit side.
The book as a whole gains from being told from
the standpoint of a comparatively unlettered man.
It reads like a report of something that actually took
place. George makes up for his occasional bouts of
verbosity with some fairly deft character-sketching.
The Judge, the girl, her father and Sullivan —the con-
tractor who rallied the men to stand against the mob
—are all well portrayed.
Westralian Playwright.
The title-piece of Hester Siding, a book of plays
and verse by Alexander Turner (Patersons Press,
Perth), was included among the radio group in Best
Australian One-act Plays. Most of the eight plays
in the present volume are competition prize-winners,
and have been either broadcast or produced by Perth
Repertory Club and others.
The author deserves his success, for he turns off
eminently playable drama. In subject-matter he
ranges far: the Westralian rural scene, the Roman
legions in Judea, the knights of Caerleon, Royalist and
Roundhead, the eve of Balaclava. He is a romanticist
with an inclination towards mysticism, as in “Cen-
turion,” and a flair for light comedy, as in “Coat-of-
Arms.”
In none of his plays does he disturb the subsoil
of life, but he produces a very good surface realism.
He creates atmosphere readily: it is apparently authen-
tic, pervasive throughout the plays, and in dialogue
and general movement —except perhaps in the case
of “Strong Archer” —his plays flow naturally.
Of chief interest is “Hester Siding.” Not neces-
sarily because it is Australian in setting, but because
( Continued, on page $.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
HALF-YEARLY
E N Ul NE
■ m
oM
■
m
'V
These are the Hats you'll
see on men who demand
cool comfort on torrid
days. Indian made Pith
Helmets are light and easy
to wear, and there is a
choice of two shapes.
1/- extra for box for mailing.
• Men’s wear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
hjm
'< I
%/^V :
m
''\ . v
i
3M
*■*
**//?***
*# «
t?
\
4;
•sr. *
* ■*
*, %
y
y
Famous Low Prices
Deposit Purchase System
Make sure of your selection of clothes by using our handy D.P.S.
All you do is pay a deposit of 4/~ in the £ on any article, and
continue to pay for it in easy weekly or monthly instalments.
After the last payment has been made, you take possession.
Think of the advantage during our Sale!
16/6 ALL WOOL CARDIGANS
Of medium weight, with V-neck,
and in the attractive colours of
Grey, Blue or Brown. Jacquard
designs. Sizes 36in. to 40in. chest.
Price .. 16/6. Sale Price .. 10/-
icr-
21J- Pig-sticker Hat
A cool hat—with
quilted cover in
White or Khaki.
Self puggaree and
side vents.
Price . . 21 /-.
Sale Price . . 18/6
186
17/6 The Hawkes Hat
Covered with
White or Khaki.
Self puggaree
and side vents.
Price .... 17/6
Sale Price, 15/6
15'6
7/6 Velnit Sports Shirts
Short sleeves and collar. Three
button front. Sizes
to I 7in. neck. Marone, Navy,
Grey, Fawn, Green, Cream.
Prices ........ 7/6 9/6
Sale Prices 6/11 8/11
61l
3/6 Half Hose
Fancy cash-
mere half
hose. All
wool with the
exception of
9'6
fancy design. Blue, Grey or
Brown. Sizes 10 to 12 inches.
p nce 3/6
Sale Price 2/6
4/S Poplin Ties
Silk and wool
poplin ties of
good quality.
Dressy de-
signs in Blue,
Grey, Brown
/
or Mixed colour effects in stripes
or checks. Price 4/6
Sale Price 2/6
3/3 Underwear
At Left: White
Cellular Under-
wear—cool, open
mesh for mid-
summer wear.
Shirts with short
29
sleeves or trunk drawers. Sizes
34in. to 44in. Price, each, 3/3.
Sale Price 2/9
ft
mm i m
&
mi
%
***&.**£.< .£
*>.VA
\
fcX L \
a
••5
/
ir
*
"SSsST
Mr
516 White Tennis Shirts
In White Mercerised
and pocket attached.
Prices
Sale Prices
Twill—our own make. With collar
Long sleeves.
5/6 6/6 8/6
4/11 5/11 7/11
/
10/6 Fuji Silk Tennis Shirts
Fuji Sil lc. Price 10/6. Sale Price .
Dcub e Weave. Price 12/6. Sale Price . .
Double Double Weave, best quality . . 14/6. Sale
. 9/6
11/6
13/6
96
ANTHONY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
HORDERN & Sons Ltd.,
SYDNEY ’PHONE: M 2401.


THE ACE OF BUCCANEERS
COLONEL BOOM scanned the incoming brig
through his binoculars while his mouth twitched
nervously. “Our friend Hayes takes no trouble
to hide his fighting irons,” he said to Koltz.
“In the teeth of a man-o’-war guard boat, too!”
“Id vas merely his impudence,” Koltz muttered.
“He haf der cheek of a rhinoceros!”
The brig Leonora warped to her moorings at the
mouth of Hurricane Inlet, where the Sourabaya Hotel
fronted the bay. Some beche-de-mer craft and pearl-
ing luggers lay at the end of a pier. Gangs of Manila
boys and Rotumah men loafed under the wind-slanted
palms, watching the movements of the notorious
island trader. It was known that Hayes had been sell-
ing copra and shell at top prices after his raid on the
Dutch-Arab hatcheries at Thursday Island. His entry
into Sourabaya was an event.
Colonel Boom had been following the buccaneer’s
movements with interest. Above all things the Colonel
was anxious to pay homage to this nineteenth-century
desperado. And after the homage and the hand-
shaking he felt that Hayes might be persuaded to
join him in a game of cards. Boom estimated the
Leonora’s money-chest
at two thousand
pounds. To strip the
buccaneer at poker
would be far better
than hitting him on the
water-line with four-
inch shells. The idea
had brightened the
Colonel’s days of late.
He had come to Soura-
baya by way of Darwin
and Thursday Island in
the hope of meeting
Hayes. Koltz owned
the hotel. He was a
big desiccated German
with beer in his veins
and the portrait of Von
Moltke in the lining of
his hat. He held a
watching brief for the
Colonel.
Everywhere Boom
was hailed as a gentle-
man wanderer, spend-
ing freely, spreading
sugar for the flies until
the moment arrived
Koltz .
when he could slay his victim with a flush of hearts
or a handful of queens. He had brought with him his
two daughters, Judith and Nancy. Judy was a past-
mistress in the art of snaring pigeons.
Koltz prowled near Boom’s chair, expectant and
alert, as the Leonora settled at her moorings. “You
go easy mit Hayes,” he breathed. “I vood sooner
handle a live wolf than play heem a crooked ace.”
“Stop bleating and bring him here!” the Colonel
snapped. “Tell him I’m from Hatton Garden ; say
I’m keen on pearls and that all Europe and America
are talking about his three-hours m scrap with the
German gunboat Seydlitz outside Samoa harbor. Tell
him that Bismarck has sworn to hunt him off the
seas!”
“But der Seydlitz could have”
“Shut up and do what your old gunboat failed
to do —get him here for killing!”
Koltz was gone in a flash. The hotel launch, a
brass-railed, gaily-flagged affair, scampered from the
pier towards the brig lying at the mouth of the inlet.
From the hotel window Boom watched until the
launch reached the Leonora’s lowered gangway. The
white-coated figure of Hayes showed as he descended
from the vessel’s poop, as though in response to
Koltz’s invitation to come ashore.
Boom moved to the verandah as the flutter of
Judith’s skirt reached him. “He’s coming, my dear!
A lion to the slaughter! His paws full of dollars.
We must prepare. Where’s Nancy?”
“Sulking about this sea-lion you’re after. She
says he took medicine and comforts to those starving
islanders of Erromanga. She vows that the only
people he ever robbed were the Chinese opium-
planters and the gaming saloons at Honolulu.”
Boom scowled. “Get her ready to meet this cut-
and-run pirate,” he told her. “We need money. His
brig is loaded with trade and pickings from store-
rooms and godowns.”
“But Hayes plays well.”
“He’ll need to. I’ll get him while he’s warm.
We’ll clean him out before he has time to get drunk.”
“He’s bound to break loose after the clean-up,”
Judith warned. “What then?”
The Colonel affected a yawn. “We’ve only to
signal that gunboat across the bay,” he assured her.
“The commander would be only too glad to swat
him. Believe me, my dear Judith, Bully Hayes always
prefers a lobster salad to a pair of legirons! ”
117 ROM the hotel verandah they watched the coming
1 of Hayes. Koltz walked beside him to ward off
the riffraff who had gathered to greet the man whose
name had become a terror throughout the islands.
Boom met him on the verandah, Judith and Nancy
bringing up the rear.
“Captain Hayes,” Boom began, “you are welcome
to Sourabaya! The pleasure of meeting you brings
a glow of pleasure into these dim eyes of mine.”
A malicious grin revealed the buccaneer’s white
teeth. “I saw a glow in the eyes of a German
gunner last month when he introduced me to the latest
thing in quick-firers. It made my old twelve-pounder
look like a barrel-organ in a gasworks.”
“Did you fight him?” The Colonel affected a
military drawl.
“With, my heels!” Hayes guffawed. “A big bull
of a warship loaded with guns and ammunition for
Samoa. We raised our hats and off I ran! ”
Boom laughed heartily and introduced his
daughters with the pomp of a resident magistrate.
Thereafter he played the host with tact and dis-
crimination, leading the big-voiced ship-master to
talk of himself and his little island group over which
he held sway.
Koltz’s rich foods soothed the senses after weeks
of hard living at sea. The good wine flushed Hayes,
softened the hurricane note in his voice. His host’s
first cigar turned his thoughts to music, and finally
to games —rousing, money-changing games. And the
heavier the stakes the better. The ladies desired it,
he felt certain. There was a pack of cards somewhere?
Koltz produced them, a gilt-edged, rose-scented
pack, slippery as eels, stimulating to the touch. Play
began in a room overlooking a bay of palms where
the squat outline of a foreign warship loomed dis-
cordantly against the blue. Music from a full-toned
German piano softened the harsh sounds that drifted
up from the beachcombers’ roosts on the beach.
Hayes soon lost count of the smooth, perfumed aces
that steadily raised the ivory chips at Judy’s elbow to
a mountainous heap.
“His cheque is good at der local bank,” Koltz
whispered to the Colonel. “Ven you haf him skinned
broberly ve vill hang him in der sun to dry. Get his
cheque!”
Nancy Boom sat, sad-eyed and lovely as a dawn
flower, between her father and the card-hungry buc-
caneer. Boom pressed her elbow almost fiercely.
“Wake up,” he gritted. “You remind me of a
crucified madonna!”
Judith applauded the buccaneer’s nerve every
time he risked a bid on a poor hand. The play
grew hot and furious
towards sunset,
when Hayes, at the
good - humored re-
quest of Boom, took
back the pile of
counters from Judith
by filling in a cheque
for seven hundred
pounds.
Nancy covered
her face as the
cheque fluttered into
her sister’s hand.
Boom’s foot pressed her
slim ankle threateningly.
“No squeals, little passion-
flower! By the holy, I’ll
drop you into a French
convent if you look at him
with those eyes again!”
When the women had
retired the buccaneer drew
breath and regarded his
host thoughtfully. “That
cheque for seven hundred
is my limit at the Taliwan
Bank,” he confessed. “My
brig and cargo are worth
three thousand more. If
you’ll accept them as
currency we’ll go on play-
ing. It’s years since I had
a fling.”
Boom shuffled the
cards pensively, doubtfully
almost. “I hate playing a
man for his ship and cargo.
There might be some diffi-
culty in disposing of them.”
“The bank will allow
you my valuation,” Hayes
urged. “She’s sound as a
bell and the fastest craft
in the South Pacific.”
Play was resumed ;
within an hour Hayes
had assigned his brig
and cargo to the sleek- J
handed gamester
with pouched eyes.
Hayes flung down
his cards with the
grin of a weary
Triton. “Too
much salt-water
in my head just
now, Colonel, to
beat you at
poker. Too
much square-
face and kava-
bowl soon put
BY ALBERT


ILLUSTRATED BY G. K. TOWNSHEND.
DORRINGTON
man on the beach with
that lousy gang outside! ”
Heeling to the moonlit
verandah he stumbled
against a kanaka waiter
carrying a tray and bucket
of iced champagne.
A startled look was in
the kanaka’s eyes as he
whipped round in response
to the buccaneer’s greeting.
“Belito! ” he stammered,
with a lightning glance
in Boom’s direction. “Ahempo, nari enski!” He
passed on swiftly with his tray and bucket of iced
champagne.
In a flash Boom was at the buccaneer’s elbow,
alert as a tiger on the track of its kill. “Those natives
are insufferably careless,” he volleyed. “What does
the pig mean by belito and nari enski!”
Hayes finished lighting a cigar before answering.
“Belito is native for bunco, Colonel. The rest is just
Woolloomooloo and parrot-cackle to me.”
“I’ll speak to Koltz about him,” the Colonel
promised. “I won’t have my guests disturbed by these
black waiters.”
It came to Hayes that the kanaka’s name was
Areta Ahempo, and that he had once worked on a
pearling lugger at Strong Island. He recalled having
saved Ahempo from a savage beating at the hands of
a half-mad Scandinavian shell-opener. Ahempo had
told him something in three words that turned his
blood to acid. Only by a supreme effort did he main-
tain his self-control. He could not believe that Judith
had cheated and plucked him so ruthlessly. And
what of the dreamy-eyed little madonna, Nancy, who
had sat near him? Those dreaming eyes, trained to
lure unwary sailormen. Damn them! At a pinch he
could hold himself with dignity and restraint. But
these travelling card-sharks deserved a manhandling,
a hook in their jaws to stop their preying.
Colonel Boom talked volubly to fill in the tense
minutes that must elapse before the dinner-gong
released him from the buccaneer’s society. He was
dealing with a man whose temperament no one had
ever rightly gauged. A word misplaced might kindle
a berserk rage in Hayes, set him roaring at the throat
of his despoiler. Boom was too great an artist to
allow his victims a moment to brood on their losses.
He talked until the hotel gong droned and shivered
up and down the carpeted stairs and corridors.
Hayes rose hastily from his chair. “I’m going
aboard the brig!” he announced briskly. “Maybe
you’ll come with me, Colonel, to see that everything
is shipshape and square. She’s your property. You’ll
find her a comfortable craft.”
Boom glanced furtively at the gun-flanked turrets
of the distant man-o’-war, her portholes aglow with
light and movement.
“Your daughters,” the buccaneer added, search-
ing for his last cigar, “might like a peep at her fit-
tings. It’s a clear night. You’ll hear the band on
the warship.”
Boom was slow to answer. A crawling fear of
this brine-blazed sea-rover ran through him. He was
steadied again by the soft throbbing of the guard
boat as it flitted past the open gunports of the silent
monster at anchor, capable of blowing Hayes and his
filthy twelve-pounders over the skyline. Yes, he would
go aboard the brig with his charming friend, Hayes.
He was more than sorry to rob a man of his ship ;
but
Judith was delighted at the prospect of a visit to
the Leonora. Nancy begged to be excused and retired
to her room, in spite of her father’s threatening
glances.
'THE Leonora’s whaleboat took them from the pier
* to the brig’s gangway. On deck Hayes escorted
his guests to the spacious stateroom below. It con-
tained a hundred things for Judith to covet, pearl-
shell and amber from the whalers of Norfolk Island,
mats from Tonga and Samoa, priceless silk stuffs
and ivory from the Chinese junks of Torres and the
Samarang roads. She fell upon the ivory and silk,
fingers itching to cram and pack and fondle every-
thing in sight.
The unexpected clanking of capstan-bars over-
head startled Boom. The sound of the deck-hands get-
ting the anchor warned him that something was wrong,
The buccaneer spoke from the locked stateroom door,
“Rest your mind, Colonel! We’re bound for the Line
Islands! Your clever fingers need a spell.”
Judith screamed as she sprang to the open port
window above her, waving her kerchief in the direction
of the warship. Boom turned across the carpeted
floor, the sweat of fear blinding him for an instant.
“Your kidnapping bluff doesn’t scare me, Hayes!
That warship will get you in a few hours.”
“Bunk! It will take her ten hours to get up
steam. And if that old guard boat crosses my line,
I’ll sink her and the five blowsy Dutchies in charge
of her. Sit down ; don’t wear out my carpet stamp-
ing with your patent-leather feet! ”
The Colonel subsided limply on the nearest settee,
his pouched eyes grown livid in the glow of the over-
head lamp. “What do you want, Hayes?” The spirit
of the gambler had deserted Boom, leaving only a
swarm of fears.
“I want my cheque for seven hundred pounds,
Colonel! ”
“The cheque is at the hotel. Judith placed it in
her valise.”
Hayes took a turn about the stateroom, pausing
to stare at the semi-hysterical Judith crumpled in a
chair. His face softened instantly. “I don’t want to
hurt you, little woman,” he said slowly. “I guess my
game in life is no better than yours. But when I sit
at a man’s table I leave my gun at home. I’ve dined
with viceroys, proconsuls, ‘hangmen. But I never
stole a man’s purse after he’d eaten my bread.”
A silence.
“I’ll put back, Miss Judith, if you’ll promise to
get my cheque. Your father stays here.”
She clenched her small fists.
“You pirate!” she stormed. “How
dare you carry us out to sea!”
He touched her sobbing shoul-
der lightly. “Half a dozen banks
between here and Darwin will cash
that cheque. I’ll give you five
minutes to make up your mind.
After that I’ll put you among the
seagulls and the sharks!”
“You win!” she choked at last.
“I’ll return your cheque. Put me
ashore at once. And they told us
you never hurt a woman in your
life.”
“Only once when a girl
emptied her little six-shooter at me
in a Paddy’s Market pub. I smacked
her hard, tied her up with the bell-
rope until she cooled off. And now
that cheque, Miss Boom!”
A sharp order to the mate
brought them round on the port
tack. Half an hour later the brig
was back at its old moorings, where
Judith was put in the whaleboat,
followed by Hayes. Arriving at the
pier steps he pinched her arm play-
fully. “Try a double-cross on me
and I’ll bellrope you good and
hard!”
With Hayes beside her Judith
hurried up the limestone path to the
hotel. Verandah lights burned dully
through the pandanus. The bloated
shadow of Koltz bulged across the
curtains as they approached. Hayes
released Judith’s arm. “I’ll wait
here, Miss Boom, for seven minutes.
When you bring the cheque we’ll
shake hands. I’ll send you a bolt
of the finest silk that ever came out
of China.”
“Keep your silk for the trolls
that need it!” she gave back from
the hotel stairs, wrath flaming in her
eyes. “One of these days you’ll step
on a trapdoor. There will be a bully,
not a bell, at the end of that rope!”
She disappeared into her room,
leaving him standing irresolutely in
the dimly-lit passage below. It
seemed a long
—"fs
venom and fury of
the baulked gambler was in her
movements as she cast the cheque
at his feet. He smiled forgivingly,
picked it up and scanned it for an instant, then be-
stowed a mock salute.
“You dear little cheat!” he chuckled, tearing the
cheque into small pieces. “Let me offer you a rope
of pearls for your lovely neck!”
She passed him contemptuously. “Send my
father ashore at once!” she commanded.
Hayes returned to the brig and slapped the scowl-
ing Colonel on the shoulder cheerfully. “That girl
of yours is a real fighter, Boom. I thought she was
going to fly at me just now!”
Surlily the Colonel consented to drink the bucca-
neer’s health in a bottle of wine before going ashore
in the whaleboat. Hayes watched him go, glad
that the affair had ended without further violence.
About midnight he changed his anchorage and
ran the brig into a wooded cove on the lee
side of the town. It was just possible that
Boom might stir the wrath of the warship com-
mander. In any case he would wind up his
affairs at the bank next morning and leave Boom in
possession of the town.
'T’HE Leonora’s whaleboat put Hayes ashore the
* following morning at Laban Inlet. A short walk
through some pandanus brought him unobserved to
the rear of the Taliwan Bank.
The Taliwan was a precarious institution. It led
many lives, all of which were known to Hayes. When
it deflated in Lombok or Palawan for want of custom,
Hayes knew where to find it in Palembang or Batavia.
Disowning a cheque presented by W. H. Hayes
required much thought on the part of the resident
“I want my cheque for seven hundred pounds, Colonel.”


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
£.200
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
manager, whose roof, garden and chattels were within
range of his twelve-pounders.
Entering the bank by a side-door the buccaneer
stepped into the presence of a balloon-hipped Hol-
lander in white ducks, who greeted his entry with a
hearty handshake. “Ver’ glad to see you, Capateen
Haye. You find plenty pearl, plenty oil down zer in
ze islands to make you happy?”
“Enough oil to loosen the gates of heaven, Van
Groot!” the buccaneer retorted, helping himself to
a choice cheroot from a box at Groot’s elbow.
Hayes was anxious to transfer his small capital
from Sourabaya to a Queensland bank, if Groot didn’t
mind. The Taliwan, he confessed, had been his guid-
ing star and friend in need. He trusted that Groot,
his lifelong friend and financial adviser, had got some
stuff in the safe?
Groot had plenty of stuff in the safe. But he
was on the point of tears at losing a friend and pro-
tector, whose presence had shed lustre and confidence
on the Taliwan.
Groot stared through the slatted window of the
bank at a slim white figure approaching from the
beach side of the town. “Boom’s leedle girl!” he
rumbled, moving to a big safe at the far end of the
room.
Hayes spun round to the slatted window. Nancy!
His jaw relaxed.
Down the avenue of palms she came, darkly
lovely, shy as a schoolgirl. The buccaneer’s fingers
beat a tattoo on the window slats. He had been
haunted by thoughts of this fear-driven girl who had
sat between him and her parent at the gaming table.
“Boom has an account here?” he questioned
Groot.
“A small one,” the manager confessed. “He
comes an’ goes. Dis leedle girl of his is here for
money. I will nod keep her long.”
Hayes withdrew to a small room at the rear of
the bank. He was loath to be seen by anyone from
the hotel. When Nancy had gone he would get his
money and return to the brig.
The door of the bank swung back ; Nancy Boom
stepped in. Groot favored her with a bland smile as
she stood like a startled ghost beside the counter.
Then a cheque slipped from her shaking fingers into
his yellow palm. Swiftly he scanned the signature ;
in a flash his bland grin froze. “One minid,” he
begged, “while I look at my ledger.”
Waddling into the room where Hayes sat, chin
cupped in his big hands, he held Nancy’s cheque for
him to see. The buccaneer’s glance snapped over
the signature. It was his own! The amount was for
seven hundred pounds.
A swift murderous rage seized him. Poor blind
fool that he was! The astute Judith had given him
a hastily-filled-in cheque in the uncertain light of
the hotel passage. Like nine sailormen out of ten,
he had merely glimpsed it before tearing it up.
Groot was coughing nervously at his elbow.
“What shall do?” he asked in a whisper.
“Pay up!” Hayes choked. “And then stand out
of my way! ”
Slowly Van Groot counted the money, one hun-
dred American dollar bills, the rest in Australian
notes. Snapping an elastic band around the bundle,
he placed them before the ghost-white Nancy. “You
get away quick!” he advised in a quaking under-
breath. “An’ plees run like de devil when you gets
outside! ”
She stared blankly into his shifty eyes. “Run —
when —I —get—outside,” she repeated, her small hand
drooping limply over the bundle of notes on the
counter. “Why should I run?”
Outside the bank she paused to inhale the dizzy
perfume of frangipanni and wild limes. Then she
looked up and saw him.standing in the path. The
blind rage of a hurt tiger was on him. “Little money-
hunter, I’m going to kill you!” he bellowed. “I’m
going to do it in the name of all the men you’ve helped
to rob!”
She leaned, a wistful, terrified thing, against the
wall of the Taliwan Bank, waiting for the big, muscle-
packed fury to strike.
“Do you hear, Nancy Boom? I’m going to kill
you as a warning to the two vipers who sent you to
this bank with my cheque! ”
His great hands closed about her frail, shrinking
body. His voice thundered above the organ note of
the breakers on the reefs. “They drilled and drugged
you ; they made a thief of you. They hide behind
shutters while you gather the rakings!”
He held her high in his arms where the blades
of coral gleamed along the tide-swept beach. But the
fear of him had gone from her, fear of the world,
the devil and the father awaiting her return. “Take
me to Sydney, Captain Hayes. I will bless and pray
for you as long as I live!”
“Who’s in Sydney?”
There was no answer. He stared into her nun-
white face. Then slowly he released her. “I’ll carry
you to Sydney, Nancy Boom, and put you in the way
of earning a living away from Judy and the Colonel.
No man on my ship shall harm a hair on your head!”
They walked slowly to where the brig’s boat
waited. One moment she halted to press a bundle of
notes into his clenched fist. He brushed them aside.
“You’ll want ’em in Sydney. Money’s no good to
shysters like me. Hold it tight, little girl. It may
save you from bigger blackguards than Bully Hayes! ”
THE NIGHT I BROADCAST
BY LES ROBINSON.
jj iHE secretary of the Late-risers and Bed-lovers’
# League, who, I understand, is a friend of
yours,” wrote the manager of Station NDG,
“has informed me that you are an authority
on arranging the day’s work to suit the convenience
of persons who dislike the idea of getting out of bed
on cold or, for that matter, any other kind of morn-
ings— persons, that is to say, who would regard as
a public benefactor anybody who could give them a
few hints on how to pursue their accustomed occupa-
tions without getting out of bed at all. I have, there-
fore, at your friend’s suggestion, arranged for you to
deliver an address from our station at 8.15 to-night.
“Glad indeed to have got in touch with an expert
at last.
“I remain, sir,
“Yours faithfully,
“Bucyrus Blyte.
“P.S. —I must beg to remind you that, save for
those caused unavoidably by sudden death, postpone-
ments at this station are strictly prohibited.”
Confound the secretary of the Late-risers and
Bed-lovers’ League! Friend of mine indeed! Most
bitterly now I regretted having given him the benefit
of my ideas on how to mitigate the hardships the
supposed need to get up inflicts on incurable bed-lovers.
However, the situation had to be faced. There were
notes to make. So, though not without the utmost
regret, I got up and commenced to make them.
At approximately 8.14 p.m. I reached the studio,
and nervously, after taking my boots off, on tiptoe
I approached the microphone. The many saxophones
and other instruments that had been tootling and
crooning up till then now subsided, and as though at
some prearranged signal even the voices of the
announcers and their assistants were stilled.
For I know not how long in a state of copious
perspiration I stood there tongue-tied.
“Go on! Say something!” an agitated employee
shouted whisperingly in my ear.
“Good morn —evening, everybody,” I managed
to ejaculate, in a voice much more like a seagull’s
than my own. “I have a few hints to impart to-night
that may prove helpful to the enlightened bed-loving
and confirmed late-rising section of the community.
“Hint One —How to Shoe Horses in Bed: The
bedroom occupied by the late-rising farrier should,
if possible, be situated on the ground floor, and it
should have two doors one at the north end and
one at the south end or one in the east wall and one
directly opposite to it in the west, as preferred or
procurable. These doors should be large enough to
admit horses in single file, and latches should be fitted
to them in a way that will enable them to be raised
or lowered by means of a rope and pulley that can
be manipulated with a minimum of effort from the
recumbent farrier’s bedside.
“The horses, trained to line up in a queue out-
side, should be admitted singly. They should be
ordered to back up against the bed or turn sideways
towards it, as required, and to raise the hoofs needing
shoes at the word of command, the farrier, of course,
having placed all his tools within easy reach upon the
dressing-table the night before.”
I paused. There was an ominous silence in the
studio, the oppressive and menacing kind. But, over-
coming by another tremendous effort the peculiar
feeling of dread which now threatened to overwhelm
me a presentiment, perhaps it might almost have
been termed, that, like a soldier on the battlefield or
a fly in a spider’s web, I was in great danger—l drew
a deep breath and exclaimed:
“Hint Two —How to Oil Locomotives in Bed:
In order to oil locomotives without getting out of
bed and shivering in the raw early-morning railway
air it is. first of all necessary to construct a light and
portable sleeping apartment on wheels and fitted with
blinds down both sides like those used on tramcars
except that they can be raised and lowered without
jambing. Having placed, by means of a team of
horses or a motor tractor, your portable bedroom
close alongside the railway line, preferably at a spot
known by you to be a favorite panting point with
locomotives —where, in fact, they can be relied upon,
perhaps because they have been omitted from the
timetable, to remain stationary for hours at a stretch
you wait until one pulls up at the side of the
portable room nearest your bed. You then, raising
the blind and without, of course, disarranging the
bedclothes more than you can possibly help, reach
out with your oilcan and attend to the lubrication of
the crankshaft, the driving-wheels, and so on.”
I looked round. The studio, which while I had
been speaking seemed deserted, was now thronged
with hefty fellows, all of whom had their sleeves rolled
up. They had surrounded, I noticed, and in a sinister
manner were closing in upon me.
“Now about my fee?” I suddenly, and more,
really, to reassure myself than for any other reason,
exclaimed.
Scarcely had I uttered these words, for which,
evidently, they had been waiting, than a dozen or so
of these staff assassins rushed upon and grabbed me.
At a word from their commander they dragged me,
despite my protestations and promises to lead in the
immediate future an entirely dissimilar kind of life,
to an open window. “One, two, three!”
They swung me to and fro, and at the word three
propelled me into space. Down, down, down I
hurtled, twisting and turning in the air.
‘ ‘ 'T' HAT’S the third time lately! ” growled the by no
* means tranquil-minded, stoical or good-tempered
theorist, individualist, misanthrope and crank with
whom I happen to be sharing an abode.
“And it would have served you right,” he added
irascibly, “if you had broken your confounded neck.
Eating lobster late at night at your time of life,” he
snarled with that pent-up irritation, not unmixed with
envy, the chronic dyspeptic vents upon his stomachic
superiors, especially when confronted with evidence
of dietetic haphazardry on their part that, were he
to attempt it, would result in agonising demise.
“Well, so long as one has a good digestion, why
not?” I asked.
“Because, my misty-minded, instinctively erratic,
unenlightened and superfluous friend,” he replied with
an air of trying to be patient against overwhelming
odds, “even supposing you have the digestion of a
shark it stands to reason that eating the flesh of a
crustacean which, instead of resting, spends half the
night striving with might and main to get into the
traps set for it and the other half in trying feverishly
to get out of them again is scarcely conducive to
sound and refreshing repose.”
“So your theory is,” I said, “that those who have
eaten lobster have consumed as well the inexhaustible
nocturnal activity and restlessness of the beast.”
“Precisely,” he replied.
I was trying to think of something to say in self-
defence, but that shack-mate of mine is a monologuist.
“If this yelling and falling out of bed is to
become just another deplorable habit of yours,” he
continued in a cantankerous tone of voice as, having
finished rearranging the bedclothes, I blew out the
candle and got underneath them again, “you can have
the worst seaside shack in the southern or any other
hemisphere, its leaks, creaks, draughts, mosquitoes,
ants, fleas, dust, cobwebs, bats, rats, mice, dinge and
other increasing disadvantages included, all to your
mentally deranged and ceaselessly pestiferous self.”


"The Racing Game Is Crook.” —Skinny Hazlitt.
FIFTY FIFTY MEANS THE LOT
By A .C. Headey
‘‘“THHE racing game is crook.” Skinny rolled the
I cigarette to the other side of his mouth and
I spat. “It’s a swindle. If you’re in the know
you can pick the coin off the pavement. If
you’re not, you ain’t got a show.”
“Quit quoting Shakspeare,” said I, “and spill the
beans. Ain’t I supposed to know what it’s all about?
You’ve been talking about swindling for the last ten
minutes. Don’t tell me you’re thinking of turning
honest again.”
Skinny tilted his hat.
“No, it ain’t that,” he said; “it’s on account of
a friend of mine owning a horse.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and all he needs is a cart so
that he can sell rabbits.”
“It’s a racehorse,” said Skinny. “A racehorse,
Scut, and a good one.”
“Did it ever win a race?” said I.
It was there that Skinny surprised me.
“Yeah,” he said, “it’s won races orright. It won a
couple only a month ago on the country tracks.
It’s been spelling since then, and it’s better than ever.”
“Orright,” said I, “you know a feller who owns
a horse that’s won races and is better than ever, and
the racing game is a swindle. I think it’s about time
we had a drink.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “and you might learn some-
thing. This feller Maguire wants me to go in with
him fifty-fifty.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and if it don’t win? I don’t
mind taking a chance, but I like better chances than
racehorses.”
“It’ll win orright,” said Skinny. “We’re going to
do a bit of ringing-in with it. The stewards on the
rural tracks can’t pick the difference. They even
brand their own draughthorses because they can’t trust
their memory. Paint a horse black, and they’d think
it was Carbine.”
“And by fifty-fifty,” said I, “it means that we put
up all the dough.”
“You’re getting the idea,” said Skinny.
\ X I ELL, when Skinny gets an idea everything is fixed
* up before I have a chance of saying anything.
It was that way this time. And a week or so later
Skinny, Maguire and I were dragging the horse from
a horsebox at a station nine rrjiles from anywhere.
The race meeting was to be held the following day,
and we’d got the prad entered in the third race under
the name of Waltzing Ruthy. The name was enough
to drive any self-respecting punter off it. The only
thing that would have troubled us among the yokels
was the pin-pickers and the alphabet-system punters.
Well, we fixed up a bed-and-breakfast for the
horse and drifted off to the local pub. The bar was
pretty thickly populated with the yokels up from the
bottom paddock for the races. Money was flowing
so thick that the publican was talking about putting
new cakes of soap in the guest-room and using the
piece that had been used by Sir Henry Parkes for
washing up. Skinny looked around the bar and
grinned. Then he nudged Maguire.
“They ought to be taught the value of money,”
he said.
But Maguire wasn’t listening. He was staring
across the bar to where a feller with a red face was
making a practical demonstration of the value of beer.
But it wasn’t till the feller lowered the pot and showed
the rest of his face that Maguire said anything.
Tom Clark,” he yelped, making it sound like a
swear word.
Friend?” said I, without showing much interest.
“Friend!” said
Maguire. “If you ’ad
a zack in your pocket
he’d be your friend till
he got it.” He stared at
his beer. “Wonder what
he’s doing up here.”
“Ask ’im,” said
Skinny. “It’s the old-
fashioned way, but it’s
serviceable.”
Maguire left us and
breezed around to the
other side of the bar, and
from where we were we
could see that Tom Clark
wasn’t any too pleased to
see him. But the fact that
Maguire slammed the
money down on the bar for
drinks seemed to appease
him a little. After they’d
been talking for about ten
minutes Maguire came
back.
“Well,” said Skinny, “what’d yer find out?”
“Plenty,” said Maguire. “He’s got a horse entered
in the same race as ours —a thing he calls Two
Heads.”
“Never ’eard of it,” said Skinny.
“I ain’t surprised,” said Maguire. “It’s the first
time it’s raced under that name. It used to be Moun-
tain Jimmy, but he’s blacked out his white spots with
stain, and now it’s Two Heads.”
“Mountain Jimmy,” Skinny whistled. “That’s a
pretty good one. I remember it taking out some good
races.”
“Listen,” said Maguire, “don’t think I’m boasting
when I tell you that it ain’t got your chance against
Waltzing Ruthy. Remember it ain’t the trots; they
don’t get starts.”
“I hope you’re right,” said Skinny. He didn’t
say anything else, but I could see that thoughtful look
come into his eye. ♦
It wasn’t until we got back to the hotel room
that he unburdened himself. Maguire had drifted off
to the stables, and we were alone.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, flopping down on to the
bed, “considering as we’re putting up the dough there
ought to be some way of safeguarding our interests.”
“Which is?” said I.
Skinny didn’t answer right then. Instead he
started talking about how good this ring-in of Tom
Clark’s had been.
“But Maguire reckons Waltzing Ruthy is better,”
said I.
“He talks a lot,” said Skinny, “but he don’t say
much. And taking chances like that ain’t in my
religion.”
“Which is?” I repeated patiently.
“Which is,” said Skinny, “that if we could get
Clark to run his nag dead, and bet on ours, it would
be all to the good. The race’d be all sewn up.”
“Maybe,” said I, “there’s something in what you
say.”
We found Clark and made our proposition. After
making a few choice comments on the perfidy of
Maguire in keeping the matter secret Clark decided
also that it was a good plan to safeguard his invest-
ment. But Skinny wasn’t taking any chances.
“You’d better give me your dough so I can put it
on for you,” he said. “If you was to do the betting
the stewards might want to know why you ain’t back-
ing your own horse.”
Clark didn’t seem so keen, but he handed over
the money, and that was that wa's all that con-
cerned us.
“You needn’t say nothing to Maguire,” said
Skinny. “He mightn’t like it.”
“Suits me,” said Clark.
D ACE day dawned a wonderful day. The air was
1 so good that our lungs were beginning to wonder
what we’d mixed with our tobacco smoke. The sky was
blue as a duty stamp when someone has sent you some
dough. All the local females were dressed up like a
Hollywood parade, and the yokels were comparing the
shine on their serge suits. It was the kind of day when
it would have been a pleasure to sell shares in gold-
mines. Skinny grinned as he climbed out of bed.
“I think I’ll go and cheer Maguire up,” he >aid.
“I think I’ll stay in bed for a while,” said I.
Skinny climbed into his clothes, and vanished.
When he came back I was well out of bed.
“How’s Mac?” I said.
“Life,” said Skinny, “presents a cheerful picture.
He’s gonna take care of the horse. All we’ve got to
do is go to the course and make our investment.”
There was a temporary bar on the course, and
Skinny and I
soon found our
way into a
prominent spot.
We were de-
bating whether
we’d carry a
keg home after Waltzing
Ruthy’s race when Skinny
suddenly squinted across the
bar at a little fellow who
was hiding himself behind a bottle.
“Yeah,” said I, “and I’m Scut Jamieson, but
people don’t go round throwing their hats in the air.
Who’s Clem O’Keefe anyway?”
Skinny looked at me pityingly.
“He used to be a jockey before the pony courses
took the knock,” he said. “Rode plenty of winners,
too. Wait here, Scut, I think I’ll go over and have a
yarn with him.”
He left me, and a minute later I could see him
shaking hands with this O’Keefe feller and patting
him on the back. They seemed to have a lot to talk
about because Skinny stayed for about ten minutes.
When he came back he was very thoughtful.
Listen, Scut,” he said. “I got to see Maguire.
You wait here, I’ll be back in a tick.”
And without waiting for me to make any com-
ment he dived off. He was a lot longer than the
“tick,” and after waiting a quarter of an hour I started
out to look for him, but it wasn’t until just before
Waltzing Ruthy’s race that I struck him.
“Where did you get to?” I wanted to know.
. I been busy,” said Skinny. “I’ve seen Maguire
1 and I’ve got the betting all fixed up. I got fives for
most of our dough.”
The books were calling threes Waltzing Ruthy
now, so we had nothing to growl at.
“I didn’t expect it,” said I.
“There’s lots of things you don’t expect,” said
Skinny.
Well, pretty soon the field was lining up at the
barrier and I got a chance to look at this horse of
Clark’s. It was a solid-looking grey, and if condition
meant anything it could have bolted through this field.
I was glad that Skinny had collected the dough from
Clark. He wasn’t the kind of feller likely to double-
cross his own dough. But the rest of the field, with
the exception of Waltzing Ruthy and a brown horse
named Pete, looked a bunch of scrags. This Pete
was big, too, and looked as if he could stretch out.
Well, pretty soon the starter had them up in what
bush-track punters think is a straight line, no horse
being more than three lengths behind the others, and
he let them go.
Waltzing Ruthy and Two Heads, Clark’s pony*
got the best of the jump, and at the furlong post they
were three lengths clear of the rest of the field and it
looked like a case of shut the gate. We didn’t want
the case to look too glaring. All that was needed was
for the boy on Clark’s horse to get a little careless
towards the finish. If Waltzing Ruthy won by a
whisker that was all that was needed. I hoped the
boy on Two Heads had got his instructions right. I
looked at Skinny, but he didn’t seem to be troubling
any. He was watching the race as though the money
was in his pocket.
At the four-furlong post the position was unchanged.
Waltzing Ruthy and Two Heads were still out a
couple of lengths from this big horse Pete I was tell-
ing you about. He was travelling nicely enough, but
he wasn’t picking up any ground. At the five I felt
it was about time that the boy on Two Heads did a
bit of strong-arm work. And then I saw the horse
fling its head up in the air and I knew it was on. But,
strangely enough, Waltzing Ruthy didn’t seem to be
taking much advantage of it. The two horses seemed
to be glued together. And then I noticed something
that made me feel sick in the stomach. This other
horse, Pete, was picking up on the two leaders, and
picking up fast. With half a furlong to go he was
only a half-length back, and then he seemed to swoop
down, swing past them in a stride and it was all over.
I could hardly believe my eyes. I turned round
to Skinny, and what I saw surprised me. There he
was with a grin written all over his face'.
“Yeah,” said I very bitter, “it’s a great joke if
you don’t wager. What’s the merry laugh and the
sparkling eye for?”
“Listen,” said Skinny. “Waltzing Ruthy didn’t win
because I told Maguire to run it dead and we’d bet on
Two Heads. So Maguire thinks we bet on Two Heads,
which didn’t win, so we owe him nothing.”
“I’ve heard of ways of paying debts,” said I.
“And here’s some more,” said Skinny. “Clark
instructs his boy to run Two Heads dead and gives us
his money to back Waltzing Ruthy. So we don’t owe
him nothing.”
“And so you’ve still got the dough that Clark gave
you to bet with?”
Skinny grinned. “Use your noodle, Scut. I put
all of that and our own dough on Pete. It couldn’t
lose with Waltzing Ruthy and Two Heads trying to
run second to each other.”
The change from misery to happiness took about
half a second to find its way to my face.
“Yeah,” said I, “but where would we have been
if one of the other scrubs had won?”
Skinny grinned. “They wouldn’t stand a chance
with this one. Clem O’Keefe brought it from the city.”
Enlightenment was dawning.
“It’s” said I.
“Yeah,” said Skinny, “it’s a ring-in, too!”


it gives us the quality of Turner’s dramatic reaction
to something seen, heard and felt, as distinct from
products of the romantic imagination. It shows
Turner’s willingness to attempt reaching the universal
through the regional.
The same quality is found in his verse, some of
which has appeared in The Bulletin. His bush is not
generalised. There is freshness in his pictures of the
southern farmlands, and when he turns to write of
the ranges beyond Geraldton enfolding the “promise
of the North” he describes them as “dim in the dusty
distance.”
With the Corners Off.
Paymaster - Commander . A. B. Campbell has
written an account of an adventurous life ashore and
afloat that is always shrewd and witty and ,full of
good stories.
After failing in his examination for entrance to
the Royal Navy he went into a London bank, but,
threatening to punch the manager, who seems to have
deserved it, was compelled to withdraw from the
walks of high finance. Then, with the paternal bless-
ing and £2O, he adventured into Canada and its frozen
north, where he did much hard work in the lumber
forests, had many ups and downs, but retained a
keenly humorous delight in the life which he genially
records in With the Corners Off: My Adventurous
Life on Land and Sea (Harrap).
His American career finished with a bread-line
period in New York. Then he went back to England and
joined the Orient Company as an assistant purser.
During his years in this service he made friends with
many Australians.
He has some remarkably good stories to tell of
very different types of passengers, between clerics and
confidence men and ladies with all the virtues and
none at all. He is especially interesting in his chapter
on “Sharps and Flats.” “A ship carrying as many as
two hundred first-saloon passengers forms a happy
hunting-ground one might almost say a Tom
Tiddler’s ground for the professional ‘sharp.’ In
cities, where so many activities over a wide area pre-
sent themselves as antidotes for boredom, the crook’s
casting about for prey is more chancy than it is on
a ship, where the ‘possibles’ are closely bunched
together.” There is material for a dozen good short
Stories in this section of the book.
When the Great War came, being an officer of
the R.N.R., he joined up with the Navy, and before
long was attached to the mine-sweeping trawlers,
which
were manned by as fine a set of shipmates as I’ve
ever had the luck to be with.... It was a great privi-
lege to have worked with men who went about such
arduous duties with such selflessness. Little knowledge
had they of mines and less of submarines, but they
went out with as quiet a deliberation, as simple a
demeanor, in danger to clear the seas of dangers, as if
they had been sailing to “shoot the trawl” for the win-
ning of their hard-won daily bread.
Then he joined H.M.S. Otranto, a well-known
Australian liner converted into a cruiser armed with
eight six-inch guns. He finely tells her story in this
service—all over the world—to the final chapter of it,
when she was sunk in collision with the P and O.
Kashmir, with a casualty list of more than 800 of
the American troops she was carrying and her crew.
“Life has been for me,” the book concludes, “a con-
tinuous process of having the corners knocked off,
and here merely is an accumulation of the chips.”
They are chips well worth picking up.
A Modern Melodramatist.
Mary Borden’s The Black Virgin (Heinemann) is
vigorous and mature. At one time the author showed a
leaning toward the advanced moderns, a rash of man-
nerisms and an involute style in unravelling her plots.
This element has been disciplined into an occasional
characteristic quirk and a general saltiness that is
stimulating to the mind without obstructing the view
of the story.
The Black Virgin is a situation novel built up very
completely within artificial limits. Sarah Barnaby
has decided to leave her husband for a rich and ideal-
istic American, Peter Lippincott. As a final gesture
before she goes she gives a Christmas house party,
a splendid affair for which she is quite unable to pay.
She is a hard-boiled romantic, and wants her two
sons to have one more happy Christmas before she
wrecks their lives. She is also something of an exhibi-
tionist. So she assembles an incongruous collection
of people, including Lippincott, her husband’s mistress,
his mother, her brother Greville and a party of old
family friends to witness the final flare.
We gradually learn all the ramifications of the
situation. Her husband, Jock Barnaby, a member of
Parliament and an Under-Secretary, is one of the poor-
rich, with a country place, Christian’s Vallance, which
he loves in much the same spirit as Sarah loves her
brother. Jock takes his career seriously, and is in
possession of secret Government information about a
big oilfield purchase. Greville has come to the house
party to learn if possible this secret. He had first
borrowed and then lost Sarah’s large fortune, which
had kept Christian’s Vallance in the family and main-
tained the traditions so dear to Jock’s old-fashioned
British heart. Greville can make restitution only
through Jock’s Government secret and the oppor-
tunity it would give him to scoop up a fortune on the
Stock Exchange. Jock is caught in a triangle ; he
can save his home at the expense of his honor, revenge
himself on his wife with honor, or follow the tradition
of his blood.
That situation is subtly worked out. Seen in the
light of the characters, and with all its overtones and
undertones, its harsh melodrama is mellowed to con-
vincing naturalness. The story is etched in with deft
strokes that leave a deceptive appearance of ram-
bling casualness. It winds from mind to mind illumi-
nating the characters. The whole book is soaked in
dramatic emotion. On the strongly-woven background
of plot there is a thick pile of emotion.
The characters are well drawn ? they evoke sym-
pathy and, in the case of the villain, Greville, a spon-
taneous loathing. A clever use of repetition soon
produces in the reader the illusion of having known
them for years. The black virgin of the title is an
ebony madonna and child with “some secret beauty
that came through the wood,” looted in the Peninsular
War by a Barnaby ancestor. It is the most valuable
piece in Christian’s Vallance. In the story it is at
once a symbol and a touchstone. It stands in some
unexpressed way for Sarah’s motherhood, which she
cannot cast away, and at the close of the book it is
sold to Lippincott to pay her debts. The black virgin
goes but Sarah stays.
Natural Fiction.
Norah Lofts, in White Hell of Pity (Methuen ;
Angus and Robertson), begins by living among her
characters, applauding this, jeering at that, rushing to
the aid of her heroine, explaining her to the reader.
It is disconcerting, but it changes about one-third the
way through, and the reader’s confidence rises with
the author’s increasing confidence in her story.
The title refers to the state of mind of a poorly-
born person after well-meaning friends have made her
aware of her position without being able to provide
her with means of escape. Emmie is the daughter of
Mark Hamburg, as Will Dyson saw him for THE
BULLETIN. An appreciation of Dyson, with other
representative examples of his pungent BULLETIN
caricaturing, appears on p. 50 of this issue.
low-class agricultural laborers. The mother is aggres-
sively ignorant, slothful and a drunkard. The other
children are morons. Emmie’s idol is her school-
teacher. Miss Stanton, through the loan of books,
introduces her to the world of the imagination at
which her eager mind leaps. After the father’s death
the mother takes a male “lodger,” and soon Emmie is
forced to run from home in distressing circumstances.
She goes for temporary refuge to Miss Stanton, who,
in a burst of altruistic zeal, sends her to a young
ladies’ boarding-school. Emmie holds her own at
what another character calls the snobbery, but while
on holiday she overhears a conversation in which Miss
Stanton, under pressure from a friend, admits that
her upkeep is a heavy strain.
Emmie has enough character to face the situation.
Fate has half-given her something and pulled it away
again; she decides to fight her own battles from the
station to which she was born. She leaves Miss
Stanton and takes a job in a farmhouse in another
part of the country. Follows a story of scrimping to
repay what she believes to be a debt of honor to Miss
Stanton and of earnest efforts at self-culture ; an hour’s
reading snatched between drudgery and bed, and a
well-bred outward appearance on her rare “afternoon
off” achieved by the utmost parsimony.
Attracted by the atmosphere of a near-by cathedral
town she leaves the farm and. goes as maid to an
expensive boarding-house. Here again she is victimised
by well-meaning people. She attracts the attention of
Murray Wykham, editor of the local paper and a
writer of books, and of “Java” Mason, a woman
doctor. Wykham gives her the freedom of his book-
shelves, sometimes detains her in his room for a little
conversation, and once or twice takes her to the
pictures. He is kindly, attractive and doubly a menace
because he is completely decent in his treatment of
her. She falls in love with him, secretly, but with all
the strength of a passionate and romantic nature. The
one thing life does offer her is the attachment of a
country youth come to town to take up a bursary at
the school, but Emmie has developed a maturity of
mind beyond her years and his. She is forced at
length to realise that she means nothing to Wykham,
and complete disaster comes when she learns that
heredity, aided by strain and damp kitchens, has
caught up with her. She develops apparently hopeless
pulmonary trouble.
The tale is not quite as clear-cut as is indicated
here, but the thread of interest holds. Miss Lofts knows
her field, and respect is engendered by the feeling
throughout that she is moved to write by the com-
pulsion of what she has to say.
Westralian Verse-makers.
In his brief summary of Westralia’s contribution
to Australian letters (R.P. 29/12/’37) Leslie Rees
hailed “Dryblower” Murphy as “the best Westralian
representative of the old ballad school.” Let me
put in a word for J. P. Bourke (“Bluebush”), who,
with “Dryblower,” “Crosscut,” “Prospect Good” and
“T. the R.” (Andre Hayward, of The Bulletin), made
up a band of versifiers whose contributions gave a
vigor and versatility to the pages of the Kalgoorlie
“Sun” and Perth “Sunday Times” which the Eastern
States could never capture.
Bourke, who died at Boulder in 1914, published
one volume of his collected verses, Off the Blue Bush.
After his death the Kalgoorlie “Sun” summed up:
He was a writer of verse that appealed to everyone
by its rugged force, its fertility of ideas, its truth and
the spirit of human sympathy and true mateship which
permeated every line. Straight as a gunbarrel and
unfaltering in his denunciation of all that savored of the
mean,' the paltry or the unjust, Bourke was the whitest
and the most lovable of men. Gifted with a keen
insight into human nature and unlimited power of
happy expression, he was a staunch friend and a true
mate, and no man on the fields was more personally
popular.
At one time “Bluebush” was a regular contri-
butor to The Bulletin, but a difference cropped up
between them, which he always intended to straighten
out during one of his infrequent visits to the Eastern
States. He died before the opportunity came his way.
He sent over a piece of verse which had appeared
in the “Sun.” The Bulletin used it, discovering
later where it had been published. Bourke was
informed that future contributions would not be wel-
comed.
The facts are that during a beery argument some-
one told Bourke that a piece of his verse printed
in the “Sun” was tripe, and that The Bulletin
would never have published it. One of Bourke’s
admirers made a bet about it, and the poet foolishly
sent the verse over. The thought of double-banking
on the cheques would never have entered his head.
I have Bourke’s letters about the incident, and I know
he was terribly upset. But he wouldn’t write.
W. K. ROBERTSON.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
“Greengage”: Peter Lecky, by Himself (Peter
Hopegood), has been reissued by Cape under the title
Tales Out of School. It records wanderings through
several countries in search of adventure on the “earn-
while-you-learn plan,” and includes the story of years
spent knocking about the Westralian bush and pearling
grounds. Hopegood’s imagination is strongly tinged
with mysticism, and a great part of the interest of
the book lies in his application of this quality to the
interpretation of the Australian scene. His wife, Olive
Hopegood, a Perth girl, is the author of poems that
have attracted attention. The couple are now living
at the Bay of Islands (M.L.).
Life and Death of a Spanish Town : Elliot Paul
(Peter Davies). Nostalgic recollections of Santa
• Eulalia in the Balearic Islands in pre-revolutionary
days. Rather heavy going, because the writer paints
his picture in minute detail without communicating
any sense of movement.
Thrillers . . .
The Detector: Alec Lumsden (Blackie). Gang-
sters and mystery. Airman Wallet has in his posses-
sion a new scientific instrument. A telegraph wire
falls across his car, a bridge collapses under it, his
quarters at the ’drome are burnt to the ground. Will
the Q-men get away with it?
Nine Days’ Panic: Reginald Davis (Geoffrey
Bles). Reign of terror in Littleford-in-the-Vale when
skeletons and corpses become as plentiful as butter-
cups in spring. Solution according to Hoyle.
The Purple Parrot: Clyde B. Clason (Heine-
mann). American. She became engaged to Jim
despite a threat of disinheritance from Grandpa if
she didn’t marry Jack, and Grandpa is next discovered
in a puddle of blood. An astute hunchbacked human-
ist unravels the skein.
General . . .
The Black Musketeers : A. J. Marshall (Heine-
mann ; Angus and Robertson). The author, a young
Australian zoologist and explorer, was a member of
the Oxford University Expedition to Espiritu Santo
Island, in the New Hebrides, to study the cause of
breeding seasons in animals and plants. He records
the fun and adventure of his island days, hurricanes,
tidal waves, expeditions inland, life in native villages,
insect plagues, social life among the planters and
scraps of history and South Sea legend. Entertainingly
written and well illustrated.
Inside Britain : Dower and Ridell (Heinemann).
Mildly amusing fun-poking at typically British
manners, institutions, ideas and what not, with a
glance or two at Italy, Germany and Russia. F.a.q.
undergraduate humor.
Verse . . .
First Poems: Enoch Powell (Shakespeare Head
Press ; 2s. 6d.). Fifty short lyrics, with a bit more in
them than the writer leads you to believe with
The autumn leaves that strew the grass,
The flocks of migrant birds,
They are all poems; but, alas!
1 cannot find the words.


BUILT TO EXCEL ...inStyle
.. .Performance .. .Lonali/e
NEWI93B HUDSON EIGHT
m
i
m
m
i
m
' i
Never before, we are sure, have you seen such lavish
attention to beauty and comfort in cars so low in
cost as these new Hudsons . . . Hudson Terraplane,
Hudson Six and Hudson Eight. Distinctively new in
outside style . . . superbly new in inside luxury . . .
with added roominess.
Drive . . . and you’ll find the performance that has
won so many official records is even smoother and
finer for 1938. You’ll learn why Hudson has beaten
all competitors in certified economy. And, with all
this, you get extra long car life and extremely low
operating cost.
Come to a Hudson showroom and see the cars that
cost you less for what you get than any others in
the world.
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
Drive with HUDSON’S
SELECTIVE AUTOMATIC GEAR
CHANGE (Optional Extra) .. .
Now in its fourth year . . . better
than ever.
MORE Size . . . MORE ROOM and New Luxury
Inside.
DUO-AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES:
Latest, most advanced hydraulics; and the ONLY
braking system with a separate mechanical system
in reserve, working from the same brake pedal.
Easy handling parking brake under dash. SAFEST
BRAKES ON ANY CAR.
BODIES ALL OF STEEL, including roofs of steel,
for greater safety.
SAFETY GLASS in windscreen, all side windows
and deflectors.
WHEELBASES: 117 inches in Hudson Terraplane;
122 inches in Hudson Six; 122 and 129 inches
in Hudson Eight.
HORSEPOWER: 96 and 101 in Hudson Terra-
plane; 101 in Hudson Six; 122 in Hudson Eight.
MEET HUDSON
FOR
1938
New HUDSON Terr aft lane - New HUDSON Six
New HUDSON Eight
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
llncorporated in Englandi
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN $ CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
CENTRES
IX-N 5-75.
IT’S “VALUE YEAR” IN HUDSON .SHOWROOMS


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
H
:
65 m
m
.
u
s
■
I'lUi
: ■
if
m
■
x*
I H
■
H
11
m
m
V
--
„,
v ■
■
I
■
■
i
full
■ ,
M
Hi
■
;_ - ■
Hi
MHB K
• •* ■*■*
: p «§
■f
ft
•a^Wk
i i
IP' .
H
m
m
m
Jt'i
f *
■ Ittl. 4 ’
*
w
? S»- I
‘ i
v*
% '
m
■: ■
g»f^|f;-|
t
fh tm *‘. .
L*#it* *34u
HI
£ 1
Wg
**%<*
%
c <
Aerial view of another portion of Seppelt’s Storage and Cellars , u>/iic/i hold over 4\ million gallons .


THE FORGOTTEN MAN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aits.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lamb ton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HANDING OYER TO COMMUNISTS.
In his election campaigning Mr. Lyons deplored the
idea of an Australian boycott on Japan, then noisily
advocated. He had the chance to display again his
talent for deploring when a small body of Sydney
wharf-laborers took the control of foreign policy
out of his Government’s hands, imposing a boycott
on their own account by refusing to load the Japanese
steamers Atsuta Maru and Canberra Maru. This
was against the feeling of Australia as expressed by
its returning the Lyons Government to Canberra. It
was dangerously against Australia’s present and future
interests.
In the face of tests of this kind the Lyons crowd
always cuts a sorry figure. It has had several months
in which to decide what a Government should do
when wharf-laborers with Government licenses refuse
to load the outward-bound ships of a friendly nation
with Australian produce or to let others load them, and
there have been several of these Communist-inspired
hold-ups ; but the most the Lyons Government ever
did until the end of last week was to call for a report. '
Then, informed in a union letter that the Sydney
wharf-laborers would on no account carry “lead,
scrap-iron, tin clippings, copper, tallow and other
materials used in the manufacture of munitions” into
Japanese holds, the Prime Minister intimated that
his “policy” was total and ignominious surrender:
The Government fully understands the point of
view of the waterside workers... . who are no doubt
acting with complete honesty and sincerity, but it does
urge that the question whether trade shall be carried on
between Australia and any foreign country should
be left with the Government.
It is another aspect of this futility that Lyons
and co. decline to provide Australia with an adequate
army. They excuse themselves by using the loaded
word “conscription,” but tha.t is what their no-con-
scription babble amounts to. The other, and at one
time honored, term is compulsory training. Voluntary
training having been proved futile for providing Aus-
tralia with an adequate defence force, re-enactment of
the compulsory-training law is the only way in which
an adequate army can be secured.
Mr. Lyons and his Government oppose it hotly.
Votes are involved, as they are well aware. That
alone is negative statesmanship. It is worse when a
handful of Communists dictate what the foreign
policy of this country is to be. The position is pre-
posterous, anyway: a huge continent, wide open to
invasion ; its few people utterly unprepared for war;
a small and discredited but violent element indulging
in insulting provocation of military nations ; and a
Government incapable either of preventing that sort
of approach to war or preparing the country for what
may happen to it if this Communist campaign of
insult and injury is permitted to grow.
Sydney provided another example of Communism
taking charge of Australian foreign policy in the midst
of its anniversary celebrations. The municipal council
of Paddington—a strong Labor quarter —very properly
let its Town Hall for an entertainment of officers and
men of the Italian cruiser Raimondo Montecuccoli.
These goodwill visitors were greeted by the cries of a
noisy little mob of demonstrators: “Down with
Mussolini! Down with Fascists! Stop Italian inter-
vention in Spain!” It was a cheap and nasty little
exhibition, of no significance whatever except as
another illustration of the Communist idea of what
Australian foreign policy ought to be. That idea, in
keeping with the whole Communist tenet, is one of
belligerence. It is "all for Australians being involved
in fighting Communist-tainted China’s war and the
Red Valencia Government’s war. It is also all for
Australia itself remaining defenceless, an open invita-
tion to invasion.
That a good many people who would declare
themselves hotly opposed to Communism have
become its dupes is, after all, natural enough. Cables"
purporting to give accurate and unbiased foreign news
have been so loaded on the Communist side that they
must necessarily have a considerable influence on
people who would rather swallow any propaganda
than do a bit of thinking for themselves. A classic
example of this loading appeared on the same day as
the reports on the “Stop Italian Intervention in Spain!”
demonstration:
Two loyalist ’planes dropped 15 5001 b. bombs,
killing or wounding 165 men.
Recent rebel air raids on Barcelona are now reported
to have killed 150 people and wounded 300.
“Loyalist”—that is, Red —bombs kill only men ;
Franco’s bombs kill people women and children,
too.
That sort of thing is so common in the cables
that many Australians otherwise anti-Communist are
still completely taken in by the Communist hoax
that “Italian intervention” represents the true picture
of Spain’s civil war. This despite the fact that
the “S. M. Herald’s” own observer, a staff man
from Sydney, has reported that “Franco’s army to-day
is in quality over 90 p.c. Spanish,” and that, though
“the 20,000 of the International Brigade represents
the very backbone” of the Communist army, “Franco
could carry on his campaign without any diminution
of his striking success were every foreigner translated
from that part of Spain to his own country by magic
carpet to-morrow.”
For light on the tactics and temper of Australian
Communists one has to go nowadays to Labor news-
papers. The U.A.P. press is no longer interested, and
U.A.P. Governments abjectly acquiesce in Red imper-
tinences. Before Mr. Lyons’s total and ignomihious
surrender the “Labor Daily” made this note:
While the Communist party is striving to involve
the waterside workers in its policy of making Australia
a party to foreign entanglements, it carefully avoids
embroiling United Front leaders of the Miners’ Federa-
tion and the Railways Union, whose members produce
and transport materials on which the Communists are
seeking to place an export embargo.
And the Kalgoorlie correspondent of the “Wes-
tralian Worker” reports the substance of a conver-
sation with “one of the leaders of the Communist
party in Australia” as to what would happen to the
correspondent under the revolution. He was told
that he would be arrested and, failing recantation,
would get a bullet in the back of the head.
My would-be executioner was so serious that it was
evident that a sense of humor has no part in the make-
up of a Communist. I know of other goldfields
Laborites who have been promised an appointment
with a firing squad when the revolution is an accom-
plished fact. The amazing part is that those who have
made the stupid threats are Australians, which is
evidence that the imported poisonous belief that the
only way to deal with an opponent is to kill him has
made some headway among those whose mentality is
something less than sound.
“The only way to deal with an opponent is to
kill him”! A startling commentary on these words
was the ferocious murder, by bombing, of the Alfred
Smiths, of Lidcombe (N.S.W.). Alfred Smith was
a “moderate” Labor man, a Meat Industry Union
organiser, who “was always opposed to direct action.”
It is recorded that “when a disagreement arose at the
State abattoirs he would always urge a conference
with the bosses rather than a walk-out strike.” So
Alfred Smith made enemies, and some fiend or fiends
placed time bombs in his house at dead of night.
More Light!
It is announced that Dr. Page, Mr. Menzies, Mr.
White and about a dozen officials are to go to London
for the conference which is “to review the Ottawa
agreement.” The Ministers will leave in March and
travel direct to London ; the officials will depart before
them and “go to Washington to prepare the way for
completion of the trade pact between Australia and
the United States in London.” Whether the officials
are to be bound by instructions is not stated. It should
be stated, and a general idea of the instructions, if any,
should be given, if only to satisfy the nation’s legiti-
mate curiosity. More and more the nation has reason
to believe that officials shape public policy, and are
indeed among the most powerful of its multitude of
masters.
The Lyons Government has been kept informed
of the progress of negotiations between the Govern-
ments in London and Washington and must know
pretty well what those Governments expect Australia
to do or to suffer; but thus far it has withheld all
information from the Australian people. Not even
the fact that the U.S. Secretary of State has published
a list of a thousand dutiable articles which are figuring
in his proposals to the British for a mutual reduction
of tariffs has moved Canberra to give the palest imita-
tion of this candor and respect for public opinion.
Journalistic friends of the Government are
breaking out into a rash of articles to the effect that
it is impudent for mere Australians to want to know
what is going on, that the part for which they are
cast is the making of “sacrifices,” and that what our
lords and masters are aiming at is “an alliance between
the English-speaking peoples,” an alliance which will
put “the Fascist Powers” in their place. The nature
of the “sacrifices” remains unspecified, though it may
be taken for granted that those who demand tljem will
not suffer. That “an alliance between the English-
speaking peoples” is being arranged there is not a
particle of evidence in any quarter. Certainly neither
the Democratic party nor the Republican party nor
any important section of American opinion has said
a word in favor of it. If the three Ministers or the
dozen officials commit Australia to any old agreement
in the belief that an alliance with the United States
will be the outcome they will let Australia down.
An able Belgian, M. Van Zeeland, has been
engaged on an economic survey of the troubled world,
with the blessing of Britain and France. Rejecting all
temptations to indulge in the favorite newspaper pas-
time of “aligning the Democratic Powers against the
Fascist Powers,” he recommends Britain, the U.S.A.,
France, Germany and Italy (no mention of Russia) to
consider immediately the possibility of arriving at
an agreement on general principles which “might be
embodied in a pact for economic collaboration.” On
the financial side he suggests the inclusion of Belgium.
Switzerland, the Netherlands “and any other countries
agreeable” in the monetary agreement to which
Britain, France and the U.S.A. are parties ; suggests
also that countries which agree to economic collabora-
tion “should establish a common fund, the resources
of which might be applied to facilitate and finance
legitimate trade when normal methods are insufficient.”
Meanwhile, he is all for “bilateral agreements” ; and
“the direct and indirect results of an Anglo-American
trade agreement” he regards as “impossible to over-
estimate.”
Australians are prepared to take the Belgian
statesman’s word for it, without necessarily subscribing
to all his opinions, one of which is that “the protec-
tionist policies of countries that produce raw
materials,” essential in our case, “are reacting against
themselves and damaging traditional customers.”
Australians also accept the assurance of the President
of the Board of Trade that his Government and the
U.S. Government are negotiating “because we both
believe we can in a commercial treaty contribute to the
commercial prosperity of our two countries and the
world in general.” The gentleman did not “deny” that
“any sign to the world of any common interest or
friendliness between the United States and ourselves”
would “have the highest political importance” ; but he
went on to say “This is a trade treaty,” using the
expression three times in a few short sentences. Aus-
tralians welcome the negotiations and will be pleased
to join in an honorable and useful trade treaty. But
they will not permit manufacturers and dried-fruits
men to be ruined so that noisy journalists may pursue
the will-o’-the-wisp of an American alliance.
Sydney’s Day.
Sydney woke on January 25 to the boom of guns.
There were foreign warships coming up the harbor,
and British seaplanes were about to arrive. City
streets had been decorated for days with rows of
appliances which seemed to be gibbets, and which
overseas visitors must have regarded as a nice tribute
to the convict era. On a second glance they appeared
to be a nice tribute to the concern that got the flag
contract, whose name was their only adornment.
But on January 25 this inscription disappeared
under an array of banners which made massed color in
every part of the main streets except the part with the
greatest historical significance lower George-street.
There in other days stood the foundation buildings of
almost everything that made Australia. Circular Quay,
the first landing-place, was “decorated” with shafts,
piles of timber, compressed-air cylinders, concrete and
mud. It looked to the visitor from the harborside as
if the city had been sold to a junkyard firm whose
employees were tearing it down hurriedly.
Dawn broke on Foundation Day, January 26, to
find all Sydney on the move. So that half a million
people in suburbs served by Government trams might
be able to reach vantage-points, the Government put
on a Sunday service—about half the trams which run
on a week day. At the same time, it trebled the police
force ; but if ever a police force was not needed it
was on January 26, 1938. There was no crime and
there was no disturbance.
Earlier crowds went to see the landing of Governor
Phillip and his men in the Domain. The authorities felt a
burning desire to follow history accurately, so they
held this show at half-past eight—it was about the
only historical detail in the landing which was cor-
rect. A neat sand beach had been built. The adjacent
sward had been transformed into wild bush by prop-
ping a few branches, of tea-tree in holes —this in
ground where no tea-tree ever grew —and there were
half a dozen grass-tree palms, looking as if they
needed attention from an all-night chemist. Also
“wild” abos. waited while Phillip and his staff were
landed from the Supply, a newly-painted replica of
whose sea-battered hull lay in Farm Cove. There
have been complaints about the treatment of abos. in
N. S. Wales, but these natives inspired the reflection
that it was a good job they were being exhibited in
civilisation. They looked so sleek and comestible that
among cannibals they would have lasted about ten
minutes.
The landing was a great success. The fierce abos.,
numbed with astonishment at the sight of 1788 marines
armed with late-nineteenth-century weapons, wilted
into friendliness. Governor Phillip put round the
chiefs neck something like what mother used to wind
round one’s abdomen as a cure for colic. A tent was
erected. Of a type which would have been scorned
in the old six-ply military days, it had a mica window.
The Union Jack was unfurled.
Up to this point everybody connected with the
Supply had been talking incessantly with the aid of
loudspeakers. The accomplished actor who imper-
sonated Phillip was a stately figure, but his address was
written in the style of a daily-paper roundsman. How-
ever, when the old flag was seen ferryboat and steam-
boat whistles, guns and cheers put Phillip in his right
place.
Meanwhile, the streets had been filling; and the
people were a better show than the procession they
had come to see. In Macquarie-street they stood
patiently and watched uniformed messengers lining
the verandahs of Parliament House with Austrian
chairs to seat distinguished visitors. When they got
tired they unfolded their morning newspapers and sat
in the roadway back to back. The monotony of the
wait was broken by visits from sellers of stools, peri-
scopes and ice-cream.
The March to Nationhood took a couple of
hours to pass given points. It was good pageantry
on the whole, and very impressive in parts; but its signi-
ficance was too local —too much Sydney and too little
Australia —and it was too carefully censored. Four sub-
jects were sedulously avoided—convicts, bushrangers,
statesmen’s whiskers and Diggers. Macquarie was


celebrated standing manfully on high—he would thor-
oughly have enjoyed the show, for to him every pro-
cession was an “elegant spectacle which much grati-
fied me.” But Henry Parkes was deified in absentia.
There were soldiers, it is true, and sailors, too. Can-
non’s regimental history, published in the ’forties, and
colored plates of that period had been drawn on heavily
—and faithfully—for this section of the show. The
Sudan contingent changed the fashion —it came to
life from “Hop’s” Bulletin cartoon.
The A.I.F. was excluded from the March to
the nationhood which it sealed. Excluded, though a
Peace Society was allowed in with a float which featured
a disgruntled-looking Chinaman side by side with a
Japanese geisha girl. It had been decided, it seems,
that the procession should deal only with “Australia’s
peaceful development and progress,” and, though the
1914-1918 period couldn’t be ignored altogether, it
was handled so gingerly that the symbolism intro-
duced was lost on most people. As a concession to
the flapper press, there were troops of lifesavers with
skimpy banners marked “Maroubra,” “Avalon,” and
so on. They were barelegged, here and there bare-
footed ; and after two hours of pacing along hot bitu-
men streets some of them looked extremely uncom-
fortable.
Nevertheless the people liked it all. Massed in the
greatest crowd that Australia has ever seen, they cheered
everyone and everything that took their fancy:
soldiers, seamen, Parramatta watermen; aborigines,
Chinamen who marched among the gold-diggers,
Scottish pipers—them above all.
Afterwards they filled the streets and the Show-
ground and the harbor boats —a gay, sturdy, good-
tempered, well-behaved million that any nation might
have been proud to call its people—until the lights
went out and the last ferry ploughed homeward.
EL VERDUGO.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Farm (and Factory) Schools.
Prime Minister Lyons has ventured the wary
announcement that it is hoped to resume assisted
British migration before the end of 1938. On the
subject of the introduction of adults State Governments
are either lukewarm or cold ; but the N. S. Wales and
Westralian Governments have indicated that they
would approve more migration of the Fairbridge-
farm-school sort. S.A.’s Premier Butler has joined
them in principle by stating that his State could take
girl migrants.
The late Kingsley Fairbridge established the first
farm school at Pinjarra (W.A.). Victoria and N. S.
Wales now have farm schools on the Fairbridge plan.
Most of the money has come from Britain, and Lon-
don “Times” gave a fair enough indication of U.K.
feeling when in October, 1936, it expressed the fervent
hope that the plan would be extended to other Aus-
tralian States and to other British Dominions.
In Victoria the F.F.S. idea has been adopted in
modified form by the Rev. R. G. Nichols and the
people who backed his farm school for unemployed
city boys at Lysterfield, 26 miles out of Melbourne.
The padre goes to England this year determined to
raise £50,000 for purchase of similar properties, on
each of which it is intended to train 20 British orphan
boys, 14 years of age, side by side with 20 Aus-
tralians of the same age. It is a plan deserving
of public and private assistance. Nor should
it be beyond the ingenuity of Australian manufac-
turers’ organisations to institute similar schools for
lads who will supply some of the skilled labor they
increasingly need.
A Better Atmosphere.
In an atmosphere very different from that which
prevailed when the since-exploded Jimmy Thomas
was the British negotiator, Eamonn de Valera has
been discussing things with Chamberlain and Mac-
Donald in London.
British feeling is not now altogether unfavorable
to the leader of Fianna Fail. It is recognised, for
one thing, that he supported sanctions against Italy
and non-intervention in Spain when his personal sym-
pathies were the other way. Even on the constitu-
tional issues he has raised there are British authorities
who allow that he has a case.
Because Craig, the leader of the Ulster Unionists,
is still irreconcilable, the London conversations had
no immediate result, but they seem to have cleared
the air.
Proposed Challenge Match.
Dear Bulletin, —By common consent of cricket
historians, the really great teams that have visited
England were those of 1882, 1902 and 1921. Leaving
the 1882 men out of the argument, had the men of
1902 or those of 1921 been available last week, in
their 1902 or 1921 form, together with the present
lot of cricketers, how many of the latter would have
been worthy of selection? No more than three: Brad-
man, McCabe and O’Reilly.
This 1938 team, as chosen, has serious weak-
nesses. It has no good left-hand batsman —no Bards-
ley, Ransford, Bruce or Moses —and no fast-medium
bowler of proved quality. Its one express is far from
being a McDonald or a Jack Gregory, and has
exhibited a rather alarming tendency to crack up.
Nor is he much good in the field, though his fielding
is not so bad as that of Fleetwood-Smith. Nor is
there an all-rounder who deserves to be named in the
same breath as Giffen, Noble or Armstrong. McCabe
and Chipperfield are called all-rounders ; but —unlike
Giffen, Noble and Armstrong—neither is a regular
bowler. A real all-rounder in Ross Gregory, who
has distinguished himself against English bowling,
who in Melbourne last month got Bradman’s wicket
twice for comparatively small scores (and made 67
besides), and who is a beautiful fieldsman, has been
left out. Perhaps he can’t sing.
Then many of us have an uneasy feeling that
those Englishmen are right who have written gleefully
that Australia’s best wicketkeeper and slow bowler
are not in the team. Oldfield is 40 —not old for a
stumper. A day before his rejection he made a first-
class 50 for N. S. Wales v. Victoria. Two days after-
wards he caught five Mosman batsmen for his club,
Gordon.
Deprived of Bradman, McCabe and O’Reilly, it
is doubtful whether an eleven of Ins could beat an
eleven of Outs. Let us look them over:
INS. OUTS.
Brown Lee
Fingleton Rigg
Badcock Robinson
Barnes Gregory
Chipperfield Jackson
Hassett Hamence
Barnett Pearson
Waite Williams
Ward Oldfield
McCormick O’Brien
Fleetwood-Smith Grimmett
White Cook
Walker Tallon
What about a challenge match for £5OO a side?
I have no doubt there are 50 Australians who would
put up £lO apiece and back the Outs, and 50 more
who would put up the same amount and back the
Ins. There is plenty of time in which to arrange a
three-day match for Sydney or Melbourne, and no-
thing could do more to revive the interest in cricket
played by Australians against Australians, now so
faint that Bradman failed to “draw” in Sydney last
week. I suggest that the losers’ £5OO be devoted to
sending at least one Out to England, where his services
might be requisitioned in an emergency as were those
of Sammy Woods in 1888, and that profits on the
match form the nucleus of an Old Cricketers’ fund.
The Bulletin has my name and address; I am pre-
pared to put £2O on the Outs. —Yours etc., D. Empson.
Melbourne's Milk.
Nearly four years after its constitution, Melbourne’s
Milk Board has introduced its plan for zoning the
retail trade. The board is gambling the tattered re-
mains of its popularity on the success of the plan.
Consumers’ only dividend from “control” has been
the debatable one of quality improvement.
The board has appealed for the “co-operation of
all sections to secure a fair trial” for zoning. It sug-
gests that much of the criticism is based on a “wrong
conception of details.” All the same it has wiped out
retail businesses whose competition acted as a brake
on prices in many suburbs ; they were alleged to be
“overlapping and uneconomic.” Now zoning is to
curtail still further householders’ choice of milkmen,
though they are assured that 550 dairymen have been
left to “compete” within the various zone limits.
The board, it is true, asked the Dunstan Govern-
ment to empower it to fix retail prices—in vain. Since
then it hasn’t said much about the possibility of
“lower retail prices through economies effected in
distribution costs by the zoning of delivery areas.”
If the price to the consumer goes up unreasonably—as
it has done in Sydney—the board will .have lost its
gamble, and public opinion will force the Dunstan
Government to lose the board.
Four Hundred 'Planes Over Teruel.
The prize (a leather medal) for the silliest bit of
war “news” published in January goes to Sydney’s
“D.T.” for this:
Four hundred Italian and German ’planes—the
biggest number ever sent on an air raid —attacked the
Spanish Government lines at Teruel.
Now the latest credible European estimates place
Germany’s and Italy’s combined aerial armadas at a
little over 4000. Britain’s first-line machines number
about 1600. Not more than 50 per cent, of these
would be suitable for the kind of offensive purpose
for which the “400 Italian and German ’planes” were
employed (?) at Teruel. At least 25 per cent, of them
would be first-line fighters with ranges of not more
than 600 miles, types which are secret and which
certainly would not be sent abroad except in desperate
circumstances. Several hundred more would be naval
’planes built for port defence and to operate from
ships. And there is in every air force a large propor-
tion of troop-carriers, heavy seaplanes which would
not be risked inland, ambulance ’planes, staff ’planes
and other accessory machines.
Operated at such a distance from home, the use
of “400 Italian and German ’planes” would involve
the employment, not only of ’planes and men on The
grand scale, but of shipping and land transport, which
would be a serious tax on “Fascist” resources. And
there would need to be huge ammunition, spare-parts
and petrol dumps. Also alienists for immediate treat-
ment of Hitler and Mussolini.
Sydney Taxis.
Modern tourists gain their first knowledge of a new
city through its taxi-cabs. In every way Sydney’s
taxis compare well with those of most big cities ; and
in 90 per cent, of cases fares are reasonable. This
wasn’t always so. Ten or twelve years ago one con-
cern used to charge 7s. 6d. to take a passenger and his
luggage from the Australia to Central station, a jour-
ney of about a mile. To-day it is possible to travel
over four miles to Mosman for 3s. 3d., plus bridge
toll.
About 10 per cent, of taxis, however, do not
subscribe to the ls.-flagfall, 6d.-a-mile rate. These
largely frequent wharves, railway stations and points
in the city at which a belated citizen is likely to miss
his train or boat.
The number of taxis is 1134, or one to every
1115 persons in the metropolitan area. Although popu-
lation has increased substantially in the meantime,
there are 230 fewer taxis than there were in 1929. At
peak hours, as on theatre nights, it is almost impossible
to obtain taxi service in some suburbs, even if
attempts are made to book hours in advance. At
special periods drivers work 10 and 12 hours at a
stretch, which does not add to safety of traffic.
It is common knowledge that anybody wishing
to enter the taxi business must pay something like
£7OO for a plate. He has to go into the open market
to buy one, for the Transport Department —a law to
itself in these matters flatly refuses to license
any more vehicles. Cheap taxis compete with
the bankrupt Government railways, the lumbering
Government trams and the buses with which the anti-
socialist Stevens Government is attacking socialism.
The department says “it would be unreasonable
to put sufficient taxis in service to meet every demand
at peak hours.” Similarly it is “of opinion that an
impossible position would arise if it attempted to give
a seat to everyone in the departmental public convey-
ances during peak hours.” So there is scarcely a
Government bus which does not break the Govern-
ment passenger-limit regulation, which is a measure
of public safety during peak hours.
The sale of transport by taxi-drivers is just as
much an ordinary commercial business as the sale
of silk stockings or ironmongery. Sometimes there
are too many ironmongery and stocking shops in
a particular neighborhood ; but any State Premier
who proposed to restrict stocking or ironmongery
competition on that account would be rated as a
mental case.
Trial and error are the only means of determining
whether the public needs greater facilities in any
purchasing channel. But the Transport Department’s
troubles about the public!
Darwin and Defence.
“Ostrich” on another Darwinian missing link:
All sorts of transport schemes are discussed by advocates
for and against, but the link with the isolated NX which
the Federal Government swore close on 30 years ago it
would get busy on at once is still half-finished.
The most amiable pacifist will not deny that Darwin is
a danger spot. There is much in the contention that an
enemy landing would not be attempted there when Sydney
and Melbourne are much more payable propositions, but as a
strong post for the Tugeri, say, should these aggressive
islanders take the path their recent behavior suggests,
Darwin) with its splendid harbor on the main line of an
enemy advance on this continent, is ideal.
The Commonwealth has spent and is spending at Darwin
huge sums on oil reserves intended for use in defence and
in building fortifications and arming them with big guns.
Further, it has plumped down in hopeless isolation, far from
all help when the need for it comes, a small force of Aus-
tralian troops who are as surely doomed if the Tugeri decide
to attack as any of the gladiators who greeted the Caesars
in the arena long ago. No force Australia can command
could send them reinforcements or renew their munitions by
sea or land. Their one hope would be the rail link with
the munition and reinforcement depots in the far south.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“T.”: On the 150th Anniversary Day
Frank Harvey made up well as Captain
Phillip and spoke his lines like the com-
petent actor he is. But what poor lines
they were!
I wish to take this opportunity... .to
acknowledge,... our debt to Providence
for permitting the long voyage from the
homeland to be accomplished... .without
the occurrence of any accident of a major
character.
As a result we find ourselves safely
located in the finest harbor in the world.
I am pleased to record that the majority
of the prisoners under my care —I regret
I cannot say all —have given me the mini-
mum of anxiety on the voyage from the
homeland.
In following our illustrious predecessor
Captain James Cook to Botany Bay, it
became immediately apparent that the un-
sheltered shallow waters rendered the
locality unsuitable for establishing our
settlement It is my desire to render
this settlement advantageous and honor-
able to our homeland —Britain.
“Britain,” eh? I fancy “England” would
have been Phillip’s choice, as it was that
of a greater seamen on October 21, 1805.
Anyway, Britain, to Phillip, was “Great”
Britain ; “homeland” was “mother coun-
try” ; “immediately apparent” and
“located” he would have regarded as false
English. And if he had tried to “express
the vision of a city of stupendous area
and population” he would have rejected
bargain-sale adjectives. His own thought
and language were very different:
I would not wish convicts to lay the
foundations of an empire... .There can
be no slavery in a free land, and conse-
quently no slaves.
“J.H.M.A.”: Whoever was responsible
for converting the old Sow and Pigs
lightship into the brig Supply made a
good job of it, even if its cost came
close up to five figures. She really
looks like John Allcot’s pictures of the
Supply. Indeed, the Supply was alto-
gether the best feature of a somewhat
sorry farce, excellently stage-managed
as it was. A large contingent of mostly
clean-shaven aborigines waited for
Frank Harvey Phillip, though there
wasn’t a blackfellow in sight on the
morning of January 26, 1788. David
Collins read Phillip’s commission 11 days
before the actual date, and Phillip s
speech was about as like what Daniel
Southwell record's his having said as an
oration by Jack Lang is like the Lord’s
Prayer. After that the Union Jack
(Queen Anne vintage) was hoisted on
a nice white-painted flagpole not at all
resembling a sapling, and H.M.A.S. Can-
berra saluted it with her two-pounder
pom-poms. This last was almost the best
part of the show.
“E.H.M.”: One bit of symbolism,
quite unrehearsed, lit Macquarie-street,
Sydney, and illuminated the Australian
character last Wednesday morning. A
sturdy young couple went up the street
among the banners. They had the look
of the newly-married. She, eager, bright
and happy, carried the lunch. Over his
shoulder hung a step-ladder. Two Aus-
sies at any rate were to see the show in
comfort through their typically Austra-
lian initiative.
“Cos”: Those who were trampled
nearly to death at Circular Quay on Syd-
ney’s Big Day will appreciate this.
Struggling from the mass of people on
the Manly wharf a Jack turned to his
Jill. “Well, old dear,” he said, “I’ll bet
Captain Phillip didn’t have half as much
trouble with his landing as we have had.”
“D.E.”: If two Sydney morning papers
are right—and are they ever wrong?—
Marconi wasn’t the only wonder-worker
in his family. “To-day on the Premier’s
grandstand at the procession,” burbled the
“D.T.” to its readers, “you will see many
faces new to Australia,” and the first
(with portrait) was to be that of
Marchesa Marconi. —Nee Countess Maria
Christina Bezzi-Scali. Only a few days
before his death, Marconi wrote promis-
ing to attend our 150th Anniversary. Now
his widow and his eight-year-old daughter
Elettra will fulfil the promise he made on
their behalf.
Then the “S. M. Herald” weighed in with
this:
London, January 26.
The Rome correspondent of the “Times”
says that Signor Mussolini received the
Marchesa Marconi and the Marchesa’s
daughter Elettra. The Marchesa presented
the Dictator with her husband’s Black
Shirt uniform. She disclosed that she and
her daughter had accepted an invitation to
attend the Wireless Congress in Sydney.
Great man as he was, and marvellous as
his inventions were, Marconi never
managed to be in two places at once.
“Flyin' BOAT be damned! Why, it ain't even got a funnel !”
“Verri”: Our old headmaster’s favorite
intelligence test was to ask a class of
youngsters “Which is the heavier, a
pound of feathers or a pound of lead?”
He asserted that in a teaching career of
over 40 years he had invariably received
the verdict that the feathers would weigh
less from groups of allegedly bright
pupils. There was a variation once,
when a small boy who afterwards became
a politician and had a natural bent for
hedging inquired “Please, sir, what kind
of feathers?”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Pity the poor young
mother whose baby develops that medi-
cal mystery “pink disease.” For three
months she will have a peevish, miser-
able, debilitated, wakeful, unhappy child
on her hands, and for at least another
three a slow and tedious convalescence
to look after. Treatment is of little avail,
and hospital a definite risk to the child
by reason of the possibility of picking
up some other infection as well. Mor-
tality in cases nursed at home is very
low, and when at last the long convales-
cence is over there are no after-effects.
An Adelaide medico was the first, in
1914, to make a detailed study of the
complaint, although it had been noticed at
intervals in Europe for many years. The
mnemonic for recognising it is in six
Ps: Pain, pinkness, peeling (of skin),
prostration, perspiration, paraesthesia.
Nothing is known as to cause or method
of spread, but the initial nasal irritation
and fever suggest air-conveyance of a
germ.
**:?*
“Sakit Prut”: Important factors in the
treatment of certain forms of lunacy are
the revival and development of self-
respect and the awakening of some
healthy interest. An ingenious applica-
tion of these principles has been intro-
duced into modern mental hospitals for
women —among them, that at Mont Park,
Melbourne —in the form of a beauty
salon. Even grave mental derangement
doesn’t necessarily make a woman
ignore her appearance, or anything which
she considers likely to improve it, and
the new development has already yielded
very promising results. Another utilisa-
tion of feminine vanity has produced
striking improvements in work and con-
duct among the proverbially difficult old-
lady inmates of what used to be London
workhouses —now public assistance in-
stitutions. A lottery system for new hats
and replacement of the dreary old linsey-
woolsey uniform by neat tweeds and
thin stockings have done the trick.
* * * *
“Woozy”: London has as many
cranks to the square mile as Sydney has.
One of the most prominent is a wealthy
woman who objects to capital punish-
ment, and who used to signify her dis-
approval by driving in her limousine to
Wandsworth gaol on execution mornings
and soothing the passing moments of the
condemned with hideous noises on the car
horn accompanied by incitements to the
crowd (a crowd always gathered) to play
up and break things. Lately she has de-
sisted from her efforts, but it is thought
she has reappeared in a new guise. Lon-
don is trying to get rid of its pigeons,
which are not only defiling the city but
affecting the stability of ancient buildings
by pecking the mortar from between the
bricks as an aid to appetite. The method
of catching is to throw grain, on the
street and, when the birds gather, to bag
them in an exaggerated butterfly-net.
There are many protesters, and the prin-
cipal rides about in a splendid limousine
accompanied by two small boys with
paper bags. Just as the fowler is about
to net the birds the boys burst the in-
flated paper bags and the pigeons depart
for the great open spaces.
* * * *
“Erua” (M.L.): It must be entertaining
to watch the evening round-up of the
U.S.A. sailorboys in Sydney for the
sesqui. When the lads outstayed their
shore leave in our Auckland, alert
young men, hunting in couples and
armed with stout waddies, went in search
of them. If the culprit proved amenable
he was simply marched home, but if he
became truculent (and after sampling
M.L.’s strong beer many of them did)
he was hit neatly on the head and popped
into a waiting sack. The sight of the
body in the bag being carried by two
stalwarts became a common sight in
Auckland after 10 p.m.
* * * *
“Mikawomma”: Faith-healing by the
printed word seems intimately connected
with the Bible (B. 12/l/’3B). In the
Mt. Lofty Ranges (S.A.) I visited an old
chap who, five minutes before, had cut
his finger. A Bible with half its pages
gone was lying on the table. The old
chap was busy binding a piece of paper
around his injured finger. These modern
antiseptic stuffs don’t do you no good,
he explained. “Takes a page of the Good
Book to keep the septicness out.”
“Sandpatch”: A Bible-banging opera-
tion is used by at least one qualified
medico. In a N.Q. town in 1932 I was
troubled by a lump at the base of the
right thumb. Consulted, the local quack
asked me to spread my hand out on the
surgery table, and gave it a smart rap
with a Webster’s unabridged, remark-
ing that he used a Bible in the case of
superstitious women. Anything heavy
would do, he said, but a book was less
likely to cause a surface abrasion than
a piece of wood or metal. In my case
the operation was successful.
# * * *
“Heresone”: There comes news from
England of a Shakelowson Society
pledged to prove that Shakspeare, Mar-
lowe and Ben Jonson were one .and the
same man. They have provisionally
christened their hero Christopher Wil-
liam Ben Shakelowson. Their main evi-
dence. is apparently a scrap of dialogue
from “The Alchemist”: '‘Shake, spear of
darkness! Of what kin art
“John is my father, his true son am I.”
But then that passage from “Venus and
Adonis,” “I’ll be a park and thou shalt
be my deer Graze on my lips, and if
those hills be dry....” might mean that
it was written by an Australian politi-
cian.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The execution at the
hands of a Chinese firing squad of Gen-
eral Han Fu-chu, Military Governor of
Shantung, for having disobeyed orders
and thus facilitated the Japanese occu-
pation of the province, illustrates the
havoc modern conditions are making
.with military etiquette in the Celestial
Republic. Hitherto it has not been con-
sidered good form to punish a general
for failing to do his duty or even for
being disloyal to the Government which
employs him. To do so would be to
inflict hardship on his family, and a good
Chinaman thinks first of his family and
only secondly of his country. A similar
execution occurred in Shantung a few
years ago. The relatives of the executed
general were so outraged that they peti-
tioned the Central Government to have
the “murderers” executed in their turn,
and demanded, in addition, that all their
relatives, some of whom lived 500 miles
away in Honan, should be surrendered
to be butchered and dissected and their
organs offered as a sacrifice to the manes
of the departed.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The great Australian false-
alarm story has again been bowled out
near Port Lincoln (S.A.). “Two men
jumped out of the bushes. One held me
while the other searched me. Then they
stabbed me in the arm.” (Careful
description, including black masks, given.)
When a doctor reported that the wound
was from a bullet, not a knife, inquiries
were pressed, and, on confession that the
whole story was faked, the police search-
ing over the whole district were recalled.
The youth, on his way to hospital, was
fined £5, with another £5 for expenses.
EYEBROWS.
“Eyebrows expertly arched.” —Beauty parlor advt.
When dexterous hands have been going
Full-time in massaging your face
Till you feel in your heart that you’re glowing
With rare (if synthetical) grace,
What though it might nettle the highbrows,
Whose flair is for primness and starch,
Just pause and make sure that your eyebrows
Aren’t needing an arch.
Though they’re all that some girls would desire
them,
Think what a touch extra might do.
To what lyrical raptures ’twould fire them,
To what hilltops of poesy inspire them,
The bards who write sonnets thereto!
Your tresses you’ll lay on your pillow
To-night with the certainty they’ve
Acquired a continuous billow,
Been given a permanent wave.
But in seasons when Boreas is active,
Or summers that wither and parch,
What eyebrows were e’er so attractive
As those with an arch?
Your paws may be manicured nicely,
Your talons alluringly decked
And tinged round the base with precisely
The shade you consider correct,
But if, with such aids adventitious,
To fresh beauty contests you’d march,
Remember there’s something delicious
In eyebrows that arch.
There’ll be nothing about or behind them
To give cynical artists a clue
To the fake. And I’ll venture they’ll find them
Exactly as Nature designed them,
The bards who spin sonnets thereto!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Movist”: One way and another we
furniture-removers see a lot of life.
There’s the dame who follows us round
on the job uttering prayers for Aunt
Annie’s Derby china. And the one who
tells off her old man for moaning about
a scratch on the mahogany table that the
last maid did months ago. There’s the
ones that word you quietly to send a van
without any name or address on it and
willing to pay extra. You want to watch
that lot, or they may land you in a
troublesome court case. “Sorry, but
we’re up to the neck this week,” does it,
for they’re always in a hurry. It’s the
small-income lot that keeps the job going
all the time. A bit more wages and they
shift to better quarters. A bit less, or a
rise in the rent, and they’re off to some-
thing cheaper. What’s breaking our
hearts nowadays are the herring-gutted
doors and stairs that architects are put-
ting into flats. Anyone who invents a
flexible piano will get our vote.
“What do you fellows charge for a dozen lessons?”
“Ibn el Issar”: The Indian Nationalist
move to abolish monuments com-
memorating famous Englishmen in India
and historical incidents such as the Black
Hole of Calcutta will not surprise any
with a knowledge of the Nationalist men-
tality. To the writer, it has always been a
surprise that in recent years of trouble and
disaffection north of a line drawn from
Calcutta to Bombay no attempt has been
made to destroy memorials of happen-
ings on which neither Moslem nor Hindu
can dwell without shame. The ruined
Residency at Lucknow over which flies
the only British flag never lowered at sun-
set is one, and another is the marble angel
over the tragic well at Cawnpore into
which the mangled bodies of over 100
British women and children were thrown
after the Moslem butchers had done their
bloody work in the Bibi Gargh is an-
other. Both are Mutiny memorials, and,
provocative though they must be, they
have remained untouched through all
these years.
* * * *
“Morita”: The chap posing for the
police photographer (B. 19/1/’3B) brings
memories. In the heyday of a now-
defunct Sydney daily, on a New Year’s
Eve I called there to see a cobber. I
was immediately whisked off to be photo-
graphed with one of the printers in over-
alls and another who took off his coat,
rolled up his sleeves and ruffled his locks.
“What’s the idea?” I asked. “New Year
revels,” said the photographer. “You’re
the businessman, this is the clerk, and
this the artisan, all hailing the coming
year. Hold up one hand and laugh as if
you meant it.” Found my mate and told
him. “That’s to put in the New Year’s
Day issue,” he commented. “But why
the holding up of hands?” I asked him.
“Oh, I’ve got to draw a frothy pint pot
in each of your mitts,” he calmly went
on. My employer at that time was a nut
on teetotalism, so I hit the roof. “Leave
it to me, I’ll fix it,” said my mate. The
front page next day not only shouted
me a flowing pint but a bushy beard.
“L.R.”: It happened in a northern
town while a man, in search of relief
work, was being questioned by the police
sergeant about his financial position.
“Got any money in the bank?” was one
of the stock queries. “Oh, yes, I’ve got
a thousand pounds,” was the blithe reply.
“Hey, no joking here!” growled the
sarge. “You started it,” was the crush-
ing retort.
* * sjc jj:
“C.H.F.”: In a Sydney suburban
library a man returned a book, selected
another and made to depart. As he was
passing through the doorway the girl
discovered a pound note in the pages of
the book he had returned. “I say,” she
called. “You’ve left a pound note in
this book.” His nonchalant reply left
her breathless. “Not mine. It was in
the book when I borrowed it.”
“8.N.G.”: Evidence given at a recent
coronial inquiry' was to the effect that
deceased’s temperature —it was a tetanus
case—soared as high as 108 degrees.
Papuan old-timers are often looked upon
with suspicion by the layman when they
talk of the high readings often associated
with malaria. Once took the tempera-
ture of my N.G. opposite number and
found it to be 106.1 ; although looking a
bit washed-out he was sitting up and
taking an interest in life again by sun-
down. Was informed later by a medical
man that he had read of 109 degrees in
malaria, and had himself treated a case
where 107-odd was in evidence unless his
thermometer lied.
* * * *
“Hoplite”: Touching that warning of
the dangers of the craze for mechanising
the defence forces which is obsessing the
“I thought YOU Were different from other girls; but I find you re all alike”
War Office and is becoming evident in
Australia (B. 12/1 /’3B), it is worth not-
ing that actual field tests in the Spanish
mix-up have rather confounded the
backers of the machine. This is especi-
ally true of the much-lauded tanks, which
have been effectively countered by both
sides with the up-to-date tank-gun. The
results of the long campaign to date
have shown clearly also that the tractor
has very distinct limitations, and is
vulnerable to weather and terrain
conditions to which the enthusiasts
declared it superior. Also, the German
High Command is demechanis-
ing part of the field artillery
which had been equipped with
tractors and is returning to good
old Dobbin. The Germans have
also decided to continue mount-
ing their cavalry on horses in-
stead of wheels, and if there is
any military people with a
sounder grip of essentials in
military matters writer has yet
to hear of them.
* * *
“Pawang”: The “gully-gully”
men- of Port Said are hardly
likely to fall down dead at the
report that a “magician” pro-
duced two highly auspicious
omens on the occasion of King
Farouk’s wedding. It takes a
Napoleon to turn an inaus-
picious omen into an auspicious
one. When Bony landed for the
first time on Egyptian soil he
stumbled, according to the his-
torians, and fell on his face,
and his army shouted with
horror. But when he rose to his
feet he had in each hand a fist-
ful of African soil, and, holding
them aloft, cried: “God has
given me Egypt, comrades! ”
The effect on Nap.’s troops was
electrical, and they pressed for-
ward to the Pyramids. If a
lesser general had tried the same
trick he would have got boos
instead of handclaps.
“Nikko”: There’s nothing new about
tradesmen indulging in odd descriptions of
their activities. Look at this:
Neoteric Cutting, Rhabdological Fits,
Telesmatical Taste, Mellifluent Courtesy,
and
A Coat for a Guinea. Trousers and Vests
at exceedingly low prices.
That’s from a Cheapside tailor’s sign-
board, recorded in A Handbook of
Epsom, published near the beginning of
last century.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: A historic timepiece
with Australian associations is in a
London collection. It is a verge escape-
ment watch in a pinchbeck case, bearing
a scratched inscription: “Wm. Peckover,
H.M.S. Bounty, 1788, Cap. Bligh,” and
is believed to be the one used during the
famous boat voyage to Koepang, via
Torres Strait, after the Bounty Mutiny.
Bligh’s log for June 2, 1788, has the
entry: “The Gunner when he left the
ship brought his watch with him and had
regulated our time until to-day when un-
fortunately I found it Stopt, so that at
Noon, Sun Rise and Set are the only
parts of the 24 hours I can speak to par-
ticularly as to time.” William Peckover
was gunner of the Bounty, and one of
those cast adrift with Bligh by the
mutineers.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: This organised bottle-
grabbing gets my goat. Every rifle-range
I know has its quota of kids selling cor-
dials, who have a bumper day when a bat-
talion or two of militia arrive. A deposit
is paid on every bottle, and never claimed,
for the dead marines stay where they fall
until the kids retrieve them. When I
found out that employers were benefit-
ing, and not the youngsters, I made a
practice of sending a fatigue round to
collect the bottles in aid of battalion
funds.
* X * *
“Dick Tafone”: The church of St.
Mary the Virgin, at Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane, is believed to possess the old-
est church organ still in regular use in
Australia. Of English oak and
mahogany, its brass builder’s-plate shows
the date 1770 and the name of W. Lin-
coln, who was official organ-builder to
George 111. The pipes are of a soft
lead-silver amalgam, once much used by
English organ-builders on account of
their mellowness of tone. The action is
of a type not used for well over a cen-
tury, and records show that originally
the instrument had white keys for sharps
and black for naturals. But nothing is
known as to where the organ came from
or how the church acquired it. The
present building was consecrated in 1873,
replacing the original one far below on
the river bank, built in 1849 and
destroyed by a storm in 1878.
* * * ®
“Billy See”: Indian hemp used to be
smoked by W.A. Afghans under the name
of charz.. At least two killings were trace-
able to indulgence. In one case a charz-
crazed ’Ghan seized an axe from a box
on display outside a High-street, Fre-
mantle, ironmongery and started on
passers-by. The first swing clove one
unfortunate to the chin ; the second re-
cipient dodged and got the blade in the
shoulder. Constable Normoyle, flog-
ging his beat on the opposite footpath,
arrived and with bare hands went straight
for the axe-wielder. The Law won,
though not without considerable peril;
the hangman finally cleaned up the mess.
After Commonwealth drug-prohibition
arrived, ’Ghans soothed themselves with
tobacco.
DUST AND ASHES.
“Ahead ot the 16 cricketers picked to represent
Australia lie eight months of travel, glory, life on
the fat of the land, a bonus of £6OO, £2 10s. a
week for pocket-money in England,” etc., etc.
—Geoffrey Tebbutt, in “S.M.H.”
Here’s luck to you, chaps, in your wallops
With the bat and your cracks at the stumps,
Where glory awaits you in dollops
And boodle in sizable lumps!
In the fields of endeavor where none dread
Any figure so much as a duck,
Or so ardently hope for a hundred,
I’m wishing you luck!
May your arms prove as lithe and as limber
As here when you hurl in the North
A ball at three pieces of timber
Or shepherd the same with a fourth.
Great peers and grave statesmen will greet you,
And we know that the King and the Queen
Are both looking forward to meet you,
Illustrious sixteen.
Where the cover-drives rattle the pickets
You’ll have our devout orisons
For a bountiful harvest of wickets
And a regular riot of runs.
May your bats win fresh glory as corkers
And your bowlers reap fitting rewards
At Leeds and Old Trafford with yorkers
And googlies at Lord’s.
You’ll challenge in popular favor
The pick of the Hollywood band;
Sweet incense in plenty you’ll savor
And live on the fat of the land.
And, ev’n if you’re downed in the clashes
(A mad supposition, 1 trust)
And fail to return with the Ashes,
You’re safe for the dust!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


20/orl'6
10 for 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVEN A
Al^V !B74 are made specially to prevent sore throats.
■IP
:¥
llliiililil
THIS
GENERATION
THE CORK TIP PEP CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
Political friends and enemies of
McEwen, Lyons’s Minister for the In-
terior, are busy voting (the friends) that
Hocking’s central council was wrong in
chucking him out of the Victorian
Country party and (the enemies) that it
was right. The C.C. is to consider the
position on February 8. If its decision is
that the expulsion stands, the friends
and enemies are expected to separate into
factions at the annual conference in
March and chuck each other out.
As a trade-agreement preliminary,
Washington graciously announced that it
had removed the Commonwealth from
its Black List. Ninety-nine per cent, of
Australians didn’t know we were on the
Black List—Canberra kept very quiet
about it. The Black List and the Japanese
boycott were the principal fruits of the
wonderful trade-diversion policy.
“The King reigns; he does not govern.
If Joseph Aloysius had the title and the
trappings, how truly royal he would be!
He has been in politics for 28 years, and
has been Premier for five years and P.M.
for six years; but he has never learned
that the first duty of a Government is
—to govern.
During the week it came out that the
Lyons Government is going to argue, in
London, that “in exceptional circum-
stances Parliament should be permitted
under the Ottawa agreement to modify
any recommendations that the Tariff
Board may make.” Permitted! And at
the end of the week Lyons was bleating
to the Sydney wharfies who work under
Government license, and who have re-
fused to load lead, scrap iron, tallow and
a host of other articles in Japanese
steamers, that “the Government fully
understands their point of view,” but it
“does urge that the question whether
trade shall be carried on between Aus-
tralia and any foreign country should be
left to the Government.” Yes, it calls
itself “the Government”!
If any Melbourne “Age” or “S. M.
Herald” reporter let his paper in for
such a story as that the British Govern-
ment paid £5,000,000 to secure the pur-
chase of the Canadian wheat harvest for
£100,000,000, he would be sacked. These
Great Dailies published the yarn on the
authority of the London “Daily Herald,”
and had to publish the Canadian Gov-
ernment’s denial. Nevertheless, they are
drawing on the source of misinformation
for more foreign “news” than ever.
Another English newspaper lie has
been officially denied—the allegation of a
rag called “News of the Week” that a
high U.S. naval authority had “conferred
in London with Admiralty experts on the
question of blockading Japan.” The lie
was, of course, cabled to Australia, and
the chances are that many Australians
who read it did not see the denial. An
unpleasantly large section of the Eng-
lish press is sullying the old reputation
of the race for truth-telling.
Very appropriately, it was foggy in
Geneva when delegates to the League
Council arrived for the hundredth meet-
ing of that cadaver which doesn’t realise
that it is dead. Mr. Litvinov was, of
course, there, spitting venom at countries
that have left the League and demanding
that all the other members should
guarantee the Reds in the full enjoyment
of their vast territories and stolen prop-
erty. It was “reliably reported” that he,
Eden and Delbos “reached a tentative
agreement to assist China with credits
and supplies transported through Hong
Kong,” and “asked the U.S.A. to collabo-
rate.” Hull, the American Secretary of
State, straightway “derided the idea.”
The Lang newspaper’s name for the
latest collection of rebels, who seem a
queer lot of Reds, Pinks and defeated
politicians, is “the Communist United
Front.” It asserts that “the first outcome
of the formation of the C.U.F.” was an
“organised basher-gang attack on the
Labor candidate for Botany, Mr. Kelly,
and a member of the Central Executive of
the A.L.P.,” and that Mr. Kelly and his
friend had to be sewn up in hospital.
It should be a grand old Donnybrook,
the election.
A.L.P. president Keller suggests that
the latest palace revolution broke out
because “the Labor party refused to em-
brace the Communistic policy of collec-
tive security and intervention in Spain
and China. Labor stands committed to
“Sorry, boys. You’ll ’ave to finish this Anniversary beano in a milk bar, unless
you like to go to Tassie, Queensland or W.A.”
keep Australia out of war and will not
shift from that attitude.” Many Austra-
lians who have no use for Labor politics
will say “Hear, hear” to that.
Lang’s A.L.P. executive is chucking out
the 30 members of the provisional com-
mittee set up at the rebel conference.
Among them are several bosses of the
Government Railwaymen’s Union and
former Labor politicians Kilburn,
Connors, Garden and Gosling. Gosling,
who was in two Lang Ministries, was the
“big fellow’s” most obsequious sup-
porter six years ago.
Alec McCallum, who was No. 2 in
two Westralian Labor Ministries, and
who was chairman of the State Agricul-
tural Bank when he died last year, left
estate valued at £13,825. It consisted
mainly of a farm (£4920) and a half-
interest in a pub, the Captain Stirling
(£6524), copiously mentioned by T. J.
Hughes, M.L.A., in his recent no-confi-
dence-motion speech. McCallum was a
Trades and Labor Council secretary
before he turned Assemblyman, and if it
is true, as frequently alleged, that State
politicians make frightful sacrifices to
serve their bleeding country, he must
have been one of the exceptions.
A British Labor member named
Dalton, who came to Sydney for the
sesquicentenary show, arrived with the
intelligence that his party is “rising on
a wave of popularity,” one reason being
“its support for the Spanish Government
against Franco.”
The party also feels that it is inevitable
that Britain, in co-operation with other
democracies, will have to intervene in
China.
That would mean at least one war, and
Australians would, of course, be dragged
in. But perhaps they would be de-
liriously happy if they only knew that
Mr. Dalton, who is 51, would be cheer-
ing them on from a safe place.
One Bussau, an unnecessary member
of an accidental Ministry—one of the six
encumbrances —has been appointed to the
superfluous post of Victorian Agent-
General for five years at £2500 a year.
Because he isn’t a businessman, he is to
have a businessman to assist him in his
sinecure. Unlike his predecessor, Bussau
is not a returned soldier, but perhaps
the supply of returned soldiers had run
out.
Bussau, who has been shifted from
one A.-G.-ship to another, each an ex-
crescence, has only been a politician for
a little over five years. According to the
sympathetic “Age,” he is “expected to
sail for London in April.”
By remaining in office until the middle
of March, Mr. Bussau will have completed
three years of office, which will entitle him
to certain valuable privileges.
In other words, he will have qualified
for a life pass over the seven insolvent
systems of Government railways, and
also that of Maoriland. Isn’t there one
State politician who is above being a
common deadhead or becoming a party to
common deadheadism? Isn’t there one ?
British Conservatives are getting tired
of carrying the “National” Labor and
Liberal “parties,” and are organising
electorates on their own account. At the
last enumeration there were 367 Con-
servative members, 31 Nat. Libs, and
nine Nat. Labs. Not one Nat. Lib. or
Nat. Lab. could get in anywhere with-
out Conservative backing.
Forgan Smith, of Queensland, is full of
complaints about the Loan Council.
According to Foggy, that institution is
always in a hurry, lacks a long-range
policy, never realises that State Govern-
ments and “semi-Government authorities ’
yearn to be “properly financed,” and
hasn’t a shadow of a notion how to
abolish poverty. All this means that F.
Smith, like Stevens, isn’t getting as much
easy money as he would like.
After the S.A. Laborites who are for
and against pre-selection (they seem to be
about equally divided) had arranged to
argue it out at a special conference,
Butler announced that the election would
be held on March 19. He also intimated
that the Labor wrangle didn’t influence
him any way in fixing the date. Some
people believe him. Some people would
believe anything.
Victorian farmers are having their
profits nibbled at both ends by the policy
of their Country-party Government.
.They are losing the services of agricul-
tural scientists whose advice has meant
money to them, and they are gaining
marketing boards whose charges have a
disturbing habit of growing with the
years. Over a comparatively short
period, 14 Department of Agriculture
experts have gone to the better money
and opportunity offered by private in-
dustry.
In one week the Commonwealth Statis-
tician reported that unemployment among
trade-unionists had dropped to the lowest
figure (8.2 p.c.) since 1927, and that the
six State Governments had last year col-
lected £12,580,000 in alleged unemployed-
relief taxes. Of the £12,580,000 the Syd-
ney Government extorted £6,801,800. It
is reported “on unimpeachable authority”
that Stevens is in favor of giving the
Commonwealth Statistician “special
recreation leave” for life.
Last week the Sydney Government re-
ceived an extremely cordial 150th Anni-
versary message from the Japanese
Minister of Foreign Affairs. It took up
quarter of a column of the “Daily
Telegraph.” On the next page the “D.T.”
had a three-column war-scare article be-
ginning with the words “If Britain made
war on Japan what force would she have
to face, what force would she have
to support her?” To “support”
her, she would (of course!) have “the
vast military strength of the U.S.S.R.”
On the other side would be “under-
nourished peasants and workers” of
“poor physique,” a “perilously unstable
economy” and a “fanatical military caste
with inflated ambitions,” grossly ignorant
of the fact that “Japan has never fought
a real war.” No wonder the “D.T.” is
loved by all.
Perhaps, after all, Victorian Labor will
go on keeping the Dunstan group in
office, though the Senate elections sug-
gested that it represents about 15 times
as many electors. Its leaders are such an
’umble lot. Cremean whines that the elec-
toral cards are so heavily stacked against
Labor that it gained only one Assembly
seat in October, though “the average
vote for a Labor candidate was 8800” —
more than twice the average vote for a
Cocky candidate. Did the gentleman go
on to say that his party would demand a
one-vote-one-value measure as the price
of its support? No; he “urged all
democracy-loving people to return such
an overwhelming vote for Labor at the
next election as to make possible some
alteration of an intolerable position”!
Some of Minister McEwen’s Goulburn
Valley admirers regard him as a poten-
tial Prime Minister. But then nearly
everyone in Canberra regards himself as
a potential P.M.


THE TRESPASSER.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SMOOTH MOTORING
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PUICS
DEPEND Champions.
To enjoy SMOOTH MOTORING you must
keep your car’s ignition always at its best.
Good strong sparks are as necessary as good
fuel. For best results and the greatest econ-
omy, install new Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
5K
KS
a
in
Hill
Wjum
win
{ !M
Vm
'<> s
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEM S
Some February birthdays:
W. F. Dunn (ex-Min. for Agric., N.S.W.),
61, and Archbishop Mowll (Sydney), 48, on
2nd; W. A. Deacon (ex-Min. for Lands,
Q’land), 66, on 4th; David Maugham, K.C.
(Syd.), 65, on sth; N.S.W. Min. for Mines
R. S. Vincent, 46, and Monsignor Nevin
(president, St. Patrick’s Coll., Manly), 52, on
6th; Dr. A. B. Walkom (gen. sec. A’sian
Science Assoc.), 49, on Bth; Q’land ex-Premier
A. E. Moore, 62, on 9th; knight Robt. Garran,
71, on 10th; N.S.W. Min. for Educ. D. H.
Drummond, 48, musician Fritz Hart (Melb.),
64, Q’land Senator Gordon Brown, 53, and
Ida Leeson (Mitchell Librarian, Syd.), on 11th;
Major-Gen. Charles Rosenthal (Admini-
strator of Norfolk Island), 63, on 12th;
Archbishop Kelly, 88, on 13th; J. L.
Price, M.H.R. (Boothby, S.A.), 56, on 14th;
Brig.-Gen. C. H. Jess (Melb.), 54, Justice
McTiernan (Federal High Court), 46, and
N.S.W. Collector of Customs G. F. A. Mitchell,
59, on 16th; “Banjo” Paterson, 74, H. T.
Armitage (dep.-gov. Commonwealth Bank),
57, on 17th; Prof. O. U. Vonwiller (Syd.),
56, on 18th; Justice Macrossan (Q’land), 51,
and novelist Dorothy Langsford, on 20th;
Judge Drake-Brockman, 54, Henry Cohen, K.C.,
M.L.C. (Vic.), 66, and Anthony Hordern
(Syd.), 49, on 21st; Justice Starke (High Court),
67, Dr. lan Clunies-Ross (Director, McMaster
Laboratory). 39, and Dr. M. J. Holmes
(C’wealth Health Dept.), 54, on 22nd; Norman
Lindsay, 59, and novelist J. M. Walsh, 41, on
23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar of Syd. Uni.), 55,
on 24th; artist Percy Leason, 49, and Justice
J. A. Browne (N.S.W. Chief Industrial Com-
missioner), 62, on 25th; knight Mungo Mac-
Callum (Syd.), 84, on 26th; airman L. J.
Brain, 36, on 27th.
The A.W.U. has lost John Barnes,
dead at 70. He was its general president
for 20 years, and all his life he was a
vigorous barracker for station workers
and shearers. Barnes was a fighter from
the ground up, but he fought fairly. At
intervals he found his way into the
Senate, serving there from 1913 till after
the war and again from 1922 to 1935.
Re-elected in October he was waiting to
take his seat again when the end came.
Jack was one of Scullin’s Ministers, and
he led the Opposition in the Senate for
three years after Labor’s defeat in 1931.
New titular head of Sydney’s dynamos
and power-houses is 30-year-old J. H.
Gardiner, a company director who admits
that he knows nothing of electrical tech-
nology. However, he’s already done eight
years of municipal service, having been
elected to Redfern Council,
on the Labor ticket, at 22,
Three years later he was
Mayor. Sydney County
Council gave him a seat in 1935. The
new chairman, who is to get £lOOO a
year in place of £5OO paid his predeces-
sor, plays golf in his spare time. He is
pledged to reduce the price of electricity.
Monsignor John Lonergan, administra-
tor of Melbourne archdiocese, who has
been nominated as Bishop of Port
Augusta (S.A.), is the fourth Australian-
born priest to reach episcopal rank within
the last two years. Archbishops Symonds
(Hobart) and Gilroy (Sydney) and
Bishop Henschke (Wagga) are the others.
Still in the forties, the new prelate
was born in Victoria, and ordained
priest at Manly in 1911. Attached to
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, he
was later appointed inspector of R.C.
schools, and later still administrator and
chancellor of the Melbourne archdiocese,
assuming control during Archbishop
Mannix’s absence abroad. He was
created monsignor in 1929.
Has Australia two other brothers be-
sides C. P. Smith (Perth) and Cyril Smith
(Melbourne) who write to each other
every week and like it? Elder brother
C.P., who missed being a Yank by the
30 miles separating his Canadian birth-
place from the U.S.A. border, is the
former Melbourne journalist who now
directs the affairs of the “West Austra-
lian” newspapers; Captain Cyril Smith,
president of the Melbourne Legacy Club,
has been sec. of the Commonwealth
Repatriation Commission for 13 years.
Latter joined the permanent forces in
1910, was a Light Horse instructor in
N.S.W., went overseas with the 4th Light
Horse machine-gunners, was wounded on
Gallipoli and was back in Australia by
the end of 1915 to develop a medical ser-
vice for repatriation purposes. As repat.
sec. on loan from the Defence Depart-
ment, he has seen the commission’s work
grow with the years until to-day there
are 247,738 war pensioners, of whom
77,076 are old soldiers scattered through
the Commonwealth and many other
world countries. He has a couple of
sons showing C.P. tendencies; they are
copy-writing for Melbourne advertisers.
H. D. Sinclair, one of the pillars of
Sydney’s Legacy Club, which looks after
war orphans, is an Englishman who
served right through the Great War as
an officer in the Royal Irish Rifles.
H. D. SINCLAIR.
Visited Australia in 1921 and liked
Sydney so much he came there to live.
He’s technical representative of a group
of British manufacturers supplying the
needs of Australian secondary industries.
He served three years as Legacy Club
secretary, two years as chairman of the
club’s Junior Welfare Committee, was
secretary of the club’s ball last year and
is a delegate to the Legacy Club’s
Federal Conference. Plays tennis and
golf, and swims, but for pure enjoyment
prefers a pick and shovel, with which
he works improving the grounds of his
Wentworth Falls holiday cottage.
A scientific honor has come the way
of writer Ambrose Pratt, whose book
on koalas has been recognised by the
London Zoological Society, which has
made him a corresponding member.
Originally a Sydney solicitor, Pratt, now
64, drifted into journalism in England at
the start of this century. He returned
to Australia in 1904 and followed the
Inky Way till 1927, when he retired. His
published works include 30 novels and
two economic treatises.
One of the busiest men in Maoriland
must be Norris Stephen Falla, best
known this side of the Tasman as man-
aging director of the Union line. He
also controls Union Airways of N.Z., is
always on hand when a rowing club
wants a helping hand, and is an enthu-
siastic soldier and flying man in his
spare time. He was an Anzac, and
climbed to a lieut.-colonelcy in the
Great War, commanding a brigade of
artillery, and has lately transferred his
volunteering activities to the Air Force,
an honorary group-captaincy in which
came his way early this year.
Just-dead Major W. T. B. McCormack,
chairman of Vic. Country Roads Board,
was a tough, sturdily-built man who
looked as if he could have undertaken
a non-stop walk over all the roads he
built about the State. Formerly a shire
engineer, when he got his appoint-
ment a decade ago he declared
it to be his purpose to make a road to
every farmer’s door. He was not far
off his objective when the Reaper claimed
him. He was an assiduous first-nighter at
metropolitan theatres in the heyday of
legit., but he had little time for keep-
ing up with his hobby as C.B. chairman.
He travelled much abroad, and raked the
world for notions to further his project.
Ori January 25 Digby Frank Denham,
sometime Queensland Premier, turned
79. Denham began his politics 36 years
ago as member for Oxley, soon became
Morgan’s Minister of Agriculture, held
the portfolios of Home Secretary, Works,
Lands and Railways under Kidston, and
succeeded that redoubtable Scot as
Premier when Wullie retired to the Land
Court. Denham and the late “Bishop”
Barnes, his Treasurer, were both in the
produce business, whence arose the ribald
nickname of Spud Government which
was wont to resound through the halls
of Labor. A kindly, courteous man, he
has played a large, though unobtrusive,
part in Brisbane philanthropic move-
ments for half a century.
J. A. Prescott was appointed Prof, of
Chemistry (with special relation to soils)
at the Waite Research Institute run by
Adelaide University when, at the open-
ing in 1924, there was a doubt whether
to get a first-class farmer with a know-
ledge of chemistry or a first-class chemist
with a knowledge of farm-
ing. The question was
solved by getting both, with
the farming expert, A. E.
V. Richardson, in control.
As he is now promoted to
the Commonwealth C.S.
and 1.R., Prescott takes control at Urr-
brae. A Manchester graduate with ex-
perience at Rothamsted, Leipzig and
especially in Egypt, he has latterly studied
Australian soils from Northern Queens-
land to Lake Eyre.
“Avon”: Maoriland Labor politician
Ted Howard rounds off his political
career, as he commenced it, with a Uni-
versity association, having been appointed
a member of the Senate of N.Z. Uni.
His first connection with academic big-
wigs came in the ’nineties of last cen-
tury when he fell under the influence of
that eccentric genius Professor Bickerton
(one of Rutherford’s early tutors). Bicky
was as red as they make ’em, and his
quaintly laid-out estate, Wainoni, near
Christchurch, was the Mecca of all the
advanced and curious thinkers of the
South Island. Ted had some sort of a
job about the place (which catered for
picnic parties), and absorbed a complete
radical education. He was one of the
founders of the W.E.A. in M.L., was
an indefatigable member of local bodies
and has one of the safest seats in the M.L.
Parliament as member for Christchurch
South.
Obit at 93, Alfred J. Woodroffe, a
Queensland resident for 74 years. As
purser on a trading vessel to the East
in the 1860’s, he gained an inside know-
ledge of the ways of smugglers which
later on stood him in good stead during
50 years of service with the Queensland
Customs. In between, he served on gold-
escort duty. A keen shot, he was prob-
ably the last surviving man who had
bagged ducks on the swamp where the
Brisbane City Hall now rears its lofty
tower. For 70 years Kangaroo Point
knew his tall, slim figure, with genuine
Dundrearies framing his keen, hawklike
features.
Dr. William Mitchell, Vice-Chancellor
and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at
Adelaide Uni., who recently endowed the
Knight WILLIAM MITCHELL.
Biochemistry chair at that seat of learn-
ing to the tune of £20,000, is a Scot who
migrated from Edinburgh (he was exam-
iner in Philosophy at the Uni. there) in
the ’nineties to become Hughes Pro-
fessor of Philosphy at Adelaide. He was
Gifford Lecturer in Philosophy at Aber-
deen Uni. in 1925-26, and was given the
right to precede his M.A., D.Sc., Litt.D.
with K.C.M.G. in 1927, Adelaide Uni.’s
jubilee year, He has published Structure
and Growth of the Mind (1907) and
The Peace of Minds in the World (1933).
His son, Professor M. L. Mitchell, occu-
pies the chair of Biochemistry which
his father has so munificently endowed.
General James Guthrie Harbord, chair-
man of the Board of Radio Corporation
of America, is to attend the Radio Con-
vention to be held in Sydney from April 4
to April 14 as part of the 150th Anni-
versary celebrations. General Harbord,
born 1866, has had a long and distin-
guished career in the U.S.A. army. He
was chief of staff of the American Ex-
peditionary Force in France from 1917-
18, and towards the close of the war
commanded brigades. He retired from
the army at the close of 1922, and shortly
afterwards became the principal officer
of the Radio Corporation. He is also a
director of the National Broadcasting
Company, Radio-Keith-Orpheum Incor-
porated, New York Life Insurance,
Bankers’ Trust and Legion Publishing
Corp.
Though Sydney didn’t know it, it said
good-bye to well-liked American E. A.
Callanan, head of Vacuum Oil’s Austra-
lian outpost, when he sailed for N’Yark
on the last of his periodical visits. Calla-
nan’s boys are at college in the U.S.A.
and he wants to be near them, so his
place as managing director will be taken
by C. K. Gamble, no stranger to these
parts.


m
m
m
i s' lr •
m
m
m
“abucu
Golf was life to McTavish. As a club professional
it was also his living. The open air and quiet
exercise gave him an enviable chance of keeping fit
And yet something seemed to go wrong he couldn't
understand why. .
That’s the third time MeTavish
has foozled his drive today-
wonder what's put him off?
x
c?
y-Wt.
v
not
usual
1
r
Sliced into the
rough at the sth5 th
Probably that
annoyed him He'S
been up to his
‘ form lately.
How do you feel about
the championship, Mac-
full of confidence, eh ?
m
i
ss
*
Young feller seems a bit
narked, Mr MeTavish
didn't half cuss one of my
caddies. Been treading on
_ his corns?
l Av
m
Ws
Och, he's just'
No.l/ A'm
fair sick o' teaching
yon club rabbits-
V they're driving
'W- me daft/ .
A
£
V
ffijj
i
A
A
tired
when
Frankly. Doctor, A'm ofr
game these three
fks past. Dinna ken
for why-but things
just rattle me-feel
-done up even
I start the <
0
mm
m
day J
I
Look here Mac.
y our hearts using
up energy even when
you're asleep-your
jungs, too. Your trouble
is-you’re not replacing
this energy, so you
tired. Athletes
call it stateness but its
often Night Starvation.
If I were you...
i
I'll
bed
early
to
awa
the night, Christina/ Jus
a sup o'Horlicks, as yon
Doctor told me. and up
I'll gang J
-Wii’i
M
5iF:»
mi
Glad to see old
Mac's getting back
into his old form.
He was round in
®\7o yesterday.
holed
well
Mac
1k
• -V
•W
I
V, V
Oh—pretty,
:, pretty >
<■%
-<-£
» / ,
W. M* ## ‘ f
# Did he. by Jove 7
I m backing him for
the championship.
■.nra.CTH
■
mSiW,
1) ’
THE CHAMPIONSHIP
When you find that, for no apparent reason, you
wake up in the mornings tired and listless, unfit for
any strenuous effort, the real cause is nearly always
"Night Starvation.” Even while you sleep, your
body is burning Up energy. Unless this is replaced
as it is used, you naturally wake up tired and unre-
freshed "Night Starved.” Horlick’s regularly at
bedtime guards against "Night Starvation,” by replac-
ing the burnt-up energy while you sleep.
You wake with new reserves of strength and
vitality. Horlick’s has an intrigu-
ing taste, too. Prices from 1/6
economy size 2/9. The
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-,
34H7.
★ SPECIAL OFFER! \ lb. tin Horlick's—Mixer—Measuring Spoon—all for 2/-.
HORLICKS GUARDS AC
NIGHT-STARVATION
SZ3
Mixf
rH * QiNPun *****
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY.
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY AIL DAY.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Abi Tonus”: According to an Eng-
lish weekly, one Derricott was the original
inspiration for Boldrewood’s Robbery
Un'der Arms. This man was noted for
his great strength, and once quelled a
mutiny at Cockatoo Island by the simple
expedient of picking up the mutineers
and knocking their heads together. For
this he was given a pardon. Also, he
was the only man for many years to
carry the mail between Melbourne and
Adelaide on horseback, as the abos. had
killed all 'his predecessors. But his
crowning achievement was to fell, carry
and erect the poles for the first telegraph
between these two towns. All this was
done single-handed and alone, “a feat
of strength and endurance which only a
native-born Australian will appreciate.”
Now trot out your Samsons.
* * * *
“Piulu”: About a decade ago science
discovered that an egg would keep fresh
longer if packed with the small end
downward. But Australian citizen brush
turkey had beaten homo sapiens to this
information by some thousands of years.
Months before a family is expected
Father Turk, builds a large mound of
decaying leaves and other vegetable
matter. When the eggs arrive—there are
about nine to 15 of them —father takes
charge and, using beak and feet, parks
them securely, correct end upwards in
the mound, the heat of which hatches
out the youngsters. Baby Turk., when
hatched, scratches his own way to the
surface and, ignoring his parents, at once
leads an independent life.
* * * *
“Talus”: Perhaps some Aboliar can
explain how the blacks carved out their
wells from solid granite. On Magnetic
Island (N.Q.) there are four of these
wells together. They are about 18in.
across and from 2ft. to 3ft. deep. The
sides are smooth and polished like those
of potholes.
* * * *
“Stralia”: We were pondering over
now to approach an open waterhole for
a shot at a pair of wary teal when an
old chap camped near by came to the
rescue. With the judicious use of a
sweater over his head and neck, he com-
pleted a passable guise of a kangaroo.
Then, holding the gun out behind as a
tail, he hopped to within 40 yards of
the Donalds. They showed signs of ner-
vousness, but he was able to bag them
both.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: A rotund citizen up
our way went to fill his furphy-tank at
the creek and, with the first bucketful
he tipped in, fluked a fair-sized eel. In
his efforts to capture the wriggler his
head and shoulders stuck fast in the
circular opening of the tank, and as the
combined efforts of his family failed to
release him the only thing left was to
drive the contraption with its prisoner
to the township, five miles away, and
enlist the aid of the blacksmith. The
townsfolk will never forget that scene:
Joe, the eldest boy, driving the rattling
furphy down the main street with his
father’s stern and legs protruding from
the top while strange rumbling curses
issued from the tank as the water sloshed
round and the frenzied eel took running
bites at the live bait dangling above it.
Nowadays when there is any water to be
carted on the farm the boys do the job—
with kerosene-buckets.
* * * *
“Scylla”: Some plants and animals in-
habiting our dry regions have exactly the
same facility for getting all the moisture
available. The leaves of the saltbushes
and their allies absorb any dew that falls
on them, and the skin of the small, spiny
lizard known as the “thorny devil” has
like ability. One lizard I saw, when
placed in a saucer half-full of water,
“blotted” up its contents.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: The Australian black
wasn’t the, only primitive who failed to
rise to the idea of the wheel (B. 5/1 /’3B).
And most of the others had the idea
much more urgently presented to them.
F’rinstance, the North American Indian
rapidly rose to the horse, brought to him
by the white invaders, but until very
recent years he could think of no better
horse vehicle than the traverse —which
was simply a couple of long teepee poles
lashed to the saddle, one on each side,
the butt ends dragging behind. On these,
“W e don't play huffs in this burg, stranger.”
crosspieces were lashed for the carriage
of household goods, papooses and general
impedimenta. Anyway, what would
Binghi have done with a wheel? All he
had to carry went into the gin’s gunny-
bag or her coolamon.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Nocturnal thunder-
storms are welcomed in our Coolgardie
(W.A.) district quite apart from the rain
they bring. Milk which has been left
overnight unrefrigerated will the next
morning be as thick and firm as junket
without a trace of the sourness which
usually accompanies the process. Sugared
to taste, it’s a feed for the gods. And
I’ll back it to keep the ribs lined longer
than all your steak-and-eggs.
* * * :!-•
“Oran”: The generous husband who
took his wife ringbarking as a pastime
(B. 12/1/’3B) had a mate in a well-off
farmer in Taranaki (M.L.). Dad believed
in making the family work all day and
do odd jobs by night, so when eldest
son, aged 18, approached him with a
request for a shilling to go to the travel-
ling picture show in the village he was
naturally incensed. “Pitchers!” Dad bel-
lowed. “Wot yer wanter go to the pit-
chers for? Wastin’ money an’ makin’
yerself too tired to work properly.” Son
was understood to mutter that he’d like
a bit of amusement occasionally.
“Amusement!” snorted Dad, now really
roused. “What yer talkin’ about? Didn’t
I let yer off last Toosday night to go up
the hill to see the eclipse o’ the moon?
Life ain’t all one dam’ round o’
pleasure! ”
* * * - *
“Ellenvale”: Touching on bushmen
and their queer ideas, Old Jack, who
farms a bush block in an outback Vic-
torian district, buys four lottery tickets
a week in the hope that he will land a
big prize, thus enabling him to crash
Hollywood. He has never seen a talkie,
but he buys all the movie mags, he can,
knows the history of every star in the
game and is supremely confident that
he could show “all them girl-faced blank-
ards what real actin’ is.” He has half
a dozen tree-stumps named after leading
actors and actorines, and to see and hear
him doing a poignant scene with an iron-
bark Garbo makes M.-G.-M.’s latest
effort look like a curate’s lantern lecture.
* * * *
“Levin”: Far from confining its atten-
tions to dead trees (B. 19/1 /’3B), light-
ning, in writer’s experience, is just as
likely to strike green ones. When it does
the “sap-filled leaves, twigs and trunk”
do not “milk the electricity from the
atmosphere in much the same way as a
copper lightning-conductor,” but are con-
verted instantly into steam, the disruptive
force of which shatters the tree.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Tim Murphy, an
old-time ganger on W.A. railway-con-
struction jobs, had a biting sarcasm.
“Daht’s a foine shovel yez hev dere,
Joe,” he remarked to the wielder of a
small, worn-down banjo. Each man had
his own particular shovel, and he’d fight
to retain it. “It is, Tim,” Joe replied
proudly. “Yis,” said Tim, “an’ Oi’ll tell
yez phwat. Oi’ll give utter yez, Joe,
ter kape, an’ whin yez go home for
Chrismus yez kin take utter yer
youngest son ter use ut the beach.” He
put me and a mate in the ballast pit, and
wasn’t satisfied. “Ye’ve no considera-
shun,” he vowed. “Yer thruck’s gittin’
sunburnt wid shtandin’.”
* * * *
“Arcus”: Did the Malays use the bow,
as “Nor’-west” asserts (B. 19/1/’38)? I
have seen something and read much of
the Malay, and can’t recollect that he
used weapons other than the parang and
spear apart, of course, from the fire-
arms introduced by the Indian Moslems
long ago. The blowpipe has always been
the peculiar weapon of the Dyak, and
the Malay proper never seems to have
taken to it.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: In the many post-
mortems' I have held on the bodies of
sharks I’ve struck plenty turtle and
dugong, crabs, a dozen varieties of fish,
assorted iron- and glassware and hun-
dreds of other articles, but nary a sniff
of a portion of porpoise (B. 5/1 /’3B), nor
have I ever found any of their carcasses
mutilated by sharks along any of the
Bananaland beaches. Undoubtedly the
porpoise is no match for the sea-tiger
when it comes to marine warfare. It is
the creature’s speed only which enables
it to keep off the shark’s menu. The
scavenger is fast, but its speed can’t be
compared with that of a porpoise—about
the swiftest thing in the seven seas.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Wattle-and-daub build-
ings were common in Australia’s early
history (it was from the wattling process
that the wattle-trees were named), but
the only one remaining in N.S.W. that I
know of is the Bentley station house, be-
tween Casino and Lismore. It has been
occupied since about 1870, and is still in
good condition. At first it was roofed
with bark, which was later changed to
shingles, but why wattle-and-daub was
chosen in a region of giant hardwoods
and softwoods is a mystery. Most of
the neighboring squattage homes were
built of red cedar, cut in sawpits. Huts,
sheds and selectors’ homes were built of
split slabs, with shingles for the roof.
* * * *
“Sweat Boil”: You fellows who.have
been saddling horses every week for
many years on these pages —what is good
and solid riding? What can a man
stand? I’ve heard fellows claim they
averaged 40 miles a day. I’ve heard
others vaguely refer to daylight to dark,
meaning they were in the saddle all those
hours over long stretches of time. I
say a man who averages 40 miles
a day (even if he has Sunday spell) is
going to crack up inside five years. The
daylight-to-dark artist isn’t worth analys-
ing—he’s only a saddle skite. Two hun-
dred miles a week is big riding—so big
that few men can take it. As for a day s
ride anything over 60 is big. Seventy
finds the weak spots in a man, even if it s
only a hollow tooth ; 80 is hell; up to
about a hundred increases the agony;
after that, though sore and chafed in
every joint and muscle, a sort of numb-
ness dulls the thing,
* * * *
“Awani”: I have been trapping rabbits
lately, and after skinning and cleaning
them I cut off their feet and boil the
carcasses for the pigs.' Yesterday one
Q £ the sows Bad a jj tter and 0 f the den
six had no feet at all xheir little legs
were j ust stumps. Coincidence, pre-
nataj influence or what?
* * * *
“ 8 . N . G .” : Although the average
has a sense of hurnor , it is as
J understand at first contact as
hard to understand at first contact as
our form of wit is to him. He takes a
special delight in cruelty until taught
better manners; the long-drawn-out
squeals of a pig that was being dis-
patched used to evoke hearty laughter
from the A.N.C. and carriers alike until
the taubada took a hand. That sounds
like an indictment of the race, but it was
merely that his mental development had
only reached that stage which induces
the small, unlicked white child to pull
the wings off flies.
REAL HEAT.
Red with dust, we had welcomed the sight of
that bush pub on which we had chanced,
For over the ridges and claypans the waves of
heat shimmered and danced.
It was hell with the lid off, as Shorty opined as
he hoisted his pot,
Which brought from McGinty a “Blast me!
Do you blokes call this weather ’ot?
“Now I reckon the seasons are changin’. The
summers ain’t nearly the same.
Why, along the Paroo in the ’eighties the ’eat
fried y’ up like a flame!
Yairs, a day like this we’d ’ve considered was
chilly enough for a fire,
But it wasn’t a ’eatwave in them days ’less it
melted the boundary wire.
“I remember one ’ot spell we ’ad there. I’m
ridin’ on Hennessy’s Cut —
A decent-sized cattle-run that was an’ I’m
bunked at the forty-mile ’ut;
There’s a tribe o’ wild abos. around there, an’
—stiffen the spags!—the poor coots
Found the goin’ so ’ot that they asked me if
I’d fix ’em up with some boots.
“And that, don’t forgit, was reel early. It
kept gittin’ ’otter, of course.
After breakfast I shoves on the saddle, which
burned the ’air clean orf me ’orse.
Just ’ow I felt you coves can imagine; ’ere’s
me just lobbed back from a jag,
With the temprachur round about ’undred
an’ sixty or so in the bag.
“So I makes for the dam for a cool-orf, but —
strike me!—l did come a thud.
Overnight it’d dried up completely. An’ then
I sees ducks in the mud.
They’d been trapped, so I sneaks on ’em slowly
and, ’opin’ I wouldn’t be foiled
Of a feed, I dives straight on the Donalds, and
finds that they’re already boiled!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Old-timer”: Digging out rabbits on
Whymoul (sou’-west Riverina), I turned
up the bones of abos., having struck an
old burial-ground. One well-preserved
skull I took to the hut, placing it on the
mantelpiece. I kept looking at it during
my solitary tea. Wherever I moved in
the room its eyeless sockets seemed to
follow me. Tried to forget it, but only
thought the more of it. Its sockets watched
me go to bed, seemed to peer through
the darkness at me where I lay. A howl-
ing storm arose, and I half-dreamed there
was wailing in the wind and a voice cry-
ing: “Take me back to my brothers!”
Awoke in a fret, cursed myself for a
frightened fool, heard my dogs howling
outside, and went cold as curlews keened
all round the hut. Got out, made a fire,
drank tea liberally splashed with brandy.
Tried to sleep again, but the skull filled
my vision. Went outside. The night was
still, ominous; every star was like a
menacing eye ; the moon had a blood-red
margin. One dog sat immobile before
the hut, the other cringed at my heels.
What were they waiting for—dogs, moon,
stars? My blood bounded. I got that
skull and walked two miles to the burial-
ground and replaced it. Returning
through the fresh night with the dogs
frisking under the moon I decided an
imagination was no good to a lone
boundary-rider.
♦ * V *
“Nor’-west”: I’ll back the crows of
the Ashburton district, north W.A., as
being the most curiously destructive of
any on the continent. Met Old Jack the
other day ambling across the pindan in
his ancient Ford, loaded to the scuppers
with kangaroo-skins, hood up to keep the
overflow in, but with only a few tattered
rags to shield him from the sun. “What’s
happened, Jack—cyclone?” I asked. Jack
became profanely eloquent. “Blanky
crows! I parked the limousine under a
bough-shed for a couple of weeks, and
the black blankards stripped off every
bit of hood.” Why Kelly and his missus
“Telegram for you, Pieface .”
should pick on such tough fabric when
there was plenty of wool on the jumbucks
and not a little on the fences is a puzzle.
* * * *
“Vegebulls”: Where pumpkin-beetles
are active a sharp rise in the mortality of
working bees follows. The beetle (not
unlike a ladybird) crawls down the bright
yellow throat of a pumpkin flower and
chews up part of the pistil. Soon after
the pest makes for another blossom and
another meal. In a short time the flowers
with the affected pistils close up, fre-
quently imprisoning bees that had fol-
lowed in the wake of the beetles. From
half a dozen pumpkin vines I have col-
lected over 100 dead bees.
“Ellenvale”: Savage kangaroos, eh
(B. 12/l/’38)? A resident of North
Gippsland (Vic.) made a small concus-
sion-bomb and attached
it to the ramrod of his
muzzle-loader. Putting
a double charge in the
gun and leaving the
ramrod in the barrel,
he sneaked up to with-
in 30 yards of an old-
man ’roo arid let him
have it. Instead of ex-
ploding and knocking
the animal cold the
bomb burst into flame,
and the last thing the
inventor saw before he
went out to it was a
bounding mass of fire
coming straight at him.
When he came to he
found himself criss-
crossed with a series of
inch - deep furrows
from head to foot,
every stitch of clothing
torn from him, and,
worst of all, his flow-
ing beard, once his
pride and joy, burnt to
a cinder. The kanga
was dead, and two
’roo-dogs, who had
probably saved their
owner’s life, were dead
beside him. The ex-
periment brought him
three months in hos>-
pital and a wholesome
respect for the big
hoppers.
“Padflogger” ■ I have yet to find any
old battler on the track who wasted good
rum by pouring it into his boots, though
a one-time Premier of the Ma State (B.
5/1/’3B) may have done it —he probably
got the rum baksheesh. But Old Joe,
on the Mindaroo, did try sulphur in his
boots —as a cure for corns, recommended
by Long Steve. A couple of days later
Joe had the fullest-bodied cold of his
whole life ; and it took some quantity
of rum, poured hot down his gullet, to
cure him, the penitent Steve being a will-
ing subscriber because it looked cheaper
than paying for a funeral. Joe recovered,
but he reckons the after-effect of the
sulphur on his feet gives his corns hell,
and since reading the forementioned
par. he is just dying to try the curative
effects of rum. Any subscribers to the
fund?
* * * *
“Questo”: A prospector .named
Doolan discovered the old Bower Bird
goldfield (B. 5/l/’3B) when he was re-
turning to Borah (Q.) from Calton Hills
station with a supply of fresh beef.
Spelling at midday, he watched the antics
of a couple of bower-birds a short dis-
tance away. In their playground he
found several small slugs of gold. He
prospected the area, located a reef
carrying good values, and a rush fol-
lowed.
“Gidya George”: The best “lost mine”
of the lot is one that lies between Clon-
curry and the Georgina (W.Q.). Thirty-
“Turned Baptis neow, ’ave ’ee, dam ’ un ?”
odd years ago an old boundary-rider on
Carandotta used to leave his job every
wet season. He’d stay away until about
the end of April, when the waters were
dry in the gorges and gullies. Then he'd
come back saying nothing to anyone.
Everybody thought the old boy had gone
on an annual walkabout, but when he
died it was found that he had had about
1200 ounces of wash-dirt in the bank,
Ever since then prospectors have been
searching for that old man s prospect,
they reckon it must be in the ranges, but
they’ve all drawn blanks to date.
“Notaden”: Although man, with the
aid of petrol, can beat any bird at mere
air-speed, he is a back number in all
other aspects of practical flying. The
daring lads who remain aloft for hours
on gliders, taking advantage of air-cur-
rents, are the only genuine competitors
with the steady, effortless, spiral ascent
of an eagle. When man can fly directly
into or out of the sea, as a gannet does,
or land at speed in his own or his
machine’s length on any ground in the
manner of that very inadequate flyer
Jacky Kookaburra, he’ll have some
occasion to preen himself. The equiva-
lent of perching on a twig will need a
lot of working out, too. But there’s
plenty of time. Birds and their flying
reptilian ancestors have been at the busi-
ness for some millions of years, and it
was only about 1903 that man made his
first really successful heavier-than-air
attempt.
• :Jc }{: *
“Naturalist”: A pair of wagtails took
up housekeeping in our mandarin-tree.
All went well till the low-down nursery
was completed and the family were
stretching their necks for tucker. Then
the fun started. Every time an unsus-
pecting chook sauntered beneath the tree
or went to scratch for worms the tail-
wagger on guard would dart down with
a feather-raising screech, scaring the devil
out of the trespassing cackler. Even the
boss rooster of the premises, usually
afraid of nothing in feathers, would let
out a terrified squawk and go for the
lick of his life each time Willie or his
wife made aggressive protest. Most
comical, really, to see a matronly hen
have the wits scared out of her and her
dignity upset by a bird small enough to
be rendered hors de combat by a single
peck.
* * * *
“Marsh”: An event once a feature of
country shows and sports-meetings was
the walk, trot and gallop. It was rare
to find a horse above the average at all
three gaits, and just as rare to find that
the actions of the nag first past the
post had passed muster with the judge.
We once took a horse to a meeting. It
was a good trotter and had won wagers
for its six-miles-an-hour walking. Backed
for all the money offering, our
prad was half a lap ahead when its trot-
ting round had finished, and though it
couldn’t gallop much it went just fast
enough to scrape home by a whisker.
“Disqualified!” said the judge. “Your
’orse never galloped ; he only cantered.”
The judge’s son was aboard the horse
that ran second.
He * *
“M.P.H.”: The scantily appreciated
aboriginal legends contain remarkable
cases of similarity to the traditions and
ideas of writers of other countries. For
instance, Tennyson’s description of the
Pleiades as “a swarm of fireflies tangled
in a silver braid” has its counterpart in
the aboriginal legend of the inception of
that misty group of stars. Our abos.
have believed for countless ages that the
Pleiades were once an aboriginal chief
and seven women who, to escape an
avenging tribe, were changed into white
grubs and later, enmeshed in a net, were
drawn up to the sky, where their insect
forms still remain entangled in the glit-
tering net.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: “See-em’s” bullock
that helps to bail-up the heifers (B.
12/1 /’37) appears to be an intelligent
beast, but for real brains old Bob, an
educated drake on our payroll, has him
well licked. As soon as the sun sets Bob
starts out, and, with much hissing and
wing-flapping, drives the hens, ducks,
geese and turkeys into their respective
pens. He won’t stand any nonsense, and
woe betide the bird that enters the wrong
enclosure. The only things that trick
him are the pigeons, but, as I have
noticed the old chap making short test
flights lately, it won’t be long before he
has them under control.
ERE PHILLIP CAME.
By the waters of Port Hacking
Stands a cave beside a cove,
With a she-oak tree before it
And behind it glade and grove.
Legend had it that dark people
Dwelt beneath its roof of old—
Dreamt and feasted, and in feasting
Song and story sang and told.
There for long they fished and hunted,
Feared and frolicked, loved and strove,
Ere the ships of Phillip anchored
By the shores of Sydney Cove.
Whispers, oft and oft, I hearkened
When at night the making tide
Lapped the rocks, or crept a low wind
Through the bending oak outside.
Oft and oft I seemed to glimpse them,
When the moon shone round and white,
With the red spoil of their hunting
Stealing caveward through the night.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


m
Are Yon a
BUSINESS
or
PROFESSIONAL MAX?
If so, your days are possibly so fully occupied
that you find it difficult to devote the necessary
time to your personal affairs. The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited is in
its 60th year of experience as Attorney or t
Agent and is well qualified to relieve you of
worry in arranging investments. It will be
glad to suggest how it can be of assistance,
if you will call or write at your convenience.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£. AGENCY COMPANY ITD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £953,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell Wliite, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
t— —Dividends——*.
Prcf. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 17$ p.c. 17$ p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 439,521 35,000 306,250 98,271 1,072,503
1»X8.. 445,920 35,000 306,250 104,670 1,177,173
1929.. 422,673 35,000 306,250 81,423 1,258,596
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1930.. 332,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
Hi p.c. 11$ p.c.
1931.- 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.. 234.540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
124 p.c. 124 p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
*Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
The public is interested in this big Mel-
bourne brewery, which enjoys a lion’s
share of the trade in Vic. and helps to
quench part of the thirst in N. Queens-
land and elsewhere as well, through
half a dozen holding cos. The div. ad-
vanced from 7 p.c. in 1919 to 17-y p.c.
eight years later, and remained at the
higher level until 1930, when the rate
dropped to 15 p.c., followed by lli p.c.
in ’3l and then 10 p.c. for the next three
years. Meanwhile, payrolls began to
lengthen, the value of hotel properties
strengthened, and the co. widened and
also anchored more of its turnover by
purchase of hotel freeholds. At the end
of 1934 things looked promising enough
for the board to capitalise £975,000 of
reserves in a one-for-two gift scrip issue,
making paid capital £2,925,000 in 300,000
prefs. (they carry a cumulative 7 p.c.
and advance with the ords. beyond that
point) and 2,625,000 ords. This gift
makes divs. for each of the last three
years worth half as much again as the
declared rates.
The next table, showing sales and
consumption of beer in Victoria, helps to
explain the growth in the co.’s earnings
since 1932:
, Consumption \
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15.969.300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 -20,750,800 11.2
Sales include inter-State business. Within
the State, last year’s consumption per
head was within four-fifths of a gallon
of the 1927-28 figure.
After allowing for taxation, deprecia-
tion and other contingencies, C.U.B.’s
gross earnings on trade account last term
were £61,548 better at £433,797. Rents,
interest, etc., turned in £128,812, up
£18,518, making total improvement in
gross earnings (£562,609) £80,066. Exes.
(£108,612) took £7722 of the increase,
leaving the net result £72,344 better at
15.5 p.c. on capital as against 13 p.c.
and 9.2 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to \2\
p.c., which is equal to 18| p.c. on capital
as it stood before the gift already referred
to.
Prospects are for a still better showing
at next balance.
The brisk expansion of the business is
further reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Sundry creditors. . 271,725 316,862 438,337
Brewery freeholds 260,925 261,739' 244,656
Hotel freeholds .. 664,186 689,117 867,383
Leaseholds . . 6,724 6,345 5,966
Plant, etc. . . 339,967 348,226 343,188
Stocks and excise
stamps . . .. 229,130 254,894 282,777
Book debts, etc. . . 845,185 1,026,676 1,212,346
Cash, investments,
etc 672,464 595,123 472,214
Last year £178,266 was added to the
book value of hotel freeholds, £185,670 to
debtors’ balances and £27,883 to stocks.
To meet the outlay cash and investments
were drawn upon for £122,909, and the
board went outside for an extra £121,475.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities by
£1,529,000, down £30,831 over the
twelvemonth, owing to the growth in
hotel properties.
Here is a summary of the position of
the holding cos.:
Shares Last Div. Market
Paid in Div., Cover, Price
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. p.c. Scrip.
Carlton ..£816.992 928,295 15 17.6 67/
Melb Co-op. 431,981 975,000 25 35.0 58/6
Castlemaine. . 225,000 176,121 10 12.1 32/
Foster .. 115,200 124,574' 131 16.8 51/-
Shamrock . . 141,345 124,574 111 13.7 46/9
McCracken’s. 62,438 62,438 124 15.5 50/-*
* Buyer. 1 Interim.
The face value of the holding cos.’ own
shares is 20s. in each case, excepting
Melbourne Co-op. (10s.) and Castlemaine
(155.). The dividend cover is the pro-
portion of C.U.B.’s total net profit (only
80 p.c. of it was distributed) belonging
to each holding co. expressed as a per-
centage of that co.’s own capital.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 109,404 10 p.c. = 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 ~-,, 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 13$ p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 .. .. 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 ~ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 54 „ „ 41,821 1.590 293.146
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ „ 76,043 7,802'315,558
This co. (paid capital £760,433) and
Kapdos (paid capital £673,862) are equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
(paid capital £2,000,000), the operating
co. in which the first two named merged
their interests in 1930. The works are at
Fyansford (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.).
The Kandos plant (capacity 200,000 tons
p.a.) shares the N. S. Wales market with
four other producers, plant capacity for
the State being 720,000 tons p.a. The
one at Fyansford (present capacity
220,000 tons p.a., and the only producer
in Vic.) is being enlarged by construction
of a new £lOO,OOO kiln, 400 ft. long by
10ft. in diameter, capacity about 100,000
tons p.a. This new unit is to be put
into commission any day now, and No. 4
kiln is to be reconstructed and extended.
The idea is to keep costs down and en-
able the co. to meet “any fair competi-
tion.”
The board aims at maintaining a steady
10 p.c. div. But abolition of the duty
on British cement at the end of 1936 has
added a new element of uncertainty to
the industry here. Thus far British plants
have been taxed almost to capacity to
meet demand in their home markets at
better prices than could be obtained for
shipments to Australia. Now that build-
ing activity in Britain has begun to ease,
there is a possibility that cement manu-
facturers there might desire to increase
their export sales. If the position in this
respect becomes acute, the Federal Gov-
ernment’s provisions against dumping in
Australia may not avail to prevent it, and
further Government action would become
necessary to protect the industry and
the employment it gives here. Apart
from this possibility, it seems unlikely
that the 10 p.c. div. will be disturbed, for
the present, at any rate, notwithstanding
the recent lift of 6s. per week in the
minimum wage and reduction from 48
to 44 hours in the working week.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
proprietary’s figures. But during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
continued activity in the building trade,
extension of irrigation schemes, recon-
struction of tramway • tracks and a
£30,000-odd contract for erection of ter-
minal wheat silos at Williamstown gave
sales a further lift. This holding co.
received £88,946 (up £443) in diys., etc.
After paying its own exes. (£3301, up
£283) and setting aside an extra £l3OO
for taxation (£1800), the £83,845 that re-
mained was 11 p.c. on capital.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £760,178 £760,433 £760,433 £760.433
Sundry creditors 6,163 8,545 2,258 2,262
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,023,7501,021,443 1,012,053 1,013,753
Book debts .., 57/067 5,843 2,120 1,485
Consols & cash 63,803 84.706 94,834 101,036
In addition to the holding in the pro-
prietary already referred to, shares in
other cos. include £3750 in Bates (A’sia)
Pty., which makes the paper bags the
cement is packed in, and an advance of
£10,003 to Industrial Investments Pty.,
formed to encourage the use of cement.
The amount invested in Consols is
£35,882, and the cash holding £65,154.
The market price and yield, etc., from
the two holding cos.’ shares compare as
follows:
Face Mar- Net
Value ket Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Austn. Cement 20/ 34/3 10 p.c. 5.8 p.c. 28/3
Kandos . . 16/- 25/3 10 „ 6.3 „ 32/2
, * Per pound of paid capital.
For each £lOO of their own paid capital
Australian Cement owns approximately
£l3l and Kandos £l4B of the operating
co.’s capital. To return 5.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis Kandos 165.-paid shares
would need to fetch 275. 7d.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 10,580 10 p.c. = 5000 5,580 32,221
1928.. 16,145 10 ~ ~ 6000 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ ~ 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9,, ~ 6300 278 52,589
1931.. 3,937 4 „ „ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7,952 6 ~ ~ 4200 3,752 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ „ 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,07:>
1935.. 12,874 9„ ~ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9., 6300 6,045 73,694
1937.. 13,648 10 ~ ~ 7000 6,648 80,342
This offshoot of the Mercantile Mutual
is back on to a 10 p.c. div. basis again,
and, subject to economic developments,
looks like remaining there. Since the co.
pulled out of the troublesome London
marine market —results there were re-
sponsible for the mishap in 1931 —the
loss rate has been the lightest since the
management began to write policies
direct with the public about a dozen years
ago, notwithstanding the recent unsatis-
factory nature of motor-car risks. Also,
the business, which is well spread
throughout the Commonwealth, has con-
tinued to expand with the improvement
in conditions generally.
During the last term an extra £12,877
of net premiums was gathered at
approximately 6s. p.c. less cost:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59,8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*3.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935.. 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
1937.. 91,388 43,278 41,336 47.3 45.2
The loss ratio was only 4s. p.c. heavier,
leaving the underwriting surplus £1059
stronger at £6774, or 9.6 p.c. on capital.
The interest return (£6849, up £244) was
9.8 p.c. on capital, making the net return
from all sources 19.4 p.c. on capital as
against 17.6, 18.3, 17.1, 13.3, 11.6, a
loss, 9.3 and 25.3 p.c. back to 1929. An-
other point was added to the div., mak-
ing it 10 p.c., all but £126 of which was
covered by the return from investments
alone.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 7s. each at 16s. 3d. as against
17s. 9d. a year ago. The return at 16s. 3d.
is 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities later on ; that is to say, it
looks like turning out to be a satisfac-
tory holding proposition. The net tan-
gible cover is 15s. per share.
Funds are held in this way:
1932. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £70,060 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities . . . . 15,528 14,903 19,397 21,635
Freeholds .. .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages... .. 40,902 42,648 43,347 44,543
Debentures .. 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities. . 61,912 68,397 74,492 76,542
Rook debts . . 7,246 5,509 5,690 8.687
Cash, etc 22,772 34,598 37',362 40,705
When the books closed policy-holders
could see net tangibles with a book
value equal to 164 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate. In addition share-
holders could be called upon to dredge
up another £130,000 if need be.
National Insurance Co. of N.Z.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 51,807 12$ p.c. <= 37,500 14,307 462,603
1928.. 58,326 12$ „ „ 37,500 20,826 483,429
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 433,429
1929.. 46,579 10.7 p.c.= 37,500 9,079 442,508
1930.. 53,048 10.7 „ „ 37,500 ) akr nka
Written off £2ooo j 13 ’ 548 4y6 ’ 05G
1931.. 35,184 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 (. •
Written off premises, £2oou j io ~ J ’
1932.. 41,284 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 ( . ... „ oa
Written off premises, £2OOO ( 404,b28
1933.. 46,021 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 \ ... ...
Written off premises, £8560 ( 4t>4,00»
1934.. 54,552 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 } llq9n ... onQ
Written off premises, £5732 ( H,320 465,909
1935.. 47,862 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 ) „ ...
Written off premises, £3250 l 473,021
1936.. 56,916 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 1-...,.
Written off premises, £4900 j 44,t>ib 487,537
1937.. 61,128 10.7 p.c. = 37,500 j
Written off premises, £4537 j 18 > 091 506,628
At 175., the £1 shares, called to 7s. and
backed by net tangibles of 17s. Id.,
yield 4.3 p.c. on a 10.7 p.c. div. basis ; it
is one of the best returns now to be had
from this class of security. Last year’s
div. —the rate has been steady at 10.7
p.c. since 1928 —was paid out of dis-
closed profits equal to 17.5 p.c. on capi-
tal, as against 16.2 p.c. in the previous
term. Of the £350,000 of capital,
£250,000 has been transferred from re-
serves, which were still visibly £ 156.000-
odd higher than the share-register total
at Sept. 30 last. The last gift (£50,000)
was in 1928.
The co., which is Dunedin-controlled,
gathers its premiums throughout New
Zealand and Australia, and there is an


iNOBED
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company. limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
iNOBEI
fd
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type,, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
SHAREHOLDERS
are part owners
of the new
HASTINGS
DEERING
SERVICE STATION,
OFF WILLIAM STREET
SYDNEY
7
lump
MOW IN SERVICE
The past few years have given a practical demonstration
of HASTINGS DEERING leadership in the Motor
Industry. The principle of Engineered Service has
afforded unfailing satisfaction to shareholders, who have
received an excellent return from their investment.
The turnover of British Empire goods in the com-
panies controlled by Mr. Hastings Deering in
Sydney during the past three years totalled
£3,623,000. This turnover, exceeding three and a half
million pounds, must be substantially increased as the
result of the greater facilities offered the motoring public
in the new building, containing the most modern and best
equipped service station and works of their kind in the
Southern Hemisphere. The design is the result of pro-
longed investigation of the very latest practice in Europe
and America, with special consideration for the needs of
the Australian motorist.
Shareholders in the new Service Company are
part-owners of the new building, which cost
£125,000 without its equipment. The actual asset
value is much in excess of this figure, because
in the meantime, the value of the land has in-
creased considerably, with a corresponding
increase in the value of the building in view, of
the present day cost of labour and building
materials.
The Company has paid dividends regularly and
created ample reserves. The total asset backing
of each share in the Company, excluding goodwill,
is £l/6/2, as certified to in the latest balance
sheet by the Company's auditors, Messrs. F. W.
Duesbury and Company.
75,000 Shares in the Company have already been
taken up. The remaining 25,000 will be allotted
within the next three months. The number avail-
able to each applicant is limited.
Applications for full particulars should be made
immediately.
HASTINGS DEERING
Service Limited
Riley, Crown, Kennedy & Suttor
Streets (off William Street), Sydney
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY! FOR FULL PARTICULARS
Mr. F. G. McKew, Secretary,
Hastings Deering Service Ltd.,
Box 4333, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me all particulars relating to 7% PREFERENCE SHARES in your
Company.
NAME
ADDRESS
agency in London. Underwriting per-
formances compare as follows:
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 53.8 „ 29.4 „
1905.. 107.648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1920.. 196,248 81,208 81,309 41.4 „ 41.4 „
1925.. 212,116 86,243 93,954 40.7 ~ 44.3 „
1930.. 260,445 146,964 90,490 56.4 „ 34.8 „
1932.. 218,425 123,902 84,538 56.8 „ 38.7 „
1933.. 209,267 106,160 83,760 50.8 ~ 40.0 „
1934.. 210,336 96,826 86,580 46.0 ~ 41.2 ~
1935.. 213,397 107,640 85,605 50.4 „ 40.1 „
1936.. 233,203 113,513 89,732 48.7,, 38.5 ~
1937.. 261,219 136,699 91,850 52.3 „ 35.1 „
Of the year’s net premium income (up
£28,016), exes, took 3.4 p.c. less, but the
claims were 3.6 p.c. heavier, leaving the
underwriting surplus only £2712 better
at £32,670, or 9.3 p.c. on capital. In-
vestment income (£28,459, after deduct-
ing taxes) contributed an extra £1502,
making the return from all sources £4212
higher at £61,128. The £4537 openly
struck off the book value of premises
makes the amount so written off £32,980
since 1930. Workers’ compensation and
motor-car risks have lately proved un-
profitable. In Australia, however, there
has been revision of car-insurance rates
by all the associated underwriters.
Finances are robust:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £350,000 £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors* 51,553 57,628 59,422 62,196
Premises . . 154,418 134,161 132,285 127,808
Mortgages . . 79,579 58,413 51,014 44,925
Debentures . . 110,497 79,320 48,834 33,177
Govt, securities 410,697 508,106 582,963 666,953
Branch balances 47,922 31,876 31,393 38,267
Cash, etc. .. 104,568 126,923 112,337 82,295
* Excluding outstanding claims.
At the end of September policy-holders
and others could see net tangibles equal
to 328 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
or more than twice the figure usually con-
sidered adequate. The co. is obviously
well equipped to handle a bigger volume
of business.
Nestle and Anglo-Swiss (Aust.)
, —Dividends—,
Pref. Ord. Towards
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 3 J p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 174,300 80,000 87,500 6,800 260,123
1928.. 168,140 80,000 87,500 640 259,483
1929.. 167,943 80,000 87,500 443 259,040
1930.. 163,026 80,000 87,500 263,514
2 p.c.
1931.. 129,431 80,000 50,000 264,083
<• Si p.c.
1932.. 113,344 80,000 35,000 265,739
1933.. 116,320 80,000 35,000 1,320 264,419
Written off goodwill, £86,924 .. 177,495
li p.C.
1934.. 96,003 80,000 15,000 1,003 176,492
21 p.c.
1935.. 126,850 80,000 25,000 21,850 154,642
3 p.c.
1936.. 147,884 80,000 30,000 37,884 116,758
Contingency res. disclosed, £45,000 .. 71,758
Surplus exchange suspense, £9854 . . 61,904
10 p.c.
1937. . 186,672 80,000 100,000 6,672 55,232
Local investment interest in this big
milkstuffs and chocolate business is con-
fined to the million 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which are highly regarded by the share-
market. At the current quote of 365. 6d.
the return is 4.4 p.c. On heavily
written-down book values net tangible
backing is £1 18s. lid. per share; but
both capital and divs. (free of statutory
reduction) are guaranteed by the Swiss
parent, which in its last term earned 21
p.c. on its 6i million pounds of capital,
half of which is represented by cash and
readily-realisable securities.
For £2,650,000, of which all but
£150,000 was paid in scrip, the present
co. in 1921 took over the Australian sec-
tion of the world-wide businesses of
Henri Nestle and the Anglo-Swiss Con-
densed Milk Co., which joined forces
at Vevey, Switzerland, in 1904. The pref.
capital was put up by the Australian
public to finance erection of a chocolate
factory at Abbotsford, Sydney, and to
finance expansion in other directions.
Owing to liberal provision for con-
tingencies, surplus cash piled up faster
than it could be employed in the
business, and when slump further
reduced capital requirements a million
and a half of ord. capital was handed
back. To compensate for the diminished
assets backing for the scrip, the Swiss
co. then guaranteed the capital, as well
as div. thereon.
Condenseries and factories controlled
by the co. are at Dennington and Maffra
(Vic.), Abbotsford and Smithton
(N.S.W.), Nerang and Toogoolawah
(Q.), and Waroona (W.A.), while a Maori-
land co., in which a controlling in-
terest is held, caters for the Dominion's
market. Net earnings have had a com-
fortable look from the beginning, as the
following table, showing gross profits
and appropriations to specific reserves,
shows:
Appropriations to Specific Reserves.
/ A : \
Doubt-
Depreci- ful Tax- Available
Profit. ation. Debts. ation. Profit'.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 278,086 50,000 5000 32,585 190,501
1929.. 295,443 67,500 5000 55,000 167,943
1930.. 290,526 67,500 5000 55,000 163,026
1931.. 251,931 67,500 5000 50,000 129,431
1932.. 210,844 52,500 5000 40,000 113,344
1933.. 203,820 52,500 5000 30,000- 116,320
1934.. 205,503 78,000 31,500 96,003
1935.. 214,250 52,400 35,000 126,850
1936.. 240,284 52,400 40,000 147,884
1937.. 302,072 52,400 63,000 186,672
Brisker trade in both the domestic and
export markets contributed to the spring
of £61,788 in last year’s gross earnings.
After allowing an unchanged amount
(9 p.c. on written-down book values) for
depreciation and an extra £23,000 for
(Continued on next page.~)


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Uote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The LUDOWICI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
f
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
• Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and' foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DxWIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand),. Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS’—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
taxation, the £186,672 that remained was
sufficient to pay tha pref. div. and show
10.6 p.c. on ord. capital. The ords.,
hitherto content with a maximum of
p.c., got 10 p.c. Taking in the contin-
gency fund (disclosed at £45,000) and
a surplus of £9853 from exchange sus-
pense, reserves fall short of goodwill
(now £120,000) by £55,232.
Finances are obviously comfortable:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital—
Ord.. . £2,500,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Pref. . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Liabilities 489,892 526,816 553,714 487,038
Freeholds,
plant
etc. . . 1,402,441 619,901 579,382 507,305
Stocks . 621,606 622,578 585,261 784,758
Invest-
ments 271,620 224,305 223,596 88,322
Debtors,
cash,
etc. . . 2,156,265 994,630 1,148,098 1,233,897
The interest in the four subsidiaries (two
recorded losses last term), previously in-
cluded with investments, has been dis-
closed at £88,322. Other investments are
now untidily lumped with debtors. Fixed
assets, down £72,077 net, are shown less
the depreciation reserve, which now
amounts to 65 p.c. of the cost figure “less
a provision for obsolescence.” Increased
business is reflected in the rise of
£199,497 in stocks. Disclosure of the
contingency reserve may have some con-
nection with the reduction of £65.676 in
sundry creditors.
P. and O. Steam
Catering for the England-Australia and
England-India-Far East passenger and
cargo traffic, Peninsular and Oriental
Steam records a net profit of £326,808
(down £2102) for the 12 months ended
Sept. 30. Unchanged divs. of 5 p.c. on
pref. capital (£3,040,000) and 4 p.c. on
ord. (£4,592,518) called for £6791 more
than the declared profit. The £326,808
included £176,000 of non-recurring
revenue and £74,920 written back from
. the tax account, but was after paying
debenture interest and allowing an un-
changed £885,000 for depreciation, re-
ducing the book value of the fleet to
£7,372,432 (cost £25,283,617). Trade
improved on most routes, but the Sino-
Jap conflict affected Far East earnings,
and costs rose sharply. Since the close
of accounts delivery has been taken of
a new 23,500-ton liner of the Strath class
for the Australian trade. A second
23,500-tonner, together with two other
passenger and two cargo vessels, on
which £1,474,305 remains to be paid,
are now building. Apart from these, total
tonnage of the co. and its subsidiaries is
1,986,761. Aggregate liquids at balance
date amounted to £21,548,762, as against
current liabilities of £9,606,444. At the
same date there were free reserves of
£15,816,222 to support and assist the
£13,864,715 of share capital and
£8,681,343 of mostly p.c. deben-
ture stock.
Newcastle Wallsend Coal
This co. owns half a dozen pits, chief
of which are Pelton and Wallsend, on
the northern N. S. Wales field. For the
10 flush years to the end of 1928, it paid
an average of 10.7 p.c. on its £250,000
of capital, and the £lO shares rose to a
premium of over 50 p.c. on the market.
For the next half-dozen years the aggre-
gate net trading result was a loss of
£31,382 ; the industry found that most
of its export and much of its home trade
had vanished, leaving it overcapitalised
and overmanned, and prices had to be
cut to secure orders, while costs remained
stubborn.
The tide turned in 1935, when a profit
of £6250 was declared, followed by an-
other of £7500 and then £lO,OOO for
1937. In each of the three years all the
declared profit, 2\ p.c., 3 p.c. and 4 p.c.
respectively, has been distributed. The
market now prices the scrip at 905., at
which figure the return is 4.4 p.c. on a
4 p.c. div. basis.
At the end of 1937 there was £4SBS
coming to outsiders. Debtors’ balances,
cash, etc., totalled £32,816; investments,
£75,648 ; property, etc., £238,763.
The outlook for the industry is better
than it has been for nearly a decade.
Owing to restrictions imposed by the
S. African Government on the export of
coal, India and other Asiatic countries
are now turning to Australia for sup-
plies, while the requirements of Vic.,
S. Aus., Queensland, Tas. and M.L.
continue to expand. Another hearten-
ing feature to those in the trade is the
report of the Combustion Appliance
Makers’ Association in England that “the
reliability and efficiency of modern
steam machinery are insufficiently appre-
ciated, particularly with regard to
mechanically-fired coal-burning boilers ;
so that to some extent preference for
Diesel machinery represents a fashion
rather than the result of economic facts.”
Last year exports of coal from New-
castle for overseas and inter-State desti-
nations were 2,960,773 tons, or 298,397
tons more than for the previous year ; in
’35 the growth was 101,714 tons.
Bartle Frere Field (Q.).
Over 100 leases have been pegged on
the new Bartle Frere field (N.Q.), but
prospecting, by trench and adit, is at
present confined to seven —the Key of
the Hills and Krawil (over which Mt.
Morgan Development held a six months’
sampling option until the end of Janu-
ary), the Pardon (Meston Syndicate),
Coronation, Golden Horseshoe, High-
croft and Golden Nugget. There is no
battery on the field ; costs on the small
amount of ore (chiefly floater stone) sent
to Chillagoe have amounted to over £8
per ton. The distance from Babinda to
the workings is 13 miles, packhorse being
the only means of transport. An access
road would cost around £20,000. Some
people favor air transport, as in New
Guinea, a ’drome site being available.
C. C. Moreton, a Government geologist,
describes the country as among the most
rugged in the State. Existing workings
are in sedimentary country, with cap-
pings of basalt, intrusive granite out-
cropping to east and south. The reefs,
which seem to be in three distinct lines,
appear to conform With the bedding of
the sediments. Thicknesses of from 2ft.
to sft. are common, the lodes bulging to
over 10ft. in places, and natural ex-
posures suggest that the ore-bodies per-
sist both horizontally and vertically,
though the extent of the auriferous
shoots has yet to be proved. The gold
occurs in both the free state and the
sulphides, the latter not being particu-
larly plentiful. There is a lot of floater
stone available. The 24 tons sent to
Chillagoe to date, mostly by Kraft and
party, averaged between 3oz. and 4oz.
gold, with a little silver. No workable
alluvial deposits exist, and the scrubby
nature of the district, combined with the
topography, makes surface prospecting
difficult. After an early rush only about
30 men are left on the field, where plenty
of water is available.
A Westralian Survey
An average monthly return of
100,000 oz. gold is counted upon in West-'
ralia for 1938, and may be reached. Pro-
duction of Lake View, Great Boulder,
North Kalgurli, Boulder Perseverance
and probably South Kalgurli will, as the
result of additions and improvements to
plants, be greater this year than last.
Gradual increases are expected from Big
Bell, and from Emu and Comet of the
De Bernales group, and the output from
State batteries is likely to bulge.
Important developments are antici-
pated on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
and at Yellowdine, and larger pro-
fits and further accretions to ore
reserves are expected from Lake View,
Great Boulder and North Kalgurli.
Lake View’s next estimate of ore
in sight will probably approximate
3| million tons, Great Boulder’s a miL
lion and North Kalgurli nearly three-
quarters of a million tons. Shareholders
in these three mines look for increased
dividends this year, and the same applies
to South Kalgurli.
Sons of Gwalia’s sound deep-level
position remains unchanged. The co.
proposes to sink an internal shaft
from the bottom of the present main
underlay haulage way in preference
to a new main vertical shaft to
3000 ft. The De Bernales group, includ-
ing Great Boulder (which accounted for
more than one half of the group’s output,
and Yellowdine and Comet the bulk of
the remainder) produced £1,103,000 worth
of bullion in 1937. A return valued at
double that amount is tipped for 1938.
Premature abandonment of hope for
Wiluna, whose main gold-carriers have
gone wrong at depth, is deprecated by
geologists, who urge that the co. should
reach out courageously for repetition at
depth of deposits similar to those pre-
viously encountered and mined with suc-
cess in the upper levels. Chairman J. A.
Agnew says that “on the known facts the
mine should continue to make profits for
three or four years, and with a little luck
for considerably longer. Meantime as
much of the working profit as is deemed
necessary will be devoted to intensive and
exhaustive exploration. So the time has
by no means come, and will not come for
a year or two, to abandon hope that
Wiluna may yet justify many anticipa-
tions originally entertained.” On treat-
ment of 50,000 tons of ore monthly, and
allowing for re-treatment of accumulated
residues, and for expenditure of about
£7500 a month on special development
and exploration, a profit in the neighbor-
hood of £200,000 is expected to be earned
for the current year, subject to income
tax and depreciation.
Apart from its one-ninth holding (9000
£1 shares) in the Comet, Meekatharra
G.M., Ltd., one of the De Bernales
group operating on the Pilbara field
(W.A.), hasn’t yet met with much luck.
Formed in May, 1935, the co. took over
the Havelock and two adjoining leases
from Beverley Trust, Ltd., for £22,500
cash, plus 740,000 f.-p. 2s. shares. Here
results were disappointing, and operations
were suspended. Then, in June, 1936, all
the 42,000 £1 shares in Lalla Rookh, near
Marble Bar, were bought from Australian
Machinery and Investment Co. for
£42,000 cash. Plant was installed, and
then found to be unsuitable, owing to the
refractory nature of the ore. Smelting
equipment is now said to be required,
and the co. hasn’t enough cash (£18,350
at Dec. 10) to meet the cost. At the
annual meeting in London last month,
the chairman was asked (1) why share-
holders had not been advised earlier of
the change in the nature of ore; (2) how
much the vendor paid for the property
sold to Meekatharra for £42,000; (3)
whether an item of £30,000 represented
cost of machinery, and, if so, by whom it
was supplied. The replies were (1) that
the change was not discovered earlier
because the ore was assayed for gold con-
tent only, and that the question of ex-
traction did not arise until treatment was
contemplated ; (2) that it was not within
the province of the chairman to say how
much vendor paid for the property; and
(3) that the £30,000 represented total
mining expenditure and everything else,
and included very little machinery.
* * * *
Youanmi and Mt. Magnet, two
London-controlled Westralian gold-
mining ventures with practically similar
directorates, are receiving attention on
the London market. Youanmi, still in
the transition stage, started treatment of
oxidised ore in Oct., 1936, running in
the plant with low-grade material, to
which has lately been added a small ton-
nage of higher-grade sulphide rock. An
all-sulphide mill is in course of installa-
tion. Ore reserves are estimated at
139,900 tons, averaging lOdwt. 13gr.
Current developments are expected to
materially enlarge ore available. Past
12 months’ receipts from gold won
(£43,600) were utilised to reduce de-
velopment account to £39,500. Mt.
Magnet announces a profit of £14,734
for year ended June 30 last. After
payment of 10 p.c. on ord., and 7 p.c.
on pref., capital, £10,259 remained,
of which £5165 was brought forward
from the previous term. Gold recovered
was equal to 235. 4d. a ton of ore treated,
and working costs amounted to 15s. 2d.
a ton. The adjoining St. George mine
has been added to the co.’s holding, and
more plant is being installed. Gt.
Boulder No. 1 acquired the St. George
in 1907 for £lO,OOO, and, after extracting
nearly £lOO,OOO worth of gold, gave up
in 1912. The property remained idle
until the present revival began.
* * * *
At Beryl Gold, one of the De Bernales
group at Kundip (W.A.), developments
underground have failed to realise drill-
ing indications, the mineralised zone in
the Gem section proving much faulted.
Prospects now hinge on the slender
hope of striking a payable lode in
the Parkinson section. Chief source
of income at the moment is the co.’s
holding in Great Boulder Mining and
Finance, which has a four-ninths in-
terest in the Comet, a one-sixth
interest in Yellowdine and 40,000 ss.
shares in Great Boulder Prop. For
£2OOO Beryl has acquired a one-tenth
interest in British Columbia Dredging
Corp. (a B.C. prospecting concern whose
prospects are considered bright), plus an
option over a further 10,000 dollar shares
at par.
* * * *
Golden Mile Block 45, Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), is urging London to come
along with £5OOO for further de-
velopment. The consideration for doing
so is an option over 200,000 shares at
Is. each. In view of what the co. has to
offer it will be lucky if it succeeds.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.L.H.: (1) Prospects of the ords. receiving
a div. within the next three years are anything
but bright. (2) Yes.... Aero: Prospectus
estimate of a profit of approximately 15 p.c.
on £275,000 of capital is optimistic. Co. has
yet to establish itself, and until it does the
shares remain a speculation... .A.8.C.: (1)
See Business, Robbery page. (2) H01d... .J.C.:
(1) Will review accounts next week. (2) Cannot
say; write to secretary... .G.E.D.: Write O. T.
Lempriere, Bowden-street, Alexandria....
G.S.D. : (1) Cannot say what financial position
is; accounts not broadcast. (2) The purchase
is a contract between you and the co. You
are liable for the difference between the amount
paid up and the full face value of the share
when called.


He’s happy because his
savings are safe and
earning over 6% annually.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry”
session each Wednesday night at 9.30
from 2 UE.
SMOKE-OH!
“Isn’t it better,” asks a medical writer, “tc
prevent a cold by the simple expedient of drink-
ing copious draughts of cold water than to try
to cure it afterwards by dosing oneself with
rum?”
No.
•£• *¥« *!«•
“Men’s fashion designers overseas are en-
deavoring to popularise the red vest.”
That they will succeed is the fervent
hope of the careless tomato-soup eater.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Soft, muffled noises at night are far more
nerve-racking than loud sounds,” says a nerve
specialist.
Long-suffering fathers, then, might as
well remove the gag from the infant and
let it bawl its hardest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The practice of ear-piercing, which was
once widely believed to improve the sight, is
being revived.”
Revived? Why, our hot-rhythm
addicts have been at it for years!
4* 4* 4* 4*
Taking Down the Collection.
“A picture in the Michaelis collection, de-
scribed in the catalogue for many years as
‘A Taxidermist’ and attributed to the Dutch
master De Gelder, is now revealed to be
‘Housewife Plucking Fowl,’ by Rembrandt.”
—News item.
Reminds me of an old family heirloom
of ours. Everybody thought it was the
“Weeping Handmaiden,” by Van Dyck.
We got a shock when we sent it to an
art shop to be cleaned, and it turned
out to be “Peeling Onions,” by Wm.
Smith, R.A.
For years I believed another picture,
picked up in a small antique shop, to
be “Alexander the Great Amidst the
Ruins of Persepolis.” Unfortunately, as
it happened, it was only “Scotsman
Searching for Threepenny Bit —Aber-
deen,” by Cadmium Brown.
But the biggest disappointment I ever
got during my connoisseuring career was
when I thought I had collared Giuseppe
Guzzleotti’s famous canvas, “The Retreat
from Moscow,” and found out I’d got
by mistake “The Eighth (Communist)
Route Army Marching on Suchufow,”
as. painted by a well-known foreign cor-
respondent.
Dougal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Vain Thought.
“To-morrow battled on gamely.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
To-morrow battled on, they say,
To hearten Jill and Jack;
But what a boon if yesterday
Could only battle back!
Percival.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Scaling.
' “I have scaled most of the highest moun-
tains in the world, but I do not think that
you have anything in Australia high enough
to bother about.”— Visitor in interview.
All the same, we would be thrilled to
see him trying to get a toehold on the
top of our national debt.
Australian scalers do not aspire to
hectic heights, but they often go to great
lengths.
Taxation scaling is a matter of balance
—one slip and you come an awful
cropper.
Tram and bus scaling requires a good
deal of sidestepping and nimble think-
ing on the spur of the moment.
The boarding-house scaler should
always make sure of his grip. Very often
the landlady beats him to it.
McM.
“A Canadian professor believes that for
proper emotional development a girl should
have a boy for every day in the week.”
—Sydney paper.
Hollywood stars are trying it with
husbands.
4* 4* 4* 4*
‘‘Potted opera-singers wanted.”
—“ S. M Herald” advt.
But are the singers expected to supply
their own grog?
4* 4* 4*
“ the United States is expected to exact
a much lower economic price for standin gin
with Britain politically than might have been
the case if the threats and dangers were not
so mutual.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Saloon-bar diplomacy at last?
4* 4* .4* 4*
“Overtaking at high speed on a bend or a
hill is surely the last thing any sane motorist
would do.” — Traffic official.
It often is the last thing he does!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many good racehorses do not eat anything
the day before a race.” — News item.
And many good punters don’t the day
after.
“We ARE stiff —forgot t ’ bring some glasses!"
A Bad Companion.
I’m not going to drink .with Bolson any
more. Not after what happened last
time!
I’ll never forget the shocking state he
was in! He was completely irresponsible.
Trying to argue with that old lady in the
tram, reciting in the bar, dancing over
the intersections, wanting to shake hands
with everyone he passed, riding the little
boy’s scooter, and finally collapsing in a
drunken sleep in somebody’s front
garden!
No, never again with Bolson! I’ve
learnt my lesson. Next time I’ll go drink-
ing with someone I can depend on to
take me home!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man imprisoned for stealing a large quan-
tity of elastic.”
The punishment the crime should fit,
So this unhappy wretch,
Who stole elastic, paid for it
The penalty—a stretch!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is possible that intelligent life may exist
on Mars.” — “John o’ London’s Weekly.”
Then there is a chance of finding
sound Gdvernment somewhere?
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
II. — Abe Tasman, etc.
Actually, Pedro de Quiros’s claim to
have discovered “Austrialia” rests on two
grounds: (1) he named it such, and (2)
reported that “thisse great terraine did
stretche so far as ye optic coulde en-
visage.” The theory has been advanced
that the Spaniard deliberately exag-
gerated in order to land the job of re-
exploring it. This view is sup-
ported by the significant fact that the
Bench of industrial Judges in Lisbon,
after deliberating for four years, had,
coincidentally with Quiros’s return, an-
nounced a rise in the basic wage for
mariners of a quarter of a dollar a
month.
Torres, on the other hand, had the
Spanish nobleman’s supreme contempt
for sordid lucre. Moreover, he wasn’t
even interested in where he was going ;
such trivialities he relegated to that mer-
cenary fellow his pilot. From this it
might be assumed that Torres was bored
by this voyage of discovery which he
had undertaken at his sovereign’s com-
mand. On the contrary, it was a never-
ending delight to him to watch those sea-
men johnnies trying to tie down a bow-
sprit or something in a hurricane and
hang on to their funny-looking straw
hats at the same time. In fact, he used
to bet with himself about it, desisting
only on becoming alarmed at the mount-
ing debt he owed himself.
In any case, he considered that any
place where Mrs. Torres wasn’t was for
him an earthly paradise, and he secretly
hoped that the pilot would get the stars
mixed up and lose his way for a few
years. When the expedition eventually
did return Torres hid his diary with
the charts in a monastery, where it re-
mained for 150 years. This meant that
Captain Cook was forced to do all the
bullocking work of navigation all over
again. For this brilliant stroke of
seventeenth-century diplomacy Torres
had a strait named after him.
With typical sportsmanship the Dutch
explorers waited until the Spaniards had
finished using the Pacific before they
themselves set out - to discover what
Europe was by that time regarding as
a most elusive continent. The reputa-
tion of Holland’s chosen leader was,
however, high, and betting at Lloyd’s
hardened to threes against Tasman find-
ing Australia.
It was in 1644 that Abe set out, armed
with a chart that Captain Jansz had
made 40 years before when he had sailed
around the Gulf of Carpentaria in his
yacht the Duyfken. But Abe struck a
heap of trouble.
For a start, he found that Jansz’s
chart looked like a dog-eared pak-a-pu
ticket, so he asked that a competent car-
tographer be allotted to him for the
voyage. Nobody has ever discovered
whose fault it was, but when the hardy
mariners had all sobered up and were
well on their way he found the Govern-
ment had supplied him with a cartoonist
instead.
Abe had perforce to make the best of
it, so he got the fellow to have a stab at
redrawing Jansz’s chart. Quite a good
j°b he made of it, too, except that he
was prone to embellish his work with
a few fancy scrolls here and there. Also,
he transcribed smudges and all. Apart
also from an untidy habit of making
splashes with his quill in writing in the
place-names he used the more guttural
language of the very Low Countries,
which the navigator found difficult to
understand.
With this inauspicious beginning Tas-
man made for the Solomon Islands.
Following a roughie put over him by
an Amsterdam pawnbroker when he had
to Moscow his binnacle, Abe had be-
come a red-hot anti-Semite, and he de-
termined to conduct a private pogrom.
Landing at the Solomons he found it
peopled, not by exiled Jews as he sup-
posed, but by lusty cannibals. Abe,
who was notoriously windy, dashed back
on board, gave instructions to make for
the Barrier Reef (he being a notable
pink-coral fancier) and then proceeded
to drown the memory of his recent peril
by mopping up several bottles of
schnapps.
The assistant navigator, however, in-
advertently followed one of the smudges
and finished up in the Society Group.
Abe was tempted to land, but he hadn’t
brought a dress suit, so he pushed on,
following the splashes, smudges and
scrolls on the chart until he had traversed
almost the entire Pacific. Getting no-
where, he at last concentrated on the
prominently marked Cape Keerweer,
only to remember later, when he dug
up others, that all old Dutch charts were
liberally splashed with the word Keer-
weer, which means “turn back.”
Turn back Abe did, and ran right into
Van Diemen’s Land, or, as we know it,
Tasmania.
S.W.K.
Poor Staff Work.
Far be it from me to appear disputatious,
Especially during our birthday shivoo ;
That I’m unappreciative or ungracious
Concerning our aldermen’s work is
untrue.
But, dammit all! haven’t our Bumbles
gone batty ?
By washing the grime from our
statues, l mean.
No doubt their desire was to make them
look natty :
The trouble is now that the things CAN
be seen!
BO.


Bradford Cotton.
The ords. in Bradford Cotton,
N.S.W., new or old, offer an at-
tractive yield, with prospects. Divs.
have been paid almost since the
co.’s inception. A further para-
graph appears in these pages.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THF
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP. . .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
The Golden West For Your Holidays
BY SEA
TO
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
14 DAYS OF DELIGHTFUL SEA TRAVEL AND
SIGHTSEEING
Round Trip of 4000 Miles
TRAVEL IN COMFORT BY ONE OF THE LUXURIOUS INTERSTATE
LINERS
M.V. "KANIMBLA"
M.V. "DUNTROON"
M.V. "WESTRALIA"
M.V. ‘‘MANOORA"
SPORTS—DANCING—MUSIC
For particulars, etc., apply
ANY Interstate Steamship Company.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Mount Kasi
Mount Kasi Mines, Ltd., so far as out-
siders are able to judge, should have defi-
nitely shown a profit in 1937, and 1938
opens with hopes of further improve-
ment. For a long time the show, on
Vanua Levu, Fiji, was a puzzle to many,
especially to the sharemarket. The long
and dreary period since formation of the
co. in November, 1933, has seen changes
in estimates, market' prices and manage-
ment. “The ore occurrence belongs to a
class unknown in Australia.” Now, on
recoveries of under 4ydwt., all indications
are that the ore is being made to pay.
Heavy rains held up transport and
plant-erection in 1935, and plant-erection
held up development. Putting up the
mill in the first place was much more
costly than expected, and in 1936 there
were the further cost and delay of recon-
structing the outfit. On plant, buildings
and roads £52,958 had been spent to
31/12 /’36. At that date p. and 1. debit
amounted to £6106, development and
administration £18,359, while £6978 was
owed, and there was £1961 cash in hand.
Finances should have improved since.
There are 396,008 shares of 3s. each
issued, priced at ss. in the market, giving
the mine and effects a value of £99,000.
At last balance day the manager men-
tioned that ore reserves of 110,000 tons
might “be safely accepted,” and that
values, on mill returns, were between
sdwt. and 6dwt. A year before 6.4dwt.
values were suggested, and 18 months
before that there had been sharemarket
references to lOdwt. ore. The shares, of
course, have slumped heavily with the
revision of estimates. They were above
255. once.
The gross value of 110,000 tons going
would be about £260,000 Aus-
tralian. Since the last report some
40,000 tons has been added to reserves,
worth, possibly, a further £90,000 gross.
The sharemarket doesn’t customarily pay
highly for gold in ore ; the assumption
is that prospects of proving further ore-
bodies is an attraction in this case.
In the last report (July) general
manager Peterson was quoted:
The surrounding district is intensely
steep and jagged with sharp peaks and
ridges and deeply depressed ravines.
Mount Kasi lode runs along a ridge which
trends a little west of north The coun-
try rock of basic andesite or basalt adjoin-
ing the lode exhibits the normal sequence
of chemical change. Mineralisation ex-
tends an indefinite distance from the
original fissure, which has been almost en-
tirely obliterated, and payable width is
only determined by assay. The ore is
generally banded, high- and low-grade
ore alternating. A feature of very con-
siderable economic importance in Fijian
deposits is the occurrence of beds of ash
and breccia Many of these ash and
breccia beds adjoining the main fracture
participated in the mineralisation and
have become of considerable economic
value.
Major Peterson also mentioned irregular
manner of development in the past, and
that “the assay plan prepared last
November [1936] proved useless for com-
putation of tonnage and average value.”
Peterson also makes a suggestion that
might have been made by someone
before so much money was spent on
plant:
It is particularly urgent at the present
stage of the mine’s history that exploration
and development at lower levels should
proceed to enable underground mining at
an early date to be carried out conjointly
with opencut operations.
One of the few occasions on which
Peterson’s report makes references to the
future of the mine is in the last paragraph
published:
As in every new field there are no cri-
teria whereby expectation at depth can
be foretold. Guesses are frequently
made, some of which prove right and
others wrong. At Mt. Kasi, where earth
movement has been intense, resulting in a
long fracture, and where mineralisation has
been extensive, he would be a pessimist
who did not hold that circumstances were
favorable both as to continuity of size of
deposit and value.
Peterson’s report is one of the driest
(and that’s a compliment) seen -to date.
After eight months at the mine, he
seemed to be fully awake to the need for
development underground.
Results of milling operations over the
past three completed years compare as
follows:
Milled, Gold, Dwt., Working Net
Dec. Tons. Oz. Ton. Costs. Loss.
1935.. 5,337 4.93 41/8 £3311
1936.. 14,137 4024 5.69 39/6 2795
1937.. 32,622 6901 4.23
Accounts for 1937 are not yet out, and
actual financial results aren’t known, but
there should be no delay like that experi-
enced in 1936. Figures for that year
weren’t published until July, 1937, as
against March, 1936, for the 1935 results.
Tonnages are stepping up gradually ;
in 1937 practically double the previous
term’s throughput was attained. Costs
have been halved. The foregoing results
for 1937 may be improved upon slightly
when a clean-up of the plant is made.
But the real future of Mt. Kasi de-
pends not on its proved ore reserves (if ■
the figure now be taken as 150,000 tons,
then 16s. Bd. a ton net profit would be
necessary to return ss. a share), but on
the unproved extent of the “continuity
of size of deposit and value.” On the
surface the lode has been proved for
nearly 1500 ft.; in the opencut it is 25ft.
wide. A new report should be to hand
soon.
A rickety gait continued on ’Change
last week. The beginning was strong ;
then a severe setback in industrial shares
on the New York sharemarket,
prompted, so the cables have it, by
Roosevelt’s statement that wage-reduc-
tions during a slump are suicidal,
knocked the vim out of support for
market leaders in Australia. On Thurs-
day British Tobacco slipped back to 505.,
Broken Hill Prop, paids fell Is. 6d. (to
625.), Carrier (A/asia) dropped Is. (to
285.) Electro-Zinc ords. Is. sd. (to 485.)
and Pitt, Son and Badgery had its first
sale for some time, at 45s. —down Is. 6d.
Weakness was general throughout the
share-lists, falls greatly outnumbering
rises. Mauri Bros. ords. (B. 26/1/’3B)
rose Is.
Though London prices for base metals
on Wednesday had shown an all-round
steadying, after a slackening spread over
several days, the New York relapse
spread to Barrier stocks and Mt. Lyell.
Norths fell Is. 3d., Souths 9d., Zinc
Corps. Is. 6d. and Lyells 6d. Strangely
(because it is listed in the U.S.A.) Placer,
in the gold section, continued to rise. In
London metals had weakened by Thurs-
day.
* * * *
Placer Development shares staged a
further comeback last week in Sydney.
Following a certain amount of whisper-
ing about “going to £5,” there were sales
as high as 80s., up more than 11s. on
the lowest point touched in 1937, but
still 28s. under the highest quote of that
year. Placer’s last two half-yearly divs.
have been of 60 Canadian cents each. On
the basis of 1 dollar 20 cents a year (say
6s. Aust.), the return to investors at last
week’s price would be about 7.5 p.c.,
requiring 13 years for return of market
price. Hopes are, of course, that new
ventures outside New Guinea will shortly
start contributing to profits—and divi-
dends.
* * * *
Following announcement of the dis-
covery of a new lode in its Croesus Pty.
lease, North Kalgurli shares rose to 225.
last week in Melbourne. Over an ex-
posed width of 53ft. average values go
9dwt. This may prove another valuable
addition to ore reserves. Last time the
position was announced, there was
632,360 tons of positive ore going 7.6dwt.
* * * *
A further record in Adelaide Steam
shares was reached last week. In their
own city 345. 6d. was paid, suggesting a
slightly higher price on other State
’Changes. An interim div. is due in
March, and *an improvement on last
year’s average of 7 p.c. is looked for. It
is customary for the co. to pay an interim
at a lower rate than the final.
* * * *
Some Sydney shareholders are getting
critical about Oil Search’s “overseas
negotiations” and the results. The
annual meeting, held in December, was a
disappointment to a few because little
definite was announced. The whole situa-
tion appears to call for tact and delicacy
on the part of the management, towards
shareholders as well as their fellow-nego-
tiators. The board hasn’t an easy job
to handle. The Bulletin’s last reliable
information received on the subject was
that negotiations were being carried
through with all the speed possible in
the circumstances, and that if a
deal came off present shareholders would
come out of it well. Meantime “actual
figures” are being hallooed from one side
of Pitt-street, Sydney, to the other.
Speculators are restive, as speculators
usually are. The fact that shares in
Papuan Apinaipi, a new show with a
smaller capital, sold at Bs. 2d. last week
on a day when Oil Search scrip was
around 6s. 4d. is hurting the feelings of
some. Whether Apinaipi shares are
really worth that figure doesn’t worry
them much; Apinaipi may eventually
return shareholders much more if it
“strikes it lucky,” but “worth” is some-
times a long way distant from the minds
of speculators in mining and similar
stocks. They, bless them, are more in-
terested in “the market.”
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Carrier (Australasia) shares slumped to
285., after 345. 6d. in December. This repre-
sents the sharpest fall in an industrial stock for
some time. It is a newly-listed issue, but a
pioneer of the air-conditioning process.
Carlton Brewery continued popular, 675.
being paid, up 3s. 6d. on the price at which
the scrip was recommended here. Scrip in
McCracken’s Trust, also a shareholder in
C.U.8., rose 3s. 9d. in a few days.
Silverton Tramway declared an interim div.
of Is. a share. An interim of 9d. and final
of Is. 3d. went out in the preceding term.
Myer ords. weakened a few pence. The
prefs. have dropped sharply after an equally
sudden rise.
Yellow Cabs (B. 19/1/’3B) weakened, a
drop of 7d. a share being recorded from the
Bs. 3d. being paid a few -days previously.
There was talk of the chance of selling some
of the co.’s surplus freeholds, but the main
stimulus to the serin after the holidays seefhs
to have been the imminence of Sydney’s cele-
brations—apparently overrated as to their
profit-bringing possibilities.


Personal and Missing Friends.
FLlNN.—Robert William and Frederick George
(sons of William Flinn, late of 5 Aldersmead,
Beckenham, Kent, and Billingsgate Market, fish
salesman).
Robert William Flinn, presumed to be living
in Australia, and Frederick George Flinn, who
left England in 1919 and was living at Brisbane,
Australia, in 1928, or their next of kin, are
requested to communicate with Moodie, Ran-
dall, Carr and Brown, Solicitors, 2 Basinghall-
avenue, London, E.C.2, when they will hear
of something to their advantage.
House for Sale.
PYMBLE—SYDNEY’S GARDEN SUBURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing 8 fine rooms, billiard or ballroom,
tennis court, sewered, all offices, lawns, etc.
2 GARAGES. 3 BOOSE BOXES.
Standing in two acres of land, with two
frontages and commanding excellent views, this
property should appeal to the Country Gentle-
man or horse lover, being only 12 minutes’
walk to Pymble Station and within \ hour of
City. For further particulars, ’phone or write
O’SULLIVAN & CO., PYMBLE JX2422.
Legal Notice.
THOMAS WALKER DECEASED.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the 30th Novem-
ber 1937 and made in a matter Number 1421
of 1937 intituled “In the Matter of the Trusts
of the Will and Codicil of THOMAS WALKER
late of Yaralla Concord near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales Esquire deceased
Between PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED) and ALFRED CONSETT
STEPHEN Plaintiffs And Egmont Palmer
Walker Defendant” WHEREBY the following
enquiries were directed namely What persons at
the time of the decease of the daughter of the
abovenamed Thomas Walker deceased namely
the eighth day of October 1937 were of his
blood and next-of-kin to him and entitled if he
had died intestate at that time to his personal
Estate under the Statutes for distribution of in-
testate effects and whether any of such per-
sons have since died and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiries
are to send by post prepaid to the undersigned
at the address given below so as to reach
them on or before the 2nd June 1938 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they Will be excluded from
the benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before the Master in Equity Supreme
Court Elizabeth Street Sydney aforesaid on
Thursday the 9th day of June 1938 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims A claimant not
resident in New South Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this ninth day of December, 1937.
FISHER & MACANSH, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Plaintiffs. Address: 70-72 King
Street, Sydney, Australia.
TENDERS.
DONALD MILLER, LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION).
Tenders are hereby invited for the purchase of that improved freehold property
situated 49-59 Logan Road, South B risbane, formerly occupied by Donald Miller, Ltd.,
as Sawmills and Timber Yards.
The property has an area of 2 roods 3 1.64 perches, with a frontage to Logan Road
of approximately 198 feet
Improvements comprise large timber sheds, timber racks, office. Tram service
passes door. The site is suitable for timber yards, factory, storage accommodation.
Rail delivery facilitated by Railway Siding. Inspection arranged.
Address Tenders to the undersigned, marked “Tender Donald Miller, Ltd. (In
Liquidation), ’ on or before 28th February, 1938. Highest or any tender not neces-
sarily accepted.
M, S. HERRING, Liquidator,
C/o Queensland Trustees, Limited,
395 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
EXPLORERS
OF
AUSTRALIA
L
* -
n n
4%
w
w
7
Captain Charles Sturt
A severe drought in New South Wales in 1826-7-8 led to the
discovery of the river Darling.
In 1818, an earlier explorer, Oxley, had been prevented by
swamps from continuing his survey of the Macquarie River.
Governor Darling, thinking that the prolonged drought may
have dried up the swamps, appointed Captain Charles Sturt
to complete Oxley’s work.
Sturt left Sydney in September 1828 and, proceeding past the
basin which Oxley had considered to be the termination of the
Macquarie, followed the course of the river, dry except for
occasional pools, until in February 1829 he reached a river
which he named the Darling.
On a later expedition Sturt followed the Murrumbidgee River
down to its junction with “a great and noble river” which he
named the Murray. Actually it was the same river that the
explorers Hume and Hovell had crossed in 1824. They had
named it the Hume.
Sturt explored the Murray down to its mouth and his
expedition led to the founding of the colony of South
Australia in 1836.
On the occasion of Australia’s 150th Anniversary, the Bank
of New South Wales, the pioneer bank of Australia, honours
Captain Charles Sturt for his magnificent achievements.
9 JL
ESTABLISHED 1817
.57 7
V,. V
\ ///
ft
sms
a
m
0-
322F.1938
A Share-hawking Conviction
Under section 343 of the N. S. Wales
Companies Act, 1936, it is provided that
any person going from house to house
or from place to place offering shares,
etc., for sale may be imprisoned for not
more than six months or fined not more
than £2OO, or both, for a first offence.
Last week ended the first prosecution
in the State under this section. Arnold
Lovell, described as manager, was fined
£lOO and sentenced to three months’ hard
labor at Armidale police court. Spender,
K.C., for the defence, gave notice of
appeal.
Lovell was charged with having, dur-
ing July, August and September of 1937,
contravened section 343 at Murrurundi,
Blandford, Wollomombi, Uralla, Hill-
grove, Armidale, Glen Innes, Llan-
gothlin “and places respectively adjacent
thereto.” “He went about offering
shares,” said Mr. A. G. Hill, who prose-
cuted. Defendant pleaded not guilty.
A detective, in evidence, said he
arrested Lovell in Challis House, Sydney,
and that Lovell had said he didn’t recol-
lect having called on people mentioned
after section 343 had come into opera-
tion.
Stanley Benham, a grazier, said he
had dealt with Lovell for some years. In
July last Lovell had advised a transfer
of shares in Hamiltons (Australasia),
Ltd., and he agreed. Benham added that
he then bought 100 shares in Rayneon
Signs, paying Lovell £160; he had
looked upon Lovell for three or four
years as his adviser in respect of shares,
and had made it clear that Lovell was
welcome at his place.
Andrew Pinkerton, another grazier,
stated that he met Lovell by appoint-
ment at Blandford. Lovell wanted him
to transfer from Hamiltons to Trade
Credits, Ltd., and the transfer was
signed. Lovell also sold him 200 shares
in Rayneon for £320. Cross-examined
by Mr. Spender, witness said he had re-
ceived divs. at the rate of from 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c. from investments, and was
quite satisfied with them.
John Macansh Hudson, of Banna-
weera station, near Uralla, said Lovell
had told him that Hamiltons were amal-
gamating with Trade Credits, and in
order to dispose of Hamiltons shares (as
witness wished) it would be necessary to
transfer from Hamiltons to Trade
Credits. Lovell had obtained a £6OO
loan for him on the security of Hamil-
tons shares.
Clara Isabella Cameron, widow, of
Fassifern, said that in July or August
last Lovell had told her that Hamiltons
were being absorbed by Trade Credits,
and she would not get dividends from
Hamiltons unless she transferred to
Trade Credits. She had received divs.
after the transfer.
Other witnesses gave evidence that
they had transferred from Hamiltons to
Trade Credits on Lovell’s advice.
Cecil M. Wright, of Dyamberin sta-
tion, said Lovell had told him he could
sell enough Hamiltons shares at the price
paid for them by Wright to repay a loan
made by Hamiltons. When Lovell asked
him to sign a transfer he refused. “I told
him the matter was in the hands of
solicitors, and I would do nothing without
advice,” he added. In October, after the
matter had been put in a solicitor’s hands,
the shares in Hamiltons were bought
back from him at 475. 6d.
G. J. P.M., first imposed
six months’ hard labor, later reduced
to three months’. Mr. Spender asked
the magistrate to increase the pecuniary
penalty and remove the stigma of
imprisonment. None of the witnesses,
he said, had anything to complain about.
The P.M., in reply, stated that the wit-
nesses were mostly of a type which
would not know if they had anything to
complain about. “There was something
sinister, in my mind, in the case of
Wright. It seemed to me that his case
was settled to keep him quiet. There
seemed something very wrong about it.”
In passing sentence the P.M. explained
his attitude as follows:
Mere hawking of shares, which might be
quite good ones, is technical. It is obvious
that working behind it all is opportunity
for sharp practice. It is true that the evi-
dence does not disclose any sharp practice
here. The evidence does disclose that over
a short period the defendant operated on a
rather large scale. In that short time his
transactions amounted to thousands of
pounds. For all I know his transactions
might have been perfectly honest, but his
share hawking gave him opportunity for
sharp practice.
The people who have come before me,
although good, honest, worthy people,
appeared to be of an unsuspecting and
trustful type who could be imposed on.
In addition to the penalties, defendant
was ordered to pay £135 costs.
In B. 12/1 /’3B it was stated that
Lancefield’s proved ore “should be ex-
hausted early in 1939.” The directors
last week confirmed this —in slightly dif-
ferent words, but it meant the same thing.
“The ore supply down to No. 13 level
is sufficient until the end of 1938 on a
basis of average monthly output and
values.” The putting into words of what
had been obvious reading in the co.’s
figures for some time caused a sharp col-
lapse in the market for the scrip ; after
sales at around ss. 3d. for some time,
there were dealings as low as 3s. lid.
in Adelaide. At date of last report at
least 400,000 tons below No. 13 level was
suggested to be awaiting development. In
order to decide upon the course of future
development, Dr. Moss has been called
in to make a geological survey down to
the bottom of the boreholes, which
showed the lode to exist 400 ft. vertically
below No. 12 level.
In the six months to Dec. 31 Lance-
field treated 64,779 tons for gold worth
£149,369, against which £70,463 working
exes, was charged, leaving a surplus on
mine account of £78,906, which is £5061
lower than that disclosed for the same
period of 1936-37. The last div. of
Is. 3d. a share (calling for £62,500)
was paid in September. Three months
earlier the co. had surplus liquids of
£87,000. Since then about £25,000 has
been spent on capital account, and if
the working surplus of £78,906 to the end
of December reduces to £58,000 net
there should be something like that sum
now in hand. If grade and tonnage
are maintained up to the end of 1938,
there seems to be about £140,000 liquid
in sight, equal to 2s. lOd. a share, sub-
ject to any unusual calls for plant or
development. Lancefield is obviously an-
other case where value of the shares de-
pends on development at depth. More or
less than the 400,000 tons suggested may
be discovered, and there is a gamble on
the costs and values aspect also. In the
main, it has been a well-handled mine.
Bradford Cotton Mills, N.S.W., in its
last term earned 22.8 p.c. on ord. capital
and paid 15 p.c., including bonus. Ap-
plications for the new issue (53,750 ords.
at par) closed yesterday (Ist). Payment
is to be made in full on application and
allotment. When the new issue is fully
paid, capital account will be £200,250 in
40,000 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 160,250
ords. Distributions at last year’s rate
on the new share-register would call for
nearly as much as was earned last term ;
nevertheless, at least 12} p.c. p.a. to the
ords. seems assured, and there is reason
to believe that later on prospects will
improve. The business was established
about 10 years ago by Bradford experts,
who bought the plant cheaply and kept
capital down. Slump in Australia, by
curtailing textile imports, actually helped
to put the show on its feet. Plant was
written up £21,500 in the term to June,
1937, and that much bonus scrip issued.
The pref. capital should never prove an
embarrassment —it is serviced at a cost
of £2400 a year —and prospects of the
co. are attractive. An interim div. on
the old shares is due this month ; at 124
p.c. p.a. it would reduce the present
market price of 425. 9d. to 41s. 6d., lift-
ing the yield to buyers to a shade over
6 p.c. on a 12} p.c. div. basis, or 7.2 p.c.
if the 2} p.c. bonus is maintained.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Ascot (Melbourne), a former “pony”
course, distributed £2OOO in stakes last
Saturday. The club’s enterprise was re-
warded by a bumper gate. After admis-
sion to the “registered” ranks some years
ago the V.T. and R.A. abolished pony
events and catered for class gallopers,
with continuously gratifying results.
Acceptors for the Chesterfield Handi-
cap included Regular Bachelor (winner
of the 1936 Newmarket), Heros (who
dead-heated with Synagogue in the
Futurity Stakes of 1935), Hostile (a
Cantala Stakes winner) and Evening
Mist (third in the last Doncaster). Who
could conceive of such horses racing at
Ascot before the era of progress set in?
Unfortunately Regular Bachelor didn’t
go to the post. He met with a minor
injury off the course and had to be
scratched. Six sprinters competed for
a £5OO stake.
Gallant little Hostile went out a 6-to-4
favorite, but whipped in the field. When
pulled up the Simeon’s Fort stallion was
obviously in pain. He had slipped the
hamstring over the bone of his near
hock. Hector Kendall, who, though
now director of the Melbourne Zoo, still
acts as vet. for the V.T. and R.A.,
said that three or four months must
elapse before it is known whether Hostile
can race again.
The race went to Evening Mist, backed
from fives down to half those odds.
Tom Bradfield, son of the man who won
Melbourne Cups with Patron, Night
Watch and Backwood, trains Evening
Mist for T. D. and R. V. Gove, the
Indian horse-traders. She had not been
seen in public since her victory in the
Bendigo Cup two months ago, but
comes to hand quickly, and the stable
felt no hesitation in embarking on a
first-up plunge.
Evening Mist likes a longer distance
than six furlongs. She was a pronounced
last for half the journey, but rapidly
drew on the leaders coming to the turn,
and could have beaten Heros by a wider
margin than a length if Harold Badger
had so desired. Miss Burn, a length
farther off, surprised by finishing third.
Heros had shown a glimpse of his best
form by scoring at Epsom on the pre-
vious Wednesday, and the week-end
defeat was no disgrace, seeing that he
conceded Evening Mist 31b. Jack Holt
must have lost hope with his other
veteran, Press Gang; but Heros may
do him credit at the autumn meetings.
The Inverness Handicap, another
£5OO race, went to Red Manfred, who
reached the judge nearly a length in
advance of Con Devon, with Barapic
half a head away. This was an excellent
result for the ringmen, placed horses
starting at 10, 7 and 10 to 1 respectively.
Princess Pam (5 to 4) and Lady Mauve
(threes) went the way of many other
short-priced runners during the after-
noon.
No excuse can be offered for Princess
Pam. This King’s Cup aspirant held
second position on the bend, but the
uphill finish found her out. On the other
hand, Lady Mauve suffered by her jockey
waiting too long for an opening on the
rails in a slow-run race. Red Manfred
(Manfred-Red Shank) was sired in Vic-
toria, but foaled in M.L. He carries the
colors of Mrs. M. S. Curie, a Dominion
racing follower.
Riddle, winner of the Sandhurst Welter,
also would have been racing in M.L.
livery if G. J. Barton had retained pos-
session of the Baralong gelding. As a
yearling Riddle was picked out for Bar-
ton by Peter Riddle, the Randwick
trainer ; hence the name. Reserved by
Harold Skidmore for a late run, Riddle
(7 to 1) beat Skipping Girl (tens) by two
lengths with a lot in hand. Carloca, 5-
to-1 favorite, surrendered third place to
Gold Token. Better riding tactics could
have been adopted with Carloca.
The popular colors of E. E. D. Clarke
were carried into second place by Liana
(Melfort-Lalaguli) in the juvenile handi-
cap. Jim Scobie hasn’t hurried Liana,
for whom 1300gns. was paid as a year-
ling. The dam is by Tressady from a
Cooltrim mare, tracing back to the same
family as Grasspan, Brakpan and Koo-
pan, noted winners turned out by the
late Tom Payten.
Liana would have been nearer than
half a length to Lambent if he had not
handled himself greenly in the first few
furlongs. Lambent (Thracian Black
Powder) started at 20’s and paid £8 Is.
for ss. in the tote win pool. He was
ridden by a novice apprentice, and
apparently Lou Robertson, the trainer,
allowed him to run loose. The dam is
by All Black from Artillerie, twice
winner of the Caulfield Stakes.
Divisions of the Anglesey Trial went
to Jangler and Baryta. The former was
“Must be yours , Joe; they got stripes."
an outsider, 15 to 1 being easily obtain-
able, but Baryta headed the quotes in
his race and, incidentally, was the only
favorite to win during the day. How-
ever, Baryta was in only slightly more
demand than two unplaced competitors,
which shows what a happy hunting-
ground Ascot was for the odds mer-
chants.
Conandale, for whom a Caulfield Cup
victory was considered not impossible
in the spring of 1936, made his debut
as a jumper in the Normanby Trial
Hurdle and romped home at the nice
odds of 10 to 1. No fewer than seven
of the 17 starters failed to finish. Or-
ford, the favorite, was killed and Again
had to be destroyed as the result of
injuries.
4 :Js *
Alan Cooper has been much more suc-
cessful with yearlings bought cheap than
with his very costly Talkings and Malas.
At Randwick on Wednesday he picked
up another race with one of his two-year-
olds —Early Bird on this occasion—after
throwing in for a good win at 9 to 2 and
better. In his exultation he offered W. C.
Douglass 1000 guineas and “a considera-
tion” for Mananui, who was in the Anni-
versary Handicap. Douglass took it
thankfully, and Mananui raced in
Cooper’s colors.
Mananui is a stallion, rising seven, and
his recent showings gave the impression
that he had lost his enthusiasm for the
game. However, in the new colors he
ran his best race of the season, earning
second money (£250) for Cooper. He
made the finish interesting, but was well
beaten by Hope, who, tried for the first
time over a mile and a half, shaped like
a real stayer, and equalled the record for
the race, 2min. 30sec.
Panaster, favorite at 5 to 1 (Hope was
at sixes, Mananui at sevens), was a poor
third. He led into the straight, but was
laboring over the last furlong. It had
been announced that he might not start,
the proposal being to reserve him for the
V.R.C. St. Leger, and the stewards very
properly asked the trainer for an ex-
planation. Panaster is not a bad colt,
and will improve, but he is not yet in
the same class as Hua.
Cooper’s Gilt Edge filly Joan Darling
gave him a good run for his money in
the Adrian Knox Stakes. She set a strong
pace and led into the straight, battling on
very well when tackled by The Jilt and
Sweet Myra. The last-named, who went
out at 14 to 1, won by a length from The
Jilt, Joan Darling being another half a
length away. Sweet Myra is trained by
King for Hunter White, who bred the
filly—she is a daughter of Buoyant
Bachelor-Myra’s Miss. Unlucky ones
were the favorites, High Class (her saddle
slipped) and Lady Cav, who was left at
the post. They are stablemates, being
trained by Young, who used to ride
Gloaming.
Bodley Head, who was The Bulletin’s
choice for the Kurnell Handicap, won in
capital style at 12 to 1, beating the well-
backed Moonray and Might Not, one
of the outsiders. Bodley Head has failed
on other courses, but has proved very
smart over the six-furlongs stretch at
Randwick. A three-year-old, by Bull-
head-Cinnamon Leaf, he seems to require
plenty of racing.
* * , * , * , ,
It has to be regretfully concluded that
Moonray can’t carry weight. At Rose-
hill Booth’s horse had Bst. 91b. in the
Flying Handicap, and on his close second
to Bodley Head at Randwick he looked
a fair thing. He had the same rider,
Billy Cook, who nursed him, as it were,
but he faded and missed a place,
Hamurah (9 to 2), handled by the
apprentice O’Connor, who timed his
run nicely, came fast on the outside and
won easily from Canegrass, Mark
Antony and Moonray. Irak, who had
not sported silk since August, was heavily
backed, but was never dangerous. In
his case, it would seem, brilliant track
trials were not enough; he needed
racing.
There were only four in the Rosehill
Handicap—“fifty pound a neddy,”
quoth a proprietary-club magnate
moodily. Improvement (7 to 4) beat
Shakespeare in an interesting finish. He
secured a lead turning for home, and,
when challenged by Shakespeare com-
mencing the last furlongs, never left the
rails; Shakespeare, for his part, lugged
in and had to be pulled out. Kinsfolk,
after making the pace, tired badly into
third place. Glenarm was outclassed.
Improvement’s stablemate House-
master (3 to 1) completed a profitable
double for Jamieson in the Carlingford
Mile. King had nominated Duke
Caledon and Red Rosebud; he started
the mare, who was made favorite. She
galloped sluggishly throughout, and is
perhaps of little account. Sailmaker
was close to Housemaster at the finish
(Morning Gift was third), but steered so
erratic a course in the straight that if
his number had been hoisted first there
would have been a protest.
The Trial Stakes was a scramble.
Berani, backed from 12 to 1 to sevens,
was kept out of trouble, and in the end
he beat the locally trained Denis by a
head, Let Slip being a close third. Silver
Cap and Cooranga were never out of
difficulties in the big field. Glenwitch’s
fourth was a good trial for one of the
mid-week sprint races.
Rosehill trainer Bill Booth showed
good judgment when he refused 360
guineas for Gilla at the yearling sales.
A well-grown filly by Denis Boy from
Maltgilla, a success on the turf and at
the stud alike, Gilla was leased to a
Walgett pastoralist, F. L. Moore. She
won the first division of the Juvenile at
sixes after 7 to 2 had been taken by fol-
lowers of the Booth stable. Gilla not
only showed speed and determination,
but came home like an old-stager to
hold off Glaucus and Starbine. Brigand
(5 to 4 on), a Brazen colt raced on lease
by Randwick trainer Fred Cush, moved
off slowly in the second division, but
Bartle bustled him along, and he soon
hit the front on the rails. Brigand won
nicely from Glenone, a brother to
Pamelus, and General Monash.
Fernave (3 to 1) had an easy time
in the first division of the Maiden.
She is a sturdy chestnut mare by
Fernklooff from Bavermaine, once a
good performer in the Newcastle
area. The second division proved a soft
snap for Vestal, a Pantheon filly raced
on lease by trainer Peter Riddle. She
cost 250 guineas as a yearling, and is
owned by Dr. C. Findlay. Vestal may
stay; her dam, Vesper Bell, is by Spear-
head.
* * * *
The A.J.C. committee has fallen under
the displeasure of the kind of newspaper
which is fond of telling people they must
do this and mustn’t do that. It is a new
experience for the committee, and if its
feelings were committed to paper the
latter-day history of N.S.W. racing would
be considerably enriched. However, it
has chosen to ignore the rowdy journals,
acting on the advice of the poet:
The noblest answer unto such
Is perfect stillness when they brawl.
One particular demand was that all
stewards’ inquiries must be open to the
press. The organised trainers who have
lots of time for the A.J.C. committee
have caused it to be known that they
don’t want open inquiries.
Two Americans became Australian
tennis champions at Adelaide. Against
Bromwich Budge struck his best form
of the tour, and the youngster could take
only seven games—6-4, 6-2, 6-1. Miss
Bundy had a harder task with Victoria’s
Miss Stevenson, but accomplished it —
6-3, 6-3.
**\ * *
The Australians defeated the English-
men by six points, 30 to 24, in the decid-
ing motor-cycle “test” at Sydney Show-
ground. Wilkinson, the Australian cap-
tain, was unbeaten in his three heats,
and hasn’t been headed in “tests” this
season.
* * * *
N.S.W. rowing men held their cham-
pionship regatta on the Nepean. The
eights went to North Shore, for the first
time since 1894, and Pearce was the
outstanding sculler.
* * * *
“Gabba”: It was generally anticipated
in Queensland that if Tallon missed the
Australian team he would take up his
bed and walk to some other State. The
Queenslander has been offered a good job
in Melbourne, and may accept it.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Wyndham Handicap: Pooley
Bridge ; next, Windmar.
Marine Handicap: Sweet Memo-
ries ; next, Othello.
Newport Welter: Beaustone;
next, Sunraysia.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Glenfield Handicap: Brazandt;
next, Wise Boy or Misnomer.
February Handicap: Shakespeare;
next, Tuckerbox.
Minto Handicap: Wise Boy or
Beau Ercil; next, Mangoola.


\\\
as
m
%
%
i
m
The
m
‘it*
little
m
mi
m
fell
mm ftifl Job
j: * ,M
Less than long, ignored for most of its
life, the Schrader valve plays a vital part as
guardian of the air in your tyre. All it needs to
help it do its job is five minutes of your time once
a week; for regular Schrader-testing is essential if
you are to get the best out of your tyres.
c ve-Iding and
reliability J Schra dev n anic
than tne S ee the vall -
fiang e - on iW^btatort* 6
ScbV «f quality- UD
all gatages-
Brakes, steering, springing,
road-holding, comfort —all these
depend on the cushion of air
between wheels and road, con-
trolled by the Schrader valve.
Trade Mark
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Make an
actual
test...on
YOUR OWN
PROPERTY
with the
Fordson
i
ivx-,
mm
m
m
M& '"i
J%
Wm
Your nearby Fordson Dealer will be glad to let you test the
all-purpose tractor on your own property. Rugged in construc-
tion, simple to operate, the all-purpose Fordson is the most
economical power-plant you can buy for field, belt-work and
haulage. 13,000 owners in Australia have proved Fordson is
a thoroughly sound investment. Test Fordson for yourself—
get in touch with your local dealer now. Easy purchase terms
under Fordson Finance Plan.
14-26 H.P.—THE LOWEST-PRICED TRACTOR PER HORSE-POWER.
The English
TRACTOR
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Comer Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina & Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD.. City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Me.b.
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.. Hay Street,
Perth
rpRD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRAUA PTY. LTD. (I N rop POP AT rp in virmou > S’ 23B , 181'
M.Q. and Rafferty
Humphries v. Jannazzo.
On several counts this scrap at Sydney
Sports Ground was more interesting than
the Carroll-Jannazzo affair. For one
thing, Jannazzo made a more aggressive
showing than he had done against the idol
of Footscray. When he got into the ring
he threw a Catherine-wheel, but the en-
counter wasn’t as lively as that seemed
to portend. Jannazzo was still a stiff,
posing scrapper, giving the impression
that he’d be seen at his best against a
statue. But he wasn’t altogether negative,
as he had been against Carroll. He did
let his right go now and then, and the
punches he landed over the 10 rounds
were of the proper sort of weight.
The result was that Humphries was
forced to make a better showing than
Carroll found necessary, which was one
reason why this was the better fight.
Another was that to win it on points
Humphries was called .on to give a dis-
play of sheer fighting gameness that isn’t
common in the Australian ring these
days.
Weighing lOst. 81b. to Jannazzo’s
lOst. 7flb., and looking otherwise in
equally good fettle, Humphries took his
corner already handicapped by a fright-
fully damaged left eye. Stopping one or
two of Jannazzo’s good rights, the optic
was so damaged by about midway through
the scrap that ref. Harald Baker came
over to the Humphries corner inquiring
if that game customer was in a fit state
to carry on. Thereupon the cry of “Too
right!” and the smell of collodion were
loud in the land. Then the other
Humphries optic was closed —completely
shut, with the lid tight down on it. He
had to fight the last three rounds in that
state, seeing Jannazzo only through a
thin slit of the fearfully damaged bleed-
ing left eye.
There may not have been a lot between
them in points at the finish, but Jannazzo
deserved to lose the fight if for no other
reason than his inability to put Hum-
phries completely out of action in those
last few rounds. He was so far from
doing anything so conclusive that it was
he who was weathering the storm during
a good bit of the tenth. It was a fierce
last round, one of the best of the lot, and
all of them had been pretty good. Jan-
nazzo did his best work early, but
Humphries put up such a good showing
in the fourth that the ringside odds did
a somersault in his favor. Jannazzo got
home a few clinking rights in the sixth,
but Humphries was beating him to the
points in boxing, and by the close of the
seventh it was evident that if anything
now beat the local lad it would be his
eyes. A fraction of them held out as
stated, and Baker held the Humphries
hand aloft.
Jannazzo was practically undamaged ;
the best of Humphries’s hits were left
rips to the body, but neither they nor
the fairly frequent left hooks he got
home to the Jannazzo dial seemed likely
to do any real harm. The whole story
of the scrap was one man fighting only
with his right and the other only with
his left, and, as usually happens in that
sort of fight, the lefter won it.
Humphries’s eyes were in such a state at
the finish that he should be kept out of
the ring for at least three months.
At the Rushcutter Bay address cullud
import Tom Chester (list. IIJJb.) dealt
out what looked like a merciful wallop-
ing to Queenslander Tommy Vaughan
(list. 131 b.). Vaughan went fairly well
for about four rounds, but by that time
Chester’s hefty body punching had the
Bananalander dog-tired. After the eighth
Tom followed Tommy over to his corner
to see how he was weathering the bar-
rage, and thereafter deposited only neces-
sary punches until the twelfth, when he
made a show of going for a knockout.
With Vaughan down once and then out
to it on his feet, Joe Wallis called it a day.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The team for England:
Bradman (captain), McCabe (vice-cap-
tain), Badcock, Barnett, Barnes, Brown,
Chipperfield, Fingleton, F.-Smith, Has-
sett, McCormick, O’Reilly, Waite,
Walker, Ward and White.
Not a bad combination, though pre-
vious teams were stronger in bowling and
fielding. The dropping of Oldfield, Grim-
mett and Gregory seems unwise. Grim-
mett is slowing a bit in the field, but
seems to be bowling as well as ever:
while in England his name alone is worth
many wickets to his side. Ward is apt
to be inaccurate in contrast with the
older man, and Smith also loses control
on occasion.
Oldfield has proved that he is still a
great ’keeper, and his batting this season
has been better than ever. If the
selectors consider it time the younger
men got a chance, they have stultified
their attitude by preferring the 30-year-
old Walker to the 21-year-old Tallon as
second stumper. Walker, ”at best, is a
Saturday-afternoon tail-end club bats-
man, and is inferior as a ’keeper to
Tallon.
Waite won his place with a capital
display of bowling in the S. Aus.-N.S.W.
game in Sydney. His ability to swing
the new ball should stand to him in the
heavier atmosphere of England, and he
is a useful bat. White is an experiment
which a few sticky wickets may justify.
Mollyhanders are deadlier in the Old
Country than in Australia. Hassett was
v. fairly popular pick in Melbourne, and
Barnes has been persistently boomed by
a Sydney newspaperman. Why either
should have been preferred to an all-
iounder like Gregory, who has already
distinguished himself against the English-
men, is a mystery.
The team gathers in Melbourne on
February 25, going to Tassie afterwards
to play a couple of games. A three days’
match in Perth will follow, the side
boarding the Orontes on March 21. A
couple of games will be played in Ire-
land —at Belfast and Dublin. Scotland
will also see the team twice —at Dundee
and Glasgow.
The English programme opens against
Worcester on April 30 and ends with a
match against Leveson-Gower’s team at
Scarborough, beginning September 10.
If necessary for a decision the final Test
at the Oval on August 20 will go on to
a finish.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Australian cricket
tour of England is to be made the excuse
for a general skinning. County grounds
are charging prices unheard of at other
times, and Lord’s leads the van. Grand-
stand seats at the hub of cricket will
cost 15s. 6d. a day, and charges else-
where are in proportion. Manchester,
Notts, Leeds and the Oval have also
rocketed their Test admission fees. Aus-
tralians don’t realise how cheaply they
enjoy their field sports, to say nothing
of racing.
* * * *
The match between N.S.W. and Vic-
toria saw N.S.W. regain the Shield for
the first time since 1932-33. Its eleven
downed the Victorians by 248 on the first
innings ; this gave the State a lead of
seven points over Victoria, and even if
the Cabbage-Gardeners win outright in
Adelaide it cannot affect the result. The
Sydney game was patchy, the bright spots
occurring when batsmen forgot that
the Australian selectors were watching.
Barnes carried his week-end score to
110, a good, though by no means a great,
innings, and veteran Oldfield skipped like
the scriptural mountains to amass 62.
N.S.W. ended with 371. The Victorian


LONGEST USEFUL LIFE
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy 5
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
tyre gauge gives you best value. It is made ydth
precision—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always.
Get a Kismet —the extra cost
comes back to you in longer
useful service.
96
wwmiW i m
m
a
m
m
psraaffi
Calibrated
/ 0-50 pounds,
clearly marked
on wide flat sur-
faces in single
pounds; in neat leather
wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne,
Australia,
Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & ERO- LTD , Eyre Works. Sheffiold.
, England.
o°
&
IT
pS>
"‘silver edge"
BRAKE LININGI
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear, is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, RTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, vie
df
bowling was second-rate, the fielding
rotten.
Victoria’s response was a feeble 123,
Hassett’s 57 being the only batting per-
formance. O’Brien, McCabe and White
took three wickets each. McCabe de-
cided to bat again. He closed at tea
time with the score four for 112 (Barnes
42 n. 0.). For the Victorians (five for
143), Sides (36) and Pearson (51) gave a
cheering exhibition of fast scoring.
**■ * *
“Tenth Slip”: The captaincy in the
South Australia-Queensland match in
Brisbane and the N.S.W.-Victoria game
in Sydney is open to criticism. In each
case the skippers —Bradman in Brisbane
and McCabe in Sydney —had an odds-on
chance of winning the matches outright
by compelling the opposition to follow-
on. Instead they decided to indulge their
men in some perfectly purposeless batting
before allowing the ether side to have a
useless knock. Since, as is alleged, they
desired to give their batsmen another
chance to show before the selectors, one
would have expected them to play out
the whole innings instead of closing when
a few wickets had fallen, since there was
no hope of the opposition being able to
better the result.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The V.C.A. ordered its
beaten team to return to Melbourne im-
mediately after the match with N.S.W.,
though naturally the lads wanted to at-
tend the sesquicent. shivoo. Said the
chairman of the V.C.A., in reply to criti-
cism that it was dashed mean: “The
V.C.A. is not concerned with any Syd-
ney celebrations.” ’Sdeath!
:|: * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland has high hopes
of another Tallon —Don’s brother Bill.
Playing with the Colts against Univer-
sity in grade cricket after the Sheffield
excitement had passed, young Bill took
5 for 34 in great style. This brought his
season’s aggregate for the Colts to 26
wickets at 16.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian tennis championships
dragged on for 10 days or so in Adelaide,
for the most part in weather that over-
seas players voted too torrid. Cramm,
at the top of his form in Melbourne,
was out of touch in Adelaide. He got into
the semi-finals, but only because
McGrath felt the heat even more than
did the German. The Australian began
playing better tennis than he had done for
a couple of years. He dropped the first
set 6-2, then took the next two 6-3, 6-4,
and was leading in the fourth. Then the
heat got him, and the set went to the
German 7-5. The decider was soon over
—6-0 to Cramm.
Australians were in both singles and
doubles finals. Bromwich defeated
Cramm 6-3, 7-5, 6-1, and had to meet
Budge, who had beaten Quist in straight
sets. The Quist-Bromwich combination
had another win over Budge and Mako,
after being down two sets —3-6, 4-6, 6-3,
6-4, 6-1. Cramm and Henkel were the
others, after a four-set win over Craw-
ford and McGrath.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A horrid rumor
floated round last week that Australia
may not send a team to the Davis Cup
this year. The Australian L.T.A. is to
decide the matter to-day. Faint-hearts
are of the opinion that it will be better
to wait until Budge turns professional.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Davis Cup entries close
next Monday. To date there are 19
ready to have a go: Britain, Switzerland,
India, Yugo-etc., Austria, Rumania,
Greece, Czecho-etc., Denmark, Belgium,
Italy, Poland, Netherlands, Hungary,
Germany and France, all in the Euro-
pean zone. Canada, Australia and
Mexico are to shape up in the American
zone, which should mean an easy trot
for the Australians, given decent luck,
The inter-zone final will be played in
the U.S.A. Germany looks like being
Australia’s opponent.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Another of those exas-
perating incidents in which tennis-players
put themselves above the rules occurred
in the doubles championships at Adel-
aide. Clemenger and Harper were play-
ing Cramm and Henkel and looked-
odds-on winners. Suddenly Clemenger
walked off the court with his partner,
leaving the game to the Germans. The
explanation was that he “didn’t want to
beat the Germans in the failing light.”
Is there any other sport in which such
antics are permitted? Fancy Bradman
taking Grimmett off in a Test because
the English found him unplayable, or
Darby Munro pulling up a winning
mount so as to avoid hurting the feel-
ings of Mr. Cook on a bad second!
* • * * *
“Milton”: Queenslanders want very
muc h a national tennis championship
meeting in their State. From a financial
“lt's an Axminster, donated by our club's ladies auxiliary.”
point of view they have a fair claim, for
the Brisbane gates at big tourneys are
always well ahead of those at Adelaide.
The cockroach in the soup is the con-
dition of the stands and the fowlhouse
club building at the association’s ground
—the courts are good enough for any-
thing. To build a new clubhouse and re-
condition the stands, some of which re-
semble an outback woodheap more than
anything else, would cost a thumping lot
of money.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The N.S.W. tennis chiefs
have recommended that the girls’ tennis
team to go to England should be man-
aged by a lady. In the past a man
manager has filled the bill with credit
and renown, and there is a chance that
this may be the case again. Several
names were mentioned as N.S.W. candi-
dates for the job, among them being that
of Mrs. Conway. Such a choice would
be a reward for good service.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Empire Games athletes are to
be seeded on the lines followed in tennis.
This will ensure that stars will be able to
get as far as the semi-finals at least
without risk of being fluked out early
by unknowns, to the great detriment of
the gate. The practice has a professional
savor, and it will be interesting to see the
reaction of the British authorities —a
rabidly amateur lot.
* * * *
“Galle Face”: The Ceylon team for
the Empire Games is the first batch of
athletes from the spicy breezes to in-
vade Australia. There are seven men in
the party: two pole-vaulters and
jumpers, a high-jumper, a sprinter, two
boxers and a swimmer. In charge is
W. H. D. Perera, honorary secretary of
the Ceylon A.A.A. High-jumper H. A.
Perera, holder of the Ceylon record of
6ft. 2iin., is his son.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The Trinidad team
for the Empire Games nearly tripped
over the amateur-status hurdle in Maori-
land. At a showing in Masterton against
a scratch relay team, it was discovered
that in the opposing quartet was an
American professional coach. M.L.
officials were dreadfully shocked and sat
in judgment on the affair. However,
good sense prevailed for once, and the
Trinidaddies were told to get but
to be sure not to do it again. The run
was not a “competitive” one within the
meaning of the Act.
* * * *
“Narque”: The Sydney yelper press
has missed no chance of fanning the
flames of discontent among the Empire
athletes, home-grown and imported. It
headed a vociferous attack on the Games
officials for failing to provide the local
athletes with blazers in honor of the
occasion, though all the visiting teams
were equipped with them. Parsimony on
the part of the officials was charged, but
it appears the Y.P. was, as usual, broad-
casting its yowls on insufficient grounds.
It has not been the custom in the past
to deck the home teams out with blazers.
Recent precedent was the “blazerless-
ness” of the Yankee athletes at the Los
Angeles Olympiad and of the English
team at the London Empire Games.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Kent-Hughes, M.L.A.,
who is manager of the Australian Empire
Games team, is anxious to get the
Canadians and Maorilanders to show in
Melbourne. The Britcfris and Afrikanders
are agreeable ; but Melbourne is on their
way home. The Canucks and All-Blacks
will have to back pedal if they go south,
and this may mean missing steamer
connections.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: The Australian four for
the Empire Games rowing at Penrith on
February 9 has been chosen. Fisher, of
N.S.W., strokes (Kerr, also N.S.W., is
cox), and Freeth, of W.A., is bow.
Fraser, from the same State,, and Elder,
of Victoria, complete the crew.
* * * *
The Sydney Anniversary Day Regatta
people had a fine day and a good breeze
for their 102nd show. There were races
for rowing men and scullers, for ships
boats’ crews and for naval men, for
skiffs and yachts, for mptor-launches,
even for model yachts —45 in all, begin-
ning at ten in the morning and going till
five in the afternoon. The main race of
the day, the Alfred Milson Memorial
Handicap, carrying £25 besides the cup,
and open to all-comers, brought eight
starters from the big yachts. Moon-
beam won from Josephine. They left
off the same mark, sailed for something
like four hours over 16£ nautical miles,
and crossed the line within eight seconds
of each other. Norn, off scratch, was
third —55sec. further back.
* * * *
Sydney saw —or missed seeing—as
thrilling a race as ever took place on th<


of PLEASURE and SAFETY
1
i
i
ii
i
as
j
an
C7ficr/7<Tncl*Baph
Fit new Tubes
when you fit new
Tyres it's safer l
Barnet Glass
“Checkskid’Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST. NON-SKID LIFE
mb9.i4.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd., (Incorporated in Victoria)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Baker s Quality Steelware
Always The Best!
Bloodless Ejnasculator for
Calves and Rams, £3/5/-
Postage 1/ 6 ext'ra.
Baker’s Red Tang Dagging
Shears, 6/9 each.
Postage 9d. extra.
o
Baker’s Camping or Hiker’s
Knife, fitted with two blades,
corkscrew, bottle opener, etc.,
14/6 each.
Baker’s Four-blade Station
Knife, a country favourite,
13/6 each.
Baker’s Seven Pair Scissors in
best quality calf leather case,
62/6.
Chatsworth Cabinet of
Cutlery, best A 1 quality silver-
ware, £B/17/6.
JLJ
Man’s Manicure Set,
fitted with Clippers,
Scissors, File and
Tweezer, 21/6.
d
Baker’s Toe-
nail- Nipper,
6/6 each.
D
Baker’s House-
hold Scissor,
6in., 6/6 each.
fd
Lady’s Stainless Handbag
Knife, 2/9 each.
f
Baker’s Standard fin. Razor,
11/6.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
1888-1938. “Our SOth Year.”
harbor in the second heat of the 18-
footers world championship series. A
light nor’-easter was blowing when the
little boats began. Ten minutes later
they were in the thick of a 50-mile-an-
hour westerly, with rain pelting, the
ferryboats following them lighted and the
eighteens themselves cut out of view.
When it struck them Taree —Brisbane-
built but Sydney-owned —which had
taken the first heat, was leading from
Deewhy (N.S.W.) and the Queenslander
Aberdare. When they came out of it
seven boats had either capsized or been
dismasted, and four others had with-
drawn. Nine boats were left in. Eight,
with canvas down, were sheltering;
Aberdare was sailing under a jib. She
was four minutes ahead as she turned
on the Sow and Pigs to come back into
a light sou’-wester, and she beat across
to the east. Taree turned after her, run-
ning free, and when Aberdare lost the
breeze the Sydney boat passed her and
went ahead. So Taree won by 11
minutes, the success giving her the title.
Aberdare followed, and the Maoriland
Irina ran on into third place. Then
came three boats from N.S.W., a Queens-
lander, another of the N.S.W. bunch
and Riptide (M.L.).
Swinburne sailed Taree splendidly—she
was completed only a month back and
it was her fifth race- —and Vaughan did
everything a skipper could do with Aber-
dare.
* * ■ * *
“Blue Chalk”: A go for the world’s
billiards championship will be on view in
Sydney from February 7-19 between
Walter Lindrum and Clark McConachy.
It is hoped that Joe Davis and at least
one other English topnotcher will come
along later.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: That reference to polo in
Victoria (B. 26/1 /’3B) reminds me that if
English papers are to be believed we
shall see in Australia one of the demi-
gods of the game in the person of Lieut.-
General Sir Henry de Lisle, who has a
string of decorations which would ex-
haust the alphabet. Many Australians
will recall him as a column commander
in South Africa, but he has seen much
service in many lands. As a polo-player
his izzcit is great in India and elsewhere
to-day. When, in the middle of the ’nine-
ties, a mere infantry regiment, the
Durham L. 1., entered for the big Indian
tourneys, the horse soldiers, who scoffed
at the idea of a footslogger being able to
ride, let alone play polo, shrieked with
laughter. Nevertheless, the Durhams,
coached by Captain de Lisle, as he then
was, cleaned up all-comers in 1896-97-98.
A fine rider and a pigsticking champion,
De Lisle, now 74, has had some family
connection with Australia. Far back in
the last century his dad was a notable
gentleman-rider during a longish stay in
this country.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The new polo rule re-
quiring two umpires and a referee (B.
26/1/’3B) recalls the old days of the
Rugby Union. In those days there were
two umps. and a ref. The umps. carried
flags, and the whistle was only heard
when the ref. confirmed the verdict of
the flagmen with a solo on it. Later the
flag-bearing umpires were relegated to the
sidelines, and the referee took the field
alone.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Of late there has
been a move to induce the British Rugby
Unions to recognise a system of “broken-
time” payment of players. It is certainly
hard that a chap required for an inter-
national game should have to forfeit his
pay during absence, but some employers
make a rule of doing it. But there is no
chance of the Unions consenting. Their
attitude is that if a player wants to be
paid he can go to the North of England
League clubs. As it is, every season sees
a number of crack Union players* notably
from the Welsh and Midland industrial
areas, go to the professional body. It
was this broken-time trouble that brought
the Rugby League—then known as the
Northern Union —into being in Lanca-
shire and Yorkshire and introduced open
professionalism to Rugby.
* * # *
“Up the Rebels”: The revolting Kan-
garoos have added three more wins over
French teams to their list —Catalans were
beaten 53-2, France by 16-11 and a
Basque side by 33-8 —but against the
South of France they went down 15-nil.
They definitely leave England on Feb-
ruary 12. Meanwhile an atmosphere of
brimstone prevails at League headquarters
in Sydney.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Life of Emile Zola”
Paul Muni, Joseph Schildkraut.
When Hoyts opened the Century
Theatre, Sydney, last week and wet the
baby’s head with this offering, present
film-taster expected that the life and
character of Zola would enable Muni
to give, perhaps, an even better perform-
ance than in the “Pasteur” or “Good
Earth” films, but so much material had
been held back that Zola’s character and
rise to eminence figure in the film only
as a flimsy sketch. That Muni does make
something of it is due to nothing but his
acting.
Zola, poverty-stricken and seeking
relief from the cold by stuffing cloth into
the brokyi windows of his attic, is a
promising beginning, followed effectively
by rejection of a clerkship to pursue his
rebellious literary leanings. Next, and
disappointingly in brief, he is culling his
education from the streets of Paris, still
destitute, until publication of Nana (actu-
ally it was U Assommoir, and several pre-
vious books had brought him measurable
success) carries him to fame.
So far, pretty good; but from here
on the real study of Zola falls to pieces.
A big jump lands on the novelist as a
powerful reformer and a more pro-
digious leap carries to him as a disciple
of comfortable living.
As the most interesting phases of his
life, covering 36 years, during which
time he wrote mos; of .his books and
hacked for himself the major part of his
niche in posterity, these should have
taken at least 90 per cent, of the film.
Instead, they leave the impression of
being merely a hurried prelude to the
main business of the film, which, as it
turns out, isn’t the life of Zola at all.
The main business is the Dreyfus case.
Naturally, there being a close affinity
between the two, that case demands fairly
elaborate exposition; but, presented as
Zola’s effect on it instead of its effect on
him, and strung over nearly half the
film, it becomes an enigma of production.
It is as if the makers of the film started
off aware of an opportunity to purvey
a little subtle Jewish propaganda, but
finished by going the whole hog and giv-
ing another detailed airing to the Dreyfus
case.
All that, however, has nothing to do
with acting, direction and superficial en-
tertainment value of the film. These are
excellent; it should appeal to most film-
goers as topnotch entertainment. The
fine atmosphere of appropriate settings
and backgrounds, masterly direction and
solid characterisation compensate for the
more involved shortcomings.
From every role he plays Muni seems
to gain some experience to be utilised in
each successive film, and in this offering,
despite restrictions, he gives an outstand-
ing performance. As usual his own per-
sonality is lost in that of the character
he portrays.
His quick, eager search for truth, his
excitement with the success of Nana, his
reading of the J’Accuse denunciation, his
cynical silence during the trial for libel
and his oration to the jury are samples
of the screen’s finest dramatic acting.
As Dreyfus, Schildkraut has the part
and time to attract plenty of sympathy,
and without stealing Hardwicke’s thunder
he does it very well. Morris Carnov-
sky’s Anatole France has a delightful
sincerity and rises to some height during
his speech at Zola’s funeral. Others who
fit nicely into their parts are Gale Son-
dergaard, Donald Crisp, Robert Barrat
and Vladimir Sokoloff.
Summed up, the film, while falling
short of both the title and the strongest
member of its cast, is still soundly acted
and very powerful drama.
“Firefly”
Jeanette MacDonald and Allan Jones.
This M.-G.-M. revival of Friml’s tune-
ful operetta moves along so pleasantly
and maintains its high roihantic mood so
consistently that one wonders for a while
why the stage show wasn’t a better
stayer.
It soon becomes apparent that the
screen version, though lacking color and
the third dimension, is very much better
done than ahy behind-the-footlights show
could hope to be. Three minutes of
cleverly diversified montage give a clear
impression of the popularity of King
Ferdinand of Spain ; later a similar rapid
summary sketches Wellington’s Peninsu-
lar campaign.
The story, of course, is the trite sort
of stuff most operettas are built of. A
Spanish spy (Miss MacDonald) and a
French intelligence officer (Jones) match
wits in a flirtation as light as a feather
and lose their hearts. Jones has all the
vocal plums. He sings his gay serenade
astride a horse, the lady in a coach ; the
accompaniment a guitar and a tin whistle
(very much ad lib.) by the driver and
his impish little son. ,
Miss MacDonald, who looks at each
appearance more and more like Norman
Lindsay’s favorite blonde come to life,
survives triumphantly a test on which
most of the stage prima ; donnas came to
grief—she bursts.into song while watch-
Leo Carrillo, Jean Parker, Robert Barrat in “The Barrier,” at the Prince Edward,
Sydney.
ing through the bars of her prison cell
the awful death (as she supposes) of her
lover.
But, of course, all ends happily.
Warren William swaggers effectively as
General Rougemont, and Douglas Dum-
brille for once has a benevolent role as
the Marquis de Melito. A blotch on an
otherwise excellent presentation is the
incredible nose of the Iron Duke.
But it’s as good a musical show as
M.-G.-M. ever put out, and the two hours
or s'o allotted to it pass swiftly. Pre-
viewed at M.-G.-M. Theatrette, Sydney.
“Trader Horn”
Harry Carey.
Considering its seven years in moth-
balls, this film comes out remarkably
fresh and compares well with several
current offerings, The yarn of two men
who pushed into an African jungle
searching for a white woman brought up
native is more feasible than are most
film plots.
Carey and his native offsider Mutia
give fair straight performances. Renaldo
and Edwina Booth, supplying the lurv
interest, show some rather accentuated
emotions without detracting from the
highlights of the show, which are the
natives and animals.
Lions, crocodiles, elephants, leopards
and others all find their places, and a
spectacular charge by a couple of rhinos,
makes a seat at Sydney Capitol seem
worth occupying before this show takes
its leave.
“The Barrier ”
Leo Carrillo, Jean Parker.
Seen at Sydney Prince Edward, this
version of Rex Beach’s novel turns out
to be a weary stretch of lurv between a
halfbreed goil and a solja.
Newspaper ads. mentioned something
about “rousing action,” “surging gold-
mad days” and “red-blooded thrills,” but
all present film-taster observed in that
line was a half-hearted stoush or two
and an unimpressive mob scene which
might have resulted in a lynching if
“dashing” Mr. Ellison had not inter-
fered in his presumably hellfire manner.
, Apparently Miss Parker’s job is to
portray a simple, wide-eyed maiden of
the woodlands. She does it. Her cheild-
like communing in the wilderness, her
delightful nineteen-year-old innocence
when Mr. Ellison tries to suggest the
compromising nature of a night out in
the bush together, and her general in-
ability to show a grain of intelligence are
a good recipe for a pain in the neck.
With her wet tram-ticket aspect and
Ellison’s starchiness the lurv interest rises
almost to the level of flapper sobstuff.
Carrillo and Barrat get away promis-
ingly, but Carrillo strays into large oozes
of sentimentality, and Barrat plods
through the sort of heavy silent-sorrowing
stuff that held chewing-gum motionless
in the days of silents. Apart from occa-
sional f.a.q. scenic shots, Andy Clyde’s
whimsicality and Kruger’s villainy are
about the only highlights.
“Love on Toast.”
This support at Sydney Prince Edward
being an attempted comedy, there is
some justification for the story.
With the sales goil of a canned-foods
organisation running a publicity stunt
to find a “Mr. Manhattan” and a “Miss
Brooklyn,” with the intention of splic-
ing the poor goofs, and finishing by her-
self going into a clinch with the male
half of the winners, there is some
material for farce.
That, however, is beleaguered on all
sides with timeworn gags and antiquated
slapstick: it ends in a grand orgy of pie-
throwing and soda-squirting.
The Kennedys.
Lauri Kennedy, ’cellist, and his wife
Dorothy Kennedy, a pianist who holds
high rank as an accompanist, charmed
an audience at the Assembly Hall, Syd-
ney, with some excellent music.
Main item was the Brahms F Major
Sonata, played with all the ardor and
intensity that remarkable work demands.
In contrast to this powerful work were
the daintiness of the Boccherini B Flat
Concerto and the delicate filigree of
Beethoven’s Mozart Variations. Humid-
ity was high, and Mr. Kennedy had
trouble in keeping his instrument in tune,
but despite this handicap he made a
very good impression.
Opera for 1938.
It seems well on the cards that 1938
will be a bumper musical year. If the
J.C.W. project of another grand opera
season comes to fruition the beaker is
liable to run over.
Nevin Tait, who marshalled the great
1924 and greater 1928 offensives of the
Williamson-Melba seasons, is fossicking
among the agencies of London and the
Continent, particularly Milan, for foreign
talent, and the local field is being pros-
pected for choruses. The long hiatus in
opera is held to have produced a scarcity
of local chorus singers, and leads may
have to be imported ; but there is certain
to be a number of eminent Australian
singers in the band of 20 principals.
Feelers are out for Governmental aid,
the figure mentioned being a £15,000
guarantee. The S.A. Government gave a
seats guarantee for the 1928 season and
made a profit out of it, but on previous
occasions the Governments turned a deaf
ear on opera entrepreneurs.
The Taits were reported to have lost
heavily on their most successful season,
when Melba and other world-famous
vocalists were in the company, and Fuller
expended £22,000 on the cast and £1500
on the orchestra before the curtain went
up on his 1934 season in Melbourne.
Nothing daunted, Fuller engaged on the
supposedly hazardous experiment of swap-
ping his Italian neddy for a Wagnerian
charger in the middle of the season. The
eight rehearsals for “Valkyrie” consumed
another £450, but Fuller was rewarded
with full houses. Whether he made up
his financial losses is not recorded, but
he gained in public prestige, for the
Wagner performances were voted an
artistic triumph, to which Austral, who is
a household word in Berlin and would
have been wasted on Italian opera, made
the largest contribution.
Conductor (Imp.).
Dapper Malcolm Sargent is likely to
be a familiar figure in concert rostrums
in most parts of Australia this year, and
his dynamic conducting may be available
for three years thereafter.
A.B.C. chiefs are considering engaging
the English conductor for four years,
and his job will be to bring all the sym-
phony orchestras of all the Australian
States up to British broadcasting stan-
dards—some of them are not far off it.
His first objective will be to guide Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra and the
Philharmonic through their annual Easter
frenzy. The oratorio to be presented has
not yet been selected, but it will not be
the customary “Elijah.”
New Australian Music.
From Allan and Co. come copies of
old bush ditties collated and revised by
A. B. Paterson and set to “more or less
appropriate tunes” by Louis Lavater.
Five are grouped in. one book, “Swag-
man’s Treasure” (2s. 6d.), and one, “Trav’-
lin’ Down the Castlereagh” (2s. 6d.),
separately. Best of the bunch musically,
because the simplest, is “The Stockman’s
Last Bed” in the group volume.
Albert and Sons send a sesquicentenary
piece — “The Song of Sydney” (2s.)
-'-words and music by Evelyn Grieg.
Brightly scored, in march-time, with
some dignity in the refrain, this is the
best Sydney song since Edith Harrhy’s
clever setting of Dr. Souter’s “A Song
of Sydney Town.”
The Australian Art Show.
Seven big rooms at the Sydney
National Gallery full of work by Aus-
tralians —801 pictures, 25 sculptures.
That’s the Gallery’s contribution to the
sesquicentenary rounding-up of achieve-
ments, and it makes a show of which
Australia ought to be very proud.
English and Australian public galleries
have been liberally drawn upon ; private
owners have lent generously. Though,
of course, there may be some important
omissions, the general impression given
to at least one critic was that every really
notable picture painted in Australia or
by an Australian in the last 50 years
had been caught in the net.
They are well hung, and (on a bright
sunny morning, anyhow) well lit. Pic-
tures which have been on this same gal-
lery’s walls for years and years sparkle
with renewed vigor in their cleverly-
arranged new environment. Details and
beauties hitherto lost are brought to light.
It can be discovered now, for instance,
that the teamster in Lambert’s “Across
the Blacksoil Plains” is none other than
George himself —there couldn’t be two
such jaunty beards in Australia at one
time.
It is a splendid, steadfastly-marching
pageant of sound, sham-free painting
that unrolls itself in room after room.


Whether we’re making progress or not
it remains a fact that the oldsters —Julian
Ashton, Tom Roberts, Streeton in his
glad, confident morning, Lister-Lister in
the days when he painted so well that
he astonished himself, Bunny, Mel-
drum, Lambert, Longstaff, Commons,
Condor, Lawson Balfour, Fullwood,
Quinn, Muir Auld, Lever Haley, Hilder,
Heysen, Gruner, Albert Collins, Bernard
Hall, G. V. Mann, Penleigh Boyd, Fred
Leist, J. S. Watkins, Charles Bryant and
others —are represented by works that
positively make the backbone of the
show, despite the brilliant talents of the
painters of a later generation.
Of course more recent luminaries
haven’t been neglected. The best of
Hanke is there; Harold Herbert, J. R.
Jackson, the later Norman Carter and
Syd Long, Douglas Dundas, Kenneth
Macqueen, Eldershaw, Wakelin, Albert
Sherman, E. A. Harvey, Erik Langker,
Max Ragless, Normand Baker, Dobell,
Lance Solomon, Herbert Gallop, Mar-
garet Preston, Mary Edwards and E.
Buckmaster contribute to a history-mak-
ing as well as a history-celebrating exhi-
bition.
The show has its Bulletin flavor.
“Hop,” Phil May, D. H. Souter, B. E.
Minns, Norman and Percy Lindsay,
Frank P. Mahoney and Percy Leason
are in the parade.
A gallery of “early historical works”
includes work by Conrad Martens, J. S.
Prout, Wainwright the poisoner, T. Brock,
John Webber (Cook’s picture-maker), J.
Glover and others now forgotten, and is
more of archaeological than of artistic in-
terest. Still, it serves to substantiate the
title on the programme—“150 Years of
Australian Art.”
Sydney’s Gala Dress.
For the sesquicentenary occasion Syd-
ney, for once in a way, remembered that
it was a leading city of the Empire, and
dressed itself with some dignity. Street
decorations were, to a much greater
extent than ever before, planned and
organised.
The planners had an asset to take
advantage of and a handicap to over-
come —asset, the prevalence of sandstone
in city architecture, providing a warm,
Plaque by Maurice Helsen, Neville Bunning and Edmund
Harvey, part of the decorations of Queen Victoria Markets,
Sydney.
quiet background for gay hues; handi-
cap, the swearing proclivities of the red,
white and blue of the national flag.
It’s impossible to keep the so-called
“Union Jack” out of the picture (a
“jack,” of course, is a miniature flag
used to decorate bowsprits, and the term
is absurd when applied to the half-acre
banners city establishments hang out),
and the only thing to be done was to
drown one of its colors by juxtaposition
of superior masses of one or two of the
hues, combined with others having a
neutralising tendency.
Hence Macquarie-
street (which some-
body once claimed
as “the finest street
in Australia”) blazed
with blue and
yellow; Pitt-street,
in various sections,
showed orange and
white, blue and
white, red and
white; Elizabeth-
street, red and
green ; Martin-place
and Queen’s-square,
red and blue. Park-
street went all Span-
ish with red, yellow
and black ; Market-
street flaunted yellow
and blue ; William-
street, red and
yellow and yellow
and green. George-
street seems to have
proved a bit un-
manageable, owing
to the zeal of busi-
ness firms, whose
e 1 a b orate displays
didn’t always chime
with the official
scheme, but it spent
a lot of money, and
most of it to good
effect. On Queen
Victoria Markets the County Council
must have spent thousands, a feature of
its fa?ade being a series of huge histori-
cal plaques by three young Sydney sculp-
tors. One of these is reproduced here.
Sydney has never looked gayer, and
its great thoroughfares wore their finely
proudly. It almost seemed that the city had
at last discovered that there is such a
thing as civic pride.
A.B.C. Programmes.
A. Major”: In the case of Bor-
gioli’s second broadcasting engagement
it was given out that he was to sing in
Strauss’s “Gipsy Baron,” with a com-
plete cast. When the day arrived the
dailies indicated that a switch had
been made to the first act of “Don Gio-
vanni.” The announcer gave the cast,
but it was shot off rapidly, and I, for
one, didn’t get it. There are two tenors
in Mozart’s opera, and whether one or
the other was the renowned Italian I still
can’t guess.
B.B.C. issues programmes weekly, and
sticks to them. If A.B.C. can’t do that
i: should at least buy a little newspaper
advertising space to inform its listeners
in detail of the nature of the changes
it makes.
Australian Homes Exhibition .
Arranged by the Forestry Commission
ol' N. S. Wales, this show of house-
models, plans, furniture and building ap-
plications of Australian timbers deals
only with wooden houses, and is a gal-
lant attempt to wean the people of the
State from their affection for bricks and
concrete.
If architects’ estimates can be relied
on, the bungalow competition has evolved
some remarkably good bargains. The
prize-winning design, estimated to cost
£900, looks like £2500 worth at least.
The timber show is stimulating. Most
of the woods are a bit pricy, though
they’re Australian-grown, but the very
cheapest timber available to builders,
cypress pine, is shown to possess strong
decorative qualities, and to be susceptible
to a surprising variety of treatments.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
An heirloom veil provided the “some-
thing old” at the wedding of the A. E.
Nathans’ daughter Hazel to Jona Masel,
of Mt. Lawley, at the Synagogue. Heavy
white satin, heart-shaped of bodice and
be-buttoned from neck to hem, was
veiled with ancestral lace caught with
a topknot of camellias. Deborah Nathan
and Eva and Vida Masel formed the
bridal retinue in early-Victorian froths
of stiff white net threaded with silver,
. their corselet belts fashioned of miniature
pink-velvet flowerets, and streamers to
match flew from their large white
picture-headgear. Toastings were at
Co vent Garden, and Maoriland will see
the ’moon rise.
A garden party with an Oriental air
was that given at The Bend of the Road,
Crawley, by Mrs. Redvers Bate in honor
of Justice Moseley, who is holidaying
here from Ceylon. Flowering shrubs
and gay flower-beds gleamed under
floodlighting, tall poplars were festooned
with twinkling fairy lights, and Chinese
lanterns swung gently from the trees.
The softly-lit fountain splashed into the
fish-pond, and burning incense and
huge bowls of almond blossom decorated
the loggia where the Orientally-garbed
guests danced. Chop suey and other
exotic dishes were substituted for the
conventional supper menu.
Pauline Woodrofle has been a very
much be-feted bride-to-be. Her two
fair ’maids, Joan Pead and Joy Ruse,
ensconced her in the chair of honor
at a tea-drinking at the Adelphi;
sister-in-law Mrs. Keith Woodroffe
poured sundowners at her West Perth
home, and another sister-in-law, Mrs.
Leighton Woodroffe, brought out the
cocktail-shakers for a Sunday morning
pre-luncheon drink. Margot and Poppy
Davies, who have tripped to town from
Gnowangerup for the wedding, presided
at a luncheon foregathering at the
Green Gate, and Nancy Ward-Hughes
set out bridge tables at her home in
Peppermint Grove.
St. Mary’s was the rendezvous for
the marriage of Kim, youngest chick
of Mrs. J. Saunders, of West Perth, to
David McCulloch, of Narrogin. The
bride dripped pink tiger-lilies over cowled
magnolia-satin draperies, with a plain
Juliet cap of satin holding in place the
billowing tulle veil. Hydrangeas and
delphiniums mingled in the bouquets of
the ’maids, Betty Cuthbert and Merle
Hand, who swayed trained mauve-
trimmed pleatings of delphinium-blue
ninon over pink taffetas and matched
the buds of their topknots with their
trailing bouquets. The Palace Hotel
housed the after-rejoicings.
An engagement of widespread interest
is that of Kit Sherlock, known in musical
circles as a pianist, to Canon Parry,
erstwhile head of Christ Church
Grammar School and a son of the
late Bishop Parry. Kit’s future paro-
chial duties will be in the Mt. Lawley
diocese.
Two very youthful betrothals are those
of the Charles Diamonds’ youngest lass,
Lorraine, to Eric de Channet, of Java,
and Mrs. T. A. L. Davy’s eldest girl,
Diana, to Peter Angus Thomson, who
farms at Moora.
The ages of the guests ranged from
early teens to the nineties at the ninety-
second birthday celebration of Westra-
lian-born Mrs. Kate Samson. Daughter-
in-law Mrs. Jack Samson threw open
her Fremantle home and provided a
unique birthday cake consisting of
92 individual beautifully-decked cakes,
each with its tiny candle. The guest
of honor wittily responded to the toast-
ings and was almost snowed-under with
floral birthday greetings.
The Gerry Weldon pair have visitors
from India for a few weeks. Lady
Birley, who used to be Evelyn Clifton,
a sister of Mrs. Weldon, has arrived
with small son en route to England,
where her daughter is at school. Sir
Frank Birley received his knighthood at
the Coronation for social and political
services in India.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Tennis tournaments have constituted
Adelaide’s chief interest lately, though
attendances have not been helped by the
charge (regarded as terrific in this city)
of 7s. for seats in the huge stand recently
erected opposite the members’ stand.
Lieut.-Governor Murray put in an ap-
pearance at the most important game.
The Jack Crawfords are the guests of the
Geoffrey Kyffin Thomases.
The Thomas family, including son
Bob and pretty Mary, entertained all the
visiting tennis-players, both international
and inter-State, with some local lights
thrown in, at a cocktail party. Cramm,
the German star performer, was one of
the guests.
The eight schoolgirl tennis-players
from Queensland have been having the
time of their young lives. They were
accorded a reception at the Town Hall.
The juvenile captain of the team pre-
sented Lord Mayor Barrett with a ruler
inlaid with Queensland woods. In re-
turn the girls asked Mr. Barrett to auto-
graph their books.
At Christ Church, North Adelaide,
Muriel, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Philip Marks, of Fitzroy, married
Robert, only son of Mr. and Mrs. James
Matthews, of Medindie. The bride’s
ensemble of French blue had a halo hat
to match. The bride is a member of the
Adelaide Repertory Soc., and has fre-
quently played leading roles. The bride-
groom is also an amateur actor of some
merit.
The show of the Coronation robes
and regalia at the Exhibition Building
has been a centre of attraction lately.
The trains are fastened on to dummy
figures without heads, which rather spoils
the effect. The outstanding feature is the
exquisite hand embroidery on the train
worn by the Queen.
Judith von Zuilecom gave a cocktail
party at the home of her mother,
Glenelg, when she entertained about 30
friends. Miss von Zuilecom is engaged
to Judge Napier’s eldest son, Bob.
Adelaide is getting a little reflected
glory out of the Sydney celebrations, as
some of the distinguished overseas
visitors drop in en route. There was
a morning-tea party at Parliament House
to the women travellers in the Oronsay,
among them Lady Stamp and Lady
Morris-Jones, whose husband had dis-
embarked at Perth and come over by
train to join the Oronsay here. After
tea the visitors motored to Mount
Osmond Country Club for luncheon;
then, after a drive through the hills, to
Carminnow, Langdon Bonython’s beauti-
ful country home, where Lavington
Bonython and his lady did the honors.
The visitors then motored to Glenelg,
where they were the guests of the Hudd
lady at a cocktail party before depart-
ing by car for the Outer Harbor to
continue their journey to Sydney.
Two Adelaide medicoes and their
wives will leave for England via the
U.S.A. in the Monterey—Dr. W. C. T.
Upton, of Toorak Gardens, and Dr.
Keith Pavy, of Naracoorte. Mrs. Pavy
is the daughter of Mrs. C. R. J. Glover,
of North Adelaide, who provided after-
noon-tea to give Mrs. Pavy an oppor-
tunity of saying farewell to her numer-
ous friends.
Mr. and Mrs. N. M. Kater (Margot
Milne, of Glenelg, that was), of Warren,
N. S. Wales, arrived from Westralia in
their own ’plane. They were returning
home after having spent several months
in Africa, big-game shooting. They
were the guests of the John Hawkers
at Clare.
Adelaide University is forming, at the
instigation of its geological explorer
Madigan, a group on the lines of the
McCoy Society in Victoria. It will bear
the name of Ralph Tate, who was Prof,
of Natural Science at Adelaide from its
foundation in 1875 till 1901. Amateur
enthusiasts are warned not to expect
picnics, but to come prepared for hard
work and possible discomfort. A start
has been made at a little-known cave
on the lower Murray.
TASMANIA.
His Ex. and Lady Clark went to Syd-
ney in the Zealandia for the sesqui-
centenary doings. Hobart’s Mayor and
Mayoress were passengers in the same
ship with the same object.
The visit of the flying-ship Centaurus
was a thrill shared by thousands who
went out to the Domain, where a perfect
view of her arrival and taking off, with
the official party on board, was obtained.
Many stayed on to watch the return
after the flight. Skipper Burgess and his
officers were dined at Government
House, and a luncheon was given at
Flighfield Hall in their honor. .
Major and Mrs. Colin Perkins enter-
tained the riflemen from the Cold Coun-
try and a big posse of friends at a sherry
party at their house in Fitzroy-place.
Mrs. Perkins, daughter Pat and sister-in-
law Miss R. Perkins helped do the
honors. The hostess wore a black tunic
frock with rich Oriental bordering.
Mrs. Mac Urquhart and her sisters,
the two Nicholls girls, finding them-
selves all together under the parental
roof for the moment, gave a sherry
party to a long list of guests. Mrs.
Urquhart will be in the Speck for some
weeks.
Captain and Mrs. F. Bethune served
sherry and savories in their house in
Garden-crescent. The two girls, Mary
and Helen, helped in the entertaining.
Guests filled hall, sitting- and dining-
rooms. Massed hydrangeas, pink and
blue, and other flowers, chiefly in the
same shades, made decoration.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme (Melb.) and her
youngest girl, Veronica, are paying a visit
to Mrs. Syme’s daughter and son-in-law,
Dr. and Mrs. Max Clemons.
Clem Barnard, one of the North’s
most promising young athletes, will be
the leader of the Tasmanian group of
girls at the sesquicentenary youth festi-
val in Sydney.
H. B. Richard has heard that the Nat.
Theatre people in Melbourne are going
to produce his play, “No Greater Glory,”
shortly, and the Sydney Players also in-
tend including it in their 1938 pro-
gramme. Good for the Hobart Rep.
Soc., which has worked its way to suc-
cess through heavy odds.
Berenice O’Brien, formerly of Hobart
and also Launceston, where she taught
the young idea to speak good English,
and was a favorite in the Players’ per-
formances, sends word of her engage-
ment, in Melbourne, to H. G. Craig.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
df
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
IhcA ieAied. and p/txwed
For samples and illus. folder post
free write to Dept. 5, Box 3281
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloomsbury Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatres
and Shops. 250 Rooms, H. &C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/- per day. Ulus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At 8.45 last Wednesday morning, Syd-
ney, or as much of it as could pack along
the shores of Farm Cove, saw the re-
enactment of Captain Arthur Phillip’s
annexation of a continent. The sun
shone ; the harbor waters rippled about
the gallant little Supply, so brave in its
red, yellow and deep-blue paint. Red-
coated marines of the period were on
guard. Drums beat a tattoo. The abo-
rigines, startled and wondering, retreated,
timid of the unknown. Farm Cove was
lively with flag-bedizened holiday craft.
As close to the Supply as the busy and
alert water police would allow they gently
rocked. Here were the shining, spick-and-
span pinnaces from the visiting warships:
Italy, France, Holland, America. Their
officers stepped on to the Government
launch Premier, which was crusted with
officialdom. Launches carrying the Gov-
ernor-General, the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernor, Lord Wakehurst, and all the visit-
ing vice-regals kept popping along.
“God Save the King,” flags, cheers. Out
flew the British flag. The toast of King
George 111. was drunk. Australia had
become our heritage.
Thousands who had been gathering
in the Domain since early morning to
see the landing ceremony dashed across
the Domain to Macquarie-street to watch
the procession of floats that rejoiced in
the title of March to Nationhood. But
truth must be told ; at half past eight
there were plenty of vantage points along
the barriers in Macquarie-street, and
some of the eager gazers who had bought
seats in the doorways of flat buildings
must have wondered if a soapbox bought
for a bob might not have served the
purpose. The soapbox, incidentally,
varied in price. Some were bought at a
shilling near the Quay, but along the
procession route as much as five bob was
demanded.
The Captain Cook and Governor
Phillip floats Were inspiring ; but some-
how the aborigines’ float most deeply
stirred the lines of onlookers. There,
beside their wurlie, the aborigines and
their gins cooked a possum. Every
period of the pictorial floats was pre-
ceded by an announcement float. These
were green and had a quiet simplicity
of outline that was almost Greek. Be-
tween each decade or so walked a band
dressed to period. Each period, too, had
its flower float, and the first of these
was the wattle.
Against a great fan of the golden
bloom, three belles in the full-flow-
ing frocks of the times smiled at
their cavaliers in the regimentals of the
N.S.W. Corps. Here came a presen-
tation of the Tank Stream. Here the
finding of coal was depicted by a huge
black, glossy giant turning the wheels
of industry. Near by was a girl in a
futuristic black robe, her headdress a
burning flame. Magpies, parrots, lyre-
birds—miracles of detail—-were in the
march. Gold and silver, the opening-up
of the Blue Mountains, a Maori whare.
Here a bevy of blue-cloaked and -capped
girls drew a float honoring Parkes and
Education. A huge whale and a small
whaleboat. Surf men.
Mounted police, heralds in white and
in red, the Sophia Jane, our first steam-
ship, the first ferry, the first tram. Cobb
and Co.’s coach, with gold escort.
Lovely flannel-flowers and waratahs.
The pearling float, complete with mer-
maids, which somebody called “a
Spooner dream.” A surf boat poised on a
white-topped, green curling wave. A
significant stork, a dove of peace.
Womanhood, dedicated to the women of
Australia, had the Madonna and child,
on a dais, surrounded by white classic
columns.
Primitives we are under our thin skin
of sophistication. Sydney was indifferent,
blase, almost yawning in the very teeth of
the sesquicentenary celebrations, when,
lo! the bannerets commenced to bloom
along the city streets. Greens and yellows,
scarlets and blues, the waves of color
curled and the temperature immediately
soared. We were going to have a birth-
day! Whoops! People walked boldly
into shops and demanded flags. Father
came home with streamers and colored
globes. Mothers on the waterfront said
“What about a party to see the illumina-
tions?” And still the ladder and the
hammer were being bustled along Mac-
quarie-street, George-street, Oxford-street.
Out flew the greens and yellows of
Macquarie-street, the pine standards
that bore them swaying in the breeze as
though they were still brave and grow-
ing forest creatures. Park-street was a
gavotte of scarlet and orange around a
maypole. The standards there were of
sturdier stock, and the brave streamers
billowed out from a circular top-piece.
Carnival was tiptoe here! George-street
was prideful, therefore a bit dignified in
its rejoicing. Dark blue and white in
vertical bands the streamers hung from
high windows, from balconies, from
coats-of-arms. Martin-place throbbed
with deep red and royal blue. The reds
and the blues emphasised the Post Office ;
flags, grouped and single, streamed on
the breeze. There, too, stood the Ceno-
taph, saddest, proudest tribute to our
150 years of growth. Pitt-street’s gold-
and-white suggested arum-lilies, organ
music and wedding processions.
For the istreet display, the Sydney
Technological Museum disgorged this
State’s first railway locomotive. The
Post Office showed the development of
the postal service of the Commonwealth.
This Letter hands the prize, however, to
the Commonwealth Bank for artistry.
Through its windows, boxes filled with
fern and greeny shoots and pink begonias
smile, and falling on each side are wide
streamers in gold and blue satin. In
short, we are gay. We will never be
150 years young again! Sydney thrusts
a hibiscus behind her ear! Let other
countries have their history. We have
the future!
The Town Hall, perhaps because there
is so much of it, has gone even more
gala than most. It looked like some en-
chanted castle on the night of the
Mayoral reception—almost as hard to
get into, if your car didn’t display a
magic sticker. Outlined in a blaze of
white light it had lost its usual solid,
stolid look, and the guest was not sur-
prised to find the decorations within were
all sunshine and roses. The sunlit effect
was due to clever lighting and green
shade. Roses red and roses golden lightly
clambered between the white pillars of
the balcony. Here and there bloomed
standards of yellow roses. Roses spilled
from window-boxes around the gal-
leries.
Set in a green bank on the stage was a
flower clock —its face all pink and white
buds, its gay hands grass-green. Near
by grew little cypress-trees, and above
them stood more trees whose electric-lit
blooms suggested the “fiery blossom of
the peach.”
Mayor Nock carried his robes and
chain of office well. Mrs. Nock, as
pretty as a picture, wore white. The
frock was floor-length, very simple, but
glittered with pearl and diamond em-
broideries. Red roses were a striking
contrast. The vice-regals arrived after
ten o’clock. From Admiralty House the
Gowries brought visiting Premiers and
their wives.
From Government House the Wake-
hursts came, positively encrusted with
State Governors and their ladies.
Diamonds and pearls and blue and silver
brocades were Lady Gowrie’s contribu-
tion to the night’s color. Lady Wake-
hurst wore white, soft and lustrous.
Diamonds glittered in her hair ; and she
wore her pearls. Silver and blue and a
flame-colored fan blended in Lady Hunt-
ingfield’s dressing. Lady Galway’s good
profile rose above magnolia satin. Dame
Enid Lyons was all cloth of silver. Sir
Josiah Stamp, with his orders and deco-
rations, was one of the most distin-
guished-looking on the dais. Lady
Stamp’s frock was of white satin sprayed
with silver. Lady Morris-Jones was
squired by her husband and son. Hers
is a typical English complexion, and in
contrast to black velvet was enviable.
Mary Whiskard stood with her father.
She waved a white ostrich fan, nearly as
opulent as Mrs. Harold Bott’s. The
latter’s green laces and headdress of
violets made a nice color scheme. Mrs.
Roy Hendy was in the official group.
The bodice of Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones’s white frock was finely shirred and
it had floating shoulder scarves. Mrs.
Frank Crane’s satins were briar-rose
pink. Organiser of the celebrations
Macdougall was there with Mrs.
Macdougall. Former Town Clerk Lay-
ton squired daughter Mrs. E. Rouse.
Florentine blue was worn by Grace
Coates, who, with her father, was talking
.to the U.S.A. Consul and the American
Admiral. Italy’s Consul-General and his
wife had with them Commander Alberto
da Zara, of the Italian warship. The
T. S. Gordons and the Bowaters were
together.
London’s former Lord Mayor Broad-
bridge, in his black and gold, and the
Commonwealth’s Mayors were there.
Others seen were the Hugh Poynters, Pre-
mier Stevenses, Mrs. E. Baume, Faith
Macarthur Onslow.
Perth sent its bright young Mayoress,
Sylvia Harper, to Sydney for Australia’s
birthday rejoicings. With her Mayoral
father she travelled in the Kanimbla, and
got dug in at the Wentworth a few days
before the gaieties started. Peter Pan
photograph.
There was an absolute Tank Stream
of champagne flowing at the Pioneers’
party to the glory of Governor Phillip
and our 150th birthday. Elizabeth Bay
House was the scene of this first official
party in the week’s celebrations and
how the eyes of the botanists who arrived
with the First Fleet would have sparkled
at the flower display! Gladioli, frangi-
panni, tiger-lilies, small green arum-lilies
blazed against the walls of the old Eliza-
beth Bay home, trailed fragrance across
the mantels and alternated with low'
bowls of zinnia and border flowers along
the tables. How Phillip’s eyes would
have sparkled at the flying-boats floating
almost at the front doorstep! It was
a great crush; about twice as many as
at first reckoned had clamored for entry.
Mrs. W. A. Lingham, the club’s presi-
dent, and secretary Carlotta Doyle re-
ceived the guests, among whom was Min-
ister for Labor Dunningham. Mrs. Ling-
ham’s afternoon frock of grey lace had
a matching coat. Miss Doyle’s ensemble
was of beige lace and chiffon.
In the midst of the rejoicing sorrow
struck the family of Mrs. Norman
Macleod. The widow of Norman
Macleod, of The Bulletin, she died last
week after an illness that started just
before Christmas, leaving in her imme-
diate family daughters Esner (Mrs.
Shaw) and Audrey and son Ken mourn-
ing. Mrs. Macleod was a daughter of the
late E. W. O’Sullivan, one time Minister
for Works.
Stars and Stripes, slim young men
who all seemed to have a marvellous flash
of teeth above white naval uniforms, and
the very best hat and frock made the
first American party to the Fleet swizzle
and fizz. The ballroom of the Aus-
tralia was packed to suffocation point by
half-past five, and by seven, which was
supposed to be closing time, there was
gasping-room only. The chief guests of
the afternoon were the six wives who
arrived in the Monterey to be with their
naval-officer husbands. And if that isn’t
a compliment to the girls of Sydney,
what is? Admiral Townsend, very erect,
stood beside the Consul-General for
U.S.A., shook hands and smiled on
America’s sons and daughters in Aus-
tralia. The C.-G., who seems to be
the pet-lamb of the whole community
already, whispered that the Admiral
comes from Missouri, and has never been
in Australian waters before.
Things began to pop a bit on the eve
of our great birthday. Parliament House,
which looked at first glance as though
it were preparing for a siege and was
busy throwing up breastworks, but which
was only waist-high in wooden stands,
threw a party which was all eating and
meeting, with drinks sandwiched in be-
tween, Palms and flags decked the stairs
to the reception-rooms, and the same
patriotic but uninspired scheme persisted
throughout the decorations. One cool
oasis was the centrepiece of greeny fern
and variegated leaf. Speaker of the
House R. W. D. Weaver and knight John
Peden were social hosts, and there was
nothing stiff or formal in this welcome
to the visiting delegates to the Empire
Parliamentary conference. London’s
former Lord Mayor was an important,
and the wife of the delegate from India,
Pundit Sapru, was the most charming
figure there. She wore her national
dress, and her sari was in beige and
brown tones. She has bright, intelligent
eyes, a fluent tongue and an amiable
manner. She was surrounded all the
afternoon.
Dame Enid Lyons flashed turquoise
crepes. Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon
wore a cinnamon-brown hat with
her pink dress. Premier Stevens’s wife
was cool in black chiffons. Mrs. Chaf-
fey and daughter Sheila were there ; so
v/ere South Australia’s wide-shouldered
Premier, and Mrs. Butler. The tailorings
of Sir Henry Morris-Jones, who is Junior
Lord of the United Kingdom’s Treasury,
were impeccable ; and the Civil Lord of
the Admiralty, Lieut.-Colonel J. J. Llewel-
lin, is very good-looking, too. They
serve a nice sense of fun in dry tones,
with a sly lift of the eyebrow. Gabriel
Pietor Steyn, from South Africa, bows
from the waist, and has an interesting
face. The Hugh Denison lady was one
of the best-dressed. J. F. Coates was
busy renewing acquaintance with all the
overseas members of Parliament. On the
scrap of lawn' below the balconies the
Police Band played.
After it had done with the floats on
Anniversary Day, Sydney rushed off to
Randwick to do a bit of punting. Cars
laden with vice-regal guests made quite
a little procession in themselves. Both
the Governor-General and Lady Gowrie
and the State Governor and his lady
were present; and out came a party of
visiting State Governors and their wives.
You realised when you got them under
one roof, as it were, how very many
of them there are. Lady Galway was
all primrose yellows and greens; and
Lady Wakehurst’s little hat of deep blue
was at once trig and pictorial. Her silk
frock was brightly flowered. Sedately
brown and white were Mrs. Geoffrey
Lubbock’s crepes. Mayoress Nock
gathered about her lunch-table her
civic sisters of Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart, Perth and Brisbane. Her
frock and hat were a deep shade of
brown. Katharine Burdekin’s small blue
hat was crownless, her frock was car-
nation pink. Holiday was in the air, and
sheers, linens and printed silks were
almost the universal wear.
The sky hung out all her blue banners
for the Government House garden party.
Friday was the perfect peach of a day
that time sometimes hands to Sydney on
a platter of sunshine. The dresses re-
flected this, and went gala. Lady Wake-
hurst’s pale lilac chiffons were ground-
length, her black hat was large and pic-
{Continued on page 36.)


Secket
behind the
cflawuf
K-S £
/ • /
mm
■
111
'
\
g||H
jeu/dhopiof
c*>
JjearJdiM^
(jlveA Mum seadmmj
ic ctwHme, jlavwhleM
dUliet
mmm
0
\
■
bM
■I
m
mmi
WM
‘
I
1
I
*
SAUCE
EXTRA
'something' that
MAKES A MEAL


Missing Friends
Will ADRIAN MICHAEL DUNNE, formerly
of Corunnun, Vic., or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with A. J. B.
Welshman, Solicitor, Colac, Vic.?
EH IA
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
MALNUTRITION
NERVES
If you feel listless, tired and depressed and find
your daily task a burden, you may be one of the
thousands of women who suffer from Anaemia with-
out knowing it. Anaemia is not an ailment that
gives drastic warning symptoms. It develops slowly
and insidiously and unless proper measures are
taken, will surely sow the seeds of ill-health in
later life. Start to-day to restore your lost energy and
joy of living by taking ROBOLEINE, the most
wonderful restorative food and blood regenerator in
the world. For ROBOLEINE not only supplies con-
centrated nourishment to the starved nerves and
tissues, but it contains Red and White Bone
Marrow, the richest blood-forming elements known
to science. Even after a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves, the digestion becomes stronger
and soon all the distressing symptoms of weak-
ness, lassitude, palpitation of the heart, faintness,
giddiness and shortness of breath disappear like
magic. There is no tonic under the sun which will
rehabilitate the impoverished blood and restore
your health and vitality so effectively in so short
a time at so small a cost as ROBOLEINE.
The Governor of the largest English Hospital said,
“The effect of Roboleine on Anaemic Children hat
been magical.”
In 60z., IZoz. and 360 z. glass jars.
NilsWHllfl
(Made in England)
The best blood-making
and health-restoring food
turesque. Daughter Henrietta’s white
organza was lightly patterned in a flower
design, and sashed in blue. Her hat was
tied with blue ribbons. The lawns have
never been trodden by so many vice-
regal feet. There were Maoriland’s Gov-
ernor-General Galways, Lord and Lady
Huntingfield from Victoria, Tasmania’s
Sir Ernest and Lady Clark, Sir Leslie
and Lady Wilson from the North ; not
forgetting our own G.-G. Gowries. Her
grey chiffons and lace were of cobweb
texture.
The city’s new Mayor and Mayoress
were among those who paused by the
fountain and gazed at the harbor. Her
fair coloring was suited by frocking in
two tones of blue. Mrs. Mick Dalton, of
Orange, and daughter Deidre made an
attractive picture. They were glimpsed
talking to Fay Compton, of the cherry-
smooth skin, the pale-gold hair and the
delphinium-blue frock. With ash-blonde
Haley Bell, a Poynter cousin, who is in
Miss Compton’s company, the famous
actress was the centre of a little group in
which were Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter
and daughter Jocelyn. Brown-and-white
flowered chiffons were worn by Lady
Poynter. Dame Enid Lyons, in a Floren-
tine-blue sheer frock and hat, had with
her her Prime Minister and daughters
Enid and Kathleen. But what caused
the gleam in girlish eyes was not so
much the bright day, but the fine array
of sailor lads in their trig white uniforms.
Miss Sydney seemed to find them better
than the flowers of the field.
Consuls and their wives were there in
force. So were distinguished overseas
visitors. Mrs. Marocco, wife of Italy’s
acting C.-G., was one of the afternoon’s
good-lookers. So were the white-clad
Mrs. Pao and Mrs. Norman Macleod,
wife of Latvia’s Consul, whose currant-
red frock was worn with one of the new
little black bonnets. Mrs. C. L. Jones’s
frock of flowing white organdie was made
with a ruffly cape, and was one of the
day’s prettiest offerings to summer. Mrs.
Harold Bott’s chiffons were blue and
white. You noticed the lovely sweep of
Miss Elizabeth Plummer’s hat. Costa Rica
and Paraguay met in Consuls J. J. Mulli-
gan and F. Royle. The Rupert
Scammells and Nell Thomson were to-
gether. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s frock was
turquoise blue. Mrs. Bernard Muscio’s
crinoline hat was poinsettia-red, and with
her was Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon,
whose botanist and geologist eye took in
differences of leaf and flower and earth
with as much avidity as most women eye
another’s clothes.
Former Mayoress Parkes brought grey
chiffons to the day ; so did Mrs. Wunder-
lich. Mrs. Farley, Mrs. H. Sargent and
Mrs. Grace formed a group. The
National Gallery Will Ashtons and novel-
ist Harry Tighe were together. The
Ernest Riddle lady was hatted and
frocked in navy. Navy and white were
Mrs. Hope Gibson’s chiffons. Poets
Dorothea Mackellar and Ruth Bedford
arrived together. Sir Geoffrey Whiskard
brought daughter Mary.
There were many picturesque moments
at the Pioneers’ Ball, but none more
animated than that when a company of
young Australia dressed in the crino-
lines of Victoria’s day, the bustles of the
Edwardian, the panniers of the Georgian,
squired by young navy and military
sprigs who might have stepped from a
Jack Abbott story, began to promenade
along the wide balcony at the top of the
Town Hall steps. Here, bright in the
white light that outlined the fa?ade, were
the texture of brocade and the flash of
scarlet and gold. Another good touch
was the arrival of some guests in a
hansom cab. No costume at the ball,
which was the officially recognised
social event of the week, was more in-
triguing, than Mrs. Gayer Phipps’s white
muslin with its lace shawl. Its front
panel was painted in delicate flowers.
With the accompanying poke bonnet and
the silk-fringed carriage parasol i,t had
been bought by the wearer’s great-aunt
in Paris in 1857.
Very dashing was Eugenie McNeill.
Her taffetas were rose-red, finished with
a fisher skirt of tartan looped into a
bustle. Mrs. Mary Irvine’s hail-spot
muslin suggested a Jane Austen charac-
ter. This French muslin was all hand-
made, even to the hail-spots embroidered
on it.
The Town Hall was packed. Every
seat in the gallery was occupied long
before the arrival of the Governors. The
setting was a reproduction of Farm
Cove as it was when Phillip first gazed
on it. Each pillar of the gallery was a
gum-tree. All our shy native flora gazed,
wide-eyed, from the decorations of wall
and gallery. Wattle and Christmas bush,
the real thing, were there, but the bottle-
brush and the waratah were the work
of human hands. Rocks, a blue Tank
Stream and a wattle-and-dab hut turned
the platform into a bit of old Sydney.
The surprise “spectacle,” which had
leaked out, of course, had apparently
been inspired by old Sydney prints.
There were an enactment of the landing,
a picnic, and Phillip standing beside a
rock and looking out over the harbor.
Handy for rendezvous were the ships of
the First Fleet, set in the niches around
the walls. With a stretch of imagina-
tion the blue lights flooding these might
be taken for ocean waves.
Governors these days are an embarrass-
ment of riches. They all trooped to the
Pioneers’ Ball, making a colorful proces-
sion up the hall to the dais. The men
glittered with orders and decorations, the
ladies with pearls and diamonds and
suchlike gems. Lady Gowrie really did
the occasion proud. Her lame frock
burned with the fires of gold. Its chiffon
sash held the red-purple of Russian
violets. Her hair was bound with pearls
and diamonds. Lady Wakehurst’s figure
is near perfection, and wore the tailored
line of pink-and-silver cloque with dis-
tinction. Lady Galway’s stiffened organza
was palely pink as an apple-blossom.
Queensland’s vice-regal Wilsons, Vic-
toria’s v.-r. Huntingfields, Tasmania’s Sir
Ernest and Lady Clark, South Aus-
tralia’s Lieut.-Governor George Murray
were dais-decorators. During the even-
ing all the ladies of the party danced.
There were 35 pretty debs., a flutter
of tulle and taffeta made in the crino-
line period. Jessica Chard, Joan Levis,
June Adams, younger daughter of the
late Arthur Adams, and Betty Ling-
ham were among the noted. All carried
Victorian posies frilled with silver lace.
The 35 made sweeping curtsey to Lord
and Lady Gowrie, then to Lord and
Lady Wakehurst. Kelso King, president
of the Australian Pioneers’ Club, and
Mrs. Lingham, president of the Women
Pioneers, received the army of official
guests, among whom were Lord De la
Warr, Sir Giles Loder, the Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder, in the simplicity of white
net, and Catriona Maclean, in a swirl
of black tulle. Priminister Lyons, Mrs.
Lyons and three daughters were there.
Nina Flood was one of the night’s pic-
torial, and Muriel Childs, her lorelei-
green chiffons made Empire style, wore
her bronze hair banded in green. Her
earrings of gold and turquoise were
nearly 300 years of age. There were
Blaxlands and Rotherys, Merewethers
and Osbornes. Carlotta Doyle might
have stepped straight from the Hunter
days.
Joan Sterling Levis was a pretty deb.
at the Pioneers’ Ball. Her Australian
beginnings bear the stamp of the 1830’s.
In those days great-great-grandfather
John McMaster arrived in Australia to
manage Ranger’s Valley, a New Eng-
land station owned by Oswald Bloxham.
Her partner in the special debutante
waltz was Dr. Norman Newman. His
great-grandfather came to Sydney in
1832, and his grandfather was Mayor
of Woollahra in the ’fifties. Monte Luke
photograph.
Thank heaven the harbor is demo-
cratic! The State Governor with the
best intentions in the world can throw
his gardens open at the one time to 5000
only. The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie at the best can’t invite many
more than 1700 to spend a happy
cracker night with them. But Port Jack-
son unveils her loveliness to the multi-
tude, and when she puts on a water party
she makes the city’s shabbiest citizen as
free of it as the Governor-General. For
sheer beauty and twinkling gaiety Satur-
day’s harbor carnival could not be
equalled, this Letter suspects, even by
Venice. There were the warships look-
ing brittle and crystalline in their blaze
of white light—fairy barques these. From
every point the long, slender shafts of
the searchlights sprang. Flashing and
crossing, they dipped their shining blades
into the sea of the night sky. From four
points at once the fireworks rocketed,
emptying into the air exotic rose-and-
silver-coral formations and trailing sea-
flowers such as might be seen in tropic
lagoons.
Fort Denison shimmered with silver
trees afire with bloom. Silver rain
slowly fell, reflected a hundred times
in the harbor before its final
absorption into the polished waters.
Here was a rainbow of stars: green
and violet, blue and rose. Here
were the searchlights again. This time
from the point of each a small
mouse of light scampered across the sky.
Magic trees grew in the air, their leaves
softly shimmering. Illuminated ferries
and other craft demurely paced and curt-
seyed. Around the Domain and the
shores of Farm Cove the thousands of
onlookers burst into song, and in all
the hilly streets on the noth side of the
harbor leading to the waterfront there
were excited chatter and laughter from
armies of gazers. But when the crystal
swan made slow and graceful passage
about the waterways there was a breath-
less silence. Who said that human hands
had made it? This was magic! This
was poetry.
If you weren’t invited to the party at
Admiralty House on Saturday night, all
your other social hungers of the week
went flat. Still, with a guest list of about
1700, it could hardly be called ultra-
exclusive. It was an open-air affair, the
entertainment being the harbor carnival.
After guests had wormed their way
through the terrific traffic crush approach-
ing the Governor-General’s residence,
they came to a garden that seemed
touched by faery. Not far from the
entrance, bathed in silver light, was a
slim white gum-tree. The flower-beds
bloomed as bright as by day. Trees
stood out mauve and blue and red in
the floodlights. Some of the illumina-
tions in the trees were suspended in
green pots and these were discernible
only on close approach. One great palm
was flooded with amethystine light.
Small wooden chairs were arranged
in rows on the lawn facing Farm Cove,
theatre fashion, and the guests took their
places. At the first rocket Lord and
Lady Gowrie came from the house into
the grounds, and with their guests—Lord
and Lady Wakehurst and all the visiting
Governors and their wives, Priminster
Lyons and Dame Enid, and other honored
birthday guests—took their places in
the rows of more comfortable chairs.
After the silver swan had made grace-
ful exit, the vice-regal party made
its way slowly back to the house,
stopping for a word here and there
with friends. Poppy-red shone the
velvet of Lady Gowrie’s coat, pink shone
Lady Galway’s roses. Incidentally, she
was acclaimed quite the belle of the
night. In high relief were the brocades
of Lady Wakehurst’s coat. Daughter
Henrietta and Catriona Maclean, of
Ardgour, were among the night’s en-
thusiasts.
The American, French, Italian and
Dutch warships were represented respec-
tively by smart young officers. The
Consuls and their wives were all there.
One of the handsomest coats was worn
by Mrs. Pao. It was of heavy white silk,
its border embroidered with black butter-
flies. Heavy white brocade was worn by
Mrs. Marocco, wife of Italy’s acting C.G.
Black lace that spread from the knees
in a series of tiny frills, glittering with
diamente at shoulder and waist, was the
choice of Mrs. Norman Macleod. The
wife of U.S.A. Consul Doyle wore the
richness of turquoise and gold brocade.
Mrs. A. C. Godhard was another of the
handsomely-frocked, black - and - silver
lame the material. Dame Maria Ogilvie-
Gordon and Dame Constance D’Arcy
were two distinguished women. Just
right was Mrs. F. J. Davy’s rose-and-gold
moire. This had fascinating puff sleeves
in its matching jacket. Pamela Arm-
strong, Melba’s granddaughter, was a
picturesque young person in her daffodil
frock and coat.
Centennial Park, is a splendid setting
for the glitter of a military review.
Nearly a quarter of a million thought so
on Saturday when they saw the fine
pageant the Navy, Army and Air Force
provided. The sun shone on fixed
bayonet and drawn sword as an army
marched past, head and eyes turned
smartly right as it passed the base
where the Governor-General took the
salute. The white and blue of the navy,
flashes of black patent leather, red
stripes, green webbing, white helmets,
horse-drawn guns, a flight of Ansons and
Demons swooping and flattening out
above the base where the Union flag and
Australia’s emblem, flying bravely, stirred
the emotions. The company of Light
Horse composed of units from country
centres came in for a lot of attention.
Each unit had its guidon, which has a
special escort. Soon the whole of the
parade ground was a moving mass of
color. Bands played the “British Grena-
diers,” “Waltzin’ Matilda,” and such-
like stirring tunes. The watching thou-
sands clapped approval. Brig.-General
Mackay was in command.
There was a model of the landing of
Captain Arthur Phillip on the official
table at the Royal Empire Society’s lunch
to the guests of the Government. There
were also boomerangs and flowers. There
were fanfares of trumpets; there were
about 9000 consumers of the meal that
ran from oyster cocktail to Neapolitan
ice ; there were speeches, the longest by
the Governor-General, the best by Sir
Josiah Stamp. A stirring moment came
when he handed over a model of the
locomotive named New South Wales
which has just been loosed on the rail-
ways of England.
Chairman Hugh Denison made one of
his typically happy speeches, while the
gaze of hundreds was directed towards
the long line of notables, including all
the home-grown and imported vice-regals
mentioned by him. His lady, looking as
handsome as any, wore grey lace. Her
large hat, and gloves were black. Lady
Stamp’s cinamon-brown hat topped a
frock of anemone-pink. Mrs. Talbot,
widow of the well-liked Dean of St.
Andrew’s, was smart in a suit of off-
white silk linen. She, like most of the
lunchers, was off to the garden party.
Lady Tempest, a visitor from London,
who has rented Lord Beauchamp’s house
at Bellevue Hill, was with the Snowden
lady and Oswald Cheeke. The Archbishop
and Mrs. Mowll, Mrs. Stacpoole, Mrs.
Vert, Gladys Marks and Dame Maria
Ogilvie-Gordon were others.
The Canberra seemed to be moored
at the foot of the lawn of Warranilla,
Mrs. Dan Kelly’s Kirribilli home, on
Saturday night. As usual when the U.S.A.
Navy is in town, Mrs. Kelly gave a party
of size. The rooms were crowded with the
visiting sea warriors, the Admiral among
them. Mrs. Kelly’s frock was of ivory
satin and ran to a train.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them*
“worry” is hardly the word, for
A V, N SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d -Per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
MANLY
Queen of
Pleasure Resorts
d
fd
fd
fd
Abounding in natural beauty, rich in scenic loveliness, Manly is undoubtedly the
Queen of Holiday Resorts.
No less than 14 Magnificent Ocean Beaches adorn Manly’s Coastline.
Manlv’s Wnndpr Pr.r»l The lar B est enclosed Free Bathing Pool in
ivianiy s r ree wonder root. Australia affords endless fun and enj oyment-
Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving Towers, Springboards, Crazy Floats, Rolling
Logs and Horses, and many other aquatic novelties are in the WONDER POOL.
Whv Nnt Stav at Manlv? The steamer trip between Manly and the City
. . . , ./ , ' is the cheapest and most delightful Harbour
trip m the world. Its seven miles embrace 60 miles of beautiful Harbour views,
culminating with the crossing of Sydney’s Famous Heads.
6d.; CHILDREN (up to 14 years), Id. (5 years
FARFS- Dail y Fare: adults,
and under> FREE )
Season Tickets Cost Per Day: GENTS
4fd.; LADIES’, 3|d.; CHILDREN’S, l|d.
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY STEAMSHIP CO.. LTD.
No. 2 Jetty, Circular Quay, Sydney. ’Phones: 83221, 83783.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EICHT
“Zedo”: One of the best map-making
jobs done in Australia for a generation
is that of the Mackay Expeditions, which
covered a fourth of Australia. Mackay
financed 'the expeditions himself, apart
from commanding them, and he had
with him on all of them H. T. Bennett,
formerly in command of H.M.A.S. sur-
vey ship Geranium. The first trip in
1930 put Lake Mackay, about 2100
square miles, on the map, and later
ones have plotted the central desert
in detail as far south as the latitude of
Coober Pedy. Incidentally, Lake
Amadeus, as it was known to genera-
tions of schoolboys, has ceased to exist.
The aerial explorers have proved it to
be three distinct “lakes,” the larg-
est of which is under 60 miles long.
But this does not mean that the earlier
map-makers were wrong. Many a Cen-
tralian lake, including Eyre, changes its
shape and wetness so much according to
season that sometimes its own mother
would have difficulty in finding it.
* * Ji: *
‘Captain Pintle”: Recent cyclonic
weather on the Queensland coast, with
wind-speeds up to 100 m.p.h., worked
up some ugly seas in places. The Mon-
toro reported that off Fraser Island a
series of big ones were noted, each with
others of equal size converging on each
flank and forming a high column of
water which dropped almost straight
down on deck on impact with the
hull. Years ago the same thing, in much
the same locality, put the wind up me
properly as a junior officer. Two years
later I saw seas break simultaneously
over bow and poop, whilst a 40-footer
was coming at her abeam in a China Sea
typhoon. A boat blew out of the chocks
and soared away into the mist, taking
the davits with it. We estimated that
puff at 130 m.p.h. The record was ex-
perienced by the Phemius in a West
Indian hurricane a few years ago—2oo
m.p.h. It blew the funnel out of her.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A brave and generous
soul passed over at 83. with Mrs.
Mary Leonard, for more than 40 years
chatelaine of Rodgers Creek station in
the Warwick (Q.) district. It is more
than 60 years since she and her hus-
band, the late Maurice Leonard, settled
there, and from then on no traveller
passed her door without the offer of rest
and refreshment. There were rough cus-
tomers among them sometimes, but the
roughest never daunted her courage. A
local story has it that her husband, com-
ing in for his dinner, heard sounds of
lamentation from the harness-room.
“Eat your dinner, man,” said his wife ;
“it’s only a couple of loafers who got
trying their nonsense on a lone woman,
so I banged them over the heads with a
broom and locked them up. I’ll give
them something to eat directly, and
maybe you can find a bit of work for
the poor fools.” Six children, 36 grands
and 14 great-grands survive her.
* * * :S
“X.T.”: The results of the argument
between Messrs. Forgan Smith and Alf
Jones, Lud Mayor, as to how “Brisbane”
should be pronounced seems to me in-
conclusive. Mr. Jones plumps for Bris-
bane; Mr. Smith, who is Scottish, says
that he has met some of the relatives of
Governor Brisbane after whom the place
was named, and they planked for
“Brisb’n.” The original Brisbane cer-
tainly did not —he was Brisbane. A mild
man with a scientific mind and one of
the leading astronomers of his- day. Lord
Bathurst remarked when Brisbane’s name
was suggested for the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernofship that what was wanted was a
man “to govern a piece of the earth, not
the heavens.” But since, like Thomas
Mitchell, who had been the Great Duke’s
map-maker, he was a protege of Welling-
ton, who gave him credit for “having
kept the time of the army in the Penin-
sula,” he got the job, though he did not
make much of a success of it.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Queensland’s record
deal in flourmilling took place recently
when the Co-operative Milling Associa-
tion took over the Brisbane Milling Co.
and the Dominion Milling concern, in-
cluding their mills at Brisbane, Too-
woomba, Maryborough and Roma. Com-
bined capacity is 2,250,000 bushels of
wheat, yielding between 45,000 and
50,000 tons of flour, with bran and pol-
lard as extras. The Brisbane concern
was founded in 1888 by the late A. F.
Luya. The Dominion began at Warwick,
under the late John Archibald, in 1895,
and in 1901 obtained control of the
Brisbane co., although both remained
“ Think I'll' ave t' get rid of im, Ma —'e don't seem t' know the first thing 'bout 'is job.”
separate companies. The Co-operative
Association originated as a grower-con-
trol movement in 1933, and the absorp-
tion is an outcome of its policy of wheat-
grower-control of milling, instead of the
other way round. No changes of staffs
or arrangements have been made.
♦ V $ ?
“N.”: Another Queensland bush-
industry is dead, though relief tax isn’t
to blame this time. For years the
Brigalow district, 40 miles west of
Dalby, was the best collecting ground
in Australia for death-adders. Mr.
Eades visited yearly to buy them for
the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories.
Since the destruction of the pear by
Cacto blast is and the burning off of the
dead pear, death-adders are now very
seldom seen either at Brigalow or
Dulacca, which ranked as the next-best
collecting area in Australia, and the in-
dustry is busted.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Charleville (W.Q.) has
provided further proof that the old out-
back spirit of generosity and helpfulness
to those in trouble is by no means dead.
The cottage of Mr. and Mrs. H. Lewis,
old residents, was burned, with all its
contents. Of course, they had their
choice of a dozen offers to house and
look after them, but that wasn’t enough
to satisfy Charleville ; A new and better
cottage was built in 16 hours, and inside
another 24 the old couple were comfort-
ably home again with a new outfit.
"Australia Jane's" Budget.
Premier and Mrs. Forgan Smith gave
a reception at Parliament House to cele-
brate their silver wedding, and as the
lawns were drenched the handshaking
took place in the Legislative Assembly
chamber Decorations were an avenue
of palms on the main staircase, and in
the chamber a central table massed with
pots of gloxinias and ferns. The dais
was gay with hydrangeas and roses. A
very modern traymobile in vitrolite and
chromium, bearing a silver tea and coffee
service, was presented to the Premier and
his wife.
When Ralph Cormack, of Townsville,
went to Melbourne to wed Dr. Moya
Lally, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. F.
Lally, of Sandringham, he took his best
man, M. Murray, of Brisbane, with him.
Dorothy Lally was ’maid.
Aboard the Nankin when it berthed
in Brisbane was Mrs. Elsie Lee Soong,
who has been doing relief work in China
behind the line. She was with the “Lost
Battalion,” distributing food and cloth-
ing, a bare 24 hours before its retreat.
Another arrival in the same ship was
Mrs. Fabian Chow, a representative at
the International Women’s Conference in
Sydney during the Anniversary celebra-
tions. She is a journalist, and was war
correspondent for the North China
“Daily News” during the Sino-Japanese
war at the beginning of the century. As
the first woman radio announcer in the
East and vice-chairwoman of the joint
committee of Shanghai women’s organ-
isations, she is widely known. She was
born in the U.S.A.; Mrs. Lee Soong
is a Victorian by birth.
Cabin filled with flowers and a host
of friends hurling streamers on the wharf
were the farewell given to Molly and
Shevauneen Joyce, of Beaudesert, who
left for Colombo in the Ormonde. The
n, S bt before they sailed Mrs. J. P. Love
gaVe a dinner and su PP er dance ln their
honor at the Belle Vue
™
Th =. Ital, “ c ™ ser Monte-
cuccoli made only a very short stay in
Brisbane, but the Italian residents enter-
tained the commandant, Captain A. da
Zara, and officers at a dance and supper
party at the Belle Vue Next day there
was a garden party at Wynberg, Arch-
bishop Duhig’s residence at New Farm,
an d the Lord Mayor held a civic recep-
bon’ Petty officers and naval ratings
weren t forgotten; they were guests at
a dance at s o zanam House. Tom Me-
william, Consular agent for Italy, and
the Vice-Consul, Dr. Chieffi, who was
down from Townsville, were very busy
men during the visit,
The Reg Bakers, of Tongy, are spend-
ing some weeks at Southport and are
doing a spot of entertaining. Latest
party was in honor of Mrs. Baker’s sister,
Mrs. J. H. Fowler, of Warwick, who is
staying with them. James Blair and his
lady were among the guests.
The C.W.A. has another seaside cot-
tage —at Labrador, Southport. The local
branch provided the funds. Mrs. Graham
Mylne, the State president, did the offi-
cial opening, and planted two trees. The
land is part of a Crown grant to the
Southport Council.
Among the latest crop of engagements
is that of Jean, youngest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. A. Douglas, Bowen Hills,
Brisbane. Lieut.-Commander R. B. A.
Hunt, R.A.N., is the lucky man. He is
a son of the late Atlee Hunt, well known
in Queensland and New Guinea, and of
Mrs. Atlee Hunt, of Toorak, Melbourne.
The Governor and Lady Wilson went
off to Sydney and the celebrations with
Captain J. Richards, R.M., A.D.C., in
attendance. They are staying with the
Governor of N.S.W. and Lady Wake-
hurst, and on their way home early in
February will call in at Stanthorpe, where
his Ex. will open the show.
About 300 youngsters between the
ages of 18 and 25 have eagerly snatched
at the chance offered by the scheme sub-
sidised by the Commonwealth which
provides for instruction in various sub-
jects. Some of them are doing commer-
cial work, others have plumped for farm-
ing, and the first batch of 20 will go to
Gatton College in February, and further
groups later on. There’s a course in
prospecting, too, and if sufficient young
men are interested in this the first train-
ing class will be held at Charters Towers.
Pat and Ella O’Shea, who have been
spending a long vacation in the States,
are expected back in Brisbane some time
in March. Most of their holiday was
spent in and around Kansas City, where
Mrs. Healy, the smart American who
was their guest last year, has her home.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road/ N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21 /- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
“The Bulletin,” Box 252188,
Sydney.
f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street)
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
LARGE, I
SMALL
AND
HORSESHOE
We use over a quarter million
buns and rolls each year.
You like yours buttered? Well.
everyone has different ideas I don t
care for butter on mine I can recom-
mend the Victoria Palace, though, to those
who like excellent cuisine and accommoda-
tion Australia s largest, most modern hotel
There were a quarter million satisfied guests
last year
201 -229 LIT. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE C 1 (N«» Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
Melbourne
Chatter
When Mrs. N. G. Mader gave a lun-
cheon and bridge party last week guests
drank in cocktails a toast to hei new
home, for it was only a few days since
the last of the workmen had picked up
his tools and disappeared over the bushy
Macedon horizon. The house, an old
one made over, is charming. Outside it s
white with pale-green verandahs, and in-
side there are large rooms and a lounge
carpeted in deep-plum-red with sage-
green velvet curtains and containing two
fireplaces. As there are 100 acres of
scrub land there will be plenty of logs
to burn when frost crackles in the
garden and slow lies thick on the Japan-
ese maples. A genuine luxury touch is
a radiator built into the wall of the
oatmeal-and-green bathroom. Another
useful idea is a vent above the shower
so that steam can find its way out in-
stead of hanging around smearing the
walls.
For her party Mrs. Mader had two
fires burning, and as decorations bowls
of magnificent hydrangeas and on her
lunch table a float bowl of mixed blooms
and lilli-pilli berries. Among those who
motored up for the day were Mrs. Jack
Tyson, recently returned from a holiday
at Lome, with her three daughters, Mrs.
T. Campbell, Alison and June; Mrs.
Leo Quick, who with her husband,
Commander Quick, has been sampling
the beach at Lome, Barwon Heads and
Sorrento ; Mrs. Simon McLennan, who
with Dr. McLennan, of Caulfield Mili-
tary Hospital, is off to Sydney on Feb-
ruary 5. The couple go there every year.
They stay at the Carlton, and, as they
know masses of people, always have a
merry holiday. Among others present
were Ethel Johnston in cigar-brown,
Mrs. O. F. Phillips, who used white bone
fishes as buttons on the blue blouse
which went with her white linen suit,
and Mrs. Miles Cox, whose talk to Scot-
land was among the first dozen tele-
phone calls she made from her new flat
at Kia-Ora.
Guests at the marriage of Agnes
Thomas and James Campbell Johnston
agree that the bridegroom’s speech was
one of the best they had ever heard at
a wedding. The bride’s gown was of
ivory broche, with a delicately-woven
pattern of orange blossom, the same
blossom design being repeated in the
opalescent halo which clasped her tulle
veil to her dark hair. Her present from
the ’groom was a diamond-and-platinum
watch, and his gifts to the four ’maids
were bracelets of platinum chains set
with pearls.
The reception, which took place at
Menzies, was a perfectly-arranged party.
In case anyone felt in need of refresh-
ment before all the guests arrived and
were ushered to their places for the
dinner, there was a buffet in the ante-
room of the banquet hall, which for the
evening consisted of half the big lounge.
The toast of “The King” was honored
very early, so that nobody had to exer-
cise self-control in the matter of smok-
ing. The bride and ’groom stayed for
several dances and then slipped away so
quietly that very few people knew they
had gone. After a couple of weeks at
Macedon in the country home lent them
by the George Nicholas couple they will
leave for England, where they will prob-
ably live for five years.
A sesquicentenary has not been able
to entice Mrs. Montague Marks away
from Melbourne, although her husband,
who is the general manager of London
Imperial Pictures, is in Sydney at present
on business. He went up by air, a mode
of travel which Mrs. Marks has never
been able to undertake. Whenever he
flies his wife is never quite happy until
she hears his cheery voice at the end of
the long-distance telephone. She thinks
it’s a reaction from the war years, when
he served in the R.A.F. and had his
fair share of hairbreadth escapes.
Mrs. Marks is a well-known minia-
turist, and has with her some charming
examples of her work. She is an Aus-
tralian, and before her marriage was a
pupil of Bernard Hall at the National
Gallery. It is over twenty years since
she went to live in the U.S.A. and three
years since she and her husband (also
an Australian) and Patricia, who was
born in New York, moved their posses-
sions across the Atlantic to occupy a
charming country home near Wendover,
in the Chiltern Hills. Patricia is a lucky
lass of seventeen who was due back at
school this week after a tour round
Europe with friends and a ski-ing holi-
day in Switzerland. Next year she is
going to the Continent to study
languages, and then, if she is still as
keen about acting as she is at present,
her parents won’t voice any objections
to a stage career. Mr. and Mrs. Marks
have booked passages in the Orion for
their return to England.
Mrs. D. R. Booth, pictured here by
Dickinson-Monteath, is very slim, with
sleekly-groomed dark hair and excellent
taste in dress, and her job in life, though
no one would guess it, is running a
mine in New Guinea —Cliffside, a pros-
perous alluvial claim, a little settlement
in itself. Mrs. Booth lives in her own
bungalow, with its long verandah-lounge
always a cool and attractive spot with
its colored cane furniture, tree-ferns
and tropical plants. Her brothers, who
are both married, and other white men
who work on the property also have
their own comfortable houses, and the
mine has its own power-plant, so there
are electric light and refrigerators.
Further down the hill are quarters for
a couple of hundred native “boys,”
those who are married being given
family huts of their own.
The two most popular piccaninnies at
Cliffside are Two-wing and Pawpaw —
so called respectively because Two-wing
was born just after her mother got out
of an aeroplane and it was under a
pawpaw-tree that young Pawpaw let out
her first yells of disapproval at life in
general.
Before her marriage Mrs. Booth was
a nurse (trained at Brisbane Hospital).
Her knowledge and kindness were in-
valuable to the early pioneers in the
Morobe district, and her experience is
very useful now, for every day there
are some outpatients to be treated in
the mine’s native hospital. She was the
first woman in the district, having
walked from the coast fourteen years
ago on a journey that took her five
weeks -on her first trips, as she was re-
cruiting labor from among the wild bush
natives, a hazardous job calling for
excellent health and good nerves. Most
of the time she was alone but for two
reliable native “boys” she had brought by
schooner from Rabaul.
When Mrs. Booth first started to work
the claim on the Bulolo River which
was destined to become the famous
Cliffside, about six miles from Wau, she
lived in a tent and later in a sac-sac
lean-to. She knows what a feeling of
superiority is—and gets one every time
she flies over the mountains to the coast,
for they are the very mountains that put
up such a fight against the determined
spirits of .He 8 early days. Last week
Mrs. Booth arrived in Melbourne on a
holiday and flew over to Tasmania to
enjoy the climate, the scenery, a
good rest and perhaps a visit to Mt.
Lyelt, for she has a professional interest
in cyanide processes.
An interesting visitor to Australia is
Mrs. Lionel Logue, who recently broke
her journey from England in Perth
where everybody hotfooted to entertain
her, and in Melbourne, where she spent
a week as the guest of Lord and Lady
Huntingfield. Lionel Logue is a speech-
training and voice-production specialist
who for several years has attended King
George and has been honored with an
M.V.0., the insignia which comes next
to that of the Garter. Both Mr. and Mrs.
Logue are gifted with personality and
charm of manner. In the early days
of their marriage, when Mr. Logue
taught speech-training in Perth, they
were "well known as an exceptionally
handsome young couple. Mrs. Logue likes
the idea of a long sea trip, and when
she leaves Sydney, where she is at present,
will embark for home via Panama.
Photograph by Broothorn.
It was many, many years ago that
Will Dyson, apropos a speech he had
just made, nervously asked his elder
brother Ted: “Well, how did I do?”
The scene was at Will’s first exhibition
in Melbourne, which had been opened
by some local politician. Ted’s verdict
was: “Speech rotten, step-dance pretty
fair.” For in those days Will was a
nervous young man, inclined to fidget
when called upon to address a gather-
ing. Later on he acquired a reputation
not only as a cartoonist but as a wit
and a fine speaker. He was the last of
the three Dyson brothers. Ambrose,
who died many years ago, had also talent
as a cartoonist. Will’s next of kin is
daughter Betty, who is in her early
twenties, is brilliant and beautiful and
inherits the talents and temperament of
both the Dysons and the Lindsays.
Betty earns a handsome income for her-
self in London as a designer.
In April Mrs. Hugh Brain is returning
home to the country of her birth, Eng-
land. It is sixteen years since she left
her homeland, so that families on both
sides of the world are excited about the
visit. Mr. Brain is keeping the home
fires burning, but Patricia, Peter and
Judy are accompanying their mother —
the two younger children at present being
as interested in the progress of their
vaccination wounds as at the thought
of life on board ship while all their
young friends are back at school.
Patricia has a year to spare before she
turns eighteen and can go to the Uni-
versity, where, if she doesn’t change her
mind on her travels, she will study mas-
Sa Mrs. K. Joel is off to Sydney about
Feb. 8, to meet son Nevil, who has been
doing post-graduate study in England and
is on his way home to his practice in
Bunbury (W.A.). Mrs. Joel will also
visit the West, and will probably hand
over her luggage to Nevil in the Orion
while she goes aloft by ’plane. She
has had plenty of experience of flying,
and numbers among her most interesting
trips the air routes from Penang to Sin-
gapore and from Cairo to Palestine. Mrs
Joel has shown an inventive spirit in
founding the Westralian Association in
Victoria —still an infant movement of
only a few weeks, but growing lustily
nevertheless, for members already num-
ber about 200. The infant was born one
day when Mrs. Joel gathered up a few
of her Westralian friends asking them to
write out lists of “possibilities for mem-
bers among their friends. Dr. Deborah
Buller Murphy is taking an active in-
terest as a foundation member.
If motorists who travelled from Sydney
to Melbourne during a recent week-
end passed a lone figure pedalling his
way on a bicycle, it might have been
Jim McKay, younger son of Dr. and
Mrs. Adrian McKay, who has been
jackerooing on a N.S.W. station. Jim
sent his luggage on by train, and carried
only a light swag on this two weeks’
journey. Elder brother John, who is a
solicitor in Wau, New Guinea, hopes to
come down in June to claim Win
Thompson as his bride.
Among passengers bound for England
who will join the Orion in Tasmania at
the end of February are Mr. and Mrs.
Fitz William Wentworth, their son Alan
and daughter Elizabeth, whose home for
several years has been in Launceston.
Mr. Wentworth was born in the famous
Wentworth House, Sydney, and with the
world to choose from found Tasmania
the ideal place in which to live, the
climate and the fishing in the Great Lake
being the chief attractions. The reason
for the family migration is that Alan
wants to study engineering abroad, and
Elizabeth is just the right age for a finish-
ing school.
When the Stuart Huttons and their
daughter Brenda arrive in Camperdown
at the end of February it will be almost
five years since they packed up and left
their last home in Victoria, which was
at Frankston. In the interim they have
lived in Launceston, where Mr. Hutton
(of the National Bank) steadily improved
his golf handicap and his wife became
keener than ever on contract bridge.
The State Council of the Returned
Soldiers’ League has requested the Shrine
trustees to remove the Pool of Reflec-
tion at the Shrine. The Pool is built on
a windy hill, and during the three and
a half years of its existence has very
seldom been calm enough to fulfil its
function of reflecting the architecture of
the Shrine in its mirrored surface.
The Pool may, or may not, be re-
moved by Anzac Day. Diggers who
know how slowly the wheels of official
departments are likely to move are
wagering on the “may not” —in fact, they
don’t really know if their suggestion will
be adopted, for many opinions are op-
posed to it. There is talk of shortening
the Anzac Day march, and there are
suggestions for the Assembly to take
place north of the shrine if the Pool is
removed.
The fact that twin sisters Mervyn and
Shirley Lockyer are exactly the same
height and size gave them the idea of
switching over their bride’s and brides-
maid’s gowns for their weddings. On
Saturday Mervyn, when she became Mrs.
John Love, wore the same white and
gold gown which Shirley had worn six
weeks ago when she was married to
Gordon Little. Saturday’s matron-of-
honor was Mrs. Little, clad in the white
frock in which, six weeks ago, Mervyn
had followed her up the aisle as brides-
maid. Altogether it was a brilliant
notion, saved a lot of time and trouble,
and Mrs. Love will not feel that she has
been unwise in taking to the Solomon
Islands an elaborate frock which will
surely fall to pieces with the humidity
before she has a chance of wearing it.
The newly-married pair fly this week to
Sydney, where they will collect their
heavier luggage and board a steamer for
their tropic home.
News comes from Malaya of the mar-
riage at Penang on January 18 of Mrs.
Ivan Gutmann to Captain Herbert Henry
Louch, late of the Royal Fusiliers. Cap-
tain and Mrs. Louch are travelling
through the Orient and expect to visit
Melbourne about June.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE PANGEB SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out. /
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
df
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
When
a Woman
tells you:
that people often take
her for years
younger than she
is owing to her
white teeth,
that she’s used no*
thing but Calvert’s
since she left
school—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
t vaAR/T
tee
d
ti<
w*
a
o*.^*
pi
The Long White Cloud
Through a Ministerial Hat
“I am convinced that only through a com-
plete and efficient testing system can cars be
kept as instruments of pleasure and not of
death.”
Thus Minister of Transport Semple at
the opening of the Christchurch City
Council’s new motor-vehicle testing sta-
tion, the first publicly-owned one to enter
the Maoriland road-safety campaign.
Clearing the highways of dangerously
decrepit caricatures of modern cars is
an example that could be followed by
Australian States. But why, in 1938,
should any Cabinet Minister class motors
as “instruments of pleasure”? In Maori-
land as well as in Australia there is a
heavy petrol tax payable by people using
motors as daily business necessities more
than week-end pleasure aids.
Some charge on petrol is necessary to
raise the money for development and
maintenance of national highways. How-
ever, loose generalities of the Semple sort
merely strengthen a growing belief in
both Tasman Sea countries that Govern-
ments intent on bolstering non-paying
and antiquated railway systems are only
too ready to overlook the modern fact
that the motor represents a speedy and
efficient means of general transport
rather than a wealthy man’s method of
pleasure-seeking.
Strangely enough, Mr. Semple has
raised no protest at Savage Government
expenditure on endeavors to find a
natural flow of Maoriland oil. To be con-
sistent, he should now complain that
petrol-search assistance is wasting public
funds for the possible benefit of people
possessing “instruments of pleasure.”
“Mak”: Melbourne eaters, drinkers
and window-gazers are becoming day-by-
day Maoriland tourists—pictorially. A
Collins-street hotel has its walls plastered
with large-scale colored views of Maori-
land scenery. Further along the same
street there’s a teahouse with similar
decorations, and between the two stand
the new offices of the Maoriland Trade
and Tourist Bureau with windows full
of tourist-catching pictures. The suitably
labelled views paraded by hotel and tea-
house were supplied by this bureau,
which obviously knows its job in the
way of grabbing valuable and costless
advertising. And a new stunt is being
planned for the window-gazers. One sec-
tion of the bureau street-front will soon
carry pictures of Maoriland personalities
whose names crash the cable news;
below the portraits will be brief bio-
graphical sketches of the victims. When
the cables fa;il to oblige, Melbourne
pedestrians will learn that such cham-
pions as Rutherford and Phar Lap, “pic-
tured above,” were Maorilanders. Not
a bad idea, this.
* * * *
“M.”: J. A. Lee, the Parliamentary
Under-Secretary in Charge of Housing,
may go to Sydney with the Maoriland
Diggers in April. Lee has seen life in
his 46 years. Before he was 18 he had
worked on farms and in factories round
the Dunedin where he was born. After
that he was in the North Island as a
P.W.D. employee until he went overseas
with the Ist Wellington Regiment, to
collect a D.C.M. at Messines and lose
an arm at Mailly Maillot. He reached
Parliament in 1922 as Labor member
for Auckland East. Social injustices
never fail to rouse his burning desire to
right ’em. He has a couple of blunt
social-problem books to his credit, and
these earned him the tribute from the
Christchurch “Press,” a conservative
daily, that he is only the second poli-
tician of this century to follow the
literary tradition of earlier Maoriland
politics by making “distinguished use of
the pen.”
* * * * .
“Waitot”: Samoa is still a Maoriland
worry, and will continue to be one until
“Would you mind removing the awning? I want to sunbake.”
someone who understands the islanders
is appointed Administrator and allowed
to use his own judgment. At one stage
it looked as though Prime Minister
Savage would do this, but there was such
a scramble within his own party for a
job that none of its members is capable
of handling that the acting-Administrator
was left to carry on. He probably under-
stands the natives and their easy outlook
on life and politics, but he is still ex-
pected to stagger along under the inter-
fering tangle of red-tape that regularly
arrives from Wellington. The Samoans
have their own racial leaders, and, how-
ever much Labor politicians blither, these
are the people they listen to and whose
lead they follow. If a man whose mana
were high with the Samoan leaders went
there as a free-hand Administrator, there
would be no Samoan worry—which is
probably what Mr. Savage is being told
by O. F. Nelson, his barrister daughter
and the four Mau leaders now in Maori-
land to air island complaints.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Margaret Macpherson, who
for many years edited a Maoriland coun-
try paper for the late Col. Allen Bell,
so-called King of the North, has pub-
lish a recantation in her Antipodean
Journey
I attacked the New Zealand Labor party
often enough not so long ago; now let me
unsay everything that I said in my un-
regenerate past. I make my bow, and
take back everything.
The lady completes her somersault by
praising Mr. Savage for “playing an ace
against calumny, misrepresentation and
newspaper half-truths by putting Parlia-
ment on the air.” Mrs. Macpherson was
a journalist—a good one, too. Her son
Hamish is one of the four younger
sculptors whose modernist pieces are
being chased by London connoisseurs
like Aldous Huxley’s wife and architect
Oliver Hill.
* * * »
“Xo”: It is true that Prime Minister
Savage has set the propaganda pace (B.
26/1/’3B), but he isn’t to be left an open
Maoriland field. Opposition leader Adam
Hamilton is said to be appointing a “jour-
nalist-secretary,” and if that doesn’t
mean a publicity man I’ll eat the office-
boy’s hat Auckland Freedom Associa-
tion’s Prof. Algie is already at work,
and the well-organised Chambers of
Commerce have their own avenues for
slating socialistic trends. Just how an-
tagonistic daily newspapers have become
to the Government will be seen when
electioneering warms up later in the year.
* * * *
“Fergus”: The cableman says numer-
ous holiday drownings across the Tasman
have inspired a move for inclusion of
swimming in school curriculums. Before
the drowning figures were published,
Director of Education Lambourne had
recommended that an outdoor instruc-
tion programme, including swimming,
should replace ordinary lessons during
the heat and humidity of February.
Home nursing, road-safety precautions,
nature rambles, visits to places of his-
torical and geographical interest, games
and individual hobbies were among the
other subjects suggested by Mr. Lam-
bourne. It all show.s how far Maoriland
schools are getting from the not-far-off
days when December examination suc-
cesses were regarded as sound reasons for
neglecting equally important branches of
child education.
* * * *
“Motu”: Native Land Court Judge
Acheson’s view that gradual infusion of
Maori blood will save future Maoriland
British from the “increasingly commer-
cial and materialistic outlook” of the
hard-headed Anglo-Saxon stock (B.
26 /1 / ’3B) is a fair prophecy, but the
Maori can be materialistic as well as
romantic and poetic. F’rinstance, to use
an unfair example, there is the case of
the two young Maoris who went to the
assistance of a woman frightened the
other night by a man who approached her
lonely country cottage with a request for
road-directions. The Maori lads, tem-
porarily camped on a neighboring prop-
erty, heard her cries. The assailant
promptly offered battle, and the Maoris
found him a tough proposition; they
could down him, but they couldn’t hold
him long enough to tie him up. The
appearance of their cattle-dog suggested
a material solution that would never have
dawned on a pakeha. Next time they
grounded the man, the dog was given an
ear which was well and truly held until
wrists were roped.
* * * *
“Kohi”: If the depression Government
had trained unemployed youths, Maori-
landers have been told by Minister Webb,
all except the unemployables could be
“absorbed” in the Savage Government’s
housing scheme. Between 2000 and 3000
men are erecting State houses in 40
towns, and tenders are out for contracts
in another 70 centres, but Mr. Webb
contends that, if they were available, an-
other 10,000 tradesmen could be directly
employed and another 20,000 used by
allied trades. Import them from
Britain? Don’t mention it; this is an
election-yeari
“Korero”: Gordon Coates, formerly
Prime Minister, has been criticising the
Savage Government at a country meet-
ing. With an obvious eye to the
November election, the Labor “Standard
gaily recalled that Coates scraped in by a
couple of hundred votes in 1935, and that
the electorates honored by Coates
visits in that campaign all returned
Labor or Independent members. The
“Standard” questions Coates’s ability to
scramble up the wall he fell off in 1935.
It has apparently forgotten that he is no
longer leader of the Opposition.


Ofc)
Somebody's getting
a Better Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Pricos from JC/2 / /.9 /^.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
.from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWA
DON B: KNOCK'S PAGES.
Bandspreading Short Waves.
Selectivity is just as important when
arranging the tuning circuits of short-
wave receivers as with receivers designed
for broadcast coverage only. Fortunately
the modern superhet is amply efficient in
this respect. With the exception of
communications-type receivers, few, if
any, of our dual-wave receivers possess
true bandspread tuning. There are, of
course, dials and mechanisms that make
for easier tuning, but bandspread tuning
as the amateur transmitter knows it is
embodied only in the home-made re-
ceiver.
Many newcomers to short-wave recep-
tion have the idea that, if bandspread
tuning is included in the tuned circuits
of a receiver, the selectivity is improved.
Although it may help, it really only
makes for easier tuning mechanically.
By bandspreading, any portion of the
short-wave spectrum is spread over a
greater portion of the tuning dial than
usual. As an example, assume that a coil
covers wave-lengths from 12 to 26 metres
with a tuning condenser of .00015mfd.
If this range of 14 metres is divided into
“bands” it is possible to select any one
band at a time, and that band can be
tuned over by a separate tuning adjust-
ment which operates what is known as a
“bandspread” tuning condenser.
Where two stations are so close to-
gether as to interfere with each other,
there will be no difference in separation
of the two as regards wave-length or,
more correctly, frequency. This does
not mean that bandspread tuning is of
little use ; it is a distinct advantage.
Most listeners wish to cover from 12
to 100 metres, and to be able to “spread”
any portion inside this range at will.
The grid coil or tuned circuit is the only
part of the receiver affected, and this
part of the receiver is shown in the
diagrams. From these the reader may
suit his own requirements.
In Fig. 1 the change from normal
tuning to bandspread is by means of a
two-way switch. When this switch is
closed, in position 1, the coil is tuned
by the variable condenser alone, but
when the switch is in position 2 a
50mmfd. fixed condenser is placed in series
with the tuning condenser. This, in ac-
cordance with the rule for series capa-
cities, reduces the larger capacity (the
tuning condenser). The effect is similar
to that of a single tuning condenser with
a much smaller maximum capacity. The
only disadvantage of this scheme is that
the coil must be selected so that the
small range of wave-lengths covered
starts at the particular wave-band
selected for bandspreading. By making
the 50mmfd. condenser a variable con-
denser also, a much wider bandspreading
range is possible.
For general receiver design, and par-
ticularly where continuous bandspread is
wanted at any frequency, the arrange-
ment shown in Fig. 2is preferable. It
is very easy to apply to an existing re-
ceiver. The tuning condenser has an-
other small variable condenser, usually
of 15mmfd. capacity, shunted across it.
By setting Cl at any portion of the
range covered by the coil the smaller
condenser C 2 can be used for fine tuning.
C 2 needs a slow-motion dial, and the
use of this extra control is simple. A
switch is shown in series with the band-
spread condenser to cut it out of circuit
if desired. Although the main tuning
condenser is shown as .OOOlmfd., the
same bandspread method can be used
with a much larger tuning condenser, up
to .00036mfd.
Fig. 3 is another variation. With the
two-way switch set in the blank position,
the only tuning condenser then in circuit
is C 3, this being shown as 50mmfd. Con-
denser Cl is also of 50mmfd. capacity,
but is a mica compression type or, better
still, one of the special small-sized air-
tuned types for mounting inside plug-in
coils. This can be used for band-setting
in conjunction with C 3, and when the
switch is over to C 2 the arrangement is
then the same as that of Fig. 2, with the
bandspread condenser in parallel with
the tuning condenser. The range of a
given coil can be changed at will with
this combination.
Fig. 4 is a combination of Figs. 1 and
2, making use of a fixed 50mmfd. con-
denser in series with the main tuning
condenser, and the bandspread con-
denser C 3 being always in circuit —either
in shunt with the main tuning condenser
(only if the switch is closed) or in parallel
with the variable and fixed condensers if
the switch is opened.
For the experimenter interested only
in the amateur bands, the tapped coil
method of bandspreading as shown in
Fig. 5 is probably the best. Although the
coil is shown here arranged as for series
capacity reaction (Reinartz), the scheme
is applicable to any grid coil. The band-
spreading condenser is connected to a
tapping on the coil, and the position of
this tap down from the grid end will
determine the amount of spread on
signals. Many other arrangements are
possible, but those shown are the most
generally used.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
The callsign of the well-known Portu-
guese short-wave broadcaster CTIAA, at
Lisbon, has been changed to CS2WA.
The station may be heard in Australia ;
wave-length, 31.09 metres.
* * * *
The annual conference of Radiola dis-
tributors to be held in Sydney during
February will be the largest gathering of
its kind yet held in Australia. A notable
advance in Radiola development is to be
presented to the conference.
* * # *
Latest Australian radio license figures
issued by the P.M.G. show a total of
1,008,595. Experimenters have reached
the 1850 mark.
* * * *
To try to prove whether or not tele-
pathy can be carried out by radio, the
N.B.C. of U.S.A. recently ran tests in
conjunction with scientists. A color
selection was employed, and the results
given by listeners were approximately
one-third more correct than the mathe-
matical laws of chance would allow.
* * * *
British engineers have been . making
tests with wired-television. During recent
tests it was found possible to transmit
and receive good pictures over 400 miles
of landline, with definition higher than
usual. ■
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: There are many reasons
why nothing has been done about the
long-wave broadcasting stations sug-
gested a few years back. The radio trade
doesn’t relish the prospect of adding
another band to receivers—superhets
would need considerable ironing out of
intermediate frequencies to take in 2000
metres in the signal circuits. Alterna-
tive I.F. would really be needed to take
in the short waves as well without com-
plications, and prices would be high.
Further, English experience of long-
wave broadcasting has warned Australia
against it. In Britain high-power long-
wave stations were thought to be neces-
sary to give a wide service area in days
gone by, but they have been superfluous
for a number of years for listeners with
up-to-date sets. Australia is wise to
work upon the development of short
waves.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Lengthy extension controls
are often of use in transmitter and re-
ceiver circuits, but the usual erinoid
rod will twist if it is not kept very short.
The illustration shows a method of over-
coming tuning lag and backlash. A
length of larger - diameter insulating
material, such as ebonite rod, is reinforced
by short lengths of brass tubing fitted
over the ends as collars for grub screws.
It calls for a little metalwork, but is well
worth the trouble.
* * * *
“Cluny”: This tip may be handy.
Recently I had trouble with the lead
from a tubular condenser. The wire
had broken off flush with the wax sealing
at one end, and I had. no spare. I put
several turns of wire round the outside
of the condenser, twisted the ends tightly
together and soldered them to the chassis
in such a way as to make a rigid seat-
ing. A piece of insulated wire was then
taken from the other end of the con-
nection, twisted round the improvised
bearing two or three times and led to
the broken contact. With a penknife, I
scraped enough sealing material away to
expose about a sixteenth of an inch of
the wire leading from the interior con-
denser, took a couple of fine turns round
it, and bent the tip of the interior lead
over to clinch the turns. A dab of
solder to ensure electrical as well as
mechanical contact finished the job.
* * * *
“Enno”: When tuning-in short-wave
stations remember that the sensitivity of
the set will be much greater if the ratio
of inductance to capacity is high. Some
short-wave constructors prefer to use
small condensers and large coils to cover
a given wave-band, in preference to large
condensers and small coils. The former
arrangement may need more coils, but
the disadvantages are' more than bal-
anced by the resultant increase in sensi-
tivity and selectivity.
Amateur Chatter.
Long-distance reception conditions
have been poor on all short-wave bands
from 80 to 10 metres, and on Sunday,
16/l/’3B, there was complete silence on
DX signals between 10.30 a.m. and 2 p.m.
Sunspot activity has been more intense
than for many years. A theory is that
the “blackout” periods correspond with
enormous eruptions of gas from the sur-
face of the sun, the time taken before
the effect is noticed with radio com-
munication on earth being about four
minutes. This activity appears to be pro-
longed, for recently there have been
very poor reception periods during
the early evening. As a matter of normal
practice the strength does drop back con-
siderably about this time, but this year
the echo effect on the transmissions has
been very marked. The Daventry an-
nouncer’s voice has been heard with a
succession of strong echoes, and the re-
flecting layers must have been dropping
the signal into Australia with a series of
time lags.
Amateurs using the 20-metre band have
had their bad periods, but in between
there are bright patches, and DX yarns
go merrily on with places as far afield as
Honolulu, Manila, South America and
Indo-China. An unusual feature this
year is the prolonged absence of U.S.A,
signals on this band. Now and again a
weak one filters through. If the sunspot
cycle behaves as expected, many DX
’phone men are in for bitter disappoint-
ment in a few years, at least so far as
20 metres is concerned. Back in 1931 or
thereabouts, Americans would appear for
a brief ten minutes from around 10.30
p.m. Sydney time, reach a fair strength,
and then fade out as quickly as they
came. The 80-metre band was a good
one for DX, and 40 was a seething mass.
Since then, the numbers of active VKs
have increased considerably, and it is not
hard to imagine the congestion on this
band in another five years. Then pos-
sibly something will be done about the
five-metre band. At present it is going
begging in this country.
Transceivers are not in the best in-
terests of development of the 56mc. band,
but they have their uses. One was made
for VK2ZO by the writer, and this port-
able unit will be used for a radio link
between announcer points and his mobile
public-address car. Transceivers are use-
ful for short-distance working between
points, but they have little place in general
communication. The model recently
tested proved remarkably efficient. It
uses a 76 and a 41 in the combined duties
of super-regenerative detector and audio,
or ultra-audion oscillator and modulator.
Power supply is a six-volt accumulator
and 240 volts of B battery. The aerial is
a new departure for portable five-metre
installations. It is actually a twisted pair
doublet bent into square form as sug-
gested by Reinartz. The directivity is
very marked, as is indicated by swinging
the aerial round in front of a field-meter.
As far away as La Perouse (N.S.W.) the
’phone signal from this little outfit is R 9
at the writer’s location. Even so, for
amateur mobile test days the trans-
receiver type of installation is to be pre-
ferred, as the receiver, being independent,
can be built with an R.F. coupling stage
to guard against squegger radiation.
A station making a big noise on 20-
metre ’phone, with only two 6L6Gs in the
final stage, is VK4HN, of Port Moresby,
Papua. But a Papuan contact doesn’t
mean another country on the list. Papua
is included with Australia, though New
Guinea, also under the VK9 prefix, is
rated as another country.
In a month’s time this year’s exam,
for the Crawford trophy will take place.
The -standard was very high last year,
and there is every indication that it will
be even better this time.
VK2NC.


Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
wft\\
'iTl
P
00
m
Radiotron valves are
sealed for your protection in
red and blue cartons. For
safety, always . . .
(E-VAIVE WIT,,
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS /fijjjh (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN"
GENERAL ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
6 ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. lour-
valve all-waver (B. 28/4/’37); location,
Mount Isa.
So far changes in locality have not
affected the performance of the T.R.F.
Frequently VLR can be heard clearly
when other receivers can bring in nothing.
VK2ME is not a patch on what it was
in Hughenden, nor are Sydney stations
on the broadcast band. VLR is much
the same ; so are VK3ME and the U.S.A.
stations. Europeans are also about the
same.
One morning I got WIXAL Boston on
the 25-metre band, between JZJ and
DJD, just before 8 a.m., quite clearly.
The only other time this station has been
logged was over two years ago, one Sun-
day morning in Lismore (N.S.W.). GSD
Amateur station in Silver City. VK2DQ is the callsign of this neat little station,
operated for many years in Broken Hill, N.S.W., by “Dud” Nourse. With a its upkeep
minimum of apparatus, no trouble is experienced in raising DX.
is a phenomenally good station after 6.15
p.m. for entertainment in these parts. In
recent weeks I have been able to tune in
■GSB just below VK3ME at 7 p.m., and
the wave-length is given as 31.55 metres
in each case. It appears that VK3ME
must have made a change to 31.58 metres
or thereabouts. There is not the least
difficulty in separating these stations
now, either in Hughenden or Mt. Isa.
K. B. G.
Experimental R.F. Chokes.
Chokes for short-wave purposes can be
made by winding small-gauge copper
wire on pieces of bakelite tube or rod
about lin. to lin. diameter. Small-
diameter ribbed formers are also avail-
able on which various windings can be
tried.
For ultra-short-wave chokes the best
former is an old glass tube resistor with
pigtails. These, of the wire-wound
variety, are usually made up on a glass
tube fin. in diameter. By stripping off
the resistance wire one has the basis for
an efficient u.-s.-w. choke.
Allow a length of wire equal approxi-
mately to one-quarter of the wave-length
to be covered. Thus, for a 50-metre
choke, the equivalent length is 164 ft. (or
41ft. of wire). The wire may be cut and
wound on the rod or tube. If it is more
convenient to count the number of turns
instead of measuring off long lengths of
wire, the table shown will be useful, as
this gives the wave-length in metres, the
length of the wire needed for the choke
and the number of turns for rods or
tubes lin. and lin. diameter.
Length
of No. No.
Wire Turns on of
Wave- Equiva- for lin. Turns No. of
length in lent in Choke in Dia. on fin. Turns on
Metres. Feet. Feet. Rod. Rod. fin. Rod.
5 16.4 4.1 40
7 22.9 5.7 58
10 32.8 8.2 32 43 60-80
20 65.6 16.4 64 86
30 98.4 24.6 96 129
40 131.2 32.8 128 172
50 164.0 41.0 160 215
60 196.8 49.0 192 258
70 229.7 57.4 224 301
80 262.5 65.6 256 344
90 295.3 73.8 288 387
100 328.1 82.0 320 430
For any other diameter of tube the
corresponding circumference will be the
length of one turn, and the number of
turns will be given by
Length of wire in inches.
T=
Length of one turn in inches.
Most short-wave chokes are required to
cover from 12 to 80 metres, and so
tapped chokes can be tried, with each
section giving a difference of about 20
metres with about four tappings.
An old but effective idea is the tuned
choke, with which a brass tube is slid
over the end of the choke to adjust the
amount of winding exposed.
Radio Personalia.
F. S. Hayburn is among the many
overseas radio executives to attend the
world radio convention in Sydney com-
mencing April 4. He joined the Mar-
coni International Marine Communica-
tion Co. in 1904, and rose to the position
A British
example of an
amateur Single Signal
superhet with bandspread,
designed by E. J. Pickard ( G6VA ).
of managing director in 1933. He comes
to the convention as the delegate of the
Marconi and Marconi Marine Cos.
Reviving Old Accumulators.
The storage cell comes into its own on
field days and for other portable work,
and cells should be kept in good condi-
tion in readiness.
Badly-sulphated batteries should be
given a thorough clean-up—preferably in
a large wash trough—and all outside cor-
rosion and dirt removed with strong
soapy water.
If the vent plugs are left in place there
is little likelihood of unwanted suds get-
ting into the cells. Even bad cases of
sulphation will yield to the soapsuds
treatment, and a large scrubbing brush
will remove the corrosion from terminals,
carrying handles, etc.
If new acid is needed, fill the trough
with enough water to come well up the
sides of the jar in which the acid is to be
added to the distilled water. Place the
mixing jar in the trough and commence
the mixing operation, adding the acid
slowly and allowing intervals for cool-
ing off. A great deal of heat is generated
when sulphuric acid is added to water,
hence the need for the water bath around
the mixing jar. Test the mixture fre-
quently with a hydrometer to ensure that
the correct specific gravity is attained.
Climatic conditions have a direct bear-
ing on the sp. gr. of the acid. In
N.S.W., Vic., S.A. and Tasmania, fresh
acid (and, of course, that in fully-charged
cells) should read 1250. The electrolyte
in a discharged cell
should not read lower
than 1110.
In Queensland, W.A.
and N.T. the average sp.
gr. is lower, the range
lying between 1220 (fully
charged) and 1080 (dis-
charged). The higher the
temperature in which the
cell is to be worked, the
lower the sp. gr. at which
it is safe to run.
Finally, give the resur-
rected accumulator a good
long charge at the normal
rate and follow this with
regular work. Indicator
lamps, relays, bells and
other devices can provide
steady drains upon the
battery, and make its re-
charging not only neces-
sary but more beneficial.
An “unemployed” battery
requires nearly the same
attention as a hard-
worked one, and yet does nothing for
its upkeep.
R. H. A.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent t
Otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Suitable book or books dealing with the
uses of vacuum tube voltmeters and modulated
oscillators for amateur and service work? —626.
The 1938 A.R.R.L. Radio Amateur’s Hand-
book has a chapter giving circuit diagrams and
constructional details of many such instruments,
including a small oscilloscope. A complete
volume on all forms of service instruments is
Official Radio Service Handbook, by Bernsley,
obtainable from Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
(1) Is an aerial 50 ft, high, with one wire
leading into the set, better than one 60ft. long,
50 ft. high, consisting of one continuous wire,
including the lead-in? (2) Formula for con-
verting metres to kilocycles? (3) What is the
cause of loud whining oh certain short-wave
stations ? —630.
(1) Question not clear. Length of aerial
50ft. high not mentioned, but 60ft. overall
length is ample for general reception on broad-
cast and short waves. (2) The formula is:
299,820,000
Frequency equals
wave-length in metres.
This gives the frequency in cycles, as, for
example, 200 metres to kilocycles, given by:
299,820,000
F. equals
200
This is 1,499,100 cycles or 1499 kilocycles. (3)
Heterodyning between stations. Where two
stations are so close in frequency as to inter-
fere with each other, a beat note, or hetero-
dyne, is set up as a musical note or whistle.
Radioplayer 1252.
The 1938 broadcast, dual- and all-
wave receivers are now making an
appearance, and from the Philips factory
comes the new Radioplayer model 1252.
This five-valve superhet is a dual-waver
in the low-price field, incorporating
audioscopic reproduction. It will sell at
24 guineas.
An extra tuned circuit makes for
greater selectivity. Extension of the
waveband on the short-wave side brings
in the 13-metre channel, and under
favorable conditions reception of the
Empire and other stations is satisfactory.
It is the first low-priced dual-waver to
include the 13-metre band.
Other features include a simplified
three-position tone control and an en-
tirely new type of speaker. The cabinet
is designed in attractive modern lough-
boy style.
“Norwood”: Shielding has become
practically standard for all R.F. valves
and coils, but sometimes there is a ten-
dency for shields to make a receiver un-
stable in oscillation. By accident, I hap-
pened to try a set which was playing up
with the can left off the oscillator. The
trouble immediately rectified itself, and
the receiver has functioned perfectly
ever since. I have found since that the
removal of an odd can or two has had
beneficial effects in other cases, although
it was generally intermediates where the
shielding was causing trouble. Can any
reader give a satisfactory explanation?


VITA - LICK
For
HEALTHIER FLOCKS
AND GREATER PROFITS.
Mr. A. L. Varley, “Kahmoo,” Inverell,
writes, 3 / 5/’35 :
“For some years we have main-
tained that the constant use of
Vita-Lick ensures health, also (a)
a healthy sheep is able to with-
stand worm attack ; (b) is less sub-
ject to blowfly attack; (c) grows
more and better wool.”
VITA-LICK AGENTS IN ALL
SHEEP & CATTLE CENTRES
Vita-Lick, Ltd.,
107 - 109 Kent Street, Sydney
Minerals for Dry Cows.
“More Gallons”: You must feed a cow
if you want milk. The cows won’t do
any good on those dry paddocks. Cer-
tainly they’ll forage round and seem to
get enough to keep them alive. Is that
all you want? .
I feed my dry cows and give them Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour too—that’s, why my
herd milks much longer than it used to.
Another tip that I’ve found useful —give
the Tri-cal-os lick to the milking cows
while they are in the bails. You are sure
of them getting it.
r\
Ask Davis Gelatine (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., to send
35835, Sydney, will find them.
a folder. G.P.O. Box
Old Farmer.
TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
ffi. . i
J
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on
ii pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 50/-
Compiete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table , Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
A Bit of Early History.
“Zedo”: Phillip, Macquarie, Went-
worth, Macarthur, Bligh and a few
others are well remembered among the
earliest of Australian pioneers, but most
of those who first tilled the soil lie
in grass-covered graves around the outer
Sydney suburbs.
Macarthur alone of the great ones of
the early fleets did much for Australian
agricultural development. He used the
first iron plough in 1796, and was the
first stock-improver. He exported the
first wool, though the first suit of clothes
to come off an Australian sheep belonged
to old Parson Marsden, who sent abroad
the first commercial shipment (in 1808)
and had some of it woven within sight of
his native Farsley. Some of the early
wool made a sensation on the British
market. One lot of Macarthur’s sold as
high as 10s. 4d. per pound. England had
never before seen a staple like it.
The Australian wool industry really
owes its beginning to a Dutch Scotsman
in charge of a mercenary German regi-
ment at the Cape of Good Hope. When
Macquarie and Bligh met for the first
time in False Bay, South Africa, in 1788,
this curious character came on board.
His name was Gordon ; he was Dutch-
born, as was his father before him, but
he entertained them with Gaelic songs.
When the British took the Cape from the
Dutch, Captain Kent, Governor King and
others who called there bought his little
herd of pure merino sheep. Marsden
got some ; so did Macarthur.
Australia’s first farm was in the little
valley which runs through the centre of
the Sydney Botanic Gardens. Phillip
brought with him coffee, cotton, orange,
lemon, guava, tamarind, prickly-pear and
some medicinal plants from Rio and
from the Cape, fig, bamboo, sugarcane,
apple, pear, quince, strawberry, vines
from Constantia and various kinds of
grain. The country was so thickly tim-
bered that it was a tough job clearing it.
In July, 1788, the cultivation of the con-
tinent amounted to nine acres.
There was only one man in the settle-
ment whom Phillip considered capable of
cultivating land. He was Henry Edward
Dodd, and he was soon transferred to
Rose Hill (Parramatta), where he had 100
convicts under his control. He died in
1791 when he had put over 200 acres
under cultivation.
The first stock brought by Phillip were
pastured on what is now Woolloomoo-
loo. On King’s Birthday, 1788, most of
the handful of cattle disappeared. They
founded a station of their own at Mi.
Taurus, nearly 40 miles away, and their
roving ground afterwards became Aus-
tralia’s best-known sheep station and stud
farm, then one of its model dairy farms
—John Macarthur’s Camden Park.
The foundation of the Illawarra dairy-
ing industry was not laid till 1816. Even
then the conditions and hardships of the
small Australian settler were almost un-
imaginable. Most of them huddled along
the river flats of the Hawkesbury, in
one-roomed bark huts. Their two main
implements were a crude six-pound axe
and a hoe —a standard 11 in. long in the
blade and 7in. across. The earnest
farmer merely yanked out his clod and
left it to lie till the grass could be're-
moved. Seed was broadcast and har-
rowed in sometimes with a branch or at
best a bush harrow. And since there was
scarcely any stock to fertilise the land it
deteriorated very rapidly.
There were no pure-bred stock except
Spanish sheep and a few horses in Aus-
tralia till the early eighteen-twenties.
Milk was a commodity seen in few house-
holds during the first 25 years of Aus-
tralian history, and many a year almost
all the wheat and maize of the settle-
ment was washed away with floods.
It is a miracle that shortly after the
end of Australia’s first generation a popu-
lation of 30,000 was providing itself
with grain and meat. And there were
two books on agriculture.
“ Please, will you change this fellow for one of them white leghorns?”
“Why, what’s the matter with him?”:
“Dad ses ’e can’t run fast enough.”
Fluke Prevention.
“Narooma”: Wet conditions on the
N.S.W. tablelands have increased the
amount of fluke, and some graziers are
lamenting that they neglected to treat
springs, creeks and swampy patches with
bluestone earlier in the year. Bluestoning
aims at killing the water-snail which is
the host of the fluke parasite. It should
be done in early summer, but there is
still time to do the job.
Powdered or granulated bluestone
should be used. The cost is around £2
per cwt. Mix with sand at the rate of
lib. bluestone to 41b. sand and broadcast
over all low-lying, swampy ground and
springs. Spread at the rate of lcwt. of
the mixture to the acre. This will kill the
snails without endangering stock.
Fluke and black disease are closely
allied. Black-disease germs are found in
the liver of the sheep, but do not cause
death until the fluke parasites burrow
through the surface of the liver.
By thoroughly bluestoning in November
or early in December, both diseases may
be prevented. Should the bluestoning be
delayed, however, or should it be impos-
sible to treat the entire property thor-
oughly, the sheep should be inoculated
at the same time.
Black-disease vaccine is thoroughly
effective against black disease, but does
not prevent losses from acute fluke. The
cost of inoculation works out at less than
a penny per sheep, and it is important
that only the best quality vaccines and
drenches be used.
No Official Anxiety.
“C. Punch”: C. F. G. Grant, the N.S.W.
State Herdmaster, supports The Bulle-
tin’s view (12/1 /’3B) that the whole sys-
tem of chiller beef production in this
country needs an overhaul. He wants to
know why the industry has not developed
as rapidly as was expected when expand-
ing quotas were wheedled out of John
Bull.
So far, no attempt has been made to
discover what part or parts of N.S.W.
are most suitable for beef production.
Ear-western conditions are not suitable
for producing quick-maturing, succulent
chiller beef. In the mid-west fat-lamb
raising seems a better proposition. On
the tablelands fine-wool production is
pre-eminent, and on the coast dairying
and pig-raising can hardly be profitably
supplanted.
The way out seems to be by the spread
of fodder crops, improved pastures and
a big extension of lucerne. Also, a sys-
tem whereby farms can take well-bred
cattle from stations and with concen-
trated grazing bring out their inherent
capacity to grow quickly and economi-
cally.
A. C. W. Fisken, chairman of the Meat
Board, when shown the report (B.
12/1/’3B) in which the Commonwealth
veterinary officer in London severely
criticised the quality of our beef and
lamb, said “he did not believe the report
was causing any anxiety in official circles. ”
Trocar Technique.
“Silky Bag”: Some trocars and
canulae used for relieving bloat in cows
exceed the size they need be —3-16 in.
is wide enough. The smaller size is easier
to sharpen and has a finer point.
A trocar must be sharp. The point
and each of the three or four edges must
actually cut. When grinding, work each
flat surface in turn on a fine oil- or
water-stone until the edges are keen.
Even then it may be difficult to get
a trocar through the springy hide. Keep
an old safety razor-blade handy and nick
the hide with it half-way between the
point of the hip and the last long rib,
about 3in. below the line of the short
ribs, before leaning on the instrument.
Keep the trocar, canula and razor-
blade always clean and wrapped in a piece
of towel. In emergency, the trocar and
canula may be dipped in lysol before
they’re used.
Cattle-branding.
“Kyamba”: Agi-
tation still goes on
to make it compul-
sory for all cattle
to be branded on
the shoulder, neck
or thigh. The tan-
ning trade has
complained about
the damage done
to hides by bad
branding for de-
cades.
Custom is the
root of the trouble.
But earmarks
usually establish
identity, so it
matters little
whether cattle
carry brands on the
hoof or the nose so
long as they are in»
delible. With cattle
carrying winter
coats not one in a
hundred rib or
rump brandings is
legible.
Some, too,
plaster brands all
over the place. I
have seen a side of
leather carrying
seven brands. Is it any wonder that
complaints are made of the high
prices prevailing for leather in compari-
son with values operating for hides? I
suggest a conference between represen-
tatives of- the Governments concerned,
the Tanners’ Association and graziers to
agree on a sane and uniform system.
Clean Conditions for Calves.
“Silky Bag”: Often the determining
factor in calf-rearing is not feeding, but
dirt in utensils and paddocks.
Coli and Salmonella germs are the
calf’s biggest enemy. If taken in with
the food they grow in the gut wall.
Usually the chief sources of germs are
the cracks in wooden feed troughs or
barrels for skim-milk, the corners in
kerosene-tins and unwashed utensils.
Wooden troughs for milk should be
barred at any price, while seamed tins
are only safe if properly cleaned and
o Continued on page 44.)


prcf ti m
IX JLh4 Kmr JL ij 0U @
WlMXmA.jn-E illiSKlllf ’
SUNTYNE
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION COMBINE!
It is used by most v '-:ipty'A^^% > farmers,
including the majority x>f crop competition winners. One
of many recent successes is that of Messrs. A.C.Severin
& Sons, Brockl'esby (near Albury), who won Southern
Slopes (N.S.W.) Comp. {TWICE IN SUCCESSION.
d
in 1936 and
Severin & Sons’ winning crop in the 1937 competition secured 150| points, the
HIGHEST NUMBER EVER AWARDED in an N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society
Championship, and it (like the 1936 crop) WAS SOWN WITH A SUNTYNE.
( Incidentally, Severin & Sons also used a Sunrise Plough and Sunshine Header. They share the
confidence of most leading farmers in all Sunshine Machinery.)
EQUIPPED FOR TRACTOR OR HORSE-TEAM HAULAGE.
Priced
Moderately
for Cash
or Terms.
SUNTYNE COMBINED GRAIN AND
FERTILIZER DRILL AND SPRING
TYNE CULTIVATOR.
8-row, 17-tyne, cultivates sft.
12-row, 25-tyne, cultivates 71t't
14-row, 29-tyne, cultivates Sift
16-row, 33-tyne, cultivates 9ift,
20-row, 41-tyne, cultivates 12ft.
24-row. 49-tyne, cultivates 14ft.
£22
W
HOW THE SUNTYNE EXCELS IN THE
SIX ESSENTIALS FOR PERFECT SOWING
• ■
1 COMPLETE CULTIVATION. The four
rows of tynes are placed so that not an
inch of soil escapes pulverising. All weed
growth is cut out.
2 FIRM, PACKED, LEVEL SEED BED. The
points of the “Suntyne” make a flat bottom
in the earth to any depth desired. The
bottom is not only cut level, hut is smoothed and
compacted.
3 EVENLY SPACED AND POSITIVE SEED-
ING. The seeds drop directly on to a firm
seed bed, the point to which moisture rises.
They are not planted in narrow lines, but fall in
properly-spaced rows, giving each plant the maxi-
mum growing space.
UNIFORM FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION.
The fertilizer is dropped evenly and con-
tinuously on to the seed bed adjacent to
the seeds themselves. Germination is hastened,
and a vigorous early growth assured.
5 SURE COVERAGE WITH FINE MULCH.
However shallow the sowing, the seeds are
covered correctly. Tynes in the rear row
do not sow, but are purely cultivators and
coverers. All seeds are planted at the same depth.
6 FREEDOM FROM DELAYS. The Suntyne
has all the rugged strength, simplicity and
reliability for which Sunshine machinery is
famous. The best way to avoid breakdowns is
to BUY THE RIGHT MACHINE—“SUNSHINE.”
THE NEXT CROP COMPETITIONS WILL BE HALF WON
IN THE AUTUMN, BECAUSE BEST PLANTING WILL GIVE
BEST CHANCE FOR ULTIMATE SUCCESS ... LET A
SUNTYNE COMBINE GIVE YOU A FLYING START.
A Few of the Features
that Make the Suntyne
so Successful.
&
Ample Clearance.
In this illustration the off-side wheel has been
removed to show the great clearance between
ranks of tynes. This means far less possibility
of choking with weeds and rubbish. The stout
forecarriage is also shown. Its wheels are
pivotally mounted, and adjust automatically to
any inequalities of the ground.
Tractor hitch and forward levers can be sup-
plied in lieu of forecarriage.
The draught is arranged to spread the pull and
relieve all strain, and may be set at any height
for high or low hitch.
Seed on Packed Bed.
This diagram shows how the Suntyne places the
seed in the very best position for quick germina-
tion and sturdy growth. Notice how it is
placed direct on the compacted seed bed, evenly
spaced, and covered with a mulch of pulverised
soil. Note also that, although the surface is
waved, seeds are covered to a uniform depth.
m
WB : j
m
M
m
■v...-
Feed Run of Proved
Efficiency.
Progressive farmers who have used the Suntyne
for many years (and there are thousands of
them) have found that one of its biggest advan-
tages is the great efficiency of the sowing
mechanism.
This sectional view of the hopper shows the
fertilizer stars and grain runs in their separate
boxes. No leakage can occur from one box to
the other. They are equipped with steel lids,
covered by a metal ridge cap, absolutely
waterproof and warp-proof. The grain distri-
butors are vertical saucers of cast iron, one side
sowing small quantities and the other larger
quantities, as required.
This pattern run has never been excelled for
positive, accurate and uniform sowing.
The fertilizer stars are driven smoothly and the
fertilizer is delivered in an even, regular and
continuous flow. Various
sizes are available.
The illustration at right
shows the receiver into
which both grain and ferti-
lizer are delivered. From the
receiver, they drop into the
furrow per medium of a
telescopic rubber tube with
steel top and steel boot,
which avoids kinking and
rotting and ensures that the
fertilizer is kept dry and
free running.
m
These and many other advantages make the
Suntyne Australia’s leading Combine. Ask
your local, agent for full details, or write direct.
H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS
(Incorporated in Victoria ).
CONCORD WEST (Near Sydney).
Also at 27-29 Broadway, Sydney;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.


USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR ....
Use ABBEYS for Quality
A fitting companion for the
man on the land is this
Abbey Working Cossack.
Strongly made with heavy
double sole and leather
lining and an upper of tough
wearing calf; it’s built to last.
The comfort, of course, is
the same as any other Abbey
Model . . . perfect.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
1308
Made in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
Also order a tin of English Dubbin to
keep Working Boots soft and supple.
Price 2/6.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTi BiIBAWM
\ LIIMBY lbs
PERSONAL
ATTENTION.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL - ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=r
I
Vi,
V jft
*==s3l > - -==. -
Mmm-_
—fi
3e~
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kino St.. Sydney
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
fd
Demco Diesel Tractors Burn Crude Oil
BUILT IN TWO SIZES, 18/38 and 30/50*.
j WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO.,
243 Cleveland Street, Redfern, Sydney.
icalded before use. Calves can be fed
individually from the same seamless
buckets that are used for milking.
A neighbor who went in for high-grade
purebreds installed a calf-feeding system
in which half kero.-tins were sunk in
short concrete pillars. Although he
washed them out daily, his calf losses
were around 70 p.c. until he installed
seamless buckets.
Japanese Millet.
“Hortus”: Jap. millet is a quick-grow-
ing summer catch crop, and will do well
on land from which a crop has recently
been taken.
No special soil is needed. It is hardy
and stands dry spells well.
The millet is a surface-feeder, so
harrow in lcwt. super, to the acre before
sowing. Seed varies with soil-quality—
81b. to 121 b. p.a. is average. It’s best to
sow continuously every two or three
weeks where there’s an absence of
fodder.
Jap. millet is available when the spring
grasses may have failed. It has no
poisonous qualities like sorghum, and
can be fed when quite young. It is best,
however, not to start feeding off until
the crop is at least 6in. above ground.
Remove stock after they have eaten it
down well. With suitable conditions, it
will be only a matter of days before
there’s another growth.
Jap. millet can be planted up to late
February in some districts—remember
that it is susceptible to frosts. Best
results are from drill-planted seed.
After-harvest Jobs.
“Yeo”: When the last head of wheat
has been bagged and carted, do not put
the harvester and tractor away until they
have been overhauled. A coat of paint
is needed every second year. If the over-
haul is postponed until the following
harvest, there may not be time to do the
job thoroughly.
The next job is to select wheat for
seed, which should be well graded and
then dry-pickled with copper carbonate
dust. It will then be ready to cart
straight to the paddock. One of the
advantages of dry-pickling is that it en-
ables treatment for smut to be effected
weeks before the seed is wanted. There is
no risk of loss of germination quality.
Get in the superphosphate required for
seeding at the season’s end. Many
farmers cart super, back after taking
wheat to the rail siding. If the super,
is left until it is time to begin sowing,
it may be green and not free-running.
Look Out for Weevils.
“Hortus”: Queensland’s 1937 wet
wheat-harvesting conditions may cause
trouble. Wheat stored in such cases is
very liable to weevil infestation.
Growers should treat next season’s
seed on hand for smut-prevention—2oz.
copper carb. for each bushel.
This treatment also acts as a deterrent
for grain-destroying insects.
Storage won’t affect smut-prevention.
Nor will it affect the seed in the slightest.
Treat with copper carb. before weevil-
attack sets in.
Growing Wattles for Bark.
“Bogaduck”: Wattles (B. 15/12/’37)
are grown commercially on a small scale
in Australia. In the bracken and sand-
hill country to the west of Naracoorte
(S.A.), where there is a rainfall of 25in.,
the poorest of the country is used for
wattle-growing.
First, any stringybarks growing on this
bracken land are ringbarked. In the
following summer the seed of the black
wattle is broadcast in the fern, which is
fired late in the autumn, when the hot
spell is about to be followed by the first
rains. A profuse growth of young wattles
follows, and most of the ringbarked trees
are burnt down when the bracken is
fired.
Within a few years the wattles reach
a height of 20ft. and a trunk girth of
18in. The bark is stripped from them
as they stand, tied in bundles and trucked
to market or shipped from Kingston.
Trees are stripped about Christmas-time
unless harvesting interferes. Stripping is
then done after harvest, usually on piece-
work by men who knock out from 10s.
to £1 per day at it.
In the following autumn the bracken
is again fired, bringing up another thick
crop of seedlings. Once started, the
wattle forest regenerates itself every time
the fire is run over the ground. The
dead trees from which the bark has been
stripped make excellent firewood, and
are easily cut while still green.
It is one way to make use of sandy
bracken land which has no value for
grazing. The profit in it is small but
assured. It can be done where the rain-
fall exceeds 20in., and there are hundreds
of thousands of acres suitable for it, and
at present lying idle, in the bottom end
of S.A. and in western Victoria.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.”: One pint of water, one tea-
spoonful of yellow sheep-dip, two heaped
tablespoonfuls of jam, honey or treacle,
stirred together, make a good fly-killer.
In jam-tins and hung in the trees, it will
clean up the fruit-fly thoroughly.
“Hortus”: About 51b. oaten or lucerne
chaff and 21b. bran twice daily in the
bails make a good winter feed. If bran
is dear and potatoes cheap, chop the
spuds up and mix with the chaff. Pota-
toes are rich in starch, which gives
warmth.
“L.F.P.”: Do away with wet spots in
fowlruns. Put gravel pits covered with
narrow cleats under all drinking recep-
tacles. This lessens a lot of disease
trouble.
“Sandy”: This is the time to work
land for oats for winter cowfeed. Have
the land well worked, and if the weather
is favorable plant seed in February. Be
liberal with seed and super. Sunrise,
Mulga and Lachlan give excellent green
feed. Another useful feed is chou-moel-
lier. Sow in beds, transplant 3ft.
apart each way, and scuffle. When the
plants grow larger, thin out to 6ft. apart.
Do not cut the plant but pull the bottom
leaves off. It do'es not taint the milk.
“J.R.D.”: New types of chicken-foot-
fork shearing handpieces are practically
foolproof, and complaints by shearers
are largely due to two causes. Either
shafting requires 60 to 100 revs, per
minute more than for old type, or the
centre-post adjustment is affected by the
use of combs and cutters of varying
thicknesses. New combs and cutters
should not be used indiscriminately with
thin, worn gear.
“Sandy”: Cheviot sheep (B. 12/1 /’3B)
have been tried in Australia unsuccess-
fully. They are the hardest sheep in the
world to work, extremely obstinate and
will readily face dogs. Sheep get less
handling on the large Australian runs,
and the Cheviot would soon become un-
manageable. But their mutton brings
top price, and the wool compares favor-
ably with that of the average British
breed.
“Nothung”: Western Q’land wheats
are coming on. Flora X Pusa, a cross
from Flora—a recent Roma (Q.) cross
with Florence and Pusa, which
has been a leading Darling Downs wheat
for a quarter of a century, both very
hard-milling wheats, gained fourth place
for white wheat at the World Exhibition,
Chicago. The exhibitor was G. J. Will,
of Kincora, Pittsworth.
“A. Angus”: The N.S.W. Bald Blair
Aberdeen-Angus stud cattle, owned by
Col. White, have been sold. Almost
every black poll stud of any consequence
in this country has some Bald Blair blood
in it. Yet top price was 180gns., for a
cow that won championships at Brisbane
and Sydney shows! Old Beauty of Bal-
fron (imp.), now in his 13th year, and
still getting good calves, went for 125gns.
Neither for cows nor bulls did prices
reach an average of £3O a head. And we
talk about the future of the beef cattle
industry!
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Recipe for a good brine for mutton ? —58225.
Take 61b. salt, 21b. sugar, 3oz. saltpetre, 3
gallons water. Place on the fire, stir occa-
sionally and skim when it begins to boil. Boil
at least 30 minutes, strain into a tub and let
stand until cold; do not use galvanised recep-
tacles; wood or enamel is safer. This may
be used for some time if boiled up occasionally
with a little fresh sugar, saltpetre and salt. A
fortnight is the average time for pickling the
meat, longer or shorter according to its size.


wmm
■•.sv.
sw*
mm
m
tm
; $» *3^
L “• 4-Sx
J 1
x*:
ii
•lip
2k
lIS
mm
ss?
&
:
:?• i*-- #
■®m.
m
m
• :P
m
PATIENCE
is a virtue in
the making of
GOOD whisky
"If you can wait and not be tired
by waiting,” quoted Johnnie Walker,
"you have one of the essential
qualities for the making of good
whisky—Patience. When whisky is
run from the still into the spirit-
receiver, and from the spirit-
receiver into an oak cask, it
begins the long natural process,
extending over many years,
known as maturing in the wood.
"But while this improving and
ageing of whisky is going on, there
are other whiskies, laid down long
ago and now fully matured, which
are ready for blending as Johnnie
Walker. The fact that Johnnie
Walker commands such large stocks
of old and specially selected whiskies
explains why this famous whisky is
older and better to-day than it has
ever been. You yourself will prove
this to be true when you ask for
Johnnie Walker by name.”
-JOHNNIE
is s
m
WAhKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW 73-FPB


Our Service Depaetment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, wants typing
work; own machine, used to handling manu-
scripts.—B3s9.
Gentleman wants seat, car or truck, Mel-
bourne to Sydney and return; any time. —8386.
Young man (25), N.S.W., good education,
drive any car or truck, do all repairs, wants
Diesel and electrical engineering exp. Will
study.—B37o.
To buy Boys’ Own Annual of about 50 years
ago with stories by “Ulysses.”—B344.
To buy The Life, Adventures and Confes-
sions of a Sydney Barmaid, published in 1894.
—8397.
Words of poem entitled “Homesick.” —8415.
Information Sought.
A few particulars concerning Great Britain’s
regaining of the world’s air altitude record ?
8398.
The world’s air altitude record was regained
for Great Britain on June 30, 1937, when
Flight-Lieut. M. J. Adam, using the Bristol 138
experimental high-altitude aircraft, rose to
53,937 feet (more than ten miles). The previous
record of 51,362 feet was held by Lieut.-Col.
Mario Pezzi for Italy. In the British flight
precautions against “frosting-up” of the Celes-
troid windows of the headpiece had been taken
and an emergency breathing-pipe was in use
to lead air direct from the outside when neces-
sary instead of having to slash open the front
of the headpiece. The transparent material
forming the cabin roof cracked on reaching an
altitude of 48,000 feet, but not seriously enough
to interfere with the continuation of the flight.
* * * *
(1) Who was the first Australian to win the
V.C. in the Great War, and how did he earn
it ? (2) Where can I find a full account of his
deed?— B42B.
(1) Captain Albert Jacka (then private). On
the night of May 19, 1915, at Courtney’s Post,
Gallipoli, he and four other privates were
holding portion of a trench and were attacked.
Jacka’s four comrades were killed or wounded,
and single-handed he disposed of seven Turks,
shooting five and bayoneting the others. (2)
In The Story of Anzac (Vol. 11, page 150).
* * * *
(1) What is the license fee for a bookmaker
in the Melbourne metropolitan area? (2) Fees
for Flemington, Caulfield and Moonee Valley
on the lawn, hill and flat? (3) What taxes do
bookmakers pay? —B2B7.
(1) A Government license inside the metro-
politan area in the paddock or main rings is
£6O p.a.; on the hill at Flemington or in the
Guineas at Caulfield, £2O p.a.; on the flat, £lO
p.a. (2) The cost of a permit to bet in the
paddock at Flemington is £5O, the hill £25, and
the flat £7; in the paddock at Caulfield £4O
p.a., in the Guineas at Caulfield £2O p.a., and
on the flat £lO p.a.; in the paddock at Moonee
Valley £25 p.a., north or south hill or flat £l5
p.a. (3) Bookmakers pay a stamp tax of 6d.
a ticket in the paddock or main betting rings
inside the metropolitan area; on the hill or in
the Guineas, 2d. per ticket; on the flat, Id.
per ticket.
* * * *
(1) How far is Wau, New Guinea, from the
coast? (2) White population? (3) Are the
mines reef or lode formation ? (4) Living and
climatic conditions ? —8309.
(1) Wau is the centre of activity of the
Morobe goldfields and some 35 miles by air-
line in a south-westerly direction from the
town of Salamaua, the port of entry for the
goldfield. (2) The township has a European
population of about 500. (3) Reef gold is
being worked in the Edie Creek locality and
in the vicinity of Wau; alluvial deposits have
been located in the adjacent rivers and creeks.
(4) Wau possesses a hotel, stores, an aero-
drome, European school, European and native
hospitals, agencies of the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank and the Bank of N.S.W., wireless
communication and a public electricity supply,
while cricket, tennis and golf are played. In
the Morobe district, the wet periods occur dur-
ing November - December and April - July;
the remaining months are comparatively dry.
However, in no month except January is the
rainfall less than sin., the heaviest being
13|in. An Official Handbook of New Guinea,
containing fuli particulars of the territory, may
be obtained from the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, Canberra, ss. 7d., including postage.
* * * *
(1) Name of a Sydney school where I could
learn fencing? (2) Are there any such schools
open at night ? (3) Fees ? (4) Does fencing
develop muscles and help an individual to put
on weight? —8290.
(1) and (2) The Swords Club, 77 McLachlan-
avenue, Rushcutter Bay. (3) Twelve months’
tuition should make a good fencer. Total cost
approx. £25 at two lessons per week. (4)
Fencing would do that as it is an exceptionally
good general exercise.
* * . * *
(1) Value of this year’s S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize? (2) Will it be confined to novels? (3)
What novels won it in previous years? —B263.
(1) £2OO, £lOO not awarded last year having
been added to the prizemoney. (2) Yes. (3)
1935, Tiburon, by Kylie Tennant; 1936, All
That Swagger, by Miles Franklin.
r * * *
When does winter begin in Australia? —8453.
Astronomically, on June 22, when the sun
enters the zodiacal sign Cancer; meteorologi-
cally, on June 1. The rule applies to the
whole Southern Hemisphere.
* * * *
(1) Who painted the “Mona Lisa,” and who
was she? (2) Why is the picture so universally
acclaimed as a great work of art ? —8448.
(1) It was painted by Leonardo da Vinci early
in the sixteenth century. The subject was Lisa,
a Neapolitan, wife of Zanobi del Giocondo.
(2) Magnificent technique. The picture sym-
bolises, in the enigmatical expression worn by
the lady, what romanticists might term “the
eternal mystery of woman.” To be able to
convey such a subtlety on canvas so deftly is
a hall-mark of genius.
* * * *
Who was Louis de Rougemont, and for what
reason was he described as “the greatest liar
on earth” ? —8444.
He was a Swiss who became valet to an
Australian Governor in the ’seventies and was
later cook on a pearling schooner. The journal
of Stockdale, a bushman and explorer, came
into his possession, and with this as a basis
he invented wild stories of adventure which he
swore were true. He published an article in
the “Wide World” magazine in 1898 and lec-
tured on his alleged explorations to. London
audiences. Being promptly bowled' out, he
visited South Africa as a lecturer, billing him-
self as “the greatest liar on earth.” A similar
tour in Australia was a frost. De Rougemont,
whose right name was Henri Grein, died in an
English workhouse in 1921.
* * * *
What causes the Aurora Australis? —8459.
It is a phenomenon caused by electrical dis-
charges in the upper atmosphere around the
south magnetic pole. There is undoubtedly
some connection between sunspots and aurorae,
as at times of maximum sunspot activity the
aurora is more brilliant and persistent. That
the aurora is due to magnetic influence is
borne out by the great disturbance it causes
in telegraphic instruments and radio transmis-
sion.
* * * *
How is the discrepancy of 86,000 between
the A.I.F. enlistment and embarkation figures
explained? Is it a matter of desertions from
camps in Australia? —8437.
Desertions accounted for not more than 1
p.c. The rest of the discrepancy is caused by
such cases as men discharged for family
reasons or because they were medically unfit
or undesirable, men who had more than one
enlistment, and men who were in camp at the
signing of the Armistice.
* * * *
(1) Titles of books dealing with violin-
making? (2) Suitable Australian woods? —
8440.
(1) Violin Making, by Walter Mason, and
Violin Making as It Was and Is, by Herman
Allen. (2) None has proved suitable. The
woods used are Swiss pine for tops or bellies
and European maple for backs and ribs,
obtainable from A. E. Smith, 9 Hunter-street,
Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What position did J. Webber hold with
Captain Cook on his voyages? Where was he
born, whom did he marry and where did he
live after he returned ? (2) What data can be
procured from the Mitchell Library about him ?
—8416.
(1) He was the artist who accompanied Cap-
tain James Cook on his third voyage and was
born in London about 1750. His father was
a Swiss and spelt his name Weber. Webber
died unmarried in London on April 29, 1793.
After his return on Cook’s last voyage he
lived in England. (2) The Mitchell Library has
a photograph of a portrait of him that is in
the Berne Historical Museum, and advises that
the best biographical account is to be found in
the Dictionary of National Biography, Vol. 60,
page 112. The library has also in the Dixson
collection some water-color sketches made by
Webber on Cook’s voyage, and has his en-
gravings of portraits of Cook and of pictures
made on the voyage. Occasional references
are to be found in Kitson’s Life of Cook,
Corney’s Quest of the Tahiti and similar works.
* * * *
How is gypsum calcined to make plaster of
Paris ? —8423.
It is heated in kilns or ovens in such a
manner that the carbonaceous fuel does not
come in contact with the sulphate, which would
result in its reduction to sulphide. The tempera-
ture is not allowed to exceed about 130 deg. C. If
heated to above 200 deg. C. the sulphate becomes
anhydrous and is said to be dead burnt. In
this condition its property of setting when
mixed with water is greatly impaired.
* * * *
What calendar is in use in China ? —B3BO.
Until 1921 a lunar calendar was in force in
China, but with the establishment of the
Republic the Government adopted the Grego-
rian calendar, and the new and old systems
were used simultaneously by the people for
several years. Since 1930 the publication and
use of the old calendar have been banned by
the Government, and an official Chinese calen-
dar corresponding with the European or
Western system is compiled by the Academia
Sinica at Nanking.
* * * *
Were the emancipists in early Australian
history convicts who had served their full terms
or convicts who had been granted pardons?
—8395.
The term was applied to men who had been,
but no longer were, convicts, whether they had
regained their freedom on the expiration of
their sentences or (and this was the narrower
connotation of the term, the first-mentioned
class being technically “expirees”) had been
granted absolute or conditional pardons by the
Governor.
* * * *
(1) Name of company which controls the
Suez Canal ? (2) What is its capital and what
financial interest has Great Britain in it? (3)
Is it a fact that international law forbids the
blockading of the canal? (4) How many
British representatives are there on the manage-
ment ? —8374.
(1) The Compagnie Universelle du Canal
Maritime de Suez. (2) It is an Egyptian com-
pany, authorised in 1856 and confirmed in 1866,
with a capital of 200,000,000 francs in 400,000
shares of 500 francs each. The British Govern-
ment acquired from the Khedive in 1875 a
total of 176,602 shares (cost, £4,000,000; value,
March 31, 1937, £78,622,059). Since 1924 each
500-franc share has been divided into two 250-
franc shares. (3) Yes, by a convention signed
on October 29, 1888, the canal was exempted
from blockade, and vessels of all nations,
whether armed or not, are to be allowed to
pass through it in peace or war. (4) Ten; three
representing the Government and seven the
shipowning interests.
Brief list of authors who won last year the
more important English, French and inter-
national literary prizes ? —8371. . .
Nobel: Eugene O’Neill. Library Association
Carnegie Medal: Arthur Ransome, for Pigeon
Post. Femina Vie Heureuse: Margaret Lane,
for Faith, Hope, No Charity; and Elvire
Pelissier, for Jeux de Vilnius. Hawthornden:
Ruth Pitter, for Trophy of Arms. Harmsworth
Purse: Margaret O’Leary, for The House 1
Made. Longman’s Oxford and Cambridge
Novel: Graham Black, for Brief Flower of
Youth. James Tait Black Memorial: Winifred
Holtby, for South Riding. The Casement
Purse: Rutherford Mayne, for Bridgehead■
The Gregory Medal: W. B. Yeats, Bernard
Shaw and George Russell. Hodder and
Stoughton Schoolmaster Novel: Nora K. Smith,
for A Stranger and a Sojourner. Harrap s
£1500: A. Morton, for Meet the Baron. Ivor
Nicholson and Watson All Nations Novel:
Yolanda Foldes, for The Street of the Fishing
Cat. Prix du Tourisme, France: Cloudesley
Brereton, for A Birdseye View.
* * * *
Any rule for determining the dial diameter
of a street clock ? —8382.
Allow Ift. diameter for every 10ft. above
the ground and then add 6in. to this; thus,
if the clock is to be 40ft. above ground level,
the diameter of the dial will be 4ft. 6in.
* * * *
Who wrote the following lines: (1) “Hope
springs eternal in the human breast,” (2) “What
deaths we suffer ere we die,” (3) “A moment’s
thinking is an hour in words,” (4) “And Satan
trembles when he sees the weakest saint upon
his knees,” (5) “Whoso loves law dies either
mad or poor” ? —8339.
(1) Alexander Pope, in his poem “An Essay
on Man.” (2) John Logan, in “Ode on the
Death of a Young Lady.” (3) Thomas Hood,
in “Hero and Leander.” (4) William Cowper,
in “Olney Hymns.” (5) Thomas Middleton,
in “The Phoenix.”
* * * *
A few facts about Leopold 111., King of the
Belgians? Titles of his two sons, and when
were they born ? —8340.
Son of the late King Albert, whom he suc-
ceeded on February 18, 1934, he is 35. He
was educated privately and at Eton, which
he entered in 1915. He served in the war as
a lad of 14 for six months. After Eton he
studied at the University of Ghent and became
an officer in the army. Married in 1926 Prin-
cess Astrid of Sweden, and has a daughter and
two sons; the elder, Prince Baudouin, was
born on September 7, 1930, and the second,
Prince of Liege, was born on June 6, 1934.
Queen Astrid was killed in a motor accident
near Lucerne on August 29, 1935.
* * * *
(1) Does London University provide courses
and grant degrees by correspondence ? (2) Tp
a person residing in Australia? (3) Where
can I obtain further particulars? —B237.
(1) and (2) No. (3) From the agent for the
University of London in N. S. Wales, the
Director of Education, G. R. Thomas, Educa-
tion Department, Bridge-street, Sydney.
* * * *
How should a villanelle be written, and who
are the best-known exponents of the form ?
8462.
It is verse written in five or more tercets
(three-line stanzas) and a quatrain, all on two
rhymes, the middle line of each tercet rhyming
with the second line of the quatrain. The first
line is used to end the second and fourth
tercets; the third line ends the first, third and
fifth tercets, and the quatrain ends with the
first and third lines. Examples will be found
in the works of Austin Dobson, W. E. Henley,
Gosse and Long. Henley has described the
form in a villanelle beginning
A dainty thing’s the villanelle,
Sly, musical, a jewel in rhyme;
It serves its purpose passing well.
* * * *
(1) How is synthetic menthol made from
eucalyptus oil? (2) How is natural menthol
made? (3) Uses of menthol? (4) From whom
can further information on the subject be
obtained? —8468.
(1) From piperitone, by the addition of
hydrogen gas. Piperitone is an oil extracted
from Eucalyptus dives, a tree very plentiful on
the coastal ranges of N.S.W. and Vic. (2)
Usually it is obtained by a process of freezing
from peppermint oil. (3) It is used largely
medicinally as a local anaesthetic and in dental
pastes, etc., and extensively by confectioners
for flavoring. (4) From the Technological
Museum, Harris-street. Sydney.
* * $ *
What is the difference between the processes
of etching and dry-point engraving? —B43l.
In etching a metal plate (copper or zinc) is
coated with wax and the design scratched on
to the wax. The plate is then placed in a
shallow dish of nitric or sulphuric acid, which
bites away the metal where the wax has been
removed. In dry-pointing the drawing is
scratched on the bare metal with a sharp tool.
Both are printed in the same way.
* * * *
Best method of hyacinth cultivation? —8419.
Hyacinths like good loamy soil, with an
addition of leaf mould, sharp sand and well-
decayed cow-manure. Plant in well-drained
pots, leaving the top of the bulb just exposed.
The soil should be loose and not too moist.
The pots should be placed out-of-doors and
buried under six inches of soil mixed with
wood-ashes. When the bulbs have grown an
inch and are well rooted bring them indoors
and gradually admit to full sunlight. Draughts
and dr" cuttin" -"inds gro'*“''
* * * *
How to get rid of hornets and prevent them
from rebuilding their nests ? —8239.
Put some kerosene in a fly-sprayer and spray
insects and nests quickly and thoroughly; then
pull down the nests with a rake and burn the
lot. Go along with the kerosene spray once
a week or so and prevent their getting a hold
on the place. Boiling water is safer than
kerosene on an old building, though it is
difficult to apply it hot enough.
* * * *
How can I free my dog of lice ? —8455.
Wash him once a week in a 2 p.c. solution
of creolin. His kennel should be cleansed and
disinfected and all bedding burned. A dusting
of pyrethrum powder will help.
Brief Answers.
E.C.F.: Get in touch with the agents, Jones
and Joseph, Ltd., 235 Clarence-street, Sydney.
T.B.: Write E. Esdaile and Sons, 42
Hunter-street, Sydney... .H.L.: The schooner
Glenbank was wrecked during a hurricane off
Legendre Island on February 6, 1911. Twenty-
three of the crew were lost, one saved....
M.S.: Louise Jordan Miln, American author,
who makes her home in England and writes
novels about China, was born at Macomb,
Illinois, U.S.A., on March 5, 1864... .0.F.:
If the film is not too long-standing it is
possible to remove it by placing 1 p.c. yellow
oxide of mercury ointment in the eye every
other day for about two weeks... .H.C.L.: C.
J. Dennis’s “Australian Natmnal Anthem,”
beginning “Fellers of Australia, blokes and
coves and coots,” appeared in the 1912 Christ-
mas number of The Bulletin .... A.H.L.: No
available record to show that the Welsh Lewis
family migrated from Scotland. There is no
Highland clan of the name of Lewis; those
bearing that name are claimed to be a sept
of the Clan MacLeod of Lewis. The name
Lewis in Scotland is purely territorial, belong-
ing to the Island of Lewis in the Hebrides.
R.N.: Full particulars from D. G. Mac-
dougall, general organising Aus-
tralia’s 150th Anniversary Celebrations Council,
Box 3845 T, G.P.0., Sydney... .C A.: Write
D W. Thorpe, secretary, Australian Book-
sellers’ Association, 191 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne F.P.: Edward G. Robinson, the
film actor, was born at Bucharest, Rumania,
on December 12, 1893. He entered talking
pictures in 1929... .D.F.: (1) Write secretary,
Fellowship of Australian Writers, Box 3448 R,
G.P.0., Sydney. (2) ss. p.a C.M.P.: Write
Registrar, University of Sydney, Newtown... .
5.E.8.: (1) 31cwt. (2) 22-23. (3) 1925-6-7-8.
(4) It is possible if the engine is specially
tuned. (5) £ll5O in England. (6) Second-hand
values depend upon condition... .W.L.: (1)
Not in Australia. (2) Napier, Gardiner, 79
Pitt-street, Sydney A.C.C.: Liameena is a
NSW. abo. place-name meaning “near a
lagoon” 8.P.: The engravings have no
value T.A.: Goody, a contraction of good-
wife, is now obsolete in England except in
dialect. It once denoted an elderly woman in
humble life. It is still in use in American
colleges as the name for a woman who looks
after the rooms of students V.M.:
Agent for Thornton Butterworth, Ltd., in Aus-
tralia is E. E. Bartholomew, Cathedral Build-
ing, 205 Flinders-lane, Melbourne D.E.:
Ralph Lynn’s address is Three Chimneys,
Hylands-road, Epsom, England... .E.L.: Cen-
tral News Agency, Johannesburg; Darter Bros.,
Juta and Co., Maskew Miller, Ltd.—all Cape
Town; J. L. van Schaik, Ltd., Pretoria—all
South Africa D.J.M.: Gus Bluett, the come-
dian, died on March 14, 1936. Biographical
details are obtainable from the obituary notices
published in the newspapers at the time of his
death. Photographs could possibly be obtained
from some of the theatrical firms with which
he was associated... .F.S.: (1) Any of the
advertised courses can be recommended. (2)
Not the best method of learning, but the only
one open to persons resident iong distances
from classes. (3) They vary considerably. Full
particulars could be obtained upon application
to the various institutions. (4) Depends upon
ability F.T.R.: Write A.J.C., 6 Bligh-street,
Sydney J.0.L.: Turpentine 8oz„ kerosene
sufficient to make the whole up to 1 gallon, 1
drachm oil of pennyroyal, oil of wintergreen or
citronella. Mix all thoroughly and keep well-
corked when not in use W.M.: The Omrah
and Masunda dp not appear in the latest
British Mercantile Navy List. Cannot ascer-
tain whether they are still afloat or whether
they were sunk during the war. The Registrar-
General for Shipping and Seamen, Tower Hill,
London, would be able to answer the query.
The Collector of Customs, Customs House,
Sydney, has lists of the names of all crews of
ships arriving in Sydney during the years 1913
and 1915. The names of any persons engaged
as members of the crew in Sydney are on
record in the Commonwealth Navigation Dept.,
Sydney H.W.P.: Lord Nuffield is expected
to reach Sydney on February TO and remain
one day. He is expected to return to Sydney
on February 18 and remain about five days.
His address will be care of Morris Industries
Exports, Ltd., 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
E.N.G.: Communicate with the Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney J.D.:
Apparently your neighbor has erected 80ft. of
the dividing fence towards the cost of which,
as the law provides, you have contributed half.
You can now compel him in turn to pay half
the cost of the remainder of the fencing. The
trouble that has arisen illustrates the need of
having a clear written agreement in all such
cases C.C.: No job for amateurs. Much
cheaper and more satisfactory to buy your
paint ready mixed... .A.J.H.: The botanical
name ot the “horse grain,” or kulthi, of India
is Dolichos biflorus. It is the only species of
its genus indigenous to Australia. The beans
are usually fed to horses, but the whole plant
is useful as fodder. The poorer class of
natives in the Punjab use the beans as an
article of diet. Several exotic species are
grown as ornamental vines N.P.: The
Sunnybrook Press, 36 The Grove, Mosman....
C.L.: There is a trustworthy account of David
Lennox’s life, written by Henry Selkirk, pub-
lished in Vol. VI, Part 5, of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society’s Journal M. 8.:
See White’s History of Australian Bushranging,
Hare’s Last of the Bushrangers and Boxall’s
History of the Australian Bushrangers
H. J.: Yes, in 1910 a Rugby Union football
team from the United States visited Australia.
It was beaten in five out of the eight matches
played W.W.: The short-billed tree-tit
(Smicrornis brevirostris) has the distinction of
being the smallest Australian bird. It is fairly
common in southern Australia but keeps
largely to the tree-tops, so that it is little seen.
.... 0.F.: It is impossible to identify the
insects by the brief description you give.
Take specimens of the peaches and the insects
to the Bendigo Orchard Supervisor, J. H.
Thomlinson, 67 Mundy-street, who will identify
and suggest a remedy... .H.T.: Write to the
“Manly Daily,” 18 Sydney-road, Manly
W.F.F.L.: Submit the questions to the Dept,
of Mines, Brisbane, with a request for an in-
spection, if such can be arranged, and advice
on the spot P.H.C.: Losses on Tasmanian
Railways for the years mentioned are as fol-
lows: 1930-31, £334,544; ’3l-32, £269,544;
’32-33, £256,140; ’33-34, £241,242; ’34-35,
£110007; ’35.36, £360,073.... (Many others
mailed.)


HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The rn.v., "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free o.f exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
f&m
■ ;
ijii !
You will
END
Your
RHEUMATISM
WITH THIS NEW
GERMAN TREATMENT
Teste proved it successful
A new natural
treatment is now
available to Aus-
tralian sufferers.
It has proved
amazingly suc-
cessful abroad,
being 1 recom-
mended by 2,385
European spec-
ialists. From all
over the world,
joyous ex-suffer-
ers write telling
how it has
brought magical
relief from rheu-
matism and allied
complaints such
as swollen joints,
lumbago, sciatica and neuritis.
REMOVES THE CAUSE.
This new rheumatism corrective,
which was perfected by Carl Von
Ehrlich, removes the underlying
cause. That is why its relief is per-
manent! It stimulates the blood to
dissolve the razor-edged uric acid
crystals which cause such fiery agony.
That is why it brings such amazingly
quick relief from pain.
SCIENTIFIC—VET SIMPLE.
Alagen is a rheumatic treatment which
is entirely free from habit-forming
drugs, liniments, plasters and elec-
tricity ; a treatment which is perfectly
simple to use—yet so scientifically
planned that it is ABSOLUTELY
EFFECTIVE. Thousands of sufferers
have been successfully treated with-
out any interference with their daily
occupation.
FREE
3-DAT
TREATMENT
To let Australian sufferers prove for
themselves the remarkably quick way
in which this simple treatment starts
to clear up rheumatism, lumbago,
neuritis, sciatica and gout, 10,000 trial
treatments are being distributed
FREE. Post the coupon for yours,
to-day. With the treatment you will
be sent a copy of the informative
book, “All About Rheumatism,” which
tells of Von Ehrlich’s epoch-making
researches. The trial treatment is
free, the book is free. There is no
obligation whatever. Clip out and post
the coupon—and start on the road to
health—NOW'
CLIP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept._{ l sZ? , _
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FREE a sample of the
Alagen Treatment and a copy of the
book, “ All About Rheumatism .” I
enclose 6d. in stamps for packing and
postage. lam under no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
F.D.R.: We presume it was writtten the
morning after the night before... .J.L.T.: An
“ experiment in choriambics ” would hardly
interest our readers... .N.T.Y.: Off our beat.
B.R.F.: Your poetic achievements are
limited to forced monosyllabic rhymes
L.P.S. : Fair enough verse, but we couldn’t
use it R.S.M.: You’ve been reading too
much Tennyson 8.G.5.: “Ode to a Magpie”
should silence the bird for ever... .V.R.K.:
There’s ho answer in “Where? The Poets”
F.LJ.: Heavier than ever G.H.S.: Clumsy.
J.T.D.: Dying speech of Ajax in Sopho-
cles : “Ye springs and rivers and ye plains of
Troy, ye that have nursed my life, farewell”
N.C.S.: We’re still wondering whether you’re
trying to write Christmas carols or Pindaric
odes C.V.S.: Confine your yarns to less
ambitious ideas N.F.Y.: Page after page
of monotonous description... .K.S.T.: So the
kind-hearted detective is still letting the crook
return to his wife and cheild... .W.C.V.: Pay
a little more attention to what we print and
you might get in... .8.C.5.: Have yet to meet
the navvy who says “dashed inconvenient”
when he hits his thumb with a sledge-hammer.
I.L.: A weary batch of yawn-provokers
8.H.A.: Won’t you ever understand that con-
tributions must not have been published pre-
viously?... .N.L.D.: Now concentrate on
dialogue... .H.G.T.: No, we don’t mind
contributions written in ink, provided we can
read them M.L.G.: We waited eagerly for
the murder of the eighth and last character
5.T.8.: You might take the hint... .H.G.M.:
Must you do it? C.F.L.: “Confound you
for a double-dyed villain; you’ve stolen my
wife and killed my child.” Sufficient... .F.C.Y.:
No room for sob stuff T.G.: “She paused
for a moment on the cliff’s edge to gaze at the
clouds and stars; then, taking her last breath,
she glanced at the angry seas below and stepped
into space. She fell almost gracefully”—right
into the w.p.b C.N.: Gave that swaggie a
few words of cheer and sent him out on the
road again C.J.R.: Yes to both questions.
R.B.: Harrowing... .C.McC.: A nice piece
of writing; now find a yarn to put it round.
W.R.: We admire your “noble-hearted
sacrifice to the demands of love,” but our
readers wouldn’t find it interesting... .CJ.P.:
It’s an oft-told tale... .J. 0.: J. H. M. Abbott
holds the copyright for that sort of thing....
L.D.: And you’ve taken another fellow’s
character without even bothering to alter the
name A.R.: That it really happened
make it a good short story... .A.M.: Write
about people, places and things you
know... .C.C.: Send “Miss T.’s Tea
Party” to the parish mag D.G.: And
Harry to an inebriates’ home... .H.S.:
We know that simple-hearted lottery-
winner as an old friend.. . .8.W.: We’re send-
ing “Cacophony” back, but we still don’t know
what it all means... .F.D.: The typing was
done quite nicely P.D.L.: Fourteen lines of
iambic pentameter are the first essential.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
J.R.T.: Amateurish M.L.: Drop that
freakish style until you have learned the funda-
mentals K.P.: We strike lots worse in a
week, but it’s well outside print J.F.:
Couldn’t disentangle Dave from what looks like
a cross between a duststorm and a lantana
bush... .T.S.: Prefer to withhold judgment
until he sends in something he hasn’t copied.
... .D.M.: Regret we can’t detect the improve-
ment. .. .R.R.F.: Joke has been lifted... .T.R.:
You re a frenzied penman but an insipid jester.
. —C.C.: That gag’s as old as Egypt, and the
drawing has been manhandled L.M.8.: He’s
got a long way to g0....0.5.: Throw away
that drawing-pen before you do any more
damage... .R.S.N.: A near relation of one of
the oldest chestnuts... .H.E.: Caricature quite
well done; but try somebody more in the public
eye....G.8.: They rejected themselves....
P.R.J.: It was an abo., not a Chinaman, the
last time we heard it; sometimes it is an
Afghan... .A.H.: All right for an ironmonger’s
catalogue but no good to us H.8.M.: They
look as if they had spent the night in a
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment' of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
refrigerating chamber T.C.: Your swagman
is resting his feet in the w.p.b A.P.: Quite
a good decorative drawing, but it’s not for us.
S.H.F.: No use for dialogue between the
curate and the sozzled churchwarden J.H.F.:
You’re not bad with the pen, but the brush
has beaten you... .E.J.D.: We spent a restless
night after viewing those horrors... .D. 8.: Pity
you didn’t treat it in a style of your 0wn....
E.G.: You’re knocking faintly at the d00r....
A.M.C.: One thing about your drawings—
they’re always sure of a mention in this
column C. 8.: You sprawl over a large
area in a slipshod fashion A.W.S.: Break
away from copying other men’s work H.A.:
The next artist who puts a kangaroo into a
pair of cricket flannels will be blacklisted
R.L.8.: You know little of perspective and
less of anatomy N.C.: A near thing—the
gag let you down J.K.: The gent, bulges
in the wrong places.
“C.E.8.”: An old Windorah (Q.) iden-
tity who is a furious driver always came
down one road at undiminished speed,
despite the fact that it ended in an abrupt
turn, flanked by a lone tree. One day
he misjudged it, and piled up on the
tree. Crawling from the wreck, he sur-
veyed the scene bitterly. Then, in a
voice hoarse with disgust: “That’s a silly
blanky place to put a tree!”
* * * *
Given a military funeral in Adelaide,
at 81, Major J. A. Watt, D. 5.0., V.D.
A Scotchman who had a job as store-
keeper at the Burra mine (S.A.), he be-
came expert as rifleshot and horseman,
and the S’African War gave him his
chance. He commanded the sth and 6th
Imperial Bushmen, and was warmly
praised by Kitchener. Back in S.A., he
held staff appointments till his retire-
ment.
A MIXED GRILL
New Victorian Supreme Court rules,
by which the rights of citizens to have
civil actions tried by juries will be dras-
tically curtailed after April 1, lay un-
noticed on the Assembly table through
the last day of the session and now
become law without one Parliamentary
criticism. A similar measure was chucked
out in 1890. This one should have been
fully debated before it reached the
Statute Book.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The question of “topless”
bathing costumes (or, more simply,
trunks) for men is agitating the Adelaide
beaches. Opponents urge that, though
these may be all right in the sea, semi-
nudity is all wrong for beach parade,
cafe or cricket; whereupon supporters
produce triumphantly English “society”
weeklies showing that the aristocracy,
British or foreign, does just that. Glenelg
(S.A.) still bars trunks, but its council has
had heated arguments with its Mayor,
who strongly advocates them. Finally
the shopkeepers of Glenelg, arguing that
prohibition is driving bathers to all the
more tolerant beaches, have got together
to petition for toleration there, too.
* * * *
“Fergus”: A Melbourne doctor pre-
sented his young son with a tiny Austra-
lian terrier, marking the occasion with
the facetious suggestion that, now there
was a big dog round the place, visitors
would have to be warned. His next re-
minder of the pup and of his remark was
when he reached home that afternoon ;
the brass-plate presented an unfamiliar
appearance. There was an addition,
obviously the work of a very youthful
printer, and just as obviously carried out
by a liberal application of boot polish:
“Enter at your own risk.”
* * * *
About the last of S.A.’s original
cricketers has gone, with Jack Noel, at
82. A little older than George Giffen,
he was in at the start of the game in
Adelaide. Noel’s batting feats look small
by the modern swollen figures, but his
18 in the first match S.A. v. Vic. in ’B3
was morally worth more than some cen-
turies, for the whole side was out for 23.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: A small ship with a big
job is the steamer Toorie, 414 tons gross,
174 ft. long, recently in Brisbane for over-
haul. In 1936 she handled 165,000 tons
of freight; last year, 142,000 tons. The
freight was sugar from the Mackay (Q.)
town wharf to overseas and inter-State
vessels at Flat Top anchorage, a few
miles away. Built in 1925 at Walsh
Island yards (N.S.W.), the Toorie was one
of three designed for carrying steel and
bhilding materials to the Sydney Harbor
Bridge. All three boats (the others are
Turka and Tulga) are now in the N.Q.
sugar trade.
* * * *
“Waitot”: For people who like
lonely climbing on peaks still partly
unexplored Maoriland’s Southern Alps
offer considerable choice. The Welling-
ton man who recently slipped 500 ft. to
his death on the slopes of Mt. Evans
was one of a party of three whose
ascent of this mountain was only the
second on record; a 1935 party of three
were the first of many triers to make
the summit. Chief reason for the un-
trammelled state of Evans and other
mountains down the South Island’s
alpine backbone is their distance from
settled centres. It took the. two sur-
vivors of the last assault on Evans an
arduous five-day journey over gorge-
slashed, bush-clad country to cover the
straight-line 50 miles back to Hokitika
on the West Coast.
* * * '* A
“Dungeness”: Considering the free-
dom with which pensions are handed out
in our free land, the case of Robert
Brown seems to deserve attention. In
August, 1935, being then 65, and finding
work unprocurable at Maryborough (Q.),
he walked to White Cliffs (N.S.W.), sup-
porting himself by odd jobs. There he
built a wheelbarrow, put his gear and
tools into it, and pushed it via Wilcannia;
to the Lightning Ridge opalfields. Thence
he propelled the vehicle back to New
England for a bit of tin-fossicking.
Someone suggested applying for an old-
age pension, so he loaded up the barrow
again and pushed it down to Canberra.
Canberra said he’d have to bp properly
identified, and as he knew nobody there
he picked up the handles and strolled
down to Geelong (Vic.) to ask again.
But nobody knew him there either, so he
went on to South Australia, reached Port
Augusta, crossed the Nullarbor Plain and
strolled into Perth with the barrow. Now
68, he reckons that if he can’t get the
pension there he’ll return to Queensland
via the N.T. with the barrow.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: We continue to grow ’em
tough. N. Catling, of West End, N.S.W.,
was working a horse-drawn scoop when
it struck a hard patch and catapulted
him on to his head some yards away.
Taken home unconscious, he came to
after a few hours, rubbed his head and
went back to work. After carrying on for
two months with a stiff neck, an old war
injury began to trouble him. He drove
360 miles to the Swan Hill station and
went down to Caulfield Hospital, while
his wife drove back to their six children.
Under X-ray the doctors found a broken
neck and two broken ribs —the result of
the scoop incident. He will have to wear
a plaster case for some months, but
reckons that he’ll soon get rid of any
muscular stiffness after that by using the
axe.


df
Presenting the Moccasin
The ideal Gentleman’s Slipper—the Elk
Skin Moccasin. Soft padded soles, and
unlined for coolness, Australian made
and priced at 15/6, all sizes. Obtainable
only from
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba and Roma.
A Thorough Artist with the Gloves
Perhaps the cleverest and best-liked
American boxer that ever came to Aus-
tralia was Jimmy Clabby. Like Mc-
Goorty, he paid two visits to this country,
and even when he was past his prime as
a pugilist—which happened much too
early—he never failed to put up a good
show.
The only swift knockouts on Clabby’s
record were those' which he administered
himself. He was so skilful, so cool and
so completely armed at all points that
even men like Darcy and McGoorty,
heavier and stronger though they were,
found it impossible to get a loose one
home on him before he had settled down.
On Clabby’s first visit to this country
in 1910 he was a welterweight, but Aus-
tralia had then no welterweight in his
class. This was very plainly demon-
strated at the expense of Bob Bryant, a
lad who was all grit but had little science.
The meeting between Clabby anti
Bryant took place at the Sydney Stadium
on November 6, 1910. It was billed as a
fight, but it was merely an exhibition of
boxing on the part of Clabby. And
taken as that, it was worth the journey
and price of admission. Clabby left no
doubt as to his cleverness. His extra-
ordinary length or sinuosity of arm, con-
trolled by a judgment that appeared to
be kept on ice, enabled him to bring off
many freak wallops. A more intelligent
and less deplorably rattled man than
Bryant might have taken advantage of
the positions into which this offensive
brought Clabby ; on the pther hand, a
more intelligent and less rattled man
would probably not have been given the
invitations offered. In the seventh round
Bryant went down and took the count.
Clabby’s exciting fights with Hughie
Mehegan and Dave Smith —that memor-
able affair in the rain—have been de-
scribed in this series. Before he returned
to the U.S.A., he had polished off light-
heavyweights in Ed Williams, Jack
Howard and Arthur Cripps.
Williams, whom he boxed in Dec.,
1910, was 91b. heavier than the American.
Although an experiencd pug, he went
into the ring beaten, and for the 11
rounds he remained there he failed to
hurt his opponent. Time and again the
American, though brilliant often, was
McGOORTY DIDN’T MEAN IT.
floundering about like a Newfoundland
pup; but Williams, scenting a trap,
clinched or fled backward. After throw-
ing in the towel he held up a damaged
hand and endeavored to explain some-
thing above the hooting. Perhaps he was
protesting that Clabby had stood on it. ,
Clabby came back to Sydney a few
months before the outbreak of war, hav-
ing in the meantime gained the reputa-
tion of being about the most scientific
middleweight in the U.S.A., though he
had to build up to meet the list. 61b.
men —his natural weight was about the
same as Jack Carroll’s is to-day. When
he arrived his fellow-countryman Jeff
Smith was all the rage on the score of
fine 20-round fights with Carpentier at
Paris and McGoorty at Sydney ; in each
case the decision had gone against him,
but Smith had been hailed as the winner
by most of the newspaper critics. Clabby
was matched with him, and the Sydney
Stadium housed over 15,000 spectators
on the night of June 6, 1914, when the
pair battled for what was billed as the
middleweight championship of the world.
The weights as announced were: Smith,
list. 2|lb.; Clabby, lOst. 13Jlb. But
Clabby looked light and fragile along-
side his opponent, who was much more
stockily built.
The fight was absorbingly clever. For
two or three rounds, Clabby was easily
the more versatile, both in attack and
in defence ; and he was the aggressive
party. Smith seemed disinclined to lead.
Though they had met before in a 10-
round no-decision bout at New York,
Smith had not discovered
a stop for a wicked right
chop which was one of
Clabby’s most effective
punches. As the battle
proceeded, however, he
managed to evolve a de-
fence. Either the right
chop fell on his glove or it landed on his
left shoulder and glided harmlessly to
the neck. Smith also treated the audi-
ence to a display of twisting and duck-
ing that made it gasp. He strove to get
to close quarters and deal out body
blows and uppercuts. But Clabby, too,
could dodge. Smith found him as elusive
as a fairy godmother, and Clabby’s blows
were twice as hard as Smith’s.
In the fifth round Clabby punched
with greater vigor than ever, and seemed
to be looking for a quick knockout.
Smith made him miss repeatedly, but
Clabby caught Jeff with a few right
chops which hurt. Presently Smith un-
wound a straight left, with which he hit
Clabby’s beautiful nose three times run-
ning. Clabby, .crowding in, smashed and
walloped like a devil touched with ice,
but Jeff dodged and smothered.
In the twelfth round Clabby
almost won. Smith was strug-
gling to get to close quarters
when Clabby landed a right
smash that caused Smith’s knees
ta give way. He clung desper-
ately for safety. In vain Jimmy
tried to shake him off and finish
him. Harald Baker had to tear
them apart. Then Smith smothered so
effectively that Clabby could not deliver
the Roman stroke. In the thirteenth
round Clabby tried again to finish it,
but Smith foiled his most vimful attacks.
After that Smith, who was in better
condition than Clabby, stuck to close-in,
head-to-head work. He was very clever
at evading blows delivered at short range.
In the judgment of the referee, this
evasive work, plus his spasms of aggres-
siveness, gave him more points than were
scored by Clabby’s free and open
methods, which were so much more
attractive to watch. At all events, Smith
got the decision when the gong sounded
at the end of the twentieth round. At
least half the audience thought it should
have gone to Clabby.
Clabby’s showing made such an im-
pression that he was pitted against
McGoorty on the night of July 4. Again
there were over 15,000 people in the
Sydney Stadium. Clabby sported dinky
trunks of emerald green, and the part of
McGoorty that was not naked was clad
in brilliant red. McGoorty was declared
to have kicked the beam at list. 61b.
He looked at least a stone heavier than
Clabby, who was said to have weighed
list. lilb.
Clabby started brilliantly. Again and
again he stopped McGoorty’s rushes with
a straight left, and he drew blood from
the enemy’s mouth in the third round
with a left swing from afar. McGoorty
smashed hard all the time. Now and
then Clabby bounded round the ring like
a rubber ball, making McGoorty miss
every blow he aimed at the moving
target. Then the scene would change,
and it would be McGoorty slithering
this way and that to avoid a brisk
attack.
In the close fighting, Clabby uppercut
and “looped the loop” to McGoorty’s
mouth and chin. He was tricky as a
bag of cats, and he demonstrated to a
startled audience that he had an appetite
for punishment; he took some terrific
swings apparently unruffled.
In the sixth round McGoorty all but
got his man with a left hook, followed
by a right chop. But Clabby came in off
the ropes and uppercut so viciously that
McGoorty had to clinch. In the seventh,
Clabby charmed the house with his gal-
lant display. He stung McGoorty again
and again—so much so that in the eighth
Eddie came out and attacked with fury.
Clabby retreated, and, rushing wildly in
pursuit, McGoorty landed somewhat low.
Clabby protested, but was ordered to
box on.
Evidently under the impression that
Clabby’s strength was waning, McGoorty
hit from every angle and sent the lighter
man against the ropes. Then, leaving his
jaw uncovered, he swung his left for the
solar-plexus. As he started the punch,
Clabby dropped the right to block it,
and swung his. own left for McGoorty s
chin. Clabby’s swing did not land, and
Eddie’s blow was not turned aside —it
was sent low. With a muffled remark,
Jimmy staggered back, fell on the floor
and rolled over.
That he had been fouled was beyond
question, but it was purely accidental. A
moment afterwards McGoorty found
himself disqualified. He rushed to pick
his opponent up, but the referee waved
him back.
CLABBY and McGOORTY, Ambulance
Attendants. DAVE SMITH was the
Patient.
Four weeks later, Clabby had his
second fight with Dave Smith.. Dave
made a very fine beginning. Then
Clabby hit him twice, and in lmin. 20sec.
from the sounding of the gong Dave was
being assisted to his corner. He had
neglected to protect himself in a clinch.
Clabby, who had both hands free, very
properly used them, and a neat uppercut
and a good left hook ended the battle.
Smith pleaded for a return match,
and was given one at Brisbane on August
12. On that occasion he gave a sterling
display of boxing in what must be re-
garded as discouraging circumstances,
and received the decision at the end of
the twentieth round. The pair had two
more fights, both at Sydney. Clabby won
on points the first time and on the other
occasion stopped Dave in ten rounds.
Clabby’s two fights with Les Darcy
were referred to in one of The Bulletin
articles on that great boxer. The first
took place on October 23, 1915, the year
in which Jeff Smith twice fouled Darcy
and McGoorty was twice knocked out
oy Les. Clabby was too manly a fighter
to adopt Jeff’s easy, though dirty, way-
out, and too clever to suffer the experi-
ence that twice befell McGoorty. Against
the best man in the world at his weight
• —if not any weight—he proved himself
a boxer of rare skill and a ring strategist
of exceptional craftiness.
In the first bout with Darcy Jimmy
went in almost wholly for infighting. In
this department of the game, as in every
other, he found Darcy more than his
match ; and in the eighth round he reeled
back to the ropes, his defences down.
But Darcy could not or would not take


SYDN€t
cacui„
\aVt(
nuCHLfIND
W
UICEONGTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA
ff
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2\ DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men's and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(.Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
WHOO
PAYS •
Naturally, It is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EOUITABLE
PROBATE and
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
tVingello Mouse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. Y. PERKINS, General Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
RHEUMATISM SPREAD
TO ALL HER JOINTS
Ordered to Bed After
Months of Suffering
Here is a sad story of suffering, but it has
a happy ending. This woman was attacked by
severe rheumatism which spread to every joint
in her body and finally crippled her. So
great was her relief that she wrote this enthusi-
astic letter:—
I feel it my duty to my fellow-beings to
proclaim in a loud voice the merits of Kruschen
Salts in bringing wonderful relief from a severe
and obstinate attack of rheumatism. I had
rheumatism in my legs and knees, later spread-
ing to every joint in my body. This lasted
over a period of 13 weeks. I was then ordered
to bed with acute rheumatism. I was recom-
mended to try Kruschen, and before finishing
the second bottle I was able to perform my
normal duties.”—(Mrs.) I.D.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric crystals. Other ingredients
in these Salts assist Nature to expel the clis-
solved crystals through the natural channels.
More comfort, much
more to see and do if you
go to Europe through
Canada’s Rockies and the
short Atlantic crossing.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc■ in Car.ada
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices Outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller
BIG-GAME HUNTING
AND ADVENTURE
1897-1936.
By MARCUS DALY. Illustrated,
10/6.
A genuinely thrilling book by one of
the most famous of African big-game
hunters.
ANIMAL TREASURE
By IVAN T. SANDERSON. With
32 illustrations, 12/6.
The ‘young author of this fascinating
and beautifully-illustrated book organ-
ised the Percy Sladen Expedition to the
British Cameroons, West Africa, in 1932-
33. It was made on behalf of the British
Museum, Cambridge University, and Uni-
versity College, London. He returned
with a wealth of data, the notes for this
book, and the precise and lovely drawings
which illustrate it.
CRISIS IN CHINA
The Story of the Sian Mutiny.
By JAMES M. BERTRAM. Illus-
trated, 10/6.
A vivid presentation of the shifting
scene of modern Chinese life.
JOHN CORNELIUS
By HUGH WALPOLE.
(Colonial Edition .)
“Tantalising, original and stimulating
book.” — “Punch.”
SO GREAT A MAN
By DAVID PILGRIM.
(Empire Library.)
“Historically, imaginatively and artisti-
cally this is far and away the best Napo-
leonic work of fiction of our time. I
cannot even think of one that approaches
it.” — A. G. Macdonell (“Observer").
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
advantage of the opportunity, and the
unequal struggle went on. In the fifteenth'
round the American uppercut Darcy in
a breakaway, and, encouraged by this
success, livened up considerably. In two
of the three succeeding rounds he held
CLABBY and JEFF SMITH.
When one or other threw a punch in
generally reached the spot marked X.
his own. The referee gave the only pos-
sible decision. Great admiration was ex-
pressed for the cleverness which enabled
Clabby to weather the storm without
experiencing the disaster of unconscious-
ness.
The second match with Darcy took
place on September 9, 1916. The cham-
pion had previously knocked out Buck
Crouse in a couple of rounds, and three
weeks after meeting Clabby he knocked
out George Chip in nine rounds; but he
didn’t stop Clabby. Though Jimmy was
iimp in the thirteenth round and scarcely
able to stand in the twentieth, he stayed
the distance.
The Ring history of the period shows
that none of Darcy’s opponents did
much good after he had done with them.
He spared some of them as much as he
could, but he was so strong and he
punched so hard and so often he couldn’t
help leaving a permanent mark on them.
So, although Clabby fought in Australia
and Maoriland for several years after
that September night in 1916, and gave
excellent displays against such men as
Fritz Holland, Tommy Uren and Fred
Kay, he was never among the champions
again.
Jimmy made plenty of money in Aus-
tralia, but spent it all gambling. He not
only backed horses but owned one or two
—with the usual pugs’ luck. After the
U.S.A. entered the war he enlisted in
the A.I.F. and took part in recruiting
marches. He wasn’t called upon to go
overseas.
When he was through as a fighter, and
broke, Australian friends raised between
£5OO and £6OO for the good-natured
fellow. He wanted to go home, and he
gratefully allowed that when his passage -
money was paid there would be enough
to keep him going until something turned
up. But his nature was such that he had
to spend, nor could he settle down in a
steady job. He drifted from one to an-
other until he became a hobo. At length
American news-
papers brought the
news that the poor
devil had died on
the track “of ex-
posure.” Austra-
lians who had ad-
mired his brilliant
boxing and liked
him for his generous
nature would have
tried to save him if
they had known,
but they learned no-
thing about his
tragic condition till
it was too late.
Pugs who affect hair are not un-
common nowadays ; one chap who fights
“prelims.” in Sydney has a mop like
Cotton the cricketer. He and his mates
are witnesses to one of the restrictive
effects of M.Q. rules. At one time a
FRITZ HOLLAND.
He boxed Clabby on several occasions.
fighting man who omitted to have his
hair cropped took big chances. In the
old P.R. days it was a great scheme to
collar the enemy by the wool. Byron’s
old master, Gentleman Jackson, did this
when fighting the Jew Mendoza for the
championship ; he seized the Semite by
the hair with his right hand and repeatedly
smashed the left full into the enemy’s
face. The referee decided that this was
within the P.R. rules, and Jackson won
in nine rounds, which lasted 10| minutes.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
British “Liberal” and Labor rags seem
to be furnishing most of Australia’s
foreign “news” again, and some of them
are busy allying us with Russia. One,
the “Star,” alleges that “discreet French
and British inquiries about co-operation
have been made in Moscow.”
For a not unfavorable response to be
elicited, the Soviet wtould require war
credits as [?and] a British guarantee against
a German attack on Russia.
Possibly as a special favor to Australia
and Maoriland, the “Liberal” and Labor
rags would let them vote part of the war
credits.
* * * *
Germany is in such a bad way that it
is importing 200,000 farm workers from
other countries —Italians, Austrians, Hun-
garians, Czechs, Yugoslavs, Poles, even
Dutch. France used to be the attraction
for the migratory European farm
laborer, but since the French began to
sup with the Red devil the flight of these
people from France has' paralleled the
flight from the franc.
* * * *
Two items with no apparent connec-
tion figured in the cablegrams the same
day. One referred to a rally of the Left
Book Club in London ; the other to a
plan for establishing a Jewish Dominion
in North Westralia. The connection will
become obvious before long, for Jewish
influence is strong in the Left Book
Club. But great as is Australia’s debt
to Jews, and greatly as many Australians
resent the treatment which this gifted
race has received during the past few
years, the Jewish Dominion won’t do.
* * * *
Only favorable reports about Czecho-
slovakia, the synthetic republic with
which Gullett made a trade treaty, come
over the cables. It is not that there is
no criticism of Czechoslovak policy in
British newspapers ; there is plenty. The
“Times,” for example, in an article on
the treatment of the Germans whose
destinies were handed over to the domi-
nant Slavs by the geniuses of Versailles,
declares that they have substantial griev-
ances, and that the attitude to them of
Czech nationalist organisations is almost
inconceivably paltry. And there are more
Germans in the synthetic republic than
Slovaks.
* * * *
Ariel Seeligson has signed a contract
with 8.8. C. for Empire broadcasts. Her
first piano recital is to be given on
January 30, a programme being chosen
from the works of Granados, Debussy,
Prokofieff and Rachmaninoff. This
broadcast is primarily intended for
listeners in the Straits Settlements and
Westralia, but Ariel’s friends who have
inter-State reception sets may be able to
pick it up. Miss Seeligson is a West-
ralian who studied at Melbourne Con-
servatorium, where she did particularly
well at modern music.


WILL DYSON
The examples of Will Dyson’s carica-
tures reproduced herewith belong to his
pre-war Bulletin - contributing days,
when his attack in caricature was more
vigorous and pungent than anything he
subsequently did in this line overseas.
The bite and pungency of his political
cartooning for London “Herald” and of
his satirical etchings on New York,
Hollywood and other aspects of the
American scene are, of course, keen
enough for any taste.
Norman Lindsay, who knew him as well
as anybody—Dyson married Norman’s
“Billy” Hughes — pre-war vintage. Will Dyson
caricature at its best.
artist sister Ruby, and the three of them
went to London together a year or two
before the war —recalls that Dyson’s first
published work appeared in The Bulle-
tin ; a depiction of a company promoter
in heaven.
At that time he and Norman were
fellow - art - beginners in Melbourne,
whither their families, had migrated from
the Ballarat diggings. Dyson’s father
was a digger; both the father and the
mother typical working people. It is
one of the most curious and, from an
Australian social point of view, signifi-
cant matters associated with Dyson that
Randolph Bedford.
the extraordinarily gifted families of which
he and Norman Lindsay were members
should have been there produced, within
12 miles of each other in a bush and
goldmining locality, for no apparent
reason whatever, hereditary or otherwise.
For no apparent reason Australia throws
up these extraordinarily gifted people
from most unlikely places, like sports of
nature ; and the main social significance
of people like the Dysons and the Lind-
says may be that it is only
a matter of population in-
crease for this country to
produce genius pretty abundantly. In
these instances, at least, it has produced
genius complete and equipped without
the advantages and influences of cul-
tural environment, or tradition. People
like these start out here completely
sophisticated from the beginning, which,
in view of all the circumstances, is extra-
ordinary.
In other respects, too, Dyson was a
significant Australian product, mostly so
because he was typical. No other coun-
try than Australia could have produced
him. He had the increasingly apparent
peculiarly Australian sardonic turn of
mind which, as Norman
Lindsay crystallises it,
“would rather face any
brutal reality than escape it
in false sentiment.” You
might call him almost the
perfect Hamlet. Main char-
acteristics of him were ip-
tense melancholy and tre-
mendous scepticism. Very
sensitive and easily hurt, he
guarded himself by his
cynicism, his sceptical out-
look and his wit. In an-
other way of stating this
general Australianism of
Dyson, he strongly repre-
sented the natural Austra-
lian bent for seeing most
things clearly and declining
to be deceived by false
values.
Another common Aus-
tralian characteristic that
was very strong in Dyson
was his self-depreciation of
his work. Another was his
courage, and especially the
way this worked. He
proved that he had it plen-
tifully when he was at-
tached as official artist to
the A.I.F. in France. As
C. E. W. Bean has men-
tioned in a “S. M. Herald”
appreciation, Dyson sacri-
ficed a comfortable living in Lon-
don to go to the Somme and Flan-
ders because he felt that the Diggers—
known by The BuLLETiN-coined name of
Billjims in the Somme mud —were his
mates, and he must give the world a
faithful picture of them in the war. No
ether official artist, British or Australian,
says Bean, saw a tenth part as much of
the real Western Front as did Dyson,
who shunned the higher headquarters—
another Australianism —because he felt
out of place there. Bean adds that for
these reasons Dyson’s drawings of the
winter campaigns of 1916-18 are quite
unparalleled in British art.
To make those war drawings Dyson
often displayed a characteristically
Digger courage—characteristic both in
the measure of fatalism in it and in the
fact that it was really an expression of
inborn stubbornness to do something
which he did not like doing but which
he must do to, as it were, show what was
in him.
Norman Lindsay recalls another ex-
ample of this inherent courage from their
old Melbourne days. He and Dyson as
mere youths—and not particularly char-
acteristic Australian physical specimens
at that —were passing Tatt.’s Club when
one of several hefty loungers made a
blurting noise which Dyson insisted was
meant for him. Norman tried to dis-
suade him, but Dyson—whom Norman
remembers as a pretty good boxer —
stepped over to the group, asked belli-
gerently “Did you mean that for me?”
and felled both the selected enemy and
one who then hit out on his behalf. Then,
rejoining Norman, Dyson at once suf-
fered a reaction usual to him, in which,
with the same clearness as that in which
he saw what in the world was worth
satirising, he saw himself as a damn’ fool
and was ashamed of making an exhibi-
tion of himself.
Through most of this may be seen
running a strong thread of common Aus-
tralianism, not very well crystallised in
Australian writing as yet, but clear
enough to see, and becoming stronger
and stronger as Australian, national char-
acter becomes more clearly defined.
One thing that belongs to the Austra-
lian outlook naturally enough, no
doubt —is that we appreciate being rated
at least up to our merits, or a bit above
’em, in other parts of the world ; and
in this respect Dyson was as good an
“advertisement” as Australia ever ex-
ported. He was a popular figure person-
ally, and his work won the appreciation
of the highest intellectuals as well —
Shaw, Wells, Chesterton were among his
articulate admirers, and they and others
like them rated him among the greatest.
One such appreciation of him was that
his “work belonged to the history of
caricature, and would endure because of
its high seriousness and penetrating
truth.” He was notably popular in
America, though he gave that country
most scathing comment in a great series
of satirical etchings. Mention of one of
these will sufficiently indicate their gen-
eral nature and peculiar bite: Dyson de-
picted an insolent negro brandishing a
saxophone, and challenging the spirit of
Beethoven with the greeting, “Mornin’,
white trash.”
The brilliance of that caption was typi-
cal of that aspect of his work, but it was
not as spontaneous as it looked in the
completed job. Norman Lindsay remem-
bers that Dyson would spend hours over
a caption, walking up and down his
room, quite according to the best fictional
pattern of artistic genius at work. Once
he had decided on that and on the shape
of what he proposed to do, the actual
drawing came comparatively easy to him.
In this, as in much else in life —his own
life included—he was never satisfied, and
it was from his moody dissatisfaction on
an occasion at Norman Lindsay’s home
at Springwood that one of his greatest
performances—the American satirical
drawings—emerged. Dissatisfied with
the particular method he was employing
at the time, he tried Norman’s sugges-
tion that drypoint should suit him admir-
ably, and he at once got to it with a
caricature of Norman.
Dyson had this method up his sleeve
when he went to America, and the power
ful use he made of it there will be fami-
E. W. Cole, “Cole’s Book Arcade.”
liar to those who know his negro-Beet-
hoven etching or such things as his rep-
resentation of Shakspeare visiting Holly-
wood and uttering a mild protest against
the atrocities perpetrated against the
finest works of literature by Holly-
wooden producers, with an illiterate one
of these telling W.S., “But surely, Mr.
Shakspeare, you will admit that two
heads are better than one.” A sequel
cartoon to that demonstrates Dyson’s
ability to see through appearances to
essentials and not only from the one
side: it depicted the satisfied and servile
acceptance by the higher , literati of
Hollywood’s base rewards for the de-
basing.
That Dyson worked hard on produc-
ing his very clever captions was not at all
an indication of any lack of wit, but
simply that he was never satisfied with
the near-enough: it had to be, as far as
he could make it, perfect. With spon-
taneous wit he was abundantly equipped.
Instance an occasion in the “S. M.
Herald” office when he interrupted some
remarks by Louis Esson on the drama
with, “Now, then, if you say anything
intelligent in this office I’ll tell on you.”
This facility helped to make him an
excellent impromptu speaker. In this
he could get even with no less brilliant
personages in that line than George Reid,
who mentioned with pleasant facetious-
ness at a dinner in London that he was
horrified to notice present one who had
hounded him with his pen throughout
Australia ; which brought from Dyson in
a subsequent speech the response that
he was glad Mr. Reid had brought up
this matter, for now that they had Mr.
Reid there in person they could all see
how very kind his drawings had been
to him. Also, C. E. W. Bean has stated
in the “S.M.H.” that Dyson’s after-dinner
speech was the cleverest he had ever
heard.
Dyson’s Australian jvork—though in
caricature the strongest he ever did—
was mainly a matter of beginnings. After
Melbourne, where his brilliant brother
General Booth.
Ted Dyson kept the family going with
his methodically prolific work for The
Bulletin and other papers, Will Dyson
shifted to Sydney for a while, and then
contributed most of his Bulletin cari-
catures and joke drawings. His wife Ruby
had a tremendous influence on his work.
A' gifted artist herself, she made with
him a perfect team. Dyson had
£7OOO or so at her death 10 or 12
years later, but in the tragic effect that
occurrence had on him he went through
the money quickly and did not do very
much work or really find himself again
until it had gone. At that time he spoke
often of ending things as a way out of
his terrible depression.
When he went to London with Nor-
man and Ruby Lindsay (by then his
wife) he became a cartoonist for North-
cliffe, and was soon fired. His mordant
humor was not the stuff for Carmelite
House. But on the iconoclastic Labor
“Herald” of that day he was well at
home. When the “Herald” was near col-
lapse and Joseph Fels stepped in with the
money to keep it going, Fels made it
a condition that Dyson—who then had
tempting offers from America —should
remain. The alternative was that the
paper would close and the rest of the
staff lose their jobs. It was another char-
acteristic of Dyson that it was not in
him to be deaf to such an appeal as that.
He stayed, and save for his war adven-
ture and his return to Australia for a
while to do some work for Melbourne
“Punch,” he was with the London Labor
paper to the end. His last political car-
toon appeared in that paper just about
the time he died.
Ex-Senator Keating.


“Take up Pelmanism and give
your life a new beginning” — Sir Herbert Barker .
H
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Course. It is
impossible to speak
too highly of it.”
:-V:
The Baroness Orczj.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
m
f
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
d
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
m
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
m:
•as*
Dame Sybil Thorndike
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ’’
fd
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
Pelmanism trains you
to distinguish be-
tween the essential
and the trivial, be-
tween what is urgent
and what can wait,
between what mat-
ters and what does
not matter.
Pelmanism is a train-
ing. This cannot be said
too often. It removes
bad, careless and slovenly
habits of mind and
memory, and substitutes
for them good, reliable
and exact habits.
Pelmanism makes work
easier and life pleasanter.
It makes the individual
more capable—it makes
him extremely capable.
It trains him to distinguish
immediately the essential
things and to dismiss the
trivialities. This not only
gives him time for more
work, or leisure for more
enjoyment, but it also in-
duces a freedom of mind
that makes all his wort
good and productive,
and all his pleasure real
and unhampered.
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex’’
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
,
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
•—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
Self-Control
—Tact
Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It. makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later—and perhaps sooner than
you expect—it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 35,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a worM-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.X, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism in a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Wp shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin’-' a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute. 3 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Tune, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
4(55.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c " r HE Bulletin every
week for one year so tPat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
iA^' 1 A G®
V'
<l^l
#
?<
s ■-
<c'*V
o v
&
V<oV
W\
&
\
V c F
KV v <s
1 --* <^°<^
x .-sf'P
e
,\\ e
. • ’ . • * * . • ’ v .
••' , * e AC<V V °
.•• <$ vo


RATIONAL RADIO—
For Real Radio Satisfaction!
fd
Above—Briton Console De Luxe features:
MODEL 19.—6/7 A.C. Dual-wave
Receiver, with 12in. imported Magnavox
Speaker, ELS output tube, built-in line
filter, complete in De Luxe Console
Cabinet. List Price 39 guineas
MODEL 18.—7-valve Dual-wave Battery-
operated Receiver, complete in De Luxe
Console Cabinet, with four B Batteries and
one (1) 14S amp. A Battery. List
Price 40 guineas
g| Rational Radio by Briton gives you everything
worthwhile in modern Radio. Satisfaction is built
into every Rational Model.
Hear the glorious tone of these modern radios; see the
fine examples of the craftsman’s art in beautiful polished
walnut veneer cabinets. Rational Radio is Rational in
construction, in performance and in price.
Remember, too, that every Rational Model is available
on Rational Terms.
RATIONAL RADIO
f
Above—Mantel Model Cabinet feature*
two Models:—
MODEL 1. —“The Buccaneer,” 4/5 Dual-
wave A.C. Receiver, in Mantel Cabinet.
List Price 18 guineas
MODEL 15. 4-valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver, with full A.V. control, Gin.
Permag. Speaker, complete in Mantel
Cabinet. Low battery consumption of
lima. List Price 21 guineas
1
i
At Left—Briton Con-
sole Cabinet features:
MODEL 11.—5/6
Dual-wave A.C.
Receiver, with A.V.C.
and 12in. Speaker.
Complete in Cabinet.
Price . . 33 guineas
Also Models 12, 17
and 21, at different
prices.
At Right Briton
Loughboy Cabinet
features:—
MODEL 9.—4/5
Broadcast A.C. Re-
ceiver, with A.V.C.,
complete in Cabinet.
Price ... 23 guineas
Also Models 10, 13,
16 and 20 at dif»
ferent prices.
mm
BRITON ELECTRICAL AND RADIO Pty. Ltd.
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Distributor:
A. H. Gibson (Electrical) Co. Pty., Ltd.
“The Brightest Spot in Melbourne,”
416 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Telephone:
L 3621 (3 lines).
Queensland Distributor:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co.,
11l Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
