

m
wfV-t * v r -
“Ii&UGU
Golf was life to McTavish. As a club professional
it was also his living. The open air and quiet
exercise gave him an enviable chance of keeping fit
And yet something seemed t.o go wrong he couldn't
understand why. .
That’s the third time MeTavish i >\ \
| has foozled his drive today- 1 K
l wonder what’s put him off?
* y 's'yt.
•v
not
usual
Sliced into the
he sth5 th
Probably that
annoyed hirn. He'S
jp to hi s
> lately.
Young feller seems a bit
narked, Mr MeTavish
didn't half cuss one of my
caddies. Been treading on
—. _ his corns?
»AvW
y
n
WV
ZZjOch,he's just
r Rabbit No. I / A'm
fair sick o' teaching
yon club rabbits-
\ they're driving
me daft.' ,
V,
K w
m
A
N;
How do you feel about
the championship, Mac-
full of confidence, eh ?
■
m
mw
Frankly, Doctor, A'm ofF
ma game these three
weeks past. Dinna ken
for why-but things
just rattle me-feel
tired-done up even
when I start the day.
%
W'C,
V
: ■
rr >
-E*-
S 3
a
m
m
55
am*.
<*&
Look here Mac.
your hearts using
up energy even when
you’re asleep-your
lungs, too. Your trouble
is-you're not replacing
this energy, so you
wake tired. Athletes
call it staleness but its
often Night Starvation.
If I were you...
I
I'll
bed
early
to
awa
the night,Christina' Jus'
a sup o'Horlicks, as yon
Doctor told me. and up
I'll gang /
He
Glad to see old
Mac's getting back
into his old form,
was round in
70 yesterday.
<■%
-<■>£
-f?
( Did he, by Jove 7
I'm backing him for
the championship.
i
FOUR MONTHS LATER
Oh pretty,
Mac, pretty l
rt
holed !
Well
I
II
f
r#>
*r
ss
«
„ i*
’H ;■ 1
•i' '
> •«
"i
THE CHAMPIONSHIP
When you find that, for no apparent reason, you
wake up in the mornings tired and listless, unfit for
any strenuous effort, the real cause is nearly always
"Night Starvation.” Even while you sleep, your
body is burning up energy. Unless this is replaced
as it is used, you naturally wake up tired and unre-
freshed — "Night Starved.” Horlick’s regularly at
bedtime guards against "Night Starvation,” by replac-
ing the burnt-up energy while you sleep.
You wake with new reserves of strength and
vitality. Horlick’s has an intrigu-
ing taste, too. Prices from 1/6
— economy size 2/9. The
Horlick’s Mixer, 1/-.
34H7
★ SPECIAL OFFER! \ lb. tin Horlick's—Mixer—Measuring Spoon—all for 2/-.
HORLICKS GUARDS AGAINST
NIGHT-STARVATION
EZ2
Mixf
W -
* H * 'Owun
Ss. Uc *
THIS MEANS YOU SLEEP SOUNDLY.
WAKE REFRESHED, AND HAVE
EXTRA ENERGY ALL DAY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3023.
Wednesday, January 19, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
A "READERS' BIBLE."
If it provided no other grounds for welcoming
it, the Heinemann production of the Bible, “Designed
to be Read as Literature,” would still have to be
admired as a beautiful example of the printer’s and
the bookbinder’s crafts.
Bound in deep-red buckram-like cloth, with
colored endpaper maps of biblical Syria and Palestine
and the Mediterranean basin, it has an attractive title-
page nicely balanced in red and black, white paper
which sets off the excellent printing very clearly, and
page titles and cross-headings. Type is the deservedly
famous Perpetua type cut by Eric Gill. The pro-
duction altogether measures right up to the intention
of the publishers that “the Bible should be here pre-
sented as literature, and at the same time in the most
legible form yet devised.”
In those respects it takes the last excuse away
from anybody’s remaining unfamiliar with the Bible
on grounds of being frightened off by the forbidding
nature of its usual appearance, and particularly its
usual eye-straining type. Also, all marginal notes,
verse numberings and the like have been swept away,
leaving the page a clean body of text, than which
there could be nothing easier to read. Reforms
towards readability also include dropping the practice
of printing words through the text in italics, not, as
is the usual pxactice in printed English, to indicate that
they are to be stressed, but to signify the very
contrary.
Italic type —the Perpetua italic is one of the most
beautiful types ever designed—is used in the text only
for verse. Nor is verse set out in this way restricted
to the comparatively small portions hitherto set as
verse. Whenever the text turns to verse, if only for
four lines or so, it is set out as verse. Further, all
speech is set out in the usual manner of dialogue,
between quotation marks. Use of both the italic type
for verse and the quotation marks can be illustrated
by this example from Genesis, usually set with the
punctuation here followed, but otherwise as a straight
prose paragraph:
Unto the woman he said,
“1 will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception ;
In sorrow thou shalt bring forth
children;
And thy desire shall be to thy husband,
And he shall rule over thee.”
Quotation marks are similarly used in all the prose
speech:— %
And God said, “Let there be light”: and
there was light.
That all these changes are to the good no one
wilUbe likely to question, except those who regard
the old printed form of the Bible as sacred. To them
the answer could be that the Bible in its old form is
still available in plenty, and the same answer would
do for those who are certain to complain of the edit-
ing of the text. This editing has not confined itself
to lopping off the genealogical tables and suchlike
matter of only extremely specialised interest, but
redundancies and repetitions—as in the New Testa-
ment accounts —have also gone out, as have such
padding as “These are the generations of the heavens
and of the earth when they were created,” this par-
ticular passage taking up instead where that leaves
off, and so reading “In the day that the Lord God
made the earth and the heavens,” etc.
Again, the text has been narratively arranged
according to the light of the most modern research ;
the general purpose, as set out by the editor, Ernest
Sutherland Bates, being:
To afford a consecutive narrative from the creation
to the exile, supplementing this by a selection from the
Apocryphal I Maccabees (taken like the rest from the
Authorised version) in order to complete the story down
to the times of Jesus; to emphasise the greatest of the
Prophets and minimise the others; to rearrange the
drama, poetry and fiction, adding to the latter the world-
famous tales of Judith, Tobit, and Susanna and the
Elders, together with selections from Ecclesiasticus and
the Wisdom of Solomon (all in the Authorised trans-
lation of the Apocrypha); to give the basic biography of
Jesus found in the Gospel according to Mark, the
earliest and most authoritative, supplemented by those
incidents and teachings not found in Mark but in the
other Gospels; to restrict the utterances of Paul to those
only that have immortal value and to omit entirely the
unimportant pseudonymous epistles; and, so far as
sequence of contents permits, to print all the works in
the order of their composition.
These liberties, the editor excuses himself, are
necessary in putting out a Bible that can be read as
literature. He follows the Authorised version except
in the few instances of Job, Ecclesiastes, Proverbs
and the Song of Songs, “where the Revised version
is admittedly superior.” The aim of the edition, he
adds, is the “high and humble” one _of “fostering
appreciation and love of the Bible as literature.”
It should be added that, though the text has
been edited as indicated, it has not been altered. The
substance and the story of the Bible are there, mainly
as in the Authorised version.
Laurence Biriyon adds a graceful few pages of
shadow-sparring as an “introduction.” Somehow it
leaves a curious impression of being apologetic, and not
very learned, except for some interesting paragraphs on
the nature of the Hebrew poetry. However, nobody
will be likely to question his contention that the books
of the Bible are not as familiar to English people
to-day as they were familiar a few generations ago.
It is almost another way of saying that, despite easier
and allegedly better educational facilities, people are
becoming less and less aware of the foundation of
Western civilisation, and that because, though count-
less more people are readers to-day than ever before,
very few of them read deep. In fact, this Bible might
well have included as a dedication Douglas Jerrold’s
summing up on what is just now exercising the minds
of most people in the world:
The world’s disorder to-day is a crisis at the heart
of our civilisation itself. We must reorder that civilisa-
tion and reintegrate it on a Christian foundation if
Christian progress is to become once again possible to
man. To save not only our bodies but our souls also,
we must recapture the spirit and pierce to the heart of
the meaning of Western Civilisation, and having recap-
tured the dream must follow it or perish.
This readers’ edition of the Bible is not likely
to rectify a trouble so vast in extent as that, but, in-
tended to help people enjoy the great literature of
the Bible, it cannot help, if it finds such readers in
any numbers, increasing their understanding of this
civilisation which has lasted longer and more fruit-
fully than any other, and which seems just now more
threatened with disintegration and destruction than
at any other time in its history.
Australia in Pictures.
Australia’s “birthday” books come thick arid fast.
The latest publication commemorating the 150th anni-
versary is Australia’s Achievement in Art, issued by
“Art in Australia.” It contains 52 reproductions in
color by leading contemporary artists and a foreword
by Lionel Lindsay.
Lindsay glances briefly but interestingly at the
development of Australian art from the days of the
first school for drawing and painting—in Melbourne,
in the mid-’seventies —when Folingsby, fresh from his
studies in Munich, taught painting “on the already
obsolete basis of bitumen and vermilion.” He notes
that the first problem of Australian art was the con-
quest of the landscape, a landscape from which
visiting artists —as their unconvincing paintings prove
—retreated, baffled by its refusal to submit to a
European studio formula.
Its domestication dated from the development of
a school of native-born painters—of whom he men-
tions Tom Roberts as the first —and the “advent of
impressionism based on direct painting and the em-
ployment of broken color.”
He observes that while the veterans are still
working well the one idiosyncratic movement in Aus-
tralian art is drawing to a close. Some confusion has
been caused by modern propaganda. For development
he looks to young artists who have studied in Europe,
but have avoided attachments to fashions and chapel
cults. To these the future of Australian art is “pre-
cariously entrusted.”
In a collection such as this it must always be a
matter of opinion as to whether this or that artist is
represented by his best work, but the compiler has
also left room for some criticism as regards the balance
of the contents. It seeims right, for instance, that
Gruner should be represented by six landscapes, Thea
Proctor by two fans and Margaret Preston by two
native wildflower studies, but one small oil—not the
medium in which he has done his most characteristic
work —from Norman Lindsay, and one water-color
from Lionel Lindsay, seem a rather thin allowance.
There is nothing at all from Meldrum, and, while the
title indicates the whole field of Australian art, what
has been done in the woodcut, pencil, pen and ink
and etching might as. well be non-existent.
Australia’s Achievement in Art is strikingly
turned out, a delightful picture-book, but the contents,
excellent as they are in themselves and in presentation,
fall short of the title.
A Great French Novel.
In Salavin Georges Duhamel, with that fiery and
sustained delicacy of his, dissected—there is no other
word for it—the spirit of an individual, a man utterly
alone, seeking his salvation through more and more
labyrinthine ways. In The Pasquier Chronicles (Dent;
translated from the French by Beatrice de Holthoir) he
has subjected the family unit to similar treatment.
He has tried, through the five novels which make
up this large book, to tell the whole story of Raymond
Pasquier, his wife Lucy and their five children, through
the sensitive mind of Laurent, the third son, who has
a touch of genius. It is told in the first person, with
a variation in the fourth novel when a friend of
Laurent, Justin Weill, takes up the story from without.
The family grows like a tree ; at first, in its
simplest form, seen through the eyes of a child; then,
as the child grows up, reaches adolescence and young
manhood, the theme is seen to be more and more
complex ; it branches and spreads. From the first there
are two major strands in the family life: money—the
eternal problem draining their self-respect—and the
delicate web of affinities that bind the members
together, now in sweetness, now in strain and bitter-
ness. No matter how far the children’s lives diverge,
these two motives persist and, through endless com-
plexity, bring them back to the family.
Joseph becomes a financier, Ferdinand is the very
mirror of the man in the street, Laurent is a scientist
and idealist, Cecile a musician, Suzanne a beauty:
among them they cover almost the whole of life.
Beneath it all, as in Salavin, runs the agonising cry
of each: “How shall I be saved?”
Its length, its subtlety, its variety of attack save
the book from any taint of the mechanical problem-
novel. It is a living, growing thing from beginning
to end, sharply imagined in every detail. As a niece of
literary organisation alone it should command respect.
It has the assurance to be itself, never to hurry or slur
throughout its great length. Every inch of this strip
of middle-class life is reproduced down to the most
delicate gradations of silence in the crowded home and
the smells that haunt city life.
The Pasquier Chronicles has been compared—
inevitably—to the Forsyte Saga. But they are really
incomparable. They work in different media and at
different depths. One transcribes a period; the other
tries to ensnare the whole of life.
The Hemingway Touch.
The Anointed, by Clyde Brian Davis (Barker), is
one of the new style picaresque novels to which
Hemingway stands godfather.
It is a life-story told in the first person. At
fourteen Harry Patterson runs away to sea. At Vera
Cruz he jumps ship and, after a little horseplay at
the expense of a Mexican sentry, he and his mate,
Limo, find themselves in gaol. In the misery and
boredom of the following weeks Harry learns two
things: To cheat successfully at dice and to think.
The first puts an easy living in his hands.
The boys are rescued by the U.S. navy, and
Harry, returned to freedom, has many adventures,
ranging from shipwreck to a half-intentional imper-
sonation of Jesus. The two things learned in prison
govern the remainder of his life. Even when adrift
in a small boat with little hope of rescue he gambles
so that he can take all his companions have “by fair
means” before they perish. He has no doubt of being
rescued. He is the Chosen of God, a hero and super-
man. Thinking has gone to his head.
The writer draws an extraordinary picture from
within of an untutored mind trying to grapple with
the riddle of the universe and falling back on home-
made magic. Harry attains his apotheosis when he
falls in love with a library assistant, gets a job in a
grocery business and attends night-school. At last he
has Truth in a trap from which it cannot escape.
It is difficult to tell how far the author is satirical,
because he remains strictly within the character of the
narrator. It may be a very cynical or a very simple
book. The reader can take it —and enjoy it —on either
plane. The style of narration is very succinct. “Pop
was kind of shiftless and got drunk and drove his
horse and buggy in front of a train and got killed.”
Wage-plug to Easy Money.
Jim Bankley, a wage-plug at Chantry’s, the big
motor factory, goes to the local dogs one night and
gets mixed up in a brawl —fists, boots and razors. He
rescues a big, frightened bloke named Franks, who
peels him a few notes off a roll that makes Jim’s eyes
goggle.
The upshot is that Jim joins Franks in London,
and Franks, bookie and con.-man, works him into the
used-car salesroom of a bloke he is planning to trim.
Jim learns how to stop body squeaks with chewed-up
paper and how to kid buyers into taking possession
without a trial run. With Jim’s help Franks trims
the car bloke and a lot of others besides, what with
cards and crook tactics on the dog courses.
Jim gets tired of being one of Franks’s “boys.”
He’s going to get among the big money. He tries
to trim Franks. There’s another brawl —hired toughs
this time and Jim finds his level in a world of
crooks.
He has to sell the old Daimler he’s been flashing
about in to pay the landlady, and take most of his
fancy wardrobe to Uncle to keep square with the
eating-house proprietor. Then the girl he’s been living
with —he pinched her off another bloke—does a hop.
Jim tries a bit of honest labor in the boxing ring, but
he gets outed first round, first fight. Then his old
man, a foreman at Chantry’s, turns up and tells him
there’s still a job at the works. The thought of it
after his dreams of wild living and easy money nearly
makes him choke. But what else can he do? He
packs his suitcase.
Told in the language of its characters, Wide Boys
Never Work, by Robert Westerby (Barker), is a read-
able yarn of the rough-hewn kind. The writer knows
his field and has vigor. His worst fault is special
pleading. He keeps shouldering Jim aside to explain
what a promising young man he really is and what
a rotten world he has been born into.
Delayed Murder.
The jacket of John Brophy’s new novel, Behold
the Judge (Collins), promises the reader a murder,
but he must plough his way through 250 pages before
he gets to it. Readers who like gore generally like it
at once. Brophy seems to have trusted to the charms
of style to carry him where more rugged writers pin
their faith to situation.
Hessop, the very disagreeable general manager
of a big drapery store, is found dead at the foot ot
a flight of stairs in the shop. It is at first believed
that, overcome by giddiness, he had fallen and, strik-
ing his head on the step, died of a fractured skull.
Later it is discovered that he had had a violent quarrel
with Keeling, one of his section managers, and that
there were bloodstains on the office carpet.
Keeling’s trial takes up the last quarter of the
book, and this is by far the best part of it, for, though
the element of suspense is slight through failure to
awaken strong interest in any of the characters, the
author has something firm underfoot in legal ritual. _
Crime is but a garnish to the story, which is
mainly concerned with the love of Frank Gaston,
son of a Judge, for Philippa Bate, a shop-assistant.
The two interests are bound together by purely formal
{Continued on pose 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE.’
ANTHONY BSanEHMS
k
m
m
A
4EN
/ y:-
"•* |
WA
£6/15/- .22 Cai. Mauser Single Shot Rifle.
This popular Rifle has been used successfully by experts
for many seasons. The .22 Cal. Mauser Rifle has a 26|in.
barrel, elevating sight with windgauge. Its weight is 7flb.
Price £6/15/-. Sale Price £6/5/-
f 6/ 5 4
/- .22 CAL. “SURE SHOT” RIFLES
Simplicity and strength in the action ensure easy operation with
this .22 calibre Sure Shot Rifle. It has a bolt action and is
20 inches long. A rifle suitable for a boy, also for target practice.
P r^ce 25/-. Sale Price 22/-
Q 2/.
£15/10/- 12 Gauge D.B.B.L. HAMMER
GUN Made by W. W.
Greener, stamped J. V. Need-
ham. A genuine saving on a
12 gauge D.8.8.L. Hammer
Gun, bar lock, treble wedge,
fast crossbolt, rebounding
ķ
hammer below line of sight. Barrels 30
Both choke chamber for 2f.
Price £l5/10/-. Sale Price .. .
32 inches.
£l3/10/-
55/- Ivor Johnson S. B. Guns
Single Barrel Guns, top
lever, automatic ejector,
full choke. Pistol grip
stock. A choice of a 30
or a 32 inch barrel.
Splendid bargain.
50'-
Price
50/-
55/-. Sale Price
£21 12 Gauge D. B. B. L Hammer-
less Gun This is a worth-while
saving! 30in. barrels, both choke,
treble wedge. Fast crogsbolt, the
strongest breech action, nitro
proved, chambered for 2fin. cases.
Neatly engraved and fully guaran-
fl 9
teed. Made by W. W. Greener, stamped J. V. Needham.
Price £2l. Sale Price £l9
£5/15/- .303 SPORTING RIFLE
These Rifles are the long
Lee Enfield ciit down
and reconditioned. An
excellent Kangaroo
Rifle. Mark VI Cart-
M'l7'6
ridges,
excellent
Price . .
Weight 7 fib.
rifle.
, ... £5/15/-.
A genuine saving on this
Sale Price
£4/17/6
£14/10/- English Hammerless Gun
20-gauge English
Hammerless Gun,
30in. steel barrels,
nitro proved, left
choke, right modified.
M ade by Fred.
fiQ'icr-
Williams, Birmingham. A good, light, strong gun.
Price .. £l4/10/-. Sale Price . . £l2/10/-
65/- .32 CAL. SINGLE SHOT RIFLE
Another splendid bargain in a
dependable Rifle. .32 cal.
Stevens Single Shot Rifle. Lever
action. This rifle takes the .32
short or long rim-fire.
6(7-
Price
65/-. Sale Price
60/-
25/- SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS 21/6
He n e i n , ba^ga , in for the fisherman! Split Cane Trout
or Blackfish Rods, measuring 9ft. long. Cork grip, extra
top. Medium or light. Price, 25/-. Sale Price, 21/6.
safliwnHWft*ic
-rntmatim-
PTr? f >
£18/18/- Atalanta Big Game Rod £15/15/-
The Errol Bullen Atalanta Big Game Rod. Zane Grey
states that this rod is the strongest, springiest and most
beautifully hnished rod he has used.
• £ 1 8/ 1 8/-. Sale Price
£15/15/-
#
(Imlitfffj
m
18/6 CASTING
REELS 16/-
A well-made, dependable and
thoroughly serviceable Bake-
lite Beach Casting Reel, avail-
able in two sizes. Genuinely
reduced.
Sizes, inches. ... 5
Prices, each .... 18/6 22/6
Sale Prices. ..... 16/- 19/-
tecm-||T|riSrssi;
40/- GREENHEART ROD 35/-
Greenheart Beach or Rock Rod, made to
withstand plenty of use. Measures 7ft. long
and fitted with cork grip.
Price 40/-. Sale Price
35/-
9 Guns and Fishing—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
'V j
VI./
■/X
im
Ikv
; '5;„
'NS
rav 1 .
xt- ‘«nf
Si. I 1
<®sr
ANTHONY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED
FAMOUS LOW PRICES ’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night, Sydney.


"The Most Dangerous Places in the Universe”
“BATH ROOMS”
BY LES ROBINSON
CATASTROPHES BY UNK WHITE.
IF I were to ask you where, in your opinion, it
was most dangerous in the whole wide world to
be, you would very likely say on a battlefield,
. a burning ship at sea or a sinking one, in a sub-
marine under an icefloe, on an iceberg that had drifted
into a patch of boiling sea-water, in a court of law,
a lion’s den, a shark- or an alligator-pond, inside a
diving suit which had ceased to give satisfaction at or
near the bottom of the ocean, on a metal steeple in
a thunderstorm, at the top of a tree when it was
being cut down, in one of two trains about to collide,
in the boss’s way during a financial crisis, in a wife’s
or any other woman’s when a domestic upheaval was
brewing or raging. But if you were to ask me instead
I should, without hesitation, say that the bathroom
was the most dangerous place in the universe.
I have proved it, and facts abound, even if I
hadn’t, which would save me the trouble. More people
are drowned in bathrooms than at sea. As for the
number killed and injured in them in other ways —
well, if I had the faintest idea what it was and told
you I wouldn’t be believed, and as it would be taking
the bread out of statisticians’ mouths to attempt to
arrive at an estimate I decline, on humanitarian
grounds, to undertake the task. If you read the papers
though and jot down the recorded bathroom mis-
adventures for yourself, the total at the end of any
given period will probably astound you. If it
doesn’t you have either missed a few or are becoming
blase.
The gleaming and glacial smoothness of the
porcelain bath ; the gleaming, glacial, arid, stark and
uninviting (especially on frigid mornings)—positively
forbidding, in fact —expanse of white enamel surround-
ing it, the whole reminiscent, despite nickel and brass
fittings here and there and half-hearted attempts made
with sponges, loofahs, gaily-colored soap-holders and
towels to orientalise it, of a polar icescape; the
tiled, so often sloppy and slippery floor —no really
uncomfortable apartment should be without one,
especially in the wintertime, for nothing helps more
to create that bleak, barren, Kosciuscan, Siberian,
that good-bye-to-anything-at-all-cosy sort of feeling.
Such and similar bluish feelings and moods, despite
the amount of whiteness by which you are surrounded,
are, as I said, or meant to say, a while ago, more
likely to attack you in the bathroom as, not yet fully
awake, you begin divesting yourself of dressing-gown,
slippers and pyjamas in the half light or semi-darkness
of a raw midwinter dawn than any even faintly
delectable ones.
If the kind of people who sing in the bath were
carefully psycho-analysed, it would, in all probability,
be found that they were doing so in order to counter-
act the cheerlessness of their surroundings.
MURDERS, including the most foul, are often
transacted in bathrooms, and very neatly trans-
acted, too —not only retail murders either, but whole-
sale as well. If, as usual, you don’t believe me when
I use the words “not only retail murders either, but
wholesale as well,” peruse this extract from the intro-
duction to a thriller called The Bathroom Mysteries
I sat up recently reading into the small hours, my hair
standing on end and cold shivers, not unlike the bath-
rheumatic kind, with twinges to match, chilling my
vitals:
Wholesale murder was being engineered, and for any-
one who fell into the hands of these clever criminals
it was almost dangerous to wash and extremely
hazardous to have a bath.
From which, by those quick at taking a hint, it may,
from safety-first motives, be inferred that singing in
the bath, especially very early on bleak and dreary
mornings, and while other people, from sheer force
of habit, are, with undiminished, even though sup-
pressed, disinclination nevertheless, waiting to make
themselves wet and uncomfortable too, is absolutely
foolhardy.
Perhaps it is advisable to lock the bathroom door
always, unless, of course, you happen to be one of
those luckless individuals for whom locks, when about
to defy all but a cracksman’s or a locksmith’s efforts
to get them open again, seem lying in wait. If you
have ever been locked in the bathroom at the wrong
time of the year, and when persons who might, if
they hadn’t been at somebody else’s place or the pic-
tures, have been depended upon to effect or
attempt a rescue, you, like me, will assuredly be
a confirmed latch-user-only ever afterwards.
Suicide is committed in bathrooms quite a.
great deal, too. Why? Well, nowhere else that
I know of, unless, conceivably, it be on an icefloe
—and you notice this, between sneezures, in the
’flu season particularly—does life seem less to
burgeon with all the things one most enjoys.
I F I were to say that more people are electro-
-1 cuted in bathrooms than in American peniten-
tiaries, and you were helping to compile a direc-
tory or an electoral roll, you would put “prevari-
cator” opposite my name in the occupation
column. Yet look how easy it is.
The electrician who reads my meter
says that all you have to do is to
attempt, with a wet hand and while
part of the rest of you is in the
water, to switch a light on or off.
But so far, perhaps, you have
escaped the major bathroom catas-
trophes, such as being frozen to
death, asphyxiated, boiled, electrocuted and drowned,
which inexplicable good fortune may imbue you with
the belief that you are destined to bear indefinitely a
charmed life in so far as the minor misadventures are
concerned. Many another harmless, though frustrated,
optimist (myself, for instance) has—until, with startling
rapidity and usually when his thoughts were elsewhere,
something occurred to awaken him to a belated and
perhaps never afterwards slumber-sodden perception
of grim bathroom potentialities—been lulled similarly
into a false' sense of security.
Absence of mind is more likely to prove incon-
venient in the bathroom than anywhere else in the
house. It should always be remembered, but seldom
is, that at no time is man more vulnerable than when,
as there, divested of his clothes. Also it is inadvisable
to try to read a book and shave at the same time,
unless, of course, you happen to be one of those
extremely rare people, encountered mostly in night-
mares, who, like crabs and a few remarkable insects,
have eyes on stalks or the equally vigilant, protrud-
ing and more mobile sort possessed by certain kinds
of fish.
A man once stepped out of a bath backwards
right on to a kerosene-heater. Unfortunately for him
it was functioning at such suspiciously high pressure
that kerosene must have been exceedingly dear. An-
other inadvertently placed the end of himself a person
of sedentary habits could least spare against a very
hot steam pipe. He recoiled so violently that he went
clean (it was after, not before, he had bathed) through
the bathroom window into some rosebushes growing
below. And it was among these same bushes that
he was in the habit of strewing his used razor-blades.
WHY not eliminate these multifarious bathroom
risks, make certain of dodging disaster? Why
put up with such hideous discomfort when, with very
little trouble and at slight expense, you can
HAVE A BATH IN BED?
Several yards of any oiled, tarred or rubberised
material with which to construct a, watertight sack
large enough for you, swathed in bedclothes, to occupy
nightly are more, nearly always, than ample for the
purpose. In the morning, after extracting the bed-
clothes and removing your nightshirt or pyjamas, you
sit bolt upright, or as nearly so, if you don’t happen
to be a contortionist, as possible or convenient. Using
a jug, a dipper or a jam-tin you then proceed to fill
the sack from a barrel containing water, placed there
in readiness by you the night before. No further
effort, except to help yourself to and use the soap,
sponge, loofah, scrubbing-brush, bath-crystals, etc.,
all within easy reach on a table or a packing-case ;
moved bedwards previously so that they would be, is
necessary.


£155 for Stories.
The Bulletin wants short stories for its fiction
section, and Cinesound Productions, Ltd.,
wants stories suitable for the screen.
“The Bulletin” offers
First Prize •. £3O
Second £l5
Third £5
Special Prize Brief Story £5
Cinesound offers for
Best Screen Story . £lOO
It is possible for one story to win in both,
sections. In addition to the prizes, all entries
published will be paid for at Bulletin rates.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words; 1500
words is the limit in the Brief Story section.
Entries must be original, and hitherto unpub-
lished.
Scenarios are NOT wanted. Cinesound will
attend to that.
Closing date is January 31, 1938. But any
entry considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published as it comes to hand.
Entries to be addressed:
‘‘Short Story Competition,”
C/o “The Bulletin,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Any further particulars may be had from The Bulletin.
A Ship and a Woman
ANGEL
BY STEVE BENNETT
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
i f N organ always gives me the blues,” remarked
/ 1 old Scotty Brough, dismally regarding the
V, I man who bounced in his seat as he jazzed
his final notes on the little street instrument,
“even when it’s played lively like that. Organs are
meant for religious stuff. And they always remind
me of one of the meanest old codgers I ever met —
Captain Wisby.
“When I first sighted him I shivered. You’ve
seen pictures of those apostle blokes —well, I couldn’t
decide which of them had come back to earth to take
charge of the barque Clarice ; but Squeaker, a Cockney
chatterbox, reckoned the old man was more like Jere-
miah than any of the others, and we all had to give
in to Squeaker.
“Captain Wisby wasn’t very tall, but he was so
herrin’-gutted he looked tall, although his knees were
never straight and his shoulders canted for’ard in
a here’s-my-head-I’ll-be-there-directly sort of way.
His feet were as flat as planks,'and he walked as
though they were covered with blisters. His long black
whiskers were trimmed like a square-mouthed shovel,
and his eyes were too mean to treat themselves to a
decent helpin’ of washy blue.
“I was just gettin’ over the shock, and was buzzin’
around makin’ ready for sea and sayin’ a sailor’s fare-
well to Liverpool, when along comes Squeaker, all
out of breath with excitement.
“ ‘Fer Gord’s sike, Scotty,’ he says, ‘who do yer
fink’s come aboard?’
“Lookin’ at his face, I reckoned I could guess it
in one. ‘A bloomin’ angel!’
“ ‘Yer right, me ole son,’ says Squeaker. ‘Yer
righter than me. I fought it was on’y the skipper’s
missus.’
“ ‘Hell!’ says I. ‘What like is she? Is she sailin’
with us?’
“ ‘Not wiv us,’ says Squeaker, grinnin’; ‘she’s
silin’ in the cabin wiv ole Jeremiah. Come to the
galley an’ cooky’ll tell yer.’
“Now, all windjammer cooks were liars, but after
ten minutes’ chat at the galley door this cook con-
vinced me that the skipper had got married that
mornin’ and was takin’ his bride to sea for the honey-
moon. Anyhow, before we’d properly cleared the
docks we all saw her —givin’ her a thorough inspec-
tion—and, although we didn’t all exactly agree, every-
body reckoned she had more good points than bad
ones.
“She was bluff enough in the bow and not too
round in the counter—just a nice solid little figure.
Her fair hair was pressed back tight and tied down
on her neck in a sort of Matthew-Walker knot, and
there was a big bow of blue ribbon pinned under
her chin. We reckoned she was no more than twenty-
five, and in the fo’c’sle we all got arguin’ as to how
in hell old Jeremiah had managed to get her in tow.
“The next evenin’ we got another shock. I
thought I was goin’ daft and sufferin’ from noises in
the head; but when I saw the whole watch lookin’
as silly as myself I knew I wasn’t wrong. An organ
—a church organ—was moanin’ in the cabin, and the
old man was singin’ a hymn!
“ ‘ Bl °ody wars! ’ says I to Squeaker. ‘We must
have been terrible drunk to sign in a mission-ship!’
ien ’ w^en psalm-yowlin’ was finished
and the angel came on deck with a straw hat tied
down over her ears like a
Salvation Army lassie’s
bonnet —well, all the bad
luck prophesied that night
for the Clarice made me too nervous to stand my
lookout without Squeaker.
“But the mate soon put us right. No mission-
ship could have kept afloat for a dog-watch with that
mate aboard! He was a Liverpool-Irishman, and one
of the toughest-lookin’ blokes I’ve ever been ship-
mates with. He used the vilest language even when
it wasn’t necessary, and I used to pity the poor beggar
whenever the missus was about durin’ those first few
weeks. He couldn’t say half a dozen words without
bitin’ his tongue a couple of times to keep his speech
ladylike ; and there was always some wag shoutin’ a
damn’-fool question from aloft, just tryin’ to trick him
into a bit of a slip. But he was marvellous. He’d
stutter out a word or two, wait a second, say a bit
more, and finish up by grinnin’ all over his hard,
square dial like one of them stagey blokes gettin’ out
of a network of knots.
“What set my nerves on edge, too, was the way
the angel would look up at the bloke hailin’ from
aloft and then watch the mate sparrin’ for his answer ;
and I told the lads one afternoon that I reckoned
she was just as interested in our reformin’ of the
mate as we were. Squeaker agreed with me.
“‘She’s a true Christian lidy, Scotty, you can
tike my word fer that!’ says he. ‘A true Christian
lidy can ’ave a bit o’ fun wivaht goin’ too far; but
if ever she ’ears this blinkin’ mite wiv ’is fog’orn
goin’ full blast, an’ she don’t drop dead, then she ain’t
the Christian lidy I tike ’er fer.’
4 4 NJ OW a head wind, after it had lasted a few
days and looked like lastin’ a few weeks, was
sure to make the mate a bit touchy, especially as old
Jeremiah was too religious even to curse the weather
now and again for luck, and the angel was so often
on the poop that the poor mate had to come down
to us every time he wanted to open his mouth. And
our comfortin’ old gag —‘More days, more dollars’ —•
didn’t improve his temper much.
“On this particular day the crowd had been all
strainin’ to get the last inch out of the lee braces,
jambin’ the yards hard on the backstays, and the mate
himself lent a hand, chewin’ the rag as usual. We
lined up then to haul the weather-braces tight.
“Squeaker was at the wheel, and Squeaker was
a damn’ good helmsman. He had the ship fairly
steady, although, of course, she was yawin’ a bit and
chuckin’ enough water over the weather-rail to keep
us blokes on the main deck from failin’ asleep. Old
Jeremiah was on the poop with his back to the Cock-
ney.
“The angel bobbed up from below and stood in
the companionway admirin’ her old man’s back.
Squeaker was the only one who could see her, and
the sight of her gave him an idea that would only
enter the head of a silly bloomin’ Cockney. He spun
that wheel a few spokes so quick and lively that the
ship’s head came up with a jump, and she scooped
in a curlin’ green sea that had all hands hangin’ tight
to belayin’-pins and braces, wonderin’ if their boots
would still be on their feet when the water had done
draggin’ at them. All hands, that is, bar the mate.
“Yes, the mate caught it lovely. He was tossed
across the deck like a penny balloon, and came pretty
close to losin’ his ship. When I spotted him he was
swingin’ his legs over the lee-rail; and after he’d
crawled inboard again he just stood huggin’ the
shrouds that had saVed him, crackin’ hardy and tryin’
to get rid of a bellyful of seawater.
“And then, as Squeaker had hoped, he got his
foghorn goin’ full blast. He told that Cockney just
exactly what he thought of his steerin’ and his appear-
ance and his pedigree. He roared it so loud, and
there was so much of it, that Squeaker was quite
concerned—so he said, anyhow—about the angel bein’
offended.
“Now, everybody knows that a woman can be
very shocked by hearin’ things that would only amuse
her if she read them in a book; and, although
Squeaker expected the missus to drop dead like a
true Christian lady, she didn’t. She came right out
on deck and stood lookin’ straight down at the mate,
while the old man was as dumbfounded as she was
at the mate’s awful opinion of Squeaker. And then
the angel turned and stared back at Squeaker, but
Squeaker didn’t see her. Squeaker was gazin’ aloft
at the leach of the tops’l as though he’d seen and
heard nothin’ else for an hour.
“It seems queer, but it was that simple look on
Squeaker s silly dial that really shocked the woman.
She threw her head back and laughed so loud I
thought she was goin’ into hysterics; but not her!
She laughed so genuine and hearty that it struck me
that she might have been kicked out of the Salvation
Army for the same thing ; and in half a jiffy we were
all laughin’ except old Jeremiah, and he stood gapin’


at the angel with his whiskers blowin’ around like
Irish pennants, as though she was a rampin’ sea-
serpent.
,~. ~ f
u A FTER that the voyage for a while wqs a little
more pleasant. The old man was like the apostle
that went cryin’ in the wilderness, Squeaker said. He
was on his own. But the angel was becomin’ more
like one of us. She yarned to the mate, she yarned
to the second mate and she yarned to the man at
the wheel even when it was Squeaker! She didn t
yarn much to her old man, but she tried to make him
sing more decent songs, kiddin’ him on with ‘Annie
Laurie’ and ‘Juanita’ and that sort of stuff. But Jerry
wouldn’t have it. He’d come'on deck disgusted, and
the angel would play and sing on her lonesome till
she got tired.
“It was about that time she began to doll her
hair up in a different style, too. Pretty little rolls,
fore-an’-aft. And you should have seen the antics
of the crowd then! Every watch below some goat
was shavm or combm his hair ; and the mate kept
himself so spick and span that if only he could have
rounded off some of the corners on his dial and
stretched his neck so it wouldn’t look to be all one
piece with his shoulders he and have passed for a Picca-
dilly dandy.
“It was a pity, but everythin was improvin in
that old hooker bar the grub ; and even clean faces
can’t look pleasant on crook grub. It got so bad that
one day we all marched aft to the break of the poop
to complain. We found the mate so busy chattin’ to
the angel that we were sorry to disturb them. The
mate was sorry, too, the way he glared.
“ ‘What’s wrong, lads?’ he asks, kiddin’ innocent,
“ ‘We want to see the old man about the grub,’
says we.
“‘He’s not well,’ says the mate; ‘better leave it
till to-morrow ’
‘“F’ll be worse ter-morrer ’ nines un Soueaker
‘lf ’e’s been tearin’ this muck into P ’£ eutf we* wanter
’
see lm anve.
“Squeaker spun
that wheel a few
spokes so quick
and lively that the
ship’s head came up with
a jump, and she scooped in a
curlin’ green sea the mate
caught it lovely.”
“The mate was goin’ to run us all for’ard, but he
took so long to think up the polite way of doin’ it
that the angel had time to chip in. She had a squint
at the kid of watery, greasy peasoup Squeaker was
holdin’, and then she reached down for the salt junk
I was carryin’.
“She smelt the beef, and spoilt her beauty pullin’
ugly faces at the mate. She offered him a sniff, but
no meat could ever be rotten enough to make that
bloke turn a hair! When she turned to hand me back
the smelly junk she had a savage snap in her voice.
“ ‘The captain is too ill to come on deck,’ she
said, ‘but he is not too ill to be told about this!’
“So we all strolled for’ard again, arguin’ whether
this meant the grub or the complaint.
“That evenin’ the angel fluttered her wings a bit
stronger. She tickled the organ up with ‘The Irish
Washerwoman,’ ‘Finnegan’s Wake’ and some horn-
pipes, maybe just to cheer old Jeremiah up a little.
But he was still in his bunk next day, and the angel
seemed so happy about it that Squeaker started in to
call the mate ‘Ole Nick,’ explainin’ how the devil
came to get tangled up with apostles and angels.
<<HTHE grub was certainly better while Old Nick had
1 charge of the ship, but I reckoned it was the
angel who had charge of the grub, and we all hoped
that Jerermah would stick to his bunk. He was creep-
m ’ round again, though, in about a week, and we had
to lay aft once more and kick up a row.
“Jeremiah started by smilin’ and palaverin’ to us
}ik e a Sunday-school superintendent; but you should
bave seen b i m show his fangs when Squeaker told
b j m j t wasn ’t pretty words we wanted to fill our ears
bu t more and better grub to fill our guts. He swore
that we were gettin’ all we signed for, and it was
good enough for us. He ordered us for’ard, but we
wouldn’t budge, and Squeaker and me gave him a
bit 0 f back-slack just to keep the crowd together.
The bull-necked mate bounced down to the main
deck, but he didn’t tackle anybody because the mrssus
was wat chin’ him.
“Things were lookin’ pretty ugly with the crowd
ad i os i n ’ their tempers and old Jerry threatenin’ hell,
and tben damn me if the angel didn’t start beatin’
her wings, too. She told the old man he ought to be
a shamed of himself, expectin’ men to work on such
food, and she was more cheeky about it than me and
Squeaker
M rc .A a,-
Of course, Jeremiah the angel below
and if his knees had been straight he d have made _
fine statue for Hyde Park ; but that angel wasn t goin
below till the show was over. She stood off and gave
Jerry the most unchristian tongue-bangin you ever
heard from a Christian lady, and we urged her on
with little grumblin’ cheers. Squeaker said in the
fo’c’sle afterwards that if she had talked to the cap-
tain of the Salvationists * ike that U was no wondeI *
the y had drummed her out The mate stood lookin
her up and down like a bloke at a fight with his money
on the winner; and when Jerry at last did promise
to do somethin’ about the grub, and cleared off below
in a huff, the angel was so upset that Nick had to
toddle up and take her by the arm to a seat on the
cabin skylight. He was still there with her, too, when
I dodged on to the poop an hour later just to coil a
rope —and take a look around.
“In the second dog-watch that evenin’ we had
a great treat. The angel rattled that bloomin organ
for the whole two hours with tunes that would have
had all the other angels dancin’ themselves into the
everlastin’ fires. But Jeremiah was more religious
than any angel that ever played harps or organs, so
he couldn’t stay below in such awful company. And
every time poor Old Nick joined in with a little singin’
to himself as he strolled about the poop that lousy
nark found somethin’ to say about the weather.
“Now I ain’t superstitious, but it always gives me
a queer feelin’ to remember that night. There was
the angel, bangin’ away on the organ the very latest
music-hall songs—comics and all —and some of the
very oldest boozers’ choruses. And there was Jere-
miah, prancin’ up and down the poop worryin’ his
soul about the wicked performances of his bride, and
tellin’ Nick every five minutes that the weather was
threatenin’, the wind might shift, it would be as well
to keep all hands standin’ by, he’d seen nights like
this before in this latitude, and a lot more such clap-
trap, although the sky was clear and the breeze just
a breeze.
“At eight bells the angel came on deck and every-
thin’ was serene.
“Twenty seconds later she was strugglin’ to pick
herself up against the lee-rail, and old Jerry was hang-
in’ to a weather backstay moanin’ prayers, while Nick
was huggin’ the binnacle like a drunk on a lamp-
post and screechin’ to me to ‘Luff, luff, you brainless
flamin’ idiot! Luff! ’as though I was to blame for not
bein’ able to steer the unhandy old hooker with my
feet swingin’ in the air like a trapeze-artist.
“Up till that night I’d never missed a chance of
callin’ any man a liar who told the old yarn of a ship
dippin’ her yardarm in the sea. Since then I give
everybody the benefit of the doubt, because that
night I saw the Clarice’s yard dip, and if I’d known
any prayers I’d have been sayin’ them and forgettin’
the mate’s orders. But when I got my feet I luffed
so smart the mate threatened to break my stupid neck
if I caught the ship aback, and then he bolted for’ard
to get the whole crowd tearin’ round clewin’ up sail
in one of the snortiest gales I’ve ever seen a ship
stagger out of.
“Talk about dippin’ yards! That wagon dipped
everythin’ dippable and shifted everythin’ shiftable.
She stood on her head and she stood on her tail. She
rolled her lee-rails under and she rolled her weather-
rails under. She tossed the hencoop overboard, and
tried her damnedest to do the same with everybody
who interfered with her. She smashed both fo’c’sle-
head ladders and ripped timbers out of one lifeboat
and made kindlin’-wood altogether of another. It’s the
only time I’ve ever been dead scared of the sea, but,
then, it’s the only time I’ve ever known the sea —like
somethin’ alive —to make a sort of contract with a ship
—like somethin’ else alive —to carry out a certain job.
And directly that job was done they agreed to let up and
be reasonable. It seems queer, but the wind dropped,
the sea quietened down, and the Clarice steadied her
head and strutted over the water like a flash harlot
proud of her breedin’, just as soon as they had,
between them, broken the angel’s leg and pulled that
infernal organ into so many pieces the ca*»p«nter
got a headache next mornin’ tryin’ to count ’em.
(i NT OW, we got to hear from the bos’n —and he
1 got it from the second mate, who used to keep
his ears well cocked for anythin’ the old man had
to say—that Jerry reckoned that blow was sent just
to satisfy him that the wicked shall be punished.
But me and squeaker knew more about re-
ligion than that. We showed the
fo’c’sle that it was a blessin’ in
v disguise.
“You see, it was Nick
v who found the angel lyin’
, unconscious, and as he
knew more about
angels’ legs than Jere-
miah did it was Nick
who married the
5 broken bone and
' put a lashin’ on it.
Jerry stood by
moanin’ about
the judgment his
missus had
brought on her-
self and on the
organ he’d paid
ten quid for.
“But that mate
was a proper circus.
The missus bein’ laid
up below, he lost the
polite manners he’d
been tryin’ out on us
and became human again.
Still, it was always a
puzzle to me to know just
when he was most human —
blasphemin’ round the main deck
to get the crowd out of their usual
dawdlin’ ways or tiptoein’ to the companion-
way and sneakin’ down, all flustered and bkishin’,
to take a squint at that pretty little broken leg.
“After a couple of weeks Jeremiah and Nick
started carryin’ the angel on deck each day to get a
bit of sunshine. And didn’t she look fine! Squeaker
reckoned the mate must have been a clinkin’ doctor,
even if the old man was a pretty rotten wardsmaid.
The mate talked and laughed with her every chance
he got, while the old man would be gazin’ out at the
horizon as though expectin’ icebergs.
( Continued, on next page .)


Everybody was glad the day after we tied up
in Sydney to see the angel strong enough to hobble
tbeth Wlth Tu em u ah hangin ’ on t 0 one arm and Nick
tw r h lhe b ° S ’ n told US the seCond mate sald
it t B Tu° SCe a d ° Ctor ’ but 1 don,t know how
rieht R u d ° Ctor t 0 SCt the angel ’ s leg qUlt£
laL\^ Ca i! lS^ hen We SailGd f ° r Falm ° Uth a m ° nth
mate. ** C ° me aboard “ and neither had the
“I cmwn ~
suppose old Jeremiah was too religious to
worry ml’ d r rCe ; a " d ’ anyhow ’ the a "Sd did n’'
months afte,'„ e a ‘rH u“ , fou ”f ° ut abou ‘ flttean
old Loch Tav v-T " * St r * aShOIe fK T
idy m victoria Dock, Melbourne, and saw
her standin’ like a freshly-painted figurehead behind
the bar of the Seamen’s Arms. Nick was there, servin’
drinks as though he’d never done anythin’ else in
his life. His name was on the door above the ‘push-
pull’ sign, and me and the boys I was with had so
much free beer that evenin’ that I reckon we must
have all sailed in the Clarice a score of times with
Jeremiah and his angel before the pub shut.
“And I can remember that bar full of deep-
water men roarin’ when the angel threw her head
back and laughed at me like she had laughed the
day Squeaker nearly drowned the mate.
“ ‘You fellers in the fo’c’sle were as soft as the
old humbug himself to take me for a psalm-grinder,’
she says. ‘I was pullin’ beer in pubs round Liverpool
for years before I stumbled over his big feet down
at the docks one Sunday. He took me aboard the
Clarice so I could stitch up my frock and I fell in
love—with his ship! So when he offered to marry
me and take me to sea I jumped at the chance I
might have stayed at sea, too, and become as
religious and stingy as himself,’ says the angel, ‘if
I hadn’t know the difference between a saint and a
sinner.”
“And she put her arm round the mate’s neck and
kissed him so lovin’ in front of us all that I’ll go to
hel ‘ if his bully-lookin’ face didn’t blush redder than
my own!”
A Grand Old Lady
FLOOD
BY C.J. REYNOLDS
DRAWING BY DUBOIS.
ONLY occasionally did the clear grey eyes of
the girl show traces of the pain she was feel-
ing. They strayed often to the door leading
on to the verandah and the hot sunshine with
its promise of more flooding rains
Sometimes she turned to the haggard woman sit-
ting beside the bed. “No word of Bob?”
“None. Probably cut out shearing and in town
drinking”
“Mother!”
“Well, anyway he’s riding that stallion thing,
Romany. It’s probably thrown him ; it should be
destroyed”
“Romany’s all right. Any word of the doctor?”
“I rang him; he’s almost frantic. The Turon’s
carrying the worst flood for years. He won’t tackle
it”
“And ‘Aunty’ Jinnie” The hope in the wide
grey eyes wavered.
The older woman said bitterly: “There’s no hope
there either. The old fool. She’s in her second child-
hood.”
“Where is she? Why can’t she come? She
wouldn’t refuse”-
“She’s over at her daughter’s place—she’s always
away when she’s wanted —gadding about the country
at her age”
“Surely she can please herself. She assisted most
of the people round here into the world, and now
they’re sneering at her.”
“I’m not sneering”-
“You are! All of you. The doctor, too. He’s
often reported her. He’d be pleased of her help now,
and so would I. If only Bob would come” Sud-
denly she smiled and the hope returned to her eyes
as she lay watching the door.
I T usually took a long while to find “Aunty” Jinnie.
The postmistress had to walk half a mile and bring
her to the ’phone, but to-day he got through quickly.
“The doctor calling ‘Aunty,’ ” said the post-
mistress.
“Aunty” Jinnie’s hard old face with its strangely
young eyes wrinkled into a grin. The doctor. She
knew what that young upstart wanted.
“Well, ‘boctor,” she said harshly, “what can I do
for you?”
“ ‘Aunty,’ that girl Mary Burton . . . You’ll go
to her. I can’t”
“I’ve been reported for such doings, Doctor —I
wouldn’t dare” Her grin widened.
. “You’ll have to. I’ll fix it. Poor girl waiting
there alone.”
“Aunty” Jinnie’s old face softened. She ceased
to listen to the pleading voice. She thought of the
day just after Mary had married Bob, her grandson,
and settled in the little town. How she had come to
her and introduced herself and kissed her—her, old
Jinnie, the doddering.old fool!
“Are you there, ‘Aunty’?” The doctor’s voice
was anxious.
Another memory came: a big day at the Gover-
nor’s opening of the cottage hospital. The young
doctor calling her over —telling the Governor, “One
of our pioneers, your Excellency. A fine old lady.”
“Are you there, ‘Aunty’?”
“Yes,” she said slowly. “I’m here—more’s the
pity”
“You’ll go to her?”
“I can’t. I’m on the same side of the river as
you”
“Then what ‘Aunty,’ you realise I can’t go.
It’s impossible”--
“Fifty years ago, Doctor, when I was a girl a
doctor would have swum a horse to Tasmania to get
to a patient”
“But I—dammit, woman, I can’t swim! Don’t
you see? I’d go if it were possible. But that
flood”. •..
She forgot him to look at her three grandchildren
standing near the door, frankly listening.
The two.girls and nineteen-year-old George, his
young face worried, his eyes hopeless.
“Yes, Doctor, I know it’s impossible.” She hung
up.
George started forward eagerly, then stopped.
“What is it?” Her voice was sharp.
“Nothin’ —only, well, Boy could swim the river
—with me on him, that.is—but what’s the good of
that? If Romany”
She spoke briskly. “Catch that horse!”
He stared at her.
“Go on,” she snapped. “Catch him.”
“You’re not”-
“I am—l rode a horse through floods before your
mother was born. Go and get him! ”
D RESENTLY he returned with the big bay geld-
* ing. She was almost ready.
To her daughter’s “But, Mother, why should you
go risking your life?” she said simply: “I eased all
your kids into the world, Martha. This is my grand-
daughter.”
“I’ll manage,” she added, and mounted.
She felt George at her feet. She could see he
was afraid, shaking ; and somehow she took courage
from it.
“Spurs,” he said ; “an’ for Gawd’s sake use ’em—
he’s lazy”
Then he pointed across the quarter-mile of angry
water. “See that old oak—the dead ’un—aim for that.
It’ll fetch you out at the crossin’. Don’t let him get
below it —an’ don’t be frightened to use them spurs.”
She looked across at the oak, her eyes blurring,
and suddenly she was afraid. That roaring. She
shivered; she was old—why should she? Then she
thought of Mary, and touched Boy with the spurs,
and they were in the water.
Boy splashed ahead. It would be five minutes
before he came to the main stream, where he had to
swim. She looked back for the three, but they were
gone. Then she saw them near the old plum-trees
on the high point above the crossing, and George yell-
ing “Keep his head up the river! And use them
hooks! ”
Suddenly they were in the current, swimming.
The rain pelted down, flopping into the water beside
her.
“ spurs!” she caught the tail-end of George’s
shout. They were going down —they were below the
oak.
She spurred frantically, kicking against the pres-
sure of water, working the left rein continually, but
it was no use —they were beaten.
She looked towards George. What was he doing?
He mustn’t come into this! He was only young. It
didn’t matter about her, really . . . But she wanted
to live . . .
She spurred again savagely. No hope . . . Mary.
Dear God! George was coming in! But no.
What was he doing, dancing there like a—a cannibal?
Then faintly she caught two words, heard the
girls screaming, “Bob! Romany! Romany!
Romany! ”
Bob and Romany! She looked across the flood
and saw them. Romany, shining red, like blood,
racing along the old stone wall, leaping across diggers’
holes, taking mullock-heaps in his stride, with Bob
almost flat along his neck.
George’s voice again; “ them spurs!”
Romany flashed past the crossing, running past
her, well back. She heard his screaming whinny, then
Bob’s yell:
“Stick to it, Gran! Stick to it. It won’t be long
now. There’s nothin’ on earth can bluff this feller”...
She saw Romany surge into the torrent, shrilling
still. Then in an incredibly short time he was below
her, and Bob was whaling Boy with a whip, slashing
savagely, grimly. “Pour th’ spurs in, Gran! He’s
loafin’. Pour ’em in!”
A minute more and the horses ceased swimming,
and walked, breasting the current, their feet on the
hard-packed drift that formed the bottom.
She faced the boy. “Mary?”
He shook his head. “I never called. They told
me at Rankin’s. Romany galloped four mile. I knew
you’d come”...
She turned from him suddenly to hide the sudden
tears,
• t ' She spoke harshly to cover her embarrassment;
‘ It’s half a mile to the house. Let’s see if that por-
poise you’re ridin’ can beat this fish of mine on dry
goin’.”
She spurred Boy and was away, thundering to-
wards the stone wall. She knew that Bob would have
to fight the stallion every inch of the way to hold
him in so that she might win.
Hr HE girl on the bed moaned. The women went to
her hopelessly, helplessly, their faces drawn with
anxiety. There was nothing they could do. Then they
heard the clatter of running horses.
“Bob! ” said Mary huskily as Romany’s shrill
whinny came. “And ‘Aunty’ Jinnie!” as the two
drenched figures with squelching boots crossed the
verandah and entered the room. Her eyes .showed
no surprise, only unutterable gladness.
. “I knew you’d come,” she told the old lady.
“Aunty” Jinnie made two attempts to speak, then
cleared her throat and whirled to the other women.
“Don’t sit there like crows on a fence, waitin’ for
a sheep to fall over. There’s work to be done.”


k
YOUR INVESTMENT PROBLEM
It’s solved easily and safely by a purchase of FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES. These
spread your money over 20 leading “listed” securities. The
resulting “spread” smoothes out wide share fluctuations.
Custodian Trustees for investors: Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
lilsten in to “Romance of Industry” Session each Wednesday Night at 9.30
from 2UE.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can vou look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is "No” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family,’ and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In Its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
links. Philippa works in the shop managed by Hessop,
and it is Frank’s father who presides at the trial. The
class war ramps through the story, but it also is only
for decoration.
In short, it’s a book which tries to be all things
to all readers—romance, thriller, social study —too
vast an undertaking for any writer.
First Tanks in Battle.
The Indiscretions of a Warden, by Basil L. Q.
Henriques (Methuen), the reminiscences of a man
who has spent twenty-five years in social work in the
slums of London, is in the main of interest chiefly
to those similarly engaged, but his war experiences,
an interlude, have a wider appeal. Having been in
command of one of them, he is able to give a descrip-
tion of the first tanks in action.
The first tanks’ crews, apparently, were machine-
gunners who volunteered blindly for special service,
the nature of which was secret. All Henriques was
told by the War Office official who approached him
was that he would be required to command an “armed
caterpillar which could go through and over anything
and knock down trees.” He imagined himself lying
full length on his stomach in a “low caterpillar-
shaped piece of armor thirty feet long.”
The crews took to the new war machines with
enthusiasm. They called the tanks “mother” and
treated the whole business as a huge game. They
spent most of their time looking for trees to knock
over, and imagined themselves trundling straight to
Berlin across parklands similar to those which were
their training-grounds in England. Not one of the
men had seen active service or had any idea of the
conditions he would have to meet.
They had very few days’ training after arrival in
France. One day was spent drilling with one kind
of gas-mask, next day drilling with a totally different
kind, the following day listening to a lecture on the
care of pigeons—with which they had suddenly been
issued —and between times “showing-off with our tanks,
not to the men with whom we were to fight, but to
brass-hats from H.Q., who found us a highly amusing
diversion.”
The infantry with whom they were to fight had
never heard of them until they actually saw them in
battle. The tanks’ crews had never driven with flaps
closed, so had never used the periscopes which Were
their sole means of reconnaissance in battle. Maps
meant nothing to them. The higher command did
not realise the rigors of travelling in tanks, with
the result that the crews reached position in a state
of exhaustion before the battle began.
Henriques claims to have commanded the first
tank to fire on the enemy. He was given forty
minutes to reach the front line. It took only twenty—
so he just trundled on. “We were on our own artillery
barrage line. It’s a miracle we didn’t get a direct hit
from our own guns.”
The tanks didn’t prove as bullet-proof as had
been expected. Half Henriques’s crew himself
included were casualties in no time. Then the
periscope was shot away. They were trapped in a
blind hulk with well-directed enemy machine-gun fire
preventing them from opening the observation flaps.
He describes the nervous strain of that first battle as
ghastly. One officer of his company shot his engine
to make it go faster ; another shot himself because he
thought he had failed to do as well as might have
been expected of him ; Henriques and another had
“what I suppose can be called a nervous breakdown.”
He blames H.Q., which “could not resist playing
with a new toy,” for what he considers a premature
experiment.
If only we had had some kind of training with the
infantry, some semblance of co-operation with the
artillery, some practice over ground similar to the
Somme. If only we had had a little more sleep and a
little less showing off!
In spite of' the disaster Henriques stuck to the
new corps. He took part in the Battle of Cambrai
and that, of course, was a different story.
African Doctor.
In Ex-Africa (Geoffrey Bles ; 18s.) Dr. Hans
Sauer, an associate of Cecil Rhodes, a friend of Oom
Paul, and, though of Dutch descent, an Outlander,
looks back upon the South Africa of 1870-1900.
He came up against Dr. Jameson early in his
medical career. Dr. Jim was one of five medicoes
who diagnosed a smallpox case in Kimberley as pern-
phigus, fearing that the truth would denude the mines
of native labor. Sauer, as health officer, had to un-
mask the deception. Jameson sued him for libel, and
Sauer retorted with a similar action. Both claims
succeeded. Despite this experience and a later one,
when Jameson gave him officially an emphatic denial
of any intention of invading the Transvaal, Sauer
writes: “He had far and away the most attractive
personality that I have ever met on this earth.”
As one of the members of the Jo’burg Reform
Committee Sauer was fined £2OOO and sentenced to
two years’ imprisonment and three years’ banishment,
but, as in the other cases, the imprisonment and
banishment penalties were remitted. Frank Rhodes,
Phillips, Farrar and Hays Hammond had their death
sentences rescinded on payment of £25,000 cash apiece.
Dr. Sauer’s fat book is full of meat and big-
minded fairness.
Poets as Novelists.
The novel, the dominant form in Australian
writing just now, acts as a magnet to talent. If the
reading public, as it has made all too obvious, doesn’t
want poetry, it can hardly complain if the poet turns
to the art form it does patronise ; and if the poet
makes an equally good novelist the loss is not very
great.
But do poets make good novelists? As a
novelist the poet is generally in reaction against
Poet Kenneth Mackenzie, who wrote the splendid
long blank-verse poem “Our Earth.” Some of his
shorter poems have appeared from time to time in
The Bulletin. As Seaforth Mackenzie, he has lately
turned to the novel, writing “The Young Desire It”
and another now in the press.
Pencil study by Norman Lindsay.
himself as a poet. Masefield is an outstanding
example. His novels are for the most part very
brightly-colored books, like Sard Darker and Odtaa,
which lend themselves to the parodist. Liberated
from the discipline of poetic rhythms — which he
instinctively understands — he fails to appreciate the
equally authoritative, though less readily defined,
discipline of prose rhythms, and runs amuck.
On the other hand — and nearer home — Vance
Palmer in The Forerunners (1915) and The Camp
(1920) showed poetic gifts of a high order, yet a
comparison suggests that his feeling for the possi-
bilities of prose is more sure than for poetry ; that
his poetry—as is often the case with a young writer—
is just a prelude to what has proved to be an authentic
prose utterance.
Seaforth Mackenzie, whose recently published
first novel, The Young Desire It, was preceded by
the long poem Our Earth, looks as if he might be
in another case from Palmer. His novel, remarkably
interesting as it is, has a certain poetic unbalance. It
contains lovely prose passages, yet does not disclose
a full feeling for what prose can achieve. It moves
from inspiration to inspiration with short, arid gaps
between, as if he can really come to grips with his
matter only where its nature permits him to deal
with it on a poetic level. A lot is to be learned in
the writing of a first novel. His second —now in the
p ress —should show whether we have gained a novelist
or temporarily lost a poet.
S.H. Prior Prize.
Competitors for the 1938 S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize have a little more than four months for com-
pleting and submitting their manuscripts. Closing
date is June 6.
The judges having found nothing they considered
worthy of the award last year, the annual sum of
£lOO due in that year automatically adds on to this
year’s prize, which will be £2OO.
Additionally, the novel the competition this
year is restricted' to novels —will be bought for serial
use in The Bulletin and also published in book
form. Other submitted manuscripts considered suit-
able for serial use will also be bought.
Details of the competition for this year can be
had on application to the secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
This Was Their Youth: Ralph Fox (Seeker and
Warburg). Grim side of life in the industrialised areas
of northern England. Good work, except that the
author sometimes lets his zeal as a reformer bolt with
him. Fox was killed fighting with the International
Column in Spain.
Pinkney’s Garden: Neil Bell (Collins). Men
against sea —both in wresting a living from it and in
protecting their homes against it on a crumbling coast.
Told from the viewpoint of one of the young wives.
Nothing striking, but good honest story-telling.
The Young Men Are Coming: M. P. Shiel (Allen
and Unwin). A social allegory told in surrealist prose.
The author delights in ungrammatical, inverted and
disjointed sentences. Very tough reading.
Rich Get Rich: Helen Ferguson (Bodley Head).
A young man’s struggle with his social conscience.
Will he labor for others or for himself? A set piece.
A generation ago the same young man —in the hands
of the same sort of writer —would have been having
a catch-as-catch-can with his religious feelings.
Gate ifi the West: E. J. Muntz (Hodder and
Stoughton). Mexican border. A youthful badman —
with a saving streak of courage and kindliness —who
outwits both the sheriff and rival rustlers.
Cap and Bells: Jo de Graaf (Geoffrey Bles).
Gillie comes to true love when she finds herself in
losing her possessions, and learns that happiness can-
not be had at another’s expense. Aigean island setting.
The Man Who Started Clean: T. O. Beachcroft
(Boriswood). After an accident a man loses not only
his memory but speech, locomotion and so forth, and
has to begin again. Very ingenious yarn. His wife
finally nudges him back to recollection.
General . . .
The Mind of Man, by Dr. Walter Bromberg
(Hamish Hamilton ; 10s. 6d.), recites the story of the
conquest of mental illness, commencing with the
Egyptians and the Greeks and coming down through
Mesmer, Charcot, Coue, Mrs. Eddy, “Elijah” Dowie
and a hundred others to the psychoanalysts—Freud,
Jung and Adler. Bromberg has a fair mind, a talent
for exposition and a literary style that makes every
page interesting. A first-class contribution to medical
history.
Everyman’s. Latest additions to easily the best
of all inexpensive library series and a very good-
looking one, too, in its latest form—are a selection
of the best Chekhov short stories and plays and a
collection of modern plays. The Chekhov transla-
tion is by S. S. Koteliansky, and a splendid one. The
modern plays are “Milestones,” by Bennett and Knob-
lock ; “The Dover Road,” Milne ; “Hay Fever,”
Coward; “Journey’s End,” Sheriff; “For Services
Rendered,” Maugham.
Defence of Madame Blavatsky, Vols. 1 and 2, by
Beatrice Hastings (published by author). Spirited
refutation of allegations made against a very remark-
able woman. What strikes one non-Theosophical
reader is that, granted mahatmas and other “adepts”
exist and possess powers over matter not shared by
any save their eclectic community, what does it matter
to the rest of us? These “Masters” are concerned
with a world of their own that impinges hardly any-
where upon everyday civilised life and its problems.


71
w* * <
tl ..c
V3ST^ UA ■' °
a
CCOS'^-
.ciucte °
t ofco'n° r
f rt\na ° ccOS '° n t our
q°° a . \n oV i
9 ftorruse 0 ne
V/V" c ". \n st
ep'
,tan
dar
TOj^
J
k*orra«
rf ttfo
T ° hfa, !Jew
T T h
HI
' , , II« 1
illli
- 7”°JS 'v o T” do ( l *lb .
inois IV3HIVO
SA3HOOX
Brewed and bottled in Australia by
TOOHEYS LTD.
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co M Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.
JUST AS NICE OFF THE ICE


ķ
FAMOUS
PORT
:oh\
■ :
M
f
m. i
$ ■ <
" /*’. A
I <*■- Ji
X-
H BHi
Ifiiittliia «mh
I B 8
-
pWgMpMw iptfg if wm ■ B
: ' . ■ ' . ' V
nmm
■ CjaS
* l
Hitt i | it? i|
.
ipigi |pgf|
11111 ” 5 '
; p ■??■’,? | I It i t
I 1 ■ i
mmm
mm
rmm.
■
ĸ


ANGLO-AMERICAN POKER.
“Never played this game, you say, brother? That don’t matter; we’ll lam yuh.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WHAT PROPAGANDA IS DOING.
For “sitting on the Cenotaph, with his legs crossed,
reading,” a man in Sydney was lately bound over on
bond to be of good behavior for 12 months and was
also “detained for an hour for identification.” The
magistrate told him that the Cenotaph was “a monu-
ment generally looked on with a great deal of
reverence,” that the very nature of the memorial
should have made him realise that his conduct was
not desirable, and that most people raised their hats
to it in memory of soldiers who had given their lives.
Australians being mostly a casual lot and more
inclined towards hiding their emotional feelings than
displaying them, the hat-raising part of the S.M.’s
homily might take some substantiating. But he
correctly stated the deep feelings of reverence and
respect that are held for the Diggers, living and dead.
Casual in many matters and even insular in some,
Australians generally are so sensitive in this that
Anzac Day is still honored above all other national
days of the year, and the tributes offered annually
on that occasion, especially to the dead and those
who personally lost them, are sincere and heartfelt.
Certainly anything smacking of levity or disparage-
ment of this national feeling would be more than
casually resented.
It is a good spirit, and it would be no bad thing
if it extended to inducing a similar sort of respect for
the feelings of people of other countries. This is
not easy, because the power of propaganda against it
is terrific. This has gone on, with increasing exag-
geration, misrepresentation and belittlement, so ruth-
lessly and continuously that staggering numbers of
otherwise sane and peaceful people regard certain
countries —including countries that were their allies—
with hatred.
Though there has been peace ever since among all
the countries which took active part in the last war,
the poison-propagandists represent all these countries
as being in a state of war all the time. Accepting
this assumption, and shaping their precious “policies”
accordingly, they have for years carried on such a
campaign of insult and provocation that if the state
of war they continuously depict breaks into the actual
war they seem to want their responsibility for the
disaster will be greater than that of any other con-
tributing cause as great as all other contributing
causes put together.
This is a shocking outcome of something con-
sidered desirable and fought for over generations—the
freedom of the press. But more and more, as the
snarling, inflammatory sections of the press lose all
restraint and decency, it looks likely that history will
have to set down against them the charge of
wantonly provoking war.
They have peace incessantly on their lips, but
their hand is never off the sword. Nor is it the press
alone of which this is true. It applies also to the
other contemporary rivals of the press as propaganda
machines: the films and broadcasting. On the whole,
though it contributes enough, broadcasting is least
offensive. At present the screen looks like beating
even the press at this dangerous game.
Newsreels made in America have been violently
anti-Japanese ever since the fighting in China began.
They have not merely been sympathetic towards
China ; they have been openly provocative of public
feeling against Japan. As a result few people fed
on this deliberate propaganda know the Japanese side
of the story, or want to know it. Neither do they
care to remember that Britain itself had to send con-
siderable forces to China, prepared for all emergen-
cies, ten years ago. To Reds who now clamor for
boycotts and for alliances, Britain was “the im-
perialistic enemy” then.
Propaganda of the kind that newsreels go in for
does not tend to make people think ; the response
to it is wholly emotional. This emotionalism has been
whipped up to such a state that men could readily be
recruited for fighting China’s war and would be
cheered as they went, though neither they nor the
cheerers would have much idea of what it was all
about.
Easily the worst of these so-called “newsreels” to
date is a current one calculated to increase hatred for
another of the alleged “enemy” countries Italy.
This shows extraordinary scenes of enthusiasm by
tremendous crowds on an occasion of Mussolini’s
honoring of war-widows and mothers bereaved by
war. It shows in particular three of the bereaved
women, dressed stiffly in black clothes and headdress,
with drawn and obviously sorrowing features. Mus-
solini appears in uniform—which he wore with honor
in the war on the Allied side—and pins medals on the
three tragic figures.
It is a picture that might be expected to evoke
general sympathy, and particularly in Australians
rightly sensitive regarding their memorials and the
dead they honor. Its scenes are accompanied by an
American wisecracking running commentary of
belittlement and disparagement, about as nauseating
an example of bad taste as even the films have ever
descended to. The outcry that would follow a like
outrage on Australian public feeling on the same
matter calls for little imagining. But the film passes
current as “entertainment.”
At one film-house where it was exhibited there is
also a somewhat idealised and wholly favorable
representation of Napoleon. Many people seeing the
films in the one evening must have been struck by the
extraordinary resemblance between Napoleon, as
represented, and Mussolini. If alive to history they
will recall the venomous and, as it seems now, ridicu-
lous campaign of calumny and abuse carried on
against Napoleon. The campaign of abuse against
Italy and Mussolini, as against other countries and
their leaders, is outdoing in provocativeness even that
campaign against Napoleon.
It all belongs to the propagandist “policy” of
snarling at other countries and keeping on snarling
until something breaks.
No Illusions!
Events have made it necessary for Britain to strengthen
its relations with the United States, and the negotia-
tions for a trade agreement, to which reference was
made at London and Washington in November, have
been so far advanced that the American Secretary of
State has “issued a list of 1000 products on which the
United States Government will consider the granting of
concessions to Britain.” The said necessity might not
have arisen had Britain had a Canning at the Foreign
Office, but it has had instead “Uncle Arthur” Hender-
son, Sir John Simon and, above all, Mr. Anthony
Eden, whose foreign “policy” has in the course of
two years involved it in difficulties almost everywhere.
The Roosevelt Government has its own local
reasons for wanting a trade agreement, and principally
for those reasons it would like the Dominions to be
in it. To this Australia has no objection, provided it
is not asked to make unwarranted sacrifices.
Presumably Canberra has received a list of the
thousand products “on which the United States will
consider the granting of concessions to Britain” —
meaning also Newfoundland and the Crown colo-
nies—but Canberra has not published it. Neither
is Mr. Lyons “in a position to give any infor-
mation about details” of the British offer to
the Americans or its bearing on Australian
industries, though his Government is known to have
been in consultation with the British representative
at Canberra. In these matters and others the
Lyons Government never lets the public know what
it is doing. At the beginning of last week a London
newspaper writer wondered whether “Australian
debates on foreign affairs are as ineffective as the
British.” Except when special legislation has to be
passed, such as the legislation introducing “sanctions,”
there are no Australian debates on foreign affairs.
Australians are expected to put up with whatever the
“Uncle Arthur” Hendersons and Anthony Edens
arfange for them.
The British public has been kept pretty well
informed of the progress of the trade-agreement nego-
tiations, and so has the Canadian public. At a Cana-
dian Chamber of Commerce luncheon on December
8 Captain Wallace, the British Parliamentary Secre-
tary to the Board of Trade, said that his Government
had “embarked on a further stage for the agreement,”,
and “during the whole of their formal explorations”
had been “in the closest touch with the Canadian
Governpient.” He added this assurance:
The negotiations which we are undertaking do not
mean the abandonment of the policy of imperial prefer-
ence.
It is to be hoped that the gentleman and his
associates have not weakened. A Washington corre-
spondent of the Sydney “Sun” asserts, in effect, that
they have. His story is that “Britain has sacrificed
all but a shadow of its system of imperial preferences
to clear the way for a reciprocal agreement with the
United States,” and that' “when the Anglo-American
trade agreement is concluded the famous Ottawa pacts
will have lost most of their teeth.” Coming down
to brass tacks, he alleges that
The British have agreed in principle, where the
American goods included in the trade agreement are
concerned, to cut their sacred preferences down to a
mere 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. It means not only that no more
than a 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. duty will be levied on American
goods entering the United Kingdom. It means also that
eventually American goods will have to pay no more
than 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. to compete with British goods in
the other nations of the Empire.
At least one of the “other nations of the Empire”
will have something to say on both points.
Senator Foil, who is new to the Ministry, and
therefore perhaps too zealous, is reported to have said
at Brisbane that the negotiations are “for a trade
and diplomatic agreement.”
I believe that the safety of the Empire and the
peace of the world depend on that agreement, which
will mean a union of English-speaking races.
This is stretching the thing too far. There is not
the slightest evidence that diplomacy has been intro-
duced into the picture, or that any union of races is
proposed or contemplated. It was the very American
Minister conducting these negotiations who went out
of his way to declare that he had no arrangement with
the British for common action in the Chinese chaos,
and who accepted the Japanese apology for the sink-
ing of the gunboat Panay a week before the Japanese
presented their much less profuse explanation of how
they came to fire on H.M.S. Ladybird and other British
craft.
If we go into this trade agreement, let us go into
it in all friendliness but without illusions, certainly
without pulling the wool down over our own eyes.
Remove the People of Rabaul!
While Canberra muddles along, Rabaul —which
means Mangrove Flat —shivers among the New Britain
volcanoes.
All New Britain is volcanic, and Rabaul is at the
centre of the danger zone. It lies on Crater Peninsula,
on which are Towa Numbatir (North Daughter),
Kombiu (The Mother), which towers over the town,
and Turanguna (South Daughter), on which there is
an active clater, Gaie. Further down the Gazelle
Peninsula are half a dozen other supposedly dead
mountains, and one or two which obviously are not
dead. Still a few miles further along the New Britain
mainland are the active Father (Ulawan), 7500 feet
high, flanked by his two sons, Likuranga, 3250 feet,
and Bamus, 7376 feet. Ulawan has been in eruption
several times in the last 230 years, and there are other
active craters and belts of hot-spring and geyser
country along the coast.
A Herr Parkinson, who married one of Queen
Emma’s daughters, wrote many years ago that these
mountains did not inspire confidence:
One unconsciously asks oneself: “When will this
district become the theatre of a horrible disaster?”
At Talasea, hard by, which has an administra-
tive station, there have been serious earthquakes in
the last half-century. In the west of the island are
craters which erupted violently in the ’eighties.
The Rabaul region has altered so much through
eruptions that the landfall as shown in eighteenth-
century charts is unrecognisable. Two mountains —
the Daughters—have blown their heads off in that
time.
In 1878 one of the craters overlooking Blanche
Bay, the harbor of Rabaul, erupted. Fourteen days of
earthquakes followed, and Vulcan Island was formed
in Blanche Bay. The same crater erupted last June.
In the 1878 outbreak a geyser formed on Vulcan,
pouring out so much boiling water that it was im-
possible to put a hand into Blanche Bay four miles
away, even though the bay at that point was 17
fathoms deep. All the fish in the bay were killed, and
the turtles were so boiled that their bodies in many
cases separated from their shells. Two years after-
wards the island geyser was still pouring out hot
water, and in the next 20 years the island several times
altered its shape and size.
During the 20 years of Australian occupation, the
gourier, or minor earthquake, has been an everyday
occurrence. Crockery shakes, the walls quiver, the
card-table dances across the floor. Rabaul takes it
as a matter of course.
When the German-trained native police used to
drill on State occasions they had one imposing ritual
which never failed to bring a cheer. In the “about
turn,” they struck one foot forcibly on the ground in
unison. The result was a sound like the beat of a
giant drum, for underneath are great volcanic caverns.
In 1916 Australians had their first severe shock.
Houses slid off their foundations, filled tanks rolled
over, cracks appeared in the roadways. The narrow
neck of land which joins the town confines to Matupi
Island subsided several feet, and a tidal wave came
out of Blanche Bay and deposited shipping in Rabaul’s
main street. In May, 1919, another heavy shock raised
the Matupi causeway, and at intervals for an hour or
two houses and tanks were on the slide.
But there was no further big earthquake till June
last year. Only the mercy of Providence then saved
1500 whites and several thousand natives from a hor-
rible death. Had the eruption begun at night there
must have been heavy casualties. Gaie, the South
Daughter crater, erupted; Vulcan Island rose and
formed a new crater.
Dr. Stehn, a Dutch vulcanologist, was commissioned
to examine the region and advise the Government.
His report was such that there was nothing for the
Government to do but to decide to move the capital;
but it is going about the job with a leisurely disregard
of the urgency of the situation. There has been talk of
appointing a committee to pick a new capital site.
Meanwhile, Rabaul has had another earthquake—“a
severe and dangerous one, according to Father
O’Leary, of Riverview Observatory. Its most intense
point was fortunately a few miles up the Gazelle
Peninsula from Rabaul, but 50 square miles of country,
including Rabaul itself, felt the shocks. Even Kokopo,
which was the town’s place of refuge in the last
disaster, was affected.
The incidence of the severe ’quakes and eruptions
shows that there are two definitely dangerous periods
in the year: midwinter —May-June—and midsummer
December-February. There should be no further
delay in getting the Rabaul population to a place of
safety. If Canberra were affected instead of Rabaul,
there would be no hesitation.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Familiar Change of Front.
“S. M. Herald” has suddenly discovered that “a weak
and divided France is to-day a menace to the peace
of the world.” As suddenly, Sydney “Sun” has decided
“to face the present situation frankly and inquire
what benefit to Britain is an agreement with a nation
so weakened by political division that its frontier
becomes an invitation and its sword blunt in its
defence.” This when the “Sun” had just completed
the formation of a Democratic Front, composed of
France, Russia, Britain and the U.S.A., to give Ger-
many, Italy and Japan hell!
The “Daily Telegraph” also had Russia, France,
Britain and the U.S.A. “aligned” against “the Fascist
Powers.” The news from Russia of the State murders
daily committed in that country in a desperate attempt
to avert civil war has prompted the “D.T.” to drop
the Red Republic from its Democratic Front, and
when the news from France sinks in it will probably
drop France, too.
France’s influence on the Continent began to
decline from the moment it entered into an alliance
with Red Russia. This decline has been accompanied
by increasingly grave internal disorders, political,
industrial and financial. The Communist party has
become a power, and whenever that calamity descends
upon a nation the nation becomes a house divided —
it separates into two camps. Now another French
Ministry has fallen, and in his last despairing speech
as Prime Minister the unhappy Chautemps declared
that “the crisis” had been brought about “by sys-
tematic rumors of a threatened revolution.”
Let us have no more foolish and dangerous writ-
ing about lining up with French and Russians to fight
military nations which have achieved unity and a
common understanding, and with which we have no
quarrel. As an ally a France in which Communists
can guide or thwart national policy is not worth two
centimes, and Communist Russia as an ally was never
worth one centime.
The Lost Clipper.
It seems to be in the fated order of things that no
new long-distance aerial service shall be opened with-
out a baptism of tragedy. When the London-Aus-
tralia airmail was instituted, the first ’plane crashed
in Central Queensland. In the inauguration of the
flying-boat services, to Africa and India, a giant of the
Centaurus type was lost. And last week brought
disaster to the 32-passenger Sikorsky Clipper on her
second voyage to Auckland from Honolulu.
The Clipper was about the largest and stoutest
of trans-ocean flying-boats in service. She had four
engines, and could keep going on two engines. She
had every device known to man for navigation and
for the preservation of life in case of accident. Yet,
less than an hour’s flight from Pago Pago, turning
back in consonance with the strict rule that the
slightest mechanical accident must call for a return
to port, she fell into the Pacific a sheet of flame.
What the cause was nobody will ever know. It
is not easy to land these large sky-ships with a full
load of petrol, and it may have been that the highly
volatile fuel, discharged in a spray as a preliminary
to the vessel’s making harbor, caught fire from a hot
bearing or in some other way. It is even possible that
the source of ignition was in the atmosphere and not
in the ’plane itself —in the case of the Hindenburg
static electricity generated by the metal hull was
blamed.
The loss of the ship is a heavy one, but the loss
of the picked crew who went with her, seven in all,
is much greater. Not only to their native country, but
to Maoriland and Australia, which they were begin-
ning to serve. Captaih Edward Musick was the world’s
most experienced flier of heavy trans-ocean airliners.
He pioneered the San Francisco-Honolulu and the
Honolulu-Asian routes with the Clippers, as well as
the M.L.-U.S.A. route. For that work his name will
go down in history. And his companions were
among the best men at their special jobs in the world.
The Kenny Treatment.
After two years of investigation a royal commission
of seven Queensland doctors, selected particularly for
their interest in and sympathy with Sister Kenny’s
objective, has reported against the Kenny method
of treatment qf infantile paralysis.
The two-year period was stipulated by Sister
Kenny herself. The report states that the sister’s
methods have changed radically since the investigation
began, and that at present they differ little from ortho-
dox methods. Of 47 patients at the Elizabeth Kenny
Clinic in Brisbane whom the commission had under
close observation for two years, the few who show
any definite improvement would have done so to an
equal or a greater extent under orthodox treatment of
equivalent intensity. The specially favorable results
claimed for the Kenny treatment in some cases of
spastic paralysis could be obtained by a trained mas-
seuse, given the same opportunity of concentrated
attention on a given case.
Many will be disappointed by these adverse find-
ings. Many will hold to the belief that “doctors don’t
know everything.” Many more will hope for a more
favorable verdict from the London County Council’s
medical committee. All will agree that Elizabeth
Kenny, in drawing nation-wide attention to the plight
of the crippled child, has performed a service of great
and lasting value to Australia.
In Queensland, Sister Kenny’s strenuous efforts
have been responsible for replacing the State’s one
poorly-equipped orthopaedic clinic at the Brisbane
Hospital by a fully-equipped modern establishment,
and for the setting up of others at Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns. Other States have followed
Queensland’s lead.
Whatever methods may be adopted in the future
operation of these clinics, all the facilities for the
most modern treatment are now available to an extent
undreamed of even three years ago. And the credit
for them must go to Elizabeth Kenny’s fierce, untiring
advocacy of the cause of the crippled child.
What's the Prahposition?
The Australian dried-fruits industry has figured in a
British general election (the preference granted to it
led to the first Baldwin Government being beaten)
and in an Australian constitutional referendum. It
has been concerned in a vast body of Federal and
State legislation (Dried Fruits Control Acts and the
like) and in two groups of High Court and Privy
Council cases. Now it seems likely to form the
thorniest subject of the Anglo-American and Australo-
American trade-agreement discussions. The American
Secretary of State hinted as much when he expressed
the pious hope that the negotiations would not crash
on a handful of dried fruits, or words to that effect.
One of those university professors who nowadays
provide so much of our daily-newspaper pabulum,
without any noticeable improvement in manner or
matter, informs us that “we may assume that
U.S.A. is asking for increased exports of agricultural
products to Britain,” and that “Australia will be asked
to agree.”
The chief commodities concerned are those making
up the trade in fresh .and dried fruits, and they amount
to about £5tg.3,000,000. Any concessions granted the
United States in these goods will cost Australia little
compared with the benefits she will derive from an
expansion of international trade that should follow an
Anglo-American trade agreement.
Australians will take leave, to doubt it until the
“benefits” are explicitly stated. The bounty-fed apple-
growers and the dried-fruits people, a large proportion
of whom are Diggers, all heatedly deny that “conces-
sions” will cost them “little.” The British market
means almost everything to them.
In the 1936 year there was a pack of 62,942 tons
of dried fruits, of which Britain took 26,043 tons.
Dried fruits are chiefly raisins. In the year named
British purchases of Australian raisins were valued at
£807,800 sterling, and British purchases of U.S. raisins
at £561,700 sterling. If the preference is wiped out or
substantially reduced, the Californians may capture
the entire British market for raisins, and for currants
as well.
Last year the majority of Australians were not
prepared to emasculate the inter-State free-trade sec-
tion of the Constitutiop so that the dried-fruits people
might establish a legal despotism in the home market,
and the event has shown that the proposed emascu-
lation was not necessary ; without the legal despotism
the dried-fruits industry had a very good year. But
Referendum noes as well as ayes will be decidedly
against any scheme that may cost the dried-fruits
people their fair share of the British market. As our
American friends would say, “What’s the prahposi-
tion?”
Goodwill Get-togethers.
The Governors-General and Prime Ministers in these
parts exchanged the usual seasonal “goodwill and
affection” messages by the unusual means of an
Empire flying-boat which crossed the Tasman both
ways in 20 air-hours.
“This flight will bring our two countries even
closer together than they have been in the past,” said
Mr. Lyons to Mr. Savage. “There is the promise
of a closer bond between our two countries,” was
Mr. Savage’s cautious reply. “I think New Zealand
is being brought so close to Australia by modern
transport that a better understanding between the two
countries will follow,” observed Customs Minister
White, who came home in the flying-boat after talking
trade, airmail and defence co-operation with Maori-
land.
“Good!” say the 55,000 Maorilanders in Aus-
tralia, and “Not before time!” mutter the 60,000 Aus-
tralians in Maoriland. Their friends, others on both,
sides of the Tasman who fought together as Anzacs
and the many more who have made trans-Tasman
trips are all saying “That’s the stuff,” too.
Maoriland’s tourist and trade representatives in
Melbourne and Sydney have set an excellent example
to the politicians of both Dominions. They have
been co-operating for several years with Aus-
tralian tourist departments in the interests of
trans-Tasman travel. One party of Maoriland
farmers went through N. S. Wales, Victoria and S.
Australia in 1936 and another through N. S. Wales
and Queensland last year; S. Australian and N. S.
Wales parties returned the visits last year, and another
lot of S. Australians are going across next month. A
town-and-country party from Victoria, 60 strong, and
representing station, stud stock, local-body, banking,
manufacturing and other commercial interests, is going
to Maoriland on Australia’s first overseas Reso tour
in March. In addition, thousands of people in both
countries have made private crossings—and friends.
There’s more in such trips than sightseeing. The
S. Australians, for instance, brought back Maoriland
methods of pasture improvement, and have since im-
ported Maoriland stud sheep which, more especially
in their south-eastern districts, are now raising fat
lambs on vastly improved acres. Others bought young
racehorses bred in Maoriland ; others again bought
pigs. Such trade interchanges have followed most
trans-Tasman tours, but, even more important from
national viewpoints, members of the general public
in each country have met and liked their congeners
on the other side.
Facts like these should influence Mr. Lyons, Mr.
White and Mr. Savage when they get past the pretty-
pretty correspondence stage and lead trade and
defence co-operation debates in their respective Par-
liaments.
Saving the Cod and the Koala.
“H.A.L.”: There can be no doubt that the Murray
cod and the koala are in danger of vanishing, but
both can be preserved.
The cod has been introduced in fresh-water lakes,
and has shown that it will live in dams, lagoons and
garden ponds. Small specimens can be kept in an
aquarium. If the States concerned won’t collaborate,
the Commonwealth should step in, establish hatcheries
and pass and enforce laws for the saving of this
national asset.
As for the koala, Keith Minchin, of Adelaide,
has solved problems which defeated all previous
attempts at breeding the koala in captivity. From a
few original specimens he has bred to a third genera-
tion, and all his animals are well nourished and
healthy. The establishment of other breeding colonies
run on Minchin lines suggests itself as a way of saving
the koala, now almost extinct in Victoria; but this
also should be a national matter.
The case of the toolach wallaby is an example
of the folly of leaving such things to State Govern-
ments. Professor Wood-Jones drew attention to the
fact that this wallaby was nearly extinct, and appealed
in vain to the S.A. Government of the day to have
some of the survivors captured and taken to the fox-
free sanctuary of Flinders Chase, on Kangaroo Island.
Nothing was done, and within a few years the pretty-
little toolach had gone beyond recall.
The New Democracy.
“El V.” opens a new Assemby:
By favor of the amazing facilities of the modern press,
Australians have been enabled to hear about the opening of the
Russian Parliament. The risks which foreign correspondents
run in getting news of such events is illustrated by an item
forwarded by the Warsaw correspondent of the “Daily
Sketch,” who discovered that Mr. Stalin arrived wearing
underclothing of meshed steel.
The correspondent does not say. how he found out.
Perhaps Mr. Stalin obligingly removed his trousers for the
benefit of newspapermen and assassins. Or Mr. Stalin may
have turned up in the garb of his native Georgia, wearing his
shirt outside his pants, and a bourgeois wind gave the
correspondents a view of his underbeneaths. In any case,
1143 members were at the opening, and an 81-year-old
biologist presided over them “by general agreement.” In Can-
berra 70-odd members rarely agree about anything without a
dogfight; but they evidently have a different method or a
different kind of member in Russia.
Apart from the news about Mr. Stalin’s underpants, there
seems to have been small narrative interest in the birth of the new
Assembly, except the story of the member for Chukotsk. The
member for Chukotsk represents the Northern Territory of
Russia, living at a point about 13,000 miles from Moscow
on the edge of the Behring Strait and in sight of Alaska.
On learning that he had been declared elected, this M.P.
harnessed up his dog team and drove several days through the
mild December-January climate of Siberia, where the snow
is never more than 10ft. deep on the level at that time Of the
year. Then he took an aeroplane to Irkutsk and the train
from there to the Kremlin, where he arrived just in time.
Australian members will dribble with envy when they hear
that story. If there is one thing desirable to an accom-
plished M.P. it is to be as far away from his electorate
as possible. Most of them would put on a stone in weight
if they could represent somewhere which could be reached only
by reindeer, ’plane and trans-Siberian mail.
What About the Man?
“Centurion”: The British Army is to be reconsti-
tuted. The rifle is to go and infantry battalions will
be armed almost entirely with light machine guns and
sub-machine guns. Mr. Hore-Belisha, the Minister
for War, says the idea is that half a dozen men shall
possess the striking power of a battalion. A draw-
back is that one field-gun shell, while it would do little
harm to a battalion, might wipe out the condensed
variety.
Keeping up ammunition supply to the front-liners
will be the main problem. Aeroplanes will have to
do that, of course, and that will increase the neces-
sity for gaining early and complete command of the
air. Tanks may help within their very definite limits.
The weak spot in recent reforms of the British
Army is that they aim only at operations under Euro-
pean conditions. In other continents Britain has
on its hands perennial little scraps in which vastly
different conditions obtain. Whether the mechanisa-
tion craze will effectively meet the demands of these
is questionable.
Australia should think furiously before it decides
to follow Britain’s example—as it shows signs of
doing—and build its trust on the machine, not on
the man.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“T.”: Kipling came to Sydney a cen-
tury after Phillip, or about that time.
If his shade wandered back this month
for the sesquicentenary business it must
have suffered repeated shocks. For one
thing, it would have learned with horror
that Romance no longer brings up the
Nine Fifteen —in this city, anyway. It is
all .Romance now. Americans introduced
the hideous mispronunciation, and radio
announcers —so cocksure in other matters
—humbly followed them. “A Foine
.Romance” isi one of their favorite records.
Worse still, the shade would have dis-
covered that the bit about Everyman’s
duty to Everywoman (“If there be
trouble to Herward, and a lie of the
blackest can clear, Lie”) is, in certain
quarters, quite outmoded. Witness the
experience of the Newcastle girl who
“gave information to the police” in the
case of the church-school housemaid
whose murdered and mutilated body was
found in the school grounds. The girl
was for six hours in the box, examined,
cross-examined and re-examined as to
her relations with the church-school
houseman, who had alleged in his evi-
dence that she was one of the young
women he had been “intimate with.”
This was part of the poor thing’s ordeal:
Counsel for the houseman: Have you
ever had relations with any man?
Counsel for the girl: This is grossly
unfair.
The coroner: Answer it.
The girl: I refuse!
The coroner: I have asked you to answer
one way or the other.
The girl: No.
At the close of the proceedings—pro-
ceedings which strongly suggest that the
powers of coroners should be restricted
or that coroners should be abolished
altogether—the morbid crowd that had
followed them cheered the houseman.
* * * *
“D. Triangle”: Even more fantastic
than war news are cabled medical
miracles featured in the daily press.
One paper reported the other day
that a New York specialist had an-
nounced that, if whisky distillers added
half a milligram of crystalline vita-
min B to each pint, polyneuritis, which
often cripples and blinds chronic alco-
holics, would be prevented. The epoch-
making discovery seems to be based on
the use of crystalline vitamin B 1 (in ap-
proximately the dose mentioned) for the
treatment of palsy, a mild form of par-
alysis following continued drunkenness in
which the main symptoms are relaxed
arm muscles and dropped wrist. But
even if the course suggested prevented
palsy, the menace of blindness, crippling,
cirrhosis of the liver and other serious
consequences of a prolonged binge would
still remain. To make drinking safe for
democracy so many things would have to
be added that whisky would become an
undrinkable witch’s brew.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: A Westralian mother,
wife of a Collie coalminer, claims to have
made Australian medical history. Two
days after Christmas she gave birth to a
daughter and five days later, early on
New Year’s morning, a son arrived. In-
tervals between the birth of twins are
not uncommon, but there cant oe
many cases where the twins have been
born in different years.
* * *
“Selma”: Can’t agree with “Philo”
(B. 12/1 /’3B) that the Americans excel
in apt abbreviations. During a stay
in an American office I collected an
astonishing number of U.S.A. terms
that we express much more tersely, as
gaol, car and lift, which they designate
penitentiary, automobile and elevator.
They also have an affection for strange
and unwieldy firm titles, strings of
initials before and after, badges, mottoes,
slogans and circumlocution in letters
generally; and, though they pronounce
New York as a word of one syllable and
call Chicago Chi, I discovered that the
worst insult to California is to call its
beloved capital ’Frisco.
* * * *
“Ex-Roundsman”: Hobart’s “Mer-
cury” has been celebrating its 80th
birthday. Extracts from its hot youth are
“Hey, you! Wot won the last chucker?”
reprinted, but they are poor stuff, though
old John Davis wielded a vigorous pen
and had plenty of enemies of the 1850’s.
Followed a sedater stage which drove
The Bulletin to describe the journal as
“printed in laudanum on sheets of lead.”
I can testify that this insult was not
forgiven within the holy places of the
“Murk” 25 years later.
* * * *
“Spud Jockey”: Like most other
trades, the suburban grocery business
has undergone a lot of changes in the
last 40 years. You don’t see cases of
saltpetre in the shop, or nails or bluestone
or casks of washing-soda, nor is there
the same demand for wheat or pollard
or bran parcelled on the counter. In
fact, the whole art of parcelling, with the
final swift, clean snap of the string from
the ball hanging in a tin aloft, is becom-
ing lost. Gum-paper strips do up the par-
celled stuff to-day. I doubt if you’d find
a lad in any city-suburb business who
could flat-parcel a pound of canary-seed
or rice without making a' mess of it.
The new flat-bottomed paper bags make
it a lot easier. I got my first trade name
from the attitude required for straddling
a bag of spuds while the string sewing
was cut. It was a boy’s job, and boys
got five bob a week and had to work to
10 p.m. on Saturday nights.
* * * *
“Tamornie”: More effective than
“Sandpatch’s” “Heaven and Hell” tipple
was a decoction sampled at a trading
store in the Mandated Territory. The
German owner had scoffed all the beer
before we got there, and in atonement
poured cherry brandy, broken down with
Chablis and Bulldog stout, into a long
glass. It was heavenly on the palate,
but it was the other place next morning,
when nothing seemed suitable as an eye-
opener except spirits of salts.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A Melbourne daily opened
a symposium at the New Year and asked
the leading political and social lights,
both men and women, to say what they
wished for the coming twelvemonth,
One and all declared that they wanted
peace, prosperity, justice, tolerance,
kindliness, self-sacrifice, a fair go for
Capital and Labor and so forth and so on,
but without stating how these were to
be instrumented. The least verbose of
the celebrities, the most explicit and the
most likely to get his wish, was Don
Bradman. He said he wanted to get into
the 1938 Eleven.
*„* * *
J.0.L.”: There has been much ado
about the earth’s narrow escape from
collision with a body “a few miles in
diameter.” Apart from the fact that
the nearest approach was 400,000 miles
(much further away than the moon is),
the chances are that had the collision oc-
curred no one would have been any the
worse off. The great Siberian meteorite
of 1908 left numerous craters up to 150 ft.
wide, as well as a devastated area of 450
square miles, to announce its arrival, yet
the only casualties were a few reindeer.
After all, the earth’s diameter is nearly
8000 miles ; that. of the body in ques-
tion probably not more than two or three
miles. The relative proportions would
be those of a dust speck and a football.
The only danger is the possibility of a
crowded area being struck, but this is
a very remote chance. Every instance
of this kind recorded shows that falls
of large meteorites have occurred, almost
without exception, in uninhabited lati-
tudes. The tangible result of the great
Siberian meteorite was a very faint earth-
quake, recorded on adjacent seismo-
graphs.
* * * *
“Beach Rod”: As a young cyclist of
Gosford (N.S.W.) was turning a corner
from the main street of that town he
was struck by an oncoming car. He
was thrown under it, a wheel passing
over him. Pulling himself up he took a
look into the car that had hit him, hur-
ried to the nearest dwelling and returned
with a glass of water and proceeded
to revive the lady occupant, who had
fainted. Assistance arrived, and as his
patient was taken into more competent
care he allowed his own injuries to re-
ceive attention. Who said chivalry is
dead?
* * * *
“Passenger”: Exit from Australian
waters all the “Golden” ships which have
been coming here. The Oceanic and
Oriental Co., of San Francisco, would
have no other nomenclature, but the co.
has been gradually bought out by Mat-
son’s and the American-Hawaiian line,
which prefer respectively names from the
Islands and from American States. The
Golden Eagjp has become the Mauna
Loa, the Golden Fleece is Louisianan,
and so on.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has had a remarkable
haul of early documents for its archives.
Agent-General McCann has collected
them from the “S.A. Co.” in London,
which pretty well controlled the province
in its days of - infancy. The papers in-
dude its earliest minute-book and letter-
books, with a few published works, one
of which has the significant title
“Thoughts on Population and Starva-
ti°n.” Included somehow in the bag is
a ver Y l° n S letter from a convict in N. S.
Wales to his wife in England,
* * * *
“Bathampton”: Little that is new has
appeared about Admiral Phillip in the
mass of biographical detail that has re-
cently been printed about our first Gov-
ernor, but a writer in the “Australian
National Review” digs up something I
never remember to have heard before in
the statement that Phillip was “supposed
to have committed suicide.” It seems
unkind to hint at that kind of ending to a
life of such distinction—almost inconceiv-
able, too, in the light of all we know of
the man. Apart from his iron endurance
and strength of character, it is weli
known that the retired admiral was
wealthy —he left an estate valued
at £25,000 (mainly inherited from his
first wife, who died while he was in Aus-
tralia), a sum worth then at least three
times what it would represent to-day.
The yarn seems to rest mainly upon some
mouldy tradition about the house in
Bennett-street, Bath, where he spent his
declining years having been haunted by
presumed to be that of the de-
ceased admiral. If Phillip’s ghost ap-
peared anywhere, Sydney would surely
have provided a more suitable location.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: An hour’s work this
morning provided a demonstration of
how foolish women kill themselves. Two
years ago a strong, healthy farm-bred girl
got a job in a city shop at 16. Like lots
of other young fools, she wasn’t satis-
fied with her comely, rounded feminine
shape, designed by nature for bearing
children, and began cutting down her diet
until she became boy-hipped and flat-
breasted on cabbage and similar rabbit-
food. After the inevitable breakdown
and loss of job, the worried parents sent
her along for a tonic. An infected lung-
apex, t.b. in sputum, and all signs of a
rapid spread are there. Deprivation of
vitamins, fats, sugars and calcium has
provided the field. Her aunt has been
slimming, too, at 40, fearing middle-aged
spread and some of the much-advertised
skin troubles. She’s got a fine quiet
gastric ulcer, with every chance of malig-
nant development later on. And they’re
only two out of thousands upon whom
Australia depends for the next genera-
tion of Aussies.
THE UNKNOWN QUANTITY.
“Revision of the law limiting to £lOO the
election expenses of candidates for the House of
Reps, is being considered by the Government.”
What did it cost you, my trusty soul,
When you topped—or maybe bottomed —the
poll?
No matter whether you won or lost,
The question’s simple: What did it cost
When you tempted fortune and took the step
That made—or failed to make you—a Rep.?
Disclose it frankly, the real amount
On the debit side of your bank account.
Did you keep inside of a hundred quid?
We must take your word if you say you did:
Though even a hundred doesn’t go far
In the quest for the affix of M.H.R.,
What with posters, hall-hire, newspaper ads.,
And Lord knows how many sturdy lads
To boost your stocks and give you a hand
The ultra-coveted job to land.
It’s a legal fiction, we all agree;
No word so harsh as mendacity
Could ever "be used to base a charge
’Gainst such conventional camouflage.
Still there’s something jarring in it, because
You fellows we pay to make the laws
To be obeyed by us meaner elves
Might keep them, now and again, yourselves.
Come, what did it set you back, my friend,
This last election? What did you spend
When you filled your bellows and cast your ne<
For the votes you hoped to (or didn’t) get?
Less than a hundred? A great idea!
Oh, yes, or, in Yankee phrase, “Oh, yeah!”
Out with your passbook! Up with the cheques!
We’re tired of the unknown quantity x.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Rindy”: Our advertisement for
“superior young lady, just leaving school,
moderate shorthand, typewriting, etc.,”
brought an applicant aged 15. Appear-
ance, shorthand speed and typing seemed
all right; then, as telephone manner and
voice were important, she was asked to
hold an imaginary conversation, say, with
her mother, speaking loudly. There
wasn’t a suspicion of a twinkle in her eye
as she took the receiver. “Hello, mum.
I found the place all right. Yes. It’s
near the Town Hall. Oh, no, I wasn’t
late. It seems a nice place, and he’s such
a nice man, and has promised me the
job.” To my “Hold hard, young lady!
I haven’t promised you the job,” she
turned a rather disappointed look my
way; then, “No, mum, he hasn’t
promised me the job, really, but I think
I’ll get it all the same.” She did.
* * * *
“Kerys”: The. sergeant in charge of
our local police station was making up
some returns last week when a flurried
little man dashed in and demanded to
be locked up immediately. “And hurry,
sergeant,” he said imploringly; “I’ve just
kicked me wife downstairs.” “And is
she hurt?” asked the sergeant. “Not
her,” said the little man bitterly ; “that’s
why I’m givin’ meself up.”
* * * *
“Feng-shui”: lam interested in the in-
formation, revealed to Melbourne “Argus”
and Sydney “D.T.,” that there is a “death
battalion” of Chinese women from cul-
tured homes, many with the traditional
bound feet, fighting the modern Japanese
armies in North China. I have seen
“uncultured” girls, with the traditional
bound feet, being carried by barrow-
coolies to the cotton mills of Shanghai,
where they stand for 14 hours a day at
the spindles and are then carried home
again. But I find it difficult to visualise
soldiers marching on their “golden
lilies” through the slush and snow of
North China to meet an enemy trained
to a hair, as are the Japanese. Looking
at a woman with bound feet walking is
as painful as watching a tight-rope
walker. Her hips are thrown backwards,
her body trembles, she appears to be
treading on egg-shells. Her pedestrian
ability is not much more than what Pav-
lova’s would have been if she had had to
walk continuously on tiptoes.
“Pawang”: Chinese placenames (B.
5/1/’3B) aren’t the only pitfalls for
cable-subbers of Chinese dispatches.
Chinese proper names are full of snares
for the unwary. The traditional style
is to give precedence to the family name,
but foreign-educated Chinamen no
longer respect it. Dr. Wellington Koo,
for instance, reverses the order. The
Chinese ex-Minister to America calls
himself Sao-ke Alfred Sze. His Chinese
name is Shih Caao-chi. The Famine
Relief Director, Sun Chung-ying, some-
times signs himself C. Y. Sun. So the
harassed Sydney cable editor who re-
cently caused a walled city in Shantung
“How Wonderful to think that the rains of centuries will yet Wash those great
hills to the level of the surrounding plains
“Oh, I dunno. I bin ’ere twenty-five year and I ain't seen it ’appen yet."
to capture a general can be forgiven.
The Chinese national hero, Sun Yat-sen,
by the way, has a multitude of cog-
nomens. He is Sun Wen in common
parlance.
«„ * * *
, ct ' Sydney home has a room
1 ,• long,loft. wide and 9ft. high, the
walls of which are covered with designs
made with postage stamps. An abori-
ginal, a green frog and a peacock are
among the figures, all appropriately
colored by the use of stamps from all
over the world. An old couple, both
over 80, spent two years completing the
figures.
“Warrigal”: I don’t know about
classic engineering examination
replies (B. 5/1/’3B), but in my
boyhood days the examiners used
to trot out a question which
floored all but specially-primed
candidates: “Why is the cover
of a boiler manhole made oval in
shape?” The answer is a tribute
to human ingenuity. In the first
place, the cover must go inside the
boiler, where the pressure of the
steam, as it rises, tends to keep it
shut. Secondly, it must be larger
than the aperture through which
it is to pass in order to close the
hole successfully. It cannot, there-
fore, be either round or square,
so the choice lies between a rec-
tangle and an oval. As the surface
of a boiler is curved, the oval
shape gives best resistance to
stress, and also exposes the \
smallest possible surface \
(under the peculiar conditions) V
to the action of the steam inside. '
* * *
“Den”: How many modern
topers could surpass the drinking '
exploits of George Morland the
artist (1763-1804)? In a letter
written to his brother when he was i
holidaying at Brighton he revealed
that on a certain day he drank,
before breakfast, Hollands gin, rum,
milk; breakfast, coffee; before dinner,
Hollands, porter, shrub, ale, port wine
and ginger, bottled ale; dinner, port
wine ; between dinner and supper, porter,
ale, opium, water; supper, port wine,
gin, shrub ; and on going to bed, rum.
At the bottom of the letter he sketched a
tombstone bearing a skull and cross-
bones and, by way of epitaph, “Here
lies a drunken dog.”
* * * *
“Fi fa.”: A neat sub-rosa comment
came from a Victorian jockey in a Tas.
Supreme Court racing case. The Chief
Justice of that day, before whom the
case came, prided himself on his racing
knowledge, and made extensive use of
the accomplishment during his summing-
up to the jury. The Vic. expert who had
been called as a witness listened to it
with close attention. As the good men
and true filed out to consider their ver-
dict, counsel for the defence asked him
what he thought of the C.J.’s perform-
ance. “Well, Mr. X,” replied he, “his
Honor knows above a bit, but what his
Honor don’t know is how much there is
what he don’t know.”
“Verri”: Quite true that shipboard
humorists think the newchum coming to
Australia fair game for their leg-pulling,
I heard a woman on the deck of a liner
bewailing the fact that she had selected
Sydney as a place of residence, which,
she added, she would never have done
had she known it was so infested with
snakes. An astonished King’s Cross
resident inquired the source of her per-
turbation. “That man over there,” said
she, indicating a well-known news-hound,
“He’s just been telling me how you have
to stand off the posting-boxes at the
"The old man goes on the reserve list shortly, an he's got to do SOME-
THING for a crust."
G.P.O. and throw your letters in in case
a snake’s inside the box and tries to bite
your hand.”
# * * *
“Doggie”: Unless naval practice has
changed a lot since the war, it would be
well to discount the comparative speeds
of the Italian cruiser Montecuccoli and
her British rivals (B. 12/1/’3B). Before
the war British ships did their speed
trials with full loads of fuel, stores and
ammunition and with full crews. Con-
tinental navies, on the other hand, and
the Italian variety in particular, did the
run with the ships carefully trimmed and
engines tuned for a high-speed spin over
the measured mile. So well was this
recognised that no British naval man ever
took foreign speed claims seriously.
*■* * *
“See ’Em”: What’s happened to the
ancient feminine practice of lead-pencil
sucking? Thirty or forty years ago,
when it was fashionable for young ladies
(and old ones, too, for that matter) to
possess pale lily-white complexions,
ruddy- and muddy-complexioned damsels
used to suck graphite to bring about
that alabaster skin. Possibly the advance
in cosmetics and a fashion of higher
coloring has made the recipe superfluous.
# 'Jf *
“Also Sailed”: Sydney dailies’ story
about Largs Bay passengers protesting
when two of Franco’s Italian airmen
attended a dance was petty in more ways
than one. Britain is neutral in the Span-
ish scrap, and Captain Williams acted
with perfect propriety in extending hos-
pitality to officers in distress. Neither
the ship’s officers nor 99 per cent, of the
passengers knew anything of a protest,
and if, as was published, a dozen indig-
nant passengers walked out of the dance,
they must have slipped away unnoticed
while the others were rushing the airmen
for their autographs. A fact that the
dailies missed in their scurry to make the
pleasant little drama into the usual ugly
“incident” is that the airmen nearly
missed being rescued. Sighting their
’plane looking lonely in the middle of
the ocean, Captain Williams steered
towards it, but from the airmen’s ges-
tures it looked as if they didn’t want to
be rescued, and the Largs Bay swung on
her course again until the men thought of
firing a rocket. As strange and thrill-
ing a sight as a bored passenger could
wish to see was the ’plane deserted on
the water as the ship steamed away.
* * * *
“Aberdeen”: A Chinaman was con-
victed in a Sydney police court the other
day of shooting seagulls and fined two
bob a bird—there were over a dozen in
his bag—along with costs and inciden-
tals. His excuse was that they interfered
with his market-gardening operations,
though the idea of any sea-bird doing
that, except by the beneficial destruction
of worms and insect pests, is hard to en-
tertain. The police prosecutor found a
deeper, darker motive in the pot. China-
men eat seagulls, he declared uncompro-
misingly, and hinted that they regarded
them as a delicacy. I don’t know if this
is so; still it is notorious that Asiatics
consume with relish things that most of
us Caucasians would jib at. De gustibus,
etc. But seagulls!
* * * #
“Audrey”: The Adelaide evening press
has been checking-up on the heights of
the outsizes in the local police force.
These are the results: One 6ft.
one 6ft. sin., four 6ft. 4in. and a “large
number” between 6ft. 2in. and 6ft. 3iin.
To top these off a junior constable in
training at the Port Adelaide Police
Depot goes 6ft. 6in.; only 18 —and still
growing. Who said all the Cornstalks
grew in N. S. Wales?


My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
k
m
\
D 383
10 for 9°'
20 for 16
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
I
Hilt
(H
Hi
m
1:. i* 3 ?
__
gen E RAT
THE
T I P P E
CIGARETTE
THIS
Points
Ogilvie, one of the six superfluous
Premiers, is adding to the evidence of
their superfluousness by taking a brief
to appear in a Commonwealth arbitra-
tion case —that of the Bank Officials. It
will necessitate his going to the mainland
once more. Perhaps he will arrange for
his superfluous Cabinet to meet there
again, as he did when he returned from
his last trip abroad.
Melbourne talk is that Bussau, the
Attorney-General, may be sent to the
London office to succeed poor Bourchier,
who was a sick man many months before
the end. Like Mullan, the Queensland
Attorney-General, Bussau is a layman.
The “Age” notes that “the Dunstan
Government has managed without a
qualified lawyer in the Cabinet since its
inception” in April, 1935. Yes, it has
“managed”; and Victoria could man-
age without an Attorney-General or an
Agent-General. It could even manage
without a Victorian Government.
An iconoclast has arisen who blames
Bradford for the slump in the price of
wool. Bradford has published an agon-
ised denial. To buy wool in the dearest
market, even if it has to sell in the cheap-
est, is, it seems, Bradford’s most
cherished tradition.
There’s more Victorian chatter about
altering the name of the State Country
party. Those in favor contend that the
name should be broadened now “the
party is in control of Victoria and is
called upon to legislate for both city
and country interests.” Pleasant read-
ing for the Labor bosses, who can
scarcely have forgotten that “the party
in control of Victoria” polled a whole
56,000 votes at the Senate election.
From the Queensland Medical Com-
mittee’s report on the Kenny treatment:
At a Christmas-tree festival the Minister
of Health invited attention to the little
girl who walked up to present Miss Kenny
with a bouquet. This child, he informed
the audience, had been carried into the
clinic a few months previously.... This
child never had paralysis of the legs. The
paralysis she had, affecting the arm and
shoulder, was (and still is) in a far from
satisfactory condition.
A spot of advice from their own doctors
would help Health Ministers in avoiding
such unfortunate occurrences.
Victoria and South Australia are States
from which young men go away, and
many don’t come back. The result is
that both now have more females than
males. The excess in S.A. was only 100
at the end of September (294,733 and
294,833), but Victorian experience (Vic-
torian figures are 917,630 and 939,309)
suggests that it will grow.
Women preponderate in our Big Cities,
though rarely in country districts. Social,
industrial and political effects of this pre-
ponderance are visible already ; and the
military aspect will have to be con-
sidered.
A Horsham (Vic.) man announces that
he has got financial backing for locai
woollen mills, and that mills and houses
for employees are to cost £250,000. The
report is as refreshing as a bubbling sipring
in an arid wilderness. For a long period
country-town industrial development had
been concerned altogether with plans for
shifting country-town enterprises to the
Big City.
London “Sunday Times,” which is
much better informed than the average
Sunday newspaper, sees “no prospect of
complete Anglo-American co-operation”
in the North Pacific “on the terms that
what injures either injures both.” It
points out that the barrier against such
co-operation is “American domestic poli-
tics.” Nevertheless, some of our Great
Dailies are suggesting that “complete
Anglo-American co-operation” has been
arranged for in all matters, that Aus-
tralian adhesion to the Anglo-Ameri-
can trade agreement is part of the ar-
rangement, and that Australians to whom
the British market is vital must expect to
“make sacrifices.” Melbourne “Age” is
an outstanding exception.
When the Commonwealth Statistician
reported that Australia’s seven Govern-
ments, six of which are tribulations, ex-
tracted £108,303,000 from the taxpayers
during the year to June 30, it did not
irelude post-office taxes. It transpires
the post-office revenue for the same year
amounted to £15,700,000, and at least
25 p.c. was taxation.
De Valera’s “Irish Press” has published
“the ardent congratulations” of 268 U.S.
"Perhaps, after all, it’d be better if I let ’em stew in their own juice.”
Congressmen “on the birth of the State
of Ireland,” which doesn’t recognise the
King, and which is not itself recognised
by Northern Ireland. The gentlemen see
in said birth “a happy augury for the
attainment of lasting peace, understand-
ing and friendship between Irishmen and
Britons” ; and these sentiments do them
credit. xAJI the same they don’t quite
fit in with our Great Dailies’ story that
their country is “aligning itself with
Britain against the Fascist Powers,” and
that Australia should celebrate the align-
ment by “making sacrifices.”
Reported that seven of the nine Ms.P.
who made the latest British Labor pil-
grimage to Red Spain recruited their
flagging powers in a Madrid theatre and
“saluted with the Communist sign of the
clenched fist when the orchestra played
the British National Anthem.” And
Schwartz, of Lambeth North, “told the
audience that British Labor wished the
Spanish Government the speediest vic-
tory.” If this mob of Reds and Pinks
ever gets on the Treasury benches at
Westminster, the Dominions will have to
tell it firmly that they will be dashed if
they will fight in any interventionist war.
Pre-selection still has its supporters in
South Australia. There are 39 Assembly
seats to be contested in two or three
months, and if the “open go” prevails
there may be 80 Labor candidates. The
pre-selectionists want the Trades Hall
bosses to restrict the number to one can-
didate per electorate. Democrats say it
would mean giving the Trades Hall
bosses the powers of Lang’s Inner
Group; and so it would.
After giving the impression that it was
prepared to tackle the world, Russia and
Jerusalem excepted, Sydney “Sun” has
come out with an ignoble demand for
the suppression of “foreign propagandist
organs, Fascist and Nazi.” And all be-
cause two little weeklies, printed partly
in Italian and partly in English, have
protested against its provocative stuff
and questioned the accuracy of such
assertions as that Bruno Mussolini blew
a British steamer to smithereens. One
of them is old as Australian newspapers
go—at least twice as old as the “Gun.”
It is noteworthy that the “Gun” doesn’t
demand the suppression of Communist
organs, though for every ounce of
Fascist and Nazi propaganda in these
parts there is a ton of Communism.
Victoria’s 5 p.c. tote tax —clubs get
another 5 p.c.—gave the Melbourne
Government £135,000 last year for dis-
tribution among hospitals and charities.
The figures for the whole of 1937 haven’t
been published in N. S. Wales, but for
the year to June 30 the Sydney Govern-
ment gathered in £114,700, £12,800 com-
ing from tin-hare totes, of which Vic-
toria has none. Yet the Sydney Gov-
ernment charged 9 p.c. on the tote
money taken on metropolitan courses. It
is an instructive illustration of the folly
of Government greed.
The newspapers have kindly corrected
“a report that the noted author Wata-
nabe called at the British Embassy at
Tokio and dramatically handed over a
dagger, saying ‘Here’s my message to
Mr. Eden.’ ”
Sir Robert Craigie explains that Mr.
Watanabe presented an antique Japanese
sword, a family heirloom, as a token of
friendship for and admiration of Britain,
and expressed the hope that the Anglo-
Japanese Treaty would be revived.
Reports as to the alleged vaporings of
a certain Admiral Suetansugar have also
been corrected, but not quite so ex-
plicitly.
“Punch” recently poked fun at
Madame Two-Blues of “(Euvre,” but the
ravings of this Frenchwoman are still
cabled to Australia as if she were the
lineal descendant of the Delphic oracle.
In the latest collection she had Anthony
Eden planning to hurry back from the
Riviera to allay “Australia’s fears of a
Japanese invasion.” The only impending
invasion to which Australia may be a
party is an invasion of Japan by Aus-
tralian tennis-players. The Japanese pro-
test that they have sent several lots of
tennis-players to Australia and Austra-
lians really ought to return the visit this
year.
“Stalin’s purge”—an ugly name for an
ugly thing—has now extended to sur-
viving bishops and priests of the old
church. They, it seems, “misread the
paragraphs about religious liberty in
Stalin’s Constitution, and believed them-
selves entitled to hold services and to
pray and preach.”
Thus they were enticed into the open,
to their own destruction.
Apart from other considerations, it seems
a rotten return for the exertions of the
Australian bishops who joined the
Society for the Promotion of Cultural
Relations with Soviet Russia.
For nine months to September 30 there
was “another net loss of population
through emigration”—of 567 persons this
time. It is explained, as usual, that
The loss of British population is consider- •
ably greater than these figures indicate, be-
cause departures of persons of British stock
were balanced by arrivals of large numbers
of southern Europeans.
But what else can be expected when the
Governments of States with two-thirds
of rhe population tax not only income
from other States, but'amounts remitted
to Britons temporarily abiding within
their jurisdiction?
It is strongly suspected that Stevens
never reads his Auditor-General’s re-
ports. If he does, his repeated whine
that he isn’t getting enough easy money
from the Loan Council passeth under-
standing. The A.-G. points out that
since 1931 N.S.W.’s “loan liability to the
Commonwealth” increased by £62,182,700
to £350,291,400. That was the figure at
June 30, 1937, and it was exclusive of
£41,965,300 of liabilities —nearly all
Rural Bank and Water Board which
the Sydney Government has guaranteed.
Anyone who wants more than that is a
glutton.
A New Year message to the sad old
world:
May the people’s yearning for peace
lead to mutual consideration and real
peace! Our nation wholeheartedly prefers
the work of peaceful reconstruction in
the service of general progress to the
destructive influences of strife.
Hitler it was who said it—Hitler!
Opinion at Sydney University is that it
is a low attempt to confound the writings
of Professor Roberts.


THIS HUMIDITY.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
SPEED DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
DEPEND ON Champions
SPEED that only a smooth-running engine can give.
SPEED that takes you on your way with safety and
economy. SPEED that makes the hills seem level. Get
SPEED the way racing champions get it . . . with
CHAMPIONS. An Empire product—made in Windsor. Canada
■
ik
r A
a
W7WJ*
17
1333777/
73 JJ 13*1
JJJjJJ/,
"///fa
>/«
r>i
ķ
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
II PERSONAL ITEM
A change-about of senior Common-
wealth servants follows the resignation
from the governorship of the Common-
wealth Bank of Ernest Riddle, who turns
65 this year. Riddle, born on Gunda-
mine, near Narrabri (N.S.W.), went into
the Australasia in ’B9, staying there till
1915, when Denison Miller asked him to
become W.A. manager of the Common-
wealth Bank. By 1924 he was Mel-
bourne manager, and a year later deputy-
governor. He has been governor since
1927. He was knighted some years ago.
Harry Sheehan, who succeeds Riddle,
is not a banker. He has been 35 years
in the Commonwealth Treasury, and
made his mark as loans officer during
the war, holding the job till 1926. Later
he was assistant-secretary to the
Treasury, secretary to the Treasury and
a member of the Bank Board, S. M.
Bruce’s right-hand man at the World
Economic Conference and delegate to
the League Assembly in 1933. He also
snared a knighthood.
Sheehan’s place is taken by S. G.
McFarlane, who leaves the secretaryship
of Australia House —he had been marked
down as the next Auditor-General. A
bright, alert civil servant with long finan-
cial training under his predecessor, he
was, while in Australia, a director of
C.O.R. To replace him in London goes
Jack Duncan, who varied his civil-ser-
vice career by a legal training—he was
called to the Bar at 39 —and who has
had a varied official life during the 14
years since he transferred from the
N. S. Wales to the Commonwealth ser-
vice—from a public-service inspectorship
to work on the coal and wheat commis-
sions and the Deputy Postmaster-
Generalship of N. S. Wales, which he
now holds.
Claude Flemming has done more rush-
ing round the world than most people,
but will have his busiest day next week
supervising Sydney’s Anniversary
Pageant. Bushworker, ironmonger,
jeweller and drapery hand before he
Master of Ceremonies.
found a place on the stage with George
Rignold, he toured U.S.A. with Nellie
Stewart and arrived in ’Frisco in time
to lose his luggage in the earthquake.
Hollywood held him for five years before
he came back to Australia to produce
natural-color travelogues, a type of
picture which he originated.
Luigi Gariglio, named a cavalier of the
Roman Empire by his native Italy, did
not need the decoration to make him
look the part. Alert, polished in speech,
quietly courteous and restrained, he is
president of the Sydney Italian Chamber
of Commerce and secretary of the Aus-
tralia-Italia Shipping Company.
The City of London’s representative
at the 150th Anniversary celebrations is
Alderman George Broadbridge, last
year’s Lord Mayor, and sheriff in 1933.
A personable, courteous man in his late
fifties, he made the money which every
Lord Mayor of London needs as chair-
man of a group of Nigerian tin com-
panies. He was knighted in 1929.
J. N. Radcliffe, classical master at
Southport School (Q.), proves how per-
sistent these Diggers can be. A fine
tennis-player and all-round
athlete, he won a Queens-
land Rhodes scholarship just
before the war, but aban-
doned his degree course to
enlist in the Royal Artillery.
He came back to Australia
with an M.C. and set to work
to earn a living. Last year
the Rhodes Trust offered
him an extra term at Oxford,
and this time he got through.
J. D. O’Hagan, who left Brisbane
Grammar School, where he held a Trus-
tees’ Foundation Scholarship, to join
the Justice Department in 1901, becomes
Under-Secretary after a long appren-
ticeship. He got his start as private sec-
retary to Attorney-General James Blair
(now State Chief Justice) and went to
England a few years later with T. J.
Ryan, afterwards acting as secretary to
the State’s Wembley Exhibition commit-
tee in 1924. He has served as deputy
chairman of the Queensland Tramway
Trust, on the committee of the Cancer
Trust, as official secretary to the Pre-
mier, chief clerk in the Justice Depart-
ment, and was a member of the Greater
Brisbane Subdivision Board of 1933 and
of the Electoral Redistribution Commit-
tee. For some time he has been acting
as Assistant Under-Secretary to the
Home Department.
“M.G.S.”: Dr. Sun Fo, who has been
dispatched to Moscow to offer Man-
churia and Outer Mon-
golia to the Soviet in re-
turn for material assist-
ance for the Chinese Gov-
ernment, is a son of Sun
Yat-sen, the “Father” of
the Republic. Like his
father, he is Western-
educated, graduating from
the University of Cali-
fornia and Columbia Uni-
versity (N.Y.). He was
Mayor of Canton during
the Kuomintang’s struggle
for supremacy. His father
was the author of the sort
of Christian Socialism
known as his Three Prin-
ciples. It boils down to
the ideal hope that the
lion will lie down with the
lamb, without the lamb inside it.
Colin Sinclair, who succeeds E. A.
Buttenshaw as N. S. Wales Lands Minis-
ter, is a big, quietly-spoken grazier who
knows his job thoroughly, and who does
not need his Ministerial salary. He sat
on the N.S.W. New States Commission
a little over a decade ago, entered Par-
liament in 1932 and has been Assistant
Minister since last year.
Savage’s Isles have never seen a
more romantic homecoming than that
of J. W. Burgess, who landed at Auck-
land to find promotion in Imperial Air-
ways Service as a reward for bringing
the flying-boat Centaurus safely across
the world. Burgess is the son of the
captain of the Government lighthouse
steamer Matai, once, at 28, the youngest
master in the Union Company. One
uncle commands a pilot vessel and an-
A Maorilander Comes Horn:
other holds an “A” flying license and is
engineer to the Wellington Harbor
Board. Six other uncles held masters’
or chief engineers’ certificates, and his
mother’s father was drowned in a
typhoon off Japan. Young J.W. deserted
the family trade to join the R.A.F. in
1930, was sent to Egypt and studied
seaplanes. In 1935 he joined Imperial
Airways, and is the only Maorilander to
hold all licenses —“B” commercial, with
blind flying endorsement, first naviga-
tor’s, radio and ground engineer’s. He
came to Australia with the Royal Air
Force Flight while the Duke of Glou-
cester was here in 1934, and has several
commercial records on the London-
Cairo run.
Australia’s first Reso tour of an over-
seas country begins on March 9, when a
Vic. town-and-country party sails for
Maoriland with organiser Lance C.
Bromilow and, in all probability, a M.L.
Government tourist adviser. Bromilow
began as a junior clerk in the Kyneton
goods sheds 37 years ago, and for the
last 10 has been handling Vic. Railway
Commissioner Clapp’s Reso excursions.
He is a member of the central executive
of the Australian Railways Developmen-
tal Tours and of the Vic. Railway Better-
ment and Publicity Board.
Ronald A. Monson, London “Daily
Telegraph”-“Morning Post” correspon-
dent in Shanghai, replacing Pembroke
Stephens, killed by Japanese machine-
gunners, is a Westralian who first left
Australia in 1928, headed for a strenu-
ous adventure the record of which is
contained in his book Across Africa on
Foot. The iourney took 15 months,
and in December, 1929, Monson re-
turned to the “West Australian.” In
1934 he went to England, and did casual
journalistic work until he was appointed
special correspondent for the “Daily
Telegraph” on the salvage ship Ophir
during her search for the wreck of the
Lusitania. He covered the siege of
Bilbao until just before the entry of
Franco’s troops, and between times has
reported most of the important national
events since he came off the Ophir.
Dead at 77, Vernon Winstanley, a
coalworker who drifted into Queensland
Assembly as team mate of Attorney-
General Mullan in 1909 when Charters
Towers returned two members. When
single seats were introduced in 1912, he
won Queenton and held it till falling
population led to the abolition of the
constituency. He was a tactful, kindly
little man and was a popular Whip of
the Queensland Labor Party for nearly
a quarter of a century.
Jim Malone, whose latest appointment
takes him to Cairo as senior Australian
rep. at the International Communications
Conference in February and March,
entered the service
as a telegraph mes-
senger boy at Lis-
in o r e (N.S.W.).
Chief inspector of
wireless now, he was
with the A.F.C. dur-
ing the war as a
radio man, and later
worked in N.S.W.,
Queen sland and
Westralia before
going to Mel-
bourne 15 years
ago.. He helped
John Monash with
Australia’s first radio appeal—in Sep-
tember, 1923, when the A.I.F. leader,
broadcasting from an amateur station in
Melbourne, sought support for the Con-
servatorium of Music. Two months
later Malone was the department’s rep.
at the opening of the Sydney station
which was to become 2BL. Since then
he has seen licensed listeners reach the
million mark.
Thomas M. Wilson, Uncle Sam’s new
Consul-General in Australia, hailed
originally from Memphis (Tennessee)
and had his education at a military
school. He was one of Pershing’s junior
staff officers during the big scrap, and
afterwards joined the consular service,
drifting through Hankow, Peiping, Amoy
and other Chinese cities to Madras and
From Sunny Tennessee.
Bombay. Back in Washington, he was
appointed chief of the Foreign Service
Dept. He is an outdoor man and he
fancies the Australian climate.


5Si:8S55|: : : : : : :SS5? : : : S::!s
■:
m
i
:
mi
X
■
. m
m
WMsM&
liillll
:
mmm .
* * mm . « ji - , - ¥ , CWI .... ~ v ti ....
- mSBEm m igMMMip
v • | mm I mmm
w . **wmm m mmm »1* f mM r 4& <wu i
'
v 1
■
x¥S*W:i
'' s * i
m
wmmMi.
:■ I M ' '
■
'
.
m
m
■
■mm $ m
..**<•* <*.* v v.*.•*•. S •■!.<•• A \
XyX ...x.vX ; :v,
■
•V .
si
| Ijjjj
.x X
...
jSS*
/■ ; ; - o vv ; , r ? .wßißPv'
■:¥:¥:¥:¥: ' ' ¥:¥:¥:¥... .¥S¥?s?Sx¥::¥A : :¥:¥x¥:¥:¥:¥¥:¥¥:¥¥¥:¥::¥:¥:¥¥:x¥x¥:¥:¥::¥:¥:'
X:¥:f:.. ... •: .?• ...... ’,.••• ••’' . •...•: $ :••• ¥: .S ‘ ' |:j|§
.x •.': . {>:•; • ;• ■• . . ■'■<: \. .••■ :•.;. ../•...• •• ;• ..:;¥•:• .v. . ; ,\. y •¥ .:. ■.. .•■•:;. ¥ ■ ■:•.:. ¥.> ... • • ¥. f •
:¥:*S*¥ ¥:s¥¥!■: ¥:¥:¥¥ : : ¥:: ( " % <■ 4 j¥:||:J: xlgg? .:::•¥:¥ + SJIS?
smhaJs&m' v iS:¥:¥.. '' .... .. ''
p
s
0
PRESS
Capstan
Medium
Oval
Weights
Heavy
now
packets
Cork
of
Plain
and
Tipped
and
m
8d
of
m
111
Also
and
20
10
50
tins


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mac”: Carl held the contract to
carry cream from the outlying districts to
the railhead. As an act of courtesy, he
would also haul free any small packages
from the township. Following the arri-
val of a tea-traveller, Carl was noticed
to have his wagon loaded with seven-
pound packets of tea. On his admitting
that he was doing it gratis, a friend told
him he was a blanky fool, to which Carl
sadly replied: “If I carry dem for nod-
dings, I am a blanky fool. If I charges
I am a blanky Sherman!”
* * * *
“Les Maisons”: In the Narromine
(N.S.W.) district, if an event is timed to
occur “when Tressy’s gateposts fall
over,” you may safely bet against its oc-
currence. Cut from a river-gum, the
posts stand at the entrance to C. W.
Trescowthick’s homestead drive, and are
about 13ft. in circumference. They grow
big along the Macquarie.
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird”: Father Turkey is a
casual cuss. Recently a Bananaland cow-
cocky bought a gobbler and three Rhode
Island Red hens from a settler three miles
distant. The strutter evidently didn’t
care about his new surroundings, and
next day betook himself off, taking the
three R.I.Rs. with him for company.
Two or three days later he was seen
within half a mile of his old home, the
hens, quite content, still with him. Then
he appears to have paid a stealthy visit
to the old home, but, not liking the
look of things, stole away into the bush
again with his admirers. When his new
owner got on his tracks he finally picked
up the wanderer and what was left of
his retinue calmly chasing grasshoppers
midway between the two homes. A few
chains away a fox was making a meal
of the hen he had just caught.
* * * *
“C.J.R.”: The toughest stuff on boot
leather I’ve struck is the big flow of
basalt in C.Q. I made contact with it
at the Lolworth goldfield, 80-odd miles
from Charters Towers. The flow, or
“wall,” as it is known locally, is said to
be 80 miles long by 10 wide, and harbors
all kinds of furred, feathered and scaly
life, and is—at Lolworth, anyway —just
like a jungle. The traversing of a mile
over the rough, jagged basalt will have
the stoutest trilbies in ruins. The flow
is said to be the most recent in Aus-
tralia —about a thousand years old.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The flying leaps of the
six-foot boomer were becoming shorter.
It was tiring. Behind, tireless, relentless,
loped the two big kangaroo dogs. The
boomer swung suddenly to the left. Cut-
ting the angle the dogs gained rapidly.
But ahead lay a deep waterhole. With a
last leap the boomer landed in just less
than 4ft. of water, then turned at bay.
Without hesitation the dogs plunged in.
But with muzzles barely clearing the
water and all efforts concentrated on
swimming they were now at a disadvan-
tage. A short forearm flashed like light
and gripped the leader. Holding tight,
the kangaroo forced the dog under the
surface and kept it there. Plungings,
swirlings, the occasional emergence of a
back leg as the dog fought vainly against
drowning. The second tyke drew off,
swam round a couple of times, then,
mustering courage, beat up to the rescue.
But it could do little. Without footing
it couldn’t lift even its head high enough
to give an effective bite. For a minute
the boomer ignored it: then, the dog
beneath the water becoming exhausted,
a forearm flashed in another lightning
clutch. A few minutes later the hunter
arrived. The boomer was resting under
a bush a hundred yards further on.
Days later the bodies of the drowned
dogs floated to the surface.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: Re wells rising and fall-
ing with the tide (B. 22/12/’37). Wells
sunk in several hundred acres of black-
sand flats, originally old sea-bed, to the
east of Cowes (Phillip Island, Vic.) have
this characteristic. Water of varying
quality can be got almost anywhere, and
the wells nearest the sea rise and fall
with the tide. Excellent drinking water
is near the surface of the ground within
a few feet of high-tide mark, and, gener-
“Book me, Woodjer ?”
ally speaking, the further from the sea
the harder the water. The wells provide
water for two hotels anti some guest-
houses in Cowes, as well as for farms and
houses.
K * * *
“Jindivick”: Don’t know under what
conditions “Cudgerie” grew citrus trees
(B. 5/1/’3B), but I’ve pulled out about
300 on the M.I.A. during the past couple
of years and not one had a long taproot.
Eighteen inches or a little more consti-
tuted the taproot, but all the trees —
mandarins and lemons —had lateral roots
running out 10ft. or 15ft. a mere foot
beneath the surface. These carry the
hair-roots which mean life to the tree.
Many growers refuse to use mouldboard
ploughs in the citrus orchards on the
’Bidgee area —indeed, some dislike disks
too close to the trees for fear of damag-
ing the hair-roots. The trees I refer to
had no ironware or masonry beneath
them to turn the taproots.
* * * *
“Larrakeah”: Another matelot worthy
of mention (B. 5/l/’3B) is the Melville
Islander, a bloke who thinks nothing of
the 60-odd mile crossing to the main-
land for a courtesy visit to the Darwin
Larrakeahs, the visit incidentally con-
cluding with a Donnybrook in which the
islanders prove they are as good scrappers
as sailors. Their big canoes hold up to
40 men, and they don’t worry whether
the going is rough or smooth. Writer
once saw a canoe-load arrive during a
bad blow that had sent the mission
lugger scuttling for shelter in Apsley
Strait. Capsizes didn’t worry the natives
—when their vessel filled with water all
hands went overboard and, by an alter-
nate backward and forward movement,
soon emptied it over bow and stern. In
anything like decent going these canoes
could average about eight knots.
* * * *
“Phut”: The best lure and decoy com-
bined I know for all bush animals, from
a dingo to a merino ram, is the motor
track—particularly if there aren’t many
motors in that part of the country. If
a car goes along a road to-day, as sure
as eggs those tracks will be wiped out by
to-morrow morning. Every darned thing
in the bush that strikes the wheelmarks
will follow them. Sheep, apparently,
mistake the track for a new and ideal
pad. Plain-turkeys and ants adopt it as
a highway. Goannas reckon the touch
of the dusty earth is soothing to the
abdomen. And dingoes find in the tyre
track a thing along which they just love
t c > trot.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Hordes of summer
campers hasten on the erosion problem
with their wasteful habit of chopping
down seven good saplings every time they
pitch a tent for a week-end. I always
carry two coils of strong manilla and
hitch the tent and fly over them. Ad-
vantages are that the tent can be strung
between car and fence where there are
no trees, no waste of timber and absence
of worry about rain when away from
camp. Stretch the ropes taut when you
put them up, and the weight of the tent
will cause them to sag in a couple of
hours. Should a storm come on, the
wet rope merely tightens the camp up to
its original tension and pulls no pegs
out Stretched taut over a wooden frame-
work, peg-ropes and duck automatically
tighten if there is nobody handy to slack
things off, and the soaked wanderer re-
turns to find his camp gone in a gale
or a cascade of water on the floor. The
idea works even better when travelling
by water, for the whole arrangement can
be strung up from one standing sapling
to a pair of crossed oars and a stay-rope,
* * * (tD *
“Groper : I agree with P. Creek
(B. 15/12/’37) that struck-by-hghtmng
wood is seldom any good for cooking
with. But the commonsense explanation
is that long-dead and bone-dry wood
never compares in calorific value with
recently-cut fuel, dry enough to burn
but with a residue of sap still in
it. And it is invariably the long-ago-
ringbarked giant standing alone in the
paddock that receives the thunderbolt,
and is carted to the kitchen. Even if
such a free was cut down and then cut
up it would still move the babbler to
profanity. Green trees are seldom struck
because their sap-filled leaves, twigs and
trunk milk the electricity from the atmo-
sphere in much the same way as does a
copper lightning-conductor.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Years ago I questioned
north Australian abos. as to why they
had never adopted the Papuan’s or the
Malay’s bow and arrow. They thought
me darned silly. They knew of such
things—had not the Malays been raid-
ing the coast for centuries? As a demon-
strative answer one warrior took shield
and wommera and invited anyone to
throw spears at him. He could dodge
three experts throwing together. With
marvellous ambidexterity he had either
shield or wommera always there to de-
fleet the spear just when it seemed about
to impale him. The idea of anyone
shooting little pointed sticks at him —
well, he was prepared to brush them
aside with even greater ease. Perhaps it
was conceit, but it is significent that
neither the Malays nor the Papuans made
any noticeable inroads into the conti-
nent; and there are traditions of fero-
cious massacre, whole prau crews being
wiped out, when the visitors toyed with
the idea of carrying off valuable females
without first paying the just price,
* * * *
“James W.”: Interest centred in
Viscount Gatton, the large white boar,
down on the farm t’other day. His
tusks, fearsome weapons which he
showed inclination to use, were being
removed. The dental sabres were not
extracted. They were cut off level with
the gums and the pulp exposed. In
S uch cases a growth of ivory soon seals
the devastated stumps. Can anyone say
why decay does not set in and give his
porcine lordship toothache before Nature
repairs the holes? The vet. who did this
particular spot of surgery couldn’t ex-
plain,
* * x
Johnno : What Bull-ant Bill
doesn’t know about dingoes in fruit-
growing areas (B. 5/1/ 38) would fill a
few libraries. I’m right on the job in
Qld. fruit country, but Warngal s scalp
is as unsafe here as it is in sheep land.
No doubt the howler does help to keep
down wallabies, but if there are any
calves or sheep about they’re his supper.
A citrus-growing neighbor who runs a
few sheep among his trees has had the
bleaters attacked by wild dogs, although
wallabies were bounding everywhere out-
side the wire-netting enclosure. And no
dog, tame or wild, will eat the uncooked
flesh of a bandicoot, however hungry the
tyke may be. The fox, which preys on
the joeys, is a better wallaby-extermi-
nator than the dingo. Left alone, the
wily one in time will exterminate all but
the larger of native ground game, furred
or feathered.
* * * *
“Croaker”: Is there a greater sham
than the stormbird, or giant-billed
cuckoo? This fellow, though he has been
proved a dud for years, still commands
respect, and fellows who should know
i better begin to shift camp from the
channels when they hear that rasping
call like unto a lost soul in the horrors.
Once on the lower Thompson (W.Q.) we
were pulling bogged sheep from water-
holes, shifting cattle down to the river,
nursing our horses and looking for a pick
of feed anywhere for a night camp. The
stormbirds gave it good and plenty, mak-
ing the nights hideous and the mornings
dreadful. If ever they heralded badly-
needed rain that was the time ; and it
came, too —about four months later, after
a few thousand sheep and cattle had
become carcasses.
A CULINARY CALAMITY.
Joe the Poisoner tapped on the paper he held,
And the veins on his frontispiece visibly swelled.
“Well, strike me!” he said, “didya ever ’ear
anything like it!
’Ere’s some unionist bloke ’as been airin’ ’is
views;
Sez that all station cooks should ’ave torches
to use!
An’ alarm-clocks! I’ll ’op it to blazes —no,
blast me, I’ll bike it.
“Man an’ boy, I’ve bin babblin’ for fifty-four
years,
Cookin’ all sorts o’ scran —yairs, from wombats
to steers;
A slush-lamp did me when I wanted to screw
in th’ oven.
As for clocks —why, wot’s wrong with the
Jackies and wrens,
Or some wheat on a tin near th’ bed for the
’ens,
To let a man know out o’ bunk it was time
’e was shovin’?
“An’ talkin’ of clocks —’struth, they’re
dangerous things!
At a shearin’ shed once, up round Fogarty’s
Springs,
There was one there the joker before me ’ad
left in the kitchen.
I was peelin’ some Steele Rudds one ’ot after-
noon
When the dam’ bell starts ringin’. I leaps like
a loon
As I woke, an’ me conk, where I belted it,
needed a stitch in.
“That there clock, incidentdy, it corst me me
job,
For I pulled it to bits when the thingumabob
Wouldn’t work. It was tryin’ to cook at the
time made me mull it.
The dam’ pieces, y’ see, gets mixed up with
the stoo,
An’ the ’orsetailer swallered a cogwheel or
two,
An’—this tore it! —the overseer got the ’and
stuck in ’is gullet!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Dohori”: Sydney papers are fussing
over a Papuan report that a flying-boat
landed on a crocodile. In the good old
days such trifles were not looked on as
even news in B.N.G. Going up the Fly
with a mate, our engine broke down
badly owing to a 30ft. croc, bumping
us. The enraged brute tried to climb
aboard and was lassoed. Instead of kill-
ing him my mate—a brainy lad —sug-
gested we make him pull our craft up-
river to our copra-collecting station. We
put a clove-hitch round his neck and an-
other for’ard of his hind legs, and then,
bringing the loose ends aboard, lashed
them firmly across the deck. He was
thus securely attached to our keel, with
his head- projecting just for’ard of the
stem; but the brute wouldn’t run a
straight course. At this juncture a fat
Samoan L.M.S. teacher came off in a
canoe asking for a lift up-river. After
some argument we coaxed him into a
bos’n’s chair, and, tying him in for his
own safety, hung him from the bumkin
a few feet in front of the croc.’s eyes. It
worked like magic. The croc, went full
steam ahead and never stopped until we
reached our destination. In gratitude we
unlashed the croc., but stupidly forgot
“Dunno Wot to do with me free 'and, Sarge. Couldn't I 'old a bokay
or somethin'?"
to take the Samoan aboard first. Still,
things were pretty wild up the Fly in
those days, and our next stop was to
be the Dutch Arus, anyway.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: Bryce Russell, missing
for nearly four months in the Simp-
son Desert, was a disillusioned man when
his camels shook the dust of the southern
States from their feet. Taking a string
“Would you mind Waiting for the dough till We get the bonus?"
of camels to Melbourne for the centen-
ary Russell found only a small measure
of profit, and the weather played the
deuce with his animals —he lost more
than half of them before he decided to
make back for the open spaces. He
claimed to have the only racing oonts
in Australia, but both as a sport and a
novelty all the racing I saw was a wash-
out. Bryce Russell was making for
Adelaide when I saw him last, and he
said then that he had made his last trip
south. How true those words were even
he himself didn’t realise.
* 4! * * #
“Kaiti”: The Maori, like the Austra-
lian abo., didn’t go in for wheel trans-
port (B. 5/1/’3B), and for much the
same reasons. First, he had nothing to
draw a vehicle, and, second, he had no
urgent need of one. The Maori used
to range, as did the abo., over a gener-
ous tribal domain. When berries were
ripe, Maoris camped in proximity until
the larder ran low ; they sought the lakes
when the koura was at its tastiest, the
rivers when the whitebait run gave them
unlimited quantities of the delicacy, the
shores when the pipi was fattest; they
journeyed to the islets in their canoes
when the mutton-birds were plump for
the preserving. Fish and game they
caught at all time, and, never hurried,
they trekked comfortably and happily
on all these excursions.
“Sandpatch”: A curious thing about
Black Brother is that while he can rarely
count past four he seems to be able to
work out when future events will occur.
The Rev. E. R. B. Gribble records going
to the Mitchell River to inspect a site for
a new mission. After making friends
with the blacks he told them he would
be back in 12 moons, and left a small
humpy as evidence of good faith. A
year later, almost to the day, he returned
to find the whole surroundings recently
cleaned up and the long grass cut down,
with the inhabitants anxiously expecting
him. Yet with the average Gulf myall
anything over four is “big mob,” and
even four is the word for two repeated
twice in most of the dialects.
* * * *
“Neighbor”: After pitting his prop-
erty without striking a suitable supply
of water, a Bananaland cocky one dry
spell decided to put down a large dam.
The work completed, it suddenly struck
him that a water supply might be ob-
tained by putting down a well oh the
lip immediately above the dam, situated
in the centre of a broad, grass-covered
watercourse. The divining-rod strongly
indicated an underground stream, and a
start with the sinking was made. At 12ft.
the floor of the well, which
sounded suspiciously, was
pierced to a depth of a foot
or so with an ordinary inch
auger, a flow of crystal-clear,
sweet water resulting. This
proved so strong that the
cocky decided to erect a wind-
mill and fill the dam from the
well. He just got it up when
the drought broke, six inches
of rain falling. The dam was
filled to overflowing, the
mouth of the well being 2ft.
under water.
* * *
“Bushy Park”: After a
hectic Christmas some of the
local lads found themselves
short of the necessary on New
Year’s Eve, and decided to put
one over the storekeeper. One
thirsty soul interested him in
his favorite topic of racing
while the others sneaked into
the dark storeroom to lift the
case of ale. They dashed off
with their prize,- relay-race
fashion, one carrying it as far
as he could, then passing it on
to another until they had
carried it about a mile from
the scene of the crime. Com-
pletely exhausted but buoyed
up by thoughts of the treat in store, they
had just enough energy left to prise off
the top of the case, which contained
several dozen bottles of cod-liver oil!
“Ellenvale”: Tell “Oran” (B.
29 /11 / ’37) that boiled wheat is a staple
article of diet on many outback farms,
but I’d like him to name the variety of
wheat that had to be boiled for six
hours before it was soft enough to eat.
Furthermore, I can’t agree with him
that it is a “tasty dish eaten with milk
and sugar” or any other way. The
samples I’ve tried tasted like boiled glue
flavored with soap and cocky-chaff.
Tastes differ, of course. I had a mate
once who refused to eat corned beef
unless it was spread with a liberal help-'
ing of raspberry jam.
f t
“Niwe”: We were standing on an out-
back Queensland railway station when
a dusty team drove up and dumped on
the platform an ancient with a pile
of luggage. “Hello, Dave, we don’t see
you very often,” the s.m. greeted him.
“What’s the big idea?” Dave replied
that he was going to the city for a visit.
“What time does your blanky train
start?” he inquired. train has
gone, Dave ; there isn’t another for three
days.” “Oh, well, I’ll go home and wait
for the next,” said Dave, getting into
the buggy and driving off. The s.m.
looked after him. “You wouldn’t think
‘home’ was nearly a hundred miles away,
would you?” he asked me.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: The plover, though it occa-
sionally puts over the broken-wing pre-
tence to divert attention from its off-
spring, is one of the fiercest of feathered
home-defenders. Both the black-breasted
and spurwing attack invaders savagely,
diving at speed. While I was searching
for spurwing chicks, one of the old birds
that had been parting my hair with every
swoop launched an attack on my dog,
scoring a direct hit at the end of its dive
with a thud that completely checked its
momentum and sent the tyke yelping for
home. Expected the fowl to be knocked
silly, but it took the air and continued
its attack.
* * * *
“Langshan”: Watched a pair of mag-
pies which had decided their three hefty
young-’uns could fend for themselves.
Ma pursued the wily beetle and com-
pletely ignored the clamoring youngsters,
but the din evidently got on Pa’s nerves.
All one day he would hastily ram a
titbit down the nearest gaping beak, race
away for yards, and repeat the perform-
ance when his family caught up. Next
day, however, he turned fiercely and
trounced the squawkers soundly, and
three disillusioned young fowls sadly
sought a new roosting-tree at sunset.
* * * *
“Dougal”: As blowflies had beaten us
to our cow-flesh for over a week we were
looking forward to the arrival of a fresh
parcel of meat by the Saturday-night
flier. Bill (a joker) rode over to collect
it at the siding. He arrived back with a
dazed look and a piece of paper. “Listen
to this note from the butcher,” he said,
holding it in front of Old Ned’s nose:
“ ‘Dear Mr. Brown, —Sorry can’t send
you any meat as we’re completely out. —
Simkins.’ ” For the next ten minutes
Old Ned, a fluent swearer, pranced up
and down the floor, telling the world his
opinion of butchers in general. At the
end of that period Bill, with a kind of
grin, casually remarked, “There’s a bit
down ’ere I forgot to read: ‘P.S. —Am
sending tripe instead.’ ”
PIONEERS.
’Tis clear I call to mind this year
How, rigging frayed and canvas brown,
A ship —no matter what her name—
Came flag apeak to Sydney Town.
Around her crept the making tide,
About her washed the winter breeze;
No stately liner she, in truth,
No floating palace of the seas.
Tall men stood waiting on her deck,
Beside them women, sweet and fair;
Till, gangway down, they trooped ashore
And stood at gaze one moment there.
Frieze-clad, or staid in uniform,
Or gay with tartan sash or scarf,
What thought they of the silent cove,
The arrow’d convicts on the wharf?
Who knows? They mingled with the tide;
And so, with busy brain and hand,
Built up the city, home by home,
And urged the progress of the land.
’Tis many years ago, and yet
I have their coming in my mind.
I see their eyes . . . not bright, be sure—
For all they loved lay far behind.
Not bright, but full of that fine light
To do, to dare —souls unafraid—
What man might dare, though' mountain
stood
’Twixt them and that which they essayed,
Tall men, fair women—you were there:
Far, far away your other home
Lay—backed by storied hills of green,
Or fronted by the western foam,
Whereon at times —so it is said —
Hy-Brasil lights its wondrous towers,
And dreaming on the farthest wave
Like some enchanted garden flowers.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


Last year’s Will may need alteration
The opening of another year should be a reminder that your Will may need alteration
Read it over. If you have not already appointed Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
Executor and Trustee, give consideration now to doing so. The Company can give you
a service that no private individual could give. An interview would make clear the
many advantages. A Senior Officer is always available for consultation 1 egarding 1 «
methods and. charges; or perhaps j r ou would prefer to write?
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Agent Receiver, Etc.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
DIRECTORS:
T H Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght,
T. A. J. Plavfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox, K. de
H. V. Douglass,
Managing Director
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed
0.8. E., 1 Lieut.-Col. the Hon.
L. Cudmore.
P. Cureton,
Manager.
£52,230,000.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire .and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Boomii, 6/- and 8/- per day : Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sun-day, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Mutual Life and Citizens ,
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
Joint Managing Director.
vmWTPONSAMIH
ei*A?e
SikiequtX
s»
k
mm
for N.S.W.GOLDSBROyCH- MORT C. CO. LTD
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nomina]
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £, £ £ £
1927 f. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 .. 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152.. 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623.. 2,286,098
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £IOOO.. 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 .. 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £IOOO.. 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,690
Taxation refund, £18,307 .. .. 2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £IOOO.. 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included. £21,000 .. 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755.616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937.. 386.732 294,378 104,0721 2,800,695
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359: 1921, £49,918; 1924.. £42,086 ; 1925,
£20,352 ; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537; 1930,
£8926; 1933, £4463 ; 1934, £8926 ; 1935, £9OOO ;
1936, £4500 ; 1937, £4500. t Nine months.
J,lncluding loss on King-street property, £4994.
What has happened here? During the
last decade, E. S. Paul and those asso-
ciated with him have converted what
used to be a very sick business into a
thoroughly sound one, . and policy-
holders are receiving regular and, all
things considered, good bonuses. Yet,
so far as shareholders are concerned,
prospects of a lift in the div. (U p.c. for
each of the last two years and 2\ p.c. in
1935) are not bright at the moment. The
chairman sees “no possible hope of paying
more than H p.c. for the current term.
That is partly because policy-holders'
interests have been placed well in the fore-
ground, and partly because of last year s
heavy crop of claims and continued loss
on mortgages, which were a legacy in-
herited by the present board. “It would
be useless to send agents out unless they
had the right goods to sell. The asso-
ciation’s bonuses, coupled with benefits
under its policies, must be as good as
any of its competitors,” says the chair-
man.
They are sound aims from which
shareholders should reap nice harvests
later on, when policy-holders should
further benefit, too. But, considering that
the co. was well behind scratch only 10
years ago, it has meant, among other
things, a rather drastic reduction in the
basis of valuation, and therefore tem-
porary curtailment of the amount avail-
able for distribution among shareholders.
In 1926, following an independent actu-
arial overhaul of the business, the basis
of valuation was reduced from a lenient- 4
p.c. Sprague to 4 p.c. net premium, and
finally, owing to the fall in interest rates,
to 3 p.c. net premium, which is the basis
on which all the big Australian mutual
offices now value their actuarial liabili-
ties. Under the reversionary bonus sys-
tem each successive bonus, when de-
clared, has a higher reserve value than its
predecessors when they were declared ;
hence the necessity for widening margins
in the future. The method of valuing
by a low rate of interest meets this need
by locking up during the early years of
a policy sums which otherwise would be
available as divisible surplus and by re-
leasing them with interest at a later stage.
During the last term, £917,688 (up
£16,508) of new business was put on the
books in the life department, yet net
premium income was £1415 lighter:
1932. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Sum assured.. £418,829 £516,393 £901,180 £917.688
First premiums 1i,951 15,511 27',119 27,069
Renewal pre—
mi unis . . 231,026 200,982 202,434 200,469
Interest, etc. 113,183 115,533 132,908* 123,575
Claims . . 202,881 196,661 223,200 278,849
Exes 78,462 79,836 82,244 86,905
* Includes accrued interest on overdue premiums,
£9551.
The contraction of £9333 in interest and
rents was due to inclusion of £9551 of
accrued and outstanding interest on over-
due premiums in the previous accounts.
The root of much of the co.’s difficul-
ties last term lay in the unusually heavy
crop of claims, up £ss,649—surrenders
(£10,457) were £156 lighter, but maturi-
ties (£182,938) were £35,702 heavier,
while deafly. claims (£82,128, which was
within expectations under the mortality
table used) were up £19,729. After de-
ducting the tax bill (£4721, down £3959),
mortgage losses (£5756, down £5450), loss
on sale of the old King-street property
(£4994) and depreciation (£1690, down
£191), exes, took 30.3 p.c. of net pre-
miums as against 26.3 p.c. for the pre-
vious term. The rise in the rate is due
to the shrinkage in premium income fol-
lowing heavier claims already referred to.
Including accident branch figures, the
year’s outgoings and charges (£398,450,
up £59,002, of which £54,234 was in re-
spect of claims) exceeded incomings
(£386,732, down £9513) by £11,700-odd.
The amount allotted as bonuses to policy-
holders was £40,622, the rate of bonus
being unchanged, ranging from 30s. p.c.
to 60s. p.c. on whole-of-life policies, ac-
cording to the time in force.
After deducting taxes, the net return
from investments in the life department
was 4.4 p.c. on the mean life fund as
against 4.3 p.c. for the previous term.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1934. 1936. 1937.
Public securities. . £1,462,583 £1,412,297
Mortgages .. 695,565 603,935 566,192
Lorn, on policies, „„„ 142 , 199
Book debts, cosh, 88 , 42 „ 83 ,679
Eauinment" .. 7,730 10,463 16,076
Properties .. .. 509,214 726,389 807,063
Sh cos? 1 ". ° thU 229,559 321,313 355,627
Tangible assets. £3,142,183 £3,300,379 £3,353,403
Sundry creditors.. 93,664 119,812 184,738
Net tangibles ~ £3,048,519 £3,180,667 £3,168,660
Assurance fund*.. 2,616,863 2,758,352 2,746,586
Paid capital . • 357,208 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £15,303,
1934 ; £16,411, 1935; £18,441, 19’36.
Outstanding features last year were the
growth of £80,674 in the property item,
reflecting completion of the co.’s fine
new Sydney headquarters at the corner of
Martin-place and Castlereagh-street, and
of £34,314 in shares in other, cos., due
mainly to the purchase of units in the
A.P.A. Fixed Investment Trust Cos., both
of which should show the co. satisfactory
returns. As for mortgages (down
£37,743),' losses in connection therewith
are diminishing, but the co. is still inter-
ested in a “fairly large” property in
Maoriland, where its rights as first mort-
gagee have been suspended under the
Rehabilitation Act, the second mortgagee
being in possession.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. and Ord. Serves. Reserves.
££ £ £
1927.. 79,813 11 p.c. = 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ ~ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ „ 50.000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ „ 40,000 11,980 158,867
1931.. 31,003 5* „ „ 27,221 3,782 162,649
1932.. 27,138 5* „ „ 27,750 162,037
July,
1933 t. 24,538 5* „ „ 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 . . 167,628
1934.. 59,445 7* p.c. = 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935.. 39,894 7* „ „ 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936.. 28,054 7* „ „ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £1708.. •• 184,284
1937.. 19,070 71* p.c.= 14,906 4,164 188,448
•Prefs. 71 p.c. * tThirteen months.
Prior to 1936 the co. formed part of
the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls group of inter-
locked spinning, weaving, knitting and
hosiery concerns. The board, however,
decided to further extend the co’s activi-
ties, a policy of isolation was sub-
stituted for one of alliances, and in
1936 holdings in other cos. were dis-
tributed among those on the register.
This explains the contraction in the
volume of last year’s earnings.
About the middle of 1933 a distribut-
ing agreement with Marks and Saul wick
ran out and was not renewed. Then
changes in the management were fol-
lowed by sale of the co.’s holding in
Julius Kayser (Aus.) Pty. to Julius
Kayser Inc., New York, for £58,938
(par). This enabled A.K.M. to begin
manufacture of a wide range of rayon
underwear in 1936. Also, 308,000 f.-p. £1
ords. in Yarra Falls and 25,000 f.-p. £1
ords. in Austral Silk and Cotton,
with £10,750 cash (total £343,750,
equal to a book value of 12s. 6d. per
£1 A.K.M. share), were distributed
among those on the register, reducing
paid capital to £206,250 in 10,000 7£ p.c.
cum. prefs. and 540,000 ords., all paid to
7s. 6d. each. All this reduced the co.’s
earnings to the output and sale of its own
factory products —fine-knitted woollen
and artificial-silk underwear, etc., for
men, women and children, to which full-
fashioned silk hosiery has been added
since the close of accounts.
During the last term gross earnings
(£30,271) fell away £22,166. But 9 p.c.
was received from Yarra Falls and 2\
p.c. from Austral Silk and Cotton in the
previous term ; so there appears to have
been a healthy expansion in turnover.
Exes. (£11,201) were £13,182 lighter, of
which £13,177 is explained by special
legal • and capital-reduction exes, in-
cluded in the previous year’s outgoings.
Including £I7OB dropped from somewhere
into special reserve account (£27,512),
the net result (down £7276) was sufficient
to pay the pref. div. (£280) and show
10.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 7.2,
10.8, 4.4, 4.9, 5.5, 10.3 and 13.5 p.c. back
to 1929. The div. was lifted from 7 p.c.
to p.c.
As for the outlook, trading condi-
tions are very favorable at the moment,
and turnover has improved since the
close of accounts. Nevertheless, Aus-
tralia’s knitting and hosiery plants are
capable of taking care of more business
than they are now handling, which is
pretty certain to mean that competition
will get more of an edge on it under less
favorable trading conditions. Much will
depend upon plant efficiency, and upon
how the new hosiery section, expected to
reach full production by the close of
next accounts, pans out. The co.’s g.m.
has been sent abroad to study latest de-
velopments in manufacture.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities . . 47,580 22,525 29,672 45,313
Freeholds . . 111,599 109,511 109,611 112,602
Plant, etc. . . 84,877 72,005 70,643 101,699
Stocks.. .. 125,862 143,635 158,993 183,335
Book debts . . 58,346 45,520 39,427 49,750
Cash. etc. . . 9,245 15,998 52,833 442
Shares in assoc.
cos. . . 384,176 394,936 2,999 198
Last year’s net addition of £31,056 to
plant and £2991 to freeholds reflects the
installation of hosiery equipment. The
growth of £24,342 in stocks was on
account of advance orders. To meet the
outlay cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£52,391 and £15,641 was added to the
debt. The year’s shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£188,412) was
£36,168.
At 11s. 2d. the f.-p. 7s. 6d. ords. return
4.9 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 14s. sd. in net tangibles. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come on to
the market.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 12,385 8 p.c. = 9,909 2,476 3,951
1928.. 28,919 8„ „ 12,874 16,045 19,996
1929.. 20,985 8 „ „ 15,216 5,769 25,765
1930.. 17,889 8 „ ~ 16,496 1.393 27,158
1931.. 18.577 8 ~ ~ 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19,649 7 „ „ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £ISOO 41,534
1935.. 23,314 5£ p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £IOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 5$ p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £SOO 51,101
1937.. 30,106 64 p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £1000" 62,037
This co., which took over John Bridge’s
northern business in 1920, now puts
more of Queensland’s wool under the
hammer than any other broker in the
State. During the last term high prices
and a better season gave earnings a nice
lift. The staple averaged 16.51 and. per
pound in Brisbane as against 13.93 and.
and 10.38 and. for the two preceding clips,
and the co. received an extra 13,914
bales, or 113,955 bales in all. The
number of bales put under the hammer
was 118,355 (up 19,977), reducing the
carry-forward to 1299 bales, and more
cattle but fewer sheep and lambs were
sold:
Year Wool Sold, Sheep and
J'-n=, Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1932.. 122,557 29,757 t 139,669 f £1,741.789
1933.. 118,084 36,081 t 121,559 t 1,801.726
1934.. 82,556 40,567 t 91.1701 2,841,731
1935.. 136,249 34,629 t 123,095 t 2,757,074
1936.. 98,278 28,479 t 82,881 t 2,538,797
1937.. 118.355 35,155 t 73,7461 3,775,628
f Brisbane and Rockhampton yards, t Brisbane yard.
Turnover sprang £1,236,831, reaching
£3,775,628, the best yet. After paying
all exes, and allowing for taxation, depre-
ciation and rebates to consignors, the
net result was £12,287 better at 10.7 p.c.
on average capital as against 6.7, 8.7, 9,
7.3, 8.8, 8.7 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1930.
A point was added to the div., making
it 6j p.c., and, after sending £IOOO to the
staff fund, £10,936 was put in the cup-
board, making the lay-by £62,037.
The div. is limited to 7 p.c. until at
least 20 p.c. of the commission charges is
rebated to consignors, which, of course,
puts a different complexion on things for
shareholding clients. During the boom
a run of 8 p.c. divs. was paid, and the
rebate on wool commissions rose to 40
p.c., fat stock to 30 p.c. and produce to
20 p.c. No rebates were made in 1932,
owing to contraction of turnover, but
they were renewed in the following term,
and have been repeated each year since
{Continued on page 24.)


v
*%/
%«§#'
fJ
m
PC
■
X
■
Wgl *»j|* y*
THE
J9k M* m> i»4
m •-
<m
■
' " i J| I
mm
a
.;.V..
m.
m
urn.
,ce>
\
■
A
|W|
■
■
A Present with a Future
ECUS RAZOR
The World’s Best Safety
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons. and Hoffnungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
Na*.
K
m
v
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
# POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queers Bridge St., South Melbourne.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIJS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
INVINCIBLE
SINCE
0 1906
5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
INVINCIBLE ENGINE^
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day*
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
at the rate of 25 p.c. for wool and fat
stock and 20 p.c. for store stock, proper-
ties and produce. The amounts involved
are not disclosed.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £211,147 £272,407 £281,360 £283,297
Liabilities* . . 222,593 522,402 421,972 551,257
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 111,937 199,721 198,806 200,572
Plant, etc. .. 11,281 31,328 31,059 34,936
Advances . . 353,389 528,906 543.432 550,296
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 787 101,579 529 134,845
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The growth of £129,285 in liabilities and
of £134,316 in cash, etc., was on account
of advance payments by woolbuyers
(£220,381, up £145,153). The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£133,884) was £11,895.
As for the current term, the season
promises to be better than the one on
whose heels it trod, and though the price
of wool is not so good it is still quite
profitable to most growers.
The scrip, covered by 245. 4d. in net
tangibles, is not listed.
Australian Alloy Steel, Ltd. (SycL).
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.!
£ £ £ £
1935.. 4933 5 p.c. = 2468 2465 15,896
Patents, etc., disappear, £219 . . 15,677
Share-issue exes., £2928 . . - . 18,605
1936.. 5329 8 p.c. = 4665 664 17,941
Net addition patents, etc., £4866.. 22,807
Share-issue exes., £3717 .. .. 26,524
1937.. 22 Nil 22 26,502
t After deducting patents, development, etc., but
including patterns, etc., £11,949 at June 30, 1937.
Shareholders are wondering where they
stand. The co. was formed in 1930 by.
J. M. Deschamps to work his patents
for the mechanical casting and forging
of steel at low cost. He became man-
aging director, and his agreement was
renewed for three years from April
24, 1935. His technical abilities are
recognised in the trade, and the business
expanded steadily. In January, 1937, all
the 60,000 £1 shares in Hadfields (Aust.,
1935), Ltd., were bought at an all-in cost
of £64,442. Buildings and plant alone
were recently valued at £187,000. The
problem was to turn Hadfields from a
losing into a profit-earning proposition,
and good progress is reported in this
connection.
However, on Dec. 1 the board passed
a resolution purporting to dismiss the
managing director (grounds not stated
in the report), and the accounts
were revised in collaboration with the
co.’s auditors and E. S. Wolfenden, who
made- a special investigation. The matters
in dispute were (1) a charge of £SOOO to
Hadfields, 42) an entry of £25,000 refer-
ring to the same co., (3) charges totalling
£5132 debited to the same co., and (4)
expenditure totalling £14,931 charged to
capital. For the most part these matters
involve application of the theory of
apportionment. Here there is often room
for difference of opinion, especially as to
amounts. Speaking generally, the test is
whether the value of the business has
been enhanced by approximately the
amount or amounts involved. Also, it is
sound policy not to capitalise per-
manently any expenditure not repre-
sented by tangible assets, although legally
this may be done.
A committee of three public accoun-
tants (E. S. Wolfenden, P. L. de Mon-
chaux and T. M. Foster —the two last-
named are auditors of Alloy and Had-
fields respectively) recommended: ( a)
That the charge of £SOOO be withdrawn,
because it cannot be substantiated. It
relates to estimated value to Alloy of
orders actually passed over and moulders
transferred to Hadfields, and to other
benefits said to be gained by the last-
named. The two cos., the committee
says, should be regarded as two branches
or departments of the same business, so
that proportional overhead may be
charged to each. ( b ) That the charge of
£25,000 to Hadfields be withdrawn, unless
it can be established that some real
value is intended to pass afs considera-
tion. The figure is Mr. Deschamps’s festi-
mate of the capital value of the jobbing
and general casting business passed by
Alloy to Hadfields. The committee sees
in this proposal some advantage to Alloy
if outside capital is introduced into Had-
fields, but thinks the transaction should
be deferred until real enhancement of
asset value and/or introduction of new
capital materialise. (c) After recom-
mending apportionment of the £5132 as
capital expenditure between the two cos.,
the report says some further proportion
of Alloy’s overhead may be chargeable
to Hadfields. ( and) As for the £14,931 of
expenditure charged to capital, the com-
mittee considers it is not in a position to
make any definite statement. It agrees
with Mr. Wolfenden’s suggestion that
the best method of ascertaining whether
book values can be justified is to have all
fixed assets valued by competent authori-
ties.
Mr. Deschamps says the proposals and
amounts involved in (a) and ( b ) were
adopted by the board, a majority of
which subsequently changed its mind.
He claims to have a substantial stake in
the enterprise, and to have refrained
from taking legal action in connection
with cancellation of the agreement be-
tween him and the co. in the interests
of shareholders.
The year’s profit was figured at £22
as against £5329 for the previous term.
That was after striking £1930 off the
book value of stock, and allowing £3OOO
for bad and doubtful debts and £1783 for
depreciation, but making no allowance
for business transferred to Hadfields. In
the previous term £SOO was allowed for
doubtful debts and £6OO for taxation
and contingencies.
During the year £79,895 of fresh capi-
tal was gathered, mainly to buy the
shares in Hadfields: —•
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £39,009 £49,247 £84,178 £164,073
Debentures .. 10,165 3,932 -
Sundry creditors. . 8,365 9,078 5,299 18,728
Freehold . . 8,022 9,269 12,707 14,702
Plant, etc. .. 27,846 26,822 37,163 47,514
Shares other cos. 5,250 10,250 74,692
Work in progress,
etc 3,256 4,422 10,026 7,520
Debtors . . . . 2,924 3,183 6,928 11,150
Cash, etc. . . 182 1,082 926 721
Of the growth of £13,429 in sundry
creditors, £11,533 is in respect of
amounts owing to subsidiaries. Plant
includes patterns, etc., now shown sepa-
rately at £11,949. When the books closed,
work in progress, debtors and cash, etc.,
exceeded liabilities by £663, or by
£12,196 if the amount coming to sub-
sidiaries is left out of the reckoning.
The need for continued existence of the
sales subsidiary is very doubtful. The
position will look more encouraging when
the cost of development (£14,232 at June
30 last) can be met out of earnings.
Prospects of the business earning satis-
factory profits and of a recovery in the
market price of the shares are not dis-
couraging, but the co. will require skil-
ful technical as well as financial direc-
tion. Control of the two functions might
be separated. This would call for close
co-operation on the board, which at
present consists of Senator J. D. Millen
(chairman); F. J. L. Dunlop, Australian
Investment Trust; W. K. Garnsey, share-
broker ; P. Wilson, publisher; A. Mc-
Kenzie, sharebroker; T. E. Keen,
grazier ; J. M. Deschamps, engineer.
For the co.’s fully-paid pound shares,
which sold at a premium of 10 p.c. on
the market last year, 4s. was recently
offered and 7s. asked. Excluding patents,
development and brokerage, the net asset
book value is 16s. 9d. per pound of paid
capital.
Katu Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Formed by Burma-Malay in 1926, this
Siamese producer set its Diesel-powered
dredge digging in 1929 ; shareholders
were handed their first div. (2| p.c.) in
1934. Clayey wash and shortage of
water were early troubles, and the board
asked shareholders for £30,000 of deben-
ture money (since repaid) to alter the
dredge (it had cost more than originally
figured on), increasing capacity to 160,000
c.y. monthly.
Since the advent of restriction, the co.’s
production assessment has been calcu-
lated on the 1929 capacity of 100,000
c.y. monthly. The property proved
richer than expected, recoveries to date
having averaged 15 p.c. above bore
values, and yardage has also exceeded
expectations. At June 30 last some 384
acres, estimated to contain 25,000,000
c.y. of lib. dirt, remained to be dug, giv-
ing the co. a nominal life of 14 years,
working to capacity.
Owing to poor assessment, lower-than-
average ground has been dug oyer the
last two years in order to maintain full-
time working. Last term restriction was
relaxed, a bigger throughput reduced
unit costs, and earnings' further bene-
fited by the rise in metal prices:
1935. 1936.* 1937.
Cubic yds. dug .. 868,000 1,343,500 1,654,000
T. 0., tons .. .. 297.4 265.3 331.6
Assay, p.c. .. . . 74.8 74.6 73.5
Recovery per c.y., lb. 0.76 0.44 0.45
Mine costs c.y., pence 4.26 3.25 2.95
Av. price metallic
tin, ton .. ..£227/1/- £209/4/-£226/17/10
* 15 months.
Metal sales brought in £44,565, the work-
ing profit being £23,641. After meet-
ing overhead charges, £19,743 remained
for shareholders: —
Net , Dividends ,
March, Revenue. Exes. Profit. Share. Amt.
1935.. £37,790 £20,508 £17,282 2/- £15,000
June,
1936*. 38,441 24,266 14,175 2/6 18,750
1937.. 44,850 25,107 19,743 2/- 15,000
* 15 months.
The div. was maintained at 10 p.c. p.a.
No depreciation was allowed on the
dredge, reported in good order. Anew
bucket-band and top tumbler are to be
installed during the current term.
For the first half of the present term
281 tons t.o. was won from 967,000 c.y.,
the working profit (£25,727, according to
monthly returns) exceeding that for the
full 1936-37 term by £2086. The Inter-
national Tin Committee, however, has
reduced the production quota for the
first quarter of 1938 to 70 p.c. of stan-
dard tonnages; but when the international
agreement was renewed Siam’s standard
tonnage was increased from 9800 to
18,000 tons t.o. p.a. Asa result of under-
production of some 3000 tons in the first
nine months of last year, Siam will be
able to carry forward into 1938 substan-
tial unfulfilled export rights.
At June 30 the co. held £24,865 in
cash and liquids. Liabilities amounted
to £4177. Since, divs. aggregating 2s. 6d.
per share have been paid. The market
prices the £1 shares (there are 150,000 of
them) around 31s. 9d.
Westralia is whooping about its mil-
lion-ounce gold yield for 1937, and one
paper suggests that something should be
done to celebrate the achievement. In
ounces the output was less than half
that of 1903, the peak year of produc-
tion. However, owing to the increased
price of gold, the value of last year’s
output was £8,743,755 compared with
£8,770,719 for 2,064,801 ounces in 1903,
when the metal fetched approximately
85s. per fine ounce. Last year’s produc-
tion, the best since 1916, was helped by
several of the larger cos. increasing their
outputs and the starting up of Big Bell
and three of the De Bernales group—
Riverina, Emu and Comet.
# * * *
Requests for a further return of capi-
tal have been made by importunate
shareholders of two London-controlled
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) cos. —Golden Horse
Shoe and South Kalgurli. The Horse
Shoe board considers such a step prema-
ture, but when satisfied that capital ex-
penditure has come to an end, that no
further stocks of tailings are available
for purchase (co.’s operations are now
confined to re-treatment of old residues),
and that there was a sufficient margin to
guard against any risk of stoppage, it
would make the necessary recommenda-
tion to shareholders. South Kalgurli has
had about 10s. in spare cash and gilded
investments in hand for some years, but
so far the board has turned a deaf ear
to suggestions that some, or all, of it be
distributed.
* * * *
Last year Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.)
netted £8352, and paid a 3d. div. (£9167),
reducing the carry-forward to £1383.
Balance sheet shows cash, £74,909 ; in-
vestments at cost or under, £25,183 ;
debtors, £17,350; tailings, stock at cost
and stores in Aust., £45,264. During the
term, 523,480 tons of old residues were
re-treated for an average yield, including
gold and exchange premiums, of 3s. 7d.
a ton, of which costs took 2s. 4d. Un-
treated residues are estimated at 1,847,120
tons of 1.65dwt. average in one dump
and 1,014,552 tons of 1.035dwt. average
in the other. Improvements to the plant
enabled the monthly tonnage treated to
be lifted from 37,000 tons at the begin-
ning to 54,000 tons at the end of the
year.
* * * *
Star Explorations (W.A.) netted
£10,572 for the year to the end of Oct.
last, as against £9857 for the preceding
12 months. While the metal market
boomed during the first half of the year,
the directors sold a number of invest-
ments at a profit. But owing to depre-
ciation (roughly £45,000) of the market
value of the balance of the holding dur-,
ing the last half of the term, and owing
to “abnormal conditions prevailing in
the political and financial worlds,” the
‘board decided not to pay a div. The
rate was 10 p.c. for each of the three
preceding years. They are hopeful, how-
ever, of making an interim distribution
during the current term. The co. first
started business at Kalgoorlie in 1910 as
a re-treater of old Hannans Star tailings,
but later became a world-wide financial
and exploration concern, chiefly in con-
nection with mining. Some Westralian
gold stocks are included in its' portfolio.
* * * *
Kunanalling (W.A.), about which little
of interest has been heard for some time,
broadcasts improved prospects in the
lower levels. For the last couple of
years the co. has plugged along quietly
on a small show (Blackett’s), north of
Coolgardie, and extracted gold worth
about £28,000 for an expenditure of
roughly £26,000. However, the Premier
mine, in the same district, was acquired,
and both properties are now being
worked; No hint is given as to when the
dividend list is likely to be reached.
* * * *
De Bernales’s Westralian producing
group, which comprises Gt. Boulder, Yel-
lowdine, Comet, Riverina, Sand Queen
and Emu, yielded an aggregate of 132,000
fine ounces, valued at £ A1,103,3 52, in
1937. Over half of this wealth came
from Gt. Boulder and Yellowdine. Pro-
duction worth £2,000,000 from the group
is officially forecast for this year.


SMOKE-OH!
These are not exactly the piping times
of peace in the N.S.W. Parliament.
*!* 'l*
“The tall man invariably gets the girl.”
—Physical culture advt.
It’s certainly a big disadvantage if
you’re short!
•J* *i* •f»
“China seemed to be counting on Soviet air.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
Hot air, doubtless.
•I*
“Cows Approve of Radio in Milking Shed.”
— “Telegraph.”
Were riot surprised at that, consider-
ing the amount of “bull” in some radio
programmes.
4 1 •i* 4*
“There is every reason to believe that a new
record has been established in the wireless
industry.”— Sydney paper.
That’s fine. Some of our studios will
now be able to give the old record a
rest.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Before evacuating the city the Chinese
troops destroyed two breweries.” — “S.M.H.”
Chinese soldiers always did favor
bung rules in warfare.
4- 4 1 •b 4*
“Film Star to Give Party to Dogs.”
—“Sunday Sun.” .
Gay dogs, probably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Baby clothes and a perambulator were given
to one needy mother. A lazarette was given
to another.” — Goondiwindi “Argus.”
Let us hope that on receiving it she
didn’t have to echo the biblical cry of
“Unclean, unclean!”
4 1 4* 4* *
“Gladys shrugged, and nodded her blonde
dead towards the table on their right.”
— “Telegraph.” .
Dyed only recently, no doubt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The party developed into a brawl, and
several of the guests were knocked uncon-
scious.” — News item.
In fact, they had a stunning time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Evolution of a Combine.
“The Goliath Man-building Institute
Will Make a Man of You in Thirty
Days! ”
“The Samson Strength College Will
Make a Man of You in Twenty-eight
Days! ”
“The Goliath Man-building Institute
Will Make a Man of You in Twenty-five
Days! ”
“The Samson Strength College Will
Make a Man of You in Twenty-one
Days! ”
“The Goliath Man-building Institute
Will Make a Man of You in a Fort-
night.”
“The Samson Strength College Will
Make a Man of You in .a Week!”
“The Goliath and Samson Strength
and Man-building Institute Will Make a
Man of You in Thirty Days!”
Joe.
Darts.
“The game of darts is now all the rage in
England. The King is an expert player.”
—News item.
Although his last dart in the direction
of America was hardly up to form, we’re
inclined to believe that the Duke of
Windsor is the royal champion darter.
We started young on our darts. Mostly
it was between the legs of the old man
to dodge the buckle on his belt.
Darts in the home are mostly confined
to the wife darting for a saucepan and
the husband making a dart for cover.
But for sheer artistry Joe Blotto’js
darts for the corner pub take some beat-
ing, and far above the amateur status
are the darts of our politicians up the
gangplanks of overseas liners.
Me.
■i* + +
“Eileen felt a slow, hot flush rising to her
fake.”- -“Sun.”
Brutally frank, no doubt, but, taking
into consideration plucked eyebrows,
mascara’d lashes and heavy plasterings
of lipstick, powder and paint, the writer
is not far off the mark.
“ ’Ow many more loads d'you Want?”
Round and Round.
“I see here,” remarked the Visitor
from Mars as he finished the afternoon
paper, “that your Government proposes
to borrow and spend money more freely
now that the depression has lifted.”
“Yes, that ought to be good for trade,”
replied his host.
“But, if I remember correctly, your
rulers borrowed and spent a lot of money
during the depression to stimulate trade.”
“Well, didn’t it?”
“Apparently, then, it is a good thing
for Governments to borrow and spend
money at any time?”
“It seems so.”
“Well, wouldn’t it be better to leave
the same money in private hands and let
the original owners spend it, thus circu-
lating the same amount, plus the costs
and overhead losses of Government col-
lecting and spending?”
“Oh, that wouldn’t work!”
“How’s that?”
“People couldn’t possibly afford to ex-
pend such great sums.”
“I see,” admitted the Visitor from
Mars.
Cloon.
“Claiming that the sun’s rays will give it a
striking effect, an Italian sculptor is modelling
a life-size statue of Hamlet to be erected in
Hyde Park, London.”
The trouble is that, if next summer
happens to be a rainy day, it might be a
couple of years before Londoners will
be able fully to appreciate its beauty.
*l*
Pageants.
“It will be a dramatic moment when hun-
dreds of white doves are released during the
pageant of peace.” —Sydney paper.
The idea is worthy of expansion.
In a pageant of royal commissions we
can think of nothing more fitting than
parrots and ibises—the former for their
chatter, the latter for their huge bills.
A taxation pageant would be rather
awkward. Vultures are nasty birds to
handle.
Naturally, swallows are the right birds
for a pageant of brewing, and the release
of hundreds of cranes during a pageant
of engineering and of lyrebirds for a
Parliamentary pageant would be appro-
priate.
D. McM.
•!••!• 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
India.
II. —Its Early History.
India’s history started nearly 4000
years ago, when the fair-skinned Aryan
peoples penetrated the north-western
passes to suppress the anti-Aryan activi-
ties and propaganda of the aboriginals
who were already in possession.
Whereas the Aryans were highly cul-
tured and spoke in Sanskrit—a dead
language that was a cross between primi-
tive shorthand and chronic catarrh—the
aboriginals were of rude speech, which
became even ruder when the Aryans ( A,
abbrev. of Eng. “a,” and Ryans, indicat-
ing that the ubiquitous Irish were already
established in India) forcibly took their
possessions. They swore at them in
Dasyu, but the Aryans retaliated by
reading out to them their great epic
poem, the Rig-Veda. Unfortunately for
their victims, this monumental work was
never finished, owing to the author’s hav-
ing committed suicide, in despair at his
failure to find a word rhyming with
“orange,” by letting a page fall on him-
self just after his offsider had finished
chiselling it.
But the non-Aryans were not to be
outdone, and, simulating joy, they in-
vited their conquerors to join them in
some beer made from the soma plant.
This potent liquor, guaranteed by the
jungle brewers to average not fewer than
six fights and a howl over the absent
wife to the gourd, circulated freely until
the Aryans started looking for some
weapon to stonker the cerise cobras with.
It was this psychological moment that
the abos. selected to commence the first-
known community singing. Taking this
as a foretaste of the horrors in store for
them if they stayed in this accursed land,
the Aryans incontinently fled, nor
stopped until they were well across the
Khyber Pass.
Historicides have confessed them-
selves completely baffled about the reign
of King Hopitugoat. Although research
into native lore and records has led
them to the belief that he was contem-
poraneous with King Siladitya, evidence
as to his actual coronation or events in
his reign have eluded them.
The facts are these. When Siladitya
became a convert to religion his reign
was marked by great generosity. At
the end of each financial year, after the
royal taxgatherers had been through
them, his subjects were herded before
the king and made to listen to a speech
specially written for the monarch by a
slave-scribe. At the end the king dis-
tributed all the royal treasure, even his
personal jewels, to the nearest bystanders,
put on a beggar’s rags and departed to
pay his respects to the sacred bull Siva.
After one such distribution the king
had hurried around to the back door of
his palace to await the arrival of his
“yes” men, whom he had judiciously
arranged to be in the front row of the
populace to catch and return the royal
valuables he had thrown about. A real
beggar was at the door. “You come to
bite ’em for a feed, too, Dig.?” he asked.
“What’s your name, anyway?”
The monarch hissed agitatedly: “Hop
it you goat, I’m the king,” and that’s
how the mistake arose.
In 427 B.c. a Greek royal commission
of inquiry into the fish-and-chip industry
recommended that more foreign markets
be found. A century later the findings
were accidentally discovered in a pigeon-
hole, and Alexander the Great was in-
structed to introduce this great benefit
of Greek culture to /India.
Alick set out, but his map had been
drawn by a Greek poet, and it wasn't
until he had been in the country for
three years that he realised he was in
India, the map having simply referred
to it as the “Coral Strand.” This waste
of time made the world conqueror' a
bit mad, and this affected his salesman-
ship, for the natives stoically resisted all
attempts to get them interested.
For one thing, the fish he had brought
from Greece had, in the terrific heat
and humid atmosphere, become some-
what ripe, and the only interest the
natives evinced in them was limited to
their possible use as a fertiliser. More-
over, as soon as they realised that the
chips were fried in the many-times-
used fat of the cow, they hurled them-
selves into the nearest river in an effort
to wash away the very thought that such
defilement was possible. Alick, a beaten
man, packed up and went home.
Another infiltration that left its mark
on India was that of the Scythians, so
called from the scythes they carried.
These scythes were not, as may be sup-
posed, weapons of offence, though the
Scythians did use them as such on one
occasion, only to be humiliatingly de-
feated when their long-flowing beards
got blown around the handles during a
monsoon. The superstitious natives,
however, • mistook the Scythians for a
mob of Father Times and, arguing that
under their aegis longevity might be
theirs, adopted the leader, Sakya Toot-
sweete, as their king on a two years’ triai.
That was in 125 b.c. Sakya contended
that this probationary period would be
up in 127 b.c., and the natives, not being
a wake-up to the method of counting
backwards, fell for it. But 127 b.c. never
came again, and it was not until a.d.
commenced that the natives tumbled to
it. Then they rose in their wrath and
kicked the Scythian dynasty out.
S. W. K.
Gran.
Gone are the days when Gran sat in her
rocker knitting laces,
For now she's making whoopee-and busy
going places.
She likes her fags and rumba, and
nothing seems to shock her —
Proving that poor old Gran has gone
completely off her rocker!
McM.
Lament.
The “dinkum oil” I always have passed
on to me by one
Who gets his information from the
stables;
And for unreliability he’s only just out-
done
By that ‘‘certain high authority” who
takes the buttered bun
For the wildest furphies in our daily
cables.
BO.
Silver Lining.
Though pessimists wail their forebodings
so direful
That soon into chaos the world will
be flung,
And bellicose bishops get savagely ireful,
And “expert” economists say we’ll go
bung ;
Though taxes may multiply, Parliaments
rile us,
And flapper-press editors howl for a
brawl;
Though Communists rant and some
tyrants revile us,
Heart up ! there is real news that must
reconcile us,
For Grimmett’s evolved a new mystery
ball!
K.


Over Ten Months.
March
April
July
Oct.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Dec.
Jan.
16.
29.
29.
28.
9.
11.
26.
23.
13.
Bank ot N.S.W. .
£37.9
£38.5
£35.2
£34.2
£33.5
£33.5
£33.1
£33.2
£33.7
National Bank
£8.0
£7.9
£7.5
£7.6
£7.2
£7.3
£7
£7.1
£7.2
Carlton Brewery ..
64/-
63/6
67/6
65/6
65/6
65/-
61/6
63/-
66/6
C.-Perkins
26/-
26/9
26/9
26/6
26/-
26/3
25/6
25/3
26/-
Tooth
57/-
58/3
55/6
54/9
54/3
54/9
52/9
55^
55/9
Goldsbrough, Mort
39/6
39/—
36/6
34/6
33/6
33/9
30/9
33/3
32/6
Winchcombe
36/6
36/6
36/-*
33/6
33/-
32/9
30 (£
32/6
32/6
Adelaide Steam ..
32/6
32/6
31/3
32/6
32/7
32/6
30/9
32/6
33/3
Q’laad Insurance
60/9
60/-
60/-
56/-
57/6
57/6
57/6
57/6
57/6
Aus. Gas "A”
£7.2
£7.3
£7.4
£7.5
£7.5
£7.4
£7.3
£7.4
£7.4
Associated News ..
24/3
23/7
23/-
23/6
23/-
23/3
23/-
22/9
23/3
Australian Glass ..
93/6
90/-
95/3
92/6
92/—
92/-
85 -
9
94/-
Australasian Paper
39/-
35/-
33/6*
33/6
32/3
31/9
31/-
32/-
33/3
Australian Cement
31/6
31/6
32/-
31/6
31/6
31/9
32/-
32/9
33/—
British Tobacco ..
53/-
50/-
50/-
48/6
48/9
50/—
49/9
51/9
50/3
Broken Hill Prop.
91 / 3
81/3
82/9
66/3*
60/6
64/-
60/—
64/6
64/6
Burns, Philp
80/-
73/-
72/9
58/3
58/—
57/9
54/-
56/-
55/9
David Jones
44/6
45/-
43/6
42/6
41/6
41/9
41/-
42/-
41/9
Electrolytic Zinc
66/6
57/6
58/-
52/3
47/-
48/6
45 -
48/—
50/3
Fairymead
39/3
37/6
35/-
32/6
33/-
33/-
32/6
36/6
36/-
G. J. Coles
£5.3
£5.2
£5.6
£4.7
£4.5
£4.6
£3.9
£4.3
£4.3
Gordon and Gotch
52/-
52/6
51/6
54/6
54/6
54/9
52/-
52/9
H Jones ..
46/ -
46/9
50/-
50/3
49/—
49/—
48 -
49/3
49/9
Melb. “Herfild** ..
74/6
71/-
69/-
66/-
64/-
62/6
61-
65/6
67/6
Mauri Bros.
75/-
74/—
70/6
68/6
69/-
68/6
68/—
68/6
68/6
Myer (Melb.)
38/-
37/-
36/-
34/6
33/6
34/6
31/-
35/-
Yarra Falls
43/-
42/-*
39/9
40/-
39/9
40/-
38/3
39/—
39/3
W. H. Soul
84/6
85/-
90/-
88/-
86/6
86/6
83/-
83/-
84/-
North Broken Hill
89/3
70/9
76/-
57/3
46/9
52/-
50/3
53/-
57/6
Broken Hill South
58/-
46/9
47/9
41/-
35/6
39/3
35/6
36/9
37/6
Mount Lyell
52/6
45/3
43/6
38/6
33/3
36/6
31/9
30/9
34/-
* £x
rights.
A ME SS ACE TO
'%i v ; > /. *’v ; .'Vm v- 5
THE PEOPLE OF
N EW SOUTH WALES
Directly or indirectly, everyone in New South
Wales benefits every day from the services of
this Bank. Even if you have never entered its
doors, the Bank touches your life somewhere,
by financing primary production and home-
building, and contributing to the growth and
activity of the State. As part of its function
the Bank provides a cheque account service
and accepts interest-bearing Fixed Deposits.
You need not be a farmer nor a home-builder
to enjoy the services of the Rural Bank. Cheque
accounts are opened and Fixed Deposits ac-
cepted for all sections of the community.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (Pres.), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
Kandos Cement.
Those Melbourne investors who
paid 335. for Australian Cement
shares last week (the year’s profit,
incidentally, showed little change)
did themselves a disservice by not
looking into Kandos Cement, the
N. S. Wales arm to the control
of Australian Portland Cement.
Immediate return is 6 p.c. Aust.
Cement, £6 ss. p.c. Kandos
(16s. shares at 255. 9d.). Kandos
scrip carries a 5 p.c. div. payable
next month ; A.C. scrip became ex
div. in December.
Educational
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
BY CORRESPONDENCE.
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE will enrol
in its CORRESPONDENCE COURSES
students who reside outside the metropolitan
area or whose hours of employment prevent
their attending. classes of oral instruction.
CORRESPONDENCE COURSES.
1938 Session.
CERTIFICATE COURSES.
Health Inspection, Meat Inspection, Food In-
spection, Local Government Clerks.
RURAE COURSES.
Agriculture, Care of Animals, Farm Mechanics,
Sheep and Wool Classing, Station Bookkeeping.
TRADE COURSES.
Carpentry and Joinery, Building Construction
and Drawing, Trade Calculations, Electrical
Trades, Composing, Sewer Plumbing, Water
Plumbing, House Drainage.
COMMERCIAL COURSES.
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Auditing, Business
Principles, Commercial Law, Shorthand, Com-
mercial Correspondence, Elementary and
Applied Art, Dresmakinsg and Millinery. .
SECONDARY COURSES.
English, Latin, French, Algebra and Arith-
metic, Geometry and Trigonometry, History and
Geography (to the standard of the Intermediate
Certificate).
FEES: Single subjects—2s / - per annum and
10/- per term. Students under 21 years of
age and in receipt of less than 30/- weekly,
12/6 per annum or 5/- per term.
SEND FOR SYLLABUS TO Secretary, Corre-
spondence Teaching Division, Sydney Technical
College, Sydney.
A. W. HICKS,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
Corns Sentenced to Death
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
C<?rns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
On the Dipper
That it’s a funny world has been
proven by financial developments of late
all over this sphere. We no sooner become
satisfied that recovery is definite than
things start to slide to glory ; then, con-
vinced that caution is indicated at length,
we start to act accordingly, when, lo!
the Big Dipper has begun its upward
run again, and we try to get our breath
back and look pleasant.
Over the past two years we have been
on something like that thing called a
Big Dipper at the Luna Parks in
Sydney and Melbourne and possibly in
Coney Island (U.S.A.); to the aver-
age man price fluctuations have
seemed just as boisterous and just as
crazy as the progress of a car on those
“scenic railways.” And while scenic rail-
ways may be all right for sport and
speculation, no one would go to busi-
ness on them out of choice. But we have
been going to business on them now for
some time, and the strain is beginning to
tell. There is a world-wide movement
to outlaw ups and downs in prices, but
if that was Roosevelt’s (or somebody’s)
object last April he can scarcely be said
to have succeeded. Prices certainly
stopped going up, but their downward
dip afterwards was anything but smooth.
Nov. 26 last represented the worst day
in ages on Australian Stock Exchanges.
Gloom permeated the atmosphere, be-
cause by that time wool and wheat as
well as metals were being clearly affected
by the great slide in prices from the peak
of February and March. Actually Nov.
9 had been a worse day for Barrier
mining stocks, but, taken all round, the
26th of that month was the most nerve-
racking. G. J. Coles shares fell to
775. 6d., Broken Hill Props, to 605., Carl-
ton Brewery to 615., and Australian Glass
to 85s. What those stocks were before
and what they have recovered to since
are shown in the table of share prices on
this page.
New York influences had a great deal
to do with the doubt and despondency
of that particular period. Then, rather
shakily at first, the market became per-
suaded of the obvious truth that Australia
was in many respects better off than the
U.S.A. After some uncertainty the year
closed on a bright note. Though wool
and metals had weakened mean-
time, the new year opened generally in
a still brighter mood.
Last week there was a feeling that the
optimist dogs were about to have their
day again; that there would be good
rises as well as falls in shares.
As pointed out here many times, the
pendulum usually swings from too high
to too low, and it is often the state of
being too low for a time that gives
prices such a decided upward jerk to
start with when the swing starts back
again. It is the opinion here that £l5 or
£l6 a ton for lead and spelter is too low.
A reasonable figure might be £2O.
Copra also seems now to be down to
bedrock, and some recovery may be
looked for soon. Stocks of all kinds of
commodities at one time held back by
speculators awaiting higher prices should
soon be exhausted, and consumption
ought to be getting closer to current pro-
duction.
In the Commonwealth some important
things need watching, namely:
The wool outlook is still uncertain, and
the extent of Japan’s possible purchases
an unknown quantity. Prices to date are
down 2\d. a pound on last season, and
sales of the big clip are very slow.
A setback on the Stock Exchanges
before Easter has been an annual event.
Nowadays it has developed almost into a
superstition.
Some people doubt whether the huge
internal conversion loans of 1938 will be
carried through without a lift in interest
rates.
Our overseas trade position, in £ s. d.,
has slipped, and is slipping. A tighter
banking position is indicated, which may
mean higher interest on some securities.
Building-trade activity is likely to be
less noticeable before long. There must
be a limit to the demand for city and
suburban rebuilding, at present going on
at a great rate.
The talk of war throughout the world,
so long as it continues, will periodically
create alarms.
The position in the U.S.A. is still un-
certain, and there will inevitably be
further rises and falls in business tem-
peratures there.
On the other side of the picture there
is a good deal of brightness:
As long as costs can be kept in hand
we are in a well-balanced position as
regards producing things at a profit, even
if world prices are for a time unstable.
Re-employment has continued at an
unbroken pace from 1933 up to the
present.
Money is still cheap by 1920-28 stan-
dards.
Wool, wheat, butter and metals, though
lower, are still quite payable to the
majority of producers.
The investor who keeps to a well-defined
path, and ignores side-issues and occa-
sional flare-ups, is likely to fare better
than those ydio shy and bolt.
Three recommendations on this page
during the past five or six weeks have
turned out particularly well. Austra-
lasian Paper ords., suggested at 30s. 9d.
(they could be got at 30s. a short while
later), sold at 335. 6d. last week; Kandos
Cement ords., mentioned when 245. 6d.,
are changing hands at 255. 7|d.; and
Carlton Brewery, strongly favored at 635.
6d., last sold at 665. 6d. In all cases
these shares took an upward movement
before last week’s general improvement
in most stocks. Australasian Paper still
yields £4 17s. per cent., Kandos £6 ss.
p.c., and Carlton £4 10s. p.c., the latter
giving a higher return, incidentally, than
any beer-manufactory in the Eastern
States except Queensland Brewery.
* * * *
Cumberland Paper ords. were sold at
the silly figure of 28s. 6d. last week, offer-
ing an immediate yield of £5 12s. 3d. per
cent. The trouble v/ith this stock is that
market activity is confined to Sydney
and the scrip is well held, whereas in the
case of big-brother Australasian Paper
Melbourne and Sydney both represent
active markets. A.P. ords. changed hands
at 335. 6d. last week, yielding £4 17s. per
cent. It would be quite wrong to say
that Cumberland ords. are worth as much
as A.P. ords. because they both pay 8 p.c.
from the same source of revenue (shares
in Australian Paper Manufacturers). If
divs. from the operating co. dropped to
around half their present rate the div.-
paying capacity of A.P. would be about
3 x p.c. p.a., Cumberland 2 p.c. p.a. But
on distributions enabling 8 p.c. to be paid
on Cumberland ords, and prefs., no more
than 8i p.c. could be paid by A.P., and
if much more prosperous times are con-
templated the difference in divs. wouldn’t
be great. Cumberland participating
prefs., selling at between 31s. and 325.,
are very attractive propositions.
Castlemaine, Perkins, recommended
here on any occasion that prices have
been favorable, is making a one-in-five
new issue at par. The scrip, around 255.
during Brisbane’s beer strike, couldn’t
be bought at 275. 3d. following the an-
nouncement. When the new issue is fully
paid the yield at 275. 6d. would be 4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * St St
People looking for a sound -investment
for income shouldn’t overlook Yarra
Falls shares at 395. The return is £5 2s.
per cent., and the record behind the
yield is excellent.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Montana Western Extended was dealt in
restrictedly at 3s. 6d., then slumped to 2s.
3d. Proving of the show at Zeehan (Tas.)
is still going on, and a more definite idea of
the ore position shouldn’t be far off. The
Zeehan silver-lead field seems to have been
living up to its reputation for trickiness in
this case. The stuff won to date has been
decidedly rich, as is usual at Zeehan.
Myer ords. firmed to 355. 3d. as the tone of
things improved, and there was more inquiry
for Gordon and Gotch ords., which lifted to
535.
G. J. Coles ords. were better at 87s.
North Kalgurli scrip was steady at 21s.
6d. Great Boulders dropped back to 7s. Bd.
Boulder Perseverances showed little move-
ment at 3s. 2d. Lancefields firmed to ss. 4d.
for a while. Wilunas, the previous week’s
sensation, sold at 135., then sellers couldn’t
find buyers at 12s. Hill 50’s, recently back in
the limelight, were quoted widely at 4s. 9d.-
ss. 9d.
Golden Plateaus strengthened to 14s. 6d.
The sharemarket apparently thinks that the
explanation of probable ore reserves at the
last annual meeting meant something promising,
even if it isn’t quite sure what.
Mt. Morgan shares weakened. Shipments
of concentrates have been held up for three
months and no shipments are likely for an-
other three; this was given as a reason why
no div. was paid on the last quarterly date.
Some people are wondering whether the co.
won’t need more finance later to carry out its
big development programme, but will resent
it if further shares are put out. Gold in con-
centrate shouldn’t be difficult stuff to borrow on
even if shipments are delayed for a time.
National Bank shares were more in demand,
the yield of 4.2 p.c. having attractions.


Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Examination for permanent appointment
as Mechanic, Grade 1 (Telephone Installa-
tion and Maintenance Section), Postmaster-
General’s Department, New South Wales.
A competitive examination for appointment
as Mechanic, Grade 1 (Telephone Installation
and Maintenance Section), open to males who
are natural-born or naturalised British subjects,
and who were born not earlier than Ist August,
1887, and not later than 19th March, 1920,
will commence on Saturday, 19th March, 1938.
Practical tests will be held on subsequent dates
to be arranged.
Full particulars may be obtained from the
Commonwealth Public Service Inspector, Bth
Floor, Commonwealth Bank Building, Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Applications should be made on foolscap,
and should be lodged with the Secretary, Com-
monwealth Public Service Board, Canberra not
later than 11th February, 1938.
F. G. THORPE, Commissioner,
Commonwealth Public Service Board.
ĸ
Nelson's flagship, The Victory, launched in 1765
(fifteen years after Vickers was launched) stands
for the great British ’ Hearts of Oak'' tradition,
still one of our dearest heritages.
Vickers guards its heritage too - a heritage of
unchanging strength and undiminishing quality.
You drink in the great tradition when you make
sure of Vickers.
The most famous ship
in history, Nelsons
Flagship, The Victory
ICKERS
GIN £
asum JiMce,
1750
recipe under licence from J. £ J. Vickers £ Co. Ltd., London.
Barrier silver-lead shares are the focal
point of the most intense sharemarket
interest on Australian ’Changes. With-
out them Melbourne would be a much
duller city. Yet with all this interest
and consequent day-to-day appraisement
of values, it required attention from out-
side the sharemarkets to convince in-
vestors that for months B.H. South
shares were overvalued in comparison
with North B.H. scrip. In B. 10/11/’37
a special article was devoted to a com-
parison of the respective merits of these
two leading lights at the Barrier. Souths,
when the article was written, were at
395. 6d., Norths at 53s. —only 13s. 6d.
between them. The import of the article
was that either Souths were far too high
or Norths were too low. The matter
was followed up, and soon Norths began
to assume what was considered here to
be a more correct position in the market
in comparison with Souths. On Tues-
day of last week, when there was a
sudden revival of intere*i in all metal
stocks, Norths for the firsi time in many
months reassumed the position of being
priced at slightly more than half as
much again as Souths —the former were
sold at 555. 6d., the latter at 365. 6d. So
far as this page is concerned, its parti-
cular story is that those wlm got out of
Souths when the first article was pub-
lished and put the money into Norths
are now 12 p.c. better off in capital than
those still holding Souths. In other
words, South shares show a loss of 3s.
a share, North a gain of 2s. 6d. a share
—say Is. 9d. on the proportion of a
North share that proceeds of a South
share would buy early in November.
* * ■ * *
Last quarterly div. of Broken Hill
South was kept up to Is. 3d. a share,
though metals had fallen heavily by then.
That rate certainly won’t be maintained ;
and there have been prophecies as to
what the next quarterly handout will
amount to. If it is more than 10|d., paid
out of current earnings, this page will
be surprised.
* H= * *
When base metals started tripping
gracefully up the price-scale last week
the rank and file of Australian investors
were caught asleep. Some had been
“going to buy Norths when they come
down to 505.” ; but, though they were
as low as 465. 9d. in November, for
some time they have been firm above
505., and after last week’s recovery 575.
6d. was the figure at which much busi-
ness was done. Anything between £l7
to £2O sterling for lead doesn’t seem too
high. It was natural that, after £36 a
ton for the metal early in 1937, the
reaction the other way should be sharp
and out of keeping with supply and
demand. Stocks held by speculators and
then dumped when things go wrong
always accentuate market movements.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers prefs.
rose to further heights last week, the
fully-paids of this prettily-secured milliori
issue changing hands at 265. 6d. in Mel-
bourne, up Is. 3d. on the regular price
at the close of 1937. Paying 6 p.c., the
yield is now 4.5 p.c., slightly better than
that offering on Melb. “Herald” 6j p.cs.,
and about 10s. p.c. above the return from
British Tobacco 6y p.cs. The share-
market generally has been diving rather
keenly on prefs. lately. Myer 9 p.cs.
have appreciated, and there have been
other cases. Without special reason in
particular instances, a swing to prefs. isn’t
justified on the probable banking posi-
tion when our export year closes.
* * * *
The credit system to be employed by
Highgates, Ltd., the new chain-store co.
—“Credit Where Credit Is Due” is the
slogan^—has been copyrighted through-
out the Empire. The co. was floated in
the latter half of 1937, and the scrip isn’t
yet listed.
* * * *
The man who bought United Provi-
sions ords. at ss. 6d. in Melbourne a
month or so ago is sitting on a nice
profit if still holding. The shares changed
hands at 7s. 6d. last week, and, though
the future of the bacon business is ob-
scure, the scrip doesn’t look overpriced
at that. Earnings last year more than
covered pref. requirements, and the term
before that there was a small div. for
the ords. Ord. issues of less merit may
be found at firmer prices on the various
’Changes.
The mention of Yellow Cabs will
cause many an investor of the mid-1920’s
to wince (what a rise in the shares and
what a fall was there!), but with the
N. S. Wales sissy—sassy—no, sesqui-
centenary celebrations coming on,
market interest in the stock is showing
considerable revival. Lowest price for
the 7s. 6d. shares (they used to be of 205.)
in 1937 was 4s. 9d., highest 6s. Bd. In
the last term, partly because of better
times, and largely because cheaper
fares in Sydney have brought a flood
oi business to taxi-men, 7 p.c. was earned
on capital and 6 p.c. paid, as against 3?
p.c. paid in the two preceding terms.
Last week the imminence of celebrations
in Sydney sent the scrip above par—to
Bs. 3d., showing about 5.5 p.c. on last
year’s div. basis. This represents a rise
of 2s. (over 30 p.c.) in less than a month.
The opinion is held here that if the scrip
was worth only 6s. 3d. in ordinary times
it isn’t worth Bs. 3d. just because some
American sailors and other overseas and
country visitors will be in Sydney for a
time. The lift of 2s. in Yellow Cab scrip
means an increase of ,£42,000 in the
market capitalisation. The 1936-37 pro-
fit was £11,186. Either share-prices were
too low before or present quotes are
crazy.
<c * * *
The ords. in Holeproof, once a selec-
tion of this page, were one of the stocks
to swing back partially into favor last
week. In Melbourne 295. 6d. was paid,
up Is. on previous sales and a lift of
2s. 6d. on the 1937 lowest. There is still
about 3s. to go before high-water mark
is again reached. Doubts concerning
costs following the loading of industry
with “prosperity” awards, increased prices
for rayon and silk, and threatened over-
production in the women’s hosiery trade
were among the gloomy talk. The
idea held here for some time has been
that the 10 p.c. div. in Holeproof’s case
should be maintained. The co.’s year
closed on Dec. 31, and a declaration is
due next month.
# * * *
When lead and zinc prices take a
downward dip B.H.P. shares can be
counted on to go the way of all base-
metal stocks. Last week metals rose, and
so did most Barrier stocks and Mt. Lyell ;
but Broken Hill Prop, scrip stayed just
about where it has been for several
weeks. B.H.P. has been an exasperating
counter of recent months for speculators.
The market has been most contrary and
erratic in its behavior. Still, people who
aren’t in B.H.P. as dealers have little to
worry about. It is one of the most
securely-entrenched and efficiently-run
major undertakings in the Common-
wealth ; it stands out among factories
like woolgrowing does among land in-
dustries.
* * * *
A gentleman who once wrote a book
aimed at saving us from slump has in-
dited a letter to a Melbourne daily say-
ing that people described as being
“guilty” of sending or taking money
from Australia really increase our ex-
ports, and that if the practice Were de-
veloped on the grand scale our pound
Australian would eventually come closer
to the pound English. As an example
of an Australian “export,” money paid
to “professionals who have been im-
ported to amuse us” is cited. It is the
first time this paper ever heard of a
man increasing his bank balance by
handing a cheque to a jazz-band leader
for playing at, say, his daughter’s wed-
ding. The Melbourne writer seems to
think that payments for intangible items
are of a different order altogether from
charges for groceries. Well, it’s a new idea.


k
k
SHEFFIELD SHIELD CRICKET
VICTORIA v. N.S.W.
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, JAN. 21, 22, 24, 25
Play Commences: 11.30 a.m.
Admission: Outer Ground—Adults 1/6, Children 6d.
Grandstand—Adults 2/6, Children 1/-.
H. Hey don, Secretary N.S.W. Cricket Association, 254 a George Street.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Selected by this Page to win the Anni-
versary Handicap at Caulfield on Satur-
day, Pooley Bridge fulfilled the contract
in a manner highly pleasing to his
backers, who got 5 to 1 and better. Fol-
lowing the pace set by The Riff and
Barapic, Pooley Bridge took charge at
the straight-entrance and won by half a
length from Dictator (5 to 2), with Black
Mac (tens) a neck farther off.
Originally raced by A. T. Creswick, his
breeder, Dictator was sold a few days
before the race to Alex. Higgins, and
will be shipped to India soon. Up to
half a mile from home Dictator was in
front of only one rival, Black Mac, whose
habit is to lag behind until the business
end of the journey is reached. Voitre
presumably had received orders to ride
Dictator in this manner. When he dashed
forward at the four-furlongs pole he
found himself too wide out and was
obliged to restrain the favorite.
The Chivalrous four-year-old should
add to the re-established reputation of
Australian gallopers in Asia.
In the autumn of 1937 Pooley Bridge
lost the Australian Cup by half a length
to Mutable, the latter being ridden by
H. Morris, who weighed out for “Pooley”
on Saturday. A further opportunity is
to be afforded Pooley Bridge of follow-
ing in the footsteps of Marmont and
Realm by annexing the big 2i-miles
handicap after succeeding in the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle.
Pooley Bridge is trained and partly-
owned by Bert Foulsham, whose father,
the Randwick veteran Ike Foulsham,
landed the G.N. Hurdle in its initial year
with Rhesus, and in 1888 with Malua.
Last-named had previously demonstrated
his rare worth as a galloper by annex-
ing the Oakleigh Plate, Newmarket
Handicap, Australian Cup, Adelaide Cup
and Melbourne Cup.
Bert Foulsham has equalled his sire’s
record by leading in two winners of the
National Hurdle, namely, Pildin and
Pooley Bridge. When winter comes
Pooley probably will perform again over
the little sticks, but he would be bound
to receive a crushing impost in the
National.
Black Mac has run his best races for
Ray Wilson, and this jockey resumed his
association with the Beau Fils gelding in
the Anniversary Handicap. Carrying
9st. 51b. on a track deadened by heavy
rain in the early morning, Black Mac
finished only a neck behind Dictator.
After leading to the turn The Riff,
newly arrived from Adelaide, petered out.
He will do better than that in Melbourne
ere long.
Imperishable memories of Valicare, the
fastest mare of her day on the Australian
turf, were conjured up when Princess
credited Pat Osborne with the Holiday
Stakes. This filly is by John Buchan
from the 1926 Doncaster winner, who
produced other notable sprinters in Siren,
The Raider and Care Free.
Four years ago Care Free led home a
Cantala Stakes field. Princess never may
rise to those heights, but she certainly
possesses speed, and fought on with fine
courage to beat Lou Robertson’s 6-to-l
chance Tactical by half a head. Twelves
could be had about Princess, who is
being looked after in Melbourne by
Elwood Fisher on behalf of Bailey
Payten.
Boongarry (Windbag-First Thrill),
from whom big things were expected as
a three-year-old when trained by Fred
Foulsham, registered a maiden victory in
the -Rowena Welter, confined to steeple-
chase jockeys. The new owner (and
trainer) of Boongarry is H. Cousens,
who sold Malurys as a juvenile to Mick
Poison at a high figure. Poison nearly
pulled off an enormous betting coup when
Malurys ran second to Salitros in the
1920 Derby at Randwick.
Supported from tens down to half
those odds, Boongarry returned his pur-
chase money :o Cousens at the first time
of asking. Finishing with far more game-
ness than in any of his previous races,
the Windbag stallion vanquished Bridge ,
of Mar by half a length, with Rodney
Mail, from Queensland, a moderate third
and the rest nowhere.
Bridge of Mar, who holds the world’s
record for two miles over hurdles and
belongs to Alan Currie, the V.R.C. chair-
man, figured at 9 to 4. Like every other
first favorite he failed to catch the judge’s
eye. Arnshire, another 9-to-4 pop, re-
ceived a sound drubbing from Beaustone
(6 to If in the first division of the
Koakaribb Trial. Beaustone, a Beau
Fils colt, belongs to R. P. Trihey, the
owner of Regular Bachelor.
Patience of Frank Musgrave was re-
warded when Blue Sky (Silvius-Lunae
Lumen) outstayed Katie O’Flynn and
Karoo in the second division of the
Koakaribb Trial. Vastly different in that
respect from Dark Sky, his half-brother,
Blue Sky is a delicate customer and won’t
stand up to a strenuous preparation.
Easing from fours to eights, he firmed
to 6 to 1. Jakin, the favorite, would
have been placed but for being crowded
on to the rails near home.
Punters went for a recovery on Stoic
in the last event, the Tooronga Handi-
cap ; but Dick Bradfield’s colt, who may
not be quite ready yet, let them down
badly. Victory went to C. T. Godby’s
candidate, Othello, who, like Stoic, was
sired by Heroic. There may yet be a
chance of R. R. Thomas getting an ade-
quate return on the 1700gns. he paid for
Othello as a yearling. The chestnut, who
started at sixes, put in a gritty finish to
beat Eastern Maid by half a head.
Jupiter (4 to 1) ran away with the
Hawthorn Hurdle, in which the favorite,
Tapageur, was a bad last after being
prominent for half the journey. Joe
Mulcahy, his trainer, couldn’t compre-
hend the form of Tapageur.
* * * *
There were two bad smashes at Canter-
bury Park on Saturday—in the first race
and in the last.
The first race was a division of the
Maiden Welter, a six-furlongs affair in
which there were 17 starters. Near the
half-mile post Venturesome, ridden by
McDonald, fell and Achray (Zensky) and
Barrister (Lewis) toppled over her.
Zensky and McDonald had to be taken
to hospital, McDonald suffering from
shock, Zensky from a right-hand fracture.
Venturesome was killed and Achray had
to be destroyed.
The last race was the Campsie Handi-
cap, a mile and a furlong, and there were
only eight starters. High Cross, ridden
by Keith Cook, was one ; when beginning
his run in the straight, the old horse
touched Gipsy Chief’s heels and down
he went. Babili (Darby Munro) and
Woodsman (Fellows) couldn’t get out’
of the way, and in an instant Urey were
also struggling on the ground. Seem-
ingly, none of the horses was badly hurt,
and Fellows, though knocked about a
bit, was able to walk back to the jockeys’
room ; but Munro and Cook had to be
borne away to hospital. On Monday
the report was that Munro had no organic
hurt; but Cook’s skull was badly
smashed, and two days after his terrible
experience he had not regained con-
sciousness.
The inquiries now in progress will
reveal what was wrong in each case.
Jockeys reported that the track was in
good condition, though a bit dusty.
There were four divisions of the
Maiden Welter. Chicola (7 to 1), trained
by Wally King, remembered for his
association with Tressady Queen and
lolaus, won the opening event easily.
The second division went to the Hawkes-
bury-trained Enatic (8 to 1). Blink
Bonnie (5 to 1), who carries the colors
of a Singleton sportsman, G. Burns, was
well backed for the third division, and
won easily. Alemap, a daughter of the
Valais horse King Val, romped home in
the fourth division —at 9 to 2. It was
her second run on Sydney tracks. Be-
fore this race Tom Cobley’s post posi-
tion was given as two when it was really
14. A lot of money was dropped be-
cause of the blunder.
Holbein made light of his 9st. 51b. in
the Park Stakes. Darby Munro rode the
top weight, who started at 4 to 1. Bian-
coni, a stablemate of Sailmaker and
Mohican, ran on well in second place,
Glenarm being third. Tony disappointed
again. Though ridden patiently on the
rails, he lost ground from the half-mile,
and apparently he is one of those in-and-
out customers who are best left alone.
A rumpus between the trainer (Russell)
and rider (Jeffers) of Bianconi is to be
inquired into by the stewards.
Owner-trainer Alan Cooper had no
luck with Bofield and Early Bird. Bo-
field was 11 to 8 on for the first division
of the Nursery ; she lost her chance at
barrier-rise, and was beaten by Royal
Ensign (5 to 2). Early Bird’s race was
the second division of the Nursery, and
she was at odds on. She swung away
when the barrier was released and took
no part in the race. It was won by
Belle Modele, trained by Jimmy Pike for
W. J. Smith and a Melbourne man, S.
G. Gainsworthy ; she went out at eights
and beat the pacemaker, Some Vixen, by
a head.
Tried over nine furlongs as a prelimi-
nary to the A.J.C. Anniversary Handicap,
Panaster came through the test satis-
factorily. The race was the Canterbury
Handicap, and the rider, Billy Cook, was
instructed to make the Pantheon-
Poetaster colt travel at his top through-
out. After shaking off Musk Deer six
furlongs from home, Panaster had to
withstand a determined challenge from
Alan Verde at the home turn. At the
end he defeated Peg’s Pet by a couple of
lengths, Alan Verde being a close third.
Panaster started at sto 4. Egmont, who
was heavily bandaged on the forelegs,
ran fourth. He is coming along nicely,
and the owner, E. J. Watt, was pleased
with his performance.
Old Canegrass (2 to 1), who races in
G. B. S. Falkiner’s colors, had an easy
win in the first division of the Flying
Welter from Aureus and Careerbra ; but
Mack Sawyer’s Fearless (8 to 1) had to
be ridden out to take the second division.
Fearless is a plain-looking colt, but he
can gallop; Moaenza and the pony
Manamah filled the places ; Beau Ercil,
after a slow start, was running on well
in fifth place at the finish.
Sailmaker (14 to 1), who had shown
no form for a long time, led throughout
in the Campsie Handicap to score from
Viceroy and Improvement. He was
admirably ridden by young Weiss. Im-
provement was hampered when the acci-
dent befell High Cross, Babili and
Woodsman.
* * * #
Babili won another race at Rosebery
(Sydney) on Wednesday, and William
Kelso is alleged to have said that,
“although he is rising eight years of age,
Babili has gained in brilliance in some
mysterious way.” No one acquainted
with William has ever heard him use
such stilted English—his style is much
more terse and direct —or drop a year off
the age of the oldest neddy in his stable.
As a three-year-old, Babili dead-heated
with Peter Pan in Peter’s first race as a
three-year-old, and that was at Warwick
Farm in August, 1932. That the old
horse should be earning his oats still is
a tribute to Kelso’s skill and patience
as a trainer, for Babili’s pins have given
no end of trouble. He is a stallion, too.
The most exciting finish seen on a Syd-
ney racecourse for many a day was wit-
nessed in the Flying Handicap at Rose-
bery. Might Not (5 to 1), Bodley Head,
Canegrass and Hamurah flashed past the
post with only half-heads between. As a
matter of fact, the little Grand Joy
mare’s body was quite obscured from
the judge by the other carcasses when
he had to make his decision, but he iden-
tified her by the part of a head that was
visible. Hamurah might have reversed
positions with Might Not if the jockey
hadn’t had to take a pull to prevent her
cannoning into Bodley Head near the
half-way pole. This mare has been very
unlucky lately.
* * # *
The V.R.C. is putting up £26,935 for
its autumn meeting—Saturday, Feb. 26 ;
Tuesday, March 1 ; Thursday, March 3 ;
and Saturday, March 5. No race will
be worth less than £7OO, and there will
be four of £lOOO (Essendon Stakes,
Autumn Handicap, King’s Plate and
C. M. Lloyd Stakes), two of £l5OO (St.
Leger and Ascot Vale Stakes) and two
of £3OOO (Newmarket and Australian
Cup), while £3350 will be the value of
the Sires’ Produce Stakes. It is enough
to make any Sydney trainer’s mouth
water.
* * * *
Gold Rod has been nominated for the
Oakleigh Plate, to be run on Feb. 12.
Ajax is an even more interesting entry,
and other fast ones on the list are
Amiable, Aurie’s Star, Studio, her brother
Manrico, Sweet Memories and Pamelus.
One of the three-year-olds is pretty sure
to be favorite.
* * * #
“Retired Urger”: It is now admitted
in Queensland that the much-advertised
anti-s.p. legislation didn’t extirpate the
thing after all, and s.p. cases are keeping
police and magistrates busy. Jug is now
the rule Where once a fine sufficed, and
a recent example caught six weeks in
spite of his plea that he was a poor, hard-
working man with a clean record. The
prosecuting trap said dispassionately that
the offender, owner of a billiard-saloon
in the heart of the city, had run a thriv-
ing s.p. business by telephone. So well
did he handle matters that, though the
police knew what he was up to, they had
the greatest trouble in getting evidence.
Ins and Outs
Against N.S.W. in Sydney, South Aus-
tralia was dismissed for 187 on a good
wicket, though the bowling seemed just
ordinary. McCabe’s 83 for N.S.W. was
much more interesting than Bradman’s
44 for the trippers; opening with the
rather dreary Fingleton, he made his
runs in 108 minutes, and hit 12 fours.
Barnes, hailed a month ago as a likely
batsman for the English trip, frittered
away an hour collecting six runs. Chip-
perfieldi (27 n. 0.) showed a few full-
blooded strokes late in the afternoon.
On Monday Chipperfield was out for
31, but Jackson (63) helped the total to
295.
* * *
Victoria got to 396 against Queensland
in Brisbane (Lee 108, Barnett 83 n. 0.,
Sides 74, Ledward 54). Tallon made two
catches, and, batting, was 29 n.o. at
stumps on Saturday, when Queensland
had lost four for 164 (Webb 59, Allen
42). Brown was out of the team, in-
jured.
(Continued on page 30.)
The Americans didn’t take a match in
the Adelaide “test” against Australia.
Budge wasn’t well; he forfeited to Quist,
but turned out in the doubles —he and
Mako were beaten 6-0, 2-6, 7-5, 6-2 by
Bromwich and Quist —and he agreed to
a three-set affair with Bromwich, going
down 8-6, 1-6, 3-6. Mako gave Brom-
wich a stiff fight, though he was beaten
in straight sets, 9-7, 7-5, 7-5, and he lost
to Quist 6-4, 6-2, 6-3.
* * * *
Figures for nine of the ten events at
the N.S.W. athletic championships bet-
tered the 1937 performances. A 21-
year-old, Mumford, took the 100 (in
9.Bsec.) and the 440 (in 50sec.). Shetliffe
cleared 6ft. 2in. in the high jump, and
Dickenson 24ft. l|in. in the broad.
* * * *
N.S.W. boat Malvina won “the Aus-
tralian” 18-footer championship at Bris-
bane —Queensland and New South sail
’ em —though she could finish only fifth
in the last heat. Though the series has
been going since 1935, this was the first
N.S.W. win.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
William Reid Stakes: Amiable ;
next, Garrio.
Caldermeade Handicap: Wind-
mar ; next, Sindicada.
Warrock Highweight: Chelan-
dric ; next, The K.C.
FOR RANDWICK.
Challenge Stakes: Bodley Head ;
next, Beau Ercil or Jocular.
Bondi Handicap: Beau Ercil or
Troy ; next, Lady Cav.
January Handicap: Mananui;
next, Verberry.
Paddington Handicap: Brad-
ford ; next, Rosmead.


For EVERY business, there’s
Triple Economy
SSI?
m
1
1
4
mmsm
Sul
I
£
m
liiiiii# l
cv=v
(9
A
ini
3B
■JO
D
00
ns
BRITISH TRU CHS
IyTANY great firms .. . leaders of widely varying industries .. .
names known throughout the country... all choose Commers.
Why? Because Commer gives THREE-FOLD ECONOMY in LONG
LIFE, RELIABILITY and LOW UPKEEP. Commer s excellence is
traditional and unequalled. Its mechanical perfection guarantees
continuous service without fuss or failure-saves men’s time-gets
more work done— reduces maintenance charges.
Commer have been building commercial vehicles and nothing
else-for over thirty years. At to-day’s prices they are the finest
possible value.
V/. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
N.S.W.:
john McGrath ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS
QUEENSLAND:
JOHN McGRATH LTD.
358 Wickham Si., Valley, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
Yo rk Street, Launceston.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition St., Me/6., C.l.
World Exporters:
&
HooteS™
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
Australian and N.Z. Representative
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.


k
ķ
ĸ
The first. Quadruple-acting Tyre Pump to be made—-the Renrut
“Quad” —surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used —these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre at each stroke —halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier. .
Fitted with accurate Pressure Gauge. Price <,,/ "
Less Gauge. Price fi‘V-
RENRUT
"QUAD"
H AND PUM P
Factory Representative:
.JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers: ■,
WILLIAM TLRNER & BRO.. LTD.. Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
"silver
EDGE*
TRADE VMARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with "RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
M.Q. and Rafferty
“Der Jong”: The South Africans are
a bowelless lot where dinkum “sports”
are concerned. The police have notified
all imported professional wrestlers that
they must get out of the country as soon
as their permits are up. Exception has
been made in the case of one mat
comedian on his undertaking never to
have anything to do with wrestling again.
He is to run a milk bar instead —in
Jo’burg, of all places. There is nothing
new in this attitude. I know at least two
Australian “sports” who were advised
that it would be well if they caught the
first boat out of the Union. They took
the hint.
* rf: $ %
“Marija”: Old-time fighters, is it?
Harry Phillips deserves a par. He was
a Queensland bushman in the late ’nine-
ties —a woodcutter mostly—when he
quitted the bush to box middleweights.
He became Victorian and Queensland
middleweight champion—he lifted the
Queensland title from Joe Costa, a smart
Sydney boxer —and he fought a draw
with “Starlight” in Sydney, breaking an
arm in the fifteenth round. In Queens-
land he had 62 bare-knuckle fights. Met
in Sydney the other day he said, with a
grin, “I’ll fight'any old bloke my age in
Australia” —he’s 71.
* * * *
“Jachris”: An Australian doing well
in California is Art Marteil, an old-
time boxer, and a teacher of boxing
since he retired from the Ring. He runs
a boxing hall in Hollywood and stages
a programme of fights once a week, the
pugs being, for the most part, his pupils.
The negro Armstrong, who beat Blatch
and is now reckoned not only the best
featherweight but the best lightweight in
the U.S.A., was a Marteil boy. Film
actresses give the winners their trophies,
and Mrs. Art —“Belle Marteil, Boxing’s
Only Hostess” —helps to make “The Barn”
attractive. Mrs. Art brings out a weekly
giving news about the fighters. Art
himself writes some of the articles, and
often turns off “a parody on another
Adam Lindsey Gordon steeplechase
poem.”
Ins and Oufs
“Old Q.”: With only a week to go
before the 16 cricketers for England are
picked I am hopping in to give the
selectors a lead. My little lot is: Fingle-
ton, Brown, McCabe, Barnes, Fleetwood-
Smith, McCormick, Gregory, Bradman,
Badcock, Grimmett, Williams, White,
O’Reilly, Oldfield, Tallon and Cook.
Provided Brown recovers from his in-
jury he must go in on his English and
South African record. Failing him I
would try Rigg, though he is nothing
like Brown as a fieldsman. I am anxious
about Tallon. Oldfield is sure to be in
the team, and Barnett has solid back-
ing for second ’keeper’s place. Williams
will help out McCormick with his fast-
medium stuff, and he is a batsman to
reckon with. The others, bar White and
Cook, practically pick themselves ; Cook
can be definitely classed as a good all-
rounder, and White might rival Horni-
brook’s success in England.
That team, if we include Tallon, em-
braces eight notable batsmen, two
genuine all-rounders in Cook and Wil-
liams —Gregory also comes into this
category —a pinch change in McCabe, a
left-hander of class, a useful speedster
and the world’s two best googly experts
in addition to O’Reilly, who is in a class
by himself.
* * * *
The usual calamity overtook Queens-
land when it met South Australia in
Brisbane. Queensland responded to the
visitors’ first knock of 398 with 192
(Tallon 48, Baker 70 n. 0.; Cotton 4-37,
Grimmett 3-42). Instead of letting the
locals follow-on Bradman batted again,
closing at 8-287 (Bradman 113, Waite
58, Williams 37). Queensland’s second
spank ran to 113 for five when rain
stopped play (Allen 55). A start was
made again at 4.30, and Queensland, play-
ing dogged cricket, had a wicket in hand
at time —8 for 155 (Ward 5-66). South
Australia won on the first innings by
206 runs.
The most cheering feature of the
match from the Queensland point of
view was the ’keeping of Tallon. He
allowed only two byes in the total of 685
runs, and dismissed five batsmen. Cook’s
bowling was also noteworthy—B-177
against some of the best bats in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Bradman has been a sore
trial to Queensland since he started on
the Bananaland bowling in 1927-28. His
twin centuries for South Australia
brought his total against the Northerners
to 2152, with an average of 143.5. This
is the second time Don has worked the
"Pepper an salt, Erb?"
double on the unsuspecting Brisbaneites,
the other being in 1928-29, when he scored
131 and 133.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The recent clash be-
tween Queensland and South Australia in
Brisbane was the 23rd since the Banana-
landers hopped into the Sheffield ring.
South Australia has won 19 and Queens-
land four. All the Bananaland victories
were at home.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Spain and Japan van-
ished from the headlines of the English
papers the other day when it was an-
nounced that the make-up and format
of Wisden’s was to be altered. It is con-
sidered, with all reverence, that no such
revolutionary change has taken place
since the publication of the Revised Ver-
sion of the Scriptures. The whole nature
of the changes has not yet been released,
but it may interest one Dr. Robertson,
of Melbourne, to know that there will
be a section devoted to women’s cricket.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Sir Home Gordon, one
of England’s innumerable cricket
tycoons, is advocating the starting of
county matches on Tuesdays and Satur-
days instead of Mondays and Thurs-
days, with play on Sundays on a special
timetable which will not interfere with
religious services. Like a true Scot,
Gordon has his eye on the brass. He
considers the mostly impoverished coun-
ties which look to the Saturday half-
holiday as their weekly meal-ticket will
increase their takings immensely if Sun-
day—nowadays practically a holiday and
little else to three-fourths of the com-
munity—is made available for play.
•* * * *
“Aigburth”: The cricket season in
England promises to outdo all its fore-
runners in Test-match worship. Surrey
reports having already sold out all the
reserved seats at the Oval for the fifth
Test. As this is to be played to a finish
if no decision is arrived at in the four
games before it, the British public evi-
dently expects a recurrence of the 1934
tourney, when the Oval match clinched
the result. The Surrey secretary esti-
mates that £5OOO will have to be turned
away through lack of accommodation —
and the Oval is one of the largest
grounds in England.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The Australian amateur
golf team for Britain will be handicapped
from the start, for it is timed to land
in England only five days before the
amateur championship, which is its chief
objective, on May 21. The side will not
be at Troon in Scotland, where the
championship will be played, until May
18 —dashed bad staff work on the part
of the Australian authorities, who have
decided that the players shall not sail
until March 31. Troon is a long and diffi-
cult course, and it will be a miracle if
our men master its conditions in the
short time at their disposal.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Norman voft Nida
did himself proud in carrying off the
£5OO first money in the Philippines open
championship at Manila. The Ameri-
can-designed course on which he played
is of full championship length and stan-
dard, and the opposition included some
of Japan’s best; two, Chinsesui and
Toda, filled second place with 295, two
strokes behind the Australian. These men
are rated high by the Australian profes-
sionals who saw them in the U.S.A.,
where they play frequently in competi-
tion with the best of the American pro-
fessionals.
* * *
“Hamilton”: Von Nida announced at
Brisbane on his way to the Philippines
that when he came back he would chal-
lenge the best ball of Anderson and
Walker, the two stars of Queensland pro-
fessional golf, for £25 a man. The story
illustrates the supreme confidence in his
own ability which has characterised the
Queenslander since he won his first
championship as a caddie. His great am-
bition is to become a tournament player
rather than a club drudge, and he has
made no secret among his acquaintances
of his intention to butt into the lucrative
professional tourney class so character-
istic of American golf. All will wish him
luck, but if Sarazen and
others are to be believed
an outsider, especially if
he is an alien, has to
rival a thousand billy-
goats rolled into one if
he is to butt success-
fully.
“Brassey”: N.S.W.’s
A.I.F. golf competition
is to be played this year
on the Australian club’s
course on February 23,
with entries closing on
February 7. This will be
the 19th hopover, and
special interest attaches
to it because conditions
require that after it has
been played for on 20
occasions the valuable
cup shall go to the
player winning it the
greatest number of
times. So far no one
has won more than once.
* * *
“Hoylake”: Golf is
full of inconsistencies.
Most folk would say that
a player doing a hole in
one had a mortgage on
that orifice. Not so. Re-
ported from England
that when Eddie Whit-
combe scored his first hole in one he
could do no better than halve it. His
opponent, who was down in two, was
receiving a stroke a hole, and that’s how
it was worked.
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”: Tipsters see a Davis Cup
challenge foreshadowed in the decision
of the Australian L.T.A. to pair Quist
and Bromwich for the doubles in the
Australian championships in Adelaide.
Quist was to have played with Turnbull.
The latter will now team up with Huxley,
who had arranged to play with
Bromwich.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The Australian L.T.A.
has received a request from its Nip-
ponese opposite number for a tennis
team some time this season. The invi-
tation carries a polite reminder that,
though Japan has sent a couple of tennis
sides to Australia of late years, the Hon-
orable Diggers have not seen fit to return
the courtesy. The covert rebuke is de-
served, but there are several hurdles in
the way of meeting the Japanese wishes.


5
n
; 1
rag*
SMB
m
\ s
si
■
‘SA[
!-SSS"*
HISS
aSea
t£?VJ
The Schrader Valve,
“the little fellow
with ' the big job.”
The importance
of regular
testmq
The Schrader Clip-
on is a real per-
sonal gauge, of
proved accuracy.
Its small footing
makes it very
handy to use.
Obtainable from all
garages.
The comfort and safety of motoring depend
to a large extent upon correctly balanced tyre
pressures. It is waste of money to insist on good
tyres and then neglect the air pressures in them.
Those few minutes every week with your
Schrader to ensure correctly balanced pressures
are time well spent. More even and therefore
safer braking will result, more comfortable steering
and improved suspension. Remember, excessive
tyre wear is due to under inflation.
So make a regular habit of Schrader-testing
your tyres each week-end. Schrader pioneered
air-control, and their valves are standard through-
out the world.
Schrader
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, ci.
MURDOCHS
famous RED SPOT
k
Everything through-
out the store (except
Tobacco and a few
proprietary lines)
reduced at 1 Ao/
least
Many lines clearing
as low as
HALF PRICE
/
m
v
\\
9 jL
t
h
TROUSERS - Usually 12/6
Men’s Working Trousers offering exceptional bargains
in high quality to clear stocks. Woollen Tweed in
dark grey or blue shades. Side pockets and cuff
bottoms. Ready to wear.
Sale
8/11
JODHPURS Special Value
A clearance special in men’s strongly-made Jodhpurs.
Cut for freedom and service from khaki drill, with
plain knees and cross pockets. Ready to wear.
Sale
13/6
SOMBREROS Usually 27/6
Murdoch’s famous Country Hats have a reputation for
outstanding quality, and at ordinary price are leading
value yet prices are now cut to sale levels. Pure
Fur Felts with well-ventilated crown, 6-J inches, and
roll edge brim, inches. Black, slate or fawn.
Sale
24/9
BOOTS Usual Price 14/9
A first-class bargain considering the rise in leather
costs. Black or Tan Military Cossacks, guaranteed
solid leather throughout. Medium weight standard
screwed and sewn double-decker soles and watertight
tongues.
Sale
12<9
ALL TAILORING REDUCED
Prices: tO £B/ 10 /-
Send for Free Patterns.
Sale Catalogue—FßEE.
We Pay Freight Write to Desk “R.”
MURDOCHS LTD
PARK AND
GEORGE STS.
SYDNEY
Most important is the practical commit-
tal of the A.L.T.A. to a challenge for
this year’s Davis Cup in the U.S.A., with
a subsequent trip to Wimbledon.
£ :*c *
“Top Spin”: Germany has declared
itself against the proposal to hold the
Davis Cup contest every two years. As
America has also shied at the proposal
there is little doubt that the Davis Cup
nations’ conference in February will
keep to the original scheme. The smaller
European tennis nations in particular
will vote as one for the retention of the
annual system. They never have Buck-
ley’s chance of winning, but the tourney
gives them a little publicity.
° * * *
“Cut Shot”: Gottfried Cramm has
issued what in his opinion is the ranking
list of the world’s best 10 tennis-players:
Budge, himself, Henkel, Austin, Riggs,
Bromwich, Yamagishi, Quist, Grant and
Parker. English barrackers will hardly
agree that Austin is below Henkel, and
form doesn’t suggest it to outsiders.
Many also would put the German second
string behind Bromwich and Quist, pro-
vided the latter gets back to his best.
Yamagishi is a dark horse here, but
Cramm has recently clashed with him in
Japan.
sfc :|C
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Budge admits
having received such a good offer from
an American promoter that he is “inter-
ested.” Good luck to him, and may he
pile up the spondulicks until Roosevelt
gets after him as a capitalistic menace !
Miscellaneous
“Scalper”: The controllers of the
Empire Games made no provision for
limiting sales of blocks of reservations
when the box-offices were opened. As
a result speculators bought tickets in
blocks of 250 tickets and more. The
seating accommodation at Sydney Cricket
Ground and the swimming-pool, where
the most popular turns will take place,
was snapped up in no time. Now folk
without the foresight to take out season
tickets early will have to buy at specu-
lators’ prices.
* * * *
“All In”: Denis Shore, the South
African runner, here for the Empire
Games, has been telling an interviewer
about his experiences during a tour of
the U.S. last year, and of the “bumping,
jostling, elbowing and pocketing” which
were his portion before he acquired
wisdom. A big negro who gave him a
bump over the ear with an elbow was
Shore’s first preceptor. It seems to be
one of Shore’s sweetest memories that
in a later race he was able to hand the
coon a stiff dose of his own medicine.
* * * *
“North Quay”: Brisbane’s Toowong
rowing club has visions of getting the
English Empire Games rowing eight up
to Brisbane for a spin. Toowong has
informed the State rowing heads that it
can pay the Englishmen’s expenses and
help some of the country crews to come
down and join in a challenge race. If
the Britons are willing the clash will
take place on February 12—a fortnight
before the State eights championship.
* # * *
“Lines”: Kenny Jaggard, cox of the
Canadian eight-oar crew, is a massive
brute of sst. 101 b. All the same, his
mana is so great that, when the Victoria
club crew was chosen to represent
Canada, it borrowed Jaggard from its
rivals, the Vancouver R.C.
.* * * *
“Shell”: On the Richmond, at Wood-
burn (N.S.W.), on February 26, George
Cook, of Sydney, is to tackle Evans Pad-
don, the Australian professional cham-
pion sculler, for £lOO a side. There was
much talk some time ago of Paddon
meeting Bobby Pearce in Canada for the
world’s title, but the meeting seems to
have blown over.
* * * *
“Blade”: The recent move of the N. S.
Wales rowing heads to encourage coun-
try clubs has already borne fruit in the
entry of two crews from the Pittwater
athletic club for the State eight-oar cham-
pionship at Penrith on January 29. This
will be Pittwater’s first appearance in an
important rowing event, though it has
won four eight-oar events —three maiden
and one junior—since its affiliation with
the State body last season.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Family cricket teams are
not uncommon, and I have heard of a
football side of brothers and one sister
—it was a Soccer team in England, and
the lady kept goal. Victoria just now
seems to be blossoming out with rowing
crews made up of brothers. This season
four Searles, with a fifth as cox, and a
Jelbart crew of brothers and cousins
competed at Henley-on-Yarra. The
latest is the Hume four, made up of
sons of W. R. Hume, of Hume pipe
fame, with a fifth brother holding the
lines. The Humes showed at Angle-
sea (Vic.) regatta and won the grand
challenge cup. In a semi-final the
holders, T. S. McMillan and three sons,
were beaten.
$ 4c * nr
“Gate”: The performances of the Kan-
garoos in France have been somewhat
obscured by a screamingly funny feud
between the League Board of Control
and the management as to when the un-
fortunate tourists shall depart. Against
South-West France the trippers had to
go all out to win 14-8. Against Roanne
and Albi they won 35-6 and 47-3. So
far French form does not indicate that
a French team will draw even sustenance
money if it comes to Australia.
%
“Birkenhead Park”: The British inter-
national Rugby season opens on January
15 with the match between England and
Wales. Skipper of the English side is
Peter Cranmer, who has replaced Aus-
tralia’s old friend Wyatt as cricket cap-
tain of Warwickshire. Such doubles are
rare. A. E. Stoddart led England in
cricket and Middlesex in football.
“Monkey” Hornby captained Lancashire
in cricket, but, though he played Rugby
for England, he never led the side. Cran-
mer is a three-quarter of outstanding
merit, and will probably be there to
shake up the Australian XV when it
tours Britain next season.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Ali Baba Goes to Town.”
Eddie Cantor, Roland Young.
This week-end the Montagues go out
of Sydney Mayfair and the talkies come
in again with this comedy, wherein Eddie,
as a rattler-jumper with the film-star-
aut'ograph bug, falls from a freight-train
and crashes in on a company on location
for the filming of “Ali Baba.”
With a job as an extra he takes 12
pills at two o’clock instead of two at
twelve and dreams his way to a Bagdad
of a bygone age where he is hailed as
the son of the (then) late Ali Baba and
made Prime Minister. Thereafter, as the
title puts it, he “goes to town.”
The ladles of froth and bevies of easy-
on-the-eye damsels that have helped pre-
vious efforts are lacking in the offering.
Eddie warbles occasionally and dances
once or twice, but he is going stale or
losing his punch for this sort of stuff.
Of the rest of the songandance June
Lang does a little, some dusky harem
maidens gyrate in revealing limitations
and a bunch of negroes make a bit of
noise. Also, a repellent crudity in the
form of a trio of ultra-heavyweight hip-
swingers bursts into song a couple of
times.
By its wisecracks, however, the film
struggles above the f.a.q. line to become
at times almost brilliant. In places
Eddie’s rib-splitters—some of the best
of them at the expense of Rooseveltian
America —are tossed off so fast that some
are lost in the laughter at the one before.
With the poor clamoring for food at
the gates of the palace he explains to
the Sultan that taxation for finance to
build roads to nowhere, etc., would pro-
vide them with employment. More
work would mean greater profits, with
increased taxation, and so on ad in-
finitum.
“It’s called the New Deal,” says Eddie.
Roland Young’s dubious “Where does
it end?” and Eddie’s gesture of “Who
knows?” and “That’s what we’re all
wondering,” are perfect.
Eddie persuades the Sultan to abdicate
and run for President, but despite such
appealing catch phrases as “Every man
a sultan and every home a harem,” the
“Bagdaddies” and “Bagmammies” decide
they want Eddie for the job.
With the prospect of boiling in oil if
he is elected, the goggle-eyed comedian
extends himself to turn public opinion in
favor of the ex-Sultan, but even the
plaintive “You can’t elect me President,
I can’t even fish” fails to reduce his over-
whelming majority.
Escaping the threatened penalty he
leaves Bagdad, but returns to defeat an
invading army, restore himself to favor,
wake from his dream and- lose his job.
The end of the film finds him, down and
out again, watching Hollywood’s chosen
arrive for the premiere of “Ali Baba.”
Roland Young is engagingly dubious
and vague, Douglas Dumbrille’s is a
capable piece of villainy and June Lang
and Virginia Fields aren’t hard to watch.
Despite certain merits, the film will
tend to confirm many in the opinion that
comedians of Eddie’s type last only as
long as they are a novelty.
“The Thirteenth Chair.”
Most remarkable thing about this
M.-G.-M. murder opus at Sydney Capi-
tol is the cast. Among others it includes
Dame May Whitty, Elissa Landi, Madge
Evans, Janet Beecher, Lewis Stone,
Thomas Beck, Ralph Forbes and Henry
Daniell. Quite an imposing array in one
show.
It has the usual result; smooth acting
throughout, but no performance ranking
sufficiently above the others to give an
additional boost to the film.
As a mystery it’s just one of those
affairs wherein everyone is equally open
to suspicion, but to stimulate the lurv
interest the goil who seems to have
less motive than any of them is chosen
as the murderess. Her mother, a fake
medium* finds by chance what any de-
tective should discover in the course of
his job. A little more investigation re-
veals the mistake and the murderer, who,
although he had the strongest motive,
was for some reason allowed to pass
unsuspected.
Dame May Whitty, Stone and Daniell
do their best, but it’s not a very convinc-
ing mystery.
“Idol of the Crowds”
This, at Sydney Capitol, is yet another
of those sporting films which give an
apparently indispensable player the op-
portunity of refusing fabulous bribes to
lose the game.
This time it’s John Wayne as an ice-
hockey player who comes from his
chicken farm to help a hitherto dud team
beat anything that comes against it. Re-
fusal to lose the game brings a couple
of gangsters around his ears, but provi-
dence, or the directors, decree that the
team mascot, a youngster, shall take the
punishment.
Remaining at the hospital until the
young ’un is assured of a speedy re-
covery, the Great Player rushes back to
Eugene Pallette, conductor Leopold Stokowski and Adolphe Menjou aiding and
abetting in the bright Deanna Durbin song-with-music film at Sydney State.
the rink in time for the last half, wins
the game, goes into a clinch with Sheila
Bromley and returns to his chickens.
“The Invisible Menace.”
Boris Karloff and Marie Wilson.
On Sydney Civic’s bill, this fillum
marks a further step in the moral re-
generation of Mr. Karloff’s roles.
Mysterious murders and attempted
assassinations are happening all over the
shop in one of Uncle Sam’s munition
depots. Karloff is the suspect, man-
handled, bullied and persecuted by a
ruthless cop. He isn’t the criminal, just
a pathetic victim of circumstantial evi-
dence.
Miss Wilson is thrown in for comic
relief. Plot construction is loose and
weak, teeming with improbabilities and
impossibilities, but vigorous acting puts
it over.
“Saturday’s Heroes.”
Van Heflin and Marion Marsh.
Propaganda stuff, protesting against
the hypocrisies connected with collegiate
football, particularly the ringing-in of
professionals.
Heflin manages to make his stereo-
typed role interesting, and stereotypy
is mitigated in the important game at
the end, in which Heflin doesn’t actively
participate, but supplies the strategy that
wins the game.
But gridiron football is an acquired
taste, like baseball, and it is oversangiiine
to expect Australian picturegoers to get
very excited about it. At Sydney Civic.
Capitol Shorts.
Two newsreels, a Joe Palooka “Call-
ing All Kids” and “Carnival in Paris”
constitute this week’s offering. The
newsreels excite small comment, and
“Calling All Kids” should haye been
consigned to a museum with pie-throw-
ing.
“Carnival in Paris,” however, is delight-
ful. Romance, comedy and froth are
measured carefully into the adventures
of a museum janitor and street waif.
Nothing is out of proportion with the
length of the brevity, and a small cast
handle their parts with a neatness and
surety that are unusual in these shorts.
Coming before a murder mystery and
gangster-sporting opus it stands out as
the most entertaining item of the pro-
gramme.
“Hopalong Cassidy Rides
Again.”
Bill Boyd and George Hayes.
This instalment of the versatile Cas-
sidy’s adventures is ostensibly based on
Clarence E. Mulford’s Black Buttes, and
clears up a matter that has long intrigued
this commentator —the pronunciation of
“buttes.” Despite its double “t” the
Westerners call it “bewts.”
Amid these rock formations Mr. Cas-
sidy, nobly aided and abetted by Windy
(©eorge Hayes), unmasks the rustling
'proclivities of a pseudo-palaeontologist
and conducts (the first irruption of
romance in the series so far as Cassidy
is concerned) a sedate courtship of the
palaeontologist’s innocent sister, a widow.
When last seen the master criminal is
on the summit of a butte (or bewt)
hugging a keg of dynamite. A second
later a bullet from one of his own fol-
lowers (whom he has ruthlessly shot
down) explodes the keg and the rest is
a dull roar, a minor avalanche and a
bellying cloud of black smoke. Previewed
at Paramount Little Theatre, Sydney.
“She’s No Lady.”
Ann Dvorak and John Trent.
One of those jool robbery opuses in
which, after leading juvenile and glamor-
ous goil star have spent an hour stealing
the stolen sparklers from each other, it
turns out that they are really insurance
dicks.
The plot makes no more sense than
that of any other fantasia of this sort,
but there is a lot of bright wisecracking
between Miss Dvorak (who has been in
the hands of the beauticians and has
learned how to wear clothes) and John
Trent, a newcomer, good-looking, a fast
talker and a natty dresser. Harry Beres-
ford and Guinn Williams, as genuine .
criminals, have an unhappy time, but
provide a few chuckles. Previewed at
Paramount Little Theatre, Sydney.
Fay Compton’s New Card.
Fay Compton slipped a new card from
Noel Coward’s pack of one-acters into
her hand at Melbourne King’s on Satur-
day, having made room for it by throw-
ing “Red Pepper” into the discard.
The new item is entitled “Fumed Oak,”
and is described as an unpleasant
comedy. The majority of a moderately
large audience found it extraordinarily
pleasant. The spectacle of a lamb of a
middle-aged shop assistant who has been
tyrannised over by his wife, his wife’s
mother and a catarrhal daughter for 15
years suddenly turning into a raging lion
as the result of absorbing two small
whiskies and, after dressing down his
dumbfounded family, announcing that he
has surreptitiously salvaged £572 from
his meagre earnings and now intends to
leave them fifty and go off to the South
Sea Islands in search of love, life and
adventure, his boat being due to leave
from an unknown port the following
morning, caused the house to rock with
laughter.
But Coward’s play is a commonplace
one, and painful rather than funny in its
unconscious brutality, and so the audi-
ence regarded it, for there was a note of
hysteria in its laughter, especially where
the henpecked hero —can a hero be hen-
pecked?—recounts to his weeping daugh-
ter the trick by which his wife trapped
him into matrimony. It would have re-
quired more sympathetic qualities than
Coward possesses to give it understand-
ing and perspective.
Miss Compton acted admirably as the
shrewish wife, and conveyed real emo-
tion in the second scene when she flung
herself desperately on her husband’s
mercy. Jack McNaughton as the hus-
band, Hayley Bell as the daughter and
Ann Codrington as the mother-in-law
were well in the picture.
Gregan McMahon Shaw.
Enter “Cauboy,” cheering loudly: —
At 81 Shaw still packs a good punch,
as in his remarks the other day that,
while the Church has some of the best
broadcasters, notably Archbishops Lang
and Temple, the Vicar of Tewkesbusy
and the Rev. Pat MacCormick, the
theatre suffers slovenly speech, convey-
ing nothing to the audience and stultify-
ing the author’s work. “This,” said Shaw,
“is due to the distraction caused by other
theatrical arts, namely, lighting, coloring,
dressing and fashions. There is thus no
time for the central art of - speech on
which all brainy plays depend.”
If Shaw had ever seen one of his own
plays produced in Melbourne by Gregan
McMahon —to whom, by the way, he long
ago gave the sole right of first production
in Australia of his own opuses—I fancy
he would make an exception. I have
seen the Shavian drama produced iin
various parts of the world, including
London, and to my way of thinking Mc-
Mahon does Shaw as near perfection as
it is possible to imagine. Shaw, of
course, might think differently, but I
doubt it.
A Shaw play, according to McMahon,
plays itself, and this is confirmed by most
of his actors, who have less difficulty in
remembering his lines than in the most
sensationally emotional of dramas.
Thomas Skewes, the ex-State school-
teacher, who has a long list of Shaw
characters to his credit under McMahon’s
direction, including the general practi-
tioner in “A Doctor’s Dilemma,” is, to
my mind, the perfect Shavian interpreter.
Unlike most plays, a Shaw drama,
despite the apparently inconsequential
character of its humor, has a clear line
of thought running through it, and this
is what makes it so easy of performance.
Producers who make a muck of it do
so because they have all sorts of theories
about the drama. This is not a Mc-
Mahon failing. McMahon’s productions
are not oniy good from the point of view
of the central art of speech, but from the
point of view of coloring, dressing and
lighting.


B B MOTT'S VIMG P>OT « B £ s
mm
■
HI
m
an
f v
U
:
km,.
k
F k
M O
U s
iBlg?
Age
1 6 months.
Roy Edward
Gardiner.
® Ur *ng
PA°t° e Past half
"ared l ka o{ st, entu ry „
A roo(t . s fr °* a° e 0& .^o, ou 7 r , 4 f.000
have m lU n of si x c^/c/ren
“-w? &.«£’£*»££**• o"
*"-» by £7??
C/ ~ Post °^.
T s <
“Photo y dl ng un ,
uho /,: of *ylatl e **>«
f7/° y - R»yli, Cover
<r'7zi
rate
Y t
six
em to otL me^ure
•ers.
(Signed) D fa i thful ly,
*
l ner.
ROUNDABOUT:—
The Village.
In the very year N. S. Wales or Syd-
ney, or some of Sydney —is just now
more or less excitedly working itself up
into the throes of celebrating, the first-
observed prototype of the Village’s
justly-famed surf sirens appeared to Gov-
ernor Phillip as a vision on the foreshore.
He dismissed her as the “most horrid
figure” he had ever seen; but of the
visions that haunt her somewhat amended
stamping ground to-day more likely it
would occur to him as re-
markable that shows like
the Marcus and the Mon-
tague can possibly make a
crust with all this amateur
—and, some might think,
superior—competition.
Phillip, however, was
greatly impressed by the
forerunners of the “bronzed
surf gods” who honor those
chaps Phillip saw by emu-
lating their skin color and
just about their skin cover, and in the
degree of perfection to which they have
brought the art of stalking their lubras.
To Phillip the behavior of the original
manly coves he saw strutting about was
so pleasing that he instantly committed
the first pun to desecrate this hitherto
unsullied Eden, calling the place Manly
Cove.
Officially, Manly it remains, but -this
is nowhere near intimate and caressing
enough to express the poetic and
patriotic feelings with which it fires its
devotees. So to them it is the Village.
They hold it as unique, and certainly it
has some claims to this idea. Instance
the foundations of the seafront reserve
round about where the band plays—no-
thing other than thousands of dozens of
dead marines; former City Fathers hav-
ing thus consecrated this as holy ground
by gathering up and here interring the
historic empties left scattered about the
Wandered over his delectable
estate.
Village landscape from the days when
the Villagers, wanting to go to Sydney,
had to row there, and, of course, didn’t
do it wholly for exercise.
It was somewhere in those expansive
days that the Village was definitely
headed towards being the perpetual
battle it has become between a thing of
beauty and a trippers’ paradise. A
member of the prolific Smith family
came along and bought most of it up as
a going concern —or as a place he pro-
posed to make go. He not only fore-
saw it as a proper site
for hurdy-gurdies, shoot-
ing - galleries, slippery-
dips, five-acre swimming
pool, peepshows and
suchlike delights of
trippers, and welcomed
the vision, but he fore-
guarded it zealously
from future desecration
by estate agents, elected
representatives of the
people and other such
vandals.
Described by one en-
thusiastic historian as
the Cecil Rhodes of Manly, he de-
cided with the tripper-attracting side
of his mentality that what the Village
most urgently wanted was a pub, and he
forthwith set about supplying this primi-
tive necessity. Then, with his
other eye to the future and a
pocketful of grass-seeds, he wan-
dered over his delectable estate
scattering these and the seeds of
his foreplanning wisdom at large.
It was the tripper-minded
Mr. Smith who caused to be
erected on the heights overlooking
the Village the statue apparently
intended to resemble a kangaroo. Some
have held this to be a memorial
to his wife ; others, as a monument to the
last ’roo shot thereabouts. But it was
nothing either so cynical or so senti-
mental. It was just Mr. Smith in his
tripper-attracting mood. His idea might
have been that, seeing it from afar,
trippers would hasten hence to find out
what the thing was, and fall for the en-
chantment of the place in spite of it.
On the other hand, it was the good
Dr. Jekyll side of Mr. Smith which led
him to present to the future Village the
reserve which curves for its mile or two
along the entire seafront; it was by his
orders that the Norfolk pines were there
and elsewhere planted, and he made the
Village a present also of no fewer than
four parks and other reserves as well.
Since it is in these things that the
peculiar quality of the Village lies, no
doubt the Villagers will poke out their
plain and fancy chests with excusable
pride and blow the froth off one or two
to his memory in the celebrations.
Villagers, too, should include another
of its famous —W. H. Gocher —in the
tributes. Mr. Gocher comes on the Vil-
lage scene a good 50 years after Mr.
Smith—in this present century, as a
matter of fact; even so, at a time when
surf-bathing was controlled by regula-
tions which make the efforts of Mr.
Spooner in this line look like the doings
of a confirmed libertine.
You then had to swim, if you felt dirty
enough, not only in neck-to-knee, but
only under the further sheltering cover
of night. There were dire penalties pend-
ing for anyone caught in the infamous
Breaking the law.
act of taking a dip in the daytime. This
in the present century.
It so got on Mr. Gocher’s G-string
that, being made in the heroic mould, he
paid a friendly visit to the police, ampli-
fied what he’d been saying in his local
paper about the night-bathing law, and
invited them down to the beach to watch
him break it.
They went, they saw and they nabbed
him ; but he won the case. At least, that
Forerunner of the “bronzed surf gods.”
is our information, but the matter has
already become legendary in the Village,
and another account has it that the hero
went in in street clothes and a top hat,
and the cops made no effort to prevent
him. However that may be, he is the
William Tell of the Village.
In no time after that the Villagers were
shocking the mermaids—or it might
have been the mermen whose morals
were in jeopardy—by surfing in the
broad daylight; of course, still in
neck-to-knee, and of course nicely segre-
gated, with the ladies at one end of the
beach and the gentlemen at the other.
It was the ladies —pioneers in this line
since Eve —who broke down this arrange-
ment, one of them getting herself
drowned, and the rest insisting on hence-
forth being nearer “male protection.”
Anyway, that was their yarn, and,
fishy as it may sound, it is it which must
be given such credit as belongs to the
fact that to-day the Great Unwashed
from Burrenjoey to the Back o’ Bourke
make the Village the Mecca of their
summer pilgrimages in such numbers that
to have a plunge themselves the obliging
local inhabitants have to go in sideways.


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/* per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
“The Bulletin,” Box 252188,
Svdnev
House for Sale.
PYMBLE—SYDNEY’S GARDEN SUBURB.
TWO STOREY BRICK RESIDENCE.
Containing wide entrance hall, 8 fine rooms,
billiard or ballroom, tennis court, sewered, all
offices, lawhs, etc.
2 GARAGES. 3 LOOSE BOXES.
Standing in two acres of land, with two
frontages and commanding excellent views, this
property should appeal to the Country Gentle-
man or horse lover, being only 12 minutes’
walk to Pymble Station and within \ hour of
City. For further particulars, ’phone or write
O’SULLIVAN & CO., PYMBLE JX2422.
k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling .List free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Before the lift stopped at the 11th
floor of St. James’s last Friday, a tidal
wave of laughter and merry chat surged
from the Forum Club to the new arrival.
The party of all-Australian women gradu-
ates had been in full. swing since the
tick of eight. Hostess Camilla Wedg-
wood, president of the Sydney Uni.
Women Grads.’ Association, had flown
from Tasmania that morning and,
dressed in a lame frock like burnished
pewter, greeted her 200 guests. Frocks
were as gay as the flowers in the big
bowls, and throbbed with the vibrant
tones of the zinnia or tinkled to the
delicate tones in a bouquet of sweet-
peas. Dame Constance D’Arcy mingled
mauves and jacaranda blues in her lovely
frock of chiffon and lace. As president
of the Federation of University Women
she was handed a tiny gold basket that
spread to a glory of gladiolus, rose and
carnation. This was just before Iris de
Cairos Rego, her black frock girdled in
turquoise, played a piano group.
This Letter has never seen a more
sleekly-groomed collection of heads.
There was Sarah Hynes, her clear-cut
profile very distinctive under closely-
waved hair, her frock a mixture of black
satin and heirloom lace —fragile of weave
and patterned in white heather. Near by
was Mrs. H. S. Dettmann, her anemone-
pink frock with its delicately-shirred
bodice straight from London.
Mrs. Greg McGirr had plucked her
black tulle and sheer in the Rue St.
Honore about three months ago. Near
the right shoulder a diamond swallow
spread its wings. Lorna Byrne moved,
friendly and slim, in hydrangea-blue
among the groups from every State.
Laughter sparkled wherever the white-
and-gold frocked Violet Plummer
paused. Adelaide is her home town, but
graduates from Queensland, Victoria and
the West greeted her as an old friend.
Gladys Marks’s chiffons were like a
tawny chrysanthemum. Gladys is chair-
man of the International Relations Com-
mittee, and she received a garland. Esmey
Burfitt was pictorial as usual in black-
and-white lace ; with her was Margaret
Battye from Perth. Melbourne’s Miss
Syme was among the distinguished.
From Wellington (M.L.) came Mar-
garet Watson. Molly Kingston, a bar-
rister from Perth, had a curly topknot
and a beflowered gown. Jessie Webb
from Victoria, Kitty Young, Mrs. Clunies
Ross and Mrs. Guy Bakewell (who had
been caught in a shower of red hibiscus)
were others.
The wedding of the week was that of
knight Norman Kater and Mollie Wade.
Mollie’s father was. Leslie Wade, and
she is a Leura girl. Vows at St. Mark’s.
Mt. Broughton at Moss Vale was their
destination as soon as Canon Howard
Lea finished his job.
Sydney now does things quite in the
London way. Before a really swish
dance there occurs a shoal of dinner
parties. The night of the farewell dance
to Lord Ranfurly was no exception, and
extra covers were laid in flats and homes
that stretched from Challis-avenue to
Darling Point. The Navy, too, did its
duty, and there were dinner parties
aboard Australia and Canberra. A very
glittering one which snared the vice-
regal Lady Wakehurst was given in
honor of Lord Ranfurly by Mrs. Fred
Payne. Major and Mrs. Eric Onslow
were in this group. Like the hostess, they
are of Melbourne, Mrs. Onslow being
Mrs. Payne’s niece. White was worn by
almost every second woman in this party.
In fact, white frocks occurred with such
persistence that it almost looks as if the
black evening frock has, for a time at
least, been pushed out of first place with
Sydney revellers.
The dance was given by Lord and
Lady Gowrie to farewell the popular
lordling A.D.C., who returns to England
by way of Maoriland and the U.S.A.
next month. Fortunately it was a still
night, and the old stone house which is
smack on to the four winds of heaven
wore a serenely unruffled air. Flowers
in the garden and in the rooms were
radiant. The harbor off Kirribilli
dreamed under a young moon, and the
two hundred or so guests all report it a
very good party right to the bacon and
eggs in the early morn. Lady Gowrie’s
lilac-and-silver brocades were cut on
graceful lines, and hung in soft folds ; Ivie
Price was among the wearers of white,
satin her fabric. A swirl of ivory tulle
and gardenias suited Pamela Laidley
Dowling. Rosemary Budge’s magnolia
satins and pretty arms were noted.
Black lace and Russian violets were worn
by Enid Riddle. Mrs. Lennox Bode,
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, Mrs. Dick
Allen and Joan Marks were notables.
Captain Burgess, of the Centaurus, was
another.
Time and matrimony have turned
pretty S’Australian Dorothy Mcßride
into the lovely Mrs. Lauri Kennedy. She
comes back to Australia after an absence
of about 15 years, and with her hus-
band she will tour the Commonwealth
with the A.B.C. Dorothy is a pianist
whose art cannot be classed merely under
the term “brilliant.” Wedded to bril-
liance is a sensitiveness that in romantic
passages sounds like all the dreams of
17 come true. Husband Lauri (whose
’cello is known in every great city of the
world) and she have had a most color-
ful life, starting with their early tours
with John McCormack. In those be-
ginnings Dorothy was noted as an ac-
companist, and played for such cele-
brities as Caruso.
Toscanini regards Lauri Kennedy as
the finest British ’cellist of his time.
Only his Australian tour prevented his
accepting an offer for a season with
Toscanini’s orchestra in New York. Hus-
band and wife will open their Australian
season in the Assembly Hall on Thurs-
day evening of next week.
Mention of Caruso and John McCor-
mack brings to mind one of Lauri Ken-
nedy’s stories. One morning in the great
spacious days of a New York opera
season, John McCormack and some
friends were in the lounge of the Ritz.
Presently Caruso entered, and joined the
group. John McCormack stood up and
saluted him: “And how is the world’s
greatest tenor this morning?” he asked.
“The world’s greatest tenor, me?” said
Caruso. “Since when has John Mc-
Cormack ceased to sing?”
Up till a year or two ago the womanly
brow went clothed, or at least shaded,
by day. But the coming of the halo hat
put an end to that. The newest of the
winter hats and berets retire a pace or
two still further back while they soar
into the atmosphere, thereby giving a
Gothic stained-glass effect to the female
face. If you have a smooth brow, un-
furrowed by time or care, the effect is
stunning. Schiaparelli berets with their
upward swirl suggest a tam-o’-shanter
that’s been rioting at a Highland gather-
ing. There’s a gaiety about them, even
when in black, that calls for a twinkle in
the eye. In fact, what staid faces which
look as though they’ve not heard that
one before, and would rather not hear it
now, will do to this winter’s millinery
will have to be seen to be believed.
This Letter believes that Puck was
loose in Paris when these jolly felt or
antelope head coverings were being de-
signed. There’s mischief perched on the
tilt of every one of them. Take, for
instance, a fragment of black felt, its
front looking like two plump tulip petals
curled into the shape of a rajah’s turban.
When you wear an exaggerated halo,
take heart. The design comes from the
great Molyneux. If you are young
enough or round enough of face, you
will, of course, make straight for the
little bonnety hats with bows of con-
trasting ribbon chasing one another
down the front.
If you seek a cocktail in merry com-
pany you’ll demand a pillbox (and what
about the pills the day after?) that is
circled with at least three bands of glitter.
If, as the result of the halo or the beret
aforementioned, you are on your way to
put up the banns, you might like one of
the flat felts with the narrow jutting-out
brim, fashioned on the cure’s shovel hat.
The big thing to remember is your dress
must be on the most simple and demure
lines; only your hat can be gay, snappy,
supercilious, mischievous. Whatever way
your particular form of glamor works, fit
it with a hat, and leave the frock to
the tailor.
When Dame Constance D’Arcy makes
a speech it always seems to this writer
that if she hadn’t chosen to be a great
surgeon she might easily have been a
good playwright. Clarity of expression,
a complete absence of word vapors, here
and there a flash of wit or wisdom. At
the moment when The Bulletin was
marking off another week, Dame Con-
stance was delivering her presidential ad-
dress at the eighth biennial conference of
the Australian Federation of University
Women.
This happened at the University, and
was followed by tea at the Women’s
College. The doctor is a member of the
University senate. She is noted for her
smiles, surgical skill and complete
absence of academic swank. Photograph
from Peter Pan.
One of the loveliest settings for a
party which overseas visitors will see is
that provided by Elwatan, the Robert
Dixson home at Castle Hill. Most
Sydneyites know this handsome house
set in stretching acres sheltered here and
there with pines. Within its gates orchids
are as profuse as the hardy perennial in
your garden and mine. Just now the
walled gardens, in spite of the long spell
of hot, dry weather, are. blazing with
color. Zinnias are there in fantastic size ;
and burning under the blue sky is a
hedge of red verbena. The reception is
to be encrusted with Governors and their
ladies, Lord and Lady Gowrie, Lord
and Lady Wakehurst among them. It is
given in the name of the Victoria League,
but the Robert Dixsons are doing every-
thing in their own spacious manorial
manner.
A wreath of bays is due to the A.B.C.
for opening its opera season with
“Martha.” To most of us “Martha” had
always been thought of as something in
the nature of a bowl of potpourri—
very sweet, but very dead. It turns out,
however, to be as alive and fragrant as
a garden of roses. Stella Power’s voice,
too, sparkled like a shower of dewdrops,
and Dino Borgioli’s tenor flowed along
sweetly and effortlessly. The Australian
principals and chorus were excellent, and
there seems no reason at all why this
country cannot establish a permanent
opera of its own.
The girl athletes who arrived in Syd-
ney last week (22 of them came in the
Ormonde) brought the best brands of
smiles with them. The bright-red blazers
worn by the Welsh girls, the dark blue
of the English, the brighter blue of the
Scots lassies Margot Hamilton and
Margaret McDowall were a contrast to
their white frocks. They were all fit
and jolly, and nicely tanned. Margery
Hinton, the swimmer, has a modest
gleam in her eye in spite of an inter-
national reputation that began in 1928,
when she was 12. Lorna Frampton and
Joyce Harrowby are two youthful mer-
maids. Joyce had her seventeenth birth-
day when the ship was at Melbourne.
All her celebrations were aboard,
though, owing to health regulations.
Margot Hamilton, the Scottish lass
with the pretty voice and smile, has
taken her domestic science course.
Jeanne Greenland, of Wales, goes back
to enter Lady Margaret Hall at Oxford ;
Dorothy Saunders is another university
woman. Gladys Lunn (of course, they
call her Sally), the sprinter and javelin-
thrower, works in a Birmingham post
office. Barbara Burke brings her pretty
wavy hair from South Africa, and
Violet Montgomery, from Canada, is said
to have rushed over 1600 miles in one
day to catch the Aorangi. The girls
travel with a small company of chap-
erons, and their headquarters are the
Kirketon and the Imperial, Darlinghurst.
The Admiral Feakes couple are back
from another of their jaunts. This time
they took a trip around the Dalmatian
coast, and were in Sarajevo of tragic
memory. After Bosnia and Yugoslavia,
came the Wagner Festival at Bayreuth.
In Vienna the Feakeses heard Flagstad,
the soprano, who seems to be mopping
up opera engagements all over Europe
and America. Kirsten Flagstad is ex-
pected in Australia in the not-far-distant
future.
Even the N.C.W. has had the impress
of the Great Birthday thrust upon its
doings. On February 3 there’s to be an
official lunch with Lady Wakehurst as
guest of honor. Dame Maria Ogilvie-
Gordon will arise in all the wisdom of
her D.8.E., D.Sc., Ph.D., F.L.S., not to
mention J.P., and address the eager
throng. Dame Maria will also be prin-
cipal speaker at the International Con-
ference session,' which is another sequin
sewn on the sesqui celebrations by the
N.C.W. February 4 and the Assembly
Hall in Margaret-street are the time and
place.
Sue Stogdale is one girl who isn’t
giving a thought to the March of a
Nation. She’s more interested in the
strains of “The Wedding March.” She
will step up the aisle of St. Mark’s in
the middle of the month to marry Mick
Fairfax. He’s one of the “S. M. Herald”
family, but not an active member of the
staff —he has a station property at
Merriwa.
Sydney’s former Consul-General for
Belgium did not forget old friends at
Christmas-time. Postcards showing the,
to our eyes, fairy-tale buildings of Bang-
kok arrived with the greetings of Mr.
and Mrs. Segaert. The writer of this
Letter received a picture of the Bell
Tower, Wat Prakeo, in Bangkok. All gold
and mosaic, this tapers from a series
of pagodas to the bell tower, which ter-
minates in a high spire that seems to
pierce an intensely blue sky. Mr. and
Mrs. Segaert are well and happy and still
enjoying the novelty of their surround-
ings.
While Sydney the frivolous is watch-
ing with bated breath or the long-drawn-
out Ooh! of delight the fireworks
on the harbor, the Philharmonic Society
will be sending up a gaudy rocket of its
own. This will be touched off in the
Conservatorium. For the first time the
Phil, will add dramatic movement, scenery
and costumes to its production. The
work on this occasion is “Elijah.” Hum-
phrey Bishop is the producer, Howard
Carr the conductor. The ballet is directed
by Estelle Anderson, and Guenda Bain-
ton is busy with the lighting and scenery.
Among the soloists will be the popular
Raymond Beatty, Heather Kinnaird,
Walter Kingsley, Isolda Hill and God-
frey Stirling.


THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
I '1
■
■
1
m
.0 oo
m*** »« slmrw.hr. Hi srrvoSi
sgc.* mbhh brought. bos, <.!<*■*>
ier»b?t*4 with gotjigy vkxsJcis
[, twssr wW«r mack h<mg: fc
fcmvs iMKi ifcfts rowdy nomhrssi
»8S «£■ s*>« a»<k festiasgik:
fpdj? warxigte.k.iAs brfe
s of wood wrt4 metal t<s
Itfa jWtxfes ifcwi folk " Sofe
«* w* *< <.!«„?
twxka fossfo, <»!)« *!&)>«’ she
af, "Who bwws hot they afe
* von rtf wttder .if the oty,
I«sb4" So he. wow «#.*«.&»"
Issiya w»* baogfc* «> his drtSk;
ig }oy and «** bite to % {,*
3'gcsrag «&> to tl • r<nw!
Wat s»4 bar*. wiseroufm tks
r • '! mtiu fo
At. bti h: cried iXO.,
*S**Sg»B*r And lbs hath WsB*<
•wi**, ami tfott'&sßy
g«» aSsa was flighted at tiu-
aC the clty>w<' anti also troopa
Klosa ctfecl out saa tfeshtb tayhiao:
sw*M »c*t '•»' safe, foot atits-e
» italif gnter mdsrtbtef hall tztry-
;m(h kali hat mo, hmirig them
t*Sr asyaractes lying fed, fc»
: MarSaspsrrs and,£amid|tf and:
*sg on mooches of . silk ami alii
os till tlsey etrae to ids? olsiol
as yjteoof two i"> f<u, -I
spfesrs, with tfes scales hstng otrt
ad the <*£so«tmfe M of all
k. oftj
■
m
i
■
ft {>*«s**.« *«<» «« *S*
*&&&&«& fcp«***' & «'<*<«s*
** (w» * fsv<s»nf< ?< :<JP£.r >*.
. -•« ■ fort mt «&»k* pith
:r : :
, mm
n
: : :
1
' ootTsrio
rcMs
irn:
.£Ui
m
■
Vuw
Si :
1
They run the entire range, from the
pinnacle of religious fervour to the salty
depths of Rabelaisian incident.
Like the Decameron, the book is a series of tales hanging on a single
thread of story ... the device of the Queen, Shahrazad, to save herself
from the vow of her lord the King. These tales are of all sorts. The
shortest of them are smoking-room anecdotes. The longest are thrilling
tales of adventures and intrigue. Here is a world of Jinns, Afrits and
Marids ... a world of romance as passionate as the romances of
chivalry ... a world, also, of reality ... a salty, humorous, sensual,
criminal world of the Orient. A world of harems and jealous kings, of
complacent eunuchs and daring princesses. It is a world of business
trickery and enterprise, of knaves dealing with fools.
Sir Richard Burton lived with the Moslems as one of them for so
long that he readily passed as a native. He learned twenty-eight
languages and dialects. His whole life was a preparation for its
crowning achievement ... the plain and literal translation of “The
Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night,” on which he laboured
for three decades and which is regarded as one of the most important
translations to which an English scholar has ever devoted himself.
Enjoy the full fruits of his work in this new, illustrated, complete
edition of the real “Arabian Nights.”
BURTON’S UNEXPURGATED
EDITION . . . "The only translation
worthy of the original.”
—“5/. James Gazette London.
Here is the real Arabian Nights . . . the only
literally translated and fully annotated edition,
with introduction, explanatory notes on “Moslem
manners, customs, morals and social institutions
and a terminal essay on the history of the nights.”
This 16-volume edition includes Sir Richard
Burton’s original 10 volumes and his 6 volumes
of Supplemental Nights.
No other translation contains more than 75 p.c.
of the material this offers. No other translation
has more than 5 p.c. of the annotations it
contains. And no other translation has anything
comparable to Burton’s magnificent Terminal
Essay.
In the past, exceeding rarity has placed Sir
Richard Burton s translation beyond the reach
of most. But this new edition of the real
Arabian Nights is offered on terms which make
it easy to enjoy immediate possession of the
full set, which is well illustrated. The first ten
volumes are beautifully bound in black and
gold . . . the six volumes of supplemental nights
in black and silver.
The tales of the Arabian Nights are immortal.
They have given delight to countless millions
the world over. They have provided inspiration
and ideas for great writers of all races. In
them we find all the mysterious supernaturalism
of India, all the learning and culture of Persia,
all the vivid and picturesque social life of China,
all the uncanny terror of Africa. The grim
tragedy and pitilessness of Oriental life are
there . . . and its poetry, too.
Delivered Home for a First Payment of 17/-
A deposit of 17/- secures immediate delivery of the complete 1 6-volume set,
packed in a case that prevents risk of damage in transit. Each volume measures
9|- x 64- x I 4 inches, and contains a detailed index. Fill in and post the form
below.
CASTLEREAGH 'ST, SYONEY.
PUBLISHERS * BOOKSELLERS to itt* UNIVERSITY
ORDER FORM.
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please forward a full set of the “Arabian Nights,” 16 volumes,
for which I enclose 17/- deposit, and agree to make 17 further monthly
payments of £l, in all £l7/17/-. Ouarterly payments may be arranged if
desired. (The price for cash within 30 days is £l6/10/-.)
NAME
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivered free in city and suburbs. Elsewhere freight is extra, but will
be charged only at minimum rates.


ķ
Banff and its Castle
Hotel in Canada’s Rockies
provide thrills never be-
fore experienced ; Banff
can only be reached via
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melboui ne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
BPP I^
kV* 11
floor
best
ywaJumteadi n .
frot Jjije.
For samples and illus- folder pos
free write to Dept. 5, Box 3-&1
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
mm
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
Melbourne
Chatter
The British women athletes are
feminine enough to please the most
fastidious. They take their training
seriously, but find that it doesn’t mean
giving up very much fun. About the only
dieting is light meals on competition
days. The girls’ uniforms, which they
wear only on official occasions, are navy
suits with blazer pockets, white blouses
and hats.
Both the manageress, Mrs. R. E. Gillis,
and Miss V. M. Newman, who is in
charge of the swimmers, are ex-athletes
and do a spot of training with the girls.
Gladys Lunn has thirteen seasons in
athletics to her credit. In her time she
has held records for every race from 100
yards to 880 yards, but has entered only
for javelin-throwing in Sydney. She
hopes that there will be an 880-yard race
in which she can run in Melbourne when
the team returns here.
Dorothy Saunders, who won a medal
for the most outstanding woman athlete
at the International Students’ Games in
Paris, is a kindergartener, and means on
her return home to take a course in child
psychology with world authority Susan
Isaacs, who visited Australia recently.
Kathleen Stokes is a dainty mannequin
for furs. Among babies of the team is
Peggy McDowall. sixteen, a bonnie lass
from Ayrshire. Peggy’s favorite food is
fruit, and she drinks a quart of milk a
day.
The Don Morells, who are having a
holiday breather of cool Melbourne
weather as a relief from the summer heat
of Mimong Station, Kynura, North
Queensland, were guests of honor at a
cocktail party given by Lesley Gordon
at her home in Tivoli-place, South Yarra.
Mrs. Morell, willowy as ever, wore navy
blue, with a sprinkling of red and blue
bows. Lesley, who had the help of her
mother, sister Catherine and brother Mac
in seeing that no one went hungry or
thirsty, wore a brightly figured frock of
spun crepe. A Sydney visitor was Mrs.
George Draffin, better known here as
Elizabeth Dutton Green. She wore
silver-fox furs, and instead of a hat tied
a narrow ribbon under her layer of
sculptured snail curls.
Among other guests who were “up at
the shop” together while Mrs. Morell was
a guiding star at producing singing and
dancing shows for gay undergrads, was
Mrs. Alan McNicoll, who used to be Ruth
Timmins. Since her marriage she has
lived in Sydney and has paid a visit to
her husband’s parents at the Adminis-
trator’s residence in Rabaul, where, in-
cidentally, she did some sturdy walking
up and down volcanoes with vulcanolo-
gist Dr. Stehn. She is now preparing to
settle in a new home at Somers.
Ivy Harding-French, modeller of the
Australian fauna which will represent
our bush at the Glasgow Exhibition,
makes her animals not from fur but from
fabrics. These materials, imported from
Birmingham, are deceptive, in that they
look and feel like fur, but are less bulky
to handle and not so popular with moths.
The bush folk who leave for Scotland
this week are koalas and kangaroos com-
plete with their children, platypuses and
grey and white fairy penguins. Miss
Harding-French originated the first koala
and platypus about 10 years ago. As
real animals can’t be patented like Mickey
Mouse and his ilk, she has only patented
the patterns. She has done most of her
sketching at the museum, where station-
ary models make easier subjects than a
pair of bright eyes staring like boot but-
tons out of a bunch of quivering leaves.
Miss Harding-French was born in
Queensland and lived in England for
several years before coming to make her
home in Melbourne. She has always
been an animal-lover, and has a word
to say in favor of frogs as pets. They
soon become tame, and, though not
exactly affectionate, they will keep down
flies as surely as a dog scares burglars.
Miss Harding-French’s gift of a frog
model to the Duke of Windsor, then
Prince of Wales, was passed on to Prin-
cess Elizabeth, who, it is said, loves the
green-and-brown monster very dearly.
Miss Harding-French is a soprano, and
has studied singing for some years with
Ethel Ashton. She met Lotte Lehmann
through her animals (Madame took
several packing-cases of bears, etc., back
home with her), and a friendship ripened
through mutual interest in music. At
Christmas the prima donna did not for-
get her Australian friend, and sent an in-
teresting mail from America with the
reiterated promise that she will one day
be here again.
Trade items form 99 per cent, of the
exhibits from Australia for the Glasgow
Exhibition. Wool, wheat, jams, jellies,
fruit, dairy produce will be on view, with
a display of textiles and furs. Among
the few exceptions are Miss Harding-
French’s fauna and some tree ferns, both
from Melbourne, the ferns travelling in
a refrigerator. The C.W.A. of N.S.W.
is sending some needlework, but it isn’t
yet known if this entry will be displayed
at the Australian pavilion or among
general arts and crafts. All exhibitors
hope that their entries will be sold
abroad.
In the Broothorn photograph is Sheila
Shannon, who will be married at
Colombo early in March to Bill Cassells,
son of the late Mr. and Mrs. James
Cassells, formerly of Leven, Fife, Scot-
land. When the bride-to-be leaves Mel-
bourne on February 8 in the Strathnaver
she will be accompanied by her mother,
Mrs. A. Shannon, and her matron-of-
honor, Mrs. David Braham.
From the North London Collegiate
School for Girls Miss M. Neilson comes
to Melbourne as P.L.C.’s headmistress,
the first woman head this college has em-
ployed. It was in the city of her birth,
Glasgow, that Miss Neilson went to
school, took her Master of Arts degree
with honors in history and secured her
teacher’s certificate at St. George’s Col-
lege. History remains her favorite sub-
ject, and she believes that students who
do historical research are rewarded for
their labors by the fascination of their
subject. She is all for domestic science in
the school curriculum and for sport, but
in moderation, not as a god to be set
above scholastic accomplishments.
Miss Neilson speaks favorably of an
English association called the Head-
mistresses’ Appointments Committee
from which girls leaving school may
seek advice and recommendations about
careers suitable to them. In the
matter of careers, the Institute of
Industrial Psychology in London is
doing valuable work measuring intel-
ligences and temperaments, and thus
keeping square pegs out of round
holes. Before she ever thought of com-
ing here, Miss Neilson learnt something
of Australia from a friend with whom
she shared a flat in London, Dr. Aileen
Mitchell, who now practises in Goul-
burn.
Broothorn pictures here Nancye
Wynne, Australia’s No. 1 woman tennis-
player, who recently celebrated her 21st
birthday. Nancye has gone to Adelaide
to defend her title in the Australian
championships, to be played there this
month.
Professor and Mrs. Peter McCallum,
who take an interest in all sports, par-
ticularly swimming, rose to the occasion
of the inter-University swimming fix-
tures. Mrs. McCallum gave a tea-party
for the girls at the Lyceum, and a few
days later she and the professor enter-
tained visitors and home team at their
house at Black Rock. At the Lyceum
tea-party the hostess, who is president of
the Melbourne University Women’s
Swimming Club, had the assistance of
Beth Ellis, Vivienne Abraham, Betty
Damne and Mrs. A. H. Faul (sister of
the captain, Norrene Nicholson) in see-
ing that no one felt lonely.
At the Black Rock gathering special
congratulations were lavished upon
Margery Amos, of Brisbane, who
had won four titles during the week,
and Shirley Benwell, of Melbourne,
who did so well from the spring-
board. Some of the guests went fish-
ing before their swim; several holders
of lines reported bites and a small min-
ority actually landed their catches.
Among other entertainments arranged
for the visitors was an all-day picnic at
Portsea, a picture party for the girls
while the men were continuing a dinner
with speeches and much tobacco smoke,
a farewell luncheon at the Wattle on a
day when nobody, aquatically inclined or
otherwise, could get away from the
water, when umbrellas dripped and the
streets were a series of muddy puddles.
Change of one play, “Fumed Oak,”
substituted in place of “Red Peppers,”
made a change of programme in the
“To-night at 8.30” offering by Fay
Compton’s co. at the King’s. The new
play, which the author annotates as “un-
pleasant comedy in two scenes,” soon had
the audience in hilarious mood, with
hoots of laughter from all the men, par-
ticularly husbands, when the worm
turned, throwing the everlasting cold ham
on the floor, and, with juicy profanity
and courage abetted by whisky, cast off
family shackles for ever.
In the audience were Mrs. Lennox
Spiers, up for the night from Barwon
Heads, where she has collected a nice
even coat of suntan; Joy Minnett, of
Sydney, her shoulders a cascade of pink
ospreys; Mrs. H. Hurrey, in blue ; Nan
Didsbury, in a pillar-box-red coat of
lacquered cloque; Dr. Ella McKnight,
in black ; Nancy Millear, in powder-blue
frock and wrap; the R. R. Thomas
couple, and the Jim Paxtons, Mrs. Pax-
ton in a flickery-surfaced frock of pastel
rose beige.
Believing that she might never again
have the chance of coming so close to
the fine arts, Zelma Anderson, during
her nine months abroad, spent all her
spare money on music and theatres. She
saw 30 ballets and operas, innumerable
plays and light musical shows, and had
a season ticket for the prom, concerts in
the Queen’s Hall, which was redecorated
in a plan of pink and ivory before the
season of concerts commenced last
August. There’s honor at the proms.
Miss Anderson sometimes put up her
camp stool at 10 a.m., and when she ar-
rived for the programme late in the after-
noon it was safe and sound and hadn’t
been borrowed or stolen. She worried
far more about the new rose-pink carpet
and its treatment by heavy boots and
dusty rucksacks of hiking parties in
shorts and shirts who paused for some
music on their way from the Tyrol to
a tramp over the downs. At the Regent’s
Park open-air theatre she saw Melbourne
brunette Janet Johnson play a charming
Miranda in “The Tempest.”
Miss Anderson toured England and
Scotland for several weeks with Lome
Morrison and Madge and Nan Baird,
the four Australians among them buy-
ing a car for £2O and selling it for the
same price, after paying only. £7 for
repairs. It was roomy, and they each
took two suitcases. While in Hungary
Miss Anderson went on an organised
excursion from Budapest, which was fun,
although most of the tourists discovered
afterwards that it was a put-up stunt. The
party travelled some distance by bus,
then in a quaint narrow-gauge railway
train, and lastly were given a choice of
horses to ride or of swaying horse-pulled
vehicles for a “journey into the prairie,”
But the alleged prairie, although attained
by a long circuitous route, was really
quite close to the station, the picturesque
cowboy brigands were peaceful farmers,
and the attractive girls in national cos-
tume were hired waitresses more used
to black frocks and white muslin aprons.
Helen and Barbara Hockey sailed
for abroad chaperoned by Miss Streich,
who will keep an eye on them during
their year away from home. Helen has
completed two years of an Arts course
at the University and Barbara, who is
17, has just left St. Margaret’s. Both
are interested in languages and fond of
music. They and Miss Streich hope to
do a course in Italian at the University
of Perugia, after which they plan to spend
some time in Munich, Vienna and Paris.
Miss Streich is a German who has lived
several years in Australia.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
i
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
MANLY
Queen of
Pleasure Resorts
k
k
Abounding in natural beauty, rich in scenic loveliness, Manly is
undoubtedly the Queen of Holiday Resorts.
No less than 14 Magnificent Ocean Beaches are within easy access from
the Manly Wharf, and at very small cost.
Manly’s Free Wonder Pool. The largest enclosed Free Bathing
Pool in Australia affords endless
fun and enjoyment—Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving Towers,
Springboards, Crazy Floats, Rolling Logs and Horses, and many other
aquatic novelties are in the WONDER POOL.
Why Not Stay at Manly? Th ?, t sfe^ er . •[■P , betwe f’
. J and the City is the cheapest and most
delightful Harbour trip in the world. Its seven miles embrace 60 miles
of beautiful Harbour views, culminating with the crossing of Sydney’s
Famous Heads.
FARES: P aily Fare j A P ULTS > 6d - CHILDREN (up to 14 years), Id.
c r . (5 years and under, FREE.)
season Tickets Cost Per Day: GENTS’, 4|d.; LADIES’, 3|d.; CHILDREN’S, l*d
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
No. 2 Jetty, Circular Quay, Sydney.
'Phones: B3221, B3783.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EGHT
“M. Turlutu”.: Premier Forgan Smith
is a believer in the old sea adage of
“catch ’em young and treat ’em rough.”
His own irruption into Queensland poli-
tics took place at 28, and ever since he
got into power most of the service plums
have gone to the young in spite of in-
jured feelings among their seniors. Of
his former private secretaries, all still
under 40, A. C. Sorensen is now chief
clerk in the Public Works Dept., T. G.
Hope Under-Sec. of the Treasury, and
R. B McAllister has just been appointed
Assistant Under-Sec. of the Premier’s
Dept. The new chairman of the Elec-
tricity Commission, S. F. Cochran, is
in the thirties, and the Director-General
of Health has only just got into the swing
of his forties. But, as Forgie puts it,
“They hae to be effeecient.”
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: There is an old sea say-
ing about a gale being strong enough to
blow the breeks off a Highlander, and
it seems to have come true in the Mac-
kay (Q.) cyclone of 1918. Premier
Forgan Smith during the recent Scot-
tish gathering at Warwick confided to
the press that he had lost his kilt, sporran
and tartan during that historic disturb-
ance. Kilts are not worn without breeks,
and as the statement was made without
any explanatory qualification it is to be
presumed that he was wearing them at
the time. He did not replace the lost out-
fit, but it is understood that special in-
structions were issued to the builders of
the new Mackay Harbor that anything of
the kind which might be found during
the excavation work was to be returned
promptly to Mr. Smith. So far no
trace has been forthcoming, but true
Scots never lose hope.
* * * *•
“Zedo”: New patrol boats are shortly
to be put into service along the North Aus-
tralian coast to deal with shell-poachers,
Government having come to the conclu-
sion at last that the Larrakia is “not ade-
quate.” It has been decided that two
Government departments will be needed
to control them —Customs and Interior.
Apparently the law now stands in such
a way that the Interior boat cannot tres-
pass on the province of the Customs De-
partment, though it is admitted that a
special Act might get over the difficulty
and leave a single department in control.
The sensible thing would be to hand the
whole business over to the Navy, which,
apart from the fact that the Asiatic
poacher fears and understands its
methods, would be continually gaining
defensive knowledge of the northern
coastline while on patrol.
* * * #
“Zedo”: A Sydney paper has dis-
covered that a temporary assistant
laundress was needed at Katherine
(N.T.), which is 203 miles from Darwin
and 2700 miles from Canberra. Pro-
cedure: Local official writes application
for laundress and states reasons in mas-
terly prose ; Government train —slowest
in Australia carries precious docu-
ment to Darwin; Government secre-
tary holds inquiry as to necessity for
employing t.a.l. and reports to Admin-
istrator ; Administrator sends on file to
Canberra, where it is minuted on by
N.T. department and Secretary to De-
partment of Interior ; muscular civil ser-
vant carries file to Minister, who reads
lady’s references. Eventually returning
through all the old channels, the glad news
of appointment reaches Katherine, where
presumably somebody has spent the in-
tervening months waiting for a job. This
is quite a mild sample of how the Terri-
tory is governed—one of the cases which
have run smoothly.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The southern ap-
proach of the giant Storey Bridge across
the Brisbane River traverses historic
ground. What in 1823 Oxley saw as
jungle fringed with mangroves, with open
forest on the heights, is now one of
Brisbane’s best suburbs. Twenty years
after Oxley the bullock teams for the
Darling Downs were following the track
that is now Main-street, Kangaroo Point,
in order to avoid the South Brisbane
swamps. George Warner, a surveyor,
was the first to build on the Point in
1844, near to what is now the Customs
House ferry, then run by one Carter.
He was, 40 years later, Sergeant-at-Arms
in the Leg. Assembly. His predecessor,
John Douglas, was another early resi-
dent. Duramboi (John Davis), whom
"We ain't quittin till they dump them two demijohns!"
Andrew Petrie rescued on the Mary
River in 1842, after 14 years among the
blacks, was the local blacksmith. By
1846 John Campbell’s boiling-down
works were the subject with the
600 or so residents of North Brisbane
and Kangaroo Point.
* * *
“Notaden”: The Queensland Museum
has received the skull, lower jaw and-
other bones of a Risso’s dolphin, col-
lected by V. M. Rooke, lightkeeper at
Cape Capricorn. It is the same beakless,
grey-colored species to which belonged
Pelorus Jack, who “piloted” vessels
through Pelorus Sound on the Welling-
ton-Nelson steamer track, and had a
special Act passed for his protection. It
is the first specimen recorded from
Queensland, and one of very few from
either M.L. or Australia. But it is cer-
tainly not the mortal remains of Pelorus
Jack. P.J. disappeared from his pilotage
waters some 16 years ago, not without
suspicion of foul play, Act of Parliament
notwithstanding. Our “porpoises” are
dolphins also, as is the most formidable
inhabitant of all the seven seas, the killer
whale.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A tiger shark, 13ft.
lin. long and weighing 8501 b. at scale,
caught on rod and line by Mrs. E. Pas-
pall off Wellington Point in Moreton
Bay, constitutes the Queensland record
to date in big-game fishing by a woman.
The capture needed 65 minutes to bring
it to gaff, and at one stage of the struggle
it took 400 yards of line off the reel.
On the previous day, fishing from the
same launch and almost in the same
waters, D. Henderson caught a shark
of the same species, length, weight and
sex (female), the largest ever taken on
rod and line in Moreton Bay up to then.
* * * *
“Walliew”: An outback dream that
came true —at Clark Hills, Hughenden
(Q.). A thunderstorm at the head of
Homestead Creek brought down tons
of ice in hailstones. These were
driven up on the banks by the flow, and
in the course of the flood the ice, now a
solid mass, was buried in debris. It was
a natural ice-chest, and that ice lasted
the Annings, of Clark Bills, up till
Dec. 25. Iced lager for Christmas in
Queensland’s north-west and 100 miles
from town is like eating fresh pineapple
at the South Pole.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
The Church of England Grammar
School, Brisbane, provided the setting for
the wedding of Nora Holdsworth and
T. E. Collins, of Spring Creek, Cairns.
After a honeymoon in the South, the
two will .travel north by boat to their
future home.
Inter-State cricketer E. R. Wyeth and
Edna Finlayson said their “I wills” in
the Albert-street Methodist church. Elva
Cannon and Joyce, and Alma Wyeth
shepherded the bride.
Dorothy Dash was so delighted with
her recent holiday at Heron Island that
she persuaded all the family, Minister
for Transport Dash, her mother, brother-
in-law and sister (Mr. and Mrs. Justin
McCarthy) and sister May, to spend the
end-of-the-year holidays there. Mrs.
Dash proved herself an excellent fisher-
woman and won the trophy for the best
day’s catch.
Alfred Ernest Williams, who directs
the Queensland activities of the Vic.
Tourist Bureau, is engaged to Mina
Anderson, the attractive daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Alex. Anderson, of Clayfield.
Alfred Ernest hails from Melbourne,
where his father, C. J. Williams, resides.
The Cambria, T. L. Jones’s yacht, is
cruising round the bay with about a
score of science undergrads, from the
Uni. The students are armed with sea
telescopes (tins with glass let in at the
bottom), special cameras and other
scientific impedimenta, and will study
fish and other unsuspecting marine
creatures in their home environment.
This is the first expedition of its kind
stage-managed by the Uni., but there
probably will be others. A camp has
been set up near Dunwich, and there are
three stations—one at Myora, where a
sweet spring gushes downhill to empty
itself into the ocean (several generations
of sailing men have put in here for the
joys of a cold shower and to refill water
barrels), one near Goat Island, and an-
other off the north-western end of Peel,
by Horseshoe Bay, where there usually
are fish in plenty. Dr. Dorothy Hill is
the leader.
Overseas passenger lists seem as lengthy
as ever, and from now to the end of the
month there will be a whirl of tea- and
sherry-drinkings as bon-voyage gestures
to people who are off to the other side.
Mrs. Whitehead and daughter Winsome
will sail in the Ormonde to-day (Jan.'
19), and Dean and Mrs. Barratt have
booked in the Orion, which leaves in
February. The Stewart Gows have chosen
the Strathmore, and their itinerary in-
cludes Switzerland, Norway and Sweden.
Gyneth Campbell leaves shortly for
Scotland, where she will spend a year,
and Nell and Alison Hooper, who are
to travel in the Orontes, also plan to
spend 12 months in Europe. Justice E. A.
Douglas and his wife start off in Febru-
ary, and will go to Sydney for a few
days before joining their boat. Beres
Higgins, who has been nursing in Mel-
bourne, came up for a farewell visit with
her parents before embarking. Nancy
Bishop and Quetta Lewis, two friends of
nursing days in Melbourne, are going
too, and the girls intend to widen their
experience and undergo some more train-
ing in England.
Lt.-Col. G. F. Bunbury, who came
from England as private sec. to the Gov-
ernor recently, has departed. He has
been succeeded by Major Stark, who
aided for James Blair during his term as
Lieut.-Governor.
Roe’s Camp, on Stradbroke Island, still
keeps up the family tradition of hospi-
tality. For almost half a century invi-
tations to spend Christmas and the New
Year in that ideal setting have been
eagerly sought by friends of the Roe
family. This year, Madge Roe hostessed
a party of about 15 guests, and very soon
her medico brother and his wife will
come down and spend a few weeks there.
The erosion which has caused so many
houseowners at that point acute uneasi-
ness may in time wipe out the camp,
which would be a grief to many who
have savored the joys of its hospitality.


FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF^H
C.OWO
A*
lx
I^o
i
•s>
'<4
£* **
c o,„ Und WSb
1
*?+Ol
2«Cvr
***r
# '* r
#/ *47#
wx
*ir
-23*7
4V
®%K
YZ
@M
6*/v,
£O/?/>
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
G
or
ions
IS DISTILLED
It maq cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
supW*
THE HEART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
kk
Legal Notice.
Eleanor Anna Britt, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice in Eng-
land dated 15th November 1937 made in an
Action In the Matter of the Estate <?f Eleanor
Anna Britt (Spinster) deceased National Pro-
vincial Bank Limited v. The Solicitor for the
Affairs of His Majesty’s Treasury (1937 B.
3865) whereby the following Inquiry was
directed, namely:— .
1. An Inquiry whether there were living at
the death of the abovenamed Testatrix Eleanor
Anna Britt on the 22nd January 1937 (a) any
and what child or children of and any and which
of them her brother John Britt and her half-
brothers Thomas Britt George Britt and Fred
Britt and ( b ) any and what child or children
of them her said brother or half-brothers who
predeceased the Testatrix and as to each such
child or grandchild of such brother or half-
brother then living whether being male he
had or has since attained the age of . 21
years or being a female had or has since attained
that age or married and if not what was the
date of his or her birth and as to each such
child or grandchild then living whether he or
she is still living or if he or she has since
died over the age of 21 years or as to a female
having married who are his Dr her personal
representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the said
Inquiry are on or before 30th June 1938 to
send by post prepaid to Albert George Norton
Hancock Solicitor of The Outer Temple 222-
225 Strand London W.C.2 England their full
Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court or
Judge on application otherwise orders.
Tuesday the 12th day of July 1938 at 2.30
of the clock in the afternoon is the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims
before Master Newman at the Chambeis of the
Judge Room No. 162 Royal Courts of Jus-
tice Strand London England.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the Claimant can
be sent. „
Dated this 20th day of December, 1937.
TREVOR C. NEWMAN,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note —It is stated that the said John Britt,
Thomas Britt, George Britt and Fred Britt all
went to Australia between the years 1853 and
186?
HANCOCK & SCOp, The Outer Temple,
222-225 Strand, London, W.C.2, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“TheMacleod Gallery ”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At a civic reception tendered to 50 girl
cricketers from the Eastern States, Lord
Mayor Barrett advised the girls to play
the game for pleasure and healthy en-
joyment, not for' glamor and publicity.
Big crowds rolled up for the matches
played on Unley Oval.
The Dowager Lady Swaythling spent
a few days in Adelaide. She chatted
about food, expressing the opinion that
Australians don’t cook vegetables prop-
erly. While admitting that Adelaide girls
are beautiful, she considers that sun-
bathing is ruining their hair and skin.
She disapproves of shorts and scanty
bathing dresses. But as this is Lady
Swaythling’s second visit to Australia she
can’t consider it entirely beyond redemp-
tion.
At the wedding of Audrey, third
daughter of Mrs. W. Marchant, of Mal-
vern, and the late Mr. Marchant, to
Brian, son of Mr. and Mrs. Ross Adam-
son, the bride wore her mother’s bridal
gown of magnolia taffeta, made in the
days when that fabric was known as
glace. The overdress was of chiffon voile
with inserts of lace, and the lace veil
was held in place by a halo of orange-
blossom. She wore a double string of
pearls, the gift of the bridegroom, and
carried a bouquet of white roses. Her
sisters Vivienne and Lois, were brides-
maids, frocked alike in waltz-blue chif-
fon, with large Leghorn hats wreathed
with flowers. A reception afterwards at
the Piccadilly was notable for the beauty
of the floral decorations.
Joyce Warren, editor of “Homes and
Gardens,” was married to Fred Davies,
of Unley Park, at St. David’s, Burnside.
The bride is the elder daughter of the
Rev. John Warren, formerly the rector
of St. David’s (he is now in England).
She has been on the Inky Way for about
14 years, commencing as social writer on
the “Register,” and has been editing
“Homes and Gardens” for the last seven
years. Mr. and Mrs. Davies are spend-
ing their honeymoon in Melbourne.
For the marriage of Norma Jefferson
to Norman Ford, of the R.A.A.F., St.
Peter’s College chapel was decorated with
Christmas-bush grown in the grounds of
the bride’s grandmother, Bellevue Hill,
Sydney, sent by ’plane. The bride wore
magnolia satin fitting to the figure, with
slight train, the bodice draped with dol-
man sleeves. Her bridal veil of magnolia
tulle was held in place by a coronet of
crystal. The three bridesmaids, Barbara
Roake (bride’s sister), Rhondda Rose and
Rene Ford, were frocked in orchid
mauve organdie veiling mauve satin, the
skirts long and full, and the neckline
heart-shaped. The girdles were of porce-
lain velvet, and haloes of the same
material held mauve tulle veils in place.
There was a reception afterwards at the
Wentworth, North-terrace.
Jessie Griswold, of White Hall, Illi-
nois, U.S.A., visiting Adelaide, says that
in America the vogue now is for “desert”
bridge. If it was an afternoon affair the
guests would eat the first course of their
luncheon at home, and would have the
second course of sweets with their hos-
tess when they arrived at 1.30. No after-
noon-tea is served, and the guests leave
again at 4.30. The same rule applies to
evening bridge. The meat course is eaten
at home, and the second course when
guests arrive at the home of their hostess
at 7.30.
An Adelaide woman has been made
happy by a gracious message from the
Duchess of Kent. At the end of last
year Mrs. Madeline Stewart, of East-
wood, sent the v Duchess a framed poem
which she had composed and dedicated
to her, called “Bear Facts and Bush
Gossip,” mounted on polished wood with
a carved design of Australian trees and
animals.
WESTRALIA.
The Barker-Cornish wedding at pic-
turesque, ivy-clad Christ Church, Clare-
mont, provided a meeting-place for town
and country. Corrie Cornish is the only
daughter of Mrs. K. K. Cornish and a
member of an old Pinjarra family ; and
bridegroom Keith Barker is a scion
of the Shelley Barker family, of Pepper-
mint Grove. The bridal raiment was of
oyster lace, moulded and falling in soft
folds to the ground, with matching head-
gear drooping of brim and velvet-
swathed. Tall Pat Royce followed in
swirls of lilac ninon, cut princess fashion,
with a deep violet inlet from waist to
hem and velvet orchids sprayed from
one shoulder. Creamy gladioli with
purple throats solved the color difficulty
of the bouquet. Mrs. Barker and Mrs.
Cornish jointly hostessed an informal
cocktail party afterwards in the grounds
of Chanonry, the Barker home, over-
looking Freshwater Bay.
The R. G. Drakes’ only chick, Mar-
jorie, kept a matrimonial tryst with
Hedley Cousins, of Sydney, at St. Mary’s,
West Perth. The bride trailed lengths
of magnolia satin falling from a softly-
draped shoulder line and veiled with
clouds of tulle veilings be-haloed with
pearl leaves arranged coronet-fashion.
Dorothy Airey and Muriel Drake
’maided in ethereal white crinkled
chiffons cut to match the bride’s satins
and sprayed on shoulders and waist-back
with tiny silver leaves. Topknots of
white carnations held in place their filmy
white short tulle veils. Bridegroom’s
aunt and uncle, Captain and Mrs. R. J.
Sinclair, entertained at the Karrakatta
Club afterwards. The Manoora carried
the honeymooners to their home in
Sydney.
The January exodus of holiday-makers
has set in. The Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress sailed for Sydney and its cen-
tury-and-a-half celebrations, Margaret
Battye, as president of the W.A. Uni.
women, will represent them at the Syd-
ney conference, and architect Nancy
Allen intends mixing business with holi-
day in Melbourne. Eila Vincent and Pat
Watts boarded the Strathnaver for a
Maoriland cruise, and Betty Love will
break her journey in Adelaide for a few
weeks before taking up residence at the
Janet Clarke Hall for a course of medi-
cal massage at Melbourne Uni.
The W. J. Winterbottoms threw open
the doors of their new house in Pepper-
mint Grove to hosts of friends who
came to admire the latest thing in
modern homes. A profusion of flowers
decked the hall and lounges, and the
small tables in the dining-room, bearing
delectable savories, were decorated with
delicate pink bowls of cream stephanotis.
Mrs. Winterbottom did the welcomings
in cocktail suitings of black marquisette
embroidered in a basque-like effect with
scintillating blue and pink rhinestones.
The women’s section of the P.P.A.
collected 50 country kiddies for a fort-
night’s holiday at the seaside under the
Joy bells scheme, inaugurated some years
ago. The Buckland Hill Deaf and Dumb
School houses the little country folk, and
the local branch of Toe H is kept busy
collecting parcels of good things donated
by sympathisers of the scheme.
The Women’s Immigration Auxiliary
Council was well represented at Dr.
Roberta Jull’s tea-drinking in honor of
newly-created M.B.E. Mrs. Harold
Dean. The Karrakatta Club lounge was
ablaze with bowls of multi-hued zinnias,
and the guest of honor had a busy time
with congratulations.
News comes from London of the en-
gagement of Dr. Ivan Freedman, only
son of Harry Freedman, of Perth, to
Nancy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. D.
Dunbar, of London and Buenos Aires.
Ivan now has a brass plate in Harley-
street.
TASMANIA.
Captain and Mrs. Bruce Watchorn, on
the eve of their return to Newcastle
after a spell in the Speck, were sped by
Mary Watchorn with sherry and savories
at her home. Hall and drawing-room
were decorated with gladioli, and the
dining-room, where the refreshments
were served, had a goose with savories
for plumage as centrepiece on the table.
The Eustace Camerons gave a jolly
party at Mona Vale. Guests were bidden
to dinner, and afterwards danced, played
bridge and bathed in the river, as the
night was warm. Brilliant masses of
dahlias were used to decorate the rooms,
and the grounds looked their best.
Betty, the elder of the two Keate
Hudspeth girls, was married at St.
Martin’s, Queenstown, to Stuart Pullar,
Essendon (Vic.). Her dress of white
lace over lacquered satin was cut with
a flared skirt and shortish, round train.
The long tulle veil descended from a
wreath of orange-blossom, and her pearl
necklet was the bridegroom’s gift.
’Maids were her sister Marion and Miss
Holland (Melb.) in pale-green georgette
frocks with crossover bodices and carry-
ing pink and mauve sweet-pea bouquets.
About 70 guests attended the reception
given by Mr. and Mrs. Hudspeth at the
Empire afterwards.
The C. W. Keales (N.S.W.) have been
touring the Speck for the last few weeks.
They had with them their niece, Enid
Butters, who lived here as a small child
before John Butters and his lady were
transferred to the mainland.
Kim Ricards is giving up her nursing
career to take on that of helpmeet to
Alex. Alexander, Lennonville, Briny
Island. Kim is the only chick of Mr.
and Mrs. R. Flack Ricards, Hobart.
Mungo MacCallum and his lady have
taken up their usual quarters at Ferntree.
Mrs. Frank Murphy (Melb.) is staying
at the Queen Mary Club. She intends
to put in some time with her sister, Mrs.
Warner, at New Norfolk.
Ciceley Shoobridge and Dorothy
Tarleton, who have been doing the sights
of Maoriland by foot and by car for
several weeks, have returned to their flats
in Elboden-street, Hobart.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward Ft Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Long White Cloud
Settling the Maoris
Shaping the happy future of a people
by legislation that also satisfies their
immediate needs is the dream of states-
men before they become cynical politi-
cians. Maoriland has one such legisla-
tive dream in fruitful operation—the
Native Land Act provision for develop-
ment of native holdings by the Maoris
themselves.
More than 750,000 acres of Maoriland
is now under the supervised develop-
ment of 94 subsidised native groups and
1428 individual Maori farmers. Much
of this land, previously choked with fern
and weeds, was a constant menace to
cleaner properties over the fence, and of*
little value to the tribal owners ; now in
grass, it is carrying cows and sheep and
supporting the Maori people who
labored for its alteration.
These development schemes are suc-
cessful largely because they suit native
psychology. The land is originally
cleared by communal labor, a system
which parallels the tribal tradition of
social relationships; even tlie natives
most suspicious of European methods
understand and accept it. But before
the group work ends, the natives have
been taught sufficient modern farming
practice to enable them to become pro-
ductive and self-reliant Maorilanders
when left to their own sections and re-
sources.
By restoring the Maori to the land,
this legislation has provided him with
new faith in the future —and the native
birthrate has been climbing ever since
the schemes were put into operation.
Now the other Maoris on manufactured
P.W.D. jobs should be helped back to
the more healthy and more productive
life of the farm.
The State-house Snowball
Another completed State-house group
has been officially “opened” in Maori-
land.
“In this housing scheme we are trying
to cater for everyone,” Prime Minister
Savage said to the audience. “About
£3,500,000 will be tied up in housing
by March,” added Under-Secretary Lee,
“and if the present rate can be main-
tained we should build 6000 houses in
the next year.”
The truth is that the Government
can’t afford to depress the building trade
by cutting its housing-scheme activities.
Through its own legislation, costs
have soared. Cost increases caused early
revision of rentals originally planned for
State houses, with the result that people
on incomes sufficient for them to have
rented privately-owned and privately-
built houses became eligible for occu-
pation of State-owned and State-built
dwellings.
This hit small builders relying for their
living on private contracts, but it also
gave the Government a timely excuse
for tossing more millions into State
schemes. “We must supply the needs of
a type of tenant of moderate means for
whom little has been done in the past,”
cried Mr. Savage when announcing that
small flats, probably rentable at 14s. a
week, were the next Labor Government
objective.
And on rolls the housing snowball.
“Mak”: Forecasts made by Kingsford
Smith and Ulm after they pioneered the
trans-Pacific and trans-Tasman air routes
nearly 10 years ago have been turned
into fact. Before Captain Musick and
his crew shared the fate of those pioneers
■they had brought Maoriland within
three days and one night of New York.
By way of the Australia-England run it
is still some 14 days and a Tasman cross-
ing from London ; to-morrow, when the
Atlantic and the Tasman are each
spanned by regular air services, it will
be just one stop on a 15- or 16-day
round-the-world air run. Indicating the
possibilities aviation still holds, A. E.
Clouston, another R.A.F.-trained Maori-
lander, is planning to fly home from
London and back again within 10 days.
f
“M.”: By a sad coincidence, Maori-
landers in Melbourne and Sydney are m
mourning for similar reasons ; the wife
of the Government’s representative in
each city is no more. J. A. Malcolm’s
young wife died in Melbourne after a
brief illness, and a few days later Mrs.
W. Taylor passed on in Sydney.
* * * *
“Mak”: While Auckland should re-
main Maoriland’s overseas flying-boat
terminal, the more youthful Palmerston
North, which recently celebrated its
diamond jubilee, looks as if it will always
have the busiest internal airport. In
addition to being the northern terminal
of Union Airways’ inter-island run, it
is now the junction for two North Island
feeder services and an each-way stop on
the regular Auckland-Wellington trips.
It is now possible to leave Gisborne in
“The signal says get a tanner's Worth of chips with them prawns, sir!”
the early morning, call at Napier and
step out on Milson ’drome, three miles
out of Palmerston proper, at 9.50 a.m.
There the man-in-a-hurry can
Take the new feeder service to Wan-
. ganui, spend a business hour there and be
back by 12.30;
Join the Auckland-bound Lockheed at
12.55; or
• Return to Gisborne by the East Coast
’plane leaving at 1 p.m.; or
Use the 2.30 Palmerston North-Welling-
ton service; and/or
Connect with next morning’s machine to
the South Island.
Gisborne, Napier and Wanganui have
been brought hours closer to the rest of
Maoriland by these new feeder services;
North Auckland, the Waikato, Bay of
Plenty and Southland have to get similar
air facilities before Maoriland is com-
pletely serviced.
* * * »
“Waitot”: The Auckland Provin-
cial Freedom Association has made a
shrouded appearance; its ostensible
object is to prevent further sacrifice of the
“liberty of the subject” to a “trade union
dictatorship.” Adam Hamilton, National-
ist leader, has praised it, and Prime
Minister Savage has slated it, and R. M.
Algie has resigned an Auckland Univer-
sity professorship to do its organising.
It has been reported by an anti-Labor
press that the prof, is “actuated solely
by a deep sense of public duty and seeks
no reward other than that which the
association can give him.” He drew
some £9OO a year as former law-school
prof.
* * * *
“Waitot”: According to Prime Minis-
ter Savage, 1937 “ranked with the best
years in the country’s history.” He
added that “this was not due entirely to
the legislative achievements of the Labor
Government.” Over the last two years,
he explained, private income had in-
creased by £37,000,000 and wage-earners
had received an additional £22,000,000.
Authority for the figures? Mr. Savage
naively admitted they came from details
collected from the people for assessment
of unemployment tax!
* * * *
“Motu”: While Australia is becoming
concerned at the loss of British stock and
the annual increase in arrival numbers
of South Europeans, Maoriland’s home-
born population has increased to more
than 80.5 per cent, of its total people.
In the 15 years from 1921 this proportion
has increased by 32.76 p.c. However,
aliens have never formed a very large
proportion of Maoriland’s population,
and there were more in 1874 than there
are to-day. Those aliens came mostly
from northern Europe, and Maoriland,
as well as Australia, would be glad to
welcome more of their countrymen to-
day. Several shiploads of Danish
migrants, drawn south by accounts of
Maoriland life sent home by Ditlev Got-
hardt Monrad, Prime Minister of Den-
mark in 1863 and a political exile to
Palmerston North (M.L.) in 1865, had
satisfied Maoriland authorities that Danes
made excellent settlers. From 1874 to
1878 Maoriland helped about 4000
northern Europeans pay their passages
southward. To-day the largest alien
community is composed of Yugoslavs
(Italians are also increasing), but from
1921 to 1936 Maoriland’s total alien
population dwindled numerically by
nearly 14 p.c.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: An earlier anniversary cele-
bration than Maoriland’s general cen-
tennial of 1939-40 (B. 12/1 /’3B) is that
of the Catholic Church, which marks the
end of its first 100 years of service on
this side of the Tasman with observances
beginning in Auckland on February 26.
Actually, the real centenary fell last
week; it was January 10, 1838, when
Bishop Pompallier landed at Totara
Point, Hokianga Harbor. Many church
dignitaries ajid hundreds of visitors from
all parts of Maoriland, Australia and
countries further abroad are to travel
north from Auckland for commemora-
tion services at Totara Point on March
9, just a day short of 100 years and two
months after Bishop Pompallier’s initial
prayers for success among a strange
people in a new land. Thousands of
Maoris from all over North Auckland
will participate in the Totara Point cele-
brations.
* * * *
“Xo”: Scenic variations within Maori-
land’s comparatively short distances have
impressed yet another visitor from over-
seas. Commonwealth Customs Minister
White said to an Auckland interviewer
that “your Dominion should attract
visitors from all parts of the world,
especially with fast and efficient steamer
services across the Tasman Sea.” It would
handsomely repay tourist departments of
both countries to assist the establishment
of a one-class service.
> * *
“Korero”: Nothing
round the Tasman can
touch Maoriland jubi-
lee and centenary cele-
brations for the revival
of old-times tales which
read like fiction but
which carry sufficient
local fact to excite
some historical curios-
ity. The most recent
of these comes from
Riverton, a West Coast
mining township now
almost 100 years old.
)ld Riverton records
repeatedly refer to a
“lost tribe” believed to
have contained people
with white skins and
golden hair. Maori
legend says this tribe
was attacked in the
early days and driven
into the heavily-tim-
bered country at the
head of the southern sounds. Be-
tween 1840 and 1850, Riverton recalls,
one well-known native returned from
a secret southern trip with a fair-haired
girl whom no one had seen before ; that
girl later married a white settler, and if
she was one of the “lost tribe” she was
its last indication of existence. The
skeleton of a high-pooped vessel of a
type popular in pre-Tasman times has
been found down the rocky coast of
South Westland; perhaps some of its
adventurous crew survived the wreck and
gave a native tribe its European strain.


Astounding
PRICE
REDUCTIONS 1
on
“ULTIMATE”
RADIOS
(HOLDER OF NINE
WORLD CHAMPION
OF CHAMPIONS AWARDS)
SPECIAL OFFER
The sole Australian importers
announce that for one month reduc-
tions of up to 50 per cent, may be
obtained off current models. All-
wave models (from 12 to 500
metres) are available for all-electric
or battery operation.
This offer holds good for one month
only. Be sure not to miss this
excellent opportunity to take advan-
tage of these splendid reductions.
Write to-day for full information
or call on us at the address below.
GEO. BROWN & CO..PTY..LTD
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2544 (3 lines).
"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why (JAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its .programmes will cover the
State j—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
7vr\
i
Somebody's got
a Better Radio
Now!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PACES.
Single-valve S.-W. Converter.
The listener who desires short-wave
reception, but would prefer to retain the
receiver with which he is familiar for
normal broadcast use, can find what he
requires in a short-wave converter.
Quite satisfactory results can be obtained
with a single-valve type, taking heater
and plate voltages from the existing re-
ceiver. The design here is by GSZJ,
short-wave editor of “Television and
Short-wave World” (Eng.), and is simple
enough for the average radio dealer to
make up from the description and put
into operation with a minimum of
trouble. A short-wave converter of this
kind is fundamentally just a single-stage
oscillating detector covering the required
short-wave bands.
For Use with A.C. Receiver.
The circuit shows that the converter is
suitable for use with an A.C.-operated
broadcast receiver. It consists of an
R.F. pentode valve such as the 6C6 or
6J7, used as an electron-coupled oscil-
lator. The grid circuit consists of LI
and VCI, while L 2 is the aerial coupling
coil, having in series with it VC2, a vari-
able condenser used for adjusting the
load imposed upon the grid of VI.
Regeneration is obtained by taking the
cathode back to earth via a small por-
tion of the coil LI. In normal circum-
stances this would make the whole stage
go into complete oscillation, but, with a
pentode valve such as the 6C6 or 6J7,
the amount of regeneration can be con-
trolled by carrying the resistance VRI,
which applies the voltage to the screen
grid of the pentode valve.
Where the broadcast receiver has 6.3-
volt valves, either the 6C6 or 6J7 type
valve will be suitable, but if the receiver
is of earlier design with 2.5-volt valves
a 57 valve will be needed for the con-
verter. With any of these types, the
values of capacity, inductance and resist-
ance shown will be suitable. By vary-
ing the screen voltage a very smooth and
accurate control of regeneration can be
obtained.
The efficiency of a circuit of this kind
depends very largely on the valve used
and the impedance of the R.F. choke in
the plate circuit. The multi-section slot-
wound type of R.F. choke is more suit-
able for this purpose than the usual
honeycombs, unless one of the special
0 to 200 metre Eddystone or Raymart
chokes (four honeycombs) is used.
The output from the converter is fed
into the grid circuit of the following
broadcast receiver via a small condenser,
C 2, which has a capacity of .OOOlmfd.
Another condenser, C 3, having a value
of .lmfd., is used to by-pass the valve
screen to earth, and must be connected
directly from the screen connection at
the valve socket to the nearest earth
point. One side of the heater is by-
passed by C 4 in order to avoid modula-
tion hum, which otherwise would be
noticeable when tuned to a powerful
The circuit of the single-valve converter. The values are:
H.F.C., high-impedance R.F. choke; VC1, 100mmfd. Ray-
mart or Eddystone variable condenser (use with smooth
vernier dial ); VC2, 50mmfd. Raymart or Eddystone variable
condenser; C1, Olmfd.; Rl, 200 ohms; C2,000lmfd. mica ;
C3, Jmfd. tubular; C4, Jmfd. tubular; R2, 20,000 ohms
1 watt; VR 1, 50,000 ohms potentiometer.
station. Cl and R 1 in the cathode cir-
cuit are respectively .Olmfd. and 200
ohms.
In the aerial circuit is a three-point
switch, to the centre-point of which is
taken the aerial. One switch point con-
nects to the fixed plates of VC2 and the
other directly to the aerial terminal on
the broadcast receiver. Thus the con-
verter can be left permanently in circuit,
and the aerial switched to this or the
broadcast receiver as required.
The valve-heater supply is taken from
the receiver supply according to the volt-
age of the valves used, and 250 volts is
tapped off for the plate voltage of the
converter. There is no reason why the
converter should not have its own small
power pack if this method is preferred.
One way of taking the voltages from the
broadcast receiver is to make a socket
adaptor with terminals connected to the
heater pins. This socket is then plugged
into the most convenient valve socket in
the receiver, and two leads taken from
the terminals on the adaptor to the heater
terminals of the converter valve.
A B negative connection is made auto-
matically when the converter is earthed,
but the B positive can usually be taken
from the high potential side of the
primary of the output transformer, gen-
erally a part of the loudspeaker.
All the parts for a converter of this
kind can be mounted on a metal chassis
6in. by 7in. by with a panel 6in.
by 7in.
If the valve used is of the glass type,
a valve screen will be needed, but this
will not be necessary with a metal valve
such as the 6J7. All the components
with the exception of LI, L 2 and VCI
are mounted beneath the chassis top, and
are all of a standard type except the coils,
which must be home-made.
Coil Details.
Four coils are needed to cover from
15 to 200 metres, wound on l|in.
formers.
Coil 1 for 15 to 31 metres is wound
with 26-gauge copper wire, with the turns
spaced gin. and covering a winding length
of 3in. LI consists of four turns tapped
three-quarters of a turn from the earth
end. Wind on four turns of the sanje
gauge wire away from this earth
end for the aerial coupling coil, L 2„
The second coil, covering 29 to 46
metres, requires six turns for L 2 and 8t
turns for LI, with the tap point made l|
turns from the end
of LI. Spacing on
this coil is as for
coil 1.
The third coil
covers from 45 to
98 metres, and is
made up of 10
turns for L 2 and
23 turns for LI,
tapped three turns
from the end of
Ll. Spacing of
the turns is ap-
proximately the
diameter of the
wire. The fourth
coil covers 95 to
200 metres, and is
made up of 48
turns on LI, tapped
six turns from the
end, with 17 turns
on L 2. Spacing be-
tween LI and L 2 is
iin., and both coils
are close-wound. All coils are on four-
pin plug-in formers, with a socket mount-
ing to suit.
The method of using the converter is
quite simple. Aerial and converter-to-
receiver connections are made as indi-
cated in the circuit diagram and receiver
and converter are switched on. The re-
ceiver is tuned to a silent position at the
higher wave-length end of the broadcast
band and the converter tuned and ad-
justed until it is almost in complete oscil-
lation. In this way the converter
operates as a conventional autodyne
detector-oscillator, with the broadcast
receiver as the intermediate frequency
stages.
The converter is suitable for use in
front of any T.R.F. or superhet receiver,
but if a T.R.F. type it should have at
least two R.F. stages. It cannot be used
in any circumstances with a small
receiver of the Reinartz type, minus
R.F. amplification.
D.B.K.
Empire Short-wave
Programmes.
“The Way of Peace,” “Over the Farm
Gate,” “Do We Understand English?”
and “All Kinds of People” are the titles
of new series of talks which will be
broadcast in the programmes from
Daventry at weekly intervals during the
first quarter of 1938.
An ex-serviceman and Sir Alfred Zim-
mern, Professor of International Rela-
tions at Oxford University, will introduce
the talks on peace.
“Over the Farm Gate” will consist of
informal chats about agricultural topics
and problems by Professor Scott-Watson,
and for the series of six talks, “Do We
Understand English?” Professor A.
Lloyd James, M.A., Professor of
Phonetics at the School of Oriental
Studies, London, and secretary of the
8.8. C. Advisory Committee on Spoken
English, will be responsible.
Listeners in Australia and M.L. are to
be catered for in a series of special talks.
As in the Canadian series, “Cards on
the Table,” there will be two speakers,
respectively representative of .England
and the Dominions concerned, who will
discuss current events. The series will
alternate at fortnightly intervals. Among
the speakers already chosen are John
Maude, representing England, and Jack
Lovelock, the M.L. athlete.
Radio Comment.
“J.D.”: Process of making plug-in
coils is simplified by using separate
pieces of wire to thread coil leads
through the prongs. It is almost impos-
sible to get the fingers inside the usual
coil formers. For those who use valve
bases for coils for simple short-wavers
this table will be useful:
Grid. Reaction.
Band. Turns. Turns.
7,000 kc 15 6
!4,000kc 6 3
28,000 kc 3 3
No spacing is used between turns, with
the exception of the 28,000 kc. range,
where the three turns should be spaced
about fin. Twenty-four D.S.C. is the
best gauge wire for such coils. Remem-
ber, however, that modern-type valves
have bases of much better material than
most of the earlier types.
* * * *
“D.J.”: Not enough attention is paid
to the earth connection on modern re-
ceivers. In nine cases out of ten a re-
ceiver is used without an earth. On
short waves an efficient earth connection
will. often completely eliminate back-
ground noise. The most practicable
earth usually is a rising water main, but
wherever possible a direct external earth
in the form of buried metal should be
used. An old iron bedstead or iron bath
in a few feet of moist ground makes a
big difference. Never use gaspipes.
Besides being dangerous they have a
high resistance.
* * * *
“Enno”: When quartz crystals of
7000 kc. fundamental were introduced it
was thought that the limit in cuts had
been reached, but a prominent U.S.A.
crystal co. produced 20-metre crystals,
and the latest are quartz crystals with a
fundamental around 10 metres. Thus
the modern ultra-short-wave crystal-con-
trolled transmitter with a minimum of
stages is made possible. The new
crystals are the result of extended re-
search. A new angle was found in which
the crystal is thicker for a given fre-
quency than in the case of other cuts,
and at the same time possesses the neces-
sary R.F. activity. It is claimed that
the new 10-metre crystals will safely
carry R.F. current up to 200 milli-
amperes.
* * * *
“Querex”: Beware of the cheap
D.P.D.T. knife switch when dealing with
high-voltage R.F. Such switches for use
in aerial feeders of transmitters should
first have the composition bar removed
and replaced with W.T. 22 or isolantite.
It is futile to carefully insulate feeders
in a spaced transmission line and to
provide a leakage path in the aerial
change-over switch.
* * * *
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: Valve-makers should
consider placing a new series on the
market with filaments to take the full
voltage of air-cells. No valuable cur-
rent would then be lost in heat, as the
necessity for using a specially-wound re-
sistor would be avoided. Sets would be
more stable on short waves on account
of the higher low-tension voltage, and
less plate current would be consumed.
* * * *
The information section of the League
of Nations Secretariat has for some years
been giving weekly broadcasts to Aus-
tralasia on short waves. The programme


aMPLIOH
"B" TYPE GENEMOTOR
WITH D.C. or A.C. OUTPUT
The new Amplion “B” type Gene-
motor has treble the output of the
earlier type. A single machine will
give outputs up to 600 volts, 100
watts, either direct or alternating cur-
rent (100 volts amps.), with any input
from 6 to 240 volts direct current.
ķ
Dimensions:
Height. Width. Length. Weight.
7£in. 6in. 6in. 161 b.
PRICE £l4
Write for Publication No. 71.
AMPUON (A/SIA) PTY.LTD.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ĸ
k
ķ
Radiotron valves are
sealed for your protection in
red and blue cartons. For
safety, always . . .
R t-VALVE W|t H
I
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (M) (A/SIA) .LTD-
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC!
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
consists of a news bulletin or talk from
seven to ten minutes, given over two
transmitters, with half an hour’s interval
Commercial in appearance but home-
made is this transmitter of VK3SI,
owned and operated by Ron Marriott,
of Toorak, Vic. Panelling is of sheet
steel, white enamelled. It is crystal con-
trolled, with 6A6 bi-push exciter, 6P6
and push-pull 807’s. This station’s receiver
is the Ideal Amateur Superhet, B.
13/1/’37.
between transmissions. Matters of cur-
rent international interest particularly
affecting the League are dealt with.
Transmission is on Mondays, from HBO,
26.31 metres (11,402 kc.), at 08.00 G.M.T.,
A general view, looking north, of the Empire' short-wave station at Daventry,
showing some of the aerial masts.
and HBJ, 20.64 metres (14,535 kc.), at
08.30 G.M.T.
* * * *
The well-known Indian experimental
transmitter VU2CQ sends word that his
station is now active on 56mc., and is
endeavoring to put signals to Australia
on Sundays. Time of transmission is
04.00 G.M.T. (2 p.m. Eastern Australian
time) and a beam array is directed south-
east. Transmission is C.W. with a super-
imposed 800-cycle modulation.
* * * *
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: VLR covers most of
Australia like a powerful local broad-
caster. Consistent outback reception
should be possible with a powerful
short-wave broadcaster at a suitable loca-
tion. Although primarily intended for
overseas transmission, VLR and similar
stations give ample proof of the utility
of short waves within Australia. Com-
mercial organisations are willing to erect
high-powered short-wave stations, but
there is a hitch somewhere in the ob-
taining of licenses.
Queensland S.-W. Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. * all-
waver (B. 28/4/’37); location, Hughen-
den.
Morning reception from Europeans is
still patchy on any band after about 7
a.m. On 31/12/’37 GSD was good until
8 a.m., with W2XAF nearly the same
volume. The 7 a.m. news session from
Daventry is good, but conditions do not
always permit reception. Most morn-
ings lately the U.S.A. stations have been
best, giving clear but not very powerful
reception. W8XK is fair on 19.71
metres, but W2XE on 25.36 metres is
stronger and noisier. Stations W2XAD,
W3XAL (16.87m.), W1XK (31.35m.),
W3XAU (31.28m.) and W2XAF
(31.48m). have all been entertaining.
On 2/1/’38 the 49-metre band was ex-
plored at 11.15 p.m., and W8XAL
(49.5m.) was located at excellent volume.
Static was not troublesome, and this was
easily the most powerful short-wave
broadcast transmission ever received
from U.S.A. On 27/12/’37 HS8PJ an-
nounced on 15.77 metres details of an
International Short-wave Club prize for
reception reports.
RNE is still very good on Sundays and
Wednesdays.
At present, from 6.15 p.m. on, recep-
tion is all that can be desired on all
frequencies. At 7.50 p.m. on Fridays
Daventry gives a summary of the items
for the ensuing week in Transmission 1.
GSD is now very fine right through
Transmission 1.
The writer meets many people who
read these notes, and they invariably
ask why he can get and they cannot get
lots of stations mentioned. There’s a lot
in knowing where to look. Then there
is the receiver question. I’ve been told
of a multi-valve superhet that fails to do
anything with Daventry at 6.15 p.m. when
at the present time a single-valver would
get it on 25 or 31 metres. (It must be
out of order.— Ed.) The writer’s tuned
R.F. receiver has given remarkable en-
tertainment for a year, and better still
is anticipated for 1938.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
Possibly the passage close to the earth
of a wandering planet had something to
do with it, but long-distance conditions
on the usually lively 14mc. channel have
been anything but reliable recently. After
months of crowded jostling of U.S.A.
’phone stations between 14,150 kc. and
14,250 kc. that part of the world has
been silent. South Americans occasion-
ally pop through in the evening hours,
and KAs, Js and XUs are fairly regu-
lar. Short skip has been much in evi-
dence, and many VKs have made the
most of things in lengthy inter-State
QSOs. The other night at 10 p.m.
Sydney time, the writer suddenly found
himself in two-way R 8 ’phone with
G6RH. Something to do with aerials
possibly, for the one in use for general
band coverage at this end refuses to put
a signal northwards to Japan and
China, but is consistent on Europeans.
?**•••
Bad enough as it is to place an
illegal station on the air under a “manu-
factured” call, it is adding insult to in-
jury to make use of another fellow’s call-
sign. Charles Drew (VK2CD) has not
been on the air for over a year, yet a
’phone station has been noticed bla-
tantly working all and sundry and sign-
ing his call. The same thing has hap-
pened with VK2MQ. The real 2MQ
is interested solely in ultra-shorts, and
has not been active on lower frequen-
cies for months. In a country where ama-
teur radio transmitting is not permitted
at all piracy is understandable. But
there is no excuse for it in Australia,
where the qualifications for a license are
by no means hard to acquire, and regu-
lations are designed to help amateur
radio along.
Latest overseas station known to be
trying to reach Australia on 56mc. is the
Indian VU2CQ in Bombay. This station
is well known in DX circles, and has
been a star performer on 28mc. The
operator is understood to have compre-
hensive gear in action on 56mc., and his
operating times fall at convenient hours
for VK. At VK2NO a horizontal
W8IK flat-top array is now in action
and will be used throughout this year’s
attempts on long distance.
VK2N0.
1938 A.R.R.L. Handbook.
The latest issue of the American
Radio Relay League’s Radio Amateurs’
Handbook is a massive volume con-
taining up-to-the-minute information
on the latest applications and ideas in
modern radio communication. Funda-
mentals and workshop practice, then
receiver and transmitter design are dealt
with. The antenna section is full of
interesting data,
and to-day most
DX men are vastly
interested in direc-
tive antenna design
and use. A section
is devoted to
“Emergency and
Portable Equip-
rnent,” and another
to “I ns t r uments
and Measure-
ments.” The book
winds up with use-
ful information on
assembling st a-
tio n s, operating
and message
handling. It should
be on every ama-
teur’s and radio
engineer’s book-
shelf, and can be
had, 7s. 6d., postage
10d., from McGill’s
Agency, 183 Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.
Marconi School for
Melbourne.
To cope with the steady increase in
the number of students in radio engi-
neering, operating and other branches of
wireless technique, the Marconi School
of Wireless, established by A.W.A. in
Sydney in 1913, is expanding in two
directions. In Sydney the school has
been enlarged and the instructional
staff increased, and a new school is to be
opened in Melbourne at 171 Queen-street.
The correspondence courses will still
be conducted from Sydney, and students
at the Melbourne school will be trained
in the operator’s course for shipping and
aircraft. Instructor-in-charge will be
H. N. Quodling, who has had many
years’ experience on the operating staff
of A.W.A., and also in geophysical re-
search work.
Under new regulations the P.M.G. will
issue a special certificate of proficiency
for aircraft operators, first-, second- and
third-class, and this special instruction
will be given in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne schools.
The school equipment is full and
complete.
What's What in Radio.
Successful television reception from
Alexandra Palace, London, was obtained
recently in the Cunard-White Star liner
Britannic, The ship was in the English
Channel, and the distance from the
transmitting station was approximately
100 miles. It is believed to be the first
time high-definition television has been
received at sea.
* * .* *
A new type of inter-office communica-
tion system has been developed in U.S.A.
Instead of working at audio frequency it
operates at radio frequency. The signal
is cafried from one point to another over
the normal telephone wiring, and by
using different frequencies two or more
conversations can be conducted over one
line without interference.
The Question Box.
(1) Can you give details and circuit diagram
for a crystal set to operate from the relay
station at Lubeck (Vic.), approximately 40 miles
distant ? (2) Could such a set bring in other
stations such as Swan Hill, 100 miles distant?
(3) Height and length of aerial? (4) Are good
second-hand headphones to suit such a set avail-
able ? —624.
(1) The circuit diagram given with details of
coil windings is a crystal circuit capable of
better than ordinary results. The coil-former
is Hin. in diameter. Note that an alternative
aerial connection is shown. This centre-tap
connection gives added sensitivity when distant
reception is desired. (2) Depends on a sensi-
tive crystal, sensitive headphones and a high,
lengthy and well-insulated external aerial. (3)
About 50ft. high and 100 ft. long. (4) Rarely.
Good English 4000-ohm headphones - can be
obtained from Murdoch’s, Ltd., < Park-street,
Sydney, 295. 6d.
* * * *
(1) I have a three-valve set using Philips
3009 B and C eliminator and filament trans-
former. My transformers have burned out.
How can I alter the set for use without trans-
formers? (2) In B. 6/10 / ’37 a modern
vibrator-powered receiver was illustrated. Is
a copy of the circuit available? —62s.
(1) Reference to transformers is vague. If
audio coupling is referred to this could be
redesigned for resistance-capacity instead of
audio transformers. If the filament heater
transformer is burned out, it is possible to
obtain these Philips four-volt types from Price,
Angel-place, Sydney. (2) This was an illus-
tration of a commercial product. Information
can be obtained from Radiokes, Ltd., Redfern,
N.S.W.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible for an amateur to build
a dual-wave receiver of the type using a six-
volt battery only? (2) Where could construc-
tional details be obtained in Melbourne ? (3)
Are kit sets available for this type of re-
ceiver ? —623.
(1) Yes, vibrator-powered receivers are to-
day more difficult for home construction than
any other receiver. (2) Try Veall’s Radio and
Electrical Stores, 243 Swanston-street. (3) Such
kit sets are made by Radiokes and sold by
most radio stores handling components for
home construction.


VITA-LICK
for
FAT LAMBS.
Mr. A. R. Hobart, Kwobrup, via
Katanning, W.A., writes, 1/41’30:
“My lambs this year are the
best I have ever had, and every-
one remarks on their size. This
I consider is due to Vita-Lick.”
VITA-LICK AGENTS IN ALL
SHEEP & CATTLE CENTRES
Vita-Lick, Ltd.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney
MANAGING THE DRY SPELL
“Tri-cal”: Don’t forget in your down-
heartedness. because you have had to
move your sheep so far for pasture that
they can do well on the feeding stuffs
available in dry season provided that they
are given a good phosphate mixture.
A liberal use of Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is
of great assistance, enabling the stock
to make the best use of the poor, coarse
fodders which are generally low in feed-
ing value. The simple Tri-cal-os and salt
mixture I think has helped to maintain
my sheep in all-round good condition,
and it can do as much for yours. I got
6
SS£»
the folder about using it from Davis Gelatine (Aust.)
Tell them you are interested in wool.
Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Old Farmer.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street. Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A -nodern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wool and Prices.
“Bungaree”: The. recent depressed
state of the wool market has rammed
home one salutary fact. Since the first
sales in September the market has been
uncertain, and, as always with a cautious
market, buyers have shown preference
for well-grown and well-prepared wools.
Growers of spinners’ wools who have
exercised care in breeding and who have
had their wool competently classed have
not suffered so much as those who, lulled
by the comparatively good returns of
other years, reckoned that it did not pay
to buy good rams or to cull, and that
buyers paid just as much for wool
chucked straight into the bale as for
wool properly classed.
Every show floor has lot after lot of
wool that does not appeal to buyers
because of bad preparation. Fleece
wools of mixed lengths and condition,
evidence of careless skirting, doggy,
starey wools from old sheep among
good well-grown fleeces from young
sheep, and badly-picked pieces are to be
seen often.
Local repackers and speculators, who
usually support the market by buying
mixed and small lots, have not been
operating this season, and the vendors
of those lines have suffered accordingly.
In the past, we have been too prone to
let our thoughts dwell on record wool
prices and high wool markets. The facts
we should keep continually before us
are that any sort of wool will sell itself
on a good market, but to secure a good
sale on a bad market we must grow good
wool and offer it for sale in a manner
that will appeal to buyers when orders
are scarce.
The salvation of the wool industry
does not lie in high prices per pound,
but in reasonably high returns per acre.
A better way than spending money on
publicity to combat the use of synthetic
fibre is to be prepared to sell our wool
at an average price at which the synthetic
fibre manufacturer cannot compete
Some growers are already showing how
by making their land fit to carry three
to five sheep to the acre where it pre-
viously could carry only one, and by
minimising stock losses with the help of
the scientist in combating pests and
diseases.
Closer Settlement in N.-W. Q’land.
“A.S.”: Pasture improvement is rarely
seen on the Mitchell- and Flinders-grass
plains of west and nor’-west Queensland,
where stations are being cut up as their
leases expire.
It bristles with difficulties in this un-
certain rainfall area, but there does seem
to be scope for fodder conservation by
cutting Mitchell grass hay where a good
stand can be obtained ; and the sowing
of Curly Mitchell (B. 22/12/’37) gives
hope of restoring eaten-out pastures.
The small grower often stocks to capa-
city and is reluctant to move sheep dur-
ing drought, with the result that some
pastures have been badly eaten out. Rain
then brings only a growth of roly-poly
and weed.
I have never seen a haystack in n.-w.
Queensland, though I have heard of iso-
lated harvesting tests. The average
grower is frankly scornful of such ex-
periments, though winter rains and wind
often destroy dry standing grass. - But,
then, old-time cattle men scorned the
idea of sheep eating the “bull Mitchell”
then grassing the country.
Cream Separator Losses.
“Murramac”: Periodical tests have
shown that there is considerable loss
through faulty adjustment of the cream
screw and through minor faulty mechani-
cal adjustments.
Farmers should have their separated
milk tested for fat at least once a month,
and adjust the cream screw according to
the result. The machine itself should be
thoroughly tested according to the direc-
tions of the makers, and if necessary
the advice of the factory manager, the
district dairying instructor, the local
herd-tester or the local separator agent
should be sought in order to correct
I've had cals that did that , sir. They just love you to tickle their tummy."
faults and ensure that the machine
skims absolutely clean.
improving the Breed 1 .
“Murramac”: The wholesale slaughter
of calves during the last few years should
have a beneficial effect on the standards
of our beef and dairy herds.
Less thajn a decade ago the price of a
calf was the price of.its skin:, and the
majority of heifers were reared while the
bulls were tapped on the head. Nowadays,
the motor stock" Truck and an increased
demand for veal have brought about an
amazing amount of calf dealing, which
gives breeders a fine opportunity for calf
culling.
It has to be an exceptionally good calf
to offset the dealer’s high price any,-
where near a city, so that practically 90
p.c. of inferior stock is being eliminated.
It is difficult to foresee the ultimate
effect of this development on the herds
of the Commonwealth, but it may go too
far. A round of visits to N.S.W. cattle
sales shows that the offerings of adult
stock are better bred than fed. Cattle,
especially those from the central N.S.W.
coastal areas, show signs of mineral de-
ficiency, and it is certain that the pas-
tures from which they came have rarely
been effectively fertilised.'
Improving Paspalum Land.
“Seed Bed”: Much land now under
paspalum in eastern coastal regions could
carry more stock under other grasses.
Grafton (N.S.W.) Experiment Farm
has been at work on the problem for
years. Paspalum, it has decided, should
be mown and burnt off, then disk-har-
rowed and cross-worked 2in. deep with
a pasture renovator. In one experiment
81b. perennial rye, 21b. Italian rye, 21b.
red clover and lib. white clover were then
put in with 2cwt. super, per acre through
a wheat drill. This was followed by a
light harrowing. Sowing was done early
in April, and the cattle were rotated
through four paddocks two months after
planting for three hours per day. A 51-
acre paddock had 17 days with an aver-
age of 55 cows per day in June and
July together. In all, 30 acres provided
feed for an average of 55 cows for three
months beginning with June.
When the feeding experiment began in
the first week in June, 56 cows were giv-
ing 108 gallons on a ration of 201 b. en-
silage, 61b. lucerne chaff and 21b. con-
centrates. On June. 15, after the paddocks
had been opened with the new grasses,
production was up to 138 gallons, though
ensilage had been reduced to 161 b. In
July 52 to 54 cows in milk averaged 133
gallons, and by the end of the month the
,per.-cow output for 54 cows' was 140
gallons. r.; '
The herd was then put on natural, pas-
palum for 11 days, and output fell to
101 gallons, in spite of the fact that the
silage ration went up to 301 b.
A week after the return of the herd to
improved pastures, the output was 110
gallons,' and a fortnight later 51 cows
were averaging 136 gallons, despite the
fact that, half-way through, silage had
been cut from 301 b. to 161 b. and the
lucerne, chaff ration from 61b. to 41b.
Fifty-three cows .averaged 139 gallons for
the month. The average for June, July
and August was 461 b. more butter per
month than for May and 401 b.: more
than for February, which is usually re-
garded as a peak month.
For the 11 days before the cattle were
taken off the improved pasture at the
beginning of August, 54 animals pro-
duced 5381 b. butter; during the next 11
days on untreated pasture their produc-
tion was 4511 b., though weather condi-
tions remained normal.
Work on pastures should begin in
March or early April, according to
locality.
Feeding Sugarcane.
“X.T.”: Under certain conditions,
sugarcane makes an economical late-
winter and spring feed in districts where
it will grow.
Varieties needed are those which pro-
duce succulent canes and which are
luxurious ratooners and disease-resistant.
The medium-thick, soft Broadwater No.
1, which stands off most diseases except
mosaic, is good, but it does not cope with
frost very well. Worboy’s is a high
yielder, extra soft, but red rot is apt to
attack it. In frosty districts, Üba stands
up well, but is not so soft and full-
stalked as the other breeds.
Any coastal area north of Kempsey
(N.S.W.) will grow good feed-cane on
well-fertilised, well-drained land, which
should be ploughed at least Bin. deep in
late autumn or early winter and brought
to a fine tilth in late spring ready for
planting early in October. .
Sets should have three eyes and be
put in from 4in. to 7in. in drills at least
4ft. apart, and at the rate of 25cwt. to
30cwt. per acre. Fertiliser should be
about 3cwt. of equal parts bonemeal
and super. Young cane should be kept
weed-free, and cutting should always be
done below' ground level, rubbish being
immediately removed and burnt. Ratoons
like an ammonium sulphate dressing in
November and January.
First-year crops should run up to 35
tons per acre and ratoons average about
18 to 20 tons.
Wiping Out Johnson Grass.
“J. Want”: Johnson grass, if its hold is
not too strong, can be wiped out at the
cost of a little trouble. The older roots
generally bunch about 9in. below ground,


i
»«
This Beautiful Full-sized
‘‘Co - anywhere" Sedan is
purs Tor'" ©ti§sft
£349
AT wm
m
BBSS
m
ONLY £6- £7 PER YEAR MORE FOR
PETROL TRAY THE SMALLEST CARS
WOULDN’T you prefer the luxury and comfort of this beautiful Standard Chevrolet
Sedan ... a full-sized “go-anywhere” car that will do everything you ask of it.
... a car of proved economy (3 recent official tests showed m.p.g., 25.8 m.p.g.,
and with a two-speed rear axle, 29.1 m.p.g.
And you can afford it /” Don’t allow the question of running economy to overshadow
all the other enjoyments of motoring. Face the facts about economy. > During a normal
year you will probably drive about 5,000 miles. To do this, mileage a. 40 m.p.g. car will
use 125 gallons of petrol. A 25 m.p.g. car will use 200 gallons. Taking petrol at l/9d.
a gallon, the saving for petrol over the whole year is between £6 and £7.
Is it worth it ? Look at the Standard Chevrolet—drive it—check its splendid array of
features —and we’re sure you’ll say that such a saving is insignificant compared with the
extra qualities Chevrolet gives you. Chevrolet value is really amazing . . . we want
you to know all about this outstanding car ... so please accept our invitation to have
a free 5-mile drive. A car will be placed at your disposal any time to suit you —and
there’s absolutely no obligation. , :
JUDGE A CAR BY ITS FEATURES ... HERE'S
WHAT YOU GET WITH STANDARD CHEVROLET
6-cyl. O.H.V. High Compression Engine. Synchro-mesh Gears. “Full Contact”
Perfected Hydraulic Brakes. Holden “Unisteel Turretop” Closed Bodies. “Armour-
plate” Safety Glass in windscreen and side windows. Multi-adjusting Driving Seat.
Relax-o-form Seating. Giant Luggage Trunk. Low. Maintenance Cost. Full
Equipment. Remember also that Chevrolet has the highest resale value, the lowest cost
spare parts, and Service facilities available in all parts of Australia.
✓*^Vucii
CHEVROLET
for
floadster
£29*
k
.. tl* iB
exclusW
Coup e
tt ll-ei»c* osC *[
£32®
for
ķ
* easy
liberal «>'»» C& 2i£- S^'
g»
Roadster g* ts Coup tj4 9
S£—~' SR, *-C«i
to»r.r - (A|| p,ka «“ J, oo ttS ALSO
«as«« . uMiTffl
M OTOP' S " WOL I (Motors’ Car
our AA° ney
AUSTRALIA'S
MOST
POPULAR
CAR
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER.
Sold and serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
C 387-44
and adventitious roots sometimes find
their way under the surface for 2ft. 6in.
Sodium chlorate, however, is a potent
enemy applied heavily enough. A 10 p.c.
solution should be used, and two spray-
ings should be given in the year—one in
autumn and the other in early spring.
The amount of grass to be dealt with
determines the quantity, but, generally
speaking, from 300 gallons to 500 gallons
per acre will do the trick on fairly
heavily infested land. The method is too
costly where whole paddocks are
covered; but s.c. wipes out isolated
patches economically. Unlike arsenic
pentoxide, it affects not only top growth
but the roots.
“Vulagi”: Johnson grass (B. 29/12/’37)
was introduced into Fiji years ago for
fodder, and got such a hold in the culti-
vation that 600-acre-plantation owners
reckoned they would have been £l5OO a
year better off without it. Actually, it
isn’t a grass at all, but a millet. The best
thing to do with a small patch is put a
fence round and keep the pigs rooting
at it.
“Huglow”: On the Darling Downs
Johnson grass is a known poisoner of
cattle. In appearance it is almost indis-
tinguishable from Sudan grass. Cutting
before seeding is of no avail, as the de-
stroyer shoots from the knots of its wide-
spreading roots, as well as from seed.
Johne’s Disease.
“Silky Bag”: “Johne’s disease affects
hard - working c6ws mainly” (B.
29/12/’37). Well, hardly. • It was brought
to Australia by a Jersey bull, and every
case except two has been traced to his
descendants. Probably it affects dairy
stock more than beef cattle, because the
former are generally run on richer pas-
ture and in colder districts with a high
rainfall.
Victoria and Maoriland have more to
fear from Johne’s than has N.S.W., if we
can rely on the parallel of its incidence
in England and America. In England,
Johne’s rivals tuberculosis as a scourge,
and, although known in America for
almost as long, it has never reached
more than 10 p.c. of the incidence of
t.b., apparently because of climate.
Sun kills most germs spread around
the paddocks. Germs would scarcely live
two days on pasture in the summer in
N.S.W., but may live for a month or
two in a Victorian winter.
Johne’s takes 18 months to show up
after infection, and the affected beast
can do much damage in that time. Still,
if no cattle have been brought from
known Johne’s farms (which are well
marked in each State), there is little risk
of dairy cows picking it up.
Horses’ Backs.
“Albarmount”: The weight on horses’
backs should be taken by the hard
muscles covering the ribs, with the wither
and bones protruding from the spine
clear.
111-fitting saddles impose undue pres-
sure in one place, stemming the blood
circulation. The hair chafes, the texture
of the skin weakens and breaks into a
sore. The thicker and harder the muscles
the less chance there is of this happening.
Bony horses have no cushion of muscle
to protect the skin being pinched be-
tween the ribs on one side and the
saddle on the other.
Keeping the gear clean and washing
the ; sweated backs after work helps to
avoid trouble. Queensland stockmen are
finding sponge rubber saddle-cloths
useful.
The muscles of a horse’s back are
covered by a layer of tissue. Foreign
matter beneath this, unable to get to the
surface, tends to go deeper and spreads,
thus making healing difficult. A spot of
chafed hair is usually the first indica-
tion that either the saddle neeeds atten-
tion or the rider is not sitting evenly.
Leathery scabs, harboring pus, should be
removed with a clean knife, and any-
thing ulcerous cleaned thoroughly. Any
reliable antiseptic will help the cure.
Superficial wounds require only antisep-
tic dressings and rest.
White-ant Fallacies.
“Werrimee”: It used to be thought
that white ants would not attack green
trees and couldn’t exist in ploughed fields.
But many nests are found in the hearts of
growing trees, and myriads have been
ploughed up on farms. Nor do they
confine their attacks to wood. At Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) a crop of Brownell
potatoes was attacked in several places,
the tubers being completely eaten with
the exception of the outer skin.
In other parts, the trunks and branches
(i Continued on next page.)


3248
An imported Ooze Calf combination
Riding-Working Boot, made with a
heavy double sole and reinforced
elastic sides.
Leather lined throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in
wide and extra-wide fittings.
Brown Ooze Calf. Price 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
When you buy your
Abbey Work Boots
Treat Them Well with
Abbey Polish.
Good boots will last far longer and
wear so much better if cleaned regu-
larly with Abbey Polish. If softens and
preserves the leather as well as giving
a lasting shine.
amu»;
CK
Abbey Polish is made for black, tan,
dark tan and nigger-brown Shoes.
Try a useful Abbey Polishing Outfit,
consisting of polish, pad and brush.
Price 2/6
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA—COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Progress and development in the many fields of
Australian industry, during the past hundred years,
have been aided and directed by the resources arid
support of THE UNION BANK.
By the security and co-operation always extended
to its clients, it has won public confidence and trust;
and, today, as the outcome of the long years of
experience, it offers to every section of the com-
munity a complete and modern Banking Service.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Established /837
Incorporated in England 1 880.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand. London Office: 71 Cornhill, E.C.3.
%e Ufa
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
JANUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
What Will 1938 Bring?
The Dow Theory
Britain’s Gold Reserves
Stocks Worth Consideration
Mining Developments All Fields
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
üblished by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kino St.. Sydney
of fruit-trees have been riddled by the
ants, and cane-stools become infested.
These attacks are nearly always near
old stumps or logs. The ants travel a
considerable distance under cover, par-
ticularly along roots. Their presence in
fruit-trees may not be suspected until
the trees are ruined.
In white-ant country no stump or log
should be left near orchards, fields,
fences or buildings. It is always danger-
ous to burn out a stump near buildings
or wheat fields, as long roots may burn
for weeks. Deep grubbing is the safest
plan; elsewhere burning is the surest
method of guarding against white ants.
Turkeys for Next Christmas.
“Beesknees”: Now is the time to begin
rearing turkeys to assure that the 1937
shortage will not be repeated in 1938.
Don’t choose a very large gobbler for
breeding purposes. One weighing about
251 b. is big enough. Big, heavy birds are
prone to cripple the hens. Choose a
gobbler with straight breast, straight back
(not roached) and bright, alert eyes.
Hens weighing, full grown, about 101 b.
or 121 b. are best. Fat hens may not
lay.
When they start to lay, keep the eggs
in a cool place. Turkey eggs spoil
quicker than any other in hot weather.
Set the eggs in the coolest place pos-
sible in summer and see that the sitting
hen, be it turkey or fowl, has good shade
all day—otherwise she may leave the
eggs.
Small black ants may hunt a hen off.
Should they swarm the nest, dusting the
eggs and turkey with cold wood ashes
is effective. Keep a lookout for the ants
when the chicks hatch; they usually
attack the eyes.
For the first couple of days after they
hatch feed the young poults on rolled
oats. Then increase their diet with bread
soaked in milk, giving grain to the
mother, and leave a tin'of water out.
For the first couple of weeks keep
them in a large yard where there is
plenty of shade; then allow them the
range of the paddocks. A feed at sun-
down encourages them to come home in
the evening.
Supplement the bread feeding by some
pollard mash, mixed fairly thick, from a
couple of weeks to about three months
old. From two months on feed wheat
morning and night.
Water Conservation.
“Granova”: Apart from scattered
storms no heavy rain fell in the Riverina
during the past year, and many
graziers are out of water. Dams 6ft. to
7ft. deep still hold water, but badly-
silted ones have given out long ago.
Many old dams were put down in what
were once gently flowing watercourses,
but now, through clearing and erosion,
these gullies carry a fast, heavy flow that
soon silts up the dams. It is advisable to
sink a new dam alongside rather than
clean out the old one. Build the new
one so that the water flows first into the
old one and then backs up and fills the
new one.
Cleaning out old dams is always diffi-
cult, and often it is as cheap to put down
a new one. When a dam is very low or
has been pumped dry, remove as much
mud as possible with a silt scoop. The
remaining mud will soon dry out enough
for teams to be driven, through. It is a
good policy to pump out and clean one
dam every year.
Place new dams so that they fill from
a gentle slope. See that the edges of the
banks do not come closer than 15ft. from
the edges of the dam, as they will settle
down and spread out gradually. The
batters should have a slope of three in
one —steep batters are dangerous to
horses.
The Lost Wattle Industry.
“Billo”: The ease with which “wild-
grown” wattle bark could be got for the
taking in many districts years ago
blinded most people to the fact that it
might be made to pay under cultivation
(B. 15/12/’37). The comparatively low
price generally obtainable —£6-£7 per ton
at capital cities —and the 10 to 12 years’
wait for the crop frightened others.
Cheap colored labor gives South Africa
an advantage, and even Italy has been
sending wattle bark to Australia.
Bark is obtained principally from the
black and golden wattles (Acacia decur-
rens and A. pycpantha), each of which
has a couple of types suited to local
variations of soil and climate.
Seed is cheap enough (2s. 6d. to ss. a
pound), and a thousand or more seed-
lings can be got from a single pound,
while on land where wattles have been
grown within 50 years cutting and burn-
ing the scrub will usually bring away a
good growth from seed buried in the
ground. Seeds dug up from 12in. below
ground surface have germinated after the
protecting coat had been removed by
sulphuric acid, and seed kept dry for 68
years has given a germination of 5 p.c.
It should be remembered in using
wattles for shelter that, while they grow
comparatively quickly, their life is short
owing to various pests.
Weed-killing Hints.
“Farmasist”: A better way than
“Zedo’s” (B. 15/12/’37) for poisoning
weeds is to use a tank of solution,
mounted on a cart.
The correct solution is 21b. of chemical
to a gallon water. The chemical is best
bought in drums. It should contain
30 p.c. of calcium chlorate —the rest is a
harmless but necessary “filler.”
The total weight to be distributed by
this method over a given area is much
less than with powdered limestone.
The solution should be sprayed through
a fine multi-jet spray with a hand pump.
The best time is when the weeds are
“coming” vigorously—but not too early
or you will get a second growth. Spray
the fleshy top ; it is waste of time to
attack the stems.
A warm day is better than a cold one,
and the job should be done when there
is as little wind as possible.
Cost should run about £1 10s. per
acre for chemical plus labor.
“Zedo’s” remarks about the solution
making cloth inflammable should be re-
membered. Calcium chlorate does not
poison the land for subsequent grass
growth.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Farmers and pastoral-
ists in S.Q. and northern inland N.S.W.
should keep a lookout for the creeping
knapweed, which is steadily increasing
on the Darling Downs. A perennial, it
grows by woody underground stems
which throw up branches about two feet
high bearing small lavender-colored
flower heads. Leaves and stems are
covered with close-set greyish hairs.
Spray treatment is practically useless on
account of the plant’s great recuperative
powers and the protected underground
stems. Frequent cutting, to prevent seed-
ing and to deprive the stems of leaf-
assistance, is the most effective method.
Any small patch is best dug or ploughed
out. The pest is a native of Asia Minor,
and was first reported from Cambooya
(Darling Downs) in 1916. During the
last two years it has shown marked
spread.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
The best fowls to raise for table purposes at
Kingaroy ( Q .) ? Fowls will have practically
an unlimited run and plenty of food, including
milk?—SmS.
As Kingaroy is a considerable distance from
the best market poultry breeding may not be
profitable. The best breeds for table purposes
are Buff Orpingtons and Light Sussex. They
have white skins and legs, and dress well, giving
an ideal appearance. Breeds which combine
egg-production with meat qualities, such as the
Australorp, Rhode Island Red or White Wyan-
dotte, might prove a better proposition.
* * * *
Particulars of experiments on the improve-
ment of poor Welsh pastures by the applica-
tion of lime —the kind of lime, quantity, and if
anything else was used? —SBllo.
The use of 6cwt. basic slag, plus 41b. of
wild white clover seed per acre, has been mainly
responsible for the improvement of this poor
hill country. Where some form of cultivation,
using heavy harrows or a tine cultivator, can
be carried out prior to sowing seed and fer-
tiliser better results are obtained than by broad-
casting without cultivation. The free lime in
basic slag is very beneficial, if not essential
to obtain a good take of seed. Where lime is
a reasonable price delivered, it is applied every
second or third year at scwt.-10cwt. per acre.
Ground carbonate is the form generally used.
Basic slag is applied every third year.


m
wx^v;
m
THIS IS HOW
BIDOMAK OPERATES
»• Greatly moc;nified,
hare ar« the iimall
suckers on the inside
of the smalt intestine.
After uniting with gas*
trie juices, the vital
minerals of BIDOMAK
are absorbed directly
into the blood stream.
to every cell of the body.
CALCIUM builds bone,
tissue, keeps teeth strong.
POTASSIUM helps build
red blood.
SODIUM stops irritability,
clears the brain, helps
PHOSPHORUS prevents
nerve disorders. helps
build red blood, lessens
fatigue.
FERRUM mokes new r.ch
red blood.
a. This is a section
of the spinol
cord, in its red
bone marrow fer-
rum in BIDOMAK
creates new, vig-
orous red blood
corpuscles.
o
*•»
; I
are magni-
fied red blood cor-
suscles or cells.
These carry oxygen
from the lungs to
burn up poisonous
wastes in the system.
You feel better and
lose that sense of
depression, you do \ 1 I
‘not feel tired, irri- \ I I
table or run-down. M |
0
y 8ID0MAK males more red corpuscles. There-
fore, more oxygen can be carried from the lungs
by the blood. Hence poisons are eliminated more
quickly and their unhealthy effects avoided. Ner-
vous and chronic disorders are all rapidly
alleviated. The more red corpuscles, the more oxy-
gen carriers are available.
shrivelled, poisoned,
painful — the other
healthy, vigorous and
vital. Mineral Starva-
tion causes one con-
dition, extra minerals
in BIDOMAK restores
health in full. Get
BIDOMAK to-day !
Doctor Tests
BIDOMAK
on patients from 4 to 77 years.
Proves Wonder Tonic ends
NERVES and Depression by
scientific bloodstream treatment!
W
By scientific treatment of the bloodstream, vital minerals in BIDOMAK banish “nerves”
and bring back weak, run-down, depressed individuals to the pinnacle of good health
and happy spirits.
This has been proved by a remarkable series of tests undertaken by a leading doctor
of medicine, who proved beyond doubt, through exacting scientific research, that
BIDOMAK does everything claimed for it.
TESTS BY INDEPENDENT
DOCTOR
First he selected individuals for his in-
vestigation who were in a condition of
“nerves” and depression. Several were
sufferers from serious insomnia and
chronic headaches.
He checked the progress of the test by
measuring the number of red corpuscles
in the blood of his patients by means
of a haemocytometer, and he found
that, of the cases investigated, the red
corpuscular count, or the number of
red corpuscles in every cubic millimetre
of blood, was as low as 3,000,000,
whereas it should have been as high as
5,500,000 in healthy males, and
4,500,000 in healthy females.
After the blood examination was made
each patient was given BIDOMAK for
six weeks. At the end of that time they
were again seen, and the condition of
their blood again examined by the
.doctor. Not only was there a dramatic
improvement in their general health,
but an astonishing improvement in the
condition of their blood as measured by
scientific instruments. Details of each
case are given near the picture of the
patient.
HOW BIDOMAK WORKS
Illustrations on the left show exactly
how BIDOMAK works to benefit the
whole of the system, and to build up
the blood so that waste tissues and
toxins are cleared away. If you will
study these pictures you will see the
wonderful benefits which BIDOMAK
will bring to you.
NEW LIFE —NO MORE
"NERVES" or DEPRESSION
The activity of the glands is improved
and increased; new life flows through
the body.
Nerviness and
lassitude dis-
Y o u
appear.
are no longer burdened with "that
depressed feeling.” Quick fatigue, low
vitality, mental sluggishness, and de-
pression disappear. The activity of the
glandular system is improved, and the
cells and tissues of the body are gradu-
ally but permanently restored to their
full health.
SUCCEEDS WHEN OTHER
TREATMENTS FAIL
When other treatments have failed do
not despair. BIDOMAK has produced
wonderful results. It creates energy
with a degree of success that' has been
denied to other forms of treatment. It
makes you fitter and helps you to resist
disease and illness. For nervous
debility it is unequalled.
The tonic properties of BIDOMAK
maintain and assist Nature in many
ways, and the mental and physical con-
ditions begin to improve immediately
you start to use it—so get a bottle of
BIDOMAK—large size 3/- only—from
your chemist or store.
ĸ
“Once,” says Mr. G. Henry, “Marie
Ryan, aged 4, of 75 Denison Street,
Camperdown, was nothing more than
a walking shadow.” .
Her Mother says: “Marie was irritable
and nervy—would not play with other
children picked at her food had
disturbed sleep—and was affected for
years with running ears . . .”
BIDOMAK improved her red blood
count from 4,000,000 to 5,000,000.
Now Marie is a different child — obed-
ient —contented eating and sleeping
well.
Case checked by independent medical
authority.
FROM BED-RIDDEN
INVALID TO OLD-TIME
DANCER.
Twenty years a nervous wreck —
with horrible rash, and blood
count of only 3,500,000 — Mrs.
Horne, of 136 Layton Street,
Camperdown, could not do her
housework.
BIDOMAK improved blood
count to 5,500,000.
Now she does all her work and
even danced five old-time dances.
Case checked by fully-qualified
. doctor.
f
MONEY BACK
GUARANTEE
So certain are we that you will notice these benefits
quickly that we guarantee to refund your money
if the very FIRST bottle of BIDOMAK does not
benefit you and you return the nearly-empty bottle
to your nearest distributor, addressed below, within
14 days. Nothing could be fairer than that.
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Sydney, Adelaide,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Sole wholesale agents for Tas-
mania: L. Fairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd., 42-48 St. John Street,
Launceston. New Zealand Distributors: Q-Tol-Fluenzol Labora-
tories, Wellington, N.Z.
¥
y
Large Bottle
\
All Chemists
and Stores
(New Zealand 3/6)
END NERVES AS YOU
MINERAL STARVATION -WITH


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
lo avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, wants typing
work. Used to handling manuscripts. Neat
and accurate. —8242.
Young man, Sydney, wants lecture engage-
ments at night. Has spoken widely on Aus-
tralian literary topics.—B244.
Pensioner, N.S.W., ship’s carpenter, active,
well up in yachts, painting, repairing, canvas,
etc., own tools, wants a job in boatshed or on
yacht. Refs. —8203.
Working housekeeper, middle-aged, compt.,
cook, seeks position country Feb. Go any-
where.—B23o.
Well-educated married couple, one child 14,
desire position, man exp. gardener, car-driver,
generally useful, wife housework, cooking,
needlework, or position of trust, caretaking,
etc. Refs.—B2s3.
Gentleman wants seat, car or truck, Mel-
bourne to Sydney or Brisbane and return,
couple of weeks, any time, reasonable.—B2sB.
To buy second-hand rotary filter with acces-
sories, capable of dealing with 30 to 50 tons
per day.—B2s2.
Copy of story “A Fool and His Inheritance,”
by James Edmond. —8262.
Words of verse containing the stanza:
He thought he saw an elephant
Upon the chimney piece.
He looked again and found it was
His sister’s husband’s niece.
—8164.
Music of war-time song “Broken Doll.”
Will pay 5s. —8231.
Copy “Sydney Mail” November 24, 1937.
—8238.
Information Sought.
What is the record by “Sundries” in a Test
match between Australia and England; how
were they scored, and when ? —8248.
Leg- No-
Byes. byes. Wides. balls. Ttl.
Australia —
Ist Innings .. 4 14 2 13 33
2nd Innings .. 37 8 1 4 50
England—
-Ist Innings .. 4 3 1 8
2nd Innings .. 1 2 3
94
The match was played at Kennington Oval,
London, on August 18-22, 1934.
* * * *
(1) What were the batting figures of Lee and
HaSsett (Vic.) and Hamence (S./4.) in Sheffield
Shield cricket in 1935-36 and 1936-37 ? (2) The
bowling figures of Hynes and White (N.S.W.)
in the same matches? —8241. +
(1)
In- Not Highest Total Aver-
nings. Out. Score. Runs. age.
1935-
Lee ..11 0 95 477 43.36
Hassett .. 7 0 73 212 30.26
Hamence did not play.
1936-
Lee ..9 1 109* 319 39.87
Hassett .. 8 2 93 449 74.83
Hamence ..9 0 104 313 34.77
* Not out.
(2) In 1935-36: Hynes, 13 wickets for 196
runs; White, 25 wickets for 503. 1936-37:
Hynes, 23 wickets for 682 runs; White, 13
wickets for 461 runs.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Harry Stone and
Fred Kay meet in Australian boxing rings ?
(2) Which of them won the greater number of
their contests? (3) Where and when did the last
Kay-Stone match take place? (4) Did Stone
ever beat Kay for the Australian welterweight
championship ? —8245.
(1) Nine. (2) Kay won six of their con-
tests, and Stone three. (3) At Perth on August
10, 1920. The match went 20 rounds, Stone
winning on points. (4) Kay won the Australian
welterweight championship from Tommy Uren
in Sydney on January 18, 1919. Uren had
not been beaten for this title before Stone
outpointed him at Perth. Kay was then on his
way back from England, however, and Stone
was never credited with winning the Australian
welter title, which reverted to Uren when Kay
retired after Billy Shade knocked him out in
Sydney on October 9, 1920.
* * * *
A customer enters a shoeshop and selects a
pair of shoes priced at 16s. He tenders a £1
note in payment. The proprietor is tem-
porarily without change, and takes the note to
the butcher next door, from whom he obtains
20 s. in silver. The customer leaves with the
pair of shoes and 4s. in change. A few
moments later the butcher enters the shoeshop
with the £1 note he had changed for the pro-
prietor. He says it is bad. The proprietor
finds it is so, and exchanges it for a genuine £1
note. How much does the proprietor of the
shoeshop lose by the transaction? —8172.
The transaction with the butcher can be
written off —one pound received, one pound
paid. The shoeman’s loss is cost price of
shoes, plus overhead, plus 4s. cash.
* * * *
Some years ago when there was a plague
scare in Sydney chemists sold a band to go
Found the ankles which contained something
which was supposed to keep fleas off. Can
these be obtained now; if not, how are they
made ? —7967.
The anklets mentioned comprised a strip
of black cloth to which a tape was fixed at
each end. They were of such width and so
formed as to contain several formalin tablets,
one end being left open for refilling purposes.
Other methods employed to avoid fleas were
as follows: The cuffs of the trousers were
filled with formalin tablets and placed inside
the socks; in the case of old clothes, trousers
were placed inside socks, which were sprayed
with kerosene emulsion at frequent intervals
throughout the day; canvas leggings, sprayed
frequently with kerosene emulsion, were worn
in place of anklets.
* * * #
(1) What was the total indemnity the Allies
imposed upon Germany? (2) What was Aus-
tralia’s share, and how much did it receive?
(3) How much did Germany pay altogether,
and when did it stop paying? —79B7.
(1) The amount of reparations due by Ger-
many under the Peace Treaty was fixed in
January, 1921, at 132 milliards of gold marks
(£6,600,000,000) payable in bonds. This
amount was later modified, and under the
Lausanne agreement, concluded in July, 1932,
reparations were abolished with the exception
of a conditional German liability to deliver
three milliard marks of 5 p.c. bonds. (2)
Australia’s share was approximately £63,000,000,
of which £5,563,000 has been received to date.
This amount does not include the proceeds of
the realisation of ex-enemy property in Aus-
tralia and New Guinea, at present in the hands
of the Public Trustee and Custodian of Ex-
propriated Property. (3) The total amount
paid by Germany is 20,598,000,000 gold marks.
Apart from the service of the Dawes and
Young loans, reparation payments in the strict
sense ceased with the Hoover moratorium of
1931.
* * * *
A Queensland girl, having passed her scholar-
ship, wishes to qualify for a position in the
Q’land civil service. What subjects are neces-
sary for the examination, and could this exam,
be combined with the ordinary junior? What
offices would she be eligible to enter and at
what salary would she commence ? Is there any
age limit? What class of work is required
of girls in these offices? —8122.
The examination for appointment to the
public service as clerk-typist is held in con-
junction with the ordinary junior public exam,
of the University of Queensland. English,
arithmetic and stenotyping must be taken, and
in addition two further subjects must be taken
from the prescribed groups, making a total
of five (5) subjects. The exam, is not a quali-
fying one, but is competitive, and candidates
are selected according to their order of merit.
Qualified candidates may be appointed to any
of the State Government departments in Bris-
bane or, if they so desire, to country offices
throughout the State. The commencing salary
after the deductions at present in operation
have been made is approximately £B3 if the
appointee lives at home, and £125 if the
appointee is required to live away from home.
Candidates must not be less than 15 or more
than 19 on 31st day of December of the year
of the exam. Clerk-typists appointed to Gov-
ernment offices are required to take shorthand
notes and perform typing duties, and, where
necessary, minor clerical duties.
* * * *
Distribution of the population of N. S. Wales
at the last census among the chief geographical
divisions of the State? —8243.
At the 1933 census the population was dis-
tributed among the vital statistical divisions as
follows: Metropolitan 1,235,267, balance of
County of Cumberland 124,148, North Coast
146,507, Hunter and Manning 302,012, South
Coast 105,817, Northern Tableland 54,081,
Central Tableland 141,243, Southern Table-
land 49,956, North-western Slope 63,060,
Central-western Slope 63,721, South-western
Slope 116,118, North-Central Plain 29,681,
Central Plain 27,725, Riverina 84,317, Western
Division 51,994, Lord Howe Island 161,
migratory 5039; total, 2,600,847.
* * * *
(1) Are there any musical libraries in Sydney ?
If any, some details regarding them ? (2) Has
the N.S.W. Conservatorium any full scores open
for general study by students? —8193.
(1) Yes. Music libraries are kept by the
Con., the A.B.C. and the Philharmonic Society.
There are a few other bodies with smaller
libraries. The Government music library is
available to registered borrowers. (2) The Con-
servatorium scores cannot be lent for study pur-
poses, but the Conservatorium will be glad to
assist students where possible.
* * * *
Cause of the fingernails becoming brittle and
breaking off? —8168.
Fragility of the nails sometimes occurs in gout.
It is also a consequence of infection of the root
of the nail by various fungi (leading to the
condition commonly named “ringworm”), and
by the organisms common on skin surfaces. In
many persons, longitudinal fissures or transverse
“spooning” appear on the nails for which no
satisfactory explanation can be found.
* * * *
I am suffering from vertigo, and I am told
there is no cure. The attacks of giddiness
come on unexpectedly, and lately I have been
awakened from sleep in them. Heavy perspira-
tion and sometimes vomiting accompany the
seizures. What can be done? —8183.
Vertigo is a disorder of the sense of balance,
marked by dizziness, a swimming in the head,
a sense of instability and of apparent rotatory
movement of the body or or other objects.
Ocular defects are a frequent cause, but ear
disease is by far the commonest basis for true
vertigo, and the ears should therefore be care-
fully examined in every case. Treatment de-
pends upon the underlying factor, and, although
the symptoms may be temporarily relieved by
the haphazard use of drugs, the basic trouble
must be discovered before a cure can be effected.
Get examined by a good physician.
* * * *
(1) What is the complaint known as bron-
chiectasis? Symptoms and cure, if any? Also,
what diet and climate are recommended for a
male sufferer aged 65 ? Is cigarette smoking
harmful? (2) Is meat-eating injurious to an
elderly man suffering from mild arthritis; if
so, what diet is advised? Is a cold climate bad
for the complaint? —Bl7l.
(1) Bronchiectasis is a condition in which
permanent dilatation occurs in one or more
of the bronchial tubes. The main symptoms are
breathlessness, incessant cough and the expec-
toration of much foul sputum, often blood-
stained ; the fingers often assume a peculiar
club-shaped appearance. There are no restric-
tions as to diet, but an equable, dry climate is
best. Tobacco-smoking should be moderate.
Treatment is directed to the emptying of the
cavities in the lung; the patient may assist this
process by assuming a more or less vertical
position, with the head pointing downwards,
once or twice a day. Attempts are also made
to improve the condition of the lung cavities
by the inhalation of creosote and other drugs.
Vaccines made from the patient’s lung secre-
tions are often employed, and of late years,
with improved surgical methods, operations for
the drainage or removal of the diseased lung
tissue have been successfully performed. (2)
In elderly sufferers, no special diet is usually
prescribed. Meat is not prohibited unless the
trouble is gouty in nature, when an excess of
protein food is sometimes harmful. As to
climate, extremes of temperature are to be
avoided.
* * * *
(1) Any particulars of the man or men after
whom the towns of Covington in Virginia, Ten-
nessee and Kentucky were named? (2) Name
and occupation of the father of the founder or
founders? (3) Year each was founded? (4)
Population ? —8157.
Covington, Kentucky, pop. 65,252 in 1933,
was named after General Leonard Covington
(1768-1813), who was mortally wounded at
Chrystler’s Field during the war of 1812. It
was settled in 1812, laid out in 1815 and in-
corporated in 1834. Covington, Virginia, was
settled about 1822 and incorporated in 1842.
In 1928 the population was estimated at 9000.
No information about Covington, Tennessee,
save that the population was 2787 in 1901.
For further information write to American His-
torical Association, 775 Widener Library, Cam-
bridge, Mass., and American Statistical Associ-
ation, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
* * * *
What hardy flowering shrubs are most suit-
able for a hot, dry inland N.S.W. area where
there is little rainfall? —8210.
Buddleia ( Colvilleii, rose-pink; Veitchiana,
lilac), callistemon or bottle brush, cera-
tostigma ( Wilmottice, sky-blue), crotalaria or
birdflower ( [Laburnifolia, yellow-green), escal-
lonia ( Macrantha, pink; Rubra, red), jaca-
randa, nerium (Alba, single white; Splendens,
double pink; Delphine, single crimson), pyra-
cantha or hawthorn, stenocarpus or fire-wheel
tree, veronica and viburnum. If the shrubs
are planted in hot weather afford protection
and apply surplus water at the base of the
stems.
* * * *
Method of pickling (1) green olives, (2) sweet
gherkins ? —8059.
(1) Fruit should be ripe but firm ; wipe
thoroughly, place in a china basin and cover
with water containing salt one tablespoon to
the gallon. Next day pour off the water,
place the olives in a saucepan, cover with
water and cook gently until they can be pierced
with a fine knitting-needle. Remove from the
water with a small strainer, and pack into jars.
Boil a covering mixture of fresh water, con-
taining salt to taste and a pinch of sugar to
every quart, keep it boiling for five minutes,
cool slightly and pour over the olives to fill the
jars. Screw down with sterilised rings and
covers. (2) Place in cold water and bring to
the boil ; cook gently until they are as tender
as desired or until they can be pierced with a
knitting-needle ; then pack into jars. Make
up a covering mixture as follows: Good vinegar
containing two tablespoons sugar to the pint,
one dessertspoon salt, one teaspoon pepper and
a pinch of ground ginger ; all condiments and
sugar may be varied to taste. Bring to the
boil, simmer for five minutes, then pour over
the gherkins to fill the jars. Screw down
quickly with heated rubber rings and covers.
Stand upside down to test for leaks, and if
there are any escapes from the jars the pro-
cessing must be repeated. Store in a cool,
dark place.
* * * ' *
' How to make invisible ink? —8227.
The simplest “invisible” ink is common
milk, allowed to dry without blotting paper.
It becomes visible by being subjected to strong
heat, which scorches the milk and causes the
writing to appear clearly. The heat • can be
applied by placing the sheet of paper in an
oven and increasing the temperature until visi-
bility takes place. Chemical formulae involve
the use of dangerous or disagreeable materials,
and are quite beyond the skill of the amateur
chemist to make or to use.
* * * *
Some details concerning a tree listed as Thes-
pesia populnea ? —8254.
This species belongs to a small genus of the
family Malvaceae, chiefly tropical, and is in-
digenous to Australia, occurring in Queensland
and Northern Australia. It is a coastal tree
with large poplar-like leaves and showy
flowers. The fruit contains large quantities of
a yellow viscid juice, which is used as a dye.
The wood resists decay under water, and is
used for boatbuilding. The centre portions
of old trunks decay like those of the European
elm, and their wood acquires a deep claret
color. The inner bark yields a tough fibre,
which is used to make coffee-bags; the finer
parts of the fibre are used to make cigar-
envelones.
Brief Answers.
W.A.: Impossible to state the cause of the
pain without physical examination. In most
cases of hernia in this region, a fluctuating
swelling, which increases in size on coughing,
may be detected. With the patient in the re-
cumbent position, the swelling tends to lessen
or disappear R.G.C.: (1) No. (2) See award
gazetted May 4, 1937. (3) Yes. (4) Junior drafts-
men £49 to £l4O p.a., draftsmen £212 to £272
p.a., draftsmen, first grade, £302 to £397 p.a.
(5) No fixed charges... .G.M.G.: It was aimed
principally at discouragement of “mixed” mar-
riages. It has no effect on the civil marriage....
J.G.D.: (1) You are bound by the terms of
the contract and cannot vary them. This
applies also to the hired labor so far as it
may be affected by the agreement. (2) Yes.
(3) In order to produce the agreement in court
as evidence it would require to be stamped,
and this could be done on payment of the
duty plus fine for delay... .H.S.M.: Value, if
in good condition, is 2s A.J.W.: “New
South Wales Government Agricultural
Gazette,” published monthly, 6d. per copy,
from Government Printing Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney; “Australian Milk and Dairy Pro-
ducts Journal,” published by P. V. Turk,
42 Bridge-street, Sydney, 10s. 6d. p.a.; “N.Z.
Dairyman,” Box 502, Wellington, M.L., 10s.
p.a.; ’’Dairy Exporter,” N.Z. Dairy Produce
Exporter Newspaper Co., Box 1001, Welling-
ton, M.L J. 8.: (1) No detailed data as to
wind changes are available for Springsure,
Queensland, and it would take a set of obser-
vations extending over a considerable period to
establish anything definite. Springsure has an
elevation of a little over 1000 ft., and it is prob-
ably owing to this height, local contouring of
the country and radiation effects that a tem-
porary local flow of relatively cooler air flows
in to replace the heated rising air over a rela-
tively small area. (2) No information is avail-
able as to a specific locality in England, but a
combination of hill and valley country, under
certain conditions, will give local air turbu-
lence or otherwise divergent currents of air,
morning or afternoon breezes... .A.G.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Sydney, for
pamphlets, “The Sulphuring of Apricots” and
“Drying Apricots and Peaches”... .N.T.P.:
Manufacturers of hay-baling machines are C.
Koertz, Mentmore-avenue, Rosebery, Inter-
national Harvester Co., 5-11 Pyrmont Bridge-
road, Camperdown, and Dangar, Gedye and
Malloch, 10 Young-street, City—all Sydney
J.M.: Don’t know of any firm which manufac-
tures such appliances in Australia. Plenty of
surgeons perform operations with a view to im-
proving the appearance of the human face, but
such work is expensive and only to be advised
in extreme cases... .F.E.: (1) Wouldn’t advise
a psychologist at the outset unless the speech
defect is so grave as to interfere seriously with
the patient’s self-confidence and happiness.
(2) Write to Sydney Stammerers’ Club or to
D. L. Dobson, 105 Pitt-street, Sydney
N.R.J.: The estates of deceased persons domi-
ciled in N. S. Wales the net value of which
does not exceed £5OO are not liable to duty.
No Commonwealth duty... .J.T.J.: The first
step would be to petition the Court for a divorce.
Assuming petition to be in order the Court
would then issue a summons calling on her to
appear before it to answer your charge. She
may defend the case or not. In either event
it would have to take its place on a very
long, outstanding list, so that no time limit
can be placed. Cost would depend on circum-
stances, but if undefended a few guineas should
cover it... .J.M.H.: From A 1 Auto Wreckers
and Spares Depot, 56 Park-road, St. Peters,
or Tempe Spare Parts, 819 Princes Highway,
Ternpe —both Sydney... .F.L.L.: See Moore’s
Almanac for 1938, published by Geo. B. Philip
and Son; 3s. 6d W.T.: Wonders of the
Great Barrier Reef, by T. C. Roughley; 12s.
6d C.H.8.: Howlong (N.S.W.) is situated
on the Murray River, 19 miles from Albury
and 405 miles from Sydney. There is a mail
car daily to and from Albury; fare Bs. Popu-
lation 300 J.R.: Write Dr. A, B. Walkom,
secretary, Linnean Society of N. S. Wales,
Science House, Gloucester-street, Sydney....
F.P.: (1) Albania is unrepresented in Australia
by Consuls. Its interests are under the care
of the Italian Consulates. (2) The Consul for
Yugoslavia in Sydney is J. • Mikulicic-Rodd, 2
Bridge-street... .A.G.H.: The C’wealth Film
Censorship Board comprises W. Cresswell
O’Reilly (chief censor), Lt.-Col. L. J. Hurley
and Mrs. G. Hansen. The appeal censor is
Brig.-Gen. Iven G. Mackay. Address of
board, Watson House, 9-13 Bligh-street, Syd-
ney P.N.: The beginning only of the total
eclipse of the moon on November 8 next will
be seen in West Australia, but no portion of
the eclipse will be visible in any other part of
the Commonwealth L.J.: The English royal
family became known as the House and
Family of Windsor by proclamation of July
17, 1917... .P.R.: Curtis, Brown, Ltd., 6 Hen-
rietta-street, Covent Garden, W.C.2; Hughes,
Massie and Co., 40 Fleet-street, E.C.4; J. B.
Pinker and Son, Talbot House, 9 Arundel-
street, W.C.2; A. P. Watt and Son, Hastings
House, Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C.—all
London A.M.: “Colette” is the nom de
plume of Mme. Henri de Jouvenel; Capt.
C W. Mercer writes under the name of Dorn-
ford Yates W.J.S.: British Instructional
Films, Ltd., Welwyn Garden City, Herts, Eng-
land, and G. B. Instructional, Ltd., 12
D’Arblay-street, W.l, London... .D.P.: Modus
vivendi (literally “way of living”) is any tempo-
rary compromise that enables parties to carry
on pending settlement of a dispute that would
otherwise paralyse their activities G.G.: The
“b” is silent in plumber, plumbery, plumbing
and plumbless, but sounded in plumbago,
plumbeous, plumbic, plumbiferous and plumb-
ism C.D.C.: John Haynes, who, with J. F.
Archibald, founded The Bulletin, died on
August 15, 1917 J.D.: The ri is a Japanese
measurement and equals 2.44 miles... .H.W.:
All are N.S.W. abo. place-names; meanings
are as follows: Cambewarra, “mountain on
fire”; Dengate, “an iguana”; Kerrabee, “a
wild horse”; Loombah, “steep banks”; Myam-
bat, “native huts”; Toolijooa, “home of
emus”; Widgelli, “drink” 5.8. M.: The
Samoa was a wooden auxiliary three-masted
schooner with oil engine and belonged to Burns,
Philp and Co. She was engaged in the Island
trade, and was wrecked at night on April 29,
1925, on a reef near Nassau Island. Two boats
were smashed alongside, but a third boat
carried all hands safely ashore, where they re-
mained two months before being found and
taken to Apia, Samoa (Many others mailed.)


In the Spring of 1938 we
propose to publish a study
of
THE LIFE AND ABDICATION OF
H.R.H. THE DUKE OF WINDSOR
written by
COMPTON MACKENZIE
RICH AND COWAN,
37 BEDFORD SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I.
Cables: Richness, London.
Telegrams: Richness, Westcent, London.
The Final Touch . . .
THE MODERN FIREPLACE
*p
w
i
» V:
m
m II
m
■
MS
m
■'
-5
"
m
m
%- **
wSk
m
HbMhl
rpHIS fireplace has been photographed in a modern dining-room, where a dinner
ot many courses is about to be served. Isn't it just the making of the room?
And yet, it seems to fit in perfectly with the furniture and the whole atmosphere
of comfort and dignity. "Allustre" cast iron enamelled fireplaces are the latest
in conservative English home building. Call and inspect in our showrooms.
Incorporated in. Victoria. Late Shopping Friday, 8.30 p.m.
JOHN BANKS
j&jwm
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 6505
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE 'PHONE CB3BO
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.8.R.: Les Robinson has handled most of
that already J.S.: Just too slight J.F.K.:
Try it somewhere else.... C.R.: Needs polish-
ing PJ.: Why not keep off the gangster
stuff? It’s not for us... .P.M.-B.: Gave it up
when we got to “the light of a great under-
standing shone in her eyes. He did care.
He loved her. His brusque brutality Was merely
a pretence” R.W.: Two murders, a sui-
cide and an elopement; it’s too rich A.H.:
You don’t make' a yarn of it R.8.W.:
And that’s been told a dozen times before
B. : Left your prospector lying in desert
in sight of untold wealth T.M.: Might make
a par J.G.: Can’t add our cheque to the
collection to relieve the mortgage on the old
h0me....L.5.: It may be true, but it’s not
up as a yarn... .J.N.: The super-salesman
calls regularly and is regularly turned away....
R.H.D.: You’ve nothing new to say....
A.T.S.: We deciphered the first page D.P.:
“Humorous sketches” didn’t raise a grin....
G.C.D.: Can’t fit “The Religious and Social
Significance of Totems” into our “far-famed
pages” 1.8. T.: Girls have treated us that
way, too, but we don’t tell everybody
C. Not so good; anyway, it’s an old idea.
C.E.D.: Forced... .AJ.B.: They read
easily; try something with more substance in it.
E.A.: Nothing different from the other 100
verses we have on the anniversary celebrations.
J.O’C.: Not quite what we want C.K.:
Moonstruck wandering... .J.N.T.: —
My soul sinks lower in the mist with every tear,
And ere the dawn to-morrow
I fear that it shall die. Oh, could I find some ear
In which to pour my sorrow.
You haven’t found it here T.H.C.: “The
Marble Coffin” was entombed in the w.p.b.
S.D.Y.: Your first barrage indicates a long
siege G.M.D.: “Scraps” might stand a
chance with a little polishing C.N.A.: A
very similar yarn appeared only six weeks ago.
D.T.R.: Admire your courage D.C.R.:
Long-winded W.G.K.: You’re improving,
but very slowly... .E. 8.5.: You might feel
like Shaw, but you don’t write like him
R.C.P.: We’re resigned to having to inspect
the others N.S.G.: A few bright spots
R.G.T.: Try something happier W.R.H.:
Drivel C.L.G.: You’re getting further off
our beat each time 8.N.W.: Your “Merry
Drunkard” is rolling homewards N.J.R.:
Not for us “the clinging coyness of Catherine’s
sister”....S.H.T.: We got a bit tired of that
chap who had nothing to do but vindicate his
honor P.D.G.: And of the newly-weds who
go into a clinch with every excuse M.S.S.:
When you’ve finished gnawing that bone you
might try us with a fresh idea 8.M.R.:
You’re beating another man’s drum and not
making much noise P.L.R.: Your colossal
ignorance of the subject almost lifts “Murder
Underground” to a good burlesque P.P.S.:
“Small Recompense” is right L.A.D.:
Breezy, but hardly in our line K.D.F.: If
that’s modern writing we prefer to refmain old-
fashioned... .P.E.F.: There’s something there,
but you need a lot of practice at yarnspinning.
....V.R.S.: Can’t understand why you persist
in that vein T.8.D.: Satire is lost on the
average reader T.R.W.: The office-boy
knows more of Iceland than you do.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H.: Handed over to the office grave-
digger to bury... .A.H.: The gags gave us the
miseries A. 8.: It must have taken courage
to sign that wretched effort J. 8.: Sending
drawing back for repairs; jest passes muster.
A.C.R.: No improvement there P.J.:
Which is the drinking fountain, which the
umpire? H.N.; Wash drawings too faint
for reproduction... .G.K.: We are a trifle weary
of turning that tramp away T.J.W.: Com-
position is good, but harsh linework produces
an ugly effect 8.M.: Take more time....
S.W.: Yes, we accept original jokes without
drawings D.R.J.: Couldn’t get the hang
of outsize whale and the gent, doing hand-
springs on its back E.N.: Dave and the
boardinghouse-toothbrush gag were placed on
the retired list years ago W.M.: Merely pass-
able fashion-plates; jokes have escaped from an
Americau magazine P.G.A.: It cost us 4d.
for deficient postage before we could gaze at
that horror F.T.: Closer; pay more atten-
tion to details R.H.: Outlines too heavy....
G. 8.: Your hawker has two right hands
L.S.: You’ll have to do ten times better than
that W.D.M.: Censorship cartoon too in-
volved N.H.: No room for the elephants.
L.R.: Shows promise, but you’ll need to
spend a few years at an art school M.F.:
If we wanted to reprint Bulletin gags we
would do the digging-up ourselves N.C.:
Feeble jest... .G.P.8.: You have a neat and
decorative style, now think of a joke... .H.T.:
Low did that years ago C.A.: No bou-
quets for that.
A MIXED GRILL.
N. S. Wales’s veteran district naval
officer, Commander A. J. Loudoun-Shand,
is about to retire. Member of a group
of six fighting brothers, one an Oxford
Rugby blue and another a V.C. winner,
he went to sea in a windjammer, took
out his square-rigged master’s certificate
and commanded several ships in sail. He
served in a couple of cruisers during the
war, then joined the staff of Jervis Bay
Naval College. He has been D.O. in
W.A., S.A., Victoria and N.S.W., and a
naval aide-de-camp to four Governors-
General.
* * * *
“K.”: News brought back from abroad
by Professor Earl, of Sydney University,
is of moment to every woman and heaps
of family men —a process has been dis-
covered for waterproofing velvet. Any
woman who has gathered rainspots on a
velvet frock knows what this will mean.
And many a husband, hoping for a
hot shower after a heavy day at the
office, has had the annoying experience
of opening the bathroom door only to
be smothered in steam from a hermeti-
cally-sealed room containing a ghost-
like shadow which looks at least seven
feet high. This apparition turns out to
be a velvet gown being steamed to get
rid of the creases and rainspots—but the
latter unfortunately nearly always refuse
to budge.
* * * •
“Dungeness”: He got off the train at
Darwin, slipped through the crowd and
walked to the police station. The con-
stable on duty looked up from his desk
with an inquiry as to what was the
trouble, “Leprosy,” replied the bush-
man quietly, His self-diagnosis proved
only too correct, and a few hours
later he boarded the launch for Channel
Island leper hospital. He is the eighth
white man there. One of the number is
a graduate of a great English university.
But to-day the prospects of cure for
leprosy are vastly greater than those of
any previous generation of sufferers.
* * * *
“N.K.”: The news that a squadron of
American cruisers will be part of the
Harbor decorations during the sesquicen-
tenary celebrations has made every
woman who was young, or nearly young,
the last time Uncle Sam’s navee struck
Port Jackson think of clothes. “Goodness
me! do you remember how handsome
they looked with their gold epaulettes
and their swagger havy capes with
the stand-up collars? And do you re-
member the afternoon dances on the
Virginia with the band playing ‘My Best
Girl’?” The dialogue was between two
young women travelling from the North
Side of the harbor. “Well,” said one,
“that settles it. I was getting a new day
frock to-day, and now I’ll get an even-
ing one as well.”
* * * *
“M.T.”: Queensland University has
self-reliant folk as students. A science
graduate working for a higher degree is
putting in the long vacation as a laborer
at Mt. Isa mine. An optometrist doing a
medical course is making a professional
tour in N.Q. to raise the wind for an-
other year’s study towards a degree.
A Russian taking an engineering
course worked as a barber to get the
fees, and is proving a brilliant stu-
dent in spite of having had to
learn most of his English as he went on.
The star example was a Polish immigrant
who, whilst toiling as a laborer in the
Brisbane Botanic Gardens, taught him-
self English, supported himself through
a three-year science course, followed it
by a four-year engineering course, and
is now in charge of a big industrial
undertaking in Warsaw.
# * * *
Back from Europe, where he was “com-
missioned to investigate information ser-
vices; organised for manufacturers,” the
C.S. and I.R. secretary reports that Ger-
many has “the most effective one” ; but
“the Government refused me permission
to enter certain institutions, and gave no
reason.” Perhaps it is the result of the
book in which a Sydney professor repaid
German hospitality by writing that Hitler’s
father was “an amorous peasant cobbler,
illegitimate for 40 years,” and that Hitler
himself was “the neurotic child of a neu-
rotic, repressed mother” ; an “irrational,
unbalanced young man” ; a soldier who
was “servile to his officers,” and a leader
who “gives way to crude emotionalism,
weeping over music when so many of
his oldest associates were brutally mur-
dered [“Goering could look after the
killings”],” and expounding “a philosophy
which is the taboo system of savages plus
a warped interpretation of modern
history.” It is only human to retaliate
when that sort of muck is thrown.


I m
Si
m
&81
B
Cooler in a "Calcutta
When it comes to cool headwear, you cannot beat the
Genuine “CALCUTTA” Indian Pith Helmet. Covered
with white linen drill, with red silk lining and self pug-
garee, the “CALCUTTA” is obtainable in Australia only
from Pike Brothers. Price 22/6
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
of Queen Street
Brisbane
A FIHTING MAN AT FORTY
“There goes a lad who only wants one
thing to bp champion of the world at
his weight; and he’ll never get it. He’s
too short in the reach.”
The speaker was Charlie Burns, an old
Sydney waterman, who trained bruisers
for a few years. Place and time were
Kalgoorlie at the beginning of the cen-
tury. The subject of the monologue was
Frank Thorn.
Born in S.A., Thorn went to Perth as
a boy. In Perth and Fremantle he sold
newspapers for a living and learned to
FRANK THORN.
.
box m a rough school. He had p enty
of opponents, pupils of Dooley, Doherty
and a dozen other Sydney and Mel-
bourne pugs of less note who had gone
to the West in the Roaring ’Nineties and
had settled down in various occupations
on the fields and on the coast. The best
of them was a youngster named Miller,
with whom Thorn had three bouts. The
first was a 15-round draw ; the others
were bitterly fought 20-rounders, which
were given to Thorn, although, as he ad-
mitted, there was very little between the
exhausted lads. To the end of his career,
Thorn spoke highly of Miller.
And it was the longest and busiest
career in the history of the Australian
Ring. Thorn began boxing before the
Boer War and had his last fight upwards
of 10 years after the conclusion of the
Great War. When he figured on his
first bill, Fitzsimmons was heavyweight
champion of the world, and “Griffo,”
though far gone in beer, was still amaz-
ing American boxing crowds with flashes
of his unequalled cleverness. When
Thorn finally retired, the Lithuanian
Sharkey was heavyweight champion and
Barney Ross was lightweight champion
—Ross, who wasn’t born when Thorn
was meeting and beating some of the
best lightweights and featherweights in
the Game.
Going to Kalgoorlie, Thorn beat a big
fellow named Henderson, a welterweight.
He had challenged Henderson through
the local “Miner,” putting up £25 of his
own money, and his cleverness and calm
courage made a great impression on the
goldfielders. Nine inches shorter as well
as a stone and a half lighter, he was
knocked off his feet in one of the
early rounds. Resting on one knee, he
motioned to the excited crowd to stop
shouting so that he might hear the count.
At “nine” he got up; and after that
Henderson could not put a glove on him.
In those days there were several
claimants to the title of featherweight
champion of the Commonwealth. Box-
ing reporters agreed that Billy McKell’s
credentials were the strongest, since
McKell —an uncle of the McKell who is
M.L.A. for Redfern, N.S.W. had
whipped Bert Weekes, one of the clever-
est “fedders” of the day.
McKell travelled with his own boxing
tent, and met all-comers, sometimes tak-
ing on and slugging out 13.-stone men.
He may have been a bit past his prime
when he met Thorn at Kalgoorlie ; at
HUG HIE MEH EGAN.
Thorn beat him four times; Mehegan
beat Thorn twice.
all events, he was stopped in 12 rounds.
At a subsequent meeting at Perth, he was
down several times, but, by dint of clever
ducking, he managed to see the 20 rounds
out, though the verdict went to
Thorn.
Thus early Thorn had demon-
strated that he could punch with
both hands, block with both,
take a wallop, get under one and
sidestep with the best of them,
despite the lack of reach that
handicapped him always.
Going to Sydney, Thorn
fdund two brothers from Maori-
land, Jim and Charlie Griffin,
knocking them all over. Jim
was a middleweight, Charlie a
lightweight; and both were fighters from
the ground up. But after one glimpse of
Charlie, Thorn did what he had done at
Kalgoorlie in the case of Henderson —
posted a challenge with a newspaper,
backed by £25 of his own money.
The pair met at the old Gaiety in
Castlereagh-street, run by Charlie
Campbell—as, for a time, was the Golden
HERB McCOY.
He outpointed Thorn on three occasions.
_ „ . . „ ~ TT .„ „
Gate on Brickfield Hill Campbell was a
character. Once he told a gathering a
he had heard “humors about this fight
bein’ crook.” If such was the case, he
added, there would be “two more goes
with the pillers, follered by an exhibit
of cutlery drill by some naval lads in the
’all.” He it was who, on another occa-
sion, introduced Starlight and Ike
Stewart as “these two colored alligators.”
Thorn’s confidence in his own prowess
was again justified. Griffin, a rusher,
tried to knock him out in the first round,
but was himself knocked out in that
round. Weight and slatherumwhack
methods proved of no avail against
science topped by a cool head.
After that, Charlie Campbell matched
Thorn with Ned Murphy, a very clever
featherweight, who was famous for his
uppercuts. Griffin had beaten Murphy,
and in his turn had succumbed to Thorn,
and the patrons of the Gaiety grumbled
that it was a bad match ; but Campbell
knew better. It was a very interesting
fight for 15 rounds ; then the police inter-
fered in the interests of Murphy. As
Murphy proceeded down the street, he
was followed by an admiring crowd, and
his journey to his tram became a tri-
umphal procession. Unfortunately, as
the cynic said of Art, there is no money
in that sort of thing.
These bouts took place in the first part
of 1906. Thenceforward for 10 years
Thorn was in the first flight of nine-
stoners. He could get down to the
featherweight limit if he wanted to, and
he held the featherweight title most of
the time. Now and then he was light-
weight champion also.
During the 10 years he rarely had
fewer than eight fights a year, and some-
times he averaged one a month. His
opponents among the featherweights in-
cluded Charlie Frost, Sid Sullivan, Paddy
King, Tommy Jones, Billy Elliott, Joe
Russell, Harry Thomas, Jimmy Hill
and Wave Geikie; among the light-
JIMMY HILL
GOES FOR A
ROLL.
weights, Hughie Mehegan, Charlie Griffin,
Tim Hegarty, Hock Keys, Arthur Doug-
las, Teddie Savral, Jack Cullen, Dick
Cullen, Ed Jessup, Bob Greenshields,
Bob Turner, Rudie Unholz, Jim Arm-
strong, Herb McCoy, Frank O’Grady,
Jack Read, Joe Atcheson, Alf Morey,
Tommy O’Brien, Marcel Denis, Frank
Ellis and Jack Clune. He whipped nearly
all these men, mostly in 20-rounders,
though some of them avenged themselves
in return matches.
A meeting with Hughie Mehegan at
Melbourne on June 6, 1907, was charac-
teristic of several encounters Thorn had
with that very game Victorian until
Mehegan grew too strong for him.
Almost every round of the 20 ended with
a savage burst of infighting. Thorn
secured the verdict, but the thing was so
even that a verdict for Mehegan would
have been received with equal applause.
Thorn’s engagements over all these
years took him to most of the States. In
June, 1913, he returned to the Sydney
Stadium to box Harry Thomas, a smart
English featherweight, who had done
very well in the IJ.S.A. The pugs were
too clever to hurt one another very much.
Thorn opened up a series of fine attacks
and Thomas exhibited an able defence.
The crowd was distinctly favorable to
Thorn. After the fifteenth round Thomas
went for a knockout, and Thorn changed
to the defensive, acting as though he re-
garded the battle as won if he could
avoid a knockout. This he did; but the
referee, Arthur Scott, put his hand on
Thomas’s head, and a great silence
crashed down. It was a highly unpopular
decision.
In August that year Thorn climbed
into the Stadium ring again to box Jimmy
Hill, then a sprightly and hard-hitting
youth of whom Clabby thought the


HAD RHEUMATIC PAINS
FOR 25 YEARS
His Arms Were Becoming
Useless
It was about 25 years ago that rheumatism
first marked down this sufferer; and finally
the day came when he could hardly lift his
arms. But he found relief —here in this letter
he tells the whole story:
“About 25 years ago I first experienced slight
muscular rheumatism in my arm and shoulder.
A few years later lumbago also attacked me.
They gradually got worse until the pain got
acute in both arms and loins. I could not lift
a quart jugful of water with my arm extended
straight out. About 12 months ago I bought a
bottle of KruSchen Salts and by the time it was
finished I was agreeably surprised at a slight
improvement. I bought another one, and when
that was finished all the pain had disappeared,
and has never appeared since.” —T.R.
If you could see the knife-edged crystals
of uric acid under the microscope, you would
readily understand why they cause those cutting
pains. Kruschen dulls the sharp edges of those
crystals, then dissolves them away altogether.
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 George Street, Sydney
(Near Bridge Street).
The leading Exhibition of
Australian Art—latest works
by the most prominent
Australian Artists always on
view and for sale.
OPEN DAILY,
ADMISSION FREE.
Telephone: 87971.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
1 HONGKONG
I Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
\ additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
i
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
ķ
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
■MM
SYDNEY
C2an„
AUCKLAND
■ l<cw
uitraNcro
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
world. With his hard old face and his
kindly eyes, Thorn looked like a picture
from Grimms' Fairy Tales. The affair
was to have been for the featherweight
championship, but each man was a few
pounds overweight. Thorn soon showed
that age had not impaired his speed. Hill
had no guard for the Westralian’s
straight left. No matter what Hill did,
Thorn hit him and kept on doing it.
In the fourteenth round Hill was down
twice. He managed to weather the gale,
owing chiefly to the fact that Thorn
could not bring himself to go in and
finish a helpless lad. His clemency cost
the old ’un some money. Hill, with his
glorious gift of youth, recuperated
quickly, and in one round he shook
severely the ancient who had spared him.
At the end of 20 rounds Fred Baker
placed a hand on each head.
In May, 1914, Thorn was at the Syd-
ney Stadium again to tackle Lee John-
son, a negro lightweight who had been
brought to Australian by Tommy Burns.
Thorn got all over the colored boy, who
ceased to hit after the sixth round, de-
voting himself entirely to defensive tac-
tics with a view to seeing the scrap out.
He said afterwards he had broken a
thumb and felt too sick to thump his
brother-bruiser.
THE BAFFLING OF JOHNSON.
Boxing Form in Australia.
This Bulletin went to press before
Carroll was due to shape up to Leto at
Sydney Sports Ground; but the pre-
vious week present standards of Aus-
tralian boxing were handed the wrong
sort of ad. in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
At Sydney Stadium Young Gildo (9st.
31b.), who doesn’t look near as young
as he used to be, gave half a stone and
a hiding to Hughie Mehegan, publicised
as one of Australia’s most promising
lightweights. Mehegan was beaten by
the fifth round, and was so knocked
about by the ninth that only Joe Wallis’s
friendly intervention saved him from
the count. In Melbourne the American
negro Tommy Jones knocked Jack
McNamee in the fifth of their billed 15-
rounder.
McNamee is a protege of Carroll, and
employs a lot of his shifts. Mehegan
also employs Carroll shifts. Neither has
Carroll’s speed. Others, too, are to be
seen trying to use Carroll’s methods,
with such lack of success that it might
be doubted whether the influence has
been to the good in Australian boxing.
As Carroll has done in most of his
fights, his copyists try to win without real
punching.
Inability to wade in and hit hard is
one of the main troubles from which
Australian boxing is suffering. It con-
trasts oddly, and usually disastrously,
with the methods of the Americans,
nearly every one of whom can hit. The
Americans drive their punches with the
whole weight of body and balance
behind them—it was one such blow
which lifted McNamee clean off his feet
and sent him out over the lower ropes
of the ring. Until Australians return to
hitting like that there’s not much hope
for them.
One of the very few good ’uns in the
land capable of really hitting at the
present time is Micky Miller, and he’s
about the only one that anybody would
In December, 1919, Thorn had the last
of several encounters with Jerry Sulli-
van. He was described in a report as
“Old Thorn, whose custom it is to re-
move an entire set of teeth before leav-
ing his corner at the beginning of the
THORN AND THOMAS IN A
GRAECO-AUSSIE POSE.
first round.” He had an easy win over
Sullivan, beating Jerry out of sight.
“Thorn’s straight lefts and right crosses
were perfect samples of their class, and
altogether he gave a wonderful perform-
ance for a man who was a champion
when the late Les Darcy was in petti-
coats.”
At the age of 40 the astonishing vet-
eran beat a fellow named Garcia in a
couple of rounds, and knocked out in
“seven” Andre Dupre, who had been in-
troduced to Sydney a couple
of years before as the light-
weight champion of France.
At the age of 46 Thorn
actually stopped one Jerry
Gardiner in 10 rounds.
Thorn had years before
set up as a teacher of box-
ing in Brisbane, the scene of
some of his most exciting
mills. Brisbane saw the
finish of the fine old fighter—he died
there a few years ago, very unhappily.
have confidence in sending overseas to
fight at his weight.
A French delegation sent to West
Africa to find negro athletes capable of
matching the dusky U.S.A. champions
at the next Olympiad returned with the
gloomy report that the coons of those
parts can’t run fast enough to catch
tortoises. The French are surprised,
pointing out that it was from the same
coasts that the ancestors of the U.S.A.
champions came. They seem to have
overlooked the fact that many genera-
tions of keeping ahead of lynching par-
ties must have greatly improved the
speed and stamina of the American
negro.
* * * *
Frederick Bevan, immensely popular as
a teacher of singing at Adelaide Univer-
sity Conservatorium from 1898 to 1935,
and now retired, was a song-composer o"
note before he came to Australia. So ht
has been honored in S.A. by a State
broadcast of his “Flight of Ages, :
“Admiral’s Broom” and other composi-
tions.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Still another suggestior
for improving cricket. Advanced by ar
authority who used to play for Middle
sex as plain Bruce —he is a peer now —
it proposes that the heavy roller be ban
ished and that boundaries be shorter
The first, the reformer thinks, woulc
prevent shirt-front wickets and the seconc
induce batsmen to hit sixers. Also, he
thinks, spectators would have a close;
view of the play, though in the case of
some batsmen that could be named
one doubts if that is desirable. I should
like to move an amendment which is not
likely to be adopted. That is that the
boundary be movable and controlled by a
super-umpire in a high tower. If brought
in close the batsman would be tempted
to have a wallop; at that moment
the man in the tower would pull a lever
and the boundary recede to just out-
side where the ball was going to fall.
Long fieldsmen would be accommodated
with special seats on the boundary and
move with it in. time to hop off and
take the catch. The idea is no madder
than many advanced every week of the
cricket Season, and it would certainly
brighten the game.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
“Hans Has a Centenary”
Not because of its friendliness alone
is that article (B. 15/12/’37) worthy of
note, but because of its fairness in recog-
nising the Germans’ share in the develop-
ment of this great Dominion. Also be-
cause of its recognition of the German
people’s present plight and of their sin-
cere endeavor to overcome their difficul-
ties by determination and hard work.
Throughout a century Germans have
helped in the development of this coun-
try and contributed to the high standard
Australian commodities have achieved.
They have been prominent in the field
of exploration as well as in missionary
work.
Such goodwill as shown in “Hans
Has a Centenary” will bear fruit. It will
finally reconcile the British and German
nations; it will help to clear the path
for a better understanding on economic
matters, and this again will disperse all
fear of a second conflict between these
great peoples.
In this hope have I, a German,
written the foregoing lines, which also
do convey my thanks. —Louis Reese
(N.Q.).
“Spanish Relief”
The mail brought me a letter from
a “Spanish Relief Committee,” describ-
ing in piteous terms the Madrid-Valencia-
Barcelona Government’s “Struggle for
World Peace and Democracy.” It con-
cluded —of course —with an appeal for
a few shekels to assist the “Democrats”
in said struggle.
British Labor-leader Attlee, return-
ing from a personally-conducted tour
“in search of the truth about Spain,”
assured the world that “the Popular
Front is certain to win.” The same
organisation paid the expenses of Mr.
Attlee’s expedition.
As one who has donated a fair wad
towards the travelling exes, of our own
wandering legislators, I feel distinctly
aggrieved at being called upon to help
finance the international mystery hikes
of ex-suffragettes and pink politicians,
plus rhubarb-and-rice intellectuals from
the wilds of Canterbury. —E. G. N. (Vic.).
The Cenotaph
Recent correspondence in the news-
papers concerning the neglect of Sydney
men to salute the Cenotaph in Martin-
place has given rise to some interesting
comment. A stipendiary magistrate said
“Australians possibly have not the same
outlook as the English in regard to such
a matter. If the Englishman feels re-
spect, he is apt to show it. The Aus-
tralian may feel equal respect and yet
keep it to himself for fear of being
thought demonstrative.” Colonel Murphy,
the Custodian of the Cenotaph, had
much the same ideas as the magistrate.
It is, of course, obvious enough to
anyone passing through Martin-place
that few people take much notice of the
statuary, and the fact is to be deplored,
but the remedy seems simple enough for
what is, after all, probably only forget-
fulness and preoccupation. Two pair of
notices on each end of the short length
of street in which the Cenotaph stands,
requesting passers-by to show some re-
spect for “the brave and faithful dead,”
might easily bring about the desired
result.
There are very few Australians who
do not really respect and reverence all
that the Cenotaph stands for. Most of
them only need a reminder of some sort
to show their regard for it when in its
vicinity.—J. A. (N.S.W.).
The Payne Report
Reasons why there should be no tears
spilt when the Payne report is buried in
the archives, as it will be, are: —■
(1) The committee failed to see the
Commonwealth wood for the Banana-
land trees.
(2) There is no indication that they ever
thought of the problems of the Territory
as primarily national and international.
They omitted any reference to the Empty
North being the Achilles heel of Federal
defence, to Darwin being the most
vital link in the Imperial airway chain,
the capture of which by an enemy would
provide a bombing base of incomparable
service for wrecking Australian cities.
(3) They ignored the advice of Vestey’s
representative that the most-needed rail-
way is the completion of the north-south
transcontinental system, which the Com-
monwealth Government is under con-
tractual obligation with South Australia
to build.
(4) They apparently have never read
the Buchanan report, which pointed out,
as the late Professor J. W. Gregory had
done earlier, that the outstanding prob-
lem of the Territory is isolation; that
until the tropical coastal belt is linked
with the temperate and populous south
the 313,000,000 acres comprising the
Cinderella Province will neither attract
settlers, especially those with families,
nor hold its present population.
(5) They did not realise that the pro-
jected expenditure of £3,500,000 of bor-
rowed money on two dead-end railways,
in the speculative hope that cattle sta-
“Who IS this Molly that keeps Writing to you?”
“Aw, she's just one of me tarts!”
tions outback would be transformed into
sheep runs, would suffice to bridge the
gap between Birdum and Alice Springs,
serve the Tennant’s Creek goldfield, and
open up other auriferous country that
would provide more passenger traffic (the
paying traffic) in a month than the pro-
jected lines into the Never-Never would
in a year.
(6) They missed sight of whatever
tropical agricultural possibilities exist in
the Territory, which can only be opened
up, as Professor Gregory urged, by pro-
viding direct transportation to the
southern and eastern Australian markets
by better land transportation.
(7) They evidently quite forgot that
the completion of the north-south line,
which they say is the wrong approach,
would give direct rail access not only to
Adelaide and Melbourne, but through
Broken Hill to Sydney, and would thus
have not only commercial and tourist
value, but strategic value. — Crawford
Vaughan (N.S.W.).
Record-breakers
Let me claim a record for us West-
ralians —we use the cormorant Com-
monwealth’s telegraph system more fre-
quently than the people of any of the
exploiting States. For the year to June
30, 1937, we sent 4.3 telegrams per per-
son. How far ahead we are can be
gauged from the fact that for the whole
Commonwealth (curse it!) the figure’ is
2.3 per head. —C. J. (W.A.).
Air-mail Parcels
Have you ever tried to send an air-
mail parcel to England? Mine weighed
a trifle over 21b. The G.P.O. demanded
just over £5. By taking it down the
street I dispatched it as freight for a
little over 30s.
The only advantage of air mail over-
freight is the fact that it must be carried
—freight may be left behind for pas-
sengers—and it gets a much swifter pas-
sage through the Customs. Even so, 200
p.c. is over the odds.
Incidentally, Australia is the only
country in the world which does not have
an air-mail parcel service. In Maoriland
the air-parcel rate is based upon freight
charges, plus a handling fee to which no
one objects. Under present Australian
conditions, a resident of, say, Newcastle
has to make his own arrangements to
get his freight to a Sydney agent or
post it internally with a request for re-
direction and the freight fee. — Rigalt
(N.S.W.).
Away with Privilege!
Our seven Parliaments should no
longer have privileges which have be-
come archaic and are grossly abused.
When a politician goes in for wanton
and wicked libel the aggrieved party
should have the right to sue. When a
politician obstructs the lawful business
of Parliament the penalty should be
heavier than that which can be inflicted
on the ribald interrupter who holds up
a political meeting. When a politician
refuses to obey the authority of the
Speaker, his offence should be regarded
at least as severely as that of a flapper
who disregards a traffic signal.
Municipal councils, though their
operations are, in some cases, at least
as important as those of some State
Parliaments, have no privilege regarding
libel. And they conduct their affairs
more sedately, and with greater economy
of time and money, than any State Par-
liament I know. Some of them are not
even in debt.—E. V. (N.S.W.).
Brisbane Council—a Study
Twenty years ago the Brisbane metro-
politan area was divided into 18 munici-
palities, including of
were unpa”. Ideas about expenditures
m o O w d n St HaU A ,o Pr c°o P s rhro,o b oS' l flad 1 ad
been turned down flat half a dozen years
€ To-day the veterans who managed city
affairs in those times would scarcely know
their child. The Greater Brisbane Act,
S d p—risb"d everything in
tunder the coSoCe cSIIS
functions Ih a million-pound Town Hall,
The Mayor has become a Loa the
C °When a Greater Brisbane was created
specific activities were handed over to
committees of aldermen, one for
each main department. The Moore
Government amended the Act and in-
troduced a Ministerial system under
which committees were replaced by
executive aldermen. These were paid
£4OO p.a., while other aldermen had their
salaries reduced to £3OO p.a. No inde-
pendent official report was made on the
council’s books, and it had wide discre-
tion in raising money.
The Forgan Smith Government in 1933
decided that aldermen were not success-
ful as Ministers. It restored the com-
mittee system. That, apparently, has not
worked well. The council was brought
within the jurisdiction of the Auditor-
General. His first report suggests that
it was about time.
Until the passing of the 1936 Act, the
council had no statutory centralised con-
trol of funds. The A.-G. found that
It has apparently been the policy and
ambition of each department of the council
to function separately without much thought
of the advantages of co-operation. The
object has plainly been to become self-
contained.
Departments have been their own buyers
and “merchants apparently treat each as
a separate buyer”:-
Under such conditions, it cannot be ex-
pected that the council will receive the
favorable conditions which it would if
treated as a whole.
The council adopted a Budget system
only in 1928, but there was no obligation
on departments to adhere to estimates.
The 1936 Act made the Budget a statu-
tory obligation, and individual members
who knowingly vote for extra-budgetary
expenditure not justified by extraordi-
nary circumstances become personally
liable,
The revenue of the council last year
was £3,254,000, which is only a quarter
ot a m niion short of the revenue of the
w h o le State Government a generation
a g o> The council raised £1,096,000 in
rate ’ s _£2oo,ooo more than the State
ra j sec i j n taxes in 1913-14. Its total
revenue was £400,000 more than that of
Tasmania. Of recent years it has leaned
more and more on its business under-
takings. “The rating sections, which have
overdrafts totalling £1,163,000 are in-
debted to undertakingsfor £667,500.
SosayMbca^
* h^ de^rrattag d Son" t .ornate
"able should necessity arise,
'JX “ u k ™’ % ftf‘mtus”'lts’tan list
c om monwfalth Bank. The increase
was 491 000 last year . Against the total
there sinking-fund provision of
salaries have gone back to *OO
p.a which
“San
Brisbane aldermen. They arc not paid,
E. H. M. fG-k


HAT THE X-RAY TOLD
I ®i
M
m
m
m
%
i I
m
.
a
„ «■- •*
" rWSS** 4 •-
rrhea. which coflies
"This X-ray photo, proves just what
1 feared,” said the Doctor. "Your
teeth are poisoning your system.
You must have them out at once —
or you’ll he very ill”
people believe that toothache, visible decay, bleeding gums
are the sole signal of dental troubles. They do not know that,
often, these warnings are absent; that only X-rays can, with certainty,
detect the destruction of the bony sockets in which the teeth are held.
And such destruction may proceed painlessly but relentlessly until
the teeth are lost or health ruined.
A number of things cause Pyorrhea, that unpleasant and
dangerous disease contracted by four out of five past forty. Over-
feeding, for instance, and unbalanced diet; slight injuries, too, or
crooked, missing teeth; ill-fitting crowns or bridge-work. Generally
Pyorrhea starts with neglect, with an accumulation of tartar at the
gum-line.
Don t let Pyorrhea start in your mouth. Offset it by frequent
visits to your dentist for teeth and gum inspection, and use Forhan’s
for the gums regularly.
Forhan’s is the formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., who for 26
years specialised successfully in the treatment of Pyorrhea. It contains
the benefits of an ethical preparation which he developed and which
is used by dentists in the treatment of this dread disease.
Start with Forhan s to-day. It is as fine a dentifrice as money
can buy.
Price 2/-; extra-large tube 3/-.
AmL Agents~The Sheldon Drug Co. Ply ., Ltd., Sydney.
Forhan’s
for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTHPASTE - ,T PREVENTS PYORRHEA
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ass-
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c he Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ,
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
0°
*&'xcP &)
\\> A s ° -
o°V- o i^Gief
%JC'‘ 4 v fits' ’’ S . ce
rf*S
V fV V^'
€> y \c£'P a’* %
* .^" 6 < •"■
#/
r>\^
0*
..••\s<e^ot
.** . o^$«£
<$ v° 6 '


NOW
ON
VIEW
¥
I
BUILT TO EXCEL ...in Style...
Performance... Long Life
SEE the outstanding style car. Then drive •. . and
discover the enjoyment of true fine car performance . . .
brilliantly smooth .. . thrillingly responsive. And with
these you get extra long car life and unusually low
operating cost. This is what Hudson offers you in the
new 1938 Hudson Terraplane—a car of quality. It is
one of the three brilliant new Hudsons •.. Hudson Terra-
plane, Hudson Six and Hudson Eight . . . that cost you
less for what you get than any other cars in the world.
Australia’s outstanding value cars!
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
Drive with HUDSON’S
SELECTIVE AUTOMATIC
GEAR CHANGE
(Optional Extra)
MOKE Size . . . MORE ROOM and New
Luxury Inside.
DUO-AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES:
Latest, most advanced hydraulics, and the
ONLY braking system with a separate
mechanical system in reserve, working from
the same brake pedal. Easy handling park-
ing brake under dash. SAFEST.. BRAKES
ON ANY CAR.
BODIES ALL OE STEEL, including roofs
of steel, for greater safety.
SAI'ETY GLASS in windscreen, all side
windows and deflectors.
WHEELBASES: 117 inches in Hudson
Terraplane; 122 inches in Hudson Six; 123
and 129 inches in Hudson Eight.
HORSEPOWER: 96 and 101 in Hudson
Terraplane; 101 in Hudson Six; 122 in
Hudson Eight.
ĸ
1938
New HUDSON Terrapkme ■ Nrw HUDSON Six
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Alsc 145 Oawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTI.OCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
I
jsnm
