

SPLENDID ACHIEVEMENT
GAINS WIDE PUBLICITY
i • ' 1 • • — rrr-x-
-"2T'lh‘ ■Aiu'Hiau'D
'fofeuUetto T r ""»^r,- i ft.
„ ;*% \
- l%
„3»
\ HUGE ASSETS
, v . MAJNDED OVER
. ' S'
j -'///.V lIXA7C
r By
°<w
( V«.
(fit Vs.
-- £ ss*
®b«
r™ gjgg^feeft i\rsmise
"''■*- •- * Oft nr * * *<*&>,.
* /i(->—jff
*m> J typpet
V*- —?/ '—V. ft-!.
~.,«& jy.
l * Sgste
' Lhf <S.vaini„ fr
§ THE SUN ||
:
v *%° *
lU)Y SUES TEA
t>.\V.\...( < t.AiM
Koufeisi)
<»h:n itettt
»*<*»
‘*»,t #*?•¥•
~?^, 0 ... r//
ik «'■* ***■ / wMi&x.
<?f£ sfe*f' ~. .
./’ ..... rtyitf ■.*
'> /?*4"
WoHi Tllt - AA.A arg«*. g||
-Hi.: i‘ .StOt'PrM,
3RI(AIM'S I*OUCY
AdUmfJ) . ,
stoiems IW«/TK '■■■ *' *
4t -V
Wm
in
Australian
and
New
Zealand
Press
Leading newspapers in Australia and New Zealand have given prominence to the work
achieved and the
Huge Assets Handed Over by N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. to the Bondholders’
own Company, N.Z. Forest Products Limited.
The Facts are « N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. will now transfer a planted area exceeding
170,000 acres established with over 100,000,000 trees in a vigorous, healthy condition, and,
in addition, other assets exceeding £1,300,000, of which approximately £1,000,000 is in cash
and liquid assets.
N.Z. Forest Products Limited assumes complete control of the forests with ample funds,
not only to continue maintenance and development, but also to commence cutting and
marketing these valuable forests.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Registered Office, Auckland, N.Z. Head Office for Australia, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
And at
Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane; Yorkshire House, Queen Street, Melbourne;
Claridge House, Gawler Place, Adelaide; Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
The Bulletin
Limerick No. 4: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3062.
Wednesday, October 19, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
4 24-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. H. PRIOR ■
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
jysoo
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is
offered as a practical encouragement of
Australian writers and Australian litera-
ture—“ Australian” being adopted as a
convenient term to include Australia, New
Zealand and Pacific Islands. All writers
born in these parts are included, no matter
where now residing; so also are bona fide
residents, no matter where born.
The Prize is an annual award of £lOO,
but t'he judges in the last two years found
no entry worthy of it. Therefore, the
amount has built up to £3OO for the
present competition, closing June 6 next
year.
This 1939 Competition is open to
Novels, Biographies, Autobiographies and
all other kinds of works in prose. Each
MS. must be submitted under a pen-name,
with full name and address in an accom-
panying sealed envelope. These will be
considered as confidential, and no other
name and address, except that of the
winner, will be published.
The winner will be free to have his
or her winning work published in book
form by any publisher preferred. Serial
rights will be a matter for arrangement
between “The Bulletin” and the winner and
the writers of any other entries selected,
payment for such rights being in addition
to the Prize. All other rights book,
stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be
had on application to the Secretary,
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office,
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney.
SHILLING BOOK SALE.
Write for a 24-page list of bargains, some reduced from
very high prices.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-109-111-H3 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
SALE NOW ON.
The Red Page
FOREIGNERS.
“Bill,” says Sal Alabiso, going round Mr. Wm.
Seabrook's nose with his razor, “I bet you don’ta
remember the Italian word for ‘foreigner.’ ”
“I hadn’t thought about it for years,” says Mr.
Seabrook, with a gobful of lather and erudition. “It’s
forestiere —man from the forest. Must have once
meant almost the same thing as a bandit who lived
in a cave, a man with a club who’d come out of the
woods at night and bump you off.”
Says Sal: “Forest is deepa shadow, like at night.
You’re afraid of what you can’t see, what you don’t
know.”
“So what we mean is damn’ foreigners we don’t
know?”
“Sure!” says Sal. “What else? You don’t mean
me and Jake!”
Waal, I be cussed sideways, says Mr. Seabrook,
ruminatin’ like. Here have I been tearin’ off to the
Ivory Coast and the Bedouin deserts and where else,
gettin’ material for books like The White Monk of
Timhuctoo and Jungle Ways to help support my
berry ranch, and dang me if there ain’t a better book
waitin’ to be done right here in Gahd’s Own Country.
There’s all these damn’ foreigners; an enormous
element in the population here —thirty million, maybe
forty million, people. Right now I’m goin’ out to
look ’em over —first the old home burg, this Rhine-
beck village near where 1 have the berry plantation.
We’ve got a pretty conglomerate bunch here, now I
come to look ’em over. Under the spreading horse-
chestnut tree our village smithy stands —and the smith
is a large Russian Jew named Janow. We talk about
“these foreigners,” so you might be able to guess how
we treat Morris Janow. “Hey, Morrie, are you com-
ing to the meeting to-night?” “Say, Morrie, have you
got your tickets to the firemen’s ball?”
No, opines Mr. Seabrook, rattling out Americans
All on his typewriter for Messrs. Harrap to publish—
no, we certainly don’t mean Morrie when we speak
of damn’ foreigners. Nor Sal Alabiso, nor Tony
Djinis, nor Sam Fichera, nor Scandinavian Clyde
Swendsen, nor German Gemmel, nor Lutz. Anglo-
Saxons, Swedes, Italians, Poles, Russians, Jews and
Germans, we argue, fight and kid each other about
American politics. Around Jake’s bench we don’t
give a damn about Stalin or Hitler or Mussolini.
Maybe we should, but we don’t.
As a matter of fact, admits Mr. Seabrook, we’ve
got one Communist In Rhinebeck. He put up a red
flag last Memorial Day, and what happened? What
happened was that O’Brien simply went and took it
down, and told his wife she “ought to know better
than to let him do that.” He’s a good bit, like our
village atheist used to be when I was a kid. We some-
times say “Oh, yes, we’ve got a Communist!” the
way the guides in the Adirondacks say “Oh, yes,
we’ve got bears! ” But we never think of trapping or
shooting him.
The other day, says Mr. Seabrook, reminiscent,
I was askin’ Ma Kilmer, who’s as American as her own
old straw hat and apron, or the flag, or Abe Lincoln’s
braces, how many foreigners lived up our road here.
“You mean who talk different from what we do,”
says Ma. “Well, then, there’s Lutz, and Paul Mertlik,
who caught the mud turtle a while back, and—oh,
yes, of course, there’s Sandy McGregor.” “But,
woman,” says I, “he’s Scotch. Don’t you know
Sandy’s a Scotchman?” “Well, what of it?” says Ma
Kilmer. “You asked me. He talks more furrin than
anybody else up our road.”
Waal, I thinks to myself, says Mr. Seabrook, for
all we know our Unknown Soldier may have been a
guy who couldn’t talk good English. The Roosevelts,
Kips, Schuylers, Vanderbilts were originally Holland
Dutch. John Jacob Astor was German. Almost
exactly half the farms in Minnesota and thereabouts
are owned by Scandinavians, about one quarter by
Germans and about one quarter by Yankees. Scandi-
navians, everybody knows, crossed the Atlantic long
before Columbus did ; then Lindbergh flew it first;
and if they ever get to tinkering with the Goddard
rocket they’ll be the first to reach the moon.
Says Mr. Seabrook : Railways, highways, subways,
skyways, built mostly by Italian gang labor, roar now
through cities and areas in which Italian Americans
participate in all the current vocations, professions,
careers, rewards, splendors and miseries. There’s
Fiorello La Guardia Mayor of N’Yark, and Angelo
Rossi Mayor of San Francisco, and A 1 Capone lan-
guishing in Alcatraz. Italians have given us garlic
and good food, wines, music—contributions to the art
of living, to the spice and gaiety of life. They have
given to America spaghetti, broccoli, finocchio, a
hundred sauces —and organised crime. About 20,000
Italian-American boys and men are shining shoes and
running shoe stands in N’Yark to-day. The gross in-
take in nickels and dimes is 400,000 dollars a week,
20,800,000 dollars a year. N’Yark has 20,000 Italian
barbers; there’s about 70,000 ditto in the United
States —that is, 85 p.c. of all barbers in Gahd’s Own
Country are Italians. And Mr. Susca, who’s in the
lathen-and-hot-towel business, is an active director of
the Dante Alighieri Society, and has been knighted
by the Italian King.
Then, says Mr. Seabrook, there’s Giuseppe Bel-
lanca, who makes aeroplanes; Gerli, who makes
silk ; Amadeo Obici, who owns all the peanuts in the
North American hemisphere ; Faccioli, who’s chief
engineer of the General Electric; Vincent, Riggio,
who's sales boss of the American Tobacco Co. ;
Philip Torchio, who's vice-president of the Edison show.
And then there’s Judge Pecora, who’s probably the
most important Judge of the N’Yark Supreme Court.
As for A 1 Capone and all that, says Mr. Seabrook
—waal, as J. Edgar Hoover pointed out in a book
reviewed on the Red Page not long back, the number
of arrests and convictions for crime among Italian
Americans is no larger per capita than among any
other group, including the stock of English-speaking
origin. The truth about them is that they’re a theatrical
lot of guys, and therefore they make first-class “copy.”
Of course, says Mr. Seabrook, the Com. we’ve
got in Rhinebeck ain't the only one of the critturs
runnin’ about loose. No, sir. And of all the ones
that like ’em least I nominate the Poles. No good,
thinks the Pole, can come out of a Tsarist Russia or
a Bolshevik Russia or any Russia—"-ever! To a Pole
Communists are “the Enemy.’’ More than 90 p.c.
of all Polish Americans are definitely Christian,
Roman Catholic, and I say, says Mr. Seabrook, that
you can’t make Communists out of Roman Catholic
Christians.
Says Mr. Seabrook: As for the Corns., there’s
about 50,000, mostly Slav, Russian, Jewish and Central
European. Not more than 8000 are Red-militant in
the sense that they foment revolution, want to make
America and the whole world Communist.
And while we’re on the subject of Corns., says
Mr. Seabrook, there’s also “der American Fiihrer,”
Fritz Lieber Kuhn, his German-American Bund and
his alleged 200,000 adherents. About 20,000 would
be a truer total. But, anyway, they’re extremely
aggressive and vociferous, and their constant glorifi-
cation of Hitler’s totalitarian system is, to say the
least of it, says Mr. Seabrook, an indirect attack on
America’s system of government. Of the Germanic
population of more than 5,000,000, 70 p.c. are totally
indifferent to Hitlerism ; 20 p.c. definitely anti-Nazi;
9 p.c. pro-Nazi in a sense consistent with loyalty to
the U.S.A. ; 1 p.c. or less rabidly, militantly Nazi.
Waal now, says Mr. Seabrook, feedin’ in another
typewriter ribbon, I’ve been out there and explored
all these damn' foreigners—on their farms, at their
jobs, in their offices, in their homes. I find the alleged
“menace” is nothing for anybody to sit up nignts
worrying about. What I’ve seen and heard has led
me to believe that the American Melting Pot —despite
the fact that it bubbles, emits steam, and occasionally
has to be skimmed of scum —is producing a good,
sound, healthy conglomerate. That’s why I’m callin’
this book about these damn’ foreigners Americans
All. Why, it was a wop discovered this place, and durn
me if it wasn’t named after another wop. So what!
Shaw Neilson's Verses.
Maoriland’s Robin Hyde, discussing Roy Camp-
bell’s fancy for bullfighting, once observed that
Campbell liked blood only because it is scarlet.
Campbell himself would probably agree, for he said
of his own verse that all he had done was to add a
few solar colors to English poetry.
Campbell’s sensitiveness to color most likely
springs from South Africa’s sunshine, and it should
similarly be possible to trace the effects of climate on
Australian verse. Whether it’s due to climate or not,
there is a deliberate use of color in Shaw Neilson’s
verse—patterns in gold and green and aspirations in
white that suit his quiet talent as scarlet suits Camp-
bell’s speed and fire.
In his new book Beauty Imposes (Angus and
Robertson) Neilson has a parrot
Down the green honey you came out in gold,
and there is “Sunday Evening,” in which the move-
ment of color gives the meaning more clearly thar
the words: —•
The love will uphold them:
Softly they bear
Green leaves and children with
The falling hair.
As (lowers at nightfall
Give silence fair,
So give the white children
With falling hair.
Examples by the score can be found in Neilson’s
Collected Poems published in 1934. There was the
subtle coloring of
Quietly as rosebuds
Talk to thin air,
and the sharper
Her lips were a red peril
To set men quivering,
And in her feet there lived the ache
And the green lilt of spring.
Beauty Imposes is just a handful of verses—l 4
short poems —but most of the qualities that have given
Neilson his reputation are represented. Thefe is the
color-patterning already mentioned; there is the sudden
precision of phrase. In Collected Poems there were
such accuracies as the “sweetens” in
See how her petticoat
Sweetens the wind.
This time he has —in a different vein but with the
same exactness:
The old swans pottering in the reeds.
There is, too, in Beauty Imposes the simple
humanity of Neilson’s outlook on life: -*—
Old, it is old, this scattering of the bread,
Deep as forgiveness, or the tears that go
Out somewhere to the dead.
Still will the poor go out with loving words;
In the long need, the need for happiness
The poor can feed the birds.
It’s a kind of verse that balances precariously on
the ridge between sensibility and sentimentality, but
at his best Neilson catches the natural loveliness that
W. H. Davies sometimes achieves and that Hopkins
touched with “There lives the dearest freshness deep
down things.” Beauty Imposes is too slim a sheaf
really to consider as a book, but it will serve a good
purpose if it reawakens interest in the Collected
Poems, where can be found lyrics as delightful as
Her hair was like the thoughts that fall
As raiment for a rhyme:
Her bosom was a white morning
In the keen summer-time.
She had that old delightsomeness
Shed by the strawberry,
And lacked not kisses in her time,
So sweet a mouth had she.
Wooing the Reader.
To anyone picking up Tristram Shandy these
days there’s as much entertainment in Sterne’s chats
with the reader as there is in the rollicking, fantastic
story. It is not just a book that Sterne wrote: it is a
long, mad conversation between the reader and an
author who struts and postures, always seems about
to turn a somersault, and laughs with the most shame-
less enthusiasm at his own jokes.
He talks to the reader, or shouts at him, quite
deliberately, to stop him from going to sleep. And
there’s always the feeling that Sterne himself, after
talking utter piffle for a page or two for the mere
pleasure of talking or for the malicious satisfaction
of boring his audience, feels that he too is dozing off
and has to explode like an alarm-clock in his own ear.
He makes the whole company jump out of its skin
sometimes with his sudden ejaculations: —-
—And pray who was Tickletoby’s mare? —’tis just
as discreditable and unscholarlike question, Sir, as to
have asked what year ( ab. urb. con.) the second Punic
war broke out. —Who was Tickletoby’s mare?—Read,
read, read, read, my unlearned reader—or by the know-
ledge of the great saint Paraleipomenon—l tell you
before-hand, you had better throw down the book at
once.
It's a trick that might perhaps be used to advan-
tage by those contemporary poets who are addicted
to obscure allusions. When Eliot cries “Shantih'
Shantih!” and the unlearned reader thinks “Sea
chanty?” a shriek of “Read, read, read, read, you
chawbacon!” would enliven the verse very pleasantly.
Where the “dear reader” habit would come in
most usefully in contemporary writings, however, is
in detective novels. Sterne would have made the per-
fect mystery writer. When he deliberately baffles the
reader with a blank black page from time to time,
or says that he has torn up and thrown away a chap-
ter, Sterne would have had an easy start on Edgar
Wallace, and his generous supply of asterisks and
dashes would deepen any mystery. He uses them to
conceal a Rabelaisian passage (and usually gives the
show away in the next sentence), but they could easily
cover a crime. The reader would hardly be sure
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING"—aIways.
THE SENIOR STORE."
\ v —J 1
'O.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
20<Deu* GENUINE
y
/ALE
)r
m.
MEN'S “JDMBOK” UNDERWEAR
Men s natural all wool "Jumbuk" Underwear. Soft finish. Light-
weight. Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Shirts with short sleeves. Anthony Horderns Regular Prices—
-7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6
SALE PRICES, each 7/- 7/6 8/3 9/- -9/6 10/6 11/9 13/-
Underpants Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices—
-8/6 9/- 9/9 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/3 14/6
SALE PRICES, pair 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/3
Trunk Drawers. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices—
8/- 8/6 9/3 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/-
SALE PRICES, pair .. 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/- 11/- 12/3 13/6
A
/
J
4
11 \\\\ i• TIT \ \ rrm n •»• nmi jhj, 1
/
/
MEN'S ATHLETIC SINGLETS
Stout ribbed knit. No sleeves . . which
is a definite advantage for warm weather
wear. Durable Cotton garments'. Sizes 34
to 44 inch chests. Anthony Horderns' Reg-
ular Price, each 2/6
SALE PRICE, each 2/3
TRUNK DRAWERS
Poplin Trunk Drawers. Elastic waist to wear
v/ith the above men’s athletic' singlets.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, pair __ 2/11
SALE PRICE, pair 2/8
Postal Address Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Telephone M 2401, Day or Night
'WALPOLE' CELLULAR U'WEAR
Cellular "Walpole" Brand men’s comfortable Under-
wear lor warm days. Open mesh garments which
provide maximum cool comfort Undershirts have
short sleeves. Trunk Drawers with elastic or bang
at waist. Sizes 34 to 44 inch chests or waists.
Anthony Horderns Regular Price, each garment 3/3
SALE PRICE, each garment 2/11
%
- f
WHILE I LIVE 111 GROW
ALL WOOL U'WEAR
Men's natural lightweight
all wool Underwear. Short
sleeved Undershirts and
ankle Underpants. Sizes,
chests or waists, 34 to 44ins.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, per garment 7/6
SALE PRICE 4/11
• Men’s Mercery Ground Floor
George Street. Freight paid to all rail-
tray stations in N.S.IV. and seaports in
the Commonivcalth.
MEN'S NATURAL WOOL
& COTTON UNDERWEAR
Soft finished natural Wool and Cotton
Underwear for men. Medium,, weight
for present wear. Undershirts' feature
short sleeves . . Underpants to ankle.
Sizes 34 to 44 inch chests or waists.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, per
garment 7/6
SALE PRICE, per garment 5/3
All Wool Athletic Singlets
Men's all wool Athletic Singlets. "Jum-
buk." (Regd.) Brand. A serviceable sum-
merweight In Cream only. Sizes 34 to
44 inch chests. Anthony Horderns' Reg-
ular Price, each 5/6
SALE PRICE, each 4/11


True to Life Sketch of a Woman's
REVOLT
fey E. Bithmack
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
It was late in the afternoon when he
arrived with the load.
MRS. LESTER finished setting the table for tea,
mashed the potatoes and pulled the saucepan
of curried meat to one side on the stove.
Then she washed her hands, gave another
glance at the clock on the dresser and made her way
through the narrow passage out to the verandah.
Half-past six. Dick ought to be home any minute
now.
She pulled forward the old painted rocking-chair
and sat down thankfully. She wasn’t really tired, she
told herself, just comfortably so. She patted her slip-
pered feet as the chair swung rhythmically to and
fro, pausing every now and then to peer through the
screen of vines to where the meandered past.
Down at the bottom of the garden the crickets were
crooning, and in the quiet waterhole the bullfrogs
were booming out their bass notes. It was nice and
cool after the heat of the day, but time that Dick was
home.
Probably he’d been given extra carting jobs to
do, and with only a horse and van a man couldn’t
get through the work as quickly as one with a truck.
If only Dick would try and get a truck.
She began to swing to and fro again, her trim,
neat body erect. Now and again she paused to listen
intently, but no sound came from the road save the
cre-ek of crickets and little, hushed noises of the even-
ing. Afar off she could hear the sounds of town —
trucks rumbling over loose-planked bridges, the
screech of motor-horns and the whistle of a goods
train. All very remote, enhancing the peace of the
scrub-fringed allotment.
Inside the house she could hear the rattle of
spoons on plates as her eldest girl gave the two young
children —hers and Dick’s —their tea. Presently the
sounds subsided and Chrissie wandered out.
“I wonder what’s keeping him,” Mrs. Lester
worried.
“I don’t know. It’s seven o’clock.”
Chrissie sat hunched on the top step of the
verandah, every now and then whacking at the mos-
quitoes and trying to cover her bare legs. “Can Glad
and I have our tea?” she asked.
“Presently—presently.”
The woman got up and began to pace the
verandah. Seven o’clock! He’d be drunk again, of
course. She might have known. As soon as he made
a few extra shillings. Well, she was sick and tired
of it. While she’d been earning for herself and her
two girls there’d been none
of this worry and suspense.
If only she’d known as
much then as she knew now,
she’d never have tackled
marriage a second time. But
a man was never satisfied
to leave a woman alone.
Always wanting to take her
under his protection and
look after her. Protection!
she thought contemptuously.
Presently came the
steady clop-clop of a horse’s
hooves far up the road.
“This must be him
now,” she said, relief in her
voice.
The child went down
the steps and peered up the
road. “He looks all right,”
she said.
Well, perhaps he was.
The deliberate clop-clop of
the horse’s hooves as he
ambled down the hill didn’t
sound too reassuring,
though. There was the
usual jingle of loose chains
and rumble of wheels, but
Dick seemed to be standing
up all right in the van as he
passed the house and turned the corner to drive into
the yard. She went into the kitchen and lit the lantern.
“Put the boys to bed and see that everything’s
ready,” she told Chrissie.
She went down to the yard with the light twinkling
and bobbing. Dick was fumbling clumsily with the
harness and holding on to the horse. Her lips tight-
ened.
“Well?” she greeted.
“Well, old woman.”
“You’re late,” she accused.
“Yes. I” His voice thickened as he bent to
the harness. “Bit of a job kept me; ’sa nuisance.”
“That’s where you’ve been, I suppose,” she
taunted. “Working?”
“Yes. There’s some parcels”
She said no more but picked up the parcels and
flounced back to the house, tight-lipped and resolved.
There’d be an end to this sort of thing. She banged
the parcels on to the table and opened them. Cheese,
pickles, meat. God above, pickles! And Chrissie
without shoes or a decent towel in the house. She
hid the bottle from sight and called the two girls in
to their tea. “You two can have yours and get off to
bed,” she said. .
“You’re not” —Chrissie looked at her out of dis-
tressful eyes —“you’re not going to have another row,
are you?”
“You never mind. Just have your tea.”
They sat down to the table in silence. “Oh, God,”
Chrissie kept praying wildly to herself, “don’t let him
be really drunk. Don’t let there be another row.”
""THEY were nearly through the meal when Dick
* came stumbling in. He stood at the door swaying
a little, a smile of fatuous good-comradeship on his
round, florid face. He patted Chrissie on the head.
“Here y’are,” he said, pulling a parcel from his coat
pocket; “here’s some lollies.”
“Leave those,” the mother commanded.
She went to the stove, and with exaggerated
servitude placed his plate before him, her eyes bitter
and hostile. The children finished the meal in silent
misery, then went off to their room, where Gladys
sorted out the lollies and Chrissie listened for the
sound of voices on the other side of the thin wall.
She could hear nothing so far, only the rattle of
knife and fork. “Oh, God,” she whispered, “don't
let them row. Please, God.”
“Why aren’t you eating, Janet?”
“1 don’t eat with pigs.”
“Oh, don’t you? Thanks!”
Silence again and the sound of Dick’s heavy
breathing as he ate. “Oh, God, don't let her say any
more,” Chrissie prayed. “Please, God.”
The rattle of cup on saucer, the sound of some-
thing being spilt, then suddenly her mother’s voice,
high-pitched, angry. “I’m going in the morning. I’m
not staying here another day to live from hand to
mouth like this. I worked for myself before and I
can do it again.”
“Janet, now, Janet, be reasonable.”
“Reasonable! Reasonable, you say! Good God
in heaven, what more do you expect?”
“I’m not as bad as that, Janet. You're just fancy-
ing things.”
“Fancying! Is it fancy that the grocer’s bill isn’t
paid? And that account of Bray’s? Is it fancy that
the boys need new clothes and my children schooling?
They haven’t been to school for months because they
haven’t a decent rag to their backs. When a woman
can’t lay her hands on a few shillings to clothe her
children it’s time she did something for herself.”
“What are you talking about? I left money for
you this morning.”
“Money! Money, do you say?” Chrissie could
picture her mother leaning across the dishevelled
table, shrilling in her rage. “Three and six, and you
call that money. You bring home pickles and other
luxuries while I rack my brains to make ends meet.”
Chrissie cowered down in bed. “Oh, God,” she kept
praying, “please, please, God!”
“I won’t stay to put up with it. I’ll pack to-night
and you can take the things to town to-morrow. You
can find a housekeeper to put up with you.”
“You don’t mean that, Janet. You’re worked up.”
“Don’t I? We’ll see about that.”
She began to clear the table. Dick got unsteadily
to his feet and tried to take the things from her hands,
but she stormed at him.
“Janet”
“A woman to cook and clean for you and share
your bed at night—that’s all I mean to you ; and I’m
going.”
Dick felt sobered by her violence. He sat down
and buried his face in his hands. “I’m a failure,” he
admitted, “only a failure, Janet. I —l’ll drown myself.”
“And a good riddance, too,” she retorted.
“I’ll hang myself. There’s a good rope in the
van.”
“You could poison yourself,” she taunted, “or
shoot yourself.”
Dick began to cry. There was nothing that he
could say to move her —none of the old tricks. “I’ve
made a mess of everything,” he sobbed. “You’ve
been a good wife, Janet. Haven’t I always said y’r
good wife?”
“Have you ever had reason to say anything else?”
she demanded, slamming the washing-up dish on the
table and beginning to rattle the plates. “If you’d
carried out your part of the business as well I’d be
satisfied.”
He felt weak and empty of all emotion save
misery. Life had nothing to cling to now he d end
it all while she was there to see. He took the lantern
and stumbled out to the yard.
Chrissie sprang out of bed and ran to the kitchen,
white-faced and shaking. “Quick, quick,” she urged.
“Go after him. He’s gone down to the shed to kill
himself.”
“You go back to bed at once,” her mother re-
torted angrily. “I don’t want to hear anything from
you to-night.”
“But, mum”
“D’you hear me?” She threw out the washing-
up water, wiped the dish and hung it up. She de-
liberately took off her apron and stood at the door
for a moment listening intently. Down at the barn she
could see Dick’s shadow as he passed and repassed
the lantern, and some of the anger left her face. She
walked down to the shed quietly and stood at the door
watching him.


'T'HE rope from the van was in his hand. He pulled
* a box over and tried to throw the rope across a
beam. He swayed unsteadily, and at each fresh effort
lurched forward and fell. Just as persistently he got
up again, readjusted the box and rope and tried again.
“You’d better give that to me,” Janet said coolly.
She advanced towards him and, taking the rope and
box away, threw them into a corner. “Now,” she com-
manded, “up to the house.”
He looked at her with maudlin tears in his eyes.
“No, Janet,” he said.
“Do you hear me, Dick? Go on up to the house.”
“You said I—l was no good to you.”
“Neither you are, but I’m not going to have you
make a fool of yourself.”
“Well, if I’m no good” He bent to pick up
the rope again.
She pounced on him and caught him by the seat
of his trousers and his shirt. “Up to the house!” she
ordered.
“Janet, Janet,” he entreated, “don’t put a hand
on me. Don’t now. I might forget that you're a
woman.”
She ran him through the door and across the
darkened yard. “Now,” she panted, “you’d better go
to bed and don’t let me hear any more of this rot.
Why, you hadn’t even the knot right to begin with.”
He walked through to the verandah and sat there
brooding. What the hell was the matter with the
woman, anyway? Raging and storming as if he was
a bloody kid. Surely to God a man had a right to
have a few drinks. And he’d made a bit of money
to-day—it wasn’t as if he was doing her out of any-
thing.
Sounds of unfamiliar activity coming from within
filled him with growing perturbation, but as fatigue
came on him the feeling faded until it dwindled to
nothing. His head nodded and he staggered off to
bed. Janet wouldn’t be there to-night. There’d been
other nights like this when she’d left him to sleep alone,
but to-morrow he’d make it up. He slid out of his
clothes and fell into bed.
\X J HEN he woke Janet was already up and busy
““ with her packing. She had meant it, then! He
tried to remember what had happened—what he’d
said or done. There’d been a row, of course, but
they’d had rows before. And he hadn’t been that
drunk. Surely to God a woman could understand. It
only happened once in a while, and the way she went
on you’d think he came home like that every night in
the week. And this talk about money. Well, he’d
have a bit to leave her to-day, and she could take the
nippers into town and treat them to a bit of fun
to-morrow night. That’d fix things—she’d come
round all right when he gave her the money.
From long habit he lit the fire and stumbled off
to the yard, where he fed the horse and chopped
some wood. When he went back to the house Janet
had made a cup of tea. “You’d better have this now,”
she said, “because breakfast’ll be a bit late. I’d like
you to help me pull down the beds and you can get
them on to the van. And there are boxes to rope and
.trunks to fasten.”
Dick felt acute misgivings. “You didn’t mean that
last night—about leaving me?”
“I did.” She was determinedly businesslike.
“Look out for that box now, or the rope’ll be coming
off.”
“But, Janet!” He looked at her with hurt, unbe-
lieving eyes. “To go and leave me!”
She fumbled, fastening her sleeve. If she gave
in again things would be the same in another week
or two. There’d been so much of it
“No, Dick, it’s no use asking. You can please
yourself about taking the things to town. If you won’t
I’ll have to get another carrier.”
“Oh, I’ll take you all right. I can manage on
my own.”
“I’ve no doubt about that,” she said brightly.
Chrissie was surrounded by dumped drawers full
of clothing, china and cutlery. Her heart felt like
lead as she heard her mother’s resolute voice issuing
orders and her stepfather sullenly obeying. “Why?”
she kept asking herself half-tearfully, “why?”
Janet prepared breakfast and cut Dick’s lunch,
then she dressed herself ready for town. She gave
Chrissie and Gladys.their orders before she left. “Dad
will be back for the furniture and things later on. See
that you’re dressed and have the children ready to go
back with him. Now, don’t waste any time.”
When the van had rumbled away, Chrissie sat
down amid the upheaval that had been home and
cried. It seemed to her that everything stable in life
had given way.
I—l OURS of tramping and investigating brought
Janet at last to a suitable place. It was in a poor
part of the town, with other cottages on each side
exactly the same mean, anxious-looking places, un-
lovely with their bare plots of backyard, lines and
props, woodheaps and frowsy women.
She felt tired and hot when at last she sought
Dick on the carrier’s rank.
“I’ve got a house,” she told him. “You’d better
get straight away and bring in the children and furni-
ture and I can get fixed up before dark.”
It seemed to Dick that it needed only this to bring
matters to finality. “Do you really mean it, Janet?”
he asked.
She turned her eyes away. “Yes, really, Dick.
There’s no use in going over all that again.”
“All right,” he said. “All right.”
“If you get away now I’ll go back to the house
and get the floors scrubbed ready.” She flung her
final admonition as he got slowly into the van. “Be
sure that there’s nothing left behind.”
Dick muttered as he drove away. She’d soon
find out which side her bread was buttered and want
to come back! As for him, he’d be all right—he’d
bloody well take fine care of that.
It was late afternoon when he arrived with the
load of furniture and the four children. After he had
carried everything in he refused to leave Janet to the
arranging and moving of the heavier furniture. Then
there were the beds to put up, firewood to get in.
“And now,” he said, “about money”
She faced him, pride throbbing in her. “1 can
keep myself,” she told him. “I’ve worked before. I
don’t want any help.”
“All right,” he said. “Just as you like.”
He felt nonplussed, but he still lingered, making
first one excuse and then another. The thought of
going back to an empty house no longer dominated
by Janet filled him with misery. Then he felt a stab
of revolt. Damn it all, he wouldn't go home! He’d
spend the night in town, at the pub—anywhere rather
than give Janet the satisfaction of knowing she’d
bested him. He’d get drunk, run in ; let her see that
he wasn’t going to worry his guts out over a woman’s
whims. Damn it all, he’d show her!
But he lit a fire in the stove and read the adver-
tisements in a piece of paper on the mantelshelf.
Then he stood looking out of the kitchen window, his
hands held loosely behind him, his trousers' sagging a
little, and watched the grubby children in the next
yard.
Janet was still busy in the bedroom, fussing,
tidying. He walked out to the front gate and called
the two girls to him. He fumbled in his pocket and
brought out a handful of silver, sorting it carefully
before he handed a couple of florins to Chrissie.
“You run along to the shop,” he said, “and gel
a few things for tea. You know—bread and butter
and a bit of bacon. I think your mother has sugar
and everything else here.” He hesi-
tated for a moment, glancing back at
the house furtively, then added awk-
wardly, “Take the nippers with you
and you needn’t be in a hurry to get
back.”
“All right.”
“And you can have a penny each
to spend.”
L_J E went back to the house. Janet
* was putting the last of the
clothes on the children’s bed.
Her face looked drawn and
white, her eyes weary.
“Anything else I can
do?” Dick asked.
She was a little touched by his solicitude. It was
a long time since she’d had to battle for herself. But
she wasn’t going to climb down now! “No, there’s
nothing else thanks, Dick. Hadn’t you better be
going?”
“Yes, I suppose I had.”
He still stood there, waiting, and she added,
“Unless, of course, you’d like to stay and have a cup
of tea first.”
“Well, perhaps I will, Janet.”
“I’ll tell Chris to set the table then.” She raised
her voice and called: “Where are you, Chrissie?”
“Oh, I sent them all down to the shop,” Dick
told her carelessly. “I thought you’d want a bit of
something for tea.”
Janet said nothing. She felt tired. She didn’t
seem to have the strength left now to fight, to face
things. And with two extra children things would be
very different. She sat on the side of the bed. Her
eyes, staring past Dick, were bleak.
All the worries of the day culminated in a wave
of useless misery. Her face began to work, her chin to
tremble. She fought desperately to regain control of
her feelings. She wouldn’t give in before Dick. She
stared straight ahead while the tears dropped slowly
from her eyes—big tears that forced their way pain-
fully into her staring blue eyes to well up, tremble
and fall into her lap. She said nothing, did nothing.
Dick sat beside her on the bed and put an arm
around her shoulders. “Janet,” he said. “Janet.”
She wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron.
“Come back home in the morning,” he pleaded.
“This’ll be a lesson to me and, so help me God, I’ll
never get drunk again.”
“Yes, you will, Dick. You’ve said that dozens of
times before.”
“But I mean it. This’ll be a lesson.”
A rush of feeling came upon her so that she
remembered only the many kindnesses he had shown,
the little weaknesses that had meant Dick.
“It’s no use. I” Her voice sounded thick
and teary, and she had to blow her nose. “Well,
perhaps it would be best —for the sake of the boys.”
She rose to her feet and walked to the window.
“You’ll have to keep to your word this time, Dick. I
couldn’t” She started to cry again.
Chrissie’s voice came to them as she neared the
gate, then the click of the latch. Dick patted his wife
on the arm consolingly and went out to meet the
children, a new importance already in his manner.
"I'm going in the morning. I'm not staying here another day to live from hand to month like this."


Bill and His Bearded Love Again
BREACH OF PROMISE
by A. C. Headley
DRAWING BY LOCK.
CUT,” said Rusty Nailon, “there’s a big
feller in town lookin’ for you, a feller with
J a mouth like a shark an’ arms as thick as
telegraph poles.”
“What kind of ears has he got?” said I.
“I’m glad you mentioned it,” said Rusty. “They
looked as though they belonged to the two fellers with
’im, on’y there wasn’t any fellers.”
I nearly knocked the beer out of Skinny’s hand.
“Skinny,” I yelped, “it’s Bill, your long-lost
lover, come back to plight his troth.”
Skinny’s face went white all of a sudden and his
hand shook as he lifted his mug.
“Scut,” he said, “how much ’ave we got towards
fares to Alice Springs?”
Rusty Nailon slapped his beer down on the bar.
“Look,” he said, “I ’eard of fellers goin’ pros-
pectin’, but this is diff’rent. The prospectin’ is cornin’
to you. This Bill you been talkin’ about is jist rollin’
in the dough. What you done you j want to run
away?”
I looked at Skinny, but he was staring at the
beer in his mug.
“Rusty,” I said, “this Bill is in love with Skinny.”
Rusty nearly dropped his beer.
“ ’E’s what?” he yelped.
So l told him about the time when Skinny and
I had been doing the bush towns as Madame Thora,
the bearded lady. How Skinny had been the bearded
lady, and how Bill had fallen for her because she
understood him.
Rusty stopped laughing after a bit.
“What’s wrong with ’im growin’ another beard,”
he said, “an’ ’avin’ the two ’appy ’earts united?
What’s wrong wiv that? It would save Bill from
wastin’ ’is money on unworthy objects. It’s y’r dooty,
that’s what it is*. An’ the way ’e’s splashing the dough
around ’e must ’ave at least a coupla ’undred.”
“Rusty,” said I, “it shows that you’ve got a heart
of gold, and I’ll bet, when Skinny thinks it over,
he’ll agree with all you said.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, taking a grab at the con-
versation, “it ain’t no use. I ain’t growin’ a beard
and dressin’ up for no one.” He wiped his hand
across his face. “It’s ’orrible. ’E’s always talkin’
about buyin’ a little cottage with roses an’ takin’ me
away from the ’ard, bitter struggle for existence.”
He wiped his face again. “ ’Ow much dough did you
say, Rusty?”
“Coupla ’undred,” said Rusty, “an’ ’e’d on’y
waste it.”
Skinny looked at his beer.
“Listen,” he said suddenly. “What’s wrong with
Rusty hirin’ a false beard an’ pretending that ’e’s
Madame Thora’s sister?”
“For two ’undred quid,” said Rusty, “I’d be
Madame Thora’s mother —on’y it’s me voice. Who-
ever ’eard a woman with a voice like mine?”
“Skinny,” said I, “it’s no use —you gotter be
Madame Thora yourself. It ain’t much to ask con-
sidering we ? re broke. We’ve gotter do something.
It might as weli be Bill.”
“You needn’ even grow much of a beard neither,”
said Rusty; “you can teli 'im you been in ’ospital an’
’ad all y’r ’air shaved orf.”
D Y the end of the week Skinny’s beard was begin-
-I—' ning to show up, and we decided that it was time
to produce Bill. Rusty had given me some idea where
he was hanging around, so 1 went out to look for him.
But he wasn’t in any of the places. I tried every pub
in the city but there didn’t seem to be any sign of him.
It looked as though he had gone back to the gum-tips.
By the end of another week Skinny was getting so
that he wanted to know where I’d hidden the razor
and what I’d done with his trousers. I was wondering
whether he could be kidded into touring the bush
towns as Madame Thora, the bearded lady, when I
walked into a bar and tripped over someone’s feet.
“Bill,” I yelled, without even looking past the
feet.
When Bill saw it was me he wanted to throw
his arms round my neck and cry.
“Scut,” he said, “I been lookin’ for yer fer weeks.
I been eatin’ me ’eart out fer Thora. Where is she,
Scut?”
“You might well have been eatin’ your heart
out,” said I. “Poor Thora’s been dangerously sick in
hospital.”
“Is she married?” said Bill.
“No,” said I; “what makes you think she is?”
* “Scut,” said Bill, without answering, “you
gotter take me to ’er.”
“Listen, Bill,” said I, “you’ve got to be calm. A
shock might be too much for her in her weakened
state. You want to let her get used to you gradually.”
“I gotter see ’er,” said Bill. “I can make ’er
’appy.”
“She needs it,” said I, ordering a couple of drinks.
“She’s had a lot to go through, what with pain an’
“Thora, it’s yer Bill come back t’ make y’ 'appy, t’ bring joy inter y’r life.”
trouble. She even had her hair an’ her beautiful
beard shaved orf while she was in the hospital. She
cried when they did it.”
“It ’urts terrible to shave a beard orf,” said Bill,
and he looked at his beer. “Scut,” he said, ‘ I knew
somepin’ was wrong with Thora. She s a .Leo.
“A what?” said I.
“A Leo,” said Bill, “an’ when Jupiter’s in con-
junction with Saturn it ain’t good fer Leos. That’s
why I come. It’s astrology.”
“It’s what?” said I.
Bill grabbed me by the arm. “It’s tellin’ yer
fortchin be the stars. If yer born in August yer a
Leo an’ you gotter be careful. When was you born,
Scut?”
“April,” said I, “the twenty-fifth.”
Bill pulled a torn book out of his pocket and
shuffled the leaves.
“Scut,” he said, “you’re Taurus the Bull ; you
gotter be careful of accidents on the tenth after seven
o’clock.”
“All right,” said I, “you an’ Thora can have nice
long talks about my accident. It’ll be something for
your old age.”
“Astrology,” said Bill, “is a science. I got a com-
plete ’orrorscope. I’m a Scorpio.”
“Listen, Bill,” said I, “Thora’s dying to see you.
She ain’t said nothing, but I can see it. You near
broke her heart once, Bill, and I’ve got a feeling that
it had a lot to do with her sickness.”
Bill let go a sigh and the beer splashed out of
his mug.
“I love ’er, Scut ” he said ; “it’s in the stars.
Scorpios an’ Leos make the bes’ mates.”
“Listen, Bill,” I said, “I think I’d better ring her
up and prepare her for your coming. You don't
want to give her too much of a shock.”
I left him, and in the shop next door I ’phoned
Skinny. “And don’t forget to look weak and help-
less,” I finished up.
I WENT back and gathered up Bill to take him to see
* his Thora. When I knocked on the door Skinny's
voice, so low you could hardly hear it, said “Come
in.” We went in, and there was Skinny, a beautiful
picture, with a shawl wrapped round his head and
about an inch of stubble on his face. When he saw
Bill, he threw up his hands, gave a little squawk and
pretended to go into a faint. Bill cluttered across the
room and grabbed him by the hand.
“Thora,” he said, with a crack in his voice, “it’s
yer Bill come back t’ make y’ ’appy, t’ bring joy inter
y’r life. Speak t’ me, Thora.” But Skinny just sat
there with his head sticking into his chest.
“Bill,” said I, “she’s fainted. What she wants is
some water to bring her round.”
“Brandy!” yelped Skinny, waking up a bit and
grabbing his throat with his free hand.
“I’ll git some,” said Bill, and in two ticks he was
out of the room. In less than five minutes he was
back with the brandy. There was nothing delicate
about him. He shoved the neck of the bottle in
Skinny’s mouth and poured. It was a shame to see the
way it vanished, but after a bit Skinny put up his
hand and shoved it away.
“Thora,” said Bill, “it’s me. I come back to y’.
I been eatin’ me ’eart out fer yer, Thora.”
Skinny opened his eyes. “Dear, dear Bill,” he
said, and shut them again.
“Bill,” said I, “you better go now. You don’t
want to give her too much excitement at the one time.
It ain’t good for her. You can come back an’ see
her to-morrow.”
“Dear —dear Bill,” said Skinny, still with his eyes
shut. “Dear —dear Bill.”
“Scut,” said Bill, “you tell ’er to watch out on
the ninth of nex’ month, when she will feel strongly
the presence of Jupiter, which bein' in the ascendant
ain’t no good seein’ that she’s a Leo.”
“Scut,” said Skinny as soon as Bill had had time
to get away. “What’s ’e talkin’ about —I’m a Leo.
“It’s astrology,” said I; “I’m Taurus the Bull, and
you’re Leo something or other, and we’ve got to look
out for accidents because of the stars.”
“It’s goin’ to be ’orrible,” said Skinny. “I can see
the cottage-and-roses-round-the-door look in his eye
already.”
WELL, that was the beginning. Every day Bill
turned up with flowers and chocolates and
bunches of grapes, and every once in a while Skinny
would have a fainting spell that would call for a bottle
of brandy. Bill would sit on a box by Skinny’s side
and keep telling her what a beautiful creature she was,
and how sorry he was that he had broke her heart.
It went on for a week, and so far we hadn’t got any
glimpses of the fistfuls of money that Rusty had been


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin's” Short Story
Competition are:
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
talking about, and Skinny was beginning to get pretty
fed up.
“Scut,” he said, “I’m sick of Bill and I’m sick of
bein’ called a Leo. Unless somethin’ happens quick
I'm gonna have a shave an’ find my pants.”
“Listen, Skinny,” said I, “I’ve just been waiting
for the right time. I’ve been studying this astrology
business, and I’ve found out that three o’clock on
the third is the right time for Bill to invest his dough.
It’s in his horoscope. Wait till then and you can tell
him about the horse which your uncle owns which
can’t get beat, and you’ll put his money on for him
out of gratitude for all he’s done for you. We needn’t
tell him the name of the horse until after the race.
It’ll save us trying to pick one that hasn’t got a show.
Maybe we could give him the one that ran second just
to show he was a trier. Skinny, it’s a snack.”
“The third ain’t till next week,” said Skinny.
The third came at last, and at five to three Skinny
opened up.
“Bill,” he said, “after all you done for me, I feel
as if I must do somethin’ to repay you. 1 been thinkin’
if over for a long while an’ only a few minutes ago my
uncle rang me up. Bill, it’s your opportunity, and it’s
my chance of showin’ my appreciation.”
“Aw,” said Bill, “I ain’t done nothin’.”
“You’re a good man,” said Skinny, “of which there
is very few.”
Bill put one foot on the other and stuck his
tongue in the side of his mouth. “Aw,” he said, “I
ain’t done nothin’.”
“Bill,” said Skinny, “my uncle, who is a well-
known horse-trainer, has just rung me up to tell me a
horse that can’t get beat to-morrow. 1 can’t mention
no names because he asked me not to, but you give
me all your money and I’ll invest it for you. It can’t
get beat, Bill. It’s doin’ gallops that could win a
Melbourne Cup, and it’s in a Maiden at Menangle.
What’s the time, Scut?”
“It’s three o’clock,” said I, “and the date, if you
want to know it, is the third. It’s a remarkable co-
incidence.”
“What’s a coincidence?” said Skinny.
“I was readin’ Bill’s horoscope,” said I, “and
I’m certain it said somethin’ about three o’clock on
the third.”
“Gosh,” said Bill, “yer right. It’s the right time
to invest me dough. Aries is juxtaposition to
Saturn. It’s the stars wot made you tell me about yer
uncle’s ’orse, Thora, an’ I ’ardly know ’ow to thank
you fer the opportunity.” He dived his hand into his
pocket and pulled out some money. “There y’are,”
he said, “two poun’ twelve an’ seven.”
Skinny and I gave a couple of gasps.
“Bill,” said Skinny, when he’d finished choking,
“is that all you’ve got?”
“That’s all,” said Bill, “but me rent’s paid to the
end of the week.”
“Listen, Bill,” said I, “I was talkin’ to a feller a
couple of weeks ago who told me you were rolling in
dough. He said something about selling sheep and
that you had at least a couple of hundred.”
Bill kicked his toe. “So I did,” he said very low.
“What happened to it?” said I.
“Aw, nothin’, Scut,” he said.
Skinny was beginning to rally.
“Bill,” he said, “you’re hidin’ somethin’ from
your Thora.”
Bill walked over to the window, came back,
cleared his throat three times, and opened his mouth.
“Thora,” he said, looking like a sheep, “I got a
confession to make to yer. I was deceived inter goin’
with another woman. I was tol’ you was married,
so I didn’t ’ave nothin’ t’ live fer, Thora. I found out
in time that Mavis was a shameless ’eartbreaker. Aw,
she was diff’rent to you, Thora. She ’ad gold ’air an’
a long gold beard.”
“A what?” yelped Skinny.
“Gold ’air an’ a gold beard,” said Bill, looking
sad, but I found out but wot beauty is on’y skin
deep. I was still goin’ with ’er when I met Scut an’
’eard the good news that you wasn’ married, Thora.
Me ’eart near burst wiv ’appiness, and I went an’ tol’
Mavis I was gonna break it orf wiv ’er.” Bill scratched
his head. “I can’t understan’ women,” he went on.
“This Mavis got in a rage an’ said she’d sue me fer
two ’undred poun’s fer breach of promise. Yer see,
Thora, I writ ’er a letter. She said she’d show it to
you. It was ’orrible the way she talked about bringin’
yer name through the law courts.”
“So,” said I, “you gave her the two hundred.”
“I couldn’t do nothin’ else,” said Bill. “It was
to save Thora’s good name I done it. Mavis was a
Scorpio.”
“How did you come to meet her?” said Skinny.
Bill shuffled his feet. v “Thora,” he said, “it was a
feller named Nailon —Rusty Nailon —wot interdooced
me. ’E was the feller as said you was married.”
I looked at Skinny. “Bill,” said I, “1 think Thora
has had a relapse.”
THE GIRL AT THE SFORTS
BY K. R. CRAGG.
IT was when Joey and me were heading for Queens-
land. We reached a township called Ulan on our
bikes on a Saturday morning in the middle of
a dry spell.
There was a dip in the red road, which was
cemented where the creek crossed it. Downstream
at the bend there was a swimming-hole and willows,
and the only patch of green grass we’d seen for eighty
miles ; so we decided to camp. We had a swim in
the nude, which was all right, because the township
was a coupla of hundred yards away—besides, all the
people of the town seemed to be at some sports, up-
stream, on the other side of the road.
We ate some rice and what was left of the dried
apricots, and Joey said, “How about going to the
sports?” So we put on our good duds and went over.
And then I saw her. All laughs and blushes
she was, looking after the small kids’ races. Her eyes
were lively and bright, like she wanted to race, too.
But she was shy, y’ could tell.
The way I must have stared at her! I copped
Joey grinning at me —not a sarcastic grin, though.
He just said “There’s free beer on tap,” and went to
where it was, under the peppercorn-tree.
I sat on a stump, just watching her. They took
her away to help judge the men’s races ; so I went
quick and lively to enter myself for one. I s’pose
I wanted to show off, for I had plenty of toe. But
it’s the way you get, I s’pose.
I took off my coat and shoes and rolled up my
strides. 1 could see her near the finishing-mark
with a pencil and paper, and I guess I hit the front
from the jump. When I crossed the tape she came
to me and said, “What is your name?”
“Fred Jones,” 1 said. Then before I knew any-
thing else I had asked her for hers. But she only
laughed and blushed a bit, and walked away calling
out: “The final will be on soon; see you don’t
miss it.”
Joey came over and made me sit in the shade
while he massaged my legs. Then he went down
the track picking out bits of broken glass so I wouldn’t
cut my feet. He came to the start with me, and said,
“Get on the outside where you won’t get jammed and
you’ll win.”
And I fluked it all right by two yards. The girl
came up, half smiling but biting her lip like she was
still shy. I told her my name again, and she pretended
to write it, but I seen that she already had it down.
After the races were over we got talking. She
thought I had come with some of the visitors from
Mudgee, and I took care she wouldn’t think any
different. She told me her name was Patricia, and
asked me if I would come to the dance that night.
I said “Yes,” and it never struck me that I hadn’t
my fare in. She promised to see me there; then I
asked her to mind the fountain-pen and tin pencil I’d
got for winning the race.
A FTER sunset the moon was broad and red, because
of the smoke from roundabout bushfires. It lit
up the dry paddocks and Joey, who was still pretty
drunk, shaving on a log in the shallow stream. If he
hadn’t been full I could have yarned to him, which
might have helped me forget about the dance. The
drink made his spirits so good that I wished I was
drunk, too. He splashed out of the stream, drying
his neck, whistling, and he called out: “Coming to
the hop?”
I swore at him.
“What’s up?” he says. “There’ll be a back win-
dow we can climb through.”
It sounded easy. 1 dressed, and we hurried to
the back of the hall, where there was one window
with boards over it. We put my coat against the
boards and knocked them in with a stone while the
band played.
There was a gay mob in the hall—streamers and
gum-leaves on the rafters and along the walls. I
spotted Patricia dancing and watched where she sat
when it finished. I asked Joey to come and meet her.
“No, she’ll smell the beer on me,” he said, “and
I don’t want to cruel your chances. I’ll see you at
the camp after.”
Patricia looked glad to see me, and she wouldn’t
dance with anyone else after I turned up. Between
dances we stood talking. Gee, the way she laughed
and squeezed my fingers when the music started again!
I held her tight, and she didn’t seem to mind.
Then the trouble started. When Joey was full
he was gay. He said afterwards that he had made
himself popular with a girl that belonged to one of
the committee. The bloke got snaky and wanted to
see his ticket.
I only saw Joey domino the bloke, who had a
lot of cobbers that pounced on Joey, and I had to
excuse myself to Patricia. The crowd made a ring,
for the stoush was good while it lasted ; but the com-
mittee was big and useful, and soon they had Joey
and me down
Being cocky at licking us, they asked to see
our tickets, and a feller mentioned he’d seen the
broken boards at the back window, so they kicked
us out; and just as well there was no policeman at
Ulan.
I don’t know what Patricia must have thought.
Soon she came into the moonlight and looked around
as she crossed the road to the store. She didn’t see
me, skulking in the shade up near the creek. In
a minute she walked back, and 1 was too ashamed to
call out or show myself.
A T daybreak Joey packed our bikes, while I cooked
*'■ the rice. I had made up my mind to put the girl
out of my head, and I would have done. It’s funny
how you can make up your mind and then something
happens that won’t let you keep it made up. You see,
I went across the paddock to a hollow near the church
to get some dead wood, and when I climbed out
Patricia was in the next paddock carrying a bucket.
She waved to me in my hobo duds, and I could have
kicked down the church.
“I came to steal some water from the church
tank,” she said, natural like, as if nothing was out
of order.
I fetched it for her, and she said: “It’s there for
the taking, isn’t it?”
She had no hat on or stockings, just a print frock ;
and she looked fresh and.no older than fourteen,
although she must have been seventeen. Her face was
flushed like she was hot, but we stood there in the
cool before sunrise.
She held out her hand to give me the fountain-
pen and the pencil, but I asked her to keep them. She
didn’t pass any remarks about me being only a hobo.
Somehow we started to walk together toward the
bottom end of the stream, and the grass there was
soft, and the willow leaves touched our heads where
we sat.
“If only I had a job!” was all I could say.
Patricia started plucking the leaves and said,
“When it rains there’ll be five months’ work cutting
burrs.” And she started to tell me all the work I
might be able to get if it rained.
Her quiet, nice way made me game to kiss her.
I told her plans that I was making. Everything
looked good by the stream —the water-beetles and
birds and all the green . . . Patricia said she had to
go home at sunrise.
It came quick, sliding into the smoky sky like
last night’s moon. We climbed to the top of the bank
and saw the paddocks dry to the horizon, and the
drought which didn’t have no horizon at all.
We looked at it all. Then I kissed her good-bye.
Her lips were alive and warm, like a sparrow strug-
gling in your hand. She took the bucket of water, and
when she got to the fence of her mother’s house she
waved.
JOEY and me had to keep moving so as to get
our track rations. We tried hard for a job. Joey
said he would have done the work so that I could
have gone back to her ; he said he’d send me tucker
money until it rained and the burr-cutting started.
But we didn’t land a job, and it never rained.
We went slowly right up north.
The Park at Night.
N.S.W.
All home; the sunset dwindles.
The smooth cool purple candles
Of magnolia bum, and gathered
Lovers like leaves, and withered
Grey wandering men are sleeping.
The hand that had the shaping
Of the smooth purple candles
Above the lovers kindles
The white flame of their bodies,
And grey flame flares and steadies,
Breath-cold, an ebbing taper,
About each withered sleeper.
No hand now folds or fondles
The smooth cool purple candles,
Or the lost flesh touches
That grey flame chills, white scorches.
But they, like watchfires burning,
Witness until the morning
With the smooth purple candles
Chat earth’s flame never dwindles,
And under starry heaven
All flesh to fire is given,
Beneath the purple holy
Cool candles burning stilly.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


5a a oa
lii int n
DiEUJtgn
A Melbourne holiday for the family in
Australia's largest non-licensed hotel
is yours at the new Victoria Palace.
Kiddies are welcomed, too, and all
arrangements will be made for their
care whilst parents visit or shop.
Accommodation and cuisine are first*
class. "Room-only" tariffs: 4/- to
7/6 for single rooms; 8/- to 16/- for
double rooms.
VICTORIA PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST. (next Town Hall)
MELBOURNE
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF WAR
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK IN AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION
MINES AND METALS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
No. 5598
prevents
EXKAN
BACK
BOOT
Bo€>¥
SAQCjIN
GUSSET
SIDES
PREVENT|
EXTVA '
STKEN67H-
KjDUNO
DOUBLE
SCREWED
SOLE
29'6
[PD
■Vf
LTD
ALU SIZES
IN BLACiC
OR.TAN CALF
&_ Black v/allaby
BaOTHE!
ixu Queen
even that a murder had been committed if it were
described as is this accident to the infant Tristram:
*.* * * *
* *- *^ —but that *
* >!« * * *
* * *’s also.
Apart from such exquisitely unscrupulous devices,
it is his discursive method that would put him in the
top flight of mystery writers. His digressions and
irreievancies could be diverted to obscuring the clues,
and his frequent halts to sum up would be extremely
valuable. After it has taken him a year—and about
80,000 words —to describe how he was born, he
observes:—
1 am this month one whole year older than 1 was
at this time twelve-month; and having got, as you per-
ceive, almost into the middle of my fourth volume —and
no further than to my first day’s life—’tis demonstrative
that I have three hundred and sixtyfour days more
life to write just now, than when I first set out. It
follows, an’ please your worships, that the more I write
the more I shall have to write —and consequently, the
more your worships read, the more your worships will
have to read.
Will this be good for your 'worships’ eyes?
That judicial summing up could well become:
“You perceive, Madam, that it is nigh a twelve-month
since Sir Marmaduke’s body was found in the dove-
cote of Tyburn Grange, and though the butler has
been proved to be in love with the niece of a Malayan
sword-swallower we seem little further ahead....”
Sterne, too, has an excellent touch for the presen-
tation of the villain:
Imagine to yourself a little, squat, uncourtly figure
of a Doctor Slop, of about four feet and a half perpen-
dicular height, with a breadth of back and a sesqui-
pedality of belly, which might have done honour to a
serjeant in the horse-guards.
Though it needn’t seriously be suggested to the
reverent that Sterne should have written detective
fiction, it is a pity that he didn’t write a few more
books of some sort. He wrote Tristram Shandy late
in life, and, apart from that and the Sentimental
Journey, there are only letters, sermons and oddments.
Most of the characters in Tristram came from life,
and he must have had many more “hobby-horsical”
acquaintances he could have presented.
The jockeys he did line up are a magnificently
colorful lot: his father, seriously splitting straws or
gloomily stumping off to the fishpond; Uncle Toby,
playing soldiers, courting his widow, or sceptically
whistling “Lillabullero” ; Corporal Trim in tears, and
Susannah in blushes. Mrs. Shandy, though usually
just a shadow in the background, is one of the most
entertaining portraits in the gallery. Sterne’s satire
shines at its brightest when she and Mr. Shandy are
discussing Tristram’s breeches:
—They should be of leather, said my father.
They will last him, said my mother, the longest.
’Twere better to have them of fustian, quoth rny
father.
Nothing can be better, quoth my mother.
—Except dimity,—replied my father: —’Tis best of
all, —replied my mother.
One must not give him his death, however, —inter-
rupted my father.
By no means, said my mother:—and so the dialogue
stood still again.
Sterne’s own unfeigned delight in the quirks
and oddities of his characters makes them doubly
entertaining: if the dear reader doesn’t laugh at them,
he laughs at Sterne, which is just what he was meant
to do.
Not the least delightful thing in the Everyman’s
Library edition is George Saintsbury’s introduction,
with its superb polysyllables—“our exuberant nescience
in matters Sternean.” There’s an edition of Keats
where the editor puts as a footnote to “Oh for a
beaker full of the warm south” a little apology about
Keats’s “partiality for claret” ; and, similarly, Saints-
bury fills a lot of space defending Sterne’s character.
Yorick had his weak spots in life, but his “dear
readers” can’t fail to respond to the deliberate wooing
of his book.
An Anfi-Jewish Fable.
The yarn of the “Protocols of the Elders of Zion”
—the fantastic lie about a Jewish plot to rule the
world —was proved by London “Times” in 1921 to
have been based on forgeries.
Because the story still circulates as truth, John
Gwyer has published Portraits of Mean Men (Cobden-
Sanderson) —a complete exposure of the shabbily
comical history of the “Protocols.” The book has
one important omission, the “Protocols” themselves.
Gwyer says they’re being sold by the British Union
of Fascists, but his attack would have been all the
more weighty if he’d quoted them.
Briefly, Gwyer’s history of the “Protocols” says
that they are a deliberate and almost verbatim
plagiarism of a pamphlet published by one Maurice
Joly at Brussels in 1865. It was a series of imaginary
discussions between Montesquieu and Machiavelli
written with the purpose of discrediting Napoleon
111. Forty years later the pamphlet reappeared in
Russia as the first edition of the “Protocols.” It was
resurrected and altered not so much to discredit Jews
in general as to attack a favorite of the Tsar.
It’s a complicated story, and Gwyer goes into it
very thoroughly. He has a neat sense of satire to
enliven the investigation. The book, for instance, is
“respectfully dedicated to all believers in the Hidden
Hand,” and he introduces it with: “This matter, as
Gilbert White said of the generation of eels, is very
dark and mysterious.”
A Simpified Faulkner.
William Faulkner has been an innovator in the
novel. During 20 years he has developed a highly in-
dividual technique, a gradual weaving method of
telling a story that, taken as whole, is very effective—
the long way round that turns out to be the short-
est way there.
His first eight novels show an increasing elabora-
tion of method. Absalom, Absalom was a miracle
of sustained manner. It raised the query to what
excesses would he be driven to sustain himself in the
new land he had broken in for the novel. The
answer comes in his new book, The Unvanquished
(Chatto and Windus). He has turned back toward
the universal.
The Unvanquished is a shorter, simpler novel
than its predecessors. The style has been modified,
though without loss of flavor. It is easier reading
than Light in August or Pylon. The story is more
clearly disentangled from the method ; Faulkner’s
richness has taken on a purer line and a firmer shape.
The Unvanquished is not a book for the connoisseur
of style only, but for everyone.
, The story is set in the South during the American
Civil War. John Sartoris —Faulkner’s readers have
heard of him before —was one of the freelance sol-
diers of the Confederate army. He raised his own
troop and rode away on his claybank stallion Jupiter,
leaving the plantation slaves and his family—his
mother-in-law, Rosa Millard, called Granny ; his 12-
year-old son, Bayard ; Bayard’s foster brother, Ringo
—to fight their own war in occupied territory. The
old lady is the general on the home front, the two
boys her lieutenants. “God help the North if Davis
or Lee had ever thought of the idea of forming a
brigade of grandmothers and nigger orphans and
invading us with it,” cries one of the Union soldiers
after coming in conflict with Granny. There have
been many grand old women of fiction, from the
Duchess of Wessex to Adeline Whiteoaks, but few can
equal Granny.
The theme of life and violence is worked out
over a period of years. It recurs in many forms,
overt and hidden. John Sartoris, who lived by the
sword, perished by it; and Bayard —who at 15 re-
venged his grandmother by nailing the right hand of
her murderer upon her tombstone —resolves at last
the tangle of violence and reprisal by going unarmed
to the man who had killed his father and outfacing
him.
The background is a world in flux, spiritually as
well as materially. There is a powerful and pathetic
picture of the negroes, intoxicated by the idea of their
freedom as by some great religious revival, marching
out to starvation and death ; going on and out like
people in a trance till they fell, seeking Jordan. The
writing is now slow and involute, now a storm. Some-
times the descriptions are woven loop into loop.
Then Louvinia came in. She was already undressed.
She looked tall as a ghost, in one dimension like a
bolster-case, taller than a bolster-case in her night-
gown ; silent as a ghost on her bare feet, which were
the same color as the shadow in which she stood so
that she seemed to have no feet, the tw'in rows of her
toenails lying weightless and faint and still on the floor
about a foot below the hem of her nightgown as if
they were not connected with her.
Sometimes the descriptive touches are as quick
as a flash, as that of the great horse Jupiter “standing
big and motionless in the dawn as a mesmerised flame.”
Always there is a fresh, stinging reality about them.
Curiously, in the latent poetry of this book, in
the feeling it gives of the past falling into immutable
folds, it has something in common with the work of
another American, Joseph Hergesheimer, though
Faulkner is an experimenter and the other a whole-
hearted romantic.
Idriess's New Book.
A few days after his new book came out I ran
into “Jack” Idriess smoking a contemplative pipe on
the kerb outside his publisher’s bookshop in Castle-
reagh-street. Idriess adheres faithfully in speech to
the relaxed grammar of the campfire and has an out-
back drawl that is soothing amid the city’s clatter.
Despite success he just keeps on being himself.
“How’s Madmans Island doing, Jack?”
“Pretty good,” said Idriess, emphasising and ex-
tending the second word. “It’s a funny thing about
that book ; it was the first one I ever wrote and had
published. Years ago that was —and it was a flop.
I'd come down to Sydney after being up north for a
couple of years and collected a wad of back money
from The Bulletin for paragraphs I’d been sending
them. Seventy-two quid it was.
“I ran into Alec Chisholm and we got yarning
about the Australian tropics. I showed him a diary
I’d kept when I was on Madman’s Island, and he
grabbed me by the arm and dragged me to see George
Robertson—he was head of Angus and Robertson in
those days. Old George looked the diary over and
said he wouldn’t publish it unless I put in some love
interest. He gave me a few tips on popular writing.
He said, ‘Lay the love on thick —and give ’em blood
by the bucketful.’ I had the seventy-two quid from
The Bulletin to keep me, so I rewrote the yarn and
gave it to George, and then 1 went away up north
again.
“I came back a couple of years later and had to
go into Anthony Horderns’ to buy something or other,
and the first thing 1 saw was a stack of Madman’s
Island as high as my chest and stretching from here
across the street. They were selling ’em off at a tanner
a time.
“How it came to be published again: I was
wondering a few months back what my next book
would be about. The Firm’ said to me, ‘What about
rewriting Madmans Island —and do it your own
way!’ I did it —and they sold six thousand copies
the day it came out!”
“Well, that yarn’s an argument for letting writers
go their own way, Jack.”
Idriess drew a long, nourishing puff on his pipe.
His eye held the satisfied gleam of a man whose
ugly duckling has proved to be a swan.
“Yes,” he drawled, “I often used to worry about
that book, but now I’m feeling good-oh about it.”
The book describes the adventures of Idriess and
a mate when they were marooned on an island off the
coast of Queensland during a mineral-hunting expedi-
tion. They had a hard time keeping themselves alive.
To add to the difficulties Idriess's mate had been
badly wounded in France and had to carry “a whole
chemist’s shop about with him.” When the supply
of chemicals ran out “he was liable to go off his
head for a time.” It is a tale of mateship, hardship
and danger in a scene that is interestingly depicted.
Casual.
Reviewed Briefly.
Early Christmas This Year!
Babette, stories and pictures by Clare Turlay
Newberry, and Noodle, story by Munro Leaf, pictures
by Ludwig Bemelmans (both from Hamish Hamil-
ton). A Randwick fruitshop has up an Bft. notice,
“Merry Xmas to All,” and these two offerings are in
the same eager spirit of anticipation. Babette’s pussy-
cat ; Noodle’s dog ; both are delightful. Pussy’s on
the sentimental side, very prettily illustrated ; dog’s
funny, in both story and depiction.
Verse . . .
The Quest of Man : David Avery, M.Sc. (Lothian
Publishing Co., Melbourne and Sydney). A blank-
verse essay, finding truth, beauty and goodness in
science, art and religion.
General . . .
Sam: John Crawford and Edward Quigley
(Dent). For cat fanciers, lovers, worshippers, but not
for dogs with teeth or brutes with boots. One of
those animal stories that are an excuse for camera
studies, Sam being animal and Quigley photographer.
The Development of the Supernatural in Human
Experience. Wallace Dean, M.A., B.D. (James Clarke
and Co.), a Sydney clergyman, studies the subject
with an air of impartiality, incorporates an in-
genious defence of miracles, but comes to the con-
clusion that “character, truth, genuine spiritual values
and spiritual relationships, are higher than all wonder-
proofs in the phenomenal realm.”


We£F Paid PoAit&OHA For Thauted Me*v
.
Op
p
I
f
■
i->
YOU CAN TRAIN
AT HOME!
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power users in
every industry are changing to Diesel, the modern,
highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
home study course . . . See how YOU can fit
yourself for a position in this new industry of
to-day and to-morrow, by qualifying for the
D.E.C. Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE NEEDED
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1300 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student, and to whom
students may write about any problem connected with the Course.
Be In On The Ground Floor In This New Field
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TRACTION DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA’S
LARGEST DIESEL SCHOOL
Bm
Over 1300 Successful
Students Testify to the Value
of The Diesel Engineering College Courses.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
D !'?. EL 'HOIKS.
DIESEL ENGIN EERING
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
.AGE
B. 19/)o/’38.


A gift in keeping with Yuletide... send your friends
in England a case 0f...
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY ♦., No freight charges to pay!
rr'h f
V
m
*mL^
&■';■ •;.
“'■ri
mM
fog ' j
if th
W-.
. M fc* s
.’: : ,
’...' !
-
mi
I Hik
Hiss
-:
m
The Bank of England, London.
gOTH at home and abroad, Seppelts
Wines enjoy a wide reputation for
excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appre-
ciated on any festive occasion. What
finer or more appropriate gift could
you choose for friends or relatives in
Britain? A gift of a case of Seppelts
assorted wines carries with it the cor-,
rect atmosphere of good cheer and
fraternity that symbolises the spirit of
Yuletide.
' jTIH cases are assorted, containing
dry, still and sparkling wines to
your selection. Delivery is made from
Seppelts London House; thus you have
no freight charges to pay. To each
hamper will be attached a card or letter
bearing your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/- and full
details can be obtained from any of
SeDpelts Houses.
For full information ring or Write to . . .
B. SEPPELT & 50N5 LTD,
King William Street, Adelaide; Collins Street, Melbourne; Sussex Street, Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Packenham Street, Fremantle; Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London Office: Australia House.


-N IL.
A <A 'O
"V
O
-J-
O > -5>
-A XT*
a A v
~!~- -?2> ~3_*
o o-S o'
VS' <~» ~y
S
c. . o
~ Xv
A - vs\ <^.
~3> v X
***** -...-X
fT'- v-r%.
~b, XT
v~*
x
;\S^
VT'
\
IN BETHLEHEM.
"British troops are posted in the Garden of the Nativity.”
“Halt! Who goes there?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
TIME FOR REVISING.
In a broadcast over national stations last week N.S.W.
Premier Stevens spoke on what a Sydney paper which
thinks as he does described as “Czech Crisis Prob-
lems: Australia Affected.” In the main he made it
clear that the lately-averted war would have been
fought not so much to save Czechoslovakia —in which
purpose only such military strategists as Mr. Roberts
imagine it could have succeeded —but rather to main-
tain the trade status quo in Europe by crippling Ger-
many and otherwise blocking its economic expan-
sion. In blunt terms, all the highfalutin talk of
“morality,” “humiliation” and “shameless surrender”
would have been exposed before long as so much
guff.
Having, no doubt unintentionally, made this clear
to his listeners, Mr. Stevens elaborated on the theme
of Germany’s “emergence to a position of dominance
in Central and South-Eastern Europe,” so strong that
“it could undoubtedly stand out against the rest of
the world.” What if it could? Is that any reason
why we must get alarmed or hate Germans?
Mr. Stevens inferred that because of this change
in Germany’s status —a change which only war and
the slaughter of millions could have prevented, and
to prevent which would have been the final reason
for going to war —Australia was now “face to face
with issues of paramount national concern.” He
placed first
The strengthening of our home defences to give a
maximum of national preparedness.
That has been an “issue of paramount national
concern” ever since Australia achieved status as a
Commonwealth. Defence has been shamelessly
neglected in the past, and the present expenditure on
it is the measure of that neglect. The implication that
this heavy expenditure must now be boosted up
because of Germany’s improved Continental position is
fatuous nonsense. Heavy expenditure is necessary
because the more sickening sort of pacifists, the up-
holders of the League and “collective security” as the
“cornerstone of our foreign policy,” and also some
who are now uttering alarmist “defence” claptrap,
formerly influenced the neglect of this ordinary
national precaution or did nothing about it.
There is still neglect of the one aspect of national
defence on which votes depend—the sensible training
and shaping of our young manhood. Militia units are
absurdly below strength. There will have to be a
great improvement in this and on other sensible lines
to imbue the excellent available man-power with the
right spirit and train it for what should be a normal
service.
There is a vast difference between that and the
proposals now being made. In a hysteria of unjusti-
fiable fear the people who are now being heard most
loudly on the defence issue are rushing from one
extreme to the other. Their suggestions boil down to
the proposal that we must combat the alleged menace
of the totalitarian countries by emulating them. Given
their head these people would have young Austra-
lians regimented, goose-stepping and saluting all over
the landscape. This proposal is something Austra-
lians do not need and would not stand for a moment.
Sane and sensible training of our man-power —yes;
uniform shirts for everybody and Australia a parade-
ground—no!
A few more of Mr. Stevens’s “issues”:
The populating and developing of our sparsely-settled
territories; the raising of national standards of health,
physique and economic and social well-being; the utilisa-
tion to the utmost of our natural resources and our
capital equipment; the maintenance of financial and
industrial progress, with all that this may imply in terms
of monetary and employment policy—in short, a drive for
national efficiency and industrial and social progress —
an advance on all fronts.
The implication that the “populating and develop-
ing of our sparsely-settled territories” is a necessity
newly enforced by Germany’s expansion in Europe
is more rubbish. This “issue” is one of long standing,
and will remain of long standing while the basic
political policy of Mr. Stevens and his kin all over
Australia is to keep population down and keep settle-
ment out by the tax-and-grab methods which have
become notorious, not only inside Australia. Blam-
ing German expansion for this is piffle.
“Raising national standards of health, physique
and economic and social well-being” is the ordinary
regular business of any Government worth a straw.
Blaming failure to attend to it on Germany is plainly
ridiculous. The rest of Mr. Stevens’s “issues” look
suspiciously like a bid for a still freer hand with loan-
money, Mr. Stevens’s policy all along.
Mr. Stevens’s call for “a drive for national
efficiency... .an advance on all fronts,” taken in
conjunction with his final summing up, is not so
innocuous:—
It may well be that in the process we will have to
revise many of our time-honored traditions and beliefs.
Mr. Stevens left it at that. His threat should be
noted, not because Mr. Stevens, or any of the others
who are thinking as he is at the moment, is at all
likely to get away with it, but because such tendencies
should be jumped on wherever they show up.
Which of our “time-honored traditions and
beliefs” is it proposed that we must revise because
Germany has extended and may further extend its
influence in Europe? Our fundamental traditions and
beliefs are plain and clear. Equality before the law.
Spiritual, intellectual and political freedom, includ-
ing freedom of speech and the freedom of the press.
A man’s right to work. Fair play. Tolerance.
Respect for the individual human life.
Which of these or of the other fundamental
traditions and beliefs which are the basis of the
British civilisation we call democracy is it now pro-
posed that we must revise? Certainly Australia can
well do without their opposites. It would be better,
too, if it could be without the abuses of some of
them. The abuse of the freedom of the press, for
one. The fomenting of hatred against other countries.
Such deliberately provocative gutter insults as that the
leader of another nation is a lunatic. This is not only
an abuse of press freedom ; it is opposed also to the
fundamental traditions of fair play and tolerance. An
international law of libel as a brake on gross and
baseless misstatements by a paper in one country
about the people and leaders of another would not
be opposed by any fair-minded man who appreciates
the potential danger of this abuse of an excellent
tradition.
But, generally speaking, in this, as ifi other spheres
of Australian life, it is instruments, not fundamental
beliefs or traditions, that are in need of revision, and
it is excrescences that call for a sensible application of
the knife. Mr. Stevens himself represents an ex-
crescence —the costly, clumsy and nationally hamper-
ing system of provincial government by eleven Houses
of Parliament, six Cabinets, six Cocked Hats and a
multitude of departments and boards. A campaign
for one Parliament and one Government for Aus-
tralia which would insist above all on upholding our
time-honored traditions and beliefs is far more neces-
sary than the proposals canvassed by Mr. Stevens
and enjoying momentary popularity among imitation
totalitarians.
The Real Wool Danger.
For the first two months of the wool-selling season
the market was at its lowest level for four years.
Actually, more wool was sold than in any correspond-
ing period since 1934, 1937 excepted; but the price
averaged only 9.83 d. Without Germany and other
countries at which newspapers and radio announcers
rail, the market would have gone to the bow-wows.
It is now beginning to settle down. Since the
Prime Ministers went to Munich there has been a
distinct improvement in tone. At Sydney last week
Germany, Japan, France and Belgium, as well' as
Britain, were buyers, and competition was reported
“keen and strong.” News from Adelaide was to the
same effect. Average price was about 10.3 d. per
pound in Sydney, an increase of about id. per pound
for the week. The U.S.A. is still not buying, but it
has almost a record clip itself this year.
The clip may not reach the full 2,700,000 bales
budgeted for, and the carry-over from last season,
235,000 bales, is likely to be absorbed. Pessimists
who held forth on the direful effect of substitutes on
the market have begun to give ground. Among the
majority of woolmen there never has been real
pessimism on this score. The sober truth of the posi-
tion was summarised at the annual meeting 7 of the
International Wool Federation by M. Dubrule, the
president. M. Dubrule declared that sheepgrowing
was slowly increasing throughout the world, in con-
sonance with the spread of civilisation and the
increased use of European clothing, and he was look-
ing forward to “record figures.” He added:
However paradoxical it may seem, my opinion is
that wool has nothing to suffer from the competition of
artificial substitutes; on the contrary, it will benefit from
an admixture. The new textiles have not decreased the
use of wool in weaving and spinning, but have competed
with cotton, which has always been used for admixture
with wool for cheap hosiery, and for cloth used in low-
quality clothing. There are two prerequisites for main-
taining the standard of wool consumption—that wool
shall remain somewhere near present price-levels and
that it shall justify the preference shown for it by
improvement of natural characteristics, classification
and packing.
In this last sentence is the hitch in Australia.
With Governments piling on taxation, and with
interest always a burden in districts subject to drought,
the small grower under present conditions has little
chance of earning a regular" margin of fair profit.
A Queensland grazier in a good district has sent
The Bulletin his figures for 17 years. He has 28,500
acres, on which he has carried an average of one
sheep to 4i acres, with an average cut per head of
71b. soz. This is a very fair return for his type of
country —his sheep include 25 per cent, lambs. His
average return from wool, he says, has been 6s. lOd.
per head, and his average cost of production Bs. ljd.
Total cash expenditure for 17 years this grazier
places at £40,751. Till 12 years ago, when drought
struck him, he had no overdraft. Now he owes an
amount ajmost equal to the value of the property.
Out of every 6s. lOd. he gets for wool 3s. lOd. goes
in drought expenses and interest.
The writer states that his conditions are ‘ appli-
cable to 90 per cent, of graziers” in his district. It is
an area where rents are low —his have worked out
at less than £3 a week.
Cases like this show clearly the end at which
reform of the sheep industry should be begun.
Drought-prevention and improvement of carrying
capacity and increase in wool-production per sheep
are essentials, and so is tax-reduction, since it is
obvious that growers will have to wait a long time for
booming markets. The world is still ready to buy
more and more wool, but only at a certain cost. The
Australian industry must meet that cost and Govern-
ments must help instead of hindering.
Chamberlain.
About twelve years ago two Australians, one the head
of almost the biggest metal works of its type in the
world and the other a newspaperman, prepared to go
to a function in Birmingham. We prepared by having
lunch at the Mapper (Saracen’s Head) in Dudley, 12
miles off, and calling at the Bush across the way.
Then we drove through the respectable suburb
of Edgbaston. Edgbaston looks like Bellevue Hill
gone Methodist or Toorak gone Bellevue Hill. We
approached a newish-looking hall and went, by a
back way, into a large room.
Like all interiors in England, it was a shock.
The technique there seems to be to accentuate the
outer shabbiness and the inner luxury. No. 10
Downing-street outside looks cramped, a housefront
transplanted, as it were, from the Sydney Rocks.
Inside it expands till you could not believe that the
front could hold even a fifth of the comfort or of the
space behind the facade.
Englishmen are made much on the same models
as their halls and dwellings.
Inside, on a thick carpet dotted with chairs
which belonged to the ’fifties, was a choice collec-
tion of the English. Well in the centre was a
Lord Mayor. We had played golf with him on an old
estate of the Chetwynds a few weeks before without
discovering anything about him except that he came
from the Midlands, a fact which his accent told
plainly. In the background were lesser fry.
One of them was a small man we had met a few
days before. He was about sft. 6in. high, diffident,
and wore a suit that looked ready-made. He was
now keeping well back so as not to intrude upon any
of the Great Ones present. He was the chief chemist
at a rubber works with 12 miles of bays to which
people came from all over the world, hoping to filch
his technique.
Also, there were present a duke and a number
of other people who acted as magnets. We Aus-
tralians wandered round, hailing here, greeting there,
until we came up against a group in which the
familiar figure was a newspaper politician from the
South of England. He said, waving a small hand:
“Mr. Chamberlain.”
We looked at Mr. Chamberlain with interest.
We had seen Joseph Chamberlain in pictures and
Austen Chamberlain in the flesh ; austere men, with
monocles, who looked haughty and detached. This
Chamberlain was different.
To begin with, he was tall and dark. He sported
a moustache which had been bitten or pushed out
of shape, and he had been hasty with the hairbrush,
as most of us are. His black coat was a little the
worse for wear ; his Great-Wall-of-China collar was
surrounded by a tie which had been fastened like a
hangman’s noose, in such a position that it exposed
a stud which might have come from Woolworths ;
his coatsleeves were pulled back as if he had been
working in them, revealing stiff cuffs. His trousers
were slightly faded and his boots were far from what
a real gentleman’s boots should have been. They
were old, well polished, the heels a bit flat.
Mr. Chamberlain shook hands. His grip was
firm and slow. He looked down and we looked up:
it was like looking into the eyes of a large, very in-
telligent, very alert secretary bird. The eyes were
unusually bright; the head cocked itself on one side,
birdlike also.
Mr. Chamberlain regretted that he had never
been to Australia. Was White Australia really a
serious issue? We were lucky not to have a native
issue. He had been to the West Indies, and he ex-
plained some of the conditions there in a crisp accent
which might have passed anywhere as having been
formed in southern Australia.
Somebody mentioned the Statute of Westminster.
Somebody else referred to General Hertzog, then the
rogue elephant of the Imperial Conference. “He
ought to be sent home,” said somebody. “No,” said
Birmingham’s latest Chamberlain, “I admire him for
standing up for his opinions. And he expresses them
in language more moderate than that of people who
are writing tirades. And, after all, he has the griev-
ance, and his critics could afford to be magnanimous
and understanding ; his issues do not matter much to
them, but they matter to him.”
A pleasant-faced woman who looked as if she
had stepped out of a novel by Arnold Bennett came
up. Laughing, she grasped Mr. Chamberlain by the
arm and took him away. Astern, his coat was shiny,
and did not fit to his collar. It was obvious that his
back hair needed trimming. An English Judge grinned
after him.
In those days, Neville Chamberlain was just a
young fellow of 57 or so, beginning to make his mark'
in the world.
EL VERDUGO.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
This Broadcasting.
Wireless broadcasting in Australia is supposed to be
under some form of Commonwealth Government
control, but there is precious little evidence of it.
Rightly or wrongly, broadcasting of racecourse
odds has been made illegal in N. S. Wales. The
enforcement of the new law was followed immediately
by the broadcasting of prices on N. S. Wales races,
the information (obtained with questionable legality)
being furnished to every N. S. Wales resident who
could “get” Queensland and conveyed from a national
station in that State. Perhaps to mollify the N. S.
Wales Government, a Sydney national station altered
its advertised programme to enable the Sydney
Premier to deliver a long speech over the microphone
on the Czechoslovakian business as, in this gentle-
man’s opinion, it concerns Australia. To this tedious
interruption, the Federal member for West Sydney
very properly objected, and there will be similar objec-
tions from people in other States if the Premiers of
those States avail themselves of the rotten precedent
to speak from national stations in their territories on
the Czechoslovakian business as they think it concerns
Australia.
A.B.C. administration will come up for review
in the Commonwealth Parliament presently, and mem-
bers have already indicated that they will have some-
thing pertinent to say. it is to be hoped that they
won’t leave commercial stations out of the argument.
It must be within their knowledge that, on the
momentous subject of foreign affairs, for one thing,
the Australian public has been grossly misinformed
by national and commercial stations alike. Instead
of being instructed ’without bias on issues as they
arose, it has had little but masses of opinions which
the course of events has proved wildly wrong.
Now and then a sober voice—generally that of
an old newspaperman—has been heard expounding
the facts, as far as they could be separated from
newspaper furphies, and saying a good word for Mr.
Chamberlain. But, for the most part, foreign affairs
have been given over to rank partisans of Mr. Eden,
Geneva cranks, Left Wing, anti-German and Russian-
alliance professors, foreigners and anonymous
throwers of verbal muck.
As soon as it was made plain that the British
nation was behind Mr. Chamberlain there was a
rush to cringe to him in quarters from which bitter
denunciations had come. All the same, when this
was written the public still awaited a clear account
of the Chamberlain policy, to say nothing of a
statement of the case for appeasement. It was still
getting from national stations the cockeyed views of
“The Botchman,” Mr. Kurt Offthenote, Mr.
Mcßellum (the “Munich settlement was a shameful
surrender”) and Mr. Bobbitts, the most exploded
prophet among the political professors.
Parliament no doubt realises that Australians are
living in a strange new world. It has a right to
demand that, where their relations with other coun-
tries are concerned, national stations should confine
themselves to unbiased presentation of facts, so far
as they can be honestly ascertained, and not take
sides ; and it should certainly refuse to let commercial
stations become vehicles of offensive and possibly
dangerous propaganda. A license to play gramophone
records and make night hideous with blatant adver-
tisements should not be allowed to become a charter
to defame foreign nations or say anything about
their rulers that may occur to small and venomous
minds.
Labor on Top in Maoriland.
Three years of bitter opposition by the Nationals
and almost the entire daily press, the shadow of
further interference with the banking system and of
crippling expenditure on “social security,” the wool-
liness of its foreign policy in support of Mr. Litvinov’s
“collective security,” and reckless abuse of the air
by its director of commercial broadcasting weren’t
enough to shake Labor’s hold on Maoriland.
The party polled 389,905 votes in 1935, and in-
creased the total to something over 494,000 this year.
Votes for the Nationals increased from 272,763 to
356,000-odd, Mr. Hamilton’s party collecting a lot
of votes that in the last election went to Democrats
and Independents. On the first returns, Labor has 54
seats in a House of 80.
The Nationals had no hope of going back this
time. Dailies had overdone the propaganda against
the Government, and the force of their criticism was
lost. Then the Opposition platform was merely
Labor’s with the trimmings planed off, and talk about
“rugged individualism” and the dangers of Socialism
meant little to a country that remembers Seddon.
To balance the Labor drawbacks of Messrs. Scrim-
geour and Jordan, there was the story of the forma-
tion of the “new” National party: the old Reform
and United parties alleged still to have been hostile,
with Mr. Hamilton beating Mr. C. A. Wilkinson for
the leadership by one vote. It was felt to be Mr.
Coates’s party, and wage-earners remembered Coates’s
wage-cuts.
The Nationals made guaranteed prices and the
social-security proposals election issues. Voting in the
country showed that the farmers are still doubtful
about the benefits of guaranteed prices. Labor won
New Plymouth, but that electorate has a large town
vote. The test of the scheme will come when overseas
prices fall.
Labor has given M.L. three years of energetic
Government; the lavish spending should ease after
the social-security splash and some relief in taxation
is overdue. Sales tax was to have come off during
the last term.
Seventy-three Ministers.
A few years ago Tasmania got along with four State
Ministers, paid as such, and Westralia with six,
Premiers included. These extravagant days Tasmania
has six paid Ministers and Westralia eight. In each
case it is a result of lavish Canberra grants of tax-
money, handed out unconditionally.
Mr. A. G. Ogilvie’s predecessors in Tasmania
were Premiers and Treasurers. Mr. Ogilvie is Premier
without portfolio ; Mr. Dwyer-Gray does the Treasury
work, such as it is. This has set Mr. Ogilvie free
to go on travels abroad —to Britain for the Jubilee
and the Coronation and other countries —and to
engage in a long-distance Federal arbitration case
for which he accepted a private brief.
Mr. Lyons set the “without portfolio” fashion.
It is so English, you know! Mr. Stevens is now fol-
lowing it, and no doubt there will be other imitators
—perhaps Mr. Forgan Smith and Mr. Dunstan. Mr.
Forgan Smith was Premier, Treasurer and Chief Secre-
tary, but he recently handed over the Treasury port-
folio to Mr. Cooper—certainly without so far asking
Queensland to bear the cost of another Minister and
staff. In Mr. Dunstan’s time a ninth paid Minister
has been added in Victoria —eight did the work for
many years—and a tenth has been suggested. N. S.
Wales has 13 paid Ministers, and the “without port-
folio” business will no doubt mean that it will have
to support another.
At the moment there are 73 Ministers in poor
old Australia. Some are called honoraries or assistants,
and it is explained that they merely share in their
colleagues’ emoluments; but they all have staffs and
spend public money. Last year, out of a reduced
national income, £118,000,000 was taken in taxes for
the cost of government. Although it is certain that
there will be a further fall in national income this
year, it is equally certain that still more will be taken
in taxes, for, among other things, the N. S. Wales
Assemblymen protest that they can’t possibly live on
£l3 a week —and free transport, free postage, free
library books, newspapers and magazines and club
facilities —and agree that the 13 Ministers can’t live
on what they get.
Mr. Hughes, who was 74 last month, was first
Attorney-General and then Minister of External
Affairs when P.M. He never complained that he was
overworked, and obviously it did him no harm.
Mr. Pirow, who is reorganising the defences of
South Africa, contrives to be Minister of Railways
and Harbors as well as Minister of Defence. In fact,
South Africa is administered —and administered very
well —by .a central Government of 11 (the P.M. is
Minister of External Affairs) and four heads of pro-
vincial councils. There is one Governor, and he is
native-born.
South Africa has a unitary system. The people
who were bled for £118,000,000 of taxes last year
have cause to envy the Afrikanders.
A Waste of Money.
In one way and another £200,000 or more of Victorian
money was spent on the second of the State-wide
prohibition polls which, under the Licensing Act as
altered in 1922, are to be held every eight years. The
first poll in 1930 showed 418,902 voters (43.4 per cent.)
for abolition of licenses, and 552,339 against.
On October 8 the abolitionists were defeated by just
on two to one, their vote having slumped to 350,000
(34 per cent.), whereas that of the anti-abolitionists
increased to 680,000. In 1930 the abolitionists carried
eight districts: Boroondara, Nunawading, Kew, Brigh-
ton, Barwon, Goulburn Valley, Oakleigh and Pol-
warth, Boroondara and Nunawading having been dry
for ten years as a result of the 1920 local-option poll.
On this occasion, although the aridity of Nunawading
and Boroondara cannot be altered without a three-
fifths majority at a special poll, which must be pre-
ceded by petitions and Licensing-Court orders, the
abolitionists were beaten in all 65 licensing districts.
Most of them were predominantly feminine, the Mel-
bourne suburbs particularly so, which indicates that
prohibition has ceased to have charms for many
ladies, although among the 350,000 abolitionists there
are no doubt more women than men.
Newspaper publishers, printers, commercial radio
cos. and others benefited from the expenditure of the
£200,000 or so, but economically it was a total loss.
The money would have been much better spent in
relieving the necessities of northern wheatgrowers,
who are having a cruel time.
There should be no more of this wasteful expen-
diture in 1946 or in any remoter period. Rather
should the efficient Licensing Court be told to get
on with its job of levelling up the standard of Vic-
torian hotels and ruling out those which have become
superfluous. Also its powers should be increased to
admit of its granting new licenses where it considers
new licenses necessary, and extending the closing hour
' —still six o’clock, although this war-time restriction
has become ridiculous. t
Street Transport in Melbourne.
“X.S.”: At least a few of Melbourne’s citizens will
soon be feeling less like small animals in a jungle
infested by raging tigers. After his trip abroad Tram-
ways chairman Bell has decided on crude-oil buses
for Bourke-street instead of electric trams. The
trolley bus has been rejected because the almighty
Bell thinks it has all the route-bound disadvantages
of the electric tram without its carrying capacity.
Another experiment will be a silent electric car
with the portentous name of “President’s Confer-
ence.” A silent electric car sounds unbelievable.
Any kind of bus can draw up alongside pave-
ments. The harassed look on the face of the typical
Melbourne pedestrian is attributable to the fact that
he has to spend much of his time skating in front oi
cars to get to the comically-named “safety” zones,
which makes him feel as a P. and O. passenger
would feel if he had to swim across Sydney Harbor
to board a liner. Then he has to stand inside a chalk
line like a hypnotised hen in the famous experiment,
feeling like an individual at a party with no clothes on.
Another advantage of the bus is that it flows
with the major part of the traffic and doesn’t
monopolise one-half of the street, against all the laws
of propriety, tangling up the motor-driver with a
contradictory set of passing and overtaking problems.
The only fly in the ointment is that Mr. Bell is
predisposed against his own experiment. He says he is
convinced that electric trams for mass transportation
in large cities are still unrivalled, both for capacity
and economy. It is a bad state of mind for any ex-
perimenter to be in.
Party Warfare in Queensland.
During the last fortnight Queenslanders interested in
the politics of their State have had a lot to talk about.
There was first the allegation of Premier Forgan Smith
that the U.A.P. was receiving money from “American
oil interests,” which interests, he asserted, paid part
of the U.A.P. organiser’s salary. This allegation was
denied, and the organiser, Mr. Goldenstedt, while
admitting that the salary as particularised was correct,
declared that the Premier must have got his figures
from someone in the Taxation Department. This in
its turn was denied ; but the argument goes on.
Then there was the hearing by Justice Douglas
of the election appeal against the return of Mr.
Hanlon, the Health Minister, as member for Ithaca.
The appeal was lodged by Mr. G. S. Webb, the
Protestant Labor candidate, who conducted his own
case —he is a barrister.
Mr. Webb alleged intimidation of voters, wrong-
ful removal of ballot-boxes to the Treasury, infrac-
tions of the Electoral Act in respect of counting, and
the issue of printed statements, defamatory of him,
without the name and address of printer and pub-
lisher being appended.
Mr. Webb gave evidence and called witnesses.
No evidence was called for Mr. Hanlon, the tribunal
being addressed on his behalf by Mr. A. D. McGill.
Justice Douglas held that the unsigned pamphlet
had been distributed in the electorate “with the know-
ledge and consent of Mr. Hanlon,” and that “these
publications were illegal practices.” He held also that on
election day “canvassers and agents for Mr. Hanlon”
had “molested voters” in breach of the Act. But the
removal of ballot-boxes to the Treasury was no
breach, nor was there any suggestion that there had
been tampering with the ballot-papers.
Because the member had suffered “extreme provo-
cation,” his Honor would “decline to void the elec-
tion and so render Mr. Hanlon incapable of election
for three years” ; but he would report to the Speaker
that the Minister had “not been duly elected.” He
granted Mr. Webb costs amounting to £l5 155., “to
be offset by a sum of £3 3s. allowed to Mr. Hanlon.”
Mr. Hanlon has a right of appeal to the Full
Court, and notice of appeal has been given. Mean-
while he remains an Assemblyman and a Minister.
Oracles in Melbourne.
“Spokeshave” considers them:
As an aftermath of Melbourne’s Show a bench of
honorary magistrates at Flemington fined several women, and
gave one five minutes to make herself scarce, for saying to
policewomen. “You love children. You will have lots of love
affairs. You will make a good piano-player. You will travel."
I suppose we are to imagine that this sinister soothsaying
does irreparable damage to the recipients. If it does, then so
do the alleged psychological bureaux maintained by metro-
politan dailies. Jilted lovers, jealous maidens, mothers terrified
about the doings of their reactionary children, and so forth
and so on, write in and unburden themselves to the seeresses
who are paid to run these columns. Most of the confessions
are genuine human documents, reveal difficult and dangerous
situations and often present problems which the Freuds,
Adlers and Jungs of this world have spent a lifetime in trying
to understand without coming to more than a tentative
solution. We are expected to believe that the Aunt Oracles
and Sister Simplicities who are put in charge of these columns,
aiftl who share all the romantic notions, the prejudices and
sentimental delusions which have got their clients into their
predicaments, are capable of extricating them.
Some of the advice given is silly, some of it is innocuous,
but a certain proportion would be harmful if followed, inasmuch
as it would confirm the inquirer along the very lines that
produced the results they deplore. For example, a Distracted
Mother writes to say that her daughter, aged 29, is walking
out with a man of 40. She thinks that unless 29 marries
29 something terrible is going to happen. Although she fills
her home with young men nearer the age of her daughter,
daughter obstinately prefers the man of 40. Mother has done
everythirig she can think of to destroy daughter’s affection for
40. Is she to forbid the match altogether?
With a fine air of tolerance and benignity, and in the
jargon of psychoanalysis, Sister Simplicity tells her No. Don’t
put a repression on daughter. Let her see as much of the
man as she wants to, but let her feel that she is making a
mistake and that mother thoroughly disapproves of what she
is doing.
It doesn’t occur to the newspaper psychologist that if 29
is interested in 40 she must find 40 more interesting than 29,
that silent disapproval is as repressive as overt interference and
that the kind of advice she has given, if followed, would com-
pletely destroy any possibility of affection between mother and
daughter. I say if followed.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: Drys are still contemplating
the result of the Victorian No-License
poll in a dazed fashion. They never
expected to get the required 60 p.c., but
they were confident that, with about
100,000 more people voting, the majority
women, their total would be higher than
in 1930. As I write it is 70,000 less.
Not only did the eight districts with
Dry majorities in 1930 reach for the
decanter —recant, I mean —but predomi-
nantly feminine subbubs like Haw-haw-
thorn, St. Kilda and Toorak went Tre-
mendously Wet. I think I can explain
why. Since 1930 cocktail hours and
sherry parties have come in. Those who
attend them are largely young women
who couldn’t vote last time, being 13 to
18. Catch the cocktailers and the sherry
girls voting to outlaw a new thrill!
“C.Q.”: Vic. Liquor Referendum pro-
duced one diehard. On polling-day a
habitual faced the usual charge and got
a£3 fine, in default seven days. As he
was being led off to the cells he shouted:
“Yes, and I’ll still vote ‘No’!”
* * * - *
“F.Q.”: Newly-formed branch of the
P.E.N. Club in Melbourne was up
against a difficulty at its first meeting.
Constitution provided that each member
must be a writer and two or more mem-
bers must have read the books of each
fellow-member. Australian authors don’t
read each other’s works apparently, for
the regulation had to be waived before
the society could be smoothly floated.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Names have always
been interesting to me, whether occupa-
tional, patronymic, derived from a
locality or otherwise. A plaintiff in a
Sydney police court might have saved
himself much agony of mind if he had
looked up the origin of his moniker in
one of the many books on the subject to
be found in the public libraries. His
name is Winterbottom, and since boy-
hood his life has been embittered because
it arouses mirth. The name is an old and
honorable North Country one, and the
affix “bottom,” which causes all the
trouble, is good Anglo-Saxon for a
valley. Mr. Winterbottom’s name really
means the wintry valley, a pretty and re-
fined enough label for anyone.
* * * *
“A.M. A.”: “M. Turlutu’s” candid
advertiser (B. 29/6/’3B) called to mind
the patter of a woman flower-seller heard
in Auckland (M.L.): “I am not hungry
and cold nor have I a sick husband and
10 children to feed. I grow and sell
flowers because I like them, and it’s as
good a way of making a living as any
other. If you care to buy, these flowers
are » shilling a bunch.” She soon sold
her stock.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Paul Casserley, the hero of
the rescue at Edward’s Find, Marvel
Loch (B. 12/10/’3B), is dead. He know-
ingly risked his life, according to his
creed of manhood, and lost it. I wonder
how long his act of heroism would have
been remembered, or what good it
would have been to him, had he
lived. “Pick’s” mention of “Diver”
Hughes reminds me that the rescuer of
Varischetti left Westralia for Queens-
land —I fancy he was a Queenslander —
and died there. A year or two before
the end good-hearted Perth people
heard that he was living a bit out of
Brisbane, crippled by rheumatism and
very hard up. They raised a sum of
money for him, and his gratitude was
pathetic. I have always felt that the
nation has a responsibility for the future
welfare of our heroes and that it should
not be left to the public’s uncertain
memory and uncertain philanthropy. The
Hugheses and the Casserleys of this life
lift the nation’s spiritual value. In cer-
tain cases, where their deeds come with-
in the purview of influential people,
they get a medal, but that isn’t much
protection when old age and ill health
come and the wolf scratches at the door.
It wouldn’t cost much to endow our
heroes, who are brighter jewels in the
nation’s crown than even universities and
art galleries. Make it a hard-and-fast
rule that when a man risks his life to
save another the State says “Well done,
thou good and faithful servant. You
and yours shall never want.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Melbourne University was
in an awkward predicament the other
day. Archbishop Head was to dedicate
the wrought-iron gate presented to the
“ Don't touch him , Willie , he's got the measles."
Janet Clarke Hall by Adelaide-born
baronet Christopher Furness to the
memory of his Australian mother. On
the day of the ceremony there was no
gate to dedicate. Inquiries elicited that
the gate was last seen in position at 1.30
a.m. of the same day. It was missing at
2 a.m. The shocked authorities explained
the phenomenon on the score that a
workman had taken the thing away for
minor adjustments. On the other hand,
a male student admitted with a grin that
there were three groups of young gentle-
men who had coveted the gate; his
group had got there too late. When
State-school children play that sort of
prank a magistrate tells ’em they’re
headed towards a criminal career.
* * * *
An Adelaide paperboy pro-
vided a bright spot during the European
tenseness. He jumped on the car step.
“ ’Ere yar, paper. Suddenland crisis.”
* * * *
“Key”: Probably the scar on a baby’s
heel (B, 12/10/’3B) would not finally
appear on its neck, but scars and marks
have an odd way of moving round with
time. A brother of mine started life
with a brown birthmark the size of a
shilling on his ankle. Now, as a man, he
still has the blemish, but it is midway
between ankle and knee. Family argu-
ment has never decided whether the foot
grew down or the mark grew up.
* * * *
“Tuart”: Competition has killed what
the Westralian “Sunday Times” correctly
describes as its country’s oldest form of
transport. River steamers will continue
to take trippers from Perth to Fre-
mantle, but the Swan River tugs and
lighters have gone out of business.
Before the railway came the roads were
so bad that Randell’s steamers and barges
had a virtual monopoly of the carrying
trade between the capital and the port,
now virtually one city. It is on record
that old George Randell campaigned
vigorously against the construction of the
Perth - Fremantle - Guildford railway an
the ground that the iron horse would
knock river transport endways. When
responsible government arrived and
George became an M.L.C., T’other-
siders who didn’t like him discovered
that one of his arguments against rail-
way construction had been that trains
would never be able to get between the
trees, especially about Subiaco and Clare-
mont. The river service carried on for
57 years after Governor Robinson
(“Fiddler Bill”) declared the railway
open, but the motor-lorry proved too
much for it.
* * * *
“Kerys”: When some years ago an
imported film-starette was on location
in the N.S.W. outback • she had one
humble admirer who trailed her cease-
lessly. This was the 14-year-old son of
a small farmer near by, whose life aim
just then was to collect the lady’s auto-
graph. He, of course, had no oppor-
tunity of getting anywhere near her, but
always hopefully went armed with his
book, and looked on while the heroine
had the usual nerve-shattering adventures
on foot and mounted. Here just one
ray of hope gleamed: she was no rider.
Sure enough a pothole unseated her a
few days later. The youthful collector
was first to the rescue, but before he
attempted to assist the indignant lady he
thrust the book at her and muttered
“Sign here.” Put it to her credit that,
covered with dust and much dishevelled,
she signed. Later she told the press that
“Australian kids are sure enterprising.”
* * * *
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes:
I went to the opening of the exhibition of
Melbourne Women Painters at the Athenaeum,
and Professor Osborne, of the University, told
the assembled multitude of women painters and
their friends to their faces what he really thought
about them. He said that girls nowadays
painted their fingernails until they looked like
loathsome diseases, and smeared their faces
with color which would look better on canvas,
moreover, a woman in high-heel shoes was as
graceful as a seal on a rock, and as for him-
self, if he wanted to see a good walk he would
have to take a trip to a native country. And
he also made the insinuation or prophecy that
if women could alter the color of their eyes
they would do it with results as startling as the
others mentioned and as contrary to nature.
I wanted to get up and ask him why professors
wear mortarboards. There’s nothing sillier or
uglier.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne city fathers
are considering a carnival on the lines
of the Festival of Flowers at Nice, on
the Riviera. Young ladies from Toorak,
garbed as Demeter and Britannia, will
stand on motor floats and pelt the crowd
with blossoms and be bombarded in their
turn. This would be all very well if
Melbourne was the Riviera. The Riviera
depends for its existence on the influx
of moneyed and aristocratic people from
all over Europe and America, and pro-
cessions of gaily-dressed young ladies
have pleasant associations even for the
proletariat. In Melbourne they have
quite different associations. To be hit in
the eye by a chrysanthemum flung by
the fair hand of a leisured young female
might seem an intolerable affront to
an unemployed worker, and the pos-
sibility of there being a few bricks in the
return bouquets flung at Melbourne's
carnival of flowers ought to be con-
sidered by the civic daddies.
* * * *
“Roly”: Thought snuff-taking was a
thing of the past until 1 walked into the
most select hairdresser’s at Ingham
(N.Q.). Whilst enjoying my tonsure, 1
was able to absorb the notice before me:
“Noi vendiamo tobacco da naso.” Pro-
prietor said the demand was large..
* * * *
“Orient”: Quaint idea some folk have
of geography. An Adelaide gentleman
who has acquired a schooner and re-
fitted her on the latest lines invites a
brass-edged crew to go on a tour with
him to Singapore by way of New Guinea,
returning by the Celebes to n.-w. Aus-
tralia. On his way back the hardy
skipper proposes “to stop at Cocos Island
in the Indian Ocean and dig for
treasure.” As the Indian Ocean Cocos
Islands are coral atolls belonging to a
family of Scots who hold a perpetual
lease of them and grow copra, it is
evident that the Cocos Island where this
Jason proposes to dig up treasure is the
volcanic unit in the far n.-e. Pacific, not
far from the Pacific exit of the Panama
Canal, some 3000 miles from the Indian
Ocean Cocos. The inaugurator of the
gold-gathering expedition announces he
has engaged a skilled navigator. He is
likely to need one.
“Aviaf”: Mer-
cury solution (B.
28/9/’3B) as un-
p r e m e d i t ated
tipple? There
have been similar
incidents. A
Hong Kong Eng-
lishman decided
to take his wife
on one of his
periodical trips.
Wife thought it
would be a kindly
act to lend the
house to their
friends the
Smiths, who lived
in the wilds be-
yond Kowloon,
and seldom
sampled the
delights of Hong
Kong. When the
Smiths arrived
the owners had
already departed,
but left a note
saying there was
plenty of tinned
stuff in the larder,
and this would
see them through
until they had made their own arrange-
ments. Nothing would do Mrs. Smith but
to ask the Browns to come over and make
a picnic meal with them. The meal
was a great success, and was being topped
off with black coffee when the No. 1
“boy” appeared silently in the doorway
and remarked dispassionately, “Master,
dog have die.” The dog had licked out
the tins from which the meal had come.
All felt the first indications of the pains
to come. By telephone the situation was
hastily explained to a medico, who
arrived immediately, complete with
stomach pump, and got busy. When it
was all over, he made the four limp
bodies as comfortable as possible and
remarked, “Well, that’s all I can do until
I know what the poison was. I will take
the dog’s body and have the contents
analysed as soon as possible.” He de-
parted to get the dog ; in a few minutes
he was back again. The dog hadn't been
poisoned ; he’d been run over.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Government Statist of
S.A. reports a steady though gentle in-
crease in the drinking of liquor, as reflect-
ing inevitably the increase in the State’s
prosperity. In the boom times of 1926-
27, every inhabitant got away with 10
gallons of beer ; during the depression it
went down to about half that, but it is
now up again to over nine. And it is
for the most part good Australian beer.
The demand for Australian spirits is
increasing too, though slowly (the
fashionable clubs no doubt keeping it
back). S.A. still makes the greater part
of Australia’s wine, but does not drink
it much —only three-quarters of a gallon
a head. The State’s total drink-bill for
the past year was £4 ss. each person, or
2j millions in cash. But the convictions
for drunkenness went down.
* ft
AVENUE EXPLORATION.
1 wonder what ingenious man
First coined that metaphoric phrase
That, wheresoe’er the news you scan,
Somewhere or other meets your gaze.
How stolidly it sticks and stays,
And seems to run through all we do,
And what a picture it conveys—
“ Exploring every avenue!”
It’s part of every statesman’s plan
Who from the world would war erase,
Or jars industrial would ban,
Or shear the hapless sheep that graze
Along taxation’s thorny ways
To make his Budget less askew—
They’re all of ’em these troublous days
“Exploring every avenue.”
’Twas ever thus since Time began.
Back through the ages fancy strays
To some Neanderthalian clan
Seeking for egress from a maze
Of pre-diluvian banks and braes
Where means of sustenance were few
And, in vociferous relays,
“Exploring every avenue.”
Prince, this infernal catchword frays
My nerves. Retirement’s surely due
For this worn-shabby verbal craze
“Exploring every avenue.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“T.”: Archbishop Head said “yes” to
prohibition; Archbishop Mannix said
“no.” These eminent Victorians didn’t
actually clash during the campaign itself,
but when it was known the people had
voted two to one against no-license Arch-
bishop Head began trailing his coat,
declaring, among other things,, that “the
Christian Brothers deliberately encourage
their pupils to enter the State civil ser-
vice so as to make it appear as if they
desire to capture that great organ-
isation for their church.” Then—as the
Sydney Labor papers put it every time
their factionists start —the Fight was On.
Old Melburnians sigh for the days of
Archbishop Clarke and Archbishop Carr,
and recall the yarn of the lady reporter
who called at St. Patrick’s Cathedral to
get material for an article on “How to
Bring Up Boys and Girls.” “And what
should I know about that subject more
than anyone else?” asked Archbishop
Carr. “Well, your Grace has six of your
own,” replied the press-girl archly—
“three of each.” “Six of my own,” re-
peated the Archbishop; “three of each!
Ah, my dear young lady, it’s Archbishop
Clarke you mean. Sure, I was only say-
ing to him yesterday that people will
take me for him and him for me.”
* H 1 * *
“Centurion”: Several more British
cavalry regiments have been mechanised,
leaving only three with horses. Of
course the war will not be 20 hours old
before the dear old muddleheads at
G.H.Q. will be changing back, if they
can find gee-gees. But the military world
will miss the dear old riding-master’s
comment: “With th’ greatest respec’,
Mr. Jones, you ’ave a seat like a hin-
fantry hadjutant.”
* * * *
“Derrot”: Experience of Australian
politicians has sometimes given me a
sneaking admiration for Uncle Sam’s
gunmen, racketeers and kidnappers, but
it was not until reading of the exploits of
one Doris Duke Cromwell that I actu-
ally felt inclined to indulge in a spot of
kidnapping myself. The lady, a tobacco
heiress, has spent a mere £A 125,000 on
a pleasant little holiday cottage at Hono-
lulu. A few of the mod. cons, as re-
ported : —■
Private yacht harbor with artificial
breakwaters glistening like lava; swim-
ming pool with elevator rising to the div-
ing platform; patio lined with tree bark on
which grow rare orchids; disappearing
plate-glass wall 12ft. high; phonograph-
room with air-conditioned vault for
records ; bathroom of white marble inlaid
with jade and semi-precious stones; floor
of oak squares lifted from a sixteenth
century French chateau; a walk paved
with ancient Chinese granite.
And there is a summerhouse with
“columns of rare colored marbles from
the Isfahan harem, Persia.”
* * * *
“Lightning J.”: The day of the highly-
paid telegraphist is over in Australia.
Machine telegraphy is displacing the old-
time handworked Morse on all the busy
lines. The Morkram printer now is to
be found on racecourses, in newspaper
offices, and on most of the one-time
busier hand-operated duplex circuits.
The printer has a keyboard like a
typewriter. It can be operated by any-
one. On each of the inter-State lines
another direct-printing system, the
Murray Multiplex, is working satisfac-
torily, leaving only the long country
circuits, on which a number of stations
are linked-in, to be worked by the old
dot-and-dash system.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: That last stanza of
Kipling’s “Young British Soldier” quoted
on the “Plain English” page (B.
5/10/’3B) was
made the medium
of a tip from
Authority on an-
other occasion.
In late March,
1915, at Helio-
polis Camp, Cap-
t a i n Quinn
handed to each
member of “C”
Company, 15 th
Battalion, with-
out comment, a
printed copy of
the verses. The
line “Just roll to
your rifle and
blow out your
brains” looked
very much like
the good oil.
Further, it was
taken as an un-
official intimation
that we were not
going to France.
On the' tra n s-
p oris, repeated
inspections en-
sured that every
man carried 250
rounds of ammu-
nition. How
many, I wonder,
remembering boyhood stories of Turkisl
atrocities, had one extra cartridge tucked
away in a tunic pocket? But only for
the first month. Jacko did not “cut up
wot remained.”
* * * *
“Dahabieh”: Egypt has announced
that it will forthwith start building a
navy of light cruisers for a coastal de-
fence fleet and also a naval training
college. The Gyppo most Australians
recall sounds funny as a hardy mariner,
but time was when the Egyptian Navy
had a big say in the Levant, and earlier
than that had many a scrap with the
Abyssinians, not to mention the flatfeet
of Southern Arabia, Ceylon, etc. Though
a combined European fleet under Cod-
rington shattered it and its pal the Turk
at Navarino, it still existed in the shape
of some old wooden ships of the line as
late as the ’sixties.
•* * * *
“Tired Tim”: It has never been made
clear to me which ingredient of an un-
varying bullybeef - biscuits-bread-bacon-
cheese-onions-jam - sugar - tea - rum diet
kept scurvy at bay on Gallipoli. In those
theatres where it did occur, the juice of
the Montserrat sour-lime (Citrus medica,
variety acida) proved as ineffective on
the battlefield as it had in Polar explora-
tion throughout the previous half-cen-
tury. Gullible science had been barking
up the wrong tree. And all on account
of a plain tale plainly told. Whoever
nicknamed British seagoing vessels “lime-
“Give me da job, Captain? I am Cousin Jack."
“Are 'ee? Well , I'm Mussolini 'ere."
“ Listen, Sarge—two bob on Snowdrop , S.O.; all up Cagmag."
juicers” might have exercised more care
and employed the term “Citrus-medica-
variety-//momvm-juicers.” Or science
might have looked more closely into its
own nomenclature. War-time and post-
war research on the subject of scurvy
at the Lister Institute elucidated the for-
gotten fact that the big medicine of our
eighteenth-century seadogs was prepared
from a Mediterranean lemon, assaying
four times the vitamin C value of the
West Indian lime.
* # * *
“Tredor”: Repetition of Sydney street
names? Sydney’s Lud Mayor, ponder-
ing on a suggestion that one of the Har-
borside’s byways or highways should be
christened after the British. P.M., was
politely informed that there are already
seven thoroughfares named Chamber-
lain in the metropolitan area. Rose
Bay and Sutherland have Chamberlain-
avenues; Bexley, Guildford and Padstow
have Chamberlain-roads; Campbell-
town and Narwee have Chamberlain-
streets. Parkes (N.S.W.) has decided
to name its main square after the P.M.
and wants Joseph Aloysius to do the
honors.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: A new and un-
expected benefit from Australian fisheries
development has been the use of trout
sperm for making a more efficient kind
of insulin for the treatment of diabetes.
The ordinary insulin is so soluble that
its effects last only two or three hours
after an injection. When protamine, a
substance contained in the sperm of trout,
and possibly certain other species of
fish, is added to it, solution is delayed,
with the result of causing the effects, of
an injection to persist from 12 to 24
hours. Supplies obtained from Vic. and
Tas. trout are being processed at the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in
Melbourne, and the new product is ex-
pected to be on the Australian market
shortly.
* * * *
“Kerys”: It is not only in cars and
’planes (B. 21/9/’3B) that hanging from
some support will avert the worst of a
bump. When some time ago a lift in
a big M.L. building began an unheralded
non-stop run to earth a man instructed
two fellow-passengers to clutch the sur-
rounding grille and keep their feet off the
floor. None of them suffered injury
from the considerable bump that came
at the end. I once saw a citizen of out-
size tonnage grasp an overhead bar when
a tram ran backwards and hit another
car. The large gent, could not have felt
the bump at all. He merely swayed like
a leaf in the breeze.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The rapidity with which
visiting celebrities, whom Australia had
previously never heard of, attain to a
concrete personality in the public mind
is one of the marvels of the show busi-
ness. The public hears what Dr. Mal-
colm Sargent thinks
of Bustabo, and sub-
sequently it duly
hears what Bustabo
thinks of Dr. Mal-
colm Sargent. Pres-
ently people are
heard to be repeating
these opinions as if
they were their own.
This is all in the
game; but an even
more striking ex-
ample of how opinion can
be formed came my way a
few years ago in Paris. I
happened to be in the studio
of an Australian artist when
the postman deposited in
his letterbox a copy of a
French art magazine. Ab-
stractedly glancing through
it, his eye lighted on his
own name, and he began
slowly translating what pur-
ported to be a notice of his
hangings at a recent exhi-
bition. “That’s interesting,”
he said suddenly. “This
critic understands me better
than the others. He says
my work has certain of the
characteristics of a Rem-
brandt. I couldn’t have wished him to
say anything more complimentary.”
Then, grinning broadly, he added: “A
very good notice. I wrote it myself!’’
OCCULT INFLUENCES.
“A deputation from the Howard Prison Reform
League urged the Government to demolish all build-
ings in Sydney associated with the early convict
'lays on the ground that they exercised a sinister
influence on the community.”
‘‘How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
Makes ill deeds done!” What apothegm so
true?
But in the light of the above one needs
To add a bit thereto.
Think what malign association clings
To many a lash-and-legiron-haunted spot,
Inciting men to do unrighteous things,
Whether they like or not.
That crumbling pile whereon your careless
glance
Is cast some hidden menace well may hold.
Twas built by chaps with arrows on their pants
in the bad days of old.
And, while it stands, will ever linger there
Some subtly ineradicable trace
Of sin, the genius loci, as it were,
The spirit of the place.
Its very lines its genesis bespeak,
What’s stamped upon it were a futile task
To camouflage; it sticks like rum’s fell reck
About an empty cask.
Those walls that convicts builded, stone by
stone, .
Were doubtless a necessity. But yet
What infamies and horrors they have known
That one would fain forget.
How can wc do it when around them lurk
The shades of murd’rous malefactors hurled
By hangmen just as horrid with a jerk
Into the Other World?
Their disembodied ghosts still flit and flee
About the scene, exerting hither and hence
On all of us in the vicinity
Their occult influence.
How oft, how oft wc mortals frail have erred
From sight of means our downward paths to
go!
High time these, too, were blotted out and
blurred,
The premises where evil deeds occurred,
However long ago.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


10 /or 9d. 20 /or I^6.
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
d
MADE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Maoriland Labor is in again. It has
lost a seat or two, but it could have
afforded to lose many—it had 55 (out
of 80) in the last House. The moral of
the election is that “Nobody shoots
Santa Claus.”
The Australian-born F. W. Doidge,
who was Beaverbrook’s white-haired boy
when he was on the “Daily Express,”
has seen a lot of Maoriland since he
decided to enter its politics. He stood
for Rotorua in 1935 (Labor-man Moncur
beat him by 4894 to 3442), for Onehunga
in 1936, when Jordan of “What’s-going-
on-here” fame left for London and
Geneva (Labor-man Osborne beat him
by 8241 to 3801), and for Tauranga on
Saturday. Doidge has ousted Burnett, the
sitting Labor member.
“Horrible,” “terrible,” “villainous,”
“stupendous,” “fierce” and “Machia-
vellian” were some of the adjectives used,
“Mr. Eden, Mr. Churchill and Mr. Duff Cooper are denouncing the Chamberlain policy.”
“There must be something wrong with this weapon, Tony. We’ve missed him again.”
and “nightmare,” “fanaticism,” “trucu-
lence,” “terror,” “megalomania,” “arro-
gance” (twice) and “madman’s dream”
were some of the nouns employed by
Mr. Theodore’s flapper paper, the “Wim-
men’s Weekly,” in an article on the war
that didn’t arrive. And there was one
priceless paragraph.
The thought must occur to many that
the same fate as Napoleon’s, exile of Hitler
to St. Helena, would ease the world’s
nerves.
Why not to Mungana, where (yes!) they
have no bananas? Or to Fiji, since
Theo. now spends half his time there?
Always provided the “Wimmen’s
Weekly” can first catch its Hitler.
Lord Winterton, who is Chancellor of
the Duchy of Lancaster, has infuriated
all Reds and Pinks by revealing that, so
far from Warning Germany in associa-
tion with France and Britain, Russia “did
not offer to help in the Czech crisis—it
made only the vaguest promises because
of its military weakness.” The Minister
will now have learned what it is to be
abused by Reds through the post. That
was this paper’s experience after it was
printed in B. 21 /9/’3B that there would
be no war because “the French don’t
want to fight, the Americans won’t fight
and the Russians can’t fight.”
A U.A.O.D. secretary has said what
most Australians believe—that “the
friendly societies could have made a much
better job” of what Casey pleases to call
“national” insurance than the vast new
addition to the overgrown public service
(it is to cost £lOO,OOO the first year) will
make of it. A Manchester Unity man’s
view—also unanswerable—is that Casey’s
measure is “an ill-considered piece of
legislation,” which will be “a burden on
industry,” and that Casey was “more
concerned about putting pensions on a
contributory basis than anything else.”
In a broadcast address to the nation, a
Mr. Stevens, who is one of six super-
fluous Premiers, averred that the dis-
appearance of Czechoslovakia as a
republic with a predominant partner will
force Australia to “make a drive for
national efficiency and industrial and
social progress on all fronts.” Mr.
Stevens’s way of starting it is to give
himself less to do by appointing Mair
Treasurer.
Five-year plans are two a penny nowa-
days, but Hyland, the Victorian Minis-
ter of Transport, suggests another, “to
attract tourists.” He said rather smartly
that “the tourist crop is the only crop
in Australia that is not overproduced.”
Unfortunately he proposes to open more
tourist bureaux, and, with six State
Governments and the alleged National
Travel Association in the business, that
is another overproduced crop.
When in London, Dalziel Kelly, the
woolman, tried to find out what the
six Agents-General do for their salaries,
now they have nothing to do with loans.
On his return to Melbourne he bluntly
declared that Bruce, “assisted by a small
staff of experienced trade representatives,”
could attend to all legitimate require-
ments ; and was straightway denounced
by Dunstan and Ogilvie as a traitor to
State rights or something. Kelly stuck
to his guns and let fly with another
broadside:
How ridiculous it would be if the 48
States of the American Union sent repre-
sentatives to London!
With a reduced national income from
which far too much is taken in taxes,
there will have to be economies. The
shutting of the six Agencies-General
would make a good beginning.
Melbourne politics have been very
dull these last few years, but the Vic-
torians are going to have some fun in
the North Gippsland by-election. Cain’s
Labor party, which has been keeping
Dunstan’s Country group in office since
April, 1935, is running a man for North
Gippsland and so is Dunstan’s Coun-
try group. Observers expect to derive
most humor from the attempts of the
dear old pals to make it appear that they
haven’t really fallen out.
Trade with “the East,” which was to
have been immensely increased by
appointments of Trade Commissioners
and Assistant Trade Commissioners,
showed a ghastly balance on the wrong
side for the year to June 30. Value of
merchandise exports was £10,849,000
sterling, down £2,626,000, and value of
imports £18,819,000, up £2,899,000.
There were favorable balances with coun-
tries — e.g., Burma and the Philippines
—to which Canberra did not send Trade
Commissioners, and unfavorable balances
with countries — e.g., Japan and the
N.E.I. —where Trade Commissioners were
planted regardless of expense.
Though a large majority of an adult-
suffrage House fresh from the people
voted in favor of three-year Assemblies
in South Aus., 10 Councillors decided
for five-year terms, and, in effect, 10
years for their own show. Richards,
the Labor leader, says he will bring the
question up every year till the Council
gives in.
What are “subjects of vital import-
ance” these times? Senator Amour
(N.S.W.) has discovered two:
(1) The complaint I made last week
about the Flemington abattoirs.
(2) The Bankstown-Milperra-Liverpool
road.
Senator Amour was a Bankstown aider-
man before he was transferred to the
Senate as leader of the four As. The
other As are Armstrong, Arthur and
Ashley, and there are also Abbott from
N.S.W. and Aylett from Tasmania. But
Cs still prevail—Cameron, Clothier, Col-
lett, Collins, Cooper, Courtice, Crawford
and Cunningham. For the other letters
of the alphabet there are only 22 places.
G. A. Morris, the one Protestant Labor
member in Queensland Assembly, was an
interesting witness at the inquiry which
resulted in the Ithaca election being upset.
Morris said in evidence that the Pro-
testant Labor group had sent a man to
Rosewood to stand against Maher, the
leader of the Opposition:
This man returned with a tale that a par-
ticularly strong candidate, a Protestant, was
out against Maher. At his own request
this man was then nominated as Protestant
Labor candidate for another place, and the
party paid his deposit. He withdrew his
nomination, and got the deposit, and the
party has seen neither man nor deposit
since.
And the alleged Prot. Lab., Morris con-
cluded sadly, is an R.C.
Nothing can quench the spirit of
Madame Two-Blues. Last week she had
the British Foreign Office “demoralised
from top to bottom” ; Sir Robert Van-
sittart had resigned and things were in
such a state that “nobody in the Foreign
Office knows what to-morrow’s policy will
be.” One of the papers that still dish up
Madame’s stuff for Australian consump-
tion mentioned as an afterthought that
“the reports are categorically denied by
Foreign Office officials.”
For the Drys in Victoria, the most
staggering prohibition-poll result came
from tony Toorak. In Toorak there
are 26,000 electors, of whom nearly
16,000 are women. In 1930 8967
Toorakets were Dry and 11,439 Wet;
last week when 22,000 Toorak votes had
been counted 14,440 were Wet and 7358
Dry. Armadale, Kooyong and East St.
Kilda are subdivisions of Toorak, and all
contributed to the cocktail-shaking revo-
lution.
Westralia’s Transport Board has let
contracts for road transport to sidings
of 600,000 bushels of wheat from farms
east of the Great Southern railway, too
remote for ordinary farm carting to pay.
Tenderers are to return bags free of
charge and backload super. It is an
interesting break with the bureaucratic
tradition that the common carrier with
a motor vehicle is Public Enemy No. 1.
Provoked by invidious comparisons of
manufacturing progress in S.A. and
Queensland, Forgan Smith asked the
Opposition to tell him why population
was hurrying away from S.A. Actually
S.A. vital statistics for a twelvemonth
show a slight rise—from 589,312 to
591,201 —but it was, of course, less than
excess of births over deaths. Loss of
S.A. population to other States —chiefly
Westralia, Victoria and Queensland —is
an old story: very good population too.
It is hard on South Australia, but no-
thing can be done about it, so it is no
use blaming Governments, emigrants or
nature.
Moscow has turned on Lindbergh,
who visited the Red Republic not long
ago—stigmatised him as a “hired” liar
because he is alleged to have spoken
slightingly to Chamberlain of “Soviet
aviation.” Its attack will considerably
shock a multitude of American parlor
Pinks, who have hitherto ranked Lind-
bergh almost equal to their other god,
Stalin. If the colonel said anything about '
“Soviet aviation” it was the truth —
he is that sort of man —but no doubt
the truth would sting.


HORSE-SENSE.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
A central market for 300,000 buyers..
COME TO THE
Twice a year, 300,000 shrewd buyers from all
over the world gather at the Leipzig Inter-
national Trade Fair to investigate the newest
developments in every phase of industry . . .
to gain valuable selling and advertising ideas
. . . and to take advantage of the keen prices.
It will pay YOU to choose YOUR requirements
from the displays of over 9000 exhibitors who
make the Leipzig Trade Fair their selling
centre!
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
(GREATER GERMANY)
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks) available of LARS G.
BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis
House, Martin Place. G.P.O. Box 3127 P,
Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane; H. C. ITTERS-
HAGEN, Shenton Park, W.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
SPRING FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5, 1939.
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photographic,
Sports Goods, Great En-
gineering and Building Fairs.
ns
%
SIZE 72x60*
PERSONAL ITEM S
When the traditional candle was
snuffed out, Councillor A. W. Coles found
himself Gaud Mayor of Melbourne last
week, in succession to Councillor Camp-
bell, whose term expires on November 9.
The new wearer of the bunny skins was
born at Geelong and attended its college.
He began life as a bank clerk, but since
1912 he has been managing director of
the firm of G. J. Coles, which runs the
“nothing over 2s. 6d.” stores. At 46 he
is one of the youngest of Melbourne’s
mayors.
Captain R. R. Stewart, who is to com-
mand H.iyi.A.S. Hobart, was several
times shipmates with H. Dannreuther,
now a rear-admiral, well known in Aus-
tralia when in command of Flinders
Naval Depot in 1927-29. They were both
in Sturdee’s Invincible at Falkland, and
were later transferred to the battle-
cruiser Indefatigable. When that ship
was blown to smithereens at Jutland
Dannreuther was one of six saved, and
Stewart was ashore on leave—two lucky
bargees, as the Navy puts it. Later they
served in the Renown together.
Frith’s attached victim, Arnold Wall,
will be well enough known by name as
Prof. ARNOLD WALL.
a Bulletin contributor of verse with a
mordant humor giving a bite to its
general vigor and human quality. “Some-
time Professor of English Language and
Literature in the University of New
Zealand,” as the announcement of his
latest book describes him, he has been
writing for The Bulletin on and off
since 1903, and has also written, and
still writes, a good deal of verse and
articles —especially on English language
—for Maoriland papers. Through his
pastime —now, he says, getting a bit
strenuous —of climbing M.L.’s mountain
peaks, he is responsible for many of the
Dominion’s Alpine plants being treasured
possessions in widespread parts of the
globe. He has collected, dried and
mounted some 5000 specimens, dis-
covered a fair number of new species,
and written many papers about them. He
hailed originally from Colombo (born
1869), but was “educated” at a private
school near London —“a very bad school,
too,” he says. Having learned nothing,
he had to turn to at 17 and become a
teacher, but studied privately, and by
1893 had the M.A. of London Univer-
sity, added to some years later by the
Cambridge 8.A., working for his living
all the time. Appointed to Canterbury
College, Christchurch, in 1898, he con-
tinued there till 1932, when he retired, to
still go on climbing mountains, with a
keen botanical eye for the prizes lurk-
ing thereabout.
For most of his 44 years as a solicitor
Albert Charles Roberts, who has passed
on in Sydney, was legal adviser of the
A.W.U. He instructed Julian Salomons,
Frartk Duffy and Dr. Brissenden in the
days when the union had to prove the
justice of its claims before the newly-
constituted Federal Arbitration Court.
Literature, art and yachting were his
spare-time pleasures.
Dr. Richard Bosworth, who comes to
Sydney this week on a research mission,
is an Adelaide man (educated at Scotch
and the University). Already M.Sc. there,
he gained in 1933 an “Exhibition of
1851” scholarship that took him to
England for research work, mainly at
Cambridge, which has given him a
doctorate in philosophy, to which Adel-
aide is now adding .a doctorate of
science.
Complications resulting from an old
war injury have carried off Lord Stanley,
for the last seven or eight months Secre-
tafy of State for the Dominions, at 44.
He was the eldest son, and heir, of the
Earl of Derby, whose title dates from the
Stanley who crowned Richmond on Bos-
worth Field. Lord Stanley won the Mili-
tary Cross and the Italian Croix de
Guerre in the Great War. He had been
in Parliament since 1917, when he polled
an overwhelming majority for the old
Abercromby division of Liverpool.
Latterly he has represented the Fylde
division of Lancashire. From 1931 to
1935 he was Parliamentary and Financial
Secretary to the Admiralty, and then
went to the Dominions Office as Parlia-
mentary Under-Secretary. A reappoint-
ment to his place at the Admiralty oc-
curred after the 1935 election, and he
resumed his connection with the
Dominions Office, as its official head, in
May last. Like his father, Lord Stanley
maintained a good racing stable, and his
horses had many important wins, includ-
ing the Oaks.
Corrected his last proof at 74, A. J.
Mullett. He was in the Victorian
Government Printing Office for 47 years,
and was Government Printer for 10 of
them. For 18 months after his retirement
he supervised the printing of Common-
wealth notes.
A good Australian, a doughty
cricketer and a sound financier
was banker Hugh Hamon Massie,
dead in Sydney at 84. Born in
Victoria, he entered the service of
the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney at 24 and climbed to the
general manager’s chair, which he
occupied for 10 years, retiring in
1925. He was a member of Mur-
doch’s 1882 team, and commenced
that English tour with 206 against
Oxford University. In the match
at Kennington Oval in which Australia
beat England by seven runs, he contri-
buted 55, and he was almost as useful
in the field as at the wicket. Tom
Garrett, of Sydney, and Sammy Jones,
long a resident of M.L., are now the only
survivors of that 1882 team.
E. Norton Grimwade, of Melbourne,
did in two hours by aeroplane a journey
to Mildura that took him three days in
a Cobb and Co.’s coach 47 years ago,
getting a bird’s-eye view of his home at
Mt. Macedon as he did so. Grimwade
is one of Melbourne’s leading chemists
and belongs to the firm of Felton, Grim-
wade and Duerdin. It was Alfred Felton,
founder of the firm, who gave the Nat.
Gallery a bequest that made it famous
in Europe. Norton Grimwade presented
Cook’s cottage to the State and then
had to fight for its preservation, the
new proprietors wanting first to erect it
in front of the Gallery. Since it has been
placed in the Fitzroy Gardens it has
become the biggest centre of attraction
in Melbourne.
James Wong Chuey, gathered to his
ancestors at 76, was one of the leaders
of Sydney’s Chinese community, and in
the early days of the Chinese Republic
was selected by Dr. Sun Yat Sen as the
President’s personal representative in
Australia. Chuey arrived in Australia 60
years ago penniless and unable to' sppak
a word of English, but he had the com-
mercial instinct, and, after getting the lay
of the land by work on farms and stations
in the Riverina, he set up as a dealer in
wool and skins, then as a wool broker,
and never looked back. His hobby was
gardening. Chuey’s coffin doesn’t go to
China. After a service at St. Chad’s,
Cremorne, and a lying-in-state at the
Chinese Masonic Temple, he was buried
at Rookwood Cemetery, attended by a
cortege with a band and banners and a
scattering of copper largesse.
Victor Dandre, husband of the late
Pavlova, is chairman of directors of the
Covent Garden Russian Ballet, which up
to its Melbourne arrival had given 1545
performances in 157 cities in 10 coun-
tries and carried 100 tons of scenery
and costumes 200,000 miles. Dandre
has with him Fokine and Massine,
the choreographers who have helped
to mould the present co. to the
needs of their own ballets. Dandre,
who took over the complex concern
from Col. de Basil, who first brought it
to Australia, regards Australians as the
most ballet-minded people in the uni-
verse, since they can support a six
months’ season, whereas New York, with
a greater population, manages a bare
three weeks.
C. Selwyn Betts, whose death causes
a vacancy on the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission, was more like a descendant
of Samuel Marsden in figure, face,
Justice BETTS.
character and determination than any
other living. Fifty-nine when he died, he
was not so well known to the public as
are many other members of the N.S.W.
Bar, yet he had had a large advising
practice, particularly in industrial law
matters, before he was raised recently
to the District Court and Supreme Court
Industrial Benches in rapid succession.
On the Bench, he showed himself a pains-
taking, careful and good-tempered Judge.
George Frederick Jenkins has been a
figure in S.A. politics off and on for the
last 20 years. Had his training as a
farmer at Roseworthy, farmed his own
G. F. JENKINS.
property near Terowie, and is now chair-
man of directors of Wirraminna station
up in the north-west. He held the port-
folio of Agriculture in the Barwell Min-
istry in 1922, and later was Commissioner
of Public Works. Was defeated in 1924,
but got back in 1927, when Butler made
him Crown Lands Commissioner. Out
again in 1930, in again in 1933, he has
now settled down as chairman of the
Public Works Committee and chairman
of the Liberal-and-Country party. He
has been president of the Graziers’
Federal Council, of the S.A. Stockowners’
Association and the Liberal Federation ;
takes an interest in sport and is president
of the S.A. Trotting League, but enjoys
best an afternoon on a bowling green.
“Avon”: There was a time when the
pioneer squatter families in M.L. domi-
nated Parliament. Very few of the old
names crop up in the latest election re-
turns. A. N. Grigg, a grandson of the
John Grigg who found Longbeach a
swamp and turned it into the “finest
farm in the world,” making footsteps
that have been followed by generations
of successful mid-Canterbury farmers,
has won the mid-Canterbury seat from
its Labor holder. J. D. Ormond, son of
the Hawke’s Bay pioneer of the same
initials (the father arrived in M.L. as
A.D.C. to Governor Eyre and was later
secretary to Sir George Grey), failed to
shake the Labor man’s hold on Napier.
T. D. Burnett, who continues to hold
Temuka in the Nationalist interest, is
the son of a Sutherlandshire Scot who
pioneered sheep-farming in the Mac-
kenzie Country, and carries on his
father’s tradition by raising the finest
merinos in M.L. Except for these three
the successful and unsuccessful candi-
dates in last Saturday’s polling bear
names that were totally unknown as late
as the ’eighties. Apart from Burnett, who
has been in Parliament for years, the
only link with the days even of Ward
and Massey in the new Parliament out-
side the Labor ranks is J. N. Massey, son
of Bill, who has held his father’s old
seat, Franklin, for a decade. F. G. Hall-
Jones, son of a member of Seddon’s
Cabinet, tried for Invercargill and was
defeated, and Gladstone Ward, a son of
Baronet Joe, went down against Labor
veteran E. J. Howard in Christchurch
South.


Ire
&
i
"h
»/
y><
h
r
£W)
i
-1
\r
o-
*
4
1
I
Or
Ua
★
/
■
8742B.
NOW IN TINS OP
20 for 1/6
Also lanbe boxes of 10 for 9dL
Elat and Bound 50’s and 100’%


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jayem”: The Monaro cocky who had
agreed to give Long Harry work was
explaining the jobs that he would have
to do. He spent several minutes enu-
merating the list, and when he finished
the long ’un asked: “What about shovel-
"Well, she's dead plumb, isn't she?"
“ No, she isn't; she's only JUST plumb."
ling the snow from around the house?”
“What the devil do you mean? There’s
no snow at this time of year,” said the
boss. “No,” said Harry ; “but by the
time I’ve done my other jobs there will
be.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: Tell “Onam” (B. 5/10/’3B)
that there is no such mosquito as his
alleged “Culex anopheles, the carrier of
malaria.” Culicines and anophelines are
totally distinct genera, as easily distin-
guishable as swallows from owls. Over
30 species of anophelines are known to
be able to convey malaria to man. Most
of them, including the two principal
Italian species, feed most actively about
sunset and sunrise, at which time swal-
lows are most busily engaged at getting
their suppers and breakfasts. Ano-
phelines are sluggish fliers, and seldom
travel far from their resting and breed-
ing haunts, so that parent swallows have
little trouble in maintaining quick and
plentiful supplies for their young families
during the day, whilst getting their own
large meals from the outward and home
travellers in the peak hours. The whole
Pontine Marsh-swallow-malaria matter is
fully described in scientific literature.
“Puffinus”: It is “Cooralco” (B.
5/10/’3B), not I, who has missed the
mark over the real reason for the ever-
increasing spread of mistletoe and the
resultant dangerous destruction among
protective and valuable timber trees. It
is primarily due to the crass stupidly
ol State Governments and local authori-
ties in allowing the possum to be prac-
tically exterminated in eastern Australia.
Whilst it remained the possum kept the
balance against excessive survivals among
the seeds spread by the dainty little bird-
sprites of whom I wrote regretfully as
an unwitting factor in tree-destruction
and the cause of erosion. Now that the
possum has gone, the balance is upset ;
the pest spreads unchecked, and the in-
evitable outcome will be that war will
have to be made on mistletoe birds in
sheer self-defence. If it would do any
good to hang the politicians responsible
for it, I’d cheerfully give a hand—under
a mistletoed bough, for choice.
# sje * *
“Gryllus”: Popular notions concern-
ing the longevity of elephants and whales
notwithstanding, man is easily the
longest-lived of all mammals. There is
no authentic record of an elephant hav-
ing lived more than 70 years. Of 138
officially-recorded Indian Government
elephants, only one lived more than 20
years after it was captured. The biggest
species of whales are now known to be
mature at nine, and too old at 45. Even
under the sheltered life conditions of
zoos a hippopotamus becomes senile at
40 and a chimpanzee at 25. Among
birds the longest recorded life was an
Egyptian vulture of 118 years. A golden
eagle of 104, a parrot of 102 and a swan
of 70 came next in order. Of- fish, carp
have been known to live for over 120
years. The greatest age among living
animals is probably reached by the giant
tortoises. Some in the Rothschild Zoo
at Thring, weighing over 5501 b., are
scientifically considered to have lived for
more than 300 years.
* * * *
“Valerin”: You’ve heard me men-
tion Shep, who’s an expert on blown
sheep. The other night I came in late
and sat before the fireplace, wondering
whether to go to bed or put a match to
the kindling. I felt Shep nosing round
my coat pocket. I thought he was after
the titbit that I often bring him from
the tucker table, but next thing I knew
he had my box of matches in his mouth
shaking them, at the same time scratch-
ing the hob with his paw. I lit the fire,
and Shep took up his usual possie on
the mat.
* * * *
“Bewley”: This is vouched for by the
assurance bloke,who tried to sell me a
life policy. A trapper was out after
bunnies one day when a thunderstorm
rolled up. It began to rain heavily, so
he crawled into a hollow log for shelter.
The rain continued for hours, and the
water soaked into the log, which began
to swell inwards as well as outwards.
When the rain ceased the trapper found
that he had trapped himself. He
struggled until he was exhausted, but he
couldn’t get out of the log. He realised
that he was doomed to die a terrible
death. Then he thought of his poor wife
and children who would have to work
for a living or starve to death because he
had refused to take out an assurance
policy. This made him feel so small
that he was able to wriggle out of the
log without difficulty.
* * * *
“Ebuan”: That swallow of “Wil’s” (B.
5/10/’3B) was only one of the “tramps”
of the migratory species. Swallows of
decent standing in the community make
much better provision than that. The
last one caught by me just prior to its
migration had satchels woven from the
finest of hair and cross-woven with
strands from a spider web. These were
suspended from a yoke effect, somewhat
resembling the breastplate of a horse, so
that the. food-carriers were placed con-
venient to its reach whilst travelling, yet
far enough forward so as not to impede
its wing action. At the time of my
inspection there was nothing in the
larder, but as it was then hovering round
the ice-chest on my back verandah I
suspected it was looking for stray scraps
of ice to provide refrigeration for its
provender on the long journey.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Curious the different ways
that seeds travel. The roly-poly of the
inland breaks off at the ground when dry
and rolls before the wind for miles.
Burrs and bindi-eye use it as a carrier,
also the tails of horses and cattle, the
wool of sheep, hair of dogs, the camper’s
blanket, and his swag and whiskers.
Seeds of the stinking Roger and foxtail
grass cling to everything and everybody
that come in contact with them. The
thistle is an aviator that flies for miles
in its snowy plane of down. Spiky grass
is a cyclist that spins along on the stiff
ends of its head that resembles a rimless
wheel. The seeds of the bean-tree are
provided with a canoe —the “bean boat”
of bush boys—in which it is carried
down flooded streams. The coconut is
a navigator, the Columbus of the seed
tribe, furnished with a buffer of tough
fibre to save it from damage when wave-
lashed against rocks, and milk and food
for a long voyage. The balsam pod is
an explosive that goes off pop to scatter
its seed ; and the mistletoe has a sticky
coating that compels birds to carry it
from one tree to another.
* * * *
“CDI”: On Llanrheidol (W.Q.) there
is a mild variation of the theme of the
lion and the lamb. There was a short-
age of milk, and one shaky little poddy
looked like giving up the struggle, so we
introduced the lamb to a lady sheep-
dog which had recently achieved one
pup. It took a day or two to effect a
reconciliation, but eventually the poddy
was adopted, and is now a hefty young
thing, a good ad. for the quality of his
diet. He’s weaned, but his ways are some-
what odd. He doesn’t bark, but he does
chase cars, and he has a fine contempt
for sheep. He’s big enough to be a
homestead nuisance, but we hardly like
to turn him out —he might hold the mob
“ringing” in a corner, or perhaps even
fetch ’em in to the homestead.
* * * *
“Irrewillipe”: It’s about time some of
our bush balladists wrote a farewell to
that rapidly disappearing feature of bush
life the travelling buckjumping show,
which —in the southern States, anyway—
has been badly hit by the rivalry of the
talkies. A few years back bush lads and
lasses thought nothing of riding miles to
see the local champs, have a lash at stick-
ing on the outlaws which Thorpe Mc-
Conville and other troupers kept in their
string of neddies. The last such affair I
witnessed was comparatively tame. Apart
from an old maid there wasn’t one person
in the town game enough to volunteer for
a turn. The modern bush youths, with
their fondness for hair-oil and milk bars,
are probably all right at bottom, but
they certainly don’t seem as tough as
their mas and pas.
* * •* *
“Billy See”: “Ninety-nine” wants to
know if there’s anything harder to k.o.
than a saltwater eel (B. 21/9/’3B). Well,
1 nominate a freshwater one. The salt-
water gent, will snuff readily when kept
too long from his native element, but
his freshwater brother will live for days.
As for a direct kill, when 1 was a kid
the old man used to take me eeling at
Lake Burrumbeet, near Ballarat (Vic.).
The catch was generally good, and we
lived on it. And many a time, after the
eel had been skinned and cut into sec-
tions, the said sections would be jumping
about in the hot fat. One time we had
a finicky sort of bloke with us —but
that yarn won’t bear telling.
* * * *
“Coriander”: “Komediak” (B.
28/9/’3B) finds fault with “the modern
bagman” for adopting Yankee slang.
But what is a bagman? The expression
isn’t used in the real bush; it was
formerly an English term applied to com-
mercials. And “K.” later on speaks of
a “swaggie.” Why not “baggie” then?
Where’s his consistency?
* >.* ?>;
“Anthropo”: It’s “lmbaga” himself
tries to build a pimple into a carbuncle
(B. 21/9/’3B). 1 never tried to link the
Maori with the Eskimo ; it was a previ-
ous writer (“Im.’’should read his Bulle-
tin the right way up). I showed the
totemic resemblance between the Aus-
tralian abo. and the North American
Indian ; and I wasn’t either fantastic or
original in doing so. This resemblance
was first noted by George Grey. Grey
was one of the young men on the Beagle,
that sailing-ship which in the early years
of last century carried youthful Charles
Darwin on his voyage round the world.
Landing in West Kimberley, Grey did
exploratory work along the Glenelg
River and around where Kingsford Smith
and his Southern Cross crew were
marooned in 1929. Somewhere about
here he found the remarkable painted
caves, never since rediscovered. A year
later he and others explored the Gas-
coyne-Shark Bay district, and nearly
lost their lives. Whilst on the Swan River
Grey did valuable anthropological work:
compiled a glossary of the Bibbulumun
language. Here, too, he remarked on the
totemic resemblance mentioned in my
original par.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: What has become of
the old quart-pot? I’m not hankering
for one, but since it performed the
miracle of surviving at all I was just
wondering why it hasn’t kept on tor-
menting and torturing the diehard bush-
men. As a monstrosity it had no equal
among tin utensils. You couldn’t stand
it up to boil. You couldn’t hang it, and
you couldn’t lift it off the fire. It did
hang nicely to the saddle, and it was all
right as a drinking mug ; but as a kettle
or billy or saucepan it was the devil’s
worst invention. I have seen more spilt
tea and burnt hands and more sulphur
and lightning caused by the old black-
jack than a thousand shearers’ cooks
could generate in a lifetime. The last
one I saw was being used as a bungalow
by red-backed spiders. The dent in its
side was like the toe of a No. 9 blucher.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Any Aboliar know if
“Tight” Henri, an old babbler who used
to haunt the N.S.W. Riverina a few
years back, is still on deck? A little
shrivelled chap of fifty-odd with long,
waxed moustachios, Henri used to in-
form everyone he met that he had one
time been head chef at a big city hotel,
and had been outed from his job by
some insidious rival with “influence. ’
Apart from his stinginess with handouts,
Henri’s chief claim to fame was his
alleged French accent, which must have
taken him years of arduous study to
acquire. The tucker he turned out didn t
point to any great mastery of the culinary
art, and one of the crowd who spoke the
lingo told us his so-called French was
about as dinkum as the cables sent out
nowadays from Madrid. Henri had two
weaknesses —postage stamps and cigar-
ette cards ; any deadbeat who could pro-
duce a few of either was sure of leaving
with a full sack.
HORSES, DOGS AND BEER.
Exiles at Westralian outposts
'Midst the spinifex and sand
Dream of stables, pubs and courses
In that vast, unconquered land;
Be the season full and plenty
Or a long, drought-stricken year,
There’s an urge that somehow lingers
For the horses, dogs and beer.
As the ancient swaggie passes,
Bending low beneath his load,
Where the husky navvies labor
In the earth beside the road,
Weights and form and starting prices
Is the jargon he will hear,
With the million faults and virtues
Of the horses, dogs and beer.
In suburban backyards women,
Hanging washing on the line,
Cast no frown at rainy weather
Nor applaud it when it’s fine;
They will even give up scandal—
Though they still denounce the beer —
While they coo of dogs and horses
Over cups of tea that cheer.
You will hear it at the corners
And you’ll hear it at the pub;
it’s the topic of the shearers
At the woolshed in the scrub;
Politics are just a sideline,
And it stands out bold and clear
That the only things that matter
Are the horses, dogs and beer.
N.S.W.
Jim Grahame.


"Where'd we come from? Where'd you think? A flamin' beauty
parlor?"
“Wang”: Hungry Murphy came across
on his weekly borrowing expedition. He
found Dad putting the finishing touches
to a set of harrows he had been mending.
“G’day,” he said, “I was wonderin’ ”
Dad eyed him coldly. “Were yer?” he
interrupted. “Well, I’ve been doin’ a
bit of wonderin’ meself lately ; quite a
lot, in fact, wonderin’ what a wonder
at wonderin’ yer are, Murphy. An’ won-
derin’ if, when yer’ve bin wonderin’,
yer’ve ever wondered when yer come
over here with yer wonderin’ that I’ve
ever wondered why yer don’t stop yer
wonderin’ whether I’ll lend yer my things,
an’ buy yer own. An’ while on the sub-
ject I’m wonderin’ when yer goin’ t’
bring back that plough yer wondered
outa me a month ago. It’s a wonder”
But Murphy, with a scared and wonder-
ing look in his eyes, jumped into his
cart and drove off.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Mute but irrefutable evi-
dence of the three waves of abo. .in-
vasion which passed across Australia is
provided by the Devon Downs rock
shelter on the bank of the Murray near
Swan Reach (S.A.). Officials of the
S.A. Museum who carried out the ex-
cavations found that in the lower beds
there were finely-chipped stone-boring
and -cutting tools, but the only axelike
objects were crude, rough-chipped lumps
of rock. In the middle bed were some-
what cruder scrapers, but the axes were
better formed ; in the upper and recent
deposits the axes were well shaped and
were ground to a cutting edge, but the
scrapers were crude. When Kangaroo
Island (S.A.) was cut off from the main-
land, some of the original Tasmanian-
abo. type were marooned there, prob-
ably to die out through inbreeding thou-
sands of years ago ; but they were suffi-
ciently numerous to leave behind them
loads of relics in the shape of pounding-
and cutting-stones, scattered over the
length and breadth of the island. The
S.A. Museum has now got together a fine
collection, nearly all found on the shores
of what were lagoons in prehistoric
times, but which have been drifted over
or dry for thousands of years. As yet
no human remains have been found on
K. 1., possibly because, like the Tas-
manians, they burned their dead. If a
skeleton does turn up there it will be a
scientific find of major importance.
* * * *
“Bill Boredrain”: The native com-
panion probably received its name from
frequently being seen in the vicinity of
abo. camps. (Captain King, R.N., wrote
of the fact in 1819.) Also, Binghi of
North Aus. believes that the spirits of
departed brothers enter into the big bird.
But can any of the Council explain how
it came by the more common name of
brolga?
* * * *
“Shamus O’Leary”: Most stockmen
attach a sentimental value to their brands,
both for wool and stock. Though mine
hasn’t been used for ten years I wouldn’t
part with it. The late Sidney Kidman
must have owned a multitude of brands
with but a small percentage in use. I’ve
heard of only two properties sold by
Kidman in which the brands went with
the station ; one was Walgra, the cattle
portion of Carandotta, N7Y, and the
other Rochdale (W.Q.), XT4. Most old
pastoral companies have several brands
for each property, but only one is ever
used. It is different in the N.T., where
for a long time they adopted the S.A.
system —two numerals and a letter, such
as 6T6 (Alexandria). They changed that
to three letters, one being a T. Within
three months of my quitting the Terri-
tory, I was advised that, as I had left, my
brand was cancelled and was out for
allotment to another. Sentiment doesn’t
count there.
“Nor’-west”: Tiger-shooting on foot
is said to be thrilling sport, but I doubt
if it has anything on gathering crocodile
eggs, a pursuit common to gins along
the many Kimberley rivers and lagoons.
The crocodile lays 50 eggs or so, thin-
shelled and about the
size of those of the
goose. The mound nest
will be about 3ft. high
and 6ft. or more in
diameter. But the eggs
are not just laid —they
are buried a good 12in.
beneath a covering of
grass, leaves and dirt.
They have to be dug
out ; and the lady croc.,
keenly maternal for the
safety of her unborn
offspring, will seldom
be far away. The black
gins keep watch, seiz-
ing the opportunity
when the lady appar-
ently has gone off in
quest of food. But the
croc, possesses a subtle
instinct, and is likely to
return with consider-
able celerity. It is part
of the abo. girl’s edu-
cation to keep a look-
out while her elders
loot the nest. And
when the returning
croc, is sighted what an excited
hullabaloo! But very seldom will a
gin abandon the eggs that she has col-
lected. To see a long-legged, stark-naked
aboriginal female breaking even time,
but still clutching her loaded dillybag,
with an enraged female crocodile in pur-
suit —well, no movie camera has yet re-
corded it; but I’m saying that tiger-
shooting would have to extend itself to
be in it.
* * * #
“Cock E.”: Foxes are making things
interesting in this district (Wide Bay,
Q.). Having cleaned up all feathered
stuff within reach they have started on
the sugarcane. They run their jaws up
the corms and extract the juice, always
picking the soft varieties and taking a
heavy toll.
* * * *
“Toto”: “Froth’s” polite incredulity
(B. 28/9/’3B) about my beer-keg that
grew bigger leaves me quite unmoved.
I am well aware of a keg’s usual ten-
dency to reverse the process, and no
doubt this one would have behaved
similarly if left in its original condition
and subjected to the usual treatment of
tightening the staves. But the whole
point, which “Froth” seems to have
missed, is that it was knocked apart and
the staves thinned down from the inside.
Reassembled, it would leave the external
measurements the same as before, but
the internal measurements, and conse-
quently the capacity, considerably in-
creased. If the process is too involved
for “Froth’s” or his brewer’s comprehen-
sion, I will be only too pleased to give
a personal explanation with any keg —
full —that he will provide.
* * * *
“J.D.P.”: Any marker can tell “Elfir”
(B. 14/9/’3B) that the greater the velo-
city the less the shock. The .303 has
enough penetration to kill an elephant,
and has been used for this purpose by
some hunters; but a 12-bore Paradox
with a special hard ball, as used in Java
by some Dutch hunters, will pull up a
charging buffalo which would regard the
.303 as a bee sting. Buffalo- and elephant-
hunters, to combine both velocity and
shocking power, use something of the
type of the .450 Express. Many of our
N.T. buffalo-hunters prefer old-fashioned
Sniders and Martinis to modern h.-v.
rifles because of their crippling powei.
If further evidence is needed, ask any
Digger who has seen a head-wound
caused by a bullet at short range and
one from a bullet that has lost its short-
range velocity.
* * * *
“Cornisher”: Of all our wild birds I
know of only two with the tender white
flesh appreciated by the epicure. One
is the spinifex quail, that bit of a rain-
bow let loose which zigzags among the
spinifex and poses when seen. Although
small, it has a depth of flesh which is
surprising. It is rare, and fortunately
doesn’t inhabit areas where gun “sports-
men” prowl around. The other fine bit
of picking is the flock pigeon. Once in
countless millions, it is now so scarce
that it can almost be classed as extinct.
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: All the sparrow family
will crossbreed. Canaries, diamonds and
brown sparrows flourish in hybrid
shamelessness. White canaries and pie-
bald sparrows are to be seen in the
gardens of Melbourne. Do the thrushes
mix in this way? Have never seen a
cross, and my evidence is that they don’t.
Although the common three, the Eng-
lish brown, the Australian grey and the
blackbird, perform their housekeeping in
the same arena, they remain true to type
and tribe. The ladies are segregated and
are not allowed to take their meals with
hubby. In the mating season this rule
is waived for the good of posterity.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “Struck a cove the other
day,” said old Joe, “ ’oo ’ad a new
method of treatin’ a cow wot got blown
up through eating clover. ’E draped
Strawberry over the wood heap, with
the front legs on one side and the back
ones on the other ; then he thumps it
on the back, just like a woman with
a baby laying across her knee, to fetch
the wind up.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: The old Rosenthal sta-
tion, near Warwick (Q.), has produced
another example of the extraordinary
durability of ironbark timber. During
improvements on the present holding, a
number of ironbark posts were removed
from the site of the original stockyards.
Every one of them was thoroughly sound,
both above and below ground, although
they had been there for more than 90
years. In the North Pine district, 20
miles or so north of Brisbane, a section
of fencing built with ironbark posts and
blood wood rails in 1850 still serves its
original purpose and shows no sign of
weather, decay or white-ants. Even the
fires of 88 years have failed to make any
apparent impression on it.
* * * *
“Ophir”: A man with any experience
of snakes can always tell when there’s
one on the move by the sound of the calls
of creatures which have spotted it. A
mickey calls the alarm for any darned
thing at all. A shadow sets him peep-
ing, a hawk makes him shriek blue
murder. But listen to that feathered
soldier when a snake glides across his
view. It’s a distinctive call then which
spells s-n-a-k-e as distinctly as if printed
in capital letters. Take note of a dog’s
short and abrupt “woof!” when he sees
a snake; compare that bark with the
other stuff he emits for ordinary things.
Lastly, how about the old frog? He is
lazily voluble if anything throws a
shadow near him ; but when Joe slides
into his ken his call is peremptory, sharp,
distinct and full of the fear which that
scaled death imparts.
“Since I bought this six-wheeler I’ve never looked back!"
THE ROUSEABOUTS’ ART
GALLERY.
Here is a shed, with a corn-bag bed,
A chair and a box or two,
A cowdung floor and a sapling door,
A hearth and a clay-daub flue.
The “stringy” roof isn’t weatherproof,
And the slabs have warped apart,
But it served as a “den” for a score of men
To paste up their taste in Art.
From a sporting page, and grey with ag»,
Is a picture of Richmond Main;
A timber crack has torn his back,
But the prad, 1 opine, won’t complain.
There’s another horse and some pugs, of
course,
Darcy and maybe Kay,
But a rodent’s teeth the name beneath
Has nibbled in shreds away.
There is more than a hint of The Bully’s print
In a scene of a swaggie’s camp,
While just on top is the sketch by “Hop”—
“I thought that I had a stamp.”
There’s a nifty nude that would cause a prude
To snort with disgust, no doubt,
But still she appears to have been there years,
And nobody rubbed her out!
There’s a rural scene from a magazine—
English, of course; the “Strand.”
It cheered more than rum the heart of a
Chum
Far from his native land.
There’s a verse of the kind you’d expect to
find —
More pointed, perhaps, than polite;
Some “doubtful” snaps and some humorous
scraps
Of sketching in black and white.
I can find in my heart no taste for the art
Of musty Old Masters long dead;
By more than mere paste are my eyes and my
taste
Stuck fast in a rouseabouts’ shed.
N.S.W.
B. A. Ker.


ADAMS 1 (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Your Estate After Your Death
When you appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, Executor and Trustee under your Will,
you will be doing what thousands of the wisest and shrew r dest of our successful citizens have done.
You will be ensuring to your dependents that the terms of your Will shall be faithfully carried
out over the years; that your dependents shall have a courteous and sympathetic sen-ice; and
that your Estate will be more economically managed than if you were to appoint a private
(and necessarily amateur) Trustee.
An interview with a Senior Officer of the Company is suggested, or you might prefer to write
for booklets.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lew-is.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Collective Cecutitu
Tot Capital. . .
...^OpSECURITy
- v
This is a fact now for hundreds of investors. Every man and
woman possessing approx. £2O and upwards can shelter their
savings profitably in FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST,
which combines the shares of 20 Companies to give you real
Collective Security. Custodian Trustee: Union Insurance
Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
’Phone 85294.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
f Dividends— ,
Net Pref., • To Re- Re-
Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
’3O 194,702 —10 i 135,760 58,942 223,808
Share premiums, £54,000 .. . . 277,808
’37 218,179 14,207 10 p.c.= 143,200 60,772 338,580
Share premiums, £54,000 .. .. 392,580
’3B 240,055 55,477 10 p.c.= 159,000 25,578 418,158
This is the operating co. which took
over the working assets of Australasian
Paper and Pulp (Melbourne) ’hnd Cum-
berland Board Mills (Sydney) in 1926,
and it has given a very good account
of itself since. Slump put a break on
earnings, but exchange and the tariff
brought the co. muc.. business formerly
placed overseas, and sales expanded as
conditions improved. Bigger turnover
and technical improvements to plant
lowered unit costs, and selling prices
were reduced, in some cases to Jess than
the duty-free cost of the imported article,
while earnings continued to expand.
Furthermore, after 10 years’ research at
a cost of over £50,000, the board decided
to manufacture from Australian timbers
the pulp which the co. imported, and a
£600,000 mill is now going up at Mary-
vale (Vic.) for the purpose, while large,
fast-running machines to turn out 30,000
tons annually of high-grade wrapping
papers, container boards, corrugated
papers and other products are being set
up alongside the mill.
To meet the outlay and provide for
additions and replacements at the Mel-
bourne, Fairfield and Broadford (Vic.)
and Botany (N.S.W.) mills, 400,000 16s.
ords. were issued at 21s. each in 1936,
and 1,000,000 £l6 p.c. cum. prefs. were
offered and snapped (the issue was under-
written) in April, 1937. The last £96,000
of new ord. capital and £226,458 of the
pref. money came in during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
making the total on the share-register
£2,600,000 in a million prefs. and two
million ords:—■
Paid capital— 1936. 1937. 1938.
Pref £773,542 £1,000,000
Orel, .. ..£1,408,000 1,504,000 1,600,000
Mortgages.. 1 f 10,019
Loans, etc. | 134,236 1 34,793 33,937
Sundry creditors J [ 63,229 119,199
Freehold and plant 1,559,944 1,087,861 1,708,127
Shares other cos... 23,242 23,242 23,242
Stock . . .. 506,519 552,431 990,950
Book debts .. 259,483 486,707 368,314
Cash, etc 129,623 720,102 302.302
Over the last two years capital outlay
on fixed assets totalled £941,187, of which
£742,362 was in respect of the last term.
The new money went mostly into the
Maryvale venture and into a new 50,000-
ton-p.a. board machine at Botany. At
the close of accounts in 1937 the reserve
for depreciation and obsolescence
(£670,908), which used to figure on the
other side of the sheet, was deducted
from the cost of fixed assets. Last year’s
addition to this reserve was £122,097
(£2873 more than was openly provided
for the purpose), or 6.9 p.c. of cost of
all fixed assets, including land and build-
ings, at June 30, 1937. The growth of
£438,519 in the stocks item was chiefly
on account of raw materials, importa-
tion of which the board feared might be
interrupted by international develop-
ments, and of manufactured stocks to
tide the co. over the period whilst the
Broadford and Melbourne mills are
closed, pending readjustments. To see
the construction programme through,
there were cash and public securities
totalling £286,475 at June 30. More or
less liquids then exceeded outside liabili-
ties by £1,508,430, and more cash will
become available as stocks are worked
down.
After allowing £119,224 (up £33,830)
for depreciation, adding £54,548 (£7548
more than was openly allowed) for taxa-
tion, etc., and striking off the usual £2500
for bad debts, last year’s profit sprang
£21,876, reaching £240,055, or enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 11.6 p.c. on
average ord. capital, as against 15.6 p.c.
for the previous term. A very satisfac-
tory showing considering the amount of
money represented by assets which have
not yet contributed to the pool, and the
fact that the co. had to bear a lot of
non-recurring expense as well. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c.
Full earning power will not be de-
veloped until the Maryvale plant gets
into full swing. The pulp mill is ex-
pected to be ready about April next, and
the paper machine early in 1940. Mean-
while, prospects of the ords. continuing
to receive 10 p.c. are encouraging, despite
the rise in the wage and tax bills and the
national insurance slug. Perhaps the
most serious threat is competition from a
Government-supported venture in S. Aus.;
but what effect this will have upon the
co.’s earnings remains to be seen. The
board says, “We face the future with
confidence based upon our knowledge,
efficiency and ability to meet competi-
tion from wherever it comes.”
At 245. 9d. the prefs. return 4.9 p.c.
The backing is a shade over £3 in net
tangibles. All the ord. capital is owned
by the two holding cos. (A.P. and P. 78
p.c. and Cumberland 22 p.c.), which pay
an all-round 8 p.c. div. To enable the
holding cos. to pay this rate, and to meet
its own pref. requirements, the operating
co. will need to net little over 8 p.c. on
its £2,600,000 of capital. Last year’s
£240,055 of profit was a shade over 9 p.c.
on this figure.
The next table shows how various rates
of div. on the operating co.’s ord. capital
work out for the holding cos.:
Working , A.P. & P. N r Cumberland \
Co.’s Div. Pref. Ord. Prefs. Ord.
8 p.c. 8.0 p.c. 6.6 p.c. 6.3 p.c. 6.3 p.c.
9 „ 8.0 „ 7.6 „ 7.2 „ 7.2 „
10 „ 8.5 „ 8.5 „ 8.0 „ 8.0 „
15 „ 12.8 „ 12.8 „ 12.0 12.0 „
The market prices of the holding cos.’
scrip and the returns therefrom compare
as follows:
f- Cumberland N
r -‘ Prof. N , —A.P. & P.—,
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Ord. Ord. Pref.
Price:
325. 3d. 31s. 6d. 31s. Od. 255. Gd. 30s. 3d. 345. Gd. ‘
Dividend:
8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c.
Yield:
4.9 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 5.3 p.c. 4.6 p.c.
Cumberland ords. still offer an attractive
yield, subject to the risks already men-
tioned.
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7} p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 p.c. = 69,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 „ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 ~ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 ~ „ 48,000 399,428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937.. 165.049.9000 18.760 10 p.c. = 64,164 680,334
Shave premiums, £67 .. .. .. 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
First prefs. reduced to 6 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
Outstanding features in the history of
this big department store last year were
(1) celebration of the centenary of the
business and (2) opening of its fine new
Market-street shop; each occurred in
May and involved a lot of non-recurring
expenditure.
It was in the thirties of last cen-
tury that David Jones, born at Llan-
dillo, Wales, in 1793, arrived in Sydney
and became a partner in the firm of
Appleton and Co., Pitt-street, not far
from where Joseph Farmer subsequently
set up in business. The partnership was
dissolved in its first year; and in May,
1838, the energetic Welshman set up under
his own name in the Old Jerusalem Ware-
house, opposite the new post office and
alongside the old barracks in George-
street. The business has been con-
ducted, wholly or partly, from the same
spot ever since. In 1857 the undertak-
ing was sold to Thompson and Symonds,
but they failed, and, in his 68th year,
David Jones re-entered the business and
soon retrieved his losses. He finally re-
tired in 1868, leaving a firmly-established
concern in the hands of his eldest son,
Edward Lloyd Jones, who took into
partnership Charles Edwards and James
E. Woodward.
The present chairman, Charles Lloyd
Jones, a grandson of the founder, joined
the board in 1906. The story has since been
one of expansion and modernisation. An
eight-storeyed factory in which the co.
makes much of its own requirements
was built at Surry Hills in 1914, and ex-
tensions were made to the original
George-street property in the two follow-
ing years. But the premises soon proved
too small, and about 11 years ago the
major part of the business was trans-
ferred to a fine new store which the co.
had erected on the old High School
freehold, overlooking Hyde Park and
opposite St. James (city railway) station.
So rapidly did the business expand that,
in order to provide extra facilities and
relieve congestion in the new shop, the
diagonally-opposite block on the corner
of Market and Castlereagh streets was
bought for about £365,000 early in the
1937 term, and another store was erected.
It was opened shortly before the close of
last accounts, and departments trans-
ferred thereto have shown “gratifying
increases.”
Over the last two years the co. has got
in an extra £210,000 of share capital,
which brought with it £lOO,OOO of share
premiums, £501,539 net has been added
to the mortgage and £68,156 net to the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
The £879,694 of fresh money that thus
became available, together with surplus
earnings, was put into freeholds and
plant (up £835,915), stocks (up £97,304)
and debtors’ balances (up £75,296):
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital . . £1,000,000 £1,125,957 £1,210,000
Deposits .. .. 3 ft, 637
Overdraft .. . . 92,034
Sundry creditors. . 219,927 278,097 419,754
Mortgages, etc. . . 251,042 602,207 752,581
Total liabilities. £002,640 £880,304 £1,172,335
Freeholds 1 , Q 1„ f 1,302,369 1,596,300
Plant, etc. J ( 351,9G6 519,467
Stocks . . . . 488,574 552,333 585,878
Book debts . . 360,022 400,752 435,31 S
Investments, catsh, etc. 57,041 137,231 61,642
To meet last year’s addition of £293,991
to freeholds, £167,501 to plant, £33,545
to stocks and £34,566 to book debts (they
are now nearly double the 1931 figure),
£150,374 was tacked on to the mortgage,
£141,657 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, £84,043 of fresh capital came
in and cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£75,589. When the books closed there
was 11s. lid. of outside money at risk in
the business for every pound of share-
holders’ funds, as against 7s. lid. two
years earlier. Still, the floating debt was
well covered.
After making an unspecified provision
for taxation, allowing £45,586 (up £1923)
for depreciation and sending £2861 (down
£7139) to the staff fund, the net result
was £176,687 (up £11,638). That was
enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rates and show 18.5 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 21.3, 19.7, 15.6,
13.5, 10.9, 8.7 and 3.7 p.c. back to 1931.
It was a very satisfactory showing con-
sidering the amount of money repre-
sented by premises, etc., which could
have contributed very little to the pool,
the upward swing of costs, and the non-
recurring expenditure already referred to.
As for the current term, trading prom-
ises to be more difficult, the full effect
of recent wage lifts has not yet been
felt, taxation has been increased, and
the co.’s contribution to national insur-
ance will call for around £14,000 p.a.
Still, unless something unexpected hap-
pens, it seems unlikely that the 10 p.c.
div. will be disturbed. The ords., which
dropped to 30s. during the recent war
scare, were at 355. 6d. last week-end.
At the higher figure the return is 5.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. first
prefs. at 275. and the p.c. seconds at
30s. yield 4.4 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively.
The net tangible cover is £l3 2s. Id. firsts,
£7 ss. 3d. seconds, and 38s. Bd. ords.
George Farmer, Ltd.
f— Dividends —^
Net Pref. Towards Ite-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 p.c.= 14,400 2,134 14,021
1929.. 17,943 4800 14 „ ~ 12,000 543 14,564
1980.. 15,450 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,656 16,220
1931.. 14,902 4800 10 „ „ 9,000 1,162 17,382
1932.. 12,503 4800 8 „ „ 7,200 503 17,885
1933.. 8,211 4800 6 „ „ 5,400 15,896
1934.. 12,377 4800 7 „ „ 6,300 1,277 17,173
1985.. 5,859 4800 24 „ „ 2,250 15,982
1936.. 4,082 4800 Nil 16,804
1937.. 178 4800 Nil - 11,242
1938.. 4,973 4800 Nil 173 11,415
For more than a decade after this co.
took over George Farmer’s ham- and
bacon-curing business at Ballarat in 1919,
when the public put up £60,000 of 8 p.c.
pref. money to help finance expansion of
the business, shareholders were on the
pig’s back. Two 10 p.c. divs. were fol-
lowed by one of 15 p.c., another of
25 p.c. and three of 20 p.c. to the close
of accounts in 1926. From this point, at
which the fatness was larded with a
one-for-two gift issue, earnings have per-
sistently slipped, and the ords. have gone
without for the last three years. Because
of this and the fact that the pref. div.
has recently nibbled at cash resources,
which have been accumulated in excess of
trade requirements, the directors have
decided to return the pref. capital, thus
opening the way for payments (moderate
on present outlook) to the ords.
The board puts it this way:
For many years, owing partly to the in-
crease in cost of raw materials and wages
and a very much larger amount of competi-
tion. .. .the preference capital has not been
usefully employed. Notwithstanding this,
regular dividends have been paid at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a., whilst the co. has been
earning less than half this amount on its
capital. Your directors explored many
avenues with a view to employing the co.’s
resources in full ; but all were beset with
considerable risk, and, as preference capital
is regarded as a fixed form of investment,
your directors have come to the conclusion
that they are not justified in using it in
any such hazardous enterprises.
The decision illustrates the need for
care in selecting pref. scrip as an invest-
ment. In 1934, when the outlook
in the trade was less glum than it
is to-day, the prefs. fetched 325. 6d.
in the market. They had fallen to
19s. before announcement that capital
would be returned, following which they
strengthened to par, of course. The
pref. money was very helpful to the ords.
while funds were earning more than
8 p.c. ; now the pref. div. is a hindrance
to the ords.
The co. will have no difficulty in find-
ing the £60,000, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1922. 1935. 1937. 1935.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 1,838 2,309 6,104 2,689
Premises . . 16,105 44.457 44,457 44,457
Plant, etc. . . 15,386 28,707 27,583 26,435
Stocks . . 23.928 20.180 24,612 21.058
Book debts . . 29,416 22,709 24,435 22,777
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 31,470 57,738 48,835 52,500
When the books closed, cash and public
securities totalled £52,038, and there were
stock and debtors’ balances amounting
to £43,835 to meet outside liabilities of
£2689. Much depends upon the efficiency
of plant, the chief earning asset, on which
£ll4B more was written off than was
spent last year.
Competition, which takes the form of
bidding up for pigs as well as price-
cutting on the selling side, remains “in-
tense.” The year’s profit (£4973, up


YOU TOO SHOULD FIT
Silent ‘9o’- the neui tvr® tl}*J
sold itselftgB99oomotorists
yetstift yieateb
iiII'EIPE
111 I
mote eexfafo
™ ETY
attd
Oil EIIOE
SILENCE
without toSf of Safety
m
I
5#
i
a
5
i
T NOW AVAILABLE IN
ALL POPULAR SIZES
AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER
The World’s Master Tyre
m
Built with Weftless Cord
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. WO. i INCORPORATED Ut -VICTORIA* F 731-4& j
£4795) was little more than the pref. div.
called for. Allowing for loss of interest
on investments (£1426 last term), enough
remained to show 3.9 p.c. on ord. capital.
The pound ords., which were at ss.
6d. in the market in May, fetched 10s.
6d. last week-end. The return at 10s.
6d. would be 5.7 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 225. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
June, Income. Exes. Surplus. Dividends.
£ £ £
1935.. 347,900 237,467 110,433 40 p.c. = 80,000
1936.. 390,821 285,860 104,961 55 „ „ 127,600
1937.. 515,056 372,013 143,043 15 „ „ 40,333
1938.. 628,566 512,502 116,064 30 „ „ 88,049
The spring in last year’s income was
due to bigger output—s6,s4l (up 17,002)
ounces gold, 19,662 (up 16,926) ounces
silver and 2353 (up 547) tons copper.
The oxide mill operated for the full 12
months as against 24 weeks for the previ-
ous term. But the surplus claimed
(£116,064, equals 11.8 d. per share) was
£26,979 lighter, owing mainly to the fall
in the price of copper. The profit would
have been £92,782 better had the co.
realised the same price for copper as in
the previous term, the board says. Two
divs. of 44d. per share each, total 30 p.c.
(£88,049), were sent out as against 15
p.c. in 1937.
The surplus claimed excludes the fol-
lowing charges:—
1— Cast of removing excess overburden.. £23,372
2 Depreciation of plant .. .. .. 24,096
3 Mine preparation .. .. .. .. 35,162
4 Bad debts (cost of investigating
properties) .. .. .. .. 15,000
5 Suspense accoitnts (unallotted expendi-
ture) 8,263
6 Employees’ welfare fund.. .. .. 6,604
Total £112,497
Nos. 1, 4 and 6 (total £44,976) are to
be charged against earnings, reducing the
year’s surplus to £71,088. Excluding No.
4 as a possible non-recurring charge, the
surplus was still £1961 short of the
amount the 30 p.c. div. called for. Nos.
2 and 3, together with £29,301 spent on
installing and reconditioning plant, were
charges against share premiums, entirely
eliminating that account. Mine prepara-
tion in connection with the 7,000,000-
ton scheme is reported complete, except
for the jaw-crusher installation on the
650 ft. level.
Two points which the board should
make clear to shareholders are: (1)
Future policy with regard to deprecia-
tion, and (2) amount likely to be in-
volved, even if the estimate is an annual
one, in removal of excess overburden,
In its estimates the management has
allowed for the cost of removing over-
burden as a direct charge against reserve
ore in the proportion of three tons of
overburden to one ton of ore. Last term
773,171 tons of overburden was re-
moved, the ratio to ore being 4.42 to 1
as against 2.2 to 1 for the previous term,
Of last year’s overburden 212,633 tons
was treated in the sulphide plant and
188,015 tons at the oxide mill. The
grade of ore treated by both mills is
partly governed by the quantity of over-
burden in the feed,
Results from the oxide mill were as
follows:
1937.* 1938.
Ore treated, tons .. .. 97,241 305,458
GobTpridSd, ounce.;' ” 4,2*56 19,088
Silver produced, ounces .. 2,736 19,662
Recovery: Gold, p.c 53.9 68.2
*“ 4 weeks 30^37 ‘
In this section costs were 2s. 8.6 d. mining
and ss. 8.5 d. treatment; total, Bs. 5.1 d. On
this basis, and-with gold at £8 10s. and
silver at 2s. 2d. Australian currency, last
year’s profit on working account per ton
of oxide ore treated was approximately
2s. 4d. Original estimates were for
a working profit of 10s. per ton, but that
was from ore expected to average 2.7dwt.,
which explains the difference. Owing to an
unexpected rise in the sulphide zone, a
lot of comparatively high-grade ore is
not available for the oxide mill. Chief
sources of supply are now overburden
and waste dumps. Roughly, 5,000,000
tons of overburden, expected to average


Patents.
SAFETY DEVICE FOR DRIVERS OF
MOTOR CARS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
20028/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patents No.
24227/29, in respect of an invention entitled
“Improvements in and relating to separable fas-
teners particularly suitable for uniting strips
of fabric and the like,” and No. 7181/32, in
respect of an invention entitled “Improvements
in and relating to zip fasteners,” is prepared
to negotiate for the sale of its rights in the
above, or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the inventions within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the in-
ventions obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd-
(lncorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
I.Bdwt., is available above the 286 ft.
level. Dumps are “likely to provide
large tonnages of profitable milling ore' :
—they have not all been measured up and
tested yet. Part of one has yielded
164,844 tons of 2.4dwt. stuff, and another
86,000 tons of similar grade material re-
mains above the 363 ft. level. Trenching,
potholing, etc., on others indicate values
ranging from I.4dwt. to 2dwt.
Performances at the sulphide mill, on
which the future of the mine chiefly de-
pends, compare as follows:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Ore treated, tons .. 269,929 322,310 375,500
tirade: Gold, dwt. . . 4.2 3.4 3.1
Copper, p.c.. . 0.6 0.6 0.7
Concentrate, tons . . 9,538 11,618 13,685
Grade: Gold, dwt. .. 73.9 60.2 53.7
Copper, p.c.. . 15.8 15.5 16.4
Cold produced, oz. . . 35,618 35,284 37,422
Copper produced, tons.. 1,513 1,807 2.252
Recovery: Gold, p.c. .. 64.4 63.8 63.3
Copper, p.c... 86.7 84.7 84.1
Ratio concentration . . 27.2 27.7 27.4
Outstanding features there are quickening
of throughput, following additions and
improvements to plant, and continued
decline in the grade of ore, owing to
admixture of a greater proportion of
overburden. Costs were Is. 1.5 d. per ton
lighter at 12s. 4d. —mining ss. 6.6 d. and
treatment 6s. 9.4 d. Mining cost is figured
on a ratio of overburden to ore of
3 to 1, not the ratio actually experienced.
On the same basis the combined cost
of mining and realisation was 18s. per
ton of ore treated.
Sulphide ore reserves to June 30 were
estimated at 7,126,748 tons, assaying
4.25dwt. gold and 1.79 p.c. copper, and
there is believed to be a lot more lower-
grade but profitable stuff outside the
measured limits. As workings approach
the 512 ft. level, the value of mill feed
is expected to conform more closely to
mine average.
The co. ships its concentrates to Ta-
coma (U.S.A.) for refining, and the all-in
realisation cost has been around ss. 6d.
per ton of sulphide ore treated. Recently
the board decided to erect smelters at
the mine, and shortly before the close
of accounts 200,000 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
were issued and underwritten at a cost
of £lO,OOO for this and other purposes.
These pref. shares are redeemable at par
in eight years, or after five years at the
option of the co. The money is to be
used £35,000 to further extend the sul-
phide mill (lifting weekly throughput,
average last term 6446 tons, to 10,500
tons), £60,000 smelting plant, £92,uuo
mine development and equipment and
£13,000 contingencies.
When the books closed there was still
£32,559 of the pref. money to come.
When it is all in paid capital will be
£493,500 in 200,000 £1 prefs. and
2,348,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each. Exclud-
ing shares in Mt. Morgan Developments
(£10,000), current assets (£329,940, includ-
ing £lOO,OOO on fixed deposit) exceeded
outside liabilities (£116,640) by £213,300.
During the current term the pref. capi-
tal will call for approximately £16,000.
Production, however, will be substan-
tially increased, costs are expected to be
reduced, and there should be consider-
able saving in realisation charges when
the smelter gets to work —it is scheduled
to begin about the beginning of 1939.
Much will depend upon the overburden
problem, what allowance, if any, is made
for depreciation, and upon the price of
copper, which has strengthened since the
close of accounts. The trouble has been
that estimates have got astray, as they
often do in the best-handled mining con-
cerns. There has been no mismanage-
ment of the venture.
At 11s. 3d. the ords. give an immediate
return of 6.6 p.c. on a 30 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 21s. 3d. yield 7.5 p.c.
To date shareholders of Deborah
G.M., N.L., have put £47,021 into their
Bendigo (Vic.) mine, one of the most
promising on the field, and have had
£10,675 back in divs., while a further 6d.
distribution, calling for £1525, is payable
on Oct. 25. The co., which has extracted
some 30,000 tons since taking over in
1932, is working on the Deborah anti-
cline, between the Garden Gully and
Sheepshead lines of reef. Ten levels
(deepest at 1000 ft.) have been opened up,
and two new ones are being driven at
1080 ft. and 1160 ft. to prospect continu-
ance of the big formation met on No.
10 horizon. So far payable only in sec-
tions, this, with the large fault reef at
950 ft., where a lot more stone remains
to be taken out, has provided bulk of the
mill feed to date. Insufficient work has
yet been done to estimate tonnage avail-
able and values. For the six months to
July 31 a reduced profit of £3405 is
shown:
All-in
Six Treated, Yield, Costs, Net. / —-Divs.— N
Months. Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
L £
Jan.,’3B. . 6816 66/2 34/2 7603 1/- 3060
July,’3B . .8463 40/- 32/1 3406 1/6 4675
Latest result reflects slip in yields from
the co.’s own battery from 7.ldwt. to
s.6dwt. and the increased tonnage (2333,
returning 2.6dwt.) of unpayable develop-
ment ore crushed at the Carlisle mill.
An encouraging feature is the reduction
in costs, which include major develop-
ment and shaft-sinking outgo. Since the
close of accounts the rich leg of a narrow
formation dug up at 525 ft. has provided
a useful sweetener to mill-feed, returns
from regular crushing averaging half an
ounce. If developments at depth realise
expectations, it is intended to dupli-
cate the existing 10 head of stamps,
which is expected to shave 4s. 6d.
a ton off costs. At July 31 the co. had
£9224 liquid, and owed £2514. In addi-
tion, 4000 f.-p. shares were held in North
Deborah, an offshoot thrown off to de-
velop the northern extension of the
parent’s leases. At 18s. a share, market
valuation of the Deborah mine is £54,900.
Tingha South, tin-sluicing at Tingha
(N.S.W.), has made a good getaway.
After writing £844 off flotation expenses,
first accounts, covering six months’ regu-
lar production to June 30, disclose net
profits of £3608, which is at the rate of
14.4 p.c. p.a. on the £50,000 of capital.
Production was 92 tons t.o. from 139,000
c.y., a recovery of 1.51 b. That is about
short of average prospectus estimates ;
working costs at Is. 2d. per c.y., however,
were slightly better than anticipated, and
both plants worked reduced time owing
to low tin prices. Since the close of
accounts heavy rains have interfered with
working, but 63,000 c.y. had been sluiced
at October 6 for a working profit of
£1970; yields averaged 1.41 b. and costs
Is. 4d. a c.y. The co. has 4,700,000 c.y.
available, of which 1,557,500 was esti-
mated to average 2.11 b. t.o. (90 p.c. re-
coverable), with a further 1,150,000 c.y.,
partly proved, expected to go the same.
Testing of the remaining 2,000,000 c.y.
has been temporarily suspended. With
tin above £2OO stg. again—-it averaged
£176 for the period covered by the
accounts —the co. may not be long off
the div. list if values hold. The two plants
are reported in first-class order, and
the dams are full. At June 30 there was
£1271 in the cashbox to cover indebted-
ness of £360. The ss. shares are around
3s. 9d. in the market.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, the West’s
premier producer, is again paying 50
p.c. (£280,000 stg.) for the year to June
30, final disbursement of 12£ p.c., with
a similar distribution on account of the
current period, both less tax, being pay-
able on December 8. Accounts aren’t
yet to hand, but, according to monthly
returns, the co. in its latest term treated
619,919 (up 27,000) tons of ore and
708,996 tons of sands for a mine profit
of £A604,642, which bettered the previous
year’s effort by £52,499. The current
term promises better still, ore-treatment
for the first quarter being at the increased
rate of 660,000 tons p.a.; mine surplus
for the period rose to £A 156,928.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) announces further en-
couraging deep developments in the
Happy Jack lease, but so far has not
been able to duplicate them in the main
workings. Recent boring on the Happy
Jack resulted in the following satisfac-
tory exposures: At 1000 ft. vertical,
two makes of ore aggregating 30ft. in
width and assaying s.ldwt. per ton ; at
930 ft. vertical, three sections of ore
aggregating 41ft. in width and averaging
6.9dwt. per ton (one section of 17ft.
averaged 11.2dwt.); at 816 ft. vertical,
28ft. of ore averaging 11.4dwt. —lift, of
this body averaged 21dwt. and 17ft.
s.3dwt.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward, N.L. (W.A.), is hold-
ing a “bargain” sale of 1000 £lO 12 p.c.
debentures, of which 545 have been
sold. The sale may be closed on October
20, or on any later date the co. may
think fit. The proceeds are to be used
to buy and instal plant capable of secur-
ing a higher extraction at a lower cost.
Repayment of debentures is to be in the
forefront of the board’s policy, and no
capital expenditure to the disadvantage
of debenture-holders is to be made.
* * * *
Lochinvar (W.A.), which includes the
old Paddington Consols, has not proved
the prize Great Boulder Mining and
Finance, Ltd., expected. The conclusion
of the co.’s experts is that the good
values stabbed in boring from the sur-
face are apparently in flat formations,
not in vertical lodes parallel to the main
hanging-wall vertical lode, as was
assumed. The board has resolved to
reduce expenditure to a minimum and
let the mine on tribute.
* * * *
Bantam Blue Bird (W.A.) is laying
well. On top of a return of 12600 z.
from 280 tons of ore treated early in
September, 840 oz. has been extracted
from 2501 b. of specimen stone. In all
shareholders have received £30,000 in
dividends, equal to thrice the issued
capital. Ore reserves are estimated at
5000 tons of 4oz. average. The co. was
formed in 1934 as a reconstruction of the
Yarri Gold Mines, N.L., to acquire its
present holding. Purchase price was
£5500 and 30,000 paid shares.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) struggles on.
Last month it got £3730 from the treat-
ment of 1224 tons of its own and 59
tons of outsiders’ ore. Most encouraging
recent development has been extension
of a leading stope on the No. 7 level for
30ft. in values varying from to
24dwt. over'widths of 3ft. to 4ft.
* # * *
With the proceeds from a clearing sale
at Cracow at its back, New Golden Mile,
N.L., is giving the old Wycheproof, at
Bardoc, near Broad Arrow (W.A.), a try-
out. Although one of the oldest of the
eastern fields in Westralia, Bardoc has
been one of the smallest in production,
and has never had a mine of any note.
* * * »
Westralia’s September gold yield
(102,380 fine ounces) is the best for any
month for the last 23 years. Total out-
put for the expired nine months of this
year (852,125 fine ounces) is 123,7220 z.
greater than that for the corresponding
period of 1937. Already the aggregate
yield for 1938 is being guessed at
1,100,0000 z. The sharp rise in the out-
puts for August and September—they
both topped the 100,000 oz. mark —is
mainly due to increased production at
Lake View and at Boulder. A few old-
gold odds and ends, mostly jewellery,
continue to be sold to the Mint. In all,
sales this year have totalled £ll,OOO.
Company Meeting.
AUSTRALIAN ALLOY STEEL LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
Tlie Annual Goiieral Meeting of Australian
Alloy Steel, Limited, was held on October 10.
In moving the adoption of the Report and
Balance-sheet, the Chairman, Mr. J. D. Millen,
M.J.E. (Aust.), said:
“1 have much pleasure in expressing the
satisfaction of your Board at the greatly im-
proved condition of the finances of the Com-
pany and its subsidiary, Hadflelds (Australia),
Ltd., since the present Board assumed con-
trol in February last, as revealed in the
accounts presented to you. Such a change is
unprecedented.
"I desire to call particularly your attention
to the asset position of Hadflelds (Australia),
Ltd., as revealed in the Balance-sheet. The
total value of the assets, after deducting the
debit balance on Profit and Loss Account of
£16,1)19, is £117,462, whilst the outside liabili-
ties total £26,229, leaving a surplus of
£91,233 as the value of assets against a paid-
up capital of £60,000.
“The factory output for Hadflelds showed
a marked increase of £13,511 during the past
six months. By the same comparison, there
is an improvement of £12,958 in gross profit,
due to lower costs in materials and reductions
in foundry and overhead costs. Administra-
tion and selling expenses were £6378 for the
first half-year, as against £3997 for the last
half-year—a saving of £2381.
“Turning to the Australian Alloy .Steel
Accounts, it will be noted that there is a loss
shown for the half-year to 31st December,
1937, of £10,151, whereas those for the half-
year to the 30th June, 1938, show a profit of
£661. In this regard the following items are
worthy of note. Wages during the second
half-year were £992 less, and the prime profit
was £5568 greater. The factory oncost for the
last half of the year shows a reduction of
£5227, as compared with the first half of the
year; selling and overhead expenses for the
first half of the year were £4784, against £2079
for the second half.
MARKED IMPROVEMENT.
“It must be particularly pleasing to share-
holders to see the leeway made up during the
past half-year. The six months’ figures indi-
cate that an improvement of £30,152 has been
accomplished. It is obvious that the history
of the Company would have been finished had
we continued with the old scheme.
“Whilst carefully husbanding our financial
resources, -we have not by any means neglected
researches into steel properties, particularly
amongst the alloys.
“Thus to keep abreast of the times it is
essential that we keep our researches, as far
as possible, moving pari-passu with our work.
This we have accomplished.
"Special attention lias been given to our
sales organisation.
“Selling lias now become sales engineering,
a matter of calm study rather than of strong
argument, a business of weighing trends. Re-
garding customer research, we make an avenue
of contact between ourselves and users, of
value to both, as a means of avoiding guess-
work and unsatisfactory decisions. To accom-
plish this we have made up our watchword ‘An
Eye to the Future and An Ear to the Ground.’
“I must also comment on National Insur-
ance, which comes into force in the beginning
of the year. The underlying principles of this
movement are good. It is believed that the
policy indicated might result in mitigating
poverty, in allaying social unrest, and in con-
tributing to a higher degree of industrial
peace.
“Care must be taken, however, by the Gov-
ernment not to turn the industries of this-
country into a laboratory for the conducting
of social experiments.
“The estimated cost to our Company will
be about £l5OO per annum, which is a some-
what additional burden.
“The International Situation, which seri-
ously affects our business, is still obscure.
The League of Nations lies stricken in the Rig
White Palace on the Lake of Geneva, and
now appears a mausoleum of lost hopes.
“All this has a reflex in the Commonwealth
in general and on industry in particular. How
much it may influence trade here is impos-
sible to estimate.
“The effects of the coal strike must be con-
sidered —it has a serious effect on the busi-
ness of the community. The fear and un-
certainty of the future have made a marked
influence on the flow of finance and fhe con-
duct of business generally.
“We found during the past six months it
was desirable to extend the moulding floor
at your Company’s works, and a new crane,
with the necessary transporting and handling
equipment, is being installed.
' “Your Company, under proper and efficient
management, must eventually prove to be a
valuable adjunct to the industrial life of the
Commonwealth.
“The satisfactory reorganisation as shown
in the Balance-sheets is a happy augury for
the future prosperity of the Company.
“I desire to record your Board’s apprecia-
tion of the loyal and efficient services of the
staff, which have made the splendid results
achieved possible.
“I desire to move the adoption of the Report
and Balance-sheet.”— *


Hair and Scalp Specialist Kay Says:
BALDNESS CANNOT BE CURED
BERNARD KAY
So . . . WHY GO BALD?
my hairgrowing
MY IkitUftlU HOME TREATMENT
Will definitely remove DANDRUFF, GROW HAIR and
PREVENT BALDNESS, where there is the SLIGHTEST
SIGN OF HAIR LIFE ON THE SCALP.
Full Course of "KAGRO" HOME TREATMENT
10/- POST FREE ANYWHERE 10/-
(Sent under private cover with simple directions.)
• Dispensed only by BERNARD KAY, HAIR & SCALP SPECIALIST, 31 Bent St., Opposite
the Government Printing Office, near Macquarie St., Sydney. Established at the same
address 36 years. ADVICE FREE PHONE: B 5093
I SPECIALISE IN THE TREATMENT OF THE HAIR AND SCALP BY POST
SMOKE-OH!
Resurgam!
They came in their legions from various
regions,
At head of them Russia’s Aerial
Might ;
Then Mystery Murder! and Man
Falls Off Girder,
And China’s Napoleon, then Rebels’
Grave Plight.
More Hollywood Scandals and Pales-
tine Vandals
Were followed by Latest on Maga-
zine Ban,
Divorce of an Heiress, Sensation —
New Mayoress ;
The Latest on S.P. was close to the
van.
And so with rejoicing this inky host,
voicing
Relief that The Crisis had swum from
man’s ken,
Surged on yelling gladly, exultantly,
madly :
“ We’re back to the flapper-press head-
lines again !”
80.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man’s best friends are bis teeth.”
—toothpaste ad.
But the best of friends fall out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Movie producer states that American slang
is largely composed of long-forgotten old Eng-
lish words.”
Oyez?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An Englishman is searching for some quiet
place entirely cut off from the rest of the
world.” — News item.
To you, in search of peace and rest,
Some lonely, calm retreat,
Confidently we suggest
The ’phone box in our street.
Leon.
“Does that include gas and ’lectricity?”
“Mussolini hailed as peacemaker of Europe.”
But Hitler is the pacemaker.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Vic. Police Commissioner declares that petrol
and alcohol won’t mix.”
Apparently he’s never tasted a shearer’s
cocktail.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Your M.P. is your servant,” states political
leaflet.
That accounts for their always having
a dust-up in the House.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Surfgirl and Horsewoman.” — "Sun.”
A bareback rider, of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At a recent wedding 20 firemen armed with
hoses formed a guard of honor for a colleague.”
They apparently were quite prepared
to put out any old flames.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some insects possess amazing strength.”
—Entomology magazine.
For example, a wasp can lift a 14-stone
man a few feet in the air.
“A Sydney shoe manufacturer says his whole
staff is working overtime making women s
shoes.”
All hands to the pumps.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Few people know that a horse does not
possess a collarbone,” says a trainer.
Some of them, according to punters,
have no backbone either.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It seems a pity dogs can’t talk.” — "Truth.
If they could they’d probably be wags.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Table-setting Competition.”— News heading.
It is understood that the prize went to
the bloke who spread the tablecloth in
such a position that it could be read in
comfort.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The friendliness of dogs must make us
think.” — "Sun.”
They give us paws, so to speak.
4* 4* 4- 4-
Sunspots and Form.
O’Cohen’s Necromantic and Astrolo-
gical Tipping Systems have gained thou-
sands of satisfied clients in previous Mel-
bourne Cup seasons. Some of them are
now satisfied to give the game best, but
for the real neck-or-nothing, Long Bay-
or-laudanum sports we have something
special this year: SUNSPOTTED WIN-
NERS!
No other astrological tipping system
has taken the sunspot cycle into con-'
sideration. This year we’re using no-
thing else in our calculations, and already
a secret investigation of jockeys, horses
and bookmakers susceptible to sunstroke
has been made. What sunspots do to
radio is nothing compared with their
effect on racing.
O’Cohen's astronomical form touts
have their eyes glued to their telescopes
from sunrise to sunset clocking the sun-
spot bursts. So confident is the staff of
Mt. Stromlo Observatory that we are
on the right track that they have arranged
to mortgage the building and plant for
a plunge on our Cup tip. The odds will
be a record, because we know the fielders
who are so affected by sunspots that they
just can’t refuse any price asked for.
Bona fide politicians wishing to punt
on credit may again forward us their
gold passes as security, and our usual
free gift offer is devoted this year to the-
outback trier. Every such client who
comes from north of Capricorn will re-
ceive, before leaving Melbourne, a pair
of genuine goanna-hide boots, or, if he
prefers it, a small advance on his camel.
Angus O’Cohen.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Air-minded.
“He was a flighty husband.”
—Melbourne "Herald.”
Just another highflier who thought he
knew enough about dual-control to
handle two women at the one time.
Fuelled to capacity, he had just landed
a snappy blonde and was piloting her
round the town on his wing when he
side-slipped into his missus. Blind with
rage, she flew at him and reduced his
visibility by closing one of his eyes. She
circled around him and forced him to
do a pancake landing on his ear. Now
he’s flying solo.
Melton.
I Was a Legionnaire.
V.
Anyone ignorant of the iron discipline
of the Foreign Legion would doubtless
assume that, having done 40 miles at the
double through sand whilst carrying
almost twice his own weight in gear and
with the mercury showing 165deg. in the
shade, a legionnaire on returning to bar-
racks would be allowed a slight rest. Not
so. He has then to get down to the task
of preparing his clothing and equipment
for inspection. This work is known as
astiquage, which literally translated means
spit-and-polish.
This entails, as well as polishing all
equipment (and Heaven help the soldat
with one speck of dust on the burnished
soles of his boots), the scrubbing of white
fatigue uniforms. I soon hit on a plan
to simplify this arduous work. I simply
lay the uniform down on the lavabo floor
and sloshed it all over with whitewash
that I’d wangled from the Q.M.’s store.
So effective was it, in fact, that the cor-
poral congratulated me on its snowy
appearance.
The trouble started after I had put
about 50 coats on, one on top of the
other. The uniform naturally
got board-stiff, with the result
that it gave a loud creak
every time I moved. The
sound seemed to annoy that
monster Sergeant Vinblanc, for one
morning on parade he came along
the line with head bent in front
of each man to detect where it came
from. Just as he got opposite me a
fierce, hot sirocco hit the parade ground,
wilting my uniform and blowing the accu-
mulated lime of 50 whitewashings clean
into his face. As he staggered away,
groping blindly, I laughed and told him
that if he hadn’t been such a sticky-
beaking cow it wouldn’t have happened.
1 was sure he would have given me a look
of murderous hatred had both his eyes
not been bunged up.
I found that the Legion had a queer
code of morals. It was permissible, even
laudable, to hoist anything in the way of
equipment or uniform from another
legionnaire, but a swift and merciless
punishment at the hands of his fellow-
soldats awaited any man who was caught
taking a puff of another man’s cigarette
or swilling the heeltaps of anyone else’s
absinthe. When Synkaskoona, the Dal-
matian, was pinned to the barrack-room
wall by bayonets through his ears because
he swiped a handful of another man’s
soapsuds at the washtub he got no sym-
pathy from anyone. “Good enough for
the dog!” was the general comment.
Water, as my readers may have
(guessed, was far from plentiful, and for
ablution purposes
it was rationed
out at half a cdp-
ful per man per
day. Now it has
ever been my
boast that, though
the heavens fall,
I shall not miss
my daily tub.
Nor did I in the
Legion.
Some may
question my
ability to bathe
in half a cup of
water; admittedly
it was slightly in-
convenient, yet I
managed it, as
any determined
man would. I
simply poured the
water into my
canteen lid and
stood in it —or,
rather, balanced
in it, for I could get only one foot in. At
first I made the mistake of lathering all
over, but when I poured the remaining
water over my head my thick mop of
hair absorbed the lot, and I was com-
pelled to rub all the lather off again with
Popodopoulos’s blanket. Thereafter I
just squeezed the water over my neck
and let it cascade down over my chest.
What little water that was left after the
“Looks t ’ me like one o’ them
delayed parachute jumps —'e's
been there a coupla days.”
terrific heat had evaporated it trickled
down and lodged in the hollow of my
ribs. Still, I could look any man in the
eye and honestly say that I’d had my
bath.
I also got a valuable tip from some
hard-bitten old campaigners. Because of
the presence of some smart pickpockets
in the Legion, they said, they always
kept their most valued possessions, i.e.,
soap and money, tucked away in their
cheeks. It may prove slightly awkward
at first, they said, but one got quite used
to it after a bit. I decided to profit by
their experience.
On one side of my mouth, parked
securely, as I thought, between two back
teeth, 1 stuck my lp.st £lOO,OOO note. On
the other side I kept the soap.
One day as I was sitting in the can-
teen tossing off a pint of absinthe and
thinking that I had only another four
years and eleven months to go before I
was able to tell the sergeant off, a bibu-
lous fellow came by and exuberantly
belted me between the shoulder-blades.
I coughed and spluttered, and, although
I swallowed half a cake of coal-tar soap,
I thought no more about it at the time.
It wasn’t until a week later that, being
a bit short before payday, I thought
to recover my precious banknote. A
frantic search failed to reveal it. Then
I remembered that I had felt something
with sharp edges go down my gullet
when the idiot had clapped me on the
back. Mournfully I reflected that, even
if my gastric juices hadn’t corroded it,
the absinthe certainly would have eaten
the note away in a few minutes. I was
quite annoyed about it.
A few days after that, as I was enjoy-
ing some particularly hot soupe as we
sat in the caserne, I started frothing at
the mouth. Thoroughly alarmed, I went
on sick parade and told the doctor that
I had diagnosed my case as acute hydro-
phobia. He said it was due to a twisted
aorta. We had quite an argument about
it. He clinched it in the end by putting
me into hospital fob observation and
ordering me blackjack every two hours
and nothing but four No. 9’s for each
meal. It was not until I was discharged
a week later, emaciated but cured, that
I realised that it was my supply of soap
that had caused the trouble.
S. W. K.


82881
if
; *
xt
- 1
n
y t
Is.
*xv~ \ y
™7Z<S:
’irSF
YEARS OF WEAR IN ALL WEATHERS.
An imported Shetland Pony Skin upper gives this American style capless
Oxford exceptional wearing qualities.
Made with stout sole and soft calf back lining.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Brown. Price Price 63/-.
Write for a Catalogue.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Holeproof Ords.
Holeproof ord. shares, at 20s. 6d.
in Melbourne, seem well worth
attention. In N. S. Wales the Lustre
co. has recently lifted its div., so
conditions in the hosiery and
lingerie trade can’t be too bad. The
yield offering from Holeproof is
8 p.c.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used who lly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
aud at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Pedigree to Prices.
The sharemarkets have undergone
some extraordinary behavior in recent
times. Only pugnacity and tenacity have
saved many investors from throwing
Iheir holdings on the market during the
crazy dips on ’Change over the past 18
months. Wild movements in quotations
have occurred periodically ever since the
mad upward flight of all prices at the
beginning of 1937. Many market fol-
lowers have been completely bamboozled
by the turns of events; prophets have
been discredited on all sides ; and the
markets continue their habit of kicking
like a buckjumper every now and then,
and afterwards assuming an appearance
as docile and appealing as a Bedouin
Arab’s steed. The nag sometimes looks
not unlike an accomplished circus per-
former.
World developments have been very
trying since the Great War, it is true.
But, except for the post-war boom and
slump and one or two sharp ups and
downs in the next decade, markets kept
to a comparatively steady course until the
big 1929 depression. Recovery started
about four years later, aided by currency
“reflation,” and for another four
years there was a fairly steady rise in
all prices. We had “prosperity” ; remem-
ber it?
The rearmament price-boom of early
1937 started to crumble in April, 1937,
when there were rumors that the U.S.A.
was going to put more ballast in the
balloon by placing a higher value on the
dollar. That produced a panic, which
brought the balloon nearer to earth in a
manner that must have disconcerted even
Mr. Roosevelt. Prices crashed all over
the world, and, with a noise of escaping
hot-air that was unfortunately only too
widely heard, the New Deal suffered a
“recession” that put it on its back.
American imports of raw materials were
cut to a fraction, and metals, wool,
cotton, rubber and almost any other
commodity you like to mention were
marked down heavily, many to less than
half their 1937 peak.
Declines in commddiljy prices were
more the rule than the exception until
the middle of 1938. In the meantime,
share prices suffered a dozen hysterical
collapses; the lowest point for 1937 was
reached on Nov. 26 in Australia. With
many violent fluctuations in the market
since then, mainly because of war scares
(the worst, of course, being that on the
28th of last month), it is interesting, to
note that last Friday’s quotations for
market leaders such as Broken Hill
Prop., British Tobacco, Australian
Cement, Australian Glass, Tooth, Carlton
Brewery, Henry Jones, Burns Philp, Myer
Emporium, Australasian Paper, G. J.
Coles, North Broken Hill, Electro. Zinc
and Mt. Lyell would average out at
approximately the same level as on Nov.
26, 1937. Shares in cos. that have their
own special problems, such as wool-
broking concerns, are down consider-
ably over the 1(H months ; shipping cos.,
on the other hand, are mostly higher. A
motley collection of smaller, speculative
issues have shown a pronounced fall
almost up to the present time.
Metal prices have been on the upward
path for about three months, rubber is
improving, butter has been selling well
and a general rising tendency has been
evident in prices for most things over-
seas except wheat, of which a big crop
is being harvested. Wool has only re-
cently taken a turn for the better; but
if it follows metals up (it followed them
down) the present encouraging trend may
be maintained.
International developments of two or
three weeks ago showed that the white
races of the world seemed to desire
peace very strongly. Commonsense hav-
ing prevailed in the diplomatic and poli-
tical spheres, it may be a hopeful sign
for the financial and economic. As the
U.S.A. is the world’s greatest economic
problem at the moment, the big improve-
ment in New York share prices over the
past few weeks may be a pointer to a
happier political and business atmo-
sphere in that country. This page hasn’t
much time for day-to-day fluctuations in
Wall-street prices, but as the New Deal
must grow old in the eyes of its most
ardent supporters at some time or other
there are hopes that with the lapse of
every month the U.S.A. is drawing nearer
to commonsense in its financial adminis-
tration. Wall-street may anticipate this.
If Wall-street is right, the world may
benefit greatly.
Metals on the whole remained firm in
London last week, copper especially. An
announcement that production quotas for
the red metal are to be raised seemed
to suggest that the restriction committee
views the statistical position favorably.
Electrolytic at £53 10s. in London
last Friday compares with £44 18s.
sterling averaged during Mt. Lyell’s
year which ended on Sept. 30 last. Lyell’s
profits for last term haven’t yet been
published, but a final div. of Is. 6d. a
share, making 10 p.c. for the year, should
be reasonably assured.
Tin rose strongly to above £2OO ster-
ling, and kept above it despite some small
fluctuations. This is the basis on which
the prospectus of Tableland Tin, shortly
to start its No. 1 dredge at Return Creek
(N.Q.), estimated its earnings at flota-
tion early last year. Operations will com-
mence in ground going above a pound
a yard, Malcolm Newman estimates, with
a long life ahead even when the outsize
No. 2 dredge gets going. The co. is wise
in trying out its 100,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge
first, however.
Malayan tin shares have made a good
recovery following the lift in the price
of the metal. Briseis, at Derby (Tas.), has
recovered to 6s. 9d. (ss. shares). This is
a well-managed sluicing show that has
been rather unfortunate ; it promises to
reach the div. list as soon as the financial
setback caused by the last flood is
remedied. Normanby (N.Q.) is making
calls rather than handing out divs., and
the scrip is down to lOd.
With lead at £l6 17s. 6d. sterling (£l7
9s. 6d. in North’s and South’s last finan-
cial year) and spelter at £l5 10s. (£l6
13s. 4d., 1937-38), Barrier mining stocks
kept very firm, Norths selling at 51s. and
Souths at 335. 6d. Zinc Corp., the long-
term pick of Broken Hill shows, was up
to 101 s. New B.H. Consolidated quotes
continue to fluctuate with metal prices,
but the mine won’t be producing for
some time yet.
* * * *
When the Munich agreement was
signed last month one of the first
financial reactions in London was
a spectacular rise in the exchange
value of the p'ound sterling. In dol-
lars, its value hardened from 4.60 to
4.73 overnight, and then to 4.82. Gold
fell from £7 7s. to £7 4s. Id. in a
day or two. ' Last week sterling was
around 4.74 again and gold had risen to
£7 6s. lOd. America’s world trade,
though reduced in total volume, is still
heavily in its favor, and against Britain,
for one.
* * * *
Mount Kasi Mines, Vanua Levu, Fiji,
has so far in 1938 (to October 5) treated
28,921 tons for 63270 z. fine gold, ex-
clusive of slags. That represents an
average recovery of 4.22dwt., which
should be improved with slag clean-ups
when the annual report comes out —it is
made up to December 31. In the 1937
twelvemonth; 33,232 tons of ore yielded
74960 z., including slags —the full aver-
age recovery was 4.51dwt., whereas the
monthly milling showed 4.23dwt. In
1937 costs were 275. 6d. a ton; this
year they should be more like 20s. If
present millings, recoveries and costs are
maintained for. the remainder of the
year, the co. should be able to show the
£30,000 profit suggested here at the be-
ginning of the term. In 1937 £8047 was
earned. Kasi 3s. shares have been more
in demand lately ; they lifted to 4s. 9d.
last week. At Friday’s price of 4s. 6d.
they looked a reasonable proposition.
* * * *
Net profit of Golden Plateau (Cracow,
Q.) was £135,936 for the year to June
30 last, as compared with £153,663 in the
preceding term. Latest result was close
to estimates made on this page back in
July. Ore reserves are put at 178,800
tons containing 48,0200 z., a drop of
58,500 tons and 28,8920 z. during the
year. Apparently development during the
year hasn’t fully proved any additions to
estimates, as the drop indicated is
approximately equal to the year’s extrac-
tion. Additional “probable” ore above
No. 3 level is put at 35,500 tons, con-
taining 12,9500 z.
* * * *
Melbourne Steam ords., for some
reason one of the most unstable of Aus-
tralian shipping stocks, seem one of the
best purchases in their class. Recently
they slipped fairly sharply; last week
there was recovery to 285., and at that
figure the return was 5 p.c. It is a good
yield under present conditions.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords. were
suggested in B. 5/10/’3B at 605., and
they could be got at near that figure for
some days after the market collapse.
Last week they sold at 655.; then buyers
offered 645., with sellers at 665.
* * * *
Adelaide Steamship shares have been
going at 325. 9d., returning £4 6s. per
cent, on the 7 p.c. div. basis. It is a
stock with excellent long-term prospects.
* * * *
George Farmer’s board has made up
its mind about the co.’s £60,000 of 8 p.c.
pref. capital ; meetings are to be called
to obtain sanction for the return of the
lot. This old-established Ballarat bacon-
curing concern hasn’t such an extensive
business as it used to ; luckily its finances
are in such good shape that it is in a
position to relieve itself of the £4BOO
pref. div. charge without difficulty. The
ords. have lately firmed to 10s. od.
* * * . *
North Kalgurli is the fair-haired one
among Westralian gold shows. The
sharemarket hasn’t paid under 21s. in
Melbourne for the 2s. shares for many
months, and now, following the declara-
tion of a ninepenny div., payable in
sterling on Nov. 25, the bidding has lifted
to 245. a share. Div. declarations in
recent years have been as follows:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Aug. 18, 6d. Apr. 30, fid. June 10, Is. 3d.
Dec. 28, 9d. Aug. 10, 9d. Nov. 25, 9d.
Dec. 10, 9d.
For the first nine months of 1938 the
North Kal. mine has put through ton-
nages for results shown in the second
line following:
Nine Est. Wkg. Devel.
Months, Revenue. Exes. Exes.
Sept., Tons. £A. £A. £A.
1937 .. 100,567 338,086 141,917 31,444
1938 .. 100,165 332,313 141,703 34,680
The lower price of gold for the early part
of the latest period shows up in the
estimated value of recoveries; develop-
mental ore put through during the past
three months has also affected recoveries.
However, all the figures show a remark-
able stability when compared with the
preceding similar period. The costs item,
with wages up, is particularly commend-
able.
* * * *
Last week Yarra Falls shares slipped
back to 365. 6d., to return 5.5 p.c. on the
present 10 p.c. div. basis. With less
credit facilities available in London, im-
porters of suitings, etc., may be compelled
to turn more to Australian products;
Yafra Falls men’s worsteds and women’s
woollen dress materials are among the
best made in this country, and the co.
should participate in any diversion of
trade. Of course, some of those condi-
tions which have caused a shrinkage in
our London funds are likely to affect the
people’s general buying power in Aus-
tralia, so that it wouldn’t be all ga'in
to our manufacturers. Still, it can be
seen that concerns like Yarra Falls are
subject to a sort of economic balance-
wheel that gives them some protection
in uncertain times even if, under better
financial conditions, the same balance
factor makes competition from overseas
keener.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Support for local stocks on ’Change was
rather weak. Herald shares slipped down
to 565., Holeproof to 20s. 6d. (after 21s. 9d.),
H. B. Dickie ords. dropped Is. (to 255. 6d.)
and Myer ords. Is. (to 295. 6d.). On the other
hand Carlton Brewery lifted to 665.; it is a
seiect stock, often spoken for here. Perhaps
the decisive victory for the “Wets” had some-
thing to do with the lift.
Austin Distributors ords. lifted to 40s.
cum rights to the new pref. issue.
O.T. announced an ord. div. of 7 p.c., up
1 p.c. compared with 1936-37, and returning
to the same rate as in 1935-36.


se& tfa Near. Hute poweiju/t
BRITISH BEDFORDS
1217 MORE POWER ... 5 TO 157 LESS PETROL
:
mtmMw
0*
NEW, MODERN
APPEARAN CE
Bedford’s new radia-
tor front is as smart
as that of a modern
car. And there is a
practical side to its
design. The hori-
zontal slots not only
give a modern ap-
pearance, but also
contribute to more
scientific airflow and
cooling.
• *
/ • <£
\
*©
_ Only Bedford Offers 6-Phase Carburation
Always amazingly economical, Bedford now offers a more powerful
72 H.P. O.H.V. Six Cylinder Engine that actually uses less petrol
than the previous 64 H.P. Bedfords. A new Six-phase Carburettor,
offered only by Bedford, is part of the secret.
d
Bedfords give you bigger allowable payloads, too!
You’ll make more money with a British
Bedford. Check it from any point of view.
Take running economy—and you will find
that the low-rewing Bedford engine saves
20 gallons of petrol and more a week in
normal truck mileage. Take hauling ability
—and you’ll discover that Bedford allows
hundreds of pounds more payload for its
various capacities than other trucks. Take
speed of handling—and again you will find
that Bedford scores. Though its payload
area is identical with that of other trucks,
Bedford’s wheelbase is considerably shorter.
It manoeuvres more easily in congested
spaces, handles better out on the open road.
Finally—take stamina —freedom from
trouble and ease of maintenance. Compare
frames and you’ll find that whereas other
trucks use the same frame throughout their
entire range, Bedford has a different frame
for each model from 30 cwt. to 3 tons.
Compare back axles and you’ll discover
that Bedford’s is visibly bigger. Finally,
contrast the ease of servicing Bedford’s Six
Cylinder Overhead Valve Engine in com-
parison to multi-cylinder and L head
engines. Do all these things and you’ll
buy a Bedford. How about dropping along
to see the new range ?
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
CHASSIS PRICES from £285
Buy on the convenient, confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
Consult your local Authorised Bedford Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Bedford Dealers all over Australia.
W 322
There was some confident bearing of
Oil Search scrip last week and on Mon-
day. It seemed to bank on shareholders
being disappointed when the long-
awaited “announcement” comes to hand.
The stock’s supporters, on the other
hand, held the price at near the highest
recent levels. Turnover was substantial.
* * * *
A sidelight on the affairs of Mount
Morgan:
. The co. was formed in 1929, it com-
menced quarrying in October, 1932, and
production of concentrates the same
financial year. At June 30, 1933, the co.
had a paid capital of £172,088, a p. and 1.
credit of £7llB, and a reserve for re-
moval of overburden of £5890. Since then
the co. has declared net profits of
£545,070 (excluding £lO,OOO received in
shares from Mount Morgan Develop-
ments) ; of these declared earnings,
£3B,l2o«has been allocated to overburden
removal exes., £19,199 has been set aside
for employees, £15,000 has been reserved
for bad debts, and £370,399 paid in divi-
dends. That left £109,470 to the credit
of p. and 1. last balance day, out of which
a further ord. div. of 3d. a share has
since been paid. Reserve for removal of
overburden was £lO,OOO on 30/6/’3B.
While the co. has been handing out divs.
each year as shown in the first column
of the following table, it has been raising
additional capital and premiums as shown
in the second column:
Capital and
Divs. Premiums
Paid. Raised.
1933- .. .. £34,418 £24,753
1934- .. 80,000 131,572
1935- .. .. 127,599 172,952
1936- .. 40,333 110,342
1937- .. .. 88,049 167,441
£370,399 £607,060
Paid capital at June 30 last was £460,941,
of which £167,441 was represented by the
recent 8 p.c. pref. issue. In the five-year
period covered by the table, £318,204 of
share premiums was raised ; this sum has
been used, as to £43,617, for providing
plant depreciation ; as to £182,547, for
writing off cost of installation and recon-
ditioning of plant; and as to £92,040, for
writing off cost of mine preparation. At
June 30 last the financial position was as
follows:
Assets —
Mine £53,420
Plant 305,689
Underwriting exes 8,000
Stocks, stores, bullion .. .. 211,629
Debtors, etc. 18,312
Shares 10,000
Fixed deposit 100,000
£707,050
Liabilities —
Creditors £28,280
Bank 88,360
£116,640
The outlook for shareholders depends to
a large extent on how soon extraordinary
expenditure in handling the opencut and
other problems ceases, and on how soon
total expenditure (capital and otherwise)
is reduced to a point where mine revenue
shows an annual surplus over that ex-
penditure big enough to indicate a return
of the present market price of the scrip
within a reasonable time. A mine, with
its plant and fittings included, is a wasting
asset.
* * * *
Copra keeps low in London, notwith-
standing a small rise of 2s. 6d. (to
£9 55.) per ton for South Seas sun-dried.
Morris Hedstrom shares are firm at
above 255.; buyers offer that figure (at
which last sale was made), but sellers
aren’t of the anxious variety. W. R.
Carpenter scrip, ex rights, is at 445. 6d.,
yielding £4 1 Is. per cent.; the rights at
18s. 6d. look attractive. The Carpenter
concern nowadays isn’t nearly so depen-
dent on the price of copra as it was. Its
development on the trading and trans-
port sides has been very considerable of
recent years. The shipping tonnage was
bought very cheaply.
Steamships Trading Co., with Papuan
copra, rubber and general merchandising
and coastal and river shipping interests,
has a market of around 225. for its ords.
and 235. 6d. for its prefs. These quotes
are lower than the price at which the
new scrip was placed some time ago,
when copra and rubber were booming
and an all-round 10 p.c. div. was being
paid ; it will be interesting to see how the
co. has fared under the altered conditions
of the past year. Div. and accounts are
due next month.
* * * *
Shares in Henry Jones, the IXL jam
people, after falling to 435. 6d. were up
to 48s. again last week, yielding about
£4 3s. per cent. A final div. is due in
December (accounts being made up to
Nov. 30). Last term earnings of 13.1
p.c. on ord. capital were disclosed and a
10 p.c. div. was paid for the second time
since the depression. Interim declared
in June last was at the unchanged rate
of 10 p.c. p.a.
* * * *
Ords. in United Provisions —the co.
recently declared a 4 p.c. div. on this
class of scrip, covered by earnings of
the subsidiaries during the year—have
been climbing steadily in spite of market
hullabaloos. Last week they were around
Bs. 3d., which compares with a 1938
highest quote of Bs. sd. It is a firmly
established business waiting for an easing
of the conditions under which it has
to operate—high costs and competitive
selling prices.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Sidelights on the Crisis.
[These items from various printed sources are given
chiefly for the light they throw on the crisis as its impact
was felt and responded to in Britain. Many must have
been struck at the time and since by the colossal
effrontery of papers like “S. M. Herald” and contributors
to them, remote from any threat of the direct conse-
quences of war, instructing people in Britain on what
their choice should have been.]
Let England at long last blow the bugles of
resistance to Fascist aggression.— Hewlett Johnson,
Dean of Canterbury, in the “Daily Herald” (placed
first because, all things considered —including the
position of its utterer —it is, of the items here given,
by far and away the ugliest).
* * * * *
On behalf of the Church of the Province of New
Zealand, I have sent a cable to the Prime Minister
of England expressing deep thankfulness for the over-
ruling providence of God in the present crisis and
also heartfelt appreciation of the Prime Minister’s
untiring devotion in the cause of peace.— Archbishop
Averill, Primate of New Zealand, reported in the
“Dominion” (given here as representing the voice of
the true workers for peace).
*****
What a topsy-turvy world it is! The Labor
party, which continually voted against armaments, is
shouting war-cries, and generals covered with medals
urge us to mind Britain’s business.
And a Peace movement calls at No. 10 Downing-
street demanding that Britain should fight.
Among the demonstrators one day were some
Austrian refugee Jews.
I was telephoning in a kiosk in Whitehall as a
great demonstration arrived. The crowd was estimated
at 10,000 people.
For ten minutes they passed me shouting “Stand
by the Czechs,” yet I did not see one single person
wearing a Territorial Army or A.R.P. buttonhole
badge.
Instead I saw Communist badges, Spanish repub-
lican flags, and red, white and blue armlets denoting
the Czech national colors! — Lord Killanin.
*****
Dig a trench. So long as it is deep enough for
you to sit in, it is all right. Cover it with corrugated-
iron sheeting and put a one-foot layer of earth over it.
When you go to the trench take your gas masks.
As yet, no gas mask or gasproof bag is available
for children under four years. A blanket makes a
good makeshift. Children should, of course, be sent
to relatives or friends in the country if possible.
Children, particularly babies, are one argument in
favor of gasproof refuge-rooms or cellars.
Keep a bucket and metal scoop and at least 301 b.
of dry sand. This, for incendiary *bombs. Smother
the bomb with sand, then scoop both into the bucket,
which must be partially filled with sand. Then throw
it outside. Never throw buckets of water on them.
Also paint all attic woodwork with a mixture
of 21b. slaked lime, loz. cooking salt, 1 pint cold
water. Two coats. — “Daily Express.”
*****
Three thousand children, blind, deaf and dumb,
or physically defective in other ways, will begin the
great trek from London to-day [September 28].
They are pupils of the London County Council
“special” schools. By ambulance and coach they
are to be evacuated to residential schools in the home
counties.
An L.C.C. official said: “We are telling the
children they are going on a holiday.” Each will take
a blanket and rations for one day.
No child will go without its parents’ consent.
This will also be true of the evacuation of 500,000
London children which would become desirable in
the event of hostilities. All children will be expected
to bring a change of underclothing, an overcoat or
mackintosh, and some food.” — “Daily Express.”
*****
In and around London many people before set-
ting out to work first procured their gas masks. In-
deed, so general was this procedure that early in the
day [September 28] long queues were to be seen at
many of the distributing centres.
In all the parks in and around London and in
other open spaces trenches are being dug. In many
parts mechanical excavators are being used. Men
worked through the night by the light of flares.
Men of the anti-aircraft forces, who had been
called up the previous night, took up their positions.
On Horse Guards Parade—cleared of the hundreds
of motor-cars which normally park there —large
crowds watched as young Territorials, fresh from their
offices and workshops, erected a searchlight, an instru-
ment for detecting the approach of aircraft and an
anti-aircraft gun. Along the Embankment, too, crowds
gathered to watch anti-aircraft guns being mounted.
The young soldiers who stood by had steel helmets
slung over their shoulders.
The children from certain private schools, schools
for physical defectives and orphanages have already
been evacuated. — “Times.”
*****
In one case the price of sand was advanced in
two days from 11s. 6d. to 225. 6d. a yard. Quotations
for timber were also much higher.— “ Daily Herald.”
*****
Mothers worried for the safety of children who
are too young to wear a gas mask are being told by
A.R.P. authorities to register their babies and to await
instructions which will be issued very shortly from
headquarters.
An official at the Chelsea depot said: “We are
telling parents not to worry, as long as they give us
particulars of their babies.” —“Evening News.”
*****
By now [September 30] every adult person has
his (or her) gas mask. A few people have sought to
obtain two gas masks. This is illegal.
The Institute of the Horse and Pony Club states
that it has been found impossible to deal with arrange-
ments for masks for animals. Owners of animals are
strongly advised by the Institute of the Horse to send
them out of London and other large towns and, in air
raids, to scatter them over fields when possible.
Animals which have been subjected to a gas raid
should not be touched with the hands because, when
affected, their coats may cause blistering.
The Salvation Army had three motor-kitchens
operating in the London parks until after midnight
on Wednesday and again last night. The officers who
accompanied them gave tea, coffee and cakes to the
men working on the trenches. In this way more than
2500 men were supplied with refreshments. The Slum
Sisters toured their districts with a motor-coach
supplying tea and food to the queues waiting for the
fitting of gas masks.
The work of assembling sandbags for the pro-
tection of notable buildings went on steadily yesterday.
Workmen were busy stacking them high on the ter-
race of the House of Commons, and near by, on
Westminster Bridge, a curious crowd gazed up at a
big anti-aircraft gun. Overhead flew two aeroplanes
towing notices which read: “Join your local auxiliary
fire service.” Workmen were removing some of the
large lamp standards from the parapet of West-
minster Bridge.— “ Times.” [The “Times” also pub-
lished pictures showing the preparations being made
to protect national art treasures in case of air raids.
They included: Building wooden structures to be
filled with sand for the protection of valuable books
and other treasures of Canterbury Cathedral. Work-
men boarding up the Desiderio mantelpiece at the
Victoria and Albert Museum. Beginning the removal
of glass from the south-east transept of the nave of
Canterbury Cathedral.]
*****
The crowds that still gather round the trenches
in the parks discuss mainly one topic—what will
they do with the trenches? “Keep them as they are,”
declares one man ; “never mind what the. parks look
like.” “Sink them deeper, line them with concrete,
put the turf back on top, and give London a perma-
nent civilian Maginot Line,” says another. A reserve
officer comments: “Somehow or other they must
make these trenches permanent, and hold full-scale
air-raid practices.” —“Evening Standard” (September
30).
Fireside Fusiliers and Future Policy.
[Having been denied their war over Czechoslovakia,
the war-urgers attacked by Lord Castlerosse in the
article here condensed from London “Daily Express
are now turning their talents to building up the vicious
idea that “we will have to fight Germany in the end.
That idea is also attacked by Lord Castlerosse, who
states a future policy towards which more and more
realistic thinkers in Britain and other parts of the
Empire are now turning, understanding at last the
madness of interfering in all shifts of European intrigue.]
In the statements made by such newspapers
as the “News Chronicle,” “Daily Herald” and “Daily
Telegraph” during this last crisis there was a note
which shocked us. They talked of war not only as a
possibility, but as a solution, inferring constantly that
it was necessary for the world that Germany be
beaten in battle. ,
There was a great difference between the attitude
of those who during the last war were in the front
line and those ferocious fireside fusiliers who never
saw a shot fired in anger.
We pacifists—determined realists —are greatly
composed of men who fought for this country, and
we know by experience certain things. First, that
even a victorious war never effects its professed end.
In 1914 we were told that we were fighting to
make the world safe for democracy and to kill
Kaiserism. We won: that is to say, we beat the
Germans, but all we succeeded in doing was to make
the world safe for autocracy, and substitute Heil Hitler
for Hoch der Kaiser, the Duce for Parliamentary
rule, and Stalin for a mildish Tsar.
If the contention is that German political
philosophy must be crushed, then the only thing is
to kill every German man, woman and child. It
would, I suppose, be possible to exterminate 70 or so
million Germans, half of whom are women and
children, but it is a big job.
When I review the last war I now realise that
nearly all my friends and many millions of others died
and nobody benefited one jot, and the world is not
better but worse than it was before, and yet the
promises that were made to us were wonderful. There-
fore, people who think as 1 do —and there are many
of us —see the futility of even contemplating a war
with Germany.
As for the morals of the recent case, the Germans
in Czechoslovakia have a far better case than the
Uitlanders had in South Africa. No man who believes
in the right of nations to self-determination could have
supported the Czechs, and 1 see no reason why our
manhood should be murdered by the million because
the draughtsmen at Versailles drew the frontier in
the wrong place.
Now the question is, what policy are we to
pursue in the future?
, There are two courses open to us. One is to
concentrate all our resources on perfecting our Army,
Navy and Air Force, having persuaded France to do
the same, attack Germany when we are ready, namely,
in a couple of years or so.
We are against that course for the very same
reasons already adduced here.
The second course is to quit playing with the
Devil’s jackpot of European intrigue. And if this leads
to Germany expanding in South-Eastern Europe let it
be the business of the countries which are directly con-
cerned, Russia in particular ; but this should not be
our business.
Hitler will never invade the Czech part of Czecho-
slovakia unless she joins in a war with Russia against
Germany. As for conquering and holding the Czechs,
the Germans will not do that either. Germany learned
its lesson in Alsace and Lorraine. Hitler knows
perfectly that, whereas a boil may increase the size
of a man’s neck, nevertheless it does not add to his
comfort.
If Hitler eventually invades the Ukraine and
obtains commercial domination over Rumania and
Hungary, many people will no doubt consider this to
be a very sad state of affairs. But surely not so
deplorable as the execution of a million Russians by
other Russians, which has taken place lately; and
nobody suggests that we should go to war to make
Russia safe for Trotsky.
As for the belief that if Germany expands in
South-Eastern Europe then her next step will be to
seize the British Empire, that is frankly nonsense.
I say this not because I have faith in international
promises or in international morality, but because
I believe that by that time Germany will have slaked
her thirst for possessions just as we have, the French
have, the Americans have and the Russians have.
In other words, Germany will have had enough,
and all her energies will go towards developing these
new lands. Besides, the Ukraine will not be taken
without a struggle, which will take time. As for the
morality of this view, it seems to me that there is not
much difference between the tyranny which the
Russians now exercise in the Ukraine and the tyranny
which the Germans might be expected to exercise.
It may also be noted that during this period we
ourselves and France will be becoming ever increas-
ingly powerful.
It seems to me that up to date our attitude towards
foreign affairs has been well-meaning but childish,
like a boy playing on the seashore who now and then
delights himself by finding a prettier shell or smoother
pebble than ordinarily, like the League of Nations,
while the ocean of truth lies all undiscovered before
him. I believe that that ocean of truth is called “Isola-
tion.” We will, of course, eventually come to this
policy. It is, however, up to you to decide whether this
desirable state comes before or after you and your
children are killed fighting for a country in which you
have no possible interest.
Flandin’s Manifesto .
The remarkable manifento here reproduced was,
on Wednesday, September 28, when war looked
certain, addressed to the people of France by
JI. Flandin, ex-Prime Minister. It was published in
“Liberte,” which was confiscated by the French
Government. Posted up under M. Flandin’s signature
in the streets of Paris, it was torn down by the
police, under Government orders.
Like M. Flandin’s London “Evening Standard”
article, published in last week’s “Uncabled Addi-
tions,” none of this was given to Australia and
Maoriland by cables, in which the fiction of a France
closely united on the issue of war with Germany
was sedulously cultivated.
The confiscated manifesto: —
People of France! You are being deceived! 1
lake on myself the risk of telling you so at a moment
in which passions are unchained.
For months past clever machinations have been
carried on to make war inevitable. Insinuations and
false news are the weapons of those who are driving
on to war. They would make you believe in intolerably
harsh demands in the past, and further demands made
by Hitler in addition to the agreements already con-
sented to.
This is false! The only disagreement is on a point
of procedure.
Shall the German troops enter the territory of the
Sudeten before or after the delimitation of the
frontiers ? Shall France again lose a million of her
sons in a war the pretext for which would be so
miserable ?
But the machinations proceed? The reply of the
Czechs must be given before 2 p.m. If the German
mobilisation is ordered we shall reply, and step by
step it will be war, as in 1914.
I have tried to stop this. I have asked that the
Chamber be convened. This has been refused. I
want the Government to explain its acts; I demand
that the official texts, neither shortened nor cut,
be presented for the discussion and criticism of the
legal representatives of the democracies; that each
one in the Government and in the Assemblies take his
responsibilities !
There are no cowards in France. If our country is
threatened we shall rise up to defend her. For a
just cause, to fulfil real pledges, we are all ready to
fight and to die. But patriotism must not be swindled.
The Communist leaders, who in this tragedy are
serving interests which are not French interests, have
asked for my arrest.
I prefer to be assassinated rather than let my country
be assassinated. At this hour I only see one legal
means of preserving peace: that all those who wish
to save it send to the Head of the State their petition
against a war.
Long live France!


&
sv
- -v..«
A
&N-
-■ \\ ''V
v:m
/J
NlivJ*'
sr
s
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
The Worlds Best
IiMITiIMUW
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
Masefield Speaks on War.
[The article here condensed is a London “Sunday
Express” interview with John Masefield when events
were rapidly approaching the recent crisis and the world
seemed doomed to war. Therefore, apart from its per-
manent value as a denunciation by a great man who
knew war closely, it is worth comparing with the shame-
lessly belligerent utterances made in some Australian
newspapers and over some radio stations.]
If wars go on we shall go back to the Dark Ages,
If we are to have big wars, colossal wars, every
twenty years, people will decide that to live longer in
big communities subject to such disasters is not worth
while. People wiil run away from communities and
nations as organised to-day, forming small groups
where quarrels as they arise can be dealt with with-
out savagery and organised hate and destruction.
The time will come when men everywhere w.ill
tire of quarrels which destroy all things worth having,
and all man’s toilfully won masteries. If nations
can’t solve these quarrels in other ways than by
slaughter, the nations will cease to be. Who will bring
children into the world to be blown to pieces? What
nations can continue with their young men killed and
the rest maimed or maddened? Aggressive war is
always murder. How long will man tolerate from a
nation what he stamps out in an individual?
After a few more wars a lot of people will ask
if it is worth while supporting any Government that
lets us in for this sort of thing.
The war in 1914 came as a blow —something out
of all precedence, upsetting all that one believed.
Now, of course, war would not come with such
a shock. We have the memory of 1914. Now we
know how war can arise and devastate. But if the
shock is correspondingly less, war will not be less
awful.
The only thing that will stop war will be a change
of heart, a realisation that war is damnable. Wars
will cease when the spirit of good will towards our
fellows prevails. But to-day we see another spirit
abroad, the spirit of bad will towards our fellows,
a spirit which is widespread, studied and deliberate,
a spirit of hate.
We have learned since the last war that hatred
can be organised and stimulated. That is the terri-
fying power for evil which is harrowing mankind
to-day. Hatred can be and is inspired wilfully and
deliberately by misuses of the press and wireless.
And unfortunately, although war is disastrous
to nations and to peoples, war is profitable to some
individuals and pleasant to those who love power.
Power of a sort very dear to some people is given into
their hands in war. Such people are prepared to
provoke wars for the enormous power which war will
put into their hands.
I know there is a philosophy of war which says
that the battlefield brings out many admirable
qualities. It is quite true. Dangers and emergencies do.
But wars may bring out the worst also. Certainly
w'ar provides opportunity for devotion, comradeship,
self-sacrifice and co-operation. No one can deny that.
But at the same time consider what war entails. It
is a violent killing of millions of young men, most of
whom have already suffered enough from the mis-
fortunes of life without having the misfortune of war
to suffer. They have suffered enough from the present
problems of civilisation, unemployment, haphazard
employment, malnutrition, etc., etc.
There is a greater comradeship of sacrifice which
can be experienced than the comradeship of war.
Who has not seen men rushing to help their fellows
in emergencies, entering burning buildings, manning
lifeboats, going out to wrecks, plunging in to save the
drowning?
I have not any feeling of hopelessness. If one
way of life fails, mankind will try another. After try-
ing a great many ways mankind will find the right one.
The fruits of war are tombstones and body-lice.
Fourteen million lost their lives in the last war, four-
teen million known dead.
People once believed that an omniscient power
created this universe and created each individual
man in the divine image. They knew that each indi-
vidual man could find in every other man something
of the spirit which created them all. They believed
that by banding with each other they could seek and
find this spirit and bring more of it into the lives
about them.
That is, roughly, how Christianity worked.
They believed in a dualism that there was good
and evil. They knew that if they served evil they
tended to bring powers of darkness into human life,
and if they served the good things they brought powers
of light into human life.
Sooner or later people will return to this. They
will sicken of slaughter and destruction.
Youth with a Capital Y.
(Condensed from a London “Sunday Dispatch ’’ article
by J. B. Priestley.)
There is something about Youth with a capital
“Y” that leaves me cold and suspicious.
It is not that I do not admire and like the young.
There is nothing wrong with youth. But Ido not
like Youth.
I am suspicious of the young people who
organise themselves into movements, and capitalise
their lack of years, crying, “Look how young we
are! Aren’t we wonderful? Youth, youth!”
This new business —self-conscious, priggish and,
to my mind, very Teutonic in its dreary solemnity—
of youth turning itself deliberately into “Youth” is
not normal and natural. It is—to use the prevailing
slang —both a stunt and a bit of a racket.
Just after the war we heard a great deal about “the
wicked old men” who had made it, and we were told
that now it was the turn of Youth to build up a world.
Since then this Youth has played a greater part in the
world’s affairs than it ever did before. We have had
Communist Youth, Fascist Youth, Nazi Youth, all
the student organisations in the East, and so forth.
What is the result? A world infinitely more
intolerant and violent than the world of 1914.
The contemporary world is showing us all the
worst faults of youth. That is why it is like a base-
ment crammed with dynamite. It has plenty of energy,
but much of it is grossly misdirected energy. It no
longer understands compromise, and is as impatient
of it as the young always are. It cannot tolerate a
contrary set of views. It likes rather than dislikes
violence. It is often cruel, just as youth is so often
cruel. It insists upon taking short cuts, just as youth
does. It has no patience, no long views.
In many directions there has been a definite gain.
But in all concerns that deal with public as opposed
to private life, the contemporary world is un-
doubtedly much worse, far nearer to barbarism, which
is something that the young do not know.
There is one huge fact that we are always for-
getting, and I believe it is supremely important that
we should keep this fact steadily in mind. It is this.
During the Great War millions and millions of young
men, belonging to at least ten different nations, were
killed. This means that by the end of 1918 there was
a terrible gap in the population of the great States.
Britain, France, Russia, Germany, Italy, Austria-
Hungary, Poland, Serbia, the United States —all had
suffered great losses in their manhood.
Here in Britain we lost a million. There can be
hardly a family here that did not lose one of its
most promising members. I know that of the boys
J played with as a boy only a fraction has grown to
mature manhood. Most of them were mown down
in the early days of July, 1916. France, Germany
and Russia had greater losses still.
The great States of Europe lost the flower of
their young manhood, with the result that they have
been sick ever since. For they are suffering now
from a lack of solid, middle-aged citizens, from the
very kind of men who would now be keeping those
States on a steady, even keel.
The men who were killed were the fit men, the
brave, the eager, the chivalrous, the men who had all
the best qualities of youth and would have found
for themselves the best qualities of middle-age. Most
of them now would have been between forty and
fifty years of age, masters of their trade or profession,
the fathers of families (and, remember, the loss to
womanhood has upset the balance too), and each one
a centre of influence. Scores of them would have
been busy influencing the political opinion of their
respective countries. Europe is still severely lamed by
that terrific blow at her male population.
But that is not all. For I doubt if the children
who were born or spent their early years during the
war years or those years just afterwards (which were
worse in Central Europe than the war years them-
selves) can be considered quite normal. They were
born into or nursed through a kind of vast earth-
quake. They opened their eyes and minds to a world
still rocking and bleeding. They lacked fathers and
sensible elder brothers. They spent their time with
womenfolk still dazed or hysterical. They sucked in
fear and hate with their milk. How could they be
normal?
We should never forget these grim facts for a
single instant. They go a long way towards explain-
ing why our newspapers to-day are crammed with
terrible tidings.
I distrust all this Youth business. Now that the
whole world has begun to imitate the vices, rather
than the virtues, of youth, I like it still less. I want
my affairs to be conducted by men who remember,
as I do, that the world was not always a madhouse,
and that the present orgy of intolerance, hate and
violence, to which the weakness of youth has con-
tributed, is only a symptom of Europe’s twenty-years-
old sickness and so need not last for ever.
Hitler on Colonies.
One portion of tlie Chainberlain-Hitler conversa-
tions—that bearing upon colonies—though of the
utmost importance to Australia and Maoriland, has
most significantly NOT been emphasised in news-
papers now bent on fostering an insular attitude of
threatening hatred towards Germany.
Not only these newspapers have shirred it over;
its significance has not been pointed out by national
leaders in Canberra or elsewhere, while in his
alarmist broadcast over national stations last week
N. S. Wales Premier Stevens, as reported, gave it no
mention at all.
Mr. Chamberlain, however, in his House of Com-
mons speesdi on September 28, gave it the emphasis
and prominence its importance demanded.
Mr. Chamberlain: It is true Herr Hitler said,
“There is one awkward question, the Colonies,
but that is not a matter for war,” and, alluding
to the mobilisation of the Czechoslovak Army,
which had been announced to us in the middle
of our conversations and had given rise to some
disturbance, he said, about the Colonies, “There
will be no mobilisation about that.”
There is another matter to which no reference
wilt be found in the Yelp Press now striving to keep
everybody in a state of jitters and alarm —that is,
the Anglo-German Nnvul Agreement.
Tliis also is of tlie utmost Importance. Partly
because of it tlie Hrltlsh Fleet, which is still our
greatest defence, remains a mulch for any adversaries
at sea, and there is ulso the symbolic aspect referred
to in the Chamberlain-llltler .Munich Declaration; —
We regard the agreement signed last night and
the Anglo-German Naval Agreement as symbolic
of the desire of our two peoples never to go to
war with one another again.
We are resolved that the method of consultation
shall be the method adopted to deal with any
other questions that may concern our two
countries, and we are determined to continue our
efforts to remove possible sources of difference
and thus to contribute to assure the peace of
Europe.
These matters cannot be too strongly emphasised.
They have direct and great importance for Aus-
tralians and Mnorilanders. and should not be lost
sight of, especially now, with the vicious idea being
propagated that hatred of Germany is something to
be encouraged and Intensified.


SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Caulfield Stakes on Wednesday
provided the most interesting exhibition
of galloping in Victoria since the new
season opened. Only four started, but
the four were Ajax, the ruling champion ;
Jack Holt’s two stars, Young Idea and
Avenger ; and Spear Chief, best Queens-
land horse.
Ajax was at 5 to 2 on when the barrier
rose. At earlier stages bookmakers ac-
cepted 6 to 4 for big money. Avenger
figured at fours, Young Idea at twelves;
no one wanted to back Spear Chief, de-
spite his reputation.
Harold Badger had been given author-
ity to let Ajax run full out. Expecta-
tions that the chestnut would open up a
substantial gap weren’t realised. He
covered the first half-mile in 49Jsiec.
without leaving more than a length or so
of daylight between himself and Young
Idea, while Avenger was trailing them
within nice striking distance.
After facing for home Ajax began to
hang out. Badger rode him on one rein
for a furlong ; then—fearing defeat by
Avenger, who was skimming along the
inner rail at express speed —he brought
the whip to bear. Ajax answered gamely
and gained the verdict by a neck. The
time, lmin. 50|sec., was a new course
record for nine furlongs, being a fourth
of a second faster than Young Idea put
up in the corresponding event two years
before.
Ajax finished under the judge’s nose.
It was the worst display of waywardness
he ever had given, and may indicate a
growing weariness of the game. More
will be known on that point at Fleming-
ton. Frank Musgrave, his trainer, com-
mented, in a tone of mild complaint,
“Ajax had two of them at him: Young
Idea to keep my fellow at his top and
then Avenger to throw out a late chal-
lenge.”
George Price didn’t seem concerned at
the dismal effort of Spear Chief, who
was not within pistol-shot of his nearest
rival after the field settled down. Price
pointed out that it was the Queens-
lander’s first run on a strange course.
Girella’s victory at 33 to 1 in the
Mona Nursery, for fillies, meant a rare
harvest for the bookmakers, particularly
as the even-money favorite, Folk Song,
failed to get a place. Folk Song, owned
and trained by J. T. Jamieson, surren-
dered control to Riviera at the home
turn. Riviera (fives) then appeared to
be “home and dry,” but Girella over-
whelmed her in the last few strides to
score by a neck. Winner was bred by
her owner, “S. A. Rawdon,” and prom-
ises to be the best of the Parenthesis
progeny.
Kingdom, who vanquished Plectrum
by half a neck in the Coongy Handicap
and survived a protest for interference in
the straight, wasn’t such an outsider as
Girella, his closing quote being tens;
but the result was dramatic in the ex-
treme. Kingdom had shaped shockingly
on two occasions with Elliott up. Elliott
gladly relinquished his contract to ride
Kingdom in the Derby and Melbourne
Cup. Making vigorous use of the whip
O’Sullivan compelled the Thracian colt to
do his best on Wednesday.
The Moonga Handicap was easily cap-
tured by Judean, who shared favoritism
with imported Keelie. The latter petered
out after leading.
The Moora Welter, for steeplechase
jockeys, went to Pibroch, trained by
Ted Fisher for R. Turnbull, who won
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes of 1930
with Thurlstone and was the original
owner of Mosstrooper, a champion over
obstacles.
For the Caulfield Cup last year The
Bulletin tipped The Trump, Silver
Standard and Sir Regent; first, fourth
and second. For Saturday’s race it chose
Buzalong, St. Constant and Ortelle’s
Star ; first, second and fifth—there were
21 starters.
Fred Shean was unburdened with rid-
ing instructions. Before legging him into
the saddle A. Leftwich, owner-trainer of
Buzalong, remarked: “You are on a fit
horse and know where the winning post
is.” Shean did what McMenamin was
blamed for doing in the Metrop. He
took the lead half a mile from home.
Nothing succeeds like success. Vic-
torious, Shean was credited with masterly
judgment. With Bst. 61b. Buzalong was
unbeatable. McMenamin or any top-
flight jockey could have won on him.
There were no real thrills in the Caul-
field Cup. The Trump’s price shortened
from 20 to 1 to half those odds. Well for-
ward near the home bend, he faded out
when whips were cracking. Avenger
didn’t produce the long finishing effort
of which he is believed to be capable.
St. Constant’s run from last at the half-
mile to second on the post would have
made A. E. Cooper a proud man had
“I can't see anything Wrong with this costume —it looks perfectly modest
to me.”
he retained possession of the Constant
Son stallion instead of selling him to Joe
Cook for a measly simoleon in a fit of
chagrin. His jockey, W. Cook, reckoned
that St. Constant would have won but
for The Trump dropping back on him as
they swung into the straight. Only
backers of St. Constant agree with him.
Of the Melbourne candidates Marauder
came nearest to stable expectations. His
owner, Wallace Mitchell, the paddock
bookmaker, originally “set” Marauder
for the Melbourne Cup ; but Nuffield*
and Royal Chief loomed up as such for-
midable antagonists in the two-miler that
he decided to have a preliminary crack
at the Caulfield Cup.
With three furlongs to go Ortelle’s
Star threatened danger to Buzalong, but
she couldn’t sustain the run and finished
fifth.
Buzalong, at 11 to 2, was half a point
better favorite than Avenger. St. Con-
stant started at 20 to 1 and Marauder at
tens. There were 65,000 people present
and more coming through the turnstiles
before the Cup start. Previous best
attendance was 63,000 in Northwind’s
year (1936).
Tempest carried everything before him
as a three-year-old in Adelaide, register-
ing seven wins on end. Through sheer
gameness he landed the second division
of the V.A.T.C. Burwood Handicap, but
on this form Nuffield will have nothing
to fear from him in the Victoria Derby,
Tempest (5 to 2) scored by three-quarters
of a length from Panto’s brother Swet-
tenham, with Sylphide (eights) a shade
further behind. Sylphide, in the same
stable as Ajax, improved vastly on her
previous two outings.
Cecil Godby credited Othello’s owner,
R. R. Thomas, with the first division of
the Burwood Handicap through the
agency of Tregenna, a colt by Veilmond,
who squeezed home by a neck from an-
other 6-to-l shot in Atticus. At the
close of the afternoon Godby’s brother
Frank had a belated share of fortune
with Larissa (sevens) in the Windsor
Handicap. Pamelus (7 to 4, favorite)
missed the jump-out, and through that
missed a place. Hegemonic (fours) was
also badly served at the start.
There was a characteristic J. T. Jamie-
son plunge on Beau Mari in the Gwyn
Nursery. It came undone through a
tardy beginning, and spoils went to Rom-
ford, first of the Portofinos to catch a
judge’s eye. Romford cost 775 guineas
as a yearling. Many buyers are after
him. G. H. Cann, the Tasmanian owner-
trainer, has set a reserve of 2500 guineas.
Divisions of the Toolamba Nursery
were appropriated by Alan-a-Dale
(fours) and True Flight. Latter
started at 20 to 1 and paid £ll 11s. for
ss. on the tote. Like Buzalong and
Marauder, she is by The Buzzard, and
was bred in Queensland. Alan-a-Dale
(Ronsard-French Model) was bought by
Eddie O’Brien, the bookmaker, at the
dispersal of Alan Cooper’s racing stud.
Here and there Buzalong was 6 to 1
at Caulfield, and the tote paid £1 18s.
and 18s. 6d. for ss. At Randwick the
price offered by most of the bookmakers
who field on Melbourne events was 3 to
1 s.o. and 6 to 4 for a place, albeit one
or two Dashing Operators did a bit of
business at 7 to 2 and even money.
Though fantastic tales are told about
prodigious amounts wagered at Sydney,
the Randwick Ring is really rather weak.
Its leaders are very cautious gentlemen.
If the Government had gumption enough
to take something more off the tote tax
and insist on tote doubles being pro-
vided on all metropolitan courses, it
would get more revenue and punters
would benefit all round.
S * *
This paper’s fancy for the Melbourne
Cup at present is Bourbon.
The anti-s.p. legislation has certainly
brought the crowds back to Randwick.
On the last day of the A.J.C. meeting,
the attendance was up nearly 13,000 on
the figures for the corresponding day
of 1937, 11,500 more racebooks being
sold. At City Tatt.’s meeting on Satur-
day, the crowd was reckoned at 35,000
and the totes handled £38,081, compara-
tive increases being 14,000 and £12,804.
Reduced charges and the ss. tote mini-
mum have, of course, helped.
* * * *
The betting at City Tatt.’s meeting
was very much in favor of the Ring.
Not till the last race did a favorite score,
and he wasn’t exactly a bad horse for
the bookmakers, five others being backed.
Brazandt (5 to 1) carried 9st. to vic-
tory in the Flying Handicap. Trained at
Warwick Farm by his owner, Booshand,
this fellow gets plenty of racing. He set
up a good lead early and maintained it,
but was all out at the finish, beating Del-
mestor by half a head. There was solid
support for Bodley Head, who chased
the pacemaker and tired, being cut out
of third place by Aureus, again backed
by Walker. Aureus would have made
matters interesting for Brazandt and Del-
mestor had he escaped interference
early ; and then he jumped the crossing
which leads from the Leger to the flat.
That in-and-out brute Billy Boy won
City Tatt.’s Handicap. He was well han-
dicapped at 7st. 41b., but on form
punters couldn’t have him, and they let
him go out at 10 to 1. After delaying the
start, he hit the front and stayed there,
though Head Check came home extra
well. Speardale was third and El
Senorita, Will Rogers and Oration dis-
puted fourth place, almost in line. High-
born, always favorite, has evidently
trained off ; anyway, he was beaten at the
top of the straight. He was third to the
half-mile, but from that point lost
ground.
Progress, a stablemate of Old Rowley
—both are trained and owned by Scully
—showed speed and determination in
the Two-year-old Handicap. She began
well and had the race won at the begin-
ning of the final furlong. Jack Scully’s
filly started at fives. Kestrel, a son of
The Buzzard, trained by William Kelso,
was a good second, and Nubian Prince
third. Chiswick, a Chatham colt, was
fourth. He can gallop. So can Dashing
Cavalier, the odds-on favorite, but Dash-
ing Cavalier ran greenly and finished
fifth.
Volpato (8 to 1) was nicely handled
by Vickers in the Novice Handicap, for
apprentice riders. A three-year-old colt
by Foxearth-Rubber Force, Volpato
ran the mile out in good style. Scarlet
Circle and My Dear got into the money,
but the favorite, Anpapejo, merely
plugged along all the way. On his third
to Mosaic and AdioS in the Members'
Handicap, he should have got a place in
novice company.
Lockray (10 to 1) was too solid for
Geebung and Mildura at the finish of
the Three- and Four-year-old Handicap.
He was ridden by an apprentice, Sil-
burn, whose showing was such that he
will get more chances henceforth. The
favorite, Coronation Day, had the run of
the race, but showed no fight when
asked for a final effort, and wound up
fourth, behind Mildura. Running him
at a mile in good company may have
dulled his speed.
Racing has improved Fakenham
(Magpie-Castile), the solitary successful
favorite —the race was the Club Welter.
Aladdin (6 to 1) got a good break at the
top of the straight, but Fakenham wor-
ried him out of the big end of the prize.
Barak and Red Thespian ran a dead-heat
for third. On his close second to St.
Constant in the A.J.C. Final Handicap,
Sedunum looked a fair thing for this race,
but he finished ninth in a field of 12.
Such is racing. Fakenham’s price was
fours; the tote paid a shade over 9to 2.
* * * *
As a three-year-old, Troy ran fourth
in the Doncaster to Hamurah, King’s
Head and Buzalong. He was fairly close
up, and it was a rather good perform-
ance, for Hamurah, King’s Head and
Buzalong have won important races
since. Now a four-year-old, and still in
the six-stone division, Troy ought to be
capable of doing better than his recent
showings indicate. He ran fairly in the
A.J.C. Suburban Handicap, but in City
Tatt.’s Handicap—after letting fly with
his heels, when being walked about, and
just missing Billy Boy—he galloped as if
he were sulking throughout the race.
Perhaps Troy will win when nearly
everyone has grown tired of him, as Billy
Boy does.
(i Continued on page 32.)
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Cup: Ortelle’s Star, 1; Marauder,
2 ; Gay Knight, 3.
W. S. Cox Plate: Ajax; next,
Nuffield.
St. Albans Handicap: Esper-
anto.
Dundonald Handicap: Aurie’s
Star; next, Hegemonic.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Publicity ; next, King Gee.
Varroville Handicap: Bodley
Head; next, Aureus.
Homebush Handicap: Head
Check ; next, Osculum.
Farm Stakes: Forward; next,
Moaenza.


-
AP* M|P AAflfBV PIIA
uei me iviiiwi run
ran money-
liliill
«
; :
Sags®
■
v
11*111
■
w
s'
m
m
W
m
m
/
m
mVM
VL
m
o
&
m
o
1
m
/
o
V
*&,
V,
1
'
&
V
v
&
X
V
A
v
7
A
V
%
\
r>
V
m
X
A
\
\
V
4p
\
\
r
P
f.
St
CV2
ssC
©
m
M
h
\
W
%
M
I
%
r£%
ft
fd
I M WTI T"®
t, 10* f «“
THE NAME GOODYEAR ON A TYRE IS
YOUR GUARANTEE OF MAXIMUM SAFETY
AND MILEAGE
Safety, long wear and maximum traction are the three paramount
qualities in every Goodyear Tyre.
The thick, broad, tough Goodyear Tread provides maximum
protection against skids and ensures long trouble-free mileage.
Exclusive Supertwist Cord puts protection against bursts and
bruises into every ply. Fit new Goodyear Tyres now.
’*s*-
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE
5-CI1-38.


VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY 29th OCTOBER
CUP DAY Ist NOVEMBER
OAKS DAY 3rd NOVEMBER
C. B. FISHER PLATE, sth NOVEMBER
£lO,OOO ADDED TO MELBOURNE CUP
and GOLD CUP OF £2OO.
£5OOO ADDED TO THE DERBY.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
INVINCIBLE
since
1906. i
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
-d?>-na
INVINCIBLE
B
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6. 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five rears
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satistac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record ior
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day. .
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret hating
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., V.S.A.
Established, in 1906,
/
/
FOUR
FIVE
THIRTY
OR
°M!Nufls TO SIX ‘
/////////
FIRST QIMIITY
#5 your
du best
ll| refresher
L&U THE OLDER
AND BETTER WHISKY
M.Q. and Raffsrtv
i
The Henneberry-Matthews Scrap
From the tamest of beginnings, this
Sydney Stadium affray was destined to
end in a fierce welter. Fred tipped the
beam at list. silb„ 21b. weightier than
Allen Matthews a cullud gent, from
Gahd’s Own, taller than Fred, and, on
this showing pretty impervious to pun-
: shment
' The first round was as quiet and
peaceable as tea with the vicar. They
were embraced a good deal, with Joe
Wallis frequently breaking them, but
they did nothing more than feel out
each other’s armor. The second was a
trifle more willing, the first good punch
of the fight a fairish left hook by Hen-
neberry. Livening up much earlier than
he usually does, Fred scored with a
vicious right to the head, but, forcing
the fight, was going more for the body,
Matthews’s best was a fairly hot right
uppercut. The fight had improved;
there was a bit more sting in the ex-
changes ; but it was still just a nice en-
gagement, and fairly even.
Matthews started hostilities in the
third, snapping home a stinging right
cross as Henneberry was coming in.
Fred responded in kind, but Matthews
got the better of the next exchange, land-
ing a heavy right to the head and then a
rattling left hook. It stung Henneberry,
and he threw everything into a vicious
“ You're standing all Wrong, Major. Let me show you!"
onslaught, driving into the body and get-
ting home a solid right that had
Matthews bleeding freely in and about
the mouth. Mixing it hot and strong
when the bell went, they kept on fight-
ing till Joe dragged them apart.
Matthews went to his corner with his
bottom lip badly split. The treatment
there applied to him, which included
sticking a couple of spigots up his nos-
trils, appealed mightily to his evidently
comprehensive sense of humor.
Instantly they came together in the
fourth Joe Wallis leapt—or, at any rate,
got—between them, admonishing Hen-
neberry for palpably leading with his
cranium. Fred next unloosed a right
uppercut, then a dandy right cross, and
Matthews’s mouth was quickly a gory
mess again. From here on it was hard
and solid fighting, Fred winning the
round on aggressiveness and scoring
punches, though no doubt the bit of
headwork robbed him of it. However,
the fight was not to be decided on points,
Henneberry had the better of the
solidly-fought fifth, though Matthews
wasn’t loafing. With Matthews’s mouth
still bleeding profusely, and Henneberry
bent on keeping the fight at the closest
possible quarters, it was grim, hard and
tough going, rather than pretty to watch,
But the next was a splendid round.
Henneberry turned on the whirlwind
aggressiveness he usually reserves for the
last round of a scrap. He tore in with
left to the body, right to the head ;
fighting like a man who knew he was
winning. But there was none of it heavy
enough to upset Matthews. He took the
gruelling onslaughts gamely and appar-
ently undamaged, save for his still-
gory mouth. He scored, too—less fre-
the now-tigerish Fred but
solidly When he round ended
*<=/ were fighting toe o toe not wildly,
b “' w,tb fle £ ce " e f K an , c f d by ? IeV T
ness. The fight looked like coming to
something terrific
The se y enth wrote good-bye to all that
—wrote it copiously in the gore pouring
from Henneberry’s right eye when they
came away after a ferocious exchange
at closest range. With the eye badly split
right across the top, Hennebeny turned
fighting mad. He went straight in, hitting
terrifically hard with right and left, evi-
dently aiming to get a knockout before he
was further damaged, or while he could
see at all. He did not brush at the eye,
which is hard to refrain from doing with
that sort of injury; he ignored it and
kept fighting.
In a matter of seconds the eye was
filled and must have been sightless, and
all that right side of his face was a scarlet
patch. Still he kept savagely at it.
With a terrible right he sent Matthews
fully half-way across the ring. He fol-
lowed, and slogged Matthews partly
through the ropes. Matthews picked him
off with long, clean leads as he came,
and mixed it as powerfully in close. But
it was Henneberry now who looked im-
pervious to punishment, and regardless
of it. Never in a fine fighting career has
he fought more violently than through
these torrid couple of minutes,
Back in his comer the Riverina lad
wa s inspected by Joe Wallis. Joe shook
his head and moved away as if to de-
dare the fight over, and Henneberry
leapt up still fighting mad, declaiming
and protesting. A doctor was called ;
Henneberry’s seconds beckoned Joe
back again; Matthews’s seconds roared
out, drawing everybody’s attention to
the clock; then, with some half-dozen
persons in the ring, the bell went. Hen-
neberry tore away from his seconds;
the spare hands tore out of the ring;
and the fight was on again,
if possible, Henneberry was now more
fighting mad than before. He rushed
into Matthews, slinging savage right and
left, for head, body, or wherever. Mat-
thews punched back, and punched hard,
too ; but a double-hander bludgeon
would have been ineffectual on this
Henneberry, the fierce, somewhat sinis-
ter, ruthless fighting Henneberry; one
of the very few—there is scarcely an-
other—who to-day can stir a dim recol-
lection of the Australian fighting ring as
it used to be. The crafty and clever
Henneberry, quick and evasive of pun-
ishment, had forgotten the idea of pun-
ishment.
Unfortunately he had forgotten other
things as well, including the precepts of
the Marquess of Queensberry. He went
in with gloves, forearms, elbows, .shoul-
ders and head. Joe had just forcibly
halted them, and spoken to them about
getting themselves under control—
meaning, quite evidently, Fred. But
Fred was past getting hold of himself.
His head came up under Matthews’s
jaw, and Joe at once crowned Matthews
the winner.
Ins and Outs
Fifty-six years ago H. H. Massie, Tom
Garrett and Sammy Jones played for
Australia against Oxford University.
Massie made 206 and 45 n. 0., Garrett
41, Jones 49. Of Massie’s innings
Tommy Horan, who did not play in
that match, wrote:
I shall never forget Massie’s performance,
and 1 think the same will be said by
those who had the pleasure of witnessing
it. He scored exactly 100 while Jones was
making five. His hitting all through was
very hard, and that it was clean and true
may be gathered from the fact that during
his two hours and 49 minutes at the wicket
he gave only one chance, and that a diffi-
cult one in the slips. His second 100 runs
were made in 59 minutes, and his hitting
during this time was simply perfect.
I had a yarn with a very old Oxford
cricketer, one who has played for 50 years,
and who has seen all the best cricket in
England during that long period. He
assured me that in his career he had never
seen any hitting display equal to that of
H. H. Massie. The more one contemplates
it the more astonishing does it seem: 104
out of 145, 200 out of 257 and 206 out of
265. Massie is certainly the lion of the
hour in cricketing circles in England, and
1 am sure that all Australians are pleased
that the quiet and unassuming Sydneyite
has met with such wonderful success in
his maiden effort on English soil.
Massie, Garrett and Jones played for
Australia in the most famous of all Test
matches. In Australia’s second innings
Massie made 55 out of 122 and helped
greatly to win the match. Until last
week Massie, Garrett and Jones were the
sole survivors of that 1882 team. Massie
died in Sydney on Wednesday. A son,
R. J. A. Massie, was a left-hand fast
bowler of the highest class: a Gallipoli
wound put him out of cricket.
* * * *
Lord Hawke, about the last of the
giants of the game, is dead in England
at 78. He was never more than a fair
county batsman, but was undoubtedly
the finest administrator cricket has had
in England. Eton and Cambridge taught
him his cricket, and from 1883 until
1910 he captained Yorkshire, starting and
maintaining that county on its consistent
success in the county championships.
Fifty years ago he came to Australia
with Vernon’s team, but had to
return hurriedly on his father’s death.
In addition to captaining Yorkshire suc-
cessfully, Lord Hawke was treasurer of
the Marylebone C.C. for some years
with a notable effect on the club’s bank
balance. Ironical that the man in the
street with any inkling of cricket will
always recall him as “the ole toff ’oo
wished ’e’d die before ’e’d see a per-
fesshunal captain Englahd.” Actually,
English professionals had no closer friend,
and well they knew it. Lord Hawke
built up for Yorkshire pros, a system of
benefits, talent money and pension rights
which no other county has attempted to
approach. A Yorkshire youngster join-
ing the professional staff knows that, if
he behaves, he will have a steady income
until retirement and a fat pension to
keep him in comfort then.
* * * * ■
“Hotham”: The V.C.A. says the match
in Melbourne between the Australian
Eleven and the Rest, to mark the M.C.C.
centenary, begins on December 9. Visi-
tors will get £l5 for the match and 255. a
day from the time they leave their States
until the day they leaye Melbourne. On
no account should any of the duds in
the Australian team be included in the
Rest.
* * * *
“Swan”: Oldfield made a few preg-
nant remarks on landing at Fremantle.
At least half a dozen new players must
be found for the next clash with Eng-
land, for the Britons are stronger than
for years. Also assistance for O’Reilly is
essential —Fleetwood-Smith is too much
of the lady-help variety ; and a real fast
bowler will have to be found somewhere
with no “just as good” substituted for
a moment. Oldfield erred slightly when
he said neither Barnett nor Walker had
come up to expectations. Walker came
right up to the top of them ; Barnett
exceeded them.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Thirty-four N. S. Wales
players have been picked to practise for
the Sheffields, beginning on November 25
in Brisbane. Several of the cricketers away
on tour will be added. Easton, Peter-
sham’s ’keeper, will probably be Ma’s
Aunt-Sally batsman, provided Oldfield,
who hasn’t been heard from, decides to
give the game best. Minter, among the
batsmen, may find a place in coming big
cricket. Other likely batsmen are Bom-
belli, of W.S., and Ray Robinson, back
from S. Aus. and with Gordon again.
Bowlers are Beaumont, a medium fast.


*^sB2“*)
m
jfuncWbowl
E> AD IW F VS
EY
AR
M
B
ST
GT
LL
•>
'-a
■sa?
\U-lJ
t^7>
*
\s&f
The Mild forth
V>:
BARNEYS
i
:®s
Sts
w%.
m
HR
,sv-
Hi
1
1
#
AL
TH
D
E
4
J!r
ACCO
TO
B
Wm
IUIV'
m
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink —
be thankful ♦ ♦ ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
g At all good tobacconists •. . ask for
Uftarncjis
The Ideal Tobacco
after cleave to ♦ ♦ ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Puttchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson’s Pleasure , the mild blend*
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
TJIB7O
and two left-handers, Fielder (Padding-
ton) and Price (Marrickville). McCabe
will probably be skipper.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Ron Oxenham, the Queens-
land cricketer, who figured in a motor
smash last year, has recovered sufficiently
to bring a lawsuit, in which he got
a verdict for £1650. Whether he will
play cricket again is another matter.
Ron’s many friends in other States are
glad to hear he is fit even for a legal
fight. For that one needs only a healthy
bank account. For the other sort,
physical well-being is called for.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Frank Sides, a batsman
of a type Australia needs badly, began
the season well with a slashing 104 for
Essendon in the M.C.C. pennant season
Sides is a batsman who, while he has a
sound defence, really hits the ball in-
stead of pushing it. Unfortunately he is
rather slow in the field.
* * * #
“Five Ways”: The Tallon brethren are
making a good start in Queensland grade
cricket. Elder brother Bill backed a flash-
ing innings of 80 by Don against Horni-
brook and Hardcastle by taking 8 for
50. Both brothers are considered cer-
tainties for the State team.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney C.G. will see
no big cricket until December 31,
when N.S.W. and Queensland begin
their second Sheffield of the season.
The famous old pitch in the middle
of the ground has been dug out
to 6in. deep and new soil from
Bellambi (N.S.W.) substituted. Grass
has been planted, and is now being
nursed along. In due time the rollers
will be going on until the top weight
comes into action. The old pitch had
become so solid with years of rolling
that it was like marble for footballers
to fall on. No. 2 ground will be used
until No. 1 is ready for big games.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Jim Ferrier’s win of
the N.S.W. close championship—for the
fourth successive year—completes a great
season of success. Other Ferrier wins
this season are the Australian champion-
ship, the Australian amateur title (second
time), the Queensland amateur title
(third time), the N.S.W. amateur title
(fourth time), and the N.S.W. mixed
foursomes with Mrs. Ferrier. Von Nida
gave him his only important defeat—in
the Sydney Lakes club “open.”
* * * *
“Brassey”: Len Nettlefold, back from
skippering the Australian amateur golf
team in Britain, gives Hattersley the
palm among the Australians. The tour
was a sound success from all points.
Locke is the best of the young fellows
Nettlefold saw, though he reckons James
Bruen, of Ireland, is a coming champion.
* * * *
Locke won another foursome in Bris-
bane, playing with amateur Joyce against
Gazzard and Von Nida. His stroke
round was 66, a record for Victoria
Park; but it is a fairly easy course.
Those who are always barracking for a
championship at Brisbane may now be
told by the guileful southron: “What, on
one of those lollypop courses of yours?
Neow! ”
* * * *
“Woop Woop”: Locke and Von Nida
have been giving exhibitions of golf up
Queensland way. On the road back to
Sydney Locke encountered his, first sand
green, which, if one may say so,
“gravelled” him completely. Von Nida
is “weel acquent” with the sand green,
but Robert was so uncertain that the two
unknowns who opposed them, McAskill
and Mailfert, finished all square. Locke’s
approximate round was 78 ; Von Nida,
used to the greens, equalled par, 72.
* * * *
“Cleek”: Some of the Yankee club-
makers are going back to the wooden
shaft. A difficulty is that there is little
first-class hickory left. A fair amount
of replanting goes on, but hickory is a
slow-growing tree. Hasn’t Australia or
Maoriland a good substitute?
* * * *
“Pothunter”: Jacobus, of the U.S.
Professional Golfers’ Association, is
trying to sort out a tangled tale. There
are roughly two classes of pros, in
Yankeeland. Both draw salaries from
clubs and golf associations, but whereas
one lot sticks to the club and the coach-
ing end of the business, the other, re-
tained by clubs simply for the advertise-
ment of their name, pursues the elusive
pot and purse. Jacobus would split the
players into two divisions, one confining
itself to tournaments and exhibitions,
and the other carrying out the accepted
duties of club professionals.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hollywood”: The Australian tour of
the U.S.A. is over, after a wearisome set
of tennis anti-climaxes (B. 12/10/’3B).
Hopman finished by taking the Pacific
Coast singles title. He has been the most
consistent player in either party —men or
women.
The Australian L.T.A., having been
refused all men players, invited Alice
Marble and Mrs. Fabyan to visit this
country. Alice said she’d love to come.
Mrs. F. said she couldn’t unless
hubby’s fares and exes, were paid, too.
No business!
Miscellaneous.
The National Rifle Association’s
“King’s” prize shoot at the 'Liverpool
(N.S.W.) Anzac Range was won by Pat
Lee, a carpenter of Albury. Two points
behind Queenslander C. E. Armstrong
with the last shoot over the 900 yards
range to come, Lee picked them up
—clouds were heavy, there was lightning
and a fresh cross wind —and headed
Armstrong by one point; 345. Third
was Nelson, of Concord (N.S.W.), and
fourth the Victorian Pavey. Lee has
been shooting for only five years, but
in 1936 he won the “King’s” matches in
Victoria, Queensland and W.A., and last
year he went to Bisley with the Austra-
lian team.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The football season was
a record moneymaker for the Victorian
F.L. and each of its affiliated clubs is
likely to pouch £9O0 —the League is so
fat with money that it is now divided
into two warring divisions. One lot
wants to extend the present H.Q. build-
ing to greater proportions; the other
aspires to buy a brand-new palace
altogether. Clubs have also improved
their positions; Footscray, which was
£9OO down two years ago, now shows a
credit of £5OO.
* * . * *
“Juvenis”: Youth carries weight no
less than age. At the G.P.S. sports in
Sydney, Fagg, of Sydney High, 15 years
of age, ran a half-mile in 2min. 2+sec.,
which is the world’s best time for any-
one of his age. But since he made the
run in the senior division he could not
claim the record. It all seems intensely
fatheaded, but athletics are full of that
sort of luck.
* + * *
“Spinnaker”: About the hardest smack
administered to any pastime by the s.p.
legislation to date is the banning of bet-
ting and sweeps on ferry steamers that
follow the Sunday sailing on Sydney Har-
bor. Steamers have been cancelled and
prize-money reduced. This Sunday
recreation cut heavily into the takings of
the older Saturday sailing crowd, who
got the people that didn’t want to do
their little gamble at the football or
races.
♦
“Blade”: Date of the G.P.S. regatta
has been set down for April 22 on the
Nepean. There was some delay because
Uni. wanted that date. Haberfield is
putting in for the Grand Challenge at
Henley-on-Yarra. Another Sydney entry
is Crockett, of Balmain, who is to try
his hand at the Sculls.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: “Yes, it was a shrewd
stipe that got me outed fer life,” said Joe
the Battler. “I’d got hold of a cleanskin
nagwhat’d run races down South Ossway,
an’ it’s fixed fer the horse to be stamped
with the station brand an’ put in as a
maiden at the Annual. Lignum we calls
’im ; an’ he’s nominated as bein’ a six-
year-old by Hero, a blood horse on the
station. Well, Lignum scoots home in
the Maiden, an’ then he makes hacks of
’em in the Bracelet. Next day, me an’
a bloke from the station standin’ near the
prad waitin’ for the saddlin’-bell fer the
Cup, when over comes the stipe. I never
thought nothin’ was wrong when he has
a look at Lignum’s mouth. ‘H’m,’ ’e
says; ‘how old is Hero now?’ When
the station bloke says Hero is nine
year old, the stipe says as how ’e’d like
to see us in the stewards’ room. There’s
a few questions asked an’ then the stipe
shots ’is bomb. ‘Funny,’ he says, ‘this
is the first time 1 ever knew a horse ter
be older than his sire.’ Later I ’as a
look at Lignum’s mouth meself; he was
easy 12 year old.”


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd. : Melbourne.
Twice. Daily-2'30-Q
EMILE I PEG LEG I
BOREO j BATES ]
And 10 Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent.
ROY
RENE
928-929.
WILL MAHONEY, Median
and New Stars in
“WHY BE SERIOUS?”
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M 6835.
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Baehflat, Lesquare, London,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Shopworn Angel.”
James Stewart, Walter Pidgeon, Margaret
Sullavan.
This Sydney St. James offering is an
M.-G.-M. version of a story in which
Gary Cooper once figured, but it is so
beautifully presented, so excellently
acted, so well cast and so fine in every
way that it easily stands out on its own
ground and can be viewed as an entirely
new and separate production.
Though its main character is in uni-
form and its background is the marching
and fanfare of a nation’s entry into war,
it is not another how-America-won-the-
war picture. Its purpose is to deal with
a human problem which those general
circumstances brought about.
The young fellow in uniform—a raw
unsophisticate from Texas, with the habit
of mind of getting slowly but truly to
the heart of life’s real values —comes up
against ultra-sophistication in the form
of a Broadway actress. The theme is a
readjustment of life values enforced by
this intrusion on the actress, and to some
extent also on the man with whom she
is living.
Stewart, as the young fellow from
Texas, has never been better cast. Always
a sincere and competent actor, he makes
this role strikingly convincing. It is a
somewhat tongue-tied role, but as he
does it there is no awkwardness about
it. He makes of it a personification of
deep and sincere feeling. Life, in the
outlook he represents, is a solid under-
taking, its emotional undercurrents a
powerful surge of abiding values. He
is not a wowser. The artificialities of
sophistication don’t annoy him. They
are things with which people kid them-
selves, and he isn’t above kidding him-
self, either, in his own way. He kids
himself about the things he wants out
of life when he can’t get them.
He sees in the shopworn angel the
feminine ideal of his dreams. To her he
is at first an unwanted intrusion, then
something of a joke, then one who
touches a sense of pity in her, like a lost
pup. Finally, she comes to see what he
really stands for, in reaching which
realisation she herself is undergoing a
gradual metamorphosis.
In the portion of this role that is on
the plane of superficiality Miss Sullavan
overacts. The enforced harshness of her
voice is a trifle too loud. But the rest
she manages extremely well. The nearer
she comes to the plane of real values the
better she is. Over the last half of the
picture she gives a convincing, beautiful
performance.
Walter Pidgeon’s acting is even better
than either Miss Sullavan’s or Stewart’s.
As the third of the triangle, not so self-
centred as his actress mistress to begin
with, but having his slight readjustment
effected through jealousy rising out of
his prior proprietary interest in the lady,
it is a much more difficult part than the
other comparatively clean-cut roles. It
is very much due to his completely
natural performance that the film as a
whole is such a clean masterpiece of
naturalness.
“Alexander’s Ragtime Band.”
Tyrone Power, Don Ameche, Alice Faye.
For this Twentieth Century Fox hour
and a half or so of swing, rhythm and
suchlike delights, true addicts would no
doubt be happy to perch, swaying ecstati-
cally, in pews of hardwood and iron-
stone. Instead, they can enjoy their in-
ternal combustion in the luxury of Syd-
ney Regent.
But you gotta have rhythm. Yes, you
gotta swing.
You needn’t —which is a bit surprising
—know what “800 boop-a-doop” is.
Crooning, in its more severe forms,
hasn’t to be undergone. Neither has tap-
dancing to any grievous extent. These,
it is heartening to feel, are just tern-
porary excrescences on the classical
purity of jazz.
But you gotta swing. Yes, you gotta
have rhythm.
And who ain’t got rhythm, anyhow?
—as Miss Faye would say, wobbling her
divine hips. Everybody’s got rhythm.
If you ain’t got rhythm you’ve got
something else—probably rheumatism.
So if the snails ain’t been at your trom-
bosis,
Come on an’ hear, come on an’ hear
Alexander’s, etc.
For purposes of contrast, the film
opens with a small orchestra playing the
syrupy, loafing melodies that carried over
from the sentimental ’nineties and before
into early in this century. But the
orchestra leader, young Power, has other
Margaret Sullavan, ’twixt stage and rookie (James Stewart), in “The Shopworn
Angel,” at Sydney St. James.
ideas. Hidden from musical prof, who
foresees for him an illustrious career con-
ducting the works of such approved trash
as Beethoven, he has a small jazz band
of half a dozen performers, and, once it
gets a fair start, band goes on from suc-
cess to success, through the war period
and afterwards to the present, playing on
the way the catchiest of Mr. Irving Berlin’s
500 or 600 compositions—“ When the
Midnight Choo Choo,” “Ragtime Violin,”
“Everybody’s Doing It” and over a score
more of them. Mr. Berlin, waxing rich
meanwhile on the triumphant progress
of jazz, is impersonated by Mr. Ameche.
He’s in love with Miss Faye, but in the
long run she’s another of ’em to fall for
the leader of the band.
As a rule, neither Mr. Ameche nor Mr.
Power is a player that present scribe
would fall for, critically speaking. Here,
however, they are quite all right. It suits
not only their ability but their personal
character. It calls for no dramatic art,
but for appropriate gyrations from suit-
able puppets, and so in personal manner,
appearance and talent they are right at
home in its atmosphere.
Miss Faye suits it, too. She can put
over these numbers in taking style. There
is nothing chill and aloof about this
sweet Al-ice with hair-air so blonde, Ben
Bolt. She throws at the camera what’s
euphemistically called all she’s got, in a
manner that must play the very devil with
Hollywood’s chaste and pure-minded
lenses.
“The Toy Wife ”
Luise Rainer, Melvyn Douglas, Robert Young.
In making this offering, now showing
at Sydney State, M.-G.-M. may have had
in mind an authentic drama and some-
thing by way of reply to recent “Jezebel.”
Taken as that, the film is disappointing ;
its theme —mainly the old triangle and
all-for-the-best variety—is not up to the
manner in which it is presented.
Richard Thorpe, who directed “Night
Must Fall,” has attempted a similar steady
movement of circumstances to an inevit-
able climax, but the material is lacking,
and the film has a tendency to drag dur-
ing its two hours’ running time. The
same restrained directing—well enough
suited to a more substantial film —is also
responsible for an understatement of
several strong scenes and an overstate-
ment of weaker ones: in one instance
the business of dying occupies over ten
minutes.
The film’s appeal rests mainly on the
histrionic ability of Miss Rainer. She
is one of the finest and most versatile
actresses on the screen, and, with a
stronger supporting cast, might have car-
ried the whole of this offering along with
her. Melvyn Douglas and Robert Young,
though suave and personable gentlemen,
are not in the same street of acting.
Miss Rainer has a role well removed
from anything she had hitherto done.
She is a light-headed, frivolous little minx
belonging to one of U.S.A.’s southern
States when chivalry ruled and gentle-
men proved they were such by flogging
their dusky servants and duelling over
milady’s handkerchief. She returns from
school in France, is caught up in the
frivolity and customs of that time and
place, and almost immediately receives
a proposal from a promising young
lawyer and political aspirant. Partly in
search of excitement and partly as a
matter of course, she takes on the job
of being his wife. But eventually her
sister, a sound, commonsensible woman
and one-time aspirant for the position of
wife, is called in to straighten out matters
and gradually assumes control of the
household. The complications that
naturally ensue become more involved
with the re-entrance of a swashbuckling
gentleman who had entertained hopes of
filling the job of husband.
Solution of that tangle, though by no
means novel, is well carried out, mainly
through the efforts of the Rainer.
“Strange Boarders ”
Tom Walls, Renee Saint-Cyr.
A Gainsborough British production,
this offering at Sydney Lyceum is a jolly
good entertainer in the genre of seri-
comic sleuthery.
On the principle that all such persons
resemble anything but their profession,
Walls is a member of the British Intelli-
gence Department, and his representation
is a deal more creditable than the long,
lean, bloodhound variety.
Film snaps into action with a pleasant
old lady losing an argument with a
double-decker bus in a busy London
thoroughfare. Searching for her identity
the police discover copies of just-com-
pleted plans of some gadget or other
of vital importance to the Air Force.
Uproar, of course, and “Call in Mr.
Walls.”
Mr. Walls has just taken the primrose
path with a very charming little piece
of French, and is about to sail for a few
months’ connubial bliss in Yurrup.
Honeymoon, however, must be sacrificed
to duty, and wife is ordered to continue
on voyage alone. Unaware of husband’s
vocation, and suspecting a woman in the
case, she sets out to trail him down.
Thereafter, which is most of the way,
the film patters along at a fair pace, its
melodramatic moments relieved with
light, breezy humor. Walls seems to be
at his best in this type of film, and the
Saint-Cyr minx needs to be seen and
heard to be properly appreciated. They
make an excellent team.
“Three Loves Has Nancy ”
Robert Montgomery, Franchot Tone,
Janet Gay nor.
Sydney Liberty offering, as light
and inconsequential as its title. What
it is all about matters very little. The
story meanders breezily along as a
pleasant sort of lead from one more or
less hilarious situation to another.
Almost anyone can reliably count on
being amused and entertained by it. And
soon it will float lightly away on the
general stream of froth that blows along,
harming nobody and leaving no other
recollection either.
It is notable for one thing—the excel-
lent comedy performance of Mont-
gomery. Having seen Robert in one of
the great jobs of screen acting—his role
in “Night Must Fall”—and having then
seen him in a number of others, present
addict felt that Robert had put the whole
of his acting range and talent into that
one part.
Here he leaves almost the last trace of
all that behind him. He looks different;
his gestures are different; he has
lightened and loosened up altogether.
So much so that it is he who really car-
ries this light-comedy production.
Tone is amusing, but acts like one feel-
ing Mmself superior to his part—which,
as a matter of fact, he is. The Gaynor
is admirably cast, and gives a perky per-
formance as a Southern States lass who
goes to N’Yark looking for a spouse who
didn’t keep the wedding date, and there
finishes up in the elaborate apartments
shared by Montgomery (sentimental
author) and Tone (his publisher).
Ballet.
In its third week at Melbourne
Majesty’s, the Russian Ballet is nowhere
near the end of its resources.
Brahms’s majestic Fourth Symphony
was the principal business of the dancers
in one change of programme, the audi-
ence listening to the excellent rendering
of the music by the Australian orchestra
directed by the vivid Antal Dorati and
at the same time looking at the extra-
ordinary array of male and female talent
interpreting Massine’s ballet “Chorear-
tium.”
High-pitched colorings on the stage,
with the sylphs in scanty raiment, accom-
panied the first movement, and the beauti-
ful Andante Sostenuto was provided with
an obbligato of women in dull-red
draperies weaving a pattern against the
dim background. The movements became
jolly in the Allegro Giacoso, and in the
Allegro Energico e Passionato the stage
became more packed with matter in


REDUCED FARES
FOR RETURN TICKETS
Return Tickets at Single Fare and One-third (minimum
fares 2/8 first class, 2/- second class) will be issued for travel
ANY DAY, BY ANY TRAIN,
between stations in New South Wales, except for journeys
wholly within the Metropolitan or Newcastle Suburban areas.
Excursions During Holiday Periods
Excursion tickets at greatly reduced fares are issued at
holiday seasons and other occasions. Particulars of these
are announced in the Metropolitan and Country Press from
time to time.
Train Cruise for Schoolboys
DECEMBER 4-10, 1938. .
Visiting New England Tableland, Hunter River Valley,
Maitland Coalfields, Lake Macquarie, Chichester Dam,
Newcastle City.
Inclusive cost for 6 days ----- £4/15 7 -
Write to or call on Chief Traffic Manager, Sydney
Station, for illustrated folder.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways. (60)
THE PRIZEWINNERS
Fourth Limerick Competition.
FIRST PRIZE £4O.
Wm. G. Martin, 31 Sunderland
Street, Mayfield, Newcastle, N. S.
Wales.
Ten £1 Prizes.
G. Mathison, 37 Alt Street, Ash-
field, N. S. Wales.
Miss E. Matthews, Hotel Roslyn,
Tauranga, M.L.
Miss Christine Barrett, 17 Dolphin
Street, Randwick, N. S. Wales.
C. M. Just, Sanderston, S.A.
V. Ainsworth, Onslow Street,
Doomben, Brisbane, Q.
Miss E. Toe, Colo Vale, N. S. Wales.
E. R. Bryan, Royal Military College,
Duntroon, F.C.T.
Lewis J. Loughran, 16 Sarnia
Avenue, Mildura, Victoria.
B. Wills, Donaldson Street, Corinda,
5.W.4, Brisbane, Q.
Wm. Cox, 26 Dryden Street, Can-
terbury, E. 7, Victoria.
'bulletin
Limerick Competitions
SIXTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement announcing the
Sixth £5O Limerick Competition
appears in this issue on Page 41
(Radio Page). Details of the Fifth
Competition are repeated in the
same advertisement.
m
a*
EXPORT and IMPORT
CREDITS
Wherever and whatever /our
trading interests may be the Bank
of New South Wales can serve you.
7,5 0 0 agents and
correspondents throughout
the world
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISH ED
IN THE YEAH l 6 1r
401 C. 1938
motion than the Swanston-street intersec-
tion at peak time.
“Scheherazade” entered the procession
last week, and immediately sprang to the
head of it. The co. flung itself on its
material with a zest that brought the
house down.
Sixteen Millimetre Show.
At Science House, Sydney, a small
audience composed mostly of members
of historical, marine and photographic
organisations, saw two films made by
Sydney amateur J. A. Sherlock.
Sherlock, whose interest in Bmm. and
16mm. movies commenced only four
years ago, is already well known to ama-
teur cinematographers the world over.
His work has won important prizes in
Tokio, Glasgow and New York, among
other places, and last year he landed the
grand prize in the American Society of
Cinematographers’ (Hollywood) inter-
national amateur competition.
Judicious selection, fine pictorial judg-
ment and rigorous cutting have made this
relatively short film —in Kodachrome and
entitled “Tp the Ships of Sydney”—an
excellent epitome of Sydney Harbor, its
ships and yachts, quays, wharves and
dockyards, its workers and its varying
aspects. A very striking part of it is a
series of beautiful morning shots in fog.
Followed Mr. Sherlock’s 1938 entry in
the Hollywood competition, not yet ad-
judicated—a much longer film in mono-
chrome in which the 150 years’ history
of Australian development is well
covered.
Sydney Art Shows.
Lance Solomon, whose show is at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, has a strong
pictorial sense, an eye for quiet color
nuances and ability to portray that
soft magical quality which light so often
assumes in our eastern States. Solomon
finds a great deal of grey in the bush,
and finds it beautiful. “Milking Time”
is as good a pastoral as ever was painted
in Australia. “Afternoon” is as quietly
suave as a Gruner. “North Sydney” cap-
tures the spirit of a suburb that is a
quaint mixture of beauty and ugliness.
“Morning Light” and “Long Reef” glow
with soft radiance.
Hans Heysen brings to David Jones’s a
cargo of gum-trees, with and without
cows, bare hills and flower pieces in oils,
Heysen is a remarkably fine draughtsman,
and one of the most conscientious of
water-colorists, and any of his works
in this medium may be recommended to
art-tasters who wish to acquire an un-
mistakably characteristic Heysen.
J. Muir Auld, whose pictures hang at
the Macquarie Galleries, has done
splendid work in landscape in an impres-
sionist style that in some moods brings
to mind Corot, and has painted some
notable portraits. With advancing years his
ability to achieve graceful and delicate
effects with heavy masses of paint is as
great as ever. Some of his pictures are
more loosely constructed and lack
cohesion ; but the oils “Spring Wattle,”
“Evening Landscape” and “The Striped
Verandah” in the present show would
attract attention anywhere. The water-
colors are disappointing.
FOURTH LIMERICK
RESULTS.
From the Limericks that have taken
prizes in the competitions so far it might
be suspected that the series is a publicity
stunt for Mr. Hughes. Although its aim
is not to trespass on a field Mr. Hughes
cultivates so profitably himself, the
winner of the fourth competition does
perhaps create that impression. It is,
however, as well as being a line bright
in itself, a most ingenious summary of
everything the other competitors had to
say about the pleasing phenomena of
spring.
Wm. G. Martin, of 31 Sunderland-
street, Mayfield, Newcastle (N.S.W.), sent
it in, and the complete Limerick, with
his £4O worth of last line, reads:
A rebellious young person of Bright
Flung his ledger and pen out of sight,
Saying, “Ah! it’s the spring!
I could dance, I could sing”
Now he MUST—nursing baby each night!
Among the winners of the ten £1
prizes, B. Wills, of Corinda, Brisbane,
gave a pretty glimpse of the wild
creatures of suburban night-life:
Thomas, book me a tile for to-night.
Wm. Cox, of Canterbury (Vic.), was
another who went to nature for his in-
spiration, taking to the deep sea instead
of the moonlit chimney-pots:
Or go fishing—if mermaids would bite.
The Limerick called up a lot of the
lunatic lines that are really the best end-
ing for the form. G. Mathison, of Ash-
field (N.S.W.), carried on the bounce of
the rhythm with the picturesque line:
I could spring to a terrible height.
Miss E. Matthews, of Tauranga (M.L.),
as did a number of other competitors,
stood the young person on his head:
I could stand on my head and recite.
Miss Christine Barrett, of Randwick
(N.S.W.), expressed a popular disapproval
of spring, spring poetry and spring ac-
tivity. The young person could dance
and could sing
Were it not so unspeakably trite.
C. M. Just, of Sanderston (S.A.) put it:
At the least provocation I might.
The reactions of the typist to the caper-
ings of her colleague seemed to interest
a large proportion of the competitors,
and V. Ainsworth, of Doomben, Bris-
bane, struck the sprightly line:
Said the typist, “Good gracious!—Good-
night!”
Miss E. Toe, of Colo Vale (N.S.W.), was
the brightest of the other large company
interested in the boss:
I shall croon to the boss—serve him right.
Lewis Loughran, of Mildura (Vic.),
stopped both the song and the dance:
But my trousers and teeth are too tight.
And E. R. Bryan, of Duntroon (F.C.T.),
put with vigor an alternative theory:
No, it isn’t!—my pants are alight!
Competitors in the fourth competition
struck it unlucky in that the European
crisis was in full steam when the entries
were written. Many lines, some of them
funny enough, were written about Hitler,
Chamberlain and even Lyons, but they
were all out of date by the time the com-
petition was judged.
There were some strange entries from
competitors wanting to vary the rhyme
scheme usually accepted as correct. “As
humorous as a postage stamp,” “With a
jolly lass of eighteen” or “His thoughts
were full of excitement” were non-
starters. It’s worth restating that the last
line must rhyme with the first and
second. It is just possible for it to repeat
the rhyme-word of the first line, as Lear
used to do, but it needs to be an excep-
tionally good line to get away with it.


BRANDALERS
m
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRANDAOER * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or Alters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don't wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by mill'ons of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kindergarten Unionists and their
friends had one goal in mind on a night
early last week. It was the Moonlight
Fete at the knight Julius home at
Darling Point. The moon lived up to
expectations and raised her lamp above,
but electrics were more dependable on
the stepped and terraced way that leads
down from Yarranabbe-road to the lawn
and onwards to the Harbor front. There
were myriads of electrics, brilliant over
the entrance, subdued, romantic and
multicolored along the garden ways.
The big attraction of the night was the
model electric city built by the engineer
knight. As usual, eager spectators were
queued up frqm the beginning of the
evening. The first to view the perform-
ance were Lord and Lady Wakehurst.
They were early in arriving and depart-
ing. Mayor Nock and his wife were
among the throngs who wandered about
the magicked grounds or sipped coffee
on the wide verandahs. The Julius lady,
Mrs. J. L. Ruthven and Mrs. J. Turnbull
were among the busy workers.
Lionel Lindsay, a muffler around his
throat (he’d been voiceless for nearly a
week), opened the Hans Heysen show at
David Jones’s. The place bristled with
Gallery trustees, among them J. R. Mac-
Gregor, who had lunched all participants
in the ceremony. His little joke, inciden-
tally, is to murmur that his name is
Campbell MacGregor. Lionel, in full
spate, went back to the time when, a
very young man, he had been asked by
Banjo Paterson, then editor of the old
“Evening News,” to write a column on
a Royal Art Society’s show. At that
show he had picked out two canvases
by beginning artists for special mention.
They were a painting by Will Ashton and
one by Heysen. The Will Ashton he
had that day seen once again in the
MacGregor home. Liked Lionel’s refer-
ence to the aerial sweep of Gruner’s
landscapes.
Hans was wearing his knickerbocker
tailorings. The Girl in the Flat Oppo-
site wants to know does this indicate
that he was an archbishop or an intrepid
alpine mountaineer in a former existence.
Unfortunately there was neither prayer
nor yodelling at the exhibition, so there
was no means of judging. The pictures
pleased Sydney buyers, £6OO worth of
sales affirming this before the show
opened.
John Lane Mullins, now the president
of the trustees of the Nat. Gallery, and
carrying his new honor with his usual dig-
nified simplicity, was among the Heysen
admirers. In all Sydney there is probably
not a more scholarly citizen. He knows
his poets as well as the painters. His
mind, not only his bookshelves, is stored
with the best in prose and playwriting
from the Greeks down. Both he and the
Gallery were still being congratulated at
the exhibition.
Barbara Lane Mullins and sister Mrs.
Norris, who with Mrs. McGirr waltzed
off with the hat honors of the show, were
early comers. Mrs. McGirr went off
early too. She simply had to be in time
for a telephone call from Rome. It was
from her husband, and it was his birth-
day. Mrs. Jimmy Burns, trig in a brown
suit, Gruner, Sydney Ure Smith and
Alice Bryant were »noted. Brian
Canned, Coralie Jagelman, Mrs. Ewart
Chappie, Violet Roche, Mrs. Muscio and
Eileen Gilligan were others.
There was something that stirred the
blood about the islands night entertain-
ment given at the Polynesian Club in
honor of the Crown Prince of Tonga.
The day being the anniversary of the
accession of the prince’s mother, Queen
Salote Tubou, D.8.E., the reception was
largely attended. Before coming to the
reception the prince was entertained at
dinner at the Double Bay home of Mrs.
L. Hahn, of Tonga. Dick Hahn and
Dr. Andrews, retired chief medical officer
at Nukualofa, Tonga, accompanied him.
There were Polynesian songs and dances.
Those who took part were dressed in
beautiful and authentic costumes of the
islands and of Maoriland, and the dances
were Paikea, a Maori action song,
Ma’ulu’ulu (Samoan seated posture
dance), Poi Waka, Maori canoe poi
dance and a Maori haka.
A star event was the making of kava
in the traditional style by the chief lady,
Mrs. M. Missen-Garrett, of Rotuma, who
is related to the Prince Consort Tugi.
A tapa cloth blouse, a Samoan fine mat
and a necklace of iridescent beetles’
wings were part of Mrs. Garrett’s strik-
ing dress. The cupbearer was Mrs.
Moana Tornaros-Hughes, a good-looking
visitor from The Bluff, Maoriland. The
Matapule, or kava-calling chiefs, were
club president Leonard Moran and
Richard Hahn. Helping them were Rua
Gilman and Raupa Warihi. The club
wasn’t alone in its recognition of the
anniversary. King George sent a mes-
sage of congratulation to Queen Salote.
Hockey girls all over Australia were
interested in the wedding of Ella New-
man, an ardent member of the N.S.W.
Women’s Hockey Association. Ella be-
came Mrs. Vernon Dawe, of Adelaide,
last week in St. Philip’s on Church Hill.
Previous to the wedding chimes, a serie§
of parties had been given by hockey
friends. Photograph by Peter Pan.
Up to the time of this Letter’s depar-
ture from the Kindergarten Spring Fair
Brother Jonathan had not put in the per-
sonal appearance promised. But Uncle
Jack and Shirley, of 2UW, had made
friends of one and all. It was blossom-
time in the village the basement of the
Town Hall was supposed to represent.
Here were flowering peach and plum.
There was a riot of tulips. But the tulips
were mercenary, and could be lured to
the hand only with lucre. When pulled
they had a lucky number attached. On
the village green children and young girls
in grass-green smocks created ye olde
Englishe atmosphere (if it ever was spelt
like that) by dances around the maypole
and suchlike old-time gaieties.
Mrs. Normhn Macleod, in charge of
the entertainment programme, looked
more enticing than a daffodil in her
yellow muslins to the baby members of
the Percussion Band when she distri-
buted bags of sweets to everyone. Par-
ticularly likeable was her tiny doll’s hat
with its coy posy of bachelors’ buttons
in front. The Snowden lady played a
cash register all afternoon. Mrs. O’Mal-
ley Wood was one of those who suc-
cumbed to the sentimental sweetness of
lilac.
From Orange and Bathurst and from
the North Shore line it had come to en-
rich a flower stall already wealthy in
roses, lilies, lavender, pansies and tulips.
Mrs. R. Buckle, in crisp chintz, was
among the busy workers on the sweets
stall. The Julius lady and Mrs. J. L.
Ruthven were important people, and
knight Sam Cohen was captured by the
lilac. He carried off a monster bouquet.
Giving a hand with the entertainment
was tenor Charles Nicis, and pretty Mrs.
Lorenz queened it among the tulips.
Artist Elioth Gruner served cocktails
and an old amber sherry in honor of
Hans Heysen after the opening of the
South Australian’s show at David Jones’s.
Half a dozen carloads of artists and art-
lovers drove out to Elioth’s cottage that
clings to a hillside garden in Waverley
and overlooks a tumble of the Pacific.
In the lounge the arrangement of yellow
roses, of fuchsia and lily must have
tempted to activity the flower painters of
the group. Lionel Lindsay was there
talking of Spain, sherry, friendship and
Franco in the way that all Lindsays have,
so that all subjects dovetail into one an-
other.
Mrs. Heysen wore the black sheer
frock, with its straight, slim cape, and
the fitting brimless bonnet which she had
worn at the show. Husband Hans still
wore his suit with the knee breeks.
Mrs. Clement Chapman’s brightness was
set in lapis lazuli. Mrs. Jimmie Burns’s
hat and veil were of the latest. Dr. and
Mrs. Crossland, Mrs. Ruth Wilson,
Coralie Jagelman, National Gallery’s
Will Ashton and his wife, Sydney
Ure Smith, Hera Roberts, John Bracken-
regg and Brian Canned were in the
groups that talked color vibrations and
reminisced of Lambert and other im-
portants in Australia’s art world.
The Flower Carpet which was dis-
played at the Town Hall made almost
£BOO for the Kindergarten appeal. Mrs.
Colvin supervised its making, and the
making of those shown in Brisbane; but
she did not, she told this Letter, super-
vise the Adelaide flower carpets. Miss G.
Norton and Mrs. Mehrtens, of Adelaide,
were responsible in the southern State.
Mrs. Colvin unfortunately developed an
abscess in one of her arms during the
last days of her visit to Sydney.
Oswald Cheeke, now at the Pacific in
Manly, where he intends to spend the
summer months, had last week enlivened
by letters from war-threatened London.
One was from Mrs. Rayner, Lord Gif-
ford’s mother. Her flat is in that enor-
mous building Dolphin Square, where so
many Australians and people who have
lived in Australia have their home. At
the time of writing she was watching
men putting up a tower for anti-aircraft
guns.
On the top of the Dolphin there
were two more of the guns. When she and
some more friends on the Wednesday
night decided to dine at Quaglino’s and
dance afterwards they found the places
crowded. England apparently man-
aged to crack a joke or two right
through the alarms. A friend of
Mrs. Rayner who has a large house
at Kidderminster, an aeroplane centre,
said that if the worst came to the worst
he would paint on the roof of his house
in enormous white letters, ‘‘This is not
the property of the Air Ministry. Turn
to the right.” Characteristically, Mrs.
Rayner signs her letter “Yours to a
Cinder.”
'With the glitter of her engagement
ring still in its pristine freshness Mar-
garet Cary finds time to work for the
anti-T.B. movement, and will be one of
Saturday’s active helpers in the gardens
of Elaine. This garden fair is spoken of
as Tulip Time at Elaine, and as you
guess from the name the setting will be
Dutch. Margaret is the eldest daughter
of Mrs. H. D. Cary, of Elizabeth Bay.
Her affianced is lan McHardy McLaurin,
of Point Piper. Nuptials in 1939. Peter
Pan photograph.
Talking to Charles Benson after Joan
Dawson’s recital, at which he had sung,
among others, works by Handel and
Richard Strauss, it was interesting to hear
of his tours with the A.B.C. and his
recitals with 3DB in Melbourne. With
the A.B.C. he had sung the classics, and
over 3DB he had sung the people’s
favorites —360 different songs in all.
During that series his mail ran into hun-
dreds of letters. Charles, who returned
from London some months ago, tells of
his studies with Blanche Marchesi and
Maggie Teyte. Sydney remembers the
latter. She toured Australia with the
A.8.C., her accompanist being Yelland
Richards, who shortly after his return
to Europe met his death while moun-
taineering.
Charles is not the only Tasmanian
singer to make good in other countries.
Peter Gearey, who became one of the
favorite singers at the Metropolitan,
came from the Apple Isle. Peter was
taught by Charles’s mother, who was a
noted choir conductor, and in the Bal-
larat contests, under the exacting judg-
ment of Signor Hazon, led a choir of
90 voices to victory. In London Charles
sang many times for the 8.8. C., and
he has toured the whole of England and
Scotland, and has given, recitals with
Maggie Teyte.
He has news of the two Miss Rosebys
of Kambala (one of them died a year
or so ago), of the Ainsworth family
the two elder girls married, one to a
nephew of the Isaac Isaacs lady, the
youngest a nurse in St. Bart.’s. Charles
is still proud of the fact that his first
London recital at the Grotian Hall
showed a profit. This is so rare a thing
in London that it staggered the manage-
ment. Expenses ran to £6O and £96 was
taken.
The pay-party at the home of Profes-
sor and Mrs. Fawsitt was one of the
week’s bright lights. This brought a
crowd of friends of the Fawsitts and of
the Norman Macleods (the two wives
were chief instigators) to Darling Point
from all the other points, and from the
giddy North Shore line heights. The idea
was to help the Val Sullivan scholarship
fund. Val herself and Grace Adams
East were starred on the programme.
Humphrey Bishop, H. Brewer and
Arthur Avondale were the male sup-
ports. Mrs. Fawsitt, very slender
and attractive in floating black nets,
boldly patterned in large white coin
spots, sang with great artistry. Val, as
befits a budding artist, was in rose-white.
Mary Charlton, who accompanied, got
a Dutch-master effect from dahlia-red
moires. Grace Adams East’s lovely
hands and arms showed to advantage
when she played works by Mozart, Grieg,
and Schubert on her glittering trumpet.
The party was one of those happy talk-
and-walk-about ones. Mrs. Norman
Macleod wore orchids in her dark hair, a
long ink-blue skirt and a smart jacket
of Mexican stripes. Miss Jobson, of
Hopewood House, Mrs. Florence Taylor.
Annis Parsons, the F. J. Davys (her frock
was sparkling blue and silver), newly-
returned-from-Europc Gertrude Concan-
non, Mrs. Cosh, very pictorial in dark
moss-green velvet, and Mrs. Marquart
were among the supporters of. young
talent.
There was a houseful of guests at the
Lyceum Club’s farewell luncheon to
Madame Baeza —founder of the sister
club in Madrid. These included Lady
Tempest, on the executive of the Lon-
don Lyceum, who likes Australia so
much that she will linger here till March ;
Mrs. Reece, a Maoriland club member;
and a triplet of good Victorians from the
Melbourne Lyceum Club —Mrs. White,
Miss Barrow and hon. sec. Miss Jamie-
son. The pretty little adieu from
Madame Baeza over the coffee was full
of sighs at leaving so many friends in
Australia ; the Consul and his lady go
via Panama and U.S.A., with their
embassy in Paris as a final stop. The
Bavin lady smiled under the shady brim
of a wide summer hat; Barnardo Boys’
friend Elizabeth Plummer was in a suit
of hunting green ; vice-president Eliza-
beth Allan indicated the right seats at
the right moment; hon. flower lady Miss
Laura Teague filled the rooms with
choicest garden blooms, and president
Mrs. A. G. Thomas took the chair.
The Y.W.C.A. has attached to itself a
young and popular director in the person
of Mrs. F. J. Davy. Mrs. Davy’s name
is known in every home where women’s
sport is an interest. Hockey is her par-
ticular game. The Rachel Forster Hos-
pital is one of the numerous good works
to which Mrs. Davy brings her clear
brain and her bright smile.
Mrs. Harold Bott, the newest and the
youngest addition to the board of direc-
tors of the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital, is taking her duties with a sort of
happy seriousness. Mrs. Harold is a
great friend of the Frederick Waley lady,
who is such a pillar of the institution,
and she says that much of her interest
in the women’s hospital movement has
been stimulated by the coal knight’s
widow.


0^
t , acW a\W
\ e a v A an<Y
,ssex° Ve \\d aU
can
V> !^ces
tvo
W t<b
be U Rte
aS W naxt can ea G ven e . g \ aS sv<a*e
\>od oTft a. 0 t ca'.cV 1 . \ ea tfvv § even
' -*V** *%&«*£**
' oven » _ caSS __
w -c\ea« ctC : , See c . s y*e;
t\vat &°f t up . OI a LoS)C” bta \c
AVe^tv^^CCC&GCASS
000
a #>*
b^cto?
pT^-
Uto
s
/
A
v
,*. v
■
A
9
&
«S= B
M
M
A
mAiArj*
jVGfcfc


rJkTT
df
Newington
COLLEGE
Preparatory School for
Established 1863.
STANMORE, N.S.W.
The new Preparatory School, within the grounds ot
Newington College, will be brought into use in the first
term of 1939, and scholars are now being enrolled.
Completely self-contained and with its own play areas,
the new school embodies the maximum of teaching
facilities and domestic comforts which modern edu-
cational practice can suggest.
EARLY APPLICATION IS DESIRABLE.
All particulars may be had from
P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. (Melb. et Oxon.).
Telephone: LM 5355.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper' published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
JAMES RYAN (Saddler), brother of Denis
Ryan, late of 121 Clarke Street, Port Mel-
bourne, Victoria, Cartage Contractor, deceased,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, is asked
to communicate with FITZGERALD & FITZ-
GERALD, Solicitors, 396 Little Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1996 of 1935.
IN RE EMILY JANE WILKINSON formerly
Emily Jane Loder of 15 Albion Street
Waverley in the State of N.S.W. wife of
Stuart Clifford Wilkinson.
AND the said STUART CLIFFORD WIL-
KINSON formerly of No. 15 Albion Street
Waverley aforesaid but now of C/o Main
Roads Department Depot Rosehill near
Sydney aforesaid whose private address is
unknown to the Petitioner.
TO STUART CLIFFORD WILKINSON late
of 15 Albion Street Waverley.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY JANE
WILKINSON has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of adultery AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Sixth day of January One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of you
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of October, 1938.
C. K. BODY, Registrar.
M. A. H. FITZHARDINGE & BLAMEY,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Professor Osborne got a lot ofl his
mind while opening the Women Painters
Exhibition at the Athenaeum. He said
that lacquered fingernails put him in
mind of diseased fingertips and that a
woman in high heels trying to catch up
on her centre of gravity makes him think
of a seal waddling out of its pool. He
admits that some women walk properly,
but you have to go to savage countries
to see them in action. The professor
dislikes rouge and lipstick, which make-
up, he says, hides character, for interest-
ing scientific things are happening all day
through changes in color under the skin
caused by emotions, breathing, etc.
He prefers eyelashes in their natural
staite, has no objection to shaggy eyebrows
and says a prayer every night that he won’t
live long enough to see the invention of
a hypodermic syringe for changing the
color of the eyes. In short, our professor
of physiology wishes that women would
leave themselves alone and use paint
only upon canvas. He prefaced his
address with an apology to any artists
present who don’t hold with laymen
opening art shows. He can sympathise
with their prejudices, for he knows his
own reactions to the strange advertising
announcements about indigestion, rheu-
matism and other ailments that he hears
over the radio.
Among those at the Women Painters’
first afternoon were Mrs. Percy Grainger,
Mrs. Rupert Wilkes, Mrs. H. M. Gulliver
(who provided a clothes basket full of
flowers from her garden to cheer the
platform in the gallery) and Dinah
Roach, who at last has found a studio
after her own heart, next door to her
friend Madge Freeman, in East Mel-
bourne. Dinah’s old studio in Collins-
street lost its attractions, as a tall build-
ing in the making adjoining it has
gradually blocked out all the light.
If Mrs. W. Flintoft ever thought of
adopting a motto for herself it should
be “service with a smile.” She was one
of the organisers of last week’s matinee
for the D.N.S. and the Toorak, South
Yarra and Prahran Creche, which satis-
factorily filled the Regent, South Yarra,
for a preview of “Mother Carey’s
Chickens,” the story of Donald Duck in
a caravan. Mrs. Maurice Sloman, who
works for both the beforementioned
charities, also had her hands full with
getting up interest in the matinee. Other
helpers included Mrs. Harold Shackell,
who balanced debits and credits in hard
cash at the treasurer’s table ; Mrs. E. F.
R. Wood, wearing seasonable spring-
time green ; Mrs. C. Barrenger and Mrs.
Jim Cuming, particularly pleased with
everybody’s susceptibility to lucky
chances in a handbag ; Mrs. V. Dimelow,
who was ticket secretary ; and Mrs. Alex.
Finlay, decorative in pavement-blue with
dark red plume lying over the crown of
her hat.
Mrs. Roly Fmk, Mrs. Eric Gutteridge
and Nancy Hewlett had duties behind a
barrage of flowers, generously augmented
from the gardens of the Prahran Coun-
cil. Among the younger folk who sold
posies or sweets were Mary Wallace, in
a fetching blue hat; Moire and Gwenda
Byrne, wearing respectively black and
mist-blue ; Yvonne Glasscock, in petrol-
blue suit and seaside sailor; Yvonne
Sallmann, who wears a. fringe to her
smooth pageboy coiffure; and Shirley
McGregor, in navy blue and many but-
tons upon her white pique lapels.
On the same afternoon on which
guests were invited to Christ Church,
South Yarra, for the wedding of June
Russell and Ted Cunningham, which was
followed by a reception at Menzies, in-
vitations were also abroad for the mar-
riage of Barbara Syme and Geoffrey
Norris at Holy Trinity, Kew, with felici-
tations under a marquee of Rockingham,
the home of the bride’s parents. With
two such large weddings on the same
day it was inevitable that mutual friends
of both couples had to make a decision
about which or how many sets of nuptials
they would attend. On the following
afternoon some of them met once again
at the wedding of D’Arcy Lawry and
Alan Bragg, whose future home will be
their station property in N.S.W. The
Geoff Norrises will live in the house
they have built in Kew, favorite district
for most members of the Syme family.
Three Massine ballets new to Mel-
bourne, “Jeux d’Enfants,” “Choreartium”
and “Les Femmes de Bonne Humeur,”
figured on last week’s programmes.
“Jeux” is a piece of fantasy in which a
child and toys are symbols from a dream
world, as unreal as the surrealism used
in the decor. Denisova as the Top wore
some green and black, one leg mostly
white and the other red. Grigorieva, as
a governing spirit of the toys, has a grey-
blue arm. Soap bubbles are in many
colors, the Amazons carry their shields
in pale-green and white, Riabouchinska
as the child wears odd patent-leather
bows on her head and at her waist and
large shiny tongues in her shoes, the
rocking-horses have telescopes for eyes,
and Dolin as the traveller is clad in a
colored scarf, a cap and an elaboration
of a ski-ing costume.
“Choreartium,” to the music of
Brahms’s Fourth Symphony, should be
seen more than once, for it is far too
complex to take in at one or two sittings.
How Massine managed to explain his
choreography or how the dancers ever
learnt it is a problem that possibly only
ballet students can understand. Many
critics disapprove of substituting the
original practice dress used in this ballet
for several changes of costume which
they claim have little bearing on the
interpretation of the music. Twenty
girls hooded and cloaked in dark maroon,
led by Grigorieva in scarlet, portray
the Andante with impressive melancholy
upon a dim stage. In the third move-
ment the same girls interpret a joyous
Allegro in tulle skirts, Serova wearing
mittens and a little flat satin hat. In the
last movement the men are in black
tights from fingers to toes. Baronova
wears the same costume throughout the
ballet—black draperies fluttering over
pale grey.
Full of fun and mischief is “The Good-
humored Ladies,” wherein mime and
dancing go hand-in-hand. While a
sprightly Baronova delivers a false love-
letter, dusts a chair, sets a supper-table
with the help of a pair of gallants, Pet-
roff and Dzikowsky, Lazowsky as
the waiter dances himself into a noble-
man’s yellow pantaloons and satin coat
to lay his heart at the feet of an elderly
marquise, who loses her tall white wig
in the ensuing scene of discountenance
and general appreciation of the joke. For
“Spectre of the Rose,” figured on the
same programme, scenery and costumes
differ slightly from those used in the
production of two years ago. There is
a bed with draped curtains and a powder-
blue wall design between the windows.
Dolin as the Spectre is almost a fuchsia-
colored rose, and Riabouchinska as the
young girl wears white satin and a
boudoir bonnet tied under her chin.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs. Ted
Cunningham, who before her marriage
last week was June Russell, younger
daughter of the late George Russell, of
Barunah Plains, and of Mrs. Russell, of
Studley, Toorak. The newly-married
pair are returning to Melbourne for Cup
week, and will stay with Major and Mrs.
Charles Cunningham at Egelabra,
Williams-road, while arranging their
furniture, wedding presents and the
antiques they are both so fond of in the
flat they have taken in Orrong-road.
Among their antiques are gifts from
several members of both the Russell and
Cunningham families.
Little Hephzibah Menuhin Nicholas
seemed to find the excitement she caused
at the Ballet last week slightly embarrass-
ing, so much so that one interval in the
foyer was all she could cope with; for
the second she and her husband remained
in their seats in the front row of the
circle. Mrs. Nicholas chose apparel that
could not have been simpler, wore no
ornaments in her hair, and no jewellery
but the ring on her wedding finger. Her
jeutie fille frock of lilac taffeta had little
puff sleeves and a heart-shaped neck, and
her long evening coat was of white
boucle. Other first-nighters included
Mrs.' Clive Fairbairn in dark-brown
satin, striped gaily and diagonally in
reds, greens and yellows. Her daughter
Prudence wore sprigged buttercup chiffon
and her hair in plastic rolls high on the
top of her head. Mrs. de Wolf, who was
accompanied by her son, offset her fair
head with a little white ermine cape
a-dangle with tails. Mrs. Fred Gamble
chose black.
A visitor from Canberra was Alison
Dent (who, with her mother, was in Mel-
bourne for the wedding of D’Arcy Lawry
and Alan Bragg). She wore a lovely
white coat of blistered crepe long and
perfectly cut, with a basque effect cleverly
introduced at the back of the waist.
First-nighters for “The Good-humored
Ladies” programme included Marjorie
Wilson, of Queensland, who has been
staying at Government House ; the Roy
Johnstons, Mrs. Johnston wearing
black and many tulips ; Mrs. Jock Oliff,
in a coat of Western cut and Eastern
embroidery; Diana Mann and Monica
Starke, who were together; a pair of
sisters, Mrs. Mortimer Robb and Lois
Lathlean; and Mrs. Sam Clarkson,
formerly of Melbourne and Adelaide,
and now of Perth, who is flying
back home this week with her husband.
Last Saturday evening in the Kelvin
Hall Dorothy Mattingley’s piano pupils
entertained their parents at a students’
recital. Miss Mattingley, whose photo-
graph is by Dickinson-Montcath, is a
past pupil of M.L.C., is a Mus. Bac.,
holds a Diploma of Music as solo pianist,
was an Ormond Exhibitionist and alto-
gether did a brilliant honors course at
the University Conservatorium, where she
showed aptitude for the ’cello as well as
the piano. Her principal interest outside
the realms of music is German, and she
has useful practice in conversation by
regularly accompanying friends on visits
to German ships in port.
Miss Mattingley is the second daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. H. V. Mattingley, of
Camberwell. Her sisters Mollie and
Gwen (who is Mrs'.*Kenneth Nisbet, of
Glen Iris) are also musical. Mollie
studied singing for some years and is
now secretary of the Y.W.C.A. in Hobart.
When she was a very small girl she was
quite sure her destiny was evangelising
among piccaninnies in Eastern countries,
which idea persisted for so long that she
studied to be a missionary, obtained the
degrees of associate and licentiate of
theology and did a three years’ course at
Melbourne Bible Institute.


A glimpse of historic Port Arthur.
TASMANIAN
T fl IT D C for UTMOST
1 U U Ml 3 VARIETY
Enjoy a happy sea voyage by
overseas or interstate liners.
Beautiful scenic trips and visits
to historic sites in Tasmania
and accommodation while in
that State. All inclusive costs
are moderate, call or write for
descriptive booklets.
® TAKE YOUR CAMERA and enter for
Tasmanian Photographic Competition.
CASH PRIZES. NO ENTRANCE FEE.
TASMANIAN GOVT.
TOURIST DEPT.
SYDNEY: 4 Martin Place.
MELBOURNE: 286 Collins Street.
BRISBANE: 196 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 12 Pirie Street.
PERTH: A.M.P. Building, William Street.
HOBART: Macquarie and Murray Streets.
LAUNCESTON: St. John and Cameron
Streets.
p“ :
RUBE ROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
WEAR FLO ORINC
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W..
Agents:
BRISBANE: Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews. P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
vwftjirViH
FREE
Trial
Offered
Don’t be Bald —Grow Hair without Medicine or Tonics —or Money Back.
Remarkable intermittent Vacuum Helmet used PRIVATELY BY HAND, or by
vacuum water tap pressure (no water touches the head). AMAZING INVENTION.
Scientifically renews THICK HAIR through STIMULATING deep-lying blood vessels.
HAIR FOLLICLES root after few treatments. NEW HAIR GROWS. CORRECTS
GREY HAIR, BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ALOPECIA, EXCESS DRYNESS; OILINESS.
For men and women. Price 49/6. Free trial and advice offered. Agents required;
25 other lines. Re-Nu Co. (Estab.. 1932), Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Also optional Weight Reducing and Health Building Vacuum Pads.
HE LOST HIS
MONEY IN STEEL!
During the five years slump he lost over £8
in old razor blades —he used about two every
week. Then he changed to a Wilkinson
Razor. The Wilkinson needs but four
blades a year because they’re full hollow
ground blades that have enough good steel
in them to take a keen edge, and the
mekanized self-stropping of these blades
puts the keen edge back time and time again.
Change to a Wilkinson the finest shaving
instrument a man can possess.
★
RAicm
Oak Case
with two
H olio tc
C round
Bla d e t
and
15/6
Strop
In Nickel
plated Case 19/„
InCbromeCase.
three Blades
and Strop. 27/6
'7 -D AY' set
with a blade lor
every day of the
week ■ - J7/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
fi
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery. Co. Ltd.
ic ( all Stores in
NORTH OP
TWENTY-EICHT
More Trouble Off Arnhem Land
The remarks of Judge Wells in earlier
Japanese lugger cases were only a prel-
ude to far stronger ones. In the affairs of
the New Guinea Maru and the Seicho
Maru the Judge said that the whole of
the circumstances reflected little credit on
officials:
Captain Okashima’s conduct throughout
was as good as it could have been. He
comes out of the affair much better than
Captain Haultain, former master of the
patrol-launch Larrakia, and officials in
Darwin. Most of the damage appears to
have been done to Australia’s reputation
Unfortunately the Australian taxpayer
has to pay.
The captain of the
Seicho Maru said he
was seven miles at
sea when arrested.
The captain of the
New Guinea Maru
claimed to have been
nine miles out.
Eight actions were
begun. In the first
and second plaintiffs
were awarded £2oo*)
and £l2OB damages
respectively, with the
return of their lug-
gers. ludgment in
three other cases has
yet to be delivered ;
the remainihg three,
brought by lapanese
captains, have been
settled on terms “to
be disclosed.”
It isn’t pleasant
reading—about the
only pleasant feature
is that strangers
have had a practical
assurance that justice is meted out in
Australian courts irrespective of where
national interests or inclinations lie.
The cases have gone to show that the
exclusion laws are ineffective, and that
the administration of them has been
carried out with appalling tactlessness
and stupidity. It is a cause for thanks-
giving that nobody was shot.
It should not be difficult to come to an
arrangement which would obviate the
need for toy warships to career round
the coast dramatically firing off pistols
and machine-guns. There is no way of
preventing lapanese from fishing in extra-
territorial waters. It may as well be taken
for. granted that they will continue to
fish up to the three-mile limit. Seeing
that they are legally there, it seems
absurd to make them go to their own
bases hundreds of miles away for replen-
ishment of supplies. At the same time,
they must be made to understand that
they cannot land at will on the Australian
coast, especially in those native reserva-
tions from which even Australians are
debarred.
The solution seems to lie in strict
operation of immigration and customs
laws, licensing of pearling vessels to
call at certain points for stores and water,
and an agreement with the Japanese
Government which would make it an
offence, punishable by Japanese as well
as Australian law, to take natives on
“ You'd better take a stick in with you, Ma!"
board any vessel or have any contact
with them, except under police super-
vision.
“Philp”: It’s easy to do a perish in the
N.T. lim Rail strolled off from a con-
tractor’s camp near Anthony’s Lagoon
on the Barkly Tableland. Police and
blacktrackers found him after a 25-mile
search. Without water for 24 hours, he
had dispensed with all encumbrances save
trousers, and had cut his wrist to suck
the blood. And he was in the centre of
civilisation. Anthony’s boasts a police
station, a homestead and a store. Cres-
well Downs is to the north, Eva Downs
to the west and Brunette Downs to the
south, all connected by road and within
a radius of considerably less than 100
miles. Cattle passing from tick areas
into clean country are dipped there —
20,040 last year; so Anthony’s is quite
a busy town.
* * * *
‘Gryllus”: From meteorological rec-
ords extending over ten years, the Aus-
tralian record for thunderstorms is held
by Port George IV. mission station, West
Kimberley, North Westralia, where they
average 97 yearly, mostly in the n.-w.
monsoon period. A small tract of moun-
tain country south-east of Brisbane, in-
cluding Tamborine Mountain and the
Lamington Plateau, comes next with from
60 to 70 a year, and provides the record
for eastern Australia. The formation of
the country, steep ranges divided by deep
canyons running up to a precipitous wall
over 3000 ft. high, is believed to be the
determining cause.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Cuthbert Potts, dead in
Brisbane, used to be one of the most
familiar figures in southern Queensland
on agricultural occasions. His first love
was mining engineering, but from that
he drifted into the realm of chemistry
and physics, and in those subjects be-
came lecturer at Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College. In 1915 he went to
Queensland as principal of Gatton Col-
lege, which he reorganised and modern-
ised. An authority on crop-production,
pasture improvement and drought relief,
he retired a dozen years ago.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: An interesting little cere-
mony took place on October 6 a few
yards from the 3000 ft. sheer drop of the
Macpherson Range (S.Q.) into N.S.W.,
when the new 13|-mile pedestrian track
from the O’Reilly guest-house to Binna
Burra Lodge, on the Lamington Plateau,
was declared open. Among the 30 or
so present were Bernard O’Reilly, who
located the crashed Stinson ’plane and
its two survivors a few miles away;
Romeo Lahey, pioneer of the Lamington
country ; and the Director of the Queens-
land Museum with a bag containing a
rare species of tiger-snake which he had
collected on the way out. The new track
is the backbone of a system which will
enable every scenic vantage point in the
two park areas to be reached.
* * * *
“Lenin’s Ghost”: The class-conscious
stalwarts of North Queensland have at
last achieved their own newspaper, the
“Guardian.” Its policy is summed up in
two large admonitions on each side of
its title: “Boycott Japanese Goods” and
“Defend World Democracy and Sub-
scribe to the Spanish Relief Fund.” It
also wants to “let Hitler and his maniacs
know that they face the combined might
of Britain, France, the Soviet Union and
Czechoslovakia.” Its main pictures on
the front page are of “Spanish Republi-
can soldiers listening to their Commissar,
who congratulates them on their efforts
in the harvest field,” and of a member
of the International Brigade who (“aided
by the efficient and untiring efforts of
‘Tiger’ Ryan”) has
stirred up support
and enthusiasm and
splendid activity on
behalf of “the gal-
lant defenders of
democracy in
Spain.” Also, it is
enthusiastic about a
Mr. Tony McGil-
lick, Mr. Litvinov
and Mr. Orr, who
has been running the
coal strike. It thinks
Mr. Curtin has the
distinction of “lead-
ing the only Labor
section in the world
which is not oppos-
ing Fascist Aggres-
sion.” Seems to me
that, wherever else
Australian sentiment
is dying, the torch is
still held high round
Babinda, Tully and
Innisfail.
* *
“Nagheer”: Dalby (s.-w. Q.) is cele-
brating its 75th birthday as a munici-
pality. Its actual history goes' back for
more than 90 years. Henry Dennis took
up Jimbour for Josiah Thomas Bell,
afterwards Premier, about 1841, and not
long afterwards Henry Stuart Russell set
up an accommodation-house on the bank
of Myall Creek, just within the present
town boundary. When it was declared
a municipality, Dalby’s population was
under 200 souls and the Bunya Moun-
tains, 20 miles away, were still the pic-
nicking resort for abos. from 200 miles
around in the bunya-nut season. The
great pines which yielded the feast yet
show the toeholds, chopped out with
stone tomahawks, for gaining access to
the nuts.


SOR Tfff
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
fOJ? W£AN M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
,319 George St., Sydney
m
Gl-fIND
TONIC
TfIBLfTS
RADIO NEWS .
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Testing for Mutual
Conductance.
A. W. Valve Co. outlines the mutual
conductance test for valves: The test is
usually far more comprehensive than
one for emission, although each serves a
useful purpose. The reading of mutual
conductance may be obtained under
normal working conditions and is there-
fore certain.
The mutual conductance of a valve
determines amplification and power out-
put in receiver operation. A certain
minimum of emission is necessary in any
valve to give normal mutual conductance.
Emission currents above this value do not
improve the performance any further,
and the mutual conductance remains
constant. Similarly the emission of a
valve must fall to this minimum value
before the valve performance begins to
be impaired. Below this value falling
emission indicates decreasing perform-
ance. For this reason, in an emission
test the fact that the emission exceeds
the minimum is more important than
the actual value of emission, while in a
mutual conductance test the result ob-
tained is a direct indication of valve per-
formance.
Mutual conductance (also known as
transconductance) is the relationship be-
tween the signal voltage and the plate
current for zero load resistance, and is
measured in micromhos (microamperes
per volt) or millimhos (milliamperes per
volt). It is actually the slope of the plate
current-grid voltage characteristic of the
valve. There are two common methods
of testing for mutual conductance, the
static (or grid shift) method and the
dynamic method.
The static test may be carried out
without any special instruments beyond
those usually employed for measuring
electrode voltages and plate current, the
circuit being shown in Fig. 1. The fila-
ment should be operated at the rated
voltage, this being measured at the valve
pins in order to eliminate errors due to
Figure l.
voltage drop in the wiring. The plate
voltage of triodes and the screen volt-
age of pentodes are critical, and care
should be taken to adjust them accu-
rately. The plate voltage of screen grid,
tetrode or pentode valves is less critical
than that of the screen grid. The control
grid voltage should be adjusted with par-
ticular care.
The static test is accomplished by tak-
ing a reading of plate current with a grid
bias say 0.5 volt less than the rated bias,
followed immediately by a reading of
plate current with a bias 0.5 volt greater
than the rated bias. By this means a
“grid shift” of 1 volt is produced, and
the difference between the plate current
readings is equal to the mutual con-
ductance. If, for example, the readings
of the plate current are 6.5 ma. and sma.
respectively, the difference is I.sma. and
the slope is I.sma. per volt, or 1500
micromhos.
It is important to choose the two bias
voltages so that they are situated equi-
distant on each side of the rated bias
voltages, since otherwise the inevitable
curvature of the characteristic will intro-
duce an error. The change in voltage
may be accomplished by means of a
steady voltage supply as shown in the
diagram, together with a second supply
which is adjusted to give a voltage of
I volt which is switched in or out of
circuit as desired. This arrangement re-
quires two separate voltmeters for accu-
rate measurements. A simpler although
slightly less accurate arrangement would
be to adjust the voltage divider to the
two voltages in succession. ,
This static test takes time, as the plate
and screen voltages need resetting for
each reading, owing to the varying drain
on the voltage dividers.
The dynamic test, of which a circuit is
given in Fig. 2, is preferable, since the
valve is tested under conditions more
nearly those of actual operation. It will
be seen that a signal input of I volt
R.M.S. is applied to the grid, and the
alternating component of plate current is
read by means of a dynamometer-type
of milliammeter. With this arrangement
the mutual conductance in micromhos
is equal to 1000 times the A.C. plate cur-
rent in milliamperes. That is to say that
a reading of 2ma. (A.C.) represents a
mutual conductance of 2000 micromhos.
With this test it is essential for the plate
and screen circuits to be of low resist-
ance in order to avoid errors. The dyna-
mometer type milliammeter may, if de-
sired, be replaced by an audio fre-
quency choke of low D.C. resistance,
across which is connected a large block-
ing condenser and a rectifier-type milli-
ammeter. The accuracy of this arrange-
ment is less than that with the dyna-
mometer instrument, and it is usually
necessary to calibrate it from a more
accurate instrument. It does, however,
make a very valuable comparative test.
Valves are usually capable of operat-
ing satisfactorily until the mutual con-
ductance falls to 65 p.c. of the rated
value for voltage amplifier valves, and
50 p.c. for power valves.
v.c.
German Photographic
Contest.
Short-wave listeners may have heard
the announcement from the German
short-wave stations concerning a photo-
graphic contest in connection with which
some valuable prizes are offered. Photo-
graphs may be sent to the “photographic
adviser” of the German station, and will
be judged on their technical skill. The
prize list includes, 1, a Stuttgart over-
seas radio receiver; 2, a Telefunken
special short-wave receiver ; 3, an Agfa
Karat 3.5 camera ; 4, a Sixtus exposure
meter. Special prizes are, 1, a super
Ikonta camera, with 4.5 Tessar lens; 2,
a Rolliecord camera ; 3, a double light
Luminax enlarger. Conditions drawn up
by the German broadcasting authorities
are:
(1) Any listener may enter.
(2) No limit is placed on the number of
pictures sent in. If the pictures are smaller
than 34 x 44 inches the negatives must also
be submitted. All contestants entering the
competition for the special prizes are re-
quired to send in their negatives.
(3) AH pictures must be realistic represen-
tations of the listener’s native environment
and atmopshere, i.e., it must be apparent
at a glance that the pictures have been
taken in Brazil, in Africa or in the U.S.A.
As an appropriate background for the pic-
ture it is necessary to select a landscape,
characteristic landmarks or some other
motif peculiar to the country in question.
(4) It is especially important to have the
picture convey the idea that a broadcast
is being received; radio sets, antennas,
microphones, should therefore be in evi-
dence.
(5) Snapshots arc desired not only of
individuals, but especially of groups, large
or small, in the act of listening-in to the
German short-wave broadcast; also pic-
tures showing what is typical as well as un-
usual in overseas radio reception.
(6) No posed pictures! Pictures which
have been snapped unawares arc apt to
be the most realistic.
(7) No attention will be paid to portrait
pictures.
(8) Every picture must contain the fol-
lowing information on its back: (u) A
brief explanation of the scene represented;
ib) name and exact address of the sender;
(c) date on which picture was snapped.
(9) Pictures become the property of the
German short-wave station. In no cir-
cumstances will a print be returned.
(10) The last day on which pictures will
be received for the contest is December 15,
1938. The announcement of the results or
the contest and the naming of the winners
will take place during the course of the
Christmas programme on December 25,
1938.
Radio Comment.
With reference to “Enno’s”
par (B. 14/9/’3B) I enclose one of the
8.8.C.’s publications giving advance
notice of programmes. This I receive
regularly each week, as anybody can
do by paying a small subscription. The
issue is not restricted to news editors.
I have always received acknowledgment
and comment on remarks regarding re-
ception that I have sent to the 8.8. C.
[The enclosure is an air-mail edition
of “Empire Broadcasting,” and is a differ-
Armored cars for reconnaissance work are being equipped with radio by A.W.A.
for the Defence Department. They carry a crew of four.
ent publication from the “Overseas Press
Bulletin” mailed regularly to news editors
from Broadcasting House. “Enno”
claimed that short-wave listeners would
appreciate a definite QSL card, as sent
out by most broadcasting organisations,
which could be displayed on the wall
of the den. Though an official letter
from the 8.8. C. perhaps serves the pur-
pose, it is still not quite the same thing.
—D. B. K.].
* * * *
“Querex”: What appears to be a
French short-wave broadcaster often
heard strongly just below the amateur
40-metre band is the 6th Harmonic of
Radio-Mediterranee (Nice Juan-Les-
Pins), corresponding with 39.18 metres.
Harmonic suppression should be com-
pulsory for all broadcasting stations.
International 56mc. DX Tests.
Details of a proposed world-wide five-
metre DX test come from E. H. Conklin,
W9FM, of the editorial staff of “Radio”
(U.S.A.).
With the co-operation of British ama-
teurs, international tests are proposed for
November, 1938. That will probably be
the month of maximum F 2 layer ionisa-
tion for the balance of this year.
The basic schedule for transatlantic
work is to concentrate operations in the
hour between 10 and 11 a.m. E.S.T.
(U.S.A.) on Saturdays and Sundays in
November. Ten-minute transmitting and
listening periods are suggested as fol-
lows :
DX transmit 10 to 10.10 a.m.
Ws transmit 10.10 to 10.20.
DX transmit 10.20 to 10.30.
Ws transmit 10.30 to 10.40, etc.
The object is to have numerous trans-
mitters on the air. If signals are heard
an immediate attempt to QSO can be
made without further regard to the
schedule. Thefe is no objection to trans-
mitting during the full hour if no re-
ceiver is available or no operator is
in attendance.
The same schedule can be maintained
on week days and at earlier or later hours
if time permits. However, it is pointed
out that communication may be most
likely when the time at the mid-point
between the transmitting and receiving
stations is noon or a little later, local
time, for essentially east-west transmis-
sion.
Australia, M.L. and Hawaii stations
are active in attempts to work U.S.A.,
and a schedule is being arranged with
them. The most likely time is around
4 p.m. local U.S.A. time between Friday
and Sunday, for which the transmitting
schedule can be similar to the trans-
atlantic one, with the first ten minutes
being devoted to listening in the U.S.
The same schedule will also be approxi-
mately correct for S* America.
It may be that nothing will be heard
on 56mc. unless the 28mc. band is open
to the same point, but good 28mc. DX
conditions are likely to last through next
winter at least. Relatively little two-way
C.W. work has been done so far this
year—a few contacts across an ocean
may yet produce a winner.
Here is something for 56mc. DX
searchers in Australia to work on.
D.B.K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
There has been some fine reception
lately on all bands, both night and morn-
ing. After 8.30 a.m. things are fairly
quiet until 4 p.m., by which time the 19-
metre Germans are at their peak. Daven-
try has been doing a bit of frequency
changing, but there are always a few very
good stations from 5 p.m. and in the
early morning.
WBXK has been coming in well on
19.72 metres. At 10 a.m. this station
changes to 25.27 metres, and is then very
difficult to follow. Holland is usually
fairly good on 13.96 and 16.88 metres
from 10.25 p.m. (9.25 p.m. on Sundays).
Just after midnight one night I logged
GSH and W2XAD on 13 metres, GSG


Or
mm
* F
df
The Radiotron sealed carton guards every Radiotron
from the factory to your set. It cannot be used to
disguise a second-hand valve, ensuring that the
valve you buy is factory fresh.
For better and brighter radio entertainment . . .
nAiiiuiiiuiiu
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
EimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Fifth Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date October 28
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 5,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than October 28.
Results of this Fifth Limerick Competition will be announced
in “The Bulletin” of November 2.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
FIFTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
An old person who surfed at Dee Why
Wore his boots, plus a collar and tie.
When they mocked him he'd say
“It is warmer this Way —
Sixth Competition
£5O Prizes.
Prize-money for the Sixth Limerick Competition is the same
as for the preceding ones: £4O First Prize and ten other
Prizes of £1 each. It will close on November 11, and results
will be announced in “The Bulletin” of November 16.
Conditions are the same as stated above for the Fifth
Competition.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
October 26 and November 2, and coupons may be filled in
from those issues or from the present one.
For the Sixth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick in
the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to reach
“Limericks No. 6,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than November 1 1.
SIXTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A speedhog when trying to show
What a demon his car Was to go
Ran it far up a gum,
And remarked, looking glum,
The Fourth Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 35.
and DJE on 16 metres, stations too
numerous to quote on 19 metres, JZJ and
OLR4A on 25 metres, and on 31 metres
Delhi, GSC, KZRM, YDB, Moscow,
DJA and ZBW, the latter relaying the
Daventry programme. There was also
a large number of stations on 49 metres
and the Indians on 60 metres, all at full
loudspeaker volume.
Stations are now so numerous through
the short-wave bands that it is difficult
to keep track of them all. Best 49-metre
station in the morning has been GSA,
and in this band a new transmission is
heard at night from Java.
English news from TPA2 and Berlin
is now given at 10 p.m. PCJ is strong
when opening at 5 p.m., but yet runs
second to the Berliners. GSF is the
strongest of all. VLR, although on extra
power, still shows fading and distortion
here as previously. Despite this unfortu-
nate habit, VLR is invaluable when static
is bad.
K. B. G. (Thargomindah).
Amateur Chatter.
In earlier DX days a CQ on the then
much wider 20-metre band would neces-
sitate running the receiver dial from one
end to the other in order not to miss„any
stations anywhere within the range.
Nowadays, constant users of the “20-
metre band” have become so acutely
frequency-conscious that the receiver
never gets much beyond familiar terri-
tory. In nine out of ten cases this terri-
tory is the American ’phone band be-
tween 14,150 kc. and 14,250 kc. Many in-
teresting contacts with other countries
are thus missed. The bandspread tuning
may be so wide on some receivers that
it becomes a laborious job to tune from
one band limit to the other —unimportant,
perhaps, to the “ ’phone-band” addict,
but not so to the C.W. man.
When stations close together have
problems to discuss, even of a technical
nature, 20 metres is no medium for long-
winded conversation; other people may
like to use the band for DX. An obvi-
ous medium for such discussions where
the distance is such that flag-wagging
would be easy is five metres.
Much was heard recently on 20 of the
wondrous things to happen on five when
talk of getting down to five metres is put
into practice. DX is so easy on 20 with
almost any kind of gear that the ’phone-
man weaned on such DX is due for dis-
appointment if and when five metres is
ever tackled. VKs with real experience
on all bands have been trying to snare
elusive five-metre DX signals for years.
There is more to five-metre DX than
glib talk —and the first thing to do is to
get going on the band. Even that isn’t a
smooth job.
111-health kept the writer off the air
during the week ending 8/10’38, and
until further notice the Sunday five-
metre DX schedules at VK2NO may be
suspended.
Latest G to visit VK2NO is C. A.
Webb, G6WQ. He dropped into Sydney
on a timber freighter from Vancouver,
his job that of key-puncher. G6WQ is
one of the real old-timers.
After several attempts at a QSO with
Englishmen on 14mc. ’phone, which
brought only spasmodic contacts and
reports of intense QRM, one obliging G
supplied the answer. The writer was
using a 7mc. crystal placing transmission
at 14,010 kc., and it so happens that a
Spanish insurgent station has chosen just
that frequency to dump a signal in the
amateur band. As the signal from the
Spaniard is R Max nightly in England,
the effect on a comparatively weak signal
from Australia can be well imagined.
Necessity has kept the all-wave T.R.F.
receiver recently designed by the writer
to cover everything between eight metres
and 1000 metres in use for amateur-band
observations. The T.R.F. type of receiver
has definite uses for general short-wave
coverage, but even the best type is hope-
less for selectivity in congested areas for
amateur-band work. Yet fellows are
heard saying, in such congested areas,
that the receiver is a small T.R.F. job.
It is no wonder that sooner or later the
same users wail about the overpowering
presence of one or more locals. The
only possible receiver for use on amateur
bands in crowded localities is the super-
het. But even a two-valve “blooper”
can have its uses on field days or for
some aspects of mobile working.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
This Vic. district has just been supplied with
electric power, and interference with radio re-
ception is a serious problem. In nearly all
cases 22,000 volts has been taken direct to
the farms, with sub-stations in bentral positions.
In my own case, current is delivered to the
house at 460 volts in two phases and reticu-
lated to the various light and power points at
230 volts. Except for very powerful stations
radio reception is a complete washout, at least
with an indoor aerial. Short-wave reception is
not seriously affected, and all overseas national
stations can be received fairly well, using an
indoor aerial and a good earth. 3 AR and 3LO,
which are only 110 miles airline distance, are
impossible. (1) What is the best remedy ? (2)
// an outdoor aerial is necessary, what are the
specifications ? (3) Would the earth pin of the
three-pin power points make an efficient earth ?
—725.
(1) It seems that the interference is in the
power circuit, and the first step is the installa-
tion of a line filter. Such a filter can be tried
temporarily with an A.C. receiver and the
effect noted. (2) Undoubtedly an outdoor aerial
is needed. With good signal pickup from the
start, there is every chance of overriding the
mush in the power supply. Such is not the case
with a set “wide-open” and connected to an
indoor aerial. Get the aerial as high as pos-
sible and well insulaled. Total length, including
lead-in, should not exceed 100 ft. (3) Yes.


Sco^^
.«i»r ““
/
/
x
4
88 — 8
‘Jjfie I2amezs~
(D c GodliuT) s
~y/<' tUhis&yis
d
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbroligh, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Uonel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantl
- - Hobart
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
TRUCK BUYERS demanded it-
FURD built it..
k
■r::zx
Ik
w >
/SB#
mrnmmmm
fd
Gross vehicle capacity 16,000 lbs. 134
in. and 157 in. wheelbase models.
Tyres: 2, 7.00 x 20 on_ 6 in. rims, 4,
34 x 7 10-ply on 7 in. rims.
BUILT INTO THE NEW 4-TONNER- ARE THESE VALUE FEATURES:
• Heavy-duty frame with inner section and special cross member.
• Heavy-duty springs, capacity 16,850 lbs. 6-leaf auxiliary springs
standard equipment.
• Drive taken through torque tube and radius rods, relieving springs
of all driving and braking stresses.
• Special heavy-duty rear axle
assembly.
• Centriforce truck clutch, 11 in. dia-
meter, 123.7 sq. in friction area.
• Self-energising brakes with 488 J
sq. in. braking area.
8 FORWARD SPEEDS (optional at
slight extra cost) increases haulage
ability by 27% and gives the V-8
4-Tonner tremendous reserve power for
"off-the-road" work in quarries, etc.
Let your local Ford Dealer place one
of the new 4-Tonners at your disposal
to test on your own job. Enquire also
about the special body types and
equipment available. Convenient
purchase terms available.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
10 H.P. UTILITIES
10 H.P. Chassis .... £2OO
Roadster Utility £250
Coupe Utility .... - £270
V-8 UTILITIES
Chassis £240
Enclosed cab platform body - £303
„ „ straightside body £304
„ „ welltype body • £306
„ „ dropside body - £3OB
Roadster utility straightside body £309
„ „ welltype body - £309
Coupe utility straightside body £321
„ „ welltype body - £321
PANEL VANS
10 H.P. Panel Van - - - - £270
V-8 Panel Van ----- £320
V-8 TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
122" W.B. 20/25 cwl. single
rear wheels ... - x/oo
134" W.B. 30 cwt. single rear
wheels ------ £292
157" W.B. 30/40 cwt. single
rear wheels - - - - £302
134" W.B. 2 Ton dual rear
wheels £3OB
157" W.B. 2 Ton dual rear
wheels ------ £316
Forward control 118" W.B.
dual rear wheels - - £340
V-8 HEAVY-DUTY
3- TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
134" W.B. 3 Ton dual rear
wheels *335
157" W.B. 3 Ton dual rear
wheels £344
185" 'W.B. 3-3J/ 2 Ton dual rear
wheels ------ £397
Special Bus Chassis, double
drop frame 185" W.B. - £367
V-8 HEAVY DUTY
4- TRUCKS (Chassis prices)
134" W.B. 4 Ton dual rear
wheels ------ *348
157" W.B. 4 Ton dual rear
wheels ------ £357
(All prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax)
COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F256.24H
FORD MOTOR
Legal Notice.
IN
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
the Will and Codicil of LEVI TULK
late of Goonellabah near Lismore in the
State of New South Wales Retired Farmer
APPLICATION will be made after fourteen
days from the publication hereof that Probate
of the last Will and Testament —dated the
Twelfth day of August One thousand nine hun-
dred and' thirty-five and a codicil thereto dated
the Sixth day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-eight —of the abovenamed de-
ceased may be granted to WILLIAM
FREDERICK McDERMOTT and ARTHUR
MARTIN the Executors in the said Will named
AND all notices may be served at the offices of
the undersigned to whom all creditors and
others are required to forward particulars of
their claims within the fourteen days aforesaid.
A. W. AXTENS,
Proctor for the Applicant,
66-72 Molesworth Street, Lismore.
By his Agents, KENNEDY & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ON CRISES
BY “LORD LUVUS.”
The assertions lately appearing in the
newspapers that a critical stage has
arrived in world history move me to
protest. How do the newspapers know,
anyhow?
Humanity has always been in a state
of crisis. There was a crisis when the
first monkey started to walk upright. The
other monkeys thought that a critical
stage had been reached in world history ;
but there are more monkeys in the world
to-day' than ever. Moreover, if the
monkey that tried to walk upright had
done so at the wrong moment, it would
have been a crisis for him, not for the
world in general. If he had the habit ol
walking upright so ingrained that he
couldn’t think of any other way of doing
things when there was no necessity to
do so, his abnormality would have been
a disadvantage to him and he would have
perished. For his abnofmality .to. be
of any use to him it had to correlate with
an enormous number of coordinating
circumstances.
It is therefore pretentious of the
newspapers to say. that some insig-
nificant event is a crisis .unless, they,
know all its possible relationships,
and a daily newspaper -is always in
too much of a - hurry, to know,
even one or two relationships. If the.
dailies had been coming out during the
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,
they would no doubt have brought out
a special; edition when the :capital was
shifted from Rome to Constantinople.
But the Decline and Fall had a long lease
of life still before it—9oo years, in fact.'
During the whole of that period its col-;
lapse was expected so consistently that
the 'lino, men were kept permanently
standing ,at their, machines waiting for
the official bulletins about it. So if the
expected had happened it . would have
been totally unexpected by the pessimists,
prophets and Jeremiahs who, no doubt,
made a good living out of predicting it.
When Rome did fall, the collapse was
confined to the Western sector, the
Eastern portion enjoying for another
nine centuries a second childhood, which
was so vigorous that at.times it looked
like a new birth or an entirely original
empire.
The British Empire, like the Roman,
has been disintegrating ever since I can
remember ; and it was disintegrating long
before: T could remember anything. It
was expected to fly to pieces during the
Boer War, during the Great War, and
under the Peace treaties. Democracy has
been at the crossroads ever since it was
invented ; also Civilisation, Morality and
Religion.
The belief in crises has its origin in
people having their noses to the grind-
stone and thinking that they have their
ears attuned to the music of the spheres
or something.
Whether the dailies’ crisis was real or
bogus'may be known 1000 years from
hence, but there are no grounds for
attaching such immediate significance to
it as to merit bringing out special editions.
Scientists now admit that there was a
world crisis in the affairs of the dino-
saurs. The dinosaurs kept on getting
larger and larger until they were
threatened with a decreasing food
supply. They, responded to this threat
in tfie traditional way, which was the only
way they knew how.-..1t was traditional
for a dinosaur to be large, and they made
themselves .larger. and larger because they
believed in largeness. Somewhere in the
world, was an animal, no doubt, which
believed in smallness. It survived, and
the dinosaurs disappeared ; but this hap-
pened millions of years ago and the crisis
took thousands of years to develop.
“West Aussie”: Innisfail (N.Q.), where
income-tax: forms are printed in Italian
as. well. as English, <was once named
Geraldton. The name was altered when
a sailing ship ordered to load at Gerald-
ton turned up at the wrong one, a con-
tinent’s width from its proper destination.
The Westralian port is more cosmopoli-
tan than Innisfail in that local banks find
it good -business, to print the notices dis-
played in their windows in Italian, Yugo-
slavian, Czechoslovakian, Greek, Japa-
nese and Chinese. There has been a great
influx of Southern Europeans in the last
decade, and the fountry for many .miles
outside the’ port has been taken up by
these alien settlers, who are making a
success of tomato-growing.
* * * ■*
“Aviaf”: Are the “australites” men-
tioned by “Sou’-west” (B. 5/10/’3B) any
relation to tektites? These are about as
large as big marbles, and are believed
to have fallen from outermost space on
to the island of Billiton at a time when
Europe was still in the Ice Age. Speci-
mens have recently been presented to
the Raffles Museum, Singapore. These
meteorites are found only in four , places
in the world —on the island of Billiton,
in the Solo Valley of Java, in China and
in Moravia. They are supposed to be
remnants of a meteor which passed by
our planet in the Pleistocene Age. A
tektite looks black, but when held against
the light is seen to be composed of a
substance like brownish glass, not ana-
lysable into elementary components.
There is a vacuum inside the tektite, and
if fractured it explodes. Billiton natives
believe them to be the “seeds” from
which the tin grows, and therefore put
them back carefully into the ground
whenever found.


St’s
LYS
£
% *
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
2S,'-
—..r"*- 4 *“■
*scr
-
* *
mm
$V
■ .
vV
■
■ \ '\-'V »>*
* &
-:V
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SEDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Stick to Merinos.
“Ghanam”: Many graziers in high-
grade merino districts are turning to
fat-lamb-production.
Growers are told that crossbred wools
of the right types will equal in price fair
to medium merino lines, and the value
of mutton as an insurance ,is pointed out.
True for some recent seasons, but those
seasons have been abnormal. When
countries which at present find it diffi-
cult to buy wool because of economic
conditions come back into the market
there will be a different story.
There is danger in the fact that in
crossbred wool the rest of the world can
compete with us. In merinos, Australia
has made and kept her wool ascendancy
for a century.
In 1934 I pointed out on the M.O.L.
page that the lamb market which we
were seeking to take from foreign coun-
tries was limited. Great Britain is the
only substantial buyer. The other day
J M. Coleman, in his survey for the
Australian Meat Council, reported:
Australasia is supplying approximately
85 p.c. of the demands of the United
Kingdom, which is our only available
market, and when the supply exceeds the
demand, which would appear likely within
the next few years, the production of a
quality lamb will be even more neces-
sary.... The standard aimed at should
be first-grade quality only.... The day docs
not appear very far distant when Smith-
field will be oversupplied.
That is sound sense. Some of the
districts which are going into the lamb
business will never produce first-grades
according to Smithfield standards. In
N. S. Wales, which turns off 26 p.c. of
Australian lambs, only 25 p.c. are first-
grade, and in view of climatic variations
it is difficult to standardise carcasses.
Victoria, Tasmania and parts of S.A. can
do much better.
Some districts which have erratic
seasons can raise lambs only in certain
years. Between Narromine and Warren
(N.S.W.) this year, 300,000 lambs have
been raised. • Next year —as last year—
there may not be a fat lamb there, but
the influence of crossbreeding must be
felt on local stock. In these and other
districts lambs have to be trained 400
miles or so, which does not help in pro-
ducing first-grade export carcasses.
The crossbreeds most suitable for this
district are Romney Marsh-merino ewe
and Southdown ram. The effect of fairly
general introduction of this mixture into
a normal fine-wool merino district must
be obvious.
Our wool market depends as much as
the lamb market on quality. And it is
more important. So long as Australia
can grow the bulk of the world’s medium
to superfine merino, the wool industry
is safe, in spite of substitutes and depres-
sions. But crossbred wool, especially
medium to coarse crossbred, is a danger
to the industry.
Swedes for Sheep.
“Snowy”: Southern Monaro (N.S.W.)
has “discovered” the turnip and its place
in winter feeding of sheep.
Among others, A. H. Jeffreys, of Dele-
gate station, has had great results this
season from swedes. He grew 65 acres
in a 500-acre paddock, and, dividing the
crop into four blocks, 1900 to 2200 hog-
gets and breeding ewes were grazed for
six weeks on each block in conjunction
with the natural pasture in the rest of
the paddock.
The sheep were held in splendid con-
dition throughout a very dry winter, and
yielded a heavy drop of lambs. Dele-
gate station has 8000 acres of systemati-
cally topdressed pastures, the carrying
capacity of the best of which has been
trebled.
Winter Rugging and Economy.
“Corriedale”: Add to “M.T.Mc.’s”
(B. 7/9/’3B) defence of rugging a fact
"This is the best place to be safe from bushfires , sir!"
which isn’t often appreciated —it allows
more sheep to be carried during the
winter.
Rugs don’t keep the sheep warm ex-
cept during cold snaps after shearing,
but they do keep the fleece dry. Twenty
points of rain will wet a sheep to the
skin, and the wool takes two to three
days to dry out. During this time the
animal must eat more grass to keep
warm.
With rugs, this is cut out and demand
on feed is reduced.
Weaning-time Diseases.
“5.8.”: Most cows and ewes are
resistant to infection by many commonly
dangerous germs. The protective sub-
stances in their blood are liberated into
the milk, and so build up immunity in
calf or lamb, but the effects are short-
lived. A fortnight after the calf is taken
from the dam’s milk, the protection is
gone. It pays then to give calves their
dam’s milk freely for the full four weeks
after removal.
When “taken off” whole milk finally
at four to six weeks, calves become sub-
ject to scours. The resistance gained
from the dam is gone, and they cannot
ward off infection. The immunity, how-
ever, is relatively unimportant if calves
are fed from seamless buckets sterilised
after each use.
With lambs, the ewe vaccinated for
entero-toxaemia is able to pass on some
protection against pulpy kidney, so long
as her milk supply is good. If she is not
immune herself, the lamb gains nothing.
This protection is invaluable, as the
lambs are able to grow large enough to
be vaccinated, without serious losses.
Trichostrongyles are a weaning-time
curse in lambs. As the milk-food is cut
out the lamb’s condition falls, and it
becomes an easy prey for the parasite.
The remedy is good, clean feed for all
stock at this critical period.
A Lesson in Butchering.
“Win”: Quite a number of station
butchers do not break down the carcass
correctly—l have seen silverside used for
rump steak.
Halve the beast by sawing down the
backbone, then quarter by cutting over
the first rib. To break down the-fore-
quarter, cut between.the fourth and fifth
rib up from the neck, then saw the half
backbone. The chuck and neck will then
pull away from the blade without hack-
ing the meat. Next, cut the shoulder
from the ribs.
The chuck makes best stewing steak,
or can be boned, rolled and pickled. The
shoulder is a second-grade frying steak.
The ribs should be boned and rolled
for roasts, but also make tender grill-
ino steak
To deal with the hindquarter, run the
knife through the distinct whitish line
that leads up from the bottom of the
thick flank, up across the gristle cover-
ing the joint, then deep down the other
side towards the floor. Put a hook in
the gr.sfle and bear down when this
thick flank will come clear off the bone.
Next, put the knife where the bone has
been bared and cut towards the inside
of the leg until another seam is found.
Trace down towards the floor with the
knife, then insert a hook in the top and
pull the piece clear of the bone.
There remains only the silverside. Hook
this at the top and bear down. Except
for a little use of the knife at the top,
this will also pull clear of the bone.
The first two pieces (topside and
roundsteak) are good steak, but the silver-
side should be used exclusively for
corned round.
Topside also makes good corned round.
Electric Fences.
“Granova”: There are possibilities in
electric fences. The motor costs about
the same as a half-mile of fencing
material. It is connected to a wire which
is insulated from the posts, and sends
out several shocks per minute which
can be varied in frequency and severity.
A six-volt dry battery provides power
for six months at a cost of 17s. 6d. An
old six-volt accumulator is also effective.
Barbed wire makes a much better con-
tact than plain wire.
Horses and cattle can be kept in with
a single wire. After a few.days they will
not touch the fence, and the .current can
be turned off for long intervals.
Two wires, lOin. and 20in. from the
ground, are needed for sheep. The jum-
bucks must be “educated” in a small
yard in small flocks. A large mob will
barge into the fence and be through it
before the woollies notice the shock,
We tried a wire 3in. above the ground
to keep rabbits from nibbling the edges
of a crop. It kept them out, but they
were not numerous and grass was plenti-
fuJ- Tall grass might cause a leakage
current.
The fences are ideal for pigs, horses
and cattle. For the sheepman their
economical use is restricted to the tem-
porary fencing of fodder crops and
newly-sown pastures They may also be
, u , se . ful “ k “ p,n « lo ng-wool rams in
lhelr paddock '
Irrigated Wheat,
“Yanco”: Towards the end of Sep-
tember numbers of settlers in the Mur-
rumbidgee area irrigated their wheat
crops. This is not a general practice, but
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the selling of your CLIP on the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST organisation for the sale of
WOOL.
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. Box 484aa, G.P.0., Sydney.
mm
m
better
T
Kt
m
m
One Owner Who Has Bought No
Less Than NINE
MODEL“M"TRACTORS
Reports: Exceedingly economical on fuel, averaging
under 1 gal. per working hour. Remarkably free from
Breakdown or any Mechanical Troubles. Always on
the job and No Time Lost.
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
NQBranch
STURT s:
TOWNSVILLE
INCINEERIINO Supply c«?cf AUSTRALIA L lO
JTuffyxilleti/n,
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Be Your Own Agent!
Save the middleman’s profits by
buying all your
TOBACCO
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY
These Empire—grown Tobaccos are of high quality
—specially blended —aromatic in flavour and
smooth smoking.
With all orders over £1 in all lines, you are
offered.
FREE
a Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . • • 6/3
All British, mild . . ■ • 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . • • • 6/3
Cavendish, strong . • • • 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . • • 7/3
Normandie, medium . . • • 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . • • 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . • • 8/•
Bird’s Eye, medium . . • • 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . • • 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . • • H/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra . . . . 67-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium .. .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong .. .. 7/6
“Three Sailors” .. • • 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug .. .. 6/6
Zig Zags .. .. 5 for 17-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
those with irrigable land on “large-area”
farms are at times able to save a precari-
ous crop with water and obtain bumper
yields.
The M.I.A. was not designed for irri-
gated wheatgrowing, but in dry years
there has been good money in it for a
few. Last season yields of up to 60|
bushels were obtained at Leeton, com-
pared with 19 bushels from “dry" crops
on the same farm.
. f. , . • i . fr -_. „ n
The record for wheat yield from an
tmgated crop is held by T H. Bray,
year following
war he harvested an average of 751-
bushels of Federation from a measured
five-acre block on alluvial sou.
Sub. Clover and Wire Grass.
„ iaaiu e
“Yeno Ham : By sowing 1001 b. oL
sub. clover on 300 acres at Laverstock,
Yass (N.S.W.), Peter Milson has sue-
cessfully controlled a heavy infestation of
wire grass, increasing the carrying capa-
city of the area from 450 sheep to 700.
He topdressed with I6olb. of super, per
acre, and has followed up with similar
dressings each year. Cost of the initial
treatment was 4s. 6d. an acre.
Milson sowed another 20 acres with
~,, r ai • „ • „
46 b. of Algerian oats per ac e mug
751 b. of super., and cross-drilled with
21b. of sub. clover, 21b. of Akaroa cocks-
foot 31b. of Wimmera rye grass, 21b. of
danthoma and 21b. of sheeps burnett an
acre, with another 751 b. of super. Cost
was 235. 9d. an acre, return from the
oats £5B 2s. 6d., showing a net profit of
about £34, plus established pasture.
Prior to treatment, the area was worked-
out cultivation, but with the application
of lcwt. of super, an acre p.a. it now
carries more than 60 sheep,
Without cultivation, a small amount
of sub. clover was scattered on 200 acres
of natural pasture, which was topdressed
with 1121 b. of super, an acre. Since treat-
ment average carrying capacity has in-
creased from 340 to 445 sheep in one
y ear - . f __j
Eleven paddocks of improved and
natural pastures on Laverstock range
from 20 acres to 300 acres, ln a dry
Mi|son djd no[ have to hand .
and his ewes were in exce llent con-
*«*» for lambing,
Long y Short B j te
„ „ , . ... „
Aerogenes : The short bite, once
considered so important for pasture, is
not favored now. The short green blades
are richest in protein, and it was thought
grass was most productive if kept
wed grazed, but it has been proved that
t he greatest yield is had by allowing
spells between grazing long enough for
grass to grow plenty of leaf, but not to
seed.
It is in the leaves that the elements
of soil and air are made into plant tissues,
and a harsh grazing off restricts the food
supply and limits the growth and vigor of
the "hole plant In a flush period wnh
good leaf growth, food is stored in the
and runners, and when it is dry
(hc , a „ t win rcsist bctter and make a
- c £ er recovery
Fur , he , he , eaves protect the soi |. i„
heayy b|ack soi , , he parts cove red by
grass or crop reta i n their moisture better
t h an the bare patches, which in dry
weather are dry and cracked open for
yards down. The soil protected by plants
responds to a much lighter fall of rain,
Allow grass to grow to a “long bite.”
Exit Paspalum.
“Jayem” Dairy - farmers in the
Wyrallah (N.S.W.) district have replaced
almost worthless areas carrying coarse
tussocky paspalum and reeds with
splendid pastures of rye grass, red and
white clovers. Success came after a long
period of fallowing, frequent ploughing,
rolling and harrowing and thorough
drainage by ploughing narrow lands with
wide, open drains between them.
Prominent in the work was A. H.
Ferris, who has 112 acres of improved
pastures subdivided into 18 paddocks for
rotational grazing. Grass is cut when
growth is too tall to be palatable. When
short it is harrowed to loosen surface
soil and to spread droppings. Each
autumn the pastures are renovated and
topdressed with a bag of superphosphate
per acre, and an occasional Bcwt. of lime
per acre is used.
Amphlett Bros., of Gundurimba, have
80 acres of improved pastures, all sown
after a six months’ fallow. Improved
pastures and paspalum have responded
well to super, topdressing and harrowing,
which have caused vigorous growth of
grass, besides stimulating white clover.
Mowing controls growth and suppresses
weeds.
J. C. J. Whipps, of Coraki, has estab-
lished rye grass and clover pastures by
sowing between rows of maize after the
final scuffling. He does not hill the maize,
as the pasture seed tends to collect in
the depressions between the hills and is
liable to be rotted by surplus water there.
A Word for Native Nuts.
“Mulgo”: When scrubs along the
eastern coastal belt were cleared to
grow bananas, thousands of bush-nut
trees were destroyed. Now, many of
the planters are growing the trees be-
tween the rows of bananas, while areas
under the nut are being extended in
Queensland. The bush nut continues to
bear heavy crops for more than 100
years, the first return being obtained
about four years after planting.
This Australian native, whose natural
habitat ranges from Port Macquarie to
Cairns (N.Q.), is one' of the finest-
flavored nuts in the world. Trees aver-
age 40 to 50 pounds of nuts a year.
Individual trees have produced up to
2001 b. There is no waste: the green
covering is good tanning material for
leather; the shell contains a good oil;
the kernel is 87 p.c. food value, and
butter made from it is equal to peanut
butter.
Farmers who are looking for a long-
standing sideline could find few things
better. The nut already has a world-
wide reputation, and is being cultivated
in several countries, including U.S.A.
and China. It requires practically no
attention, does well along creek and
river banks, and can be planted in
clumps for shade and along fences.
A patch set apart like an orchard is
the handiest for harvesting. As the nuts
are borne in clusters the picking is easy.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kyamba”: Tramping down silage
will cause the juices from succulent crops
to drain away. Put hay, straw or chaff
in the bottom of the silo to absorb the
juice ; it adds relish and feeding value to
the chaff.
“G.F.Y.”: Rusted-in studs in sepa-
rators and the like often cause trouble.
For studs or screws which need a screw-
driver try this. Forge a driver from a
piece of round steel about nine inches
long. Split two inches of the handle end
to make a Y. Draw out these arms a
bit and round them off. Hold the driver
firmly in the countersink in the head of
the stud and, using a of scrap iron,
give the Y-head a sharp blow delivered
into and nearly parallel with the arms.
The idea is to deliver a downward blow
at the same instant as the tool gets a
turning impulse to the left. It needs
seeing to believe how simple it is in
practice. Remember that screwdrivers
need tempering.
“Mullengah”: Breeders of beef cattle
for export are being constantly urged
to adopt Argentine.methods of produc-
tion and that country’s styles of cattle.
What about bringing judges from the
Argentine for some of the breeds at
next Sydney Show? The judging would
indicate the type of beast that has
enabled the Argentine to do so well in
the British market. Sydney has already
had judges from England and Scotland.
“Valerin”: Can find no cause for
complaint in the compulsion clauses in
the Soil Erosion Bill now before the
N.S.W. Parliament. In the wheatgrowing
area where I am erosion is becoming a
problem. Every acre of land has been
denuded of timber. Rainstorms are
scouring hillsides and washing out deep
ravines in rich valleys. As soon as a
shower falls in the summer the culti-
vator comes out on the fallow, exposing
the surface to the heat of the sun, with
the result that windstorms sweep away
hundreds of tons of the best soil.
“Mulyan”: There are several species
of indigenous star grass. All respond
vigorously to cultivation, and make
excellent hay. The common star
(C. truncata) is a quick-fattening sheep
feed. It grows to 3ft. high, and is one
of the best to lay down for permanent
pasture and cultivation. It can be culti-
vated in the dryer outback regions as
well as in coastal districts. West of the
Darling River (N.S.W.) it grows in thick
swards, but is generally short. Sown in
drills or broadcast and irrigated it pro-
duces abundant rich herbage. Star grass
(windmill grass or umbrella grass) can
be recognised by the flower spikes—up
to a foot long and spread like the spokes
of a wheel. Where it is scarce, it can be
spread by sowing in a tilled plot and
afterwards scattering the seed. For hay,
it should be cut when in flower.
“Alfalfa”: Where and when lucerne
can be satisfactorily grown in wheat dis-
tricts the establishment of an appreciable
area should be the first step in a plan of
pasture improvement. The past year of
drought and ’hoppers in south-west
N.S.W. enhanced the reputation of
lucerne in medium- to low-rainfall areas.
In many instances established lucerne on
skeleton-weed-infested land carried on
an average more than two sheep to the
acre.


CHEMIST tells how to
save money by making your
own family remedy for
COUGHS-COLDS
i§H Is
tl
.
mm
CATARRH
CROUP BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS & ’FLU
'.ftC wXvM'l-l'
m
m
18$
sm
s-ass
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
CROUP
Four doses at HEENZO daily, also
take when cough is distressing.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning and
when cough is distressing.
Ask for HEENZO
Refuse all substitutes
COSTS 21- —SA I YES £’s.
The use of this recipe gives you, for the cost of one, the equal in quantity of eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-made-qp remedies for chest, nose and
throat ailments, the goodness of which is proved by the fact that it has been the
favourite family remedy for such ailments in the majority of Australian homes for
over twenty years.
In a jug make a syrup compound of four tablespoonfuls of sugar,
three tablespoonfuls of treacle or honey, one large breakfastcupful of
warm water. When the syrup is COLD (not before) pour it into a
large clean bottle, and add ONE bottle of concentrated HEENZO
(costs 2/- at any chemist or store). This wonderful money-saving
chest, nose and throat remedy is then ready for the immediate use
of all members of your family.
HOW TO USE
HEENZO
IN TREATMENT OF
COUGHS—COLDS
Take HEENZO every Same treatment as coughs,
few hours until cured. If taken at first sign cold
will quickly vanish.
WHOOPING COUGH
Call Doctor immediately for injections. Ease the
cough with made-up HEENZO.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take half teaspoonful of
concentrated HEENZO in wineglass of hot
water every four hours. Ease cough with
made-up HEENZO. Keep bowels open.
.
**
i
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
m
■ - y " : .
.
% /
- . .
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief.
!HEENZOi
should be used in every home & office
All leading Chemists
and Stores in Australia
sell
HEENZO


The BENGALI. Hand Forced Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
J?fT?n'r inrngn n
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALI, BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, Jin., fin., 2in., Black Handle .... 12/6
„ ~ „ „ Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart lor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Zuft selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
' Wants.
Opening for industrious, honest family,
grapes and tomatoes, 40 acres, on half shares
or lease, Q’land property.—lo7s.
Prospector (M.L.) wants mate or financial
partner.—loBs.
Digger, Sydney, unemployed, seeks clerical,
travelling or part-time job.—ll6o.
Pensioner, N.S.W., active, ship’s carpenter,
own tools, well up in yachts, painting and sail-
making, wants a job in a boatshed or as care-
taker week-end cottages. —1209.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work }- neat and accurate, moderate
terms. —1235.
Young man (24), N.S.W., wants job on farm,
preferably pigs. Some exp.—l24s.
To hear from amateur dramatic societies seek-
ing to produce Australian plays.—l24o.
To get in touch with breeders of Saanen goats
in N. S. Wales. —1079.
To get in touch with Esperanto societies in
Australia.—ll3l.
\ o buy Queensland Reminiscences, by
Andrew Crombie. —1081.
To buy summer number, 1936, of the “Topo-
graphical Quarterly.”—l2l7.
Copy of pamphlet on the Suffield case,
issued by The Bulletin about 1897.-1247.
Words of golf song containing theffine “The
dirty little pill went rolling down the hill.” —
1162.
Words of recitation giving a Cockney’s ver-
sion of the death of Lord Nelson. —1213.
Words of monologue beginning “Our
Harbor, which art in Sydney.”—ll7l.
History of three-masted barque Lakemba,
which sailed from Newcastle (N.S.W.) with coal
for Callao, Peru. —1090.
Any information about Katherine Mansfield
material, such as unpublished letters, articles,
also anecdotes, and periodicals or books—
English or foreign—containing literary apprecia-
tions. (Reply direct to Miss Nell Nathan, 1185
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.)
Whereabouts of Thorpe McConville.—l2ls.
Information Sought.
(1) British ships engaged in the Battle of
Falkland ? (2) Duration of the engagement ?
(3) Why were the heavier guns of the Kent
outranged by the lighter guns of the Num-
berg ? —945.
(1) Battle cruisers Invincible and Inflexible
(eight 12in. guns each), armored cruisers Car-
narvon (four 7.5 in. and six 6in. guns), Corn-
wall and Kent (14 6in. guns each), light cruisers
Glasgow and Bristol (two 6in. and 10 4in.) and
the armored merchant cruiser Macedonia. (2)
About 8£ hours, from 12.55 p.m., when fire was
opened, uniil 9.23 p.m., when the Leipzig dis-
appeared. (3) In broad daylight the Kent,
having guns of a longer range, would have been
able to sink the Niirnberg without herself being
struck, for the Niirnberg had only 4.lin. guns.
But darkness was setting in, and to get a quick
finish the Kent closed with her opponent, shoot-
ing at gun flashes showing through the rain,
mist and obscurity.
* * * *
(1) Inventor of the rotor ship? (2) Upon
what principle does it work ? (3) Was it a suc-
cess? (4) What became of the rotor ship that
visited Australia? (5) Any books on the sub-
ject?—ll37.
(1) Flettner, in 1922, who applied to this pur-
pose an effect discovered by Magnus. (2) When
a current of air impinges on a rotating cylinder
it exerts a force on the cylinder, roughly at
right angles to its direction. The inventor
fitted the three-masted schooner Buckan with
two steel rotors, which were turned at 125 r p m
by a 9-h.p. engine. A second ship, Barbara,
having three rotors, was launched in 1925, but
she was also propeller-driven. (3) The principle
does not seem to have been exploited, and
little has since been heard of the subject. (4)
No information available. (5) Inventing the
Ship, by S. G. Gilfillan (Follett Publishing Co.,
Chicago).
* * * „
Brief biography of Governor Macquarie?-
1142.
Born on January 31, 1761, on the island of
Ulva, near Mull (Argyllshire), he entered the
Army in 1777, and served during the war of
the American revolution and later in India
and m Egypt. On May 22, 1809, he sailed
for Australia, arriving at Pork Jackson on Dec.
28, taking over control from Col. Paterson
on January 1, 1810, promotion from lieut.-col.
to full colonel accompanying the appointment.
Three years later he was gazetted major-
general, but appears to have regarded his mili-
tary rank as irrelevant to his office. During
his regime as Governor of N.S.W. he car-
ried out public works occupying over 17 pages
of the Historical Records of Australia. He left
N.S.W. in Feb., 1822, for England, and lived
quietly in London until his death on July 1
1824. . ’
# * * *
What is the Monroe Doctrine? —1248.
The statement, now generally accepted, made
by President Monroe (Dec. 2, 1823), that the
United States will regard as an unfriendly act
any attempt on the part of European Powers
to extend their systems in the Western Hemi-
sphere, or any interference to oppress or in
any manner to control the destiny of Govern-
merits in that hemisphere whose independence
has been acknowledged by the United States.
* * * *
When was the Marble Arch, London, erected,
and what does it commemorate? —l2os.
It was intended as a monument to Nelson
and was erected by John Nash in 1828 in front
ol Buckingham Palace. The arch was moved
to its present site at the head of Park-lane in
1851, and now forms a gateway to the n.-e.
corner of Hyde Park.
* * * *
(1) Who introduced the ukulele into the
Hawaiian Islands? (2) Are there any similar
musical" instruments in Polynesia ? (3) Should
the “w” in “Hawaii” be pronounced as a “v” ?
■ —1054.
(1) It is the adaptation of an instrument
introduced into these islands by early Portu-
guese sailors, where it took the fancy of the
natives. (2) The guitar was also introduced
in similar circumstances, but have not heard
of any others. (3) The correct pronunciation,
according to Webster, is “Ha-wi-c.”
* * * *
Some information about the deepest bore in
(1) N.S.W. and (2) in Queensland? —1212.
(1) Boronga bore: Depth 4338 ft., completed
m May, 1910, with flow of 1,062,133 gallons per
day; gauged in 1938, 698,080 gallons per day;
situated in portion 13, parish of Canary, county
of Stapylton, about 50 miles north of Moree
and near the Q. border. (2) Springleigh No. 2
bore: Depth 7009 ft., completed in July, 1921,
with flow of 70,000 gallons per day; flow in
1928, 42,740 gallons per day; situated in por-
tion 15, parish of Gowan, county of Mitchell,
about 50 miles west of Blackall.
* * * *
If a ball of metal were to fall from a great
height, would it continue to gain speed until
it reached the earth's surface or would it gain
a certain speed and remain at that speed? —■
1129.
If the resistance of the air were neglected,
the velocity would increase at the rate of about
32ft. per second in each second until it hit the
earth. That is to say, the velocity acquired at
the end of 12sec. would be 32 x 12, or 384 ft.
per sec., and after 20sec. 640 ft. per sec. Such
motion is said to be uniformly accelerated.
This is sensibly correct for motion in air as long
as the resistance of the air is insignificant in com-
parison with the force of gravity. The force of
gravity upon a body is the same at all velocities,
but the air resistance increases with the velocity,
so that the foregoing is not correct for high
velocities; neither does it apply in the case
of bodies having a large surface in proportion
to their weight, except when they fall in vacuo.
* * * *
(1) How long can an alien remain in Aus-
tralia without applying for naturalisation
papers ? (2) How soon may an alien apply for
naturalisation ? —B4O.
(1) Naturalisation is not compulsory. (2)
The residential requirements of the Common-
wealth Nationality Act are that an applicant
for naturalisation must have resided in Aus-
tralia for at least 12 months immediately pre-
ceding the date of his application, and, in
addition, must have resided either in Australia
or some other part of the British Empire for
at least four years within the eight years pre-
ceding the application.
*■* * *
(1) Can a piece■ of string be used as a measure
of humidity? (2) What is the meteorological
significance of humidity? —l2so.
(1) There would be slight expansion with
increasing humidity, but the movement may be
too small for useful readings. Cotton or wool
may be worthy of trial. Values for extreme
limits of expansion per unit length are not
known. In meteorological office hygrometers
human hair (washed in warm caustic to free
from grease) is used, usually about 12 strands
about 6in. long to give 100 p.c. range over
about a 6in. chart after multiplication of move-
ment by levers. (2) Relative humidity is in-
directly related to the barometric reading. The
barometer records the pressure of both the dry
air and the water vapor in the air. The relative
humidity indicates the relative amount of
water vapor, the density of which is less than
dry air. Briefly the total pressure determines
wind direction and location of storm; relative
humidity indicates relative possibility of rain-
fall. They are sometimes sufficient indication
separately; at other times both pressure and
relative humidity must be considered. Wind
“bankings,” presumably meaning cold changes
with increased barometric pressure, may lift a
mass of air, but the relative humidity deter-
mines to what extent the lifted air will con-
dense its water vapor into rain.
* * * *
How to propagate rhododendrons ? Suitable
soil and cultural hints? —1224.
Rhododendrons can be propagated by layer-
ing, grafting and cuttings. January is a good
time to tackle the job. Deep, fibrous loam, well
impregnated with grit, suits the shrub (more
especially if the land is slightly on the slope),
but lime in any form is fatal. Avoid positions
swept by strong winds. In Sydney Botanical
Gardens rhododendrons thrive and flower well
under tall trees in a secluded area. Shrubs in
pots can be shifted to the open garden up to
the end of November. Plenty of water is essen-
tial.
* * * *
How to grow lavender and prepare it for
commercial purposes ? —1216.
Lavender will grow rapidly in light, well-dug
soil. Set cuttings of new wood in boxes or
in the open garden up to the end of Novem-
ber. For extensive cultivation grow in rows
2ft. apart, with 4ft. between the rows (to allow
of easy attention). Pinch out the top growth
in the first year to force strong, healthy plants.
The lavender flowers should be cut when fully
out and spread in a cool, shady area to wither,
and finally stored in a dry room for use in
sachets or boxes.
* * * *
How to treat Gerald ton wax shrubs which
are dying from tips backwards? There is
neither fungus nor bacteria on foliage nor
injury from insects noticeable. —1109.
The trouble is undoubtedly at the roots.
Dig a trench alongside the shrubs and fill
with stones or pipes to carry off surplus water.
Geraldton wax and other native shrubs will
not live under “wet-feet” conditions. Often
shrubs which revel in hard bush atmosphere
are killed by too much manure and water.
In many instances, too, Geraldton wax shrubs
fail under intense cultivation methods after the
third year. If the shrubs do not respond to
the drainage methods they should be replaced.
* * * *
Brief particulars of the earldom of Gains-
borough ? —1153.
It was created on August 16, 1841, Charles
Noel being the first earl, Charles George the
second, Charles William Francis the third,
Arthur Edward Joseph (1884-1927) the fourth,
who was succeeded by his eldest son, Anthony
Gerard Edward, the fifth and present earl.
The heir-presumptive is Gerard Eyre Wriothes-
ley, born November 20, 1926. Seat, Exton Park,
Oakham. Town residence, Gloucester House,
Park-lane, W.
* * * *
A few particulars about the Seychelles
Islands? —l244.
The Seychelles Islands, in the Indian Ocean,
which number altogether 92, were occupied by
the French about 1742, captured by a British
ship in 1794, and were finally assigned to Great
Britain in 1810. The principal islands of the
group are Mah6, Praslin, Silhouette, Curieuse
and La Digue, and the total area of the islands,
with dependencies, is estimated at 156£ square
miles, of which Mah6 occupies nearly 56 square
miles; the most important of the dependencies
are the Amirantes, Farquhar Islands, Coetivy,
Astove and the Aldabra Group. The population
was estimated at Dec. 31, 1935, at 29,803.
Victoria, the capital, on the n.-e. side of Mahe,
has an excellent harbor. Although only four
degrees south of the Equator, the islands are
healthy. The principal exports are copra,
essential oils and guano.
* * * *
What are the usual typewriting charges? —
1249. '
The usual charge for copying work or dic-
tation typewriting is per folio, with Id.
per folio for each carbon copy. In most
offices a special quote is given for long docu-
ments with a number of copies; for instance,
9d. per folio is usually the charge for 12
copies. A folio is 72 words. The average
foolscap page of double-spaced typewriting con-
tains five folios, and is usually reckoned as
such, without counting. In figure work each
figure counts as one word —12345 would be five
words. For legal work, such as affidavits,
opinions, etc., the charge is 3d. per folio and
Id. per carbon copy. Long works, such as
novels, etc., are quoted at a special rate, usually
Is. per 1000 words, with half as much per
carbon, plus the cost of paper. Some
Sydney typists quote as low as lOd. per 1000
words. For attending at clients’ offices and
taking notes, etc., charges varying from 3s. 6d.
to ss. per hour are made. The actual charge
for typing is in addition to this attendance fee.
* * * *
Particulars of the Great Rift in Africa. (1)
Where does it first appear, in the westerly or
southerly part of the continent ? (2) What parts
or States of Africa does it traverse? (3) Are
the Gulf of Akaba, the Dead Sea and Jordan
Valley in Arabia and Palestine a continuation ?
—1241.
(1) and (2) What is known as the Rift Valley
System is east of the Congo basin. A western
rift may be traced from Lake Nyasa via Tan-
ganyika and Lake Albert to Gondokoro.
Many of the fractures run either n.-w. to s.-e.
(known as the “Erythraean” direction) or, in the
north, n.-e. to s.-w. (“Somali” direction). A
middle rift line goes n.-n.-e. from Nyasa via
Lake Naivasha to Lake Rudolf, with branches
and changes en route, though its general direc-
tion is north-south. The easterly rift line is
less important, and goes n.-e. from Lake Nyasa.
In the floors of the rifts lie the long
narrow lakes, Nyaisa (2580 ft. deep max.), .Tan-
ganyika and Rudolf. (3) It is well known
that the zones of fractures extend northwards,
marking the east and west edges of the Abys-
sinian highlands, the series of cliff lines border-
ing the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea, and the
rift lines along the Gulf of Akaba to the
Dead Sea and the Jordan Valley. All through
this zone one finds systems of parallel fractures
on n.-w. to s.-e., n.-e. to s.-w. and others
apparently north to south. The rift system of
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden both enter
into relationship with the Abyssinian rift, which
runs from the sea to Lake Rudolf and divides
Abyssinia from Somaliland.
* * * *
How to clean brass that has become seri-
ously discolored ? —1207.
Mix a solution consisting of one part, by
volume, of ordinary commercial nitric acid
and one-half the quantity of sulphuric acid,
using a stone jar. Lower the article into this
solution by a piece of string, taking care that
none of the liquid gets on the hands or clothing.
Immerse for a short period of time, the exact
interval being determined by trial, and then
rinse thoroughly in a bucket of hot water con-
taining a small quantity of ordinary washing
soda. The article is finally rubbed with dry,
clean sawdust, when it will be found to possess
the bright appearance of the new metal.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of place-name “Kohanga”?—l22o.
Meaning and origin of N.S.W. place-name
“Marulan”? —1086.
Brief Answers.
J.C.P.: Write Registrar, University of Sydney,
Sydney G.R.L.: Write Gilchrist, Watt and
Sanderson, 5 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .1.D.:
Best plan is to throw the letter in the waste-
paper basket G.W.C.: Write Registrar of
Births, Deaths and Marriages, Wellington, M.L.
J.C.8.: (1) Yes. (2) and (3) N 0... .F.G.C.:
(1) Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney. (2) Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
. ...R.K.T.: In 1929 Walter Lindrum
scored 100 points in 56 seconds, in 1930
1011 points in 30 minutes and 663 in
15 minutes, and in 1934 346 in eight minutes.
Most of the play (especially the 100 points in
56 seconds) would be nursery cannons
A.J.M.: Words will be found in verse “That
Day at Boiling Downs” in the Bulletin Reciter,
obtainable from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Sydney... .T.McC.: Cyril gets £6B 11s. 5 l-7d.,
Jack £BO, John £9l Bs. 6 6-7 d A.R.: When
submitting entry request that it be also con-
sidered as application for cadetship. State
present occupation, age and qualifications in
covering letter. Applicants should be between
18 and 21 0.L.8.: Write Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .5.C.8.: “The Flowing
Bowl,” by “Hop,” appeared in The Bulletin
of December 11, 1897. Reprints are available
from Service Department. Send name and
address and 2d. stamp for return postage
H.C.: Write Australian National Travel As-
sociation, Railway Building, Flinders-street,
Melbourne M.C.S.: He was Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs... .J. 8.: Write N.Z.
Government Agent, 14 Martin-place, Sydney.
T.R.: Records are not kept that far
back. You can reprint the lines with the usual
acknowledgments.... 1.D.: Webster’s latest
International Dictionary defines a Kanaka as
“(«) a Hawaiian, a Polynesian or Melanesian;
a South Sea Islander. ( b ) One of the Mela-
nesians imported into Australia as laborers
on the sugar plantations; also, their language in
northern Queensland”... .J.R.T.: Alan Vil-
liers’s permanent address is care of Colonel
F. C. C. Egcrton, Bricett Hall, Great Bricett,
near Ipswich, England... .A. 8.: See Essays in
Australian Fiction, by M. Barnard Eldershaw,
and An Outline of Australian Literature, by
H. M. Green... .G.G.J.: (1) Always prepared
to consider novels for serial publication. (2)
Prefer them typed, but will read handwritten
manuscripts. (3) Cannot undertake to furnish
detailed criticisms, but will give brief reasons
for rejection.... R.E.C.: (1) Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney, will furnish a list of helpful books
on request. (2) A “good living” in that field
can be earned only by an outstanding and versa-
tile writer. There are many f.a.q. freelances
who are barely making a living P.J.P.:
Write College of Arms, Queen Victoria-street,
London, E.C.4... . J.H.G.: Thoroughbred
Racing Stock, by Lady Wentworth (905.),
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .E.M.D.L.:
M. J. Savage, M.L. Prime Minister, was born
at Benalla (Vic.) on March 7, 1872... .N.M.V.:
Information cannot be given concerning lot-
teries conducted outside N. S. Wales E.L.:
The Bulletin does not commission such
material, but is always prepared to consider
matter suitable for publication and to pay for
printed items at A.J.A. rates E. 8.: The
Q’land Legislative Council was abolished in
1922. Sir Matthew Nathan was appointed
Governor of Q’land on December 3, 1920
J.A.: The last Labor Government in S.A. was
the Hill Ministry, which lasted from April, 1930,
to April, 1933... .J.H.K.: Protocols—which are
a forgery—have recently been dealt with in
detail in John Gwyer’s Portraits of Mean Men
(Cobden Sanderson). The book is reviewed on
the Red Page in this issue E.H.: The six
hatters left England under contract to a Sydney
manufacturer before the Commonwealth Immi-
gration Restriction Act became law, and had
therefore obtained no permit to land. During
the voyage the Act came into force, and on
arrival their permit was demanded. The em-
ployer objected to the demand, and the men
were detained aboard until he complied with
the law. Exaggerated stories, representing that
they had been expelled from the Common-
wealth, went the rounds of Europe. Owing to
this and other misunderstandings, the Deakin
Ministry in 1905 introduced a separate measure
to deal with contract immigrants... .T. 8.: (1)
The Seven Sleepers of Ephesus in medieval or
early Christian legend were seven Christian
youths who, being condemned to death by the
pagan Emperor Decius, fled to a cave near the
city, where, Mien they had fallen asleep, they
were, found. The cave was walled up by the
soldiers; but centuries later when it was
opened the seven sleepers awoke. (2) In the
Book of Days (vol. 2), under July 10, is “The
Feste of Septem Fratrum” (Feast of the Seven
Brothers), and the same book mentions June
29 as a festival of the Anglican Church in
honor of St. Peter the Apostle. The Diction-
ary of Faiths and Folklore refers to the Festival
of the Seven Brothers and the legend of the
Seven Whistlers... .H.J.S.: No magazine covers
the subject from the amateur’s point of view.
However, articles on popular chemistry appear
from time to time in such magazines as
“Popular Mechanics,” “Practical Mechanics,”
“Popular Science” and “Mechanics and Handi-
craft”—all obtainable from leading booksellers.
Periodicals suitable for advanced students and
professionals include the “Analyst,” “Chemical
Age” and “Chemical Industries.” They are
obtainable from Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street, Sydney, on subscription W.M.M.: A
composition consisting of Canada balsam and
xylol, obtainable from E. Esdaile and Sons,
Hunter-street, Sydney; price 3s. per fl. oz.
When ordering ask for instructions re use....
A.A.: Full figures, too detailed to print here,
will be found in The World Almanac for 1938.
. ...R.R.G.: “The Gasometer” was written
by Adam McCay, and appeared in The Bulle-
tin of September 17, 1914... .J.N.: Typed in-
structions are obtainable from Lecturer-in-
charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Water-
loo, Sydney... .N.H.: (1) He was created
Baron Gowrie of Canberra in the Common-
wealth of Australia, and of Dirleton in the
County of East Lothian, in 1935. (2) No
record of such objection. (3) Not to our
knowledge... .J.M.: Consult any English press
directory at N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
JA
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
14—16-plait Handle, 6ft.
x 12-plait Thong . .
No. IS —16-plait Handle, 7ft.
x 12-plait Thong . .
No. 16 —16-plait Handle, Bft.
x 12-plait Thong . .
Etc.
Post 1/3 each.
FLY
VEILS.
No. 4 Headstall Fly Veil, Leather
Lace Veil, gin., 3/6; 2«n., 4/6.
No. 4A Headstall Fly Veil, gin.,
4/3; 3in., 5/3. Post 9d. each.
WALTHER «- STEVEHSOH ZZZ.
395 CEORCE ST. SYPKEY
&
The Gillette Razor
is very good.
The Gillette Blade
is very good.
Use them together
—and they’re
perfect
As a key fits its particular lock, or as a piston pre-
cisely fits the cylinder for which it was made —so
the Gillette blade fits the Gillette razor. These two
are made for one another side by side in the same
great Gillette factory. The same strict supervision
ensures the accuracy of each. That is why razor
and blade, used together, form the finest shaving
system the world has seen.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
~BLT)E GILLETTES : ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability Js undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.S.E.: A little fire, one way or another,
would help... .G.P.T.: It’s fiat....E.R.: Dorn
does not rhyme with mawn... .F.R.M.: No
“spontaneous hypnosis” here... .F.G.G.: Hand-
writing runs all right, but horse needs a bat-
tery R.J.M.: No nightmares, please,...
W.P.8.: “Hell, you ought to see the mess.”
We have... .G.HJ.: Afraid they do “strive in
vain” M.H.P.: Not here... .H.G.8.: A
rocky road F.J.8.: But there isn’t any
“ground” for a feather to drop to in mid-
ocean... .H.P.B. and E.A.S.: Idea’s all right;
jingle's weak... .E.H.M.: “Chatter”... .L.H.:
The sunset has previously been observed....
E. : Magnificent mosquitoes... .J.C.: Keep
an eye on the old bloke; he rambles as he
sits... .N.S.: Merely facetious... .J.P.: It’s
flapper fodder... .D.A.N.: A long way off
J.C.S.: 51ight....8.M.5.: “Pall” is right....
H.G.: “Irresistible” isn’t... .E.D.: A stretch
of sentiment... . R.M.: Not far 0ff.... A.G.8.:
And yours earned a second glance... .K.R.C.:
Not that 0nc....G.8.: You’re too modest....
H.C.: Thank you! N.A.D.: Fortune-tellers
not wanted.... D.E.T.: Mr. Tibbcts didn’t rise
to our expectations... J.D.: Not for u 5....
F. “Gentle Joseph” coming home....
Z.V.W.: Slight J.R.: Nothing fresh in that.
. ...A.C.8.: N 0... .R.Q.: Starchy... .J.K.K.:
Send your sleuths elsewhere C.J.R.: Senti-
ment spoils it....M.P.: No haunt for ghosts.
A.E.B.: Try a daily... .J.A.P.G.: Doesn’t
make a yarn... .G.D.R.: Original matter only.
R.A.M.: “The Fourth Number” unlucky.
. ...8.M.: Scrap it....M.0.: “What odds?”
Ten to one against... .M.S.: Hurried... .E.W.:
“The Confession” shouldn’t have been made.
... .G.D.B. and E.W.: Might land them else-
where. .. .M.H.: Call for the corpse... .J.W.8.:
Don’t know what you could do with that....
H.S.W.: Refuse to haye our peace disturbed
by “Aunt Martha”... .J.F.L.: G100m....
H.G.S.: First is dreadful; second might interest
a flapper mag F.A.S.: Out!... .H.S.S.:
“Nothing Doing” is correct... .C.D.: Practise
for a few years 1.F.: Barely a chuckle
F.E.A.: Doesn’t make a yarn T.P.R.: Dont
like “ice-cold passions”... .L.T.N.: The
morgue claimed it... .G.8.D.: “Except of a
hostile character”... .H.T.: A few years’ steady
reading should help....W. McK.: Might make
a par T.N.F.: Something there, but the
yam won't carry it 8.R.G.: Not up
L.V.L.: Couldn’t get past the fifth page....
V.R.: You’re let off with a caution, but don’t
do it again... .J.R.Y.: “Sorry to inflict these
on you.” That’s no excuse... .1.L.: Beller-
drammer .... H.R.C.: Basketed F.R.L.:
Nothing there....B.G.: Not that one, but try
again... .N.T.: Not interested in translations
from Russian... .8.C.D.: “The Favorite” lost.
... .11. K.: And “The Gamble” didn’t come off.
. ...T.N.: Avoid “great lovers” as we would
a plague... .C.T.D.: Neat, but thin... .H.T.C.:
First we’ve heard of mail-steamers whose “decks,
masts and funnels stand out behind Perth’s
changing skyline”... .8.R.P.: Horrible....
R. : An improvement on your last effort
L.G.8.: Don’t mind handwritten yarns pro-
vided they’re legible... .P.S.K.: Double-space
your typing, and use one side of the paper
0n1y... .E.C.S.: A chuckle here and there, but
not enough M.D.C.: Fair enough for his
age... .T.N.R.: Pilffc... .8.D.P.: Try a maga-
zine that uses yarns of that length... .C.L.S.:
“Church Bells” won’t ring... .T.H.E.: One of
the old friends we're not pleased to sec....
8.T.W.: “I know 1 can write.” Well, that’s
sonic consolation... .C.D.L., F.R., D.N.W.,
J.H. and P.T.O’N.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.J.: Faint gleam of promise, but you have
a long journey ahead of y0u....J.8.: Joke
is merely a feeble play on words, drawing is a
booby-prize winner... .G.D.H.: Not amused
by physical deformities... .A. 8.: They’ve been
pulling your leg... .C.D.: Send “A Visit to the
Dentist” to one of the children’s supplements.
K.M.: You didn’t hide the artistic faults
as well as you concealed the point of the joke.
E.J.R.: We brought down the eagle first
shot A.L.: Received 10 drawings; one
drawn 10 times better would have been more
acceptable G.T.: No use for faint pencil
scribblings on odd scraps of paper... .F. 8.:
We first laughed at that half a century ago
P.J.: You seem to have the idea that the plenti-
ful use of “plurry” is all that is necessary for
an abo. gag C.H.T.: Ended its long voyage
in the w.p.b M.L.: We had much the same
gag last cricketing season... .T.J.J.: No place
for the anaemic spinster... .R.W.R.: Melbourne
Cup drawing didn’t reach the starter....
F.T.C.: Gags are infirm and old H.W.G.:
Wait until you have completed your studies....
S. : Beach sketch is neat and tidy, but the
joke is on the thin side... .J.M.W.: Caricatures
need to be of well-known people E.N.:
You’re a bit late in the day with that war-scare
cartoon; what’s more, it’s poorly drawn..
P. 8.: An uninspiring collection of scratches....
8.F.G.: Take those corpses away L.D.:
Get more light and shade into ypur wash draw-
ings and more humor into your jokes H.K.:
Next time we have a stray porker on our hands
we’ll send it along to you as a model D.S.:
You managed Dad’s whiskers, but the rest of
him is dreadful N.M.C.: Work needs to
improve considerably... .B.B.: You can draw
an egg, but you can’t draw the hen that laid
it S.M.: Awful.
FROM CHINA TO PERU,
It was only to be expected that British
Libs, and Labs, would resume the throw-
ing of mud at Chamberlain from the
moment he saved the Empire from war,
but it was not anticipated that the refla-
tion of that bag of wind the U.S.S.R.
would start straightway. Yet Sydney
“Sun” published the idiotic story that
“had war come the Soviet Union could
have produced the mightiest and most
highly mechanised war machine in the
world,” adding a special slab of imbecility
about one Blticher (since reported
“liquidated”):—
Marshal Bliicher became prominent when
he led a detachment of Red Guards against
the White Cossacks. His detachment de-
feated the Cossacks, and Bliicher earned
the title of Marshal “Forward” from his
habit of continually using the word in his
orders and when he led his troops into
action. i Ayr v, ,
t must have made the real Marshal
“Forward,” of the War of Liberation and
Waterloo, roll over in his grave. .
“Der Jong”: I was interested in the
account of the new native booze made
out of molasses and water (B. 28/9/’3B)
which is giving the Natal and O.F.S.
police so much trouble. In the
old days the native beer brewed
from Kaffir corn was made in two
qualities. One was an ordinary bever-
age, and the other for chiefs and
persons of distinction, such as members
of the S.A.C., only. I sampled this latter
brand heavily only once, and found it
even more deadly than the peach brandy
of the Bushveld Boer. The molasses
brew is nothing new. I have tasted it in
the Countv of Cumberland.
*'* * *
“C. 8.”: Walt Disney is said to give
two years to the making of one of his
animated cartoons, with a staff of 500
working union hours continuously. Allan
Wilkie, who now runs a duck farm in an
English county, offered for inspection
during a Melbourne season an average
of four Shakspearean plays a week.
Gregan McMahon expends about eight
weeks and 25 rehearsals on the prepara-
tion of a new drama. The cake in that
direction goes, however, to Ribusch, the
Russian tragedian who, in pre-Bolshevik
days, figured in the Moscow Art
Theatre. For two years Ribusch has
been engaged in amateur theatricals in
Melbourne, and during that time has con-
cerned himself with a bare two pieces,
His latest, Chekhov’s “Cherry Orchard,”
has now been nine months in rehearsal,
and its producer is still not satisfied that
he has put the final polish on it.
* * * * .
“O R” • Wpct African nnlrlmininn
Ub - • Wes * goldmining
costs are much lower than West-
ralian. Take Marlu and Lake View,
{ WO concerns which each treat about
56,000 tons a month. Marlu’s work-
■ expenses for August totalled
* h| £ A 17,000, while Lake View's
wer J / ust above £A 66,025. The differ-
en.c® represents the cost of open-easi
mining in Africa with black labor and
deep mining in Westralia with white
New Consolidated Gold Fields
South Africa indirectly controls both cos.
*,,*..* * ,
Tackier : This time every year
enjoy my Rugby League 1
county matches between Cumberland
anc [ Lancaster and Yorks. Though Y.
anc * L. are O.K. there are no Rugby
League clubs in Cumberland. But long
a g° some League enthusiasts, eager to
make a better showing in comparison
w ith the Union county contest, which ip-
eludes almost every county in England,
noted that a tiny piece of Lancashire on
which stands Barrow is so cut off by
Morecombe Bay as to look like a bit of
Cumberland. There is a League club in
this industrial town, and while, for most
of the season, it plays against other Lan-
cashire clubs as “Barrow,” it emerges in
the “county” fixtures as “Cumberland.”
HE WAS AFRAID
TO CROSS A STREET
Lost His Nerve After
12 Months’ Agony.
Suffering from acute rheumatism in both his
knee joints—treated in hospital twice without
result —so unnerved that he was afraid to cross
a street—how readily every rheumatic sufferer
will sympathise with this man. Read what he
says:—
“For 12 months I suffered pain and misery
with acute rheumatism in both my knees.
Twice I was treated in hospital—but it was no
use. I could not walk up or downstairs. 1
was afraid to cross the street, for I had lost all
confidence in myself. Fourteen days ago 1
started taking Kruschcn Salts and already 1
am a new man. .1 can walk with a smart step,
go up and downstairs with case, and cross the
street with complete confidence. My rheuma-
tism is getting better every day."—D.L.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschcn Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid —the cause of those aches
and pains—and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.


|||fi
ass
An Empire V
Product — *
made in 1
Windsor, Can.
Sit
you can depend on
CHAMPION plugs
for
SMOOTH MOTORING
The smooth and even pull of
your car’s engine can be kept at
its peak of efficiency only by pro-
viding strong hot sparks. Install
new Champions at regular in-
tervals. These improved
plugs reduce carbon for-
I mation, and pay for them-
selves in fuel savings.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
WELCOME TO OUR CITY
BY JULIUS WANT.
VES, Canberra is our city. We built
it for about £19,000,000. To more
frugal nations, this might sound
a heavy expenditure on an isolated
capital which, as you approach it from
the air, seems to be entirely surrounded
by leagues of bush. But to us it is merely
half the cost of the electric railway sys-
tem of one city on the coast or a couple
of limes the cost of a harbor bridge. If
anything, Canberrans feel a sort of shame
that so little has been spent, but at the
present rate of growth they will have
nothing to shrink about in a few years’
time.
The first time l saw Canberra, in 1913,
the population seemed to consist of
King O’Malley and a gentleman in a
frock coat disgustedly working their way
through a mob of sheep. By 1923 it
had become an administrative building
at Acton flanked by some cottages, a
ploughed field which was the site of
Parliament House, a railway station and
Causeway, a sort of cantonment in which
workmen lived miles away from adminis-
trative headquarters across a windy
plain. Now it is the strangest city of
10,000 people in the world, constructed
in a park very much on the lines of
Taronga Park Zoo.
The for Canberra is crystallised
in one of the smallest Parliament Houses
in the world, designed to accommodate
perhaps 150 Ms.P., Parliamentary
officials, waiters and cooks. The needs
of the Parliament House inhabitants are
crystallised—if such a word applies—in
several miles of meandering streets which
cannot be seen for foliage, and which
have been laid out on the lines of
Hampton Court maze. It is a cement
company’s dream come true. There arc
some straight roads in Canberra, but
only for the purposes of taking people
in and out and not for internal use.
The main one is the motor road which
leads from Sydney.
This approaches through a wall of im-
ported conifers which shuts off the view
of a beautiful but rural valley. Im-
mediately you come upon Canberra
“City”—or “Civic Centre.” The most
notable thoroughfare here is London-
parade. The “city” consists of a pub on
which the bar signs are so written that
they can be seen only from indoors, a
picture theatre almost totally naked of
signs and placards, a broadcasting station
and a Y.W.C.A., and two blocks of shops
which look as if they had stepped out
of a native city on the upper Punjab.
Here seven banks stand side by side—
generally empty, Here, too, are a gener-
ally empty post office and the “city
branches” of a number of shops.
The official Canberra idea of a shop
is curious. It consists of one or more
rooms fronted by a glassed recess which
passes for a window. This may be as
little as 3ft. or as much as 10ft.
long, but never more than 3ft. deep.
There is one window in the “City” into
which a furniture salesman has succeeded
in packing a whole suite of drawing-
room furniture, by dint of letting it
touch the glass on one side and the wall
behind.
Still, there is occasional business in
Canberra City. There has to be unless
customers are prepared to travel the
whole length of the settlement to reach
Eastlake and Manuka, several miles
away ; for there are no shops between,
no business premises of any kind, except
pubs. Pubs are the only utilities allowed
to enter the hallowed domain which
houses Parliament and the administrative
offices.
You can't buy a packet of cigarettes,
a meal or a soft drink except in the
“Bring it back, fathead! That's not a whale!"
Parliamentary bar or in a pub within
walking distance of the administra-
tive centres. If somebody pinches a
member’s boots while he is snoring in
the Chamber, he has a couple of miles
to go before he can get a new pair.
Moreover, the only pubs allowed near
Parliament are two —an “expensive” one
for the public and a cheaper but little
inferior one for members.
The “expensive” one, the Canberra, is
not so expensive, all things considered.
It is well run. The food is good. The
rooms are arranged like those of an
Indian zenana. Those public servants who
designed it showed their fear of mobs
and their love of censorship by build-
ing a lounge for it about the size of
those usually seen in country hotels,, with
two office windows within earshot of
everybody who chooses to sit in it. The
gardens outside are regardless of space
and expense. If they can be kept in
order for £8 a week it is a miracle.
Some of the other pubs of the lesser
class also have gardens and all ‘the
other amenities which a fertile-brained
public service could think of. The one
1 stayed at was relegated to the outer
marches of the town. It looked like Ye
Olde Moated Grange. It stood on
ground 120 paces by 100, and was sur-
rounded by 500 yards of trim hedge,
some gardens with clipped lawns and
flowering plum-trees, and a porte cochbre
with massive Grecian pillars. Outside,
equally magnificent cement pavements
had been built, facing, on the one side,
a couple of miles of pristine bush and.
on the other, an extensive vacant allot-
ment. Approaching this hostelry by an
imposing drive, one immediately noticed
the word “Bar,” with a wide-open and
inviting door. You enter the wide-open
door and find yourself in a lavatory, but
a little investigation discovers the bar
next door. There are never any fights in
the bar—there isn’t room. If 25 cus-
tomers arrived at once, a queue would
have to be formed. No bar in Canberra
holds more than a dozen comfortably.
As you enter the main body of the hotel,
a luxurious lounge is disclosed. Aus-
tralian woods have been used with lavish-
ness. Behind is a well-furnished dining-
room. Corridors lead to the bedrooms.
They are floored so cheaply that every
footstep sounds like an elephant’s tread ;
they are covered with oilcloth, and bed-
rooms are grand specimens of civil-ser-
vice planning.
Wardrobes are built in and provided
with locks, but timber has warped and
locks won’t work. The dressing-table
in the room I occupied is of Queens-
land maple, constructed with a rich am-
plitude of material and on Sheraton lines
as to form. It has an expensive mirror.
Two of the drawers have jammed so
tightly that they will not yield to the
weight of a man, though the flimsy handles
will. Another drawer is so loose that
it has a quarter of an inch of play. There
is hot water in the room ; also, as im-
posing a single bed as I have ever seen
in world-wide travels. It has a massive
headpiece, a noble footpiece and it is
as broad as Burt Plain. The only thing
wrong with it is that anybody taller than
sft. 9in. sticks out over the nether end.
Light cords in these rooms are hung
over the beds so that you can switch off
when tucked in. Lights are relegated to
the position in the room furthest from the
beds and basins, apparently to prevent
the obnoxious habit of reading between
blankets or shaving on winter mornings.
None of these things is the fault of
the licensee. He keeps a good table
and generally runs his hostelry on lines
which would do him credit anywhere,
while charging about two-thirds Sydney
rates. The pubs are merely typical of
Canberra. They are already too small.
Almost every day in the tourist season
visitors are turned away.
Private dwellings are on much the
same lines. The Administration builds
an ornate Spanish bungalow which it
intends to let for £3 a week. Its interior
is modelled on the best American lines —
double doors to offices, alcoves, large
brick porches raised two feet from the
ground and supported by two-foot by
one-foot pillars, a couple of front doors
and other luxuries. Round about the
builders lay out a maze of hedges, plant
trees, build a garage, surround the whole
with 120 yards of privet and 20-foot foot-
paths, the cost of maintaining which,
along with a 120-foot centrally planted
two-way cement road, helps to raise the
rent.
1 examined some of these dwellings,
eight or nine years old. All showed
cracked walls: a few were cracked prac-
tically through for 30 feet on end. And
the imposing double front doors had
begun to lose their paint.
Canberra is like that. It has abun-
dance of flowering trees, chiefly imported
—Australian flora has been kept down
to a discreet and well-hidden minimum,
except in a few wattle avenues; but it
is short of market gardens. Hence cab-
bages which cost 4d. in Sydney cost Is.
at Canberra. Other prices I noted were
—Sydney (Pitt-street) figures in paren-
theses: Cauliflowers, Is. 6d. (6d.); new
potatoes, 6d. per pound (2|d.); bananas,
Is. dozen (15 for 6d.).
Canberra has an air of being foreign
to the rest of Australia. Edward Lutyens,
an English architect, designing the environs
of New Delhi, succeeded in giving them
a characteristic Indian appearance. The
designers of Canberra, by the use of
foreign timber, foreign contours and
foreign architecture, have made it as
un-Australian as possible. The signs are
carefully Americanised. There is even
one in a main street which reads:
“Horses must not be parked here.”
The only part of Canberra which
seems Australian is its nucleus —Cause-
way—quarantined across the railway
line from the real town. There little
wooden huts thrown together in what
Canberra proper pleases to consider a
slum mark the capital’s beginnings. Some
have neat gardens. The sky above them
is dotted with a forest of wireless masts.
The backyards disclose frugal woodpiles,
sometimes ancient motor-cars.
And on the pavements are a fine thick
crop of young Australians, sturdy, fat as
butter and as clean as the only earth
streets in the Territory will allow. Every-
body seems to beget boys in Causeway,
and they are the best physical types to
be seen. No house or hut seems to be
complete without a few of them.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a New South Wales contributor for a simple statement
of a personal experience embodying a general truth very creditable to the Australian
people.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. An increasing
proportion of the contributions received —and they come by hundreds every week
is the work of young men.
The quarterly prizes of £lO will not necessarily be awarded to winners of weekly
prizes. All contributions published during the quarter will be carefully considered
again.
Essentially the Same
I spent two years in a country town
in New South Wales, and natur-
ally experienced the traditional hospi-
tality of the country people. Most folk
whom 1 met, both in the country and on
my frequent visits to Sydney, trotted
out the platitude “Of course, country
people are much more friendly than city
people,” and I agreed.
Shortly after coming back to Sydney
1 met with an accident which caused me
to change my opinion. While I was
getting around with the aid of a stick,
hospital attendants were consideration
itself (I found the so-called “rough-and-
ready” treatment of out-patients to be a
myth) ; bus conductors were always
ready with friendly assistance, and my
fellow-passengers were at all times solici-
tous and kindly. From my experience
I should say that Australians are
essentially the same in Come-by-Chance
and Woolloomooloo. —D. R. (N.S.W.).
Three guineas and 2 Id. a line for
“D.R.”—D. J. Renno, 34 Queenscliffe-
road, Queenscliffe, N.S.W.
“Give Us a Say”
It is a recognised principle that con-
tributors to public bodies should be given
an opportunity to express their approval
or otherwise of that body’s policy.
Governments, local authorities, hos-
pital, ambulance or fire-brigade boards
all have elections, when those concerned
can at least vote for or against the poli-
cies pursued.
This is not so with the A.B.C. Wireless
listeners pay their fees and take what
the A.B.C. likes to give them. Why not,
when collecting listeners’ fees, provide
them with a questionnaire form on which
they could indicate the features which
do or do not appeal to them?
For the cost of printing the question-
naire the programmes would be selected
by those most entitled to do so
namely, the listeners. —F. Pack (Q.).
Communism and War
Not only have our old acquaintances
the Communists become respectable in
recent years, but they have now de-
veloped an aggressive patriotism. Things
have changed since the good old days
when a red flag hanging out of a window
in Sussex-street, Sydney, represented the
might of the Third International.
Only a few years ago Communist
friends told me that my predilection for
a certain amount of liberty and freedom
was no more than a “bourgeois illusion.”
Mr. Egon Kisch assured me that “no
one believes in democracy these days.”
Yet these days it’s a very poor sort of
“democrat” who doesn’t know how to
give the clenched-fist salute and howl for
war on Hitler. Why the sudden enthusiasm
for the effete and middle-class institutions
of democracy? Perhaps the general mass
of the communistically inclined have
come to the conclusion that, in view of
recent events in Germany and Russia, a
vote and a Habeas Corpus Act, for
example, are quite useful things to have.
Doubtless certain Communists think
they are being very astute when they try
to sool democrats on to Nazi and Fascist
Governments. “After all,” the Commu-
nist may reason, “there are plenty of
democratic Liberals who can very easily
be made to get extremely angry with
Hitler. Why not incite them in this way?
We may thus have the arms and the man-
power of the democracies fighting our
enemy for us.”
But possibly the inner group of the
Communist organisation are being more
astute still. Three or four years ago the
Communists openly expressed their atti-
tude to war in these terms: “We will
turn external war into internal revolu-
tion.”
Any war must produce internal dis-
content. A war fought solely because
a new Czech Government may not
“I’m a very busy man , so don't spend more than two or three hours on 'em."
want to honor agreements made by
an old Czech Government would pro-
voke such a storm of dissension that an
external war might indeed become an
internal revolution.
And on the day on which it can be
shown that the interests of the British
Commonwealth of Free Nations are not
opposed to Communism at least as much
as to Fascism, I propose to go out into
the backyard and mix myself a nice big
bucket of oil and water.—Quiz (N.S.W.).
Present-day Schooling
“Akarana” (B. 14/9 / ’3B) has missed
the point, and, in addition (speaking for
Westralia only), his statement is not
applicable. Here children are given in-
tensive training in English, though not in
mathematics, in primary schools. He does
not recognise that there has been an
extraordinary amount of research into
educational theory and practice. What
was good enough for his generation is
not good enough now. It is quite true
that under the heading of self-expression
many teachers are hiding poor work. To
call it “self-understanding” would be
better, and would give a clearer idea of
what is implied. It is really, in its proper
sense, a training of the child to find his
place in the life of the community, and
to try to save the wearisome process
of fitting square pegs into round holes.
It is also a protection against the work
so many of us do, by building up an
inner reserve of culture, hobbies, etc. We
must recognise that we are living in an
age of transition, and instead of con-
demning the newer type of education it
would be preferable to try to understand
it and its aims. After all, “Akarana” need
not worry. Education is always con-
servative. It has too many brakes to be
otherwise. — Rudd (W.A.).
Press and Professors
With what disgust and concern must
thousands of Australians have listened
to the “professorial storm” which broke
after the national broadcast of the news
of the Four-Power agreement. “If we
can believe Hitler,” flashed the lightning.
“On past performances this seems doubt-
ful,” roared the thunder ; but there was
no rain.
To-day the Empire almost to a man
must be looking to Mr. Chamberlain to
secure the conditions necessary for a
lasting peace.
His prestige must be enormous; dare
we hope that he will take advantage of
his unusual power and bring in strong
measures necessary to prevent luturc
stupid and vindictive baiting of foreign
Governments. —J. Fletcher (Q.).
Youthful Self-reliance
Those people who prate about the
degeneracy of modern youth must get
their ideas by sitting at home and read-
ing the divorce columns of the sensational
press. I met one member of the rising—
or, as the cynics would have it, sinking-
generation the other night in a public
garden in Melbourne. He was from
another .State, looking for work. He was
renting a room, and what food he could
afford he was cooking for himself. He
was nearly 17 —it sounded quite old, the
confident way he said it —and he told
me that he had enough in the bank to
last him a month. If nothing turned up
by then he was going to “jump the
rattler” to a district where he thought
he could get some fruit-picking.
It wasn’t just an adventure. It had
passed that stage, and was now a serious
search for means of existence. But he
wasn’t asking for sympathy or money,
and I offered neither because he would
have resented it if I had. He may have
been privately scared about the future ;
I suppose he was, but he was determined
that no one else should know it.
While modern youngsters number in
their ranks lads with self-reliance and
courage such as this, they can afford to
smile tolerantly at the armchair critics
who judge them by the inanities of a
small proportion of society flappers.—
T. L. W. (Vic.).
Newspaper Verbiage
Our newspapers are not what they
should be. Those in control seem to
have a fixed idea in their heads that the
reading public lives solely for the hour
it can peruse the evening paper, that
the said public spends all its spare
moments in reading, learning and in-
wardly digesting their complicated pages.
My main grievance is that the news-
paperman must concoct a front-page
story of about three columns out of a
cable of three lines forwarded from the
hot-spots of Europe. Consequently, the
three lines become somewhat entangled
in the three columns of copy, and it
takes the man of average intelligence a
good three hours to disentangle it, and
tp shape it into something resembling
truth.
Someone should start a paper consist-
ing of one page into which all the news
of the day could easily be condensed.
The three lines of fact could be left as
three lines, and would therefore be far
easier to digest than if it were embroi-
dered to the point of suffocation. The
man in the street could see at a glance
if he is going to be hurled into a Euro-
pean war in two hours’ time, or if it
would hold off long enough for him to
see the football in peace. A one-page
newspaper ought to be a huge success.
I, for one, would be an ardent sub-
scriber.—A. D. (W.A.).
Parlor Pinks in Schools
Talking to boys in the same school as
myself, 1 found eight out of every ten
were violently anti-Hitler, The reason
is undoubtedly their environment. The
only news of European affairs that
reaches them is from the headlines of
a few Sydney rags—the “D.T.” is the
favorite, because it runs a comic strip!
A majority of boys make a boast of the
fact that they never read books. From
the history textbooks you could only be-
lieve Germany to be and always to have
been a nation forcing war on its neigh-
bors. During the Czechoslovakian crisis
masters in other subjects took it on them-
selves to tell us how Chamberlain “sold
poor little Czecho.” — Cheese-Oh
(N.S.W.).
Pacific Ships
The Prime Minister, answering a ques-
tion in Parliament the other day, stated
that the much-discussed new ships for
the Canadian-Australian trade would not
be built for the time being because
present-day shipbuilding costs were too
high. Had the Governments concerned
in the discussions acted in 1932, when
the American-owned Mariposa and Mon-
terey first appeared, British ships could
have been built at probably half the
present cost, and would by now have
been in service for at least four years.
During the six years since 1932 the
matter has been continually “under con-
sideration,” and it will probably be in
the same position six years from now.
The history of the business is as follows.
The Matson Line in 1932 replaced Sierra,
Sonoma and Ventura with Mariposa,
Monterey and Lurline, the first two men-
tioned being put in the San Francisco-
Sydney service. For the construction of
these ships the U.S. Government advanced
three-quarters of the cost at low rates
of interest, and provided an operating
subsidy of approximately £400,000 per
year. Without this loan and subsidy it
is doubtful whether vessels of this size
and class could be operated profitably in
the U.S.A.-Australia service.
The two British lines competing with
the Matson Line carried on with older
ships until the end of 1936, when the
Union Royal Mail Line in the Sydney-
San Francisco service withdrew from the
trade, leaving the Canadian-Australasian
ships Aorangi and Niagara in the
Sydney-Vancouver service to carry the
British flag across the Pacific.
In the meantime, the question of build-
ing loans and subsidies has been reported
on favorably by the Imperial Shipping
Committee, and has been discussed on
numerous occasions by the Governments
of the United Kingdom, Australia,
Maoriland, Canada and Fiji, but nothing
has been done. Now construction costs
have risen to a prohibitive figure, and
the question has been shelved for an
indefinite period.
Unless the position is rectified by
building and operating new British ships
under the same conditions as those ruling
for the Matson Line, it seems only a
matter of time before the remaining
British line is withdrawn, leaving the
field to a foreign flag.—B. L. (N.S.W.).
Conserving Fodder
Although we have our good seasons,
there is no doubt that Australia is a
droughty country. Each year the Queens-
land Government is crying out to the
man on the land to conserve cheap
fodder. Yet from the Tweed River to
Cairns each sugar season there are hun-
dreds of thousands of canetops left on
the canefields to waste.
Last Christmas, in one district only,
the Forgan Smiths distributed £25,000
o Continued on next page.)


among the unemployed. Had this money
been lent to cane-farmers free of
interest they would have built 250 silos
of 100 tons capacity each and* saved
25,000 tons of good fodder. The tops
are now burnt, but it happens every
year.
The tops could be harvested at a
reasonable figure, and would be the
means of increasing employment (n
different ways. And, anyway, wouldn't
work be preferable to charity, besides
being better in every other way?
—Nosebag (N.Q.).
A National Theatre
As an overseas visitor, it is a surprise
for me to learn that Australia lacks a
national theatre. The commercialised
theatre is too often the show-place for
vulgar stuff. Often the stage is controlled
by businessmen who are concerned with
nothing but profits. They may be
strangers to dramatic art and make their
best profits from plays which pander to
low tastes.
The education and culture of the
people are among the chief duties of
the State. Since the stage is one of the
most powerful instruments of popular
education, it is well within the province
of the Government to subsidise a theatre.
It would be a school for the perfec-
tion of the arts of acting, playwriting
and the production of plays. It would
encourage new writers who now cannot
get a chance with commercial managers.
By educating theatregoers it would
create a demand on the part of other
theatres for the best work.
The cost would not be prohibitive. In
France, which is a poorer country than
Britain, the State has managed to sup-
port several such theatres, even in times
of economic and financial stress. —
R. Boulden (S.A.).
Dictators for All
It seems quite clear that the critics of
Mr. Chamberlain’s successful policy who
claim that dictators only understand a
threatening policy are really desirous of
being dictators themselves. —Q. F. (Q.).
Why Not More Cadet Corps?
Our volunteer militia units may not
be as strong as we could wish them to
be, but we could add to our future mili-
tary preparedness by enlarging our cadet
organisations— not only those attached
to militia units, but within our many
schools. The latter are not nearly alive
enough to their responsibilities.
A very small percentage of schools
have cadet corps. All secondary schools,
and boarding-schools in particular, have
everything in their favor as training-
grounds for future militiamen. Their
members are at hand always for set
parades, .and consequently regular and
consistent training: any officer or w.o.
will tell you the difficulty of getting
militiamen to attend consistently at
parades. Juvenile members may not be
as quick on the uptake as adults, but
they are keen, and, if slower, are ulti-
mately as efficient. At any rate, the
foundations are surely laid for future
training— i.e., polishing. Foster cadet
companies and the militia will be full
strength ; and there’ll be a constant and
reliable stream of officers and n.c.os.
Anyone who has seen the work of
cadet corps, such as those of St. Peter’s
School, Adelaide, King’s School, Parra-
matta, and All Souls’ School, Charters
Towers, will agree at once upon the
excellence of standards reached. Writer
testifies to the good work of the last-
mentioned at its recent camp at Kissing
Point, Townsville. Officers of the 31st
and 51st also gave excellent reports of
it. As an individual instance: The
L.M.G. (body group) stripping and as-
sembling competition was won in
33 3-ssec, Good work for kids. Too
right! It beats most militia times. So
let’s have more cadet companies in our
secondary schools—and strengthen the
nation. —E. G. W. (Q.).
Employers’ Responsibilities
Numbers of employers must be won-
dering at what point their responsibility
will cease to those whom they provide
with a livelihood.
Because a person employs a number
of hands it is not to say that he is amass-
ing a fortune. Some are going broke.
Many are just making a fair living with
plenty of work and lots of worry.
A timbermiller of my acquaintance
employs 30 men on wages fixed by
arbitration courts as being sufficient for
their maintenance. It costs him £lOO a
year for workers’ compensation insur-
ance. It will cost him a further £lOO
for national insurance. He himself is
inadequately insured because he cannot
afford more. If he were to die or be-
come crippled through an accident, his
dependants would be in no better posi-
tion than those of his foreman in
similar circumstances.
The £2OO which he pays for his em-
ployees is enough to provide adequate
insurance for himself, or it would almost
employ another hand at £4 a week.
“Almost,” because he would be required
to pay approximately 3s. per week for
the privilege of relieving the Govern-
ment of a man whom it was probably
entirely supporting.—M. L. W. (N.S.W.).
The Best Asset
Our politicians have paid subsidies and
bounties to many industries, primary and
secondary, directly and indirectly. It
may be true that these industries are valu-
able to Australia, actually or potentially.
The country’s greatest asset—the child
—gets no consideration in this respect.
We need population. For various reasons
the influx of desirable migrants is small.
For economic reasons mostly, the best
migrant is not increasing as rapidly in
numbers as could be desired. Many
married people are childless. If for every
child born to a married couple a weekly
payment were made, sufficiently large to
be useful, this state of affairs would soon
alter. A married man, for instance,
would receive the award wage in his
.employment, but the Government would
pay him, say, ss. per week for each
child in his family. This would apply to
men in receipt of a limited income. Free
pre-natal and post-natal attention would
also assist in increasing the birthrate.
The average thinking person will not
bring children into the world unless he
can see his way clear to give them good
food and clothing and a reasonable edu-
cation.
Money spent in this way would give
Australia a strong, healthy and virile
population, free from psychological
defects which restriction might tend to
develop.
All medical attention before, during
and after birth, that is immediately
after, should be absolutely free, as should
all hospital accommodation and ser-
vices.
Our best asset should have the best
we can give. In view of our empty spaces
and small population, and the reverse
conditions obtaining elsewhere in the
world, this matter deserves immediate
attention. — Vanduara (N.S.W.).
Mobile Permanent Units
The announcement of the S’African
Minister for Defence that Cape Town
and Durban are to be made battleship-
proof, and not merely cruiser-proof, by
the addition of 15in. guns to the de-
fences sounds a note that Australia
may well heed.
In addition, this country could with
advantage copy S’Africa’s idea of an
army of mobile troops equipped with
automatic weapons and trained in bush-
fighting.
As our whole northern coastline lies
wide open to invaders, it is obvious that
regular army manoeuvres in this region
are a necessity. The advantage of fight-
ing over familiar terrain is self-evident,
but if an invading force were to land
in the North now it would be under
no more disadvantage on this count
than would the defenders, as the present
farcical training is carried out almost
exclusively in semi-urban areas.
My plan is impracticable as the militia
is at present constituted ; but the time
is ripe for the formation of permanent
units. The Eastern States are preparing
to abolish relief work. In consequence,
thousands of young single men are to
be thrown practically on their own
resources, with little prospect of finding
employment. Given the opportunity of
enlisting in permanent forces at rates
of pay comparable with that offering
for outside work, many would join. Let
them do six months’ continuous field
training, followed by the same period
of work on city fortifications, and Aus-
tralia would have little to fear. — Iron
Bark (Q.).
Senate Reform
When the framers of the Australian
Constitution made provision for the
Senate as the Upper Chamber of Parlia-
ment, they did so with the idea that it
was to be a “States’ House,” and with
this end in view each State was given
equal representation (six members each).
Little Tasmania, with its insignificant
numerical population, was to have as
much say as the more populous New
South Wales and Victoria.
This was the theory for the establish-
ment of the costly Senate. Practice, how-
ever, * has undoubtedly defeated the
object of the framers. During Andy
Fisher’s term as Prime Minister we had
30 Labor Senators to six Liberals (as
they were called in those days). Later
we had 35 Nationalists to one Laborite
(Jupp Gardiner), but each wore the party
label and took his instructions from party
bosses. So the Senate has become per-
manently just as much a party House as
the Representatives—merely a replica or
echo of the party Reps.
To-day this party label for the Senate
is more openly encouraged inasmuch as
ballot-papers in connection with the elec-
tion of Senators now group the various
parties under A and B.
As the Senate thus works in practice,
is not the time ripe or overripe for its
abolition? But if the Senate is a neces-
sity, is not the time overripe for it to
function as was originally intended?
I suggest an alteration of the Constitu-
tion to the effect that any candidate for
the Senate should be barred if he or she
has been a member of any political party
organisation, and that he or she should
lodge with his or her nomination a statu-
tory declaration to the effect that he or
she is eligible to stand in accordance with
this provision. This would give a double-
barrelled protection to the electors, as a
“crook” nomination would render the
candidate liable to a prosecution for per-
jury, with a possible “stretch.”
And since a Senator is elected for six
years (I disregard for the purpose of my
argument the possibility of a double dis-
solution), why not have the election for
Senators on June 30, the day provided
for this automatic retirement at the end
of a term —not nearly 12 months prior
to expiration, as was the case with the
election of the last 18 Senators?
Had this provision been in operation
we would not now have been doubtful as
to whether the death of Senator-elect
John Barnes created a casual vacancy
within the meaning of the relevant sec-
tion of the Constitution. It is the wilT
of the electors which should speak at
elections, not the opinion of legal
pundits.
Had the Senate functioned as it was
intended to function ab initio, it would
have been bad luck for political party
hacks, like George Pearce ; but what a
godsend to the country.—R. P. D. (Vic.).
Real Unemployment Insurance
Certain people who look further than
their noses fear for the future of the
national insurance plan ; others consider
that the expenses will outweigh the bene-
fits. Jn any event the cost will be great,
and what is really required is unemploy-
ment insurance. It should, however, be
remembered that the greatest in-
surance against unemployment is in em-
ployment itself. How is this to be
achieved? Largely by the encourage-
ment of new factories.
Tasmania is wide awake in this regard,
and, realising the taxable value of addi-
tional employed population, grants sites
at peppercorn rentals, and quotes
specially low rates for hydro-electric
power, etc.
Many overseas companies would com-
mence operations in Australia if there
was a guarantee of low rentals, low
taxes and cheap power. But the grab-
all-and-tax-everything policy of our
rulers scares potentials away.—F. C. T.
(W.A.).
“Swing” Music
Jazz! Jazz! Yes, everybody now
wants jazz ; everybody is itching to dance
and “swing it.” It seems there are three
elements of good music: the physical
sensation, the emotional element and the
intellectual element. Quite true, the first
two are uppermost in modern “swing”
music, but, if anything, an intellectual
appeal is wanting—yet this is not alto-
gether lacking. It needs no saying that
rhythm is the predominant feature, and
herein lies a somewhat surprising thing—
that until recent times rhythm, in its
numerous variations, has not been exten-
sively used by the great masters as a
medium of interpretation of emotion.
And yet its effects are true and wide-
spread. Who denies the undying energy
and rousing quality of the march? What
classic has better handed down to poster-
ity the spirit of Liberty, Equality and
Fraternity than “The Marseillaise” of
Rouget de l’lsle composed for the Mar-
seilles sans-culottes ? Or, on the other
hand, whose heart does not hear the
“Peace be still” at the sound of the
folk tunes and country dances? But
these are elementary rhythms, pure, un-
complicated —and what remarkable
effect!
And so, jazz, or, better, the art of
“swing,” is, I fear, but the expression
of a modern world playing with rhythm ;
but it is a game which will add precious
contributions to the art of music. Of
course, at present, the tendency is shown
at times to over-accentuate the beat and
to subordinate melody and intellectual
appeal; but these are too dear to us to
be long denied their place, while, at the
same time, rhythm is being exploited and
often used to good effect. Kevin
O’Leary (N.S.W.).
Crime and Reading
I cannot understand why all American
detective books were banned. Writers
of mystery tales, from Mrs. Radcliflc
through Conan Doyle down to Edgar
Wallace, have all been subject to adverse
criticism because in some instances the
brutality of their characters has tran-
scended belief. Yet those who criticise
should take a few moments of their time
and scan daily papers. There you will
find horrors that are beyond belief —but
they are true. They actually happened.
And the majority of those brought to
justice for these types of crimes are found
to be demented, with no knowledge of
reading or writing. The truth can be
many times more horrible than fiction. —
Rekab (N.S.W.j.
Strikes!
Strikes are deplorable things. Costly
to all concerned, directly and indirectly,
and whether the cause be lost or won.
Undoubtedly at times there has been
just cause ; at others there has been no
justification for a strike. But however
just the cause and even with the battle
won, have strikers ever made up their
initial losses? Always the public gener-
ally has paid dearly in loss and incon-
venience. To save all this arbitration
was introduced, and at great cost Courts
have been established and maintained
throughout Australia. Yet we still have
strikes!
Have the Arbitratidn Courts failed?
If so, how and why?
There have been examples in high
places of direct action for gain without
the sanction of the public. Federal Par-
liamentarians restored the cut to their
high salaries first, raising their salaries
at a time that was not opportune or
bountiful. Queensland furnishes glaring
examples. The present Government, re-
turned at' a previous election on the
promise of a progressive reduction in
taxation (the result of which was Id. in
the £ during three years), raised mem-
bers’ salaries by £l5O p.a. during that
same Parliament without having men-
tioned it to the electors. And to make
sure of good measure for themselves
they made their rise retrospective by six
months! Brisbane councillors followed
suit; they added £lOO p.a. to their pay,
and during the same term increased the
rates. It is this sort of thing that under-
mines democracy. Is it also the cause
of the rank and file trying any means to
gain their ends? —O. M. G. (Q.).
Necessity for an Auxiliary Calling
The last depression taught some of our
skilled workmen what a precarious thing
even a good job is when the money re-
sources of a country are scanty and
drastic retrenchments must be carried
out.
Take the case of a process-engraver
who lost his job. He was an expert,
but, as most of the illustrated matter in
the papers had to be cut down, the best
men were the first to go. He had about
£4OO saved. He settled down to live on
it and await the return of “prosperity.’
Before the end of his resources was
reached the idea was suggested of going
into a small business and thereby earn-
ing sufficient for even a scanty income
that would pay for his board and lodg-
ing. But he was dogmatically opposed
to doing anything but wait. He was just
on the verge of distraction after waiting
five years when the tide did turn, and
he was immediately reinstated in a first-
class job.
Let us contrast this case with another.
In a country town in Victoria, in the
vicinity of which many settlers occupied
small farms, was an Italian who owned
and worked a ten-acre block which he
had subdivided into orchard, vineyard
and dairy land. In slack times he cut
wood and sold it, carted his produce to
market and brought back manure to im-
prove the land. He lived in this locality
for about 15 years, and no one —not even
his friends —knew or suspected that he
possessed educational qualities beyond
the ordinary. But an opportunity oc-
curred ; a vacancy for a headmaster on
the staff of the School of Mines. This
hard-working Italian colonist applied for
the job, which he gained and held. He
was an architect and an M.A. He hap-
pened to reach Australia in a time of
depression. He could not get work at his
profession, but found no difficulty in
doing the next best thing.—J. J. Glad-
stone (Vic.).


uiO|qiuhy% ±oh
3snv>^ 3 d
The theory of treating symptoms rather than lhe cause
is still not generally understood. I here are lhose who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will He found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
Dr Morse*
IS!
M
PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack ol
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS^<
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT*5/~& 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
, o*°> ,
Giving Amber Her Chance S f*Ss
The World I 5 Yours r\
Stories by “Kodak" » *9*
Pearls of Papua C Q ’00$?
Blue North --e *
Jungfrau * TOT
Karangi J&tS
o 9
/
.# s$
# s *
A se V e «^ vV 01!
cA<


kVV
mmm
xm
CTVVU2.
l WA
1
fej
‘Ah, fill the Cup:—tv hat boots it to repeal
Ilow Time is stipping underneath our Feet:
Unborn To-morrow and dead Yesterday ,
/"P 7 by fret about them if To-day be sweet T'
•—Omar Khayyam.
Old Omar K. must surely have had “Cup
Day” in mind when he wrote such appropriate
lines. Don’t let the time slip before you
sweeten the day with a convivial cup of
Gilbey’s the recognised celebration for
cheerful occasions.
NOW COSTS NO MORE
THAN ORDINARY GINS
w
W.
Wf
vf
WT'" * % X
VWA. *!?
k - \W\-
X
■o,.
mm
mmm
..-fi
\mmk
■'
Wk r*
'mm
-■X
s>V
w m
cr%^-
-3
,*V
y
mrnmM
mmm
m
r -j
§;
sm
:
m\
fiflilS
mi
. .1
:■
V
V'.v •'
. .
■ ■
■
