

fl/N
Now while the holiday
m
your new KODAK.
Kodak picture-making
is Australia’s fastest
growing hobby. \
NOW IS THE /
TIME Ta START/
Whatever you seek in a camera you will
find it amongst the magnificent Kodak
range.
Six-20 Brownie Juniors from .... 14/6
Six-20 Popular Brownie 7/6
Six-20 Kodak Juniors from . . . 39/9
Six-20 Kodak Senior, with f/6.3 lens, 97/6
A wide range of Miniature Kodaks de
Luxe.
CINE-KODAKS (Bmm. and 16mm.) tor
Home Movftes in black-and-white or
glorious natural colors.
-
whJ
IN FOUR
POPULAR GRADES
df
Kodak Film is made in Australia.
Always fresh and dependable.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK (A/sia) PTY., LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; 252 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C. 1 (also entrance from Howie Place); 250-252 Queen
Street, Brisbane; 3 7 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart; 93 Brisbane Street, Launceston; 662 Hay
Street, Perth (also entrance 28 Plaza Arcade) ; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Towns-
ville. Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162
Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton
Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
# "jauaßm
Hi
«3ffi§»Vv '
.
■
%!
■
K
■ . :
.
■:7
.
0
1
r
m
.....
m
m
m
vs
ii
: i
t,J
m
Ilf ; h v;\
' t ?>
. ■
■
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3023.
Wednesday, February 23, 1938.
Price 6d.
Revered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMQCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN BOOK PAGEANT.
The exhibition of Australian literature and
pictorial work which was Sydney University Fisher
Library’s contribution to the 150th Anniversary cele-
brations beat any previous effort of the same char-
acter. It took 45 large tables to show the books,
and the work of a trained librarian who knows his
way right through Australian literature was obvious
in the layout.
Screens and wall panels of book plates, cartoons
of literary celebrities from Bulletin archives, photo-
graphs of authors from Angus and Robertson’s
“Rogues’ Gallery,” displays of dust-jackets, illustrated
books and prints, and illuminated manuscripts gave
variety.
Even without reference to the section labels pr
knowledge of Australian authorship it was fairly easy
to follow the sequences by the titles. Wild Notes
from the Lyre of a Native Minstrel and The Aus-
tralian Magazine, or Compendium of Religious,
Literary and Musical Intelligence are musty with the
early years of last century. Bail Up, a Story of the
Australian Bush, proclaims the approximate date of
its vintage, and Francesca Vasari, a Tragedy in Five
Acts, clearly belongs to that elegant period when a
literary occasion could always be improved by asking
the budding author how he was getting on with his
blank-verse tragedy.
Some familiar names among the now unfamiliar
bindings of bygone days were those of Ernest Favenc,
Price Waning, Louis Becke, Mrs. Campbell Praed, Ada
Cambridge, Marcus Clarke, Rolf Boldrewood. On
the covers of individualistic design with which pub-
lishers toyed at the turn of this century were Tom
Collins, Steele Rudd, Henry Lawson, Ernest Brady,
Edward Dyson; and on the modern more or less
standardised job, Prichard, Bedford, Arthur Adams,
Palmer, Eldershaw, Dailey, Lindsay, Franklin, Cusack
and others enough to fill one of these columns. What
struck this visitor was the large proportion of Bulle-
tin contributors among those who had achieved dis-
tinction —and that held good for verse, poetry and
short stories as well as for novels and general
literature.
Attendances were good, owing to the attraction of
such a rare and short-lived opportunity to get a
panoramic survey of Australian literature. As well
as the general public, visitors included teachers,
students hounding down notes for theses, a large
number of children and a sprinkle of American gobs,
one of whom wanted to know of a book named
Fisher’s Ghost: “Say, miss, would that be about the
guy that built this joint?”
Hard work and skilled organisation were behind
the show. Credit for the book display goes to Fisher
Librarian and literary critic H. M. Green, assisted
by Flora Eldershaw, Winifred Birkett and library
staff. J. J. Hardie was responsible for the book plates
and pictorial display.
Behind Scenes with Ulm.
P. G. Taylor’s new book, VH-UXX (Angus and
Robertson), deals with the flights led by Charles Ulm in
the Faith in Australia in an effort to secure the
England-Australia mail contract. It is the story of a
losing hazard gamely played.
Australian National Airways (in which Kingsford
Smith and Ulm were interested) and Imperial Airways
were struggling for supremacy on the proposed Empire
mail route. Imperial Airways had sent a ’plane which
was wrecked near Koepang. Its mail was picked up
by Kingsford Smith, who flew the Southern Cross
to the East Indies in fast time. Second try to get
through to England went to Australian Airways. The
Southern Sun set out, but a soggy ’drome at Alor
Star resulted in wreck in an adjoining paddy-field.
Australian Airways immediately dispatched the
Southern Star. She picked up the mails from her
sister ’plane, flew to London and home again.
Things looked promising for Australian Airways
in spite of the loss of a ’plane. Then the Southern
Cloud was lost flying between Sydney and Melbourne.
In spite of generous assistance, the cost of the search
was enormous Taylor has a word to say on the
matter of unfounded reports when a ’plane is lost —
and this, combined with the depression and consequent
falling off in passenger traffic, forced the company
out of business. .
Ulm, Taylor and pilot Jock Allen formed them-
selves into a company under Ulm’s leadership to
pursue the original objective with what resources they
could muster. Looking back, Taylor “cannot help
being amused at just how optimistic we were.”
The Government had fixed the date for the
calling of tenders, and the three partners had to get
themselves into the news headlines if they were to
get financial backing from the investing public. Ulm
planned to fly round the world. “A strange idea at
first sight,” says Taylor, “but effective in its influence
had it succeeded.”
The price of a really suitable ’plane was out
of, the question. Ulm bought the salvaged Southern
Sun, rechristened her and rebuilt her as near to
requirements as possible. For the long oversea
stretches —Atlantic and Pacific —she had to be fitted
to lift 10,000 pounds of fuel, as against a normal lift
of a little over 4000 —“a really tremendous overload.”
Bad luck dogged every mile of the outward
journey. Taylor makes an exciting story of it, and
the aviators, though they met disaster with courage
and good humor, must have been under great stress.
The story is not only one of mishaps encountered, but
also of trouble foreseen and overcome, risks measured
and successfully taken. Getting the burdened ’plane
off the ground was a triumph of airmanship. Engine
trouble —caused by their being unable to ascend to
cool altitudes in the first stage of. each flight held
them hopelessly behind schedule.
Came the transatlantic flight. On Kilmarnock
Beach, Ireland, within a few minutes of the take-off
for Newfoundland, a tie-rod snapped and the ’plane
crashed on her starboard wing. The tide came in, and
the pounding seas left only a wreck. Ulm was broke,
and told the others they were free to take jobs or
get back to Australia if they could. Lord Wakefield
wired an offer to rebuild the ’plane. The offer was
accepted, and the ’plane salvaged between tides. But
by the time she was again airworthy the season of
storms and fogs was on the Atlantic and flight im-
possible.
By the irony of fate the return flight to Australia
was made in the then record time of 6 days 17 hours.
But it was not the spectacular triumph that inspires
backing for air-mail tenders.
Taylor is a good writer as well as an airman.
He is the aviator articulate—of whom there are few.
He has a philosophy, and relates flying to life in
general. He takes his reader into the ’plane and into
the minds of her crew, lending him his own sensi-
bilities. Having a marked gift for the right word, he
is able to make every mile of the journey real. On
a night flight something desperate has gone wrong
and been righted. In the dim light he notes the
“dogged complacency” of Ulm’s expression. When
they taxi out in the darkness before dawn to take off
one of the crew runs ahead with a torch to show the
way, “like some spectre of the night dancing in front
of the machine.”
The book concludes with a brief account of
Ulm’s final—and fatal—attempt to pioneer the Pacific
air-mail route. Pacific Flight was a memorial to
Kingsford Smith. VH-UXX is Charles Ulm’s
memorial, and is a fine contribution to the literature
of aviation.
Fine Novel on the Brontes.
Divide the Desolation, by Kathryn Jean MacFar-
lane (Harrap), is a novel based on the life of Emily
Bronte, the title coming from the opening passage of
Wuthering Heights —“ Mr. Heathcote and I are such a
suitable pair to divide the desolation between us.”
The story of the Brontes, touched with genius
and tragedy and delimited, like a picture in its frame,
by the wild desolation of the Yorkshire moors that
bound in the quick of passionate life at Haworth
Parsonage, has tempted the playwright and novelist
again and again. But there is always a place for
work as good as Divide the Desolation.
It tells the story of Charlotte, Branwell, Emily
and Anne, their lonely childhood, their group genius
against a neutral background, the deep and subtle
bond that bound Emily to Branwell, Branwell’s ill-
starred love for Lydia Robinson and the consequent
ravelling away of his unstable character, the bitterness
that grew up between the sisters —rooted in their love
of one another—because of Branwell, Emily’s despair
and death following closely upon his. This is the
mould into which Kathryn MacFarlane bas poured
new life.
In other Bronte reconstructions there has been a
tendency to stress the trimmings, to depend for the
dramatic kick largely on winter gales, stark landscapes
and paternal harshness. Here the spring of life is in the
characters themselves. The Reverend Patrick Bronte
is presented not as a tyrant but as “a venerable faun
in spectacles.” The outline of the story is softened
to an organic fluency. Genius works in it like a
yeast, and there is a vein of ecstasy in the grimness.
The tragedy lies not in outward circumstance, not
even in the early deaths of Branwell and Emily, but
in the wastage of their gifts.
First those gifts are made real. This is capital
writing, because genius cannot be conveyed by a list
of achievements. The writer shows these lives in
flower, the essentially happy upthrusting of these
young minds in their closed world, their confidence,
their sense that everything is possible to them, then
their frustration through weakness, through strength,
through circumstance. This decay of promise and all
its consequences in pain and bitterness is the very
core of the tragedy.
As the book goes on the tension is screwed tighter
and tighter; no falsity breaks the onward sweep.
Having undertaken to carry the reader, such a book
must carry him through to the end on its imaginative
crest —and it does. There are moments of great power
and poignancy, natural climaxes —Emily finding the
frightened hare on the moor, the painful scene when
Emily beats the dog-keeper for killing her kitten—
that sum up in little the anguish of life. So, too, with
Branwell’s death, Charlotte’s vain appeal to Emily
for forgiveness.
One very interesting feature of Divide the Deso-
lation is the account of the slow genesis of Wuthering
Heights from a chance story which Emily heard.
This story suited her imagination so well that it
spread backwards and forwards through her life,
absorbing many of the imaginative elements of her
childhood and coloring much that came after. Bran-
well, so like Emily, is also deeply excited by the
story, and they begin to write it in collaboration.
Branwell’s final collapse breaks the collaboration
and Emily finishes it alone. It is at once the con-
summation of and memorial to the tense spiritual
tie between brother and sister. The book is tightly
woven into hoth Ws ThK_theox^-lhmi^ini-
original to the author of Divide the Desolation —she
acKnowledges her debt to Charles Simpson —is
infused with her own fire and brought to very
convincing life. She is careful to disclaim any inten-
tion beyond imaginative reconstruction. “I neithei
intend nor hope that this novel will add anything to
Bronteana ; it is offered solely as an imaginative and
fictional work.”
Sentimentality as a Profession.
In the three one-act plays which recently had
Melbourne audiences embarrassed in the darkness
Noel Coward demonstrated again that plain,
unvarnished sentimentality is so rare in better-class
productions to-day that it imparts to dialogue an air
of both originality and power. An inflexible senti-
mentality was the mainstay of “Cavalcade,” and
Coward’s film “The Scoundrel,” in which he himself
took the leading role, was a simple, “improving,”
softly tearful tale of virtue rewarded, villainy
punished. And, since he writes for sophisticated
audiences, not for novelette-readers, it’s apparent
that sophisticated audiences still like to be unsophis-
ticated, moral and softly tearful for one night in the
week at any rate.
On a different plane, but probably for the same
reason, English poetry has its licensed sentimentalist
in Richard Aldington. It was as surprising as the
Coward phenomenon, and as psychologically interest-
ing, to see his verses flowering in the barren intellec-
tualism of Alida Monro’s anthology, Recent Poetry ;
and it’s a fresh surprise to pick up his new book, The
Crystal World (Heinemann), and find him still writing
the little Chinese butterfly-poems that Ezra Pound
abandoned years ago. Aldington, refreshingly, dares
to be not merely an “exhibitionist” but a senti-
mentalist, and unless he is accepted only as the leader
of the ghostly cult of Imagism the critics who hail
him as a modern must have a very soft spot some-
where.
Since the days of his Collected Poems, when he
asked the reader to search for a pattern supposed to
be concealed in the outward formlessness of his
verses, Aldington has learnt the value of form, and
the care with which he selects his words makes The
Crystal World delicate reading:
Nile-lotus among women, dear flower of girls,
Exquisite as a slender dark hibiscus,
Take my head on your young breasts, beloved,
Touch my cheek with your delicate hands
And —break, O my heart, break with longing.
The book is in two parts; the twenty or so
lyrics of the first half tell the story of a love affair,
and the second half is taken up by an extraordinary
poem which explains, amplifies and actually criticises
the lyrics of the first:
Now the story behind these poems
Is very simple and very usual,
The kind of thing that often happens....
And the story behind that poem, if it can be
called a poem, seems to be that Aldington is uneasy
as a professional sentimentalist. He introduced his
Collected Poems with a long apology, and he con-
cludes this book with a poem that, in effect, confesses
that the lyrics can’t stand up for themselves. After
the red Death of a Hero this Death of a Sentimentalist
is a pale performance.
South Australia's Colonel Light.
Save for a tendency to romanticise him, an
interesting picture of her hero is presented by M. P.
Mayo in The Life and Letters of Col. William Light
(F. W. Preece and Sons).
On one occasion in the Peninsular War, in which
Light took part before coming south to do the great
work he did in South Australia, Miss Mayo has it
that, though “some plundering occurred, all the fastidi-
ous Light took was a wax candle and a clean shirt
which, though a woman’s, he gladly put on.” On
another occasion,
Upon hearing of the Napiers’ plight, Light galloped
twenty miles over the rugged and scarped Estrellas to
the farm where the brothers lay wounded. Although
almost starving himself, he left with them the precious
gift of a loaf of bread before galloping back to his unit.
However Light crossed the Estrellas it is certain
that he did not do all that galloping. Apart from such
overemphasis, Miss Mayo depicts Light very well,
and does even better by his career. She has hitherto
unpublished letters to offer, has evidently gone studi-
ously into other sources of material, and altogether has
added an interesting work to Australian historical
writing, even though it may be felt that a stronger,
perhaps a more ruthless, pen would be needed to
give an authentic or credible representation of Light’s
character.
Born about 1786, Light was the second son of
a Suffolk-born adventurer who was appointed by the
East India Company to the command of a ship trad-
ing between India and Asiatic ports. Establishing
himself on an island off the coast of Siam, Light’s
father, according to contemporary accounts, rendered
such service to the Rajah of Kedah that he was
rewarded with the hand of the Rajah’s daughter and
the Island of Penang as a dower. This account, which
has strong contemporary backing, was flatly denied
50 years later by John Crawford, who asserted that
the mother of the future Surveyor-General of South
Australia was neither a princess nor a Malay, but a
Portuguese of Siam. Naturally, the contemporary
story was the one accepted by the Light family, but
they never inherited the great wealth which belonged
to them by right if the story was true.
William was sent to England as a boy, educated
there, and, after some youthful navy service, went
into the 4th Light Dragoons by purchase in 1808, and
left next year for the Peninsula, where over the next
few years he “won a reputation for zeal, courage and
JLmtmmLajuakM,


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—AIways
Britain’s foremost
Outboard
■
1:!
■
Hi
< •:/
mmmm
.
WSHBSSL
■K
1
m
HWBL " lIT ,TVi * » - V I&,
mUi « *1 /MM
i
i
O The Britannia is a remarkable outboard. Its perform-
ance, ease of starting, quietness, economy of operation,
durability and dependability are exceptional; It gives you
the safety of full reverse. Its shapely enclosed power head
completely protects the motor from rain and spray.
“THE SENIOR STORE.'’
k V
6
The “Britannia” is a smooth running, quick
starting motor, full pivot reverse, underwater
exhaust, power head enclosed protects motor
from spray and rain. Flywheel magneto
ignition, three-bladed propeller manganese
bronze, chrome plated, 7£in. diameter. Weight
531 b.
9
Price £45
Easy terms arranged.
“FOLBOT” Folding Canoes
Complete and Portable
sm
- V,;
m
mm
■-V
■
FOLBOT LIGHTWEIGHT
£18/51-
Two seater. Length 14ft.,
beam 33in., draught
loading capacity 5001b.,
weight 421b. Price, including
two double paddles and bags £18/5/-
FOLBOT MINOR
£912/-
Two seater. Length
1 Oft., beam 2ft. 6in.,
draught 4in., weight
2 51b. Dimensions
folded 3ft. x I x 5in. Price
£9/12/-
FOLBOT POPULAR
£13/12/6
Single seater.
Length 11 ft.,
beam 28in.,
draught 4^in.,
loading capacity 3001b. Weight 301b. Price,
including double paddle and bags . . £13/12/6
FOLBOT SPORTS
£19/7/6
Single seater. Length
15ft. 10in., beam 26in.,
draught 3Jin., loading
capacity 7001b., weight
581b. Strengthened by eight aluminium cross-frames.
Price, with p_addle and bags £19/7/6
• Sports—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’Phone, Day or Night:
M 2401.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.0., Sydney


S. ft PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
£2OO
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
A Feeling Sketch
NO WIND
BY Margaret Thornlunry
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
'{■ ,
THERE was no wind. The valley baked in the
sun, and the willows by the dam and the gum-
trees were all still and the gaunt windmill did
not move. Funny, she thought, how still it was
without the clack, clack of the windmill spinning
over. Not that there weren’t other noises—sheep, and
currawongs in the gums, and hens up along the
lucerne—but somehow the windmill was different;
it was working, too, steady and sensible-like, with the
wind like a purpose to drive it.
Her back ached with bending over the rows of
tomatoes and her arm ached with the weight of the
basket into which she dropped the fruit as she picked
them. The sweat ran down her nose and into the
corners of her mouth and tasted salt on her tongue.
Her body was clammy with sweat and her clothes
were plastered to her back. The brim of her wide hat
flopped down in front of her eyes. When she turned
it back the sun shone on her nose, already pink with
sunburn.
She swore and stood up, slowly easing her
muscles. The rough handle of the basket had scraped
the skin off her arm, and the sweat and dirt made it
smart. Her hands were square, and there was dirt
under the nails and dirt grained in the skin. Her legs
ached from squatting beside the tomato bushes, and
the lumps of earth in her shoes hurt her feet.
She looked away up the valley where a boy and
a pair of horses plodded across a ploughed paddock
in a haze of dust, up and down. The horses went
first with their heads low, then the boy, tripping a
little, as though he were asleep. “Ron ought’ve
finished that harrowin’,” she worried. “Dad’ll cuss if
it ain’t done to-day.”
Lazy, Ron was, pure lazy without knowin’ it, like
Dad. He’d stop to watch a hawk after a rabbit or
a pair of bull-ants fightin’ in the grass, and then
want to tell you all about it and wonder why Dad got
wild at the harrowin’ not done. He’d come in and
want everyone to rush about and do things for him
and make a fuss. Mum always made a fuss for
him and Dad. So she had to run about too, so’s to
stop Mum, though she hated it because she knew they
were lazy anyway.
She took up the basket and looked at the rows
of tomatoes ahead. She’d picked since before break-
fast, and they were only half-done, so she shrugged
her shoulders and trudged up the rise to the house.
There were bees buzzin’ about the lilacs at the gate.
Hell! she wished she was a bee to hang over a lilac-
bush all day. It was hot, and this only spring yet.
Dad reckoned they’d have drought this summer, it
being so hot and dry already ; but then Dad was
always expectin’ drought or flood or fire. ,
'"THE verandah-posts and the walls were white-
washed, and the grapevine grew thick up the
posts and over the roof. The floor of the verandah
was packed earth, and it was hard and cold. She put
the basket on a table and pushed open the door. In
the kichen it was hot again, and Mum’s face all greasy
with sweat and her shoulders bowed. She looked
after Mum walking round the kitchen, and her eyes
stung with pity. It wasn’t fair. Eight of them
already, and now another coming. “God,” she whis-
pered, “it isn’t fair to her.” It was Dad’s fault, and
men were all swine, she reckoned. Mum looked up
from the stove and said “You stoppin’, Lil?”
“Too hot,” Lil answered. “I’m goin’ to git
Nigger in an’ take these to town.”
“Take them eggs to the Big House on y’r way ;
an’ there’s pertaters to go in, too.”
She nodded and went across to the wash-house
and washed off the sweat and dust with clear well-
water. She pulled on a clean dress and brushed her
hair and put on a hat with a blue ribbon. Jackie
and Ruth were playing in the yard, and when she
came out they hung on her and wanted to go too.
She was just saying “Yes” when Jackie yelled “Dad’s
gettin’ sheep f’ killin’!” and they darted out the gate
and away up the paddock.
She hadn’t wanted to take them, really, but she
felt sore because they’d rather go with Dad than ride
with her. Always more fun where the men were, she
thought bitterly, remembering when she’d been a kid.
She went across the lane to the stable. Nigger
was standing under the pine-tree with his head down
and his hide twitching at the flies. She ran the sulky
out and led him up between the shafts. As she
fastened the harness she saw how the girth was almost
worn through. Dad ought’ve fixed that. She’d told
him last week, an’ he said yes, he’d do it right away.
S’posed she might as well do it and save her talk. If
only Mum would talk at him now and then! But
all she did was smile and say it was all right.
No use her talking at him if Mum wouldn’t; but
she had to, do something, and, hell! she couldn’t
always be runnin’ round doin’ the things he was too
dam’ lazy to do. Only one thing he was any good
for, she thought savagely, loading potatoes into the
sulky and thinking of Mum’s bent shoulders and worn
smile.
Eight of them already, and corn was poor last
year and eggs and butter going down now. If it
didn’t rain soon corn was going to fail again, an’ she
couldn’t keep tomatoes on with no water. Mum’s
work to do soon, too, and then another one to feed.
Fools women were to take it. Fools! She’d never
be a fool like that. She’d work for herself, not for
one of them lazy dogs. She’d make her own
way for herself, alone. She wouldn’t stay there,
m, sweatin’ for nothing. She was going to cut out
an’ work away from there.
She’d never be a farmer’s fool
wife to slave and have babies
year in, year out.
O HE shook the reins, and
Nigger jerked his head and
trotted along the red-gravel
road. She had to climb down
to open the gate to the Big
House, and then drove up the
avenue through the elms. It
was cool and green and quiet
under the elms. She wished
she lived in the Big House, with maids, like
Mrs. Price, with an elm avenue and a fountain in the
garden. Mrs. Price had a cook in the kitchen and a
man to grow her tomatoes, and her daughter that was
married had a fine house in Sydney. Miss Kate had
wanted to take Lil with her when she went off, but
that had been when young Mollie was on the way
and Mum had been sick...
Mrs. Price was cutting roses when she saw Lil in
the sulky. She was a good girl, Lil, and Mrs. Price
was sorry for her, so she called out and smiled. Lil
stopped and came over to the rose-bed and said “Ive
brought the eggs, Mrs. Price.” And then quickly:
“How’s Miss Kate? Have you heard from her?”
Mrs. Price laughed and said, “Oh, very well; but
she can’t find anyone to make blackberry tarts like
yours, Lil.”
Lil took a deep breath and looked hard into Mrs.
Price’s eyes and then said breathlessly, “D’you suppose
she’d have me still, Mrs. Price? I mean after summer,
when this next one’s over and Mum’s right. D’you
think?”
Mrs. Price smiled again and said, “Why, I’m sure
she would. I’ll write and asked her; and I’m glad
you’ve made your mind up, Lil.”
I T was near sundown when she drove back from
1 town, and the air was cool and smelled of dust.
She took off her hat and let the little airs blow through
her hair. Nigger’s hoofs clip-clopped along the road
and the sulky jerked behind him. The purse clutched
in her hand felt good. She’d got a fine price for the
vegetables and paid off half to the store. It was
always best that way. Mum’d be pleased. She smiled
a little, thinking how Mum’d be pleased. There
were little pink clouds in the sky, pink an’_ round an’
soft like babies’ toes. She smiled again, dreaming.
Kookaburras were making a din in the big gum
at the turn-off. Six of ’em. She liked them more
than the wild black currawongs even, they were so
friendly, and the wise twinkle in the eyes of them.
No kookaburras at Miss Kate’s, she reckoned. No
bluebells nor dandelions nor pale briars along under
the hedges. Then she thought of Mum again. None
of that for her. She was getting out while she could.
There was a horse by the gate, and when she
saw it her heart jumped up into her throat and made
her gulp. As she drove up a young man walked over
to the sulky and put up his hand to help her down.
She looked at her blunt, soiled fingers lying in his.
“Hello, Lil,” he said.
He opened the gate to the stableyard and led
Nigger in and unharnessed him. His shoulders were
broad under his shirt, and his back was straight and
he smiled like a boy. She stood holding the stable-
door as he put the sulky in, and she heard the pine-
tree lifting and whispering to itself. They walked
back across the lane and he put his hand under her
elbow, awkwardly protective, and she saw there was
a button off his shirt, and suddenly she knew that
nothing else really mattered very much.
“And of course,” thought Lil, “he’s different from
Dad and Ron. Not lazy like them. And I’m not
like Mum, either. I’ve got more sense,”


By the Writer of "Short-Shift Saturday ”
Miners Holiday
By GAVIN S. CASEY
DRAWING BY JAMES G. PHILLIPS.
THEY poured Tom and me on to the Sunday
train just as it started to move, and we collected
our bottles and found our compartment. There
were four other chaps in it, one we knew and
three we didn’t know. One of the strangers didn’t seem
to like us much, but the rest brightened up when they
saw how many bottles we had. We settled down and
loosened our ties and collar-studs, and Tom took his
shoes off and kicked them under the seat. We
arranged the luggage so it wasn’t in the way, and
smoked and watched the dumps and smokestacks
disappearing over the horizon.
. “Good-bye and good riddance!” said Tom. “All
you chaps goin’ right to the coast?”
They said they were, and we began to talk about
the city and the ’fields and the great times we were
going to have for the next couple of weeks. It was
hot summer, and there was nothing to look at through
the windows except mangy inland bush. I thought
about the long rows of foamy breakers at North
Beach, and we drank a couple of bottles. It was
already smoky and stuffy in the carriage, and I liked
the beer, but I was looking forward to the coast and
thinking of yachting on the river and among the
islands a few miles outside.
“We’ll have to look after the bottles,” said Tom.
“She gets a bit dry down the line in the middle of
the night.”
“There’s a pub next stop,” said one of the chaps.
“If we make it quick we can nick across and get a
few more there.”
. We got some more beer and started knocking
them over quicker. A bottle with plenty of head on
it sprayed over the stranger who wasn’t drinking, and
we thought that was the best joke ever. A bloke
from the next compartment came and stood in the
doorway and glared at us as if he’d like to say some-
thing. We laughed and offered him some beer, and
he glared harder than ever and went away. Some-
body found a pack of cards, and they started on poker,
but I didn’t play. I was full of beer and excitement
and didn’t feel like cards.
I sat there in the smoky carriage drinking more
beer and listening to the wheels bump over the rail-
joints. I wondered how long each section of rail
was and how much closer to the coast each clankety-
clank took us. It would be great down there in the
green, rain-washed country between the rolling coastal
ranges and the sea. It would be good to see the
rows of streets in which every house had lawns and
flowers and the trees were different shapes and colors.
Not like the ’fields, where the broad red roads are
flanked by everlasting pepper-trees and picket fences.
Then they put up the sleepers, and, though the
mob kept playing cards and making a row, I dozed.
The rumble of the train became the roar of surf, and
I was back at North Beach, riding the breakers like
I used to six years ago, before we went to the ’fields.
\ WHEN the train pulled in next morning we were
* “ all dry and a bit sick. Our holiday suits were
crumpled and ugly and the luggage was heavy and
covered with corners. The buildings weren’t as big
and fine-looking as I had remembered them, and they
were a dirty smoky color. It was as hot as hell —
hotter than it had been on the ’fields. We walked
out of the station and across the road and had a long,
cool pot at the nearest pub. It was what we needed,
and we had a couple more.
“Where’re you blokes going to stay?” asked one
of our new cobbers.
“We want to find a place at one of the beaches,”
I said.
“Aw, right in town’s the place to stop,” said
someone. “Y’ can always go out to the beaches, but
if you live there you might as well die after dark.”
“We want a spell,” I said. “We won’t care if
it’s quiet.”
“Funny idea of a spell,” said someone. “Wantin’
to lug all his baggage another twenty miles as soon
as he gets here.”
“I’m stoppin’ right where I am,” said another
chap. “I’m goin’ to book a room. This pub looks
good to me.”
“Why don’t we book in too, Bill?” said Tom.
“We can shift to. the beach in a couple of days. We
can have a spell here first.”
“We can stick together an’ have a bit of fun
for a start,” said someone.
It was sensible, I thought. I was tired, and I
wanted a bath. There was a whole fortnight ahead.
We’d collected a good bunch on the way down, and
though it was hot in the streets it was cool in the pub.
The beer was good, and I was hungry too. The chaps
were all laughing and arguing about it, but 1 was
too tired to argue. I just agreed. We had a couple
of rounds to celebrate the fact that we were going
to stay together for a while.
'T' HAT pub was hard to leave. The concrete pave-
-1 ments get your feet when you’re not used to
them, and the pub was always cool. Every evening
I’d think about getting out to the beach next day, but
something would always interfere. On the Tuesday
Pat Stanford and Johnny Josephs turned up from the
’fields, and the mob of us made a day of it. On the
Wednesday there were thunderstorms. We trotted
around the shops and we bought some stuff, but we
always finished up in a pub. Tom was enjoying him-
self, but I got restless.
“Look here,” I’d say when we got up in the
mornings, “we came down here for a change, an’
what are we doing? Roaming from pub to pub just
like we would on the ’fields! We’re shifting to-day,
Tom. We’ll get our things out after breakfast.”
Tom would grumble a bit, but he’d agree. Then
one of the other chaps would roam in, fuzzy-headed
and yellow-looking.
“What a night!” he’d say. “Hell! There’s so
much fur on me tongue I think I must have a cat in
me mouth.”
“We’re skipping after breakfast,” I’d say. “We’re
off out to the beach, where they don’t have any cats.”
The chaps were laughing at me, I knew. Always
one of them would dig out the rest and they’d decide
that we had to have a drink before Tom and I left.
An hour would pass in the bar, where it was quiet and
cool, and then there’d be no bus for half an hour
and we’d have a few somewhere else to pass the time.
Someone from the ’fields would show up, or some
bloke one of us knew at the coast. I’d watch the
clock and worry while they all talked and drank and
made a row, but after a while I’d forget about it.
We’d eat wherever we happened to be, and the money
would flow out of our pockets fast and easy. And
Tom and I would always land back at the pub with
the mob about midnight. We made a lot' of noise,
but nobody minded because we spent plenty.
Then the week-end came and half our holiday
was gone, and I stuck out for going to the beach.
“Christ! Why bust the party up?” said some-
one. “We’re gettin’ on all right an’ havin’ a good
time, aren’t we?”
“This’s the best place in the city on Sunday,”
said another of them. “We’re boarders, an’ it’s no
trouble to get served.”
“ Why donX you all come out? » asked Xom .
“Come out for the day, anyway. It’ll do you good.”
I didn’t want them all at the beach. I only
wanted Xom and me there But they liked Xom > s sug .
gestion.
“Crines vest” said someone “We t’ see
. y
. e a taxi and aot bottles and we all
P* e ai ? d we y>t zooming off to the beach. We went
through the suburbs, and I got a good look at the
§ ar cens for the first time since wed arrived. When
were a mi e rom the coast I smelled the sea.
Aben we dro PP ed over the last sandhills with the
sound of the breakers booming away in our ears, and
« i < 1J t t t t
the car pulled up where we could see the whole beach,
speckled with people and bright in the sunshine. The
sand g , ared and hurt our but it did me d
to see the beach wjth brown bodies aU over Ther< ,
were a lot o£ i mpr ovements-flash pavilions and look-
out towers and so on—but it was the same old beach,
I remembered the first day I’d spent trying to ride a
surfboard, and a lot of other occasions.
None of the chaps except Tom and I wanted to
go in, but they felt they had to, and they pulled each
other’s legs about it until we were all in the dressing-
rooms. We peeled off our clothes, and I wished I’d
bought a new swimming-suit. Not that I’m fussy
about how I look, but most of them were wearing
trunks, and my old bathers were baggy as well as
out-of-date. The men in the rooms were as brown
as J- used t° b e > an d our mob seemed white, even
tbe j r forearms and faces. You don’t get sunburned
underground, or in pubs eithei.
When we went out the glare on the sand seemed
wo [ s ®> and we felt funny with our long white arms
and e ® s and old-fashioned bathers. The sand felt
unn y between our naked toes, and we thought that
ever y° ne was looking at us. We hid ourselves in the
water, and the water was good. Most of our mob
* nt xn ° w what to do when they got in front of a
umper, ut I could still ride them in, though it
made me breathless. I played about for a while and
then I went out past the breakers for a swim
~, . , „ , a .in-
... ere t ' vas a Wltb a da^ b str °ke just ahead
setting out for a buoy too. I felt good, and decided
rd see how j went against him . T * ut m head down
F y uwu
(Continued on page 7.)


"Converters of the Truth ”
THE FRILLS of
The De BEAUFRILS
BY HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
** I NEVER did think them French people was to
be trusted,” said Mrs. Parsley, waving a letter
I addressed to one De Beaufrils I had discovered
amongst my own. “People who named a thing
bloo-monge when it isn’t blue but white cannot be
regarded as converters of the truth, to my way of
thinking.”
“This De Beaufrils is a Frenchman?” I suggested.
“Only by distraction,” said Mrs. Parsley. “When
first they came I remarked that the name seemed
French to me.
“ ‘We came over with the Normans,’ he said,
proud-like. Though what there was to be proud of
about that I don’t know.
“ ‘lt doesn’t matter to me, Mr. De Beaufrils,’ I
says, ‘who people came over with, or where from, as
long as they’re respectable and pay their rent regular.’
Which are my garden principles, and I don’t care
who knows it.
“ ‘I think I’d better pay a month in advance,’ he
just smiles, and hands me a cheque, which I took,
though I always like cash best. But he must have
dealt with a very respectable bank, for it paid up
and didn’t dishonor it like some of them banks do.
“My first depression wasn’t good. He was a bit
too la-di-da for me; but still that was one point
in his favor, having an honorable bank. I think
the Bible says ‘By their banks ye shall know them,’ or
something like that; and after my experience with
dishonorable cheques I was glad to meet one of the
good kind.
“His wife was a good bit la-di-da too, but
seemed a nice little thing all the same. The way they
used to talk about their connections you would think
they was gas-stoves. There wasn’t anybody men-
tioned in the cable news that they wasn’t related to.
He was always saying ‘Keep the change’ to people
who brought parcels; and, though it was only a
penny ha’penny usually, it seemed as if he was made
of money. They appeared very superior people—
though, as I always say, true hearts are more than
cornets.
“The way some of the other tenants took them
was queer.
“ ‘Mr. De Beaufrils was telling me,’ I says to
Mr. Wassail, ‘that you are going to play bridge in
their flat to-night. He was talking about you.’”
“ ‘I suppose he called me a Plea Being,’ says Mr.
Wassail.
“As a matter of fact Mr. De Beaufrils had
spoken of him as ‘Our Plea Being friend Mr. Was-
sail,’ but I didn’t mention that, not knowing exactly
what it meant.
“‘I don’t know that I’ll go to their infernal
bridge party,’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘These De Beaufrilses
are a bit too uppish.’
“All the same Mr. Wassail did go to the bridge
party, and he looked as if he had dressed himself
up specially in a new suit to do it. Even Mr. Slom-
pack used to go to their parties like that.
“ ‘Would you mind ironing out a white tie for
me, Mrs. Parsley?’ he would say. ‘We’re mixing with
the nobility to-night.’
“There was always
people coming to the
flats to see them, too.
A very populous couple
they seemed to be.
And then suddenly it
happened.”
“What happened?”
I asked.
“He deserted her ;
left her without a
penny, that little wife
of his. All broken up
she seemed.
“ ‘lt’s a terrible
thing, Mrs. Parsley,’
Mr. Wassail says to
me. ‘l’m a demoncrat
myself, but to see a delicately matured woman like
that thrown suddenly on the world without a
penny is shocking! What a scoundrel!’
“ ‘Yes, indeed!’ I says. ‘He owes me over two
weeks’ rent.’ Which was right, for after that
undishonorable cheque I had let the rent go on,
never thinking but what he had plenty of money and
would make it good some day.
“ ‘I will make myself responsible for the rent of
Mrs. De Beaufrils’s flat until we see what can be done,’
said Mr. Wassail. ‘We will have to do something for
the poor little woman. Why, Mrs. Parsley, he even
took her jewels. “If he had only left me my jewels
I could have done something ; perhaps paid my pas-
sage home,” she said to me. Fancy a man doing a
thing like that, Mrs. Parsley!’”
“It all came out, then, just the sort of man that
that Mr. De Beaufrils was. When it was suggested
that letters should be sent to her influential relatives
in England Mrs. De Beaufrils said it would be no
good: they had cast her off because of the way she
had clung to De Beaufrils; and, him being the black
sheep in wolf’s clothes of his family, it was no use
writing to them.
“‘I don’t know what I shall do yet. I suppose
I will be able to secure a position as lady’s maid in
some family,’ says Mrs. De Beaufrils
bravely.
“ ‘You mustn’t think of anything like
that,' says Mr. Wassail. ‘We will see what
we can do for you. We will get you stable-
iced.’
• <JETTING Mrs. De Beaufrils stable-
Y-* iced, as Mr. Wassail called it, became
a sort of public movement. Mr. Wassail,
Mr. Slompack and Mr. Warren, who,
though they had flats here, used to have
their meals in restaurants, made a derange-
ment to board with her. If it hadn’t been
for that I’d have asked her
to move into a smaller flat;
but I felt I ought to help,
even when she didn’t keep
up the rent out of the
money they gave her.
“ ‘Dear Mrs. Parsley,’
she says, ‘everybody is so
kind. I feel it is terrible
being such a useless pro-
tuberance as I am. But I
believe they are rajsing
a general subscription to
help me. (I wonder what
my poor dead father, who
was so proud, would say if
he knew that!) And I’ll
pay up my rent in full
when I get that. I really
think I ought to buy some
widow’s weeds.’
“ ‘What ever for?’ I
gasps.
“ ‘lt looks so much
more respectable when a
woman is alone in the
world. I am a widow in a
way, aren’t I?’ she sighs.
“ ‘Your husband isn’t
dead,’ I says.
‘ ‘He is dead to me,’ she says, and burst into
tears.
“You couldn’t argue with the poor thing when
she was crying. So out she came in black on the
money she ought to have paid for her rent; and
very becoming it was, too. It made her look so per-
thetic that them poor men couldn’t upset that board-
ing derangement even when they found out what a
failure it was.
“You see, Mrs. De Beaufrils wasn’t used to
getting up early in the morning, and one morning
Mr. Slompack, who was very obliging, being in a
hurry, began to get the breakfast himself. He was
half-way through it when she appeared.
‘“lt was dreadful of me. I must get an alarm
clock,’ she says. ‘I wish I was such a good cook as
you are, Mr. Slompack.’
“Although one of them did get her an alarm
clock it didn’t make much difference, because she
forgot to set it. and Mr. Slompack frequently had the
breakfast half-ready before she was up. Then there
was the night she was going out to a picture-show
and was in a hurry to get the dinner things away.
“ ‘Let me help you with the washing-up,’ said
Mr. Wassail.
‘“lt’s so good of you!’ she says. ‘You could
wash the dishes if you don’t mind.’
“She puts an apron on him, laughing; and then
Mr. Warren, who had gone to his own room after
dinner, came back.
“‘Oh, I haven’t cut you out of your job, Mr.
Warren,’ she cries. ‘You can still do the wiping-up,
as you promised. It is so good of both of you.’
“She puts an apron on him, too, laughing, and
out she goes—with Mr. Slompack, which I expect
made them feel all the worse about it. I heard them
talking about being sick and tired of the boarding
derangement, but it went on. Before a week was out
she had them men doing most of the work they was
paying her to do.
“IT was the time she went out with Mr. Wassail
* that the millinery-shop idea came up.
“ ‘lt’s the very thing,’ Mr. Wassail told me. ‘She’s
unsuffocated, an’ we’ve got to look after her; but


and started the crawl that used to win races for me.
When I looked up he was still ahead. He was looking
over his shoulder, laughing. I sucked some air with
a bit of unexpected wave mixed up in it, and did
everything I could, until my lungs were bursting. I
got another glance, and he was further ahead. The
buoy was still a long way off, and my heart was
hammering. My head was spinning, and I could taste
sickness and beer not far from my mouth. I gave
up in disgust and paddled back to the shore, where the
rest of the bunch were already out and stretched on
the sand.
“What, a hell of a place to want to live!” said
someone as I flopped down in the middle of them.
“Golly, I’m thirsty!”
The glare from the sand was horrible, and I
could feel now that there was water in my ears. We
all had salt in our mouths. We all felt thirsty. The
heels of kids sprinting about the beach spurned sand
into our faces. When anyone looked at us we felt
silly because we were too white. The water had made
us tired and thirsty. We went up and dressed, and
after we’d had a drink at the car we went back to
town.
I felt angry with myself and disappointed. The
chaps poked mullock at me, but it wasn’t that that
hurt. I didn’t want to go near the beach again. 1
was quite content to be heading for the pub.
WE stayed at the pub near the station with the rest
for our remaining week. We saw a couple of
picture-shows, and every day we tramped about, bowl-
ing into a bar whenever the pavements tired our feet.
We spent a lot of money, and we all used to get back
to our rooms late and make a good deal of noise.
It was surprising the number of other fellows from
the ’fields we met, and we had a good time. But I
wasn’t sorry when the time arrived for us to get on
the train again.
We took plenty of bottles, and after we’d drunk
some and piled into the sleepers I lay wondering again
about the length of each section of rail. Every
clankety-clank, I thought, was carrying me a little
closer to a place where I was some good, a place
where there was work to be done, where I could hold
my own with other men and where I didn’t look
funny and old-fashioned or a color different from that
of my neighbors.
she’s a woman of extinction, and she ought to do well
in a shop of that kind. Women who know her sad
story will simply rush to help her.’
“There was a little shop to let not far away, and
it didn’t take two days for ‘Madame De Beaufrils,
Models from Paris,’ to be on the window. Mr. Was-
sail, who was something to do with them warehouses,
arranged it all.
“ ‘l’ll get my aunt along—she’s hat-mad and has
tons of money,’ says Mr. Warren.
“Of course them men hoped that she would give
up boarding them when she was started in business.
I expect that was why Mr. Wassail was in such a hurry
about getting the shop going.
“ ‘Oh, I wouldn’t be so ungrateful!’ she cried
when they mentioned it. ‘After all the kindness you
have shown me! And, really, I love looking after
you men.’
“ ‘But you’ll find it difficult, with the shop to
look after,’ says Mr. Slompack, hopefully-like.
“ ‘l’ll manage,’ she retortoised. ‘You’ve no idea
how clever I can be when I try.’
“I was as sorry for her as the others, but I will
say that little woman knew how to get other people
to do her work. She had a lot of friends, and she
got them to mind the shop for her sometimes. Other
times she would ask me if I’d mind doing a few
vegetables for her and putting on her dinner and
making a little pudding.
“ ‘She’ll get tired of it by-and-bye, when the
shop begins to pay,’ says Mr. Slompack, like a man
who’s designed to his fate. ‘She’s such an imprac-
tibubble woman ; you can’t be angry with her.’
“ ‘So unsuffocated,’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘lt’s only
to be expected in the case of a woman brought up
like she was —a real lady. What she wants to do is
to divorce that bla’guard and marry again.’
“ ‘Oh, that’s your game, is it?’ says Mr. Slom-
pack.
“ ‘There are any amount of men would be glad
to marry a woman like Mrs. De Beaufrils,’ says Mr.
Wassail loftily.
“When I heard that I began to see what was the
trouble between them men, who wasn’t as friendly
as they used to be. They seemed to take it in turns
to take her out; and you know jealousy is a green-
eyed lobster which bites whom it devours.
“Mrs. De Beaufrils did pay me a little rent some-
times, but there was always a lot owing, and I was
looking forward to when they gave her the subscrip-
tion money which they said would be capital for her.
Or if she married one of those men everything would
be all right.
“It was when something more came out about
that husband of hers that I found she was still thinking
a bit of the man who had so cruelly deserted her.
Mrs. De Beaufrils sent for me to come and speak to a
man who was in her flat and was talking of taking
possession of the furniture. He said Mr. De Beaufrils
had given him a billy-sale over it.
“She puts an apron on him, too, laughing, and out she goes with Mr. Slompack,
which I expect made them feel all the worse about it. I heard them talking about
being sick and tired of the boarding derangement, but it went on. Before a week
was out she had them men doing most of the work they was paying her to do”
“ ‘lf you touch one stick of that furniture, which
is mine, you will only do it over my dead corpse,’
I said.
“He looked very surprised, but we got rid of
him. Fancy that De Beaufrils getting someone to
give him money on my furniture, pretending it was
his!
“ ‘He’s wicked enough for anything,’ sobs Mrs.
De Beaufrils, very upset.
“ ‘Mr. Slompack says that everything he did was
crook,’ I says.
“ ‘Mr. Slompack had no right to say that! ’ she
cries, suddenly angry. ‘They all hated my husband
because they knew he was a cut above them. That’s
why they’re willing to help me —they feel they are
showing they are better than he is!’
“I just stared at her. She put her hand on my
shoulder and said she was sorry.
“ ‘lt was silly of me to say that. I hope you’ll
forget it, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says. ‘Everybody has
been so kind ; and of course I know my husband is a
really bad man. I’m a fool to hate to hear people
saying things about him.’
“That made me feel sorry for her again ; but I
certainly thought she was a fool, even if she was
unsuffocated, not looking after them men better.
“~FHERE was one night when Mr. Slompack and
* Mr. Wassail were wandering up and down won-
dering about their dinner. Mrs. De Beaufrils hadn’t
said anything to me that day about putting it on
for her.
“ ‘This is really too bad, you know, Mrs. Parsley,’
says Mr. Wassail. ‘I looked in at the shop, but there
was only an elderly lady there she had evidently got
to look after the shop for her.’
“ ‘She’s probably gone to a picture-show and
forgotten all about having boarders,’ shys Mr. Slom-
pack in that sarcastic way of his, which I don’t
blame him for under the circumstances. ‘We don’t
matter. We only paid her a new week’s money this
morning.’
“ ‘Slompack,’ says Mr. Wassail, a bit warm,
‘don’t get hasty. I’m sure Mrs. De Beaufrils does
the best she can. Naturally she is not used to —to
this sort of thing. If you don’t like it’
“ ‘I don’t like paying for board and having to
get my own meals,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘All right,’ says Mr. Wassail. ‘You draw out —
Warren, too. I’ll explain to Mrs. De Beaufrils. She
can be my housekeeper. That will be less humiliating
to her than having to look after all and sundry.’
“Mr. Slompack stared at him and laughed, but
before he could say anything Mr. Warren arrived, all
hot and bothered.
“ ‘What do you think that woman has done?’ he
cries.
“ ‘That woman ! What do you mean by “that
woman”?’ demands Mr. Wassail, fierce-like.
“But Mr. Warren was too excited to notice him.
‘Two days ago I took my aunt along to the shop.
Now she’s sold her the business! For a hundred
pounds! A business that’s only a sign on the window,
a few hats and the money she owes for rent!’
“ ‘That explains matters,’ says Slompack. ‘She’s
got that subscription money too, and our board
money, and she’s
never paid any-
body. She’s cleared
out. She’s as bad
as her husband.’
“ ‘Don’t you
dare say that!’
cries Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘Well, let’s
see whether she’s
removed her
clothes. Mrs.
Parsley can let us
in,’ says Mr. Slom-
pack.
“She had gone
all right. There
was not a vesture
of her left.
“Mr. Wassail
was very upset
and angry at the
remarks the others
had made about
her. ‘ She has
probably got
homesick for her
relatives in Eng-
land. A boat left
this morning. A
sudden impulse
may have seized
her,’ he says.
“ ‘She needn’t
have taken our
board money,’ says
Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Or my aunt’s hundred,’ says Mr. Warren.
“ ‘ls it any wonder that she is hard after the
way that scoundrel treated her? It’s enough to make
her hard,’ says Mr. Wassail.
“Then he seems to make up his mind. ‘l’m going
to Melbourne,’ he says. ‘l’m going to tell her that
she is not as friendless in this country as she may
think she is.’
“He called a taxi and went right off. But when
he came back it was evidence that he didn’t find
her on the boat in Melbourne.
“He was very quiet about what happened. I’d
never thought that Mr. Wassail would be like that,
as if he had a heart bowed down by weighty woe.
He even paid up the bills for the milk and bread
which Mrs. De Beaufrils had left.
“ ‘The poor woman may have been on the boat,
travelling in her maiden name,’ he says. ‘Perhaps she
wanted to get away quietly from a country where she
had such sad experiences.’
“IT was months later that we found out what had
1 become of her. Them letters for De Beaufrils,
like this one you got, kept on coming here—mostly
bills they are —and Mr. Tullock got one of them.
“ ‘De Beaufrils! Why, Mrs. Parsley, that’s an
unusual name. There was a man of that name stay-
ing at the same place as myself in Brisbane,’ says
this Mr. Tullock. ‘A precious scoundrel he is, too.’
“ ‘That would be our Mr. De Beaufrils,’ I says
when I heard that description.
“ ‘He had a charming wife, and they seemed to
have plenty of money ; but he deserted her. Left
her without a penny even took her jewels, which
would have enabled her to start something for herself
if she had sold them. It excited a lot of sympathy,
a real lady like that being left at the mercy of the
world,’ says Mr. Tullock. ‘I gave a couple of guineas
myself to a subscription ; I wish I had given more;
That poor little woman!’
“So there you are! A regular game, it seemed,
of them De Beaufrilses! Mr. Wassail was knocked
back when he heard about it. He looked as if he
would have liked to commit suicide. But I dare say
he didn’t like to cut his throat or drown himself, so
he married a barmaid.’*
I looked sharply at Mrs. Parsley, but she was
completely innocent. The gift of putting things
queerly comes naturally to her.


intelligence.” In two lightly-treated chapters Miss
Mayo manages a fair sketch of her hero’s soldiering.
In 1824 Light married Mary Bennett, “not only
beautiful, but a witty and intelligent companion.”
Also, she had a tidy fortune, and for a time they got
along well together, with Continental touring and
other enjoyable living. But by 1834, if not earlier,
they had agreed to separate. Dr. A. Grenfell Price,
in an introduction, says “it is evident that South Aus-
tralia would never have secured Light as Surveyor-
General had it not been for domestic unhappiness,
from which he—apparently the injured party —sought
relief in an adventure overseas.” Miss Mayo, how-
ever, says that “no record is available as to the nature
of the matrimonial differences of the pair,” and
makes it clear that she only speculates on “the possible
antagonism of two strong individualities, the lack of
any settled home and the wearying effect of a cramped
existence for weeks on end in a yacht, with its lack
of privacy, its fruitful occasions for quarrels and the
absence of any means of escape from one another
at times of mutual irritation.” On a sinking note
she adds that “Light emerges from this period of dark-
ness as the captain of a paddle-wheel steamer.”
From this point on Miss Mayo’s account improves
tremendously. She writes with increasing strength on
the more familiar story of Light’s subsequent appoint-
ment to South Australia, his conflict with Governor
Hindmarsh over the site of Adelaide and his victory
in this, the great work of his life.
Sigrid Undset Novel.
Sigrid Undset’s new novel, The Faithful Wife
(Cassell; Moore’s Bookshop; translated from the
Norwegian by Arthur G. Chater), is set in Norway
to-day, and the theme is a good woman punished by
her virtue.
Nathalie and Sigurd had been happily married
for sixteen years before the rift began. Their one
regret was that they had no children, and this was
working like a slow poison in Nathalie’s heart. The
story of their estrangement is told in great detail from
the first moment when a tiny cloud of boredom rose
between them.
Then came the analytical stage. Their difficulties
were mutually acknowledged and frankly discussed.
Then a woman friend dropped a malicious hint, and
there were “vain tormenting explanations that were
no explanations.”
Finally the storm broke. Nathalie had always
been a companion, sharer in everything, even the
financial upkeep of the home, and Sigurd had sheltered
a. secret dream of a dependent, clinging woman. He
put the dream into execution by falling in love with
a young girl, Adinda Gaarder, who came to him for
advice and help. When he learned that she was going,
to have a baby he confessed to Nathalie. She faced
the situation with all the calm and gentleness she
could muster. “She had seen a dead bird lying on an
anthill—was love to end like that?” She insisted on
divorcing her husband so that he might marry Adinda
and give his child a name. Adinda, however, was
deeply religious and refused to marry a divorced man.
She died in childbirth without so much as seeing
Sigurd again.
Nathalie, worn down with loneliness, took a
lover. A sense of sin prevented her from marrying
him. She tried to find peace living alone with an
adopted child, while Sigurd lived alone with his little
daughter. By degrees they drifted into remarriage.
The book has an element of comedy which the
author does not see. The tragedy is not large enough
to be impressive and lacks the force of inevitability.
A roundabout attack on divorce by illustrating its
futility, the story is marred by great chunks of obvi-
ously didactic dialogue wherein Sigrid Undset sets up
heresies and knocks them over again. Not as overtly
a religious tract as most of the author’s novels in
modern settings are, there is still about it the flavor
of polemics and special pleading. There are rare
touches of understanding, well-drawn pictures, flashes
of beauty ; but the book is fluent only when it is
describing pain. The current of pain keeps it alive ;
when that is switched off, after the divorce, the book
flags and becomes unconvincing. The woman
wronged and betrayed is a constant theme with Sigrid
Undset. The surprising thing is that she handles this
subject so much better, more naturally, more con-
vincingly, when she is dealing with times long past
than in the modern scene, possibly because when her
novel is set in the past she is forced to deal in human
values, while the present permits her to tilt at insti-
tutions and fashions.
Mixed Romance and Sophistication.
In Sylvia Thompson’s Recapture the Moon
(Heinemann) the moon symbolises ecstatic happiness,
which comes once in a while to human beings. The
nineteen-year-old Bianca found it with her young
husband, but he was killed returning to France after
a ten-day honeymoon. An English nurse had said
to a little French boy, Louis Scheurer, “You’ll want
the moon next.” So that night he dreamed he was
given the moon by a red Italian angel out of a picture.
The moon was a big milk-white balloon, but it had
no string, and, struggle as he might, he could not
hold it. It slipped away and floated up into the sky
again.
Louis grew up, and the war, which killed Bianca’s
husband, drew him in ; but he survived it and lived
through the desperate and dissipated years that
followed, his life crossing and recrossing with Bianca’s,
until at last they found their moon again in love for
each other.
This romantic story is complicated by two sub-
plots: the life histories of Bianca’s cousins Peter,
who falls a victim to post-war depravity, and Char-
main, who makes a disastrous marriage with a third-
rate pianist and is disowned by her aristocratic family.
These episodes are given a somewhat elaborate back-
ground of social history from 1918 to 1934.
There are a great many minor characters, all
struck off with a certain vivacity. The principal
characters are rather overlaid in the welter, but the
loss is not great. Bianca is a young lady of her times,
indistinguishable from the products of other fashion-
able novelists, while Louis, the “compact and elegant
Frenchman,” author of Doves in Aspic, is rather
repulsive than otherwise. Bianca’s little son, Toby,
natural without being sentimentalised, and Frany, the
elderly secretary, are the most real and attractive
people. The story is expanded beyond its needs, but
it is handled lightly, deftly and wittily.
The First "Modern" Author.
As far as I can judge, the Reverend Laurence
Sterne, Prebendary of York, was the first modern
author. Two volumes of the famous Tristram Shandy
were published a year in advance of Rousseau’s La
Nouvelle Heloise. Surely Sterne was more modern
than Montaigne in tradition and method; for he
abandoned the world of tradition and conviction (as
R. Ellis Roberts has said). He did not abuse or
deny that world of tradition and conviction —he chose
to ignore it absolutely. This attitude colors both his
books, and we have a striking example of this new
outlook in the very opening episode of A Sentimental
Journey : the exchange of snuffboxes with the friar.
Roberts maintains that “Sterne is. the first con-
siderable author who deliberately trusts to his own
character and his own idiosyncrasies to awake and
sustain the interest in his readers.” Thus we may
differentiate him from such writers as Montaigne,
Lamb or the Thackeray of the Roundabout Papers,
for when we read these people our liking for the
author enhances our enjoyment. This cannot apply
to Sterne. There is no world, except Sterne’s, in A
Sentimental Journey ; no people ; only Sterne’s senti-
ments concerning people. He does not lead us to
believe (like Addison, Steele or Goldsmith) that the
incidents he recounts and the people he presents “have
intrinsic merit.” He stands apart from the later
Romantics, such as Byron, for he is no exhibitionist
who exploits his adventures, mental or amorous, one
doomed to be his own hero. No ; I am convinced
that Sterne is the father of self-expressionism, “the
first author to write as if it were the purpose of an
artist to express himself without reference to God
or his neighbors.”
It has been said that most of what is wrong in
modern art, and especially in modern literature, can
be attributed to two main tendencies: the supersession
of philosophy by psychology* and the substitution of
individualism for authority. It is said that the Que
sgais-je of Montaigne and the Cogito, ergo sum of
Descartes are the keywords of those two main ten-
dencies, “the excuse and the defence ; and they relate
to each other, not by precise logic, but by that kind of
loose thinking which itself becomes the foundation
of impressive, if unexamined, mental edifices.”
A wag once said, “If you know what da-da
means you are not a da-da-ist.” The extravagance of
the cult bluffs many into thinking it a new literary
comet; but have the writers of all the books on the
diseases and follies and filth and agonies of war never
heard of Simplicissimus, that powerful German novel
by Grimmelshausen, published in 1669?
Shelley held in theory “that a belief may be
false, or a custom baneful, in spite of its apparently
universal acceptance ; but in practice, when he came
to deal with specific beliefs or customs, he habitually
tended to assume that what all men accept must be
false or pernicious just because everyone accepts it.”
Thus Professor Taylor. Yet it is worth remembering
that tradition annoys the modern rebel; and that
Shelley, the moral rebel, was a staid literary tradition-
alist. It is not trite to say that all great artists began
as traditionalists —Blake, Shakspeare, Yeats, even
James Joyce. And it is also true that all success-
ful imaginative innovation in art needs experience.
Roberts imagines that there are rebels against
tradition (1) because of a genuine desire to experi-
ment, or because old methods have been exhausted,
or from a passionate desire to set down what the
artist means; or to communicate a vision of truth
and beauty in the best possible way ( e.g Yeats); or
(2) because men of considerable aesthetic power, but
of small creative genius, need to write but lack intense
imagination and are weak in invention.
He maintains that the most abundant, most pro-
lific artists are not innovators unless they find innova-
tion necessary for the proper presentation of their
vision ; and even then, like Blake, they may fail com-
paratively.
The “moderns” who preach that Rousseau was
“the first free man,” “the great revolutionist,” forget
that Jean Jacques was bourgeois, and did not make
a revolution, but merely misled the revolutionaries!
There does not seem to be a statement of anti-tradi-
tional technique before the nineteenth century, and,
as ever, artists preceded the theorists. “The tragedians
of Athens made the plays upon which Aristotle
founded his theory of poetics” ; so romantic, senti-
mental, expressionistic works precede their justifying
theories. Sidney, Spenser and Gabriel Harvey were
experimenters in hexameters and pentameters only in
an effort to adopt for English poetry forms familiar
in Greek and Latin “at a time when English, owing
to lack of a strong Chaucerian succession, was still
an unformed' and tentative language.... It would not
be false to say that there was no modern English, no-
thing which was at once traditional, authoritative and
alive, until Shakspeare, especially in his magnificent
prose, made the language of life the language of
literature.” The experiments of the classicists were
not anti-traditional; they were not a rejection of any-
thing already established; they were endeavors to
make a tradition. They erred not about the genius
and purpose of literature, but about the genius of
the English language.
Given the language, we must admit Sterne as the
first expressionist. Joyce was not the first to use
“new words, no words and per-verbs.” Gertrude
Stein is not alone in being unable to achieve Joyce’s
rhythmical effects ; the sex-mania novelists had their
precursors before the time of Ovid ; the experiments
in diction of E. E. Cummings and his cronies are the
modern equivalents of Euphuism, Gongorism and the
forgotten (and entirely neglected) Spasmodics of 50
years ago.
SCOTIA.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Trial of Lizzie Borden : Edmund Pearson (Heine-
mann). First of an American series resembling “Not-
able British Trials.” Accused, a member of a New
England family, was charged in 1892 with the murder
of her mother and father, a bank director. Crime
unsolved. There are 433 large pages, running to a
fairly full report of the 12-day proceedings and a
40,000-word analysis of the case.
Harlequinade: Frederick Cowles (Frederick
Muller). The story of Columbine and Harlequin,
Clown, Pantaloon and Policeman, retold for a genera-
tion of children that missed seeing the old-fashioned
pantomime. Nicely done.
Indian and Western Philosophy : Betty Heimann,
Ph.D. (Allen and Unwin). Theology, ontology, escha-
tology, ethics, logic, aesthetics and science in the East
learnedly compared with the same things in the West.
In effect, the author, Lecturer in Oriental Studies,
University of London, agrees with Rudyard Kipling’s
dictum.
My Own Queer Country: John Gibbons
(Methuen). The author has a quaintly-mannered
style Which would make it hard to read him aloud
without lapsing into unconscious imitation of a good,
rich brogue. More curiously still, his country is
England ; and for the rest he adds pleasantly and
interestingly to the scores of like rambling books about
it. On the way he attacks increases of titles, of official-
dom and, with special bite, increases in pettifogging
laws, one result of which, he says, is that England’s
famous police are falling into disrepute.
Yoga: K. T. Benahan (Seeker and Warburg;
10s. 6d.). The work of an Indian doctor of philo-
sophy, a professor at Yale, who, to gain material for
his doctorate thesis, became an initiate of yoga, the
Hindoo philosophy based on the hypothesis of rebirth.
He found the practices of the cult admirable from
the standpoints of physical health and mental and
moral discipline. As to the rest of it: “There is no
basis for the popular impression that the ‘supernatural’
centres in yogins and yoga. They would merely laugh
such claims out of court provided they were at all
willing to discuss the subject.”
As Others Hear Us: E. M. Delafield (Macmillan).
Sketches in the form of conversations ; two women
discussing a mutual friend, a hostess trying to enter-
tain a difficult guest, a meeting of two old friends
and so forth. A trifle mechanical, but humorous if
taken in small doses.
A Dog at His Heel: Charles Finger (Harrap).
Story of an Australian sheep-dog hero by a much-
travelled Londoner now resident in U.S.A. The super-
custodian of jumbucks, “Airedale, an’ somethin’ of
the Irish terrier,” would make most sheepmen reach
for a gun if this commentator knows anything about
it. The “thundering woolpress” has a gang of six
men “who pulled on the ropes often to the tune of
a sea chanty.”
Journey on the Way : Frank Vernon (Harrap).
The “open road” in England. Following a matri-
monial bust-up a man becomes an amateur tramp.
His adventures don’t ring true.
Art . . .
Color and Form: Adrian Stokes (Faber and
Faber; 65.). An acquaintance with Mr. Stokes’s
earlier works, The Quattro Conto and Stones of
Rimini, is necessary to elucidate his meaning when
he speaks of “the carving feeling” and “the plastic
approach” in relation to painting. Occasionally he
shifts to the languages of music and choreography, as
when he speaks of a picture exhibiting in its inter-
relationship of color and form a “contrapuntal ballet.”
Nevertheless this book does provide an understand-
able scientific analysis of some of the most marvellous
tours de force in color. Painters who have the
patience to study it may find thereafter that it is easier
to make their pictures “click.”
Verse ...
The Fifth Element: J. Griffyth Fairfax (Murray).
Pleasantly-done poems of a tourist, ranging from the
Mediterranean to the Jenolan Caves. His Australian
hostesses will like his graceful thank-you verses. As
a literary tourist and translator he roves from Albert
Samain to an ancient and anonymous Tibetan, drop-
ping in on Turkey, Persia, India, Japan and China.
Rhymes and Whimsies : “Rickety Kate.” Booklet
of fancies, many reprinted from Australian periodicals.
Apart from the prettier pieces, whose merit is con-
siderably above the average, it’s well worth reading
for one sweet “whimsy” devoted to the finer feelings
of the oyster. The bivalve dreamed of creating
A pearl, rosehued like lustrous foam to float
Upon the creamy sea of some fair woman’s throat,
but finished up in a:'restaurant; lamenting
Bereft of ecstasy entire I’ll glide
(O how I loathe fair women!) into her dark inside.


/
ligs
MM*
SttiSi
I
/
mm
m
mSSSm
1 mmm
.*?
1
sses
Ms
Mg
ss
affw
m
n\
, - nri» ■> •*•• '
To forecast and provide for public needs in the coming years
is an important factor in every efficient business organisation.
Especially is this so in the wireless industry.
In the research laboratories of Amalgamated Wireless scientists
and technical engineers are engaged in furthering wireless
science—continually unfolding improved methods in all phases
of wireless development.
<1
r
The work of the A.W.A. scientists and research engineers is
having a marked effect on the development of broadcast trans-
mission and reception, and of wireless communication at sea,
on land, and in the air, and its results will be even greater in
the coming years.
It is this spirit of progress, this far-seeing policy of harnessing
wireless to new tasks, of scientific planning for requirements
years ahead, that has built up A.W.A.’s prestige as leaders of
the wireless industry in Australia.
AMALGAM ATE D WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■u
m
(NTifcaSy
sx
2S2BSBg«re^SS^sS^
s^gss
aSk
ex 4BK\\SfevX
r;
a»
11,
m
%ss■; -H
awwwis
SgfiEgjSgi
m
m
m
■ i
»*
!*~
■
I s
'
a
■BW
■
.
HH
' H
: 11
•■: i
WSmmM
'
mm
mm
■
: : HI m
■■ ■
■P--.-:: 11
11 i 811 1: H H wSi : . \i ■■
; ' ■
n
■M
Sill
:: ISiM r
Some Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars .
Jftfhl WmofWie melictiiieU rnuUmiq^eb


BACK TO THE OLD TRADE.
"G ermany is the ‘Reich’; Austria, ‘Osterreich.’”
“Don’t worry about me. Can’t you see I’ve got my skis on?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
SOLDIERS ARE FOR PEACE.
In an article which is said to have been read by the
Pope himself before publication, the “Osservatore
Romano” appealed to the press to put a stop to “the
irresponsible and dangerous newspaper wars which are
proceeding throughout the world.” In existing circum-
stances it is an unrealisable aspiration, but no greater
stride towards peace could be taken.
Human nature knows no race barriers or geo-
graphical boundaries. If there is one thing certain
about the peoples who took part in the Great War, it
is that they don’t want another.
The Diggers emerged from the dreadful years
with as much glory as was achieved by any other army
or army group of equal strength. They have made it
plain through their organisations that nothing is
farther from their desires than that their sons and
young brothers should endure what the A.I.F. went
through ; and it is certain that the same feeling exists
among veterans of all the nations that were belligerents.
Strong links of friendship have been forged by
associations of old soldiers in countries that were
enemies 20 years ago, and countries, allies then, that
would be enemies now if trouble-makers had their
way. Not long ago maimed survivors of the armies
which struggled for Verdun met on the battlefield that
was the grave of half a million of their comrades,
exchanged vows of brotherhood and prayed that
it might never happen again. When the relations
between Britain and Italy seemed to be at their worst,
a party from the British Legion visited Rome to carry
a message of peace and friendship to the correspond-
ing Italian association, and to be received by Musso-
lini as member as well as ruler. In London a few
months later the visit was returned by veterans who
fought beside the British at Vittorio Veneto, headed
by one who is blind.
We in Australia hear little or nothing of this
splendid work for peace, the work of men who know
best what war is. The noble mission of Mr. Lansbury,
which has made a profound impression on the Con-
tinent, has been dismissed in a few inches of type. The
pacific professions of the leaders of the German and
Italian nations, though repeated in all the speeches
they address to a world audience, are either unreported
or sneered at. Herr Hitler at least seems to have con-
vinced Mr. Lansbury of his sincerity in the cause. But
the resources of sensational journalism have been
strained in the effort to demonstrate that he and the
Italian started one war —the latest of many civil wars
in Spain—and are plotting and preparing for others.
A certain Madame Tabouis, who writes for a French
newspaper, is periodically cited as carrying all the
proofs of their devilish schemes under her hat.. If
at any time Madame Tabouis becomes inconvenient,
perhaps because of her too-open admiration for
Moscow policy, the one-eyed “Pertinax” is requisi-
tioned to fill the gap.
We like to think that British newspapers are
superior in veracity and manners to the newspapers
of other countries ; but papers that go in for sensa-
tionalism and warmongering seem much of a much-
ness everywhere. Britain has a Yellow Press which
is no better than the rowdiest of New York rowdy
journals.
One London rag’s favorite term for Hitler and
Mussolini is “gangsters.” Others exploit such stories
as that of the crackbrained Frenchwoman who
described herself as Mussolini’s glamor-girl and shot
a count to prove it. And there is a “Liberal” organ
which specialises in inventing huge Italian expedi-
tionary forces and sending them to Spain within a
specified period. Though they never reach Spain, its
invention never flags, and presumably its circulation
never suffers.
A captain in the U.S. Navy arrived in London to
confer with the Admiralty as to the interpretation of
a passage in the naval agreement to which both
countries and Japan are parties. According to
custom, the newspapers were not apprised of the
nature of his mission, and two weeklies of the new
sensational type undertook to reveal it. One declared
that the captain had arrived with plans for a joint
blockade of Japan. When the U.S; Naval Depart-
ment weighed in with a denial the other rag explained
that he had really come to deliver “stolen plans of
Japan’s naval programme.” That also was denied, and
the fact baldly stated. An Australian article alleg-
ing that “American ’planes searching for Mrs. Putnam
obtained strategic information of Japanese positions
which they turned over to the Admiralty” was men-
tioned in the U.S. Senate about the same time. It
was exposed by Ministers and rejected by Senators
as just another specimen of journalistic fiction.
It is no credit to democracy that there should
be a market for this putrid journalism. For their
safety’s sake the Dominions should be alive to the
fact that it has established itself in Britain, just as
they should be alive to the fact that degenerate
Britons who were defeatists during the war and
pacifists afterwards are now coat-trailing interven-
tionists, and that Manchester has become aggressively
imperialist—as witness its demand, meekly yielded
to at Canberra, that Australia should, in Manchester’s
interest, take tariff action against a foreign country.
In a world suffering from the jitters, the most dan-
gerous of all weapons is a poisoned pen.
A Politician on the Political Life.
J. A. J. Hunter, who has proved too tough
for every opponent who has tackled him in the
Maranoa (Q.) electorate since 1921, has some original
ideas. For three years an Assistant-Minister, he
resigned after the general election when the Ministry
was about to be reconstructed. In a broadsheet issued
to his electors, Mr. Hunter gives his reasons, and sets
down thoughts which, taken in conjunction with the
McEwen affair in Victoria and the growing sympathy
of the electors with members who defy the machine,
show that politics are not what they were.
Mr. Hunter says that after he accepted office he
found that he had made a mistake. He had to depend
for his future on his private business, because no
honest man can make money while in the Ministry.
A private member has time to attend to his affairs;
a Minister none. A Minister “earns less than a good
commercial accountant, and his expenses are larger
than a private member’s.”
If I wished to avoid becoming a party hack, depen-
dent on the whims of the electors, there was nothing
left for me but to resign.
He resigned, however, under the impression that
A. W. Fadden, the member for the Darling Downs,
would be appointed to the vacancy, being “the best
material that has come from Queensland.” But Mr.
Fadden, because of the “complexities” of politics, was
not appointed. There are two parties and two Houses
and six States which have to be represented in the
Ministry, and, Labor having carried the Senate elec-
tions in some States, there had to be a Senator from
Queensland. So Senator Foil was pushed into the
Cabinet with only Repat. and War Service Homes
to look after. Mr. Fadden is left to chafe on the back
benches.
Mr. Hunter, however, is a philosopher. He
believes that Ministers should be drawn from among
businessmen. He allows that “much good” has been
done and “little damage” committed by Ministers
who are not businessmen; but this, he says,
is entirely owing to the great calibre and vast experience
of our senior public servants... .men who wpuld have
become giants of commerce had they applied them-
selves to outside work.
Electors have not to read very far into Mr. Hunter’s
confessions to discover why he has not become a party
leader. He says that when he was a novice he laid
down for himself rules by which he has always abided.
The key one was: “To everything a politician does
I will do the opposite.” Therefore, he has never inter-
jected since he entered the House of Representatives —
the only old member with this record.
I have always thought a speaker should have a
free run, and that he can be replied to later.
Then Mr. Hunter has “never asked a question
in Parliament, with or without notice”—a unique piece
of forbearance spread over 17 years of membership.
He has made the discovery that he can always get
required information privately from Ministers and
departments. Other people’s habits of wasting Parlia-
mentary time by the public shouting of questions led
him in his salad days to ask the late Elliot Johnson
why they did it. “It keeps their names before the
public,” replied the Old Parliamentary Hand.
As a Minister Mr. Hunter refused to send out
stereotyped seasonal greetings at the public cost, and
travelled in public railway carriages without a
secretary. When he laid foundation stones or
inspected institutions he failed to bring along photo-
graphers and journalists—sometimes the only excuse
for asking a Minister to perform ceremonies.
For the declining popularity of politicians in
general, Mr. Hunter blames the sort of member who
goes to extremes:
If a politician remembers that he is bpt a citizen,
and depends on other citizens for his political life, he
will conduct himself exactly in public life as he does in
private. Anything else is empty ostentation. This applies
equally well to those “politicians” who are not even in
Parliament.
He reminds his followers that in the days of Glad-
stone and Disraeli public life was still counted as the
greatest of all professions. In his judgment its ancient
glory can be revived in spite of wireless, brief report-
ing of speeches and sensationalism. He is convinced
that even the press can help by ceasing to exploit
“scenes” and coarse invective, and by teaching people
to judge members by what they do rather than by
what they say.
Beyond the Bombardment.
Two documents of solid significance and extraordinary
frankness have come to Australia from their
Japanese publishers in Tokio. In the clearness of
their statement, if in nothing else, they are a distinct
change from the newspaper guesswork and worse
which provoked the United States Secretary of State
to the exasperated comment that the “world has the
litters because everybody in all countries is trying to
talk at the same time on international matters without
knowing what they are talking about.” The bodies
responsible for these two publications—the Japan
Foreign Trade Federation and the Foreign Affairs
Association of Japan —certainly know what they are
talking about. They give their signature to statements
direct to the point of being blunt.
Both documents have the one theme trade.
In the China war trade is a major issue. The F.T.F.
document traces Japan’s international trading in out-
line with direct bearing on the present conflict.
Evidently issued mainly for United States consump-
tion, it deals especially with trade between Japan and
that country. It points out that Japan is Americas
third-best customer, being next to Great Britain and
Canada. Japan takes from America more than France
and Germany together. In 1929 the U.S.A. had a
170,000,000-dollars excess of imports from Japan ;
since 1932 an excess of U.S. exports to Japan has been
continuous, to the tune of 32,000,000 dollars for 1936.
Over the past few years the unfavorable balance, from
Japan’s point of view, has been such that it is frankly
admitted that “Japan has not enough gold with which
to meet such a vast deficit.”
As against that —and significant —there has been an
enormous increase in Japanese exports to Manchukuo,
which “reached the gigantic amount of 500,000,000
yen” in 1936. Until recently, too, the diminution in
Japanese exports to America had been offset by the
expansion of Japan’s export trade with India, the
Netherlands, the Near East and Central and South
America. Latterly many of these markets have been
restricting their imports from Japan, and “the con-
sequence has been that Japan was compelled to further
develop markets in Manchukuo and, if possible, in
China.” The Foreign Trade Federation adds:
Unfortunately, China proved obstinate, and would
not reciprocate Japan’s well-meant intention. On the
contrary, China, adopting the doctrine of economic self-
sufficiency, under the influence of Communism gradually
began to boycott Japanese goods and Japanese economic
undertakings.
The matter could not be more plainly put, what-
ever may be felt about the imposing of trade on a
country by means of war. In regard to this the docu-
ment sets out bluntly that Japan needs the expansion of
commerce much more than any other countries because
of the increase of its population, which approaches
1,500,000 a year. It is pointed out, too—by way
of a reminder, no doubt, on a matter that Uncle Sam
does not ignore, though it may come as an eye-opener
to others as well —that China buys from America less
than a quarter of what Japan buys. American trade
with China showed in 1936 an excess of imports
against the U.S.A. of 28,000,000 dollars. With a
weight of meaning the Federation declares:
If in China peace and order are re-established and
the anti-Japanese movement is entirely eradicated as a
fruit of the present conflict we expect that there will be
a great increase in Japanese exports to China.
The other document goes into Japan’s finance and
industry as bearing on the war. It professes belief that
the war cannot last long, an idea propagated in all wars,
and nearly always poor prophecy. Even if the war
lasts, it suggests that Japan “is fully able and ready
to meet it.” The war cost to Japan so far “represents
but a small proportion of Japan’s ability to liquidate
it” ; and the subjoined figures are quoted as evidence:
1903. 1936.
(In Yl,000,000) Increase.
Bank deposits and postal savings 809 17,403 21 times.
Paid-up capital of corporations .. 921 17,387 19 „
Bills cleared 3594 79,856 19 „
Foreign trade .. . • •. 607 5,723 9 „
Bank of Japan note issue .. 233 1,866 8 „
Bank of Japan specie reserve .. 117 548 5 „
As for taxes, the document points out that they are
lighter than those of most other countries; that they
show a larger percentage of natural increase; and
that the incomes of Japanese people have an ample
tax-bearing capacity available for future calls. Though
there has been no tax revision for more than 10 years,
except for a temporary profit tax in 1935, there has
been an increase of nearly 45 p.c. in taxation
receipts since 1932. While taxation increased seven-
fold between 1904 and 1937, the national income
increased twelvefold, which “clearly indicates that the
nation is able to bear a further tax burden of a con-
siderable amount.” Probably for the benefit of boy-
cotters —and certainly pointing to the usual outcome
of boycotting it is mentioned that “Japan has suc-
ceeded in discovering many useful substitutes in recent
times” ; that “enough iron, copper and other muni-
tions of war have already been imported, and plans
are under way for their increased production at home.”
The expectation, voiced in Canberra, that the
balance of trade with Japan will become decidedly
favorable before the end of the financial year may
be justified by events. It certainly won’t be if boy-
cotting gets out of hand, even though the Japanese
Government, with Oriental politeness, has expressed
satisfaction with what Mr. Lyons is not doing about
that matter. In any case, this statement by Japan’s
Foreign Affairs Association has some significance:
With regard to textile materials, which constitute
the largest percentage of Japanese imports, attempts
are now being made, and with fair prospects of
success, to reduce the requisite quantities by using
mixtures of cotton or wool and staple fibre.
As to other economic matters bearing on the war,
it is pointed out that, though Japan’s production of
iron falls short of requirements, “the increasing yield
of the ironmines in Korea and Manchukuo will fully
satisfy Japan’s want in this respect.” In food Japan
has nothing to worry about, and “the exploitation
of new coalmines and oilfields, the large-scale lique-
faction of coal, the Government monopoly of alcohol
and the use of substitute oils are already on the way
for ensuring an adequate supply of fuel.”
In a word, Japan, considered in respect of her
resources and industrial activities, is fully prepared to
withstand the strain of a drawn-out war.
Beyond the bombardment —not only the bom-
bardment in China, but the cable bombardment of
misinformation and propaganda —is this hard core of
trade. It is not the complete story, but it is the crux
of the matter.
MACANN.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Developments in Austria.
Herr Schuschnigg, the Austrian Chancellor, put on
his skis and walked out of an Austrian holiday resort.
Presently he was reported at Berchtesgaden, not far
from the Austrian border, where Herr Hitler has a
holiday home. When he returned to Austria he formed
a new Ministry of all the talents, including Nazis.
It has been suggested that this manoeuvre was
forced by the Fiihrer under threat of invasion. Of
that there is not evidence enough to hang a black-
fellow’s dog. But the central fact is that the relations
between Germany and Austria are to become as close
and cordial as Herr Hitler and Herr Schuschnigg can
make them.
It was thought that Italy might oppose the new
arrangement, but Italy has accepted what it was
powerless to prevent. The French, of course, are
furious, and demand action from the British Govern-
ment. Perhaps by way of reply, Lord Halifax
appealed to good people everywhere to “rid” their
“minds of the catastrophic conception of Europe
as always on the brink of an abyss” ; invited them to
accept his own ideas, which are that the state of
Europe is “not so much dangerous as confused,” and
that “time is on the side of peace,” and gave the specific
assurance that “Britain has no military obligations
outside the” moribund “League.” Thank God for
that!
It must always be remembered that the Austrians
are Germans, and that Hitler is himself Austrian by
birth. Though all the German tribes were politically
associated for centuries, the makers of the Ver-
sailles Treaty decreed the eternal separation of the
Austrians from their brother-Germans. It is no more
realisable than it would be if the decree had been
applied to Britons or Americans.
What is happening is natural and inevitable, and
if the French want a war about it let them fight it
themselves.
Hitler has declared in a speech that “the Austro-
German agreement is a real contribution to peace.”
The Fiihrer has to reckon with two important
facts: (1) Most of the Austrians are devout Catholics;
(2) Rome is increasingly critical of Nazi-ism.
"Knocking" the Empire Games.
Sydney provided a splendid setting for the Empire
Games, and before they departed the managers of
all the visiting teams testified that they and the young
men and women under their care had had a wonderful
time. They praised the arrangements made for their
accommodation and entertainment, paid tributes to
the hospitality of the Australian people, referred to
the fast friendships that had been formed among the
athletes and swimmers of the nations represented, and
agreed that as competitions and spectacles these
Empire Games stood out from all others. Certainly
nothing like them had been seen in this country before.
Yet from the time the guests in Empire Village
began to arrive to the time they packed their bags
for home, this eminently successful show was
“knocked” by Sydney newspapers. The spirit which
informs so much of the foreign “news” was trans-
ferred to the sporting department. Faults were
found where none existed, and more or less imaginary
grievances were incessantly dug up. The Australians
had no blazers (they looked as smart as paint without
them); the Village bedrooms were too small; the
food was too monotonous; this team had been attacked
by mosquitoes (no, fleas); that team had to travel
too far to its training-ground ; the lights were put out
too soon ; the Games secretary was inaccessible ; and
so on.
Even after the Games had been brought to a
triumphant conclusion, the paltry campaign went
on. There was some skylarking at night, as
there always is and always will be when healthy
young fellows are released from the rigors of
training. It was taken by the victims in the
best possible spirit, but the temper of the press
was such that even a pillow-fight was transformed into
a Frightful Scandal. Worse still, the one competitor
who had taken defeat in a poor spirit and alleged that
he had been “dealt with”—an allegation which the
officials, who saw everything, ignored—had his face
slapped.
A colored man from Trinidad, he had gone into
the South Africans’ dormitory to use their telephone.
Finding it impossible to get his call above the blare
of several gramophones—the Afrikanders had a playful
way of turning on their gramophones when anyone
tried to use the ’phone—he kicked at a partition so
hard that he knocked over a wardrobe and upset hair
oil over an Afrikander’s suit. This was vouched for,
not only by the South Africans, but by the Canadian
manager. Without bothering to hear more than one
side, the “Sun” let fly at the South Africans in these
terms:
BLACK SMUDGE IS ON WHITE MEN.
Some of the South African athletes at the Games
have treated the Trinidad team as outcasts by reason of
their color, and the Trinidad runner, Noel Stanford, has
been bashed and manhandled more than once. ■
This conduct leaves a black smudge on the white
man’s name, not on the victim’s.
Everybody knows, of course, that racial conditions
in South Africa make the. whites regard the blacks with
a mixture of fear and scorn.
When they came to the athletic tourney in Sydney,
the South Africans should have left their hates at home
—and brought their manners with them.
South Africans need not worry. Their young
men will always be welcome in Australia, whether as
footballers, athletes, tourists or sheepfarming students.
The quality of their manhood cannot be smudged by
the “Sun.” Neither do they need any education in
manners from a concern which publishes hogwash
and calls it “Pix,” and which serves up provocative
fiction as foreign “news.”
No-fight Decision.
Communists in Australia keep on demanding that the
British Empire, till recently the target for their choicest
invective, should fight “the Fascist Powers” to oblige
their masters in Moscow ; but said masters seem to
have given up “the war of rival imperialisms” as a
bad job. “Pravda,” Stalin’s mouthpiece, has “made
it clear that the Soviet will not fight Japan, even if
it receives guarantees against European enemies.”
“If we are attacked,” said Stalin himself, “the political
assistance of the working classes in bourgeois countries
must be organised.”
In intimating that the Soviet tail would remain
in the familiar position, “Pravda” let fly at “the old
bisons of British imperialism, those old lovers of gain
at the expense of clashes which spill only foreign
blood.” A quaint reversion to the robustious Bolshie
style that was dropped when France and Mr. Eden
conducted the U.S.S.R. into the League and the Reds
became dazzled with the thought that they could bluff
Britain into becoming a party to a League war.
Very probably the indisposition of the Russian
masses to fight the Germans again has influenced the
Red bosses in changing their tune. And no person
with a spark of humanity wants to see the Russian
masses condemned by Red policy to suffer losses as
frightful as they endured in 1914, 1915 and 1916, and
in 1917 until they broke.
It is significant that the campaigns now in progress
are confined to peoples who did little or no fighting
during the Great War. Significant also that the
mischief-makers who want Great War nations to get
into these shindies were non-starters or defeatists
during the Great War.
Perhaps the trouble in all these cases is the out-
come of arrested pugnacity.
A Long Way After Invergordon.
Stalin having renounced war as an instrument of
Soviet policy and returned to world revolution, more
Invergordon and Woolwich Arsenal exploits may be
looked for.
Attempts to work up an imitation of the Inver-
gordon affair at Italy’s expense have been made by
Communists since the Italian cruiser arrived in Aus-
tralia. Members of the crew turned on a visitor to the
warship at Port Melbourne, an unnaturalised Italian
taxi-driver, declaring him to be one of the fellows who
had pestered them with Communist literature. They
were mistaken, it seems. Whatever actually happened,
the assaulted party was not disabled, and his tongue,
legs and sticking-plaster were placed at the service of
“anti-Fascist” and Communist organisations.
They began yelping for action by State and
Federal authorities—action which, under international
law, could not be taken. They organised a meeting
and staged a “demonstration” ; they passed resolu-
tions, waved banners, shouted anti-Fascist slogans and
gave Communist salutes.
The “Age” soberly remarked that “tactful inter-
vention by Melbourne police prevented a small crowd
from taking part in a demonstration with the palpable
intention of annoying Italian sailors.” According to
the “Argus,” 4000 people “demonstrated,” and the
“Sun-News Pictorial” totted up 2000 demonstrators
and 20,000 casual waterfront onlookers. The “2000
demonstrators, mostly members of the Communist
party and anti-Fascist organisations, viewed with
horror and disgust the savage treatment inflicted on
a peaceful Melbourne citizen which was carried out
at the instigation of the commander of the Italian
warship.”
Actually, the assault, according to papers and
seamen, occurred —during an unannounced visit —at
3.30 p.m. The commander was absent. It was nearly
6 p.m. before he returned to the warship after a day
which included the laying of a laurel wreath, bound
over with Italian colors, on the Rock of Remembrance
at the Shrine, before which 100 Italian sailors were
paraded.
Naturally, sensational accounts of what happened
at Port Melbourne were telegraphed to Sydney, and
the anti-Italian Sydney dailies couldn’t miss such
an opportunity of rocking it into what the “Sun”
described as Fascism’s Bad Manners—the “Sun” is a
whale on manners. The “Sunday Sun” rounded off
the proceedings by Revealing Mussolini’s Plot to
Smash the British Navy. It is dreadful to think of
the somersaults these newspapers will have to perform
if the coincident Anglo-Italian negotiations result in
a friendly agreement.
William Ewart Hart.
A veteran, William Ewart Hart, turned up at an
exhibition in Sydney the other day to remind Aus-
tralians that there were real flying heroes before the
modern long-distance stunters.
As Lawrence Hargrave was the Adam of flight
theory, so was Hart Australia’s first flier. A son
of Parramatta, he set out to build his first machine in
1910, with an imported Gnome engine and whatever
other material he could find. No aviation metals or
even fabrics had been developed in those days, but
this Australian, then 25 years old, showed the ingenuity
of his race, and constructed from makeshifts a machine
which was then the equal to anything of its type in
the world.
Its wings and fuselage were covered with any
fabric he could find. The “dope” was sago and water.
As there were no flying instruments, not even the
essential revolution counter without which no modern
flier would think of leaving the ground, Hart tested
the power of his engine by attaching the tail of his
contraption to a spring scale tied to a tree, making
sure that his power plant would pull it out to a 901 b.
stretch.
Then he climbed on the struts in front, with
nothing but a piece of bamboo underneath him, tied
himself to the perpendicular braces and set sail into
the blue at 35 m.p.h. He was one of the first men in
the world —perhaps the first—to carry more than one
passenger, and it is probable that the world’s first
aerial pictures were taken from his machine, which,
without efficient balancing apparatus, behaved like
a restive horse.
Hart holds No. 1 Australian pilot’s license ; he
holds No. 199 British —he would have had an earlier
British number if examination facilities had been
attainable in Australia. He made the first cross-
country flight by an Australian. A year before the
war he fell with his machine from 300 feet, fractured
both legs and received severe head injuries ; but this
did not prevent his enlisting in No. 1 Australian Flying
Squadron, though he was forbidden to go into the
firing-line.
Hart was an inspiration to most of the galaxy
of Australian birdmen who made their names ring
round the world by their deeds in Palestine and on
the Western Front —Ross Smith, Macnamara, V.C.,
Kingsford Smith, Cole, Dallas, Murray Jones, Taylor
and the rest.
But he has had none of the honors and rewards
which fell to them, save a single trophy given him
by the Australian Aerial League for his first long
flight.
For the Diplomatic Service.
The message received from the British Government
that Australians may offer for the British Diplomatic,
Consular and Indian Civil Services opens up a vista
of opportunity. A good many Australians have dis-
tinguished themselves already in the Foreign Office
service—Ronald Knox, Commissioner in the Saar and
now an Ambassador ; the Leepers, who were among
the best F.O. linguists, and Ronald Rice, in the Con-
sular service at Smyrna, among them.
For the Indian Civil Service, F.O.S. and C.S., the
general entrance examinations are the same, with some
variations to suit local conditions. Any healthy lad
over 19 can submit himself. He is then vetted by
the particular department in which he wishes to
serve, and afterwards proceeds to an examination.
It is of about university honors-degree standard, with
stiff tests in languages.
F.O. men are not highly paid as services go. Even
Ambassadors receive not more than £2500 a year,
but most members have private means. For the man
without private means, the Indian or the Consular
service is better. For each the actual age of entry —
not application—is 21 to 25.
Consuls-General may rise to salaries of £l5OO a
year, plus numerous allowances, which range in
bigger centres from £6OO in Istanbul to £lB,OOO in
New York. Consuls earn from £BOO to £lOOO, with
allowances up to £4OO, and Vice-Consuls £3OO to £6OO,
with allowances up to £250. It is a good life, and it
has a dignity of its own.
For instance, a Consul-General ranks with a
major-general or a rear-admiral, and when he goes
aboard a ship in his own station is entitled to a salute
of 13 guns, for which a lot of rajahs would give their
ears. They let go seven guns when a Consul, who
ranks with captains (R.N.) and colonels, hits the gang-
way.
In the Indian Civil Service salaries begin around
£4OO p.a., and there are numerous jobs going in the
£3OOO to £5OOO range.
Australia is the only country of any importance
which has no overseas representatives with diplomatic
or Consular status. An Australian, however, has
recently been attached to the British Embassy at
Washington. And though we may not need a Foreign
Office, a few Australians with diplomatic training
might come in handy some time.
Commercial Radio Control.
Australia borrowed commercial broadcasting from
the United States, and it is still bowing to American
ingenuity by wholesale consumption of programmes
recorded by Americans in American studios. If
proprietors of Australia’s commercial stations were
as familiar with overseas radio trends as they are with
the prices of American recordings, it is doubtful
whether their federation would be asking Canberra
“to create a board for the regulation of all commercial
broadcasting.”
Further regulation is one of the present fears of
America’s commercial-station operators. Reason is
the growing U.S. belief. that radio waves are the
“inalienable property of the public,” and that valuable
frequencies are wasted unless they are properly used.
According to one George Henry Payne, a member of
the Federal Communications Commission, frequencies
are abused when the average programme is “addressed
to an intelligence possessed by a child of 12.”
Unless this average is raised to adult age, there is.
the danger that radio will perpetuate mental imma-
turity in the grown-up... .An intelligence which befits
a child of 12 is a beautiful thing in a child of 12, but
not in a child of 30. Radio must be prevented from
stopping the growth of the American mind.
As Australian farmers have found, boards
have a habit of boomeranging. Perhaps the board
so thoughtfully suggested by the Commercial Radio
Federation would protect the nascent Australian mind
by interdicting programmes recorded in America for
the entertainment of 12-year-old intellects and the
impertinences of illiterate tipsters and other quacks.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“II Vecchio”: The captain of the
cruiser Raimondo Montecuccoli must
have heaved a deep sigh of relief at one
stage of his Melbourne visit. After some of
his men had fought a minor engagement
with a visitor whose only weapons were
words, a declaration of war was issued by
the Movement Against War and Fascism.
There were the Italians with no defence
except one of the fastest cruisers in the
world armed with eight six-inch guns,
six three-point-nines, 12 smaller ones,
eight one-pounders, a number of modern
machine-guns, four 21-inch torpedo tubes
and 850 bayonets. The situation looked
desperate. And then, suddenly, the press
heralded the fact that all was saved:
“Police Guard Italian Warship”!
* * *
“Tham”: If “Harold Hardupp” wants
to see lodgers packed like sardines (B.
16/2/’3B) he should prowl round Manly
during the summer. Not only are
houses crammed to capacity, but the ex-
crescences known, presumably because of
their size as well as their situation, as
“yard-flats” occupy every available inch
of backyard. One landlady whose prem-
ises I recently explored offered me one
of the three beds located in the wash-
house. It was handy for shaving, she
said, if you didn’t mind cold water.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Every summer brings up
the old argument as to whether it was
“hotter” on some given day in one
capital or another. Brisbane grins when
Canberra records 90deg. to its 80, Syd-
ney at 85 smirks at Melbourne’s 102.
These dry-bulb figures really mean no-
thing as a measure of heat discomfort.
The proportion of moisture is the deter-
mining figure, for upon it depends the
evaporative efficiency of the skin. It is
not the only factor, for our clothing
interferes, so that we really live in a
“skin-shirt” . atmosphere, considerably
different in many cases from the tem-
perature and humidity of the surrounding
air. “Skin-shirt” conditions are not dif-
ficult to work out, and a temperature-
humidity factor could easily be deter-
mined for average summer clothing of
either sex in each capital. If the weather
pundits were to add this “discomfort
temperature” to their daily report, Aus-
tralians would be able to take an intelli-
gent interest in the matter.
* * * *
“Xo”: The half-dozen “well-educated”
Sydneysiders who were promptly floored
when they gave their schoolboy French a
naval airing (B. 16/2/’3B) have the sym-
pathy of a few Melbourne foreign-cafe
fans. Two officers on the Italian cruiser
have fluent command of up to nine lan-
guages, and at a Melbourne dinner the
other night they left a Bourke-street
boaster who tried Spanish, French and
Russian on them clawing for air and mut-
tering good Australian. Later heard one
of the two young Italians drop into Greek
for the benefit of a dinner-table neighbor
who we then learned was born in
Salonika and came to Australia from
Constantinople 15 years ago. It appears
another essential for aspiring cosmopoli-
tans is the gift of telling at a glance the
home-town tongue of the strangers one
meets, and I fancy that is an art acquired
only by extensive European wandering.
“D.E.”: “Wodgil” (B. 16/2/’3B) tells
us he found the “port discipline” of U.S.
man-o’-warsmen “astonishingly slack.”
There was nothing much wrong with it
when the launch Rodney went down in
Sydney Harbor. The Sydney pilot aboard
the Louisville made a point of reporting
on “the promptness and efficiency with
which action was taken to rescue the
passengers,” and he described the manner
in which four pinnaces were lowered
from the cruiser in the twinkling of an
eye as “marvellous.” And pilots never
distribute compliments without cause.
“Wodgil”: I wrote that par. a week
before the sinking of the Rodney, and I
“ Cripes , they're takin' us for the target !”
suppose it was sent to press a day or
two before that dreadful affair. [lt was.
—“B.”] Let me testify that the officers
and men of the Louisville acted in the
emergency as one would have expected
them to act. Wherever those who speak
the English tongue dwell, and wherever
they go, crisis brings out the best quali-
ties of the race; in that respect, as in
others, Australians and Americans are
very much alike. Those gob-girl ro-
mances had their humorous side, but who
remembers that now? Not since the war
have I seen anything so pathetic in the
photographic line as the “Daily Tele-
graph” picture of those eager little girls
on the Rodney’s deck, intent only on
hailing and waving to their American
friends, and all unconscious of their
swiftly-approaching doom.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: At Moorefield races I
encountered a young woman, becomingly
dressed and groomed, who confided that
she had been unlucky and was unable to
support the certain winner of the next, a
neddy which the jockey’s sister said
“would walk in.” She was peeved when I
nominated at least four runners to beat
her “moral” (they did), but became molli-
fied when I gave her two bob, plus some
brotherly advice. Watching her make
straight for the bar, I recalled that I had
been thrice accosted by women on race-
tracks in as many weeks. The gentle art
of urging is yet another profession in-
vaded by women.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Thirty packets of
thallium sulphate disappeared from a
lorry in Sydney last week. Whoever
lifted that parcel has concentrated death
in his pocket. One of the drug’s prop-
erties is that it causes hair to fall out,
and has so been used to rid children of
scalp ringworm; only one dose is given,
and even the tiny dose recommended has
caused fatalities. About eight years ago,
the stuff was given in prescribed quan-
tity to each of 16 young sufferers, and all
but two died. Microscopic amounts will
produce cataract, stunting of growth,
nephritis and haemorrhages in the heart
and kidneys. Thallium is in wide use as
a constituent of rat poisons, and in that
form has been responsible for a number
of murders and suicides. Although it is
a useful substance in dye and glass fac-
tories, its free sale should be prohibited.
* * * «
“Umfaan”: The Australian bushman
has long been noted for his ingenuity
in concocting drinks with a special
kick. I knew a station cook who got
away with a two-gallon jar of metho.
which, he later admitted, he mixed with
Worcester sauce,, cayenne, Dr. Koch’s
fever cure and beaten-up egg. A Cape
Town Kaffir burglar has beaten what I
always considered a record. Breaking
into a house he mixed in a large- jug
ly bottles of whisky, one of sheiry, one
of stout, two of soda water and half a
bottle of metho. He then cooked him-
self supper and sat down for a pleasant
evening. When the householder got back
he found the not-so-sophisticated savage
out to it under the table, with the empty
jug beside him. Later, when he came to,
like Bunthorne after he had been eat-
ing cream with a tablespoon in the dairy,
“he complained of feeling unwell.”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: “Esters” (B. 16/2//38)
denies my statement that Chianti is a
wine of a claret type. My authority rests
on the evidence of my eyes and palate,
and on the assurances of Italians with
whom I lunched, since supplemented by
those of others in the wine trade. It
may interest the doubting “Esters” to
know that before leaving Sydney the
cruiser Raimondo Montecuccoli took
aboard no small quantity of Australian
claret, very probably because it is so
much like their Chianti.
* * * *
“Stoo”: Spectacular drowning tragedies
are rare, in Maoriland, but in the last six
weeks 40 lives have been lost at the
beaches and rivers. The annual average
is about 150 drownings, and over the
last five-year period for which statistics
were taken the deaths by drowning, 600,
were only 264 less than the road deaths,
which receive far more publicity. News-
papers are suggesting making swimming
tuition compulsory at all schools. It was
in the M.L. primary school curriculum
40 years ago, but seems to have been
edged out by a multiplicity of fancy
frills.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Dr. R. T. Patton, lecturer at
Melb. University, is reported as having
said that the chief function of a beach
inspector in Sweden is not to worry
about costumes but to ward off unsightly
specimens of humanity. There is no
such thing as a corporation to be seen
on a Swedish beach, and there are no
women who look like skeletons, accord-
ing to Dr. Patton. This was only partly
true when I was in the country. Bathing
in the nude is or was de rigueur in
Sweden and common to all classes, but
with the upper ten the sexes were segre-
gated. Water-gates in the public baths
enabled the young Swede and his girl
to meet and enjoy a swim together in the
open ocean. Incidentally, although there
are only two months of real summer
weather, the sun is a stinger, and under
its caress the blonde Nordic skin tans to
a hue that would be the envy of most
Sydneysiders. There is a trap for the
unwary in the northern summer, how-
ever. The water stays cold enough to
freeze the nose of a stone Venus.
* * * *
“Hamer”: It is difficult for a writer to
create a pen-name which does not fit
with the actual surname of some living
person. A Peter Kodak was before
a Sydney Court the other day; he
was triumphantly acquitted. “Kodak,”
of course, was the best-known nom
de plume of Ernest O’Ferrall. I
thought “Hamer” my own property till
I met Florence Hamer, second woman
to Maud Jeffries, who was tickled to
death at her name appearing with some
frequency in The Bulletin and at being
accused sometimes of writing the verses
over it. A chap who was sometimes
blamed for my pars, in M.L. was Tommy
Hamer, Seddon’s private secretary. One
of my worst shocks, however, was
when a Binks stepped into the political
limelight in N.S.W. over half a dozen
years ago. Since I first did any writing
I have used “Binks” as a purely fictitious
character, imagining his name to be an
invention.
* * * *
“Mac Murphy”: “Simmer and Jack”
(B. 9/2/’3B) appears to be under the im-
pression that the Scots Guards wear kilts.
They don’t. As to Jews in kilts (in
other regiments), why not? Is there any-
thing more extraordinary than an Aus-
tralian in kilts? I know nothing, except
an Australianette in kilts, which appears
to me to be the very last wurrrrd in
absurrrrdity.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An incredibly simple acci-
dent in the S.A. office of General-
Motors-Holden’s. A pen rolled from a
desk; its owner stooped quickly, but
also caught it neatly between his knees,
where it stood upright, and the inky nib
pierced his eyeball and broke off. The
eye could not be saved.
ADVICE TO LEGISLATORS.
“The announcement of the early dissolution of the
N.S.W. Assembly led to some good-humored exchanges
across the floor of the House. ‘You won’t get back,’
members called out to one another.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
“You won’t get back”—now genially shouted,
Now bandied menacingly to and fro—
Implying you’re already good-as-outed,
Your alley’s in, your cake will soon be dough.
Never a Parliament puts up the shutters
But come, for variants on the usual'clack,
Boisterous bellows and malignant mutters
‘‘You won’t get back.”
You won’t get back! Yet, seeking re-election,
Let not those words unkind your spirit daunt;
Console yourself with the profound reflection
The wish is mostly father to the taunt.
Mouthing your slogans with supreme conviction,
Pull up your socks and bound to the
attack
To knock the stuffing out of the prediction
You won’t get back.
You won’t get back! Who but the veriest
craven
Would contemplate consignment to the shelf
On the mere say-so of some croaking raven
Who’s just as likely to be ditched himself?
Avoid all sign of perturbation, since that
Would queer your pitch. How better far to
crack
Your hardiest when anybody hints that
You won’t get back.
You won’t get back, you’re warned. Choke
down emotion,
Don’t let it get your goat or raise your bile.
Treat it like any other childish notion
That merits only a contemptuous smile.
Keep up your tail to show beyond all question
What crassness you discern, what utter lack
Of sense in the preposterous suggestion
You won’t get back.
You won’t get back, they jeer. A baseless
rumor
That needn’t really rattle you a bit,
A shopworn form of Parliamentary humor,
A hackneyed sample of ill-mannered wit.
That threatened lives show often most endur-
ance
Is a good adage in your hat to pack
When any nark butts in with the assurance
‘‘You won’t get back.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pundi”: I don’t wonder that our sen-
sational press does not always tell the
accurate truth about foreign affairs when
I see some of its local efforts. Open-
ing my “Sunday Blurb” last week, I
found myself faced with two photographs
taken by a party of which I was the
leader 14 years ago. The captions told
me that they were of a certain Charlie,
a black-boy of the Gregory River, North
Queensland. My memory and records
told me that one of them was of a
native youth taken near Blood’s Creek,
northern South Australia. The other
was a picture of a half-caste lubra serv-
ing with a team on the overland tele-
graph line.
* * ¥ *
“Oran”: If ever the “Confessions of
Famous Sea-captains” are collected—that
is, truly told—an astonishing number of
the fraternity will have to admit to sea-
sickness, for the most part of the chronic
first-day variety. I met once a senior
“There's a man peeping over the Wall!”
officer, just promoted to one of the big
ships of his line, absorbing tablets de-
scribed as an infallible remedy for sea-
sickness. “Got to take ’em,” he ex-
plained. “The Old Man on this ship’s
always under first two days out, and I’m
just as bad. We can’t both be out' of
action together.” That particular Old
Man ended up as the commodore of his
line, but he never conquered his squeam-
ishness.
“Oxmead”: What on earth possesses
“Slangster” (B. 16/2/’3B) to include the
verb “to mizzle” among his examples of
modern American slang? It is an old
English colloquialism and one extensively
used to this day in unexalted circles. For
proof of its antiquity vide “The Lay of
St. Cuthbert” in the Ingoldsby Legends .
W'here the Saint says to the Devil: “Cut
your stick, sir—come, mizzle! be off with
“Stay down there, Bill, while I get someone to help me ."
you! Go!” and the Fiend retorts:
“Go! —Mizzle! indeed —Mr. Saint, who
are you, I should like to know? Go!
I’ll be hanged if I do.” That was written
over a century ago.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: It was during the hearing of
a domestic upheaval at our country court.
The complainant-husband, who had left
his wife on account of her ungovernable
temper, asked that his missus should be
bound over, as she insisted on following
him round and raising terrific shindies.
“It seems to me,” said the s.m. sternly
to the unrepentant lady, “that when you
had your husband at home you did not
aim to make him happy.” “Too right, I
didn’t.” she cordiallv agreed. “I aimed
to bash his head in.”
“Kimber Lee”: Beat this. A N.S.W.
country solicitor, handling probate of
an estate, sent to the relevant department
a land-transfer application, together with
full details of a family interested in a will,
including an infant that had died at six
months old. Time passed, and the Gov-
ernment department made no move until
the solicitor pressed the matter. This
brought a letter informing him curtly
that the details were incomplete, it not
being stated whether or not there was
any offspring of the
“deceased person
mentioned.”
* *
“S a n d p a tch”:
“Erua’s” par. re
the Yanks’ method
of collecting in-
ebriated sailors re-
minds me that the
C.O. of a returning
troopship adopted
even more drastic
methods late in
1918. Calling at
Durban after seven
weeks at sea, we
found all the pubs
had been placed
out of bounds,
with the result
that some 300-odd
of the troops got
blotto on Kaffir
brandy at 2s. 6d. a
bottle. The sozzled
ones were collected
in lorries covered
with pig-nets, and
on arrival at the
wharf were dumped
on to more nets, a
dozen or so at a
time, and loaded
aboard with the
ship’s derricks.
Each netful re-
ceived the atten-
tion of a 3in. hose
for a minute or so
before being
dumped on the
deck. Even with
that treatment it
took some of them
four days to re-
cover fully. Though
the hosing caused
a lot of fun among the coons
assembled on the wharf, it did not tend
to increase the white man’s prestige. It
was a fool idea to ban good beer while
the vilest concoction made in Africa was
available ad lib.
* * * *
“Stamp”: Tell “Avon” (B. 16/2/’3B)
that the Sydney stationers will not sell
stamps because some years ago the P.O.
cut out the trifling commission paid up
to that time. For long after the “strike”
that followed the many stationers’ shops
that used to dot William-street, Sydney,
kept over their doors the sign “Licensed
to sell stamps,” to the confusion of people
in a hurry to catch the mail
“Dhas”: While Viscount Galway is
visiting Australia, the Chief Justice, Sir
Michael Myers, is acting Governor-
General in M.L. He is departing from
legal tradition by continuing to sit in
criminal cases, the reason being that, if
he doesn’t sit, another tradition —that
gaol-delivery should never be postponed
—will be broken. But it’s certainly un-
usual in Rex v. Dogsbody for Rex him-
self (which is what the acting G.-G.
becomes) to try the case.
* * * •
“O. de V.”: A radio reporter was
loading the ether with his impressions
of the Mitchell Library show. He had
been “quaite thrilled” at the sight of a
report in Governor Bligh’s own writing
denouncing the rum traffic of the period.
“Rum-smuggling, you know!” he kindly
added. That explains the mysterious sub-
terrannean disturbance that upset all the
seismographs. It was occasioned by Syd-
ney Hospital’s foundations quivering at
the insult, or else by the corpse of Went-
worth revolving rapidly in his coffin.
Rum -smuggling, forsooth!
* * * *
“East Point”: The businessman who
flew from Adelaide to take over Dar-
win’s bottle mine (B. 9/2/’3B) had better
luck in the end than at first promised.
Finding no bottle heap, he expressed his
views about the sensational press and its
yarns with such fluency that even Dar-
win sat back and admired his perform-
ance. Then a local man whispered in
his ear and received a contract to collect
what bottles there were. The monsoon
grasses around Darwin stood high. For
days persistent figures were to be seen
parting the dank sward with enthusiasm
and persistence. The visiting buyer has
since paid for 6000 dozen. Whether it
indicates that Darwin is decadent I
don’t know. They used to stack their
empties ; now they are too tired to do
more than drop them where they become
dead marines. The press, of course, has
had the last word with an announcement
that “Overgrown El Dorado Yields
Glassy Treasure”—worth £6O.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: The hopes of More-
ton Bay big-game anglers to break a
record by fetching Barnacle Bill in
triumph to the scales and camera have
been dashed by Bill’s disappearance from
his usual beat along the Boat Passage-
Green Island line of beacons. Of the
grey-nurse persuasion, a good 18ft-. in
length and bulkier than most of his kind,
Bill was clearly recognisable by a deep
scar on his head inflicted, years ago, with
an axe by an exasperated crabber. Local
opinion inclines to the belief that Bill’s
last breakaway with a large shark-hook
and chain has either damaged his diges-
tion or shaken his confidence.
VERSES AND VINE-LEAVES.
“I can make chansons, ballades, lais, virelais and
roundels, and I am very fond of wine.”
Jt. L. Stevenson’s Villon.
Sonnets and odes and other modes of verse,
Lyrics and limericks and Lord knows what,
Replace the forms that served to reimburse
Villon, when there was nothing to be got
From cribs to crack or villainies to plot.
And how he ever loved his wine to sip;
For what true minstrel ever scorned a spot,
What bard was ever hostile to a nip?
Poor Francois! Little money to his purse
Those deathless lays and ballades brought,
God wot.
And you and I, whose rhymes aren’t worth
a curse,
Possess, though obviously not a lot,
One claim to kinship with him, do we not?
What member of our noble fellowship
Was ever known to eye askance a tot-
Or veto the suggestion of a nip?
A goodly company are we who nurse
Bright fancies in iambic lines to jot.
We deprecate all contrasts for the worse
With Alfred Tennyson or Walter Scott.
And when the summer days are long and hot,
Or earth is locked in winter’s icy grip,
Few but find comfort in a foaming pot
Or salutary solace in a nip.
You, from whose lip sonorous staves are shot,
Or from whose pens the lilting triolets trip,
Admit the uplift of a timely spot,
Confess the inspiration in a nip.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
D383
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
10 for 9 dl
20 for 16
GENERATI
THE
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
obi
POLITICAL POINTS
Robert Anthony Eden became Minis-
ter for the League, and then Secretary
of State for Foreign Affairs, in 1935 ;
and since then Britain has been in
trouble almost everywhere. He resigned
on Sunday because Chamberlain would
no longer tolerate the sacrifice of British
interests, “the greatest of which is
peace,” to League chimeras and let the
Empire drift into war. But the young
gentleman has left foreign affairs in such
a mess that his successor will have an
appalling time straightening them out.
From B. 5/1 /’3B—the occasion war-
rants a departure from custom:
If the Italians and the Japanese attacked
or threatened British interests (it has never
been proved that they have done either),
the Foreign Office should have come to
terms with Germany. If an accommoda-
tion with the Germans was out of the
question, it should have kept sweet with the
Italians and the Japanese. Actually, there
was no necessity to fall out with any of
them.
Eden fell because he continued to be—
and proposed to remain—on bad terms
with all three. Also, more or less, with
nationalist Spain, Portugal, the Arab
world, the Moslem Indians, Rumania,
Yugoslavia and most of Latin America.
Even the U.S.A. snubbed him when he
claimed to be in “close collaboration”
with that country.
As a result of discussions between
Hitler and the Austrian Chancellor, a
partly-Nazi Administration has been set
up in Austria. London’s “Daily Express”
is quoted as saying “thefe is no reason
why we should bat an eyelash, except
that Sir John Simon in 1934 pledged
Britain to defend the independence and
integrity of Austria.” Did Sir John
Simon? Then Canberra’s “policy” was
“Yes, Sir John Simon!” no doubt.
The Chamberlain Government has lost
a seat, Ipswich, to the Labor interven-
tionists, and Labor interventionists, es-
pecially that cheap coat-trailing blather-
skite Herbert Morrison, are whooping
that there will be a general election this
year and that they’ll win it. To provide
against this disaster, the Dominion Gov-
ernments should lose no time in decid-
ing on their own foreign policy and in
communicating it to Whitehall. It need
only consist of one article: “We won’t
imperil our existence in any foreign
quarrel unless your existence is clearly at
stake.”
Westralian Labor was beaten by 2 to
1 in the Assembly electorate of Sussex,
which it had hoped to wrest from the
Nationalists. So it will still be without
a majority on the floor of the House if
it brings up redistribution-of-seats again.
Sydney “D.T.” informs fruitgrowers
and other Australians concerned for their
British market that “America’s friend-
ship and potential aid in time of war
must be studied and bought by Aus-
tralians who fear invasion.” And per-
haps if the fruitgrowers and others pay
the recommended price, flapper papers
will be able to get their American syn-
dicated stuff cheaper than ever.
Until a couple of years ago the Lyons
Government refused to admit American-
made aircraft. Then it brought in its
“trade-diversion” policy which struck at
other American imports, especially cars
and parts. Now it is about to pay huge,
sums to importers of American ’planes,
having waived customs duty and primage
on machines introduced since the ban
was raised. “From the sublime to the
ridiculous is but a step,” and in the case
of the Lyons Government from one
extreme to another is just a jump.
If Sydney “D.T.” is to be relied upon,
U.S. Secretary Hull is densely ignorant
of what is going on in his department.
He said on February 8 that the U.S.A.
had “no alliance, agreement or under-
standing with Britain,” and “no under-
standing or agreement with any nation
that any part of the U.S. Navy should be
transferred to any particular waters or
ocean.” Seven days later the “D.T.”
revealed the existence of a Plan
which “would cause Japan to fold up
without firing a shot at the combined
American-British front.”
The plan has been worked out in every
detail, and to-day it lies upon diplomatic
shelves in Washington and London, await-
ing the “incident” which will bring it into
action.
Perhaps the President will now dismiss
Hull and send for the editor of the “D.T.”
“Mr. Anthony Eden has resigned.”
“Please, Mr. Eden, don’t desert us altogether. Think of what you owe to
us now Robert Taylor’s gone back to Hollywood. Remember that you’re still
the best-dressed man in Europe.”
Lacey, the S.A. Labor leader, says his
party will restore three-year local Parlia-
ments and reduce the number of
Assembly members to 30 by “adopting”
the six Federal districts and making them
five-member electorates, with proportional
voting. Not half a bad policy, though
the party seems unlikely to return to
power until it ceases to be divided.
Not only Blackwell but W. J. Denny,
who was Attorney-General in three S.A.
Labor Ministries, is coming out against
the A.L.P. conference’s candidate—in
Norwood. Denny is a Norwood man,
and Nieass, the conference’s man, is from
Hindmarsh. A Norwood plebiscite was
strongly in favor of Denny, and the local
Labor electorate committee has asked
Nieass not to stand.
The leading Sydney U.A.P. paper
applauds “the decision of the U.A.P.
conference to grant the electors what is
called a wider choice in the selection of
representatives.” The electors are ex-
pected to show their gratitude for this
immense act of condescension in the
usual manner. If sufficiently ’umble they
will take round the hat and get Longstaff
or Lindsay to do a painting of the U.A.P.
conference as King Cophetua and a
female elector as the beggar-maid.
Communist candidates are coming out
for N.Q. sugar districts. Federal-election
voting gives two or three more than an
outside chance, but it will be a bad day
for the industry if they are elected.
Southern consumers will at once demand
to know why they should pay 4d. a pound,
and more in places, “to assist the White
Australia policy” when sugar elector-
ates put in Reds who hurl sCorn at it.
The alleged Labor faction which is
against Lang threatens to put up a man
against him in Auburn, and it may be
Garden if Garden doesn’t contract cold
feet. .Three years ago Ben Chifley, who
was one of Scullin’s Ministers, tackled
“the big fellow” and scored 7196 votes
to his 10,316, but Chifley was backed by
the U.A.P., and, in any case, was a very
different sort of politician from Garden.
Useful as his chin-music has been to it
on many occasions, the U.A.P. could
no more support Garden with his Com-
munist antecedents than it could support
Lang.
The Marchesa Marconi is on her way
to Sydney with a goodwill message from
Mussolini. Her distinguished husband
was a Fascist, so while she is in Sydney
a rash of anti-Italian articles will prob-
ably break out in three daily papers. But
it is to be hoped that the Government
will at least have the grace to issue a
warning that cads and bounders making
the lady the target for mob demonstra-
tions will be run in.
Because a runner from Trinidad was
cheeky to South Africans here for the
Empire Games and had his face slapped
Sydney “Sun” heaved a cartload of mud
at the South African team. This will
delight Moscow, especially as Moscow’s
exertions among coons have made them
cheeky everywhere. Its prize exhibit is
Paul Robeson, who lives part of the time
in Russia and has a son at school there.
In England Robeson is accepted as a
Great Public Character by Reds, Pinks,
Leaguers and sentimental ladies.
Possibly the Trinidadians will confer
the Order of the Grilled Policeman on
Sydney “Sun” for its championship of
the runner whose case moved it to tears
and invective. A Colonial Office report
dated Feb. 1 indicates how this Order
arose: —
During the Trinidad riots in June police-
corporal King was thrown from a window.
While lying on the ground with a broken
leg he was covered with oil and burnt to
death. Police who tried to rescue him were
attacked and a sub-inspector was shot
dead.
Perhaps the South Africans are lucky
that some Trinidadian merely threw
stones at them.
Though the High Court ruled in 1934
that sales tax on second-hand goods was
illegal, it has ruled in 1938 that persons
who paid the illegal impost cannot get
refunds. In the msantime, of course, Par-
liament passed “validating” legislation,
and if Parliament chooses to “validate”
lawless extortion it can do so.
Queensland’s Health Minister Hanlon
has effected what he terms a reasonable
settlement of the wrangle over the regis-
tration of obstetric nurses. N. S. Wales
and Victoria have agreed to recognise
the Queensland certificate and standard
of training on condition that nurses who
have had the six months’ training re-
quired in Queensland shall undergo an-
other three months to conform with
their standards. Hanlon has, therefore,
withdrawn his former embargo on
“foreign” nurses, and political face is to
some extent saved.
Premier Dunstan’s £l5OO a year is
“totally inadequate,” according to
Skeat’s central council. It is his own
fault. He could draw more from the
pool if he carried on with the number
of Ministers that other Governments
managed with.
If Alderman Griffin comes out for
Bathurst, he will have a distinct chance
of regaining it for the U.A.P. As a
Federal Labor man three years ago,
Griffin got 2492 primary votes, and 1892
of his preferences enabled Gus Kelly to
unseat Gordon Wilkins, the majority be-
ing 449 in a poll of 13,931. To hold
Bathurst, a Labor member needs to have
the railwaymen on his side, and Bathurst
railwaymen have declared against Lang.
The N.S.W. Country party has 23 seats
in the Assembly that is shutting up shop,
and professes to be confident that it will
hold them all. Perhaps it will, but it
wouldn’t take much of a swing to shift
Lawson from Murray, where his score
last time was 6510 and the Labor man’s
6263, or Yeo from Castlereagh (6944 —
6517) or Elliott from Ashburnham (6986
—6228) or Ross from Cootamundra
(6863 —6167), or Hankinson from Mur-
rumbidgee (7617 —6941) or Minister Sin-
clair from Namoi (7404 —6678). If every
other requirement is attended to, con-
fidence is an asset in these matters, but
it can be overdone.
The fact that the Sydney Government,
always generous at the public’s expense,
permitted 60-odd superannuated legis-
lators to remain Government railway
and tramway deadheads when it
“reformed” the Leg. Council was re-
called when one of the gentlemen made
an appearance before the Registrar in
Bankruptcy. He said his gold pass ad-
mitted him to race meetings. Then
came this queer dialogue:
Counsel for the petitioning creditor: I
suggest that you received £lOO or there-
abouts about the the time of your retire-
ment.
Bankrupt: I heard I got thousands, but
I got nothing.
The “reformed” House was elected by
members of the unreformed Chamber
and of the Assembly. The story was
that a winner had laid a sufficient
number of tribunes £lOO to a bag of
peanuts that he wouldn’t get in.


v, | «
v RE SACKED •
"
I WOMDER \NOT SORT OF JOlklT
MUFPIE.UO Vs|OSK.SO ROR_ v '
THE THOUSAND-A-YEAR AMBITION.
“Contributing to a How-to-Make-a-Thousand-a-Year symposium in Sydney ‘Daily Telegraph,' Lord Nuffield offered as a suggestion ‘Hard Work.’”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,260,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
DEPEND ON Champions
If the hills slow your car down, if your en-
gine knocks and becomes hot—the cause
may be faulty ignition. See what a big im-
provement a set of new Champions makes!
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
if ■
:
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tom Molloy is dead in Perth at 84.
Perth’s best-known “character,” his long
fife was full of litigation and unsuccess-
ful attempts to get into Parliament.
Many of his lawsuits were with election-
agents. Tom (Thomas Anstruther really)
was Mayor for a couple of terms long
ago, and he made money in the Trade,
with theatres as sidelines. His estate —
already the subject of litigation—is valued
at quarter of a million.
Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru, India’s repre-
sentative at the N. S. Wales sesqui cele-
brations, is a lawyer. He was Law
Member of the Viceroy’s Executive
Council just after the war, represented
India at the Imperial Conference in
1923, and for this service received his
K.C.S.L He has been active in Indian
politics for many years ; is president of
the Indian Liberal Federation, was for a
SIR TEJ SAPRU.
time a member of the All-India Congress
Committee, and was a delegate to Round
Table conferences in London in 1930,
1931 and 1932. He became a Privy
Councillor four years ago.
Three years after the death of Sidney
Myer, his brother, Eicon Myer, chair-
man of directors of the concern they
built together, has died in Melbourne at
63. Born in Russia, E. B. Myer was
the first of the family to come to Aus-
tralia, arriving in 1894. His brother
joined him in business in Bendigo in
1902, and after a few years apart they
joined forces again in 1908. E. B. Myer
went to London in 1913 to open the
buying office there. He had a term of
war service, enlisting in 1916 with the
A.S.C., and was a generous giver to
charity.
A member of the great Smith family
who has been visiting Sydney and Mel-
bourne can, an he will, call himself
Sir, Bishop, Doctor or General. He is
John Taylor Smith, K.C.8., D.D.
Ordained in 1885 at the age of 25 he
became Bishop of Sierra Leone and a
Doctor of Divinity in 1897, and four
years later relinquished the see to become
Chaplain-General to the forces, in which
capacity he served till his retirement with
a knighthood 13 years ago. Bishop
Taylor Smith has long been one of the
Red Cross pillars, and has been a sub-
prelate of the Order of St. John for
more than 20 years.
The Institute of Medical Science in
Adelaide has a new research pathologist
in Dr. Johannes Thiersch, a German
scientist of 27, with high credentials from
Gottingen University. Within two years,
he has been driven out by war from
appointments at Madrid and at Shang-
hai, where his university lab. was
bombed and destroyed. He proposes to
specialise in t.b. and cancer while in
Australia.
There was nothing German except the
name about Hermann Koeppen-Wendt,
one of Adelaide’s leading jewellers and a
mighty Freemason, dead at 77. A son
of his was killed in the war. The
original Wendt, fiercely anti-Prussian,
was one of the strong German contin-
gent which helped to give stability to
S.A. in its early days.
Black-and-white artist Oswald Pryor,
who has drawn countless Cousin Jack
sketches for The Bulletin, dropped into
252 George-street on his way home to
Adelaide after a trip abroad to England
and the Continent. It is 20 years since
the Sydney office last saw its most
prolific inter-State art contributor, and
he looked considerably younger than his
admitted 57 years. Born at Moonta
(S.A.) of Cornish parents, he attended
the local School of Mines, and spent
six years as a fitter and turner in the
Wallaroo and Moonta Mining Co.’s en-
gineering shop. He was then appointed
to a position in the drawing office, and
later held an executive job on the staff.
For a while he managed The Bulletin’s
Adelaide office. His first Bulletin
drawing was printed on February 22,
1902 —a week after his 21st birthday. On
his trip abroad he spent nine weeks in
Cornwall, and heard the “boays” sing
Christmas “curls” in the pubs at Fal-
mouth. He found the Cornish dialect,
pasties and saffron cake unchanged and
Cousin Jack still referring to Devon as
“a place on the way to England.”
Royal Melbourne has Vic’s, first full-
time hospital publicity man in Afton
Morcom, at present on loan from the
State public service. He went from the
staff of the Closer Settlement Commission
to assistant-sec. of the Melbourne Cen-
tenary Council, where he handled most
of the publicity. Last year he organ-
ised the anti-cancer campaign which
raised £66,000 for provision of early
diagnosis and treatment facilities. His
present job, under a committee compris-
ing surgeon B. T. Zwar, Railways Com-
missioner Harold Clapp and insurance-
rnan B. Hearn, is to pave the public way
for an early 1939 campaign to raise
£lOO,OOO towards the building costs of
the new hospital. A committeeman of
Kingston Heath Golf Club, Morcom is a
son of the late M. A. Morcom, who laid
out the Kingston Heath, Yarra Bend
National Park and Kingswood golf
courses.
In the six months it took him to photo-
graph the N. S. Wales scene for “A Nation
Is Built” Frank Hurley met again many
Digger acquaintances of the days when
he was official A.I.F. photographer in
France and Palestine. For the first two
years of that shindy Hurley was with
Shackleton, locked in the Antarctic,
where he’d also been a couple of years
previously with Mawson, and was to
visit twice again (1932-33 and 1933-34),
also with Mawson. He was in France
on the A.I.F. job two weeks after the
Shackleton expedition got back to Eng-
land, and his fife since has had plenty
more adventure packed into it. Attempt-
ing a flight to England in 1931 he and
pilot Jimmy Moir were first to land on
the Singapore base ’drome; they subse-
quently ran into a storm at Athens and
crashed. Hurley has also knocked about
New Guinea, Thursday Island, Torres
Strait and the North generally, producing
fine pictures, and he did Centralia thor-
oughly for the S.A. Government. His
summing-up on N.S.W. after his latest
job is that “it was a privilege to have
seen such a glorious place in harvest
time.”
There is something about books that
has a preservative effect, apparently.
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne’s
oldest booksellers, recently distributed a
gold watch apiece to three of their em-
ployees in recognition of long service.
Leonard Slade, doyen of Australian book-
sellers, has been selling books for them
for 63 years; the next veteran, G. H.
Pendlebury, wholesale book department
manager, is one short year behind him.
G. A. Firman, formerly librarian and
now in charge of the co.’s chain of Read-
well libraries, is the chicken. He has
just passed his half-century of office.
' After 14 years’ personal slum-investi-
gation, F. Oswald Barnett, Melbourne
accountant, appointed to Vic.’s State
Housing Board, feels his work is just
beginning. One-time State school-
teacher and then an office employee of
the Master of Equity, he went to Mel-
bourne Uni. Commerce School to delve
into the economics of the slum problem ;
it was a thesis on this which earned him
the second of the only four Master of
Commerce degrees granted by Mel-
bourne. Not long after Premier Dunstan
took office Barnett persuaded him to
tour the slums ; out of that visit grew
the £30,000 Port Melbourne rehousing
experiment, the appointment in 1936 of
the investigatory Slum Housing and
Abolition Board, and now the State
Housing Board. He is still hon. treas.
F. OSWALD BARNETT.
of the Methodist Babies’ Home estab-
lished at a cost of £30,000 about eight
years ago and maintained by young
Methodist men who find £9OOO a year.
“S.A.D.”: The strain of a Prime Min-
istership has worried men more robust
than Maoriland’s M. J. Savage, and it
seems now to be telling on that Aus-
tralian-born idealist. Recently he had
a spell in bed, and the fact that this is
an election year isn’t going to help
matters.
Albert Louis Bussau, Attorney-General
and Minister for Transport in the Dun-
stan Ministry, who goes to London as
Vic. Agent-General, is a six-footer, known
throughout the Mallee as “Bert.” Bussau
is the grandson of a Frenchman who
reached S. Australia in the early days;
his parents were Australian-born. He
was a law-office clerk before he turned
farmer at Hopetoun in 1915 —he was 21
then.
SIR GEORGE BROADBRIDGE.
“Korero”: Truby King, one of the
prophets who won honor even at home,
would have appreciated the thought that
Maoriland would make extension of his
life’s work its memorial to his pioneering
of infant welfare, as suggested by Prime
Minister Savage. During a particularly
active life, the doctor worked himself
to the limit in the interests of mothers
and babies, and after he returned from
organising infant-welfare services in
England he continued to travel Maori-
land to maintain personal contact with
the branches of his Plunket Society and
its outpost nurses. By this time his
achievements had won world recognition,
and in the centres he visited newspaper-
editors as well as civic leaders were only
too keen to make a fuss of him. As a
result, he rarely had a spare minute. But
he was one of those men who keep ap-
pointments, even with reporters; on one
of his New Plymouth visits, this entailed
a bathroom interview, and the doc.
elaborated welfare ideals as thoroughly
as he sponged.
The Associated Banks of S.A. have
elected as their chairman M. H. McKay,
of the ’Wales. The compliment is the
greater because he has been in Adelaide
only a little over a year.
The Commonwealth Government is
sending as its representative to the Inter-
national Congress of Historical Science
at Zurich Prof. George Whitecross
Paton, who holds the chair of Jurispru-
dence at Melb. Uni. He was born in
Geelong, a son of the manse, and was
educated at Scotch College and Melb.
Uni. A Rhodes scholarship took him to
Oxford, where he tacked B.C.L. to his
Melb. M.A. Young as professors go—
he’s 37 —he keeps himself fit with walk-
ing and tennis.


LIFELONG SUFFERERS PRAISE IMMUNISATION TREATMENT
-ACCLAIMED THE ONLY EFFECTIVE LASTING REMEDY FOR
HEAVY EXPENSES SAVED
Now Free of Asthma Attacks .
Guildford, N.S.W., 8/7/’37.
“ For the last ten years at least I have had
Asthma attacks at least once every night during the
.summer months, and this year these attacks became
more severe, and were extending into the winter
months, until I tried your LANTIGEN ‘B’ just five
weeks ago. I am now free of attacks, and have
much less Catarrh. I noticed the first results
within two weeks. >Jow the prospect of a free
summer is quite bright, and I am grateful that
any heavy expenses for operations and harmful drug
treatments are now eliminated by the use of a cheap
but highly scientific treatment, which is LANTIGEN
‘B.’—(Signed) E.J.G."
SUFFERED FOR YEARS
Now Quite Free.
St. Kilda,, Victoria, 10/6/’37.
“I have had most satisfactory results from your
LANTIGEN ‘B.’ I purchased a bottle some four or
five weeks ago, and the results 1 have received from
taking it—well, it is hard to believe.
“Over quite a number of years I was never without
a cold, catarrh or hay fever. Since I have been
taking LANTIGEN ‘B’ I am quite free of these com-
plaints. I will be pleased to give a personal reference
to anybody.—(Signed) N.R.H.”
TRIED MANY REMEDIES
Only LANTIGEN Ended Catarrh.
Preston, Melbourne, 7/6/’37.
“I must let you know of the astonishing results I
secured with LANTIGEN ‘B’ for catarrh. For many
years I suffered with this distressing complaint.
Every morning I had to get the mucus off my chest.
My head was never clear, and I could only breathe
through my mouth in bed, which caused me to
snore. I tried many other supposed cures with
hardly any results. My head would clear for a little
while, but would soon become clogged again. I
bought a bottle of LANTIGEN, and think it is the
best guinea I ever spent in my life. 1 have lost
all the distressing symptoms of catarrh. —(Signed)
H.R.”
Treatments are also available
for the following diseases:—
Tqntigen . ft <
FOR COLDS AND INFLUENZA
Checks attacks within 12 hours. Complete
course prevents Colds and Influenza. Safe,
pleasant, and certain. The complete course
comprises one bottle at £l/1 /-.
*
Jantigen
FOR RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS, ETC.
The only scientific way to clear up these
troubles, as well as Sciatica, Lumbago,
Neuritis and Spondylitis. The course takes
approximately five months. Full course com-
prises four bottles for the average case, at
£l/1/- each. These may be purchased
separately.
Tantigen
FOR BOILS, CARBUNCLES, SEPTIC
SORES, PIMPLES, ETC.
Clears up Boils, Carbuncles, Pimples, Acne
without leaving a mark, and prevents their
return. Stops pain quickly. The course
extends for about two months. Two bottles
are necessary for the average case, each
bottle priced at £l/1/-.
Jantigen ‘p
FOR WHOOPING COUGH
Stops attacks quickly or prevents them if
used before or in the early stages of infec-
tion. A certain, definite remedy. One bottle,
priced at £l/1/-, is usually sufficient for
treatment.
BRONCHIAL, ASTHMA, ANTRUM, SINUS
AND OTHER RESPIRATORY TRACT DISORDERS
Here are the Germs which cause these disorders —
MICRO COCCUS
CATARRH AUS
i"
is
•• :•&.** ■
j *
V 'f
fA i
mm
B. PNEUMONIAE
PNEUMOCOCCI
m
mm
m
m
B. SEPTUS
I. INFLUENZAE
The world owes an undying debt of
gratitude to Louis Pasteur for the
discovery of the preventive treatment
of many bacterial diseases. HiS re-
searches were the starting point in
the evolution of LANTIGEN, the
amazing new immunisation treat-
ment.
The value of this wonderful immuni-
sation treatment has been proved,
not only by great authorities, but in
the actual cases of many patients
who have unsuccessfully sought relief
with many other types of treatments,
but whose case responded only to the
LANTIGEN immunisation method.
Catarrh and Allied Complaints
Are Caused by Germs.
In every case these virulent organ-
isms attack the body: (1) M. Cat-
arrhalis; (2) B. Pneumoniae; (3) Pneu-
mococcus ; (4) B. Septus; (5) B.
Influenzae; (6) Streptococcus. Unless
each one of these organisms is dealt
with effectively and separately it is
impossible to get a complete remedy
for Catarrh. WE STATE DEFI-
NITELY THAT NO TREATMENT
ON THE MARKET TO-DAY, EX-
CEPT LANTIGEN, SETS OUT TO
ATTACK AND FIGHT THESE
GERMS SEPARATELY.
LANTIGEN SUPERSEDES VACCI-
NATION BY INJECTION, and offers
antigens which can be taken through
the ihouth (a few drops in water at
LANTIGEN is prepared under
the strict supervision of a fully-
qualified medical bacteriologist.
bedtime), which will provide every
benefit which painful vaccination by
injection can give. Antigens are the
agents which incite the human system
to create anti-bodies. These anti-
bodies fight and destroy the bacterial
bodies which cause disease.
The average complaint is under con-
trol with two bottles, and in many
cases this is sufficient to give immu-
nity for varying periods up to two
years. In deep-seated or stubborn
cases three to four bottles will almost
invariably give the immunity as
above stated.
Catarrh Can Be Banished.
Perhaps your Catarrh may not be
serious at present. But you must re-
member that Catarrh does not get
better without bacteriological treat-
ment. It gradually grows worse, until
it becomes a beastly and filthy ailment
itself, and it may lead to one or other
of a group of serious, almost incurable,
diseases.
HAY FEVER
Jansen •£>
Where Hay Fever symptoms are
present, that is, when the patient is
suffering from severe attacks of sneez-
ing, we .recommend LANTIGEN “E,”
which, in addition to antigens against
the organisms of Catarrh, contains
extracts of mixed grass pollens which
will relieve those suffering from
pollen sensitivity. Two bottles are
usually sufficient for the average case.
Each bottle is priced at £l/1/-. These
bottles may be purchased separately.
■
i >1 4 1$ 1
x , v
,u.
The cat-
arrh suf-
f e r e r can
never be
p o p u lar
with his
contin u a 1
spit ting
and cough-
ing phlegm,
his u n- STREPTOCOCCI
pleasant breath, body odor and belch-
ing of wind from a diseased catarrhal
stomach.
What is LANTIGEN ?
LANTIGEN is not a Patent Medicine,
and is devoid of drugs altogether.
LANTIGEN is a Bacteriological pro-
duct which contains the Detoxified
Antigens of such dissolved micro-
organisms which are peculiar to the
particular disease requiring treat-
ment. It is held in suspension in a
collodial state in physiological saline,
and contains as a preservative 0.5 per
cent. Creosol. In appearance it is a
clear crystalline liquid, and it is with-
out a doubt the pleasantest and most
convenient form of treatment which
has ever been developed, whilst at the
same time it is the only completely
effective treatment BECAUSE IT
DEALS WITH THE UNDERLYING
CAUSE.
?F
FF
CONTAINS NO DRUGS
Harmless, Yet Effective
A PRODUCT OF EDINBURGH LABORATORIES
Recommended and Stocked by all Chemists
DO THIS
TODAY!
If you suffer from any
of these diseases, go to
your chemist now and ask
for details of the LANTI-
GEN treatment. Don’t
delay until the complaint
becomes worse. Save your-
self suffering. Act now.
PRICE
£ll'-
Per Boltle
for several weeks’
A CHEMIST-ONLY LINE
BUY FROM YOUR
CHEMIST
treatment.
If Y our Chemist Has Not Supplies, or You
Require Further Information, Write to: —
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Edinburgh Laboratories, Grace Building, 77
York Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 373355.
’Phone: MA6939 (2 lines).
VICTORIA:
Edinburgh Laboratories Pty., Ltd., Askew
House, 361-372 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
G.P.O. .Box 12411). ’Phone: F 1927, F 3448,
Central 3527. • . - •
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
AGENTS': Golliu & Co. Pty., Ltd., Lantigen
Dept., 7 Gawler Place, Adelaide. G.P.O. Box
581 D. ’Phone: Cent. 100. WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTORS: F. H. Faulding & Co., Ltd.,
James Place, Adelaide; A. M. Bickford & Sons,
Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Edinburgh Laboratories, A.M.P. Building, Queen
and Edward Streets, Brisbane. G.P.O. Box
1983 X. ’Phone: 89739.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS:
K. S. Andrus & Co., Ltd., 114 William Street,
Perth. G.P.O. Box 794. ’Phone: 86418.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS: Q-Tol-Fluenzol Laboratories, Thorndon Quay, Wellington. P.O. Box 1018.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: Warwick (Q.) has
been torn with dissension over the sub-
ject of when a heifer becomes a cow.
Starting at a meeting of the local show
society, it is assuming the intensity and
bitterness of a civil war. One party
argues that the flapper attains cowhood
after producing her first calf. It quotes
the Oxford Dictionary as defining
“heifer” as “young cow that has not
had calf.” The opposition holds that
she remains a heifer until three years of
age, irrespective of offspring, and wants
to know what the blazes a lot of old
blokes at Oxford know about dairyin’. A
breakaway party maintains that the
proper age of cowhood is four years if
still unmarried, or from the first calf if
not. Now some nark has begun a side-
show on the filly-mare question, and
class-revolution is feared.
* * * *
“Lowan”: Grow ’em tough, eh? I’ll
hand it to a Fremantle wharfie for his
brush with a two-ton lorry. He lunged
at the crank-handle a couple of times,
then swung it like mad for 30 seconds.
The cantankerous engine backfired, and
the crank smacked his jaw, sending him
base over apex for about 15 feet. He
climbed to the perpendicular, hurled
forth a string of lurid imprecations, then,
rubbing his jaw, remarked, “By
that ’urt,” and cranked the truck again
and drove away.
* * * *
“Neighbor”: We’ve heard cartloads
about lightning-struck timber that
wouldn’t burn ; but what about the light-
ning-lit blaze that persists in carrying
on? Had a remarkable example of the
phenomenon in our locality (Bananaland
coast) when a forked flash during a fierce
storm set alight the green bough of a
tall gum-top box. The fire persisted for
about a fortnight, sometimes burning
brightly in a small way, but generally
smouldering beneath a steady spiral of
grey smoke. Several sharp downpours
failed to extinguish it. The curious part
was that the fire didn’t appear to con-
sume much of the bough. A probable
explanation is that the lightning ignited
confined wood-gas, the gum-top box
being usually more or less hollow.
* * * *
“Ugar”: Very soon now —round about
March —flocks of rainbow birds, or bero-
beros, as the natives call them, will be
flying over Torres Strait on their way
south from New Guinea —they make the
homeward trek about October. With
their brownish-green wings and wing-
quills tipped with orange-brown, and
wearing a patch of orange at the throat,
they make a fine sight. Right through
Torres Strait the bird is associated with
the fitting time for digging the new yams,
and so it is the zogo, or magic, for the
yam. Special ceremonies are connected
with this. On some of the islands are
carved stones in the form of the bird.
When the bero-beros begin to arrive the
zogo- men make good medicine at the
shrine; the stone is anointed with oil,
and a feast made in which the people
take part. Then the zogo- men of the
cult stand in line with arms folded and
a banana-leaf placed on the arms. The
people come forward singly to make
their offerings of freshly-dug yam, plac-
ing them in the arms of the zogo- men,
who then carry them to the front of the
shrine and heap them up. After that the
people are free to go ahead with their
yam-digging. But failure to observe the
bero-bero ritual spells bad luck.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Take shootin’ ’ares,” Old
Bob said. “A lot uv fellers go an’ use
both barrels on th’ double rise. I don’t
believe in wastin’ cartridges like that.
If two ’ares ’ops up in front uv me, I
picks out th’ bloke in th’ lead an’ lets ’im
’ave th’ right in th’ ’indquarters. If yer
do it jake yer c’n bring ’im right across
an’ make ’im cerlide with ’is mate. An’
two ’ares travellin’ fast like that means
th’ other ’are gits knocked out. O’
course, if they breaks in oppersight
directions, then yer gotter use both
barrels. An’ take shootin’ spriggers. A
lot uv blokes when they sees a line uv
th’ blankards sittin’ up on th’ stable
“ Don't y' find the miles slip by when y've got congenial company, lady?
roof ’ll fire a shot an’ git one or two,
while th’ rest dives fer th’ bush. Waste
uv good shot. Me, I always takes a
sweepin’ shot, swingin’ th’ muzzle along
th’ line as I pulls th’ trigger. I got as
many as 50 a time that way.”
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: Agree with “Sweat Boil”
(B. 2/2/’3B) that a horseman who aver-
ages 40 miles a day for any length of
time is a pretty hardy specimen; but a
lot depends on the horse. Some of the
four-legged saddle-supporters that mas-
querade under the name of hacks will
crack up an experienced rider before he
gets out of the homestead paddock, while
a horse with easy paces will carry a man
all day and never cause him a moment
of saddle-soreness. And that’s another
point—where are the hacks of yester-
day? Go to any show and watch the
broken-down racehorses and spindly-
legged ponies that very often win prizes
in the various hack sections (don’t blame
the judges—they have to give the awards
to something), or see the saddle-plugs
that stumble along our country roads
and city riding tracks. You’ll feel in-
clined to weep and wonder what became
of the breed of nag that , our fathers
saddled up before the days of Standard
Oil and Henry Ford.
* * * *
“Carper”: Never again pour scorn on
the English editor for his lack of know-
ledge of things Australian. In the sesqui-
centenary number of the “Sydney Mail”
readers were solemnly informed (in an
article on “Lost Explorers”) that “A
few years ago Whelan, a prospector, was
rescued from the bed of a salt lake in
the eleventh hour of thirst and starvation
looking for Leichhardt.” How much the
East knows of the West! Whelan, if he
was looking for anything at all, was look-
ing for Lasseter’s “lost reef.” He claimed
to have discovered rich gold in the Live-
sey Ranges, which geologists have since
declared to be of sandstone formation.
Failing to reach these ridges again by
camel-train, Whelan was induced to get
into an aeroplane along with mining-
engineer Harry Baker, who nowadays
guides the Bungana along the east-west
air trail. A leaking oil-pipe forced the
party down on an isolated salt lake, where
Whelan certainly did get a bit dry. His
subsequent rescue by Baker in a damaged
’plane forms an epic in Australian flying.
* * * *
“Quack Quack”: To those poultry
experts who maintain that the Muscovy
duckling (like the late George Reid’s
little dog) is incapable of surviving ad-
ventures into deep water, or even of get-
ting properly wet, may I give the com-
pleat rebuttal? In the heart of Perth are
two well-known duck sanctuaries, Hyde
Park and Queen’s Gardens. Here, along
with numbers of wild duck, flocks of
Muscovies live in a natural state, nesting
and brooding among the rushes on the
islands which dot the numerous lagoons.
On the very first day of their lives baby
Muscovies thus take to the water, and
deep water at that, it being one of the
attractions of these places to see mother
Muscovies, surrounded by fluffy pied or
yellow ducklings, all swimming con-
tentedly around or diving to the bottom
to snatch some scrap of food. It is cer-
tain that none of these constantly-
hatched-out ducklings have sustained any
injury from thus following their natural
instincts ; but it has recently been dis-
covered that they are much preyed upon
by the shag, the latter diving and seizing
them from beneath.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: So “Old-timer” has
never worn bowyangs (B. 26/1 /’38)!
Then by the same token he’s never
napped stone on a road gang. There he’d
find the reason for that apparently use-
less, ridiculous-lpoking effect gained by
tying a piece of string around the leg
just below the knee. The folds hang out
from the shin and protect it from flying
splinters, and only the initiate know how
granite-splinters can bite.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Highways beyond the
pavement’s end seem to be undergoing
a gradual ironing-out of bad old gradi-
ents. Yet, had he been left to himself,
Dobbin could have shown his master far
easier tracks. Animals are natural
grade-seekers. Try to find the slight-
est improvement upon any natural
track along a broken river bed, ex-
cept for clearing obstacles which call
for fire or dynamite! In hilly coun-
try every animal knew the secret of cross-
ing mountains long before Blaxland,
Wentworth and Lawson stumbled on it,
and.ran its route up a ridge accordingly,
Most remarkable of all, if it can be
avoided animal tracks never cross the
crown of a range, but circle round on a
suitable and even level to the other side.
Here bridging and tunnelling are all man
has over his fellow-animals. Nowadays
accurate instruments are supplying mfi-
nitely better gradients than used to be the
case, but I have yet to see one superior
to the common or garden cow track.
* * *
“F.Y.7”: Heavy mortality among
domestic dogs in the Casino (N.S.W.) dis-
trict may be explained by the report of
the inspector to the Casino P.P. Board,
It told how a considerable percentage of
the “dingo” scalps presented for cashing
evidently came from Towser, the speci-
mens ranging from greyhound lugs to
those from foxies. It is years since a
genius in W.Q. struck a more payable
system than robbing the kennels. He
carved “scalps” out of every dingo skin
he acquired so well that in the dry and
shrivelled state in which they were pre-
sented at long intervals they easily passed
muster. When he was bowled out at
last scalp regulations were amended to
require that every scalp handed in should
include a strip of skin from the back of
the dog ending with the tail.
* * * •
“Notaden”: Whether “Mossie” (B.
9/2/’3B) will have it or not, all of the
500 or so species of mosquitoes whose
breeding habits have been traced need
swimming water during the larval stage,
It needn’t be stagnant or much in
amount. I’ve seen hundreds of wigglers
in the half-gallon remaining in a small
hollow tree butt after three dry months.
His may possibly have come from the
gidyas, but, if so, they held water col-
lections somewhere. As for air-travel
before steady wind, he would have to
make a minute search for at least 50
miles up wind, for everything from a
gallon or two up, before he could ex-
clude this source of origin. Where did
his own camp water-supply come from?
A waterbag can breed them good and
plenty if the cork is left out now and
then and there are lady mosquitoes about
in the expecting condition.
* * * *
“Bufo”: After years of unsuccessful
experiment with traps, dogs, ferrets,
poison and fumigation, a big Brisbane
department store has succeeded in solv-
ing the problem of rat damage to stock.
The solution is a team of nine selected
trained cats. They are housed during the
day in a scientifically-designed cattery, fed
on a strict dietary system —which in-
cludes 36 hours’ starvation fortnightly—•
and turned loose after closing time by the
employee who has special charge of them.
Likely recruits are put into probationary
training when about half-grown, and
need three months of it to become effi-
cient. They are taught to bring the catch
to the same place each night. She-tab-
bies are found to be the best ratters, with
black toms next, but any color or either
sex may produce a first-rater. The squad
has a self-elected leader, whose skill and
efficiency are recognised by the others.
THE DINKUM MATE.
When you’re trampin’ the State as the guest of
Fate,
And headin’ for Lord knows where;
When you don’t need to choose, ’cause you’ve
nothin’ to lose,
And here looks as good as there;
With your belt pulled tight and the tucker-bag-
light,
While you haven’t a smoke to share,
Some like a bloke who’ll crack a joke,
But give me a mate who’ll swear.
“For the man worth while is the one who will
smile”
Is all very well in verse,
But the dinkum mate will speak up straight,
And curse when there’s need to curse.
When the wood is soaked and you’re nearly
choked,
And your eyes are smoked and sore;
When you’re coaxing a spark with frayed-out
bark
To start a fire once more,
And it rains again and two hungry men
Camp in the rain all night,
The humorous one who must have his fun
Is playing with dynamite.
“For the man worth while is the one who will
smile”
Is a bonzer thought in a book,
But I’d rather share with the bloke who’ll swear
When things start to turn out crook.
When you’ve got a mate who will speak out
straight
You can follow his point of view,
But the coot with the grin may fume within
And you never know what he’ll do.
For Nature’s intent was a safety vent
For words that are made of hot air
When she took the tears of his schoolkid years
And left him the right to swear;
For the man worth while is the one who can
smile
When everything’s goin’ fair —
But when things go wrong I’ll plod along
With the fair dinkum mate who’ll swear!
N.S.W.
B.A. KER.


“Old-timer”: “Wakool” Watson came
out of a bender to find himself in dur-
ance vile, charged with drunkenness, in-
decent language and riotous behavior.
A fairly quiet sort, even in his cups,
“Wakool” couldn’t believe it. They gave
him bail, and he searched the environs
of Moulamein, making inquiries among
his late drinking mates. Later he put
it to the magistrate this way: “They all
know me, y’r Honor. Always sleep when
I’m boozed. Never fight. It was some
other bloke, an’ the mob that was boozin’
with me know it, but they won’t come
and witness for me.” He paused, then
added sardonically: “If the cows thought
I had a cheque t’ cut out they’d be here
soon enough!” The Beak, a Westerner
himself, made it the rising.
* * * *
“Mako”: The Maori, like the Papuan,
doesn’t fling around “please” or “thank
you,” though he usually nods affably in
acknowledgment of a gift or good turn.
But his gratitude goes deeper than that,
and, for services rendered or presents
bestowed, in due course will arrive his
individual acknowledgment, a kit of
kumeras, a basket of mushrooms or
peaches, a fine catch of fish. I saw a
woman who had bandaged the burned
arm of an elderly Maori summoned by
him to the homestead gate to ceremoni-
ously receive his mark of appreciation.
“Next item on programme is chairmans address. If any of 'ee don't
know, tez twenty-nine Fried Tatey-street."
Delving into a large tin he produced a
handful of enormous wriggling hou-hou
grubs, a great delicacy to Henare. It
required all the lady’s tact to find an
excuse for declining the offering. After
a seaside picnic we presented our left-
over food, mostly in tins, to the neigh-
boring kainga. As we were boarding the
launch there came a hail from the shore,
and Henare, with half a dozen wahines
and youngsters, came staggering across
the with five of the largest Water-
melons I’ve ever seen. The Maori’s
gratitude is mainly practical.
“Remember this when We get to Singapore — We're out of tea!"
“Tickie”: Natal “Mercury” is respon-
sible for a tale that the baboons in the
drought - stricken areas of Weenen —
Weenen, “the place of weeping” where
Dingaan’s impis massacred the party of
Boer voertrekkers under Piet Retief just
100 years ago—have been attacking herds
of goats, Angoras probably. Oom
Babiaan is not a carnivore, though he is
a great destroyer of locusts, alive and
in the egg. It is odds on that the Natal
baboons are following the evil example
of their brethren of the eastern section
of Cape Colony. Long before Europeans
started to farm sheep there, these, with
goats, had been kept in numbers by the
natives. The country is full of baboons,
but the native flocks were never molested
by them, nor for years were those of the
white man. Then farmers began to find
young lambs dead, and soon sheeted the
murders home to the baboons, which,
however, didn’t devour the bodies. The
mystery was solved when it was found
that the raiders killed only those lambs
which had recently drunk and took only
the milk in their stomachs. Since those
days sheep-farming has spread far be-
yond the colony, but until this Natal
story I never heard of the baboons
molesting the flocks outside the one par-
ticular section of the Cape.
“Dimon”: Clarence River (N.S.W.)
fishermen have decided to petition the
Government to place a bonus of 2d. a
scalp on eels, which are infesting the
river and its tributaries in vast numbers.
The Clarence, from which a large part
of Sydney’s fish supply is obtained, is
one of the best fishing-grounds on the
coast, and has produced many huge
groper and other monsters; but the
swarms of eels have become a Serious
menace. These Voracious denizens gobble
up the eggs and young fish. They infest
creeks, gullies, lagoons and swamps as
well as the river. The chief reason for
the plague is the stupid destruction of
cormorants, immense flocks of which
used to be seen Constantly in the dis-
trict, their headquarters being Broad-
water and Woolawayeh lakes. When
the eels and eel-tailed catfish went up
the river in millions to spawn, mobs of
cormorants used to harass them all the
way.
* * * *
“D. Amital”: “Bluey” can have his
yellow box as being a tough vegetable
to eliminate (B. 9/2/’3B), but I’ll lay a
frogskin to a dead cat on the banana
palm in my back garden. Dug it out
by the roots and left it to rot for a few
weeks, baked it with a heap of rubbish,
then chopped it into 6in. lengths and
buried them for humus in a dahlia bed.
Present garden comprises a dozen 6ft.
dahlias and a score or more of Bft.
banana palms.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: “Old-timer” (B.
2/2/’3B) and his abo. skull reminds me.
While dam-sinking in western Vic. I
chanced on an abo. skull in good con-
dition, and decided to present it to a
doctor who had always been anxious to
get a decent specimen. Boarding a city
tram I tripped and sat down rather sud-
denly ; the skull escaped from its brown-
paper wrappings, and after bouncing on
the floor finished up in the lap of a gaunt
female who was regarding me with a
look that plainly said “Drunk, of course.”
She screamed and fainted, all the
women present yelled in chorus, and
half a dozen passengers stuck fast in the
doorway trying to escape from the fiend
who apparently was carrying a souvenir
of his latest victim. It took a prolonged
visit to the city watchhouse, several long-
distance wires and a lot of hard swearing
before everything was cleared up, and, to
make matters worse, some cow pinched
the skull.
* * * *
“Langshan”: “Look in your beds to-
night before you get in,” advised Dad
after killing a snake on the verandah.
Next morning he asked Lanky Bill if
he had followed his advice. “Aw,” said
Lanky, “I jus’ got in and swung me leg
round, but there was none there.”
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Shooters and trappers
leave many bird cripples in their Wake.
Ground feeders with a broken wing can
survive a long time, provided the wing
isn’t a trailing nuisance and there are
no cats or foxes about. Winged parrots
manage to climb trees with their beaks
and claws, but it is hard Work, and some-
times they forget and try to fly off with
others, only to tumble with a startled
squawk and crash. One white cockatoo
that had a trailing wing was seen to
bite off the impediment. It was subse-
quently caught and tamed. In swamps
maimed ducks are common. As long as
their legs are uninjured they fare pretty
well in a big haunt, and when danger
threatens escape by diving and hiding,
Usually they leave the water to hide on
land. I noticed a duck one day that
went in circles when it tried to swim in
a hurry. It had only one foot.
“Groper”: Cruising sharks? What
about the one that swam up the Flinders
(W.Q.) a few years back? As that stream
is dry sand for nine months of the year,
and runs in spurts and gushes for the rest
of the time, that nark must have given
himself a bit of hurry-up to peel the
300-odd miles from the salt water to the
hole on Cambridge Downs where he was
eventually shot.
* * * *
“Mopoke”: The most fearsome bush
noise I have heard (B. 26/1/’3B) was that
of a pair of mopokes crooning to a half-
grown youngster in the dusk of a still
summer evening. The eerie, low-pitched
“Qom! Oom!” would move an Epstein
bust to superstitious terror.
* * * *
“Avis”: There is a fuss in Victoria
because the Air Force is to use part of
Lake Corangamite—which is some 30
miles long—for bombing and gunnery
practice. Naturalists —a tribe much more
numerous in the Cabbage Garden than
in the other States —are up in arms be-
cause the lake harbors several rare
species of water-birds which nest there,
in addition to several varieties of gulls
and other fowl. The bombing will in-
evitably drive these birds from a sanc-
tuary they have enjoyed for many years,
and efforts are being made to send the
airmen elsewhere. In England, where an
area in the bird sanctuaries of the
Norfolk Broads was selected for a similar
purpose, public indignation forced a
change of plans.
* * * *
“Leschenault”: Dunno much about
“Nor’-west’s” ocean currents (B.
9/2/’3B), but his geography is a bit hay-
wire. Dongarra and Rottnest (W.A.)
are nearer 200 than 60 miles apart. As
to petrol-drums washed ashore, I spent
over six months along that stretch of
coast, and nearest thing to a drum that
I ever encountered were a few battered
kero.-tins.
* * * *
“Tripod”: Binghi doesn’t need wom-
mera and shield for deflecting spears (B.
19/1/’38); a stick is equally effective.
The abo. tribe of the Nerang district
(S.Q.) had a ceremony called “With-
standing the Spears” to be undergone by
young bucks desirous of marrying. The
prospective Benedict was given a small
shield made of pea-bean (flame-tree), a
very soft wood which spears will pene-
trate. Three warriors, each armed with
seven spears, at a given signal let fly
at the bridegroom-elect, who was required
to deflect every spear, but to sustain the
slightest scratch or to have even one
spear lodge in the shield rendered him
ineligible. It sounds like an elaborate
frame-up to keep the lusty young bucks
in their places, but my uncle worked the
timber of their tribal grounds in the
’eighties and vouches for their ability to
pass the test.
THE STRATEGIST.
“So ye’re travellers, eh?” said Big Harry, and
his eye slowly closed in a wink.
“So am I, but / live in this township, and
1 travel right ’ere for a drink;
Sundey mornin’s are bonn and cheerless it
v’r whistle’s as dry as a bone,
And the thought that I’m beatin’ the wowsers
—that gives me a kick on its own.
“But a while back it wasn’t so easy, for the
John Hop we’d ’ad ’ere for years
Wriggled out, an’ the new bloke ad Murphy,
the publican, damn’ near in tears.
He belied his Hibernian chivvy, for ’e gave us
a hell of a trot; . ,
Why! the first day ’e’s ’ere the mob s boozin
after hours, an’ ’e pinches the lot!
“Course we worked all the stunts we could
think of to keep ’im away from the pub;
Ev’ry Sundey ’e’d get a few ’phone calls that
’e’s wanted ’way back in the scrub.
Well, it went pretty good for a start orf, but
then ’e woke up an’, wot’s worse,
The cow traced the calls, an’ ’e socked us, an’
all we could do .was to curse.
“This kept goin’ fer months, and poor Murphy’s
becomin’ a reel nervous wreck,
What with tryin’ to outwit ’is bugbear an’
stoppin’ the law in the neck.
Then, one bright, happy day, in the district
the widow Gilhooly arrived,
An’ in no time that cop of ’is freedom (an’
most of ’is pay) she’d deprived.
“Yairs, that masterful woman soon showed ’im
it’s ’er that was boss of the roost;
An’ to-day Murphy’s bar of a Sundey is chock-
full again like it used ;
For it wasn’t till after they’d married that the
town —and policeman—found out
That the widow Gilhooly’s the sister of Murphy,
the cunnin’ old scout!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


■}
COMPETENT
MANAGEMENT
ot Agricultural
and Pastoral Properties
In its 60th year of experience in the manage-
ment of Station and Farm Properties, The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is able to offer invaluable assistance
to those concerned about the future care and
management of property.
Management by the Company relieves depen-
dents of many worrying problems.
Full details are available on application.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated In Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £953,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., 1t.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone, M 4601.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ—
Feb., Profit. 15 p.c. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000 ) 4040401
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. j
1929.. 011,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
121 p.c.
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
- 7 p.c. To Reserves.
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
J 932. . 160,954 160,000 954 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
A ug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
51 p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.*
1937.. 254,383 235,333 1
To special centenary fund, J- 4,995,914
£20,000 .. .. J
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
The Union was formed in London at
the beginning of September, 1837, “on
such principles and with such men as
will glorify God and promote the weal of
man,” according to George Fife Angus,
who was associated with its foundation,
as well as with the formation of the origi-
nal South Australian Co. and the old
Bank of South Australia, afterwards ab-
sorbed by the Union. The management
has always been conservative, and in the
banking field the co. has stood like the
rock of Gibraltar for a century.
Throughout good times and bad ones,
the co. has never failed to pay a div.,
the highest being 36 p.c. distributed
during the gold rush in 1854. In 1893
8 p.c. was paid, followed by 6 p.c. and
then 5 p.c. to 1898. The rate reached 14
p.c. again in 1907, and 15 p.c. in 1920,
and remained steady till the close of
accounts in 1929. Slump brought the
figure down to 4 p.c. (the lowest yet)
in 1932, followed by 5 p.c. for the next
3y years, and then p.c. and 7 p.c. for
the last term, when, to celebrate the
co.’s centenary, a 2 p.c. bonus was added,
making 9 p.c. for the year. It should
be remembered, however, that for the
last 20-odd years the board has pursued
a policy of issuing capital at a substan-
tial premium (as much as 120 p.c. in
1924), making the div. worth no more
than slightly over half the declared rate
on three of the four millions of capital.
The business is well.spread throughout
the Commonwealth and Maoriland,
about 32 p.c. of the deposits being
gathered in Vic., 20 p.c. N.S.W., 9 p.c.
Qld., 8 p.c. S.A., 6 p.c. W.A., 3 p.c. Tas.
and 22 p.c. in the Dominion. Also, the
fact that there is £4,995,914 of reserves,
which includes £2,500,000 of share pre-
miums gathered since 1913, visibly sup-
porting and assisting capital means that
the two combined need net only 3.1
p.c. in order to pay a 7 p.c. div.; and
the inner strength is believed to be sub-
stantial.
During the last term, the lift in ex-
port prices helped earnings in the ex-
change market, and trade locally con-
tinued to expand, too, though the
activities of the Maoriland Government
are causing concern about the future
there. After making whatever provision
was considered necessary for contingen-
cies, the board figured gross earnings
£69,808 better than the previous year’s:
1933. 1936. 1937.
Gross profit . . £1,107,036 £1,101,129 £1,170,937
Management exes.,
etc . . . . 057,809 686,296 717,353
Taxation .. . . 239,668 173,985 199,201
Net profit .. £209,559 £240,848 £254,383
Management charges were up £31,057,
and the tax bill was £25,216 heavier. The
declared net result was thus £13,535
better at 6.3 p.c. on capital, or 2.8 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined). The div. was lifted from
5i p.c. to 7 p.c., and the final was
at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., subject to
English income tax of 3s. Id. in the
pound, payable in sterling. Allow-
ing for the tax and for exchange at the
current rate, 8 p.c. is worth a wink under
8.5 p.c. in Australian currency. The
special 2 p.c. bonus to shareholders, to-
gether with a bonus of 1\ p.c. on salaries
to the staff, was paid mostly from inner
reserves since the close of accounts.
The market prices the £l5 shares paid
to £5 (the other £lO is callable only in
the event of liquidation) at £lO ss. as
against £ll a year ago. The return at
£lO ss. in Australian currency in 3.5
p.c. on ft 7 p.c. div. basis or 4.1 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution. Visibly the cover
is £ll 4s. lOd. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
Liabilities.
Aug’., Aug., Aug.,
1934. 1936. 1937.
Notes .. .. £280,617 £ 7,567 £7,565
etc 760,429 1,197,913 1.549.562
Deposits .. .. 36,460,479 34,410,690 37,328,085
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 13,786,512 12,237,114 15,654,598
Advances . . . . 32,417,659 32,129,341 31,923,737
Premises . . . . 376,386 366,578 438,124
The year’s growth of £2,917,395 in
deposits, of £3,417,484 in low-interest-
bearing liquids and the net contraction
of £205,604 in advances reflect the effects
of the growth in export income. When
the books closed liquids, amounted to
40.2 p.c. of liabilities to the public, and
advances to 85.5 p.c. of deposits, while
the bank was holding only £4 6s. sd. of
outside money for every pound belong-
ing to shareholders. It is a strong posi-
tion, but means low earning power until
employment is found for more of the
funds held.
Western Australian Insurance
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.t
£ £ £ £
1927.. 59,821 5 p.c. =5,000 54,821 353,449
Loss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil _ 310,676
From Life fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Profit.
1930.. 13,874 Nil 13,874 282,291
1931.. 10,899 Nil 10,899 293,190
1932.. 8,890 5 p.c.= 5,000 3,890 297,080
1933.. 11,590 5 ~,, 5,000 6,590 303,670
1934.. 10,513 5 ~,,5,000 5,513 309,183
Profit on sale investments, £4265... 313,448
Loss.
1935.. 5,582 5 p.c.= 5,000 302,866
1936.. 21,905 5 „ „ 5,000 275,961
1937.. 34,849 Nil 241,112
t Includes reserves for unexpired risks, but not life
fund ( £202,820 at June 30, 1937).
Samuel Copley, who formed this co. in
Perth in 1912 and was its chairman until
he died (in England) in November last,
was one of the romantic personalities of
the commercial world. A native of
Yorkshire, he came to Westralia and sold
haircuts at Fremantle for a time. A
“run of luck” in land and other specu-
lations brought him a large fortune,
which he supplemented by the establish-
ment of Copley’s Bank, London, as well
as this Westralian co.; he was also
chairman of the Atlantic Insurance Co.,
which was largely interested in reinsur-
ance in London.
Its plunge into the whirlpool of inter-
national war-time marine risks brought
the Westralian into the limelight. Within
half a dozen years premium income
bounded from a few thousand to over a
million pounds, and reserves approach-
ing three-quarters of a million had been
accumulated. But much of what looked
like profits turned out to be losses.
These, the special demands of the tax-
gatherer and adjustment of the book
value of securities swallowed over half
a million of reserves during the five years
to the close of accounts in 1925, and the
management has not met with much luck
since in the development of other lines.
Under pressure of fair trade winds
and improving economic conditions most
underwriters are recording satisfactory
and expanding surpluses these days. But
this one, which does a large reinsurance
business, has run into a patch of bad
weather, especially in the marine section,
as the following table, which gives last
year’s results in each department, shows:
Net -
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Fire .. £31,379 £15,570 £18,407 £2.59'8
Accident.. 51,971 32.260 25,874 6.163
Marine .. 64,927 93,331 8,203 36,607
Underwriting loss .. .. .. .. £45,368
Net interest, etc. (less directors’ fees.
1936) 10,519
Net loss £34,849
In 1936 the fire department showed a
profit of £5ll, and the accident and
marine sections losses of £10,057 and
£22,003 respectively. Last year’s interest
earnings,. etc. (up £875), were equal to
10.5 p.c. on capital. But underwriting
losses left the net result from all sources
£34,849 (up £12,944) on the wrong side
of the ledger, making aggregate losses
over the last three years £62,336.
Shareholders, who had received 5 p.c. for
each of the five preceding years, were
passed by.
The combined underwriting results of
the three departments compare as
follows:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
1918.. 1,142.001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
1931.. 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
1933.. 138,761 85,049 50,597 61.3 „ 36.4 „
1934.. 152,907 97,076 55,644 63.4 „ 36.3 „
1935. . 168,767 129,397 54,886 76.6 „ 32.5 „
1936.. 168,460 141,743 58,266 84.1 „ 34.5 „
1937.. 148,277 141,161 '52,484 95.2 ~ 35.4 „
Over the last five years underwriting
has resulted in losses aggregating £89,131.
There is a small life department in
which £49,067 (down £43,112) of new
business was put on the books last year.
Allowing 3 p.c. for consideration of
annuities, exes, took over 42 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, and the effective
rate of interest was a shade over 3 p.c.
The year’s surplus (£10,197, down £2205)
lifted the life fund to £202,820.
Still, policy-holders in all sections are
well protected:
1920. 1930. 1936. 1937.
Public securi-
ties. . .. £144,211 £159,582 £143,342 £143,342
Mortgages de-
bentures, etc. 350,600 264,043 333,208 324,224
Properties . . 68,584 17,222 13,616
Book debts, etc. 230,564 47,656 55,698 47,135
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 34,556 64,492 57,210
Odds and ends 5,753 5,935 8,680 8,9'58
Total assets £1,026,936 £580,356 £622,642 £594,485
Liabilities* .. 141,715 72,594 49,059 50,552
£885,221 £507,762 £573,583 £543,933
* Including provision for taxation (1929-37, £2000).
The contraction of £29,650 in net tan-
gibles reflects the year’s losses. Apart
from the life fund, net tangibles were
equal to 230 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ,
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 4 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 1888 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 384 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 6199 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041 2250 Nil 6.483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,669 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
This co., which has had a run of bad
luck, is in the highly-competitive men’s-
wear business. Shirts, collars and
pyjamas are its chief lines, and it has
£244,736 of capital to feed in 29,736
A 7 p.c. and 50,000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs.,
all of £1 each, and 330,000 ords. of 10s.
each. Earnings have been erratic, but
the dead horse of accumulated pref.
divs. is being worked off, and the out-
look for the ords. has lost much of its
former drabness.
During the last term economic condi-
tions continued to improve, and so did
the co.’s turnover, despite severe com-
petition, especially from imports. The
other and less flexible factor (costs) in
the profits equation is on the up-grade,
too. The improvement in gross earnings
(£90,998) was £7688. Exes. (£74,707, in-
cluding something for depreciation, etc.)
were up £6298, leaving the net result
£1390 better at £16,591. This was enough
to pay 7 p.c. on the A and 9 p.c. on the
B shares and then show 6 p.c. on ord.
capital. Actually, the As got 7 p.c. and
the Bs 18 p.c., leaving another 18 p.c.
(£9000) still to come on the latter when
the books closed. So the amount coming
to the Bs at next balance will be £13,500
(ss. 4£d. per share), which, together with
£2082 to the As, will call for £15,582, or
£lOO9 less profit than was claimed last
year. Appearances are, therefore, that
it will be a couple of years or more be-
fore the ords. get into the picture, pro-
vided there is no marked recession in
trading results meanwhile.
Last month Victorian clothing factories
were working to capacity, and reported
substantial orders for the winter trade,
which suggests that retailers are fairly
confident of maintaining their volume of
trade until, say, June next. What will
happen after that remains to be seen;
much will depend upon the course of
prices, which, in turn, is partly wrapped
up with developments overseas.
Last year there was an all-round im-
provement in the financial position, as


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that offlce
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD ✓
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AN EARLY PICTURE OF THE CORNER
OF PITT & HUNTER STREETS, WHERE
THE BANK'S PRINCIPAL SYDNEYOFFICE
IS NOW LOCATED.
' i.iii ' inin s
: i.»i
/Ml ' u !|ll
saa.uv
X;
''/Sa
vS-
2^
<=/£
• • • from the days of the bullock dray in Pitt Street—
the swaggering soldiers of the garrison—the "holey"
dollar as coinage. It was then that the Union Bank com-
menced to play its part in the development of Australia.
Down the century that has followed it has been a
stabilising influence in the country's financial structure.
Wars .... depressions .... the Bank Crisis of '93 ... .
have left it unshaken and its depositors untroubled and
secure.
An interest bearing deposit with the Union Bank has always
been a safe and reliable investment.
These deposits are received in small or large sums and
the Bank's officers will be pleased to explain to you their
many advantages.
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(ESTABLISHED 1837 )
Incorporated in England 1880
Branches Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
SOLDIERS OF THE
21st royal north
BRITISH FUSILIERS
STATIONED IN NEW
SOUTH wXles
FROM 1832-1839.
•• >
’JT‘
*
♦
fci
w
r
M 2
‘8)
— 1
We knew
him when-
IT is well in this, Aus-
tralia’s 150th year of
settlement, that we pay
tribute to the men who laid
our foundations. Most of
the great men in Aus-
tralia’s history have been
members of the A.M.P. In
a double sense we of to-
day reap where they
sowed.
Take, as an instance,
Thomas Sutcliffe Mort,
whose statue adorns Mac-
quarie Place,, Sydney. He
was born in England in
1816 and came to Sydney
as a young man. In 1841
he helped to form the
Company that is now the
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd. In 1845
he established the Com-
pany that is now Golds-
brough Mort, & Company Ltd.
In 1849 he promoted the first'
line of railway in New South
Wales —between Parramatta
and Sydney—and in that year
joined with a small group of
far-seeing men to form the
A.M.P. Society. He was one
of the first three Trustees.
These were achievements
for a man not then 33, but
T. S. Mort was not content
with them. In 1854 he com-
menced the excavation of Mort’s Dock, the largest in Australia. In 1856 he
established Bodalla, a farm of 14,000 acres, later increased to 38,000 acres. In
1863 he established a Shipyard and Works for the manufacture of steam engines,
railway carriages, etc. In 1870 he began a series of experiments that resulted
in the first successful carriage of Frozen Meat to England.
A great Australian. The Society remembers him with pride.
T. S. Mort helped to form the A.M.P. that he might ensure the financial
security of his family. The great enterprisers of to-day—the rich men of to-
day—use the A.M.P. for the same purpose: Security. So do the "rank and file”
—on exactly the same terms. An average of, one family in two in Australia and
New Zealand now enjoys the comfort and security of A.M.P. policies.
Are you amongst the wise ones, reader? Or do you procrastinate? Get in
touch with the nearest A.M.P. office and learn what the Society can So to help
you.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1927. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities .. 237,849 120,117 133,714 102,524
Premises .. 116,929 110,881 109,767 108,969
Book*' debts lllfetl Sojo? 95,’313
stock.. '. 79,331 104,129 93,305
Cash, etc. .. 3,250 22,460 16,660 12,685
To clip £25,48 1 off the overdraft
(£88,779) and £5709 off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£13,745), stocks,
one of the most vulnerable points in the
business, were reduced by £10,824,
debtors’ balances by £5364, and cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £3980. The
year s improvement in the more or less
hquid surplus ( £93, 415) was £11,022.
shar s retu n S 3 oc \L7arreas The
,5 a ,,+; ' „
As at 255. 3d. yield 5.5-p.c. and the ords
nl Hiv J urn , , P 'k. .over
FhooV L S re a ng rl , n)
ind q. } / 19s - 6 • S ’ £
and 9s. 6d. ords.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
„ „ , To Re- Re-
ec ’’ ro £ ' Dlvl en S £ se £ es '
1927 .. 9131 io p.c. = 7930 1201 17,271
1928 .. 9730 10 „ „ 7930 1800 19,071
1929 .. 8540 io „ ~ 7930 610 19,681
1930 .. 6032 7}„ „ 5947 85 19,766
” il-f ~ &£Z
1933 6257 7 ” 5551 706
lovf ** till si ” ” 43 » 2 115
1935 .. 4247 5 „ „ 3965 282 17,072
1936 .. 5957 74 „ „ 5947 io 17,082
1937 7126 8 „ „ 6344 782 17,864
All sections of the business contributed
to the improvement of £1169 in last
year’s net earnings, while the alert man-
agement curtailed activities in lines not
earning their keep. The Sino-Japanese
“incident” has not affected the co.’s
trade with southern Asia, where strong
connections were established long before
t h e and where turnover has lately
strengthened. Locally there has been
an increasing demand for industrial
leathers, and the outturn of the co.’s tan-
njng and belting factories has continued
tQ eX p and> thanks largely to activity in
the motor-car and upholstery trades.
Also, further progress has been made in
the power-transmission and engineering
section of the business, additions to
which are under consideration,
After meeting all outgoings, allowing
£g 9 2 f or depreciation and making pro-
vjsion for bad debts and other con .
tingencies> enoU gh of , ast yea( , s takings
remained to d£r approximately 9 pi
on capital as against 7.5, 5.3, 5.6, 7.8,
6 J 7 6 10 s , and 12 ’ 2 J ba ’ k
1928. Half a point was added to the div.,
making it 8 p.c. For 14 years to the close
Of accounts in 1929 a steady 10 p.c. was
pa id, followed by an avera ' e of F 65 p . c .
for the half-dozen difficult years to the
end of 1936.
As for the current term, the outlook
on the demand side is bright enough at
the moment. But the price, of hides,
fh , u: f material k erratic
in e co * s cnier raw material, is erratic,
the tendency of costs generally is to
strengthen, and competition remains
keen. Still, prospects of the co. earning
enough to pay another 8 p.c. div. are
,7 • „ J *
encouraging.
Last year the price of the fully-paid
pound shares in the market fluctuated
between 255. and 235. 3d. Last week-
end the figure was 245., at which the re-
turn is 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
Each fluctuation of 1 p.c. in the dividend
would affect the return by 0.8 p.c. Visibly
the cover is 245. 6d. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1931. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 30,765 32,740 23,928 13,914
Freeholds .. .. 50,881 50,881 50,881 50,881
Plant, etc. .. 7,677 6,895 6,891 5,859
Stocks . . .. 47.373 53,658 47,731 42,892
Book debts .. 21,744 18,398 16,859 13,037
Cash, etc. ... 2,259 2,177 2,034 2,498
The year’s reduction of £4839 in stocks,
£3822 in debtors’ balances and of
£10,014 in the amount coming to out-
siders are encouraging movements, con-
sidering the expansion of turnover. The
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£44,513) was £lBl7.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
( —Dividends— ~
Pref. Written Nominal
June, Profit. 15 p.c. Ord. Off. Reserves.
££££,£>
1929.. 188,228 157,500 Nil 21,000 583,989
5 p.c.
1930.. 50,360 30,000 Nil 7.200 597,149
Previous year’s taxation, etc., £128,101.. 469,048
Written off shares in other cos., £65,606.. 403,442
Loss.
1931.. 67,670 Nil Nil '335,772
Contingency reserves included, £102,200.. 437,972
Written off shares in other cos., £47,674.. 390,298
Reserves disappear, £30,456 .. .. 359,842
1932.. 55,844 Nil Nil 303,998
Reserves disappear, £49,557 .. .. 254,441
Profit.
1933.. 37,817 Nil Nil 292,258
24 p.c.
1934.. 57,783 15,000 Nil 335,041
10 p.c. 24 p.c.
1935 f. 92,347 60,000 11,250 138,705 217,433
5 p.c.
1936 f. 91,069 60,000 22,500 21,511 204,491
10 p.c.
1937 t. 149,779 60,000 45,000 249,270
t Figures in sterling.
The spring in last year’s gross earnings
(£933,498) was £180,799, thanks to a
bigger output of cement, superphosphate
and mono, acid at the Cockle Creek
works (Newcastle, N.S.W.) and to the
lift in the price of lead and zinc. For the
12 months to September 30 (production
at the co.’s mine at the Barrier is realised
oh the basis of prices three months after
delivery), the London average for lead
was £24 10s. 7d. (up £7 19s. 5d.) and
spelter £22 7s. Id. (up £7 Bs. 6d.). Silver
was Iyd. lower at Is. lOd. per ounce.
The declared net result benefited by
£55,108 of the gross increase, and £3602
net dropped from somewhere into specific
reserves (£71,973). Including the unex-
plained addition, the profit was 14.2 p.c.
on the £1,050,000 of capital, of which
£600,000 is in £1 non-cumulative 10 p.c.
prefs., which enjoy priority as to capital
and have the right to participate with th,
ords. in any distribution above that rate.
The other £450,000 is in 600,000 f.-p. 15s.
ords. An all-round 10 p.c. div. was paid,
making the average over the last three
years 10 p.c. for the prefs. and 5.8 p.c.
for the ords. Before that slump, the
effects of the fire at the Central mine and
other things, including failure of the co.’s
low-grade lead-zinc proposition in Wales,
owing to the drop in metal prices, inter-
fered with distributions.
On the mining side of the business pro-
duction and treatment figures compare as
follows:
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Ore treated, tons 143,477 140,661 133,791* 131,921 1
Concentrates:
Lead, tons .. 21,494 20',567 19,187 17,951
Assay : Lead 75.0 p.c. 74.5 p.c. 73.8 p.c. 73.1 p.c.
Silver . . 58.30 z. G2.00z. 61.50 z. 59.80 z.
Zinc, tons .. 32,778 31,208 29,311 27,919
Assay: Zinc 53.1 p.c. 53.1 p.c. 53.1 p.c. 52.9 p.c.
Recoveries:
Lead.. ..93.8 „ 94.2 „ 93.6 „ 91.1
Silver .. 82.6 „ 81.1 „ 80.3 „ 78.3 „
Zinc . . .. 90.9 „ 89.8 „ 89.9 „ 89.8
Ore reserves,
tons.. ..702,905 572,720 435,896 313,000
* Excluding ore treated for B.H. Prop., 20,392
tons in 1936, and 85,204 tons in 1937.
The crudes, which assayed 11.8 p.c. lead.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
For the Quarter ended 31st December, 1937.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting.?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ jfc
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tinborlands and -plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia 1 For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—-AVilliam Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
a
PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES.
..PUMPMOBIL
I
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sen Islands.
Weight, complete. . 1201 b.
Capacity .. ~ 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption .. A-gallon Benzine or
Keroserte per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 132 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON PTY., LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
13 p.c. zinc and 10.8 oz. silver, con-
tained a trifle less of each metal than
in the previous year. This and the
slightly smaller throughput help to ex-
plain the contraction in production and
recovery figures. The feature which
catches the eye is the smallness of ore re-
serves (less than three years’ feed for
the mill at last year’s rate of treatment),
and there appears to be little prospect
of substantial additions thereto. Last
week-end lead was fetching £l5 10s. and
zinc £l4 4s. per ton in London. On this
basis, the lead bonus payable to em-
ployees at the Barrier (40s. per week in
April last) is 7s. 6d. per week. Still, there
will be a big shrinkage in mine profits
during the current term.
When the last of the ore is treated, chief
source of earnings will be the works at
Cockle Creek, where production, etc.,
over the last decade has been as follows:
Acidf
, Cement — y Super. —Pro-
Production, Sales?, Production, Sales, duction,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1928.. 68,375 * 37,919 * 20.541
1929.. 52.985 * 43,954 * 22,997
1930.. 38,338 * 34,351 * 16,507
1931.. 17.876 17,211 30,138 21,867 15,944
1932.. 7,535 14,335 8,104 26,404 8,346
1933.. 7,859 13,361 32,800 30V062 19,968
1934.. 17.111 17.700 32,259 30,202 22.294
1935.. 27,583 28,700 31,917 36,593 24,046
1936.. 36,387 * 41,510 * 28,609
1937.. 40,278 * 56,856 * 32,841
* Not disclosed, f Sulphuric.
Though last year’s cement sales were the
best since 1929, production is still only
about 50 p.c. of plant capacity. The
output of super, (up 15,346 tons last term)
has nearly doubled in the last two years,
and the acid plant, now taxed to capacity
to meet demand, is to be further en-
larged. Although the co. has been
making cement from oyster shell since
1933, it has experienced no difficulty in
selling limestone from its quarry at
Attunga, where 65,149 tons (up 17,708
tons) was produced last year. Improve-
ments to equipment and increased output
have resulted in an all-round reduction
of costs. Earnings and exes., for the
mining and industrial sections of the
business are not separated in the pub-
lished accounts.
In 1934 the board said part, at least,
of the pref. capital would be repaid if
employment could not be found for sur-
plus funds. Thus far nothing considered
suitable has turned up. The position as
balance-sheet figures show it is as fol-
lows :
1935. 1936. 1937.
Capital: Pref £660.000 £600,000 £600,060
Ord. . . . . 450,000 450,000 450,000
Sundry creditors .. 23,577 45,480 43,362
Mine and works .. 498.849 491,870 514,014
Stocks and stores . . 77,266 79,333 80,719
Shares other cos. .. 31,154 23,692 72,577
Book debts . . . . 215,991 184.497 230,817
Public securities .. 201.474 248,569 282,505
Cash 337,518 354,511 282,000
At Cockle Creek, where the programme
of plant improvement is now complete,
except for additions to the acid equip-
ment, the year’s capital expenditure
amounted to £37,750, and £15,606 was
allowed for amortisation. To meet the
net outlay of £22,144, carry an extra
£1386 of stocks, etc., add £48,885 to sun-
dry investments (the item includes a hold-
ing in Lysaghts), £46,320 to debtors’ bal-
ances and £33,936 to public securities,
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £72,511.
Including shares in other cos. and stocks,
etc., the year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£800,256) was
£60,134. When the books closed, shares
in other cos. and debtors’ balances to-
gether exceeded the outside debt by
£260,032. In addition, there is an un-
ascertained liability under the N. S.
Wales Workers’ Compensation Act, the
amount of which will not be known until
the Government completes its already
long-winded investigation into the posi-
tion. Cash and public securities com-
bined were equal to 19s. 9|d. per pound
of pref. capital.
The prefs. last changed hands at
-265. 3d., which is Is. 3d. above their par
value in Australian currency, after allow-
ing for exchange. The ords. at 10s.
would return 7.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. Excluding specific reserves
(£71,973), the net tangible cover is
20s. lid. (book value), chiefly in fixed
assets at the mine and Cockle Creek.
Selayang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
An offshoot of Malaya Tin Syndicate,
this co. acquired 495 acres of tin-bear-
ing alluvials near Kuala Lumpur
(F.M.S.) in 1924. The main area, of 160
acres, was estimated by J. Malcolm New-
man to contain 12,000,000 c.y. averag-
ing 0.81b.-0.91b. t. 0.; an adjoining area
was said to contain similar yardages and
values. F. W. Paine and Sons (London)
assessed average value of both areas at
0.61 b. The dredge started up in 1927,
but results went early amiss. Bucket-
band defects, clayey wash, water difficul-
ties and limestone pinnacles, which have
made large patches of the property un-
workable, all contributed to the co.’s
troubles. Only in one year have average
recoveries exceeded o.Blb. t.o. per
c.y., and not till 1935 was the first
div. paid. Meantime shareholders saw
£131,250 of their capital (15s. per share)
go to write down fixed assets.
Over the last three years the outlook
for shareholders has lost much of its
drabness. Financial results compare as
follows:
N et , —Dividends—,
Sept., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Amount. Share.
1935.. £19,853 £12,754 £7,099 £6,563 -/9
1936.. 34,574 22,415 12,159 10,937 1/3
1937.. 43,872 27,978 15,894 10,937 1/3
* Includes depreciation: Nil, 1935; £5173, 1936;
£4345, 1937.
Last year’s net surplus (up £3735) was
the best yet. Noting the difficulties in
the path of the industry, however, the
board kept the div. at 25 p.c., or Is. 3d.
per ss. share.
Here is the result of recent operations
looked at in another way:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards dug . . 477,110 729,078 882,551
Recovery t. 0., tons . . 149.1 293 267.9
Aver, c.y., pound .. 0,70 0.87 0.68
Assay, p.c. ... . . 73.7 73.8 73.8
Mine costs, c.y. . . 5.6 d. 5.2 d. 5.1 d.
Net selling- price t. 0., ton —
£l3l/10/-£lll/6/10 £l4O/8/-
Better tin prices, bigger turnover and a
slight decrease in average costs, which
are still on the high side, combined to
offset the fall in last term’s recoveries.
Dredging reserves are put at 8,000,000
c.y. having a tin content of 1575
tons, giving the co. a life of nine
years at last term’s rate of digging. Ne-
gotiations are proceeding for acquisition
of a further 70 acres, bored to contain
“payable” values, on the adjoining Malay
Reservation. The co. can also be ex-
pected to take full advantage of the lift-
ing of the prospecting ban.
Quota reduction from 110 p.c. to 70
p.c. of standard tonnages by the Inter-
national Tin Committee for the first
quarter and to 55 p.c. for the second
quarter of 1938 will not hit Malaya,
the sole country to have produced its
full quota, as hard as some others.
Bolivia, the Belgian Congo and French
Indo-China have surrendered export
rights to 11,500 tons, which is to be split
up among Malaya, Netherlands East
Indies and Nigeria.
Capital of Selayang is £43,750 in
175,000 ss. shares, priced at Bs. 6d. apiece
in the market. At Sept. 30 there were
liquids of £30,305, taking investments
(book value £6011) at their market
worth, or 3s. 6d. per share, to cover a
handful of liabilities.
Austral Malay Tin has taken a six
months’ free option from Adelaide Tin
Exploration over some 700 acres at
Garrawalt Creek, which is about 2000 ft.
above sea level and 28 miles as the crow
flies, or 60 miles by road, from Ingham
(N.Q.). The purchase price, not stated,
is payable 5 p.c. cash and 10 p.c. of the
shares fully-paid in any co., with an
issued capital of not less than £BO,OOO,
formed to work the property. One of
the directors of the Adelaide co. reckons
there is about 30,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing lib. or more t. 0., available, but until
the area is thoroughly tested any estimate
of yardage and values can be only in the
nature of a rough guess. Half a century
ago a lot of tin was won from this area,
but lack of water and the clayey nature
of the wash presented big difficulties, and
continue to do so. For large-scale
operations the main sources of supply
will, of course, be the creek beds and
terraces or beaches. According to a
Government report, these vary up to two
chains and over in width, and with
lengths between bars up to 12 chains,
but the depth and value of the wash
remain to be proved. The water diffi-
culty might be overcome by construc-
tion of a dam.
* * * *
The Mt. Garnet tinfield (N.Q.) is still
receiving a lot of attention, despite the
present low price of the metal. About
the middle of last year Tableland Tin
Dredging was formed to work a five-mile
stretch in the bed of Return Creek, where
Malcolm Newman and J. B. Ferris
figured that there is 40,000,000 c.y. of
0.621 b. dirt and 8,000,000 c.y. of 0.371 b.
stuff. The reconditioned dredge, to dig
about 80,000 c.y. monthly, is expected to
set in before September. At the beginning
of this year it was reported that B.H.
Prop., which intends to erect a tinplate-
making plant later on, was casting an
eye over likely areas in the district (the
co. has two fully-equipped boring outfits
at work in the Cooktown area). Now the
Mines Department has granted Malcolm
Newman authority to prospect 2100 acres
of near-by ground on Smith’s Creek and
Black Creek. If values here are good
enough, the probabilities are that an-
other co. will be formed to work the
ground.
* * * *
Hoping for a change of luck, share-
holders of Bundi Tin, which has been
having a rough spin with its gold-dredging
show at Greymouth (M.L.), have author-
ised a further call of 3d. per share to
continue prospect borings. The dredge
was recently, shut down, recoveries from
the small area “proved” having failed to
come anywhere near prospectus esti-
mates.
* * * ~
“Eastern”: Recent developments at
Lady Shenton, Menzies (W.A.), should
hearten shareholders somewhat. The dis-
closure of 3ft. of 30dwt. ore at the 725 ft.
level in a drive (extended for 9ft.) from
the bottom of No. 9 winze augurs well
for the persistence of the ore-body at
depth, and suggests the possibility of the
ultimate confirmation of the results of a
drill hole put down by the old com-
pany in pre-war days, when good values
and width were reported from a depth
of about 800 ft. A crosscut from No. 4
level westerly has revealed sft. of ore
previously located by drilling. The full
width and value are not yet known, but if
values are satisfactory there is a possi-
bility of good tonnages being available
from this area both above and below this
level. The mine, which now presents
much improved prospects, should do
better in the future, if an ever-watchful
eye is kept on costs, its big weakness to
date.
* #. * *
Latest quarterly report of Lake View
and Star reads well. Revenue totalled
£A354,661, working exes, took £179,118
and ordinary development £21,408, leav-
ing a surplus of £154,135, of which special
development mopped up £8623, and capi-
lal expenditure on plant and machinery,
including a new power unit, £19,867.
During the period 5150ft. of driving,
1404ft. of crosscutting, 2466ft. of winzing,
118ft. of rising and 1716ft. of diamond
drilling were done on the co.’s properties.
Several good developments were re-
corded, and ore reserves were increased.
The second interim div. for the current
financial year is due in April.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Edna May Amalgamated is
full of hope and expectations. The man-
agement says no difficulty has been or is
likely to be experienced in keeping the
water under control; revenue derived
from treatment is tipped to meet all ex-
penditure, including pumping ; and suffi-
cient ore is considered to be available
from Edna May lease to supply 10 head
of stamps until the opening up and
development of two branches of the
middle reef in Central ground have been
completed. Some mining men who know
the Edna May well think the manage:
ment is optimistic.
* * * *
Hannans North, B.H.P.’s one and only
Westralian goldmine, hasn’t been a bad
investment. During the last two years
alone it has yielded bullion worth over
£A 150,000, and shown a fair profit on
production. A Mines Department report
indicates that the appearance of the prop-
erty is promising, that developments are
well ahead of the mill, and that there
are no signs of slowing down.
* * * *
De Bernales’s Westralian gold group
produced bullion valued at nearly
£100,000 in January. Gt. Boulder topped
the score with £57,145, Yellowdine fol-
lowed with £25,625, and then came Emu
£5975, Comet £5915 and Riverina £2460.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet Gold
Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), treated 59,580 tons
in 1937 for 8558 fine ounces gold, and
made money out of it. This is claimed
to be the lowest grade of gold ore yet
treated profitably in bulk in the State. A
lot of the stuff handled came from an
opencut where, according to Mines De-
partment officials, cost of mining is the
lowest in the West.
* * *
Rand gold production reached a re-
cord high level of 11,740,891 fine ounces
(from 50,000,000 tons) during 1937, com-
pared with 11,335,094 the preceding year
and 11,557,858 in 1932, the previous
peak. Value of 1937 output was
£80,000,000 stg., as against £49,000,000 in
1932, when the yellow metal was fetch-
ing only £4 5s. an ounce. The higher
prices ruling since 1932 have consider-
ably lengthened the life of the field by
reducing the grade of ore that can be
profitably milled. Last year the average
yield was something under 4|dwt., com-
pared with five years earlier.
Crown Mines and Government G.M.
Areas Consolidated, each with annual
outputs around the million-ounce mark,
are the biggest producers.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how lo write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
HOTEL
Bent, Phillip
METROPOLE
and Young Streets, Sydney
(H
HI
111
1 111 I
imp
ii
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“It is seldom that a miss in the engine
develops into serious trouble these days.”
— Motorists’ journal.
No, it’s the one the wife finds in the
back seat with you that causes it all.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
A beeline is the shortest possible dis-
tance between Hollywood and Reno.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Woman leaves her husband because he
continually experimented with explosives.”
—News item.
Doubtless she considered it her par-
ticular right to do any blowing-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Beware of a girl who has rings under her
eyes,” advises a writer.
And none on her fingers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Many (N.S.W.) U.A.P. sitting members
feel they will be left standing through
the “safe-seat” dust-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Should State Parliaments be retained?”
asks a Sydney religious weekly.
The M.L.Ayes have it.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“A 22-year-old American, John Lorenick,
was jilted at the church door by 70-year-old
Henrietta Pieper, who said she thought he
must have loved her money as he only put his
arms round her when the newsreel cameras and
flashlights were going.”—Cable.
He only pecked her, Pieper picked,
When flashlights popped and cameras
clicked;
Pieper, piqued at such a caper,
Feared he loved her pocket better,
Now where’s the pot of Pieper’s paper
Picked by Pieper’s petter ?
Stoo.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It was about this time that a real police
force began to find its feet in early Sydney.”
—Sydney paper.
Not a very difficult task for a police
force.
4 < 4* 4* •i
“Some bee-farmers are stung so often that
they take no notice of it.” — Sydney paper.
The average taxpayer is just the same.
4* 4* 4*
“According to aviation authorities, flying is
much cheaper than it was two years ago.”
—News item.
Then the cost of going up is coming
down!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Witness said that defendant, after a narrow
escape from being knocked down by a car,
roundly abused the driver, using most offen-
sive language.”—Court report.
Pedestrians, it appears, shouldn’t be
obscene and not hurt.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Tripe,” says a dietitian, “is one of the most
nutritious and health-giving foods.”
Readers of war-“news” cables should
be feeling fit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Ishbel MacDonald, who is licensee of the
Plough Inn at Speen, Buckinghamshire, and
who neither drinks nor smokes, is to marry
one Ridgley, player of the big drum in the
village band and local darts champion.”
Our Norm Ridgley bain’t no stupid:
Norm at darts be such a dab
He made Ishbel think him Cupid !
But down at Plough be lots o’ gab
How she got him by the lugs;
For, though Norm Ridgley bain’t no
chump,
He do be like they girt old mugs,
For Ishbel pulled him from the pump !
Tham.
Eviction Case.
“How does a woman feel when her husband
comes home drunk at 3 a.m. and throws her
out of the house V’—Divorce lawyer.
Unless her nerves are made of steel,
I’d say, without a doubt,
This attitude would make her feel
Exceedingly put out!
Nat.
4> 4* 4* 4*
Overdoing It.
“A fast bowler should put everything he
knows into his deliveries.”— Cricketing hint.
Pitchem, the speed demon of our Back
o’ Bourke eleven, was like that. The
whole trouble was that he put more than
he knew into his last one.
We were up against Grogan’s Mill,
the losers to shout the winners under
the table. They were nine for 999, and
Pitchem was determined to prevent the
thousand. Getting a stray hack to carry
him to the start of his labors, he dropped
to the ground half a mile from the
wicket. Then, taking off his boots, pants
and shirt, he started. On he came like
a man trying to reach a pub with a mile
to go and a minute to do it in, right up
to the Wicket. Up came his arm, and—
well, nobody ever got the rights of it,
barring a kind of cartwheel streaking for
“I'll promise to tell the truth, y'Onor, if you promise not to let these mugs make a liar out o’ me.”
the horizon. All we could do before we
adjourned to the pub for revivers was to
bury what we could find of the batsman.
A month passed, when a Queensland
paper came to hand, commenting on the
fact that three steers were found spitted
to a sapling apiece with stumps, and a
report from the Back o’ Nowhere of a
strange gibbering monster flying over a
stony plain tossing gibbers in all direc-
tions. There was also a severe Japanese
earthquake, but we doubt if he got that
far.
R. B.
♦ + 4* 4*
“C. U. Boots, of N.Z., won the 880yd$. in
the record time of 51.25ec.”
As Omar might have said:
“What Boots it to repeat
How time is slipping underneath his
feet ?“
4 1 4* 4* 4 1
“Pease v. Petfse.” — Divorce item.
Split Pease.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The auctioneer halted the sale to ask some
questions of the assembly of buyers and curious
onlookers.” — “D.T."
Was this just a more-bid curiosity?
4* 4 1 4* 4 1
Many a man who thinks he is getting
a square deal is merely figuring in a
triangle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Dual Qualifications.
‘‘Wanted —billing typist. ’ ’ — A dvt.
The billing, of course, is essential,
For that’s what she’ll mostly be doing;
But even a better credential
Would be that she’s handy at cooing.
Nip.
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
V. — Endeavour Doings.
Dampier’s descriptions of Australian
flora as seen through his telescope had
fired the home authorities with a desire
to enrich English botany with some
Antipodean specimens. Moreover, if
England were at any time to have a week
without rain, the ravages of the drought
could perhaps be lessened by the intro-
duction of such valuable fodder trees
as the Bathurst burr, prickly-pear, mistle-
toe, etc. Consequently, Joseph Banks,
botanist, had been included in the
Endeavour’s complement.
Joe had had a brilliant career at
Oxford, getting his blue for ludo and
three-holes. Early he had displayed a
leaning to the natural sciences, and his
attempt to establish what he called
“potted agriculture” by trying to cross
the aspidistra with the mangelwurzel
brought him under the notice of the Lin-
nean Society. A greater qualification,
however, was that he had been a cobber
of Lord Sandwich’s son at ’Varsity.
Joe’s assistant on the voyage was Dan
Solander, who had created a sensation
in horticultural circles by having a pair
of shears that hadn’t once been pushed
in the ground and left to go rusty after
he’d finished using them. Dan’s job was
to strain the salt out of the sea water
so that the plants could be kept alive.
It was not until they had left Hawaii
that Cap’n Cook began to curse the
scientists in earnest. Joe had filled in
his time on the island helping himself
to all the breadfruit plants and convol-
vuluses he could lay hands on, and he
had thousands of pots scattered around
the decks. Also, he insisted on having a
hothouse built near the wheelhouse, and
then had the crew clewing up sails all
day so that there would be no flapping
of canvas to create cooling draughts.
But the breaking point for Cook came
when Joe cluttered up the masts with
staghorns and elks. As the navigator
said bitterly to his quartermaster: “Tha
theenk yon sheep’s a bletty narsery an’
arl!”
To add to Jim’s embarrassment, the
Admiralty had insisted on his also find-
ing room for Charlie Green, the
astronomer, and the only place left for
his 47 telescopes was in Cook’s cabin.
was pretty tough, as the leader com-
plained in his journal, when a man,
after spending 36 hours on the bridge in
dirty weather, had to pick his way over
347 pot-plants to get to his cabin, and
then when he did get to bunk have
several telescopes sticking in the middle
. , ,
*7° Provision, of course, had been
made before leaving for fuel for the hot-
house) and pr e oblem became more
acute as voyage progressed. The
nav igator had to spend most of his wak-
jng hours snooping around to see that
j oe an( j £> an chop up the bin-
na£fle or saw a f ew S p o kes out of the
wheel to keep the fires going. It wasn’t
until Jim had to have his dinner off the
floor because the table had gone into the
furnace that he put his foot down, and
threatened to clap the pair in irons if
anything more went up in smoke,
Thereafter they persuaded Jim to put
an y fever cases among the crew in the
now-cold hothouse, and even bribed some
of the A.Bs. to tear round the decks
until they got red-hot, and then put
them in among the plants while they
cooled off. Joe was experimenting
with the breadfruit and convolvulus to
evolve an edible flower, and in the in-
terests of science he had sacrificed to
the flames all his own clothes except a
singlet and his cutlass belt.
Banks, owing to months of continual
work in the hothouse, lost weight alarm-
ingly, and by the time they sighted
Maoriland he was so weak and ema-
ciated that, putting up the blind in his
cabin to catch his first glimpse of that
country, he didn’t let go the cord quickly
enough, and he flew up to the ceiling
with it. »
The many irritations of the voyage
had for Cook been slightly mitigated by
the many hard games of rummy which
the quartet enjoyed. It was a hard
school, with stakes high, and Jim was
elated when he arrived in the Shivery
Isles 2s. 4d. up. Sportingly he offered to
bet the losers double or quits that Maori-
land wasn’t in one piece, and his subse-
quent circumnavigation proved Jim a
good tipster.
It was, then, a comparatively happy
explorer that turned his vessel westward
and headed for Australia.
S. W. K.
Sounder Reason.
“According to a writer, many men disappear
because they feel they are no longer wanted.”
Life’s bitterness, they find, is deep and
searing,
And so they often skip to realms afar;
Not wanted — that’s why some are dis-
appearing,
Yet most men do a float because they
are!
K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Castlemaine, Perkins.
Rights to the new issue being
made by this prosperous and ex-
panding Brisbane brewery can be
got at about 10s., indicating a
yield of £4 Bs. p.c. when fully paid,
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. With
225. 6d. or thereabouts payable
altogether, there are chances of
market appreciation later.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
How Now?
The slump in commodities and shares
has spoilt more than one Australian’s
holiday abroad. To look after their
investments trippers have hurried back
here in many cases. There remains no
doubt about the far-reaching effects of
the present setback in world price re-
covery, though hopeful and depressing
items at the moment seem inextricably
mixed up.
From Australia it is difficult to under-
stand the situation in other countries,
particularly those places outside the
Empire. In the Commonwealth, and
S’Africa post-depression industrial pro-
gress has been almost unbroken, in
Britain there has been more of a boom
(and more chances, perhaps, of a slump)
than in any other red-shaded portion of
the map, and parts of Canada have been
robustly prosperous. But the United
States, France and some other con-
tinental European countries have gone
through jerky, nervy and disheartening
economic times for varying periods. The
industrial and political welfare of these
great countries must affect the rest of
the world ; there is no doubt about the
present sensitiveness of Australian share-
markets to overseas developments.
Perhaps in this respect we are not
minding our own business to the extent
we ought. But having, in the specula-
tion of 1936 and early 1937, followed
overseas trends on the way up, it is
natural enough that we follow them on
the way down. And though we may
become unnecessarily distracted by
purely sharemarket developments over-
seas, we cannot give too much attention
to those factors which influence inter-
national trade. Sharemarket behavior is
often froth and bubble, and more exag-
gerated, because of speculation, than
business conditions warrant; but trade
itself is these days at the bottom of
national livelihood, and in the long run
it accounts for how investors fare.
The fall in many leading and widely-
held Australian stocks has made the
future a matter of keen concern to a
large number of investors and specu-
lators. At the moment the big and fre-
quent question is how the cat is going
to jump. It has been recorded here at
other times that 1933-37 was probably
the greatest speculative period in Aus-
tralian Stock Exchange history, and that
brokers and their clients now represent
a field in which more money is involved
than at any time before. The high price
paid for seats on ’Change a year ago is
but one indication of this.
Following a great wave of spec, interest
in U.S.A. industries following the infla-
tionary effects of the New Deal—this in-
flation had a lot to do with the rise in
world prices, though rearmament talk in
Britain also had much to do with it —
stagnation has followed in many sec-
tions, especially in U.S.A. steelworks.
Unemployed are still a huge problem in
that country, and there is growing fric-
tion between various camps of Capital
and Labor. An industrial and economic
revolution appears to be in progress, and
there are plenty of people prepared to
say that turmoil and uncertainty will be
America’s lot while Franklin Roosevelt
remains in office. His economic experi-
menting certainly hasn’t lifted the U.S.A.
from slump. The Presidential term is
four years, and the next election won t
be held, normally, until November, 1940
—about three years off.
The most important and real effect the
many overseas developments of late have
had on . Australia has been the reduction
in our external income through falling
prices for wool, wheat,', base metals and
other. items. War talk, British industrial
re-equipment, currency - devaluation, re-
armament and the. New Deal were some
of the things that sent .world prices up
to rather dizzy figures last year; war
talk, slackening of British industrial re-
equipment, a lagging New Deal and in-
creasing costs .in 1 some countries follow-
ing currency devaluation and shorter
working weeks are among the things de-
pressing prices now. Those countries
which have indulged in anything like in-
flation (Britain is not exempt, though
far from a leading example) are suffer-
ing, and are likely to suffer, most.
Australia’s trade balance isn’t as good
as it was. Export prices are lower, im-
ports are higher and wages have been
increased by “prosperity” awards. Build-
ing activity must surely slow up and
affect employment. These things deserve
to be given consideration by the most
stout-hearted of us. Infantile-paralysis
scares in the two biggest States affected
the retail trade sharply, especially in
Victoria.
Yet with all these items weighing
against a continued movement towards
better times, there are factors suggesting
that reasonably good conditions shouldn’t
depart from our midst. The benefits of
increased internal buying-power of our
externally depreciated currency haven’t all
flown, though real-estate subdivisionists,
State Governments and drapery-ad. news-
papers have done their best to boost
things. Money at present is cheap, and
many items of income and outgo remain
fairly well in balance. The thing to aim
at is keeping them in balance, and to
bury envy, greed and industrial squabbles
during this very delicate period of world
economic affairs.
North Broken Hills again dropped
below 50s. early last week, revision of
the div. being expected and metals show-
ing a further decline. Souths, on which
a quarterly, of 9d. had been declared,
were also weak ; at 325. 9d. they kept
roughly to the ratio of being priced at
two-thirds the valuation of Norths.
Rumors from New York that Roose-
velt aimed at further “reflation” of
prices' brought about a slight firming in
base-metal 1 stocks last 1 Thursday. Some
people who are tired uf following the
U.S.A.’s economic policy seemed more
prepared to believe in the higher prices
when they were able to see them.
Following declaration of a div. of
9d. by North (Is. 3d. and Is; 6d. pre-
viously), that co.’s scrip slumped. 2s;, to
48s. 9d., on Friday. Div. was lower than
most people expected, but the mine is
still in the same place at the Barrier.
The international nature of speculation
is one reason why good Australian stocks
are affected on our own ’Changes with
the ebb and flow of confidence in New
York. Nearly every Big City share-
broker here does a daily both-ways busi-
ness with London or N’York. Gamblers
are almost as superstitious as reasonable,
and one argument is often as good as
another to influence them. Australian
punters were due for a chastening, any-
way, and it perhaps matters little whether
they take their cue from the Sydney
wool-market or from Wall-street.
.-* . *
The biggest single Stock Exchange
deal in Sydney last week was the trans-
fer of ‘a block of 5000 Cumberland
Paper third prefs. at 31s. The buyer gets
a well-backed yield of above 5.1, p.c.
. > *** .« 9 ■
North Coast Steam shares look a snap
at’ 365.. 6d.,- returning 4.4 p.c. Highest
quote in-1937 was 435.
* * * *
Some investors.looking for income are
asking the question, “Why. shouldn’t I
go in big for Mt. Morgan’s pref. issue?”
To the objection, “A goldmine’s, always
a goldmine,” the answer usually comes
back, “And Mt. Morgan is Mt. Morgan.”
Interest is 8 p.c., issue £200,000, term
five to eight years, (at co.’s option) ; ap-
plications close on February 25. A good
deal will depend on how far the money
in hand and now being raised will go
towards meeting the expense of over-
coming opencut problems, mechanising
the mine and erecting smelters. If the
job can be carried right through now
the outlook for pref. shareholders should
be happy enough. Ord. divs. (and, there-
fore, pref. divs.) have been promised by
the chairman as soon as realisation of
concentrates recommences. The pref.
shares look more of a holding than a
stagging proposition.
* * * *
Olympic Tyre shares, Melbourne,
which were up to 495. 6d. in December,
were offered by sellers at 475. 6d. last
week, after sales at that figure. The co.
continues to do excellent business, and the
124 p.c. div. is in no apparent danger,
whatever sharemarket conditions con-
tinue to be like. l Yield offering at 475.
6d. is 5.2 p.c.
*** ■ *
Yarra Falls shares at 38s. yield £5 ss.
per cent, and look inviting for holding
purposes. Holeproof’s record profit
rebuts suggestions of an all-round set-
back in the textile trade, and H. B.
Dickie has lifted its interim.
* * * *
The new regulations prohibiting taxi
“cruising” in Sydney were one influence
in the weaker market for Yellow Cab
scrip last week, which has been in a
speculative mood for some time. What-
ever the merits of cab shares as an in-
vestment, the efforts of the N. S. Wales
Transport Strangulation people to hinder
the cheapest mobile transport service of
this age are pathetic. There. are but.a
thousand or so taxis around Sydney ;
heaven knows how many cars. The
biggest traffic nuisances in Sydney and
suburbs is the Government’s own trams
and buses. . ‘
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop, paids, after slump-
ing to around 605., recovered to 61s. 9d.
last week. The return offering is just
over 4 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis.
B.H.P. has been criticised in the market
as a stock from which big returns can’t
be . looked for because of political
reasons and labor jealousy. It is ad-
mitted here that B.H.P. isn’t a stock for
short-term speculation. But for holding
it should be hard to beat.
* * * *
Australian Gas “A” shares reached
their highest point in months last week.
After £7 11s. was paid, buyers offered
that figure, sellers asking £7 11s. 6d. The
return is 4.8 p.c., as against 4.6 p.c. from
Metropolitan Gas, Melbourne.
* * * *
Assets of Montana Western Extended
are to be sold to a new co., Montana
Silver 1 Lead, N.L., the number of shares
to be the same, but denomination to be
. lifted to ss. On payment of 3d., a share
holders of scrip in the present co. may
take up shares paid to 2s. 3d. in the new
float. Shortage of cash, following a de-
velopment policy that didn’t prove a
great deal 1 of ore in the part of the
show concentrated on at Zeehan (Tas.),
is one. reason for the reconstruction.
Chairman H. E. Siezer says the 3d. a
share now asked for will cover cost of
proving the lode in the south drive.
* * * *
The recovery in Carrier shares, from
19s. to 245., was perhaps to be expected.
Nevertheless, the passing of the div. and
the ensuing share slump bring to mind the
uncertainty attending businesses of this
kind where profits cannot be fully pro-
tected by patent rights. There are a
number- of air-conditioning 1 systems on
the market, some being handled by neon-
sign cos. These neon-sign concerns them-
selves are in a rather indefinite position.
Apart from competition, there is some
public objection to neon signs, especially
noticeable in Melbourne.
# * # *
Producers and General Finance, Syd-
ney, has omitted the interim ord. div.
from its programme for 1937-38. Fol-
lowing the fat rates paid for a time after
the .scrip came on to the market, the
present action is likely to arouse some
querulous criticism. This page’s private
opinion is, that conservation of the co.’s
finances, even at this late stage, is wise.
The market stood at ss. 6d. buyer, 7s. 6d.
seller, after the announcement. Shares
were sold, by Hamiltons (Australasia),
Ltd., at prices up to 475. 6d.
* * * *
The interim div. of Adelaide Steam
(shipowner, colliery-investor and part-
owner of air services) at 3 p.c. is no better
than for the preceding year, when a 4
p.c. final made a total of 7 p.c. The
present distribution must be a very con-
servative one, in view of the buoyant
conditions in the coastal shipping trade.
Possibly the future doesn’t look quite so
reassuring as it did; the directors may
be waiting on the full year’s figures be-
fore signalling any increase on share-
holders’ account for 1937-38. In Adel-
aide the shares sold down from 355. to
335. 9d.; in Sydney the market remained
nominally between 345. and 355.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson ords., an in-
vestment selection in B. 26/1/’3B at 705.,
resisted the jittery market and made 735.
6d. last week. An interim div. is immi-
nent, and whether this time it will mean
an addition to shareholders’ income or not
isn’t of vital concern. Immediate yield
is still over 4 p.c., and the future is very
attractive. ■ Against earnings of 27 p.c.
on ord. capital last term, the div. was
15 p.c.
* * * *
The sudden rise in Davies, Coop ords.,
Melbourne cotton-spinners, -weavers and
mercery manufacturers, from a previous
sale of 235. to 255. last week, was appa-
rently in anticipation of the interim div.
expected to be paid about March 31.
In 1936-37 a 24 p.c. interim and 34 p.c.
final made 6 p.c. for the year, as against
5 p.c. in the preceding term. Judging by
the co.’s improved factory and the favor-
able trading conditions in evidence up to
' date, 1937-38 profits seem due for an
increase.
i * * * *
Fully-paid 16s. shares in Kandos
Cement, the Sydney holding co. in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty., lifted to
265. 6d. last week, equalling the highest
price- of- 1-937.. The £1 shares in Aus-
tralian Cement, Melbourne, were down
slightly at 335. 6d. Though on an im-
mediate-return basis these two stocks are
now almost in line, on an assets-backing
basis Kandos fully-paids are still under-
valued, and the half-paids at 12s. 3d.
are even more so. Kandos paids were
recommended in B. 15/12/’37 at 245. 6d.
With Carlton Brewery, Holeproof
Hosiery, Davies Coop, Mauri Bros.,
Australasian Paper, Gordon and Gotch
and some other stocks favored by this
page, the scrip has beaten the drifting
market.
* * * *
Briseis Tin (near Derby, Tas.) dropped
to 6s. 2d. last week, Mt. Paris (a dis-
appointment after development in 1937)
to lOd. and Normanby (near Cooktown,
Q.) to lid. Briseis scrip saw Bs. 6d. in
1937, Mt. Paris ss. 7d. and Normanby
3s. 3d. Briseis and Mt. Paris scrip is paid
to 55., Normanby to Is. Briseis out of the
three most closely approaches the de-
scription of being a proved mine. In
some respects it has disappointed share-
market optimists, and its small-denomi-
nation shares have at times lent them-
selves to speculation, but it is well
handled on the mining side.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australian Paper Manufacturers prefs.
continued to sell at 265., returning 4.6 p.c.
This stock has become very popular.
G. J. Coles ords. stayed depressed at 795.,
after 785., the lowest price for a long time.
Holeproof ords. were bought at prices up to
31s. 6d. A matter of weeks ago they were
below 275.
North Kalguru shares continued tp sell
‘firmly above 225. Lancefield Was erratic fol-
lowing declaration of the sixpenny div.


S 73
■
Sv4 >ii'3c?' s -s.-cr'
.;■ ' ' : ■•.:■■
ir=r--' £ A > V -**»i
. ' —
V*:
IsssS
i REAR R\
• * ••: -■» v s
WWorTr^oßE
fed:
v,x;
-•
-••- .••
- ■ -■—
«@e
- . U
*
is*.
• s x"--
®3/V
9S &&
©i 1
&
r eWS®
m:
CAPSTAN
r~
S s. -^§
y/^_D
■. fcsSS
SHANTIES
1 ;..
You’d better beware of captured brandy
(With a heave-ho, my hearties)
OW,
ni&s*
"e
-
f s^
s
%
¥-m-
Mart
V-d
YAWx
Kl
' \i
_.t\ JkS;
ft A \/j
It’s better to keep a cutlass handy,
(With a heave-ho, my hearties)
Mr
f Ist
J'A
*r.
And better not suffer from vain regrets—
you’d better avoid unknown cigarettes:
T (itteDß c
n.N-E
A" VA O
Better—oh certainly , t’cry much better,
v Better buy Capstan >
(they're blended better)
*
BM
IHi i
-1 'asr-ftti
r N
wm
IA7
n
/
3?
;£3
H
&psta>i\ ’**§;
os
rj
H&Sw
27 c
IE
GS
m
J
J Jj
L
WS&ISgiWgS
Capstan Special Mild fferf Pack
Capstan Medium Blue Pack
Capstan Full Strength Brown Pack
Capstan Medium Ovals Blue Pack
(Heavy Weights)
£*Sa
iggSgl 1
f *<
(£9l
Ml
wwsm
SaOSßaa
tftfriitfr
Time for a
CAPSTAN
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
SSSSS*.
IKS


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Ajax (Heroic-Medmenham) romped
home in the Caulfield Futurity Stakes
with 9st. 61b., the heaviest weight ever
carried to victory by a three-year-old in
the seven-furlongs classic.
Unquestionably this generous chestnut
is the fastest galloper on the Australian
turf. Whether he is superior to some of
the previous winners (Sir Foote, Glad-
some, Comedy King, Eurythmic, The
Hawk, Top Gallant, Gothic, Amounis,
Phar Lap and Winooka) is questioned by
some Melbourne judges, even though
Ajax has registered six wins and two
seconds in eight starts.
All the same Ajax well deserved the
tumult of cheering that accompanied his
return to scale. He hadn’t raced since
November, and might reasonably be con-
sidered backward in condition compared
with Hua, who faced the starter after
three recent wins in rapid succession.
On all sides Frank Musgrave was con-
gratulated on having delivered Ajax at
the post in such perfect trim on mere
track work. Musgrave is 78, the same
age as Hua’s trainer Scobie ; by a singu-
lar coincidence neither veteran had ever
previously led in a Futurity winner.
Emir, from Scobie’s stable, made a dead-
heat for second with Billingsgate and
Dangai in 1905.
Scobie on Saturday declared Hua to be
the best horse he ever had handled, add-
ing that he could beat Trivalve over any
distance “from half a furlong to 45
miles.” Yet Hua couldn’t really get near
Ajax, who led all the way and scored
by H lengths, while E. E. D. Clarke’s
banner-bearer was all out to beat El
Golea by less than a length for second.
Punters showed good judgment in mak-
ing Ajax a 2-to-l favorite, with Hua at
threes, Pamelus at 9 to 2 and King’s
Head at sixes. Gold Rod (16 to 1) was
the only other candidate at less than 33
to 1, at which price El Golea started.
The last-named received 151 b. from Ajax
and Hua, his equals in age.
It is a great season for three-year-olds.
They filled the first four places, Damaiis
(9st. lib.) being only a head behind El
Golea. This was the best effort of
Damaiis to date; he came home splen-
didly. Gold Rod performed wretchedly,
and has been withdrawn from the New-
market. Pamelus made a bold bid at
the home turn, but shut up like a jack-
knife in the last furlong.
Time for the Futurity—lmin. 25sec. —
is three-quarters of a second slower than
the race record, established by Winooka
in 1933. Ajax at once became the hot-
test Newmarket favorite in history. Book-
makers are recalling, though with no
great hope, that Top Gallant let his
backers down dismally in the Newmarket
of 1925 after beating Fuji San and Man-
fred in the Futurity.
Three Sydney juveniles, Mildura, Early
Bird and Tactical, shared favoritism at
6 to 1 in the Alma Stakes. Many spec-
tators considered that Early Bird was
first past the post, but the judge declared
for Mildura by half a head. Liana (10
to 1) defeated Tactical by inches for
third money. Mildura, trained by George
Price for E. J. Watt, is by Manfred from
Miss Meadowes, an imported mare that
ran second to Affirm in a middle-distance
handicap on the now delicensed San-
down Park course.
Alan Cooper was compensated for the
downfall of Early Bird when Mananui
(8 to 1) beat Avenger (5 to 2) by a neck
in the Woodcliff Handicap, with Beau-
stone (25 to 1) third. Cooper caused
mingled amusement and commotion in
the members’ stand by figuratively “rid-
ing Mananui home” from the distance.
His yells of advice to Shean struck a new
note in behavior within those hallowed
precincts.
For once Cooper was lucky ; had not
Avenger’s off foreleg given way a few
strides from the post that colt could not
have lost. He had been scratchy in
action on the tracks for several weeks.
The leg trouble became worse when the
colt cooled off, and swelling started to de-
velop in the fetlock joint. There were
somewhat better reports on Sunday.
Starting at 6 to 4 on, Courage (Heroic-
Rhea) landed the first division of the St.
Clair Trial with ease. This brother to
. Cereza is trained by Jack Holt for Bail-
lieu, Robinson and Clark. Now a four-
year-old gelding, he is beginning to show
the benefit of an unhurried galloping
education.
Coming from almost last on the home
bend, Con Devon, favorite for the second
division of the Trial (at 3 to 1), van-
quished Haughty Stare (12 to 1) by a
neck amidst intense excitement. W.
Cook had been told to ride the Devon-
shire gelding in this fashion. His obedi-
ence to orders had the desired result.
High-class juveniles do not often run
in open company nowadays. George
Price produced Pandava for the HaWks-
burn Handicap, and, starting at 20 to 1,
this Brazen colt lost by a neck to S. R.
Lamond’s Lolorua (tens) in the smart
time of lmin. llsec. Ena (tens) was a
mere half-head farther off. The favor-
ite, Othello, was not in the first five.
Picador and Conde were co-favorites
at 4 to 1 for the Stanley Steeplechase.
They fought out a thrilling finish, Picador
prevailing by half a head. Picador be-
longs to Jim Pengilly, who at one time
was private trainer to A. T. Creswick,
breeder of Picador.
# s{c sk *
Mutable was a failure in the spring,
but in his first race this season sug-
gested that he was back in the forrp
which enabled him to win the last Aus-
tralian Cup. It was the Moreland Han-
dicap at Moonee Valley, and the oppo-
sition was fairly strong; anyway it in-
cluded Aitchengee (though he wasn’t in
the market), Jacasse, Nissa and Namakia.
The distance was a mile ; Mutable car-
ried Bst. 121 b., and after a spirited set-to
with Jacasse, who was receiving 81b., he
beat her by half a neck, Pennock being
third, a length away. He i;an the mile
in lmin. 39|sec. A rather impressive
Australian Cup trial.
Now a five-year-old (he is by Drake-
Varium), Mutable has Bst. 51b. in the
Cup to be run on March 5.
Mrs. M. L. Dwyer, who came in for
a bit of the Houston money, has in the
last couple of months seen her colors
carried to victory on several .occasions.
She got hold of a promising stayer when
she bought Bianconi, a four-year-old bay
gelding by Marconigram-Columbia, and
since he won a division of the Glen Elgin
Trial Handicap at Moonee Valley
Bianconi has been coupled in' New-
market-Australian Cup doubles with
Mohican, the pair being trained by C. A.
Russell. It was Bianconi’s first start in
Melbourne —in previous appearances at
Sydney he had been third in the Rose-
bery Novice, second in the Canterbury
Park Stakes, second in a mile handi-
cap at Kensington and first in another at
Ascot. The distance of the Moonee
Valley race was a mile and a quarter,
and Bianconi went out at 5 to 1. He and
Kiorena, the favorite, came right away
from the rest, and, finishing the stronger,
Bianconi settled Kiorena by a head in
the good time of 2min. s|sec.
Marconigram was, of course, the sire
of Marabou and Contact. They did
not win their races easily, nor does
Bianconi. Perhaps the family has a dis-
position to loaf when it has done its
job. It is a step from Novice and Trial
Handicaps to Cups, but an obviously im-
proving four-year-old so stoutly bred
cannot be left out of consideration for
the long-distance affair on Saturday week,
especially as he has only 6st. 71b. and as
the opposition doesn't seem to be strong.
* * * *
At Moonee Valley C. B. Kellow was
asked by Alan Cooper to give him the
first refusal of Nuffield if the colt was
placed on the sale list. Immediately
afterwards Kellow was invited to put a
price on the chestnut. “If your client is
the man I suspect,” answered Kellow,
“tell him that I will take £5OOO advance
on what he gave for Talking.” Eyen at
that C.B. was only joking. Nothing
would induce him to part with Nuffield.
Two lovely yearlings belonging to Kellow
reached Holt from Sydney recently. One
is a brother to Hall Mark and the other
a brother to Nuffield.
* * * *
Brazandt has been nominated for the
Doncaster, and Booshand, who owns
and trains him, expects him to run a
mile. A three-year-old by Brazen-
Kapuya, he is a Randwick winner up
to seven furlongs. He can certainly run
a very fast six; he donkeylicked The
Marne in the Flying Handicap at Can-
terbury on Saturday; Careerbra was
third.
Brazandt started at 6 to 4, an excellent
price in view of his win at Warwick
Farm. The Marne, who was giving
Brazandt 101 b., may not have been quite
ready ; all the same, he could never get
near the colt. Canegrass was heavly
backed. The big chestnut got into lots
of trouble early and was soon out of the
race.
Hoots and groans were raised after
After Six’s win in the Canterbury Handi-
cap. On the Wednesday this son of
Tippler had failed badly in a Trial Stakes
at Rosebery when odds on ; at Canter-
bury he was at 6 to 1. Knox rode him
at Rosebery; Parsons was given the
mount on Saturday. The trainer, Keith
Duggan, instructed Parsons not to drive
the horse along until two furlongs from
home. After Six was last into the
straight, but ran past the pacemaker, The
Jilt, at the Leger and scored by half a
neck, with Peg’s Pet a length away and
Holbein fourth.
The crowd advised the stewards to take
action, but the officials were satisfied that
there was no case for an inquiry.
Geebung, bred by Dan Seaton, is a
colt by Bold and Bad from Western
Lass. He is nothing much to look at,
but he can gallop, as was demonstrated
in the first division of the Nursery, for
which he went out at 20 to 1. Noble
Grand and Orontes were second and
third to the outsider. June, after running
second to the Leger, died away.
Intacta, a Bathurst-trained filly raced on
lease by Norman Davis, led throughout
in the second division. One of Buoyant
Bachelor’s get, she was bred by A.J.C.
committeeman Hunter White. The
Davises threw in for a good win on her ;
she was backed from 25 to 1 to eights.
Dimples, after interfering with Royal
Ensign, ran off the course at the top of
the straight. Her apprentice rider was
of little assistance to her.
Stuffy, who cost Dick Wootton 45
guineas as a yearling, won his third race
when he took the Trial Handicap,
Drouthy and Florida chasing him home.
The apprentice Darke rode Stuffy well;
it was his first success. Darke is appren-
ticed to P. Nolan. Son of Israel, a picnic
performer, raced well for a mile. He is
a big gelding by King Val, sire of the
speedy Alemap.
Duke Caledon was favorite for the
first division of the Highweight, but Del-
mestor (6 to 1) jumped out with the lead
and gave nothing else a chance. She
won by six lengths from Raleigh and
Duke Caledon. A taking gallop, for she
carried 31b. more than did Brazandt and
made the same time—lmin. 13sec. Del-
mestor is a three-year-old filly by Poly-
mestor-Deltis.
The second division went to the con-
sistent and much improved Let Slip. He
started at 5 to 2. Shackleton made the
running and battled on so well that Let
Slip was all out to beat him by half a
neck.
Out of the winning list since 1936,
Viceroy had come back to it when the
Ashbury Handicap was over. Levant
and Silver Wave gave him no trouble
when whips began to crack. Head Boy
and Morning Gift disappointed, while
housemaster, the favorite, was beaten
two furlongs from home. Viceroy, who
is by Limond-Jewel of Asia, may be
returning to his three-year-old form,
which was fairly good.
* * * *
The Liverpool Grand National will be
run this year on March 25. At the time
of writing there are 46 horses left in, but
some of these are bound to come out. A
wild pick which might appeal to some
Australians is Don Bradman. He started
last year but failed.
Ins and Outs
Had the Sydney celebrations match
been Ins v. Outs, as suggested by a
Bulletin contributor, it would have
drawn at least 100,000 people. Actually
it was Tourists v. Rest ( plus White) ;
nobody took it seriously, and it didn’t
pay. Rest' scored 257 and 148 (Rigg 58
and 60, Robinson 53, White 52, Gregory
42 and Rogers 40 ; Fl.-Smith 6 for 106
and 5 for 53). Tourists got 198 and 7 for
208 (Hassett 54 and 37, Barnes 55, Chip-
perfield 36, Waite 32 and 33 ; White
5 for 12). Quite the best bits of cricket
were Oldfield’s leg-side catching of
Hassett, his stumping of Fingleton, and
Grimmett’s trapping McCabe (4) in the
slips.
* * * *
Badcock, Walker and Brown have all
been passed by the doctors, and the Aus-
tralian team will leave these shores as
originally chosen. Its opening match is
against Worcester on April 30.
(Continued on page 30.)
“Hotham”: Canadians and Maori-
landers showed with Victorians in an ath-
letic meeting in Melbourne before going
home. McCoy, of Canada, recorded a
new Australian discus throw with 147ft.
3fin., and then ticked up a Victorian shot-
putt record of 46ft. 5-gin. Fritz, another
Canuck, hoisted new Australian figures
for the 440—47-|-sec. Yet another Can-
adian, Brown, ran the 100 in 9 7-10sec.,
a Victorian record. Backhouse did his
bit for Australia by taking the half-mile
and the mile.
Fred Woodhouse’s 13ft. 6\\n. pole
vault at Melbourne sets a new Austra-
lian record iin. better than Du Plessis (S.
Africa) did to win the Empire Games
event. On this occasion Du Plessis was
defeated.
« * * *
English cyclist Mills, who finished
third in the Empire Games 1000 metres
time trial, stayed in Sydney to have a
crack at the Australian record for an
hour’s unpaced ride on the Arena track.
He increased it to 25 miles 1282 yards.
¥ ¥ * *
All the States except Victoria sent
along surfers for Sydney’s annual cham-
pionship turnout at Bondi, and there
was a batch from Maoriland. They had
a fine day and a strong surf, and 33
teams let fly their banners for the march
past. The main event, rescue and resusi-
tation, went to the Bondi team by one
point from North Steyne, with Bur-
leigh Heads (Q.) another point further
away. An invitation event on the same
basis saw the Maorilanders finish
second, a point behind N.S.W. The
senior surf race went to Queenslander
T. Long, and another from North of ’28,
A. Imrie, took the junior title. New-
castle similarly scored a double in the
belt races—Smith, the senior, and New-
biggen. * .
¥ ¥ * *
“Bias”: The South African bowlers
made history of a sort. Their travelling
and living expenses on the tour were paid
by the South African governing body.
In Australia the old gentlemen who
govern bowls regard payment of this
kind as professionalism, an attitude which
verges on impudence considering that the
controllers of every other amateur sport
in the world permit it. One result is that
good players not “holding it” are unable
to take trips to other States. An example
of the way this system works is seen in
the case of Low, of Maitland (N.S.W.),
the Australian singles champion and Aus-
tralian representative in the Empire tour-
ney. Low, a working miner, had to for-
feit a month’s wages to play in the Aus-
tralian championships and thus qualify
for the Games. In addition he had to
pay all his own travelling and living
expenses while away from home.
¥ * * *
The death on the links of Dr. Sydney
Jones was another reminder that golf is
not the harmless, leisurely pursuit many
folk take it to be. A figure in the game
as player and administrator, the doctor
was for long chairman of the N.S.W.
Golf Council and captain of Royal Syd-
ney. He played for N.S.W. in many
State matches, and in the Kirk-Windeyer
Cup tourney, in which he took a great
interest. Miss Sydney Jones, associate
champion of N.S.W., is a daughter.
¥ * * *
The Australian swimming authorities
have set up new time standards for dis-
tances from 110 yards to a mile free-
style, and for the 110 back- and 220 yards
breaststroke. In future, swimmers with
an eye on Olympic selection needn’t hang
round unless they can show performances
inside the standard.
(Continued on page 30.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Newmarket: Ajax, 1 ; Lolorua,
2 ; Amiable, 3.
St. Leger: Damalis; next, Hua.
Essendon Stakes: Elanage ; next,
Prince Quex.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Nuffield,
Brunswick Stakes: Elmdale;
next, Improvement.


..Mxvviyjjjj
&
rr.lli
rfill
M
%3
m
A Symbol of
SECURITY... SOLIDITY AND SAFETY
For more than 250 years a LLOYD’S POLICY has set the
standard for insurers, and year by year an increasing number
of manufacturers, business firms and householders acknowledge
its worth.
MOTORISTS OF NEW SOUTH WALES!
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) PTY., LTD.,
introduces
LLOYD’S WHITE STAR
MOTOR CAR POLICY
which is already famous in other States—into New South Wales. This
is the first occasion on which this policy has been offered to the public in
this State, and is available to owners of private cars, whether members of
Clubs or not.
SPECIAL NO CLAIM BONUSES
ranging from 25 per cent, to 33 1-3 per cent, are featured, and all new
Insurers entitled to a No Claim Bonus receive a discount of 25 per cent.
Inquiries are invited by:
BENNIE S. COHEN & SON
(N.S.W.) PTY., LTD.
7-13 Bond Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W2131 (11 lines).


LETS ALL
ENJOY LIFE!
7*
I et’s all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
U Whoopee! No grouch*
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets wiph the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wisb\.. with never
bad head or a touch of indigestion
follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in !'• or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
tablets
/--""''SILVER EDGE"
BRAKE LINING^
BRAKE TROUBLES
•
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brake
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS ” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.R.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic p :
CP
c°
K
Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Sydney Sports Ground Scraps
The locals proved too good for
the latest imported pugs in a couple
of bouts at this open-air address. Palmer,
fighting extra well for one who abandoned
the game a year or so back in favor
of football, disposed of Rowsey (imp.)
with such ease that the knowing odds of
4 to 1 against Rowsey seemed robbery.
Richards weighed in a cool 101 b. heavier
than the slightly more dusky Puerto Rico
product Atilio Sabatino, which excellent
young fellow put up such a nice scrap
that if Richards can beat him at even
weights present scribe will eat the G.P.O.
The Australian “middleweight” cham-
pion has now bulked out so big that
he’s well into the light-heavy category.
Unless he abstains from watermelons
and possums he’ll never pull the weight
again.
Ron tipped the beam at list. 111 b., to
Sabatino’s list. That was at mid-
day ; in the ring there looked to be a
good stone between ’em. Hence odds
of 5 to 1 against Sabatino freely offered,
and still available after the first round,
an f.a.q. opening, with Richards appar-
ently loafing and Israel confident that
weight would tell. In the second a cloud
no bigger than Sabatino’s right fist cast
a discomforting shade over Israelia, and
the odds of 3 to 1 the little fellow were
shouted low enough not to be overheard
on a wave-length of more than a couple
of yards. Richards was more sluggish
than ever in the third, and took delivery
of a most beautiful right, flush to the
jaw, and with a solid pack of weight
behind it. If there were any odds now
against Sabatino news of same was not
being broadcast. It was clearly the smaller
fellow’s round, and he looked entirely
happy sitting back teaching his seconds
the Puerto Rico language.
Richards did a bit better in the fourth.
The authentic Australian native has a
nice variety of punches and a style so
much like Palmer’s that they might have
matriculated in the same gunyah, though
Palmer would have always beaten him
after a goanna. There was some snap
in his hitting in this round, and Israel
could be heard calling his name in
thanksgiving. But in the next a right
rocked into one side of his jaw and a
left into the other. He was shaken and
a bit muddled over against the ropes.
Sabatino had clearly the best of it, as
he did of the next, in which he landed,
among a variety of pretty good hits,
another lovely right. Richards paid him
back in kind in the next, with a power-
ful enough right to the jaw to make it
evident that Sabatino can take it as well
as give. In the next Richards smelt the
canvas, tripping after stopping a short
punch, but he was up instantly. Richards
won the next, and he won the last by
a good margin, weight telling on the
smaller chap more than science.
It was a close go. After the sixth
round Israel turned dog on itself and
offered a shade of odds the other way,
and when, at the finish, referee Michael
Lacey held the Richards paw aloft some
lowbrow declared the verdict to be part
of the 150th Anniversary celebrations.
Certainly Sabatino is the pick of recent
imports, a good opponent for Henne-
berry, who at the time this was going to
press was about to shape up to Young
Stuhley at the Stadium.
Weight was all right as between
Ambrose Palmer (12st. 51b.) and Frank
Rowsey (12st. 61b.), but a worse match
could hardly have been arranged.
Palmer fought so well as to suggest that
he’d spent his football retirement at the
popular Victorian pastime of stoushing
the ref. The hapless Rowsey could only
hold his arms poked stiffly in front of
him. With Palmer left-hooking beauti-
fully a knockout seemed certain. The
Australian won each round by an in-
creasing margin up to the sixth, when
he put his hands down and indicated to
the ref that he’d unfortunately cut
Rowsey open under the right eye. The
£t. a W* aled *° J elected to
S »"; "hich necessitated Palmer s
reluctantly cutting the pleasant-mannered
, * Y ank about a good deal more
te “." a , do ““, left hook 2
-*e frightfully-beaten one s
corner had the merc y to sky the towel.
_ j a„i c
” na V/UTS
. Toowong : Queensland is confident
A & coming Australian bowler in
8111 Tallon, elder brother of Don, but
onl y 24 at that. Tall and wiry, Bill has
c °me on tremendously as a right-hand
googly merchant and now has fine con-
trol. He bowls with a lower trajectory
than most of his kind, and is fast
through the air, with that whip off the
pitch which marks the born bowler.
Next season should see him in the State
and his performances will be
* *
“Bowen Bridge”: No room is to be
j e j t f Q r cr iticism of stands and appoint-
“Point, come closer in !”
ments at the Brisbane Cricket Ground
by future visitors. The improvements
mooted may be gilt-edged if tne tour in
England is a success and Queensland
gets a fat cut of the gates, as on the last
occasion. The creation of a “hill” like
that at Sydney is suggested. Better
for Brisbane to put in a sloping terrace
of seats.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne is mildly in-
terested in a brush between the V.C.A.
and F.-Smith and Gregory. Both de-
clined to go to South Australia for the
last Sheffield for “business reasons.”
Sides and Bromley made the same excuse
got away with it, but the V.C.A.
barred Smith and Gregory from playing
with their clubs. Rule 22 of the pennant
competition says that players chosen for
inter-State games may not play with their
clubs without permission.
Nineteenth Hole
“Fairway”: Royal Sydney now claims
to be the second-largest golf club in the
world, having 2795 members. First place
is alleged to be filled by the Johannes-
burg club, which has 2858. Only 546 of
Royal Sydney’s big total are actual play-
ing members.
He * * *
“Brassey”: Two of Sydney’s swankiest
clubs talk of withdrawing from the inter-
clubs’ competition this season. The
Suburban Golf Association, which runs
the show, has decided that A-grade teams
shall consist of 11 players. The two big
clubs, which have never cottoned to the
S.G.A., have intimated that they won’t
play unless teams are reduced to seven
a side. This was the rule years ago, but
the number was later increased to 15 and
subsequently cut to 11.
# * * *
“Divot Digger”: The collector of
championships is a familiar figure in
golf. Some players make a point of
specialising in club titles and go the
rounds of the clubs in chase thereof. The
Sydney suburban golf controllers are out
to stop this pothunting. It has recom-
mended that all affiliated clubs hold
their championships on the one day—-in
this case the June 13 public holiday.
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland’s golf
towkays are thinking of passing round
the hat again to raise money to pay the
exes, of a State contingent to the Aus-
tralian championships in Adelaide. There
was a surplus of about £lOO from the
fund collected for the teams that went
to Sydney and Melbourne, but the
Bananalanders have been stung for £76
of this as their whack of the cost of
sending the Australian amateurs to
Britain They paid up, but would like
to know why Adelaide, which is allowed
to hold Australian championship meet-
ings while Brisbane is not, should be
assessed at just the same sum.
„ * * *
“ H r i,t T”; Q X S bane S o 8 „°Ma h y a T6
pionships start in y
and end on May 20. Following i
year’s policy, the Bananalanders are com-
pressing the events as much as possible
to allow southern players to attend with-
out having to face excessive loss of time.
Last year the experiment was most sue-
cessful, the amateur and professional
entries showing a marked increase on
previous years. %
“Sandringham”: At the annual meet-
ing of the Victorian women golfers the
melancholy fact was divulged that hordes
of women continue to surrender them-
selves to the intoxication of golf. Dur-
ing 1937 38 clubs were admitted to the
union, which now has a strength of 246.
Many of these clubs are .country organ-
isations, and special attention is to be
paid to encouraging the members of these
to leave Strawberry unmilked in the bail
and the chooks unfed in order to play
matches on metropolitan courses.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur”: The Maoriland
L.T.A. has just debagged a cat of excep-
tional size. It is asserted that, before
reaching Auckland on his way from Aus-
tralia, Budge wirelessed, “Mako and I
must have £2O each expenses.” If cor-
rect, a serious situation arises, for de-
mand and acceptance constitute profes-
sionalism under the rules of the Inter-
national L.T. Federation.
* * * *
“Baseline”: Maoriland has regretfully
pulled out of the Davis Cup. Stedman,
for some years past the mainstay of the
«de, ° e
done before The offer of a good job,
however> determined the Maorilander to
remain at home, and with no one else
available there was nothing for it but
p U t U p the shutters,
* * _ * * T „ .
“Centre Court : The British L.T.A.
has announced that it will back Ger-
many’s proposal to hold the Davis Cup
tourney every two years when the matter
comes up on June 30. America is strongly
opposed to the idea, arid as the founder
of the tourney was American its opinion
should carry extra weight The Aus-
tralian L.T.A. is also in favor of the
S“; n «r r y Sorcan° £ be an de:
pended on to vote en bloc for the exist-
system. There is much to be said for
the change. International tennis, like
ever y other sport, is being ridden to
death.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The Westralian delegate
to the A.L.T.A. conference in Adelaide
went for the governing body for its
casual treatment of Westralian tennis.


Ml
31 m
‘lmitation is the
sincerest flattery’
And imitation is a very wise
thing—when you choose the right
pattern! Don Bradman wears
and recommends only Marco
Elasta-Straps—so did the English
and Australian Test Teams to a
man. The Champions at Golf,
Tennis and Bowls are Elasta-
Strap wearers. You don’t want
better patterns than those. . . .
The New Plus Models are worth
your immediate attention. They
include the remarkable Tauttex
Shirt-controlling device—the im-
provement you probably never
expected to see. It will interest
you greatly. You will feel better,
look better, play better —in
Elasta-Straps!
Available in Greys, Creams,
Fancies, etc. (the largest range
ever offered in Australia).
The Elasta-Strap Patent is ob-
tainable also in Shorts and Suits.
PRICES:
(according to
type and quality
of material)
Elasta-Strap Plus Models
. . from 17 6 to 55 -
Elasta-Strap Regular Models
. . from 14 7 6 to 28 6
V
u
i
SELF
\-SViafo
INC TROUSERS
'TAUTTEX'
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The most famous ship
in history, Nelson's
Flagship, The Victory
Nelson's flagship, The Victory, launched in.
1765 (fifteen years after Vickers was launched)
stands for the great British "Hearts of Oak"
tradition, still one of our dearest heritages.
Vickers guards its heritage too-a heritage
of unchanging strength and undiminishing
quality. You drink in the great tradition
when you make sure of Vickers.
Y
ICKERS
GIN
l amm dmc& 1750
Distilled from the original recipe under licence from J. S J. Vickers & Co. Ltd.. London.
Also he insinuated that as a cash-grabber
the association has the income-tax people
beaten down the course. For the last six
international fixtures held in Perth the
L.T.A. had pouched £2701, leaving £BO5
for the Gropers, who paid all costs. The
delegate further referred to the scanty
share of international tours which fell to
Westralia, Queensland and Tassie, and
tabled motions designed to better this.
These were talked out.
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro.”: Delegates to the
Empire Games conference in Sydney sug-
gested that the Olympic Games have
become as great a flop as the League of
Nations. Representatives of more than
one Dominion referred to payments to
“amateurs” made by competing coun-
. tries, pay running as high as £4 per
week. After the Games these “amateurs”
generally become professionals.
* * * *
“Spike”: One result of the Empire
Games at Sydney, with their long list of
new records, has been to shake the old
theory that prepared cinder tracks are
faster than grass. Writer for one has
always been of that opinion, and sees no
reason in the Games results to change
his mind, while visiting experts are by
no means unanimous. The S.C.G. is a
very special grass arena. Many years of
expert preparation for cricket have made
it as smooth and fast as a billiard table,
and the dry nature of the soil and con-
tinual shaving and rolling have given it
a surface quite apart from ordinary turf
with its soft and holding tendency. I
doubt if a grass surface just like it can
be found anywhere else.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Touching those newspaper
screams about athletes left out of national
teams (B. 16/2/’3B), one that was justi-
fied was the howl that arose in Maori-
land when Boot was not selected for the
last Olympic Games team. Christ-
church, his home centre, went roaring
to war about it, and forced his inclusion.
Lameness due to running on cinders
spoilt his chances in the Olympiad, but
his time in the half-mile in Sydney—only
two seconds over the world record —■
shows that the city on the Avon had
some justification for its ire.
“The Gaffer”: Touching the Lavery
case (B. 16/2/’3B), if a runner is helped
by a breeze a time record cannot be ac-
cepted. The referee is the sole judge of
what constitutes such a wind. Carlton’s
world’s record for the 220 was refused
for this reason. The referee ruled that
Lavery had the help of a following wind
when he put up world’s figures for the
120 yards hurdles. At all important
meetings overseas wind indicators show
at a glance thfe direction and strength of
the breeze.
* * * *
“Spike”: Though Australians won 24
championships at the Games, largely with
the aid of the women competitors, they
made a poor showing in the track and
field competitions, which are, after all,
the blue-ribbon events of such meetings.
Honors went to the little South African
team of 28, 24 of whom scored, mostly
in the field and track events. Canada
and M.L. also outshone our men.
* * # =N
“Blade Sight”: The British rifle team
walked off with the Empire teams match,
with a lead of 23 points from Australia,
and thus takes back to Britain the Em-
pire trophy won by Australia at Bisley
last year. Final scores were: Britain
2260, Australia 2237, M.L. 2226 and
S. Africa 2208. Britain looked well
down at the end of the middle stages, but
hauled up in great style, and bolted from
the field at the 1000 yards.
* * * *
“Splash”: In Melbourne’s annual
Yarra swim over two miles of that limpid
stream the first male home was Max
Levy, of the Olympic club ; the leading
mermaid was Miss Painter, of Abbots-
ford. The swim through Perth went to
Lyons, of Belmont; he had six minutes’
start, and the time for the two miles and
200 yards was 52min. 33 l-ssec. Why
cannot Sydney put up an event of this
kind? Sydney Harbor may be a bit too
sbarky, but what about the Nepean,
where the boatraces are held?
* * * #
“Shrewsbury”: Though several took
part in the trials, no Australian has been
chosen in the final eights for the Oxford-
Cambridge race. This is the first occasion
for a long time that Australia has missed
the bus at both Universities.
“Blade”: Now that the State and
Empire Games rowing is done with, the
next star turn in N.S.W. will be the'
G.P.S. clash for Head of the River on
the Nepean. This was set down for
April 23, but will now be held on April
30. The reason for the change is the
notification by the State railways that,
owing to the Anzac Day traffic, N.S.W.
will not have enough rolling-stock to
furnish two or three extra trains for the
Nepean event. An interesting confession
of sloppy staff work.
“Blade”: The N.S.W. eight for the
King’s Cup in Melbourne on May 7 will
be stroked by F. S. Grace, who filled the
same place in the North Shore boat that
won the State championship. Empire
champion Turner having retired, Pearce
will defend his Australian title in the
sculls.
* =45 * *
“Huon”: The Tassies, designed and
sailed by the Batt family, have made a
big name for themselves in 21ft.-
restricted-yacht sailing. Tassie 111., sailed
by H. C. Batt, won the Albert Cup,
which carries the Australian champion-
ship for this class, at Hobart. Sister
Tassie Too, with another Batt in charge,
was second, with a Victorian craft, Royal-
ist, a poor third. Last year the event was
held at Adelaide, when Tassie Too won.
* * * «.
“Birkenhead Park”: England gave
Eire the father av a batin’ in the Rugby
international at Dublin, scoring 36-14.
This is a record for internationals, though,
if France be counted in, that country
went down to England in 1910-11 by
39-0. Wales, Eire and England have
now each been beaten once.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Queensland Rugby
Union is spending a few hundred pounds
on improving outlying grounds and pro-
viding seating and dressing-sheds. The
Union has leased the Exhibition Ground
for two years for first-grade and inter-
state matches. A pity it cannot get hold
of an enclosed ground which is not
loaded up with deadheads, as is the case
with the Exhibition. There was a net
profit for the season of £559, and there
is £3OO socked away towards the Union’s
contribution to the cost of the next trip
to Britain.
“Stoush”: An attempt made by Syd-
ney Rugby League delegates to defer the
annual meeting of that body until the
rebel Kangaroos had given themselves
up has been defeated, and the gathering
will take place, as arranged, on March 7.
The tourists return to Sydney on March
24, and are to toe the line before the
outraged officials at this end two days
later. Proceedings will probably be
held in committee, with no fun for the
general public.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. at its
annual meeting considered a list of pro-
posed alterations in the rules, but re-
jected the most important of them, which
provided for cutting teams from 18 to
16. Another proposal with much to
recommend it, a kick-off from the
centre instead of the bounce, was also
thrown out; but the two-handed under-
hand Rugby pass was accepted, though
a more revolutionary suggestion than the
others. There are one or two minor
alterations. Many delegates remain of
the opinion that the reduction in
numbers of the unwieldy 18-a-side teams
is worth trying.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.L. is out
early with the coming season’s pro-
gramme, which opens on April 23 and
closes on August 27, as far as home-and-
home club matches are concerned. Capi-
talistic clubs will have their wings clipped
by a rule enjoining that not more than
40 players over 21 shall be signed up
by a club in a season, and that a list be
filed with the League not later than
June 1. Games with South and West
Australia will be played, and several
club teams will visit other States.
* * * *
“Maidan”: The Bengali Babu has
adopted dog-racing with fervor. A
swanky course was recently opened by
the Premier ; a dog owned by him was
a starter, and he is a shareholder. Then
some stickybeak discovered that only bet-
ting on horseracing was legal in Bengal.
A bill invalidating all concerned is to be
passed, but if the offenders aren’t first
snowed under by lawyers’ letters de-
manding compensation for clients who
did in their money on the illegal pursuit
then I don’t know the Babu.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Australian Film a Winner.
“A Nation Is Built” has passed the
requirements of the N. S. Wales Film
Quota Act in a canter. Now it is sure
of widespread screening, something it
would not have been so sure of without
that Act.
Film-making in this country would get
nowhere without such protection. Over-
seas competition is overwhelming, and
the makers of imported films naturally
want their products to have the business.
The matter needs watching, and if neces-
sary the protection afforded by the Act
should be increased.
There is no question that the topnotch
pictures are imports; it may still be a
long time before Australian producers
turn out a picture of . the quality of, say,
“The Ghose Goes West.” But a frightful
amount of twaddle is imported along
with the topnotchers, and Australian pro-
duction has reached the state of now
turning out quite sound support films,
much better than many imports that
figure as main attractions.
This good Australian work should not
be allowed to be swamped by hogwash
imported from anywhere. It certainly
will be if Hollywood has the last say in
what films the Australian public should
pay to see. That this public is keen to
have the Australian-made article if it is
good enough is demonstrated by its ap-
preciation of this particular film.
On the current Sydney Prince Edward
bill it is it and not the featured import
“Ebb Tide” which has been pulling the
business. In color, “Ebb Tide” is an
interesting stretch of romantic film, but
“A Nation Is Built” has an appeal of its
own for an Australian audience. The
Quota Act is certainly imposing no hard-
ship on exhibitors in insisting that they
show it, however the Hollywooden side
of the exhibiting business may feel about
it.
The film is a very interesting one on
its own merits. Some may feel—this
film-taster does that the synthetic
romanticism of the early sequences could
have been cut -to let in, say, the cattle
industry as finely depicted as are sheep,
wheat and mining, or to permit the show-
ing of still more of the scenic beauty of
the country; but that romanticism may
have some box-office value, and is ex-
cused by the film’s association with the
150th Anniversary celebrations.
Some of the synthetic stuff could cer-
tainly be cut to advantage for overseas
screening. Abroad there would not be
much interest in the acted historical parts,
but the depiction of Australia as it is,
being so well done, should hold interest
anywhere. Among other places where
it is to be shown, it will have plentiful
screening at the Glasgow Exhibition, and
its publicity value there and elsewhere
will be enormous. When it has had its
theatre screening the N.S.W. Govern-
ment should give it a run for school-
children. It could have considerable
value in focusing the interest of young-
sters city youngsters especially —on
country life.
When it was reviewed here a week ago
the suggestion was made that if, for what-
ever reason, it was not possible to have
the film showing to the public while the
Anniversary celebrations were going their
strongest, it should have been shown to
the Empire Games people and other visi-
tors worth attracting to Australia. E. C.
Sommerlad, M.L.C., of the Celebrations
Council, states that that matter was, in
fact, seen to. There was a private screen-
ing specially for the Games visitors, and
other distinguished visitors were enter-
tained at another screening of it.
Apart from the publicity and other
such value of it, the film is here recom-
mended purely on its entertainment
merits. It appeals strongly to Australian
sentiment, but it would not be winning
applause at every showing if it was not
also a topnotch entertainer.
“Dead End.”
Humphrey Bogart, Joel McCrea.
Yet another fine film with sufficient
material, acting ability and directing to
make it a superb drama, but falling a
little short of its motive —anti-slum
propaganda purveyed by a savage rep-
resentation of slums as breeding grounds
for crime and as “dead ends” with no
escape to a higher plane of living.
To this commentator’s way of think-
ing that calls for a convincing move-
Joel McCrea orders "Baby Face” Humphrey Bogart to leave the alley, and social-
nob (with cigar ) out for an evening’s amusement in “Dead End,” at Sydney
Plaza.
ment' of circumstances to inevitable
tragedy in a setting of vivid contrast
between extreme classes. Everything
about the film meets that requirement
right to the last few scenes, when re-
sort to fiction damages the whole fine
conception.
In the space of a day several charac-
ters are drawn together in an area
scarcely more than 100 yards square, and
before nightfall the past, present and
future of each has been unfolded in a
manner that draws a spectator into the
midst of the persons portrayed.
A racketeer with a string of murders
to his name returns to the “end” (where
he was born and bred) to see his mother
and marry the girl he left behind. His
mother reviles him as a criminal, the
girl has been driven by poverty to prosti-
tution and later in the day he himself is
killed. That is done with a simple con-
vincing realism. Neither he nor the girl
evoke any condemnation for their faults
or satisfaction at their punishment; the
natural reaction is one of sympathy and
awareness of the conditions that have
forced their lives upon them.
Counterpoint to all that is a young
idealist wanting to marry another girl,
who to escape the slums resigns herself
to living with someone who can offer her
some measure of comfort. He in turn
is loved by a factory girl slaving to re-
lease herself and younger brother from
their environment.
These three —idealist, girl and brother
—are the one symbol of hope. For the
film to reach its full dramatic power
that hope should have been destroyed by
the slums. The suggestion that it is
fulfilled and the three find escape to
happiness indicates, in direct opposition to
the film’s implication, that the gangster
and the other two girls have themselves
to blame for failing a similar achieve-
ment. A fictitious note of romanticism,
it reduces by half the strength of the
drama.
The film’s remaining force lies chiefly
in the depiction of youth growing in-
evitably toward crime. There are about
half a dozen adolescents, all likeable, but
with amusements, actions and speech imi-
tative of matured criminals and at the
same time natural to their surroundings.
The film has an exceptional wealth of
detail and depth of sincerity, and better
acting or directing could hardly be im-
agined. Bogart, of course, is the gang-
ster, and although other roles have given
him greater opportunity his performance
in this is just about perfect. McCrea
manages an equally effective stretch of
acting, and Sylvia Sidney, Claire Trevor,
Wendy Barrie and Allen Jenkins do
very well.
Altogether the film has more to the
credit side than have most productions.
“Beg, Borrow or Steal.”
Frank Morgan.
Morgan’s characterisation in this offer-
ing at Sydney Capitol is almost identical
with the role he played in “The Perfect
Gentleman,” an immaculate, smooth-
tongued humbug with a likeable touch
in his make-up specking a precarious sus-
tenance from credulous strangers.
Living apart from his family, he repre-
sents himself to them by post as a wealthy
gent, of leisure, but whem his daughter’s
prospective in-laws decide to hold the
wedding at his chateau on the Riviera he
has to live up to his letters. Talking him-
self into the necessary chateau and
gathering a bunch of fellow-swindlers to
represent the blue blood of several
nations, he manages to carry out the job.
With trivial adjustments the film would
be a shameless repetition of “Lady for
a Day” and others of similar theme.
M.-G.-M., however, had the good sense
to add a few luxurious decorations and
a strong cast of funmakers, including
Erik Rhodes, Herman Bing, E. E. Clive,
Reginald Denny, Cora Witherspoon and
a few others. *
Inevitably some are badly treated, par-
ticularly Rhodes, who has as much capa-
city for humor as any of them but is
permitted only a few brief shots, with
no opportunity to show his ability.
Denny is similarly restricted, but Clive
comes to light with a very meaty piece
as a Scottish laird.
“Fight for Your Lady”
John Boles, Jack Oakie.
Opens somewhat tentatively, striking
a mild note of comedy with a couple of
grapplers attempting to give an audience
its money’s worth and exchange some
irrelevantly companionable remarks at
the same time.
That connects vaguely with the meet-
ing and further associations of famous-
Amurrican-tenor Boles and grappler’s-
manager Oakie, culminating in the
former being jilted by a doubtful blonde,
consuming vast quantities of whisky, con-
templating suicide, then lighting out foij
Budapest.
So far, moderate, with a laugh or two,
but neither promising nor good enough
to dispel the misgiving that the remainder
might depend for entertainment on the
voice and profile of Mr. Boles. For-
tunately not; it swings off into some fair
comedy when the company of a cabaret
dancer offers the sought-after extinction
at the hands of her fiance, an excitable
and venomous swordsman.
It all works out nicely into a bearable
laugh-jaiser, thanks mainly to excellent
contributions from Erik Rhodes, who
turns on some of the fine comedic talent
he. displayed in several of the Astaire-
Rogers combinations. At Sydney’s May-
fair.
“Murder in Greenwich
Village”
j Richard Aden, Fay Wray.
This support to “The Awful Truth” at
Sydney Regent snaps right into action
with a goil clothed in nothing that mat-
ters much climbing down a fire escape
into the arms of an advertising speshulist.
Of course there’s been a moider done,
and of course she’s rolling in oof, while
he’s stony; so, with the law keeping
them on the same path, they chase each
other in circles for the best part of the
opus.
As racketeer brother of the moider
victim, Marc Lawrence supplies the single
note of real menace in a performance
well sustained save for one or two un-
convincing patches of emotion. Ray-
mond Walburn is the only one with
much capacity for funmaking, but heavy-
weather stuff is shoved well on the shelf
and the stretch moves pleasantly enough
in a vein of comedy rather than beller-
drammer.
“The Firefly.”
Allan Jones, Jeanette MacDonald.
Main item of the current bill at
Sydney St. James, this stretch of friml-
frothery was previewed here a week or
so ago.
It has one excellent bit. Lady-spy
Jeanette is on her way per coach through
Spanish mountains to employ her sweet
feminine allure in ferreting out
Napoleon’s intentions regarding her be-
loved country, when the dashing cavalier
Jones—of course, the dirty dog is secret
service, too —overtakes her on white-
horseback and, riding beside, serenades
a continuation of their bit of loving of
the night before.
The whole of this patch of film is very
well done, Jones singing in great form,
with setting and all else nicely scented
with romance. But what makes it is a


X
When
a Woman
tells you:
that perhaps she
should not boast,
but her teeth are
very white,
and she has used
nothing but
Calvert’s since she
was twelve,
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth 1
tee
d
lit
a
tf
m
rT>
m.
%
f
V
to
■4*
mm
enu
COV.O
iS~.V
jke very thing. . Ovaltine Cold'
'T’HE perfect summer drink is “Ovaltine”—served Cold.
It is not only deliciously creamy and refreshing, but it
is also supremely nourishing and sustaining.
Remember that a glass of “Ovaltine” will make the lightest
summer meal complete in health-giving nourishment. And
there is nothing like it for renewing energy whenever you
feel tired or listless.
Be sure you ask for “Ovaltine”—cold or hot—at Cafes,
Restaurants and Milk Bars. And when at home make
“Ovaltine” your regular daily beverage. It is quickly
prepared by adding “Ovaltine” to cold or hot milk.
And remember that “Ovaltine” when added to milk not
only increases the palatability of the milk and makes it
acceptable to everyone, but also renders it readily digestible
and far more nourishing. Reject substitutes.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine,”
sufficient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of packing and postage. See address below.
OVALTINE
COL Dor HOT
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. All Chemists and Stores
A. WANDER LIMITED. 1 YORK STREET NORTH. SYDNEY
039-18 ?) ■>
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
small boy—the coachie’s offsidep—who
climbs down and Puckishly dances
along the dusty road in front of the four
plodding mules, accompanying his step-
ping on a tin whistle. Subsequently he
accompanies Jones’s warbling in the same
way, his efforts infusing a touch of spon-
taneous comedy such as films only fluke
once in every 357,000,000 feet. He is a
whimsical, impish little customer, and
while he’s about Jones can warble and
Jeanette ogle in vain ; the little chap com-
pletely runs away with the show.
.
jy, Jr" • r\a. •
Cameo and Civic Offerings.
A Western antiquity with a crooner
for good measure and a slapstick comedy
fill the bill at these addresses.
“Roll Along, Cowboy,” gives the 963rd
airing to the usual quota of Western
scenery and the yarn about a cow-
puncher happening along in time to save
the old ranch from rascally land sharks.
vSmith Ballew moves staidly through a
crowd of associates who for some reason
fail to achieve his immaculate appear-
ance. For those who like such stuff he
yawps without provocation, and on one
occasion his bawling like a stricken calf
has the unique effect of producing rap-
turous contemplation on the face of his
rugged companion and abject misery on
the features of his horse.
Support, “Larger than Life,” is the
story of a humdrum clerk gooping over
“Sturt’s Decision to Return,” Ivor Hele, winner of the
Commonwealth Prize.
a sassiety dame to the extent of handing
out 100 dahlars for a plaster statue of
her, then refusing several thousands for
the effigy, and finally splicing himself to
the god.
“1066 and All That ”
This Independent Theatre comedy
effort at Sydney Conservatorium scored
its first uproarious point right at the be-
ginning, when the curtain went up on a
signpost showing roads in all directions
leading to Rome.
Canute, revealing an unsuspected
weakness for bathing belles; Ronald
Folkard singing charmingly as a trouba-
dour in a mediaeval scene ; the Crusader
husband in the same scene explaining
that the Saracens defeated him because
the cads fired on the Red Cross he wore
on his breastplate, and King John in a
dressing-gown because his clothes had
been lost in the wash kept the enter-
tainment going. The second really hys-
terical moment happened when modern
policemen roared “Christopher Colum-
bus ! ” through the courthouse, and
Columbus, chewing gum and cheerily
greeting the Judge as wrestlers greet their
fans, breezed in to be tried for discover-
ing America.
As a book “1066 and All That” relied
for its humor mainly on ingenious word-
play, and in its translation to the stage
a great deal of that is lost. The difficulty
of making a play of it at all is got over
by presenting it as the dream of a
Common Man (ably played by John
Stacy) at Madame Tussaud’s.
Doris Fitton, as producer, had to make
the best of a fairly clumsy job by play-
wright Reginald Arkwright, who, intend-
ing to make the show a riot, fell too
much into the British historical tradi-
tion, and made it a muddle.
Except that the prompter has too much
work, it’s well done, and putting the
show on as a sesqui gesture was a touch
that would please Messrs. Sellar and
Yeatman, who concocted the nonsense in
the first place.
Sweat-and-shufiFle Show.
When “Swing Along” opened at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s on Saturday night the
temperature was collar-dissolving, which
circumstance turned a slight two-act
musical into hard work, and hard sit-
ting for an audience too sticky to be
enthusiastic over anything but the cool
appearance of the ballet girls. Even that
good comedian George Gee couldn’t per-
suade.
William O’Neal, appropriately leader
of the No-shirts, temporarily air-con-
ditioned the place when he sang “Swing
Along” and “East Wind.” Lois Green,
pert and crisp, made every boiled shirt in
the circle ashamed of its limpness with the
snap she put into her dancing and gag-
ging; she’s good, this girl, but her accent
could stand some filing.
Billie Worth appears only in a couple
of specialty turns, more’s the pity. Her
giace and airiness topped even the tern-
perature. John Dobbie’s figure didn’t
run, which was just as well in view of
the number of gags that depended on it
for their laugh.
It’s a bright and well-staged show, but
slight in substance and leads, bar comedy.
The Sesqui Competitive
Paintings
minting*.
These comfortably fill the Education
Department’s big L-shaped gallery in
Loftus-street, Sydney. The Sydney Cele-
bration Council sprang £5OO for prizes,
and the Federal Government weighed in
with £250.
The Commonwealth Prize (subject con-
nected with history of Australia, in oils,
not less than 20 sq. ft. in area) brought
forward four very worthy efforts. Prize-
winner Ivor Hele,
who pictures the
reluctant decision
of Sturt to retrace
his steps, has
appreciably raised
the standard for
this sort of thing.
Other notable
exhibits in this sec-
tion are J. Richard
Ashton’s “Bounty
Mutiny,” a char-
acteristic Ashton
seapiece, full of
light and sweeping
movement and pre-
dominantly blue ;
H. A. Hanke’s
“D eparture of
Governor Phillip
from Sydney”—
some good imagi-
nary portraiture in
this and John
Allcot’s “First Fleet Leaves Botany Bay
for Port Jackson,” a model of conven-
tional seascapery.
The landscape section brought out a
strong field, but Howard Ashton wins
in a canter with his “Monaro Land-
scape,” so fresh, vigorous and breezy
that one can almost smell the soil
and the heath. J. Salvana’s quietly-
painted “Mountain Road” won a special
prize in this section. Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, Ernest Buckmaster,
Herbert Gallop and Howard Barron
show good work, but undistinguished.
Alfred Coffey’s big painting of “South
Head, Sydney,” however, is one of the
best of its genre ever done in Australia.
Valerie Lazarus, in “The Bridge,” shows
a nice taste in composition.
The State “historical subject in oils”
prize goes to the late B. E. Minns’s
“Landing at Botany Bay,” which scores
with its abo. figures. No one could paint
them as well as Minns did. R. Russom’s
“Gold Escort” is a good conception.
Allcot and J. R. Jackson put in worth-
while contributions.
For “historical subject in water-color”
competition is poor. Mick Paul’s win
with a brightly-painted “First Religious
Service” is deserved. His only danger-
ous competitors are R. J. Shepherd and
John Allcot.
“Landscape in water-color,” won by
Julian Ashton with a beautifully mellow
painting of “St. Mary’s from the
Domain,” includes also excellent work
by Douglas Pratt, Erik Langker and
Max Ragless.
Etching prize goes to Cedric Emanuel
for his nicely-drawn “Queen’s Square”;
Joshua Smith gets the drawing prize with
his well-known figure of an old lady;
Ethleen Palmer’s graceful lino.-cut of
egrets is a prizewinner, and in “applied
art” a Mort-Forster-Chisholm partner-
ship scores with a design for cups and
saucers using an abo. motif —quaint but
crude. A splendid map of Australia (old
style) showing early discoveries, by James
Emery, gets a special prize.
Town Hall Pageant.
Seen towards the end of its week’s run
the “Pageant of Nations”—part of the
150th Anniversary shivoo—had atten-
dants out on the Sydney Town Hall
steps crying “Ticket-holders only!”' as
happily as if they’d been getting a cut
out of the gate.
Hundreds, representing most people on
earth except those who do without
clobber, took part in it, many of them
evidently recruited from nationals of the
represented countries who have dug in
in Australia. They strutted and preened
very prettily; posed in symbolic
tableaux; danced national dances;
played national music and the bagpipes;
wore brightly-hued national and period
raiment; and generally managed an en-
gaging romantic representation of the
decorative aspects of most of the world’s
peoples. For climaxes they brought off
massed effects excellently grouped on the
vast terraced stage and lavishly colorful.
Amateurs in Adelaide.
The Tivoli, to which Adelaide Reps,
advanced last season, cannot be obtained
this year. They will return to the Aus-
tralia. Membership is well over 1000.
Talbot Smith was re-elected president,
Thomas Nave vice-president and Cyril
Riley (lately of Perth Rep.) full-time sec-
retary. The Playbox, Independent, Little,
Tree and Left groups were welcomed into
the growing amateur dramatic field.
“Cauboy”: Malcolm Sargent will not
arrive in time to conduct Melb. Phil.’s
Good Friday frenzy (B. 2/2/38), but it
is not likely to be less memorable on
that account. George English will con-
duct the programme which is to be sub-
stituted for the traditional “Elijah.”
Dvorak’s “Stabat Mater” and the first
act of “Parsifal” will be the unusual
offering.


*
V
<s>
«fr
CO
a- -
XV
■<
lay
p
if
'AdMdp
• Everyone likes good cara-
mels . . . made from pure
cane sugar and selected in-
gredients. They're a health-
ful and delicious confection
for young and old.
All confectioners stock
Columbine Caramels
Per packet
OUJL | T V CHOCOLATES
—s~ajtuntj fox. tytcuu
Where
Overseas
Visitors
Fare Best.
In the heart of London. 100
bedrooms, each with bathroom
and ’phone. Central heating.
Every comfort and convenience.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors. Write for full details.
MAPLE lOW HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
Over one and a quarter million articles go
through the washing each year You'd hardly
believe it l But the Victoria Palace is the biggest,
most modern hotel in Australia Last year we
turned a quarter of a million mattresses I Tariffs
are moderate too—4/- to 7/6 Single room,
8/- to 16/- Double room
s
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C.l (Next Town Hell)
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE
TO DO OUR LAUNDRY,
MRS. HOUSEWIFE?
VICTORIA PALACE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last week, for Catholics in Australia,
all roads led to Newcastle. Here, with
ritual and ceremony, an impressive
Eucharistic Congress was held —the
Church’s special contribution to the
Anniversary celebrations. From the
moment of his arrival the Apostolic
Delegate, Dr. Panico, was an honored
guest, and one of the acts of courtesy
paid to him and to the congress was the
presence at the civic reception of the
Anglican Bishop of Newcastle, Dr. de
Witt Batty, and the Dean of Newcastle.
No doubt Dr. Panico had this in mind,
as well as other civilities, when he spoke
of “Australia’s characteristic courtesy.”
Bishop Gleeson must feel gratified at
the result of the congress, which he spon-
sored and which took over a year to
plan. With the Apostolic Delegate, five
archbishops, thirty bishops, many mon-
signori and innumerable priests, the
wealth of vestments, the amethystine
silks, the red robes, the priceless lace
brought to Newcastle a blaze of color.
Only once did the sun fail that sea of
color at the sportsground, where the
masses were said, the benedictions given.
Here at a raised altar, surmounted by a
tower that rose fifty or more feet into the
air, on which was an immense crucifix
above which again the Papal flag fluttered
its white-and-gold folds, the hierarchy
offered their prayers.
On Sunday the Railway Department
ran ten extra trains from Sydney, com-
mencing shortly after six o’clock. Eight
of them had been booked out the pre-
vious Thursday. In addition thousands
travelled to Newcastle by car. Hundreds
had gone during the week to stay with
friends or relations. Something of the
magnitude of the procession from the
church at Hamilton to the sportsground
on Sunday afternoon can be guessed
from the distance, which is two miles,
and the time, nearly three hours, which
it took to traverse the route.
About fifty per cent, of this proces-
sion were women, distinguished by cloak
and veil of the different sodalities. They
made a blaze of color. Here were re-
turned soldiers, there were bishops.
Throughout the procession, which cul~
culminated in benediction at the sports-
ground, Dr. Panico, on the chariot, knelt
in prayer.
Everybody went to Dame Eadith
Walker’s old home, Yaralla, for the sale.
Even if you couldn’t buy it was inspiring
to hear the bids popping up to their
hundreds of guineas. The dining-room
suite, of Queensland maple lined with
cedar, which an exalted eye is said to
have regarded with intent, was bought
in by antique dealer De Groot for 500
guineas. Somebody whispered that it
had cost Dame Eadith over £3OOO. A
Copeland dinner set, Chippendale, Queen
Anne and Sheraton pieces, Shiraz rugs
and suchlike brought high prices. Of
course the place was a treasure-house.
Some connoisseurs say it was one of the
best collections in the world. Paintings
by the best Australian and overseas
masters were everywhere. One fine
etching showed the old Girls’ High
School, complete with famous Moreton
Bay. This reminded many old pupils
of schooldays when the famous Mrs.
Garvin, whose death was reported from
London recently, was the school’s head-
mistress. The contents of one wardrobe
—ermine capes, mink coats, silver-fox
capes, Russian sables and many richly-
embroidered shawls, Chinese coats —were
to be sold this week.
Manly-by-the-sea had its own special
Anniversary celebrations. The inhabi-
tants of the spot where Captain Phillip
landed at least twenty-four hours before
he sighted Sydney Cove were not to be
fobbed off with a Farm Cove landing.
So last Saturday afternoon Phillip again
landed at Manly, at the harborside
beach, from the replica of the Supply.
There was an alfresco air about the
thousands gathered to see this arrival.
There were real beach girls and men
among the onlookers. Many striking
floats from the original procession took
part in a parade that ended at Manly
Oval. Manly itself swings on a peacock
sea of lights these nights. These special
illuminations were touched off When the
Village’s Mayor Nolan opened the cele-
brations on Friday night.. Next Saturday
will star the inter-Dominion surf com-
petitions on the pine-edged golden Ocean
Beach.
Here is another of the clever Mac-
Kenzie sisters. This is Nancy, who last
year made a comfortable income from
a bright idea. This was the making of
men’s ties patterned with sports motifs.
These ties are made of hand-blocked
linen, can be washed and ironed, and
have all-over designs of golfers, race-
horses, dogs, tennis-players, even beer-
barrels. Nancy is a member of the com-
mittee of the Arts and Crafts Society,
and is at present busy helping on the
society’s 150th Birthday Exhibition,
which will be held in the Commemora-
tive Pavilion on the Showground during
April. Sister Isabel is an artist; another
sister, Annette, is a writer of articles
and short stories. This photograph of
Nancy comes from the Peter Pan studio.
The ship was at the Quay, and the
drinks were many and multicolored, so
the party on the Stratheden was one of
those crowded hours of glorious life.
The Stratheden is the P. and O.’s very
latest and best, and the merrymaking was
to celebrate her maiden voyage. Among
the passengers she took to Tasmania was
Lady Gowrie, who is the guest of
the Apple Isle’s Government House.
Cabins and lounges were traversed by
the wanting-to-travel and the about-to-
travel. The amount of window space was
exclaimed over; so was the spaciousness
of the de luxe suites. The library and
reading-rooms held a sprinkling of the
ship’s passengers, and before long they
must have felt like famous exhibits, be-
cause of the number of explorers who
peered into the interior through the glass
of door and window.
Miss Agnes Williamson was on board
with brother Percy. All patterned in
daisies was the Hon. Jean Shaw, daughter
of shipping potentate Lord Craigmyle.
She’s another returnee in this ship. Very
new was the millinery sported by Mrs.
Tom Owen. Mrs. C. L. Jones’s black
chiffons were finely shirred. When last
glimpsed C.L. was getting drinks for
a bevy of womeh. A tall good-looker was
Mrs. E. Baume —black her choice. Beatrice
McGirr brought two tones of blue to the
afternoon. Amber Bushell was there ; so
were Princess Melikoff and the Countess
Frijs. She is from Denmark, and is mak-
ing the round trip in the Stratheden.
Helen Mcßobert, who has made about
nine journeys to Europe, was there with
hei mother, also a seasoned traveller.
A laden Stratheden sailed out beyond
the Heads last Wednesday. Crowds of
passengers were bound for Tasmania.
Among them were the distinguished-
looking Princess Melikoff, artist Elioth
Gruner and Brian Cannell. Elioth,
whose landscapes are at once poetic and
powerful, is off on a three months’ paint-
ing tour. He has a new car of de luxe
make, which Brian will drive. They
hope to camp out part of the time.
This is Nuala Browne, eldest daughter
of the Toby Brownes, of Binalong and
of Kirribilli. Mrs. Toby is known wher-
ever there is a C.W.A. branch in Aus-
tralia for her activities in boosting the
wool industry. Nuala is on the way to
do her bit for Australia, too. Last year
she went to the University on an Arts
scholarship, but this year she has de-
cided to go in for medicine. This means
forfeiting her scholarship, but she feels
that doctoring is the job for her. Like
her mother, Niiala is keen on demonstrat-
ing what can be done with wool. One
of her prized possessions is a cape for
evening wear woven of white wool and
silver thread. Freeman photograph.
The pioneer chairs in the Town Hall
couldn’t believe they had lived to see
the day. But they had. And there was
a Town Hall so transformed it might
have been a vaudeville theatre. No
longer did the respectability of the organ
reign, unyielding as the Rock of Gib-
raltar, proving that the world was still
safe for evangelism. It had been pushed
out of sight, obliterated, by a semi-
circular pillared newcomer, so unsure of
itself that it was in turn the entrance to
an English inn (with ye innkeeper quaff-
ing a pint while in the foreground
sprightly gentlemen in pink frolicked
before it), a frame for a shadowy out-
line of Cecil Rhodes, the terrace of a
French chateau where courtly ladies and
gentlemen stepped a minuet, the por-
tico of an Eastern bazaar, and so on.
The stage had been enlarged and
thrown forward, and represented a flight
of stone steps to the pillared top piece
beforementioned. A long, raised ramp
such as those used in mannequin parades
ran down the middle of the hall, dividing
it in two. This ended below the bal-
cony opposite the stage, and between the
gallery and the ramp a special platform
for the vice-regals had been raised. One
of the most naive happenings of the open-
ing was the procession of the Govern-
ment House party (Lady Wakehurst all
pink and silver cloque, diamonds and
pearls) along the ramp from the stage to
their enclosure. There are moments
when Governors earn their wages hard!
The first part of the entertainment
must have taken a good few of the J. C.
Williamson costumes from their pegs.
Bits of “Rose Marie” and “White Horse
Inn” seemed to crop up here and there
John Bull walking with a Young Aus-
tralia dressed like “Hop’s” “Little Boy
at Manly” caught the imagination.
The greetings from the Maori chief
Rangi caused another moment when
emotion caught the throat. When this
pageant escaped from the theatrical
touch it became impressive. For in-
stance, the cavalcade of the countries of
the world. Its simplicity was its trump
card. Each country, preceded by heralds,
and followed by a retinue indicating her
provinces, her wealth and her glory,
walked along the high ramp from the
back of the hall, and finally took her
place on the stage. Soon, tier on tier
arose blazing with color, glittering with
jewels.
Roland Foster has just had news of
Sydney singer Nora Hill, who is impress-
ing New York’s great teacher La Forge.
He says that Nora is one of his most
intelligent pupils. La Forge is the
teacher of Robert Nicholson, the New-
castle young man whom Richard Crooks
took under his wing. If coming events
cast their shadows before, the soprano
from Australia should be headed straight
for the Metropolitan. One day recently
when she went for her lesson she stepped
straight into the shadow cast by Lily
Pons as the star stepped from the sing-
ing master’s studio.
The Independents’ production of
“1066 and All That” drew a crowded
Con. on Saturday night. It is amusing
if you don’t mind wordiness. However,
the players did well by the script. The
dancing was charmful, the Troubadour
incident, from a woman’s point of view
(and there were in the front rows as
many as eight women to two men), the
most amusing of the series.
Death broke a long, long partnership
last week when the wife of Judge Back-
house died. It had lasted since 1879,
knit closer each year by ties of com-
plete harmony. All Sydney sorrows with
the Judge, who is as widely-known in
art and university circles as in legal.
Flags flew at half-mast at the University
when the bereavement of the oldest
member of the Senate was learned. St.
John’s Church, Darlinghurst, by this
lady’s death, loses one of its devoted
members. Day Nurseries and the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital had
been among her many interests. Mrs.
Backhouse was a native of Kent, Eng-
land.
Miss Jobson, who arranged and pro-
duced the parade of Empire in the
Pageant of Nations, tells of an amazing
amount of work done by Lieut.-Com-
mander Wylie, R.N., who painted
heraldic designs with great enjoyment
and accuracy, as he is an authority on
such things. The standards were really
quite a feature of the parade. Then there
were the hand-painted costumes of the
Cape of Good Hope and “Australia,
1788,” designed by Miss Jobson and
painted by Mrs. Summerhoff. Eugenie
Mac Neil designed 28 of the costumes,
Gibraltar, Rhodesia and Antarctica
among them, and clever Miss Colton, of
Melbourne, made them. England, Scot-
land, Ireland, Wales and the Dominions
were robed according to Miss Jobson’s
design.
Green appears again and again in the
Viennese knitwear which is one of the
features of Anthony Horderns’ winter
display. There are other shades, of
course, but the greens, especially the
new privet tone, seem to have captured
Vienna’s fancy. These frocks and suits
are often belted with narrow patent or
dull leather. One was finished with a
little patent cravat which continued
down the front of the bodice in a leaf
design. The high ear-enveloping and
bolster collar was absent in this show.
Coat collars, when upstanding, have an
abbreviated Medici line. Collars mostly
lie down ; they don’t ramp. A new touch
is the whole sleeve of fur. There’s a
close-weave mole-cloth coat with an up-
standing collar of beaver cony. The
fur runs across the shoulders and blooms
into complete sleeves.


ROMANCES OF HERMAN MELVILLE.
1 Typee, Omoo, Mardi, Moby Dick, White
Jacket, Israel Potter Redburn. Complete
and unabridged. Illustrated with 7 full-page
colour plates. 1660 pages, bound in black cloth,
gilt. Size 9±in. x 6iin. 21/- for 10/6 (post. 1/3).
An amazing book bargain. Seven of Herman
Melville’s best-known works reprinted here in
their entirety for ten and sixpence. Well-printed
and attractively bound, this volume is worthy of
a place on any bookshelf.
9— THE CONFESSIONS OF ROUSSEAU.
zC Translated from the French by W. Conyngham
Mallory. Complete and unabridged. A fine
edition, one of the very few Rousseaus with good
readable type. Nicely bound in red cloth, with
coloured lettering piece; 1034 pages. 21/- for 10/6
(post 1/2).
The Confessions of Jean Jacques Rousseau re-
mains to this day a unique achievement, and will
most probably remain so for ever. Written by the
man himself, it will always be an unsurpassed anc
unequalled record of a human life, if only for its
utter frankness.
o—THE WORKS OF RABELAIS. With
s illustrations by Gustave Dore. Published by
the Bibliophilist Society. 639 pages, beauti-
fully bound in black cloth, with gilt tooled back.
Size 9tjm. x 6|in. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/2).
Large type library edititon of the complete
unabridged Rabelais. Faithfully translated and
illustrated with all the drawings by Gustave Dore,
that capture in a very special way the robust quality
of the story.
4— THE GREATEST AUTOBIOGRAPHIES.
Five Sinners and a Saint. The Unexpurgated
Autobiographies of Pompadour, Cellini, De
Quincey, Rousseau, Franklin, St. Augustine. Six
books complete and unexpurgated in one volume,
with six full-page illustrations, black cloth, with
gilt lettering and red top. Size x 6in. 21/-
for 10/6 (post. lid.).
Few men—or women —have dared to disclose
their inner thoughts or publish a true account of
their private conduct. Of these few, six names
shine like jewels among the world’s literary trea-
sures —Rousseau, Cellini, De Quincey, Pompa-
dour, Franklin, St. Augustine.
£ —THE LIFE OF BENVENUTO CELLINI.
D Written by himself, edited and translated by
J. A. Symonds, with a biographical sketch of
Cellini by the same hand, together with an intro-
duction upon Benvenuto Cellini, Artist and Writer,
by Royal Cortissoz, with portrait. Two vols. in
one. A handsome volume of 746 pages in red
cloth, with gilt lettering. Size 9*in. x
21/- for 10/6 (post. 1/-).
T. A. Symonds in his Introduction says: “His
autobiography is a record of action and passion,
suffering, enjoying, enduring, working with restless
activity; hating, loving, hovering from place to
place as impulse moves him.”
Horace Walpole says: “It is more amusing thar.
a novel.”
—DROLL STORIES. By Honore de Balzac,
with illustrations by Gustave Dore. Pub-
lished by the Bibliophilist Society, handsomely
bound in black cloth, with decorated back. 682
pages; size lOin. x 6iin. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/1).
This edition is unexpurgated and is the only
complete authentic edition in the English lan-
guage. It contains all of the characteristic illus-
trations by Dore —an ideal collaboration between
author and artist.
rj —THE ADVENTURES OF PEREGRINE
I PICKLE. By Tobias Smollett, M.D.
Complete in one volume, with 20 illustrations
by Alexander King, and a most decorative colour
jacket by J. A. Maxwell. 648 pages handsomely
bound in red cloth, with gilt lettering. Size 9fin.
x 6|in. 42/- for 15/- (post. 1/2).
Peregrine Pickle is an extraordinary story about
a delightful fun-loving scoundrel ... a handsome,
swaggering, swashbuckling fellow who sows his
wild oats with an utter disregard for everything but
the intense pleasures of the moment.
8— THE FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES
OF THE FAMOUS MOLL FLANDERS.
By Daniel Defoe. With eight full-page illus-
trations by John Alan Maxwell, and deco-
rative end-papers. Published by the Bibliophilist
Society. 300 pages. Cloth, gilt. Size x
21/- for 12/6 (post. 9d.). , , ,
This is a most spirited, beautifully and completely
illustrated edition of Moll Flanders. The artist
has captured the charming vulgarity, the fire, the
inescapable human qualities of the heroine. This
edition, which was prepared for the Bibliophilist
Society of New York, is complete and unexpur-
BOCCACCIO’S DECAMERON. The
complete and unabridged edition of the
Decameron, illustrated with many fine
ates from etchings. Published by the Biblio-
lilist Society. Decorated cloth binding. 320
iges. Size lOin. x 6±in. 30/- for 15/- (post. 1/1).
For the first time the great work which pro-
ved so marked an effect on the romantic litera-
te of modern Europe is laid before the English
ader in a garb which at least does not misrepre-
nt its original features. The edition is complete
id unabridged. Large omissions have been sup-
ied, and brief critical and historical notes have
;en appended to most of the novels.
-j a _r OXANA, THE FORTUNATE
JLU MISTRESS. By Daniel Defoe. Illus-
trated by John Alan Maxwell. Introduc-
AMAZING
VALUES!
BEAUTIFUL EDITIONS
Nineteen of the World’s GREAT Books
offered to you at GREAT savings!
Each volume in absolutely new
condition, splendidly printed
and handsomely bound.
All to clear at special
Nr Smmmrn MltMiOl
% * rtiff rrr f P
CON
°UH
ROU
SS i
11
' :X : '
m
■B
■
;
N)'
:m 5
'yu- '<Wl> m
< ■ Him
1 II
H
83
tin
S' ;. ;,-,V, 4
F $ 4*41
JH
IS
~ .-«•
ij "
%
a . * J
i
/ . .-.
Q
wymm
m
W7^&Bm
" m
*
© BBh mc
PSrSfigß*
kgmm
?OCf%M QV
■
ms
■
8
n
Pi*
ILS
m
£
%
%
< . - /’
&r*«
VX
1
ft j#
tion by R. Brimley Johnson. Published by the
Bibliophilist Society. 322 pages, bound in black
cloth, with gilt lettering and decorated end-papers.
Size 9£in. x 6£in. 21/- for 10/6 (post. 10d.).
Defoe drew his heroine from a living model,
the eminently evil Lady Roxana, a creature of the
eighteenth century. The book itself is now firmly
established as one of the classics of the English
language This elegantly illustrated edition is wholly
unexpurgated.
U— ARISTOPHANES. The Eleven
Comedies. This edition contains all the ex-
tant comedies. The translation, unabridged,
is a beautiful and accurate one, originally appear-
ing under the imprint of the Athenian Society in
the ’nineties. Two vols. in one. Size x 6in.,
large clear type, handsomely bound in black cloth,
with red and gilt decoration. 15/- for 7/6 (post.
10d.).
The Aristophanic Comedy is so unlike any other
literary form in both subject matter and treatment.
It comes very close to what we now call bur-
lesque. Rollicking, reckless, uproarious fun is the
keynote, though a more serious intention is always
latent underneath. No phase of life was left un-
touched by his biting pen; politics, education,
literature, morals and even the gods are subjected
to his scrutinising critcism.
-- —CHESTERFIELD’S LETTERS TO HIS
A* SON. On the Fine Arts of Becoming
a Man of the World and a Gentleman.
Edited and with an Introduction by Oliver H.
Leigh. Two volumes in one. 843 pages, bound in
decorated brown cloth. Size 9£in. x 2l-
/ 10/6 (post. 1/1).
Chesterfield has often been called the greatest
epigrammist who ever lived. The reading of these
letters is better than hearing the average comedy,
in which the wit of a single sentence of Chester-
field suffices to carry an act.
-j —VOLTAIRE’S ROMANCES. Edited by
A.J Manuel Komroff. Including Candide,
Zadig, the Princess of Babylon, the Child
of Nature, Micromegas, Cosi Sancta, Memmon
and the One Eyed Porter. 350 pages, in brown
cloth with gilt lettering. Size 9yin. x 6jrin. 25/-
for 12/<6 (post lid.).
In recent years there has been a distinct revival
of interest, in the lighter side of Voltaire’s genius.
The present collection is, moreover, a complete
collection of Voltaire’s fictional pieces which are
at once long and fanciful enough to be termed
Romances. It aims to represent Voltaire
thoroughly, in his mood. It is a book to be
read as well as treasured.
1 a —THE CELEBRATED CRIMES OF
XT' HISTORY. By Alexandre Dumas.
Translated by I. G. Burnham. Illustrated
by Jacques Wagriz, of Paris. Eight volumes, 2284
pages, nicely bound in blue cloth, with emblematic
gilt tooling. Size Bin. x siin. £4/4/- for 42/-
(freight 2/6).
One of the strangest and most enthralling works
ever published is Dumas’s “Celebrated Crimes,”
tales of historic crimes, told as only Dumas can
tell them, of love and hate, intrigue and treachery,
mystery and revenge; tales of amours, assassina-
tions, poison schemes and abductions gleaned
from secret archives.
k—FREEBOOTERS AND BUCCANEERS.
IJ Novels of Adventure and Piracy, by Daniel
Defoe, complete and unexpurgated: Being
the Account of the Lives and Adventures of Cap-
tain Singleton—Captain Avery, The King of Pirates
—Jack Sheppard—Jonathan Wild —John Gow —Six
Notorious Street Robbers —The Cartoucheans in
France —A New Voyage Around the World. A
handsome volume of 1138 pages of clear type and
attractively bound in blue buckram; size B£in.
x siin. 21/- for 10/6 (post. 1/-).
Defoe’s account of the exploits of the famous
criminals of his time, were they not written in such
forceful style, so rich in imagination, might be
taken for actual authoritative records.
-j f— BULFINCH’S MYTHOLOGY. Con-
AO taining the Age of Fable, the Age of
Chivalry, Legends of Charlemagne. By
Thomas Bulfinch. With 13 full-page illustrations.
Handsomely bound in art buckram, with coloured
lettering piece and coloured top. Size x
6±in. 788 pages. 9/- (post. 1/-).
The complete “Bulfinch.” “The Age of Fable”
established his fame, and “The Age of Chivalry”
and “Legends of Charlemagne” completed a labour
that will forever be a monument to his name.
An invaluable work of classical reference which
yet has the charm and fascination of a novel,
telling the Stories of Mythology exhaustively yet
entertainingly.
n— MASTERPIECES OF ADVENTURE.
Strange happenings in strange places; tales
of conflict and daring by the greatest
authors of all time. Including O. Henry, Hardy,
Bret Harte, Dickens, Jack London, Poe, Steven-
son and many others. Four volumes containing
28 stories, handsomely bound and enclosed in
attractive box. Four vols. 15/- (post. 1/2).
-j o—MASTERPIECES OF MYSTERY.
AO Stories of criminals and the guardians of the
law. Ghost Stories. Blood-curdling tales
tinged with mysticism. Stories mixing mirth with
murder. All from the pens of master writers.
Conan Doyle, Wilkie Collins, De Maupassant,
Mark Twain, Chekhov and many others. Four
volumes containing 37 stories, handsomely bound
and enclosed in attractive box. Four vols. 15/-
(post 1/2).
THE NATIONAL
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
Usually £l2^lo^-
Now
84
. -x. ''■/ w<vv->r ' %vxooc^> >«s«<*"*• -*<***y* »x#&<jojofc. o«vCvvU-.-. %<&&>&*.
*S** *«*& *<&»* **>*>. ;*>«& yv-y*
*?*•?ss V*XW> ***#»' <*sSBB* '***%. s£s%* »v »X>J»i.-
v£g<£ : :
**sSk. i
»■
AMAZING OFFER-—the National
Encyclopaedia. An up-to-date complete work of reference. 1937
EDITION—with many beautifully coloured full-page plates, maps, and
thousands of illustrations in the text. 10 VOLUMES, 6000 PAGES—
size 1 x Bin., and 2in. thick. Large clear type; handsomely and
strongly bound in leather. £l2/10/- for 84/ only a limited number
of sets available at this astounding low price.
ORDER FORM
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the book I have encircled below:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
NAME
i ..... , .
ADDRESS
B. 23/2/’3B.


VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloomsbury Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatres
and Shops. 250 Rooms, 11. & C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/- per day. Ulus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
cfctt m
o fki& ieAted and. p/c&ved
tl'i
rTTiU
•it
For samples and lllus.
free write to Dept. «
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
folder post
i, Box 3281
Missing Friends.
STEWART, Archibald John, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
The next-of-kin of Mrs. RUBY SAMUEL,
daughter of Mrs. James Sievwright, late of
Toowoomba, are requested to communicate
as soon as possible with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand.
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —Complete sets of unobliterated
Coronation stamps of New Guinea (Mandated
Territory), ss. per set. New Guinea pennies
6d. each. W. R. Thomas, P.O. Box 117,
Rabaul.
BRANDADERrS
fk
G*
PENS
.
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a brandjlUkb * co. Ltd, Birmingham, eng
6Q.V
MElbourne
Chatter
It was, on the whole, the elegant elder
women who wore the large hats at Caul-
field ; their daughters, in spite of the
heat, had hats small and brimless, or
they wore none at all. Mrs. M. H. Bail-
lieu’s black hat was of the shady school,
perfect for such a day, and the right ac-
companiment for a black frock. She was
with Mrs. Pat Osborne, who wore a
navy-blue patterned suit. Mrs. Rupert
Downes was calm, cool and collected in
duck-egg blue from head to fool. Mrs.
Harry Rosenthal’s corn-colored dress was
ruched from neck to waist, and a green-
and-yellow butterfly was poised for flight
upon her shady hat. The Linton lady
carried that rare accessory a sunshade,
while cherries (gay but indigestible ones)
bobbed about on her turban. As it’s now
the fashion for dress designers to give
names to their creations, it might have
been someone’s fancy to tabulate Mrs.
Ivor Manton’s model “Overture and Be-
ginners” (a term they use behind the
scenes when the curtain is about to go
up). It was white with a dash of red, of
military cut, with a blue hussar cape
piped in yellow and a knot of vari-
colored cord in the crown of a jaunty
felt hat.
Melbourne opened a drowsy eye last
week to find it was time to be up and
doing. The lethargy of summef was
almost at an end ; folk who had been
wooing fine weather at the beaches were
remembering that there were such noisy
things in the world as city streets. The
bunch of parties that bounced into the
scheme of things was caused by the
visits of the Louisville, the Italian cruiser
Raimondo Montecuccoli and Dr. Maria
Ogilvie-Gordon.
The officers of the warships enter-
tained and were entertained, as was
Dame Maria. This eminent woman pos-
sesses that rare gift charm as well as a
sense of humor. She has a quaint man-
nerism of looking upwards without a
smile when she thinks she’s said some-
thing wicked —as, for instance, when she
concluded an address at one women’s
club with “Well, now, does anyone wish
to thank me?”
The Italian Consul Cavaliere Ernesto
Arrighi received his countrymen from
the Raimondo Montecuccoli and a
goodly slice of Melbourne society for
cocktails at Menzies. Most of the
Italian guests spoke English, and those
who seemed nervous about their pro-
nunciation had such courteous manners
that their success was soon assured.
Among the guests was Air-Commodore
Goble, making his debut at his first big
party since returning from abroad. His
sense of humor is as keen as ever, and
his repertoire of anecdotes is, if any-
thing, larger and more varied. Very
soon he will welcome his wife and
family back from England.
A cocktail party at No. 9, with danc-
ing in the annexe and the opportunity
of wandering outside to a beer garden,
introduced to the paved courtyard, was
given by the American Consulate with
the F. A. Henrys, the Wales Signors and
the R. H. Hunts as hosts and hostesses.
The guest list was 99 p.c. official and
American community. The Louisville’s
Captain Mathewson exchanged reminis-
cences with the Defence Department
officers about the days of 30 years ago
when as a young midshipman he visited
Australia with the American fleet.
Noticed in the crowd were Colonel
Clegg and Pat, who wore navy blue and a
little blue and white hat; Hersey Brookes,
in a suntan make-up of the same color as
her frock ; Mrs. Phil Finkelstein, very
summery in white sharkskin ; Jean York
Syme, in black frock and diminutive cap ;
Titian-headed Mollie Murray, whose pat-
terned frock showed a predominance of
blue; Mrs. Wrigley, from Laverton,
whose hat was lit by a half-moon of
violets. Madame Claudon, in figured
chiffon and a vast expanse of green hat,
was among the guests who managed to
fill another engagement, the Italian
Consul’s party, on the same evening.
The A. M. Coates couple were there
with Isla and Jean, who, having lived in
America for so long, found they had
lots in common with the Louisville’s
officers. Isla is finding a commerce
course at the University a heavy burden
to carry among all her social engage-
ments. Vaire Wilkinson came to the
party in a rust-colored ensemble, the
coat cut with a plain tailored front and
a full-swing back. Vaire, who is a very
popular young thing, is having the time
of her life with so many naval engage-
ments. One night recently, when she ac-
companied her father to “Okay for
Sound,” she was the only girl among 25
men, Air Force officers and the personnel
of the flying-boats.
February always seems to be a favorite
month for weddings—possibly because
summer comes late (we always seem to
get high temperatures about the time of
the winter fashion parades), and good
weather may be expected for motoring,
beach and country holidays, and so for
honeymoons. Margaret Carson and
Douglas Harold Stewart will be among
February honeymooners ; their marriage
takes place to-day at Scots kirk. Mar-
garet is the younger daughter of the Nor-
man J. Carson couple, of Kew. Her
photograph is by Jack Cato.
Dr. Maria Ogilvie-Gordon arrived in
Melbourne somewhat tired after her
strenuous time in Sydney, but she kept
all her promises, and with the help of
throat lozenges spoke on every occa-
sion expected of her. She was guest of
honor at the Victoria League and said
she appreciated the informality of the
occasion, for it was an intimate gather-
ing in a small room and so missed the
air of detachment that is sometimes the
natural result of large halls and voices
pitched for distance. As there was no
programme of entertainment the chairs
were not placed in rows, but round the
walls among phalanxes of dahlias, phlox
and zinnias. Afterwards those who had
questions to ask Dame Maria found an
opportune moment while they were being
introduced.
Among those present were Mrs. Colin
Gilray, Mrs. Rutter Clarke, Mrs. Clive
Ross Fenner and Mrs. Horace Calder.
An inter-State guest was Mrs. Henry
Robertson, president of the N.C.W. in
Brisbane. Another newcomer was Mrs.
L. McLarty, making her first appear-
ance, for she has only recently come
from Newcastle to settle in Melbourne.
The young folk at the party succeeded in
persuading yet another new arrival,
Josef a Malinowska, to join them in a
weekly good deed of bookbinding, which
is part of the League’s activities through
its Bush Library and Magazine Commit-
tee. Josefa, who was with her grand-,
mother, the Masson lady, is the daugh-
ter of Professor Malinowski, a Polish
professor of anthropology at London
University and the late Madame Malin-
owska, who before her marriage was
Elsie Masson. Josefa, who is just 17,
has inherited from her mother the tinge
of auburn that is ip her hair. She hopes
to see something of the Australian coun-
tryside before returning to England.
Dr. and Mrs. Cecil Cantor shook an
impromptu cocktail last week, though the
host arrived just in time to miss all the
work but opening bottles and mixing the
second lot of drinks. He’s addicted to
squash, and wouldn’t miss his strenuous
half-hour on the court even though it
looked like making him late for his own
party. But Mrs. Cantor would be the
last person to remonstrate about devotion
to what has also become her favorite
game, her sparring partner being Mrs.
Max Cooch. At the party she did the
honors and produced some quite new
savories in a navy frock with a pale-blue
bow in her hair. Among guests were
Meg Guthrie, Nan Moran, Dr. “Bung”
Hill of the “trusting brown eyes,” who
is always the life and soul of any party
Also present was Dr. Crisp, who had a
date the following day as groomsman at
the marriage of Neenoo Due and Dr.
Marshall Renou. Elizabeth Luxton, in
a nut-brown hat and tiny veil, came
along with her fiance, Dr. Russell
Howard, who to-day faces the altar be-
side her.
Chairs were placed in the garden for
Mrs. S. C. Joel’s party at her home in
Church-street, Toorak, on Saturday even-
ing, and they proved very popular, as did
the lawn at the back, which is just a
step from the dining-room. The long
narrow table in the lounge was a harvest-
festival display planned by the hostess
out of decorative pineapples, tomatoes,
bananas, oranges, egg-plants, a number
of melons and all sorts of other fruits
and vegetables glamorous in color. With
these also were generous helpings of
parsley and trails of vine leaves. Among
the guests was Mrs. R. T. Robinson, tall
and graceful in black chiffon. Vans
Anderson, also in black, was with her
fiance, Norman Wilson. Vans is going
back to Perth in about a month’s time to
think about such a serious thing as mak-
ing a trousseau. Major and Mrs. Sammy
Hall were there, and Dr. Clif Rosefield
was noticed receiving felicitations for
himself and his wife on the addition to
the family of a small daughter. .
In the Jack Cato. photograph is Rene
Crooke, of the Holey Plain, Rosedale,
who will marry Neville Payne on Febru-
ary 28. The ceremony will take place
at St. John’s, Toorak.
“Swing Along,” the new musical show
at His Majesty’s, opened on Saturday to
a packed theatre —a surprise on an even-
ing which was for Melbourne of pheno-
menal heat. Fans swished right through
the show, but the audience only got
warmer than ever as it laughed itself
into hysteria over George Gee as a bride
(and such a bride —what feet they were
in size eight white satin slippers!), as a
damsel, not honest, alas! in frilly
organdie, with red, white and blue bow
for the hair, and as a soldier of the no-
shirt regiment. George is back in town,
and everybody’s delighted about it. Bert
Matthews, too, keeps the laughs at chok-
ing point Lately he hasn’t had the
chance to do enough dancing, but he
makes up for it in other ways with such
props as a camera, a tuba and an invis-
ible lifting wire for his gallivanting
across the darkened stage in tweed
trousers and clay pipe, a ballet girl’s
skirt and wreath of roses.
During the interval the audience drank
orange squash out in the street after hav-
ing torn one another limb from limb get-
ting into the cool-drink shops. Peggy
Finkelstein wore a lovely gown of white
ninon cut with high waist, apple-green
velvet bow across the front of the cor-
sage and the same velvet for shoulder
straps at the back of the low decolletage.
With her slimly-fitting pastel-blue gown
Betty Journeaux presented a beautifully
suntanned back. The John Reids were
noticed ; also Mrs. Chas. Wenman, there
to cast a critical eye over daughter
Sunday in the ballet. Mrs. A. B. Patter-
son’s midnight-blue gown was a-sparkle
with the sixpenny-sized sequins. The
M. L. Shepherds were present and gave
the verdict that the heat, because it came
so unexpectedly, was quite as trying as
they found it in Colombo at Christmas-
time.
Mrs. Jane Kydd, who has been in Aus-
tralia on a business and pleasure trip,
was the cause of the change of career
for Katherine Herd, who has also been
in Melbourne for several months on
leave of absence from her job in the
corset salon of Marshall and Snelgrove’s.
Miss Herd was a Melbourne nurse who
went to England “on spec.” several years
ago. On the voyage over in the Hobson’s
Bay she had occasion to assist the ship’s
nurse, Sister Court. Sometime later in
London Miss Herd went by chance into
the corset salon “Marion Jacks,” where
she was surprised to find the manageress
was Sister Court, who had since married
Captain Kydd, of the Hobson’s Bay.
Mrs. Kydd now has her own salon, which
she calls “Jane Court.” It was on her
suggestion that Miss Herd gave up nurs-
ing to study surgical corsetry, a decision
which she has never regretted.
Lectures in antiques as undertaken this
year by Mrs. Walter Price are something
new for the curricula of Melbourne’s
girls’ secondary schools. Mrs. Price is a
daughter of the late Rev. J. S. and Mrs.
Price, and has inherited her love of
antiques from her parents, who had a
notable collection. She has studied her
subject for many years, and gathered
practical experience in an antique shop.
Mrs. Price has the gift of touch with
which some collectors are born, and
without which they cannot learn to judge
age and values. She has spent a great deal
of time in the art rooms of the National
Gallery, where she has catalogued every
exhibit, and in the reading-rooms, the only
place where she could collect the infor-
mation she needed. Her lectures are
arranged under the headings of Pottery,
Glass, Period Furniture and Old Silver.
Collectors are patient people. Quite
recently Mrs. Price procured two Staf-
fordshire dogs through a collector who
had had his eye on the pieces for 45
years and was able to buy them only
when their owner died. The school in
which Mrs. Price commenced her lec-
tures was her Alma Mater, Girls’ Gram-
mar School. Her husband is classics
master at Trinity Grammar School, and
finds time to fulfil duties as Councillor
Price, as president of the Returned Sol-
diers’ sub-branch at Kew and as presi-
dent of St. Peter’s Old Collegians.


To Businessmen and Others.
A mistake may prove costly. Advice
is cheap, but Good Advice, at a
reasonable price, may save you
worry and money. Fee from 5/- for
interview and advice. No advice,
no charge. Call, ’phone 8W6115,
or write.
Everard Hedemann,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
« ONE :
COMPANY^
rrc==i,
£
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and. soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the ' spread’ over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
fhe “Romance of Industry” session each Wednesday night at, 9.30. from 2UE.
Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
INIWINIQ SNVOQ
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. Want”: Australian’s first evening
’plane service links North of Twenty-
eight to the south from last week on-
wards. The capacious Douglas DC3
Kyilla will take passengers from Mas-
cot, Sydney, at 5.10 p.m. each day and
land them at Archerfield at 7.55 p.m. To
finish a day’s office work in Sydney, have
a late dinner in Brisbane and be back in
Sydney to unlock the office at the normal
time next morning would have been too
tall a tale for the Australian of a couple
of decades ago to swallow.
* * * sk
“A.H.L.”: “Ex-Mister” says (B.
2/2/’3B) that the steamship Toorie in
1936 handled 165,000 tons and in 1937
142,000 tons of sugar. These quantities
represent the total sugar shipped from
Mackay in the respective years. It was
handled by a fleet of three small
steamers, including the Toorie, and two
barges. The Toorie transported last
year about 25,000 tons.
* * * #
“M. Turlutu”: Premier Smith, of
Queensland, seems to be developing defi-
nite gadget-mindedness. His desk in the
House of Assembly is replete with every
mod. bus. con., although some of the
fittings which ribald members of the
Opposition ascribe to it are not really
there. Now, two large and imposing
cabinets have made their appearance in
his office in the Chief Secretary build-
ing, causing much speculation among
visitors as to their nature and purpose.
With a Scots twinkle o’ the een Foggy
gravely informed one inquirer that they
were full of mechanism which automati-
cally recorded every word spoken in the
room, thereby obviating the need of a
stenographer during deputations or Min-
isterial conferences. As a matter of fact,
they contain a small air-conditioning
plant which automatically regulates the
temperature of the room.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Whilst Canberra is con-
sidering the matter of votes for abos.,
why not give a bit of well-deserved
attention to those excellent colored citi-
zens the Kanakas? Over 1100 of them,
and more than 300 half-castes, intelligent,
law-abiding and industrious, still live in
Queensland, permitted to own land and
subject to rates and taxes, but debarred
from certain occupations and disfran-
chised. Even the hundreds of native-
born suffer under these disabilities in the
land of their birth, although they have
been educated in white schools and are
in every respect civilised Australians.
They are descendants of the “ticket
boys,” many of them still alive, who
were permitted to remain after the
1904-06 deportation. We owe them a
heavy debt for the brutalities of the
earlier “blackbird” trade, and they made
the Queensland sugar industry grow up.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: If the southern city-
dweller ever thinks about it at all, the
job of growing those big Queensland
bananas in the shop window seems just
one of dawdling about and watching the
niggers pick them off the trees. Let him
try it! After he’s felled six acres or so
of scrub on a dangerous hillside, had the
luck to get a clean burn-off in a reason-
able time, and done a day or two log-
ging-up he’ll have made the first start.
Then he digs suckers at the rate of 500
to the acre, lugs them across the gully,
and plants them in 3000 holes dug under
a summer sun. A while later he does his
first chip of the new ground, still full
of small roots and stumps. After that
it just means getting up before daylight
as usual, chipping, suckering, leafing and
cutting until dark, and casing and dis-
patching if the market is good enough.
If it isn’t the work has to go on just the
same. After allowing for squashing,
straying bunches, and the usual dozen a
bunch for “accidents,” he’s often lucky
if he gets a cheque and not a bill.
* * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane is once more
in the throes of conflict over the bus-
trolley-bus-tram question of metropolitan
transport. Completion of the new Story
Bridge towards the end of 1939 will
force some sort of issue, as no trams are
to run over it. The Ludmayor admits
having “repeatedly urged the Tramways
Department to consider.... less costly
methods than laying down tramlines,”
“Sorry t ’ leave y' like this, but a bloke needs a coaf when ’e goes t ’ town."
but fails to explain why he didn’t order
it, instead of just urging. Experience of
the London Transport Authority settles
the question. In 1936, buses carried 62
p.c. of the total metropolitan traffic, and
paid the heavy losses on the trams (26
p.c. of traffic) and underground railways
(12 p.c.). Since then, trams are being
rapidly scrapped for replacement by
motor and trolley-buses, mostly motor,
and all possible peak-hour underground
traffic diverted to the buses.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Seven hundred guests surged aboard
the Stratheden for the late-afternoon
party given by the P. and O. agents,
Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., in honor
of the first visit to Brisbane of the huge
liner. The commander, Captain R.
Harrison, and Mr. and Mrs. Rodney
Macdonald welcomed the guests. Sir
Leslie and Lady Wilson went along
with Captain Richards, A.D.C. Lady
Wilson was in mist-grey sheer, worn
with a shady blue hat. Mrs. Macdonald
was in black.
The Dickens Fellowship celebrated
the 126th anniversary of the birth of the
novelist at a musical evening, and the
president, Dr. Hamlyn Harris, gave a
brief address. Mesdames H. T. Sykes,
F. R. Kincaid and J. Pollard received
the guest, each hostess wearing a posy
of geraniums, which legend has it were
Dickens’s favorite flowers. About 50
guests were present.
Mrs. Rose Stanley Benjamin, of
Hamilton, dead in Brisbane, was a great-
granddaughter of Bligh of the Bounty.
She was born in Gloucestershire,
daughter of Rev. G. H. Nutting, rector
of Chastleton Church. She came to
Australia when she was 18 and married
at Beenleigh in 1878. Charitable and
welfare organisations have lost a good
friend and helper.
Dr. Hugh Dalton, M.P., who spent his
last day in Brisbane in acquiring a
collection of the gaudiest sun-hats he
could find and afterwards wandered
about Queen-street wearing one of them,
had glimpses of two of Queensland’s
most historic stations Mundoolun,
where he was the guest of the Douglas
Frasers, and Nindooimbah, where Mrs.
William Collins, her daughter and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. John Collins, gave
him lunch. Reg McAllister, the Premier’s
private secretary, and Edgar Ferguson
of the Premier’s Department were with
him. A day or two before this Dr.
Dalton saw a sugar plantation at Bunda-
berg and a sugarmill in full swing.
There was a Parliamentary luncheon in
his honor the day before he left Brisbane.
March 5 will see the official opening
of Ardoyne, which now is the Crippled
Children’s Home. Already the children
have been moved from Montrose, which
is being put in order as rapidly as pos-
sible for the Diggers who will occupy
it when it becomes the King George
Home for invalid returned soldiers.
Ardoyne for years was a Red Cross
convalescent home for Diggers, but the
powers that be decided to close down
and transfer the patients to Rosemount
Repat. Hospital. There are nine acres
of ground, well-grown shady old trees
and plenty of garden. Thanks to Lord
Nuffield, there was enough money to put
up a fireproof block of dormitories, and
the Governor laid the foundation stone
of this before he went to England. Next
month he will, officially open the place.
There are 34 boys and 21 girls at Ar-
doyne, and a happier collection of young
Queenslanders it would be hard to find.
Thirteen well - known Queensland
artists have a collection of oils, water-
colors and etchings on view at the Gains-
borough Gallery until the end of the
month. The pictures should sell rapidly,
as none is more highly priced than three
guineas. The exhibition was opened by
P. Stanhope Hobday, who was repre-
sented by water-colors and monotypes.
Two pioneer families were united when
Hazel Yates, great-granddaughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Jacobs, the first
settlers in the Rosewood district, was
married to Harold, son of Mr. and Mrs.
William Koch, of Ashwell, and grandson
of a pioneer couple in the Haigslea dis-
trict. The Lanefield Baptist Church
heard the Voice, and Ivy Loveday was
’maid.
Widespread interest was taken in a
wedding quietly celebrated in the chapel
of the Holy Innocents, St. John’s Cathe-
dral, when Norma Theresa Buchanan,
daughter of W. H. Buchanan and Mrs.
Buchanan, Ascot, was married to Peter
Burton Smith, son of Harry Burton
Smith, of Leura, N.S.W. There was no
bridesmaid. A cocktail party at the
bride’s home followed the ceremony,
after which the newly-weds left for Syd-
ney. The new home will be Wooroona,
n.-w. Queensland.
V. L. Meise, of the Shell Company,
and his pretty wife have booked their
passages for England in the Orama and
will sail on March 30. Mr. and Mrs. A.
Cossey also are travelling abroad in the
Orama, and the four of them were the
guests of honor at a five-to-seven party
given by Mr. and Mrs. L. G. Hinwood
and Mr. G. V. Cornwell at the Hinwood
home at Toowong.
Reminiscences of the days when the
Jumna, the troopship immortalised in a
verse of Kipling’s, was the largest vessel
trading to Brisbane —it was 5000 tons,
and the river, then undredged, could not
accommodate anything larger — : were
trotted out when J. W. Grice, of Loch
Lomond, P. O’Mara (Warwick) and J.
O’Mara (Tannymorel) met for an annual
celebration. The three of them arrived
in Queensland 50 years ago in the Jumna,
and the friendship first begun on board
has lasted ever since. Another Jumna
passenger of the same year, J. Donovan,
was for some years in the Warwick dis-
trict, but he now lives at Maryborough.


listen, m.S&uUr-Ha/id
~*k** 1 * «“ »
11CE OF » R| °*£ SOAP
“ c &»"So"" T "w
”ssr
UM |V ' fc ’
BECAOSt|®fjf 1 22 i^5
pepsodent » fecUng c\ca
SSJS-
-
PEPSODENT
ALONE amonq Jenfifmis CONTAINS
Good brushing is important
but teeth can’t really
sparkle without the right
tooth paste. End Scrub-
Hard disappointment! Get
real results by daily brush-
ing with Pepsodent con-
taining IRIUM. Irium wins
flashing natural lustre for
your teeth. Dingy film
loosens and floats away like
magic. Try it today!
IRIDIC
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
AU 156/6E
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1972 of 1937.
BETWEEN STELLA GLADYS VINCENT
Petitioner
And OWEN ELLIS VINCENT Respon-
dent.
TO OWEN ELLIS VINCENT late of Perth.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STELLA
GLADYS VINCENT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Six-
teenth day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-eight and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of February,
1938. „ .
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Cleric in Divorce.
R W NTCHOLL. Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 2042 of 1935.
BETWEEN MABEL WINIFRED BUCHANAN
Petitioner
And GEORGE BUCHANAN Respondent.
TO GEORGE BUCHANAN late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales and Lut-
wyche in the State of Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MABEL
WINIFRED BUCHANAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Fifteenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of February, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
HUMPHREY MANSFIELD, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1739 of 1937.
BETWEEN SARAH ISABELLA CONLON
Petitioner
And THOMAS EDWARD CONLON Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS EDWARD CONLON late of
Coorabell in the State of New South Wales
Dairy Farmer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SARAH ISA-
BELLA CONLON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without, just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of May 1938 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this Eighteenth day of February, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
McINTOSH & BEST, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, Molesworth Street, Lismore; by their
Agent. PERCY R. WATTS, 9 Bligh Street,
vSvdney.
ANAEMIA
DEBILITY
WEAKNESS
MALNUTRITION
NERVES
*3T
If you feel listless, tired and depressed and find
your daily task a burden, you may be one of the
thousands of women who suffer from Anaemia with-
out knowing it. Anaemia is not an ailment that
gives drastic warning symptoms. It develops slowly
and insidiously and unless proper measures are
taken, will surely sow the seeds of ill-health in
later life. Start to-day to restore your lost energy and
joy of living by taking BOBOLEINE, the most
wonderful restorative food and blood regenerator in
the world. For BOBOLEINE not only supplies con-
centrated nourishment to the starved nerves and
tissues, but it contains Red and White Bone
Marrow, the richest blood-forming elements known
to science. Even after a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, the
appetite improves, the digestion becomes stronger
and soon all the distressing symptoms of weak-
ness, lassitude, palpitation of the heart, faintness,
giddiness and shortness of breath disappear like
magic. There is no tonic under the sun which will
rehabilitate the impoverished blood and restore
your health and vitality so effectively in so short
a time at so small a cost as BOBOLEINE.
The Governor of the largest English Hospital said,
“The effect of Roholeine on Anaemic Children hat
been magical."
In Gets., 12oz. and S6oz. glass fart.
RDBDLEINE
(Made in England)
The best blood-making
and health-restoring food
tAuW & x encase loge th el
* Uob°^ el ?
m ?i e on o« flclency ‘
on u
S.B. 16
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Prof. A. E. V. Richardson’s wife
arranged a supper party on the night fol-
lowing the first concert given by Lauri
and Dorothy Kennedy at the Town Hall,
on behalf of the Adelaide Music Salon,
of which she is a member. Mrs. Richard-
son received in the huge lounge with the
president of the A.M.S., C. H. A.
Lienau. It was a cold night, and the
guests appreciated the logs burning
brightly. Mrs. Kennedy, who hails from
Adelaide, met many companions of her
student days.
Mrs. James Dyer, whose husband re-
cently died in Paris, passed through
Adelaide in the Maloja, en route for Mel-
bourne. Her niece, the Sowden lady,
met her at Victor Harbor.
A Melbourne bride and bridegroom,
the E. Dallas Scotts, who were married
recently at Melbourne Grammar School
chapel, arrived to make their home in
Adelaide in the car in which Mr. Scott
has broken several motoring records.
Formerly a flight-lieutenant in the
R.A.F., he left last year to join New
Guinea Airways’ Adelaide establishment.
St. Matthew’s, Marryatville, was deco-
rated with delphiniums and pink Christ-
mas lilies for the marriage of Haynes
Leader, Clerk of the Supreme Court, to
Ethel, daughter of Mrs. E. M. Priest, of
Burnside. The bride’s magnolia lace
gown veiled satin in the same shade, and
her long tulle veil was held in place by
three cream camellias. Bridesmaid Jean
Crawford was gowned in pale cyclamen-
pink chiffon, the skirt long. A cape to
match was worn with the sleeveless
bodice, and she sported a halo of cycla-
men and petunia velvet flowers.
Betty and Madge Irving, who arrived
in the Manoora from Brisbane, were
guests on the day of their arrival at the
marriage of June Bails to J. S. Muecke
at St. Peter’s College chapel.
A quiet wedding celebrated at Christ
Church was that of Elizabeth Helen
Thompson, an Irish girl, to John F. Jack-
son, station owner and amateur aviator
of Queensland. They met for the first
time three weeks ago, when the bride,
who is the daughter of a Dublin soli-
citor, was on a round cruise in the
Oronsay with her aunt, Mrs. Thomas,
who gave her away. The bride looked
charming in raspberry-red silk figured in
white, worn with a hat of white straw
and accessories to match, and she car-
ried a bouquet of water-lilies. Helen
Bakewell ’maided in a soft pink linen
frock and hat of the same material and
a chiffon blouse. The bridegroom had
arrived by ’plane the previous day, and
left again with his bride for Queensland.
At the Lyceum Club women law prac-
titioners and students gave Helen
Solomon, who practises law with her
father, Herbert Solomon, a cocktail
party, as a farewell prior to her mar-
riage to Keith M. Levy, of Sydney. The
guest of honor was presented with a
silver sandwich tray.
WESTRALIA.
St. George’s College chapel, Crawley,
was the unusual setting for the early-
morning wedding of Mavis, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Holmes,
to Rev. Harry Baxter, who is attached
to St. Mary’s in Colin-street. The Primate
of Australia, Dr. Le Fanu, officiated, with
assistance from Rev. C. B. Law, Warden
of St. George’s College. Simple tailored
delphinium-blue crepe sprayed at the
neckline with Cecil Brunner rosebuds and
large navy headgear formed the bridal
garb, and sister Violet chose the same
style for her carnation-pink crepe roubaix
and matching hat. The jarrah-panelled
dining-hall of the college, its gorgeous
river views glimpsed from the windows,
housed the after-rejoicings, with oval
baskets of roses, carnations, gladioli and
delphiniums spilling their blooms on
every table.
A bride of the week who followed the
tulle-and-train tradition was Kathleen
Astley Cooper, member of a very old
Westralian family, for her exchange of
vows at St. Mary’s, West Perth, with
Raymond Rigg, of Cottesloe. Her shim-
mering frock of cloth of silver embossed
with sprays of wistaria was cut on
Grecian lines, draped of bodice and
moulded of skirt into a flowing train
over which cascaded misty tulle veilings.
A sheaf of ice-blue water-lilies completed
the picture. Biddy Anderson removed the
glove in white sharkskin a-shimmer with
sequins and short tulle veil held in place
with a tiny bow of sequins. Toastings
were at the Adelphi, where dancing was
interspersed with speechifying.
Despite the ravages of heatwaves,
bride-elect parties continue in full vigor.
Those for Mavis Holmes were no excep-
tion. Cousin Bob set the ball rolling
with a dinner party at the Esplanade for
the leading lights, Mrs. George Gwynne
and Eileen Hayes made their tea-drinking
a joint affair, and Sheila Lotz set up
tables for the bridge-minded at her home
in the Terrace. Maude Mitchell cleverly
chose a sticky night on which to officiate
with a cocktail-shaker, and the Cadd
sisters, Dot and Gwen, presided at the
morning-tea table.
The H. J. Urquhart couple have re-
turned after a leisurely globetrot of 2\
years. Mrs. Urquhart, who for many
years was an ardent Red Cross worker,
was invested as an honorary member of
the Bulbarian society, that of the White
Russians at Harbin, and of the Inter-
national Red Cross at Shanghai during
her wanderings in those parts.
Fremantle’s Mayoral family is on holi-
day bent. Mr. and Mrs. Gibson departed
for England with presentations and ap-
preciative speeches to speed them, and
daughter Marion, who has shouldered
many of the civic duties of the Port for
her mother, will leave shortly for a trip
to Borneo.
Dutch and Flemish art of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries is represented
in the exhibition of paintings housed for
a short while in the sculpture court of
the Art Gallery. Dr. Battye did the offi-
cial opening.
TASMANIA.
The fashion of having dances and
other functions out of town is very popu-
lar in the north, and Fitzpatrick’s Inn
at Westbury is a favorite spot. A com-
mittee of girls got up a very lively dance
there. Madden’s orchestra made the
music, and the enlarged ballroom was
brilliantly decorated. Marion Grubb and
Peggy Harridge were joint secs. Car-
loads of guests invaded the quiet of the
village, and the affair was a huge success.
Another function at the inn was an
at-home given by country matrons. Mrs.
Frank Youl and Mrs. Randall Field were
joint secs, for a committee which took in
the northern half of the island. Hostesses
received in the dining-room, which also
served as a cardroom. Guests danced in
the ballroom and ate in a big marquee.
Decorations were vivid with much red
in the scheme. The hotel garden and
surrounding grounds were bright with
colored electric lights, and big fires were
lit in all the reception-rooms.
Four women of sporting and business
proclivities have paid the Speck a visit
this summer —Lady Sligo, Lady Hender-
son, Mrs. C. T. Jones and Mrs. Doris
Booth, experienced in goldmining in
New Guinea. All have been enthusiastic
about the Speck’s charms and resources.
Mrs. J. E. Thyne, Belhaven-street,
Launceston, hostessed a big morning-tea
party at the Brisbane in honor of her
sisters-in-law, Mrs. J. E. Thyne, Scot-
land, and Lady Henderson. Massed
gladioli and dahlias made sumptuous
splashes of color in the lounge.
Launceston’s Horticultural Society
celebrated its arrival at the ripe old age
of 100 years with a great shivoo. His
Ex. was called upon to unveil a tablet
to commemorate the event.
Mrs. Arthur Procter (Scotland) is
being frequently entertained in the north,
where she is renewing many friendships.
The Gordon Rolphs gave a party for
her in the late afternoon at their home
in Clarence-street, when about 60 guests
were present.
Mrs. Jack Broad bent was hostess at a
late-afternoon party at Hadley’s in honor
of Flora Cran, who is her and her
mother’s guest in Anglesea-street. The
Broadbents are moving to Brisbane in
the near future.


1
THE
"Narvon"
Poley
Saddle
£l5/15/-
(MOUNTED)
The tree is
designed to
allow for a
full free bar, the
seat is London color
hogskin, the flaps
and skirts are combined and are of
best-quality kip leather.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
mrnri:r*iivrmr
LTD
59S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
annual report see “Bulletin,” 25/11/’36.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices :
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Paiunga Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
I^ania
EAL holiday
'■•■••••■v->.
A Glimpse of Historic Port Arthur.
See Tasmania under sunny Autumn
skies to the best advantage. Call or
write now for details of sailings
and itineraries of short tours to suit
your holiday period.
To ensure choice of berths on inter-
state and oyerseas liners book your
Easter tour early.
TASMANIAN
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
MELBOURNE: The Block, Collins Street
SYDNEY: 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
ADELAIDE ----- 13 Street
PERTH: A.M.P. Bldg:., William Street
BRISBANE - - - - 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART ------ Macquarie Street
The Long White Clud
Influence of the Maori
“K.”: The fact that most 1938 Maori-
landers may ignore Maori culture (B.
9/2/’3B) does not affect Native Land
Court Judge Acheson’s belief that the
gradual infusion of Maori blood will
leaven Anglo-Saxon stock with a greater
measure of romance, poetry, mysticism
and spirituality. The Acheson view is
backed by a prosaic argument contained
in the native population statistics.
Before 1922 there were no intercensal
Maori estimates, and prior to 1926 per-
sons of mixed European-Maori blood
were classed as European or Maori
according to the degree. The genius who
evolved this method overlooked the half-
caste, so in his case the mode of living
was adopted as the deciding standard.
Those living as Europeans were treated
as such by the statistician, while those
who occupied pah mats were counted
with the native population.
After 1926 all half-castes, together with
those nearer in blood to Maori than
European, were included in native popu-
lation figures.
Result of all this dithering is that
Maoriland doesn’t know its proportion of
Maori-mixed to straight European
bloods. The national influence of people
blessed with a dash of Maori is known
only in the individual instances of those
who are proud of the mixture. But the
proportion must be heavy ; as far back
as 1921 there were 4236 half-castes living
as Europeans—and figured as such —
compared with 3116 living as Maoris.
Even if modern Maoriland is com:
pletely ignoring native culture, an in-
fusion of Maori blood is already helping
to shape her cultural destiny.
“Kiwit”: Iron deposits at
Onakaka in the Nelson prov-
ince are again in the Maoriland
news. The ore lies in a 1600 ft.
mountain, and some experts
claim that pig-iron could be
produced at Onakaka as cheap as any-
where in the world. The necessary
fluxing material occurs in the same
locality, along with coal suitable for
furnace purposes. Onakaka has been
virtually neglected, because the local
demand for pig-iron has hardly been
sufficient to keep the blast furnace
operating long enough to be profitable.
Now the position has been altered by
Australian iron and steel price lifts and
armament delays in steel deliveries from
overseas. On top of everything is the
pressing Savage Government problem of
keeping national income and employment
figures as high as possible during a criti-
cal election year. Onakaka may yet be
the scene of another national-develop-
ment scheme.
* * # *
“Clicker”: A complaint made by M.L.
boot manufacturers that they are up
against an increasing shortage of skilled
labor because of the obstacles placed in
the way of taking apprentices might be
made with equal force by most of the
other manufacturing trades in the
Dominion. The position has arisen owing
to the policy of the workers’ unions, right
from their inception, of insisting that
apprentices should be in an inferior ratio
to journeymen—one apprentice to four,
five, six or even ten journeymen in some
trades. The idea, of course, was to safe-
guard against too much boy labor, and
to put skilled workers at a premium.
There was no long view of the interests
of the industry. Unfortunately, in Con-
ciliation Council bargainings (and quite
a lot of industrial agreements were made
by the councils), the employers, up
against it, have in many cases been pre-
pared to make concessions in any direc-
“May I give you a demonstration with the latest thing in carpet-
sweepers?”
tion rather than raise wages. It would
have paid them better in the long run if
they had sprung a few more bob and
bought the right to employ as many
apprentices as their industry needed to
carry on.
* * * *
“Waitot”: Once more Mayor Island,
off Tauranga, has put Maoriland into the
world’s cable news by virtue of a 9531 b.
tiger-shark caught in its waters by a
Rotorua fisherman. Like most of Maori-
land’s coastal landmarks, the 14-miles-
long volcanic island owes its name to
Cook, who sailed the Bay of Plenty on
London Lord Mayor’s Day of December,
1769. Native tribes occupied the island
at various times, but within the period
of white settlement it became a burial
ground for mainland natives from coastal
villages. Before big-game fishermen
began to use it as a base, collectors of
native curios were the most frequent —
but unlawful —visitors; its caves con-
tained the weapons and greenstone orna-
ments of departed warriors as well as
their crumbling bones. Not all the de-
spoilers escaped with their booty.
Tauranga still remembers how a valu-
able set of greenstone weapons displayed
in a shop window were recognised by
the Maori elders and returned to them by
the authorities.
* * * *
“Stoo”: Palmerston North jubilee cele-
brations provided an entertaining side-
light on one aspect of the Maori out-
look on life' (B. 16/2/’3B). The jubilee
committee was left with a whacking
deficit, due largely to the Maori “caval-
cade,” promised to cost not more than
£9O, running into £373. Storekeepers, and
the Maoris, too, were under the mis-
taken impression that unlimited credit
was available to the cavalcade, and the
Maoris, with the greatest enthusiasm, ran
up a bill at one store of £6O for pickles,
sardines and tobacco. Even their cars
were filled with jubilee spirit, to the tune
of £3O. Maoris like jubilees.
“Dhas”: Labor frequently calls up the
ghosts of Ballance and Seddon for
approval of its legislation, but for a more
substantial opinion there’s a living con-
temporary of those giants who could
easily be approached in the Legislative
Assembly. Walter Carncross, Speaker of
that venerable institution, has listened to
the winds about Parliament buildings for
48 years, and, though he is due to retire
next month, is expected to be re-
appointed. He was elected to the House
of Representatives in 1890 when Bal-
lance came into office, and in 1903 was
called to the second Chamber. As pro-
prietor of the Eltham “Argus” and the
Taieri “Advocate” he had 50 years of
journalism, and he sailed to that sea of
ink, like the present Prime Minister,
from Australia. Bendigo was his birth-
place ; 1855 the year.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Possibly as a result of
Germany’s colonial claims, post-war his-
torians of colonial beginnings are all
inclined to lay emphasis on Britain’s very
half-hearted interest in her Pacific colo-
nies, particularly Maoriland. Condliffe,
in his New Zealand in the Making, for
instance, records that “there was no in-
decent haste on the part of the British
Government, but on the contrary the
utmost reluctance, to add New Zealand
to its responsibilities.” Again, it has
been stated by various writers that the
Royal Empire Society came into being
owing to a strong conviction that Glad-
stone wanted to cut all the colonies
adrift. That there was reason for appre-
hensions of the sort when Gladstone had
influence at the Colonial Office is re-
vealed by Dr. A. J. Harrop in his just-
published England and the Maori Wars.
He quotes Sir Frederic Rogers, who
was Permanent Under-Secretary of the
Colonies from 1860 to 1871 (Gladstone
was Prime Minister from 1868 to 1874):
“I had always believed that the destiny
of our colonies is independence, and that,
in this point of view, the function of
the Colonial Office is to secure that our
connection, while it lasts, shall be profit-
able to both parties, and our
separation, when it comes, as
amicable as possible.”
“M.”: Is greenstone ever exported
nowadays? There used to be a com-
pany quarrying the serpentine at Kumara,
4000 ft. above Westland’s sea level, but
it ceased operations after the war, and
I have not heard of any other full-time
greenstone venture. The Kumara people
produced about 3000 cubic feet of the
stone and sent more than 900 c.f. to
English buyers, realising £1 ss. to £1 10s.
per c.f. Fairly extensive use is made
of polished greenstone by native crafts-
men supplying local tourist-trade de-
mands.


yov T MI SS
iwt 1*52
MO
0
zy**
"All
the
World
for
24
gns
j HE Twelve Fifty Two is a new Philips
Dual-wave Radioplayer with Audio-
scopic Reproduction, "Twilight" Dial, dis-
tinctive Lowboy console, and many other
unique features. Hear it for yourself.
Terms available.
PHI
m
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
"also sE ND 8-pace sf at iON ' book"
BRIO
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONI/Y STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONI/S STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
(Prince's Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Somebody's buying
a Belter Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
i p riron frt»m £l2 1 OH.
li
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Choice and Use of
Short-wave Components.
Where a great deal of liberty can be
taken with a receiver for broadcast
coverage , only, very slight changes in the
layout and circuit arrangement of a
short-wave receiver may make a surpris-
ingly big difference to the results ob-
tained.
Tuning Arrangements.
The most important part of any short-
wave receiver is the mechanical and elec-
trical arrangement of the tuner. With
coils there is a choice of interchangeable
An example of a well-designed home-made short-wave receiver
the Wide-World Two.
plug-in coils and dual- or multi-range
short-wave tuners with wave-change
switching. Although one may be in-
clined to despise the plug-in coil, it has
definite advantages. As there is no wave-
change switching there is no risk of losses
due to faulty contact or high capacity
in the switch sections. It is possible, too,
to arrange the most advantageous ratio
of inductance to capacity for any given
waveband by the selection of a suitable
coil. And an almost unlimited range
can be covered if a complete set of coils
is available.
One of the chief factors to be con-
sidered when deciding whether to use
switched tuners or plug-in coils is the
amount of amplification available. Quite
good results can be had from small re-
ceivers in which a dual valve of the Class-
B type is made to serve as regenerative
detector and audio receiver. The Little
Twin (B. 29/1 /’36) was such a receiver,
and delivers enough volume on short-
wave stations for headphones. Plug-in
coils are used,
and the L/C
ratio arranged
for most favor-
able ratio at the
useful frequen-
cies. Switching
could be usied,
but the effi-
ciency would
suffer slightly.
A powerful
multi-valve re-
ceiver has such
a big margin
of amplification
that losses due
to switching are
not so import-
ant, and it is
better to make
use of a multi-
range tuner.
It is well
worth while
when making
short-wave coils
to go one better
than the solid
dielectric plug-
in former, and
to use air-spaced
windings. The turns must be rigidly
supported, although air-spaced. This
can be done by fixing strips of cel-
luloid across the turns by the applica-
tion of cellulose cement. Heavy-gauge
wire can be used for the higher frequency
coils and the ends and tappings fixed
directly into whatever form of mounting
is employed. With careful design it is
possible, in various ways, to effect a
compromise which combines reasonably
sturdy construction with a low-loss
winding.
Variable Condensers.
It is of little use going to great pains
with the coils if the variable condensers
are poor in design. Easy tuning and
maximum signal strength are in evidence
when using a relatively small tuning
capacity, of .OOOlmfd. or less.
The only catch with a small capacity
is that the receiver will cover a narrow
band of frequencies, calling for a wide
variety of coil sizes or complicated
switching arrangements. A compromise
can be effected by using variable con-
densers of about .00015mfd. maximum
capacity. Easy tuning, provided the dial
mechanism is suitable, will still be ob-
tained, and the receiver will cover a
much wider frequency range on each
coil. Although the constructor can
readily make up good variable con-
densers by reconstructing and reinsulat-
ing old ones, it is always preferable to
make use of condensers designed speci-
ally for short-wave work. Such com-
ponents have been designed with an eye
to quiet and efficient operation. Further-
more, insulation in these days can be of
good R.F. insulating material, such as
isolantite, WT/22 or trolitul. Considering
variable condensers of to-day in com-
parison with those of early short-wave
days, it is a wonder that any signals at
all were received by the latter.
Dials.
The tuning dial is an equally important
part of the short-wave receiver. No-
thing is more annoying than dialslip or
backlash. There is a choice of three
kinds of dials. The general-purpose
medium-motion dial as designed for
broadcast receivers is usable, but makes
fine adjustment rather difficult. The dial
with a very high reduction ratio is a
pleasure to use once a station is located,
but almost needs an electric motor drive to
get from one end of the scale to the other
quickly. The best dial is the dual-ratio
kind, combining the features of speedy
searching and fine tuning. One popular
English type now available on the Aus-
tralian market has two ratios, one of
20 to 1 and the other 100 to 1.
Where the receiver employs condenser
reaction it is advisable to have some
measure of vernier control here also.
With a good noiseless condenser slow
motion is readily provided by using one
of the slow-motion driving heads now
sold for the purpose. This is simply a
form of condenser-shaft extension, and
is very compact. It contains a planetary
gear and thus imparts a slower motion
to the condenser.
D. B. K.
500 Cycle Test Oscillator.
A most useful piece of equipment for
the radio serviceman, advanced con-
structor or transmiting experimenter is
an audio oscillator having an output that
is relatively free from harmonics. The
simple unit described here has a resist-
ance-stabilised circuit giving an excel-
lent waveform.
The resistance between the plate and
the L/C circuit is a great deal larger
than the plate resistance of the valve, so
that the total effective plate resistance be-
comes nearly a constant value, with re-
sultant good frequency stability. If the
resistance is high enough to permit oscil-
lation, the waveform is exceptionally
pure.
/v variable degree of output is obtain-
able by -means of a potentiometer, and
the output varies from almost zero to
Circuit diagram of the 500-cycle oscil-
lator. The plate resistor, marked 25,000
ohms, should be 250,000 ohms.
about three volts peak. Battery opera-
tion eliminates the expense of a power-
pack, and so a type-30 triode is used,
with a 45-volt B battery for the plate,
and three volts from dry cells for the
filament. As such an oscillator is not
likely to be used for long periods, the
filament cells can be of quite small
dimensions, and even so should run the
oscillator for many months of intermit-
tent operation.
The circuit diagram is given with all
the values, and the completed oscillator
can be built compactly into a metal case.
The value of the plate resistor depends
to some extent upon the type of audio
choke used, and a push-pull output trans-
former for a speaker serves the
purpose. The actual audio frequency is
determined by the fixed condenser across
the plate section. This is shown as
.005mfd., and may be changed for dif-
ferent values. The output terminal
should give a good loud audio tone into
a pair of 2000-ohm headphones when
testing the oscillator.
Negative bias is provided for the oscil-
lator by means of the one-volt drop
across the filament resistor. Occasion-
ally a modulated test oscillator is needed
for lining up a receiver. This oscillator
can be used to grid-modulate any low-
powered R.F. oscillator, such as a receiv-
ing valve operated from 100 volts or less.
It can be used, too, in adjusting a
telephony transmitter, especially if the
transmitter has a Class-B linear follow-
ing the modulated stage, or for provid-
ing a pure source of tone for Wheat-
stone bridge measurements of induct-
ance, capacity and resistance.
A capacity bridge for measuring fixed
condensers from 30 micromicrofarads to
10 microfarads, for which this oscil-
lator will be particularly useful, will be
described in a later issue.
D. B. K.
Smoothing Regeneration.
The most common trouble encoun-
tered by the beginner when making
small regenerative receivers is harsh re-
action. If oscillation of the detector
cannot be obtained smoothly, the receiver
is almost useless, except on very strong
signals.
The circuit diagram shows a simple
method of ensuring smooth reaction con-
trol. Instead of the usual single grid-leak,
it is found that an improvement is
effected by using two connected, as
shown. One leak is returned to earth,
and the other to A positive. By suitable
choice of resistance the grid potential
can be adjusted to any valve between
earth and the positive side of the fila-
ment.
Because two leaks are used, the value
of each must be increased in order to
keep the circuit constants correct. If
the existing leak is of 0.5 megohm value,
the use of two in this scheme would call
for one leak of two megohms and the
other of one megohm. The resistance of
lower value is generally the one to
connect to the A positive.
E. M.
What's What in Radio.
Latest radio license figures for the
Commonwealth show a total of
1,012,945. Experimental licenses have
reached 1827.
* * * *
At the 1938 Radiola Conference, held
in Sydney Town Hall, A.W.A. intro-
duced 34 new models. These range in
price from 13 to 59 guineas. Large re-
ceivers range through, various models
up to the Radiola 264, which is a nine-
valve instrument with “electric tuning”
—the listener simply pushes a button to
tune in the desired station. The wave-
range of this model takes in three
channels, and in addition to automatic
frequency control there are such fea-
tures as music-speech adjustment, tone
control and Magic Eye indicator.
# * * *
Germany has built a new television
station on the summit of the Brocken in
the Harz Mountains. The main build-
ing is of wood and stands 3733 feet above
sea level. It is anticipated that the effec-
tive range will be greater than that of
the 8.8. C. television station.
* He *
Two American expeditions are using
short waves: the McGregor Expedition
in Greenland, with the callsign OX2QY,
on 20.86 metres, and VP3THE, a station
of the American Natural History Expedi-
tion located 500 miles inland in British


MOTORISTS !
The Set you’ve been looking for,
THE “CROYDEN”
Bakelite Universal Mantel Model.
Works off a car battery or off 240 volts A.C.
£lB/18/- Retail.
Particulars from
ECLIPSE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (U.S A.).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount of useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
B e-vaive wi T |j
i
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
Arrange for our technician
to give you an expert
report on your radio.
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS tm (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL (HI ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
Guiana. The latter works with amateurs
on 21.83 metres.
* * * *
A new short-wave station is to be
erected at Motala, Sweden. The wave-
length will be 49.46 metres and the call-
sign SBG.
* * * *
Britain’s pioneer television worker,
John L. Baird, will visit Australia in con-
nection with the World Radio Conven-
tion to be held in Sydney in April. It is
understood that he will read a paper on
television. In view of the fact that tele-
vision for Australia is yet only a dream,
his observations should be of particular
interest.
Radio Comment.
“Amatol”: A radio serviceman ran up
against a perplexing problem in a re-
ceiver which possessed an annoying
form of tunable hum. Eventually the
chassis was partially stripped, and
wedged behind cabling was discovered a
loop of wiring flex stretching across the
chassis and connected to nothing. Its
effect was to give a coupling between the
power transformer and the R.F. side of
the receiver. The length of flex some-
how got there during manufacture of
the receiver. Removed, everything was
normal.
* # * *
“J.0.L.”: Experts say it will be 10
years before television becomes practic-
able in Australia. In London it has defi-
nitely arrived. There are 9000 receivers
in use, and the number grows rapidly.
Developments now in hand will make it
possible to televise all events of interest
anywhere in the country. Prices range
from £35 to £l2O, the higher figure in-
cluding a complete radio receiver as
well. Televised movie and 8.8. C. per-
formances are already available, and
opera and ballet will be the next step.
Amateur Chatter.
The new 809 high efficiency valves have
proved extremely popular. The first
Sydney supply was quickly taken up by
VK2’s. The 809 indeed seems to be the
answer to the VK’s 50-watt prayer. With
valves such as these in the output, and
exciters making use of 6L6Gs and 802’s,
there is no excuse for a poor signal. This
applies equally to the ultra-high frequen-
cies, for a modern transmitter needs only
three valves, 6L6G, 802 and 809 (or two
in push-pull), to deliver a rock-steady
signal, free from frequency modulation
or instability, on 56mc. For those who
prefer to start from scratch with crystal
control, this is no problem either, for
considerable harmonic output can be
obtained from a lively 40-metre crystal
in an exciter.
A letter from VR4HR in the British
Solomons contains some interesting ob-
servations. Recently he was visited by
Alan Eurich (WBIGQ), operator on the
yacht Yankee during her world cruise.
VR4HR was very much impressed by
the Yankee’s Sargent 12 receiver. Selec-
tivity of the T.R.F. on both short-wave
and broadcast bands is not far short of
a superhet. The M.O.P.A. transmitter of
WCFT, with which so much good work
has been done in maintaining schedules
with U.S.A. stations, takes up a space
of only 14 by 12 by 12 inches! VR4HR
mentions that, whilst the Mackay expedi-
tion was at Tanami last year, VKSNO
was heard in the Solomons at never less
than R 7-8.
The temporary transmitter at VR4HR,
in use at the time of writing, was a
single 201/A in a TNT SEO circuit, built
as described in the 1935 A.R.R.L.
Handbook. Dry batteries are the only
source of plate supply, and the input is
180 volts at 20ma., just 3.60 watts. The
aerial is a single wire, 130 ft. long and
voltage-fed. With this “flea-power” out-
fit VR4HR has worked a regular schedule
on 7mc. with VK3KY for several months,
and recently K7DAM in Alaska reported
his signals 569.
VR4HR comments on a Bulletin
article (18/8/’37) dealing with “Receivers
for the Islands,” explaining that an Eng-
lish maker of T.R.F. receivers attempted
to go one better by producing a super-
het. Four were installed around the
Solomons; two never worked at all, and
the other two lasted eight weeks before
moisture and “wogs” put them out of
action. The old T.R.F. four-valve re-
ceivers are still giving good service. Only
last week VK2NO inspected an Aus-
tralian battery superhet receiver which
had been returned from New Guinea for
attention. The internal damage in a
matter of four or five months was re-
markable, the moisture playing havoc in
the way of rust and oxidisation, and in-
sects had feasted on various parts.
Tropical insects appear to have a parti-
cular appetite for paraffin-wax, so wax-
impregnation is no safeguard.
But for static, the 40-metre band is
probably less annoying from the QRM
viewpoint around Sydney than 20 metres
these days. New stations appear daily
on 20, with apparently the sole object
of working Americans on ’phone. One
station, recently a regular 20-metre DX
habitue, has been on 56mc. for a spell.
Deciding to have a shot at 20-metre DX
again for a change, he found that at
least five stations have appeared on the
same frequency as his one available
crystal. The- bedlam can be well
imagined. VKs are sometimes of the
opinion that the “American ’phone
band” is taboo. That is not so. The Aus-
tralian regulations allow a VK to work
anywhere in the 20-metre band. VK2NO
has several crystals placing the signal
between 14,150 kc. and 14,250 kc., and is
quite likely to appear therein at times
Front view of a special ultra-short-wave receiver designed by
Don B. Knock. The separately-tuned R.F. stage uses a 956
“acorn,” detector is a 6J7 and audio a 41 pentode. Super-
regeneration is provided by a 76 oscillator. This receiver
was described fully in B. 9/6/’37.
when local interference on the usual
working frequency makes contacts im-
possible. Such a move cannot be con-
sidered unjust when vociferous locals
spend hours in cluttering up the usual
channels with chatter about nothing in
particular.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver: Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
wave Four, described in B. 28/4/’37.
Location. Richmond, Queensland.
This tuned R.F, receiver has now been
used all over the far north-west of
Queensland. So far there has been no
failure to get VLR anywhere all after-
noon, and this with some very poor
apologies for aerials. When signal
strength is good, superhets can beef it out
well, but all makes have been competed
with, and I wouldn’t change the T.R.F.
for any of them. Anybody wanting con-
sistent reception under adverse conditions
cannot do better than with the Ideal
T.R.F.
Morning reception recently has been
very good. GSB and GSC have
been quite good up to 8.20 a.m. GSD
is very good in Part 1 of Transmission 1.
W2XE is very fine in the mornings also.
WIXK on 31.35 metres is very good,
and worth listening to between 6.30 a.m.
and 7 a.m. W3XAU is not so good in
signal strength. WBXK, 19.71 metres, is
very good up to 10 a.m., but W2XAD on
19.56 metres is at weaker strength.
A station just above GSD, with a lady
announcer, closes at 7 a.m. Reception is
very good and clear. Another •just above
GSB is also good strength.
On good mornings the 49-metre band
shows good reception from London,
Moscow, Berlin and Prague, but as
as a rule static interference is acute.
During the late afternoons and nights re-
ception is very good, and there are
plenty of stations to choose from on 19,
31 and 49 metres. Static usually spoils
the last-named band, however.
On 3/2/’3B I had 14 stations, all within
about one metre round 31 metres. They
were all at great strength. RNE is still
good copy on Sunday and Wednesday
nights. There are now so many stations
on the air at night and during * early
morning that it is impossible to keep a
check on them all on 20 metres. Ama-
teur ’phones are coming in well at night,
some of the Ameri-
cans quite as
strongly as Aus-
tralians.
Some nights are so
bad here for static
that for enjoyable
quiet reception it is
necessary to get
down to the 16- and
13-metre bands,
which are producing
strong signals at
present. Next test-
ing location will be
Townsville.
K. B. G.
[The Ideal Battery
T.R.F. All-wave Re-
ceiver was designed
by Don B. Knock
for use in isolated
locations. The origi-
nal receiver is the
one in use in North
Queensland. It has
four valves: 6C6
R.F., 76 regenera-
tive detector, 76 first
audio and 41 pen-
tode output to a
midget permag.
speaker. It is used
either with a six-
v o 11 accumulator
and 180 volts of B
battery, or can be
used from a 240-volt
A.C. power supply
with the usual power pack. Wave-
change is effected by plug-in coils, and
the range covers from below 13 metres
to 600 metres. A regenerative type of
receiver, it is not quite so simple to use
as a conventional dual-wave superhet, but
the results obtainable speak for them-
selves.]
High-power U.S.A.
Short-wave Broadcaster.
The G.E.C. of U.S.A. is erecting near
Belmont, California, a 20-kilowatt sta-
tion to broadcast programmes to the Far
East. The station will work on 19.56
metres and 31.48 metres, the same
channels used by stations W2XAD and
W2XAF. No interference will be caused,
as the time schedules will be different;
also the beam aerials will be directed
towards the Pacific Ocean. It is intended
to operate this station from 05.00 to
13.00 G.M.T., thus ensuring good recep-
tion of the programmes in Manila
(Philippines) from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.,
Tokio from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. and Syd-
ney from 6 p.m. to midnight. No in-
formation is available as to when the
station is likely to be completed, but
once on the air it should put a strong
signal into eastern Australia, and become
a short-wave “landmark.”
D.B.K.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Details are needed of a circuit diagram of an
audio oscillator with which 1 could teach
myself Morse code. Components on hand are
several battery triode valves, audio transformers
and a pair of headphones. —643.
The circuit diagram shows the essentials.
Any two-, four- or six-volt valve will do, and
if it is desired to obtain a stronger signal than
the oscillator will normally provide a 45-volt
B battery can be connected between the key ,
and headphones so that the key makes and
breaks in the negative B lead. The pitch of
the tone may be varied by connecting different
capacities between the grid and filament of
the valve.
* * * *
(1) Enclosed is a circuit of a two-valve all-
wave receiver designed to operate on wave-
lengths from 65 to 565 metres. Could the
range be extended to include 20 metres? (2)
Are all the parts obtainable in Australia; if
so, where ? —644.
(1) Yes, the range is governed solely by the
inductances used in the R.F. and detector grid
circuits, in conjunction with the .00014mfd.
tuning capacities. (2) Yes. Try Price’s Radio
Service, Angel-place, Sydney.


LYS
NTS
&
PROOF.
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Fencing
' "
. x
,.
* r ' fl *S^ , '.£ Ci.*'* *' A^jSq'jw^J^T^W','.. • V.;-. -'S,*' ”1
1 •“ Mg M W
■ t'■ ■' I;' ■ LW
■ >' ••
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
- >' QUALITY - GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE,
. . - • 'Vi
WIRE NETTING,
' • ■
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wheat—Australian v. Canadian.
“Yeo”: Many farmers are bewildered
by the daily quotations overseas for
wheat. A typical London cable reads:
Manitoba No. 1 is quoted on the Baltic
at 555. 9d. per qr., No. 3 at 455. 3d. Santa
Fe was offered at 41s. 9d. Sales of Aus-
tralian were reported at 375. 3d. There was
pressure to sell Pacific Coast white cargoes
at 355. 9d.
Why should Canadian No. 1 be quoted
2s. 4d. per bushel above Australian
f.a.q.? Even Canadian No. 3, ordi-
narily comparable to Australian, is now
enjoying a premium of Is. per bushel,
while Argentine wheat, usually at a dis-
count, is commanding a premium of over
6d. per bushel. On the other hand,
Pacific Coast white is more than 2d. per
bushel lower than Australian.
Normally the United Kingdom imports
about 220 million bushels. English
millers look fo.r about two-thirds strong-
floured wheat. The balance would be
medium strength and white wheat. The
white wheats, usually weak-floured, are
specially used for blending.
On July 31 last, Canada completed the
old season with a normal carry-over for
the first time for 10 years, and as she
entered the current season with one of
the lightest crops for many years it was
obvious that her export surplus would
be unusually small. Only 16 p.c. of the
crop graded No. 1 ; 19 p.c. No. 2, and
27 p.c. No. 3. The balance was either
No. 4 or no grade. As Canadian millers
would exercise first call upon the higher-
grade wheat, very little good wheat, would
be available for export.
BroomhaU estimated that Canada's
domestic requirements would absorb 110
million bushels, leaving 72 million
bushels out of the total crop available
for export. This would be about one-
third of the normal shipments. More-
over, about 30 million bushels would be
exported as flour, reducing the total
export quota to about 42 million bushels,
and some of this quantity would not be
millable. The net quantity of millable
Canadian wheat available .for export dur-
ing the current 12 months would be
between 30 and 40 million bushels.
Argentina, after providing for domestic
requirements, will have a surplus of 70
million bushels, of which Brazil and other
neighboring S. American States will take
40 million bushels, leaving 30 million
bushels for export. A portion of this
would represent flour.
The position has forced U.K. millers
to buy Australian and other white wheats
as basic milling wheats, and to turn to
Canadian and other strong>-floured wheats
as blending wheats for strength. Bidding
for the little Canadian and other strong-
floured wheats offering is so keen that
millers pay luxury premiums to keep
their flour up to quality.
Strong-floured wheat has two qualities
which make it outstanding for baking
purposes: one the higher gluten content,
which means higher nutritive value ; the
other the ability of the dough to absorb
additional water, allowing a ton of flour
to produce 10 p.c. more loaves of bread
than a ton of flour gristed from a weak-
floured wheat.
Normally, a strong-floured wheat
(Canadian No. 1) is worth 6d. per bushel
more than weak-floured Australian. Cana-
dian No. 3 grade, comparable to Aus-
tralian f.a.q., is worth about 3d. per
bushel more from a milling point of view.
Thus Australian wheat, in commanding
a premium over Canadian No. 3, and
sometimes over Canadian No. 1, in the
past for blending purposes, has been
decidedly fortunate.
Baking quality is much more important
than color, and Australian farmers should
give more attention to growing wheats
that will yield a stronger white flour. •
Crutching.
“Murrawong”: Crutching is beginning
again in N. S. Wales, and considering the
present state of the wool market growers
will find it worth while to have crutch-
ings well picked.
If a good man cannot be had to do
the job properly it is better to send the
wool to the city to be classed.
The piecepicker’s table should be as
close to the shearers as possible. The
less handling the wool gets, the easier it
will be to pick.
Do not sweep crutchings into a heap
to be worked later. Wool should be
transferred direct from the board to the
table and picked at once. Work the
classed wool into baskets or packs, which
“Don't worry about shuttin' the gate, boss; I'll be cornin' back this way."
can be emptied into bins and pressed
when required. .
If the wool is short or very burry, two
lines may suffice;. , Skirt the short trim-
mings and stained wool off for the second
line, and keep the top line of pieces bulky
and clean.
If the wool is of good length and the
sheep are being deeply crutched, three
lines may ,be made, provided sheep
numbers are sufficient to give two bulky
lots at least.
The longest-stapled bulky, clean wool
forms the top line, branded “Ist Pcs.”
Into the second line, work shorter wool
and smaller pieces and brand “Pcs” or
“Ist Crutch.” Stains and short trim-
mings and locks can be branded
“Crutch.”
Dry stains thoroughly before stacking
in a heap or pressing. r
Remove all dags, and if .sending wool
to be reclassed see that the dags are re-
moved from the wool before pressing.
Even low-grade crutchings seldom fetch
less than 4d. per pound. The average is
about 6d., and best pieces picked from
them may bring Bd. Against this, it is
hard to reconcile fleece from the same
clip bringing only lOd. to 12d. per pound.
Inoculating Hints.
When inoculating sheep all
instruments' should be thoroughly • steri-
lised and kept sterile, particularly where
large numbers of sheep are being inocu-
lated over a period of days.
Boil every part of the: instrument.
Immersion in disinfectant doesn’t do the
job thoroughly. The ideal syringe is one
that can be taken to pieces, so that every
part can be boiled. '
When inoculating sheep on the inner
thigh, the operator should be preceded
by a man with a swab soaked in methy-
lated spirits, who should thoroughly
cleanse the skin.
With the newest type of automatic
syringe, the operation may be carried
out in a race with one catcher, or at most
two. The vaccine is drawn automati-
cally into the cylinder :by the release
action of the trigger, and no time is lost
•in refilling as with an ordinary hypo-
dermic.
When working in the race, sheep may
be inoculated behind the shoulder, and
by this method it is possible to get
through ten times as many sheep as by
the old way.
It is important when refilling any
syringe with serum that the needle or any
other outer part of the syringe should
not be allowed to touch the vaccine.
A needle, that has been used on a
number of sheep may carry germs which
would rapidly affect the composition of
the serum.
Several spare needles should be kept
handy in a vessel of boiling water, and
they should be changed as often as is
necessary.
Points for Fat-lamb Breeders.
“Freezer”: Cultivate only those breeds
suitable to local conditions. Use pure-
bred rams only and ewes no further re-
moved than second cross. Mark, and
tail the lambs when an average three
weeks, old,‘ and , get an experienced man
to handle; the instruments..;'
Unless'the ewes '.are on-good feed and
have a,good' supply of milk,:' the, lambs
won’t reach maturity at the desired age.
The best pastures must be held in reserve
forf ewes'. r n r
Lambs are often bruised and knocked
about when handling for .market. During
drafting * and'/ trucking, they should be
handled, as;little as. possible ; dogs should
be kept chained up. Grabbing a lamb
by the woolor catching.it by .one of/the
hind legs doesn’t do it any good. If a
lamb has to be caught grasp it round the
body, with the two hands meeting behind
the front legs. Keep the lambs on their
mothers as long as possible, and when
droving to trucks take along a few old
sheep to steady the mob.
Grade at home. With raddle marks
to help, the agent can pen each lot
quickly. ,
It pays to weigh the maturing lambs
occasionally. On an average, the dressed
weight of a fully-matured lamb will be
tyvo to three pounds more than half the
hveweight. .
Smithfield favors carcasses of from
281 b. to 361 b.
p r ice Fluctuations,
.... . e _ ,
. C.V S. : Though the trend of wool
P nces has malnI Y been downward, there
been minor fluctuations,
, For most of the current season, good
j° super . mennos and fine comebacks
ha « b f“ «•>»“* relatively better
P««s than for years past Values
dropped 7 i P c ; «° 10 P c ; »« *« °P““S
of February sales owing to slackened de-
mand from Australian manufacturers,
wh °, h , avc b f co , ma % real £o . r <* in the
market, particularly for good to super
‘YP^ 8, ' , c .
Crossbreds rose 5 p.c. . 2 P- •
because of renewed Japanese activity. It
is a welcome rise, but unfortunately the
price margin between these descriptions
and finer stylish wools has lessened. The
•future of Australian wool depends largely
on ■ the production of quality, and the
situation may become dangerous if prices
do not offer more inducement to grow
good wool.
A Dipping Test.
“Kyamba”: Here’s a S.A. after-winter
dipping experiment to check ticks and
lice:
On September 8, 24 average lambs
were divided into three lots and weighed.
One lot was dipped in an arsenical-
powder dip, the second in a carbolic-
fluid. dip, while the others were kept as
( a” 1 check.
The /lambs were weighed again on
October 19. All were in excellent con-
dition, with very little difference in the
■■ (Continued on page 44.)


G
N
I
t
£
=sss
m
i
E
D
ov
E
/
T
T
68
Vi
\\^
\0
OV
\*°
o*'
V?
8*
vos>'
T
«
K\6«^
\W
»•
ss
vW°
e
o*
Cjs«
*B3
V°
S«
VW
*s*W^
N> 6
G 0 *
aO
•SP
S'v
«fl>
*' e
\V
\*
£
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
KNOWN TO GENERATIONS
OF AUSTRALIANS FOR
ITS UNIQUE MEDICINAL
PROPERTIES
“As Good for Women
as for Men”


A WORK-BOOT MADE TO
STAND HARD WEAR . . .
If you really want a
work-boot which will give
you absolute comfort, look
as well as any work-boot
should look and give you
exceptional wear, try a pair
of Abbey Cossacks.
Made with heavy double
soles, full calf lining
throughout and tough calf
upper.
Stocked in full sizes in
stout Black or Brown Calf.
1328.
Prices: Black Calf, 39/6;
Brown Calf, 45/-.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS,
SYDNEY.’’
IV
V
\
(Hmuut
A HOLIDAY
THAT'S DIFFERENT
Cmt fo ♦ ♦ ♦ 4
fctwopeV Happiest Holidatj fand
where both the welcome and
hospitality from the people, the
unique individual beauty of scenery,
and a wide choice of different
surroundings will bring health,
happiness and lasting memories to all.
The 60% reduction in rail fares and 1
special Travel Mark exchange facilities
help to give the greatest comfort
at very moderate charges. Thus a
visit to Germany by rail or road,
air or sea, will prove a fitting
climax to your European travels.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
> GERMAN RAILWAYS INF OR MAT lON BUREAU-*;
(Dept. 0.V.), 19 Regent Street, London, S.W.I or recognized Travel Agencies.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Tariffs, Quotas and Trade Pacts
Outlook for Industrials
Banking Position
Wool—Tin—Rubber
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 21- PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
iTuf&xxlleß/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
wool except that the lot dipped in the
carbolic fluid were slightly brighter.
The following averages were recorded:
Average Average
Weight, Weight, In-
Sept. 8. Oct. 19. crease.
Arsenical-powder dip 67.3 83.4 16.1
Carbolic-fluid dip .. 66.1 90.4 24.3
Check lot .. ..61 86.9 25.9
Those dipped in the arsenical dip did
not make the same gains, but the in-
crease of almost ilb. a day is satisfac-
tory.
Lambs can be safely dipped provided
care is taken.
Sheep on Dairy Farms.
“Silky Bag”: Certainly fat lambs can
be bred on cowpastures (B. 9/2/’3B), but
at too great a cost for initial improve-
ment.
Cattle often won’t eat off sheep-grazed
land. This can be overcome by rotation
of paddocks, with sheep following the
cows, but fresh difficulties crop up.
Sheep, grazing much closer, encourage
clovers and gradually kill out rye-grasses
and cocksfoot. This change occurs in
a few years even on well-run rotational
farms, and is not always suitable for
big stock.
There is also a long break after sheep
stocking before dairy cattle can graze
plots again. This means that the rotat-
ing scheme must provide 10 to 14 plots.
A height of pasture between four
inches and six inches is essential for
dairy results, as it preserves not only the
ratio of clover to grasses, but the vigor
of the plants themselves. This cannot
be maintained if sheep are run.
Baby Beef Again.
“Aerogenes”: The beef industry (B.
2/2/’3B) is causing anxiety in Queensland
also.
An early-maturing fat and well-bred
steer is needed, and good feeding is neces-
sary to get it. Opinion is divided, how-
ever, on whether it is better to breed on
the rough inland stations and send the
cattle to the coast for fattening, or to
fatten on the breeding properties by
conserving fodder and feeding it by hand.
It has been suggested that fodder be
bought from the coastal farmers and
stored for use by the graziers in drought
time. This principle could well be ex-
tended to provide enough feed to fatten
the cattle on the stations. Good reserves
can be built up on the stations them-
selves simply by mowing and stacking
grass when it is plentiful.
Prices of the various grains and lucerne
and cereal hays are often low enough to
allow of their being stored and fed to
animals, provided the cost of transporta-
tion is kept reasonably low. Another sug-
gestion is that, with adequate storage
at both ends, the railways could under-
take to haul large quantities of fodder
inland as backloading, using empty
cattle trucks, or any type of truck that
was available, and choosing their own
time to do it. '
Cattle trains can, and must, be made
much faster. With real speed and the
general use of polled cattle, there should
be little loss or damage in sending cattle
direct from the station to the meatworks.
Another consideration is that, with
feeding on the station, the inland country
is likely to be enriched and improved.
Keeping more stock means returning
more manure to the soil, and the balance
is greatly improved by the residue from
the quantities of feed brought on to the
place. In England, it is part of the con-
tract in tenant farming that so many
stock shall be kept and so much con-
centrates fed to them, for the sake of the
soil.
On the other hand, the system of breed-
ing inland and fattening on the small
coastal farms gets the cattle to the
market in the very best condition and is
good for the farms. Real beef cattle are
being fattened successfully on artificial
pastures in the wet district of Tully
(N.Q.). Stock of some sort are necessary
to get the best out of any system of
farming.
Tetanus.
“Stump Jump”: The Commonwealth
Serum Lab.’s new anatoxin against
tetanus is capable after three injections
of conferring full and lifelong immunity.
It is a preventive, and differs from anti-
toxin, which was protective in the body
only for a few weeks, and merely staved
off an attack or helped to cure a fairly
mild one.
Antitoxin was too expensive to be
often used for horses a dose might
cost £lO, while in treatment up to £5O
could be spent without success. Sheep,
however, could be dosed at 2d. to 3d. a
head.
The anatoxin is a true vaccine, in that
it calls on the animal’s blood to produce
the necessary immune bodies. A single
dose for a horse will give complete im-
munity for a year. A second at 12
months and another at three years con-
fer complete freedom from the disease.
The cost of the whole treatment is less
than £1 a head. For cattle it is about
half and for sheep about a twentieth that
price.
Hints for the Farm.
“M.L.W.”: In drought times don’t mix
salt and molasses for sheep. They eat
more salt than they need for the sake of
the molasses, often to the detriment of
their health. Give as much plain molasses
as possible. It is a good laxative on scrub
and coarse feed, and has q food value.
“Kyamba”: Patience will overcome
most cream-separator troubles. Imper-
fect skimming is usually due to too slow
or irregular turning of the handle ; the
milk being too cold or not fresh from
the cow ; the inflow too fast or too slow ;
the bowl unbalanced or the machine not
level or not firmly fixed; the bowl left
unwashed after use ; or to bad or insuffi-
cient lubricating oil. A check-up on
these points occasionally should result
in improved returns.
“M.L.W.”: In summer a horse’s hoof
needs water, not oil or tar. A sloppy
patch around the watering trough may
be unsightly, but it prevents cracked and
brittle hoofs.
“Huglow” : Ergot in paspalum pas-
tures is troubling Queensland coastal
dairymen. It manifests itself as a sticky
substance on the seed-heads. Stock
which eat infected paspalum develop
scaly sores on their noses and udders,
and also show extreme nervousness.
Cows will slip their calves as a result of
ergot. Much of the paspalum pastures
on the coast are being mowed and burnt,
and replanted with molasses, Rhodes and
other grasses.
“Salmon Gums”: We struck swine
fever "(B. 26/1/’3B) out from Laverton
(W.A.) in some pigs sent up from Perth
during the epidemic 30 years ago or so.
After shearing, any sheep with cuts thai
wandered near the abandoned sties de-
veloped septicaemia. Only wounded
animals were affected, and we kept it
down by fencing off the pig-run.
“Videre”: Sub. clover has become just
as popular in Maoriland as in Australia.
Perennial rye, white clover and cocks-
foot form the usual mixture for sowing
pastures. Regular M.L. fertilisers are
lime and super., lime by itself being
added at the rate of scwt. to 6cwt. to
the acre every year, or as much as a
ton an acre if put on only once in several
years. When applying super, alone,
to the acre is commonly used,
and in a mixture with lime, two parts
of super, to one of lime, 3cwt. to the acre
of the combined fertilisers.
“Videre”: D. M. Shand (B. 9/2/’3B)
is on the right track sowing turnips and
improving pastures. New England lamb-
ing percentages have fallen to compara-
tively low levels in the last half century,
and to restore them improved pastures
and winter crops are essential. To pro-
duce prime fat lambs there needs plenty
of feed. Some owners are trying Corrie-
dales with some success, but fat-lamb
breeding is not receiving much general
attention.
“Nothung”: Results of 10 years’ ex-
periments conducted by the United Fruit
Company of America have proved that
nitrate of soda gives an increase of 7 p.c.
in weight of banana bunches and 23 p.c.
in the number of bunches per acre. No
results were obtained from phosphoric
acid, and only slight improvement from
potash. In Australia, sulphate of am-
monia is preferable to nitrate ; it con-
tains more nitrogen—about 4 p.c.—and is
about 15s. a ton cheaper. The fertiliser
has no effect after plants are eight
months old. Application is at the rate
of 2oz. per plant each month, spread not
more than 18in. from the base of the
stool.


Everyday Gifts
1060—G e n u i n e
Badger Hair Shaving
Brush, superfine
quality, latest design
Handle. Vari o u s
markings.
Small size ... 17/6
Medium size.. 19/6
Cl—W. JNO. BAKER RAZOR IN
LEATHERETTE-COVERED CASE. One
of our best Hollow-ground Razors. Black
Handle, 13/-.
C2—With Xylonite Handle, 18/- per
C3—TWO RAZORS IN FLAT CASE.
Best quality Hollow Ground, with Xylonite
Handles, in Leatherette-covered Case.
Price, 33/6.
C4—Fitted with 2 Black Handle Razors,
23/6.
\
E.P.N.S. SALAD SET, in presentation case,
18/6
Him
16—GENTLEMAN’S FOLDING MANI-
CURE SET. Case made of fine Roan
Leather; size when folded, 6Jin. x 4Jin.;
containing finest quality fittings, strong
Nail Scissors, Toe Nail Nipper, Corn
Knife, Hair Tweezer and Nail File,
39/6 complete.
r<)ojio|oomiit
77—W. JNO. BAKER FINEST QUALITY AND
FINISH EXTRA FULL-HOLLOW GROUND
RAZOR, with black handle. An excellent blade
without the extra finish of No. 33.
in. wide 11/6
in. wide . 11/6
in. wide 11/6
Horse Hide.
SsB— Length overall, 25in.; width, 2in. GENUINE HORSE HIDE RAZOR STROP,
excellent quality, well finished and worked up. Double-sided with Clip Swivel.
10/6 each.
COMPLETE LADY’S SCISSOR CASE,
made of fancy leather. 7 pairs nickel-
plated scissors and penknife. 62/6
LADY’S SCISSOR CASE, fancy leather,
containing 3 pairs nickel-plated scissors.
m
w
060—MOTORIST’S KNIFE, 4|in. Metal
Haft. Contains Spear Blade, Pen Blade,
Screwdriver, Crown Bottle Opener, Tin
Opener, 1 Tester, File, Screw Wrench,
Corkscrew, Leather Gouge, Gimlet and
Shackle. 22/6 each.
709—The Scalper. Smooth Horn Haft.
5J - each.
POST FREE FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
1059 —Good Quality
Shaving Brush,
mixed Badger and
Bristle, Horn Handle,
POCKET FOLDING SHAVING OUTFIT.
Case made of Fine Grained Leather, with
Leather Lining—made to last. Containing
W. Jno. Baker Razor, Downy Tan Strop,
Shaving Brush, Shaving Stick and Comb.
Price with Hollow-ground Black Handle
Razor, 32/6. With Xylonite Handle
Razor, 37/6 each.
6006—Three-blade Stock, with Castrating,
Sheep and Long Skinning Blade, 4in.,
Smooth Stag Horn Handle. Each 8/6
IMPROVED EMPIRE MODEL
WILKINSON SAFETY RAZOR.
New features include Double-stropping
Gear, stronger Frame and new Blade
Holder.
This is a Self-stropping Razor, without
removing the Blade from the frame.
No. 10 Complete with Strop and 5
Hollow-ground Blades, in Oak Case, 18/6.
No. 7—Same as above, with 2 Blades,
14/6.
FLOWER SCISSORS. Cuts and holds the
flower; 7 inches, nickel-plated.
each.
9/6
Nso—Strong Nail Nipper, Nickel-plated,
4Jin. overall. 6/6 each.
S 8
Pty. 3 HUNTER ST.,
Ltd. SYDNEY


Manufactured by THOS. R. CADM AN & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD.
dsf
"Bengali”
Reliable Cutlery
Established 1748-1938, 190 years.
REASONABLY PRICED. Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— -D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Able elderly man (wife no objection), small
means or pension, knowledge of gardening, can
have quiet bush home. A little mining.—8638.
Gentleman wants seat in car or truck, Mel-
bourne to Sydney and return, any time. —8590.
Opportunity first-class barber take over saloon
leading N.S.W. tourist town. No cash re-
quired.—BsB2.
To exchange No. 1 Second Series “Kiaora-
Coo-ee” for No. 2 First Series.—Bs9B.
Words of poem “The Rouseabout,” begin-
ning:—
In a humble hut on a scrubby flat
In the land of the setting sun.
—8617.
Words of poem, “Where the Men Are Bred,”
containing the line “We send them out from
the piers of Leith and the quays of Aberdeen.”
—8644.
Information Sought.
(1) What were the biggest "bags” of wickets
by an English cricketer in Australia and an
Australian in England? (2) What were Charlie
Turner’s bowling figures in Test cricket? —
8633.
(1) With the English XI in Australia in
1884-85, R. Peel bowled 1992.3 overs, 987
maidens, 2039 runs, 353 wickets —average 5.77;
with the Australian XI in England in 1878,
F. R. Spofforth’s figures were 1705 overs, 644
maidens, 2675 runs, 357 wickets —average
7.49. (2) In Tests, Turner bowled 1052.4 overs,
457 maidens, 1670 runs, 101 wickets—average
16.52.
* * *
(1) Was Victoria undefeated in Sheffield
Shield cricket in 1936-37 ? (2) What was the
result of its matches? (3) Keith Rigg’s
scores in these matches? —8640.
(1) Yes. (2) Defeated Q. by an innings and
85 runs at Melbourne and five wickets at Bris-
bane; defeated S. Aus. by nine wickets at
Adelaide and 15 runs on the first innings at
Melbourne; defeated N.S.W. by 66 runs on the
first innings at Melbourne and 32 runs on the
first innings at Sydney. (3) Rigg scored 97,
105, 33 and 21 not out v. S. Aus.; 11, 36 and
sv. Q.; 100, 167 not out, 12 and 6v. N.S.W.
—593 runs, averaging 65.88.
* * * *
(1) How were the "sundries” credited to Eng-
land in the Test matches in Australia in 1936-
37; also what were the innings totals? (2)
Was Oldfield the wicketkeeper, and what were
his scores in these Tests ? —8629.
(1)
Leg- No- Innings.
Byes. byes, balls. Wides. Totals.
First Test—
-1 3 4 0 358
14 4 1 0 256
Second Test—
-8 8 4 1 *426
Third Test —
5110 f 76
0 3 0 0 323
Fourth Test—
-6 2 4 1 330
12 2 6 0 243
Fifth Test —
0 12 1 0 239
0 3 0 0-165
* For 6 wickets, f For 9 wickets.
(2) Yes. Oldfield scored 6 and 10 in the
first Test, 1 and 1 in the second, 27 not out
and 7 in the third, 5 and 1 in the fourth, and
21 in the fifth.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was George Mendies
born ? (2) Is he still living ? (3) Was he con-
sidered one of the world’s best flyweight
boxers ?— 8628.
(1) Pyrmont, N.S.W., June 14, 1899. (2)
He died at St. Vincent’s Hospital (Sydney) on
May 24, 1924, from cerebral haemorrhage,
two nights after a fight. (3) Mendies
was undoubtedly the best flyweight boxer ever
developed in Australia. The climate affected
him when he went to Manila, F. 1., in 1921, and
Pancho Villa (who won the world’s flyweight
championship from Jimmy Wilde in New York
on June 18, 1923) knocked him out in three
rounds there on December 24 of that year.
* * * 1=
(1) Are the mangrove-grown tidal creeks of
N.Q. suitable for oyster culture? (2) How is
the spawn propagated ? (3) What is the spawn-
ing season in N.Q. waters? (4) Books or
leaflets on the subject ? —8626.
(1) No definite information available. Ostrea
glomerata, the only species cultivated for
market purposes, is found as far north as Port
Douglas, but so far as is known has not been
cultivated north of Port Curtis. The occur-
rence of freshes is not much of a handicap,
but a big rise and fall of tide is, especially in
tropical waters. (2) Mangrove sticks or stakes
are arranged in bundles or rows so as to form
a natural catchment for the spat, which is free-
swimming. (3) Normally, during the summer
months. There are usually several spawnings
during the season. (4) T. C. Roughley’s re-
port on “The Oyster Resources of Queensland,”
obtainable from Marine Department, Brisbane.
(1) Can sea sand be used in making concrete?
(2) Can broken bricks be used for the coarse
aggregate ? (3) What is the objection to making
concrete in frosty weather ? —8627.
(1) Yes, but the salt in it tends to retard
setting, and is apt to cause a white powder
effect on the surface of the concrete. This can
be washed off with a weak solution of hydro-
chloric acid. (2) Yes, if great strength isn’t
essential. Avoid bricks containing sulphur, un-
slaked lime or other qualities rendering them
unsuitable for concrete. All plaster remaining
on the bricks should be removed and dust
excluded. (3) Because freezing causes expansion
of the water within the as yet soft concrete,
preventing correct bonding and often causing
thin scales to peel off the surface. Sometimes
it disrupts the whole concrete mass.
* * * *
How far below zero can the temperature be
measured and at what number of degrees below
zero can a person live? —8623.
Zero on a thermometer is an arbitrary point
and doesn’t mean the absolute limit of cold —
otherwise there couldn’t be “degrees below
zero.” Kelvin and Joule have calculated that
the absolute zero is minus 461 deg. F. The
lowest natural temperature measured on the
earth’s surface is minus 88.8 deg. F., registered
in June, in 1886, at Verkhoyansk, Siberia.
The lowest temperature at which a human being
can live depends to some extent on environment
and manner of living, but generally speaking
a temperature of minus 40deg. is dangerous to
life.
* * * *
Rules for the use of "shall” and "will” ?
—8612.
If you say “I will” you mean that you
intend, so far as you have power to do some-
thing. “Shall” involves more of a specula-
tion or a prediction, as “I shall be in danger”
or “we shall have to wait.” The distinction is
very slender, and in a great many cases either
“shall” or “will” may be correctly used.
* * J*e aft
When will the results of the N.S.W. Sesqui-
centenary Literary Competitions and the Com-
monwealth Literary Prize be known ? —8668.
The prizewinners in the drama section of
the Sesquicentenary Literary Competitions will
be announced on March 1, and the prizewinners
in the short story, verse, short essay and long
essay sections on April 1. The winner of the
Commonwealth Literary Prize will be announced
also on April 1.
* * * *
Where could I obtain "Australian Nursery
Rhymes,” published 1917, containing selection
of rhymes from the Red Page of The Bulle-
tin ? —8592.
The book is out of print, but the Service De-
partment will forward free to any person send-
ing a stamped and addressed envelope, together
with service coupon, a printed sheet containing
all the rhymes.
* * * *
Who was the first woman emigrant named
Jack to arrive in Vic., and by what ship? —
8525.
Almost impossible to find out. Bounty emi-
grants started to arrive in Vic. in 1839, and
continued arriving in thousands until the ’fifties.
If a search were required, suggest you apply
to the trustees of the Public Library, Swanston-
street, Melbourne; there is a charge of 3s. 6d.
an hour, and a search of this nature would
probably take considerably time.
* * * *
Who was the first Clark to settle in Malms-
bury {Vic.) in the ’fifties, and was he a
brewer ? —8524.
There were two breweries in Malmsbury about
that date, but neither wds owned by a Clark.
E. Jowett had a brewery in Urquhart-street,
and M. McKenna one in Mollison-street. E.
Townsend, of Malmsbury, could help you; he
knows the history of the rise and decline of
the old Vic. mining town.
* * * *
(1) What is meant by the symbol "pH” used
in chemistry? (2) What is the pH value of
a solution containing 10 lb. of pure caustic
soda {NaOH) per ton of pure water, and how
is the result calculated ? —8506.
(1) The symbol pH is a short way of writing
the term “hydrogen-ion concentration,” the
word ion denoting a particle of moving matter
carrying a unitary charge of positive or nega-
tive electricity. The pH is expressed in terms
of equivalents of hydrogen-ion present in
grammes per litre. (2) In your example, the
solution has a concentration of 4.51 b. of
NaOH in 10001 b. of water, which is the
approximate equivalent of 4.5 grammes per litre.
A normal solution of NaOH contains 40
grammes per litre, so that your solution is
0.112 N. Normal NaOH has a pH of 14.05,
0.1 N. a pH of 13.07, and 0.01 N. a pH of
12.12. Approximately, therefore, the pH of
a solution of 0.112 NaOH is 13.20. It is
difficult to see the value of this determination;
acidity would be a much more reliable and
useful guide.
* * * *
Do fish possess a sense of hearing? —B62l.
The matter has been the subject of a great
deal of controversy on the part of anglers and
scientists. What may be called the “ear” in
fish functions as an organ of equilibrium, as
it does in all vertebrates. In addition, the
fish, unlike other vertebrates, have sense organs
in their skin —the “lateral line system”—that
are very susceptible to vibrations. It has been
proved that minnows- and other fish can dis-
tinguish between various musical notes, but
whether they use their “ears” or other senses
in doing is a moot point.
* * •» ¥
What are the characteristics of the mud
skipper or climbing fish ? —8616.
He is a small amphibious fish (Periophthal-
mince) whose breast and abdominal fins form
armlike limbs with which he clambers over
mudflats and climbs mangrove-roots. His eyes,
which he can elevate upon short stalks, see as
well out of as in water.
* * * *
How to construct a set of chimes from brass
tubing ? —8387.
Obtain four lengths of |in. diameter brass
tubing, 2ft. 7iin., 2ft. 9|in., 2ft. linin', and
3ft. 6|in. respectively. Larger diameter tubing
may be used, the proportions being about the
same, but the length of each will require
shortening to tune. The tubes are hung in
a row by cords attached to their upper ends,
with a spacing of £in. between the tubes.
Particulars will be found in “Work,” Jan. 27,
1923, available at the Public Library, Sydney.
Tune by means of a piano.
* * * #
(1) Whereabouts in N.S.W. is Mount
Wingen ? (2) What causes it to burn, and how
long has it been burning? —Bs77.
(1) It is 208 miles from Sydney, and is passed
by the N.S.W. main northern railway. (2) A
thick seam of coal is slowly burning, emitting
through fissures, over about half an acre up the
southward hillside, more or less smoke; the
emission is not alwhys visible. The presence
of sulphur-compounds and vapors suggest that
sulphur oxidisation generated heat which started
the fire, 1| miles north of its present site, over
2000 years ago.
* * * *
(1) What are the best Australian native song-
birds ? (2) Are any other birds capable of
mimicking as the lyrebird does? —8585.
(1) Opinion varies considerably. Many Aus-
tralian warblers have a very pleasing song, also
some of the song-shrikes, such as the olive
whistler. The crested bellbird and the butcher-
bird also have melodious voices. (2) All the
bowerbirds are great mimics, while among the
smaller species the noisy scrub-bird and the
scrub-wrens are perhaps the best. The ground-
lark and silver-eye are also good mimics.
* * * #
How to destroy wombats ? —B6OB.
Cut apples, pears or carrots into pieces
about or 2in. in diameter, then cut a piece
out of the bait having the form of a pyramid
or cube, and after inserting as much strychnine
as will go on the end of a penknife replace
the piece cut out. Green maize or any other
cereal may also be used. It should be damped
with a solution of sugar and water and sprinkled
with arsenic or phosphorus. The baits should
be placed near 'the wombat holes or in the
tracks of the wombat.
* * # *
Will a war at ah plant grow in a tub ? —B4os.
Provided the tub is at least 18in. deep, to
allow room for the taproot to grow, a
waratah can be grown in it. Fortify the con-
tainer with iron bands, especially on the
bottom where the early rot is likely to set in;
and pack at least 3in. of stones and charcoal
in the tub to help free drainage. Sandy loam
is the best soil for waratahs.
* * * *
(1) What is the treatment for mildew which
has attacked crepe myrtle ( JLagerstrcemia ) shrubs
since the recent rains? (2) When should these
shrubs be pruned? —B647.
(1) While the dew is on the leaves spray
with lime-and-sulphur solution (trade strength).
Make sure that the undersides of the leaves
are thoroughly treated. A second spraying 10
days later will destroy spores missed during
the first treatment. (2) In June, after the leaves
have fallen and while the sap is dormant.
* * * *
How should carnation-plants affected by
rust be treated? —8557.
Dust lime over the plants while the dew is
on them or spray with a weak solution of
Condy’s fluid. The disease spreads quickly
unless treated, being carried from plant to
plant by aphides and insects. Badly-affected
plants should be burnt. Do not use cuttings
taken from plants affected by the disease or
give them away to fellow-enthusiasts.
* * * *
Best way to raise brown boronia from seed,
and in what garden position should the shrubs
be grown ? —8562.
Sow seed during September in boxes contain-
ing virgin bush soil and cover lightly with sieved
sandy loam. Keep the soil damp to assist
germination. When large enough to handle
shift the young shrubs to 4in. pots. A sunny
position, sheltered from frosts and strong winds,
suits broWn boronia. As with all native flora,
strong fertilisers or stable manures should not
be incorporated in the garden plots where the
shrubs are to be grown.
* * * *
When and how was coal first found in Aus-
tralia? —8619.
Fishermen, chancing on coal lying on the
water’s edge of a bay near Port Stephens,
brought specimens to Sydney in June, 1796;
but their discovery was not investigated. In
February, 1797, a ship bound to Australia from
Calcutta was beached on Preservation Island
(Bass Strait). Members of her crew overlanding
to Sydney for help found and used coal at
Coalcliff (now Clifton, 15 miles south of Botany
Bay) on May 15. George Bass confirmed this
discovery in August. On September 19 of the
same year Lieut. T. G. Shortland, of the
Reliance, discovered coal on the Hunter Estu-
ary. Towards the end of 1799 coal was ex-
ported to India, and in 1800 to Cape Colony.
* * * *
(1) Where to apply for an electrician’s
license? (2) Where and when are the exami-
nations held? (3) Qualifications necessary? (4)
Brief summary of the syllabus? (5) Examina-
tion fee ? —8578.
(-1) Electrical Contractors and Electricians’
Licensing Board, Phillip-street, Sydney. (2)
Inquire at address given. (3) The applicant
must furnish evidence to show that he has had
at least five years’ practical experience in electri-
cal installation work, and the application must
be accompanied by a certificate of good char-
acter signed by some responsible person. (4)
It includes a knowledge of electricity and the
electrical wiring rules of the Standards Associa;
tion of Australia. (5) ss.
* * * *
(1) Is a person in N.S.W. entitled to give
notice to neighbor re dividing fence before land
he has bought has been transferred to his name
in the municipal council’s books ? (2) Does the
Dividing Fences Act stipulate that quotations
received for erecting the fence must be sub-
mitted to the adjoining owner before accept-
ance ? (3) If the fence is erected without the
prices being submitted to him, what remedy
has he if he considers the price excessive ? (4)
How long does the Act allow for payment? —
8575.
(1) The owner is the person entitled to give
notice. The council’s books have nothing to
do with the matter. (2) No. (3) The notice
to the adjoining owner is to assist in making
the fence. If within six months of receiving
the notice the adjoining owner refuses or ne-
glects to so assist, the person giving the notice
may complete the fence and recover half
the cost. If dissatisfied with the price charged
the adjoining owner may fight any action
brought against him. (4) Except as stated no
time is fixed.
* * * *
How to make peanut butter in the home ?
8421.
The grinding of the nuts is the chief difficulty
in home preparations, but they are none the
worse if a litttle rough. Shell a pound or two
of peanuts as an experimental lot and place on
a shallow dish in the oven; keep at gentle heat
until they are lightly browned. Tip them out
on to a tea-towel on the table, fold part of
the towel over them and roll vigorously to
loosen the skins; fan or dust the skins away
and chop or mince the skinned nut pieces as
small as possible, finishing off with a glass jar
as a roller. Place the mass in a saucepan, add
sufficient olive oil to make a stiff paste, salt
and pepper to taste and bring to boiling point,
but do not boil hard. Keep at that tempera-
ture for 10 minutes, then transfer quickly to
heated jam-jars and close at once with heated
covers and rubbers. The object of having all
the things hot is to aid sterilisation, without
which home-preserved foods seldom keep well.
You may find it better to make frequent small
lots of the paste instead of a large quantity at
a time, as keeping is difficult in your climate.
Brief Answers.
F.H.M.: (1) No suggestions can be offered.
(2) Plant for sale should be advertised in
papers circulating in mining districts and the
metropolitan press. (3) It should bring a
reasonable price P.K.M.: (1) Broken Hill
Pty. Co., 422 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
(2) Not yet announced E.H.D.: (1) The co.
is a reputable one. (2) Cannot say J.P.:
No trace of the lady... .T.L.P.8.: (1) Approxi-
mately 3s. 9d. Includes postage and 25 p.c.
exchange. (2) No. (3) Yes. (4) No
D.G.8.: Write Civil Aviation Branch, De-
fence Dept., Melbourne... .A.J.M.G.: Sug-
gest you communicate with O. T. Lempriere
and Co., Alexandria, T. H. Kelly, Sydney,
Norman Hill and Co., Sydney, and Frank
Hambridge, Sydney, all ore buyers J.W.:
The collector value of silver and copper coins
dating back to 1690 would be (if in very good
condition showing no sign of wear) about a
third above their face value. Higher value
would attach to rarities and coins in Mint
condition. The copper coin of Louis XVI.,
1793, if it is in Mint condition, has a collector
value of threepence E.G.8.: Any person
who is a non-resident of N. S. Wales and
derives income in the State is subject to special
income tax on the income so derived, irre-
spective of the amount involved... .A.A.: In-
formation too vague for a diagnosis of the
cause of the trouble to be made. The fact
that the horse goes better in wet weather would
seem to indicate that the trouble is not
rheumatism in the shoulders, but lower down,
possibly laminitis in the feet M.W.: Make
personal application to the Registrar of Co-
operative Societies, the Blashki Building, 61
Hunter-street, Sydney C.M.1.: (1) R.S.S.I.L.
membership is open only to men who actually
left Australia and served in a theatre of war.
(2) The question of the right to preference under
the provisions of the N.S.W. Returned Soldiers
and Sailors’ Employment Act of men who en-
listed but did not embark for active service
is one for the decision of the R.S. and S. Em-
ployment Board. (3) Write A. W. Davis, Secre-
cy, R.S. and S. Employment Board, Savings
Bank Building, 21 Elizabeth-street, Sydney....
A.M.K.: Yes, if applicant is not worth £25,
wearing apparel excepted. Cost in N.S.W. is £7.
See a solicitor or Registrar, Supreme Court,
Brisbane... .J.T.: On November 3, 1927, the
Union SS. Co. steamer Tahiti (7898 tons)
and the Sydney ferry Greycliffe (133 tons) col-
lided off Bradley’s Head, Sydney Harbor, re-
sulting in the sinking of the Greycliffe and a
loss of 42 lives... .G.M.M.: So far as the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Office is con-
cerned the policy would remain the property
of the pensioner. You should, however, notify
them when it matures... .N.C.S.: Information
not available... .W.H.G.: (1) Scruttons, Ltd.,
161 Clarence-street, Sydney. (2) A 16-h.p. or
20-h.p. machine will be suitable. The 16-h.p.
has a lOin. cylinder and a Min. stroke; the
20-h.p. has a 1 lin. cylinder and a Min. stroke.
Both engines employ two high-preJsure
cylinders. (3) 16-h.p. about £1000; 20-h.p.
about £1200... .8.W.: Walther and Stevenson,
395 George-street, Sydney,'can supply a Cyclone
petrol engine, weight complete with bat-
tery, r.p.m. 6000, 1-5 h.p., bore |in., stroke
13-16 in., price £8 12s. 6d. Other engines from
£6 7s. 6d C.G.: The address of the Inter-
national Fencing Academy is 4th Floor, Har-
vard House, ■ 192. Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
... .R.T.: Tambaroora means “home of the
ibis”; Yullundry, “green wattles”; Murrurundi,
“five fingers”; Gralunga, “a sandy spot”;
Bega, “big camping-place”; and Coolac,
“native bear.” All are N.S.W. abo. place-
names. .. .J.8.H.: The Fellowship of Australian
Writers was founded on November 23, 1928,
at a meeting of writers in Sydney presided over
by Mary Gilmore... .A.N.: Write Felt and
Textiles of Australia, Ltd., 33 Macquarie-place,
Sydney... .J.F.: For the year ending June 30,
1937, imports to Australia totalled £92,640,462
and exports from totalled £129,013,193.


Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME J
This Book FREE TO YOU!
Our new Free Literary Prospectus,
giving details of our Course on
“How to Write for Profit.”
Stott’s Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CUT HERE AND MATT, COUPON.
Please send Literary Prospectus, without
obligation.
My Name
Address
5.8.9
adc#o
l
vo
atty
e
ced
han
with
SPECIAL "GENALEX" FEATURES.
Automatic Volume Control • Audio Automatic
volume control • Counterbalanced tuning
control O exclusive cabinet designs #
improved full vision dial, precision calibrated
• “Sirufer" coils and air trimmers # extreme
sensitivity and selectivity # “Tuneray" visual
tuning indicator.
POST TO-DAY
THIS COUPON IS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE.
Please send me full information of your "Genalex"
Radio Receivers: —
* AC — AC/DC — Battery—Motor Car Radio—Accessories
Name
Address
(Send in unsealed envelope or paste on postcard.
Penny postage only in either case.
*Cross out those not required. ®
A There’s a world of difference between old
ideas of radio reproduction and the
brilliant new standards achieved by the
Genalex. Just switch on a Genalex receiver,
and you hear for the first time all those subtle
lights and shades, which bring programmes to
life. How is it done? By constant research,
backed by the long experience of the B.G.E.
There is a variety of models from which to
choose either electric or battery operated.
They have remarkable purity of tone, a range
that is world-wide, simplicity of control and
cabinets of distinctive beauty. Hear the
Genalex at your local dealer's, or send coupon
below for full details.
"Genalex" Receivers are guaranteed by
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO. PTY. LTD.
Sole Australian Representatives of the
England
“Magnet House/' 104 Clarence St.. Sydney
28 King St.. Newcastle
ds
yhe.' cAouze of 6Ae mxurL Olt/ut
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted j; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.8.T.: When you wake up to our needs
you might stop writing nightmares G.L.S.:
Yes, we like “red-blooded” stuff, but not those
gory efforts... .K.L.T.: “The whole phantas-
magoria tumbled about his ears,” —and piled
up in the w.p.b 8.J.D.: “I think the repe-
tition of some passages accentuates the idea of
monotony.” It certainly does.,. .G.L.F.:
You’ve mentioned when, where and how you
wrote the yarn, but you don’t say why
M.C.D.: A few laughs, but it’s too slight for
publication... .N.F.Y.: We know that one by
heart 8.J.C.: And your conscience-stricken
cracksman went the rounds 10 years ago..
R.L.S.: No use writing historical yarns if
you know nothing of the period... .M.H.R.:
First page turned “The Tide” homeward.
J.S.G.: James might have been con-
sidered a “hellfire guy” in Pooligah, but he
provoked only another yawn down this way....
L.F.P.: “The Dough” needs more polish before
it rises to our standard... .G.L.C.: Even Holly-
wood has relegated that notion to a museum.
. ...F.T.R.: “I make no claims as a yarn-
spinner.” That’s one consolation, anyway
8.L.J.: Haven’t you any sympathy or can’t you
read your own writing? ... .8.G.R.: That skele-
ton is rattling homeward... .G.P.C.: And we
bought “The Unwelcome Passenger” a return
ticket K.G.T.: “I can’t find anything definite
about my style.” Obviously... .F.8.D.: You
borrowed more than the Russian manner for that
yarn... .M.L.T.: “I could write a story every
week.” Some persons write two, but it doesn’t
help them very much 8.F.P.: Four identical
copies of that sketch have already come our
way... .8.H.R.: A good example of wasted
effort N.H.D.: Nearly hit the mark; send
along a few more... .M.G.P.; The feeling is
mutual H.R.8.: Characters are sketchy and
the idea weak... .M.L.D.: “I have concluded
that there is nothing to write about.” Well,
why try? ... .H.L.F.: “Thief” should find a
swag elsewhere... .J.K.: “After the next contri-
bution you will never see my work again.”
Send it along as soon as possible 8.H.5.:
Not very good, but it shows promise A.M.:
It’s hardly a trade wind I.McD.: Some
promise in them... .L. 8.: Yes, but can’t imagine
an anchor saying “Ochone! ”.. .T.A.: It’s nearly
all been said before R. 8.8.: You’ve a long
way to g 0... .N.E.G.: Beery ballad lacks body.
P.T.: Good enough, but it’s buried in the
Grecian Urn. .. .P.L.L.; The italicised lines are
cliches.... The Hittite: Thanks, but it’s a miss-
ite... .E.F.: Unsuitable... .J.D.O’N.: Some
good touches G.F.: Liked it, but showers
a bit too soft for us... .P.D.L.: Not for us the
“liquid lilt of lapping waters” C.M.R.:
It’s merely an echo... .T.D.: You’re not get-
ting any closer F.M.: Yes; but Con Drew
has the market cornered for that sort of thing.
M.B.: Try something a little less ambitious
for a start... .K.S.D.: Thanks for the com-
pliments, but we can’t give “Truthful Tommy”
a cheque.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. 8.: You’re 50 years behind Phil May with
that A.A.: There’s hope for you if you can
get a better sweep into your linework... .8.J.:
Wash drawing is a muddied effort and the pen
sketch bristles with mistakes... .W.H.: Can’t
see the likeness in that caricature P.D.; The
Art Editor scored a k.o. against your pug in
the first round... .GJ.: Nothing to be ashamed
of, but it falls slightly below print 1eve1....
P.S.: Subject well drawn, but too local for a
national journal... .F.M.: Take lessons at a
life class W.R.: You gave the lass a pretty
face but let the rest of her go rip....H.T.:
A visit to the Zoo will correct your impres-
sions as to what a zebra looks like; anyrate,
the gag is 01d... .M.J.D.: Thanks, but we’ll
have to struggle along without your aid
T.C.: Lady with the goitre and gent, with the
wooden leg were escorted to the door
R. 8.: It’s a toss-up which is worse—the gag or
the drawing K.G.: The international situa-
tion is complicated enough without your car-
toon F.T.C.: Draw with a broader nib and get
more balance into your work... .S.M.N.: Jest
is weighed down with barnacles, and the sketch
is a mass of unruly lines... .W.S.: Same old
slatterns, same old backyard fence and same
old gag G.F.: Only thing right about the
King Billy picture is the battered top-hat
W. 8.: You’ve been doing some steady digging
in the cemetery of buried jokes A.R.: Stick
to your studies and brush up your humor
J.W.S.: Ah! So that’s where that old chestnut
has! been hiding all these years M.W.M.:
Prepared to consider jokes apart from draw-
ings and to pay 7s. 6d. each for those accepted.
G.H.L.: One of the oldest of the Hebrew-
Aberdeenian school J.T.: Get on to some
original work 5.8.: Composition is good,
but the linework is straggly H.H.: A lop-
sided collection of figures and a batch of feeble
wheezes J.W.; Leave the Cousin Jacks to
Oswald Pryor A.D.: It looks as if you took
a couple of ramrods for models K.J.K.:
Same neddy galloped in our paddock years
ago... .J.F.8.: The dingo-scalper wins this
week’s prize for the most misshapen figure
W.O’G.: The answer has acid but no humor.
E.W.M.: You manage to catch a fair like-
ness, but subjects need to be more important.
S.C.: It missed the bull’s-eye by a hun-
dred yards.
A MIXED GRILL.
Some newspapers are never happy
unless they are giving Australia foreign
allies. France, Russia (of course!), Red
Spain, China and the U.S.A. have re-
cently been cast for these parts (as was
Abyssinia in 1935), and now it’s the
Netherlands. “S. M. Herald” has discov-
ered that our amiable Dutch friends may
throw themselves across “the path of
Japan’s expansionist ambitions” and
have “established minor air-force bases
on their New Guinea and Borneo coasts,”
while planning to strengthen “their exist-
ing Indies fleet and air force”—each
already capable of beating the Salvation
Army. The “Herald” ecstatically adds:
There is no point in any pretence of
ignoring this movement or our own obliga-
tion to share in it to the utmost of our
ability.
Does the old girl really mean that Aus-
tralia should stake its existence on the
preservation of the Dutch conquests?
* * * *
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) consumes a lot of
•water as well as beer. Cost of water sup-
plied to the mines for six months was
£120,000, the biggest account being that
of Lake View and Star—£6o,BBl.
* # # J!
“Freelance”: Members of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association can be
forgiven if they fail to cheer the enter-
prise of the London. “Times” in having
an Australian anniversary supplement on
local sale a day before the official open-
ing of the celebrations in Sydney. The
contributors were largely politicians,
university professors, headmasters, board
and commission chairmen. An increas-
ingly large portion of our daily press is
handed over to such worthies, and it
hurts trained journalists to see the
“Thunderer” following a bad fashion.
* * * *
“Tondeur”: Until recently I had never
seen Don Tallon, in the flesh or in a
picture, without his hat. A portrait of
him minus a lid, published in a Brisbane
paper, has convinced me that the Aus-
tralian selectors had sound reasons for
rejecting him. The lad affects a style
of hairdressing much in fashion with
preliminary pugs and League foot-
ballers, the hair shaved all round the
head to a line above the ears, with a top-
ping of untouched wool, resembling no-
thing so much as a mop which has seen
much better days. In England this
style—borrowed, of course, from
America—is simply not done. I shudder
ta think of the effect such a haircut would
have were it to burst without warning on
those assembled, say, at the Marylebone
dinner to the touring team.
* * * *
The A.N.A. in Victoria has acquired a
chief president, J. W. Marrows, who has
risen above the provincialism which has
retarded progress in Victoria too long.
He sees that Federation has served its
purpose and holds that “true nation-
hood” demands “the abolition of State
Parliaments and the establishment of a
Commonwealth Parliament holding
supreme powers.” Thousands of Aus-
tralians in all the States are thinking on
the same lines. The call is for leadership,
and if the A.N.A. can provide it —as the
A.N.A. did once, and nobly—so much
the better.
* * * *
Melbourne’s complicated traffic code
has given many drivers headaches, but
doesn’t seem to have achieved anything
else. With about 40,000 more motors
on Vic. roads than in 1936, 311 people
lost their lives in Melbourne motor
smashes in 1937—67 more than in 1936
and 112 worse than the average for the
previous six years. Now there is talk of
speed limits, Sydney reports being favor-
able.
* =& * -jf
“T ”; Italian Government has at
last admitted that it has been “found
necessary to take air action against recal-
citrant tribesmen.” It pleads that “such
measures are undertaken only when other
means of pacification fail,” also that
“adequate warning is always given” and
that the “number of casualties has been
very small.” The par. was printed incon-
spicuously with a non-committal head-
line. On a second reading not the Italian
Government but the British Government
made the admission, the theatre of pacifi-
cation being the Aden protectorate.


WHEN YOU BUY A
a
KING THE ROAD
w
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
m
ilTmril!a
• • ©
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(loAnxja^
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
I.
“They says the war’d settle the Game ;
but look at the ’ouse we’ve got to-night,
list look at it! Two thousand Jimmy o’
Goblins in it if there’s a copper.”
The speaker was a massive man in the
early forties. He sported the white
sweater and thick ears of the boxing-
hall attendant; he was, in fact, employed
in that capacity at the Sydney Coliseum.
He turned from the friend to whom
he had expressed his gratification, cup-
ping a huge hand at the side of his mouth
so that his voice might be heard above
the din, to gaze at the spectators again.
There were fully 12,000 of them, and
except when they puffed smoke from
their mouths —and few were without
pipes or cigarettes—their tongues were
never still.
Here and there women sat at the ring-
side, among barristers, doctors, politicians
and two or three Judges. In all parts of
the hall there were soldiers in the uniform
of the Australian Imperial Force —mostly
tall, loose-limbed, keen-eyed young
fellows, their lean faces browned, lined
and hollowed by the sub-tropical sun.
They must have envied the thousands of
civilians who had taken off their coats,
for the time was February, 1915, and it
was hot in that huge barn.
Apart from a few scattered friends of
the boxers, who shouted encourage-
ment and instructions to “Pongo,”
“Props” and “Bluey,” as the case might
be, the onlookers showed little interest in
the preliminary bouts. Many derisively
repeated the words of excited partisans,
and waited for opportunities of throw-
ing paper-bags filled with peanut-shells
and banana-skins when one of these
stood up to get a better view. At such
times gales of laughter came from all
parts of the house.
But as one scrambling affair succeeded
another the crowd became impatient for
the main contest to begin. At the dull-
est stage of the dullest mill the com-
batants were counted out in the Sydney
fashion and pronunciation, “r’s” being
dropped and “i’s” converted into “oi’s.”
A deep-voiced “three-bobber” began it,
“one, two” ; his neighbors took up the
“three, faw” ; and so it went on, the noise
swelling at every number —“foive, six,
seven, eight, noine, OWT.” Then thun-
derous laughter and repetition, which be-
came tedious.
The last minor bout over, the central
platform on which Les Durkin, the rising
middleweight from Newcastle, was to box
Terry Mac Sherry, the former champion,
was empty for a few minutes, during
which the murmuring of innumerable
voices was heard again. It rose to a wel-
coming roar as Durkin emerged from his
dressing-room and vaulted into the ring,
acknowledging the plaudits with a ham-
like hand extended above his head. He
was a black-haired, black-eyed, smiling
youngster with the arms, chest and
thighs of a heavyweight. One glance
at the lad gave an impression of un-
common strength and speed.
A still warmer reception was reserved
for Mac Sherry, who was tall, spare,
anxious-looking and the elder by four or
five years. He had prominent cheek-
bones and thin lips, and, though he
waved to his supporters as Durkin had
done, his lips never softened into a smile.
A plump announcer climbed through
the ropes, followed by a fat referee.
Boisterously greeted by the back-
benchers, they grinned their acknow-
ledgments, conscious of being part of the
show. It was the custom to hurl badin-
age at the referee and to mimic the an-
nouncer, who had a vast, high-pitched
voice; and opportunities for mimicry
were plentiful, the plump gentleman hav-
ing to go through his performance from
each side of the ring. He introduced,
among others, two dejected-looking
French pugilists, who —as a soldier yelled,
interrupting the announcer —were “willin’
to fight anyone except ’Uns.”
These and other formalities occupied
several minutes, and conversation broke
out afresh.
“So this Durkin comes from New-
castle,” said a back-bencher. “Then I
s’pose ’e’ll take every ’ead punch on ’ees
’ead, so’s ’e can try t’ counter. An’ in
about two years’ toime ’e’ll be well on ’ees
way to the silly ’ouse.”
“Oh, Les’s not like that. ’E can duck
under ’em or block ’em, as soots ’im. You
watch.”
“Nice fella, too, I b’lieve. They tell
me ’e’ll letcha go twenny rounds if you
ain’t uncivil.”
“Who is that man shaking hands with
Mac Sherry?” asked a front-seater. “The
baldheaded little fellow, I mean.”
“Mean to say you don’t know him ?”
“I’m just over from New Zealand.”
“I see. Well, that’s Jimmy Minogue.
He’s a big interest in the Coliseum ; in
fact, he’s in everything. And he was a
six-bob-a-day hand in a Melbourne jam
factory until he started his tote.”
“Tote?”
“Yes; all bets a shilling. He had the
place fortified like one of those strong
posts in France, and laughed at the
Johns for years. He’d bet on anything
going, if it was only flies crawling across
a window-pane. They used to say he ran
a tote on the election of the Pope ; but
that was done by a rival joint.”
“A versatile fellow.”
“My oath! He used to have strings
of racehorses, ponies, cyclists, boxers
and politicians. He’s given up the ponies
and the bikepushers.”
An electric clock, suspended above the
ring, which sounded the beginning and
end of a round, and registered the pass-
ing seconds on its four faces, summoned
the bruisers to action.
Mac Sherry darted in at once and
smote Durkin with a straight left on the
nose, making him snort and blink. He
replied with a left hook, which the taller
man took coolly on the right forearm,
which was stretched across his jaw, the
wrist protecting his chin. There were
cries of “Good old Terry!”
“I’ve seen Peter Jackson use that guard,”
said an old-timer; “and I saw Bob
Turner beat Blackmore with it. It’ll beat
all your left hooks to the jaw.”
“It won’t beat Les,” retorted a white-
faced young miner from Newcastle.
“Queen Victoria’s dead, ole sport, and
so’s Tom Sayers and the bloke wot fought
J im in the ole sawpit. Wait an’ see Les
bring that guard down.”
They did not have to wait long. Dur-
ing the first three rounds Mac Sherry got
home with a succession of straight letts,
and one of them brought blood. But
they were mostly light blows on a target
that was never still, and the lad some-
times landed with his own left before
Mac Sherry started a punch. He some-
times tested the solidity of his opponent’s
fend for the jaw, grinning at his own
discomfiture when his glove met solid
bone.
Presently he sidestepped smartly as
Mac Sherry let fly with another left. He
contrived to imprison that member, and
pasted the ex-champion with body
punches—so severely that the protective
right was lowered.
They clinched, and the referee, who
was amazingly nimble for his size,
separated them.
“Don’t hang on, Terry!” he said to
that now-flustered warrior.
“I’m not hanging on,” was the indig-
nant reply. “He wouldn’t let me arm
go.”
“Make ’im lead to you, lad,” whis-
pered one of Mac Sherry’s seconds as
they came out for the fourth round.
The youngster was not reluctant to
lead, but he found Terry more formid-
able in defence than in attack. Again
and again he failed to hit that bobbing
head and shifting body, and the other’s
counter-punches were accurate and effec-
tive.
At the end of the seventh round Mac-
Sherry had had the better of the boxing,
and his supporters cheered him to his
corner. “If he can only keep it up, he’s
sure to win,” they said. “It’s only a
matter of staying the distance.”
But he was beginning to look tired and
to breathe heavily. There were red
patches on his body, and a mouse was
forming under his left eye, whereas
Durkin’s rugged face and powerful frame
were unmarked. The boy was as strong
as a bull, and was thoroughly cheerful
and confident.
“No more long-range boxing, Les,” his
trainer counselled. “Get right in, and
fight ’im! Don’t give ’im a moment’s
peace.”
The lad rushed out of his corner and
hurled himself at his adversary. He beat
Mac Sherry to the punch and banged
away with left and right until Terry
sought refuge in a clinch. The referee
pulled them apart.
Durkin continued his attack. He
aimed blows from all angles, and the
shorter they travelled the harder they
seemed to be. Terry’s punches were
either blocked or allowed to land on a
backmoving body or head.
At the end of the round the damaged
eye had been closed, his face was swollen
cruelly and he tottered to his corner. ,
The former champion came up for the
ninth round able to do little more than
take punishment. This he did stoically.
Durkin’s fists were always busy. Mac-
Sherry got a respite only when he hung
on and the referee “broke” them.
Such a change had come over the
situation in two rounds that already
there were cries of “Stop it!” ; but when
the bell rang for the tenth round Mac-
Sherry shuffled towards his antagonist,
prepared to endure more.
One of his seconds was a soldier with
a leathery face who chewed incessantly
—his brother, they said it was. At the
end of another round of ruthless attack
the soldier spoke for the first time.
“You’ve had enough, lad,” he said.
“No,” Terry gasped ; “I can go on.
Remember what I told you —no towel.”
So he came up for another three
minutes of agony; and now it was his
opponent who was compassionate.
“I’ve got you, Terry!” Les said.
“No, you haven’t!”
But he had. Durkin grabbed his man
by the arms, and over a sagging shoulder
looked hard at Mac Sherry’s seconds.
Then he turned his head to speak to the
referee. “Must 1 hit him?” he asked.
Receiving no answer, he released his
hold and stepped back, nodding his dis-
approval. Then he whipped his right
to the jaw, and Terry fell forward on-
hands and knees.
“That’ll do!” said the referee, and he
patted Les on the head.
The conqueror bent down, lifted the
beaten man to his feet and carried him
to the chair which his seconds had thrust
over the ropes.
A few excited front-seaters were privi-
ledged to congratulate the winner and
condole with the loser before they left
the ring. Minogue was among them.
“Les,” he cried, “you’re a wonderful
fighter! Terry, you’re as game as Ned
Kelly!”
“Give me another chance, Mr.
Minogue,” Terry moaned.
“Sure, I’ll give you another chance,”
was the reply. “And a better one you’ll
never have. You’re to be driven home
in my car, you and your brother ; and
if Pat has to go back to camp to-night
we’ll take him to Central station. And
to-morrow I’ll come out to your house
and we’ll have a long talk.”
“Thanks, Mr. Minogue,” said Mac-
Sherry, forcing his battered features into
a smile —the first that night. “I’ll learn
how to lick this fellow.”
But Terry was fated never to engage
in a glove fight again.
11.
Terry lived in an ugly late-Victorian
brick cottage in a suburb that was yield-
ing to the march of industry. It con-
sisted of five small rooms, but it was big
enough for the family, which would be re-
duced to two when Pat went to the war.
All the same, he reflected that night,
unable to sleep for the pains in his body
and the singing in his head, he could
have done better for his mother had he
thought more of her comfort. How cut
up she looked when Pat and Jerry Mul-
hooley brought him home! She could
not trust herself to speak.
Yes, he should have been kinder to
his mother. And he had made plenty
of money, but, except what he gave her
for board and an occasional present and
what he kept for clothes and things, it
had all slipped through his fingers. He
couldn’t keep away from the races. Yet


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
J; Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
IN BED FOR WEEKS
WITH BACKACHE
Prostrate with
“Terrible Pains”
It was advice from her mother that led this
woman to take Kruschen Salts for her back-
ache, and before she had finished the first
bottle she was feeling better. This is the
letter she writes:
“About this time last year I had terrible
pains in my back and was prostrate for three
weeks. I could not even rise in bed. I tried
several well-known remedies, but to no avail.
Then I wrote to my mother telling her of my
trouble. She wrote to me by return of post
urging me to try Kruschen Salts. I imme-
diately bought a bottle, and I can truthfully
say before 1 had taken the fifth dose I could
sit up. I kept on taking them, and in less
than two weeks I was about again. I am never
without this wonderful medicine now.”—(Mrs.)
A.G.
Unless the kidneys function properly, certain
acid wastes, instead of being expelled, are
allowed to pollute the bloodstream and produce
troublesome symptoms: backache, rheumatism,
and excessive fatigue. Kruschen Salts is one
of the finest diuretics or kidney aperients avail-
able for assisting the kidneys to excrete acid
impurities.
THE
lINITCn’NSURANCE
U 111 I CII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
Satisfying Smoking Tobaocos
The Empire Tobaccos with the Largest
Sales. Don’t Judge Bg the Brice
ALTHOUGH yon have in the past been
paying “through the nose" for your
tobaccos, you also probably intended cut-
ting down your tobacco bill. Don’t imagine
you will not buy the same quality when
you compare our prices. We know, of
course, you will repeat your tobacco orders
with us like many hundreds of satisfied
smokers. You will be readily persuaded
of our tobaccos’ good smoking quality.
They satisfy you and save you pounds.
From Factory to you.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder is
included with all orders OYer £l.
ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS
Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium ..
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium ..
Africander, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild . .
Normandie, medium ..
Winning Post, medium
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium ..
Latakia, in pipe only ..
White Lodge, medium
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium
Tender Leaf, medium
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra ..
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild
“Skipper,” medium
“Big Hit,” strong . . ..
“Three Sailors” .. ..
“Royal Navy Nuggets” ..
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . ..
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/3
. 6/9
. 6/9
. 7/3
. 7/9
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 8/-
. 10/-
. 10/-
. 11/-
. 8/6
. 10/9
. 11/-
. 11/-
. 8/-
. 6/-
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
6/6
6/6
Zig Zags ~ 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add Gd. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tohnrm Manufacturers O. Ltd.
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
he knew he was unlucky at punting, like
every other boxer.
He was one of those who had helped
Finnerty, the heavyweight, to get back to
San Francisco —Finnerty, who had stayed
two years in Sydney, averaged five hun-
dred a fight and lost every stiver on the
horses and ponies. And it looked as if
they would have to do the same by
McNamara, the welterweight.
Terry was at the Coliseum when
McNamara received £337 for his part in
a Saturday-night fight. He took it out
to a pony racecourse and lost the lot.
Terry, standing behind Flash Jack
Moore, the bookmaker, saw McNamara
wager all that was left of the £337.
“It’s the lasst of the Mulligans, suh,”
he said, producing a five-pound note.
“I’ll have 25 dahlars on Stingray.”
“Fifty to five Stingray,” said the book-
maker.
“His last fiver, eh?” he sneered, ad-
dressing his clerk, when McNamara had
moved away. “Well, it’s mine now.
Stingray couldn’t head a duck. All pugs
are mugs.”
Mugs they were when they tried to
beat the books. But Terry wasn’t such
a mug as Finnerty or McNamara or Joe
Bennett, the nigger, whom he had twice
outpointed. Joe, introduced to one of
the oldest trainers at Randwick, and the
most successful that season, had blurted
out, like the childlike coon he was, “I’ve
nevah backed your hosses, Mistuh
McDougall; I was told they was nevah
trying.”
Of course, ha wouldn’t collect his full
share of the purse for the fight with
Durkin. He had owed Laz Blashki £75
since the Christmas meetings. And he
had laid fifty to forty on himself with
Flash Jack —that also would have to
com'" out of his cut.
Still, there would be enough left to
make things more comfortable for
mother. He would see that she got half
his earnings in future. He would give
the Coliseum people an order to pay her
fifty per cent, of his twelve-and-a-half
every time he signed articles.
The pains were not so bad now, and
for the first time since they put him to
bed he was feeling drowsy. The birds
were waking up, but he was going to sleep.
The voice was familiar, but it seemed
to come from far away:
“It’s half after three, Mrs. Mac Sherry,
but don’t you worry—l’ve plenty of time.
I’ll go away again and come back in
about an hour.”
He would have liked to doze off once
more, but he must have that talk with
his patron.
“Don’t you go away, Mr. Minogue!
I’m wide awake and feeling a lot easier.”
“That’s good to hear, lad,” returned
Minogue, who spoke fluent English as a
rule, though he dropped into Irishisms
now and then. “By the look of yez it
can’t be easy for you to use your tongue.
So I won’t let him talk* much, Mrs. Mac-
Sherry, and thank you. You needn’t
shut the door.”
“But I must say this, Mr. Minogue.
You promised me another chance.”
“And I’ll keep me promise.”
“Well, when am I to meet him again?”
“Never, lad!”
“What? But you said”
“I know what I said. And don’t jump
up and go on like that when you need to
rest every muscle and nerve, as your
good mother said. Listen to me, and
take it all in.
“You have no chance with that Durkin
boy. He’s six years younger than you—
nearer seven, I- think —and he’ll always
fight middleweight; he’s too short to
grow out of the class. What’ll he be in
18 months’ time? A world-beater.
What’ll you be? A back number.”
“I never expected”
“Never mind what you expected. I’m
talking straight, and for your benefit.
You drew pretty well last night, but
how many sports will pay to see him
make a punching-bag of you again? And
what will you get for fighting second-
raters at places like Newcastle and
Broken Hill? There’s only one hall in
Australia that’s pulling in the money
these times, and it’s only because Sydney’s
got the population and we’re putting on
champions and near-champions.
“And get this, too, Terry. You’ve been
fighting a long time and you’ve taken
enough punches on the head. You know
where Bull McMahon is? In Callan
Park asylum. You’ve seen Pug Pater-
son, a dribbling ijit, cadging outside
the Coliseum —and yet Pug was a healthy,
likeable lad before the wits were knocked
out of him. Five or six more larrupings
like you got Saturday—and the older
and slower you grow the more punish-
ment you’ll get—and you may be an-
other Bull or Pug.”
“But I must do something.”
. “You’re going to do something. I’ve
got a career for you, a grand new career.
And there’s money in it and reputation,
if you can stand the gaff. More money
and more reputation than you ever
dreamed of making when you were
knocking ’em over.”
“What’s the career?”
“Politics.”
“Politics? What do I know about
politics?”
“Nothing as yet. But you can learn.
You’re an intelligent lad, Terry. I’ve
seen you reading in your dressing-room
when you were ready and waiting to box
—reading good books, too: Abbott’s Life
of Napoleon and the pomes of Tom
Davis and Boyle O’Reilly—l had a peep
at them when you went in to fight; and
I’ve a good memory. You’re Irish, too,
and you can talk a bit, and with practice
you’ll be able to speak.”
“But”
“You’re Irish, I say, and I’m Irish, and
I want to see the Irish take their rightful
place in this country. And that place is
at the top.”
“I can’t follow you.”
“You will before I finish ; but let me
tell me story me own way. We Irish
run the American Democratic party.
We’re shoopreme in New York, Chicago,
Philadelphia, Boston —in the municipal
politics of all the main centres of popu-
lation. And through New York city
we control New York State, which is to
the Republic over the water, as they used
to say, what New South Wales is to this
Commonwealth.”
“What about the President?”
“We don’t control him yet. But Barney
Fitzpatrick, who was in America last
year managing Bill Dobbs —me friend
Barney tells me there’s a bhoy named A 1
Smith who’s such a wonderful statesman
and so popular wherever he goes that
he’s bound to be President some day.
“But, Mr. Minogue, there are heaps
more Irish in America than there are in
Australia.”
“There are, but the proportions is about
the same. And the Irish cause in America
has been handicapped by—well, never
mind now—and the Irish cause in Aus-
tralia has been helped in more ways
than one. By the Eureka Stockade fight,
for instance. Many of the Eureka men
were Irish, and for 60 years they have
been hailed as the heroes they were.”
“I went to a Eureka Stockade cele-
bration when I was a kid —went there
with Peter Lalor’s grandson, who’s gone
to the war—and most of the speakers
were Pommies. And they all praised
Peter Lalor.”
“I’ve heard ’em. He was Shpeaker, as
you know. And we had Gavan Duffy
Premier in Victoria, and John O’Shanassy,
and Bryan O’Loghlen; and we had
Byrnes in Queensland, and we’ll have
Tom Ryan Premier there presently. And
ninety-five per cent, of the Irish in
Queensland’ll vote for Tom.”
“As many as that?”
“I know Queensland. Ninety-five per
cent, of the Irish in Queensland’ll vote
for Tom Ryan; and for why?
Because their instincts tell ’em Labor’s
going to run Australia, and the Irish are
going to run Labor. Lad, we’re no
longer divided, some of us supporting
this Tory party and some that. Except
when there was a Duffy, an O’Shanassy
or a Byrnes at the head of affairs, which
was seldom, that’s what happened in
Australia for 60 years after Eureka.
Now, as I say, everyone that wears the
green on St. Patrick’s Day and sings
‘God Save Ireland’ when they strike it
up at the concert is for the Labor party.”
“And a good thing, too.”
“A good thing it is, but so far we’ve
got little out of it. The throuble with
Labor is that it has been run by
Pommies and wowsers, and they’re still
in the high places. Who’s Prime Minis-
ter? A pawky Scotchman, and his off-
sider’s Welsh. Who’s Premier of New
South Wales? A Cockney. And who
are the other Labor Premiers? Cousin
Jacks. And all flag-wavers, from Fisher
down., He and his Jingo
last man and the last shilling’!”
“Don’t you believe in the war, then,
Mr. Minogue?”
“I’m so little agin the war, lad, that,
between you and me I’ve thought of
enlistin’. But why don’t they give Ire-
land Home Rule?”
“Yes, why don’t they?”
“And why aren’t there more Irish-
men in our Ministries? There are seven
Ministries, and, without looking up the
reference-books, I’ll bet there are not
seven Irish Ministers. We’ve got to alter
that, and we’re going to do it.”
“How?”
“By making full use of the twenty-
five per cent. Irish vote. By putting up
a majority of Labor candidates, who will
take good care that their leader —who
must eventually become State Premier or
Prime Minister—is Irish on at least one
side of the house. And by using the press.”
“But how are you going to get the
candidates you want?”
“First and foremost, by capturing the
party machine. In this State, as you
ought to know, there’s a Political Labor
League with an executive in Sydney;
and there are affiliated trade unions.
Some of the unions are not affiliated, but
most of them are.”
“True, Mr. Minogue. Mine was.”
“Your memory’s working. When an
election’s coming on the executive calls
for candidates and examines their creden-
tials. If it doesn’t like a particular man
for any reason whatever it can refuse to
endorse him, and without the party
brand it’s not a bit of use standing. If
there’s more than one endorsed candi-
date for a particular districk they go
to a selection ballot, at which members
of the local P.L.L. branches and affiliated
unionists living in the place have the
right to vote. As a rule, the P.L.L. men
claim their ballot-papers, but very few
of the unionists do. It doesn’t matter.”
“But won’t you have to get a majority
on the P.L.L. and union executives?”
“If we have anywhere near half the
office-bearers we’ll have enough. There
are always worms who’ll follow a strong
minority and make it the majority. And
remember this, Terry —the Irish are better
mixers and better platform men than
the English or the Scotch. They' are
more interested in politics and keener on
voting and more clannish. They will
support McGinty because he is Mc-
Ginty ; but you won’t find the English
doing that in the case of Jenkins. And
an Irish candidate can depend on what
is known as a good press.”
Here he bent down and whispered
something. “You surprise me,” Terry said.
“It’s so. Now I’ve talked more this
afthernoon than I’ve done any other day
these five years past, and I’ve nearly
talked myself out.
“Listen carefully to me few remaining
words and store ’em up in your memory.
A few sons and grandsons of Erin have
banded themselves together to secure, as
you might say, the triumph of the prin-
ciples I’ve outlined—in New South Wales
and Queensland especially. Victoria is
har-rd, as I can tell you from personal
experience—too many wowsers there!
We ask for no reward, but we’re making
up a list of those we want to see in Par-
liament, and your name’ll go on it. You’re
straight, Terry ; you’ve a following, and
you’ve brains —and you’ll learn how to
make a good speech. And in this coun-
try there is no job beyond the reach of
the man who cultivates the gift of the gab.
What was the name of that English pug
who got into the House of Commons?”
“Belcher, wasn’t it? No, Gully.”
“Gully it was. Well, if a pug can be-
come a member of the House of Com-
mons, with its Tory prejudices, there is no
reason why an Australian pug shouldn’t
become Premier at least. Of course
you’ll need a job that’ll bring you in
good wages without taking up too much
of your time. I’ll attend to that.”
“Thanks! Thanks! ”
“It’s already attended to. You are to
go on our staff as assistant matchmaker
at four notes a week. That’ll enable you
to join the Clerks’ Union. Join it, and
go to every union meeting—seventy per
cent of the beggars never go at all —and
speak as often as you can. Join your
local P.L.L. branch and do the same.
Go to the P.L.L. platform in the Domain
on Sundays and speak, if it’s only a few
sentences. Make friends who can help
you. Take ’em into your confidence ;
they’ll be tickled to death. In twelve
months, if you’re the lad I think you are,
you’ll become known as a speaker. In two
years we’ll have you in Macquarie-street.”
(To be continued .)


ELEGANT EXTRACTS
BAD NEWS FOR SURGEONS
A mother, in pleading for her son at
North Sydney Court, said he had
attempted to operate on himself for
appendicitis.
The son was charged with breaking,
entering and stealing.
— “Telegraph” (Sydney).
HIS BETTER HALF
“I think that half the wisdom which
comes from the mouth of Mr. Lyons is
put in there by Dame Enid Lyons,”
smilingly remarked Mrs. A. E. Ambrose,
of Melbourne, at the Housewives’ Pro-
gressive Association’s meeting.
“S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
OR EVEN LESS
An Adelaide proposal to regulate swim-
ming costumes for women and girls was
dropped after one delegate remarked,
“A woman will wear what she wants to.”
— “Telegraph” (Sydney).
MODEST COMPARISON
Counsel to Mr. Lang: “The Bulletin
placarded this city with pictures of you?”
Mr. Lang in reply: “They crucified
One on the same grounds.”
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
IS THAT YOU, AGGIE?
The sight of a slightly hysterical female
smiling, mouthing and tossing her head
back with bared teeth in a glass box is
not a pretty sight.— “ Dominion” (M.L.).
THE COLD ELBOW
Mr. Dunningham did not merit that
insult nor the humiliation at the saluting
base. His stewardship has been worth-
while, if only for one thing . . . the
manner in which he stepped into the
Empire Games Village mess. He did
everything possible to clear up the appal-
ling jumble and dissatisfaction at the
“village.”
The big Canadian team.... were in
open revolt against the Games authorities
when Mr. Dunningham stepped in and in
fifteen minutes had everything straight-
ened out.
His reward !
He has to sup with the common-ohs.
And then gets elbowed off the saluting
base. — “Truth” (Sydney).
PEEVED REPTILE
Mr. J. Woolf, of Holdsworthy, was
riding a bicycle in Terminus-street, Liver-
pool, when he ran over the tail of a
5ft. black snake. The snake rose up and
bit Woolf on the hand.
"S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
EFFECT OF UNIFORMS
To place men in uniform, and expect
them not to drink and swear, is out of
the question.
—Letter in “Advertiser ” (Adelaide).
A MYSTERY DEEPENS
A high Soviet official told the “Daily
Herald” that there was no doiibt that M.
Butenko, secretary of the Soviet Legation
there, who is missing, had been mur-
dered. “We have information,” he said,
“that the Germans organised the affair,
and that the Rumanian Fascists carried it
out, for the purpose of creating a difficult
situation between Soviet Russia and
Rumania.”
The mystery has been deepened by the
discovery that supposed bloodstains on a
staircase at his flat are red ink.
—Cable in “Age" (Melbourne).
SHOCKING THE PUMPKINS
“I would rather see young people who
are decently dressed dancing on Sunday
than young farmers ploughing in only a
scanty pair of shorts,” said Councillor
W. H. Ziegenfusz at the meeting of the
Cleveland Shire Council.
— “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane).
A BIT EACH WAY
A peculiarity in regard to Richards’s
fights is that he has shone best against
men heavier than himself. Against
lighter and faster-moving rivals his
utmost fighting powers are brought into
force. It is then that the real Richards
is seen. — “Truth” (Sydney).
ZOLAESQUE
We accuse the “Daily News” of an
act which is a disgrace to a profession
with the highest traditions of honesty
and decency.— “ Sunday Times" (W.A.).
HE AND SHE BOUNDERS
“A man who wears trunks in the street
among women and children is a cad or a
bounder.” So said the Mayor of Manly.
“The same applies to underclad women,”
Mr. Nolan added. “Recently I saw two
women on the beach in trunk-and-
brassiere costumes. They looked dread-
ful. I do not object to men wearing
trunks on the beach. I wear them
myself. But in the street they are offen-
sive.” — “Telegraph” (Sydney).
MENACE OF SLINKERS
The “Slinkers” were again in evidence
on the train to Warwick Farm.
What are “Slinkers”? They are
males and females who ride first-class
from Central as far as Strathfield on
second-class tickets. Then, when the
ticket examiners board the train at
Strathfield, these males and females slink
along to the second-class carriages.
Letter in “Truth" (Sydney).
COY HILL NANNY
Hartford (U.S.A.). —Handsome John
Lorenick, 22-year-old farmer, was jilted
at the church door by his 70-year-old
fiancee, Henrietta Pieper.
— “Telegraph" (Sydney).
Hobart's Regatta Centenary
THIS month Hobart has special cele-
brations of its own—commemorat-
ing the centenary of its regatta with
three days’ sailirig.
Hobart was for very many years home
port for whaling ships, and in the off-
season the mouth of the Derwent was, as
it were, jambed with whalers. As late
as 1868 there were 395 men employed in
whaling, and the oil exported that year
was worth £52,546.
The earliest fully-rigged vessel built
on the Derwent took the water in Feb-
ruary, 1813, and was named Campbell-
'Macquarie in honor of the Governor-
General and his wife, Macquarie having
visited Hobart Town two years earlier.
In the 33 years to 1872, 419 ships, with
an average of 54 tons each, were built in
Tasmania, and at one time Hobart ship-
yards could claim a greater output than
the Clyde.
With the miles of blue-watered sailing
grounds, well-sheltered and with safe
anchorages handy at the entrance to the
Derwent, interest in yachting has per-
sisted ; and A Hundred Years of Yacht-
ing, a history of the regatta which the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau helped to
get out, is in many respects a history of
Tasmania.
During the Governorship of Colonel
Arthur sailing events were held by naval,
military and civil authorities; “but none
of the common people were invited.”'
There is mention, too, of regattas on the
Derwent in April, 1824, and in January,
1827, but the first indication of regular
yachting races is found in the “Colonial
Times” of November, 1838.
Sir John Franklin, who had been Gov-
ernor then for some two years, was in-
terested in the regatta idea—and so was
the “Colonial Times”:
Public opinion is a good deal excited with
respect to the forthcoming regatta. We are
not, heaven knows, any admirers of our mush-
room aristocracy, nor of their doings; neither
are we predisposed to laud the operations of
our “able and manly” Governor; but we will
always “render unto Caesar the things which are
Caesar’s,” and, acting upon this principle, we
are disposed to give the Regatta Committee
credit, rather than heap upon them ridicule,
for their exertions in getting up this show at
such short notice....
At Pavilion Point [now known as Govern-
ment House Point] every accommodation will
be made for the entertainment and convenience
of the spectators. The tents, booths, etc., will
be arranged as not to obstruct the view of any
person, while the committee will provide good
colonial ale, biscuits and cheese for the public,
free of charge of any sort
We regard the regatta as the commence-
ment of a series of public amusements which
are much needed in the colony... .English-
men are never so happy, nor so contented, as
when enjoying the fun and pleasure of a public
pastime of this description. Individuals are
brought together in amity and joy; the petty
disagreements which exist in any community
find vent for explosion, and men meet together
for the purpose of harmless enjoyment. On this
occasion, however, a wider benefit accrues; the
Governor mixes with his people and shows him-
self a patron of their happiness. Would that
he would always do so.
The regatta took place on December
1, “to commemorate the discovery of
Van Diemen’s Land by Abel Tasman in
1642.” A feature was the Flotilla, a
procession of 60 boats linked together
by a long rope, with the Governor and
his party leading in the Government
barge, followed by the band of the 21st
Regiment in two boats. Franklin twice
“received an ovation.” He had provided
£lOO towards the prize-money.
Among the members of the committee
for that first regatta was J. M. Wilson
as treasurer and director: he afterwards
entered the Tas. Parliament (in 1859)
and was at different times Premier and
Chief Secretary and President of the Leg.
Council. George Frankland, secretary,
died of a heart attack two days after
the regatta, “consequent upon the worry
and /hard work entailed. w
The regatta was an annual affair —by
1840 the prize-money amounted to £264
—with races for yachts and whaleboats,
and, from 1848, for barges, till 1852.
Then the colony was so taken up with
exporting produce to Victoria, where
gold had been discovered, that there was
no time for merrymaking. In 1853
general exports reached their. highest
level, and in that year it was announced
that no more convicts would be sent out,
so the regatta was overlooked again in
the general excitement. Next year it was
back again, and in 1856 some effort was
made to catch up by holding two regattas
at Hobart.
In October, 1859, the Tasmanian
Yacht Club was formed, and in January,
’6O, the regatta sported a “Tasmanian
Grand Yacht Club Race” for a purse of
60 sovereigns. The Sydney (N.S.W.)
Yacht Squadron—now Sydney Royal—
did not come into being till 1863, and the
Prince Alfred Yacht Club, of Sydney,
not till four years later, so the Tasmanian
body, had it continued, might have
claimed to be the oldest yacht club in
Australia. But with a notice of the
annual meeting in October, ’6O, the club
disappeared from the records.
In the ’sixties W. L. Dobson, the first
Tasmanian-born Chief Justice, joined
J. M. Wilson as a regatta committeeman.
The regatta did itself proud in 1868
for the entertainment of the Duke of
Edinburgh. The visitor was taken to the
ground in procession, and at the grand-
stand was presented to “King Billy”
in gold-braided uniform —and Queen
Trucaninni, the last of the Tasmanian
aboriginals. At night there were a torch-
light procession of boats and plenty of
fireworks. All went well, except that a
lady’s dress was set alight by a squib.
A gentleman received the plaudits of
the press for having “gallantly put her
out.”
The 1884 event was notable for two
things—-the Intercolonial Yacht Race
and a wrangle about a fence which had
been put round the regatta ground. First
prize for the yacht race was £lOO, and
£l7O was offered in all. Eight boats
had been nominated four from
Hobart, three from Launceston and one,
Assegai, from Victoria ; though one of
the Hobart-owned boats, Surprise, had
been brought from Sydney specially for
the race. The day before the race a
gale swept the port and many boats were
damaged. Assegai didn’t start. The race
went to the Launceston Tasma.
There had been deputations to the
Minister of Lands protesting about “the
alienation of the People’s Park.” On the
day of the regatta the fence was pushed
over by the crowd, and next morning the
fines imposed in the police court were
“collected before 9 o’clock, all classes of
the community contributing liberally.”
In 1898 arrived the first Ocean Race,
from Hobart round Bruny Island —100
miles —claimed to be the longest yacht
race in Australia. It was held each year
till 1916, and again from 1926 to 1933,
and was revived in 1936. It has always
been interesting to yachtsmen. In 1911
Walter Marks, who was to become
M.H.R. for Wentworth, sailed Culwulla
111. down from Sydney specially for the
Ocean Race. He won in a light wind.
Probably the greatest attractions at
Hobart Regatta, and at any Tasmanian
regatta, are the races for trading ketches
—double-enders with whaleboat sterns,
beautiful sea boats. Some have figured
at Hobart Regatta for over 80 years ; for
example, Huon Chief, 6lift, long with
17ft. beam and 4.lft. depth in the hold.
She was built on the Huon / River in
1849, and is all Huon pine except for
the stem and keel. Almost as old are
Mary Ann and May Queen. There are
few finer sights than that of these trading
ketches taking the wind.


~Jhis masterpiece is (Perfection
J the spirit he always senes.
i) i
5$
*/v
A
V
diVh
M
»«*■■ --
it?
kS3I
»««
«
JVa/ne
■r
JS
\vt
WwlWimuiwmim ».nt''nniw»mmiiWrti«i>i>Mi)ii rtHwTW>U(a»«~»»t*‘<i*«Bm» ||| i »*itit*wmnr:i>U»»MtiUUfUm>«*
(Tf) c GxUum‘s
us(e
(IFCollums
Scots Ciihisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fds
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c '‘’he Bulletin every
week for one year so tnat I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
•e
\G
1P
CP
0
ov
<0
*
*
<£< . N""
\y^$
*
e *
K
<* e
!^fe>
0
&
0°
e
,1 S C ,c,e<^
v' e
Jvtv*
..** iW
..** a *
’ , <^ e C
o vl ' \° 'V^V*'
v?
VA'


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’s Weekly EXTRA
through practical training in spare-time home study
i-u-LD;
0 . M , 0
Mlh U| IfcV.
YOU
can quickly qualify by prac-
tical correspondence training
in your spare hours for a well-paid position
in Diesel engineering—the coming profession
for trained engineers with specialised technical
knowledge. Never were opportunities so
great as in this relatively new and uncrowded
field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing
rapidly to this cheaper and more efficient
form of power. The demand for the skilled,
trained man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big,
well-paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more —if you want to get ahead of the
next man —to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 700 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 700
students in all parts of Australia, New Zea-
land, Federated and Mandated Territories,
New Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This
vividly illustrates the fact that our course of
training is well and favorably known and our
practical service to all of our students has
shown successful results.
FUfiL INJECTION NOlUe
CRANK CASS
TcAVtNff/NC
re at
CT'C *
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
after years of research, have prepared a com-
prehensive course for the beginner in the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of Diesel
engines. The lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc) ;
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants
for factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of the Advanced Course should,
upon its successful completion, he possessed of
all the necessary technical knowledge required
of a competent DIESEL engineer, and, in
recognition of the fact, is awarded the Diploma
of the College.
FREE BOOK
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or Ad-
vanced) . Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal of the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember, it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid
job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now
to-day.
Note. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
DEPT. 14, 255. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
