

SAVE MONEY with
the THREE -in-ONE money-saving remedy for
df
FOR ALL
CHEST AILMENTS
Take HEENZO internally.
d
CATARRH
CROUP, BRONCHITIS and ’FLU
fdf
df
d
fd
CATARRH
also COLDS in HEAD
Put a few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning.
mm
«
SORE THROATS
Use made-up HEENZO as
a gargle for instant relief .
You save lots of money by simply
adding a 2/- bottle of concentrated
Heenzo (obtainable at all chemists
and stores) to sweetened water, thus
making a large family supply equal
in quantity up to £l*s worth of the
best ready-made-up remedies for
chest, nose and throat ailments. It is
important to remember that Heenzo does not contain any poisons, therefore is
equally good for young and old as an internal remedy for coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis and influenza. For immediate relief from catarrh and colds in the
head, exhaustive tests have proved that there is nothing in the world better than
just a few drops of made-up Heenzo in each nostril, night and morning, whilst
for the treatment of sore throats made-up Heenzo used as a gargle is unsurpassed.
nEENZOi
should be used in every home and office
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3043.
Wednesday, June 8, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
TALES FROM NEW PAPUA.
Moresby is as full of yarns as a camel is of guile.
You can’t even buy a pound of tea there without
hearing the words: “I remember up on the Fly in
ought-seven”
Even the Lieutenant-Governor, Hubert Murray,
spins tales, and a good job, too. His annual report is
about the only readable one issued in all the Austra-
lasias. There is no telling what you will dredge up
when you fish in Murray’s pages.
Here is a cannibal chief weeping bitterly for his
sins. Here are the Kukukuku, whose name sounds
altogether too good to be true, displaying a wisdom
in matrimony hardly to be expected of an almost-
naked mountain people. They acquire their wives very
young in round assortment and give them a thorough
preliminary training before allowing them to enter
upon their duties ; a commonsense precaution equally
necessary for the welfare of the wife as the husband
in a land where divorce is apt to be accomplished
with a lethal weapon.
One truthful Kiwai even had a thoroughly cir-
cumstantial yarn that he had been in a tailed village
up on the Fly, where every floor was perforated so
that the owners might dangle their appendages. Once,
said the dusky Munchausen, he crept under the house
and tied a knot in each pendant tail. Then he raised
an alarm and with it the population. The knots
refused to pass through the holes, but the joker decided
that it was a joke to play only once.
Several years ago a number of inland Papuans
came to the coast on a visit. Their friends on the
coast took them boating. A few canoes turned over.
Some of the hosts and 18 inlanders were drowned. A
month later (in May, 1930) another 500 inlanders
came on a visit. Catch them let a lot of mangrove
suckers drown their tourists! They began cheerfully
to tear up coastal gardens and kill off so much of
the seaside population as they could lay hands on.
Escaping victims rushed in a huddle to the local
Patrol Officer’s headquarters. He was away, but
Sergeant Gaiberi was on the spot with four constables.
He hurriedly armed them and marched them out,
drove as many of the 500 who could get away to the
hills, and arrested 93. Says Murray:
I could never get him to understand that he had
done anything out of the way.
Gaiberi was given the King’s Police Medal —the
highest distinction ever granted a Papuan. Last year
he went to his death. It was raining. Guests turned
up at his station. There was no tobacco. Gaiberi
went to the store to buy some.
“It is not right,” he said, “that the guests should
be allowed to go without a present.”
The guests received their tobacco. Gaiberi caught
pneumonia and died. Gaiberi was buried with his
whistle and his Digger hat. The weeping natives built
a shelter over his grave and underneath it placed his
cricket bat, his shoes, pipe, tobacco and matches.
They built a fire handy to keep his spirit warm in
the bitter rain.
Things are not always so easily managed. Round
Abau, the inland tribes are “an inveterate lot of
criminals, their specialty being murder.” There has
been some improvement, but the ladies are the obstacle
to reform. Any prospective husband has Buckley’s
hope of getting engaged unless he turns up with an
affidavit that he has killed his man and brings along
a finger of the deceased to prove it. The coy flapper
accepts the finger, smoke-dries it and hangs it round
her neck as an engagement token.
What can you expect in a country in which the
Viceroy solemnly remarks that “natives are not
infrequently done to death by a maddened listener
because they talk too much,” and that “I have always
regarded this line of defence with much sympathy”?
Even shark tragedies up there have their peculiar
twist. A man of Rigo was taken. His wounds were
too horrible to describe. He was dying rapidly. The
A.R.M. describes his passing:
About 15 minutes before he passed away he called
to me as I was standing near by and told me that he
had no money to pay his income tax, and it was while
looking for this that he was attacked. I told him not to
worry about it just now but to relax. He smiled and
closed his eyes. He did not open them again.
Lastly there are two reported cases which show
that the native is not only becoming civilised but is a
gentleman. A move was made to rent a 120-acre island
off Moresby for a hospital. The native owners asked
whether the hospital was to be built out of ordinary
revenue or native taxation. They were told normal
revenue. Then they offered a free lease of the property
for 50 years.
But a better instance than this marked the death
of Mrs. Irwin, of Mugubu, whom all the local natives
knew and respected. On the night she lay dying in
June, 1937, her husband found a large crowd outside
the house. They were “horribly still and quiet.” They
asked if they could see the dying woman. That was
not possible. Next morning when she was dead they
were still there in hundreds. The head men of the
district insisted on carrying the coffin. There was a
procession of Brown Brothers, each leaving a gift
at the grave. One gave his new blanket.
These are not adventure stories. They were
written by a dozen hands among the JLMs. and
Deputy R.Ms. in the files of Government departments,
edited by their superior officer, and convey the
impression that in Papua white and brown are all
boys together, with a common objective and mutual
sympathy. The native is allowed to make his own
life and is encouraged to show initiative, so long as
he shows it in the right direction.
The bad native crops up occasionally. If his
badness is confined to his own people he is brought
in, tactfully shown the power behind the Murray
hand and told to behave.
A great proportion of Murray’s officers are heroes
among their subjects. In 1935 the lomas turned up
with £25 in their hands —a considerable sum with
natives —asking to be allowed to buy Middleton, the
local magistrate, so that they could keep him perma-
nently. And this year there is an extract from A.R.M.
Thompson, of Kairuku: —•
One evening after taking the village constables,
councillors and company bosses around for miles of
inspection of their coconuts, noting the names of owners
of dirty lines, and, as I thought, making a general
nuisance of I . was astounded to receive a
deputation at the resthouse, who asked me to continue
at Kairuku for the rest of my life. This strange request
seemed to indicate that they were at last beginning to
be convinced that through being driven to plant and
keep their lines clean this generation is laying up a
heritage for their children It has been very hard
work to get what has been done accomplished, but let
up hope that it will be worth while.
Popularity takes si more embarrassing form some-
times. Middleton encountered a person who “seriously
disrupted the solemnity usually associated with a tax-
collecting patrol.” This person turned up gaily be-
decked with flowers and paint and wearing a splendid
imitation of a European stovepipe hat made of coco-
nut bark with a photograph stuck in the rim. Round
his neck was an aluminium label which said: “Head
Tax, 10s. —Territory of New Guinea.” Bursting into
the awed circle in which the local magnates were hand-
ing over their annual contribution, he shouted: “I
am Judge Murray’s son.”
All of which, and much more included in Mur-
ray’s report, makes Papua sound like a goldmine for
the short-story writer and novelist.
KALOA.
The Communist and the Penguin.
In Letters of Red (Michael Joseph, Ltd.) is not
confined to purely political writings, but all the poems,
plays, stories and articles which comprise it are
directed against Fascism. The book is a typical
example of the fashionable miscegenation of literature
and politics, and an illustration of the paradox that
earnest lovers of freedom are doing exactly what they
rail against—writing always with a biased mind and
with an ideological axe to grind. The real struggle
of art, and of freedom, in democratic countries is
against all political interference, and the writers of
In Letters of Red are as dangerous as their opponents.
Politics intrude so insistently that they mar the
excellence of much of the writing. For instance, there
is a powerful story by John Brownson about an un-
pleasant young man and an educated prostitute who
had been forced into her trade by sudden poverty;
the man took her off the streets, and she loved him
for it; he, jealous of her superiority of birth and
culture, took his revenge by remembering her “fall”
against her. It is a plausible and dramatic situation,
with human, not political, significance. But, quite
arbitrarily, Brownson has made the man a Nazi spy.
So, using himself methods of propaganda as shoddy
as could be employed by the worst members of the
regime he hates, he implies that all Nazis are beasts
of this type, and adds an extra touch of racial hatred
by making the man maltreat an English girl.
Leave out that propaganda, which is artistically
unnecessary and politically unworthy, and that would
be as good a story as “Copy,” by Gwyn Jones, in
Penguin Parade (new stories, poems, and drawings
issued in the Penguin Library series). This story deals
with two bad eggs without making them derive from
either Fascist or Communist poultry. A famous
author and an earnest young lady conduct a love
affair, each pretending to admire the other’s mind and
the other’s work, and both just looking for “copy.”
When the romance ends, the man sends in the story
of it to a magazine, only to have the manuscript
returned to him with a note saying that the girl has
beaten him to it.
Apart from Brownson’s story, the propaganda in
In Letters of Red is as fair as can be expected.
Feuchtwanger pictures Stalin as a man who hates
adulation; admits that there is censorship of litera-
ture in the Soviet, but says that will pass. George
de Fiedorowicz gives an interesting account of the
application of sanctions by the League of Nations
and mentions the entertaining fact that Turkey once
suggested sanctions against Great Britain! Rex
Warner analyses Swift’s stand for liberty. John
Strachey tells why he became a Communist. Jeffery
Marston makes the silly assertion that the British
Government is “perfecting, as unobtrusively as pos-
sible, its preparations” (for Fascism). In support of
the claim he quotes the Public Order Act (political
uniforms), which was passed to quash Mosley’s Black-
shirts! Kingsley Martin repeats the absurd press yarn
that some of the Italians in Spain thought they were
being sent to Abyssinia. Louis Golding writes an anti-
Nazi short story from the Jewish viewpoint.
Two plays are the best things in the book. Frank
Tilsey has “Moore’s Ark” as the last refuge from a
deluge of bombs, and the story has a nicely cynical
twist when Moore, disgusted with the creatures he is
to save (banker, general, politician), prefers to drown.
Herbert Hodge has a bishop, a dictator and a police-
man in a “Cannibal Carnival” on a cannibal island to
make a humorous satire on political methods.
The verse, by schoolmasters Auden, Day Lewis
and Peter Lagger, is immensely improving, with a smell
of carbolic and chalk. Louis Macneice has his ex-
cellent “Bagpipe Music”:
The laird o’ Phelps kept Hogmanay declaring he was
sober, , ,
Counted his feet to prove the fact and found he had
one foot over.
Macneice has a sense of humor to rival that of
John Oldag, whose drawing of “Capricorn” as an
extremely rakish billygoat is funny enough in itself
to make the Penguin book worth buying. Humor
rarely creeps into In Letters of Red. Introducing
some of Siegfried Sassoon’s lumbering post-war satires,
for instance, the editor observes: “For his age, he
has a singular plasticity of mind.” For his age!
Sassoon is 52.
That one statement epitomises the whole book.
It is the work of immature minds, amusing from a
literary viewpoint, dangerous or silly politically. The
Penguin writers, equally young and equally talented,
are wise to leave politics alone. And dealing with
such subjects as farms, mines, offices and human
relationships, they are really more in touch with
political actualities than their learned contemporaries.
Gibbs Crosses the Frontiers.
One thing detracts from Philip Gibbs’s Across
the Frontiers (Michael Joseph; Dymock’s)—he is out
to the dickens in his prophecy on German intentions
regarding Austria. That bit of bad tipping—as it has
been proved by events since the book was written—
tends to shake confidence in his other readings of
the European puzzle, but, this apart, he gives a
generally interesting account of what seem to be fair
and unprejudiced observations, most of them con-
cerned with Germany.
His method of getting down his picture is one
he has employed with some success before this —that
of inlaying the narrative of his own observations with
views expressed by an unnamed lot of others with
whom in restaurants, trains and so forth he falls into
conversation. This permits the parading of conflict-
ing views on all sorts of controversial points, and a
criticism of Gibbs might be that in these matters
he’s too inclined to stand aside and let somebody else
—a fictitious character as far as the reader is con-
cerned —take the responsibility. Even that, however,
is a change from the opinionated findings of the cock-
sure commentators, and a particularly pleasant change
from the loadings of unrelieved partisanship and bias.
Gibbs begins with a rehash of history over the
20 years since British Tommies and German soldiers
“got on famously together” as they sat in company
drinking beer and declaring “It must never happen
again! ” With what the hate propagandists have made
of the world since then, and still go on making of it,
it seems like dipping into a lost age of chivalry to
hear Douglas Haig saying again in these pages, as
he said at the end of the war: “I hope that it will be
a generous peace not touched by the spirit of ven-
geance against a nation whose soldiers have fought
for their Fatherland with the same courage as ours.”
Gibbs is very good in these opening chapters,
and in the next ones in which he studies the “causes
of passion,” among which he includes “a lying press
or false propaganda” manipulating public opinion.
The peoples of democratic nations do not rule them-
selves as much as they are made to believe. Coteries,
groups, wirepullers see to that. They can be hood-
winked into war by a fortnight’s preparation. They
can be stirred to any kind of passion by expert handling.
The press of democracy is only as free as its advertisers,
its proprietors, its political interests, allow it to be. It
is subject to a secret censorship. It has developed a
genius for suppression.
With increasing numbers of others, Gibbs believes
that that constitutes a menace to democracy. He
returns to the subject several times, and it is one on
which, as an old journalist, he can speak with author-
ity. He sees in the press abuse of the privilege of
free speech a considerable handicap both to the estab-
lishing of world peace and to democracy in the stiff-
enough struggle to maintain itself against the com-
petition of the dictator nations.
His chapters on “The Stricken League” are fair
in their way, but by now somewhat hackneyed stuff;
he is at his best when he comes to what is the book’s
main business —the presenting of a fair picture of the
new Germany. It is a sympathetic picture, but by
no means a partisan one. Indeed, speaking from a
recollection of the author’s earlier books on European
affairs, it seems that he has rather modified his favor-
able views on Germany, just as he seems to have
modified his former highly unfavorable views on
France. He is most critical of this new Germany in
regard to its attitude towards religion. On the whole,
however, he finds much more to admire than to con-
demn, especially in the German people themselves,
as distinct from their leaders.
Australian Memories.
Looking Back, by Mrs. R. H. Todd (published
by the author), is a small sheaf of Australian recol-
lections, mainly journalistic and theatrical, dating from
1888. It is interesting for names recalled, scraps of
gossip and some good anecdotes.
She says, for instance, that Ethel Turner edited
the children’s section of the now almost forgotten
“Illustrated Sydney News.” The daily “Echo” ceased to
sound when the Sydney “Morning Herald” reduced its
price from twppence to a penny. Ina Wildman—
“Sappho Smith” of The Bulletin— was the most
brilliant woman journalist of her day and “rather
dreaded by smart society.” Louisa Lawson’s “Dawn”
was the first Australian paper to be edited, printed
and published by women —and it paid its contributors.
Feminist Rose Scott had an inveterate habit of hark-
ing back to her two favorite topics, womanhood
suffrage and the turpitude of men. At a literary
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways.
ESTABLISHED 1823.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
WfT.
m
mmm
mmm
m
'^Cl'
wm
PS
mm
:■
...
m
-rr
wWwßSbtessi:
;';
£24/10/- Dining Room Suite
Figured Walnut Six-piece
Dining Room Suite, com-
prising 5 ft. sideboard
fitted with two roomy
cupboards, three deep
centre drawers, 5 ft. x 3 ft. refectory table, four
standard chairs with hollowed out panel backs.
Regular Price, £24/10/-. Sale Price, £lB/17/6.
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT, £l/17/9. 12
MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 29/9.
£18176
3
1
t:
m
£l3/10/- China Cabinet
Figured Walnut China Cabinet
with bowed ends. 42in. wide
overall. Depth inside, 12in.
A very distinctive piece of
useful furniture. for glass- r
ware and delicate china. Back is lined with an
effective light material. Adjustable plateglass
shelves.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price .... £l3/10/-
Sale Price £7/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 15/-. 6 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF 23/1.
# Furniture—Third Floor. Free delivery city and
suburbs only.
/in/.
Ca I F
SALfc
iillipi m 1» mm
£29/15/- Bedroom Suite
Four-piece Figured
Walnut Bedroom Suite,
comprising 4ft. 6in.
wardrobe, 3ft. 6in.
dressing table, 4ft. 4in.
fd
high lowboy, 4ft. 6in. bedstead to match. Regular
price, suite, £29/15/-. Sale Price, £22/15/-.
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 45/6. 18 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF £l/4/6.
£26/10/- Lounge Suite
The “Somerset” Three-
piece Lounge Suite,
soundly constructed and
excellently sprung, in-
cluding the five loose
cushions. Upholstered in a hard-wearing figured
tapestry and plain filler. Anthony Horderns’
Regular Price, £26/10/-. Saie Price, £l9/19/-.
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT, £2. 18 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF 21/5.
fl9i9
£ll/10/- Breakfast Room or Kitchen Suite
Finished a maple colour. Modern Cabinet with rounded
corners is 4ft. 6in. wide and most conveniently fitted with full
width cupboards at top and bottom, tin-lined bread compart-
ment, three useful drawers. Table 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. with
rounded corners. Four bowed-back saddle-seat chairs.
Regular Price £ll/10/-. Sale Price £lO/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT, 21/-. 9 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 21/9.
flOicy-
’PHONE s M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT. POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant”
By G.B. LANCASTER
illustrations by
A. STUART PETERSON.
I. .
"HOMING among Peregrine’s elegant props to
gentility (fine walnut desk with brass ink-
pot and calf-bound ledgers, fine leather
chair behind it, fine bronze bust of Cicero
on the narrow mantel), Flower thought
with some amusement of his own office,
littered with wooden stools, worn velvet
chairs, gay prints of women on the dirty walls, the
big iron safe in the corner, a tattooed Maori head
holding down an untidy pile of lists and charge-
sheets. His mind ran easily down a dozen greased
grooves.
Peregrine had but the one groove—his own
advancement. No flexibility about Peregrine, who
had probably asked Flower here to buy him off the
council. Not so easy, my proud cock, thought Flower,
leaning his broad shoulders against the wall, since
he had not been offered a chair, thrusting his hands
into the pockets of his old moleskin trousers.
Peregrine, prim in his leather chair behind the
desk, felt the revolt in his fastidious soul rising. The
thing was impossible. Even the man’s thick neck
rising above the unbuttoned collar of his blue shirt
forbade it. Through this agonised week Peregrine had
repeatedly told himself so . . . and found it quite as
impossible to leave the matter there. Caroline had
been so explicit; women were so unaccountable ; the
Lovel honor was at stake. He moved his dry hand
among the sedately-feathered pens laid in a row,
cleared his dry throat.
“I desire to know, Mr. Flower, which member of
my household you are in the habit of visiting during
the evenings when I am from home.”
Long-cultivated instinct controlled Flower’s start,
prompted the oblique answer. “Why not ask the
members of your household, Mr. Lovel?”
“I prefer to ask you.”
“Thank you, sir.”
FLOWER’S quick wits had got their bearings already.
Only one fear could make that lean face so ghastly
within the ring of candle-light. Some man visited
Peregrine Lovel’s wife, and he had been mistaken for
the man. By whom? More here than he could see
yet, but he would find out presently.
“Kindly answer my question, Mr. Flower.”
“I imagine you’ve answered it yourself, haven’t
you?”
Peregrine made a movement, sat back because
he could not trust his legs. Nor his voice either, for
a moment.
“I await your explanation.”
Flower was thinking fast. So the little saint
wasn’t a saint, but just a weak woman like the rest
of ’em? He didn’t blame her. He never blamed
women who had so much to fight. He had even a
mind to save her for her lover if he could do it and
plague Peregrine at the same time.
“I think my explanation is one you should not
have needed, sir. If I have come to see Mrs. Lovel
it could be only to seek her aid. Such a lady is above
suspicion.”
Peregrine felt the drops springing on his fore-
head with relief and fury. Did this low churl pre-
sume to teach him his duty? He said thinly:
“You have done your best to place her under
suspicion. May I ask why you time your visits on
the nights when I am from home?”
Flower began to smile. How easily Peregrine
had dropped into the trap.
“I knew you didn’t like me. You don’t, do you?”
The glare from those narrow eyes confirmed
that.
“I find it difficult to conceive any circumstance
which would move Mrs. Lovel to render aid to you,
sir.”
The little saint should enjoy her lover, though
already Flower felt a strange desolation in that.
There, he had thought, was the one good woman in
a world of shams . . .
“I have a daughter who is a great anxiety to me.
Mrs. Lovel, who helps so many, has been good
enough to help her.”
“Did you take her with you on your visits?”
“Your informant must have told you that.”
Difficult sailing here with so much in the dark.
Flower puzzled over it, came a little nearer the truth.
Some tattling woman had heard voices, built up a
story calculated to inflame Lovel’s easy jealousy. But
why choose him, who was so outside the pale? Had
the little saint done it herself, hoping to throw dust?
It seemed likely. Lord, what clever unscrupulous
devils women are.
Peregrine sat silent. The shock administered by
Caroline had so disintegrated him that it was hard
to get into his mould again. This last week had been
particularly exhausting with the elections. If he had
been less occupied with them he would at once have
seen the impossibility of the story ; of Sally, so dainty,
so delicate-minded, in commerce with this coarse
fellow. He burned with shame at having been so
fooled ; welcomed the consciousness of his own worth,
of Lovel inviolability coming back.
“I accept your explanation,” he said loftily. “It
is probable that you are incapable of realising that
you have behaved with an impertinence and indis-
cretion barely credible. Look after your daughter
yourself in future, Mr. Flower, and remember that
your acquaintance with Mrs. Lovel has ceased.”
“Will you tell her so?”
“That is my affair. Good night.”
Mr. Peregrine Lovel, of Lovel Hall, secure again
upon his pedestal. Flower watched him with sharp
eyes. How easy, how delightful to knock him off it.
But let the play go on. Let young Jermyn Lovel,
who had babbled so much more than he knew to a
man who could put two and two together, carry his
fair-faced saint further down the underground ways.
No women worth saving, but this man whom Flower
so hated was worth wrecking. Let the wrecking
go on.
“Good night, sir,” he said civilly. “Sorry to
have given trouble. We’ll meet again at the council.”
11.
BY skilful expenditure of tact and money Peregrine
shortly manoeuvred his way into the provincial
council on a by-election, and won a Parliamentary
seat without opposition. Parliament, it appeared, was
not such a plum as one had hoped ; for, though repre-
sentative, it was not to be responsible, since Ministers
were appointed by the Crown and therefore not re-
sponsible to anybody in New Zealand. So we’ll do
WHAT WENT BEFORE . . .
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient {“he would have
them all on his shoulders. And he could carry
them, manipulate them, dispose of them to his
will, like God”); easy Sir John, his elder
brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline, “Voluptuous without Indeli-
cacy” ; Peregrine’s fifteen-year-old wife Sally
{“not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency, could
found a family without a woman”); her
younger sister Darien —all of them impover-
ished in England, but ready, under Peregrine,
to found anew aristocracy in anew land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, who
smuggles guns to the Maoris and is “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 comes Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire, to shatter Pere-
grine’s dreams of kingship, to sign the Wai-
tangi Treaty giving the land the Maoris owned
back to the Maoris, making trouble for future
Governors in the signing, and then to sail away
to the south to his new capital at Auckland.
Peregrine follows him with Lovels when the
Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the ship-
yard again, sending John out to establish a
farm.
Hobson is followed by a succession of
Governors {they “fell like leaves ... .and New
Zealand had disposed of three in a short eight
years”). Further south, Wellington, “that up-
start town which had actually set up its own
legislation,” continues to “beget bastard settle-
ments” all over the place. Darien marries a
young officer, Lord Calthorpe, and Jermyn,
writing now for the “Chronicle,” tries to per-
suade Sally from her “virtuous promenade”
with Peregrine.
Nick Flower, continuing to prosper, and
owning now {so rumor said) half Auckland,
beats Peregrine for a seat on the newly-arrived
provincial council. Caroline , thinking out a
new rumor for herself, tells Peregrine that
Sally has Nick Flower for lover. He arranges
to meet the trader.
what we can with the councils, said councillors, tuck-
ing in their shirts and preparing to annex all the local
power possible. .
Linda was to come out at the ball, which, it was
expected, would set the first Parliament steadily on
its feet; and Tiffany, spending the afternoon at Caro-
line’s felt desolately how this collection of females
oppressed her . . . all binding purple sarsenet on five
mustard-color silk rep flounces, each ten yards long,
for Aunt Caroline to present Linda in. “I hope five
will be enough,” said Caroline thoughtfully. For such
an occasion six might have been more respectful, but
there were eleven frills to be done for Linda yet.
The growing rebel in Tiffany rebelled. Was there
nothing for women but sewing and marrying, and
going on sewing? Even mamma was always at it.
Tiffany, trying to hold infinity in the palm of her
hand, was finding all the religions of little assistance
now. It was not on record that Buddha ever had to
sew. Linda (whose waist was still eighteen inches,
though one had hopes of these new jean stays which
were very strong) twittered excitedly through the days,
consulted Tiffany later in the bedroom. Should she
burst on her public dashing and offhand like Diana
Vernon, or tender and drooping like Clarissa . . .
whose woes she wept oceans over?
Tiffany didn’t know. Either would be so funny
in round pink Linda with her china-blue eyes and
fluffy flaxen ringlets like a doll.
“Oh,” said Linda, who was always saying Oh
to keep her mouth small.
Tiffany went home in the condition in which
Caroline’s family usually left her, and sought con-
solation from Roddy. But he had none to give since
(having lately shot up like a maypole) Peregrine had
considered him capable of taking Linda in to next
week’s dinner. Never too young to learn how to
conduct yourself in public, said papa, who had been
so much more genial lately that Tiffany declared he
was going to be ill. “So unnatural. Ido wish 1
could just once see papa’s mind with its clothes off,”
said Tiffany.
Roddy thought that once would be enough. Tiffy,
with her dancing eyes and unruly hair and damask
cheeks, was always indulging in mental saturnalias,
and later he wished he had her beside him at the
dinner, instead of picking up Linda’s gloves and
handkerchief every few minutes while so busy learn-
ing how gentlemen conducted themselves. “Couldn’t
you pin them on or something, Linda?” he asked.
“Oh,” cried Linda, rounding her mouth. “You
shocking quiz!”
IN this May of 1854, with the first Parliament open-
ing on the twenty-seventh, gentlemen were con-
ducting themselves so gaily that even Peregrine’s
austere table became near a riot, with Dr. Logan
Campbell (who had discovered Auckland before it
was Auckland) asserting that with thirty-one thousand
people in the country we could do anything . . . and
would ; and Jermyn wanting to toast England for
cutting New Zealand’s throat by allowing her to man-
age herself at the age of fourteen.
“Huzzah for impending rumpuses,” cried Jermyn,
tossing back the thick hair that Tiffany called his lion’s
mane, tossing off his wine.
“With no roads and over two thousand miles of
coastline in the North Island alone we shall never
manage without steamers,” declared Peregrine
(although conscious of a present disability to design
steamers). “The Blackball Line . . . the White Star
Line bringing cargo from England in the incredibly
short space of two months . . . who are we to with-
stand Providence, although I am convinced that for
many years there will be demand for the very excel-
lent sailing-ships from the yards of the Antipodes.”
Peregrine’s periods usually sounded as though
they should close with an Amen. So Jermyn said it,
looking at Sally.
Caroline, who could never let well enough alone,
regretted that Governor Grey had gone on holiday
at the end of last year, since Lieutenant-Governor
Wynyard, superintendent of Auckland and senior
military officer of the colony, seemed to be govern-
ing even worse ... if possible.
“Holiday, Madam? He ran away, the dog!”
cried Major Henry, turning as scarlet as his waistcoat.
“He dassent face the councils and the Parliament . . .
nor the Taranaki Maoris, neither.”
The Taranaki Maoris were likely to require some
facing presently, having established their own Land
League and built themselves a lordly pleasure house
reinforced with dozens of huge wooden statues with
tongues out and echoing to the Lord only knew what
seditious talk.
“Our Titans will soon tread them down, said
Jermyn, blandly watching the Titans staying them-
selves on roast chicken and sausage-rolls in prepara-
tion for the effort,


“It is to be hoped Governor Wynyard will do
something,” said Caroline, quite haggard with the
struggle to stop Linda from eating. Those jean
stays
“Governor Wynyard, Madam,” retorted Major
Henry, “having absorbed all the principal posts in
the colony, is so continuously employed in writing to
himself in his various capacities that he has no time
for anything else.”
“ ‘Here wells of oily eloquence in soft meanders
lubricate the course they take’ —Cowper,” said Sir
Winston.
“Wynyard's course will soon bring us all to the
gallows,” remarked Corny. “As for that shockin’
wharf in Queen-street, Lovel, it will drown us. I ask
you, as president of the Harbor Board, what the engi-
neers meant by puttin’ up a thing like a broken re-'
doubt designed by maniacs.”
“Probably they didn’t mean anything. Most
people don’t,” said Jermyn and turned the talk to the
Taranaki Maoris, saying:
“I don’t blame them. They are losing both land
and race. One has seen the exact parallel in the
United States among the Indians. But the Maoris
stand together like Highland.clans” . . .
“Look like it, too. Magnificent fellows,” said
Colonel Carey. “If we only understood ’em a bit
better. But we never will.”
There’s one of your interpreters, thought Jermyn
glancing at flushed wide-eyed Roddy. But it seemed
that only the old who have lost their imagination—
or never had it —can manage a country. So he let the
ladies go, and sang to Sally later in the drawing-room,
with Linda (all pink puffs and maiden protests at
being pushed to the piano by Caroline) scrambling
after the right notes and sometimes catching them.
/ arise from dreams of thee
In the first sweet sleep of night . . .
sang Jermyn, getting so much into the arising that
young ladies (whose mammas had almost given him
up, but the young are ever more hopeful) produced
filmy handkerchiefs, feeling how ready they were to
be in the dreams of this shocking rake, Jermyn Lovel.
Sally, thought Jermyn, looked like a rather sad little
nymph caught by a mortal—if one could think of
Peregrine as anything so normal. Do you guess how
often I dream of you, Sally?
“Naughty man,” cried Caroline, tapping him
with a fan sprouting with puce feathers. “You have
moved us all with that mellow voice of yours. I
always think it is as mellow as —as anything. That
will do, Linda. Captain O’Reilly and I are going to
sing a duet.”
Caroline’s loud crashes with the pedal down were
even more discomposing to the company than Linda’s
frantic chases. Gentlemen looked restive, longing
for their pipes. Ladies smiled politely. Young ladies
giggled discreetly together in corners. If this is Society,
thought Roddy, sitting miserably on the edge of his
chair, I don’t wonder Tiffy doesn’t want to grow up.
111.
nEW ZEALAND papers (and it was perhaps the
only subject on which they ever agreed) were
going mad in efforts to express their opinions of
Grey and their dread lest Wynyard—who couldn’t be
expected to know anything about government-
should utterly destroy them. Grey, as every Tom,
Dick and Harry knew, or ought to, had sacrificed
the country’s national advancement for his own, and
then run for it. So now there was no pilot, said
the gentlemen buttoning up their coats, and, damme,
we will pilot it ourselves.
“Governor Wynyard will do well to forget Grey’s
rulings,” said the “Chronicle” acidly. “In case it has
escaped his notice we suggest that it would be well to
give settlers possession of the land they have bought,
instead of taking away what they already hold. Titles
can never be cleared. A man’s word must be the
bond in both races, and, since Grey has overruled that,
who can blame the Maoris for saying: ‘lf a Governor
50 joggles with his own race, what will he do with
ours?’ ”
That was unjust to Grey, protested John, who
had come in for the Parliamentary opening ; to Grey,
who really had tried to arbitrate between angry chiefs
who had sold rich pastures in the early days for an
iron pot or two and chiefs who were now getting
something like the real worth of their land.
pROVIDENCE, it appeared, had no sympathy with
r the first Parliament, which opened under
avalanches of rain ; with wet flags demoralised about
their poles and letting their colors run anywhere ;
with booming guns muffled by the storm, and ladies’
heads muffled by the shawls which persistently blew
over them ; with gentlemen doing Herculean things
with umbrellas, making speeches, making enemies.
There were sergeants-at-arms, maces, a Speaker and
members from the other provinces, who might well
have been denizens of another planet for all Auckland
knew of them, or wanted to know. It was scandalous
that such foreigners should presume to meddle with
New Zealand’s destiny, and Peregrine was not the only
man determined that it must not be allowed.
‘Of all man’s miraculous mistakes this bears
P a mT—Young,” declared Sir Winston, asking
coldly, at sight of a breezy gentleman with a little
beard and a large tie: “Who is this Fitzgerald of
Canterbury?”
, Soon everybody knew. He was not only author
ot 1 he Night Watch, but the most brilliant and argu-
mentative of them all, slashing Peregrine’s carefully-
prepared periods to ribbons, holding the Attorney-
ben™uP to derision on the point of his sharp lance
Ihey’ll agree like a basket of cats,” remarked
Jermyn, seeing members take their places; and in-
deed quarrels soon smoked to high heaven, and the
very air smelt of burning. Each province, so widely
dissimilar in its wants, fought fiercely for all it could
®i, although nervous ladies, inviting these strange
wild Goths to parties, found them so charming that
secretly they doubted the wisdom of their husbands
more than ever. People passing Parliament House
heard such repercussions that they halted in eager ex-
pectation of the collapse of those frail wooden walls,
and the “Southern Cross” cried frantically:
“The long-expected storm has burst, and there is
worse to come.”
It was openly said that Wakefield —the scoundrel
responsible for the New Zealand Company— wrote
all Governor Wynyard’s speeches for him; and there
was no use in Sir John Loveland other fools assert-
ing that if Wakefield hadn’t forced England’s hand
we wouldn’t belong to her now. “Who wants to
belong to England?” cried distracted members, who
couldn’t forget that they were provincial councillors
first, needing special grants for tunnels in Canterbury,
railways in Dunedin, wharves in Wellington, Auck-
land and elsewhere.
When, after locking the doors against interrup-
tion, New Zealand’s first Parliament prorogued itself
in a furious climax of despair, Jermyn wrote for the
“Chronicle”: “In order to constitute a session it is
necessary that one bill should pass in both Houses.
After sitting two and a half months our Parliament
has achieved this. It has produced a bill authorising
the sale of liquor within its own precincts.”
Peregrine was so mortified that he stayed at
home, wnich made life very difficult for his family.
But after some consideration members got under way
again, and, desiring to go home, passed a few bills in
a hurry and decided to leave legislating alone for a
year or two. It had been an embarrassing experi-
ence. Actually, thought these lusty pioneers, so eager
for their own way since they never had been allowed
it” before, this fiasco indicated that if they really
wanted a Parliament they must combine, instead of
engaging solely in shouting each other down.
FTER his first shocked surprise at this revelation,
“ Peregrine accepted it and prepared to trim his
sails. He had learned a good deal that would be
useful later, and (although still rather giddy) he re-
mained lord of his own hearth. So he instructed
Sally to prepare for Roddy such garments as would
be suitable for farm life.
“I am sending you out to your Uncle John to
learn about land and stock, Roddy. Then you shall
go to Canterbury, where I have bought land upon the
Plains, for I intend you to become one of New
Zealand’s greatest sheep kings. There’s a career for
you, my boy,” said Peregrine with the air of confer-
ring a crown.
Sally looked in terror on Roddy springing up
from the window-seat where he had been dreaming.
Always she was afraid for Roddy, living in his own
pure world of beauty, touching the life about him
with fingertips, with the edges of his glances. Now
he was crying like a frightened child:
“Oh, I couldn’t. Oh, please, sir, I don’t . . . I’d
hate it so.”
“I beg your pardon,” said Peregrine, suddenly
tremendous. “Are you presuming to question my
ruling?”
“I—l don’t want to go on a farm,” said Roddy,
feeling sick just to think of the lusty smells of sheep,
of cows, of pigs. With his head up like that he was
near as tall as Mr. Lovel. But, oh, not a fair fight,
thought Sally, flinging herself desperately on the
spears.
‘‘Oh, please, Mr. Lovel, isn’t there anything
else?”
“Are you defying me, Roddy?” asked Peregrine,
not even hearing Sally.
“I loathe sheep,” said Roddy helplessly. Oh,
God, what could he say, with the earth so sliding
away under his feet?
“Go to your room,” said Peregrine coldly, “and
thank God that you have a father with common-
sense, even if you have none. Probably you will
inherit the title. Eventually—through my unwearied
efforts —you will be a very rich man. There is a
future before you which most young men would give
their heads for . . . and you tell me you hate sheep,”
he cried, abandoning dignity for righteous fury. “You
damned empty-headed young imbecile! By the Lord,
111 hammer that nonsense out of you! Go to your
room.”
“Oh, please,” cried Sally, quite reckless for Roddy,
“isn’t there—Jermyn thinks Roddy has genius, per-
haps”—
She could not have said anything which revolted
Peregrine more. Lovels, whatever their faults, had
always been gentlemen.
“Do you wish to drive me mad? My son a long-
haired stroller always in ladies’ pockets? My son?
111 tell John to put him with the working-men in the
whare. That will make a man of him, perhaps,”
declared Peregrine, marching out. What, he felt
almost passionately, was Providence about to afflict
him with such a family? Not an ounce of sense in
the lot of ’em, except Brian, with his quick black
eyes and long clever head. And that oaf Roddy had
to be the head of the Lovels and hold the result of
all Peregrine’s long years of labor in his silly hands.
**IA#HERE the devil are you going, sir?” demanded
™ Peregrine, whose great strides had carried him
fast over the windy hill into Commercial Bay and
bang into Major Henry. Here’s another fool, thought
Peregrine, bitterly aware that the world held far too
many.
The Major (who had had a few at the Empire
tavern) stopped with the puggaree on his tall hat
blowing in the wind, the shawl blowing on his
shoulders. An agitated Major, seemingly going to
pieces in all directions and crying out to Peregrine:
“So your boats are landing smuggled goods all
along the coasts, sir. You should cushion the matter
better. This won’t teach your Punch-and-Judy Par-
liament to respect you.”
“In what harborside brothel did you hear that?”
asked Peregrine, becoming calm in the face of danger.
“I can give you the names of the shipmasters.
You don’t drink enough with anyone to find out any-
thing,” declared Major Henry, proudly conscious that
nobody could accuse him of that lack. “Your friend
Flower has been arranging the matter for you.”
“Come in here,” commanded Peregrine. Flower
was a continual pea in Peregrine’s shoe, thought the
Major, following into the low tavern, where the sanded
floor smelled of tobacco-quids and stale liquor. Pere-
grine ordered brandy in a private room and pro-
duced his notebook. “Now, sir?” he said.
That was exactly Peregrine—disassociating him-
self from murky knowledge, pinning a man down to
facts. But the Major had ’em . . . one or two any-
way. A sailor who didn’t consider he was getting his
share of the loot had talked, and half the shady side
of Auckland was diligently spreading the news.
“Afraid the murder’s out, boy . . . unless you can
get Jermyn to whitewash you in the ‘Chronicle’ ”...
But this, it appeared, was quite the wrong word.
Whatever Peregrine needed—and he did look as
though needing something—it was not whitewashing.
Nor, he implied, would any amount of it save Nick
Flower now.
“Kindly bring the man to my office at once,
Major ... if he is sufficiently sober,” said Peregrine,
always with that thin edge of a sneer. Again, thought
the Major, going away deflated, his Omnipotence car-
ried off the honors. It was pleasant to remember
some of the things they had done to him in the Par-
liament.
IV.
PARDONABLY stimulated by the consciousness
that they had got through their first Parliament
without murder, pioneers began to talk familiarly
of steam. Steam would drive piles for such a wharf
as the various lines of steamers now beginning to call
regularly could visit without turning the air blue with
curses. Steam might, even tear down these abomin-
able spurs jabbing into Auckland harbor in all direc-
tions, to the great detriment of expansion.
Yet stone walls, post-and-rails, and hawthorn
hedges enabled the town to sprawl for over a mile
across the Isthmus, assisted by grass and clover pad-
docks domestic with herds. So Forts Britomart and
Albert became sturdy bones of contention. Being in
the town centre, cried gentlemen, they would assuredly
draw the fire of hungry nations coming to grab this
Pearl of the Ocean, as it was now correct to call New
Zealand, never forgetting to allude to Governors as
the swine.
For ladies there were weightier matters, since a
hardware firm had lately imported from Birmingham
a curious instrument called a chain-stitch sewing-
machine, renting it out to enterprising females who
seldom found their seams come undone if only they
remembered to tie the ends properly. Caroline hired
the machine for. three days, and Sophia won respect
for the first time by never forgetting to tie the ends.
So many ravishing materials now —cashmeres,
merinos, poplins, moires antique, crepes, taffetas in
strong, bright colors —brought by the steamers who
would forget how poor Auckland really was ; and
gentlemen were daily tempted by plush and satin
vests, Berlin smoking-caps, Boswell’s Life of Johnson,
Mr. Dickens, and especially Jane Eyre —not consid-
ered suitable for females, although, unfortunately,
produced by one.
So now Caroline could contrive more gowns for
Linda, taking her to walk in search of a husband
through the Government House gardens when the
band played. Linda, all a bright bubble with excite-
ment, had really weathered her first ball with honor,
and knocked over several very young subalterns with
her giggles and her round eyes and mouth of delight.
Detrimentals, thought Caroline, anxiously warning
them off. Really, the military were all detrimental
until you got as high as majors, who were usually
otherwise disposed of, thought Caroline, being so
voluptuously cordial to majors that several were forced
to hide behind the tree-boles. And here was Major
Henry, who was of no use at all though naturally
charmed with Linda in a set-back blue bonnet and
blue silk brides hanging over flaxen ringlets.
“La, the crowd here to-day makes me feel
auite conspicuous. Let us find a quiet corner,” cried
Caroline, plumping down on a seat in the centre of
the lawn.
“What a charming tune the band plays,” she
added, retrieving the Major as he tried to edge away.
“La Figlia del Regimento,” said Linda, sighing
to feel how painfully she was in love with all the
military. Lieutenant Silk had written her a sonnet
comparing her to a Dresden-china shepherdess—
which proved how upset the poor man was, and if he
didn t shortly ask mamma Linda felt she’d die. “Being
in love is greatest joy in life. I hope I may never
be out of it, she had written a dozen times in her


diary, conscious that though the object might have
to change with the constant changing of regiments,
the sentiment could still remain the same.
“The parent stem supported by its bud,” declared
Sir Winston, who wanted to speak to Major Henry.
“Go away, you naughty man,” said Caroline,
making room for him beside her, since the presence
of a few gentlemen often encouraged the shyer of
their sex. “Who is that dark young man in tweeds
just passing?”
“Aha! Imagination’s airy wing repress when
you speak of him,” said Sir Winston, letting both his
own fly. “That’s Andrew Greer —one of Canterbury’s
richest sheep kings.”
Caroline went almost pale with agitation. Here
was Linda’s husband come just like a bolt from the
blue, she felt; and she plunged into a perfect foam
of while Lieutenant Silk tentatively
approached and (seeing Caroline so occupied) took the
few inches of seat beside Belinda and presently took
also the plump little mittened hand straying under
her shawl.
did you hear that some Canterbury
* v | feller, John Deans by name, has imported a
vehicle with springs? A dog-cart,” cried Sir Winston,
endeavoring to shelve Caroline, who swallowed lies
so fast that it was quite exhausting to supply them.
“\yhat are we about that we can’t make roads fit
for springs?”
“Here’s our Town Council chairman. Ask him,”
said Major Henry, bowing to Sally approaching with
Peregrine.
“Why ain’t our roads fit for springs, sir?” de-
manded Sir Winston, thumping his umbrella. “Why
are they all like Dante’s Inferno, doose take ’em?”
Peregrine found Sir Winston in a tight grey
frock over a very spotted orange satin waistcoat
topped off by a royal-blue tie almost as offensive as
his words. Distantly he requested his friend to remem-
ber that there were already five miles of macadam in
the direction of Newmarket, and that Auckland’s
provincial council had lately paid a subsidy of £5OOO
for a monthly mail-service from Sydney. In the
present state of the country one could not expect
miracles.
Under cover of the noise Lieutenant Silk was
whispering: “You are so lovely, you know. I —l
know I have no money or ... or anything . . . but
you are so lovely. If you could smile on me”
Lieutenant Silk took the few inches
of seat beside Belinda and presently took
also the plump little mittened hand.
“I do,” whispered Linda, doing it as far as her
round button of a mouth allowed.
“Oh, my angel. You are my angel, you know.
D-do you think ... if I might call to-night on your
mamma?”
“To-morrow night. Papa will be home then,”
murmured Linda. Papa, though not much of a buffer,
was better than none.
“Come, my love,” said Caroline, finding the
gentlemen so deeply sunk in the reopening of the
Coromandel goldfields (Bishop Selwyn having gone
down with the Governor and Judge Martin to inter-
view the Maoris) that there were no more grains of
knowledge for her. She favored Lieutenant Silk with
a stony glare, pinched Linda’s arm under her shawl.
“No making eyes at that creature, you minx.”
“Gold! There ain’t enough gold to put in your
eye . . . and the country just about ready to go ber-
serk,” vociferated Sir Winston.
“If you will come down and see the samples in
my office,” said Peregrine, very courteous, “I think
I can convince you to the contrary.” Seven and a
half million pounds’ worth of gold was to come out
of that Thames district in the next fifty years, but
unfortunately Peregrine could not foresee it, any more
than he foresaw what he was doing when he sum-
moned Jermyn to take Sally home . . . “If you will
be good enough . . . important business” . . .
< O it was Fate, opening the starry door into the un-
known, placing Sally’s trembling fingers on Jermyn’s
arm, enfolding them with her warm flowing robes as
they walked in silence back to the silent house. With
Roddy gone Sally had found something alien in the
house, as though it reproached her, like Tiffany’s
accusing eyes, for not standing by her children. But
she had no power. It was only men who had power,
thought Sally, feeling the house quite obliterated by
this strange tight atmosphere which Jermyn had
brought into it. In the pretty dim room of chintzes
and flowers she laid aside bonnet and shawl, pulled
gloves from hands suddenly grown so weak while
Jermyn stood watching in an intense concentration
that seemed drawing her soul out to meet it. She must
break the spell.
“Oh, Jermyn, what can I do for poor Roddy?”
“You can do nothing for him,” said Jermyn.
“You know very well that you can do nothing for
any of them. „ What is done they must do for them-
selves. And you must do for yourself what you can
if you want to save your soul alive. You must take
from me all I can give, now.”
He held her closely now, speaking with a quiet
sense of deep possession as though he knew her
struggles were ended. “I don’t ask you to come away
with me yet. That later. But neither of us is young
now, and we have missed so much. We must not
miss any more. There is such a thing as relative
values, dear. You may feel your duty to Peregrine,
but do you owe me nothing after all these years?”
“Oh, I know .. . I —l do beg your pardon, Jermyn.
But you have my—my very heart” . . . All that she
had, all that was beautiful she had given him so long
ago.
“1 want more than that, Sally.”
“Oh!” she gasped, covering her face, sobbing:
“No, no. Never. Oh, I can’t” . . . But these were not
the words for Jermyn, asking in a strange voice:
“What do you mean? Do you mean that you
want no more than this?”
No more? She could not speak, nodding her
head.
“Listen to me, Sally. Are you sending me away?”
So it meant that? Again she nodded. Then
she couldn’t bear it. “Not f-for eternity. We can
have that.”
The word seemed to touch a spring, explode a
mine in him. He did not rage and stamp as Mr.
Lovel occasionally did. His voice was low and very
steady ; an unending stream of red-hot lava let loose
from his white lips, pouring over her, beating her
down until she sank on a faldstool, her face hidden
in her hands.
So this was woman, said Jermyn. Sucking a man
dry, drawing the best of his life away for years and
years . . . giving nothing in return but words. What
was eternity to him? Sally knew he didn’t believe
in it, and yet she had let him keep on, hoping,
trusting ... A cat with a mouse . . . (finding
Jermyn becoming so zoological, Sally began to sob
softly). A sly purring cat
keeping the mouse for
ever under her velvet
paw, caring nothing for
its bodily and mental
agonies. Cowards, all
women; taking and tak-
ing and never paying . . .
But he’d had enough.
Sally needn’t imagine she
was the only woman a
man could love. There
were as good fish in the
sea
“Oh, don’t!” cried
Sally.
Jermyn snatched hat
and cloak and walked
out. This, he felt, won-
dering what was the mat-
ter with him that he could
think of nothing that had
not been said a million
times, was the last straw.
His brain seemed empty.
He had had no words, no
thoughts but the bald,
foolish words of a child.
A little of his ironic
detachment returned later
when he made on the mar-
gin of the article he was
trying to write the sign which means on a whaler’s
chart: “Drawn irons. Lost whale.” Sally had made
a fool of him. Never while he lived would she have
the chance again. Here Jermyn upset the inkpot and
went to bed.
I.
ELLIN GTON began 1855 with an
1 eart hquake on either side of Cook Strait,
f m m h so that great rocks fell and rifts ran in
[ U w I the brown earth. This being something
Ik that even Wellington had not thought of
before, Jermyn went down in one of
Peregrine’s traders to find that the sea
had courteously presented the little town with quite a
quantity of new land such as Auckland would have
given anything for. Pioneers, being so used to ups
and downs, were much less upset than the Colonial
Office, which (feeling the country becoming far too
lively) dealt with it so rigorously that the papers were
all headlines and Judge Stephens granted an injunc-
tion against the whole British Government.
Tiffany didn’t care what they did. Roddy had
gone to the farm and taken the sun with him. A
very disconsolate Tiffany, snatching all possible
moments from bed-making and sewing and cooking
to sit at Major Henry’s table poring over those ancient
leather volumes which could not quiet the growing
turbulence in her mind, although directing it down
so many and varied paths that even she should have
been satisfied. Major Henry, fee ,;,r >g eWtrieitv ; n
the air, snuffed and patted the wolfhounds and felt
that maiden meditation, even in so pretty a creature
as Tiffany, could go too far. ,
“Take it easy, my girl ”he advised. We Levels
are apt to be too intense. T ,
“I can’t laugh and sing without Roddy. I ? want
to know why people died for their religions, *
dared Tiffany, thrusting back the bronze ringlets
that were always getting astray from nets, looking
with great brown tragic eyes.
“Twaddle, my dear,” said the Major ? comfort-
ably. “Wait till the beaux begin to come.
They had begun long ago, but even to think ot
them in anyone’s presence tied Tiffany’s tongu ®
shyness. Hew Garcia and Tom Hepburn gawky,
speechless, damp about the palms, sentimentally lan-
guishing in corners like other adolescent males. Hemi,
fiery and eloquent in the fern-gully, desperately
marshalling all his begats against her white blood
until the Englishman in him suddenly flung the Maori
to the winds and he swore to become all-white tor
Tihane’s sake. ,
“See, Tihane. I am now clerk in my lather s
office on the wharf. I can read and write the Eng-
lish and do figures”
More than figures met Hemi in that office, where
he found two races of mariner forefathers greeting
him. Gaunt unconquerable toas —the great chiefs of
all time—directing that fearful journey from Tahiti
in open canoes lashed together, conning their way by
stars. Old English sea-dogs, now lambent with
romance, driving their little staggering ships over all
the world’s horizons, fighting, trading, rollicking,
loving, conquering from Pole to Pole.
When Corny sang “Ye Mariners of England,”
as he so often did in the outer office, Hemi couldn’t
bear it.
“ ‘As ye sweep through the deep where the stormy
winds do blow,’ ” bellowed Corny, looking up to see
Hemi in the door. “Want anything, son?” he asked.
But Hemi didn’t know what he wanted. The call,
though imperious, went back much too far for that.
“Get along with your job then, you lazy, young
devil,” said Corny pleasantly. He was proud of Hemi
with his long English face and pale skin, his mighty
muscles. When war came all his piebald brood would
fight for England, and it might be possible to get a
commission for Hemi, thought Corny, ticking off the
heavy, greasy bundles of hides. If they didn’t soon
get a deep-water wharf, lightering expenses would eat
up all the damned profits . . .
FOR Linda, too, there was trouble. Lieutenant
Silk’s overtures had been received with a tornado,
which burst on poor Sir John.
“That creature Silk!” stormed Caroline. “Penni-
less infantry ! Throw him out this moment, Sir John.”
“Oh, come now, Carry! The fellow’s a gentle-
man” —
“This moment. Or I’ll do it myself. Rag-tag riff-
raff. No better than a bobtail cat. Hold your tongue,
Miss,” cried Caroline, boxing Linda’s ears as she
knelt with sky-blue flowing skirts and sky-blue flow-
ing eyes imploring each parent in turn.
“Oh, papa,” went Linda, hoping against hope.
“Dang it, Carry ... I thought you were so
anxious for husbands” . . .
“Of all the vulgarity! Really, I’m ashamed of
you.” Caroline was frantic at the bare notion of
Mr. Andrew Greer being nipped in the bud like this.
“Are you going, or must I meet the miscreant
myself?” she demanded.
“Oh, very well. Very well,” said John, button-
ing up his coat. Everything has a worse side. Silk,
meeting Caroline towering in a cap bristling with
scarlet velvet bows, would soon have found that out.
“Now, go to bed and stop that blubbing, Linda,”
said Caroline, sitting down to write a cordial note to
Mr. Andrew Greer. “Just a small kettledrum to-
morrow night ... so charmed to see you” A shy,
young man, this Greer ; but quite the English gentle-
man, bowing from the waist, and owner (declared Sir
Winston) of over a million sheep. It is well that I
have the wit to look after my daughters, thought Caro-
line, stamping the Lovel crest on a big blob of purple
wax.
11.
ERMYN heard with no more than a flicker of
interest that Darien was coming back. Wine,
women, cards (and he was trying them all) were
only flickers of varying interest, like marsh-fires in
the night. This love that turned to lust, this prayer
that darkened to curses, these gods that presently
wagged a goatish scut . . . where in all that leering
mad phantasmagoria was the answer to the riddle of
life? So he dipped his pen in anew gall and went
wandering again, while Sally endured blank days and
shopped with Tiffany in Commercial Bay, buying tall
hard cones of the precious white sugar which had
to be broken up with axes, and chines of sawdust-
cured bacon for Mr. Lovel’s breakfasts.
Would she ever find her way back to the heart
of her tall woman-child, so shut in on herself since
Roddy went away? I did try, darling, she wanted to
whisper. But wives must uphold their husbands, and
Tiffany couldn’t hear, stepping so straight and free
in her spread skirts and pantalettes.
TIE town, so full of top-hats, Paisley shawls,
smocks, blue reefer coats and bullock-drays, had
little for Tiffany, but it had a good deal for Nick
Flower, who had heard of Peregrine’s inquiries re-
garding the gun-running among his captains and had
returned to examine possible leaks. He saw Sally
walking with her daughter, and looked after them
with a grim smile. There went a clever woman who
for a time had tricked even him. Was her passage
still fair down her underground ways?
He turned bruotly into a tavern dusky and foul
with smoke, with fumes of drink and men, with dregs


of beer, dark stains of ejected quids on the sanded
floor, and thrust through the crowd to a corner,
where he sat waiting for his tools to come to him.
Sheepishly they came, putting the rum-noggin
from their fists, the girl from their knee, answering
his questions. Surely old Barney had talked. He
allers did when liquored, and Lovels had put him
through the mill proper. But he took it all back when
sober, and the captains had stood together.
“You’ve got us in too deep for anythin’ else, sir,”
they said, more admiring than complaining. No harm
in smuggling, with the Guv’ner eggin’ on the Maoris
to break their word and the papers eggin’ on the
country to defy the Guv’nor. Puzzled by the con-
fused ethics of this new land trying so desperately to
reconcile matters that wouldn’t and couldn’t be recon-
ciled, sailor-men thought it wiser just to trust in
Flower.
Other taverns Flower visited, inviting the com-
plaints of immigrants crying for land. Young, brawny
men for the most part, with the hard red of the Eng-
lish weather still in their faces, the soft blue of Eng-
lish skies in their bewildered, resentful eyes.
“Brungin’s us out ’ere . . . stuffed wi’ lying
promises ... an’ wunna latten us tu the land we
bought. Na-ay, that’s no way tu trate a mon,” said
a burly north-countryman with an infant family living
in tents.
You shouldn’t have bought from the syndicates.
They have no Government authority. Sharks, all of
them,” said Flower. But that was no help. He ex-
plained the Waitangi Treaty—that deadly Magna
Charta of the Maori. “It was made in all good faith
... to stop whites from exploiting ignorant savages.
No one foresaw that we couldn’t disentangle the land-
titles without the chiefs, and now that we have de-
stroyed their mana they can’t—and won’t —help us.
You re in a cleft stick, my man . . . like everyone
else.”
“Then guv the chiefs back their mana. They kin
make laws. 1 ’eard tell they made a law agin lettin’
drink hinter the country.”
“You’d like that law, wouldn’t you?” Flower
looked at the flushed little cockney with his hair stand-
ing up like dried stubble—all the stubble he’d have
the chance to handle out here. Where was the use of
talking? And there were the women hanging round
the necks of their despairing men, crying: “Look
ere, cully, you gotter do somethin’. We ain’t left the
Old Country to clem out ’ere. We come fur a ’ome
an’ nippers of our own.”
In the South Island” began Flower. But
they couldn’t get there except by the roundabout and
expensive way of distant Sydney, and already they
were penniless. A pretty mess all round.
111.
SINCE military advancement was still by purchase,
Lord Calthorpe never expected to rise above a
captaincy. But departing relatives sometimes show
unwarranted belief that those left behind may yet
shed glory on an ancient name and mention such
belief in their wills. So one bequest had made Cal-
thorpe a major, and another would rent and furnish
a house when they needed it, said Darien. She was
showing such unexpected shrewdness in money matters
that Calthorpe didn’t fear the return to the neighbor-
hood of Nick Flower and his lOUs.
“My lady holds the purse,” he would say, turn-
ing Flower over to Darien. And then there’d be no
more talk of exposure or he was a Dutchman. Darien
knew her mind and Calthorpe’s, too, egad, thought
Calthorpe, sometimes very irate with Darien for pok-
ing her nose in. But when the witch came sitting on
his knee, curling his hair into ringlets and tying it up
with her ribbons, he’d give her his head if she wanted it
which she didn t, her own being such a doosed sight
better.
“Damn it, I won’t have you makin’ a fool of me
you hussy,” he protested.
“I couldn t,” said Darien, feeling quite truthful
for once. But Calthorpe was so easily managed. And
Hobart and Sydney (so gay) were easily managed,
too. Now she was back to manage Auckland. A
charming little house in Official Bay was ready for
Calthorpe almost before he had finished hearing the
news up at the barracks.
Same old game,” they told him at the bar-
racks, sitting moodily over their wine. Still diddling
and daddling about after the Maoris, who had grown
even more truculent since Gore Browne had
replaced Wynyard. A regular procession of Gov-
ernors, like geese flying away for the winter, and
em a P le to sta y the course, complained
O Reilly, very bitter at missing the Crimea. And the
rum nowadays would burn a hole in your waistcoat.
But there was this new whisky, and the Auckland
Hotel had one bar in Queen-street and another in
High, sq if Calthorpe would come along O’Reilly
would introduce him.
CALTHORPE went, praying that he wouldn’t meet
Nick Flower before Darien did. Nor did he, since
Flower was already in her drawing-room, waiting for
her. A bit hugger-mugger, the drawing-room, as one
would expect with Darien ; and as different from Mrs.
Lovel s clear sweet chintzes and water-colors and slim
flowers in crystal vases as brilliant cushions and hang-
ings, a huge oil-painting of Darien over the mantel,
brass pots catching the sun, and endless other things
catching the eye could make it.
What wouldn’t this determined bower-bird col-
lect for her nest, thought Flower, wondering if he,
too, was to be collected by a radiant Darien running
in with a dip and swing of the new fashionable crino-
line which made women look like inverted wine-
glasses. But no amount of inverting was likely to
lessen Darien’s heady wine, and Nick Flower and his
hold over that fool Calthorpe had to be attended to
without delay.
She had her opening greeting all ready, but it
never came out. Instead, she stopped with a shock
of bewilderment. He wasn’t Sir John, but he looked
. . . moved . . . “You’re a Lovel!” she shrieked at him.
“You are! Don’t tell me you’re not. It’s sticking
out all over you.”
Flower told her nothing, looking at her with his
half-closed keen eyes.
“Good Lord!” said Darien, plumping into a
chair and fanning herself. “Let me get my breath.
You ve been a Lovel all the time and I never knew.”
What opportunities have I wasted, she thought, diving
wildly back into the past. But there must be plenty
left. y
“You have Sir John’s way of moving and your
hair grows back from your forehead like Jermyn’s,”
she said, dissecting him while under the tight saffron
bodice with its lace fichu her heart was galloping.
How much was this going to mean? “Why didn’t I
see it before?” she lamented.
No one has seen it before,” said Flower, not
knowing if he were pleased or not. Denial was use-
less with Darien, who’d swear that water ran back-
ward if she chose.
1 suppose old Sir Roderick didn’t marry your
mother,” she said, reflecting. “That must be it. You’d
have claimed the relationship if you’d been legiti-
mate. What a pity. You’d have made a much better
baronet than Farmer John.”
“Or Peregrine,” said Flower, sitting down. No
one could come within Darien’s orbit and remain
unstimulated.
“He’s Lord High Muck-a-Muck already. He
don t want another title. I vow I’ve never been so
excited, cried Darien, beginning to see her way now.
“So we’re practically related, ain’t we? I wouldn’t
mind letting you help me out of a hole now.”
Flower threw back his head and laughed as he
hadn t laughed in a long time. Was there anything
this cheerful young pirate couldn’t turn to advantage?
“Did you ever mind?” he asked. “What hole
d ’ you want to be helped out of to-day?” But Darien
knew better than to walk into nets herself. She was
weaving them. A lady goes to her husband when
she’s in a hole, sir.”
“To other people’s husbands, Darien. Don’t pre-
tend to be stupid.”
Are you a husband?” asked Darien, considering
. llm - a P reux chevalier, this, with ladies’ tresses
in his fob. Scalps of men, more likely. A foeman
worthy of any man’s steel, any woman’s sharp needle,
she felt, looking at his hard, amused face.
“Well, Maori women are generally too courteous
to be insistent on it.”
Have you no shame? And all your smuggling
too.
“Lots of fun in smuggling. Eh, Darien?”
How should I know?” He wasn’t going to carry
the war into her country. “You wouldn’t like the
Lovels to know you’re related,” she said.
“They wouldn’t like it,” said Nick Flower with
his harsh laugh.
You wouldn’t either. Rather horrid to have no
name, I should think. I suppose you wouldn’t be
allowed to sign documents and things? Probably
you can’t prove you’ve ever been born.”
PLOWER was silent. In this pettifogging little town,
1 stiff with English tradition and etiquette, who knew
what folk would do? Turn him out of the council
possibly. Certainly out of their houses. Then down
would come baby, cradle and all, just as he was getting
a footing. The sun, edging to the west, came sud-
denly pouring over Darien, making a bright jewel of
her in the midst of her rococo setting. A canary in a
gilt cage hung in the window began to sing . and
the delicate sensuality of ladies’ gear had always made
such a special appeal to the lusty male in Nick Flower.
“Oh, hell,” he said sincerely, “why didn’t you
marry me, Darien? We could have run New Zealand
between us.”
“That would have been nice.” Darien sighed
Very mce it would have been to run New Zealand
Flower, to have money in her purse instead
of bills. ‘I suppose you can’t lend me fifty pounds?”
she asked.
He sprang up with a furious curse that tingled her
ears.
“No, damn you, I won’t. Make what mischief
you like you little devil, but you can’t blackmail me,”
he said, black as thunder.
“I’ve always known that or I would have tried it
long ago,” said Darien simply.
He stood staring down, his frown growing slowly
to a grin. She was so pink-and-white and young and
pretty with her ridiculous spread skirts (of richer
material nowj, her little round waist that he could
span with his two hands. He had an insane desire
to do it.
“No. I won’t lend you fifty pounds,” he said
doggedly.
“Oh, well, I didn’t really expect you would,”
said Darien regretfully. “For of course I could never
pay you back. Men always expect to be paid back,
and women never have anything to pay with.”
He reddened, his eyes taking a suspicious look.
Was she hinting? But Darien never hinted, and what
she said was quite true. Heaven pity women who have
nothing but their virtue to pay their debts with.
“What do you want it for, Darien?” he asked,
comradely, sitting down again . . .
Calthorpe came in presently, somewhat flustered
over greeting Flower, and then going to sit on the
arm of Darien’s chair, taking her hand. For pro-
tection, thought Flower grimly. Darien would pro-
tect Calthorpe just as she’d protect her ox and her
ass and anything else that was hers.
Going away, Flower felt a glow of pleasure that
Darien had claimed relationship ; but turning Cal-
thorpe’s unredeemed notes out of an iron-bound box
that. evening he shook his head. Darien wouldn’t
consider Nick Flower hers to the extent of protect-
ing him.
IV.
OUT at John’s farm Roddy was far from happy ;
for the burden of the valley of vision was heavy
on him, and young lambs with their tails freshly
cut off were not to be borne. While shearing hoggets
Roddy s mind went so often palely loitering after
“La Belle Dame sans Merci” that placid John once
threw the tar-pot at him, rousing a quite shocking
blaze of fury.
Roddy, now nearing seventeen, was. like other
colonial youths of that age, almost a man and ripe
tor love. He did not know it; though Eriti Fleete
did, riding over with Hemi or Hori along tracks
which no white man would face. But to a Maori a
horse is merely the means to get him somewhere in
a hurry, and the Fleete horses always did that.
To-night Jermyn, returned from far rovings, had
brought out to the farm Tiffany and a guitar, and
Roddy s face as he took the gleaming thing tenderly
in his arms rather startled him. Gad, could anyone
be so hungry for music as that? In his own hunger
for a woman, music seemed to Jermyn a slight thing.
“Now I can sing, too. That’s the worst of a
flute, you can’t play it and sing too,” said Roddv.
picking out an accompaniment on the guitar, begin-
ning to hum, leaning against the wall. With the red
firelight on his strong young body and fair skin he
looked like a god, thought Tiffany, who (in common
with the Maoris) was having a deal of trouble with
gods just now.
There were for Tiffany Norse gods and Maori
gods Indian, Chinese and Our Father. I wonder,
which 111 choose in the end, she thought, feeling
luxuriously free to-night, on the bullock-hide
berore the open fireplace in the close-fitting habit
which was so much more comfortable than these hor-
rible new crinolines. She watched Roddy with adoring
eyes. If only she could have him always not even
papa could stop life sparkling and bubbling.
From out his man’s heavy knowledge Jermyn
looked at them pityingly. Tiffany, with the firelight in
ner snooded bronze hair and her big brown warm
eyes, was more than ever the nut-brown maid, step-
ping a little disdainfully, guarding her hot heart. She’d
never be bullied as Sally was, though life and Pere-
grine would do their damnedest . . . In an age when
boys went to sea at ten and managed their own dirks
at fourteen, Roddy seemed quite mature.
Ihis life had lengthened and broadened him consider-
ably, and his heart was beginning to claim him. A
certain passion in the thrum of the strings, the quality
of his voice suggested that.
Still singing, Roddy walked out into the night, as
though summoned by a voice the others could not
hear, and Tiffany got up and followed him, never
looking at the men.
With a strange sense of chill Jermyn felt the
room suddenly desolate. This land belonged to
those young colonials as it could never belong to the
original English settlers, whose youth had been lived
elsewhere, thought Jermyn, asking John how Roddy
was coming on.
John said Roddy wasn’t coming on at all. “He
does what he’s told, but he hardly knows a Hereford
from a Shorthorn. John plunged into a long story
ol how Roddy, told to cut out some steers for the
monthly sale, had gone to the wrong mob. “Don’t
seem to take any interest in animals somehow,” said
John, quite unable to understand it.
“His mental sinews are still unset,” said Jermyn.
But John didn’t understand that either. He’d had to
o Continued on page 50.)


The Winged
Avenger'
Incredible Adveniures
in Paris and the South Seas.
NEVER have love, romance, adventure and
mystery been so tlirillingly and daringly
mingled within the pages of a book as
they are in “The Winged Avenger.”
Erom the moment a world-famous American
aviation expert becomes interested in a very
beautiful young lady in glamorous, glittering
‘Paris to the moment when he unravels the
mystery that has been shrouded in the secrecy
of four tiny, unknown islands in the Pacific
Ocean —a mystery that has defied the Secret
Service Agents of many powerful nations—
the story will grip you with its fascination.
Who is the “Winged Avenger”? What is the
secret that will give its owner the rulership
of the world? Who is the beautiful young
lady? Why does she kidnap the American
expert? These are the questions that will
prevent you from laying down this enthralling
hook until you’ve read every page. “The
Winged Avenger” is the latest work of the
famous American writer, S. Herbert Mapes,
and it is available for a limited period only
from the publishers at the reduced price of
8/6 per copy, post free.
Send for yours now. The supply is limited,
and going fast. Send postal note, money order
or stamps to the Publishers, Box 161788,
G.P.0., Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIONEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don’t run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
society meeting Margaret Windeyer once tartly sug-
gested that an evening be set aside for Miss Scott
to air her views.
Hilda Spong, Maggie Moore, Nellie Stewart, Bland
Holt, Miss Harrie Ireland of the rippling red hair,
Mrs. Maesmore Morris, Nance O’Neil, George Lauri,
Harry Musgrove and the tragic Dacres are among
the swarm of stage identities whose names crop up.
The short-lived Lilian Wheeler, who played Desdemona
to George Rignold’s Othello and, in London, lead
in “The Marriage of Kitty,” was the “loveliest and
sweetest of all Australian actresses.” She died of
pneumonia, alone in a New York hotel.
J. C. Williamson had a short way with tempera-
mental stars. On one occasion the beautiful and
imperious Mrs. Brown-Potter refused to play unless
certain members of the cast agreed to her demands
in the way of costume. J.C.W. was in Melbourne
and his manager wired him for instructions. The
reply came, “Close the theatre.” The lady withdrew
her ultimatum.
They took their melodrama very seriously in the
days that were. When Jack Cosgrove, who played
heavy villain in “The Span of Life,” was leaving the
theatre after a performance he was accosted by an
irate old dame who had waited for the pleasure of
brandishing her brolly under his nose.
In many places the author of Looking Back might
have expanded her memoirs with advantage, but even
as it stands it is full of interest; particularly for
those whose memories will be stirred by the mention
of names, places and times.
Adventure at Sea.
C. S. Forester’s A Ship of the Line (Michael
Joseph ; Dymock’s) is a sequel to The Happy Return
and, unlike most sequels, maintains the vigor and
liveliness of the first book.
Captain Horatio Hornblower, R.N., continues his
adventures by sea against Napoleon’s Frenchmen.
Sent to harry them on the coast of Spain—the Penin-
sular War was in progress—with a crew of landlubbers
far short of the full complement, he held up an East
Indiaman he was convoying and pressed her best sea-
men, an extremely bold action in the days when John
Company was in its prime. Against the wish of his
admiral, he set out alone to break the French line
of communication along the Spanish coast. He took
three valuable prizes, stormed a coast battery and
shelled an army on route march, decimating it; five
actions in three days.
There is one engagement in which Hornblower
attacks four French ships of the line, all superior
to him in guns and size, in a heroic effort to hold
them up until the other ships of his squadron can
arrive to finish them off. He disables three before
his ship is dismasted and reduced to a helpless hulk.
The book ends —in the best serial manner —with Horn-
blower a prisoner to the French, his ship gone, his
crew dead or imprisoned. The way is open for what
looks like the concluding volume.
Hornblower is very human and modern enough
to have an inferiority complex. He fears fear, is
always fussing about his dignity, sets himself an
impossible standard, but is, despite all this, and despite
the other disadvantages—including his name —that the
author heaps upon him,- a very brave, resourceful and
likeable man.
The romantic interest of the book is slight. The
enigmatic Lady Barbara, who stirred Hornblower’s
heart in The Happy Return, is now inconveniently
married to Hornblower’s admiral but continues to
shine in the distance.
Forester’s picture of the service, harsh, hard and
glorious, when pressed men and gaol scourings went
cheering to their death, is highly romantic under a
semblance of realistic treatment. He has—and per-
haps it is true to the period—a happily simple outlook.
England is right and all foreigners poor stuff.
Russian Novel—New Style.
One of the effects of th'e Russian revolution, in
literature, was to write down the individual and write
up the type. Strong individuality and the consequent
tendency to build up a private world with egocentric
values is no longer a desirable attribute in hero or
heroine. Yuri Herman’s Antonina (Routledge ; trans-
lated by Stephen Garry) bows to fashion.
Antonina is a heroine ; so she is not allowed to
commit the sin of being an individual. She is Young
Russia, and is pushed inexorably towards a happy
ending, saved, despite herself, against the bent of the
Russian temperament.
Antonina is obviously a descendant of those
novels of the “great” period that half a century ago
swept the imagination of Western Europe in some-
thing the same way the Russian ballet was to sweep
it just before the war. The surface qualities are there,
all those habits of attack and expression that arise
from the peculiar orientation of the Russian mind.
The method of narration is an involved and fascinat-
ing circumlocution. The author has a painstaking
attitude towards time ; he follows his story tenaciously
from minute to minute, day to day. The characters
have that contrariness peculiar to the inhabitants of
Russian novels. They are either placid or violent, and
their violence rises steeply out of their placidity for,
apparently, any reason at all. They seem to be always
shouting.
Antonina is the heroine ; there are no heroes,
only Antonina’s husbands. She was left an orphan
at sixteen, without money or friends. In other words,
Young "Russia begins at scratch. After selling her few
sticks of furniture and all her superfluous clothes
Antonina found a job with a hairdresser, only to be
cruelly exploited. Want and nervous strain made her
ill, and she lost even this uncertain support. In her
need Lenka Skvortsov, a sailor, befriended her, and
she married him. Her husband’s brutality made her
married life unhappy, and it was a relief to her when
he was sent to prison for smuggling and was finally
killed in. an accident.
Her second excursion into marriage was also
moved by gratitude. Paul Pavlich Sviryatik was a
very different man, but again Antonina was unhappy.
Running away, Antonina at last found peace and
happiness running a child welfare centre. As a bonus
for good (social) behavior she found true love, marry-
ing for her third Alexei Altus, a G.P.U. man.
This is a long book, and it does not improve as
it goes along. The last quarter, in which the author’s
social conscience is functioning strongly, is very
unconvincing.
Wolf-children.
True stories of wolf-children, like Kipling’s
fictional Mowgli, form the most interesting part of
Jungle Trails in Northern India, by Sir John Hewett
(Methuen). A genuine case he investigated:
Three wolves came out first, one by one, from their
den, closely followed by two cubs. Instantly one human
head covered with bushy hair, with a ghastly look about
it, appeared from the tunnel, closely followed by another
human child. They crawled on all fours.
These two, both girls, were captured by a native
clergyman. One died. The other, eating and drinking
from a bowl on the floor like a dog, howling in an
inhuman, terrifying sort of voice, never weeping or
smiling, but looking moderately cheerful, learned to
speak some 30 to 40 human words before she too
died.
Sir John makes sure that he is not mistaken for
a wolf-child in the first paragraph:—•
It was my good fortune on arriving in India 60
years ago to be posted to such a desirable district as
Agra. The ciyil service there contained almost as many
members educated at Haileybury as it did Competition
Wallahs.
On page six, however, he flushes a great Indian
bustard (possibly it didn’t like the look of the old
Haileybury tie), and thereafter he becomes less remote.
Of snakes: He travelled by dak gari (pushbike?)
over a flooded road and found the trees on each
side literally festooned with them. And then there
was the bhisti (wretched man) who sat on a tree above
the floods for 48 hours with a snake coiled round him.
Of elephants: So deep and genuine was the
attachment between the male Chand Murat and the
female Lachminiya that when Chand Murat died the
other refused to eat, and died herself of grief six days
later.
Of tigahs: Yarn after interesting yarn of hunt-
ing maneaters, with this story, by a woman, as
h§ When I fired again he saw m^ l(^enlvT realised
dashed, roaring, towards my tree. Suddenly 1 realised
the tiger was climbing up to my maehan. rl g
striped face and paws appeared over the edg, and
blood and hot breath came up to me with his roan g.
T nushed the rifle into his mouth, but it would not nre.
We had a regular tussle with the rifle, and, stepping
backwards from him, I fell over the edge of the maehan
to the ground Next thing I was running through giass
and over fallen trees, wondering when the tiger would
jump on me.
All very exciting, by gad, sir!
Murdoch on Victorianism.
Professor Walter Murdoch’s The Victorian Era :
Its Strength and Weakness (Angus and Robertson) is
a welcome addition to the rather thin ranks of literary
and social criticism in Australia. This is particularly
true in the present case, where the author, through
extensive leading, has made the subject his own.
Eighteen hundred and fifty to eighteen hundred and
seventy are the years chosen by Murdoch as those
when mid-Victorianism was at its darkest. It was the
mental condition of the middle-class that gave it its
character —their smugness, their complete satisfaction
with themselves and with “the best of all possible
worlds.” Their attitude grew out of their rapid rise
to wealth, security and comfort on the wave of rapid
industrial expansion. They had the money to gratify
uncultivated taste and therefore committed aesthetic
atrocities. Their ideas of social responsibility were
exemplified in the social comment of their chosen
poet, Tennyson:
Why should not these great Sirs
Give up their parks some dozen times a year
To let the people breathe?
Having made out a case for the prosecution
Murdoch then accepts a brief for the defendant. They
produced great writers. He dips a bucket in their
literature, greater even, he declares, than the Eliza-
bethan. George Eliot, Meredith, Fitz Gerald, Dickens,
Trollope, Matthew Arnold, Kingsley, Patmore, the
Brontes, the Brownings, Swinburne are a few of the
authors whose work he glances at, while Darwin,
Spencer, Carlyle and Mills are mentioned among
those who otherwise helped to shape the present age.
How did those years receive these men and
women? Rather badly, he admits, if they were critical
or unorthodox; yet the fact is that by the end of the
period they were all firmly established. To the age
that produced and—eventually —recognised these men
we owe much that we enjoy to-day.
Neither Murdoch’s theme nor his viewpoint is
entirely new, but his easy style carries the topic from
academic realms to those of general reading.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction ...
Derelict: Joseph T. Shaw (Angus and Robertson).
Desperadoes, the hero and two women —one of whom
is young and beautiful —aboard an abandoned trans-
atlantic liner with bullion in her strongroom.
Dreamlight: F. E. Mills Young (Bodley Head).
She found she had married a man who was too old
for her, but in the end decided that it didn’t matter.
England and France during and after the war.
The Dandy: Laurence W. Meynell (Nicholson
and Watson). Man hunt. A professional murderer
in flight and at bay ; his end —rather unnecessarily—
softened by the devotion of one among the many
women he had seduced.
A Farm on the Veldt; Jane England (Geoffrey
Bles). An endangered inheritance and personal antag-
onisms, leading to a romantic solution. Local color
is interesting.
Gabriel Sounds for Africa; Charman Edwards
(Robert Hale). Murder in the jungle, a negro
“Messiah,” wealthy tourists in the grip of “black
magic,” and a detective who exposes the hocus-pocus.
Spotlight: Clarence Buddington Kelland (Arthur
Barker). Broadway setting. Romance, comedy and
thrills among the offspring of millionaires. Very
light, but* skilfully done.
Prelude in Oviedo: Joseph Peyre (Geoffrey Bles).
Attempted rebellion in Spain in 1934. The story is
patchy but the horrors of civil conflict are convinc-
ingly stressed.


II
K
: v
"fyQ
m
m
j
»
m
p|giijpu
111
ass
s
* MMm
■■BBS
&F :
: ' . •
■ ■ - ' ' ■
v ;\
i
:
:
■ ' ■ •'
Up '■ ’ . .
• .
mm-:m -v -1 • qn
ifiiiii^Wiii
.
-
m
i :.'
\
\
x
ik
: 'l
■
9
,' - %
ms
mtm
W,
• vl-'v
sCi -y
wmamm
*...;
is
■-. y a
i '
li
H
HratPOH*
iiiiiis
mm
■
*
§&#■;
as
/#
:_J
.
' ' ' . , . • ’ V . .
mm
su«
:
,' j ■ 11■
■ :
m
II
SSlfil
mm
■
;.i?
am
as
Ihssk
*i\ " i?*'" - v V
■■■ ' K ■ • v-S- ■ ; ■ •-■■ < ■■■■■■ '■
' V 7'. ■ . 7
. ' • * -*
*
•. v
‘•r-, ■’ i'-j
This weather calls for
a good strong Walker
df
What steps are you taking to escape the colds and chills of the winter?
The brisk stride of Johnnie Walker indicates the steps you should
take. Johnnie Walker “Scotches” the idea of colds and chills. This
famous blend of the finest and purest Scotch whiskies, mellowed and
matured by time, has helped hundreds of thousands of people not
merely to get through the winter, but actually to enjoy it. Whether
it's whisky and soda, or a hot toddy with lemon and sugar— always
ask for Johnnie Walker by name.
JOHNNIE WAhKER
Born 1820 Still Going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.


ROYAL
PURPLE-
PARA
' I
* s
111 ■
Hi
mm
m
H
.
Mil
■■■■
:.l
MU
m
m
I
B
m
mm
m
SB
I
=
Exterior View of Huge Storage Tanks at Seppeltsfield.
j43fyfdmhe<?fwie mellowness andlcuq/uei


A LONG WAY AFTER HERCULES.
“Mr. Casey, who has been struggling with a loan flotation as well as with the numerous critics of his ‘National’ Insurance Bill, described his task as Herculean.”
“I call it rough on a man to cast him for a part like this.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/Iks.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America. 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
AN AGE WITHOUT CHIVALRY.
One or two Australian politicians have been getting
into hot water for saying out loud what the bulk of
politicians think and a good many other people express
at elections—that the gold-pass occupation is no job
for women. It is very unchivalrous of them, but,
then, this is an age in which chivalry is at a discount.
*The upthrust of the weaker sex, its competition in
employment, its consequent independence and its
pressing claims to absolute equality have killed chivalry
stone dead.
And a good thing; too, most people will agree.
. There was a good deal of mushiness about the so-
called Golden Age of Chivalry. It was a device used
by men to keep women in subjection. It was a
system by which men were overlords and women
slaves all along the line. Vale Chivalry; hail the
Brave New World!
It is no doubt no more than a coincidence that
in this Brave New World chivalry has gone out of
other human concerns besides merely the domestic
life of men and women. It has gone most notably
out of a matter in which all, men and women alike,
are much concerned in this present age—the matter
of war. Some might doubt if there ever was any of
the once-prized ingredient present in actual war at
any time. Once Mars had taken the lid off, men
always, as they still do, butchered each other as bar-
barously as weapons permitted. A gallant knight of
old with half a dozen dripping heads strung to his
saddle must have been a grim spectacle. The sacking
and pillage of towns, with the wholesale butchery, and
worse, of women and children and the old and sick,
must have been a savage form of realism. To anyone
who can follow it out step by step the retreat from
Moscow is an experience in the horrible that would
be hard to surpass.
Still, even if the supposed romance of war was a
myth from the beginning, there was a certain chival-
rousness associated with it. Even in the 1914-18 war
—which to most of the men actually taking part in it
plumbed the utter depths of horribleness —there were
touches of chivalry. Men were activated by the
thought that in going forth to fight they were doing
a duty by and shone somewhat in the eyes of their
womenfolk. Nothing gave greater or more lasting
impetus to the Allied side than the shooting of a
woman. Even from the Flanders mud, where the
“romance of war” and the “rules of war” were the
grimmest jests, men could look up and see some signs
of chivalry in the aerial fighting going on above. The
spirit of chivalry was not yet altogether dead.
Since then the advance of women in domestic
and social affairs has gone on apace. Almost every-
where there has been this upthrust of womanhood,
even in such countries as Turkey and Japan. On all
sides in this same period, as the most superficial
observer must admit, there has been a shocking de-
terioration of the human conscience. It would be a
rash man who would contend that these developments
are complementary; but there they are. Anyone who
looks about him must see that chivalrous conduct of
men towards women has gone to pot in these last 20
years.
No doubt it is only a coincidence that in this
same time the conduct of both national and inter-
national affairs has equally gone to the dogs. In
many countries the old barbarous business of race
persecution has come up again. International con-
tracts —treaties —have been torn up one after another.
The League has proved an utter washout, simply
because the world was not equal to rising to its
idealistic heights. Instead, it served chiefly as a spot-
light for showing up the degeneracy of international
conduct.
So far, bad enough ; it is in regard to the future
that the world’s loss of chivalry shows at its worst.
It is something from which there is no escape that in
future war women and children, the old and the sick
are going to be butchered wholesale. Though the
women of our countries have the vote —which, among
other things, puts an enormous power in their hands
to send men to war at a pinch—they have not them-
selves as yet attained to equality in the actual fighting
in war. Even in the countries at present at war that
holds good. The tripe published by Our Glorious
Press about amazon battalions, charging fishwives and
the like is no more than tripe. But the women will
none the less be for it next time Mars takes the lid off.
No purpose is served by our being sentimental
about this. The butchery of non-combatants in China
and Spain must be revolting to anybody with the
faintest trace of humanity left in him, but it is the most
natural condition of war in a world out of which
chivalry has gone. If war on a scale that would in-
volve the British Empire comes again the wholesale
butchery of civilian populations will be an outstand-
ing feature of it. The very nature of Britain’s present
enormous defence programme admits as much. The
matter over which Mr. Chamberlain had recently to
make changes in his Cabinet was the outcry over
Britain’s deficiency in the air. The cry in Britain is
for parity, and better than parity, with other countries
in bombers. The fear in Britain is of attack by
bombers. It is bombers that bulk largest in the air
forces of the world.
The writing is on the wall, and there is no sign
anywhere that anything can be done about it. What
is happening in China and Spain to-day is no more
than a mild foretaste of that war which our hate-
gospellers, boycotters and silly crusaders invite us to
get going. There would then, it is quite certain, be
butchery of women and children and civilians gener-
ally on a fearful scale. If it comes it will be like no
war ever before fought. What a comparatively small
number of men underwent in the 1914-18 war will be
the common lot of all dwellers in cities that can be
reached by the bombers. It will not then be the front-
line soldiers but the civilian population of one country
or other that will contain the breaking-point.
That is the certain prospect. Australia and
Maoriland have the good luck to be somewhat remote
from it, but it is a glaring reality in Britain. It
explains why Britain’s leaders are trying every possible
avenue for peace rather than continue in the stand
Mr. Eden favored. In an age out of which chivalry
—for whatever reason —has passed there are luxuries
that can’t be any longer afforded. Standing on false
dignity is one of a whole string of them.
Meanwhile the possible return of chivalry is no-
where in sight. Here we have even Australian poli-
ticians saying unchivalrous things about the gentler
sex, and that is a pretty extreme instance. The ladies
should insist on apologies all round, and back that
up by insisting also on forming their own battalions
for actual fighting and their own fighting air squad-
rons. They have the power, in the vote, to get these
things easily, if they want them. Chivalry having de-
parted, let full equality take its place. It will, anyhow,
if another war breaks.
Thunder in the North.
Most countries have coastguard services to keep out
smugglers, invaders of fisheries and carriers of disease.
Such services seldom need to use bursts of machine-
gun firk. For duties of that description Governments
which know their jobs maintain naval vessels.
In this matter, as in others, the methods of Aus-
tralian Governments are peculiar. When several years
ago it was discovered that Japanese pearlers were
working Australian pearling beds, camping on Aus-
tralian soil without landing permits and sometimes
interfering with Australian natives, the Common-
wealth Government did nothing until a few Japanese
had been killed by Caledon Bay natives and a few
Australians had threatened to take the law into their
own hands. Then it bought the Larrakia.
As a writ-collecting machine, the Larrakia has
proved herself a winner. As a warner-off of invading
fishermen she was a joke. She has ceased to be a joke
since sensational Big-City newspapers began to recog-
nise her as a Heaven-sent opportunity for stirring up
a little more of the racial hatred which is such good
“copy.”
Last week, when the Larrakia fired across the
bows of a Japanese vessel, said to be within Australian
waters, a Japanese Foreign Office spokesman had
something to say. He declared that if the Larrakia
had fired illegally it might be a serious matter, adding
that, in his opinion, “Australians become unduly
agitated about such a minor matter as the doings of
small Japanese boats ” Asked what the Japanese atti-
tude would be if Australians behaved in Japanese
waters as some Japanese behave in Australian waters,
the Foreign Office gentleman replied:
The situation is very different. The Japanese are
merely exploiting otherwise unworked resources and
are not harming Australians.
He suggested that trouble would be avoided if
Australia reached a working agreement with the
owners or skippers of the fishing boats —a course which
has been suggested again and again, but which has
so far been impossible of achievement.
It is obvious from the spokesman’s statement that
he does not understand the Australian viewpoint. The
Japanese control entry to their own country more
rigidly than does any other maritime nation.
An invader of Japanese rights, whether on sea
or land, usually gets such a drastic reminder that he
rarely transgresses a second time. This is not merely
a surly gesture. With an overcrowded population
which grows at the rate of a million a year, every
crumb on shore and every periwinkle at sea count in
providing food for Japanese. Anything which affects
the food supply is a matter of life and death, and is
treated accordingly.
Marine industries based on Japan employ nearly
2,000,000 people, and Japanese fishing for food, oil,
shell and coral stretches from the Behring Straits to
the Antarctic. Nearly 400,000 boats, of which 50,000
are engined, are employed. Deep-sea fishery, though
heavily subsidised, is rigidly controlled round the
coasts. Not merely small fishing concerns but huge
financial institutions—Mitsuis, for example—take a
hand in expanding the area over which fish are caught
to feed Japanese mouths, and pearlshell and coral are
dredged to promote Japanese industry.
The Japanese, ranging southward, passed through
the densely-populated screen of the East Indies —where
the Dutch Government is moving Javanese by tens
of thousands to other islands —into the calm atmo-
sphere of Northern Australia. There they came upon
3000 miles of coastline occupied by less than half a
dozen settlements large enough to be recognisably
towns. In the Thursday Island area they found more
Japanese than whites. In Darwin, the whites are
outnumbered by the Chinese and the blacks.
Along hundreds of miles of Australian coast the
visitors struck fish shoals such as are never seen in
the heavily-fished waters of Japan. They learned that
thousands of tons of shellfish, crabs and sea-snail are
there for the taking ; that huge pearl-beds have been
barely scratched by a few white pearlers, employing
chiefly colored labor from the islands. The coast itself
abounds in firewood, fresh water, bird and animal
food. Nobody appears to want it—not even the few
blacks, the only human beings seen by a strange land-
ing party. No wonder these Asiatic strangers jump
to the conclusion that Australia does not require the
products of this neglected country, and that no more
harm can be done by landing there than the first Eng-
lish felt they were doing when they began to take
possession of the continent.
Outside the three-mile limit the harvest of the
sea is open for anyone to reap who has the pluck and
enterprise to undertake the job. Arbitrary lines, such
as those defining the extent of the Australian sphere
of control along the Great Barrier Reef and across
to the Papuan coast, have no value in international
law. The sea outside the three-mile limit does not
belong to Australia, the British Empire, or anyone
else, and interference with persons pursuing upon it
their lawful occasions constitutes a grave offence both
in civil and international law, press poppycock to
the contrary.
So there is no way of preventing Japanese from
fishing for sea-food or diving for shell a little beyond
the three-mile limit other than making competition so
intense that they cannot face it. Having regard to
Australian standards, that is impossible at the present
time ; without removal of unreasonable burdens on
existing forms of competition and of obstacles to
other forms being launched, it may become impossible
for all time. Nor can Australia reasonably discrimi-
nate between the Japanese and other nations in the
matter of giving them admission to ports so that they
may buy stores and fuel, provided they conform to
Australian laws and regulations. Neither is it worth
while to make them travel several hundred miles for
water when a few established watering-places along the
Arnhem coast, controlled by police, would give them
no possible excuse for illegal landings.
At the same time, something must be done to
prove to Asia that the Commonwealth intends to keep
its north coast inviolate and under its control. The
matter becomes more important every year with the
development of overseas flying services and of inter-
locking British Commonwealth defences in the Pacific
and Indian oceans. If there were any real attempt at
northern settlement or development of northern indus-
try it would be easier to convince land-hungry strangers
that they must not trespass, but there is none. Each of
the rapidly succeeding Ministers for the Interior seems
more nonplussed about northern problems and less
able to cope with them than his predecessor. Estab-
lishment of naval, military and R.A.A.F. bases at
Darwin and other northern points would assist the
growth of local population and make some contri-
bution to permanent settlement.
Meanwhile the law should be enforced, prefer-
ably in an atmosphere of friendly understanding with
the Japanese Government. That Government has
hitherto shown itself ready to support the Common-
wealth Government in punishing offenders. With
stupid trade-union bosses demanding boycotts, and
stupid newspaper editors preaching hatred of “Fascist
Powers,” it is not so easy to arrive at amity of action
as it was in 1923, when the Japanese authorities
backed the Queensland Government in dealing with
Japanese rioters at Thursday Island. To put it mildly,
the trade-diversion “policy” and the Yampi Sound
business have' not helped. All the same, law enforce-
ment and maintenance of friendship are in the interests
of both countries. For our part, it should be possible
to draft an agreement which would give aliens wishing
to land legally fair and hospitable treatment. On the
other hand, if Japanese skippers knew that illegal
landing on Australian soil would mean the loss of
their certificates they would go very warily.. No doubt
the financial institutions behind the pearling fleets
would help. They send ships to fish for shell, not law-
suits.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Too Much MocKoy.
If N. S. Wales people are not dead tired of reading
about Police Commissioner Mac Kay they ought to be.
For months this subject has been served up by the
daily press at breakfast, lunch and dinner, and on
Sundays there are more huge dishes. Indeed, one of
the Sunday papers seems to count the day lost unless
it spreads itself on the Mac Kay topic for at least a
page.
Mr. Mac Kay’s rare talents, the late Chief Secre-
tary’s admiration for them, the present Chief Secre-
tary’s imperfect appreciation of them, Mr. iClacKay’s
relations with the Premier, his country house, his
motor-yacht, his speedboat, the state of his health, and
whether he will, should or shouldn’t resign—these and
numerous other phases of the Mac Kay affair have
been discussed with a copiousness which people have
hitherto associated with the reports of royal commis
sions not bound to time.
Never was there a policeman with such a “press.”
Mr. Mac Kay’s appointment as boss-copper was pre-
ceded by months of blah. It was contended that so
towering a genius should not be subject to dismissal
at the whim of a Minister, or to salary-reduction by
a Government bent on economies; and he was made
independent of such interference by statute. Parlia-
ment and newspapers joyously announced that Mr.
Mac Kay had been “placed in the same position as
a Supreme Court Judge.”
Early in the new regime it was given out
that, in the enforcement of six-o’clock closing,
20 minutes’ grace would be allowed. The six-
o’clock-closing law is the last word in absurdity, but
it is not the Commissioner’s business to alter it; and
this was pointed out with considerable asperity. There
followed a few spasmodic raids on hotels in which
after-dinner and after-theatre drinking had become
a social custom ; but this reforming zeal soon petered
out.
Mr. Mac Kay heard Britain and the U.S.A. calling.
For the best part of one year he was abroad on full
pay, with all expenses met by the Government; for the
best part of another year he was engaged—not all
the time, of course —on two inquiries, conducted by
a District Court Judge, into charges against policemen
in respect of s.p. betting cases and the treatment of
one constable by his superiors. Taken together, the
reports amounted to a rather dreadful showing up for
the Police Department, and the Commissioner him-
self was described as “an impulsive man wh0....
appeared to answer questions without giving the matter
due thought.”
No doubt dismissals of officers in consequence
of the Judge’s first report, hostile comments from the
Supreme Court Bench on police methods in cases
in which other officers were sued, and repeated failures
to trace the perpetrators of alarming crimes added to
Mr. Mac Kay’s worries; but they did not weaken the
New Journalism’s devotion to its idol. The public
was givep to understand that it would be better foe
N. S. Wales that the Government should fall
than it should lose the great Mac Kay. Mac Kay Must
Not Go was the cry when it came out that the Com-
missioner, at his own instance, was to appear before
the Police Medical Board “with a view to retirement
on the ground of ill-health.” The case seems to have
been referred to something like a half-platoon of
doctors, and the final diagnosis, reduced to two words
by the Commissioner’s most fervent press champion,
was “nervous condition.”
Mr. Mac Kay has entered upon three months’ sick
leave. If declared unfit for duty at the end of that
time he may retire on a pension of £lOOO a year —
and this after 28 years’ service, and the man is in his
early fifties! No old soldier on the military estab-
lishment who fought throughout the war (Mr. Mac Kay
was spared war service) has been, or will be, half as
well off.
Independent of Casey.
The people in six Tasmanian districts are not troubled
about Mr. Casey or his “national” insurance plan—
so faintly national as it concerns them that, even if
passed, the health part will reach only the handful
among them who employ farm-labor.
Premier Ogilvie’s country medical scheme has
begun to work in Tasman’s Peninsula (Port Arthur).
Esperance (southern Tas.), Kingborough and Bruni
Island, Swansea, Hamilton and Flinders Island dis-
tricts. It will apply presently to King Island.
Medical services are free between 9 a.m. and
7 p.m., after which a small consultation fee is charged,
together with a small mileage rate, except in cases of
emergency or of definite inability to pay. And free
pre-natal care is provided, but women concerned must
seek attention before the seventh month of pregnancy
Tasmania’s peculiar geography and the limited
pockets of the people concerned made these districts
unattractive ones for private practice. The conse-
quence was that calling the nearest doctor meant
heavy expense.
So attractive were the conditions offered that three
practising Tasmanian doctors were among the first
half-dozen appointments for these district medical
jobs. Salaries vary from £7OO to £B5O a year, plus £52
house allowance and a £5O gratuity if services prove
satisfactory. There is a month’s leave every year and
a month’s work at some approved Tasmanian hospital
is specified. As the scheme develops it is hoped to
make provision for these doctors to do more special-
ised courses outside the State.
The people who benefit are mostly small farmers,
casual workers like fruit- and hop-pickers, and occa-
sional timber-getters.
A Ford in the Air.
Two young Australians have set out on a venture
which may revolutionise the training of young Aus-
tralian fliers, and which could reasonably become the
basis of an aeroplane-building industry. Discovering
that a baby aeroplane had been designed in U.S.A.,
they got one and flew it round Australia.
Their machine weighs only 563 pounds empty,
and packs into a space 36ft. by 22ft. Its useful load
is 407 pounds; it can carry two ten-stone men and
petrol for three hours’ flying. Its range is about 200
miles at a cruising speed of 70 miles per hour. It can
land —at only 29 m.p.h.—on a space 33 yards long.
Its four-cylinder engine is so simple that anybody
with motor-cycle experience can look after it.
Generally speaking, allowing for its sturdiness, it
looks about the safest thing in light aeroplanes yet
concocted, and the two young Australians have begun
to use it to teach youngsters the elements of flying.
It should be as safe as the average baby car, little
dearer to buy and almost as cheap to run.
With the approval of the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment, its sponsors a.e starting schools wherever 50
pupils can be got together at half the usual charges.
The pity is that this simple machine should have to
be built outside Australia. There are no complicated
mechanical difficulties, and something of the sort,
available in quantity at a reasonable price, is what
is badly needed to give young Australia a chance to
learn the elements of using its wings quickly and with
the maximum of safety.
The advent of the baby type brings the moment
much closer when flying may be included in senior-
school curricula. If the average youngster were
taught to drive a car instead of usually being left to
pick the art up as best he can, there would be better
and more careful drivers on the roads and fewer
accidents. And since the next decade is bound to see
hundreds of private aeroplanes in use, the earlier the
serious work of training pilots is begun on a general
scale, the less the toll of mishaps there is likely to be.
The Claims of Parramatfa.
Dear Bulletin, —Parramatta will be celebrating its
150th birthday next November, and its people are of
opinion that the proclamation of the municipality as
a city would be a fitting method of marking the anni-
versary. But the Minister of Local Government won’t
have it.
Apart from whether or not the “ancient borough”
has had 20,000 inhabitants for five years and an
income of £20,000 —conditions for cityship required
by the Local Government Act, 1910 —to the depart-
ment “it does not appear that the municipality can
fulfil the requirement that it is an independent centre
of population, and is not a suburb, whether residential,
industrial, commercial or maritime, of any other
municipality or centre of population.”
It is admitted that Parramatta complies with the
financial qualification ; and the 1933 census gave it
a population of 18,076. It is only reasonable to
suppose that an obviously prosperous place has put
on 2000 since.
If red-tape and bureaucracy are to have their way
Parramatta won’t get what it wants. But the old
town, which was a distinct country centre for at least
a century after its foundation, should be allowed to
call itself a city if it so pleases. On account of all
that has been done there for the good of Australia, at
least, its wishes might be granted.
It was at the head of Port Jackson that the
anxious Arthur Phillip realised a gleam of hope that
Australian settlement might be saved from starvation
by cultivating the land in the neighborhood. The first
wheat harvested in Australia was sown close at hand
by James Ruse at Experiment Farm. On Elizabeth
Farm near by John Macarthur started breeding
merino sheep. In the early ’twenties the Australian
Agricultural Society held its first show in the Govern-
ment Domain, close to where Governor Brisbane was
making the first chart of the stars visible from the
Southern Hemisphere.
From Phillip’s time until the early eighteen-sixties
the headquarters of government were in Parramatta
almost as much as in Sydney. Old Government House
remains as a memorial of those years of development.
In ’57 the colony’s first railway had its terminus close
to Parramatta. A little way down the river Squires
brewed the earliest Australian beer worth drinking.
The first Australian to get a flying ticket (W. E. Hart)
came from Parramatta and did his flying in the dis-
trict. And there is a longer list than that.
Why shouldn’t a short Act be passed through the
N. S. Wales Parliament giving Parramatta what it
wants? That would be one way of untying the red-
tape. It is not easy to see anyone objecting to the
town calling itself a city by special license, in view
of its past. But there should be a condition attached
—the city should be held responsible for the preser-
vation of all its relics of Old Australia.—Yours etc.,
J. H. M. A.
Flogging No Use.
Judge Wells, who has the courage of his convictions
but can scarcely be regarded as an authority on
natives, has repeated his suggestion for the flogging
of N.T. aboriginals as a substitute for imprisonment.
That, he says, merely makes the culprits fat.
Since the attack on a white woman by a Malay-
tinged nigger in Darwin there has been a second case
which involved a small half-caste girl; and, of
course, the Stunt Press of the South is playing the
affair up for all it is worth and creating the usual
false picture. Isolated white women are as safe from
wandering blacks as they are from wandering whites
in the far outback, where there are still crimes which
are likely to be resented with a rifle bullet.
Mr. McEwen, the Minister for the Interior, is
perturbed about the position. He proposes to take
with him to the N.T. an anthropologist from New
Guinea to advise him on the native question. New
Guinea is a territory in which native administration
has notoriously failed. Even in Rabaul, a Court
scarcely ever sits without having to dole out the lash
or some other penalty to offenders against white
women. In Papua, on the other hand, the administra-
tion is as successful as anywhere in the world. How-
ever, extraneous advice, whatever the source, may
merely complicate the puzzle to an inexperienced
Minister.
Actually, to anybody who knows the black, there
is no puzzle at all. Give the natives country to live
in at least 50 miles from any white settlement. Settle
them tribally, and reduce the areas which they need
by helping to supply them with tucker and blankets.
Leave their law and punishment to themselves. Abolish
the compound system. Make it a penal offence for
any white man to interfere with native women. Estab-
lish half-caste communities well away from normal
white settlement.
Where it becomes absolutely necessary to punish
a native, do it instantly, though it is difficult to know
how. The aboriginal does not understand the theory of
punishment. In his native state he knows only one
penalty—death —and that is designed, not to punish,
but to get rid of a nuisance. There is no word for
“punish” nor any for “sin” or “wickedness,” as we
understand it, in the abo. languages.
As for the effect of whipping, it has been tried.
An old-time western Queensland squatter used to say:
“The only thing you can make ’em feel with is a long-
handled shovel —and then you have to break the shovel
on ’em.”
Thirty Mites an Hour.
“D.S.”: Statistics of road accidents over a short
period are utterly worthless in making out a case
either for or against the N. S. Wales speed limit of 30
m.p.h. in built-up areas.
Apart from the fact that a test over a few months
may give a fluke figure, or that special occasions, such
as the Anniversary celebrations, may falsify the result,
the intensity of traffic and the likelihood of accidents,
due to summer’s holiday motoring or winter’s wet
roads and earlier dusks, vary so much with the
seasons that no accurate survey can be made for at
least a year. Even that is a short period in which to
judge a sincere attempt to reduce the appalling
slaughter on the roads.
The regulation is irritating to motorists for three
reasons: it is often enforced with styipid rigidity; it
is aimed really at the foolish driver : and it causes
congestion. Time will ease the first objection ; in
Maoriland and England, where the first enthusiasm
of the authorities has abated, a motorist in less con-
gested areas can safely drive at 35 m.p.h. and the
regulation remains as a useful check to the reckless.
Its retention in those areas is worth while, because
if the limit were raised to 40 m.p.h., as the N.R.M.A.
suggested, the practical effect of that would be, as
every motorist knows, for policemen to wink at 45
m.p.h. Magistrates should be allowed discretion to
treat mild breaches mildly, and there should be no
“automatic” penalties.
The burden of the reckless driver is one motorists
everywhere have to bear; and, though speed limits
may be resented by careful drivers, they do protect
them from the fool.
Congestion on arterial roads leading from a big
city is inevitable. On a 60-mile drive from London
into Kent and Surrey the motorist crawls in a long
line of cars at 30 m.p.h. most of the way. If it is
irritating, it is also safe. Collisions may happen
through the congestion, but they are minor bumps
rather than the bloody smashes which occur when
high speeds are allowed. If there were no crowding
on roads leading out of Sydney it would simply show
that speeding was going on, and wrecked cars and
mangled bodies would prove it.
The limit should be abolished if it is proved use-
less, but not merely because it is irksome. And before
any decision is made it should be tested over an
adequate period.
Just In Case.
“Corbie” has an idea:
Strong defences are no use to a country if it can be
starved out. To, provide against that danger the British
Government is building emergency stores and cramming them
with imported grain. Australia has no need to follow that
particular example, but there is one war possibility that should
receive its Government’s attention —the possibility that Aus-
tralia may be deprived of the rock-phosphate supplies it
gets from Nauru and Ocean islands. Without the super-
phosphates made from these imports the wheat yield would
be insufficient for Australian requirements.
The phosphate islands would be almost impossible to
defend against an active raider. Nauru is about 150
miles west of Ocean Island, and approximately a thousand
miles from the northern coast of Australia. To stop the
export of rock phosphates from these islands, a cruiser would
only need to drop a few shells —or a bomber a few bombs—
on the complicated cantilever bridge loading gear. Replace-
ments would take many months to effect.
Another commodity imported for manufacture of super,
is nitrate of soda. This comes principally from Chile, and
is used to make sulphuric acid. Sulphuric acid can be pro-
duced from Australian ores, but, time being the essence of
the contract, to lay in stocks of American and Italian sulphur
would be a wise precaution.
Rock phosphates and sulphur can be stored indefinitely
without deterioration. Australia usually has on hand require-
ments for six to nine months. To ensure a further two years’
supply the Commonwealth Government might fairly make
an interest contribution, and the Maoriland Government might
be reasonably invited to assist.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: The rodomontade of a septu-
agenarian is rarely impressive. Listen to
Hughes at Rabaul: —
We have got our mandate. On this
rock we have built our church, and all
hell is not going to take away what we
have.
One prefers the original (Matthew
xvi, 18). Nor was the old gentleman's
Rabaul version of an oft-told tale an
improvement, though he himself was the
hero:
Lloyd George wanted to know whether
Australia, if given the mandate, would
agree not to fortify New Guinea and not
to sell firearms or liquor to the natives.
He also asked whether the natives could
have access to the mission areas. I told
them certainly, because I thought many
of the natives had not enough missionaries
to eat.
This is Ernest Scott’s account:
President Wilson asked Mr. Hughes
whether he agreed that the natives should
be allowed free access to missionaries of
any denomination —a point on which the
American people laid much stress. “By
all means, Mr. President,” was the reply.
“I understand these poor people sometimes
go for months together without half
enough to eat.”
It was a good story when it first went the
rounds of the peacemakers, though not
so good as the one they circulated about
Joe Cook —that, when informed that he
would be expected to sign and seal the
Treaty, Joe “ordered a seal bearing a
small cross with J.C. under it.”
* * * t-
“Dhas”: There is always something
vaguely menacing about the hiker, with
his great boots, his rucksack and his
dogged, bony knees, so that sounds of
what appeared to be Trotskyist profanity
emanating from a party on an excursion
train returning to Sydney were not
.altogether surprising. Had one been in
foreign parts, it would have been truly
terrifying to hear 20 of them suddenly
give tongue to one tremendous
“Whoosh!” I learn, however, that these
jolly young men and young women split
into three groups, one to say “Ish!” one
to say “Osh!” and one to say “Oush!”
At a given signal they all let fly together,
and the resultant uproar is intended to
represent a sneeze. It reminded me of a
joyous night when hundreds of Boy
Scouts pointed wildly at nothing in the
sky and screamed “Now she’s red! Now
she’s green! Fizz!” That, too, had no-
thing to do with crime, but was part of
a drama based on the flight of an imagi-
nary skyrocket.
$ ijj
“X.T.”: Fate can play strange tricks.
A young man and a girl set off in a
speedboat down the swift-running Noosa
River from Tewantin (Q.), a holiday
resort north of Brisbane. Near the dan-
gerous Noosa bar, engine trouble de-
veloped, the boat being about 30 yards
from shore. The anchor was dropped
and the trouble adjusted; but when the
girl tried to pull the anchor up over the
side the boat filled and capsized. A
fisherman saw the accident and tried to
reach the couple. His boat overturned
in the bar-break, and, an injured leg
hampering him, he was drowned in the
sight of his wife and three children, look-
ing on from the shore. The girl had been
thrown into water only knee-deep. Not
realising this, she tried to swim, and was
washed into the surf. Her companion
stood up and saved himself, but was not
in time to reach her before she was out
of her depth. He swam after her and
held her up until they were two miles
from shore, and she was dead.
* * * *
“El V.”: The publication by Dangar
Gedyes of a book celebrating their cen-
tenary makes me wonder what is the
oldest business concern in Australia.
“S. M. Herald” dates back to 1831, and
the Van Diemen’s Land Company and
the Australian Agricultural Company can
go back to the early ’twenties. The Bank
of N. S. Wales is still older—lBl7. It
started in Macquarie-place in what had
been the house of Mrs. Reiby. But there
must be some more ancient than the
bank. The earliest I can place a finger on
is the Underwood concern, which was
building ships here and dealing in mer-
chandise in Governor King’s day, before
1805. The Underwood Bond still exists.
Any rivals?
❖ * * *
“Dick Tafone”: When the Sydney
Customs office received an irritable letter
bearing the apparent signature of a high
“You're losin' y'r punch , ’ Arry , lettin' a little bloke like that pass yuh !”
Canberra official, and demanding that the
dragon imported by Chinese for the
sesqui. celebrations be admitted free of
duty to promote international amity, true
clerkly souls were shaken to their foun-
dations. Sleuths located the miscreant —a
messenger lad. Haled before an outraged
tribunal, he admitted the crime, alleging
in full justification that it was part of his
daily duty to post numbers of letters
signed by junior clerks with the names of
their superiors, and that he didn’t see
why he shouldn’t follow their constant
and unreproved example. The official
judiciary closed the case by imposing a
fine of five shillings. The offender is
quite satisfied—the duty was remitted!
“F.S.”: The College of Heralds has
discovered that Melbourne’s civic coat
of arms is, if not an aesthetic horror, at
least a heraldic abomination. The de-
signer placed a whale which doesn’t look
like one floating on water which doesn’t
resemble that fluid on the same level as
a floating ship. This isn’t done either in
Nature or in heraldry. The City Fathers
take the matter with appropriate seri-
ousness, and there is to be designed a
new coat of arms which will not violate
the laws of Nature. The sheep and the
bull will graze on grass at an equal alti-
tude, the kangaroo will hop across the
picture above a knight’s visor, and a
mural crown will replace the Imperial.
Most citizens would say that the quaint
collection of symbols might as well be
jumbled as they are as jumbled in the
new way.
“Salt Water”: Lock’s picture of the
bluejacket inviting the admiral to be his
dance partner (B. 1/6/’3B), isn’t as far-
fetched as it may seem. When H.M.S.
Hood was in Australian waters it hung
up for recreation at Jervis Bay and light-
ened an evening (and much of a morn-
ing) with a buck hop, at which the snot-
ties danced like debs, and the rum flowed
with decorous freedom. On board were
only two civilians, and to one of them,
very young and very full of good liquor,
it was whispered by the Hood’s ward-
= jr n “o^r„s C ra d sr?he C °a U d r :
ra‘id al ,he admiral when approached-’S
said tne admiral when approached , not
as spry as you colonials, you know. .But
have you ever been wheeled round the
quarterdeck on an ammunition barrow?
No? Well, my compliments to Mr. Sea-
water [the wardroom joker] and ask
him to give you twenty turns round the
quarterdeck after I leave, with an officer
of marine* on vnnr lan ” A flan-lieu-
of marines on your lap. A n g
tenant saw that it was done. The quarter-
neck wa* inn vard* Innn
deck was 100 yards long.
* * *
“T.”: The widow of a Victorian
politician who was to have been knighted
was expressly authorised to assume the
title that would have been hers had death
not intervened, and presumably the
same course will be followed in the case
of a N.S.W. Minister’s relict. In that
case both ladies may look forward to
figuring in Whitaker’s Peerage
though not, of course, in the chapter
reserved for peers and peeresses and
admission to the revered volume is prac-
tically for life. One dame, though
strikingly youthful in appearance, has
had an item in Whitaker’s Peerage
for 32 years. Her first and second hus-
bands were knights. Having married a
third time, she could call herself Lady
if she chose, but she prefers to be
known as Dr. , having been granted
an honorary degree by the university
founded by her first venture.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An oddly dramatic and effec-
tive touch is the sudden moving of the
statue of Colonel Light, the surveyor who
originally, against great opposition, fixed
the site of Adelaide. The statue, hitherto
in the middle of the traffic by the G.P.0.,
is now at a new lookout on the hill
between the city and North Adelaide,
with the founder’s directing hand point-
ing down to the Oval and the river. It
looks well and seems appropriate on the
new site. However, the City Council
approved of the change by a mere nine
votes to eight. One recent mayor called
the idea “ineffective,” and another said
it was “outrageous.”
* * * *
“Selma”: When a Melbourne girl
married her hoy-friend, Australian-born
of American parents, they settled down
happily in a suburban flat. They might
have been there yet if a wealthy and
childless uncle had not invited the young
man to go to America and join uncle’s
concern on a substantial salary, plus a
swag of shares and more to come. The
young people went off with their baby on
the next boat. That was 10 years ago.
The husband is a success in the business,
uncle is delighted with his work, the
wife has a wonderful home and every-
thing she can desire in it —except peace
of mind. Fear of kidnapping haunts her
day and night. The child, now a girl
of 11, does not move beyond the grounds
without someone in attendance, m tact,
she is never left alone. Since the authori-
ties seem powerless to prevent the crime
which blighted the life of the national
hero and drove him and his distracted
wife out of the country, the Melbourne
woman’s fears are shared by her lord,
and they know no reprieve from worry,
That small flat in an unfashionable
Melbourne suburb stands like a haven of
peace to them nowadays. *
'* „'j h a fellow-feeling
for “S.” (B. . « who had to explain
standing on a bridge before dawn I took
selling vac.-cleaners in Melbourne.
° n T vWo t „o,kpH
Sent lo a boi J se m Tlp „ r „ p talk •
at tbe 2 at ® t 0 r 5 , j n • ’
“d just then.a Johr. racedl up. He n-
listed on my accompanying him o the
station, where he and .another put me
t ! rou 1 nam , g , ..j’
about here for? and SO f ° rth ’ They
forcible possession of the cleaner,
LUUIV L o A . . .
my money, smokes and papers, and told
me tQ waJt p resen tiy a sergeant entered
and heard all about it. “Bushman, hey?”
he echoed. “Show me y’r hands.” He
smiled when he saw them. “No illegal
WO rk ever put corns on a man’s dooks,”
he said to his subordinates. In this
casej too, there’d been a robbery a few
hours before,
* * * *
“Maxie”: My son’s father has been a
Bulletin reader for years. I shall always
hold it against the daily press that the
“B.” had to introduce “Uncabled Addi-
tions,” and thus put back publication a
day. Those three or four blank Wed-
nesdays have been a nightmare. Efimseli
wandering around the house, turning on
and turning off the radio, picking up the
daily and throwing it down, fiddling with
this, that or the other, and finally going
to bed like a bear with a sore head,
only to disturb my rest in the sickly
dawn as he anxiously paced the verandah
on the lookout for the paper boy. Thank
heavens, it comes out on Wednesdays
again ; but darn foreign affairs and cable
fakers—they nearly caused a war in our
street.
* * * *
“James W.”: A North Queensland
dentist has discovered twin sisters who
carry personal similarity to fine points.
In each the second molar in the top
right jaw required attention. The two
carious teeth were identical, even to the
position and extent of the decay.
4 $ *
“Kiwit”: “If this wins, there’ll be a
hundred in it for you! ” There have been
civil-court actions on theme-variations
of this casual sort of promise ; but Mel-
bourne was the scene of a case to me
unique. Five young brassfoundry
workers shared a £12,000 prize. They
divided the bulk of it quit amic-
ably, but quarrelled over the bonus
usually paid to the person ordering the
winning ticket —in this instance, £240.
The chap who had sent for the tickel
claimed it; but after a couple of visits
to the County Court it was added to
the pool. Then his mother brought an
action, claiming that she had written for
the ticket “at the direction of her son,
thereby becoming the syndicate’s agent.’’
After the hearing had begun, she thought
better of it and proceeded no further.
Judgment for the syndicate, with costs.
THE PLACE FOR THEM.
“Mr. Casey gave it as his opinion that, if there
was a place for women in politics, it was in Legis-
lative Councils or the Senate, where old gentlemen
drowsed into their beards.”
When lovely woman stoops (or rises)
To oratorical ambitions
And feels an urge to share the prizes
That wait successful politicians,
Which is the legislative sphere
Toward which she’ll find it best to steer?
Not to those scenes of rage and riot
Where wildest words are counted venial.
Sisters, you’ll find a niche more quiet,
A setting vastly more congenial
To tempt your fates and dree your weirds,
Where oldsters drowse into their beards.
Mention of “beards,” it’s past disowning,
Some captious critic might be rousing.
In days like these. And surely “droning”
Would be an apter word than “drowsing.”
But ever in my rhythmic romps
I “follow copy”—same as comps.
Abodes of M.L.As. —and Reps., too —
Are noisy joints and scarce the places
For gentle dames to bend their steps to.
Far better take this tip of Casey’s
And head for haunts where courtly Age
Directs the show and holds the stage.
You’ll hear no voices raised in anger
There, and no taunts and gibes corrosive,
None of the clatter and the clangor
That follow bursts of high explosive,
None of the scorn that rends and rips
When red-hot tribunes get to grips.
There, if the triumphs of the forum
You’d win against your trousered fellows,
There’s naught to violate decorum,
No canine snarls or bovine bellows:
Only a drowsy coterie
Of ancients droning mumblingly
O'er chins where beards have ceased to be.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Doledinhab”: Sydney’s Chalmers-
street church, built 84 years ago, when
Redfern was fashionable, is to move-
file site is “required for industrial pur-
poses”—and the church will be rebuilt,
stone by stone, on another site. An early
preacher was Dr. Wargin Begg, who in
good Scots denounced the stage as a
hotbed of iniquity. Fate played a trick
on him; his son, known as Walter Bent-
ley, became one of the best-known iden-
tities on the Australian boards. For a
time after the war days the temple be-
came known as the “Repat. Church,” Rev.
Brandt (still the minister) keeping the
doors open continuously for the conveni-
ence of soldiers. A surprising number
accepted his standing invitation to Dig-*
gers to come along and see him about
their troubles. Rev. Brandt on one occa-
sion preached to as strange a congrega-
tion as has ever been seen within religious
walls. He made a round of two-up
schools (as a result he pronounced two-
up the fairest of all gambling games), and
at each he put it to the sports that, since
he had come along with an open mind
to see their place, they should return the
compliment. And scores did turn up
next Sunday.
* * * *
“X.T.”: There were sighs of regret
in Brisbane when Qantas head offices
were moved to Sydney. Qantas began
at Brisbane in 1921, and sturdily main-
tained its connection with its home town
even after its operations became .linked
with those of Imperial Airways. The
transfer of the terminus to Rose Bay
in Sydney and the growth of southern
traffic from overseas made the move
necessary.
sis * * *
“Lyndo”: A Maoriland family is re-
gretting the end of a series of remittances
that arrived regularly for eight years.
Every April there came in the post in an
envelope addressed to the mother, a
widow, £2O in notes, enclosed in a fold
of paper on which was written one
word, “Reparation.” Why reparation was
necessary and to what extent the family
never had an inkling, but it concluded
that the payments must be due to father’s
estate. The annual £2O was acceptable in
a not-well-off suburban household, and
when “Last payment” appeared under the
word “Reparation,” finis was written to
the family mystery with real reluctance.
❖ * * *
“Exdig”: Even the Great War did not
stop some of the quaint snorts in wh«ch
England delights (B. 26/5/’3B). The
guns were still thundering at their worst
in France when I took a holiday from
hospital to visit an Essex village wnh
ancestral associations. I found a linnet
match in progress. The venue was the
front of the village inn; scores of men
—some were from other counties —had
brought their linnets in covered cages.
The birds were uncovered in pairs, and
a score was taken of their notes and
cadenzas. Technical terms for points l
have forgotten, but the interest was keen,
and it gripped me, too, so that I waited
to see the competition to its conclusion.
Less pleasing were the ratting contests 1
encountered in the North. Terriers are
released among swarms of rats in the
pits, the game depending upon the speed
and efficiency with which each dog did
its killing. The work of one dog,, a red-
hot favorite, was outstanding; it never
had to waste a snap on a rat; it never
missed. They told me that dog was 14
years old.
* V * *
“Fi. fa.”:-A recent divorce suit estab-
lished an Australian precedent in
procedure of service. Respondent left
Australia on an overseas vessel before
service of the requisite papers could be
effected. Application was made to the
Supreme Court of the State in which the
action originated for appointment of the
master of the ship as a temporary officer
of the court. Notice of appointment,
with a request to effect service, and the
full text of the document to be served
were then wirelessed to the master in
mid-ocean, “to wits” and all. An ex-
tremely surprised respondent duly re-'
ceived and admitted service, the master
notified the Court by wireless, proceed-
ings followed in the usual way, and a
decree nisi was granted.
**. * *
“Dick Tafone”: Canberra claims to be
the healthiest territory in Australia, and
proudly quotes its crude deathrate of
4.12 per 1000 population
(“less than half that of any
State”) and its low infant
mortality. Healthy it is,
undoubtedly, but in in-
terpreting statistics one has
to remember the very high
proportion of young and
middle-aged persons and
the absence of industrial
activities producing deaths
from accident and trade
diseases. And the low in-
fant mortality occurs in a
picked population well fed
and comfortably housed.
The high birthrate is due
to similar causes —civil ser-
vants in life-jobs
with good pay
can afford chil-
dren better than
any other class of
Australian. One
reads that the
marriage-rate is
low. That is also
to be expected in
a com m u-
nity where
most of the
marriageabl e
persons of
both sexes
are in good
jobs.
“ They're not quite dry, sir.”
“Mak”: Heard after a Ruth Draper
night in Melbourne: “If only I could
get something like that on my radio!”
Very wisely, Ruth Draper doesn’t broad-
cast ; if she did, she wouldn’t be half
so impressive. Where radio plays depend
for some of their effects on suitable
studio noises, Miss Draper creates
atmosphere with silent body movements,
changes of facial expression and eloquent
use of her hands —all useless to the
unseen radio artist. Moreover, good
radio plays use contrasting voices for
their different characters, and listeners
aren’t required to work their imaginations
as hard as at a Draper performance,
where every gesture demands concentra-
tion. Still, Australian announcers and
radio performers would be the better
for a course of Draper diction ; I’ve yet
to meet anyone who admits having missed
a word she said in any Victorian per-
formance.
“Piscator”: No use “Bray Rock” try-
ing to ,dodge refutation by dragging in
Zane Grey’s alleged failure to know a
wahoo when he sees one (B. l/6/’3B).
“8.R.” originally contradicted my state-
ment that the swordfish-marlin gang
smack the bait about when in a saucy
mood instead of taking it. When Zane
Grey’s evidence, as given in his book, is
quoted “Bray Rock” brays about wahoos
and Grey’s ignorance of them. Even
“8.R.” will not dispute that the American
has caught many hundreds of the sword-
fish clan in many parts of the world,
and thus may be presumed to know what
he is talking about.
* * # *
“C. 8.”: The N.Q. Chinese 'are an
interesting study in the influence of edu-
cation and early environment. Whereas
the Chink immigrant is a happy-go-lucky
fellow, content to “glow cabbagee” and
to indulge his taste for opium and
gambling, the Australian-born Chinese
is anything but indolent. He has prac-
tically a monopoly over the N.Q. fruit-
and-vegetable trade and is a highly
efficient businessman. The imported
Chinese hates hustle and bustle. He pre-
fers the horse to the' motor, even where
he can afford a car.
* * * *
“Susu”: Re-reading Alfred Russel
Wallace’s Malay Archipelago, I am
wondering whether he was such a mar-
vellous observer after all, at any rate
in respect of racial nature. He describes
the outstanding difference between Malay
and Papuan characters as essentially one
of emotional expression, the Malay con-
cealing his feelings, the Papuan loving
to express them on all possible occasions.
Governor Le Hunte has recorded that
he spent a fortnight on Kiwai Island
without hearing a single laugh. A Papuan
R.M. has described how a native con-
stable, returning from a long and adven-
turous expedition to his native village,
was received in funereal silence, even by
his father. But, after all, it is a British
characteristic to hide surprise or deep
feeling under a mask of seriousness, and
the visit of a Governor or the return of
a native son given up for lost is at least
equivalent to such reactions. Anyhow,
I’ve seen both Papuans and Malays let
themselves go as heartily as any Cockney
who sees his mate slip up on orange-
peel. And generally for much the same
reason—someone hurting himself.
# ::: *
“Lord Luvus”: Treasurer Casey’s
association of beards with senility re-
calls that Kingston, Forrest, Deakin,
Lyne and Seddon were all bearded young
men and at least as wideawake as Casey.
Darwin, Samuel Butler and Oliver
Lodge sported beards; so did Rodin,
the greatest sculptor since the Greeks ;
and Shaw —of whose political intelligence
Casey has a low opinion—has another.
Casey’s opinion is conditioned by the
same prejudice that makes the film-struck
girl associate the clean-shaven visages of
Gary Cooper and Clark Gable with
virility and intelligence, though in a crisis
those heroes behave exactly like babies.
A young woman once said she liked a
certain artist’s pictures, but she hated his
beard, because it made him look so
effeminate.
S' -h »i' S*
“Cauboy”: Mention of J. C. William-
son (B. l/6/’3B) reminds me of a young
man from England, via Sydney, who
bustled into the manager’s office at Mel-
bourne Royal intent on being a dead-
head. He said he had met Mr. William-
son in Sydney and Mr. Williamson had
told him he could have the free run of
Williamson theatres for the duration of
his stay in Melbourne. “Very interest-
ing,” said the manager, “but you can’t
go in.” “Why not?” asked the youth.
“This is a Williamson theatre, isn’t it?”
“It is,” said the manager. “Well, surely
Mr. Williamson has the right”—--
“Had, you mean, young man,” swinging
round in his chair and eyeing him sternly.
“I helped to bury Mr. Williamson when
you were a baby.”
* * * * *
“Yuiop”: In naming its streets (B.
26/5/’3B), Victoria’s 17-year-old Red
Cliffs followed the alphabet. Streets run
north and south, avenues east and west;
on the east of the township you have
Guava, Heath, Ilex and Jacaranda
streets, and on the north Fitzroy, Goul-
burn, Heytesbury, Indi, Jamieson and
Kiewa avenues. Parent Mildura, 10 miles
away, has street names running from
Seventh to Eighteenth: the Chaffey
brothers were responsible. But there are
Lemon, Orange and Walnut avenues, and
—commemorating the Australian who
anticipated and supported the American
brothers —a Deakin-avenue.
* * * *
“Pardon Me” has the last word:—-■
In spite of “Swish’s” attempt to bolster up
his story about Eton (B. l/6/’3B) I still main-
tain it was fishy. John Keate was headmaster
from 1809 to 1834; so he became h.m. seven
years after the establishment of the R.M.C.,
Sandhurst, and 68 years after the establishment
of the R.M.A., Woolwich. Further, the “Leav-
ing Book” has nothing whatever to do with
the character of any Eton boy; in the old
days those quitting the college deposited “leav-
ing money” on the headmaster’s table, and
in return the h.m. handed out a nicely-bound
book. Leaving-money was abolished in 1868,
but the h.m. still gives each departing Etonian
a copy of a handsome work, privately printed.
And Keate was not the sort of person to forget
to flog anyone that was flogable. In one day
at Eton (June 30, 1832) he flogged 80 boys,
and they cheered him when it was all over.
“All right , ALL right. You go your Way an' I'll go mine!”
LIST’NING-IN.
O' nights we lend our lugs to
No end of curious things,
From hard-fought scraps of pugs to
The smooth-turned words of kings;
But o’er these wide expanses
I’ll venture naught arrests,
Attracts, intrigues, entrances,
Like list’ning-in to Tests.
Sweet are the notes that divas
Or fiddlers loose on air,
Which in our ears arrive as
Clear as if one were there.
But it must beat the rapture
In music-lovers’ breasts,
The kick we lowbrows capture
By list’ning-in to Tests. .
Flow plain across the billow
One seems to hear the thumps
That leather gets from willow
Or gives, in turn, to stumps.
Involving no exertion,
Who is there that suggests
A cheerier diversion
Than list’ning-in to Tests?
Who can compute the numbers,
In this ensuing week,
Of hours we’ll filch from slumbers
To hear announcers speak
The ball-by-ball recitals
Of strenuous Ashes-quests
That thrill us to the vitals,
Who listen-in to Tests.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


k
ill?
D 3 8 3
10 for 9 D
20 for 16
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
At
i
r
m
THIS
GENE R A T
POLITICAL POINTS
After a vast escape of gas from both
sides of the House, the National Incubus
Biff survived the second-reading division ;
but on a Labor amendment to the
formal message recommending appro-
priations the Ministerial majority shrank
to one. Cocky members object to the
burdens proposed to be thrust on small
farmers who won’t themselves be entitled
to the health benefits, or to pensions ex-
cept as “paupers”—this expression has
been used —and more trouble is in store
for Casey.
If Australia and Maoriland enforce
their laws providing for the abolition of
the “draft” the pound in the cwt.
hitherto allowed to woolbuyers the
British Wool Federation may boycott
their sales. That threat comes from
Yorkshire, though it is conditional on
80 p.c. of Wool Federation members
approving and “on Japan taking the same
action.” Two years ago the yarn was
that, if Australia struck at the Japanese
rayon and cotton trades in the interests
of Lancashire, Yorkshire would see it
through—and Yorkshire didn’t.
Victoria has two Assemblywomen now,
Biff Brownbill’s widow having succeeded
him as Labor member for: Geelong. Her
majority was just on three thousand in
a poll of 18,000‘ which suggests that
Casey’s reference to Parliament being no
place for women was resented by skirted
electors. Mrs. Brownbill took it up
vigorously and, of course, had the last
word: “Mr. Casey’s Government depends
on women to fill the empty cradles,
though it doesn’t adequately or fairly
provide for them in its hybrid insurance
scheme.”
In what Sydney “D.T.” calls ‘‘a chal-
lenging speech to .the League of Nations
Union at Birmingham,” Churchill “vir-
tually repudiated the Chamberlain
foreign policy.” H’m, yes; but the
bellicose old gentleman never votes
against it. He frequently asserts that
the Government is all behind with its
«rearmament programme; but when
Chamberlain stood up to the latest Labor
attack on this score, and treated it as a
no-confidence motion, Churchill was
missing, as usual. So were half the
Labs, and Libs. The truth is that the
P.M. carries too many guns for candid
friends and open enemies, and the nation
seems to be realising it. The Government
has won the last two by-elections by
impressive majorities.
Last week the general level of export
prices was the lowest this year—which
means the lowest for several years. What
are those politicians who want to borrow
in London, and some of whom are en-
trusted with regulating the trade balance,
going to do about it?
A broad hint from Savage, P.M., that
the Labor Government at Wellington was
sick of being blamed by Canberra for
trans-Tasman airline delays set Thorby
talking of “London delays.” Wellington
worried Canberra again by announcing
that there would be no heavy surcharge
on Maoriland-England airmail. If Can-
berra isn’t careful, it will pay Australians
to send letters for London across the
Tasman for Maoriland posting. Mean-
while several States Premiers are training
their long-distance guns on ’Berra, it
having been stated that overseas letters
and packages for their States will be dis-
tributed from Sydney by train.
Before the two recent flotations, the
public debt of Commonwealth and States
had reached £1,272,697,700 (£lB5 per
head), of which the States owed
£887,597,400. They really owe more,
for the Sydney Government is backing
the Water Board’s borrowings of three
millions a year or so ; and it will assuredly
have to take over part of them. And it
is persistently offering municipal councils
inducements to place their territories
further in pawn.
The Westralian members at Canberra
lodged a non-party protest against the
ban on overseas sales of Yampi iron
ore. Pearce did not join in, nor, of
course, did MacDonald, the Assistant
Minister of Commerce. In a wordy wire
that gentleman was urged to resign by
H. K. Watson, one of the two separatists
“I’m all for free speech, as you know, Billy; hut you really mustn’t talk about
sanctions or mandates. Why, somebody might hear you.”
who carried the secesh petition to Lon-,
don, at considerable expense to his
bleeding province—“otherwise,” Watson
wound up, “the next Senate elections will
revive memories of the massacre of the
MacDonalds at Glencoe.”
Lang’s new “official organ,” the “Cen-
tury,” made its appearance on Friday,
May 27. The other faction and the
U.A.P. protest that by bringing it out a
fortnight earlier he could have made a
grand old anniversary celebration of it.
It was on Friday, May 13, 1932, that
Governor Game sent for him, and in-
timated that he was “sent for.”
Speaking for Mrs. Brownbill in Gee-
long, Cain, the State Labor leader, said
his party was “hopeful” that the Dunstan
Government would “include in its pro-
gramme a number of matters which
urgently need attention.” It took him.
about a minute to enumerate the
“matters.” In other days a Labor party
which at recent Senate elections had
polled 20 times the votes given to a
sectional group would not have been
content to play second fiddle to that
group, and resign itself to being
“hopeful.”
The Senate, which ought to take an
active interest in foreign affairs, had one
of its rare debates on the subject the
other day. It was rather a desultory dis-
.cussion, but there was one pertinent con-
tribution from J. S. Collings, of
Queensland.
The Labor party will not agree to any
Australian lives being sacrificed in getting
Czechoslovakia out of trouble.
At present Collings leads a party of
five, but from the beginning of next
month it will number 16.
Wheat and flour prices have fallen
again, and a halfpenny has been taken
off the price of the 21b. loaf. In Mel-
bourne, not in Sydney. When the Mel-
bourne reduction was announced, the
Sydney Master Bakers had “not been
informed officially of any reduction in
the price of flour,” though it had been
lowered 10s. a ton to £8 15s. that morn-
ing, but if there was a cut the price of
bread would come down a farthing a
loaf at the end of a calendar month, “as
provided in the Gepp report.” This
periodical blah used to amuse Sydney
householders. Now they wish they had
never heard of Gepp and his blessed
margins and farthings. Farthings don’t
circulate in Australia anyway.
The latest Moscow pilgrim is one King,
secretary.of the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council. Mentioning the buffeting of
Old Bolsheviks to a Kremlin boss, he
was told “they were justified on the
ground of their deterrent effect” (the very
argument ridiculed by King and his
friends when they try to save some
ferocious N.S.W. murderer from the
rope); and, of course, he was invited to
inspect the Red Army, at which he duti-
fully marvelled. King and his Council
refused to co-operate in making the Aus-
tralian army something more than a
skeleton with half an arm, on the ground
that it “might be used to strengthen
Fascism.”
The Powers concerned in the Non-
intervention Committee have arrived at a
majority agreement for the withdrawal
of foreign soldiers from Spain , but it
will cost a million pounds, and the Mos-
cow Government won’t pay its share ; in
fact, it won’t co-operate in any way.
This has prompted the “S. M. Herald’
to bang—ltaly and Germany.
Strong obstructive tactics from the Soviet
representative... .can hardly be regarded
as unnatural... .The Italian dictator now
shows no eagerness for the withdrawal ol
his troops from Spain. His policy, political
observers consider, is being influenced by
the German desire to prolong the war.
What a thing it is to be one-eyed!
When Gullett aimed his trade-diversion
punch at Japan and hit Australia, it was
falsely alleged (though not by him) that
it was done at the instance of the British
Government. The same story has been
told about the ban on iron-ore exports,
and A. C. Moreing, M.P., of Bewick,
Moreing —the concern that employed
Hoover when he was in Westralia put
a question in the Commons- about it.
He was informed by the new Dominions
Minister that the decision was never
suggested by his Government to the Com-
monwealth Government and was taken
“entirely” on that Government’s respon-
sibility.
Dr. Burgmann, of Goulburn (N.S.W.)
and the Society for the Promotion of
Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia,
seems to delight in repeating the jargon
and claims of Communists. “Middle-
class” ought to be a good enough ex-
pression for a bishop of the Church of
England, but this bishop evidently prefers
“bourgeois” and “bourgeoisie.” And on
a list of “seventeen wars since the war
to end war,” communicated to his
favorite paper, the Sydney “D.T.,” the
Bishop put this:
1919. —Soviet Russia fights White Rus-
sians and the armies of all the Allies.
The armies of all the Allies. A travesty
of the truth.
Melbourne “Age” always excepted,
there is precious little Australian senti-
ment in the Big-City press nowadays.
It is taken for granted that generals and
coppers should be imported, and pars,
like the following are published without
a word of protest:
It is possible that the new Director of
Physical Training in the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Education will be selected either
from America or Canada. The Director
of Education and the Chief Clerk have left
for a tour which will embrace these
countries The Minister said: “In
Canada and America they will meet the
applicants for the post of Director of Phy-
sical Training.”
They may also meet in Canada a Sydney
lad who is sculling champion of the
world ; and in the U.S.A., if they are
inquisitive, they will be told that the
development of modern competitive
swimming dated from the advent of an
Australian, and that some of the great-
est boxers the Ring ever saw came from
these parts. And yet it is implied that
Australia can’t provide a physical instruc-
tor.
From “Move On, There!”:
It’s a grand thing to be a Police Commis-
sioner in N.S.W. In the case of Mac Kay, the
latest incumbent, half-a-dozen doctors were
called in, and as a result of their report the
patient is to get three months’ sick leave. He
had six or seven months abroad on full salary,
with all expenses paid, and another month is
due to him, as well as six months’ long leave.
If, at the end of the three months, he should
be unable to continue, he will be entitled to the
long leave, on full pay, and may then retire
on a pension of £lOOO a year. And it is only
28 years since he joined the force, a recently-
arrived immigrant from Scotland. Of late
the stunt press has given the gentleman more
space than it has bestowed on King George,
President Roosevelt, Hitler and Mussolini alto-
gether, and it is always ready with. excuses
for his show when it fails to catch murderers.
And nowadays it never seems to catch any
unless they confess.


FIRST PRINCIPLES.
“The pugnacious instinct in a child should be encouraged. Parents must not give way to ‘righteous anger. An Oxfotd psychologist.


NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
Schick Electric Shavers are fine! No
more raw faces and no shaving
preparation. Just plug into electric
socket A.C. or D.C. and shave faster,
smoother and more comfortably with
Schick.
High-class stores and tobacconists,
£5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. ETD.,
470 Elizabeth Street; Sydney.
SCHICK
fdfdf
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
National Insurance
The Banks Again
Change in Investment Outlook
What to Buy and Sell
Mining News All Fields
JUNE ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States,
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Idle Assurance, ineluding:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write ]or full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC. G.F.0., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Bulletin readers will miss the name
of E. Mary Gurney, who has died in
Maoriland at 38. She was well known
for her excellent stories of horses, and it
was a kick from her own favorite hack
that killed her. Her first Bulletin story
appeared in 1933, and since then, from
Windyridge, her home near Auckland,
she sent yarns and verse to Aus-
tralian and M.L. papers, all outstanding
for the sympathy and vigor with which
she wrote of animals and for the delicate
realism of her descriptions of the Maori-
land countryside. In March Miss
Gurney took second place in a Bulletin
short-story competition with another
story of horses, “Quiet Lies the Land.”
Many of her stories were located
in Hawke’s Bay, where she was
educated, and iater ones came
from days with the Pakuranga
Hunt Club. The accident occurred
when she had taken her horse to
be clipped; she had just patted it
when it suddenly kicked, inflicting
internal injuries from which she died in
hospital.
Mashie and putter are the most lethal
weapons that Capt. Leon M. Lyons uses
these days, but he saw plenty of action
in Gallipoli and France in 1915-18. He
was a trooper in the sth Light Horse
on Gallipoli, and won his commission
and lost a leg with the 49th Battalion in
France. Before the war he was known
as an amateur rider in Queensland (Rock-
hampton, 50 years ago, was his birth-
place), and he still likes to be where the
colors flash past the post. His more
material interest was the pastoral indus-
try until in 1933, returning to Australia
from a world tour, he was offered his
CAPT. LEON M. LYONS.
present post as sales manager for
Toohey’s, Sydney.
The Neptune touch here about C. M.
Turrell signifies that he is g.m. of the
N.Z. Shipping Co. and chairman of
Wellington (M.L.) Harbor Board. He
might have been pictured riding one of
Nep.’s white nags, for he is a steward
and vice-president of Wellington Racing
C. M. TURRELL.
Club. The combination of aquatic and
stable interests dates from the days when
he was an enthusiastic rider in amateur
steeples and rowed for Canterbury Row-
ing Club. He was born in Canterbury,
and the Rev. Charles Turrell kept a
headmasterly as well as a fatherly eye
on his schooldays at Christ’s College.
Now C. M. Turrell, as well as watching
horses and ships—and bunkers, too —
keeps a director’s, eye on the National
Art Gallery and National Museum, and
is helping to arrange the centenary doings
for 1940.
H. C. Quodling, general manager of
the Queensland State Agricultural Bank,
retires after 41 years of varied experi-
ence. A Hawkesbury College graduate,
he managed a large dairy on the Hunter
in the late ’nineties, bought a graz-
ing property on the Condamine (Q.), and
then went to the Queensland civil ser-
vice to develop Gatton College Farm.
Later he managed other State farms and
rose to be Director of Agriculture in
1915. He has been in his present job
since 1931.
Administrator of Premier Ogilvie’s
schemes to provide Tasmanians with
medical services better than those on
the mainland, Dr. Bruce M. Carruthers
is the sort of disciple crusaders must
pray for; his faith is turning political
theory into sound practice, while his
energy and personality are sufficient to
convert the doubtful. Now Director of
Public Health and Medical Services in
the Speck, he holds a N.S.W. birth cer-
tificate and a Sydney University degree,
and had four years with the R.A.M.C.
in France and Salonika. Home again,
he was associated with the Red Cross
and Repat. treatment of nerve cases
before he went to the Hobart hospital
in 1927. Dr. Carruthers was administra-
tor and medical superintendent of the
New Norfolk (Tas.) mental hospital
when he transferred in 1936 to his
present job. He is the son of a church-
man and a nephew of the late Joseph
Carruthers, who was N.S.W. Premier.
Promotion without increase of pay
has been bestowed on two A.M.F. staff
men, J. L. Hardie and J. L. Witham ;
they have been named “local” major-
generals. So have G. J. Rankin (the mem-
ber for Bendigo) and J. D. Richardson
(N.SW.). Judge Drake-Brockman (Vic.)
and I. G. Mackay (N.S.W.) are to be
major-generals without any topographical
qualification. Also 19 colonels have been
made “temporary” brigadiers. One of
them is G. A. Street, the member for
Corangamite.
Macartney Abbott, who may be-
come President of the Senate, is the
youngest member of the Wingen
Abbott family, and is well quali-
fied by heredity for the job. His
father, J. P. Abbott, was a cousin
of one of the original members of the
N. S. Wales Corps who came out in the
very early days. J.P., born in 1842, went
into politics in 1880 as Assembly member
for Gunnedah, and became Speaker
in 1890. He was a delegate to the
Federal conventions of 1891 and 1897-98
One of Macartney Abbott’s brothers
is president of the N. S. Wales Graziers’
Association and the other is old Bulle-
tin contributor Jack Abbott.
Sydney wool men will lose a valuable
hand that has wielded the chairman’s
hammer at Wool and Produce Committee
meetings for many years when John
Ewing, of the directorate of Pitt and
Badgery, resigns this month. A Maitland
(N. S. Wales) man, he was educated in
Sydney and worked first with the old
firm of J. H. Geddes. He was manager
of its successor, Pastoral Finance, when
the fire of 1921 destroyed the store at
North Sydney, and joined his present
firm at that time. Now he is trans-
ferring his energies to his property at
Inverell.
Many young Victorians went to West-
ralia in the Roaring Days and made
money storekeeping. H. W. Henderson,
T. W. HAYNES, of Melb. Chamber
of Commerce.
who had gone from Melbourne to Kal-
goorlie at 21, hung on to his, and, coming
to Sydney in 1921, started as a silk mer-
chant. In process of time he bought
out his partner, A. J. Roberts, and be-
fore he died last week —at 59 —his Pitt-
street business was one of the biggest
things of its kind. Henderson had a
picturesque home on Scotland Island,
Pittwater, where he cultivated his garden
and entertained heaps of friends, largely
old goldfielders.
Perhaps it was a practical application
of the doctrines of the Glenelg Optimist
Society, of which he is president, that
WILLIAM FISK.
was Wm. Fisk’s reason for making no
speeches during the S.A. election cam-
paign. If so, there’ll be a rush to join
the society, for he won the seat as an
Independent from E. Anthony, who had
represented the seaside city for the past
17 years. He claims another record as
the only practising chemist who has been
a member of the State Parliament. He
was born in Adelaide in ’7l, and for
the last 50 years has been mixing ’em
(drugs) at Glenelg; his qualifications
allow him to extract teeth, too, and he
learned successful vote-extracting in
mayoral elections over the past seven
years. All sporting activities have had
his support.
“Ek Dum”: Ernest Lamb, K.C., who
retires after 50 years’ practice at the
N. S. Wales Bar, is a tall, formidable-
looking silk of the old school who might
make a fortune in the films as Mr. Tutt,
legal hero in Arthur Train’s American
short stories. He would need no
make-up for the part except a stovepipe
hat, and his knowledge of precedents is
such that he could frame his own plots.
Lamb is a formidable fighter and a
tenacious cross-examiner, but one of the
most kind-hearted men alive. He was a
favorite royal commission counsel in
an earlier day, his last big job being as
chairman of the Commonwealth’s petrol
inquiry. He retires to a farm which has
been his hobby for a generation.
“Walkabout”: Recent talk of outlaw
horses that can’t be ridden reminds me oi
one that was brought to Darwin when
Vestey’s meatworks were operating. The
station manager who had unearthed the
buckjumper put up £lOO to say that Toni
Hyland couldn’t stay aboard it for 20
seconds, using a poley saddle. It wasn’t
a race as far as the manager’s century
was concerned, and after riding the prad
to a standstill Hyland offered to bet
double or quits he’d ride it bare-
back the following night. One hundred
was enough for the station-manager to
lose; he sent his pet home next day.
THE RIDER.
In memory of E. Mary Gurney.
She who rode with cry and spark
The mare that is the delicate dark
Of spirit thundering slow sense
Has leaped the last, most reckless fence
To that wild world for which she burned,
Where fields to deeper darkness turned
And sky of swifter flying white
Turn cry to song and spark to light.
Hunt, that was too slow to follow,
Remember now her ringing “Hollo!”


"■'i ii
"» ii
11 'i«
m
m
#
AT SIA, ON LAND
amd IN THE AIR
df
A self-contained and highly efficient wireless manufacturing
industry, capable of ready expansion if called upon, is essen-
tial to Australia’s needs.
The manufacture of wireless equipment commenced by
Amalgamated Wireless in 1913 has developed until to-day
at the A.W.A. modern Radio-Electric Works every type of
wireless equipment for use at sea, on land and in the air
is produced. Wireless stations for ships, for Australian
coastal radio and Pacific Island stations, and broadcasting
transmitters for Australian and New Zealand services are
but a few of the many products manufactured.
The 60 k.w. broadcast transmitter of 2YA Wellington, built
for the New Zealand broadcasting services, the 20 k.w.
transmitter used for the Wireless Telephone Service between
Australia and Great Britain, as well as the fourteen other
transmitters at A.W.A. Radio Centre, Pennant Hills, Sydney,
used for various communication services, were manufactured
at the Company’s works.
In the field of aircraft, A.W.A. is installing for the Civil
Aviation Board radio telegraphy and telephony equipment
at all the principal aerodromes in Australia, also a number
of ultra-high frequency radio course beacons.
Twenty-five commercial aircraft of various Australian air-
ways companies carry A.W.A. aircraft equipment.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Marmalade”: When I advertised for
a teamster an elderly chap showed up
and was signed on. A few hours later a
fresh-faced kid in short pants came to
the homestead and announced he was
after the job. “Sorry, son,” I said.
“You’re too late. Besides, a kid of your
age couldn’t handle horses.” He cleared,
but was back within five minutes. “Say,
mister, about that job” “Get!” I
ordered angrily. “Didn’t I tell you you’re
too young to” “That’s jake, boss,”
he said. “But I’ve been watching your
new bloke handle them prads, and be
cripes it’s put years on me.” I found him
a job.
* * *
“Brace-and-bit”: Here’s my nomi-
nation for a rummy fence. On some of
the top-rock country on Warbreccan
station (W.Q.) it was next to impossible
to put down a posthole. As it was fairly
flat country, running through heavy
mulga and spinifex, they put up a three-
wire cattle fence, erecting their posts by
laying down heavy mulga sleepers about
6ft. long, to which the upright posts were
mortised. The strainers had additional
stays —two sleepers bolted together—and
the strainer was mortised into those,
which lay at right-angles to each other.
It stood for years, too.
* * *
“X-Sleeperslasher”: i’ve met some
good lightweight broadaxemen; but all
the “slashers” were strong men, on the
tall side and heavier than they looked.
“Ted the Slasher,” well known among
timber men on the Bananaland coast 40
years ago, who could hack his 40 7ft. x
9in. x 4yin. “square” sleepers between
sunrise and sunset without hurting him-
self, was a broad-shouldered, thick-chested
Swede, about sft. lOin. tall and 12 stone.
He used a 16in. axe, keen-edged as a
razor. Jack Grills was a tall man, nearly
6ft. and scaling close to 12 stone. The
best short man I knew was Frank Lister,
but, though short (about sft. 7in.),
Frank’s working weight was never below
10 stone. In axe work the tall man. usually
seems to be able to put it over his shorter
brother —that is, as regards day-in-day-
out yakka. The small man is seen at
his best in axe work generally in a short
burst.
ijc * * / :js
“E.E.”: No great feat, perhaps, for
two drovers to take 25 head of young
cattle the 62 miles between Bonang (Vic.)
and Orbost in four days. But when it
is known that the drovers were lads of
11 and 12 respectively and that they
accomplished the journey on foot, keep-
ing watch alternately at night, it must
be admitted that the old pioneering spirit
still survives.
* * *
“Bushy Park”: So “Warrigal” would
like to see a saddle made with gadgets
to prevent the stirrup-leathers from pull-
ing out (B. 19/5/’38)? It just shows
you. Judging by his pen-name, I always
thought that “Warrigal” was a bushman,
but I suppose you can pick up quite a lot
of information about horses by watch-
ing the hired hacks bump their riders
along the city riding-tracks.. However, if
he ever takes a toss from a real horse
and finds himself being dragged along
by one stirrup while flailing hooves are
whizzing past his head, he’ll sing a dif-
ferent song. Even the best of riders take
a tumble now and then, and no one in
his right senses would look at, much
less ride in, a saddle with fixed leathers.
That’s the opinion of all the horsemen
I know—the ones who thought otherwise
have left their earthly address.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Maoriland has been
thrown into a ferment by the discovery
of a snake some 30in. long at Wairoa.
As M.L. vies with Ireland and Iceland
in snakelessness, the question is being
debated as to where the fell menace
came from. M.L. imports bananas from
Fiji, and it is most probable it arrived
in a bunch of the fruit, quite a com-
mon occurrence. Failing that, it may
have been imported from Australia, like
Priminister Savage.
“Cooramin”: The Queensland Gov-
ernment has granted a £5 bonus to Rosy
Turnooff, a full-blooded abo. on Morn-
ington Is., who recently presented her
spouse with twins. The new arrivals
bring the number of Rosy’s progeny to
15 ; some are married, and she has 10
grandchildren. Two-pfeller-one-time is a
rare event among abos.; nor are they
regarded as a matter for rejoicing. I
remember a gin at Yalpunga, north-west
N.S.W., who had twins, but one was
soon missing. At the inquiry that fol-
“Stop it, Ernie —you're making me dizzy!”
lowed the gin pleaded that she couldn’t
rear and transport two at once. “Baal
me dingo,” she added. “Me walk about
long way, carry one piccaninny. Me
losum ’nother one an’ no more find
him.” The police couldn’t find him
either, and that was the end of it.
“Bill O’C.”: What “The 0.D.” (B.
19/5/’3B) found (by implication) so in-
credible in statements attributed to an
English writer may with a little quali-
fication pass as authentic facts, namely,
that he had often seen sheep (a) catch
and eat rabbits, ( b) eat the wool off each
other’s backs, and (c) chew the clothing
off anyone going near them. Leave the
“catch” from (a) and substitute “chew
the dried bones of dead,” and it becomes
a fairly ordinary act of all salt-hungry
animals. The apparent eating of the
wool off each other’s backs any dweller
in the clover-burr districts must have
seen happening often enough with yarded
sheep. Of course, it is not the wool they
are eating, but the clover-seed contents.
As for the chewing of the clothing of
anyone going near them, a pet sheep
will behave that way if he likes the smell
of your clothes, or even if, like his cousin
r-fhfw fedS 8 diSP ° Sitio, ‘
* * * *
“Tidapa”: A glance through the list
of shipping disasters around the Aus-
tralian coast makes coincidence seem
almost commonplace. Vessels bearing
the same moniker have been lost at ex-
actly the same place, and even trebles
have occurred. Three Black Eagles were
lost in the Yarra ; three Bluebells—one
a steamer—were wrecked at Broome;
the same number of Darts went ashore
at King Island (Bass Strait). Endeavour
seems to be the unluckiest name—over
30 have finished up on the same reef in
Torres Strait.
* *
“Golden Mile”: It can still happen in
W.A.! Brought from the Shivery Islands
a couple of years ago to act as pro. to
the Kalgoorlie Golf Club, J. A. Pass soon
abandoned the futile tapping of the little
white balls to take on the he-man s game
of gold-hunting. Eight months of it saw
him broke. But a spell m the deep
Boulder mines replenished the exchequer,
and with a mate he was out again. This
time Mulgabbie turned up £360 from less
than a half sugarbag of stone. An
ancient truck was bought and farther
fields sought. Thirty miles east of Menzies
the truck balked at the climbing of a
steep rise. So while the engine cooled
the billy was boiled, pending which Pass
had the curiosity to climb to the top of
the ridge. A quartz outcrop took his
eye—as it had possibly taken the eyes
of a dozen or so before him. But being
comparatively new to the game and
sanguine, he broke a lump off. Free gold
showed —of sufficient richness to induce
a company to take up an option. Now
there are 10 men on the job finding out
just what that quartz outcrop may lead
to.
* * * *
“Billy See”: It is God’s own country—
in patches, anyway! Night-wading in
the Mandurah estuary (W.A.), McPherson
speared six cobblers (catfish). Divested
of heads and skins, these breakfasted six
persons royally. With the heads as bait
to four lines, Mac anchored in deep
water, the tide running out. Crabs in
incredible plenty were coming down, and
just as fast as he could haul in and use
the dip-net Mac caught them —anything
under 15in. going back to grow bigger.
Two hours saw a chaff bag filled to the
brim. Boiled in seawater (driftwood and
scrub being amply available as fuel), the
crustaceans, eaten hot, with a touch of
vinegar and pepper, made another royal
feast. The surplus, carted back to Perth
on an ancient truck, provided a fish meal
for a dozen or so dole-workers’ families.
As the author of all this good eating
Mac basked in an aura of benevolence.
“Ay, and it didn’t cost me a penny,
except the wee drop of petrol that I d
been spending, anyhow.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: When the rabbit-canning
factory was mooted, a city man came
to address a meeting of trappers. Alter
informing those present that no rabbits
would be accepted at the factory if they
had been dead for more than three
hours, he went on to make other, and
equally impossible, stipulations. He
finished up with, “And you will have
to set your traps so that the rabbits are
caught only by the front legs. Rabbits
caught by a hind leg are too bruised for
canning.” The silence which followed
was broken by a man at the rear of the
hall. Picking up his hat, he said, “There's
only one way we can get rabbits' that
will fulfil your conditions, and that’s by
going back to the old English method
of trapping.” The speaker nodded.
“You mean by using snares instead of
the ordinary traps?” he suggested. “No,”
said the other as he made for the door ;
“1 mean by putting salt on their
tails!”
“Yokain”: When old Tim, a neigh-
boring farmer, called at my place he
listened with interest to the radio for
a couple of hours, had lunch with me,
then sat yarning for a while. I happened
to ask how Bloggs (another neighbor)
was getting on. “It was really about him
I called,” Tim said thoughtfully. “His
bull chased him up a tree this morning,
and waited for him below. His wife
came out to chase the bull away, but
it took to her and put her up the tree,
too. Would you lend us a hand to drive
the bull off so’s they can get down?”
I jumped up quickly and grabbed my
whip. “No hurry,” said Tim, “it’s only
two o’clock now: They don’t start milk-
ing till five.”
❖ * * *
“Wang”: Dad had been attending a
meeting of the sports club, at which he
had been appointed starter of the foot-
races, and it was just on midnight when
he arrived home. Not wishing to dis-
turb the household he took his boots
off quietly on the back verandah. Walk-
ing softly in his stockinged feet to the
kitchen, he surprised Hetty sitting on a
sofa with young Alec McKinnon from
up the creek. Hetty giggled hysterically
and hid her face on Alec’s shoulder.
Withdrawing his arm, Alec stammered
foolishly, “Er—oh—Mister Gumbough,
y’ give me quite a start!” “Well,” said
Dad, with a significant glance towards
the old muzzle-loader standing in the
corner by the fireplace, “yer’d better get
yerself set t’ make th’ most of it when
th’ gun goes orf!”
*
“Nor’-west”: Whilst I doubt if any
diver, black or white, has ever been
seriously incommoded by a giant clam,
skin divers dozens of times have gone
down never to reappear. Around W.A.’s
nor’-west the real culprits are the croco-
diles. In King Sound, Collier Bay ana
a dozen other inlets these brutes grow to
over 20ft., and are as cunning as the
original serpent. Aware of the descend-
ings of the skin divers—and also of the
pearler’s bullets—they used to slink into
deep water and wait. Unlike the shark-
bite, their attack left practically no dif-
fusion of telltale blood, and so the
victim simply disappeared—dragged away
under water, drowned, and then stowed
in the larder until mealtime. While
working King Sound suit-divers used to
see the foul brutes quite often, but the
bubbling, copper-domed, canvas-clad
apparition is too startling even for a
croc.
* * * *
“Notaden”: “Anthropo” (B. 19/5/’3B)
forgets Tasmania in his speculations
upon the arrival date of the abo. The
Tasmanian native was a far more primi-
tive type than his mainland cousin; he
had neither dogs nor boomerangs. The
accepted idea is that he arrived there
before Bass Strait existed, which is a very
long time ago indeed. Three waves of
migration, all from the n.-w., are trace-
able. The dingo seems to have come
with the second one and the boomerang
with the third.
“Neighbor”: Certain soils might pro-
duce a troublesome itch, but I’ll back the
one you get while working spotted-gum
—that is, if you are susceptible. Know
a seasoned timber-getter who suffered so
much that eventually he had to leave
the handsome smooth-barked trees alone.
The microscopic itch-mite appears to
exist in the powdery coating peculiar to
the outer bark of the gums, which is
present in greater quantity at certain
times of the year. There is also the
“rotten-wood” itch, found chiefly in
hollow and decaying-hearted ironbarks.
Besides raising lumps all over the body,
this itch produces a horrible feeling of
illness.
CHEWING IT OVER.
I lie country when the blue sky gleams and
glows
Can work y’ language, too, to blazin' blue,
With lambs a feed for wedgetails an’ the crows,
An’ ’ard brown earth as far as y’ can screw.
A bloke ’as always got some rag to chew,
But, some’ow, all ’is troubles seem reel small
When rain comes. Then ’e takes the cheerful
view:
The country ain’t a bad place after all!
On winter mornin’s when ’c’s nearly froze,
An’ ’as to chase some cranky, stubborn ewe,
A cove forgets ’is veins with good ’ealth
flows
An’ thinks, per'aps, ’e’s just a bit cuckoo
For livin’ in the bush. But when the dew
Glints in the sun, an’ magpies shrill their call,
’E knows no other life would ever do —
The country’s not a bad place after all!
The city’s good-o sometimes, with its rows
O’ shops, its life. My oath! it’s jake-a-loo;
But still an’ all, the whistlin’ wind that blows
Through river gums, that seems to get y’, too.
The boundin’s of an old-man kangaroo,
The whinny of y’r prad when in ’is stall—
Be cripes, y’ realise it then—too true!
The country’s not a bad place after all.
Ar, I dunno, a feller often goes
Reel lemons when the yakka starts to gall;
But, when ’e’s got a sheilah there, ’e knows
The country ain’t a bad place after all!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Bushy”: The boss and I had been
into the township with the cream. . On
the road out a figure lurched towards
us, waving his arms wildly. “That’s what
booze does for you! ” was the sententious
warning of the boss, himself an ardent
blue-ribboner. Just beyond the railway
yards we came on another doing the
human windmill act, and we nearly ran
him down. Just as we were getting on
to the main road No. 3 appeared, and
his protests as we passed him were
forcible and to the point, for when we
were 20yds. past him a massive chunk
of stone sailed across the road in front
of us, knocking a sapling to splinters.
To distinguish between half-shot blokes
and men earnestly striving to protect him
from quarry blasts is a science the boss
has yet to master.
* * * *
“Fish Foodster”: The person who lets
carp, perch, tench or any other imported
fish loose in waters already stocked by
native species is foolish. But the stock-
ing of barren waters with them is
real good business. Perch is good, but
carp is more profitable, being hardier
and growing to greater size. Either is
good enough sport to anyone who hasn’t
elevated angling into a religion. As for
eating—well, that’s a matter of taste ;
the inlander, accustomed to drinking
weed-and-clay-flavored water, isn’t likely
to cavil at a little muddiness in fish lifted
from those same inland ponds. Writer
has had many a day’s sport and many
"Is THAT Harrison? Well, I Wouldn't 'ave reckernised 'im if I 'adn't
knoo 'im."
a good feed on carp bred in a dam
where only a few years previously had
been an expanse of dry earth. The chief
difficulty is to give the young fish a
start in life. A few handfuls of wheat
cast on the water is as good as anything.
When swollen, some grains will be eaten,
others will germinate —in both forms
good carp and perch food. For bait a
little stiff dough, slightly sweetened,
though perch prefer a worm.
* * * #
“Western”: The fatalistic bushman
who reckons that a certain dangerous-
looking limb “has been hanging a long
time, but it ain’t fallen yet” doesn’t
always get away with it. Back in early
Kanowna (W.A.) days I attended the in-
quest of a “swamper” who had just so
casually disregarded the warnings of
more cautious men. He had been found
properly incinerated. The limb had
fallen at last, pinning him down and
at the same time spilling dry twigs that
took light in the embers of his campfire.
How long it had taken for the fire to
reach him, and what had been his feel-
ings as he had watched its steady ap-
proach, there was no means of knowing,
but, being salmon-gum, the limb had
burnt to the last fleecy ash —right across
him.
* * * *
“Rangi A.”: I was in Old George’s
store in an outback M.L. town when
Vic, one of the local carriers, pulled in
with a load of goods. “Put the stuff
down quietly this time,” says George.
“Damn me, last time you was here y’
dumped the wheat that hard me window
that I’d spent all the mornin’ dressin’
fell in.' s Vic grinned at me as he passed
through into the storeroom bowed under
a 200 of flour. Suddenly there was a
rumble and a terrific crash, and tins of
fruit and jam came tumbling down on
us from the shelves. “ ’Struth! What
the” roared George, purple in the
face, making a dive fo'r the storeroom
to collide with a pale-faced Vic emerging.
“Y’ goat! Didn’t I” he yelled.
“Shut y’ mouth and run,” gasped Vic.
“It’s a ’quake!”
“K.1.N.”: As my mate and I were
riding over the mountain country out
from Evangie (W.Q.) looking for sheep
our talk turned to gold and the possi-
bility of a find. We’d just come to the
decision there might be gold in that
mineral country when we came to a
gilgai filled with rainwater. Bending
over it to get a drink I spotted on the
bottom something as big as a haricot
bean shining with a reddish-yellow glint.
Gold! I called my mate to come and
have a look at the thing and share in
the find. I dipped my hand in the water
and found that nugget was real. 1
fingered it lovingly before I lifted it out.
When it lay in the palm of my hand
it turned out to be only a topaz which
had been struck with color through lying
in the reddish water and the sun’s rays
hitting it right!
❖
“Huglow”: Put the wagtail down as a
bird with a quick eye and a taste for the
good things of life. Every morning at
milking-time on a s.-w. Q. dairy-farm
Willie perches on the yard rail beside
a cow with a leaking teat. As the milk
falls Willie flits under Blossom’s belly,
catches the drop in midair and returns
to his rail. He does this until he has had
his fill, then he disappears until milking-
time next morning.
“S.T.S.”: Curious natural history
item: A much surprised wild duck
volplaned down on to a busy highway
outside Adelaide on a rainy evening.
Presumably it mistook the wet bitumen,
gleaming in the moonlight, for a lake,
as many of its kind have mistaken iron
roofs.
“ Don't ’ee go sack un , Cap'n —’e got big family."
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Joe Tilson,” said
Watty, “was sinkin’ a shaft on the Tanji.
It was pretty lonely, bein’ thirty mile
from the nearest pub, but bein’ right
on the gold we put up with the draw-
backs. One day a coupla emus comes
outer the scrub an’ takes a geek at us.
Nex’ day, they was there agin an’ stayed
a bit longer. Now Joe, ’oo’s a good-
’earted sorta bloke, an’ terr’ble fond uv
animals, smashes up some dead, marines
an’ feeds ’em the bits. That started it.
In no time them birds is follering us
round like dawgs, an’ nothink ud satisfy
’em but ter doss alongside us at night.
They et us out uv bottle-tops an’ old
iron, an’ Joe ’as ter make special trips
to town ter keep the supply uv dead
marines up to ’em. The birds was speci-
ally interested in the windlass. They'd
stand fer hours watchin’ us windin’ with
their ’eads movin’ in time ter the ’andles.
It was Joe ’oo got the
idea. After some coax-
in’, ’e got the emus ter
grab the ’andles in their
beaks an’ do the wind-
in’ fer us. They took
ter the work like snides
ter telluride. After a
bit we was able ter
leave all the ’eavy ’aul-
in’ ter the birds. The
way they answered ter
the knocker we rigged
up fer ’em was wunner-
ful, an’ when we give
’em the four-an’-one —
‘Men on cage ; haul up’
—they’d go inter action
so careful me an’ Joe
’ad no worry about
trustin’ our lives to ’em.
Joe reckoned they was
as good as two men an’
about ten times as
cheap, considerin’ the
nachure of their feed.
We might’ve bin there
yet but fer one thing.
They always spent their
orf-shift pokin’ round
lookin’ fer tucker. Of
course, we didn’t mind
’em pickin’ up odds-an’-
ends like bolts an’ nuts or nails
or the buttons orf our trousers; but
when they starts wolfin’ our best slugs
—three or four ounces at a time —it was
too damn expensive fer us. We ’ad ter
shoot ’em.”
* * * *
The theory that fence-posts,
sprouting, grow up and take fencing-
wires with them is akin to the old gag
about the melon-vines growing so fast
they wear the melons out dragging
them along the ground. The fact is
that all forms of vegetation grow ahead,
leaving the already-grown parts behind.
Just one of many instances: staked-up
bushes, such as tomato plants, do not
shoot up and drag the string away from
the stake. A little commonsense thought
will show that there is only one side to
the argument. /
* $ $ *
“Emelane”: Progress in harvesting
methods? Seventy years ago my father
learned, rather painfully, to use a sickle
by helping an uncle at Caroline (S.A.)
reap a small wheat crop. Scythes, with
or without a “cradle,” were also used
then ; one well-to-do farmer in that dis-
trict actually had a stripper. My great-
uncle threshed his wheat with a flail on
the floor of a shallow pit cut from the
limestone rock; but my grandfather had
his trodden out by horses on a larger
threshing-floor. Some farmers used
buliocks. An improved threshing-floor
had a central post round which a tapered
roller, grooved with an axe, was dawn
by bullocks or horses, which did not
tread the grain. The earliest threshing-
machines my father knew threshed only ;
the cleaning had still to be done by
winnower. The first winnowers, too, had
no spiked rollers, so the man who stood
to feed through the wheat-and-chaff mix-
ture needed the veil he wore at the job.
As the charge for threshing was three-
pence per bushel, with a minimum of £2
for “setting,” farmers with 40 bags or
less did not patronise the travelling
threshers. Later came the treader-
winnowers and steam-driven threshers
that cleaned the wheat. The stripper and
winnower gave place to the harvester and
the header, horse- or power-drawn. Now
the auto-header harvests a bag of wheat
a minute.
* * * *
“Rewa”: Tales arise frequently in
M.L. of the discovery of great buried
forests, some of which are visible under
the water of deep lakes. Recently obser-
vers near Lake Tehoe, a narrow sheet
five miles long and 260 ft. deep, formed
as a result of the blocking of the gorge
by landslides in the Napier earthquake
of 1931 and drained by the breaking of
its natural dam in a phenomenal flood
last April, saw one of these forests
unexpectedly exposed. Not only were
the trees still standing after their seven
years under water, but the plantation that
once surrounded the old homestead in
the valley was easily recognisable. The
homestead itself, with sundry outbuild-
ings, was cleverly saved on the rising
of the valley waters after the earthquake
by the cutting of the piles on which it
rested, thus enabling it to float on the
flood and eventually come to rest, like
a more famous building, on high ground,
on which it remains to-day. Hollywood
hasn’t done anything as spectacular as
the coming and going of Lake Tehoe
and the return to light of the forest,
with the salvaging of the Ngapapa home-
stead thrown in as good measure.
THE CONTEMPLATIVE COCKY.
It’s not the work you reelly do makes cockyin’
a cow—
It’s all the things you oughter do but haven’t
time just now;
There’s that blasted bit o’ netting that’s been
rooted by the sow,
It should be mended up at once —but how the
dickens, how?
Them steers that’s in the paddick must be shifted
to the creek,
The waterhole has petered out, the darned thing
sprung a leak;
Them scrubby-lookin’ ewes an’ lambs is actin’
pretty meek,
Be rights they should’ve got a move about
las’ Thursday week.
It’s time ter din: pertaters, an’ the haystack
wants a thatch,
There & nours o hoein’ needed in the flamin’
mangoP patch,
An’ a fence put round the garden where the
hens get in an’ scratch —
An’ —yes!—the missus mentioned that the back
gate wants a latch.
The river’s sinkin’ lower, there’s no wind ter
drive the mill,
An’ the irrigation wanted is a thought ter make
you ill;
Them fruit-trees is jest cryin’ out for water
on the hill,
If only they can keep alive until the rain—
until!
The peas ter treat ’em fairly should be har-
vested right now,
An’ the stretch along the lane must be gone
over with the plough;
There’s that blasted bit o’ nettin’ that’s been
rooted by the sow,
It should be mended up at once —but how
the dickens, how?
VICTORIA.
S. P. c.


AUXILIARY KETCH YACHT HURRICA V.
Designed by MR. CHARLES NICHOLSON, of Messrs. Camper and
Nicholsons, Gosport, Hampshire, England. Built by Wm. ford, Junior,
at Berry’s Bay, North Sydney.
Cost £lO,OOO.
Will accept £3500 Nett.
Now lying at Williamstown.
For Particulars, Enquire:—
CHARLES FORRESTER & CO. PTY., LTD.
15 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Length overall, 58ft. 3in.
Beam, extreme, 14ft.
Draught, loaded, 7ft.
Length between perpendiculars,
48ft. Bin.
Water-line length, 41ft. 9in.
Lead on keel, 10 tons.
Lead inside, trimming ballast,
about l\ tons.
Engine, Gardner 3 D.C.R.,
36 H.P.
Propeller at present shipped,
2 blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Another propeller, aboard, 3
blades, 24in. diameter, 16in.
pitch.
Full equipment of sails, and
3 anchors, 2 chain cables and
1 coir cable.
Two dingheys.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
250 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- ami 8/- per day: Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUSLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.uneh from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.20 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by "Phone. M4(101
The LUDOWIGI ALL-STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
fd
Possesses much greater
STRENGTH RIGIDITY
ACCURACY LIGHTNESS
ACCESSIBILITY
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd
POWER T» ANSMISSION ENGINEERS
17 YORK STREET, SYDNEY, 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST., STH. MELBOURNE
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dee., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67;969 42,198
1920.. 880.031 344,660 144,684 4.303 386,384
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 ) - nQ
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO
1932.. 1.911.243 1,225,812 367,822 5,169 \ Qll ...
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J 3H,44u
1933. 1,159,531 406,192 3,358 | 71 . ,„ a
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. j
From Accident Dept., £lO,OOO ]
Profit reval. securities, £495,357 ( . ir9ia7
1934.. 394.3201.264.671 468,116 3,703 I
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. J
From Accident Dept., £12,000 ]
1935.. 728.0181.242.504 519,316 10,954 [ ..... n - 0
Staff bonus, £5185 .. .. f Jb,,Uo9
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. I
Profit on sale securities, £62,335 1
From Accident Dept., £60,000 [ , , 01 Rn 9
1936.. 3.146.251 1,559,795 581,827 4162 [ ’
Superamunition Fund, £lOOO ..J
From Accident Dept., £20,000
1937.. 3.565.539 1,559,405 573,936 48,371 [• 1,402,827
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO ..J
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1932 .. 592,052 140,114 170,458]
Written off, £24,380 .. .. 1 2,586,296
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..]
1933 .. 642,329 171,479 178,767 ]
Written off, £556 .. .. }■ 2,876,923
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. j
Profit reval. securities, £116,779 ]
1934 .. 715,779 178,463 203,517 I „ oo« i«o
Written off, £438 .. .. f a-J-D.ibd
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. J
1935 .. 768,006 178,868 215,378)
Written off, £431 .. .. 1 Q
Staff bonus, £l9lB .. 3,696,673
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. j
1936 .. 837,036 187,022 230,434]
Written off, £702 14,114,651
Superannuation Fund, £9OO ..
1937 . . 916,293 254,552 246,612 '
Written off, £1261 4,527,619
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. j
* Includes contingency funds, etc.
The Colonial, formed in Melbourne in
1873, is one of Australia’s five big mutual
life offices, and, of recent years, one of
the most energetic, too. It does a large
Ordinary, Industrial and Accident and
Sickness business throughout the Com-
monwealth, and in the U.K., S. Africa
and Maoriland as well. Group assur-
ance (a line which the co. pioneered) and
house-purchase policies (introduced in
1934, £1,426,846 had been advanced
under this head at the end of Dec.) are
features of the co.’s prospectus, and the
nursing and welfare service is a boon to
sick policy-holders (20,000 visits were
paid to them last year) in the Industrial
department. The co.’s funds, which
totalled £7,172,154 in 1923, had grown
to £21,377,912 at the end of December;
that is to say, in the last 14 years the co.
has put on nearly three times the weight
it developed in the preceding half-century.
Last year a record amount (£12,928,476,
up £108,087) of new Ordinary business
was written—indeed, the figure was
second only to that of the big A.M.P.
Society. The amount of new Industrial
business put on the books (£2,436,171)
was also a record, and so were premiums
gathered (£111,082, up £24,120) in the
Accident section. Total income from all
sources sprang £521,661, reaching
£4,598,683, of which net premiums, etc.,
accounted for £3,690,348 (up £441,379)
and interest and rents £908,335 (up
£80,282). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., writing £49,632 off the
book value of securities and sending
£2OOO to the staff fund, £1,831,328 was
added to the co.’s own funds, raising the
total to £21,377,912, of which £16,711,061
belonged to the Ordinary, £4,527,618 to
the Industrial and £139,233 to the Acci-
dent department.
The growth in funds outstripped the
growth in actuarial liabilities, as the fol-
lowing comparison of annual surpluses
in each department shows:
IQqo iQOfl IQQ7
Ordinary . . . . £434,769 £450,416 £539,648
Industrial . . . . 97,719 95,971 122,270
Accident . . . . 24,959 33,214 41,873
Total £557,447 £579,601 £703,791
Of the surplus (up £89,232) in the Ordi-
nary branch, £467,455 is to be distri-
buted in reversionary bonuses on the
same scale as for the previous year. The
distribution was equal to 16.5 p.c. of
premium income as against 17.6 p.c. for
1936. . In the Industrial branch £91,725
will be distributed in bonuses also on
the same scale as for 1936. In the Acci-
dent section £17,559 is to be used to
again provide permanent additions of
£2 p.c. to all benefits contracted for,
leaving the accumulated surplus in this
section at £45,156. That was after
£20,000 had been transferred from the
Accident to the Ordinary department
during the year to help offset the amount
written off securities.
The amount of the year’s surplus car-
ried forward in the Ordinary and Indus-
trial departments (£69,945 and £29,645
respectively), the low rate of mortality
experienced (only 48 p.c. of expectation),
the tight hold kept upon exes, and the
slight improvement in the rate of interest
earned all augur well for maintenance
of bonus rates.
After deducting the tax bill and allowing
3 p.c. for consideration of annuities, exes,
took 19.3 p.c. of premium income in the
Ordinary branch as against 22.2 p.c. and
22.7 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
In the Industrial section the expense rate
was 33.3 p.c., the same as for the pre-
vious year.
The office assumes that its insurance
funds will turn in only 3 p.c. in each
department. After deducting taxation,
last year’s net return on mean funds was
4.3 p.c. as against 4.2 p.c. for 1936.
Funds are invested in this way:
Public securities 1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
and debentures. ,-£9,770,686 49.1 £11,029,301 50.8
Mortgages. . .. 5,276,181 26.5 5,482,865 25.2
Freeholds, etc. .. 2,484,676 12.5 2,685,371 12.3
Loans on policies. . 1,534,513 7.7 1,619,163 7.4
Premiums and in-
terestoutstanding 315,312 1.6 272,883 1.2
Cash and deposits 338,139 1.7 438,759 2.2
Other assets . . 178,264 0.9 193,864 0.9
Most of the year’s surplus earnings
went into Government securities (up
£1,258,615), which account for 50.8 p.c.
of total assets.
The national health and pensions
scheme, which provides for compulsory
insurance in both spheres for all em-
ployees receiving less than £365 p.a., will
cut into the co.’s Accident and Industrial
business to some extent, as well as tend
to bump up the expense rate. Still, a
large section of the community is out-
side the national scheme, and many who
are within its range may desire to supple-
ment its benefits by private insurance.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
1928.. 21,271 7 p.c. = 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ ~ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7 „ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
Lo’ss.
1932.. 3,909 7 ~ „ 6568 90,515
Profit.
1933.. 14,031 7 ~ „ 6568 7,463 97.978
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935.. 16.057 7 „ „ 6568 9.489 113.368
1936.. 18 822 7 „ „ 6575 12.247 125.615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7.248 132,863
1938. . 22.746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146,947
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
On the basis of the immediate yield
obtainable the scrip of this 17-year-old
Australian fire, marine and accident
office is the most highly-priced insurance
stock on the market. At 31s. the pound
shares paid to 10s. each return only 2.5
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
255. 4d. in net tangibles. The investor
who looks for 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a \2\ p.c. div., and only once (in
1932, when a loss was recorded) in the
last dozen years has the net return been
less than \2\ p.c. on capital. The same
yield (4 p.c.) would also be obtained
from a one-for-two gift issue and a lift
in the div. to 8 p.c., which would then
call for £11,421, or only £154 more than
interest and rents alone turned in last
year. Again, the same yield would be
obtained from a one-for-one par issue
for cash (the new shares being called
to 10s. each) and a lift in the div. to
8 p.c. Assuming that the new capital
earned 3| p.c., then, on the basis of last
year’s figures, interest and rents would
turn in only £630 less than an 8 p.c.
div. (£15,228) would call for.
A glance at the introductory table
shows that the board’s policy from the
start has been to build up strength. No
divs. were paid for the first three years,
then 6 p.c. was handed out, followed by
a steady 7 p.c. for the last 13 years.
And for the most part more was put by
than was distributed, reserves being visibly
piled £51,772 higher than paid capital at
the end of March. Further, the business,
which spreads all over the Common-
wealth, north to Asia and the Indies
and out over the South Sea Islands and
elsewhere, continues to step along like
a thoroughbred. Underwriting per-
formances compare as follows from the
start :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922. . £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1924.. 58.442 33.296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1926.. 97,483 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 157,422 96.737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7
1930.. 172,870 J 14.099 55,860 65.9 ~ 32.3 „
1931.. 138.729 82,066 55,261 59.1 ~ 39.8 ~
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1933.. 104.137 58,637 40.041 56.3 „ 38.4 „
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1985.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 „ 39.7 „
1936.. 145,922 82,382 53.876 56.4 „ 36.9 „
1937.. 170,729 105.358 61,626 61.9 ~ 36.2 „
1938.. 206,037 122,537 72,021 59.4 „ 34.9 „
Pleasing features of last year’s figures
are a spring of £35,308 in net premium
income and a contraction of approxi-
mately £2 10s. p.c. in the loss rate and
of £1 6s. p.c. in the expense ratio. One
result was a growth of £7734 in the
underwriting surplus, making it £11,479,
or 12 p.c. on capital. Interest and rents
turned in £11,267 (up £1102), or 11.8
p.c. on capital. Thus the whole of the
underwriting surplus and more besides
was available to swell investments and
returns therefrom. Profit from the two
sources combined was the best yet, being
23.8 p.c. on capital as against 14.6, 20,
17.1, 13.2, 14.9, a loss, 13.4, 14.9 and 18.4
p.c. back to 1929. Another encouraging
feature is the chairman’s remark that
“the directors have well before them new
avenues through which the co. may be
further developed.”
Policy-holders are well protected, and
assets are a solid and mostly readily-
realisable lot :
1922. 1929. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. £75,000 £95,175 £95,175
Sundry creditors* 8,028 99,072 100,750 113,037
Public securities.. 40,260 121,675 196,938 201,781
Fixed deposits .. 31,500 27,000 16,000 16,000
Cash, etc 13,209 13,872 26,237 41,953
Book debts, etc... 7,098 49,671 22,235 28,048
Freeholds .. • . 74,041 74,041 74,041
* Includes provision for contingencies.
When the books closed, public securities,
fixed deposits and cash, etc., accounted
for over 71 p.c. of total assets. Also,
policy-holders could see reserves equal to
over 71 p.c. of the year’s net premium
income, whereas 40 p.c. is usually con-
sidered adequate; and shareholders
could be called upon to dredge up
another £95,175 if need be.
Caldwell's Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends \To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ &
1927.. 12.247 8 p.c. 10 p.e. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 .. •• 37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 5236 42,67..
Trade-marks, etc., £lO .. •• 43,663
1930.. 4,524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,9^0
Loss. , „
1931. . 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Transferred to assets revaluation Deficit, t
reserve, £56,486 .. .. 21,652
Profit.
1932. 4,002 Nil Nil 4002 17.650
1933.. 3,748 Nil Nil 3748 13,902
Transferred to specific reserves, £5000.. 18,902
1934 5,194 10 p.c. Nil 4,000 1194 17,708
1935.. 7,386 6.2 „ 2.5 p.c. 5,153 2233 15,475
1936.. 7,186 6.2,, 3 „ 5,748 1438 14,037
Loss resumption property, etc., £3500.. 17,53/
Written off shareholding)?, £l5OO. . 19,031
1937.. 9,264 6.2 p.c. 4 p.c. 6,890 2374 16,663
* After charging previous year’s taxation.
f Goodwill ( £25,000) not treated as an asset.
There is £148,155 of capital to feed in
44,757 prefs. and 103,398 ords. The prefs.
carry a cumulative 8 p.c., reduced to 6.2
p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act, and have priority as to capital.
For nine years to the end of 1928 the
ords. averaged 10.6 p.c. Owing to slump
and a host of other troubles, none has
been able to squeeze much profit out oi
the trade since. After a three years
drought, the prefs. got back into the pic-
ture in 1934, and the ords., who had gone
without since 1928, got 2\ p.c. in 1935,
followed by 3 p.c. and then 4 p.c. for
the last term.
The co.’s gallonage turnover has in-
creased by 46 p.c. since 1931, and is now
above pre-depression level, while distri-
bution and other overhead charges are
over £6OOO below what they were in the
boom years. But keen competition, partly
from producers in other States, has kept
selling prices down, while manufacturing
costs have risen with the lift in wages
and prices generally. Also, the export
bounty, which came down from 4s. a
gallon in 1925 to Is. 3d. 10 years later,
is being lowered by a penny a gallon
annually until 1940, leaving it at Is.
Last year’s gross earnings were £3085
better at £42,464. Exes. (£33,200) took
£lOO7 of the increase, leaving the net
result up £2078 at £9264. That leaves
out of the reckoning a loss of £3500 on
a property resumed by the Government
and £l5OO written off the book-value of
shares in the Brisbane subsidiary. It made
a small trading loss (£195, down £146),
which the parent took into account before
arriving at its own net profit. The £9265
was equal to 6.2 p.c. on total capital
(pref. and ord. combined).
Although the immediate outlook favors
maintenance of turnover, costs are still
on the up-grade, and national insurance
will further add to the burden. The co.
proposes to issue £25,000 of 6 p.c. deben-
tures (£lO,OOO worth has been under-
written, and the balance is to be first
offered to shareholders), mainly for the
purpose of modernising its wine saloons.
Last year’s profit was equal to a shade
over 7 p.c. on the book value of net
tangibles. On this basis the debentures
look like earning a bit more than they
will call for.
When the books closed, there was
12s. Bd. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound of net tangibles
belonging to shareholders:
1099 1090 IQQfi IQ‘97
Paid capital.. £Bo,ooo £143,398 £146,073 £148,155
Deposits .. 12,820 18,270 23,174 21,385
Mortgages, etc. 18,880 18,530 7,180
Overdraft . . 24,855 27,013 36,892 41,051
Other liabilities 15,631 15,942 14,626 13,900
Properties, plant,
etc 45,773 132,109 144,303 137,945
Book debts . . 28,449 27,579 28,854 27,970
Stocks . . 65,469 29,899 45,795 45,262
Cash, etc. . . 551 2,365 2,527 2,947
Shares in other
cos 13,900 8,204 6,400
During the year £9706 net was clipped
off the outside debt, reducing it to
£83,516, which exceeded more or less
(Continued on page 24.)


THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
DALTON HOUSE, 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PROGRESS REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
Prr,aT Ur D Directo H h ? ve P leasure m informing shareholders that, as advised in the last
Kklf p f e ? ort ’ Mr. Launcelot Owen, A.R.S.M., A.R.C.Sc., D.1.C., M.lnst.P.T., a leading
■ft ml u •• m Geolog'st who had been engaged by the Company, left Sydney for Papua
hv Mr February last, reaching the field on the 10th of that month. Accompanied
ovarii- • rHaynes, our Field Manager, Mr. Owen immediately proceeded to make an
animation of the structure of the Apinaipi Dome and surrounding country.
r By this time No. 1 bore had been completed at a depth of 509 feet. The Oil Advisory
fn! Uee havmg suggested several scout drilling bores of approximately 500 feet, work
was then commenced on No. 2 bore; ’
mnt-irrrf Cn reac h. e d a depth of 564 feet, Mr. Owen had had an opportunity of
, c , , g a general inspection, of the field, finally coming to the definite conclusion that
, a j. ava, lable data, pointed to the excellence of the Oiapu structure for the
immediate testing of the Permit area, and reports: —
, . am sa t*sfied that the oil-bearing potentialities of the Oiapu structure justify
, e < ? ur cost of a full test, and I can foresee no reason why that opinion
should be substantially modified by the more detailed examination which I have
in anticipation. /
states that the fact that he was enabled to reach this definite conclusion, after
hv r>r P , a !r y^ ho , rt J , n A! le was largely due to the excellent pioneer work done
r.r (Ko ’ a i u « . ac * e on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, and by the geologists
An gj°' l er s i an_ Company. He wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to their issued
S , and f to , the , information which they have given him verbally. Mr. R. S. Haynes’
Knowledge of local conditions has also been of great value to him.
trai . ls^ r drilling plant to Oiapu, Mr. Owen made still further
suiveys of this area which confirmed his opinion as above expressed.
that I™ > u'f C aH rs ’ therefore, concurred with Mr. Owen’s and Mr. Haynes’ recommendations
m-m wr d ri n8 l , on Apinaipi Dome should be discontinued in the meantime, and the
a ill transferred to the Oiapu Anticline. The data obtained from Nos. 1 and 2 bores at
Apinaipi confirmed the opinions expressed by the Anglo-Persian Oil Company’s field geologists
hv i hi' 1 r or! g ina l reports. ' ihe cores have been forwarded to Canberra tor examination
o> tne Commonwealth Pala-ontologist, whose report is expected shortly. A preliminary
examination by the Government Paleontologist suggests that these cores are entirely Pliocene
m and that, therefore, the group of strata of Miocene age (which is a prolific producer
oi oil m other parts of the world) still remains for testing by the drill.
(It is interesting to note that Mr. D. J. Tynan, driller in charge of the drilling
plant, reporting on No. 2 bore, at Apinaipi, says:—
,’ A ® tro P. g . s j low °f g as a light show of oil was met in broken formation at
443 to 444 feet. Further gas blows occurred at 462 and 473 feet, with a light oil
show at the latter depth. At 488 feet the gas pressure was 2301 b. to the square inch.”)
hollowing on the foregoing, Mr. Owen was of opinion that the results of his investi-
gations were of such importance to the Company that he and Mr. Haynes should proceed
° an<a Iwhole of the information obtained to date before your Directors
and the Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee. The Committee had given us such complete
co-opei ation thioughout the whole of our field operations that we desired to consult them
before proceeding with the deep drilling campaign outlined by Mr. Owen. Your Directors
at once agreed to Mr, Owen’s suggestion, and he and Mr. Haynes arrived in Sydney on the
12th inst. A conference was arranged with Drs. Woolnough and Wade, at Canberra,
u 9y en ’ Mr. Haynes and the Secretary of the Company, for Monday, 16th inst.,
when Mr. Owen put his views on the potentialities of the Company’s area very fully before
the Committee, explaining in geological terms the reasons for coming to the conclusions he
expressed. The Committee met your representatives in the most generous, co-operative spirit,
expressed their concurrence with Mr. Owen’s opinions on the possibilities of the area, and
asked for a full written report on his preliminary investigation. Mr. Haynes also supplied
details of the field work prior to Mr. Owen’s arrival in Papua, and reiterated the opinion
he had so often expressed previously, that the area covered by the Company’s Permit offered
undoubted opportunity for the discovery of oil in commercial quantities.
Returning to Sydney, Mr. Owen set about making a full geological report to your Board,
which was laid before the Directors on Monday, 23rd inst. The report, which most carefully
presented the geological data compiled by Mr. Owen, was discussed during the day, and it
was decided to place before the shareholders such excerpts from his report which your
Directors felt would be of vital interest to them, but omitting geological technicalities.
Mr. Owen’s report contains the following important statements:—-
STRUCTURE.
“The structure of the Company’s area consists, essentially, of a series of elongated
domes, en echelon. The Anglo-Persian geologists recognised and mapped four units, which
they named the Oiapu Anticline, the Jokea-Apinaipi Dome, the Apinaipi Anticline and the
Lesi Anticline. The writer has made a preliminary examination of all these structures —with
the exception of the Lesi Anticline, which possesses no immediate importance, and which
would be the final area for study and testing—and he has paid particular attention to those
parts where the existing interpretations of the geology are open to question.
“It is obvious from this preliminary examination that the Oiapu structure offers definite
advantages for the initial scout and major drilling operations over the other structures
included in the Company’s area, and for this reason the Oiapu district has received preference
as far as the time available up to the present is concerned. The scout drilling operations
have, therefore, been transferred from the Apinaipi-Jokea dome to the Oiapu structure. This
by no means indicates an unfavorable opinion of the potentialities of the other structures.
The change over has been made because the Oiapu structure is the largest and least complex
within the area and offers the best facilities for securing the maximum amount of geological
and palaeontological information with a minimum expenditure of time and money. The
geological information available at the moment, moreover, suggests that the hopes of striking
commercial oil are most favorable within the Oiapu structure.
“In the event of striking oil at Oiapu, the greater part of the Company’s Permit area
will rank as justifying the expenditure of testing for oil by major drilling operations.
OIAPU ANTICLINE.
“The Oiapu Anticline consists of an elongated dome having a vertical deformation
(closure) of about 600 feet. The average width of the closed structure is over a mile, and
this figure may be appreciably increased by the information which will be derived from the
detailed geological survey to be undertaken immediately the writer returns to the area at the
beginning of June. The long axis of the closed structure persists definitely and without break
for at least 74 miles, and this figure also is likely to be increased when the detailed
examination has been accomplished. The area of the closed structure embraced by the
Oiapu Dome may thus be conservatively estimated at 8 square miles, or over 5000 acres.
“These figures compare very favourably with those of many ot the similar structures in
the prolific Californian oilfields.
“The long axis of the structure is slightly curved, having an average trend of N. 35deg. W.
in the southern part for the first 5 miles, and then running almost due North for 2\ miles.
“The middle calcareous group, which immediately overlies the mudstone group in this
area, was laid down under definitely shallower marine conditions than the corresponding beds
at Apinaipi, and it is probable, on the evidence available, that there has been a general
tendency, from late Miocene times at least, towards shallow water conditions in the Oiapu
area, with deeper conditions northwards. This is an important factor trom the oil point of
view, and will receive further serious study as soon as time permits.
“A further interesting feature is the possibility of barred basin conditions within the
Oiapu structure, but much further study is necessary before a definite pronouncement can
be made on this point. All the available data, however, points to the excellence of the Oiapu
structure for the first testing of the Permit area
“At Oiapu, from information obtained from pitting, at least 98 feet stratigraphical
thickness of beds should be penetrated for each 100 feet of drilling at the location which has
been selected.
“Dips on the Oiapu Anticline average about 35deg. on the South-west flank and about
25deg. on the North-east flank. The axial portion of the dome, except in very restricted
areas, shows an average dip of under lOdeg. The topography consists of a ring of hills
which rise to over 400 feet, and which enclose a low-lying central area, thus giving rise to an
almost perfect ‘canoe’ valley, which is the normal topographic expression of an anticlinal
structure.
JOKEA-APINAIPI DOME.
“The Apinaipi Dome is a much smaller structure than the Oiapu Anticline, and the central
Apinaipi valley is so restricted in area that very few drilling locations could be placed within
it. This would mean that most of the wells would have to be located on the hill slopes
boundmg the valley, which would constitute a serious item of expense for scout drillin°
and would necessitate deeper bores than if a flat valley bottom were available, as at Oiapu.
Once oil has been struck within the Permit area, this question of expense becomes, of
course, a minor item, and the structure will then demand testing by'major drilling. At the
moment, however, the Oiapu structure offers advantages over Apinaipi.
“No 1 bore at Apinaipi was drilled on the site selected by the Anglo-Persian geologists,
and reached a depth of 509 feet. The strata penetrated dips fairly consistently at 45deg., and
consists of tuffitic clay silt with occasional fine sandstone. Shows of gas were encountered
throughout, and indications of ‘live’ oil were reported.
“No. 2 bore was located and started before the writer’s arrival on the field. The
location is adjacent to a gas-blow, and, as might be expected, the bore penetrated very broken
strata. Gas showing pressures up to 2501 b. on the gauge was encountered at various horizons,
and shows of ‘live’ oil were creditably reported at 444 feet and 473 feet, but the extremely
light nature of the oil made it impossible for the writer to verify the indications as he was
away from the rig at the time they occurred.
“The normal dip of the strata in this bore was 45deg., but became variable in the
neighborhood of faults, and sometimes reached verticality. The bore attained a depth of
563 feet.
“These bores have definitely proved the gas-bearing nature of the upper part of the
mudstone series, with probable occasional traces of a very light oil whose properties suggest
migration through restricted channels from considerable depth. These facts suggest that
the series is petroliferous at depth.
“Surface dips on the flanks of the dome average 20deg. with axial dips of 45deg., as
proved in the scout bores. The dome has been described as ‘geniculate,’ with a
sharply-bent axis, but this apparent bending is due to a topographic accident rather than
to structure.
“There is evidence of faulting at Apinaipi, but no faults have as yet been mapped,
and as yet there is not sufficient evidence available to determine the closure or the area of the
closed structure, but it is considerably below that of the Oiapu structure.
“In the event of oil being struck at Oiapu this structure is eminently worthy of testing.
APINAIPI ANTICLINE (NORTH OF THE BIARU RIVER).
“The mudstone series is not exposed on this structure, and its extent and exact nature
cannot be determined without intensive study and pitting. The scanty information in the.
Anglo-Persian report and the writer’s observations suggest that further study of this area,
is justified and will become imperative in the event of successful operations to the South.
OTHER STRUCTURES.
‘There are indications of other favorable structures as yet unstudied within the area
covered by the Company's Permit, but a complete examination of the area is necessary before
any assessment of their value can be made. As has been stated above, the major part of the
Company’s Permit area will justify testing in the event of successful results at Oiapu.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS.
“The Permit area held by the Company contains a number of structures
favourable to the collection and conservation of petroleum, and the greater part
of the area justifies the expense in time and money of detailed geological investi-
gation. The work accomplished up to the present by the various geologists who
have examined the area is almost entirely of a pioneer nature.
“The whole area is underlaid at varying depths by a mudstone series of
strata which is known to be petroliferous in other parts of Papua, although proof
of its commercial value is lacking, as none of the drilling so far accomplished has
reached the horizon where commercial oil might be expected to occur.
“In spite of this incomplete knowledge of the area, the Oiapu structure is so
excellent that, in the writer’s considered opinion, it fully justifies testing by drilling
to a depth of 5000 feet on the following grounds'.
L The outcropping rocks are of sedimentary origin, with the exception of a
few lava flows and agglomerates in the upper part of the mudstone series
at the South end of the structure. These volcanic rocks have, in the,
writer’s opinion, no bearing whatsoever on the prospects of commercial
oil within the structure.
2. The age of the beds is similar to that of those occurring in the nearest
commercial fields (e.g., Java, Sumatra, Borneo), and the regional geological
connection between these fields and the Company’s Permit area is a close
one.
3. The existence of possible source rocks at depth is indicated by the results
of studies in other parts of Papua, and by the data obtained from Nos. 1
and 2 scout bores at Apinaipi.
4. The cover over the possible petroliferous horizons at Oiapu is of an
impervious nature and is not broken by faulting.
5. There is no evidence of any marked pressure or heat metamorphism.
6. The geological structure is excellent and its size compares very favourably
with that of similar structures occurring in proved and prolific oil fields
in other parts of the world.
7. There is no evidence of unsatisfactory hydrostatic conditions within the
structure.
“In the Oiapu structure we have, therefore, seven of the eight fundamental
criteria requisite for oil occurrence, as defined by Clapp, and as almost universally
accepted at the present time.
(Note. —Dr. Clapp is one of the best-known American Petroleum Geologists.)
“The eighth criterion is the existence of beds of sufficient porosity and extent
to act as commercial reservoirs.
“No amount of theoretical reasoning can reach a satisfactory solution as to
whether this eighth factor is present, and the only possible means of proving or
disproving its existence is by drilling. It may be mentioned, however, that the
indication of shallow water and barred basin conditions is favourable to the possi-
bility of the existence of porous horizons.”
With the object of expediting the geological work and of obtaining data which would be
costly in time and money, and often impossible, by means of a ground survey, Mr. Owen has
recommended that a complete series of aerial photographs of the Company’s Permit should
be made. This recommendation was accepted by your Directors, and received the cordial
approval of the Oil Advisory Committee at Canberra.
Arrangements have accordingly been made with Adastra Airways Pty., Ltd., to undertake
the work, and their staff will proceed to Port Moresby per s.s. “Montoro,” scheduled to
leave Sydney on 22nd June next.
In the meantime scout drilling will proceed on the Oiapu structure with the object of
obtaining data of great economic and technical importance in preparation for drilling with
a full-sized rig.
Supplies of native labor for all purposes are available, at very reasonable rates, in excess
of requirements and without recruiting.
Our programme of future operations will be such as will have the concurrence of the
Oil Advisory Committee, and will be so arranged that we should become eligible for:
1. An advance for sinking of a full-sized test bore.
2. For hire of full-sized drilling plant.
3. A License under Papuan “Petroleum (Mining) Ordinance 1934-1936.”
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM COMPANY, LTD.
31st May, 1938. W. M. MARKS, Chairman.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES «
.
5/- A WEEK
brought him £1072
HE family wouldn’t believe it when 1 announced at breakfast
1 that I had the Society’s cheque for £1072,” wrote William
Harwood Dundonald.
Doubtless his family was surprised to learn just how simple and
were the conditions of their father’s A.M.P. policy.
When he was 20, Mr. Dundonald took out a policy for £5OO,
payable on his death, or when he reached 60. As his part of the
bargain, he was to pay a premium that worked out at 5/- a week.
Had he died the next month, the Society would have paid his people
the £500; but the Society carried the risk of his death during the 40
years until he was 60, and yet, all the time, was adding yearly bonuses
to the amount assured.
When Mr. Dundonald reached 60 years of age the £5OO had grown
with ever-increasing bonuses to £1072, and so he received a cheque
for £1072. He had had the Society’s protection for 40 years, AND
HAD DOUBLED HIS MONEY AS WELL!
Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office and say that YOU
would like to see an experienced adviser about doing something of
this sort for yourself. Don’t delay. You lose by delay.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by. using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
Public Notice.
OPALINE SILICA.
OFFERS wanted for a large deposit, situated
within 20 miles from deep seaport in South
Australia. Analysis, Silica 88 p.c., Alumina and
Iron 6 p.c., Water 6 p.c. Apply Miller, 67
Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne,
liquids (excluding shares in the sub-
sidiaries) by £7337, an improvement of
£8709 over the twelvemonth.
On the market buyers offer 7s. 9d.
and sellers ask 9s. for the ords. The
return at Bs. 4d. would be 9.6 p.c. on a
4 p.c. div. basis. At 17s. the less specula-
tive prefs. return 7.2 p.c. on a 6.2 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
£2 18s. 9d. prefs. and 16s. 9d. ords.
Tin Position
At the moment there is too much tin
on the market and the price is too low,
whereas a year ago the price was too
high and stocks were too small. In 1937
producers wanted metal; to-day they
want money. Briefly and broadly, the
present position seems to boil down to
this: If producers cannot begin with
money to take the present surplus off
the market, then they must be prepared
to reduce output to a level sufficiently
below the existing rate of demand to
re-stimulate consumer buying. The re-
cent policy of reducing the quota with-
out forcing up the price pleased nobody.
Even American manufacturers, many of
whom stocked up last year when the
metal was around £250 per ton, don’t
relish a heavy depreciation in the value
of their metal holdings.
Last week the International Tin Com-
mittee adopted the dual device of fur-
ther reducing the quota and at the same
time establishing a buffer pool, to which
Malaya agreed by a two-to-one majority.
One immediate effect was a sharp rise
in the price of tin, which had dropped
from £3ll ss. per ton in March, 1937,
to £157 12s. 6d. a few weeks ago —it
would have fallen further still only for
the growing demand from Russia. On
June 3 the figure had recovered to
£l7O 7s. 6d. The aim is to lift it to
£2OO or more per ton, and, with a view
to ironing out undue fluctuations, it is
proposed that the pool should buy when
the price falls below the £2OO mark and
sell when it rises above £230. It is also
proposed that the pool should begin with
contributions from producers equal to
7| p.c. of the quota allowance. For the
third quarter of 1938 the international
quota has been lowered to 45 p.c.—a
free quota of 37£ p.c. and a buffer quota
of p.c. The quota, which had been
stepped up from 45 p.c. for the first
quarter of 1935 to 110 p.c. for the last
nine months of 1937, was lowered to
70 p.c. for the first quarter of 1938, and
to 55 p.c. for the next three months.
As for production, the committee
should be able to lift the quota when
American demand recovers genuine
demand, not the pseudo demand created
by one of Mr. Roosevelt’s politico-
economic conjuring tricks —provided it
does not overlook the fact that the buffer
stock will be filling up, which renders
it imperative to keep free production
behind demand until the effects of the
time lag in respect of last year’s 110 p.c.
quota (it was too high) have disappeared.
The events of the last couple of years
suggest that changes in the quota alone
are not sufficient to eliminate violent
fluctuations in the price of the metal. It
is difficult for any kind of control to
function adequately without a safety de-
vice, which means, so far as tin is con-
cerned, that some kind of buffer pool
will always be necessary, so long as con-
trol remains, to keep short-term fluctua-
tions within reasonable bounds.
Pungah Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Formed in 1927, Pungah is the last and
most heavily capitalised tin float of Aus-
tral Malay, by which £98,917 (23 p.c.) of
the £430,000 of paid capital is held.
The property, on the Pungah, West Siam,
was estimated to contain 53,240,000 c.y.
down to 40ft. —35,400,000 c.y. averaging
0.951 b. t. 0., 17,840,000 c.y. around 0.61 b.
At Dec. 31, 1936, 37,167,000 c.y., overall
value 0.831 b., remained to be turned over
—nine years’ work at last year’s rate of
digging, allowing for ground dug during
the term. Also, there is a substantial
yardage available between 40ft. and 50ft.,
where there is a limestone bottom, how-
ever. Rated capacity of the co.’s plants
is 5,760,000 c.y. annually, but even last
year’s increased quotas were insufficient
to enable the co. to maintain full-time
working. Dredging has given consistently
better recoveries than values indicated by
the boreholes.
Active operations commenced in 1930.
After wiping out a debt of £62,125, the
co. distributed an initial 6d. div. three
years later. Results since in sterling:—•
, —‘ Surplus —v —Dividends— N
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1934. . £132,713 £65,626 £67,087 3/1 2/6 £53,750
1935.. 90,288 55,294 34.994 1/7 2/- 43,000
1936.. 122.627 69,507 53,120 2/5 1/6 32,250
1937.. 210,776 110,159 100,617 4/8 2/3 48,375
* Including depreciation—l 934, £4335 ; 1935,
£3887; 1936, nil; 1937, £2869.
Last term metallic tin averaged £240 in
London, as against £2OO in 1936, while
Pungah was permitted to export 272 tons
in excess of its increased quota (71 p.c. of
its 1305-ton assessment). Sundry income
contributed £2919, and after meeting
overhead, depreciation, etc., the net sur-
plus lifted to £100,617. Less than half the
profit was distributed, the div. going
up 9d. to 2s. 3d. a share.
The two 240,000-c.y.-monthly bucket-
dredges worked three-quarter time, hand-
ling a record yardage of better-grade
ground:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards .. 1,700,000 3,088,000 3,769,000
T.o. yield (72 p.c.
assay) . . . . 621.7 915.0 1189.0
Av. per c.y., 1b... 0.82 0.66 0.70
Mine costs, c.y... 4.28 d. 3.55 d. 3.77 d.
Av. metallic tin,
ton .. . . £217/17/6 £2OO/5/3 £240/18/
No. 1 plant dug 1,916,000 c.y. for an
average t.o. yield of 0.741 b.; No. 2,
which was fitted with a new bucket-line,
1,853,000 c.y., averaging 0.671 b. For the
first quarter of the current term, com-
bined turnover amounted to 1,064,000
c.y. of 0.741 b. wash ; declared mine profit
was down to £7750. A Is. 6d. div. was
paid in February.
The £1 shares fetch 255. apiece on
Australian sharemarkets. At Dec. 31 cash,
metal stocks and investments amounted
to £115,857 stg., or ss. 4d. a share; there
was little in the way of debt.
Results of the Commonwealth’s
£10,250,000 3f p.c. loan, which opened
on May 19 and closed on June 3, show
that it was fully subscribed. Offered at
£99 10s., with a 16 years’ currency, the
effective return was £3 15s. lOd. p.c. This
accords with current market conditions,
but many would have liked to see more
than £4,000,000 of the money devoted to
accelerating the defence programme, on
which the Commonwealth proposes to
spend £15,000,000, including £10,000,000
from revenue, during the coming finan-
cial year, and another £28,000,000 over
the next two years. Also, the Govern-
ment’s ill-timed proposal to meddle with
the trading banks didn’t help the psycho-
logy of the market.
# * * X
The C.S.R. and Masonite Corp. (Aust.)
have decided to go on to the market to-
gether with their insulating and building
boards, known as Cane-ite and Masonite
respectively, the former made from
megass, or waste cane fibre, the latter
by exploding wood chips under steam
pressure. C.S.R., which is putting in plant
capable of turning out 30,000,000 sq. ft.
annually, will do the distributing for both
cos. The Masonite people expect their
Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.) factory, capa-
city 17,000,000, sq. ft. of board p.a., to
commence production about Septem-
ber ; meantime, the co. is importing sup-
plies from America. Masonite hard-
pressed boards are claimed to be suitable
for various kinds of light construction
work, such as cabinets, boatbuilding,
flooring, etc. The 12s. 6d.-paids have
steadied a few pence under par in the
market.
* * * *
From London: Melbournite F. Rubin-
stein’s motion for a change in the policy
of South Kalgurli, operating on the Kal-
gooriie Golden Mile (W.A.), was over-
whelmingly defeated at an extraordinary
general meeting in London on May 26.
Rubinstein and Beattie, also from Mel-
bourne, went to London some months
ago for the purpose of inducing the board
to reorganise the management and con-
trol of the co. with “a view to getting
better returns and increased dividends.”
* * * *
Bayley’s old Coolgardie mine, the
Phoenix, now operated by a De Ber-
nales co., is officially reported to be
looking well here and there. Best values
are being obtained at Nos. 6 and 8 levels.
The grade of the ore varies from 7dwt. to
18dwt. a ton, and at one point (north-
ward at the No. 6 level of Bayley’s South
workings) the average is an ounce. In-
stallation of a mill is under considera-
tion.
* * * *
For the three months to the end of
April, First Hit (W.A.) treated 1904 tons
at its own mill and 402 tons at the
Lady Shenton plant for a combined yield
of bullion valued at £10,794. Working
and development costs took £7217, and
capital expenditure £702. Cash balance
on April 30 was £6817, and bullion in
hand amounted to £3607.
He sj: H*
The golden eggs being laid by the little
Blue Bird at Norseman (W.A.) have led
to reports from company promoters and
leaseholders that there are other aurifer-
ous feathered bipeds in the district which
can do the same, and several options,
with a view to flotation, are announced.
'!• V '!■
Provided sufficient capital is raised an
attempt will shortly be made to turn
alluvial gold deposits on the distant Pil-
bara field (W.A.) to profitable account.
Pilbara is one of the oldest goldfields in
the West, and the areas to be exploited
include the tributaries of the De Grey
River. Prattens, of Sydney, are named
as backers of the venture.
HS H*
Lake View Investment Trust, formed
in 1920 to acquire the assets of Lake
View and Oroya Exploration, and which
has since become interested in over 500
other concerns in various parts of the
world, netted nearly 14 p.c. on capital
for year ended March 31 last. The ord.
div. was raised from 8| p.c. to 9 p.c., on
which basis the lOs.-paid shares at 18s.
return 5| p.c.
H* ❖ # ❖
According to Professor A. C. Lane, of
Tufts College, Massachusetts (U.S.A.),
the earth is nearly 2,000,000,000 years
old. He arrived at this conclusion in the
course of studies of uranium-bearing
minerals of certain pegmatite dykes on
the Huon and Bear claims in south-
eastern Manitoba (Canada). These dykes
are among the oldest-known rocks of the
earth’s crust. The calculation is based
on the fact that uranium is continually
breaking down, or disintegrating in suc-
cessive steps through radium to a final
product, lead, and the rate at which the
change takes place is known. The lead-
uranium ratio multiplied by a certain
factor approximately 7600 will give
the age of the mineral in millions of
years. Thorium also disintegrates at a
known rate to give lead as a final pro-
duct, and the age of minerals containing
it can also be calculated from the lead-
thorium ratio.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,900,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
==2\
INCOME
rfcygi CHEqvjeO»
let’s all
ENJOY LIFE!
all have a
good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! No grouch-
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets with the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wish''... with never
a bad head or a touch of indigestion
f
d
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in 2'* or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
tablets
SMOKE-OH!
Novel Apparel.
“Wanted, novels cheap; or exchange for
new underclothing.”— Advt.
Fiction, it’s true, wears well as undies,
And many a lass in print looks fine ;
But shall we see the housewife, Mondays,
Hang J. B. Priestley on the line ?
Greathead.
•*• *|* *|«
Stable government requires only horse-
sense.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Scientist Discovers Measles Germ.”
In his own words, he just happened to
spot it.
“I Want a mouth-organ, please.”
“O.S. or X.O.S.?"
“Gobbler and two hen turkeys, also double
bedstead. Mrs. , East Wynyard.”
—Burnie ( Tas .) “Advocate.”
All in together.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The petitioner stated that after their last
quarrel his wife did not speak to him for a
year.” —Divorce item.
Conversation peace.
4* i‘ 4* 4*
“A Russian prince who in his exile has be-
come a boot-repairer in Sydney says he is
happy in his new work.”
Satisfied at last?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Grave Symptoms.
“A doctor’s greatest worry is the patient,
usually feminine, who is more concerned with
superstitious omens than her medical adviser’s
advice.” —Sydney doctor.
Dear Doctor Pillsenpotions,—
Please come round directly you receive
this note.
When you were here this morning you
merely asked me about my appetite and
how I slept, and when I said truf ' ’ly
that I ate like a horse and slept a
baby and you looked at my tongue, you
behaved as if you thought nothing was
wrong with me. The really important
symptoms you didn’t seem to take much
notice of when I began to tell you. So
here they are.
Flies hover around me —a sure sign
of an early death.
A picture fell from the wall.
When washing up after lunch two big
knives dropped. That means two big
men will come to the house. I fear they
may be undertakers.
However, I’ve just noticed my stock-
ings are inside out. As this means good
luck, I hope I’ll live long enough for you
to get around. But hurry, because I just
spilt the salt.
H. Y. Sterricks (Mrs.).
P.S. —A black moth has just come into
the room. For heaven’s sake, doctor,
hurry!
P.SS. —Last August I broke a mirror.
Would this be a hopeful symptom? I
couldn’t very well have seven years’ bad
luck if I died this afternoon, could I?
H. M.
Some women insist on permanent
waves even when their husbands are on
the rocks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My husband threatened to bring a bomb
home and blow up myself and the children.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
Well, that’s one way of raising a
family.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood is responsible for many baring
innovations in fashion.” —Flapper mag.
Exactly!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Powder Man’s Undoing.” —“Labor Daily.”
But it’s the lipstick makes him go red.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Broken Arm Brought Luck.”—' “Sun."
In short, he got a lucky break.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Maritime Medley.
People who get half-seas-over are liable
to hit the deck.
Politicians can sail on floating palaces
while taxpayers can’t keep their heads
above water.
There are some cruises that make a
man feel like a wreck.
A good way to get buoyed-up is to
sink a schooner.
Nat.
Transformation.
In days of old a portrait hung
Above each family fireplace
Depicting a demure and young
Damsel in lavender and lace.
And here for modern female dress
An explanation clear we find:
To-day they’ve shed the lavender
And only left the lace behind!
DOUGAL.
They Call Themselves Cricketers!
BY JOE BLUDYER.
[Mr. Bludyer is scarcely known to Aus-
tralian cricketing enthusiasts. As a cricket
writer in Grub-street for many yehrs, he held
the quaint belief that a straight drive could
be called one without quoting slabs from Shel-
ley’s “Epipsychidion” or comparing the stroke
to a mountain stream. On being cabled a
penny a line —the rigid tradition of Grub-street
forbids his accepting more —and a quid for
beer money, Mr. Bludyer agreed to emerge
from his retirement and write something on
current cricket.]
Outside a Methodist Convention I’ve
never seen such a hard-dialled mob
as the Australian team. If their
physique was as tough as their
frontispieces England could kiss
good-bye to the Ashes before the
Tests start. But they just appear
to be a bunch of spavined crocks
who look as if, given a good square
feed and a clean shirt apiece, they’d
be early victims of rigor mortis.
The way they crawled out the gate,
each wearing about four shirts and three
pullovers—l even suspect them of wear-
ing long underpants—on a beautiful Eng-
lish summer day when the temperature
was as high as 54deg., suggests that the
hair on their chests is as thick as that on
soup-tureens.
George Robey’s eyebrows and Winston
Churchill’s politics aside, there is no-
thing more comic in England at present
than O’Cormett’s charge to the wicket.
He measures his paces, forgets the num-
ber he first thought of, turns and, with
a ferocious look, tears up like a gouty
washerwoman, his knees audibly flogging
each other at every stride. His leap prior
to delivering the ball is made so that if
he does happen to hit himself in the foot
it won’t be as painful as if it were on
the ground at the moment of impact.
He seems to wear flat-bottomed boats on
his feet, and a tragedy was narrowly
averted when he just missed treading on
the umpire.
But there has never been anything to
equal the antics of the batsman, Boob-
face. O’Cormett absentmindedly failed
to jump when delivering his first ball,
and it ricochetted off his foot and sailed
towards point. He limped back to send
down the second, but he seemed to be
either cockeyed or shortsighted, for he
didn’t look up till he was almost up to
the batsman, who just scrambled out of
the way in time. The third accidentally
came straight, and Boobface, using
his bat like an old girl with a fly-
swatter, made a feeble poke at it.
There was a dull thud as leather met
bone, and the batsman was carried
off feet first with a beautiful stinker
over his eye. The bowler followed ;
whether his stamina or toe cracked
nobody seemed to know.
McFleetcock-Wart was on next. If
ever he skittles a batsman who isn’t in
the last stage of senility I’ll gnaw the
handle off my pewter-pot. He waddles
up to the crease like an alderman leav-
ing a civic blowout and sends the ball
not down, but up. McGoogan, a pro-
beer batsman who looked as if he was
still trying to get over last night’s bender,
seemed to appreciate him, for he had
a snooze between the time McF.-W.
picked up the ball and about a minute
after his paddles stopped at the bowler’s
crease. Even then McGoogan had
plenty of time to rub his eyes, take a
good look round and shape to sock it
over the square-leg fence. After three
sixers in one over the umpire nearly
tripped over the bowler’s bottom lip.
Mcßeilly pinned them down, but the
way he flailed up to the wicket created
a strong draught in the press-box. And
why can’t be bring a handkerchief on
with him instead of keeping his shirt
sleeves flapping in the wind? Percolator’s
efforts to keep him out would make an
uproarious vaudeville turn. He ought to
capitalise them.
After rain had fallen for only ten
minutes they went off, doubtless the
sweet fellows! —to change right through
and part their hair again— that is, those
of them who have enough to part. Mean-
while Campshire declared at nine for 81.
On the resumption Bringleton and
Chown opened up, the former taking
strike. Looked more as if he was on
strike. He and Chown scratched about
like a pair of broody hens, and if a
borer had been roaming around on the
“ ....a dull thud. ...”
faces of their bats it would have been
in no danger of sudden death. Chown,
in trying to glide a fast one, tripped over
—what, is a mystery, for there was no
sun to cast a shadow—and trod on some-
thing that looked like his ear, knocking
a bail off.
With Mcßradfield in—he walked in as
if he were on a visit to the dentist—-the
field scattered. His appearance was re-
sented in the members’ stand, as they all
had to wake up.
Mcßradfield banged the first ball past
mid-on for four. Ginswizzle threw him-
self at it as it flew past, missed and fell
on his face in order to save his hands,
he being the team’s bowling mainstay,
and because his face doesn’t matter, any-
way. Ploughing up a few feet of turf
with it might even improve it. The next
ball Mcßradfield missed and dropped on
his haunches. No doubt the bowlers
would like to see him like that always.
Several of them giggled. Awful! Why
can’t they give a full-blooded laugh if
they’re amused?
After a short spell Mcßradfield got
going again, but the fall must have
taken the steam out of him, for the rattle
on the pickets subsided to a slow Xylo-
phone solo, and after an hour’s batting
“....fell on his face to save his
hands. ...”
he was only 90, Chown meanwhile hav-
ing notched 7.
An appeal against the light was up-
held—and this at only five minutes to
six, when you could still see almost across
the ground.
Cotton-wool cricketers these days,
that’s what they are.
S. W. K.


Patent.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FOAM INDICATING
APPARATUS FOR STEAM BOILERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
17665/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Coras are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a tew hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
fd
wilcox sviirn * cj
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying ami
Selling List 1 ree.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
Holeproof Ords.
At 245. 6d. now, Holeproof ords.
return about 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, and in spite of scares
about overproduction in women’s
hosiery the scrip looks cheap.
Holeproof is among the bigger
manufacturers of men’s hosiery
also.
SOUND ADVICE, based on an extensive
variety of practical experience of over 40
years, given on Business, Personal or Financial
Matters that I am competent to deal with.
Fees are in proportion to the importance of
the matter involved. No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert <J«neral Adviser,
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Difficulties Ahead
So far as Australian exports and our
income from primary products generally
are concerned, we have plunged from a
post-depression peak in April, 1937, to a
low and disturbing level. Not for nearly
three years have wool averages been so
low, and present quotes for wheat are
the most depressed since 1935. However,
nothing like the “lows” of 1931-32-33
have yet been touched by these com-
modities. Wool averaged 8.3 d. in ’3O-31.
8.4 d. in ’3l-32, and 8.7 d. in ’32-33.
But for some time now we have been
cutting our coat according to prosperity
measurements, and the Jack of market
support for export products is likely to
produce at least some uncomfortable re-
adjustments, however temporary. The
Commonwealth basic wage was lifted to
an average of 765. a week'in Dec., 1937 ;
in 1933 the rate, when less the 10 p.c.
cut, was near 60s. Many other costs
have risen in proportion. They are always
easy to increase, but very difficult to
reduce. Such rises benefit nobody for
long.
These figures show how woolgrowers
fared in the three seasons ended June,
1937, and how the clip has gone during
the first 10 months of the current
season:
Commonwealth Wool Sales.
Bales Aver, per Total
Year. Sold. lb. Cheque.
1934- .. 3,040,421 lOd. £38,526,025
1935- .. 2,816,912 14.2 d. 49,618,731
1936- .. 2,924,053 16.7 d. 60,552,572
11 months,
1937- .. 2,582,459 12.8 d. 41,147,742
The. foregoing figures represent sales in-
side the Commonwealth ; with the help
of London marketings a return of
£50,000,000 has been suggested for the
full season, as against £66,000,000 for
1936-37. The worst feature is that 1938-39
threatens to open with low prices and a
drought-affected clip from N. S. Wales.
Though goldmining is still expanding,
the Barrier mines and Mount Lyell have
suffered drastically from the slump in
base metals.
The effect of lower export prices
generally and the too-free buying of
overseas goods is visible in this com-
parison of external trading figures:
Favorable
Exports, Imports, Balance,
Year. £stg. £stg. £stg.
1934- .. 90,225,000 74,119,500 16,105,500
1935- .. 108,907,000 85,252,500 23,654,500
1936- .. 128,143,500 92,640,500 35,503,000
10 months,
1937- .. 106,465,000 94,773,000 11,692,000
Our overseas interest bill runs to about
£22,000,000 stg. a year, and it is optimistic
to expect that the charge will be covered
when final figures are produced after
June 30. London funds, about £70,000,000
stg. a year ago, are bound to be drawn
upon.
One of the first things likely to happen
as a result of our poorer overseas
trading will be a tightening-up in lending
facilities offered by trading banks.
Already loans are worrying both bor-
rower and lender in some cases. At
date of writing it seems that the latest
Commonwealth Loan will be a partial
failure. Borrowings and interest offered
over the past 34- years have been:
Yield,
Date. Amount. p.c. *
20/11/’34 .. .. £15,042,000 £3/0/5
11/6/’35 .. .. 12,500,000 3/8/5
26/11 / ’35 .. .. 7,500,000 3/15/5
2/6/’36 .. .. 9,000,000 3/17/6
26/11/ ’36 .. .. 7,500,000 3/19/4
27/4/’37 .. .. 7,500,000 3/19/1
30 /11 / ’37 .. .. 8,000,000 3/15/6
19/5/’3B 10,250,000 3/15/10
* Including redemption.
Latest rate is in effect 3s. 6d. per cent,
lower than that offered in Nov., 1936 ;
but there are sceptics who think that
present rates aren’t as free from “control”
as they were then. Big conversions must
go through this year; they will not in-
crease the size of our debt.
The public debt and the burden of
taxation (including Customs duties) have
behaved as follows over the last de-
cade ;
Total Debt, Total Taxes,
June 30, Public Debt. Per Head. Per Head.*
1928 .. £1,094,802,901 £174/4/3 £l4/5/3
i 929 .. 1,104,028,062 173/4/7 14/0/5
1930 .. 1,100,597,198 170/18/7 14/6/11
1931 .. 1,156,036,118 177/16/9 13/6/3
1932 .. 1,187,827,868 181/7/6 13/4/8
1933 .. 1,204,659,123 181/14/- 14/3/1
1934 .. 1.222,558,798 183/2/4 13/12/11
1935 .. 1,242,114,821 184/14/5 14/4/1
1936 .. 1,255,782,106 185/6/11 15/9/11
1937 .. 1,262,871,884 184/18/10 15/18/4
* For year ending June 30.
During the three slump years ended June,
1933, the debt swelled by £100,000,000,
largely because of Budget deficits —they
are still deficits. In the four subsequent
years (to June, 1937) the expansion
slowed dowm to £58,000,000, for which
the firm hand of the Commonwealth
Bank must largely be thanked. Taxation,
in spite of re-employment and “pros-
perity,” has risen £2 13s. Bd. a head since
1931, and is now on the grandest scale
on record.
Our internal business conditions have
a much healthier look than the com-
plexion of external trade. Factory out-
puts are higher than ever, and the Broken
Hill and Port Kembla steelworks were
never busier. If the slump in export
values is lasting, however, the effects must
be widespread, and factories will feel it,
though the blow may be softened by
compulsory curtailment of imports.
Building activity is always a good guide
to employment;
Monthly Averages for Six Capitals and
Suburbs.
Monthly ' New Buildings, Value All
Average for Number. Building.
1934- .. .. 902 £1.468.000
1935- .. ..1190 1,832.000
1936- .. .. 1278 2,005,000
Months of
1937-
July .. .. 1493 2,411,000
October . . .. 161.2 2,312.000
January 1306 1,960.000
February . . . . 1356 2,083,000
Av. 8 months.
1937-38 . . . . 1471 2,205,000
City building activity showed a tendency
to tail-off in the first quarter of 1938,
as might be expected. Because of the
large size and less-frequent nature of
skyscraper contracts figures are bound to
be irregular. The erection of suburban
dwellings is going on at an increasing
rate, making allowance for the fact that
the midsummer months just past are
usually slack.
Around the all-important question
of employment, statisticians’ figures show
improvement right up to date. Savings-
bank deposits are a record.
The United States of America will play
a big part in the future of world prices,
and any sign of return to commonsense
in that country’s economic policy must
improve our overseas markets. Within
Australia the keeping of costs, interest
rates, retail prices and taxation down is
the obvious course to pursue. Increased
buying-power is better than increased
money wages.
During the 11 months to May 31 lead
has averaged £l7 15s. lOd. a ton in Lon-
don, spelter £l7 os. 2d. Last week’s
quotes were weak around £l3 ss. for
lead and £l2 ss. for spelter.
North Broken Hill’s production for the
47 weeks to May 21 compared with the
corresponding figures for the 1936-37
term;
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Ounces. Tons.
1937 (47 weeks) .. 53,296 2,977.154 34.901
1938 (47 weeks) .. 55,845 3,103,641 37,347
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
The Zinc Corporation for the first 20
weeks of its current term (to May 21)
has increased its production all round;
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Ounces. Tons.
1937 (20 weeks) .. 21,567 485,143 12.039
1938 (20 weeks) .. 23,132 534,889 '13,966
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
Ore put through in-the last four weeks
carried 16.3 p.c. lead, as against 14.3 p.c.
in North’s case. Spelter was 10.8 p.c.,
against 10.5 p,c. North. North ore carried
higher silver (8.30 z., against 3.80 z.).
Norths and Souths fell out of step last
week, Souths selling at 285., Norths at
40s. If the ratio of values over several
months has been right, Norths should
have been nearer 425. with Souths at
28s. Zinc Corp. ords. at 70s. —carry-
ing about ss. (Aust.) in div., after deduct-
ing English income tax —are being bought
on a basis of 655. when the div. is paid
on July 1. They are good buying.
* * -i= *
The new section of the cardboard mill
of Australian Paper Manufacturers,
Botany (Sydney), was opened last week.
It is stated to have cost £650,000, £400,000
of the expenditure staying in Australia.
Present capacity is 100 tons of board a
day, and additional cylinders can be
added to lift output to 54,000 tons a year.
Ord. shareholders in A.P.M. are Cum-
berland Paper and Australasian Paper
and Pulp, and holders of scrip in these
two cos. should begin to see some benefit
from the large capital outlay made in
recent years. Their 8 p.c. divs. have been
covered comfortably for some time with-
out any assistance from the new plant.
A wood-pulp mill, for which finance
has already been found by the 6 p.c.
pref. issue made through A.P.M., is going
up at Maryvale, Vic., capable of pro-
ducing from 27,000-50,000 tons of pulp a
year, as required. This should be a big
help later on, and plant will be up-to-the-
minute.
Cumberland Paper first prefs. have
lately been sold at 325. 6d., to return just
under 5 p.c. They represent a good type
of investment under present conditions.
Australasian Paper ords. are also attrac-
tive at 315., returning better than 5 p.c.
* * * *
Holeproof ords., marked down to 235.
6d. for a time in last week’s market scare,
returned 8.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The scrip had fallen 4s. in a matter of
a few weeks. Though the trade seems
to be affected by no more than fears
for the future, Beau Monde (once up
to 245. cum rights) has dropped to below
95., Sutex ords. (12s. recently) are below
par (10s.), while Prestige 10s. ords.
faded to around 12s. 6d., yielding 7.7
p.c. It was Prestige’s chairman who last
year suggested a danger of overproduc-
tion in the hosiery industry. It is one
of the best-equipped in the women’s
section. Holeproof makes men’s socks
as well as women’s stockings, and last
year had a wide margin of profit over
div. requirements.
* **c sjf He
Drug Houses scrip represented another
flop in last week’s market, slumping to
235. 9d., to return 5.5 p.c. on the present
div. basis. Affairs of the concern have
been noted here lately, and the scrip was
suggested as a buy in B. 5/5/’3B at
255. 3d.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks ords., picked in B.
19/ 5/’3B at 225. 6d., are now selling at
235., returning 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis.
i•* * *
National Bank .£5 shares faded to
£6 Bs., to return better than 4.5 p.c.
This has been the heaviest crash among
bank shares recently, the reason not
being at all obvious. They went above
£7 10s. some months back.
H» *{*
Shares in Golden Plateau, whose
figures have received regular attention
here, have been showing palpitation,
selling down to 9s. 3d. at one stage last
week, later recovering to 10s. lid.
Profits should be enough to cover a
3s. div. this term, but the steady falling-
off in grade (B. 5/5/’3B) has unsettled
the market. The falling-off was bound
to happen as the rich ore in No. 1 shoot
worked out. One of the market’s
troubles concerning this mine is the
hazy way the life of the show was in-
dicated at the last annual meeting.
* * * *
There was activity in Oriomo Explora-
tions scrip in Sydney at 3s. 6d. last week.
With Minerals Explorations, this co. has
a 50-50 interest in Hill End Alluvials.
Oriomo Explorations has 299,418 shares
issued, the Minerals co. 83,000; the
latter were priced at 7s. 6d. last week.
The Minerals holding in Hill End Allu-
vials (per share issued) is approxi-
mately 3.6 times as great as that of
Oriomo ; but Minerals shares are little
more than twice the price of Oriomo
scrip. Such anomalies often occur in
mining stocks, especially when one issue
is more popular or of lower denomination
than the other in question. The real
value of either issue here mentioned will
depend on how the Hill End property
pans out; 1,342,000 c.y. going around
6.835. a yard (costs 1.85.), with a million
yards of deeper ground, has been sug-
gested by various engineers. A half-share
of the profit anticipated (£335,500)
from the tested leases would be
£167,750. At 3s. 6d. a share Oriomo is
capitalised at near £52,500, Minerals
Explorations at £31,125. The market,
having been informed of anticipated
values and costs, seems to be saying
“Get ’em!” Sluicing should soon give
an inkling of the position, and the stock
has plenty of bankers.
. * * *
Farmer and Co., Sydney, which in its
last term handed out 8| p.c. to ords.
(Oct., 1937), makes distributions to ords.
yearly. Prefs. are paid in January and
July. Some shareholders would like half-
yearly divs. to ords. also. Before dis-
tributions cut out during the slump it was
the practice to pay ord. divs. in April
and November. The interim-and-final
system is popular with shareholders in
many other cos.
sfc
Goldsbrough, Mort’s 7 p.c. div. com-
pares with 8 p.c. in the preceding term.
Pastoral cos. suffer first when wool
slumps, and Dalgety’s and Common-
wealth Wool have already cut their divs.
* * * *
Westralian gold-producers on the div.
list are being well supported still. The
cue has been taken from London, where
there has been speculation of a dubious
variety in some S’African shows. There
seem to be more solid grounds for the
popularity of Westralians.
=!• * * *
Cocks Eldorado (gold and tin), on
Reedy Creek, in the Ovens Valley (Vic;),
has responded in the market. Improve-
ment in earnings was pointed out in B.
19 / 5/’36, when the scrip was at 17s.
Latest sales have been around 19s.—the
highest quote since production started.
Boring results indicate a longer life, with
higher grade, than was previously antici-
pated.
% * :■< sjs
Tin has been firmer following Malaya’s
acceptance of the buffer pool .scheme ;
tlft pool is- to buy when the metal fails
below £2OO sterling and sell when it lifts
to above £230. Contributions will be
equal to 1\ p.c. of standard tonnages,
and operations will be controlled secretly
from London. The chairman of Austral
Malay Tin is critical of the scheme,
fearing that when buffer stocks accumu-
late the metal may still keep low. For
the third quarter of 1938 the quota has
been fixed at 45 p.c. of standard tonnages.
* * *
The 7 p.c. pref. shares in Australia
Silknit, Sydney, have slumped to 17s. 3d.,
seller, after sales at that figure. They
changed hands at 235. 6d. after listing
in 1937. Profits disclosed for 1937 were
only £4807, compared with £13,318 in
1936. In view of the generally-better
results of textile cos., some shareholders
are asking “Why?” Increased costs on
forward contracts was one explanation
offered by the board.
Mount Lyell, after plumbing to
225. 10fd., recovered to 235. 9d. last
week for a while, then fell to 235.
As pointed out in B. 26/5/’3B, sur-
plus liquid assets and investments had
a book value of £2,025,717 last balance
day, equal to 265. a share ; and that is
apart altogether from the mine and plant.
Since all-in costs last term represented
£47.6 Aust. per ton electrolytic copper,
the metal should be payable down to
£3B 10s. stg. In the first eight months
of the current term it averaged £45 Is.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week;
Myer Emporium ords. were dealt in daily
at prices ranging between 295. 6d. and 30s.
They were still good buying, and late in the
week lifted to 30s. 9d.
Great Boulders came back to 9s. 7d., after
lifting above 10s. North Kals. kept above 235.
Lancefields were firmer.
Taranaki Oil shares (B. 26/5/’3B) -were
active around 9s. A liaison with the Vacuum
Oil Co. has been announced.
George Farmer prefs. attracted interest at
18s. 6d., after stagnation for some weeks.
Electrolytic Zinc sold down to 375. 6d.


PAGES FROM THE HUTUWAI
FAMILY ALBUM
Coo^^SS-
Ka-E
b Hes »» d |£e «° u
. .
SMS I .* l »
»g°-
Sh e
tbins
tbs
tta c * tS
m°v
eve-J
* b . e * e ber ®£ aa t se * e ”t»t' teW ' a
be FW?H' \ sto^^y
iitipy
y°,
eft®
ssg
oV «h‘g a » t9 „«etH e s » s o» c ” b«h'
sbe h e ft, r aPj* e * t 0 get {o r » a , a s
men*; fstatt®*. * an^ ttu tuw a * « a
ana sb e % o ob tw£®VzS **i
steeP- a«e *“? ng uP >® e^V 1 *
•Si£» ’Sn e S
,f \B «<>* “ a «d *
a nd an d cal 2\\ as c^ e w
81°? «a*. * as eyes-
\t» .
otiee
SS/«K«;Ls?A
to’ no »»<*s«i» Bbs^ o’''' 0 ’'''
G» aM
D. CO***
MRS
from
Read these letters
grateful Australians . . .
some of the many thousands who thank Hutuwai for the
Radiant Health they now enjoy ! What Hutuwai has done
for others ... it can also do for you! Hutuwai is HEALTH!
CHILD NOW WELL AFTER ARTHRITIS
Amazing letters that
PROVE the GENUINE
Health -restoring Power of
HUTUWAI Tonic
HAS MADE A NEW MAN OF ME!”
A. PADKOTB
I, AARON PADROXH, of MILE END ROAD.
ROUSE HILL, in tha State of New South
Wales, do hereby solemnly and sincerely de-
clare that two years ago I was stricken
down with Rheumatoid Arthritis. I was a
complete cripple and many of my joints
were locked. I could not get out of bed.
The pain was so severe that it often made
me cry all night. At the end they told me
they could do nothing for me.
Then I saw in the papers about your won-
derful Hutuwai Tonic. I had 32 bottles
and it has made a new man of me. To-day
I can get about again as well as ever, al-
though I am 6(> years old. I can even do a
bit in the garden and chop wood. I advise
all who suffer to always have a bottle of
Hutuwai in the house. Hutuwai has over-
come my constipation, which had worried
me badly for years. They gave me three
weeks to live, but I beat them after all. I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue
of the provision of the “Oaths Act, 1900.”
A. FADROTIL
Subscribed and declared at SYDNEY this
24th day of February, one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight, before me.
E. G. McLEOD. J.P.
MARY PETHYBRIDGE
BROOKLYN, HAWKESBURY RIVER,
N.S.W.,
33rd October, 1937.
Dear Sirs,—
With further reference to my little girl
who had suffered so severely with RHEU-
MATOID ARTHRITIS, vou will be pleased
to hear that after twelve months of im-
proved health through taking your Hutuwai
Remedy, she is quite well and strong and
the most vigorous and healthy specimen you
would wish to meet.
She is a regular Tom Boy, and tears up
and down the hills as if nothing had ever
been wrong with her. She also shows a
remarkable degree of i,ntell ! gence for a
child so young: and I can only thank this
marvellous Remedy called Hutuwai for hav-
ing proved such a rema-kable and genuine
medicine: and anyone vis’ting the Hawkes-
bury District can call and see the child for
themselves, and verify these facts personally
Yours very gratefully.
(Signed) (Mr. and Mrs.) M. A. Pethybridge
HAD ARTHRITIS Is Now Daily Improving
MISS LUCY ADAIR
North Sydney, N.S.W.,
17th February, 1938.
Dear Sirs,—
As a result of the amazing benefit I have
received from the result of taking your EX-
CELLENT REMEDY. “HUTUWAI,” I feel it
is my duty not only to tell you, but to tell
the world of the benefits I have received
from taking same.
For over two years I have been a patient
for a combination of NERVES, NEURITIS,
and ARTHRITIS. I GRADUALLY BECAME
CRIPPLED, and COULD SCARCELY WALK,
so much so that, of necessity. I was com-
pelled to refuse work.
F:r.ends advised me to try “Hntuwai,” and
ultimately in a very half-hearted manner 1
did so. The FIRST BLESSING I received
from same WAS NATURAL SLEEP—-some-
thing I had not enjoyed for many weary
weeks. As a result. I naturally felt better,
and continued taking “Hutuwai,” finding
myself DAILY IMPROVING, and becoming
LESS CRIPPLED, and able to get about once
again.
I had occasion to be re-examined by a
Doctor, and a few days later was informed
that I was NOT NOW SUFFICIENTLY IN-
CAPACITATED FOR WORK. This mosi
gratifying result k s the outcome of taking
about five bottles of your famous remedy
Yours faithfully and gratefully,
(Miss) LUCY ADAIR.
Witness: E. G. McLeod, J.P.
PRAYED FOR DEATH IS AGAIN FIT
■ill
z
Egg ssss?/.'
MKS. E. M. WOODWARD
EASTWOOD, N.S.W.,
11th November, 1937.
Dear Sirs,—
I cannot praise your Hutuwai Tonic enough
for the way it has restored my health. 1
was AN ABSOLUTE COT CASE WITH
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. I was a patient
at Hospital, and for nearly three months
was unable to do anything at all for my-
self. The pain was so bad it used to make
me scream. I used to pray that I would
die before morning. All mv limbs were
terribly swollen: and I had to have my wed-
ding ring filed off: words cannot convey to
yon how bad I was.
Nothing did me any good until my son
got me a bottle jf Hutuwai! After a short
course of this marvellous Tonic I began
to improve and to regain mv health and
strength again until to-day I am as well as
ever I was—in fact. I have only JUST FIN-
ISHED A BIG WASHING AND STILL FEEL
FIT AND FULL OF ENERGY.
Congratulations and success to Hutuwai.
Yours thankfully,
(Signed) MRS. E. M. WOODWARD.
BEWARE COLDS and’FLU!
Take HUTUWAI regularly and build up your resistance against colds
and ’flu. If you are suffering now from either of these complaints start
taking HUTUWAI to-day . . . you will be surprised how quickly you
will shake it off.
■x-: : x-x
HUTUWAI contains the live
juice of HERBAL PLANTS
and must do good to all
who drink it!
scientists have discovered that Herbal Plant Juices and
Human Blood are closely alike; and, when taken by
human beings, Plant Juices change easily into valuable
Hormones, which build a healthy body. Hutuwai Natural
Tonic contains the Juice of Herbal Plants. Hutuwai helps
*o drive out the injurious acids and poisons from the system,
and eradicates aches and pains . . . new vigour is furnished to
the nervous system . . . the brain becomes more active and
Hear, and the body glows with vitality and vigour. Hutuwai
will give you steady nerves and an excellent appetite, and you
will sleep well. Hutuwai is different ... it is genuine. Head-
aches disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks. Your
friends will tell you how well you look, and you will take
a renewed interest in life. In the Hutuwai Herbal Plant
Juices Nature supplies the minerals and vitamins necessary
-o keep the human mechanism in perfect working order
. . . and so these vital life elements are made available to
you in Hutuwai ... in Nature’s own way . . . thus
ensuring full natural medicinal value.
Fcr NERVES & RHEUMATISM
m
■
NATURAL
TONIC
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
is sold and recommended by CHEMISTS and
STOKES throughout Australia!
IF UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY, 3/- and 4/C
PER BOTTLE DIRECT FROM HUTUWAI
DISTRIBUTING CO., DEPT. 86, 210 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY, or 485 BOURKE STREET.
MELBOURNE, Cl, Postage 1/- per bottle extra.


(UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Propaganda on the Air.
[1 he onslaught by radio on South America—just one
aspect of the increasingly important problem of propa-
ganda generally—as seen by Chester T. Crowell in an
article here condensed from the “Saturday Evening Post”
(21/5/’3B).]
To-day every possible channel for short-wave
broadcasting is in use. Every acre of land and every
wave of the seas is within reach of the signals sent
out by one or more of the powerful stations operating
every day and every night. But these stations, instead
of constituting the most powerful force for inter-
national goodwill ever let loose in the world, we find
regarded as soldiers, some on the aggressive, the
others on the defensive.
The Western Hemisphere has been bombarded
daily for five years, especially South and Central
America and Mexico. Of the programmes effectively
sent out, more than half have originated in the totali-
tarian States and were aggressive in purpose. It is
obvious that the world is not achieving peace by inter-
national broadcasting, nor is there the remotest pros-
pect that it will do so.
The cat-and-dog fights that sputter through the
ether over Europe, where every border bristles with
bayonets, are quite understandable, but it is astound-
ing to find that the Western Hemisphere is only slightly
less embroiled. Programmes are sent out daily to
Argentina from Germany, Italy, Russia, England,
France, the Netherlands, the United States; and once
a week from Geneva. News and announcements are
in Spanish, except on the French programmes. The
Netherlands uses Spanish sometimes, not always.
Approximately the same galaxy of nations sends pro-
grammes to Brazil. Italian, German, English and
American programmes are in Portuguese. The con-
test is becoming more spirited week by week.
The Netherlands, France and Switzerland can be
counted out, because their programmes are merely to
create general goodwill; moreover, they are not widely
heard. The Russian station is also not well received.
South American Communists make special efforts to
keep in touch with it, but the station is not making
Communists ; it serves, and rather poorly, those who
are already converted.
The Italian station is important because it .is
widely heard, and its vigorous propaganda is cleverly
sugar-coated with excellent music that the South
Americans like. It regularly broadcasts news in
Italian, French, English, Spanish, German, Portu-
guese, Serbian, Rumanian, Bulgarian, Hungarian,
Greek, Arabic, Hindustani, Japanese, Chinese and
sometimes has talks on world affairs in still other
languages. This Italian station short-waves to Brazil
lessons in the Italian language.
The English effort is mainly defensive against
Italian and German propaganda. Their programmes
rank second only to the German in reception, but it
was not until March 14, 1938, that they began to
broadcast to Latin America in Spanish and Portu-
guese. Up to that time they used only English and
addressed primarily British residents, giving them
Empire news.
The German efforts have been the most im-
portant, possibly more important than all of the others
combined. It is now generally admitted that the Ger-
man programmes are not only the most widely and
clearly heard but are also the most cleverly con-
structed. Their purpose is to sell the ideas that Ger-
many is a vigorous, resurgent and already powerful
nation standing as a bulwark against Communism,
and leading the world in cultural and practical achieve-
ments.
Along with this goes the innuendo, and sometimes
the blunt statement with very little subtlety in the
phrasing, that the democratic nations are wobbling
toward the sunset and decay. They are therefore, by
implication, not the best to depend upon for future
world trade. They have strikes ; something impossible
in united Germany. If you order goods from Ger-
many you will get them. As for the others, luck and
fate will determine whether delivery is ever made.
Some of the broadcasts are in German, and these,
of course, are addressed primarily to the thousands
of Germans who reside in Latin America and who
are expected to organise locally to promote Nazi f
ideology. Many do so, many others do not; but the
energy of the organised groups is naturally more
potent than the passive resistance of those who do
not respond. The casual observer might readily con-
clude that there are no non-joiners ; that is a mistake.
One principal obstacle to their conversion is the Nazi
attack upon both the Catholic and Protestant churches.
The United States Government has at last become
seriously concerned about foreign propaganda in
Latin America. President Roosevelt appointed an
interdepartmental committee on February 26, 1938,
to study international broadcasting and report to him.
American representatives in Latin America are listen-
ing to foreign programmes and reporting on them,
and the Government is beginning to make an effort
to counteract the anti-American propaganda.
The Monroe Doctrine is a puny barrier against
signals that bounce off a mysterious springboard far
up in the stratosphere and come gently down in the •
form of sweet music and sour opinions for Latin
American homes.
Japan Faces a Long Struggle.
[ln the article here condensed from London “Daily
Express” Hessell Tiltman, author of The Far East Comes
Nearer, describes, from his observations over the past
month or two, how Japan is feeling the pinch of war and
the national feeling with which the Japanese are sustain-
ing a struggle which this authority estimates may go on
for another two years.]
Japan’s Foreign Minister Hirota [he is no longer
in the Foreign Office] has announced that “in the
present circumstances Japan must be prepared to make
enormous sacrifices of men and money.” The course
of events, he says, makes it impossible to view the
future with excessive optimism.
How do the Japanese people —who know better
than most how to do or die without reasoning why—
view the prospect of a long war?
Their unity and patriotism are as impressive as
ever. Every Japanese soldier, when he is mobilised,
leaves his private affairs in order on the assumption
that his will be the honor of dying for the Emperor.
In the streets every other woman wears the sash of
some patriotic organisation. Even the Shimbashi
geisha and the Ginza dance-hall girls are “sewing shirts
for soldiers” and making comfort kits.
This “spiritual mobilisation” of ninety millions
of Japanese, in readiness for the long struggle, is the
most dramatic of all recent events in the Far East.
Japan is a poor country. To conserve supplies
of foreign currency, urgently needed for the purchase
abroad of raw materials for munitions, those kindly
Japanese among whom I have dwelt for most of the
past three years have been ordered to go without a
whole range of articles which other peoples regard
as necessities.
Japan is short of iron and steel. All building
construction has been halted in order that every
ounce of steel may be held in reserve for the manu-
facture of tanks and guns. Cotton, the raw material
for Japan’s greatest industry, has been so severely
rationed that a quarter of all her spindles are tem-
porarily idle. Californian oranges and grapefruit are
becoming unobtainable. American films are dis-
appearing from the cinema screens. Cigarettes made
in Japan from Virginian tobacco are difficult to find
any more. Imported medicines are disappearing from
chemists’ shops. A Japanese civil servant must not
order a new suit without permission from his superior
—to cut down imports of foreign-made cloth. So the
number of men and women in Tokio deserting Lon-
don-style clothes for the ancient kimono is increasing,
making it actually a more picturesque city than in
the pre-war days.
The air defence exercises are exceptional in their
thoroughness. I was in Tokio when a recent “black-
out” was staged. For five nights a city of six million
inhabitants groped its way home to bed in inky dark-
ness. During those nights it was a criminal offence
to strike a match or smoke a cigarette out of doors,
or even in rooms unless the light-proof “war curtains”
were tightly drawn. The Japanese, knowing how
many Russian pilots there are in China these days, are
taking no chances.
Despite such alarms and a growing feeling of
tension which cannot be completely disguised, the
Japanese people remain convinced of the justice of
their cause. Whatever the rest of the world may
think, they believe the statements made by their rulers
that this conflict was forced upon them by a China
determined to drive all the Japanese out of that coun-
try, and reduce her to the status of a second-class
Power. Rightly or wrongly, to every resident of
Tokio this war appears as a matter of life and death.
“Tell England we are giving our blood and
treasure only in order to win peace,” said a Japanese
friend to me the day before I left Tokio. He wasnh
being humorous. Tens of millions of Japanese see it
that way. Will that spirit, I wonder, survive the
increasing strain of another two years at least?
Labor Rejects the “Popular Front.”
[The formation of a “popular front” or ‘‘democratic
rM L alliance” as a rival combination to Britain s
National Government having been widely advocated, the
British Labor party in a manifesto here condensed from
London “Times” advances reasons for declining to
join up.] .
We cannot accept the assumption that such a
combination, even if it were practicable, would lead
to the early defeat or break-up of the National
Government. It might be otherwise were there any
evidence of an internal crisis in the Conservative party.
At present, however, there are no signs ot such a
rebellion. , u .
Nor do we believe that the proposed combina-
tion would afford a better rallying cry or be more
effective electorally against the “National Govern-
ment than the Labor party itself. Such a view under-
estimates the growing strength of Labor in the coun-
try, as indicated by recent by-elections. It tails to
take account of the diminishing force of the Libeia
party, now divided between supporters of the
“National” Government and supporters of the Parlia-
mentary Liberal Opposition.
No doubt the Communist party would be willing
to enter such a combination. We do not know what
attitude the Liberals, and more especially the Liberal
voters, would take to their entrance. We ourselves
should regard Communist participation as an electoral
liability rather than an asset. The Communist party
is subject to political directions from abroad , to this
extent it is not allowed to determine its own policy.
Both the Labor party and the Liberals would be dis-
tracted from the main purpose of the proposed com-
bination by the need to protect themselves against
Communist manoeuvres. The presence of the Com-
munists would bring some few thousand votes to the
alliance, but it might well drive millions into Mr.
Chamberlain’s camp.
A “popular-front” alliance would take the heart
out of large numbers of our most loyal supporters.
They would not sacrifice the party’s independence even
temporarily unless convinced that the sacrifice was the
sole condition for the preservation of peace and
democracy. We do not believe that condition exists.
A “popular-front” Government might well have
to face bitter opposition from Conservative interests
inside and outside Parliament. It would have to take
vigorous decisions. Given a Labor Government with
a working majority, we should face these problems
with confidence ; but we confess to apprehension in
facing them in partnership with allies who, as experi-
ence has taught us, cannot be regarded as reliable,
above all in times of difficulty and tension.
This is clearly the case with the Communists.
They are committed rather to manoeuvre than to prin-
ciple. They would be capable of stabbing us in the
back at any time, or of involving us in joint responsi-
bility for their political indiscretions.
With the Liberals the position is different, for
they, at least, do not attempt to manipulate Labor-
party policy from within. We have, moreover, a high
regard for what is best in the Liberal intention ; but
the experiences of 1924 and 1929-31 teach us that the
official Parliamentary Liberal party is uncertain and
unreliable. It does not act as a body. It is liable to
desert us on critical occasions.
If Britain were to pass through critical times
under a weak and indecisive Government of the “Left,”
never certain of its internal unity, it is not unlikely
that a rapid reaction towards Conservatism would
take place and a grave risk of Fascism might arise.
We, therefore, conclude that the facts do not warrant
an approach by the Labor party to other political
parties.
Aga Khan in Germany.
[The Aga Khan’s account of his visit to Germany,
made since he became president of the League of
Nations Assembly, is here condensed from the “Anglo-
German Review,” “an independent non-party organ”
published in London.]
Let there be no misunderstanding—l am neither
a Fascist nor a Nazi, but a convinced believer in
constitutional monarchy broad based on democracy.
There is no question here of either praising or
abusing the political doctrines under which the im-
mense public works in Germany have been carried
out, but I do sincerely praise the public works them-
selves. I have not the least doubt that democracy
could —were its eyes opened to the importance and
utility of up-to-date communications —carry out
equally important public works.
On my visit to Germany I was nearer Socialism
of the constructive and practical kind than I have
ever been in my life. I found that they practise the
Socialism which others are content to preach.
I went to Germany as a private individual, as
a student. No one regarded me as the new President
of the League of Nations Assembly. They accepted
me and welcomed me merely as a student.
My stay there convinced me that the Government
and nation are anxious for peace. All their present
work of economic and social reform is bound up with
peace. They need peace for their immense plans for
the future.
I pray for the day when Germany will return to
the League of Nations. But whether Germany is
inside or outside the League, she is a pillar of peace,
because peace is an essential of all Hitler’s plans for
rebuilding the nation.
I heard a great deal about those plans. The
housing question is to be tackled with new vigor.
What has already been accomplished in this field
is amazing. The slums have gone ; superb houses and
blocks of flats have taken their place. In Berlin houses
which seem to be of a reasonable standard are to be
pulled down wholesale so that a perfect city may be
Mr. Eden on the Press.
Mr. Anthony Eden made these comments in pro-
posing the toast “Journalism” at a dinner in London
(reported in the “Times,” 12/5/’3B) :
With a controlled press now prevailing over a
large part of the world it is more than ever im-
portant that our own free press should paint as
fair a picture as possible. I would be the last to
advocate any restriction on the right of free
speech or free criticism, but such criticism should
surely be exercised with a full sense of responsi-
bility.
What matters most is that readers should
know that they are not being artificially pre-
vented from getting at the truth. I assume that
every intelligent man and woman wants our press
to be the best possible. If so, it is not fair to
leave it entirely to the journalists to supply it.
Readers must help. It is commonly said that the
press is here to give the public what it wants.
That generally means, if it means anything at all,
that the press should reduce itself to the lowest
common measure of understanding. I think the
public should revolt against this crude assump-
tion. If it does not it deserves what it gets,
and it has no right to put all the blame on
journalists. If the public did revolt and demanded
something better, I am confident that journalists
would be only too glad to supply its wants.
A more pungent criticism of press activities
is given under the heading “Debauching Public
Opinion,” in which Philip Gibbs, as an old journalist,
deplores the depths into which the New Journalism
lias sunk.
“Uncabled Additions” appear from week to week
in THE BULLETIN as a corrective to the sort of
journalism of which those two critics complain, as do
increasing numbers of others in a position to speak.
Overseas, that is: in Australia the pretence is kept up
that the shabby record of sensation-mongerlng and
lying which has disgraced daily journalism for the
past three years—especially in cables—is something
for Democracy to be proud of.
One healthy sign here is the publication by Mel-
bourne University Press of “Press, Radio and World
Affairs” (25.), studies by various hands, mainly of
Australian press treatment of foreign-affairs news
and strongly critical of the false sensationalism and
other misleading characteristics of cables.


Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall he
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS.PHILP
K. CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
"1
4
fl
HPH
TOMS'
pl|
it .->•
«
FOR
BRIGHTER
LIGHT
LONGER
LIFE
T 8
THEY
LAST
LONGER
GET
Ever Ready
TORCHES AND
TORCH REFILLS
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
created. Similar changes are planned for Munich,
Hamburg—in fact, every city and town.
The plans also include road development. Ger-
many has now the finest roads in Europe. There is
nothing to compare with them in Britain. These
splendid roads are to be extended to twelve times
their present number. And the Germans mean to
use these roads. They are out to make a £SO car for
which two years of useful service will be guaranteed.
There are also important plans for industrial
development, so that the economic security of the
nation will be assured. I was amazed at the amount
of research which is being carried out for synthetic
products to take the place of nature’s supplies which
are lacking—artificial wool, artificial rubber, a new
type of low-grade iron, oil from coal.
What interested me most was the new social and
economic system. Germany is the only country in
the world that has practical Socialism. Everything
is being organised for the greatest happiness of the
greatest number. The whole principle is that in time
there will be a classless society. Neither the aristo-
crats nor the capitalists run the country. While class
distinctions have gone, the foolish idea of complete
equality has not taken their place. If some people
prove themselves more intelligent and industrious than
others they are rewarded accordingly. But the extent
of the rewards is limited. And the labor camps bring
all classes together.
Tests for Democracy.
[As anyone who looks about him realises, democracy
has never been more popular or more firmly entrenched
anywhere than it is here. Nevertheless most of the warn-
ing notes in this (condensed) London “Observer” report
of Sir Samuel Hoare’s Rotary International Club Con-
ference speech (7/5 / ’3B) have application here as well as
in England, as certainly have also his comments in
praise of the form of government preferred to all others
by at least 999 Australians and Maorilanders in every
1000.]
Can is be said that, east of the Rhine, Europe was
ever truly democratic? Autocratic they were there
since the early days of their history, and autocratic
they have remained. No need, therefore, to assume
that because dictatorships have been established over
Central and Eastern Europe the British Common-
wealth and the United States are the home of lost
causes.
Democracies will continue to flourish by the
side of dictatorships provided citizens of democracies
will shoulder their responsibilities and face the facts
of the new world. Our history during the last ten
years has given our critics opportunities to point to
weaknesses in our national life. Rearmament should
have been started sooner? I agree. If as a member
of the Government I must take my share of the
responsibility, so also must the British public for
reluctance to face the new situation. Our excuse must
be that we showed the faults of our qualities. We
were too tolerant and too optimistic.
Looking back, we can now say that if the needs
of rearmament had been faced two years earlier there
would never have been the disturbing events of the
Abyssinian crisis. A Government and a Foreign
Secretary without adequate force behind them in an
international emergency can never hope to have their
wishes respected.
There is a democratic quality of which I would
speak, the quality of good companionship. By good
companionship 1 mean neighborliness. The duty is
a duty to all our neighbors. The Russian dictator
would restrict it to the neighbors of his own class,
the so-called proletariat. The German dictator would
confine it to the neighbors of his own Aryan race.
We here, with our democratic traditions, cannot take
so restricted a view of our duty. Our neighbor may
be rich or poor, Jew or Gentile, but the same code
of democratic ethics must be maintained towards him.
A true British foreign policy turns inevitably
away from wars of religion or wars of ideologies. It
refuses on the one hand to accept the selfish isolation
of the dog in the manger or on the other hand the
irritating officiousness of the fussy maiden aunt. Its
watchword is “live and let live,” and “let each mind
his own business.” Its attitude is the attitude of the
good neighbor who wishes to live in peace and friend-
liness with all about him. But we must be ready to
act quickly and, as we intend to maintain our demo-
cratic principles, we must be ready to act quickly
without sacrificing our individual liberty.
Here is one ‘of the most difficult problems that
have ever faced us —the problem of combining free-
dom of discussion and liberty of opinion with swift
and efficient action in times of emergency. Shall we
solve it? Or shall we be forced to admit that our
old system has broken down under the new strains
and stresses of the modern world?
The answer depends upon ourselves. If each
of us is determined that this country shall produce
better results—moral, military, economic—than any
dictatorship, these results we shall produce. If each
of us is determined to discountenance unnecessary
delay and to eschew excess of discussion, we shall
produce these results quickly.
Such a national solidarity depends upon no doc-
trine of race or class. Its principles are far more com-
prehensive and far less crude than any such narrow
conception. Its foundations are on that account the
more firmly established, its work the more likely to
endure.
Air Defence Extraordinary.
[Australia, depending on British makers for the
machines needed to bring R.A.A.F. first-line strength up
to 198 modern ’planes, now faces the practical certainty ■
that delay in delivery “will be one of years, instead of
one of months.” This dependence never has been satis-
factory ; it reaches its present point of fiasco, of course,
through Britain’s new defence programme being carried
out —as is indicated in this (condensed) “Sunday Times”
article by “Scrutator”—as if Britain had reached a
state of actual war.]
Is it seriously contended that the danger in the
air is so grave and existing organisations for meeting
it so helpless that we should behave as though we
were actually at war? Are we already back again
in 1915 when Lord French complained that shortage
of munitions had cheated him of a great victory?
We are now in the third year of rearmament in
the air. In 1935 the entry of pilots was 300 a year:
in 1937 it was 1850. Formerly the intake of airmen
was 1000 a year ; last year it had gone up to more
than 11,000. In the same period the number employed
in manufacture of aeroplanes trebled what it was in
1935.
When rearmament was begun it was thought that
1750 first-line aeroplanes would give parity and that
was promised for March, 1939. The figure will cer-
tainly be reached by that date, probably earlier, and
perhaps exceeded. We are to have a first-line strength
of 3500 aeroplanes by March, 1940. The force will
be doubled in a single year.
Both Lord Winterton’s and Lord Swinton’s
speeches made it quite clear that the Government
believes the danger of war is not immediate but later,
and still has hope that reason and understanding will
come earlier and forestall it.
Debauching Public Opinion.
(Extract from “Across the Frontiers,” by Philip Gibbs;
Michael Joseph, Ltd.)
There is a tendency in democracy to believe that
its mere name is good enough and covers a multitude
of sins. We are, for instance, proud of the freedom
of the press, and rightly so, for without a free press
a nation’s intelligence is enslaved.
But the freedom of the press does not mean the
freedom to lie, the freedom to flood the newspapers
with baseless rumors, concocted by imaginative and
unscrupulous newsagents, to raise scares, to create
suspicions against other countries and distort the truth
by every sinister suggestion of malice.
Hitler was, perhaps, too violent in his denuncia-
tion of the orgy of rumor and misrepresentation which
disturbed public opinion when some German generals
were removed from their posts. He exaggerated its
importance perhaps. But he was justified in his con-
demnation of newspaper methods, which were a dis-
grace to English journalism, last February. As he
pointed out in his Reichstag speech, there was no
truth whatever in the wild rumors which rushed into
European newspapers at the time.
“What can we say,” he asked, “when Reuter dis-
covers attacks on my life ; when English newspapers
publish stories of a large number of arrests in Ger-
many and the closing of the German frontiers ; when
other newspapers say that the Crown Prince has fled
from Germany, that German generals had marched
with their regiments to the German Chancelleries,
that the entire German industry had received mobilisa-
tion orders for war, that 14 generals with the body
of Ludendorff had fled to Prague, that I had lost
my voice and that it would be imitated by someone
else so that I could in future speak from gramophone
records?”
Surely he was justified in denouncing this abuse
of journalism as a danger to peace, the poisoning of
good relations between Germany and England and
“an utterly unendurable press campaign under the
motto of freedom of personal opinion.”
I do not find those words too harsh and, as an
old newspaperman, I am convinved that, in the best
days of English journalism before the sensational press
lost all sense of restraint, such fantastic stories, which
had no evidence whatever behind them, would never
have been published.
Our freedom of the press has certain limitations.
It is limited in certain newspapers by the political
ideas of its proprietors, who dictate their policy to the
news editors and leader-writers, so that there is a daily
suppression.of facts, a daily distortion of world events
and a daily propaganda by headlines and slogans in
which truth is lost. Some part of our press, at least,
is dominated by the commercialism of big circulations,
produced by pandering to the lowest instincts of the
most unintelligent. In such freedom there is no high
value. It is the debauching of public opinion.
In Gahd’s Own Country.
[London “Evening Standard” New York correspon-
dent C. V. R. Thompson turns the spotlight gently on a
bright little patch of Americana. It can’t happen here?
What of N.S.W. Labor’s Senate candidates, all four
elected, whose names started with “A”?]
Six years ago a school-teacher named William
Rogers decided to run for Congress for Oklahoma.
To him, names meant more than policies. So he wrote
to the Cowboy Philosopher, Will Rogers, and asked
for permission to abbreviate his Christian name to
Will. He was elected by a 140,000 majority, was
successful again in 1934 and again in 1936.
He comes up for election once more this autumn.
As opponents he will face three other Will Rogerses.
He will also have to fight a Brigham Young, a Daniel
Boone, a Huey Long, a Robert Burns, a Wilbur
Wright, a John Lewis, an Oliver Cromwell and a Mae
West.
Almost every present officeholder in Oklahoma
finds himself opposed in the autumn elections by a
candidate bearing the same name as himself. So
embarrassing has become Oklahoma’s names-con-
sciousness that laws have been passed compelling
candidates to place after their names five words
describing their origin.
Oklahoma’s Mae West is the mother of eight
children and active in Baptist mission work. Brigham
Young is an engineer, Daniel Boone a barber, Huey
Long a businessman, Robert Burns a lawyer, Wilbur
Wright a painter, John L. Lewis a dentist, Oliver
Cromwell a school superintendent. The three other
Will Rogerses are a draughtsman, a businessman and
an electrician respectively.
So confused has become the whole question of
names in Oklahoma that W. H. Murray, former
Governor of the State, has gone to the law courts to
earn the exclusive rights to designate himself by his
nickname in his campaign for re-election. On the
ballot tickets his name will appear as “W. H. Murray,
ex-Governor, ‘Alfalfa Bill.’ ”


RANDWICK RACES
MONDAY NEXT—JUNE 13
M SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses for courses! It is the most
trustworthy of turf maxims, for
nearly all nags have their prefer-
ences for particular tracks: only cham-
pions like Phar Lap and Peter Pan
rise above such fancies. Alan Verde,
a six-year-old gelded son of The Ver-
derer, sire of a number of useful horses,
out of Zingarette, likes the Sydney course
named after Ascot. Up to last week he
had won seven races there, and in the
Ascot Handicap on Wednesday he made
it eight.
It was a mile race, and Electron, ridden
by Darby Munro, was an even-money
favorite, supporters of Alan Verde get-
ting 9 to 2 for their money. Flamari was
at the same price. Electron was slow
to move, and though the crack jockey
drove him to the front he soon lost his
position, and nearly cannoned against
Manamah and fell back on Verlina. He
is a big horse and clumsy in a field.
Flamari had the lead foL a few furlongs,
but Alan Verde had got to the front
rounding the turn, and in the straight
nothing could reach him. Manamah was
second and Digland third (both were out-
siders), Electron finishing fifth in a field
of nine.
Electron is owned by Cornwell, a
paddock bookmaker. After the Ascot
experience, Cornwell decided to sell him ;
but Electron was given another race in
the Welter at Warwick Farm on Satur-
day. According to the stable, he was
allowed to run loose, except for £lOO to
£8 taken by the owner. He went out
at 12 to 1 in a field of 14. This time
he was ridden by Jones, an accomplished
horseman, though he doesn’t get much
riding nowadays. Jones jumped the
chestnut out in front and made every
post a winner. Perimond was second all
the way, and at the home turn, was within
half a length of the leader; but Electron
came away from him in the straight.
Then part of the crowd set up a roar and
the stewards opened an inquiry.
For punters, it had been a disastrous
day at the Farm. For bookmakers it
would have been the most successful day
they have had for years on any suburban
course if they hadn’t been so cautious
in betting against favorites. Saving only
Respirator (Nursery Handicap) favorites
were routed —in five races by outsiders.
Tredonner (Hurdle) was 10 to 1 in a
field of eight, Strathbogie (Farm Novice)
and Manilla’s Pride (Flying) each 20 to 1
in a field of 16, and Minnesota (June
Handicap) 12 to 1 in a field of six.
The Farm Novice was for apprentice
riders who had not ridden 20 winners.
It was a scramble. The Magpie gelding
Strathbogie, ridden by Sumner, led soon
after barrier-rise and beat Teddy Boy
and Gilltown easily. Leeds was never
out of trouble, and Warwick Farm is
obviously not his course. Sign On,
Naterra and Atalanta failed to run the
mile.
Manilla’s Pride would never win a
prize at a horse show, being plain and
narrow. But this Promised Land gelding
—he is a three-year-old—proved him-
self a good galloper under a light
weight; it was a particularly fast-
finishing effort that took him past
Jocular and Bonnie Legion in the
Flying. Brazandt had made the pace to
the home turn ; then Jocular looked the
winner. He had been backed <from tens
to fours, Lynch Law being favorite at
evens. Lynch Law got in a pocket at the
home turn. Bartle evidently expected
Brazandt to come away from the rails,
but Shean, on Jocular, moved up fast on
the outside, and the favorite’s opportunity
was gone. Still, with everything in his
favor he could scarcely have won.
Chatham’s brother Minnesota has had
about six trainers. A Kensington man,
Graham, who won with Prowler when
that nag had been given up as a hopeless
case, had Minnesota looking very fit for
the June Handicap. Young Harvey was
told to ride him in front, and he did ;
Minnesota made all the running. He
dashed away at the home turn and held
off the fast-finishing Tapestry, who
was “off the course” the first mile.
Bachelor King plugged on to get third.
Gay Knight, the favorite, must be a sour
brute ; he would not stretch out in the
run home.
Respirator is by Windbag-Recuperator,
and he put in a real Windbag finish in
the June Nursery Handicap. He had
been backed from threes to 7 to 4.
Slow to leave the barrier, Respirator was
under pressure in the early stages, and
with the pacemaker, Gilla, going easily
in front at the top of the straight it
looked as if the Rosehill-trained filly
would score. However, she is not as
solid a finisher as the Windbag colt, and
his half-neck margin could have been
more. Lord Valentine was third ; he ran
on well, and so far is the best of the
Valamitas. Cragite came from the rear
to finish fourth.
**■ * *
The big bettors interested in Lynch
Law think highly of that Maoriland-
bred two-year-old, as witness the fact
that they took £lOOO to £BOO in one hand
at Warwick Farm. Had Lynch Law
won, he would not have had to put up
a penalty for the Doomben Newmarket
on June 25, for which his weight is Bst.
51b. His party thought Pamelus, with
9st. 81b., much better treated, consider-
ing that Pamelus won the Oakleigh Plate
with 9st. 111 b. and that the Doomben
has a 7st. minimum ; and Lynch Law is
to remain in Sydney. It is against
Pamelus that he is a bad traveller, but
it he can be produced at the post in
good shape he will start a warm favorite
He looks capable of giving Aurie’s Star
and King s Head 41b. apiece, though it
might trouble him to concede 151 b to
Thurles Lad.
Handicapper Mitchell must have a
glowing opinion of Spear Chief. That
three-year-old is rated equal to Black
Mac at 11 furlongs, the Doomben Cup
distance; each has been awarded 9st.
lib. Mala has Bst. 131 b., and must be
reckoned well in. But it is a question
whether he can be got ready in time ;
paraded at Ascot (Sydney) on Wednes-
day, he looked burly.
* * * *
The much-travelled Regular Bachelor
and Black Mac raced at Victoria Park,
Adelaide, on Saturday. Black Mac dis-
graced himself in the Parkside Handicap,
being last all the way (Navarino, winner
of the 1937 A.R.C. Birthday Cup, won in
taking style); but Regular Bachelor,
carrying the steadier of 10st., was a good
second to the consistent Hegemonic (8 to
1) in the City Handicap. Though he
started from No. 2 position, Regular
Bachelor, who was favorite at 5 to 2,
dropped back to last, and was still in the
rear when half the distance, seven fur-
longs, had been traversed. He made up
his ground so fast that he threw out a
strong challenge to Hegemonic over the
last furlong, but there was half a length
between them at the finish, Glentor (4
to 1), who had been almost as far back
as Regular Bachelor at the four-furlongs
post, *being only a head away, third.
Quinlan, who paid 55 guineas for
Hegemonic at the 1937 Sydney yearly
sales, got a wonderful bargain for Mrs.
Walter Rugless, as the filly has won nine
races in the lady’s colors. She is a neat
bay by Baralong-Marjahana.
* * * *
Bert Foulsham took Pooley Bridge to
Bendigo on June 1 for public jumping ex-
perience. For many months the Orna-
mentation gelding’s activities had been
confined to flat-racing, but he cleared the
battens at Quartzopolis with all the old
skill. The Bendigo handicapper didn’t treat
the Victorian champion harshly: Pooley
Bridge had carried 12st. 121 b. to victory
in a York Hurdle at Flemington. And
considering the weakness of the opposi-
tion, 11 to 8 was a good price. With
Fullarton up, Pooley Bridge had the race
won half a mile from home. His next
appearance will probably be at Caulfield
on June 18 in the Toolambool Hurdle.
Pooley Bridge’s display was in marked
contrast to that given by his National
rival, Turf Boy, in the President’s Han-
dicap. For that race, Plectrum was
favorite at twos, his backers being con-
fident that the Irish-bred stallion would
register his third win on end: but Turf
Boy received solid support, and so did
Mate o’ Mine, both at fours. Unable to
get through on the rails at the turn,
Badger took Turf Boy to the outside. His
mount finished weakly, lengths be-
hind the third horse. Hardwood (10
to 1) squeezed home by a head from
Lady Kooringal (fives), with Plectrum a
length farther away.
At odds of 3 to 1 Grey Dawn
(Equator-Pantolette) landed the Maiden
Handicap by nearly a length from Gray-
moor, who was favorite at twos. There
are possibilities in Grey Dawn, now rising
four, and it is recalled that his half-
brother, Sansculotte, ran second to
Gothic in the Futurity Stakes
of 1928. Like Grey Dawn, Equatis, win-
ner of the second division of the Novice
Handicap, was sired by Equator, who
raced both in England and America be-
fore being imported by Alan Currie, the
V.R.C. chairman, for duty at his stud
in the Ballarat district. Pantolette was
greatly prized as a brood mare by the
late Philip Russell, colleague of Currie
on the V.R.C. committee for many years.
Eddie O’Brien, the bookmaker, bought
Kagawa (Eastern Monarch-Ruby Agnes)
after that gelding captured the Home bush
Welter at Bendigo. A consistent per-
former, Kagawa is a brother to Takaia,
with whom P. B. Quinlan did well for
J. P. Arthur, his breeder.'
* * * *
Bridge of Mar, who had been one of
the favorites for both the National Hurdle
and Steeple, bled from the nostrils during
the running of the York Hurdle at
Flemington on Saturday. He completed
the course, but, having been eased up,
finished a long last
Bridge of Mar started at 2 to 1 in a
field of 11, with no rival shorter than
sixes. After he had been hosed down
Bridge of Mar seemed all right, but
development of a tendency to bleed must
weaken confidence in his National pros-
pects, if, indeed, Bill Burke is able to
get the bay to the post.
Burke won the York Hurdle for an-
other client with Nevizes (Devizes-Miss
Neville), who, because he had been out-
classed by Bridge of Mar in a “school”
during the week, was at 20 to 1. Heroic
Chief led over the last flight, but Nevizes
quickly settled the Heroic gelding and
scored by two lengths from Wallace
Drake.
Fred Hoysted was satisfied with Heroic
Chief. “He will be a fit horse on
National day and I expect him to win,”
Hoysted said. On the other hand, W.
P. Mein, the Riverina pastoralist, is hope-
ful about Nevizes, whose dam is by Sea
Prince from a half-sister to Stand By.
Wallace Drake (Drake-Ortega), the
runner-up to Nevizes, is a well-seasoned
hurdler that may have to be reckoned
with in the National. His trainer, Joe
Bloomfield, was foreman to R. Bradfield
for many years. In 1899 Bloomfield was
taking Chesney (brother to Malvolio.) to
England for Sir Abe Bailey by the Ther-
mopyke when the vessel was wrecked off
Cape Town. Passengers had left the ship
before it broke in twain. Chesney swam
ashore.
Green Cape, moderately supported at
eights, was followed home in the Hope-
toun Steeple by two 25-to-l chances, Sir
Muslin and Montargis. The favorite,
Seymour, ran fourth, succeeded by Ben’s
Fort, who gave an encouraging first-up
exhibition over the Flemington fences.
Until he fell at the second-last obstacle
Elegance travelled creditably. Sarokos
made many blunders in the latter half of
the journey. Though he proved a cham-
pion over hurdles, he isn’t likely to shine
as a crosscountry performer.
Result says most for Green Cape, who,
like the York Hurdle winner, is trained
by Burke and has been soundly educated.
Black Hook, from Fred Hoysted’s stable,
behaved like a non-stayer, and Hilltop
will need to improve vastly to have a
National chance. Yet the people behind
Hilltop felt confident of his winning the
Onkaparinga Steeple if that event had
not been abandoned through flooding of
the course.
Realising the promise that she gave by
a success at Ascot in the spring, Lambent,
a Thracian filly that Lou Robertson
trains for A. T. Creswick, vanquished
French Gem (5 to 2) by half a head in
the Rothsay Handicap for juveniles.
Price of Lambent was tens. Trendel
finished third for “S. A. Rawdon” at
100 to 3.
On the dam’s side, Lambent goes back
to Artillerie, the Maoriland mare that
twice won the Caulfield Stakes for Jack
Whitworth, who died in Sydney recently.
From the same family at Creswick’s stud
came Danton (Tasmanian Derby), Dor-
adus (Goodwood Handicap) and Susarion
(W.A.T.C. St. Leger).
Keeping Watch (The Night Patrol-
Eumaralla) demonstrated that his sprint
victory at Moonee Valley was no fluke
by annexing the Royal Handicap with a
length to spare from the 5-to-4 favorite,
Spinifex. Third money went to Moora-
mong. Bookmakers offered 8 to 1 about
both Keeping Watch and Mooramong.
Lead given by the Sydney punter
known as “The Bullfighter” caused Blinky
Bill to firm from tens to sixes for the
Royal Handicap. Execution of the com-
mission created quite a stir in the ring.
Blinky Bill put up a fair fight, but finished
just “outside the money.”
Blinky Bill has an inseparable com-
panion in the 11-hands pony Toby, who
accompanied him to Flemington. Accord-
ing to J. Cook, who trains Blinky Bill,
the pony must be 20 years old. Cook
occasionally rides Toby to the track.
In the Bendigo Handicap three days
before, Hardwood had defeated Lady
Kooringal by a head, with Plectrum a
length farther off. These horses met again
in the V.R.C. Sandringham Handicap.
Hardwood finished far back. Plectrum,
Lady Kooringal and Irving, each at 14
to 1, filled the places.
Backed from sevens to 4 to 1 favorit-
ism, Demagogue never once looked like
winning. Lady Kooringal and Haughty
Stare led at the five furlongs by 10
lengths from Dunloe, who knocked up
in trying to overhaul them. Feature
of the contest was Irving’s finishing effort
with 9st. 51b. He should “arrive” soon.
M.L. trainer J. Fryer sent punters home
in bitter sorrow by appropriating the
Buckingham Handicap, for three-year-
olds, with Royal Order, a Limond colt
that had not won since the correspond-
ing meeting in 1937. Again it was a case
of “fruit for the sideboard” with ring-
men. They raked in oodles of money
over Prairie Moon, laying only threes
at the close. Placegetters were Royal
Order (tens), Plymouth Hoe (tens) and
Miss Devlin (15 to 1).
* * * *
Still another Epsom Derby “certainty ’
came unglued when the Blandford colt
Pasch (9 to 4) could only run third to
Bois Roussel and Scottish Union (8 to
1) ridden by the veteran Australian
Brownie Carslake. Bois Roussel, bred in
France, but owned by Peter Beatty, a
son of the late Admiral, was nominated
by his trainer, Volterra. He is by Vatout,
sire of Genetout, now racing in Aus-
tralia, out of Plucky Liege, by Spearmint-
Concertina, so the grand old Carbine
blood flows in his veins. His price in the
ring was 20 to 1 ; the tote paid 44 to 1.
There was no weeping in Israel.
(i Continued on page 32.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
George’s River Handicap: Bra-
zandt; next, Jocular.
Homestead Handicap: Verberry ;
next, Cid or Perimond.
Welter: Sedunum; next, Cid or
Autoland.
FOR RANDWICK ON MONDAY.
A J.C. Hurdle: Euphorbus ; next,
Crunatus.
June Plate: Lynch Law; next,
Mala.
Winter Plate: Gold Spark ; next,
Verberry.
Exeter Handicap: Red Thespian ;
next, Autoland.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Deep Creek Handicap: Jovial
.Son ; next, Dunloe.
Greenvale Welter: Silver Reign;
next, Araunah.
Chandos Handicap: Heroic Star ;
next, Song of Songs.


uuh
MODEL 40 —4-valve
A.C. Broadcast Super-
heterodyne for local
reception. Valves:
6A7, 6F7, 42, 80.
Cash Price, £l2/19/6.
MODEL 41— 4-valve
Battery Broadcast
Superheterodyne for
local reception.
Valves: IC6, IC4,
IK6, ID4. Cash Price,
complete with Bat-
teries, 19 guineas.
1
MODEL 50 —5-valve A-C. Broad-
cast Superheterodyne for reception
of Australian and New Zealand
stations. Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75,
42, 80. Cash Price, 15 guineas.
MODEL 52 5-valve Vibrator
Broadcast Superheterodyne for
reception of Australian and New
Zealand stations. Valves: IC7G,
IMSG, IMSG, IK7G, ILSG.
Cash Price, complete with Battery,
23 guineas.
Have achieved outstanding popularity everywhere as
rivals of much larger and more expensive consoles for
CLARITY . . . SENSITIVITY . . . DEPENDABILITY.
Despite their compact size—they measure only 14in.
high x lOin. wide x 7in. deep—they give excellent
performance, and all you wish for in radio entertain-
ment, PLUS the advantage of being easily carried
from place to place.
tea*-- r
mm
m
biq. '
Can do a great job of work where condi-
tions are extremely difficult. They cat#
outdo, in value for money, anything else
that the market has to offer. Particularly
the model 81, featuring Mullard Tele-
Tuning, enabling you to change from
station to station in a flash, accurately,
surely, and swiftly.
CARRY - CASE
Above is illustrated the Milliard Carry-Case, par-
ticularly designed for use with the Vibrator Mantel
Model 52, thus adapting it as a Portable Radio. The
Milliard Carry-Case may, nevertheless, be used as a
snug transportable cover for ALL Mullard Master
Mantels. So convenient if you want to take your
Radio with you. Very strongly constructed in attrac-
tive maroon leather finish. Price 30/-
■
.
■Hi
,
MODEL 80—5-valve Special de Luxe A.C.
All-World Console for the reception of
Australian and New Zealand Broadcast' and
Overseas Short-wave stations. Introducing
the most fascinating and reliable tuning
device yet offered in Australia—the
Mullard Tele-dial, comprising a series of
easily pre-set mechanical stops operating
on the gang condenser, obviating any
switching or multiplicity of coils and
trimming condensers.
It incorporates eight pre-selected tuning
positions, changeable at will with a simple
locking operation by the user himself,
from the front of the Receiver.
Mechanically and NOT ELECTRICALLY
operated, thus eliminating the use of com-
plicated switch and coil arrangements, so
prone to be affected by ageing and atmo-
spheric conditions.
Automatic Volume Control. Special
Electro-Dynamic Speaker. Cabinet of
specially selected and chosen veneers—
styled and designed to suit the most
fastidious taste. Incorporating new-type
octal base. Valves: 6ABG, 6U7G, 686 G,
6F6G, SY3G. Cash Price, 27 guineas.
><
A
:
Featuring the
NEW, SWIFT, .SILENT
'THUS'• TUNING
$ MODEL 80A —5-valve A.C. All-world Superheterodyne for reception of
Australian and New Zealand Broadcast and Overseas Short-wave stations.
Incorporates unique Mullard Station Transelector Dial with Airguide
(patented). Fully compensating Automatic Volume Control. Massive,
modern-line Beale Cabinet—BUlLT LIKE A PIANO to harmonise in the
home. 1 Oin. Speaker. Valves: 6A7, 6D6, 75, 42 and 80.
Cash Price 29 guineas
0 BATTERY OPERATED MODELS —S-valve Superheterodyne. Aus-
tralian and New Zealand reception. Straight-line Dial WITH AIRGUIDE.
Automatic Volume Control. Bin. Speaker. Cabinets as Model 80A.
Complete with Batteries.
0 MODEL 71 A—Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, PM22AA (Battery
operation). Price 28 guineas
$ MODEL 72A —Valves: IC4, IC6, IC4, 185, ID4 (Vibrator powered).
Price 33 guineas
Milliard
tfcaM#
N.S.W.: Bloch & Gerber Pty., Ltd.
Geo. Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Westcott, Hazell & Co., Ltd.
Sydney.
VICT.: Howard Radio Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Hobart and
Launceston.
MULLARD (AUST.) PTY.,
LTD., 26-30 CLARENCE
STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 87446.
(2 lines).
Qld.: Trackson Bros. Piy., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
S.A.: R. C. Woollard, Adelaide.
W.A.: Carlyle & Co., Perth.


euiqe the TRUTH,
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate —the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
A ccurate —
Price,
9/6
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
a ith &
iii 4 mm mil he ir
TYRE GAUGE
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.. Vie.
FORTY- THIRD
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted by
THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
To be held on the
SYDNEY SHOWGROUND,
JUNE 22, 23, 24 and 25, 1938
CELEBRATE AUSTRALIA’S 150TH ANNIVERSARY.
Prize Money and Trophies Exceed £lOOO.
Endeavour House,
33 MacquUrie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILXE,
Secretary.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Armstrong Dual World’s Champ.
The fighting weight of Henry Arm-
strong the little negro who made
a chopping-block of Australia’s only
recent fist export, Alf Blatch, and who
last week scalped Barney Ross of his
welter title—is given in Jack Read’s
Australian Boxing Annual as Bst. 121 b.
He was close on a stone heavier for his
fight witfi Ross —9st. to the title-
holder’s lOst. 21b. Still, that was a lot
of weight to be giving a world champ.,
and Ross was odds-on favorite. Arm-
strong gave him such a frightful hiding
that spectators wondered why the ref.
didn’t tell a game fighter he’d taken
enough when the 15-round engagement
was two-thirds through.
Armstrong looks to have a hot chance
of now taking the lightweight title from
Lou Ambers. The negro is first to hold
two world titles. But the fighting trim of
him, given plenty of watermelon he
might add others as well. He is without
doubt a superlative scrapper; and Art
Martell —who did some fighting in Aus-
tralia in a past age and now advertises
at his Los Angeles fist emporium that
the knowledge he there imparts was
gathered by him from Larry Foley and
Peter Jackson —claims him both as a
pupil and an upholder of Larry Foley
methods. Jack Read gives Armstrong
a page in his Annual, and in that close-
packed listing of the dual title-holder’s
fights knockouts are the commonest
occurrences. A busy scrapper, he had
19 engagements last year, winning the
lot, 16 of them by k.o.
Ins and Oufs
If there was a touch of melodrama
about the Surrey match, that against
Middlesex at Lord’s began and ended in
the best traditions of burlesque. To begin
with, Bradman, having won the toss and
having full knowledge of his side’s weak-
ness on rain-spoilt wickets, decided to bat.
The result might have been expected.
Australia was dismissed for 132, the
team’s lowest score to date, and if it
had not been for a good stand by Has-
sett, who has had some experience of
bad pitches in Melbourne club cricket,
and Chipperfield, always at his best in
adversity, the figures would have been
even lower. Even then, if the English
bowlers had been able to seize their
opportunity, there would have been a
sadder tale to tell.
Fingleton began the back-to-the-
pavilion trot when he had scored two,
fast-bowler Smith skittling him. Bad-
cock somehow reached double figures,
but gave a masterly display compared
with his captain, caught by Compton off
Nevell for two. Nevell, a young grounds-
man at Lord’s, added Badcock to his bag
and then sent back McCabe with nine
to his name—a notable trio. Hassett
stopped the rot with a soundly-made 27,
Chipperfield top-scoring with 36. Mc-
Cormick and Smith did the right thing
by going for the bowling, making 12
and 10 respectively. Simms, ineffective in
Australia with Allen, took 4-25 and
Robins 2-27. Nevell’s tally was 3-38.
The wicket had not improved for the
county’s innings, and O’Reilly and Mc-
Cormick had the first four batsmen
back for 35. Then Human (24), Comp-
ton (65) and Robins (43) improved the
position, the two amateurs hitting out as
the situation demanded, and Compton
playing in a style worthy of Hobbs at
his best. None of the others did much,
and ’keeper Walker helped the total to
188 with 20 byes. McCormick cheered
all hands by taking 6 for 58 ; O’Reilly’s
figures were 4 for 56.
The curtain went down on a grand
comic ensemble. Bradman batted again
and closed with Badcock out for a duck
to Nevell, and Fingleton succumbing to
Smith for 32. Don’s own score was 32 and
McCabe’s 48, both n. 0., and the total
2 for 114. Young Mr. Edrich, of Middle-
sex, required only 14 runs to complete his
1000 runs for May and had to be obliged.
The greatest care was taken not to
endanger Edrich’s wicket. Compton
went in with him and ran up and down
the pitch until Edrich had made 20 and
achieved his desire. The match? Oh,
the darned thing was drawn.
* * * *
England, after a long winter drought,
looks like having a wet summer of the
1912 vintage ; in that year the Triangular
Test scheme was drowned at its first trial.
The Australian match with Gloucester
and the English Test trial at Lord’s were
hung up by rain on the opening day.
At Bristol, where the Australians were
to have opened against the county of
the Graces, not a ball was bowled. Brad-
man dropped out of the team for some
minor repairs, and others out were
Fingleton, White and Barnes, with
Walker as twelfth. The county is a
fairly solid proposition, but on this
occasion was without Hammond, who
was playing at Lord’s, and its star bowler,
Goddard, nursing a hurt hand. Still, in
Barnett, Parker, B. O. Allen, and the
hitter Lyon the side has some strong
batsmen. Sinfield was a strong support
to Goddard last season with the ball.
Though the wicket had been covered it
was badly soaked when the Gloucester-
Australia match began at midday on
Thursday. Allen decided that the wicket
was a fair cow, but reckoned it would
be a herd of them later, so the county
batted. O’Reilly found the pitch like
the pies mother used to make, and the
Britons fell for 78, O’Reilly taking 6 for
22 and F.-Smith 3-32.
Skipper Allen played a plucky and
judgmatical innings for 41 before
O’Reilly got him l.b.w. Barnett was a
different batsman from the dasher we
saw in Australia ; he made only 15. The
rest got 11 runs among them, and sun-
dries totted up 11.
Sinfield fairly tied up the Australian
batting with accurate length and a leg
trap. When stumps came he had sent
six men back for 57 in a total of 151 for
7, and he finished with 8 for 65 out of
the 164. Of the Australian batsmen, Bad-
cock ran to 51. The only other Aus-
tralian doubles were 29 by Hassett, 18
by Brown and 14 by O’Reilly. McCabe
again failed to score.
As in the first innings, Allen was the
only batsman to shape confidently against
O’Reilly and F.-Smith. Going for the
bowling he went to 42 before McCabe
snapped him in the slips off O’Reilly.
The side was all out for 107. Again
O’Reilly (5-45) and F.-Smith (4-39) did
the damage. Ward (7) and Waite (18)
knocked off the runs without the loss of
a wicket.
* * * #
Things moved briskly at Southend,
where Australia encountered Essex in the
tourists’ last gallop before the first Test,
both sides completing an innings in an
afternoon. The weather was fine, but
the pitch was affected by sea mists, and
in the early stages was popping per-
ceptibly.
Batting first, Australia registered 145,
to which Brown contributed a lucky 55
before Smith bowled him. Fingleton
(7), McCabe (4) and Badcock (11) did
not linger long before the attack of
Fames, Stephenson and Nichols, and it
remained for the consistent Hassett to
stay the rot. He drove attractively for
26, when Fames retired him. The essays
of White (11), Waite, Chipperfield, Ward,
F.-Smith and Walker realised 48. Fames
took 4 for 43; Percy Smith, 3-25;
Stephenson, 2-20 ; and Nichols, 1-34.
Essex also refrained from mammoth
scoring. Eastman and skipper Wilcox
gave the county a good start with 21 and
38 respectively, Ward dismissing both.
Ward also nabbed Nichols for 5, and,
after F.-Smith had had O’Connor caughi
by Chipperfield for 6 and had bowled
Pearce for a duck, the S.A. man went
on to liquidate Ashton, Dennis, Fames
and Smith in short order, Dennis, with
18, being the only run-getter. Wade was
run out and the innings ended at 114.
Ward’s tally was 7-51 and F.-Smith’s
2-17.
* * * *
The English selectors have picked 13
players for the first Test against Aus-
tralia at Trent Bridge, beginning on June
10: Hammond (captain), Fames, Barnett,
Clay, Verity, Hutton, Ames, Wright,
Compton, Edrich, Hardstaff, Paynter and
Pope. Newcomers to Test cricket are
Edrich and Compton, the two Middlesex
youngsters, Hutton, the young Yorkshire
opener, Wright, the Kent leg-break
bowler, Pope, the Derbyshire fast-
medium bowler, and the Glamorgan
amateur, Clay. Clay is 40; he plays for
Glamorgan and has been 20 years in
county cricket. He is a medium-pace
off-break man, who last season took 170
wickets, averaging 17.38. He has ex-
ploited the “new” l.b.w. rule better than
any of his contemporaries. With a for-
midable batting side and a varied choice
of bowling, the selection reads a very
good one on the season’s form.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The tiresome Neville
Cardus is moved to greater heights of
drivel than usual by Bradman’s failure
on a sticky wicket against Middlesex.
Bradman, it appears, has “a flaw in his
psychology a sort of phobia against
moist pitches.” The plain truth is that
the Australian has never learned to bat
on a pitch that does not give the bats-
man every advantage against the bowler.
His Australian contemporaries are in the
same box. This helplessness is attribut-
able to the money-catching custom of
covering the wicket in all weathers.
* * * *
“Veteran”: The way some of these
modern experts regard cricket staggers
one trained to regard it as a game, above
all else to be played, fairly if you like,
but in a keen-as-mustard spirit. Com-
menting on Bradman’s amazing decision
to go in to bat on what was obviously a
bowler’s wicket at Lord’s, the seer of
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” cables that
the Australian captain’s action “might
have been a gesture to Robins, with
whom he had spent the week-end.” The
notion that a winner of the toss should
throw away all its advantages to oblige
someone who has provided bed andi
breakfast for him is staggering.
* * * *
“Dog-collar”: I was edified to read
that Hampshire’s team included a rev-
erend, one J. W. J. Steele. A visitor to
the Oxford-Cambridge match at Lord’s
might easily come to the conclusion that
all cricketers took holy orders in their
youth-; but as a matter of fact very few
clerical blues carry on to county cricket.
One the writer recalls was Vernon
Royle, of Lancashire, who came to Aus-
tralia with Lord Harris in 1878-79. The
legend goes that Royle aroused the
enmity of Tom Emmett during a Lancs-
Yorks match by reproving the rough old
pro. for overindulging in beer. When
time came for Tom to bowl to the par-
son, he remarked to Stephenson, who
was umpiring, “Preach to me, will ]e?
Then here goas for his poolpit.”
And he sent down a snorter which scat-
tered Royle’s stumps all over Old Traf-
ford.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: W. E. Astill, dropped
after years of service from the Leicester
eleven against the Australians, was one
of the oldest professionals in captivity,
having started with the county in 1905.
For years a good all-rounder, of late he
has been played chiefly for his slow
bowling. Incidentally, he is one of the
very few professionals who have cap-
tained a county side.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Announced that the
English women cricketers, whether Dr.
Robertson and the Board of Control like
it or not, will again tour Australia in
1939-40. There was a good profit on the
last tour and on the Australian trip to
England which followed it. Those who
scoffed at feminine cricket in this
country changed their tune when they saw
the high standard of the English and our
own players, and in England the game
has now become a recognised institution
for women, with a place all to itself in
Wisden.
* * *■ *
“Five Ways”: Queensland cricketers
are determined that the attempts of
N.S.W. narks to pinch their solitary Test
match on the ground that the accom-
modation at the Brisbane C.G. is out
of date shall be foiled. The trustees of
the ground—which was levelled and
fenced by private contribution —are to be
allowed by the Government to raise
£lO,OOO on mortgage to bring stands and
general accommodation up to modern
requirements. There is nothing wrong
with the playing area.
Footbrawl
Carlton, still four clear points ahead
of the next team in the V.F.L. com-
petition, beat St. Kilda, 12-18 to 6-15,
in Saturday’s series. Melbourne, 17-13,
headed Collingwood, 15-11 ; Richmond,
14-10, just won from Fitzroy, 12-15;
Geelong, 19-32, easily accounted for
South Melbourne, 10-10; Footscray,
9-16, finished only two points ahead of
North Melbourne, 9-14; and Essendon,
16-20, pipped Hawthorn, 16-7.
In the Association competition, Bruns-
wick, still unbeaten, licked Camberwell,
21-20 to 9-12. Brighton, six premiership
points behind the leaders, settled Oak-
leigh, 11-15 to 5-7.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The latest hurdle to face
football authorities in Melbourne is a
variation of the British pool system. You
can mark your card for six winners or
five winners, odds ranging from 12 to
1 to 8 to 1. Against a full pick of League
and Association winners 100 to 1 is laid,
and there are variations for picking four
“home” winners or highest and lowest
scores. The Melbourne heads are con-
sidering ways of stopping the thing. In
Britain all attempts to close down on this
‘‘game of skill” have been futile.
*l*
North, top of the Sydney Rugby Union
table by one point, is the third team to
hold the position in three weeks. On
Saturday it scraped home against Rand-
wick, 15-14, though the Greens achieved
two tries while North built up its score
from penalty goals (five of them booted
by Groves). ’Wick is lying second, one
point above University, Drummoyne and
Manly. ’Varsity, engaged against a
United Services team on Saturday, still
has its competition match with Gordon
to play: Drummoyne and Manly were
both beaten. St. George whitewashed
the Reds 15 -nil (three tries), and West
made merry against Manly, 37-9 (eight
tries to one). In the other match Parra-
matta could only notch one try to two
by East, but better kicking for goal gave
it a win, 12-9.
Newcastle sent a team to Sydney to
meet Gordon, managed, a 24-17 (five tries
each) win, and got both its centres, Flem-
ing and Hills, into the State teams.
* * * *
“Mak”: Sydneysiders will see a fairly
good Victorian Rugby Union side at
the week-end, but only a couple of
backs and about three forwards are


LARRY
ADLER
says
HOHNER
CHROMONICA’
Even though you have no musical
knowledge, you can master a HOHNER
CHROMONICA in a few hours. It
is ideally suited to solo work because
of its perfect reproduction of half-
notes. Any selection in any key can
be played. By the slight shifting of a
lever sharps and flats are secured,
bringing the Chromonica into line with
leading musical instruments.
Larry Adler, world-renowned virtuoso
of the mouth organ, and Australia’s
own Horrie Dargie, now under contract
to the Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion, play Hohner Chromonica Mouth
Organs.
Hohner Chromonicas range from
12/6 to 32/6 at all music and
fancy goods stores.
FREE INSTRUCTION. Send 3d. in
stamps for FREE MOUTH ORGAN
TUTOR —so simple that even a child
can follow it. SEND YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS TO Dept. SB6, Box
855 K, G.P.0., Melbourne.
“There
is only
one Chromatic
Mouth Organ—the
Position Vacant.
WANTED—STIPENDIARY STEWARD.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of
Stipendiary Steward to the Port Elizabeth (South
Africa) Turf Club. The duties are those apper-
taining to the position as referred to in Rules
1, 14, and 25 of the Rules of Racing of the
Jockey Club of South Africa. Salary £6OO per
annum. Applications in sealed envelopes
marked “Applications for post of Stipendiary
Steward” should reach the undersigned not
later than July 15, 1938. Applicants are hereby
notified that should they attempt directly or in-
directly to canvas any of the Stewards of the
Port Elizabeth Turf Club in connection with
their applications they' will be disqualified.—
E. J. BOWLES, Secretary, P.O. Box 164, Port
<Jonth Africa.
mil
%
m
*/
'N
Solo
Agents
JOUBERT *■ JOUBERT
PTY
LTD
Winter holiday
10 DAYS £lO-10-0
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the 1 N,
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
n»!
nils
M.ck Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
mm
LIONEL El BEY, laments JUi/tc and Heoutvcr Eliot
and acknowledged authority oil Firearms dm.
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mic.
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested ii
the sport of shooting should avail themselves 10 tin
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
41
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22
cal., bolt action, V-back sight;
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate;
weight, about j *0
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front - j
sight; weight, about 4-|lb. **//0
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’8 —STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight; .
weight, about 4Jib. . . 47/D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/G.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, ,22-cal., 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine
handles 20 short, 16 long, or 14 long-
rifle cartridgesweight, about »
5 jib £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
Famous D. B.
SHOT GUNS
Ao. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
op lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
ocks, crossbolt, wllnut stock; weight,
Mce. 7 "”. £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 14—FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever
crossbolt, walnut stock, pistol grip, nitro
jroof; weight, about 71b. 1/11/
J rice . XIL/11/-
Carriage Paid.
10. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
lAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever
rossbolt, steel barrels, both choke,
latted rib, barrels and lug one piece,
2in. barrels, walnut stock, pistol grip,
ested for nitro powders; cclinl
veight, about 81b.' Xo/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
Vrite for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
ihooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
"very repair, however small, handled by a
killed craftsman. Lowest charges.
fIICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
worth watching for possible trial with
other Union men in the running for
the Australian team to meet the
Maorilanders. Dorr and Hammon both
crossed the Tasman with the last Aus-
tralian side. Hammon, who played wing
for Auckland (M.L.) while still a young-
ster, is now a five-eighth ; he handles
well, gets away fast, runs straight and
hard and has a quick eye for an opening.
Dorr, a winger, has been playing closer in
for his club, and this hasn’t improved
his prospects for Australian selection.
Carpenter, a centre from Westralia, is a
champion scoring man when his side is
winning. Norman Wilson, Barr, Blundell
and Lang should be the best of the pack.
Solid and hard-working Wilson, who
could do with a bit more pace, has played
for Victoria ever since he left Naval Col-
lege, and he’s only 24 now. Lang, always
sound, is getting close to the veteran
stage. Barr and Blundell, with more
good-class Rugby experience, should be
heard of again.
*** * *
At Rugby League “Country” stacked
up two teams against Sydney “City” and
was twice trounced —42-12 (ten tries to
two) the Firsts, 31-15 (seven tries to three)
the Seconds.
sjc *!' *•*
“Davies Park”: Brisbane Rugby League
has dropped the district qualification
scheme for the old system of in-
dependent clubs. The district idea has
proved a delusion. Your footballer
is usually a youth whose home is where
his hat is, and when there is money in
question he makes no bones about shift-
ing his domicile to a more popular dis-
trict club.
Nineteenth Hole
Harry Hattersley and Mick Ryan met
no mugs in the British amateur at Troon,
in which, half-fit, they did so well. This
has been made evident by the British
team’s success in the Walker Cup
matches at St. Andrews, the first, though
there have been annual competitions for
16 years. Britain finished with 1\ games,
the U.S.A. with 44 games. Thomson
(Britain), in beating Goodman 6 and 4,
went round in 68. An American, Ward,
excelled this achievement, at-’ Pennink’s
expense, with a wonderful 67.
* * * *
“Maitland”: Bobby Locke is to have
another try at the British open. He will
be accompanied by Brews, who was
Union champion before Bobby deposed
him and runner-up in the British open
of 1934. After the British event the pair
will head for the U.S.A. The Australian
professional organisation might do worse
than get them here after their American
tour is over. It would be easier for them
to go back to Ons Land via Australia.
# * * *
“Jachris”: Winner of the Australian
Club’s associate title last week, for the
tenth time, was Miss L. Wray, who
has on four occasions taken the N.S.W.
associates’ event, and has on three occa-
sions proved herself the best of Aus-
tralian women golfers. Miss Wray col-
lected her first N.S.W. championship 32
years ago.
* * * *
Sandringham”: The Victorian girls’
golf championship was taken by Betty
Wood, of Kingswood, with a card of 90.
The winner is 18, and as the champion-
ship is limited to under-19’s she will
compete no more for it. Norma Rowe,
of Woodlands, was second with 95.
Weather conditions were unpleasant with
a gusty norther blowing, and the scores
must be rated as good under the condi-
tions.
* * * *
‘St. Colombes”: Mme. Rene Lacoste,
whom the golfing world once knew as
Simone de la Chaume, won her fifth
French golf championship by beating
Pam Barton 2 and 1. Simone was the
first Frenchwoman to avenge Waterloo
by taking the British women’s title. This
she did in 1927, when she was a slip
of 19.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Budge started for Europe
and the French and British tennis cham-
pionships with a characteristic whoop.
He intends to become the first player to
win the four major world’s champion-
ships, Australian, English, French and
American. He has the Australian in
hand and, in view of the weak opposi-
tion, now that Cramm is in gaol, should
not have much trouble in gaining his
objective. After that he will go to the
professionals.
* * * *
The fine form shown by the Australian
tennis girls in their early English
matches seems to be deserting them. At
Manchester v. England they won only
one match out of eight—the doubles,
Mrs. Hopman and Miss Coyne against
the Misses Dearman and Ingram.
Nancye Wynne couldn’t play—she had
’flu. She expects to be fit again for
Wimbledon.
* * * *
“Quota”: Perry is taking out Yankee
letters of naturalisation. Fred says the
U.S.A. is “a swell place to live in,”
which suggests that he has had no diffi-
culty in learning the language. But needs
must when Uncle Sam drives. That
gentleman has little time for aliens com-
ing to his country to amass dollars and,
perhaps, transfer them to other lands.
Fred has probably received the tip that
if he is to continue a career in Gahd’s
country it must be as a 100-per-cent.
Amurrican.
Miscellaneous
“K.M.”: Perth’s Bob Marshall will
have to play top-form billiards if he’s
going to make history by being the first
amateur to hold the British Empire title
twice in succession. England’s Kingsley
Kennerley showed versatility and what
the Soccer people call ball-control when
he stepped out against Australia’s second
string, the Victorian Cleary, in their heat
at the Empire contests now being staged
in Melbourne. A. M. Burke, from Cape
Town—or near it; M. M. Begg, from
India’s coral strand—he flew down from
Calcutta —and the Maorilanders Moses
(Wellington) and Albertson (Christ-
church) are the other contenders. It’s an
all-in affair, and after everyone has
played everyone else in four-hour
matches the title that Marshall brought
back from Johannesburg in 1936 will go
to the man with the best aggregate. A
bit of shrewd tipping has been done by
the Vic. Amateur Billiards Association ;
its draw saves the Marshall-Kennerley
meeting until the end of the series on
June 24 and 25.
Burke, white-haired and a crowd
favorite, was no match for Westralia’s
young hairdresser-tobacconist. Marshall
headed him by 1621 to 874. Burke has
still to accustom his play to strip-rubber
cushions instead of the solid rubber ones
general in S’Africa. Marshall’s best breaks
were 146 and an unfinished 159 (in eight
minutes); Burke’s were 119 and 83.
News of Kennerley’s record amateur
break of 549 and of the 950 he once put
up in practice drew a crowded gallery
for his match with Cleary. After a
scratchy start, the Englishman settled
down to score a confident 602 in little
over an hour. Successive breaks at one
stage were 54, 46, 95 and 123. Perfect
run-throughs, a knack of turning awk-
ward spots into long-scoring ones and
capital top-o’-table play—strings of two-
cannons-and-sink-the-red shots earned
him a six-minute 127 break, and at
the two-hour spell he was leading a
determined Cleary 829 to 649. The Vic-
torian’s best visits returned an 83 and a
104, but in the final session he got on to
his game properly; one break of 221
took him within 75 points of the visitor.
Kennerley came back with a succession
of useful breaks; this, with a later 128
and another 101, gave him the heat, 1685
to 1211.
* * * *
Hockey is a manly game, and it is to
the credit of our Indian fellow-subjects
t(iat they are so good at it. On its way
to Maoriland, the Manavadar team
stayed in Sydney for a couple of matches,
both of which it won hands down. The
second was against N.S.W.; the scores
were 7 goals to nothing. The tourists’
manager, a professor, courteously said he
was agreeably surprised at the N.S.W.
showing.
% ❖ # %
“Shell”: While Evans Paddon is
getting ready to go to Canada in search
of the world’s professional sculling
championship, Elias Laycock has set out
on a longer journey. The stout old
fellow —he was born in N. S. Wales in
1845 —was a very fine sculler. He had
several races with Ned Trickett, the
first Australian sculling champion of the
world, and at Sydney’s National Regatta,
January 26, 1886, beat him for “the
champion belt of N. S. Wales.” Trickett
turned the tables in a race for the world
championship on the Parramatta. Trickett
having lost the title to the Canadian
Hanlan on the Thames in 1880, Lay-
cock had a tilt at the Canadian, also
on the Thames, in 1881, and again on
the Nepean in 1884, being beaten on
both occasions.
* * * *
“Spike”: Why should athletics and
argument go together? Jn Australia they
are inseparable. After their inter-State
meeting was over in Sydney the Com-
bined Universities asked a N.S.W.A.A.A.
team to meet them, specifying that the
latter was to carry the State title. In-
stead, the A.A.A. dubbed its team
“Combined Sydney,” and the wrath of
the students was fearful to see. They
did not carry out a threat to cancel the
meeting, but sooled all the officials ap-
pointed by the State body off the Univer-
sity Oval and ran the show themselves.
One announcer was referee, starter and
field-games judge. Universities won by
eight events to three.
This year Sydney is certainly supreme
among the universities in sport. On its
home ground last week its lads beat
teams from Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide at Rugby Union football and,
for Combined Universities, played a big
part in the defeat of United Services,
25-14. In Tasmania, its crew won the
annual inter-’Varsity boatrace, defeating
Melbourne on the Huon River after a
grand tussle.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Duds Fall Thicker.
Not very often have Sydney theatres
had such a complete listing of excellent
pictures as at the present time, and very
seldom, also, have they had such an
accompaniment of duds.
At the Plaza there is the enchanting
“Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs” ;
“supporting” is a well-nigh perfect ex-
ample of Hollywooden dishwash.
The Century has the beautiful land-
scape of “Gold Is Where You Find It,”
a film in most respects as splendid as
its fine title. With it goes a “support”
in one respect worse than that at the
Plaza—it is longer.
The Mayfair has “The Adventures of
Tom Sawyer,” which is glorious. It also
has a Ruritanian-crown-jewels-stealing
opus of the dullest brand.
The Prince Edward has the hilarious
comedy, “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife.” A
dull affair accompanies “Bluebeard.”
It needs to be said that two other
addresses at which fine pictures are now
showing—the Regent, where they have
“Goldwyn Follies,” and the St. James,
with “A Yank at Oxford” —escape this
general indictment. They manage to do
so by sticking to newsreels and shorts.
Even at that the Regent bill includes a
“March of Time” that might well make
many wonder why it is that these “March
of Time” films so persistently strafe a
particular branch of the human family.
But at least it isn’t dull, and dullness is
what the films here being considered are
made of.
These duds are on the increase. Good
films are being made to carry them. It
is becoming extraordinarily rare to find
a film-theatre progamme that is good all
through. Instead, the general experience
is to find the first half extremely bad.
Whatever views film exhibitors in
Australia may have on this matter they
keep to themselves. In Gahd’s Own,
where the great bulk of films for Aus-
tralia —and all the duds here listed —
come from, film people are not so reti-
cent. Thus we have one of the leading
producers there stating recently that he
didn’t blame people for staying at home
and listening to the radio when the
cinemas served up these half-good-half-
dud programmes. He confessed that he
himself gave the radio preference over
such shows.
Australian film exhibitors are the ones
who’ll pay for it here unless some other
means of shunting off these duds is
found. For production of them isn’t
just a temporary accident. Most blame
probably lies with what Uncle Sam calls
just now the “recession.” Feeling the
pinch of this, film makers are heavily
economising, and cheaply-produced pic-
tures, acted by cheap artists, can be ex-
pected to increase. Most distressing news
present film-taster has heard in this re-
spect is that the young lady who “stars”
in one of the very worst of the current
duds is soon to be seen in another film,
together with three of her sisters.
After ‘‘Snow White.”
It’s a pretty fair tribute to Disney when
an audience at Sydney Plaza cheered at
the picture of a picture of dwarfs racing
to the rescue of Snow White, iust
they had been cowboy and sheriff
galloping to snatch heroine irom uie
clutches of villain. It showed that the
film really does create a new world.
It indicated, too, that this sort of film
might make a good serial. Though “Snow
White” is charming, adult audiences
would soon tire of full-length fairy
stories, but youngsters might “follow”
a serial, and any adult would enjoy
quarter of an hour of fairyland without
worrying about continuity.
As usual Disney was most successful
with his animals; the little creatures
following Snow White about the dwarfs’
house were so real that one was afraid
she would tread on them.
Disney has become the successor to
Kenneth Grahasne and A. A. Milne
in evoking delicately sentimental
memories of childhood. The intrusion
of Christopher Robin, who would be as
unreal as the Prince in “Snow White,”
might make it difficult to film Winnie-
the-Pooh, but such incidents as Pooh’s
walking round and round a wood,
stalking his own footprints in the snow,
should make shorts that would appeal
to all Disney addicts. The Wind in the
Willows, with a cast purely of small
creatures, Rat and Mole and the rest,
should make a full-length film, and
might hold adult audiences where
another “Snow White” wouldn’t.
Since the dwarfs were nearly as good
as the animals, it might even be
possible to do Gulliver's Travels and
lift the genre out of the sentimental
for once.
Disney Turns Serious.
It may be sad news to many, but it’s
a fact all right. The evidence can be
inspected at Sydney Regent in a colored
cartoon film called “The Old Mill.”
Here will be found a new and utterly
surprising Disney ; a Disney who has got
tired of being the buffoon and turned
Hamlet; a Disney as different from the
Disney who made countless thousands
of ribs ache as the Will Dyson of early
Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy, Ritz Bros, etc., in “Goldwyn Follies,”
at Sydney Regent.
BuLLETiN-drawing days was different
from the Will Dyson of the war cartoons
and satirical etchings.
Using the same medium in which he
performed notable service as a clown,
Disney is here trying to say something.
There is a slight leaven of the comic,
as when the familiar Disney frogs in the
pond near the old mill get out of the
water on to the floating lily leaves and
chant a midnight chorus; but the main
drift of whatever it is that Disney is try-
ing to say is deadly serious. It might be
a satirical comment on the collapsing of
civilisation.
Opening on a light note —the old mill
standing there in the peace of dusk, with
some cows passing it —it has a typical
enough Disney beginning, and you might
well prepare yourself to laugh like the
dickens. But presently it seems to emerge
that Disney was not depicting the peace
of dusk but the dusk of peace. For the
film, after a little toying with comedy,
shortly begins to get increasingly seri-
ous. There is boding threat in it; there
is fury ; it becomes stark and macabre.
Disney opens up the old mill and
explores it from base to beams. Right
in the path of where the huge crushing-
wheel once turned a little mother blue-
bird is sitting on her eggs, with her old
man feeding her. Elsewhere in the mill’s
innards are frightened little groups of
mice, a pair of billing doves ; high up,
an old owl. This and other life has
adopted the mill as haven. Then, sud-
denly, breaks the fury of storm. It tears
and batters at the old mill. Its force
sets the crushing-wheel turning again,
with the nesting bluebirds right in its
path. Elsewhere bits of the structure
break away and let the storm in. The
little frightened mice are scared stiff;
the old owl is caught in the drips and
gushes of water ; the billing doves are
threatened. The mill is then seen from
a little distance, standing in the storm
like a scarecrow or a skeleton.
The night of storm and fury passes ;
dawn comes; the cows go by again;
the creatures sheltered in the old mill are
full of wonder.
Pure satire is so rare on the screen
that it may be over-imaginative to see in
this Disney cartoon a biting satirical
allegory on the parlous state of contem-
porary civilisation. Certainly no pointer
is given to its being anything of the
kind ; but it scarcely seems possible that
a thing which could so readily pass as
a striking satire could be such purely
accidentally.
Color in Current Films.
Four of the main pictures snowing in
Sydney at present are in color, and every
one of them is good entertainment.
In addition there are lots of shorts—
travel films, cartoons and the like —all
me oeiter lor being in color.
Even in the past few months the
coloring has been greatly modified. Not
only is it less crude, it is more credible.
Apparently producers are now compro-
mising between the color the camera sees
and the color the eye sees. Even so, the
color sometimes upsets credibility. A case
in point is the generally very beautiful film
“Gold Is Where You Find It,” showing
at Sydney Century. In this the men
are often quite incredible. The most
sunbronzed outdoor dwellers never got
up such a color as we are asked to be-
lieve is the natural hue of the mining-
engineer hero and some others. It would
hardly be credible even if the people
were supposed to be Red Indians. Its
fault is that, like any other, sort of false
note, it damages credibility in the film as
a whole.
Curiously, the women seem acceptable
even when they’re turned on in the same
hue. Possibly this is an odd effect of
the ladies being so commonly seen in
unnatural hues in ordinary life. While
their fingernails can be purple, scarlet
or green, and their cheeks anything from
chalk-white to saffon, there’s little strain
on credibility when they grace the screen
with an orange look.
Such considerations apart, “Gold Is
Where You Find It” is greatly enhanced
by its color. Its landscapes are beauti-
ful. A good deal of the film is pure
documentary —direct depiction of an in-
teresting kind of goldmining, in which,
instead of any form of dry quarrying,
the earth and all it contains are washed
out of mountaintops or mountainsides by
force of water applied at irresistible
pressure through great iron “monitor”
hoses. (The conflict in the story arises
from the volume of water thus employed
going down to flood out the wheat-
growers below.) The color in all this is
really everything. Without it, the film
would be decidedly dull. As it is, the
color makes the spectacle so interesting
that the triteness of the story can be
overlooked.
Color is again seen making what would
otherwise be a very ordinary and hack-
neyed film an exceptionally interesting
one in “Goldwyn Follies,” at Sydney
Regent. These two film houses face each
other across the street, but there’s a world
of difference between their offerings. The
“Follies” film is the old backstage stuff
made entirely new purely by virtue of
its being in color. Even dancing—hitherto
one of the least successful of film ven-
tures —is both convincing and lovely in
this color presentation. Contrasting
with the open-air nature of “Gold Is
Where You Find It,” the scenes are prac-
tically all indoor settings, and dressing,
stage acts and general surroundings are
so effective that henceforth a backstage
film without color will be like returning
to the silent screen.
Color is so important to “Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs,” showing at the
Plaza, that it’s impossible to think of
the picture without color. This film is
pure enchantment, and it’s the color that
makes it so. Color is not absolutely
essential to the other notable color-film
success “The Adventures of Tom
Sawyer,” showing at Sydney Mayfair,
but, as in the “Follies” and “Gold” films,
the color does enhance the entertainment
value enormously. “Tom” is as complete
a work of art in its way as even “Snow
White,” and very enjoyable.
“Cloistered ”
Showing at Sydney Lyceum, this film
has interest in giving a glimpse of life
hitherto unknown to the majority of
people—the life of nuns within an en-
closed convent.
The permission of the Vatican was
necessary before the film could be made.
It was photographed within the cloisters
of the French convent near Angers, “The
Mother House of the Sisters of Our
Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd.”
Previously no men other than priests,
and they only when carrying the Sacra-
ment to sick nuns, had penetrated the
cloister.
The work of the nuns is shown, but
too briefly. They till the fields, make
their own boots, work as bricklayers and
carpenters, and are entirely self-support-
ing. The greater part of the film is
taken up with the ceremonial of entrance
to the community, the acceptance first as
postulants, two years later as novices,
and then to the final vows at the end of
a five years’ novitiate. It suffers from
its having to be filmed in the dim light of
a chapel, and from the three ceremonies
being long and much the same ; and it
suffers, too, in comparison with the more
colorful ceremonial usually accorded
these things in fictional films.
At the end, tacked on to the film, and
inexpertly done, comes an argument
against war among nations.
“Merrily We Liver
Constance Bennett, Brian Aherne.
And merrily goes the film from start
to finish —a diverting stretch of sophisti-
cated comedy, fallabout and generally
amusing situations.
It snaps into action with butler of sas-
siety mansion fainting on discovering
that chauffeur has lit out for parts un-
known with family silver. Same chauf-
feur, it transpires at breakfast table,
when family are doing their best with
soup-ladles, egg-whisks, coffee-strainers
and suchlike, was a hobo protege of the
mistress of the house, her chief concerns
being the maternal state of her goldfish
and reforming of stray hoboes.
Manorial master stamps his foot on
future hoboes, with elder daughter, the
Bennett, backing him solidly. What time
enters the most asthmatic boneshaker


THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COY. LTD.
and
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) LTD.,
announce a
regarding the sale of
MASONITE
Presdwood, Tempered Presdwood, Quartrboard, and
Temprtile, the Australian production of which is
expected to commence in September, 1938, and
CANE-ITE
Structural, Insulating, Semi-Hard, and Acoustical Boards
to be manufactured by the Colonial Sugar Refining
Coy. Ltd.
Full stocks of CANE-ITE are now available, and stocks
of the full range of imported MASONITE products will
be available by June 20th, 1938.
Important to Architects and Builders
In order to ensure that these important building
materials shall become available at the lowest
economic prices possible MASONITE and CANE-
ITE will both be marketed solely through the
Building Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Coy. Ltd. All enquiries for these mater'
ials should be addressed to: THE COLONIAL
SUGAR REFINING COY. LTD., Building Materials
Division, Harwood House, O’Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone: B 5794.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COY. LTD.
Head Office: O’Connell St., Sydney. Telephone: B 5794.
Offices at: Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.
MASONITE CORPORATION (Australia) LTD
Factory: Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.
It’s always fun for growing children to frolic on a Feltex
Floor.
They can run around bare-footed without fear of chills
and, better still, they won’t get "5h...5h...-ed" at by
parents who object to a little noise.
Feltex is safe, silent, and inexpensive—standard width is 50 inches
—and Feltex is reversible.
For sample and descriptive folder post free, write to Dept. 5.
Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
To remove ordinary household stains from felts or carpets use
Feltex Dual Cleaner.
m&xmxs?
£
I
m
m
.
’
m.?
mMI
m
fm.
■ ■
MS-m
■mm*
Wt '
PSSK
' "j- V V, * * ■; m v vi
2-;- : /i - ''IfJ&WA
t
Wmm
m,
wmm
m-
mm
®WM
mMm,
GUARANTEED MOTHPROOF FOT? LIFE
seen to date, driven by an equally de-
crepit Mr. Aherne. Engaged immedi-
ately as chauffeur, of course, and on this
promising note the film tears into its
stride.
It’s funnier than another recent
M.-G.-M. comedy in which the Bennett
also figured (“Topper”), but not nearly
so original. Rib-damagers come natu-
rally at such simple situations as the
butler (Alan Mowbray) jamming his hand
in a jardiniere, or the master of the house
returning home well plastered and making
a precarious passage up and down a
double staircase.
The Bennett, giving a better perform-
ance than in her earlier appearance, and
Aherne —an easy, likeable chap, with
some comedic ability—contribute gener-
ously to the plane of comedy, but their,
efforts are eclipsed by those of Mowbray
and Billie Burke. The delightful fool-
ing of these two runs right through the
film. Miss Burke manages vacant dumb-
ness just about perfectly. Mowbray has
these harried-butler roles in the palm of
his hand, and improves at every appear-
ance.
The film has the added attraction of
not depending solely on its principal
players. Patsy Kelly as pantrymaid,
Bonita Granville and Tom Brown as
children of the house, and Clarence Kolb
as the heavy-handed parent with a sneak-
ing affection for the back door all show
up brightly.
Starting at Sydney Liberty to-day, the
film is a bright kick-off for that theatre’s
return to screening first releases.
“Thunder Trail ”
At Sydney Cameo and Civic this is
a good example of how well Hollywood
can turn out machine-made Westerns.
Given material which they must now
know by heart, the filmsmiths hack into
it until only the bare essentials of the
narrative remain. Result: at best, a
clean-cut, fast-moving film making aver-
age entertainment; at worst, just another
Western which at least does not prolong
the agony.
It’s an example which might well
be followed by more pretentious produc-
tions.
Present offering says what it has to
say in 53 minutes: Pioneering days in
Gahd s Own, gold, moider, children
grown up, revenge, along with heart in-
terest, thunderin’ hoofs and plenty of
bang-bang-bang.
Acting is as neat as the film, with a
particularly meaty piece from J. Carrol
Naish, departed from villlainising for the
role of a Mexican old-timer, Charles
Bickford making his usual amount of
trouble, Marsha Hunt the Goil, and Gil-
bert Roland and Lee Tate the hard-
shootin’ hombres.
“Call of the Yukon.”
Beverly Roberts, mcnu.u
Main item on Sydney Capitol’s current
bill, this was originally from the pen
of James Oliver Curwood, whose idea
of endowing animals with almost human
characteristics has been caught to ad-
vantage.
Story deals with a half-wild trapper’s
attempt to escort a woman novelist from
an abandoned Eskimo village -to
civilisation. Their hardships include an
avalanche, wolves, breaking of a frozen
river and, of course, hostility dawning
into true lurv with complications in the
form of Lyle Talbot at the end of the
journey.
The human element is not so good,
but the tykes are interesting. An
Alsatian, a St. Bernard and a collie, all
fine specimens, make up the canine
triangle, and the strength of their show-
ing suggest that their trainers might well
be assigned to a few human performers.
“My Old Kentucky Home,” supporting
“Cloistered” at Sydney Lyceum, is
astonishingly dreary; dreariest on the
half-dozen occasions when a negro choir
is moaning about the old home.
“Bulldog Drummond’s Revenge” has
Drummond mixed in with international
spies and high explosive at Sydney Cameo
and Civic. Action takes place mostly
on the Dover-bound express, there are
a couple of moiders, much deduction
and running about before explosive is
saved for the Empire and Mr. Drum-
mond continues on his interrupted way
to matrimony, which will no doubt be
again interrupted in the next episode.
A marked improvement on the last
offering which figured much the same
cast.
“Judge Hardy’s Children,” supporting
“Merrily We Live” at Sydney Liberty,
is, for an M.-G.-M. film, somewhat
rambling and, ip patches, poorly acted
and directed. It’s just the yarn of i
small-town Judge who, called to Wash-
ington to head a power-investigation
commission, takes along his family and
is hooked by crooks through his over-
garrulous daughter. It makes (some-
times too obviously) a statement against
monopoly of public utilities, and appeals
to youth to recognise authority.
“ Saleslady at Sydney Capitol, is the
old one about the million-dahlar heiress
who leaves her whirl of sassiety butter-
flies to seek true lurv in a dept, store.
Conceived and acted modestly, though
none the less capably, and well seasoned
with such domestic touches as the
vagaries of the instalment system, the
film makes pleasant light entertainment.
Szell’s Sydney Debut.
Musical Sydney rolled up well at the
Town Hall for a taste of the orchestral
“heavies” from the Symphony Orchestra
under Czech conductor Georg Szell.
The audience was no way disap-
pointed. ♦ It saw in action a musician
who knows every beat backwards —•
throughout he scorned the use of a
score whose sense of musical values
is sound, and who got the utmost out
of a very fine orchestra with a minimum
of effort. He merits extra marks because
he had only five days for rehearsals.
His perfect control was most manifest
in the Beethoven Violin Concerto in D
major. In this exacting work he made
of the orchestra a magnificent back-
ground for the soloist, Tossy Spiva-
kovsky, whose warm, rich tone made
of it a rhythmic joy/ In the final move-
ment, the fast-moving Rondo, the violinist
was excellent.
The Egmont Overture —Beethoven’s
response in his earlier style to the Goethe
tragedy—had woodwind and strings in
admirable combination ; and the Schu-
mann Fourth Symphony, lighter than
the other works, came as an enjoyable
contrast, its highlight the lovely Romance
with the strings singing in unison. Two
arrangements by Hamilton Harty of
Handel, the florid Introduction and
Rigadoon, completed a well-balanced
programme.
T ihbettophilia.
Tibbettophilia continued to rage all
last week in Melbourne.
On Saturday the singer included in
his programme the setting by an Aus-
tralian composer of an aboriginal folk-
song. He sang it with his usual meticu-
lous purity of tone.
Tibbett has extended his season by
several nights ; after which Tauber will
arrive and endeavor to go one better
under A.B.C. auspices.
In the meantime, local music is at a
standstill. *
Adelaide Shows .
The Little Theatre, which is making a
bold bid among the amateur societies of
Adelaide, has had the pluck to stage
Andre Obey’s semi-burlesque of the
Biblical “Noah.” Colin Ballantyne pro-
duced, and also modelled the masks for
the many animals concerned in the ark
business. The play depends on the central
character, and Frank Gunnell represented
the patriarch’s varying moods finely.
Adelaide Musical Comedy Co. (which
was complimented last year by an offer
to transport “The Vagabond King”
bodily for a Melbourne season) puts up
this time the much lighter “Lilac
Domino” —Alan Chapman producer, and
also manager. The various charities
which are to benefit see to the publicity ;
but the show is its own best advt. Ken-
neth Fraser and Margaret Pirie lead the
romance, Rex Dawe and Phil Peake the
rather extravagant humor. The chorus,
and especially the dancing, is of a
standard not ordinarily found on the
amateur stage.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
W m
11
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
59 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast from 7 'h
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL FREDERICK THOMAS HALE, who
was born at Kensington, in Victoria, on the
Tenth day of April, 1896, or anyone able to
supply any information as to his whereabouts,
kindly communicate with the undersigned? The
receipt of such information will be to the
advantage of Mr. Hale or his issue.
WHITING & BYRNE, Solicitors,
101 William Street, Melbourne.
WILL COLIN BROWN, formerly of Perth,
Scotland, and late of 124 Gower Street, East
Preston, Melbourne, or anyone knowing his
present whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. BLAKE & RIGGALL, Solicitors,
120 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria?
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was quite a bustle and polite
hustle at Admiralty House on Saturday
morning. M.B.Es. and 0.8.E5. and so
on clustered about the paths and stepped
inside the G.G.’s threshold awaiting the
moment when, name announced, they
would step forward, bow or curtsy,
receive the decoration, bow or curtsy
again and step into the background.
Here they found the two friends or
relations each had been allowed to in-
vite ready with smiles and congratula-
tions. On the lawns the band played,
and through the windows the harbor,
like some dazzling lotus, could be
glimpsed. Almost putting the glories of
the day to shame were the uniforms and
busbies and scarlet and gold inside the
long drawing-room where. Lord Wake-
hurst handed out the glittering gauds.
Lord Huntingfield was not well enough
to perform, so the knights have to wait
over for their accolade.
Captain Harding and Blake Pelly
caught the eye—the latter looking very
nice in his velvet—a sort of grown-up
Fauntleroy. Archbishop Mowll in full lawn
sleeves and all was impressive. Lady Wake-
hurst was there, her smart suit finished
off with silver fox furs, her small black
hat upturned. Great bowls of Strelitzia
blazed in the recesses of the room. Five
ladies dropped a curtsy and passed on
the richer for their decorations. Liked
the mulberry tones of Mrs. F. J. Davy's
frock and matching hat, which chimed
in wjth the ribbon of her M.B.E. She
wore also her radiant smile. Husband
and sister Mrs. Cox, from Helensburgh,
were there to see. Telegrams of con-
gratulation came from American hockey
girls now on the high seas in the Mon-
terey and a foursome of them who are
at present doing Tasmania on bicycles.
With even more enthusiasm than it
left off with last year, Sydney plunged
into this year’s Symphony Orchestra sea
of sound. The opening night of the
season found not one vacant chair in
the Town Hall. Long before eight so]jd
masses of citizens moved inch by inch
up the front steps. Velvets, satins,
ermine, mink, jewels, flowers steadily
hoisted themselves side by side with the
street costume, the felt hat, the topcoat
and no jewels at all, not even imitation
pearls. The real music-lovers were having
a night out, too. Enthusiasm was terrific,
and Tossy Spivakovsky, soloist in the
Beethoven Concerto in D major, had to
give an encore.
The only fly in the marmalade was
the glare of the row of lighting, high
up in front of the stage. This caught
the eyes of listeners in the first four or
five rows of seats. Conductor Georg
Szell roamed about the heights and
depths of his Egmont, his concertos and
symphonies without any guide in the
shape of a score. His wife had a nice
length or two of silver fox warming the
wrists of her cornelian velvet coat. Below
this her dress gleamed silver. Wife of
singer Kipnis arrived in all white. All
the ladies of the celebrity concert com-
mittee, whether by accident or design,
wore lovely flowers. Liked Mrs. Walter
Swinson’s cream roses and the red car-
nation in the buttonholes of husband and
son Ryder.
As usual, there was a great roll-up to
the yearly meeting of the Bush Book
Club. This group of book-lovers who
keep on supplying reading matter to the
men and women of the Outback are
doing a great work for Australia. You
have only to listen to some of the letters
written to the secretary by lonely readers
to realise what the bright novel, the
book of poems, means to the mar: and
woman far from city distractions. One
man has written to say he has just lost
his faithful companion and mate, h;s
dog, and ieels lonesome. He would like
some books, and specifies “Blackwood’s
Magazine.” One or two women in
drought-stricken areas ask for bright
novels. Can you wonder at that?
Something new in fashion displays
was given at the Trocadero when Pat
Sykes danced in a series of Anthony
Horderns’ star frocks. With her partner,
J. A. Andrews, Patricia took the floor
in a tango, a waltz, and other swiftly
gliding and graceful movements. As she
has held a world championship several
times the afternoon and evening frocks
in which she demonstrated achieved, if
anything, an added grace. All the dance
frocks were just ankle-length—the ideal
length, Pat says, for stepping. Liked the
cocktail frock in black sheer with its
overskirt of black silk fringe. This was
made with long sleeves. Also striking
was the evening frock of grey chiffon,
its full skirt pleated, as is the latest
decree. Its swathed bodice had very nar-
row shoulder straps, and was cut almost
to the waist at back. A sash of orange
and lemon ended in a graceful drape at
the front.
The King’s School Old Boys will have
their yearly night out in the Blaxland
Galleries on June 17. As usual, they have
been lucky in snaring a catch of pretty
girls to work on the dance committee.
This is Nancy Hicks, who is helping with
the treasury. Photo, from Dayne.
The military had a night out last week
when the officers of the Second Division
A.M.F. and their friends danced in David
Jones’s ballroom till morning. Brigadier-
General I. G. Mackay and Mrs. Mackay
were the evening’s important people. A
fanfare of trumpets greeted their arrival,
and Mrs. Mackay received the debs. Her
vivid good looks were companioned by a
chalk-white frock and deep-red roses.
There’s something about a military band
that puts a sparkle into the atmosphere,
so the R.A.A. band distilled its lively
airs before the dancing started, and got
the night to the right temperature of
gaiety. Later on, just to show it has a
touch of romance in its make-up, it
played the waltz for the night’s flight
of brand-new butterflies.
Colonel and Mrs. Morshead received.
She carried a posy of violets and wall-
flower, and wore a frock of emerald
green. The Brigadier-General Hardie
couple were in the official group. Her
frock of soft white crepe was flower-
patterned. Rear-Admiral Custance was
among the revellers. Mrs. Gordon Ben-
nett, all shimmery white and silver, came
with her Major-General. The Lieuten-
ant-Colonel Ridleys were there, burgundy
the shade of her satins. Ethereal blues
were Mrs. Whiston-Walsh’s choice.
The Frederick Barbers (she was Kath-
leen Dorahy) had a great party in their
home, Hexham, at Abbotsford Point (it
was once the home of barrister Lother-
ington), where her mother and father held
their golden jubilee. Mr. and Mrs.
Barber were the host and hostess, and
the guests were all over 60 years gay.
Many, writer Fred Broomfield among
them, had been at the original ceremony.
It was, too, a great gathering of the
Dorahy family—sons and their wives,
brothers and sisters, cousins and three
grandchildren helped to make the fun,
which started at 6.30 p.m. and went
through until the small hours. There
were some grand speeches, and. Mrs.
Barber sang songs old and new in her
pretty contralto.
Conductor Szell was in fine form on
Saturday night. At times he even in-
troduced swing into his movements. The
night was cold ; women in the audience
snuggled into their fur coats, but the
man with the baton looked as though
he was suffering from an overdose of the
pine logs of good St. Wenceslaus. That
saint of good cheer is one of the patrons
of Prague, where Georg hails from. Dr.
Bainton, sitting with Mrs. Bainton where
they could get an uninterrupted view of
the principal, was so carried away with
the Schubert Symphony that he was con-
ducting it with his head. Mrs. Harold
Bott, in' pastel satin, and Trix Tange,
both incurable concert-goers, were excited
over friend Allen McCristal’s success.
Allen, who was the solo pianist in the
Tschaikovsky concerto, was a Conser-
vatorium student. Now he lives at
Townsville, Q.
Lady Wakehurst came attended by
Captain Harding. Her long black vel-
vet cape was worn over a black velvet
frock. Noreen Dangar, too, brought a
black velvet cape to the concert, but
hers glittered with black sequins. A.B.C.
chairman and Mrs. Cleary received the
vice-regal lady and handed her a posy
of roses. The conductor’s wife was
among those who wore black velvet
capes. Mrs. C. L. Jones’s coat was of
mink. Brenda .Parkhill wore two white
flowers in her hair and sat with mother.
The Langs from Cooma and Mrs. Ton-
king from Orange were there. The Lieu-
tenant-Governor Streets were also front-
rankers.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
will pay a tribute to the memory of our
best-known literary figure on Wednesday
night, June 15, at the Feminist Club, by
holding a “Henry Lawson Night.”
Amongst the speakers will be Rod Quinn
and Fred Broomfield (both contempor-
aries of Lawson). Tal Ordell will read
“Arvie Aspinal’s Alarm Clock,” eof
Lawson’s most poignant short stories. As
usual, a general discussion will conclude
the programme.
Here is the wife of tenor Richard
Tauber, who is coming to Australia to
tour under A.B.C. management. Mrs.
Tauber is famous in her own right, being
the lovely Diana Napier, English screen
star. The two are already half-way here,
having .flown to Naples, where they
boarded the Orontes. Tauber opens hjs
Australian season at the end of this
month. Diana isn’t going to let the male
bird have it all his own way. He may
have the song, but she is going to strut
in fine feathers. She is bringing a
mountain of trunks filled with frocks and
hats specially designed for her. The tour
should provide something of a fashion
parade.
This afternoon Lady Wakehurst will
open the Tapestry Exhibition which is
expected to raise a good cheque for the
Industrial Blind Institution. David
Jones’s auditorium is hung with tapestry
pictures and panels. One corner is given
over to Biblical subjects. There is among
these a copy of Da Vinci s Last Suppei
in one of the churches in Milan. There is
an imposing picture of St. Patrick ex-
pelling the snakes from Ireland. A
number of the treasures come irom
Manly. There is a delicate piece of the
days of Queen Anne, and a chair, its
flowers and foliage somewhat faded,
which is said to have been worked by a
lady at the Court of George IV. These
are from the Pacific doorstep.
There’s a striking bit of color in a
Dante and Beatrice panel, and an amaz-
ing corner of Westminster Abbey by
Stamp Taylor. A William and Mary
piece on white moire is worked with
conventional roses, caterpillars and
plump little birds. A Flemish ady
and gentleman who .lived a long time
ago look over their ruffs, cool and
aloof. A delicately - worked banneret
screen showing a design of field flowers is
an attractive piece. The age of this is
unknown, and it was bought at Christie s
by Mrs. Rex Carmichael. Lord Hunting-
field is doing his bit, and an old English
manor-house which he has worked is
among the exhibits.
Some lovely work comes from England.
A petit-point picture of Glamis Castle
worked by the Countess of Strathmore
is notable. Lady Carmichael, of Skirling,
one time Victoria’s vice-reine, has sent
one of the lacquered patchwork quilts
now so fashionable. The middle is deco-
rated with a large basket of flowers ; the
border shows scenes from the village life
of Skirling. Of thick ivory silk, beau-
tifully quilted, is a bedspread as made
for the Queen. This bears a rose and
shell design. Two in facsimile of those
made for the little Princesses are of
shell-pink, and are embroidered with a
star, rose and feather. There’s a wall
panel from the Hon. Mrs. Claud Bid-
dulph, of Cirencester, showing the village
archery club. And you will see a group
of exhibits from Maoriland.
A pair of evening shoes in silk petit-
point on canvas —the design is mixed
field-flowers —worked by the wife of
Professor Cole, will inspire exhibition
visitors. The design took a prize
at an exhibition in Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Through the influence of Lady Gowrie
and Lady Wakehurst interesting pieces
are coming from England. The Mar-
chioness of Hartington, Lady Strathcona
and 30 other ladies are sending a collec-
tion of contemporary tapestries. Mrs.
Theodore Roosevelt, jun., has promised
some of her handwork. It is said to be
noted for its originality of design. The
Industrial Blind Institution will benefit.
There was quite a European, touch
about the entry of Senia Chostiakoff
to the little stage in the Australia ball-
room the other night. Senia, as you will
remember, first came to Australia as one
of the principal tenors with the Don
Cossacks, and for the Rotarians’ party
for the Crippled Children he was in his
dashing white Cossack uniform. To make
effective entry, Senia waited in a small
passage behind the walnut doors. This
leads direct to the main kitchen, and the
chef, smiling widely below his snowy
white cap, the pantrymen and the waiters
were all in the small passage surrounding
the commanding uniformed figure. When
the blackout came in which he made
his entry they were more excited than
the singer.
Under cover of the blackness he
took his position on the stage, where
the orchestra was softly playing. Sud-
denly, to the surprise of the audience,
the spotlight was turned on just as Senia
broke into a spirited Russian song. There
were 450 listeners to the good pro-
gramme. Eleven-year-old pianist David
Maddison went “big.” A group of In-
dependents presented Noel Coward’s
“Family Album.” The Hans Meyer
couple gave some graceful dance num-
bers. The Lieutenant-Governor Street
couple, the Julius lady, Belinda Street,
Dr. Garnet Halloran and his wife, Mrs.
J. L. Ruthven and Albert Collins —who
announced the numbers and described
himself as a “cheap way of printing a
programme” —were of the company.
Mrs. Isabella Euphemia Gall, who died
recently in Sydney, was among Moree s
best-known pioneers. Eighty-one years
ago, when she left her native Edinburgh
with her parents (the late John Munro
couple), she made the voyage by sailing
ship. The journey took six months. For
a little time they stayed in Maitland, and
then a tedious journey by bullock wagon
brought the pioneer family to Moree.
There Mrs. Gall lived for 70 years. After
her marriage her first home was at
Clifton. Later the family home was
Tycannah. Among her other experiences
was having her home stuck up by Star-
light.


H\
llldS V
o
c=>
o
©
r-j
f
/
i
cu
1
9
3)
\
D)
ft
V)
<T\
J
IS
ft
1
it
0 N ‘S 8 V 3 1 inOHUM S3IinVOINHD3JL VWSVI
The builders of Packard, Standard, Ford,
and Hudson cars “tuned in” INSTAN-
TANEOUSLY to the conviction that the
J93S Tasma Auto Radio should be the
equipment for their new model cars.
YO'UR car deserves a Tasma, too!
THE TASVA S"
{ABOVE)
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5-valve
broadcast, Battery operated.
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
(Prices slightly higher in West Australia.)
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE”
( BELOW )
Meeting the demand for receivers with
full console chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table use.
Model “525”—6-valve dual-wave
A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580”—Broadcast 5-valve,
Battery operated 27 guineas
Air Cell operated 29 guineas
Vibrator' powered 32 guineas
Model “585”—5-valve dual-wave.
Battery operated 29 guineas
Air Cell operated 31 guineas
Vibrator powered 31 guineas
The secret of the one-man band is Instantaneous Tuning.
The gent here portrayed has little to do with the
advertisement except to snare your attention to the fact
that Tasma has the fastest tuning equipment of any radio
yet evolved. One flick of finger and thumb and the Tasma
pointer spins right across the 20-inch floodlit Tasma Dial,
to stop dead on your choice of any one of the 125 broad-
casting stations calibrated. Never before have speed and
hair-line accuracy been combined with such consummate
skill. And that s just one OTHER, reason why Tasma is
the finest radio investment on the market to-day.
In case you are unlucky enough not to know the other reasons for Tasma's leader-
ship . . . here are some of them: —
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hott way and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST; OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
t/a4ma
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA; NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
© New Octal Valves. 0 Air Trimmers. 0 Extended
Tuning Range. 0 Oversize Dial with 20 inches
of tuning space. 0 Automatic Volume Control.
0 Variable Selectivity. 0 Dust-proof Speakers.
0 Inbuilt Magic Eye.
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane* (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARUNG DOWNS; ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.


y&\
/1
s/
h
theirs—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
When
a MAN
tells you:
that he has used
Calvert’s nearly all
his life,
that Calvert's has
kept his teeth per-
fect when most
men of his age
have parted with
do not experiment with imitations.
& BK.ANLU.CKB. * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHAM. ENG
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
» No. 738 of 1938.
BETWEEN ANNIE ELIZABETH SMITH
Petitioner
And MATHEW RALSTON SMITH Re-
spondent.
TO MATHEW RALSTON SMITH late of
Inverell in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
ELIZABETH SMITH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Thirtieth day
of August next and in the event of your not
so doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirty-first day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) T. THORNBOROUGH,
Clerk in Divorce.
CLIVE W. DAVIES (CLIVE DAVIES £
SHARPE), Solicitor for the Petitioner, Bank
of New South Wales Building, 341 George
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 601 of 1938.
BETWEEN RONALD NORMAN CONVERT
Petitioner
And EILEEN MARY CONVERY Re-
spondent.
TO EILEEN MARY CONVERY formerly of
Weston New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RONALD
NORMAN CONVERY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-fifth
day of August next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Second day of June, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) T. THORNBOROUGH,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The event of the V.R.C.’s June meet-
ing at Flemington was the christening
of the new bar. No longer will women
and the few odd men who spend the day
there with their wives (or who at least
meet them now and again to replenish
their purses or buy them sustenance) have
to clamber over one another’s shoulders
to get served at an infinitesimal counter
and risk damaging their new clothes in
the bun-rush. Now food can be procured
in comfort.
The meeting was notable for expen-
sive furs, coats and capes worn by well-
groomed matrons. Perhaps it is the foot-
ball that is taking away a number of the
younger folk, or maybe they are just
saving up for their next hurdle at the
Grand National. Among the fur-coated
was Mrs. Roy Chambers, in summer
ermine; of the fur-collared was Mrs.
Jack Goulding, whose silver fox was part
of her black coat, worn with black acces-
sories even to her race glasses. A pair
of blonde sisters also in black were Mrs.
John Gourlay and Mrs. David Elder.
Mrs. Morris Sallmann wore black caracul,
and daughter Lois was tall, slim and
smart in Robin Hood green. Mrs. Rupert
Downes and Judith Lawry found use
for suits emphasising this year’s generos-
ity for full-length coats. The chilly wind
was no discomfort to Mrs. Bruce Mead
in her tobacco-colored suit. Marjorie
Bernard Smith had a navy coat collared
in fox, and Edith Anderson a check suit
with which she wore a red carnation
buttonhole.
At a last-moment request by telephone
from the bride's parents, Godfrey Ellis
nobly rose to the occasion of proposing
a health of the happy couple at the
wedding of Joan Hill and Ron McNicoll.
And in spite of having no preparation
he made an excellent job of it. There
were no other speeches, for the ’groom’s
commenced and ended on one line: “On
behalf of my wife and myself,” drowned
in the usual applause. The reception was
at Menzies, where good luck was invoked
in everything from champagne cocktails
to beer, where there was dancing and
where everybody wanted to dance with
the bride. She did her best, but there
were still a score of lads left lamenting
when the party was over.
When opening Lionel Lindsay’s ex-
hibition of pictures, Frank Clarke
allowed himself four minutes of speak-
ing time into which he squeezed some
information about Lindsay, the respect
gallery directors in England have for him
and the fact that, of all his exhibitions
in the British Isles, Glasgow provided this
Australian with £4OOO worth of red seals.
The last minute of the address was saved
for the beauties of Melbourne and the
danger our city is up against architectur-
ally. The speaker has a personal affec-
tion for the Bank of Australasia and
the Old Treasury and, without wanting
to hurt 'the A.P.A.’s feelings, he’d like
to wave a witch wand over its tower.
Among those who admired the etch-
ings, woodcuts and water-colors at the
exhibition were Mrs. Russell Grimwade,
who wore a black bolero suit and a
scarlet belt; Mrs. B. Flaxman, also in
black and a plume in her beret; Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson in pavement-blue
and violets, and her daughter Yvonne
in a fur cape over a black frock. John
Longstaff and General Chauvel were
both noticed ; so was Mrs. Claude Mc-
Kay, a diminutive figure in black, furs,
an orchid and a spatter of gold at her
throat. Mrs. Bob Croll was there also.
She says that, without casting any
aspersions at her husband as a correspon-
dent (who is known for the fluency of
his pen), the centre of Australia is a
good place for bad letter writers to
live in peace. Mrs. Croll had five tele-
grams from “R.H.” last week, and her
first letter from him, arrived on Satur-
day. He’s had no chance to catch any
other mails since entering the wilds on
the way to Alice Springs several weeks
ago. Lionel Lindsay was not present at
his exhibition, the distance of Sydney
from Melbourne and his own lumbago
being the factors responsible for his
absence.
In the Broothorn photo, is a South
Australian visitor to Melbourne, Lilian
Lovick, who has been staying with
Yvonne Richardson at Cliveden. Lilian
is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. N.
Lovick, of Millswood, Adelaide. She’s
in her final year at law, and if all goes
well hopes to be admitted to the Bar
next year.
Lawrence Tibbett is partial to quail.
At a lunch last week he accounted for
12 of these succulent morsels, which
really wasn’t such a large meal for a
hungry man, for the birds made up the
only dish upon his menu. Tibbett con-
certs are drawing packed houses to the
Town Hall. Mrs. Tibbett attends every
one, and has an interesting wardrobe
from which to choose her gowns and
cloaks. At one of last week’s concerts
her prune-colored draperies were visible
beneath a fur coat. At a later concert
she placed tuberoses in her dark hair, and
a blue fox cape was a chills-protector for
her gown of white cloque. On this occa-
sion she sat with Mrs. Ken Niall and her
son Jim. Noticed also in the audience
were the lan McEacharns and Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Donovan, who later in the
evening were among the 70-odd guests
invited to Mrs. Sid Myer’s home for
supper in honor of the Tibbetts.
Back among spectators at art shows
is Mrs. Campbell Hughston, much
better known in her own particular
line of work as Edith Moore, which
name she relinquished when she went to
New Guinea a few months ago to be
married. Mrs. Hughston thought she
would be at Bulolo for at least a year,
and was planning to work hard at her
modernistic sculpture, but a broken ankle
put her in hospital for several weeks.
Then just as she was ready to get out her
sculpturing tools her husband accepted
an engineering position in Melbourne.
Mildred Vaughan will be packing
trunks and suitcases at Walsh-street,
South Yarra, just before July 26, when she
sails on the Narkunda on the first stage
of a holiday to Kenya. She will have
only one day in Colombo, waiting for
a connecting ship to Mombasa; then,
after a night’s train journey to Nai-
robi, she will be met by her aunt, who
has a coffee estate a few miles out of
town. Mildred sews a neat seam upon
fine materials, so the things she is taking
with her are of quality. She also has
slacks and playsuits, golf clubs and a
tennis racquet. She hopes later to
go to Holland, where a married sister
dwells.
Basil Murphy cut short his lunch hour
one day last week to sit for half an hour
on the station with Minnie Everett, who
was waiting for a Geelong train. The
pair are old friends, and would prob-
ably have plenty to talk about at any
time; but on this occasion it was all ot
“Crescent Moon.” This musical show
will be produced for charity at the end
of August. It’s of local vintage, and
those who have seen the score and heard
the lyrics are high in their praise of
its possibilities. Denis Gerity wrote the
music and Dighton Burbridge the book
in collaboration with Paul Plunkett, who
is to do the producing. The orchestration
is being carried out in Sydney by Will
Quintrell.
Peggy Churton, seen in the Spencer
Shier photo., will be on the spot for the
Red Cross dance on June 16, for all
returned soldiers’ welfare movements
are among Mrs. J. F. Churton’s interests,
and she has lent her ballroom at Illa-
warra for the party. Peggy is also help-
ing on the committee for the matinee
at His Majesty’s on the 14th in aid of
the Red Cross and the Distressed Actors’
Fund. By way of reciprocating interest
taken in their matinee, several of the
principals of the “Balalaika” - “New
Moon” company will be present at the
Illawarra party.
Casting for “Crescent Moon” is not
completed, but there is a baritone role for
Bernard Manning and some soprano songs
for Molly Hislop. Mr. Murphy is interested
in the production of “Crescent Moon”
because he is a friend of several folk
who helped to create it, and because he’s
particularly enamored of the music.
Dr. Deborah Buller Murphy is also help-
ing, has held committee meetings in her
home and has promised that none of her
many aeroplane flights to mines and
sheep pastures of the vast north-west will
happen just before or during the season.
The Ministry for Popular Culture
having removed its ban, the Italian opera
co. will leave Italy in time to open in
Melbourne early in July or late this
month. So many, years have elapsed since
the last g’opera season that none of the
old favorites like Granforte, the Lom-
bardi, Dal Monte, Scamuzzi and Alfieri
are amongst the collection. Tenors will
be Vincenzo Jacono, Gero Constanza
and Salvatore Romano; sopranos are
Luisa Visconti, Tina Tassi, Amelia
Facchini and Silvia Bernita. The girls are
reputed to be young and good-looking.
Vitali Marini and Rosa Toliani are the
mezzos, Cavallo and Sopranzi the bari-
tones and Guillo Neri and Maximilian
Serra the basses. No mention is made of
such eminent Australians as John Brown-
lee and Austral, though Austral saved
the last season at Melbourne Palace with
her magnificent Wagnerian interpreta-
tions, and a previous season was made by
Brownlee. His appearances as Athanael
(“Thais”) almost depopulated his native
Geelong.
Initiated into a new experience at
Menzies were F. A. Henry and A. E.
Lind. The occasion was a cocktail party
held in conjunction with a figure-founda-
tion parade. The Consul for the XJ.S.A.
accepted the invitation in the name of
Uncle Sam, for the party was a cele-
bration of the Dowd, Stein and Kabo
amalgamation. The Country party
Minister came along because, in his own
words, “the corset industry is here to
stay.” Mr. Lind introduced himself as
a mere man and a farmer. Later on
he got a bit bushed around the word
“developing,” used in reference to cor-
sets as well as the country; but he reached
well-trodden safer ground, Fishermen’s
Bend, from which he refused to move
for at least five minutes.
One of the smartest people at the party
was Mrs. Leslie Benjamin, who is for
the present out of the dress-shop busi-
ness and is giving fashion talks over
national stations. She stepped out of
the wet windy street with neither hair
out of place nor spatter of raindrops on
her brand-new coat, which is elaborate,
camel-colored, with slats of fur midway
up the sleeves. On this occasion it was
worn with black frock, hat and acces-
sories.
Australian women spend £1,250,000 p.a.
on corsets. In the future they will probably
be spending more, for factories are being
enlarged, styles are growing more scien-
tific and fabrics more interesting. Elastic
lace is one of the newest popular ideas.
One woman who probably knows as
much as anyone about the industry is
Mrs. T. J. Dowd. She learned how to make
the strangulation whalebone structures of
the early nineteen-hundreds, followed the
evolution of more humane garments and
knows all the tricks of creating one of
to-day’s useful girdles in the form of
an artistic achievement. Mrs. Dowd is
in charge of production at the Dowd
factory, a large and busy family con-
cern. Every day and all day she super-
vises operations in her white overall in
a long room filled with pink brocade and
complicated whirring machinery. She is
always known as “the mater,” but when
introduced as such by her sons to any
of their friends the friends think they
haven’t heard correctly, for “the mater”
could pass anywhere as the wife of either
of these sons, both old boys of Wesley
College.


The Woman’s M rror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
Ugly Fat
Banished
Excess Weight
Easily Dissolved by
New Natural Method
Dr. D. McClaskey, New York, says:—
"Acid conditions in Intestinal Tract
(Self-Poisoning) is real cause of the
deposit of adipose tissue.”
Self-poisoning (autoxima) overthrows the
body's alkaline reserve and develops
acid conditions which impair the normal
functions of the body. Instead of the
body eliminating the fatty acids (which
result from digestion) in a natural way.
these fatty acids are absorbed into the
blood stream with other waste residues.
f
Was 10 st. 6 lbs.
Mow 9 st. 3 lbs.
Hamilton, December, 23.
''Your wonderful
Coloseptic has been
the means of reducing
my weight over 17 lbs.
... I tried all kinds
of things before I used
Coloseptic, but they
had no effect . . .
COLOSEPTIC keeps
me so well.”
—Miss J.M.
COLOSEPTIC overcomes acidity, activates
nutrition, dehydrates the excess moisture
weight, breaks up the fatty acids, sweeps
the intestines clean of all heavy ferment-
ing residues and other acid products and
passes them smoothly out of the system.
It also activates the dehydrating action of
the other vital eliminative organs—the
kidneys, pores of the skin and respiratory
apparatus. COLOSEPTIC is the one
natural, safe way to psmianent weight
control.
Trial Oiler..
Send 3d. in stamps to COLOSEPTIC
(Aust.) Ltd., 26 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Colo septic
CAIRNS
BY SEA
The Incomparable Winter Holiday
DELIGHTFUL DAYS OF
TRAVEL AND SIGHTSEEING
Pass through the world-famed Whitsunday Passage on one
of the Luxurious Interstate Liners:—
“KANIMBLA”
“CANBERRA”
“MANUNDA”
“KATOOMBA”
“MANOORA”
“ORUNGAL”
“ORMISTON”
“DUWTROON’
MUSIC SPORT DANCING
Orungal makes a Special Cruise from Cairns to Dunk Island and the
Hinchinbrook Channel. See Particulars in Pamphlet.
See Daily Papers for Sailing Dates.
For Timetable and Pamphlets, etc., apply—
THE ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD. 1
McILWRAITH McEACHARN, LTD.
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD. f
HOWARD SMITH, LTD. J
Agents at Sydney and
Melbourne.
BUY “SAVE TO TRAVEL” STAMPS.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Keith Powell, son of architect and
Mrs. Lange Powell, who has been study-
ing medicine in England, is leaving for
Australia in July, and will spend a few
months with his people before returning
to G.B. to sit for the exam, which will
allow him to add F.R.C.S. to the already
imposing string of letters after his name.
His fiancee, a Dutch lass, is coming out
too to make the acquaintance of her
future in-laws.
Queensland Adult Deaf and Dumb
Mission funds received a welcome boost
through the dance at the Belle Vue, which
attracted a big crowd. Mrs. Harold
Hope, in amethyst lace, welcomed the
guests. Her floral shoulder spray was the
gift of the committee.
Doris Davies, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. P. Davies, Dornoch-terrace,
and Theo Thynne, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. Andrew Thynne, of Nambour, and
grandson of the late Hon. A. J. Thynne,
were married at St. John’s Cathedral on
the evening of June 4. Bride’s sister,
Mrs. Harding Anning, was matron of
honor, and Bettye Irving, Joan Blane and
Beryl Davies ’maided. St. John’s rarely
has seen a more decorative bridal group.
Captain and Mrs. W. C. Lord, over
from India on leave with their infants
Clemence and Colin, are staying at Clay-
field with Miss Nelson-Watson.
The W.E.A. Players produced “The
Mask and the Face” at All Saints’ Hall
to an excellent audience. Acting was
well up to standard.
Nessie Mylne, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs, Graham Mylne, of Lota (Mrs.
Mylne is State president of the Queens-
land Country Women’s Assoc.) was mar-
ried at St. John’s Cathedral to James
Acland Wansey, of Glenkerry, Quirindi
(N.S.W.), with Margaret Mylne and Mar-
cella Delpratt as ’maids, Archbishop
Wand to officiate and George Sampson
at the organ. Bridal gown was of ivory
chiffon, with gold true-lovers’ knots orna-
menting the full skirt. Reception was
held at the Moreton Club,
Even lamentable weather couldn’t
dampen the enthusiasm of the big crowd
that attended the ball on the San Remo
arranged by members of the Dante
Alighieri Society. Flags, mirrors and
palms decked the ship, and the guests
were received by the Raphael Cilentos,
the lady handsome in silver with orchids
on the shoulder and a large fur wrap.
The small 80-year-old Church of St.
Ann, which was built by the bride’s
grandfather, was the setting for the wed-
ding of Marjory Kent, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. W. Kent, of Jondaryan,
to Jannion Elliott, of Lorraine station,
Winton, and son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
C. W. Elliott, of England. Yellow and
bronze chrysanthemums comprised the
decorations. The bride, in blue and silver
brocade, was attended by four ’maids,
ali in delphinium blue. A cocktail party
was held at Jondaryan after the knot-
tying.
Enoggera Golf Club dance was labelled
“A Night in Honolulu,” and all the
dancers sported leis. But it was far too
cold to dress as the happy souls do over
there, and every woman with furs was
glad to huddle into them.
June 17 is the date of the Lady
Mayoress’s ball, which will help along
the funds of the Children’s Playground.
Association, the Creche and Kinder-
garten and the Institute of Social Service.
Marga Harrold, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Harrold, of Clayfield, and
Ivan Martin, of Rotherwood station, Cas-
silis (N.S.W.), have announced their en-
gagement. Colonel and Mrs. Martin,
parents of the prospective ’groom, live at
Sherwood, Merrylands (N.S.W.).
Before the Beaudesert Hospital Ball
Judith Beet entertained a large party,
mostly from Brisbane, at dinner. Several
house-parties were arranged over the
week-end.
WESTRALIA.
The Marshall Cliftons’ new home at
Mosman Bay was the scene of sundown
hospitality for about 100 guests as a
housewarming gesture. The artist-archi-
tect host has built himself an abode of
pure Spanish inspiration, and guests
slaked their thirst and nibbled an odd
savory while exploring every fascinating
corner. Mrs. Clifton draped amber and
jade ninons above black lacquered satin
cocktail skirtings in which to receive con-
gratulations on her furnishing ideas.
Brother-architects John Fitzhardinge and
Gus Kreitmeyer had attractive black-clad
wives in tow, Mrs. Cyril Ryan’s pale-grey
caracul-trimmed coat had a matching
flyaway beret trimmed with jade and
plum ribbon cockade, and newly-arrived-
from-England medico Callagher and his
other half looked in. They have bought
the Bruce Hunts’ lovely home on the
Devil’s Elbow in Peppermint Grove.
Music-lovers who flocked to His
Majesty’s to hear basso Kipnis were
plunged into darkness a few minutes be-
fore curtain-rise because of a badly-timed
breakdown at the powerhouse. After
an interlude of ghostly seat-finding and
flashing of torches the lights came on and
the curtain rose on a musical treat for
Perth. A.B.C. head Conrad Charlton and
Marshall Sumner lent an appreciative ear
from the stalls, pianist Nora Coalstad
brought along medico husband Ralph
Crisp, who shares her love of music, and
Mrs. Arthur Hardwick, wrapt in Russian
furs, loudly acclaimed her countryman.
The J. H. Johnson home at Cottesloe,
with fairy lights strung from the giant
pine-trees and hidden floodlights reveal-
ing splashes of brilliant color in the
flowerbeds, was en fete for the coming
of age of youngest daughter Pauline. She
was a slim sprite in bouffant golden tulle
as she stood at the top of the long flight
of stone steps at the entrance hall beside
her mother, whose only relieving note on
svelte black crepe swathings was a triple
row of pearls. Dancing on flower-banked
verandahs and supper in a marquee under
the trees went on into the small hours
’mid a spate of congratulations for the
guest of honor.
Rep. Club members had to make a
last-minute change-over from spacious
lounge to club theatre for the first musi-
cale of the year. Mrs. Cecil Treadgold
read a paper on “Listening to Music,”
illustrated by old English madrigals,
some Schubert ballads sung by a recent
bride, Mrs. Keith Langley, and pleasant
fiddling by Denise Dingwall. The house
committee had a busy tyne with after-
noon-tea arrangements for the unexpected
crowd.
Hunt Club members sent out a tally-
ho to hosts of guests for their opening
meet of the season. The yapping of
hounds, champing of mounts and the
gay colors of the huntsmen’s rig lent an
air of excitement to the Belmont Hotel,
where the J. P. Durack couple gave presi-
dential welcome at afternoon-tea. After-
wards non-hunters lined the track as the
field, led by Mrs. Pelloe and J. P. Durack,
moved off for the real business of the
afternoon.
Peggy, only daughter of Mrs. Watson-
Williams, of Peppermint Grove, has
cabled home tidings of her engagement
to Captain Edwards, stationed in the
Punjab. Peggy tripped off for prolonged
holidaying with relatives in India last
year.
Another Peppermint Grove lass to be
wooed and won abroad is loyely Dorothy
Temperley, the Norman Temperleys’
younger daughter, who met John Bigelow
Clark, of U.S.A., while on her travels last
year. Newport, Rhode Island, will be
her address in the not-too-distant future.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
About 250 guests came along when
the Charles Hodgetts couple gave a dance
at the South Australian Hotel for the
debut of their daughter Diana. The
hostess was in porcelain-green taffeta
with an overdress of black lace, worn
with an antique pendant of emeralds
and a spray of orchids on her shoulder,
Diana looked graceful in white satin
with white broderie Anglaise veiling the
skirt. Another debutante, daughter of
Mrs. Ernest Sawyer, of Pitcairn station,
was frocked in white taffeta veiled in
white net and patterned in silver.
There was a large rally at Govern-
ment House when Lady Dugan, herself a
y.A.D. during the war, presented the
invalid cookery certificates and nursing
awards to 100 officers and members of
the V.A.D.
Enjoying the patronage of the Gov-
ernor, the Adelaide Musical Comedy
Company’s production of “The Lilac
Domino” at the Royal went over big.
Proceeds go to charity. Under the
skilled handling of producer Alan Chap-
man, it was sparkling and colorful.
Margaret Pirie and Kenneth Fraser were
capable leads, and Waca Dawe and Phil
Peake kept the comedy bubbling.
At St. Michael’s, Mitcham, Mary Ross,
only daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Ross, of Renmark, took Eric, of
the same surname but no relation, for
better or for worse. A reception was
afterwards given at Rust Hall by the
bride’s uncle, Brig.-Gen. George Dean,
who gave her away, and her aunt, Mrs.
A. Roupell, gowned tastefully in a dark-
blue ensemble. Later the happy couple
left to join the Oronsay for a honeymoon
cruise to Fiji.
The engagement is announced of
Patricia Seppelt, only daughter of Mrs.
C. P. Seppelt and the late C. P. Seppelt,
of Seppeltsfield, to Dr. Colin Juttner,
younger son of Mrs. F. J. E. Juttner, of
Tusmore, and the late Dr. Juttner.
Muriel King, a former secretary of
L’Alliance Fran<?aise, who has returned
to Adelaide after some years’ absence,
was the guest of honor at a soiree last
week, when she was welcomed by presi-
dent Mrs. Newbould. Madame R.
Wenzel and Signorita Masullo contri-
buted two very interesting talks.
When Florence Hill was married at
Maughan Church to Robert Crombie,
manager of Mount Vivian station, north
of Port Augusta, she was given away by
her grandfather, Mr. James Johns, of
Kadina. He is in his eightieth year and
was one of the survivors of the wreck
of the Georgette, which was lost off the
Westralian coast 62 years ago.
TASMANIA.
The Junior Repertory Soc. staged
Keith Winter’s “Worse Things Happen
at Sea” to a full house at the Theatre
Royal, proceeds going to the Crippled
Children’s Fund. Robert Montgomery
produced. Mrs. Goddard, Alison Simp-
son, Freda Elliott, Frank Purchas, Linus
Donelly, Noel Richard and H. D. Moore
put in excellent work, worthy of a better
play.
Mary Keating went up to the northern
capital and ran a mannequin show there
on the same lines as the one she gave
in Hobart. It was held at the Brisbane,
and women, and some few men, thronged
to see the new models and to appreciate
the good-lookers who displayed them.
From Ceylon, where he is stationed,
Capt. Morris Bisdee sends word to his
people, the Graeme Bisdees, of Hobart, of
his engagement to Phyllis Wallace, of
Portsmouth, England.
The lan' Maxwells are home from their
honeymoon and staying with Mrs. Max-
well’s parents, the Vernon Crisps, for a
few weeks until their own house in Nut-
grove-avenue is ready.
* Mrs. E. J. Ogilvie (wife of the
Attorney-General) returns to her home
in Hobart plus an infant daughter. She
has been staying in Melbourne with her
people, the M. Coghlans, for some weeks.
The Ashbolt lady staged a big bridge
party at her home, Lenna, Battery Point,
in aid of the Red Cross funds, which are
in danger of being attenuated by the
many other calls on the community’s
purse. Mrs. Alec Reid was her second
in command. Funds were augmented by
the sale of sweets, little Anthony and
Elizabeth Ashbolt being “salespersons.”
Old St. George’s Church, Battery
Point, has been celebrating its centenary
with a teafight. The church is one of
our architectural beauties, and, floodlit at
night, gave a very beautiful effect.


SUPPRESS
INTERFERENCE
Your radio dealer is able to
suppress the majority of all
generated interference with
the aid of the Chanex Kit of
Suppressors. He will gladly
advise and assist you in your
interference problems.
Chanex Suppressors conform
to all regulations, and are
built to British Standard
Specifications 613/1936, and
have been approved for con-
nection to the mains by all
Electricity Supply Authorities.
Whatever your interference
problem, be sure to consult
your Radio Dealer.
• FREE BOOK •
A comprehensive book explaining the
causes and suppression of Radio In-
ductive Interference is available from
your Radio Dealer, or from our offices
or distributors, ABSOLUTELY FREE.
CHANEX
DUCON CONDENSER PTY., LTD.,
73 Bourke St., Waterloo, Sydney, N.S.W.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
Serving ALL of
WESTftALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.'
In Next Issue
The Ashbox Midget, a remarkable
small mantel receiver, designed
specially for the cricket Tests, will be
fully described. This receiver has
only two valves and rectifier, but
puts up a performance equal to .many
3/4 superhets. Cost of parts is
only £5 155.; or the complete
receiver can be purchased ready for
use for £6 ss. Be sure to get next
week’s ’’Bulletin.
An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Staiion Operators
Certificate). OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate) . RAID<>
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALRING-IICTCKE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspondence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres. .
Practical instruction for all courses is available a
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wireless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS.
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - -
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE P4lOl
Conducted under the auspices of, Amalgamated
Wireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wneie-
organisation.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Tuning the Short-wave
Receiving Aerial.
Several forms of tuned receiving aerials
are employed nowadays with noise-
reduction features incorporated in the
design of the aerials themselves. These
systems are invariably of the transposed-
feeder doublet types, and in some cases
are designed to respond fairly efficiently
at all useful frequencies, including the
normal broadcast range. The tuning of
an aei-ial for improvement of short-wave
response is well worth while.
The simple inverted L or Marconi
system used with a direct earth or
counterpoise will give much better results
if it can be tuned to resonance at the
desired frequency. The diagram shows
how to go about it in a very simple man-
ner. Coils LI and L 2 may be considered
as the aerial and grid coils respectively
of the input circuit to a receiver, and
are usually wound on the same former.
LI should be reconstructed to have about
one-fifth as many turns as L 2, and will
replace the original aerial coil. If this
is inconvenient, the original LI can be
ignored and left without connections, and
another coil made on a separate form
loosely coupled to L 2.
The spacing, in the case of an oscil-
lating detector as the first valve in a
receiver, may need to be as much as 2in.
between LI and L 2. L 3 is a tapped coil
connected in series with the aerial and a
variable condenser, Cl, of about .00016
mfd. maximum capacity, to LI and
through this to earth. L 3 can consist of
about 26 turns of 24 D.S.C. on a 1 in.
diameter form, tapped in three inter-
mediate places —about every five turns.
C 2 is the tuning condenser in the re-
receiver, and after selecting a signal on
this the tap-switch on L 3 is varied and Cl
rotated until maximum signal response
is noted. L 3 as specified will be suitable
for coverage between 20 and 90 metres,
and it would be an advantage to make
the coupling between LI and L 2 variable,
Total length of the aerial, Z, should not
exceed 50ft. That includes the lead-in.
D. B. K.
Microphonic Condensers.
Valves with microphonic tendencies
are a frequent source of trouble in radio
receivers, and are readily traceable by
simply tapping with the fingers. Micro-
phonic tuning condensers may cause bad
audio instability, especially on short-
wave reception but more particularly
with the small home-made regenerative
type of receiver.
Audio vibration, for which a micro-
phonic condenser may be responsible,
is not easy for the inexperienced experi-
menter to locate.
It is caused usually by a variable con-
denser with thin rotor or stator plates
or an insufficiently rigid frame. With a
receiver tuned to a strong short-wave
station such as Daventry, vibration of
the chassis itself may set the condenser
plates vibrating at their natural fre-
quency. The vibrations cause changes
in capacity, and so vary the tuning of
the circuit. This in turn leads to a
corresponding rise and fall in R.F. volt-
age across a tuning inductance, and so
modulates the incoming signal in effect.
If the natural period of the thin plates
of a variable condenser happens to fall
within the audible range, a microphonic
howl is the result.
Experimenters who use old variable
condensers should bear in mind that those
with thick plates of non-resonant metal
are the most suitable. Very often micro-
phonics in variable condensers can be
cured by mounting them on rubber sus-
pension. Although condenser gangs as
used in modern dual-wave receivers are
designed with rigid frames and reason-
ably thick plates, the manufacturer in-
variably suspends the condenser assembly
on rubber to preclude any tendency to
microphonics.
D. B. K.
A New Ceramic Insulation
Material.
Among the new ceramic materials pro-
duced in Germany by the Hermsdorf-
Schomburg Co. is Calit, handled in Aus-
tralia by Ducon Condenser Co., of
Waterloo, N.S.W. It has a low loss fac-
tor, low positive temperature co-efficient
of capacity, normal dielectric constant,
and is easily formed into any kinds of
plates, sockets, bases, rods, tubes and
coils, etc. It has high mechanical and
electrical strength and is useful for high
voltage applications, as in power con-
densers or strain insulators and bushings.
The use of ceramic materials has
materially improved the selectivity of
radio receivers and decreased damping
losses. Similar advantages are obtained
in the design of radio transmitters be-
cause of the high voltage characteristics.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Less than three years ago the 40-metre
band was the happy hunting-ground for
amateurs and received the primary atten-
tion of most new licensees. The ’phone
germ was biting so hard that imitation
broadcasters held forth unchecked, until
amended regulations made the scant 300
kilocycles more tenable. Forty earned a
bad name with those who had other
ideas about amateur radio than pro-
tracted musical transmissions, and the
20-metre band attracted large numbers of
stations by reason of its remarkable DX
qualities. U.S.A. started the 20-metre
’phone ball on the move, and to-day the
band is seething with ’phones good, bad
and indifferent in nearly every corner of
the earth. But ’phone hasn’t got things
to itself, for the C.W. men are still on
the job in larger numbers than ever. On
any Sunday afternoon in Sydney 20 is
a whirling maelstrom of vocal CQs. The
smallest gap in the band doesn’t remain
untenanted for long. It is a struggle
against long odds and the devil take the
weak signal! Finding 20 at its worst
on the afternoon of 29/ 5 / ’3B, the writer
shifted the receiver to 40, anticipating a
similar state of affairs. But there were
big gaps across the 300 kc. Inter-State
contacts came easily, and it was no diffi-
cult matter to yarn away on the key with
Americans. The migration to 20 has
apparently eased the previous strain on
40, but if ever 20 and the higher frequen-
cies become casual DX bands because of
sunspot activity the congestion on 40
will be chaotic.
The Pitcairn Island station recently
signing VR6AY on 20-metre ’phone has
not been heard for some time. The
silence is probably due to the station
having been moved to commercial chan-
nels, since it was intended in the first
place for general communication pur-
poses, and not for amateur contacts
alone. If it is now working on commer-
cial channels, the original callsign PITC
may possibly be in use.
The May issue of “Radio” has a
description of a new five-metre superhet
An interesting map from Germany showing the effective world
coverage of the German short-wave broadcasting stations
by Frank Jones. It is simple but
apparently highly effective, and makes
use of the new Radiotron 6JBG
hexode converter as oscillator-mixer.
It is claimed that in this Jones circuit
the oscillator section of 6JBG valve
oscillates vigorously at five metres and
below. The I.F. channel is at 1600 kc.,
and the receiver deals with stable
C.W. and ’phone reception. Beat fre-
quency oscillation is provided in the
6A6 second detector in the cathode re-
generation scheme popularised by Jones
in his Super-Gainer, and a 6H6 is used
as noise suppressor—a method which can
be applied to any existing receiver audio
output. The latter feature is well worth
incorporation in five-metre T.R.F. type
receivers. If reception of modulated
oscillator transmissions is desired it will
be necessary to use a 3000 kc. I.F. channel
instead of 1600 kc., but it is believed that
the time is not far distant when all 56mc.
transmissions will be of a stable charac-
ter. .
Tests with new 56mc. beam arrays dur-
ing the week ending 28/5/’3B were made
by the writer at VK2EM, and it was found
that a type of twisted-pair cable 60ft. in
length is of no use whatsoever for a feed-
line at this frequency unless it is of the
type especially designed for U.H.F. work.
It was almost impossible with 100-watts
input from a transmitter to get any R.F.
into a simple dipole aerial, and when the
aerial was removed from the feedhne the
load on the final stage was found to be
the same! The only form of low un-
pedance line where a lengthy feed must
be employed at 56mc. appears to be a
concentric line, and that is out of the
question for the average amateur instal-
lation. It is best to use the 600-ohm
spaced-type line with effective insulator-
spreaders. Experience gained in match-
ing 56mc. arrays is most useful when
erecting aerials for the lower frequencies.
Some misunderstanding exists regard-
ing communication with other than
purely amateur stations. A VK2 com-
plains of being reprimanded for answer-
ing a call from a station with an unusual
callsign operating in the 7000 kc. to
7300 kc. band. Australian regulations state
that “experimental licensees may com-
municate only with other experimental
stations.” A difficulty arises where
special stations, such as those accompany-
ing expeditions on sea, land or in the air,
may, under their own particular licens-
ing authorities, be granted facilities for
communication with amateur stations.
One difference is that the Australian is an
experimental and not an amateur station
as defined in regulations. A VK station,
hearing a call from an unusual overseas
station inside an amateur band, will be
prompted to answer. Communication


Tff#
EMPIRE'S millions
«*•»*»»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandula:
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call of
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 Georjge St., Sydney.
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” (JJ.S.A.).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
AUDIOSCOPIC
REPRODUCTION
IT'S an exclusive Philips
■ feature, found only in Philips
Radioplayers, and developed
in the world-famous Philips
laboratories. Why not hear
Audioscopic Reproduction
in your own home?
PHILIPS
m
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PACE STATiON BOOK
conditions are more stringent in M.L.
Special permission must be obtained for
communication with other than amateur
stations, and a ZL amateur cannot con-
tact semi-commercial stations unless an
emergency or distress call is transmitted
by such stations and the call remains
unanswered by the Government station
or a station in the same class. Often
foreign stations are operating only on
commercial frequencies, yet maintain
schedules with amateurs, the latter work-
ing in an amateur band. A case in point
was the recent world cruise of the yacht
Yankee, which worked on 36 and 24
metres, yet maintained communication
with first district U.S.A. amateurs work-
ing on 40 and 20 metres.
ZL4DQ of Dunedin (M.L.), who
recently heard VKSZU on five metres, is
building a special receiver with acorn
valves for a determined effort to bring
about two-way working. He reports
unusual effects with a 400 ft. end-fed
aerial on 10 metres, and suggests that
such effects may be more prominent on
five metres. Observations in eastern
U.S.A. on the signals heard from Alex-
andra Palace television station in Lon-
don on seven metres showed conflicting
results with directional receiving aerials,
the signal appearing from the most un-
expected directions, contrary to all
theory. There is yet a great deal to be
learned about ultra-short-wave propaga-
tion and reception, and it is still the most
prolific field for experimentation.
ZL4DQ’s theory of two suited locations
may apply in the instances of YK2NO
being heard in North Wales in the last
two years. Doubts have been expressed
in England regarding this reception, but
the reports check completely with the
transmission log at this end.
VK2NO.
Philips EL3G High Slope
Power Pentode.
The new Philips type EL3G high
slope power pentode is intended for use
in conjunction with other valves of the
“G” series. It is electrically equivalent
to the EL3, but is fitted with an octal
base. An input of 3.6 volts provides suf-
ficient drive for an output of 4.3 watts
when using the EL3G in a conventional
circuit arrangement with a cathode re-
sistor of 150 ohms. Fixed-bias operation
is not recommended.
The characteristics of the EL3G are
as follows: Purpose, Class-A amplifier ;
filament, volts 6.3, current amps. 1.2;
plate, volts 250, current ma. 36; neg.
grid bias, 6 ; screen grid, volts 250, cur-
rent ma. 5; impedance (ohms), 50,000 ;
mutual cond. (ma.-v.), 9.5; load resist-
ance (ohms), 7000; power output (m.
watts), 4300; heating, indirect; base,
octal 6.
Since the EL3G will deliver an output
up to 4.3 watts for a .grid signal of only
3.6v01ts (m.s.) it provides interesting pos-
sibilities for use in amateur short-wave
receivers.
New Converter Valves.
Radiotronics,” No. 85, issued by
A.W. Valve Co., contains information
on two new Radiotrons-—the 6KB and
6JBG —which differ from pentagrid con-
verters in incorporating a separate os-
cillator in the same envelope, although
internally connected to a grid of the
mixed unit.
By isolating the plate of the oscillator
from the electron stream of the mixer it
has been possible to improve the stability
of the oscillator so that the frequency is
very little affected by variations in volt-
ages applied to the mixer. Bases of the
6KB and 6JBG valves are arranged simi-
SCHEMATIC DIAGRAM OF ELECT RODE STRUCTURE
larly to the 6AB and 6ABG types. There-
fore these valves can be interchanged
without any change in a chassis.
The 6KB is an all-metal converter
valve designed for improved perform-
ance in the high-frequency band of all-
wave receivers, and should appeal to the
amateur transmitter for use in amateur
communications receivers. Main charac-
teristics are: Heater, 6.3 volts at .3
ampere; hexode plate voltage, 100 to
250 volts; hexode screen voltage, 100
volts; triode plate voltage, 100 volts.
Oscillator coils intended for use with the
pentagrid type of converter may not be
suitable for use with the 6KB because of
the possibility of overexciting the oscil-
lator unit of the valve. It may be neces-
sary to reduce oscillator plate voltage,
plate coil turns, or mutual inductance
between plate coil and secondary so as
to reduce oscillator grid current to a
good value.
6JBG is a triode heptode in glass on
an octal base, with a separate triode os-
cillator and a heptode (or pentagrid)
mixer. The grid of the triode is inter-
nally connected to the third grid of the
mixer, which closely resembles the
6L7G in characteristics. Advantages are
improved selectivity due to the high
plate resistance of the mixer, and better
oscillator stability because of isolation
from the electron stream of the mixer.
Another advantage is the greater band
coverage obtainable with plate tuning on
the short-wave band.
With high-impedance I.F. transformers,
high-impedance grid circuits and suitable
oscillator circuits, short-wave-band per-
formance should be greatly improved
with these valves, and broadcast-band
performance should be comparable with
the existing types of converters. The
diagram shows the electrode arrangement
and socket connections of the 6KB.
V. c.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: A point to remember when
constructing an all-wave receiver is that
the trimmers fitted to standard ganged
variable condensers are not needed. All
coil kits for all-wave or dual-wave re-
ceivers are provided with padders on the
coils. The trimmers on a gang condenser
unit for such a receiver should be com-
pletely dismantled, otherwise the addi-
tional capacity of the trimmers will pre-
vent the' receiver from functioning
properly on short waves.
* * * *
Recently the 8.8. C. successfully tele-
vised the McAvoy-Harvey boxing match,
the England v. Scotland Soccer match,
and the reconstruction of the Zeebrugge
naval action.
Trade Notes.
Receivers are appearing in increasing
numbers in which tuning can be done by
push-button units. The Yaxley Co. (U.S.)
introduced low-loss positive contact
multi-section switches, and comes out
now with a push-button tuning unit,
marketed in Australia by E.T.C. Indus-
tries, 470 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. There
are two basic types, one intended for R.F.
operation and the other for use with a
small, specially constructed motor to
operate the tuning condenser.
The R.F. type selects any one of a
number of pre-tuned circuits which can
be tuned by means of a semi-fixed com-
pression type of condenser, or by the
variation of the permeability of the circuit
by means of an adjustable iron core.
Designed with interlocking contacts so
that it is possible to have only one con-
tact at a time, the switches are noiseless
and have low resistance to R.F. The
standard type has eight positions, which
allows for tuning any one of eight
stations, whilst a variety of circuit
arrangements is obtainable by the use of
various contact shoes.
* * * *
The new Radiotron 6JBG triode-
heptode converter valve has is-
tics which make it eminently suitable for
use in ultra-short-wave supernei ie-
ceivers. The Jones five-metre Super-
Gainer in the May, 1938, issue of
“Radio” uses this valve as mixer, and
the designer states that, with the triode
oscillator applied in the ultra-audion
method as shown in the circuit, it oscil-
lates vigorously well below five metres.
The 6JBG should have considerable in-
fluence on the design of all-wave receivers
in the future. It will shortly be available
also in Ken-Rad make.
* * * :k
The wet electrolytic condenser is an
important part of the modern radio re-
ceiver, and capacities and peak voltages
far exceed ratings of a few years ago.
The list of Solar electrolytics handled
in Australia by E.T.C. Industries, Ltd.,
shows that every requirement is catered
for. The types include 8 mfd., 500 volts
in l|in. diameter can ; 8 mfd., 600 volts
in Hin. diameter can ; 16 mfd., 500 volts
in Hin. diameter can ; 24 mfd., 500 volts
in Hin. diameter can ; 35 mfd., 500 volts
in Hin. diameter can ; 16 mfd., 350 volts
in l|in. diameter can; 8 mfd., 500 volts
Minicap in lin. diameter can.
The advantage of the Minicap type
is that it is a great space-saver. The
standard electrolytic has a diameter of
Hin. to Hin. and overall height above
chassis of 4|in. The Minicap is only lin.
in diameter, and has overall height of
1.15/ 16in.
"Radio"—May, 1938, Issue.
Included in the latest issue of “Radio,”
U.S.A., just to hand are articles on “A
Speech Modulator of Modern Design,”
by Ray L. Dawley (W6DHG); “A
Diversity Receiver for 20-Metre ’Phone,”
by Raymond P. Adams; “An Inexpen-
sive Way to Determine Transmitter Out-
put,” by VE4KD ; “Foolproof 10-Metre
Transmitter,” by W4AEI; “Modulation
Transformer Design,” by W9HA; “An
Economical Cathode-Ray Modulator In-
dicator,” by W2HFZ; “A Five-Metre
Super-Gainer Receiver,” by Frank Jones
(W6AJF); “A 28mc. Converter,” by
WBGNI; “Vacuum Condensers for
Fixed Capacity Finals”; “The Flextal
Exciter,” by W6CEM; “A Kilowatt
Amplifier of Compact Design,” by
W6VR, and “A Unit-Construction Final
Amplifier.” Other articles deal with pick-
ups, noise damping and A.V.C. with grid-
leak detection, and the monthly resume
of 56mc. DX reports. “Radio” is obtain-
able by annual subscription, 18s. 6d.,
through The Bulletin office, 252
George-street, Sydney.
Philips Station Chart.
A new eight-page radio station chart
is available to Bulletin readers free on
application to Philips Lamps (A’sia) Pty..
Ltd., Box 2703 C, G.P.0., Sydney. This
chart includes all the newest short-wave
stations of the world, with location, call-
sign, wave-length, power and transmis-
sion times. A complete list of Australian
national and commercial broadcasting
stations is included. Another useful
feature is a world timetable in very
simple form, from which overseas time
may be calculated immediately.
The Question Box.
full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Where can I buy a crystal receiver?
(2) What price?— 6Bl.
(1) Try Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place,
Sydney. (2) Complete with headphones, about
15/-.
* * * *
One of the switches attached to my Airzone
receiver is marked “L-D control.” What is it
for ? —6BO.
This is the “local-distance” switch, and is
intended for use where the receiver is close
to broadcasting transmitters. More sensitivity
is available on the “distance” position, and this
is reduced for “local” reception by throwing
the switch over.
* * * *
(1) What type of receiver is suitable for sea-
side reception or world-wide reception? (2)
What is the best method of rigging earth and
aerial for reception ? —679.
(1) Any modern all-wave or dual-wave re-
ceiver advertised in The Bulletin will do.
(2) A well-insulated external aerial about 60ft.
long and 30ft. high, together with direct earth,
a sheet of galvanised-iron buried about 6ft. in
moist earth, will be efficient. The earth lead
should be of 7-22 stranded copper wire and
soldered to the iron sheet. Insulated wire may
be used for the aerial lead-in to the receiver.


FREE SAMPLES
SENT.
j 6
j
Re-Nu Liquid
Nu-Metal
Just deposit through plug
openings on pistons, turn
engine over a dozen times,
then let run 5 minutes.
NU-METAL expands 25%, reconditions engine
while running, saves costly £lO-£2O rebore,
ends piston slap, excess oil pumping, petrol
waste, rattles, noises, buying expensive parts,
restores compression, top speed, new power,
pep, zip. Makes cars, trucks, motor-cycles,
farm engines, and all combustion engines run
like new. \ Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles,
when same results can be repeated; also
guaranteed harmless any part finest engine.
NU-METAL is put up in exact quantity size
tubes for each type of engine. Price, 5/- a
tube for each cylinder. Maximum price, 4,6,
8 cylinder, 25/-, with extra 1 FREE tube of
Special Colloidal Nu-Metal for injection througli
oil sump for the main bearings, big ends, etc.
Send for FREE Samples 20 other lines. Agents
require'd. RE-NU LTD., Op. Richmond Station,
Melbourne, J 4797. Open late Fridays.
BETTER RETURNS.
“Tamworth”: You know those pigs
were not doing so well as they should,
gave them Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, and
can see a difference already. I think
I’ll get a better price. They are going
ahead splendidly; looks like early market-
ing. By the way, I’m giving the Tri-cal-os
to the sows before they farrow now to
be sure of plenty of milk for the suckers.
It’s the cheapest way to feed them, isn’t
it? Yes.
DAVIS GELATINE (AUSTRALIA)
PTY., LTD., G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney,
will tell you all about Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour. Can’t do it in this space.
Old Farmer.
/i ,_(j- «■*-<?> t*
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sheep Rugging in N.S.W.
“Murrawong”: Results obtained by
W. I. Ker, of Coorain, Mossgiel, don’t
fully support the theory that it would
pay to rug sheep in western N.S.W. to
prevent sand and dust injuring fleeces.
The sheep were shorn in September
and a trial lot were rugged in February.
These were run in the same paddock as
unrugged sheep, until shearing in Sep-
tember. Only 10 per cent, of rugs came
off, and this was chiefly due to faulty
adjustment.
Rugs used were bitumenised. jute, and,
although it had been claimed that these
would last for two seasons, it was found
in practice that after one season they
could not be used again.
The appearance and value of fleeces
were greatly enhanced by rugging, and
tire rugged sheep were improved in con-
dition as well. Unrugged sheep cut an
average of 121 b. per head, which sold
a! an average of lOd. per pound—gross
return, 10s. per sheep. Rugged sheep cut
131 b., averaging 12d. per pound, giving
a gross return of 13s.' per head, so that
the margin in favor of rugged sheep was
3s. per head.
' Against this must be set the cost of
rugs, 2s. Id., and extra handling (ad-
justments, etc.), 7d. per head ; .total, 2s.
Bd. That leaves a balance in favor of
rugging of 4d. per head.
The Coorain experiment is being con-
tinued, but, while it is conceded that
rugging would pay on small areas where
sheep ,can be easily looked after, it is a
different proposition on five-acres-to-the-
sheep country where paddocks are large.
Results depend largely on the., cost and
wear of rugs, and on the wool market.
Jute fibres break and tear where folds
occur in the rug. Ten-ounce or 12oz.
duck is better, but cost is against its
general use in western N.S.W.
Keep on Feeding.
“Corriedale”: The few weeks .imme-
diately following the break in a dry
season are the worst for sheep. Feed
is washed into the soil and new grass
does not shoot for a fortnight. The only
feed is from plants already up, and it
is three weeks before these have enough
body. Cold weather makes the need to
keep feeding at this time even greater.
Pure wheat trailed in the old-fashioned
way is probably the best in parts of
N.S.W. and Victoria. It is rattling good
feed, better than bran for warming, and
laxative. Barley, at current price,, is
next, and has all the advantages of wheat.
Both run out in the vicinity of £7 a
ton landed in most accessible districts,
which compares more than favorably
with £4 for straw. The grains are twice
as rich, pourid-for-pound, as chaff, which
is 10 times as good as straw.
Straw is a good vehicle for molasses
—equal weights of each being mixed
and the whole dusted with bran up to
40 per cent. Bran balances an otherwise
poor ration here.
Over 1000 sheep can -be fed 6oz.
wheat for 225. 6d. a day roughly, and
for , 325. a straw-molasses-bran com-
pound. i «
The Right Shearing Age.
“Warramulla”: Knock the wool off
lambs before they get too old. A lamb
shorn reasonably early has a better
chance of developing into a well-grown
sheep than one that has to carry its baby
fleece until the weaner stage or later.
Much depends upon the season, but
generally lambs whose wool will cover
shearing and selling costs should be
shorn. The. benefit will be gained the
following year in a better-grown and
more attractive clip, and in young sheep
with a wOrth-while frame.
Many people let their lambs go un-
shorn in a dry time; wrongly thinking
that the youngsters cannot stand the
handling they get with yarding and
shearing. Better to take the risk and re-
lieve them of their coats than make
them carry ever-increasing wool''through
the hardest period of their lives.
Fodder for Dry Areas.
“K.Mc.”: “Ghanam,” in pointing to
the lack of provision to prevent drought
losses (B. 26/5/’3B), overlooks that in
N.S.W. at least most losses occur where
rainfall is insufficient to grow crops.
“If a job' s Worth doin', it's Worth doin' well, Boss."
Ensilage and bush hay could be made in
fl fish seasons, but these are so rare tjhat
the outlay on plant and protection for
storing fodder is not warranted. ‘
Long-stored fodder deteriorates. In
the far inland, cartage costs, are prohibi-
tive. When natural feed and scrub : are
exhausted the sheep have to get out: —if,
they can —or die. . '
Huge quantities of unused water are
stored in the Hume and Wyangala dams.
Why not run this out as far as possible
to the dry hinterland, allowing each
property to irrigate about 10 to 15 acres
for every thousand sheep carried? Sur-
veys have been taken for a ,dam on the
Macquarie ; to water the central-west, and
one on the Namoi to supply the nor-
wes't. If these schemes could save half
the sheep losses through droughts, the
proposition would be sound.
Diagnosis Wanted ?
“R.W.” (Surat, Q.): Some days ago
we noticed a ram which had one
foot completely severed at the first joint.
The foot had apparently rotted olf, and
the hind feet seemed to be going the
same way. Going through the mob, we
found three more in the same condition,
though footrot is unknown in s.-w.
Queensland.
The . animals are affected only on the
Sd°sw^ ,nd
Anybodv else meeting the same sort
of thing? ,
...
Clean Water Important.
“J.R.D.”: Water is important in dip-
ping. Mix a little dip in a bottle and let
it stand for some time. Emulsion dips
will remain milky if mixed with soft
suitable water, whereas with hard water
the solution soon becomes clear and a
deposit forms- on top.
Some think dips kill all germs in water.
A neighbor dipped three separate lots of
sheep from three paddocks. Next day
sheep from each lot were found dead.
The water had come from an.old well
covered with slime, and used for dipping
only.” A sample showed enough germs
to kill off all the stock in the country-
side. Two sheep infected with the water
were dead next morning.- Sheep that
died during dipping had, been knocked
about duringv the process or had been
bitten by dogs in yarding, and death was
caused by blood-poisoning through cuts
and abrasions in every case.
Breeding Fat-lamb Mothers.
“Sheepo”: ;With the wool future un-
certain, there is a chance for graziers
outside the fat-lamb areas in breeding
first-cross* ewes. The demand for suit-
able types far exceeds the supply.
In some merino country near fat-lamb
areas the introduction of a well-estab-
lished English breed should give graziers
a better return than from wool alone.
The Shortage of the right types of cross-
bred ewes and the increasing use of in-
ferior types are resulting in too many
grades of lambs reaching Smithfield.
Pure-bred rams and rich fattening
pastures are of no avail if inferior ewes
are used. Dams are the basis of fat-
lamb raising. .
Sugar Beet in Victoria.
“Molasses”: The beet-sugar industry
is growing ‘up‘ in .Victoria. More than
4000 acres of good land now supply
the Maffra ,mill and .support over 1000
persons, including, those ‘ employed in
manufacturing.'
Farms usually carry, anything from five
to 20 acres of b e h ns tamiallv
irrigate Yie^ t & vears an( j j s nD w
during the past f y > which
from 11 to 12 ton n s n 1 return
valued on sugar content, c ives a retun
of between £22 and £ B acrc.
beet will be about
52,000 tons,
The beet cannot compete with cane
sugar as a. national asset - its sideline
production possibilities cannot compare
w j tb the cane—but it serves a useful pur-
pose in Victoria in providing a second
line of production for farmers.
Trees as a Drought Standby,
“Ghanam”: There are few parts of the
inland which will not grow some timber
. hg acacia var j e ties, and a little investi-
. n b the CS . and i.r. or the Agri-
cultural Departments should be able to
tablish both t he most suitable trees
vario us districts and the best tech-
. f growing them,
niqqe tor growing uieii
Th e onon ?7 n( j d Northern Terri-
western Queens , , altered bv
tory land could be P . , i
the acclimatisation q -
growing timber. One ,
cullies in establishing P
Barkly Tableland is '
Experiment should s Y
providing it, together with a valuable
standby of drought fodder.
S. Australian Grain.
The S. Australian 1937-38 grain
season has far exceeded in yield the esti-
mates mqde early in the year. The
43,403,000 bushels of wheat harvested
showed more than 50 p.c. increase on
the previous year, and the quantity has
only twice before been bettered —
48,093,000 bushels in 1931-32 and
45,745,000 bushels in 1916-17.
The barley output at 8,400,000 bushels
doubled the previous year’s harvest. Oats
yield was just on 3,000,000 bushels, about
700,000 bushels better.
For 1938-39 , there will be about
3,360,000 acres sown to wheat, which
on this year’s average of 13.73 bushels
should give a slightly larger yield than
last year.
S. Australia is in luck’s way regarding
weather. January and-February provided
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


INSURE WITH
The
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
The Progressive Australian
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, WORKERS’
COMPENSATION, MOTOR CAR, etc.,
Insurances transacted at lowest current rates.
DIRECTORS:
Thomas A. Magney - - - Chairman
F. W. Duesbury Sydney Sampson
Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, ML.C. William White
HEAD OFFICE:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Company
R. A. MANZIE, Gen. Manager


3998.
iL<r\n
Lv-'
u'W
' \'y V\ < ( \
' / \>Mv
/ 7^
wtsA i
V n c *
TRY THEM ON FOR APPEARANCE.
Wear them for comfort.
There’s one thing about an Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong calf is soft and supple, moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight Made in Brown Willow Calf in full sizes. Leather-lined
throughout. Brown, Price 39/6.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe."
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
LUHOTb
'ERSONAL
ATTFNTTON.
FARMERS!
Concrete Will Increase Your
Properties ' Earning Capacity
m
m
m
m
:
I
M I J&
Concrete Piggeries, Hawkesbury
Agricultural College.
Concrete Trough and Fence Posts,
Navua Stud Farm, Richmond.
That Is Why Model Farmers Make Use of It.
FOLLOW THEIR LEAD!
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
43 Margaret Street, Sydney,
WILL GIVE YOU FREE ADVICE.
Write to the association or cement companies in various States for any of
the following free booklets : —
Method of Making Concrete.
Concrete Fence Posts.
Concrete Footpaths and Floors.
Concrete Walls and Steps.
Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells.
Use of Colour with Cement.
Concrete Blocks, Bricks and Slabs.
Concrete for Farm and Station.
Portland Cement Stucco.
Portland Cement Plaster.
Portland Cement Textures.
Concrete Cricket Pitch.
Concrete Round the Home.
Concrete Silos.
Estimation of Materials for Concrete
and Mortar Simplified.
Concrete Mixing Made Easy.
Leaking Tanks Conquered with Con-
crete.
Concrete Tennis Court.
HTuTfy'allett/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
good general rains. March was dry ; but
further falls in April made conditions
normal.
Mitchell Grass.
“Mulyan”: In the dry parts of the back
country Mitchell and Queensland blue
grasses are the only fodders that can
be grown for hay without irrigation.
Both are hardy perennials, and retain
their nutritive qualities after passing the
green stage. Mitchell after a shower of
rain puts out green leaves at every joint;
and the dry stubble in drought keeps
sheep in condition.
For haymaking, a few hundred acres
suitable for the use of machinery should
be chosen. The best time for selecting
the plot is during a drought when the
ground is bare, and any unevenness can
be easily levelled. After broadcasting seed
it is best to harrow and roll it in. The
best seed is obtained from cultivated
grass. The seed can be harvested on the
station for sowing on areas reserved for
hay. After a stand of Mitchell has been
cut, sheep can be put on the ground for a
week or two. They pick up the blades
and pieces on the ground, and also the
seed.
1 have seen huge stacks of grass cut in
north-western N.S.W. from the Warrego
to the Paroo. As the ground was un-
prepared, the cutting was done with
scythes and reaping-hooks, the latter on
stony ground. The harvested grass grew
to 3ft. high on dry corners of the runs,
too far from water to be grazed by sheep,
and cutting by any means was therefore
economical.
The grass was cut when most of the
flag was drying ; next day it was ready to
stack. I have seen acres of it cut and
stacked in the one day. It is the easiest
and quickest of all native grasses to hay.
Fencing Hints.
“Heresone”: Make a good job of the
fence. Three posts to the chain, with
strainers five or six chains apart, and
four barbed-wires, evenly spaced and
run through inch holes isn’t far from the
ideal. The posts should be 4ft. out of
the ground and 2ft. in, strainers sunk 3ft.,
and gate and corner posts a little more
in soft ground.
Stays should be at least 10ft. long,
mortised into posts between Ift. and 2ft.
from the top, the butt resting on a solid
block lft. underground and well rammed.
Only one stay is needed per gate or
corner post, and wires should be strained
to gate posts to prevent sagging. Such
a fence will hold anything bigger than
a pig, is easy to strain, and will last till
the posts rot —and a sound post will last
as long as the man who put it in.
Plain wires, long panels and droppers
are a waste of time, a big strain on the
posts and an invitation to rogue beasts
to try their strength.
Dog Mange and Eczema.
“P.L.8.”: Albarmount” (B. 19 /5 / ’3B)
fails to distinguish between parasitic
mange and eczema. Each needs different
treatment.
Parasitic mange appears on the points
of the limbs and about the head. It per-
sists and becomes scabby. Treatment is
with salicylic ointment (8 p.c.), as he
suggests.
Eczema is a sign of bad health. Over-
feeding, especially with sweets, is a com-
mon cause. It is seen invariably on dogs
that are too fat.
Eczema appears mostly from the
middle of the back to the tail. Treat-
ment is with pot. sulphurata {not pot.
sulph.) baths weekly and a dressing of
calamine lotion, well rubbed in every
day after affected areas have been clipped.
Give the dog one drachm daily of Dono-
van’s Solution also.
Eczema is not contagious; mange is.
Eczema is the signal to bring the animal
back to normal with a judicious and
regular diet of simple food.
Hints for the Farm.
“Willeroo”: Don’t sweep or throw out
bits of thread or cotton where fowls are
tunning. I have seen dozens of hens
with permanently swollen and deformed
feet through cotton getting twisted
around their toes. Many pieces are
picked up at rubbish-tips, where the birds
like to scratch.
“Karaway”: I have dug good potatoes
that had grown from buried peelings,
also from “marbles” that had been left
in the ground from a previous crop.
Some growers use large potatoes cut into
quarters. I like a spud about the size
of a goose egg cut in two. Dip the
halves as they’re cut in a mixture of fresh
wood ashes and lime, put them straight
into the drill, and they’ll challenge any-
thing, if they comd from healthy stock.
“Mt. Boppy”: When calves scoui,
give 3oz. to 4oz. of castor oil shaken
in a pint of equal parts of fresh mils
and limewater. Then starve the calf foi
48 hours. Afterwards, feed a little new
milk with one-fourth limewater. Keep
the scouring calves away from the others
in a clean yard or paddock.
“Hanko”: Apricots and peaches come
off with a twist; you grab plums, rip
grapes and snatch tomatoes. Only the
novice is a picker. The dinkum case-
filler pulls fruit. You enter the ranks
of the pullers when you learn that to
get pears off a tree you must push them
upwards.
“Geelong”: A glass case in the
Gordon wool school, Geelong (Vic.),
contains samples of wool from a fleece
of 13 years’ growth. The fleece was shorn
from a merino ewe that ran wild in
the Victorian Grampians for that period.
Samples from various parts of the fleece
range from a medium quality to a robust
60, and show no regular condition bars
or breaks to indicate yearly growths.
The longest wool —from the shoulder-
measures 37in. stretched. There are other
samples of six years’ growth, the wool
being sound and even throughout its
length.
“Bluey”: I won’t have it that ring-
barked limber throws more seedlings than
trees poisoned with arsenic pentoxide (B.
16/3/’3B). Poisoning, usually done in
the autumn or winter, kills the tops in a
few days. All the leaves soon fall. In
the mulch they form, seedlings shoot
as thickly as they can stick after spring
rains.. Gum, stringybark and apple-tree
seed worst. Timber rung in bloom and
carrying seed pods usually gives seed-
lings. Light ringbarking gives a minimum
of suckers and seedlings. If rung deeply
so that the tops die quickly and make
a carpet of leaves on the ground, a
heavy crop of seedlings is likely. To
avoid a second crop, seedlings should be
dug when two years ago. Wethers will
kill many if stacked on as soon as they
shoot.
“Warramulla”: Rams should be
chosen to suit the class of country upon
which their progeny will be pastured.
Environment is a big factor in determin-
ing type, and will evolve a class suitable
to local conditions, but it takes time.
Every district can cite the poor results
secured by some woolgrower with a
good-looking mob of ewes or rams
from a well-known flock or stud in an-
other part of the country. It is simply
a case of sheep being totally unfitted for
the country upon which they are being
run.
“Zedo”: The fox which was imported
into the County of Cumberland in the
early days to satisfy the sporting instincts
of officers of English regiments seems
harder to kill off than the dingo. One
breeder out Manilla (N.S.W.) way de-
clares that only shepherding allows him
to carry out his lamb-raising on a pay-
able basis. Fencing was no good. It
took 6ft. of netting to stop Reynard.
Another breeder in the district pins his
faith on wholesale trapping—a ring of
rabbit-traps in secluded gullies, with a
dead fowl or bird buried in the centre
of the ring. But that sort of job has to
be cunningly done.
“Warramulla”: Sometimes sheep,
otherwise normal and apparently healthy,
will throw their heads in the air and go
around in circles. When they get down
on the ground they kick fiercely and put
their heads back along the backbone.
If left alone and not driven when the
symptoms first show up, there is a
chance of their getting right. But when
they get down to it they finish with a
swollen abdomen, and another one can
be written off the books. Local opinion
hereabouts (W.Q.) blames some un-
spotted poison weed. Anyone know it?
“Mookau”: The Commonwealth beef
export allowance (to England) for the
quarter ending June 30 is 630,000 cwt.,
an advance of 63 p.c. on last year, but
all the chances are against its being filled.
The total shipped to May 11 was 579,023
cwt., including 180,944 cwt. of chilled.
Pig-meat exports are increasing a little —
159,734 cwt. for the past 4| months com-
pared with 130,305 cwt. the year before.


DO YOU SUFFER FROM REPEATED
9.
COLPS& FLU 7
How to prevent
them
How to overcome
their after-effects
StaXe*?"
mm**
m
m
&
: fyx y vzjg
ir
W%* n
"When a cold or 'flu comes your
way," modern doctors will tell you
you can counter the effects by
doing certain simple things.
To avoid a cold
First, you can avoid infection altogether if
you are in perfect physical condition. A
perfectly healthy individual is not subject to
infection. A wise precaution, therefore, is
to take BIDOMAK, which builds up resist-
ance against germ attack and stops cold or
’flu germs taking hold.
Colds and influenza are caused by germs,
and no completely successful treatment for
them has been discovered. A perfectly
healthy body, however, will not let cold or
’flu germs take hold. It kills them off by
dissolving them in the bloodstream, and
throws them out of the system.
COLDS MORE PREVALENT IN WINTER
During winter, however, bodily resistance is
lowered for three main reasons:
(1) There is less sunlight.
(2) We spend more time indoors.
(3) And expose ourselves in the course of
our daily life to many considerable variations
of temperature. The difference between a
warm room and cold outdoors relaxes the
membranes of the nose and throat and leaves
them more susceptible to attack by bacteria.
NEED FOR A TONIC
It is, therefore, absolutely necessary to take
a good tonic through the late autumn and
winter months, so that the resistance to
infection is well built up and the system is
rendered comparatively immune to attack by
infection.
TO GOUNTER UNPLEASANT AFTER-EFFECTS
If you have neglected this precaution and
are suffering from colds, ’flu or their after-
effects, BIDOMAK will quickly restore you
to your full health and rid you of the de-
pressed, heavy feeling that these ailments
bring in their train.
Influenza is a serious toxic fever which
should not be regarded lightly. Its after-
effects are not only unpleasant in themselves,
but may result in chronic illnesses of most
serious type if neglected. It is therefore of
vital necessity that the system should be
restored to its full health as quickly as pos-
sible, and before some secondary infection
takes hold. BIDOMAK is an admirable
tonic for this purpose.
REMARKABLE TWIN BENEFITS
BIDOMAK clears the body of waste pro-
ducts by increasing the supply of oxygen in
the bloodstream. Then it stimulates every
cell of nerves, stomach, liver and kidneys.
It makes it easier to digest your regular
food, and to take advantage of health-giving
vitamins which this contains.
WHAT IS
MINERAL STARVATION?
Simply a deficiency of vital minerals in the ordinary food
supply. When these minerals (ferrum, calcium, sodium,
potassium, and phosphorus) are not available, all sorts
of ills result.
Troubles caused by mineral starvation
HOW TO OVERCOME THESE TROUBLES
When you get enough of these minerals you get well in a
natural way from the troubles caused by a deficiency of
them. BIDOMAK contains them all in balanced proportions,
in the form of phosphates and glycerophosphates.
Quick Action
Within 30 seconds the ingredients of BIDOMAK have entered
the blood stream through the blood vessels in the small intestine,
and are thereby carried to every cell of the body. Here they
restore the living nerve tissues to health. They stop the CAUSE
of nerve pains. They get rid of that irritable, depressed feeling.
They tone up every part of the system and make you feel really
well. They put a sparkle in your eyes—a spring in your step,
and colour in your cheeks. You radiate good health and happy
spirits. Therefore you make others around you happy, which you
can’t do when you feel half sick all the time.
Get a bottle of BIDOMAK to-day. Take it as directed,
under “No benefit —No pay” Guarantee. Give it to all your
family, too. It’s SAFE for the youngest child, and it tastes
so nice children actually ask for it.
A large bottle costs only 3/-, at any chemist or store!
You feel wonderful
No other preparation provides so many
PROTECTIVE FOODS in such a
pleasant form. No other preparation
does you good so quickly, or guards
you so well from illness. BIDOMAK
makes you well and keeps you well.
Take it yourself and give it to your
family regularly all through the
winter. You’ll all feel better for it.
MONEY BACK
GUARANTEE
So certain are we that you will
notice these benefits quickly,
that we guarantee to refund your
money if the very FIRST bottle
of BIDOMAK does not benefit
you and you return the nearly-
empty bottle to your nearest
distributor within 14 days.
BIDOMAK
The Tonic of the Century for Nerve , Brain and that Depressed Feeling
Read These
AMAZING
REPORTS
FROM EX-SUFFERERS
Here are a few genuine unsolicited
testimonials from people who were
once never really well, but who, after
taking a course of BIDOMAK, are
again on the highroad to vigorous,
happy health. BIDOMAK has made
them fit and well again.
What BIDOMAK has done for them it
can do for you, so get a bottle now
and start taking it immediately.
BIDOMAK Makes
Them Well
Balladoran, Ist October, 1935.
‘My little boy had gastric ’flu at the
age of two years, and it left his nerves in
a shocking state. He was irritable, cranky,
and had sleepless nights, also no appetite.
1 was almost worried out of my mind, as
I had tried several tonics and prescriptions
recommended by our family doctor, which
were of no avail. This last winter he
developed ’flu again, and for three weeks
he was just unbearable. I happened to
glance at your advertisement in the
Sydney Morning Herald,’ which had a
wonderful testimonial. I decided at once
to give BIDOMAK a trial and was
delighted with the sudden change with
just a few doses. My little boy has had
one bottle and a half of BIDOMAK and
he looks the picture of health and he is
enjoying life. lam sure anyone seeking
help cannot go wrong with BIDOMAK.
I am, yours faithfully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) G. F. McGARITY.”
J.P. PRAISES BIDOMAK FOR
RECOVERY FROM ’FLU.
71 Tenterden Road,
Botany, Sydney,
I Ith April, 1 936.
“I am writing this letter to you with one
thought in view, that it may help others
suffering as I have been with Influenza
and run down in health to regain their
health if they try your tonic BIDOMAK.
I have been nursing my mother, who had
a nervous collapse. I became ill with
Influenza, and with so many duties to do
I could not go to bed. A friend of the
family advised me to try BIDOMAK. I
bought a bottle, and to my surprise found
I could carry on my duties and not go to
bed. It strengthened me and made me
feel very different indeed. I am now
on the second bottle, and I can truthfully
and sincerely state that I owe my recovery
to BIDOMAK. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) V. M. BUDD, J.P.”
RECOVERY FROM DEPRESSING
AFTER-EFFECTS.
Waratah, N.S.W.,
29th January, 1936.
“A few months ago I had gastric flu,
which pulled my weight down and left me
suffering from loss of appetite and weak-
ness. I grew tired of trying other tonics
which had no effects, so, taking my
friend’s advice, and as a last resource, I
tried BIDOMAK. I have only taken one
bottle, and it is hard to realise the differ-
ence that one has made in me. I am
beginning to put on weight, and to eat
the meals set before me. The signs of
weakness I had have completely left me
—thanks to BIDOMAK. I cannot speak
too highly of your wonderful tonic, and I
am sure all BIDOMAK users will agree
with me. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Miss G.C.”


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HFAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; VVm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORV
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and c.arn Ihe most rhorough and practical
m Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Business, Rollery, Etc.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced fencer wants work, N.S.W. or
Queensland, wages or contract. —9812.
Photographs, anecdotes, history and names
of crew of sailing ship Forfarshire, which
visited in 1902 under Captain Purdy.
(Reply to Aaron Moore Bagg, Carry Ponds
Camp, Bingham, Maine, U.S.A.)
To buy copy of Paddy, the Next Best Thing.
—9BOB.
To buy Great Laughter, by Fannie Hurst. —
9786.
To buy copy of etching by Will Dyson show-
ing monkey with saxophone greeting a bust of
Beethoven. —9785.
To buy the “Saturday Evening Post” for
March 12, 1938.—9764.
Information Sought.
Bowling analysis of the Vic. side in the
Sheffield' Shield match against Q’land at Bris-
bane last season ? —9607.
O. M. R. W.
McCormick .. ..11.3 0 53 2
Sievers .. ..23 10 32 1
Pearson .. .. 3 1 2 1
Fleetwood-Smith .. 16 2 63 0
Gregory .. .. 10 3 17 0
* * * *
What are the umpires’ powers in cricket? —
9423.
They are. the sole judges of fair or unfair
play, of the fitness of the ground, the weather
and the light for play ; all disputes shall be deter-
mined by them, and if they disagree the actual
state of things shall continue. They shall pitch
fair wickets, arrange boundaries where neces-
sary and the allowances to be made for them,
and change ends after each side has had an
innings. When they shall call “play” the side
refusing to play shall lose the match.
Jfc H* * %
Who was'the first world’s heavyweight cham-
pion under Marquis of Queensberry rules—Bob
Fitzsimmons or John L. Sullivan ? —9790.
Sullivan defeated Dominick McCaffery in a
bout that was billed for the world’s heavyweight
championship at Cincinnati on August 29, 1885,
and became universally recognised as the first
world’s heavyweight glove champion. Jim Cor-
bett then knocked out Sullivan at New Orleans
on September 7, 1892, and Fitzsimmons was
recognised as heavyweight champion of the
world when he knocked out Corbett at Carson
City on March 17, 1897.
* * X *
What were (1) the tour figures of the 1937
Australian Rugby League in M.L., England
and France? (2) Result of Test matches v.
England ? —9590.
(1) In Maoriland—won 1, lost 2; points for,
32 (8 tries, 4 goals); against, 40 (8 tries, 8 goals).
In England—won 13, lost 11, drawn 1, aban-
doned 3, cancelled 1; points for, 293 (67 tries,
46 goals); against, 232 (40 tries, 56 goals).
In France—won 8, lost 1; points for, 241
(59 tries, 32 goals); against, 77 (17 tries, 13
goals). (2) England won the first Test (5 points
to 4), and second Test (13 to 3); Australia
won the third Test (13 to 3).
x x * x
(1) When does the Federal Government in-
tend to start work on its defence scheme at
Darwin ? (2) Expenditure ? (3) Will much labor
from outside Darwin be employed? (4) Is it
possible to see tenders of works proposed ?
(5) What R.A.F. or R.A.A.F. squadrons will
be stationed there ? —9454.
(1) During the financial year 1938-39; it
will be spread over a period of three years. The
construction of an aerodrome for the R.A.A.F.
has been commenced, and contracts have been
let for clearing a landing-ground and for the
construction of a water-pipe line. (2) Ex-
pected to exceed £500,000. (3) Labor at present
available at Darwin may be insufficient, but, as
all works will probably be carried out by con-
tract, each contractor will probably make his
own arrangements. (4) Tenders are advertised
in daily papers of each State, and details of
those accepted are published in the “Common-
wealth Gazette.” (5) Information not yet avail-
able.
' X X X X
(1) Cost in Australia of a 20 -ton, all-steel top,
15 ft. by Bft. weighbridge, manufactured bv
Pooley and Sons, Birmingham, England? (2)
Chances of selling it ? —9726.
(1) About £3OO. (2) Few, as no length under
20ft. is suitable for present-day conditions. The
practice of running first the front and then the
rear wheels on to the platform leads to in-
accurate readings. Standard Weighbridges, Day-
street, Sydney, might help.
* * x *
Populations of 12 largest cities in the British
Empire ? —9838.
London 8,202,818, Calcutta 1,485,582, Syd-
ney 1,253,367, Bombay 1,161,383, Montreal
1,098,409, Glasgow 1,088,417, Birmingham
1,002,413, Melbourne 992,048, Liverpool 855,539,
Manchester 766,333, Toronto 653,000, Madras
647,230. Figures are from Whitaker’s
Almanack, 1938.
* X * *
(1) Description of the first penny stamps
issued in Great Britain ? (2) Their present
value? (3) Date of issue? —9705.
(1) The design consists of a profile portrait
of Queen Victoria, with Maltese crosses in the
upper corners and letters in the lower ones.
The die was engraved by Frederick Heath and
the printing done by Perkins, Bacon and Co.,
London. The color varies from intense black
to grey-black (worn plate), and there is a small
crown watermark visible On the back of each
stamp. These stamps had to be separated with
scissors. (2) Catalogue prices range from 10s.
upwards, according to the shade, postmark, etc.
(3) May 6, 1840.
* * * *
(1) Was H.M.’s 41s/ Regiment ever known as
the Gordon Highlanders ? (2) Is H.M.’s 41 st
Regiment still in existence? —964s.
(1) and (2) No. The Welsh Regiment, formed
in 1719 from pensioners at Chelsea, was known
as the 41st (Royal Invalids) Regiment, being
principally employed on garrison duties until
1787. From 1787-1822 it became a marching
unit —the 41st Regiment of Foot. From 1822
it carried the title the 41st (the Welsh) Regi-
ment of Foot, until in 1881, when the words
“of Foot” were dropped from the titles of all
line regiments, it took the title the Welsh
Regiment. In 1920 George V. approved of
the word “Welsh” in the title of the Royal
Welsh Fusiliers, and of the Welsh Regiment
being spelt “Welch.” The title of the regiment
at present carrying the number 41st in the
line is the Welch Regiment.
He He He Hi
(1) Population of U.S.A. at the beginning of
the Civil War? (2) Number of troops engaged
on both sides ? (3) Major battles ? (4) Was
there a definite “front,” as in the Great War?
—9326.
(1) 1860 census gives 26,922,537 whites and
4,520,784 negroes and others. (2) Official figure
for the Union troops is 2,128,948. Estimates
of the Confederate army vary between 1,400,000,
given by Northern writers, to 340,250, given
by Confederate records as the total by March
8, 1862. (3) Gettysburg, July 1-3, 1863 ;
Antietam, Sept. 17, 1862; Chancellorsville, May
1-3, 1863 ; Chickamauga, Sept. 19-20, 1863;
Fredericksburg, Dec. 11-14, 1862; Second
Manassas, Aug. 28-30, 1862; and Shiloh, April
6-7, 1862. Spotsylvania, Stone River, Peters-
burg, Cold Harbor, Franklin, Wilderness and
Buff Run were other important engagements.
(4) No.
* * *
(1) What discoveries led to the invention of
neon signs and who was the inventor ? (2)
How is the gas obtained? —9797.
(1) During the closing years of the nine-
teenth century Sir William Ramsey discovered
that the atmosphere contained other gases be-
sides oxygen and nitrogen. These were helium,
neon, argon, krypton and xenon. Some years
later Geissler, a German physicist, discovered
that, if these gases were placed in a glass tube
in which electrodes had been sealed, they would
glow upon applying a high voltage to the elec-
trodes. The French scientist George Claude
continued these experiments, chiefly with neon
gas, and from his work the present signs have
been evolved. (2) It is extracted from the air
by an intricate and expensive process of lique-
faction and distillation.
* . :;c * *
1 have invented a device for safeguarding the
elements of electric jugs in cases where the cur-
rent is switched on -without first filling the
jug with water. (1) Is there such a device
already on the market ? (2) Would it be of
any commercial value ? (3) Firms likely to be
interested ? —9743.
(1) Not in connection with a jug, but such
a device is sometimes incorporated in the bases
of electric kettles. (2) Very doubtful, as, in the
event of burn-out, a new element can be pur-
chased for 7d. and fitted in a couple of minutes
by anyone in possession of a pair of pliers. (3)
Try Australian General Electric, Ltd., 93
Clarence-street, Sydney, or Hecla Electrics (Syd-
ney), Ltd., 139 York-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) What is Portland cement, and how is
it made? (2) How was the name derived? —
9775.
(1) It is a mixture of limestone and clay
firmly ground and thoroughly mixed. After
accurate tests it is heated to a temperature of
1370 deg. C. in a rotary kiln where the mate-
rials are fused together, making new chemical
compounds of silica, alumina and lime, which
pass continually from the kiln in the form of
small particles of clinker. This clinker is
ground to a powder and passed through the
meshes of a very fine sieve. (2) From the re-
semblance of its color to that of the grey stones
quarried at Portland, England.
A good, cheap stain for a boarded floor? —
9759.
Throw a handful of permanganate of potash
(Condy’s crystals) into one gallon of boiling
water in an old tin. Apply the mixture as hot
as possible with a large flat brush or, since this
chemical destroys animal bristles in brushes, a
cloth on a stick. If stain is not dark enough,
apply successive coats, drying well between each.
Polish with paste made by mixing shredded
beeswax in turpentine and gently heating until
it is well worked together. A coating of size
before staining will give richness to the color.
This stain gives good service, and can be re-
newed when worn.
* * * *
What are the preparation used and methods
adopted by professional bootblacks in securing a
high glazed polish, even on neglected footwear ?
—9676.
Not clear whether you want a polish for
rubbing or one which can be painted on to
shine without further treatment. The follow-
ing is a waterproof blacking which giyes a
good polish without rubbing and will not injure
the leather: Beeswax 18 parts, spermaceti oil
six parts, turpentine oil 66 parts, asphalt varnish
five parts, powdered borax one part, Frank-
fort black five parts, Prussian blue two parts,
nitro-benzol one part (optional). Melt wax,
add borax and stir until a jelly results. In
another pan melt spermaceti, add asphalt var-
nish previously mixed with the turpentine oil,
stir well and add to the wax. Lastly add colors
previously rubbed smooth with a little of the
mass, then the nitro-benzol. There is nothing
better for boots and shoes than the commonly-
used wax polishes.
* * * *
What causes moisture to drop from the inside
of a galvanised-iron roof on frosty mornings ?
Will painting on the inside stop it? —9752.
Due to condensation. Kalsomine would effect
a temporary remedy, but best thing is to paint
inside the iron with two coats of a metal-pro-
tective paint or a good-quality oil paint and
dust over with powdered cork while still wet.
* * * *
Difference in temperature under a roof
painted white and one painted a different color ?
—9653.
Gardner’s Manual, which is an accepted
authority by engineers and paint chemists, states
that the internal temperature of a building the
roof of which is painted white would be
six degrees cooler than a roof painted red or
blue, seven degrees cooler than green, eight
degrees cooler than grey and 12 degrees cooler
than black.
* * 4= *
Particulars concerning a girl who earned the
name of “The Australian Grace Darling” ?
9589.
She was 16-year-old Grace Bussell, who
rescued passengers from the steamer Georg-
ette when it was wrecked off s.-w. W.A. in
1876. She and a half-caste, Sam Isaacs, were
riding along the coast when they saw the ship’s
company attempting to land. Both rode into
the surf, helped with lifelines, and rescued
men and women who were able to cling to the
stirrup-irons. Miss Bussell received a gold
watch from the Royal Humane Society, and
Isaacs was given some pecuniary reward and
a medal. Miss Bussell was a daughter of Alfred
Bussell, a Westralian pioneer. She married
F. Drake-Brockman, who became W.A. Sur-
veyor-General. Her children include Justice
Drake-Brockman and Dr. Buffer Murphy.
4= 4= 4c 4c
A few particulars concerning Jack Hides, the
explorer? What books has he published? —
9787.
The son of H. H. Hides, of Herberton (Q.),
he was born June 24, 1906, at Port Moresby,
Papua. He entered the Papuan Government
service in 1925, was posted at Kambisi police
camp for two years and assisted to bring under
control Kambisi, Gorlala and Kunanaipa
peoples. From 1930 he was engaged on special
patrol work, investigating murders, massacres,
settling unruly tribes, examining new country
and establishing friendly relations with inhabi-
tants. He was Assistant Resident Magistrate
from 1932 to 1936, when he resigned to engage
in gold exploration. Publications by him are
Through Wildest Papua (1935), Papuan Won-
derland (1936), and Savages in Serge (1937).
Some particulars concerning the Captain Rin-
aldo Sheberras who was stationed in the Mor-
peth-Maitland {N.S.W.) district during the early
days ? His wife ? —9700.
Born in Malta, he joined the 80th Regiment,
which did garrison duty on that island in 1828.
During 1835-37 the regiment was in Australia
in detachments on convict duty, and Captain
Sheberras was stationed in the Morpeth-Mait-
land district. On August 12, 1844, he went
with the regiment to India, and was killed at
Ferozeshah on December 21, 1845, during the
Sikh War. There is a tablet to his memory
in St. James’s Church, Morpeth. His wife,
who accompanied him to India, was a daughter
of John L. Platt, who arrived in N.S.W. in
January, 1822, and received a grant of 2000
acres in 1823. He died at Ironbark Hill, near
Newcastle, May 17, 1836. Plattsburg and
Platt’s Hill are named after him.
* * 4= *
Where was James Joyce, author of “Ulysses,”
born ? Who were his parents, and where was
he educated? List of his published books? —
9828.
Born Dublin, February 2, 1882, he was the
son of John and Mary Joyce ( nee Murray).
He was educated at Clongowes Wood College
and Belvedere College, Ireland, and Royal Uni-
versity, Dublin. Publications: Chamber Music
(verse), Dubliners (fiction), A Portrait of the
Artist as a Young Man (fiction), Exiles (play),
Ulysses (fiction), Pomes Penyeach (verse), and
fragments from Work in Progress.
* %
(1) When and where was Rupert Brooke
born? Died? (2) Had he any brothers? —9788.
(1) Born at Rugby on August 3, 1887, he
died of blood-poisoning at Skyros on April 23,
1915, and was buried on the island. (2) He
was one of three. Dick, the eldest, died in
1907, and Alfred, the youngest, was killed near
Vermelles in June, 1915.
* 4= * *
(1) How old was Verdi when he composed
“Aida” ? (2) Was that opera written to order ?
(3) Why is style so different from that of earlier
operas, such as “Trovatore” and “Traviata” ?
(4) Was Verdi ever regarded as the foremost
of operatic composers? —9737.
(1) About 57. (2) Yes; it was a commission
from the Egyptian Government, and was speci-
fied to be on an Egyptian theme. '(3) Because
opera was developing and changing, and Verdi,
above all things a good showman, always did
his best to suit the public taste of the moment.
(4) Yes. As high an authority as Grove’s Dic-
tionary (1898 edition) went further and said:
“Amongst living composers Verdi is undoubt-
edly the most universally popular certainly
he will always rank amongst the greatest com-
posers of operatic music of all ages and amongst
all nations, because seldom, if ever, is to be
found such truth and power of feeling expressed
in a clearer or simpler way.”
Where is Gough Island? Size? Resources?
Gough Island, or Diego Alvarez, lies in
40deg. south lat. and 9deg. west long., about 250
miles S.S.E. of Tristan da Cunha. It is about
eight miles long and four miles broad, and has
been a British possession since 1816. The island
is a resort of penguins, and has valuable guano
deposits. There is no permanent population.
* * * *
/ want to displace a privet hedge with other
small evergreen flowering shrubs or climbing
plants. Anything suitable for a dry inland
N.S.W. district? —9835.
Tecoma ( capsensis ), red flowers in winter and
spring; neriums (oleanders), all shades of
blooms throughout the year; durantas, bright
blue flowers, followed by red berries; ochnas,
bright yellow flowers, followed by a calyx of
red lobes, which later turn black; and Cratae-
gus, white flowers in spring and crimson
berries in autumn. Climbing plants suitable for
a frame (which should be solidly built of
iron-piping to defeat white-ants) are lonicera
(honeysuckle); aristolochia (Dutchman’s pipe);
bignonia ( venusta ), a profusion of orange tubu-
lar flowers in winter and spring; thunbergia
( gibsonii ), vivid golden-orange flowers; and
stephanotis (Madagascar jasmine), clusters of
white tubular flowers. Planting should be
done as soon as possible and protection afforded
until they are established, especially during
hot summer days.
Brief Answers.
L.L.: If you send us your full postal address
a short illustrated guide to the Boro-Budur in
Java will be forwarded J. 8.: For the latest
data concerning antivenenes get in touch with
Dr. C. H. Kelleway, Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute, Melbourne A.G.M.C.: Full infor-
mation available from Headquarters, 4th Mili-
tary District, Keswick Barracks, Adelaide
H.E.L.J.: See Modern Pise Building, by Karl
T. Ellington... .J.G.: Write David Moore,
editor “Dog World of Australia,” 16 Bridge-
street, Sydney H. 8.: Cannot trace any
painter named Carl Van Der Neer, although
there were several painters with the same sur-
name, notably Arnold, E. H., and John Van Der
Neer... .W.D.: Write hon. sec., literary com-
mittee, Australia’s 150th Anniversary Celebra-
tions Council, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney... .J.L.8.: See Who’s Who
in Australia, H. M. Green’s An Outline of
Australian Literature and Zora Cross’s An In-
troduction to the Study of Australian Litera-
ture. ... W.M.0.: Full particulars, too lengthy
to print here, will be found in the Common-
wealth Official Year-800k.... 1.C.M.: Write
editor “Photoplayer,” 160 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney H.A.C.: See George Black’s History
of the Labor Party in N. S. Wales; also Cogh-
lan’s Labor and Industry in Australia....
J.C.F.G.: Can’t determine value without in-
spection M.C.: Information might be
obtained from the Registrar-General’s De-
partment, Melbourne W.CJ.: See Long-
fellow’s “From the Sinngedichte of Friedrich
von Logau”... .G.R.: Yes, Mick Simmons’
Boxing Annual, compiled by Jack Read, and
obtainable from all newsagents; price. Is. 6d.
..'. .E.L.: Adastra Airways, 136 Liverpool-
street; Airlines of Australia, 4a Martin-place;
Imperial Airways, 42 Pitt-street; Royal Dutch
Air Lines, 255 George-street ; Royal Netherlands
Indies’ Airways, 255 George-street—all Sydney.
H.W.S.: From Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Interior, Canberra, F.C.T J.T.:
The Chosen Instrument, by Capt. Norman
Macmillan (55.), published by John Lane, Lon-
don F.M.: Coomonderry is a N.S.W. abo-
riginal place-name for a “small, narrow flat.”
... .C.C.: In 1936 the length of roads in N. S.
Wales was estimated to be 128,475 miles, of
which 4582 miles were in the metropolitan area,
116,611 miles in country shires and municipali-
ties, and 7282 miles in the unincorporated West-
ern Division... .R.L.: John (“Tex”) Morton,
the radio performer, was born in Nelson
(M.L.) of American parents. He is 21, and
spent his early years in U.S.A H.F.P.: The
New Theatre League (Sydney) play competi-
tion was won by Catherine Duncan with her
play “The Sword Sung.” Henry Carver
secured second place with “Steel” J.D.: Is.
per 2oz. tin H.G.M.: Seed is available from
Arthur Yates, 184 Sussex-street, Sydney
J.H.: N.S.W. Senators are Macartney Abbott
and A. K. Dein (elected Sept. 15, 1934; term,
1935-41), W. P. Ashley (elected Oct. 23, 1937;
term to 1941), S. K. Amour, J. I. Armstrong
and T. C. Arthur (elected Oct. 23, 1937; term,
1938 to 1944) A.G.: To clean silver ink-
stands, mix a little chloride of lime to a paste
and apply to blemishes. Allow to dry, then
rub vigorously with a soft cloth A.S.: Write
Secretary, Police Department, Phillip and
Hunter streets, Sydney... .J.G.: Six is the cor-
rect number in ballroom dancing, but many
good dancers go as they please... .R.N.W.:
The Oxford English Dictionary (13 vols., £3O),
the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (two
vols., £4 10s.), the Concise Oxford Dictionary
(one vol., 9s. 6d.) R.J.8.W.: Write Under-
secretary, Agricultural Department, Sydney, for
leaflet, “Leaf Curl of Stone Fruits” J.D.8.:
Write the Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney... .P.H.G.M.: You will find Whit-
aker’s Almanack and Index to the “Sydney
Morning Herald” helpful for your purposes.
. ...G.G.K.: Write Under-Secretary, Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T
A.G.: See article entitled “Canberra” in the
Australian Encyclopcedia, vol. 1, page 233....
P. 8.: Yes, Annual Catalogue of Australian
Publications, compiled by Kenneth Binns, Com-
monwealth Parliamentary Librarian; obtainable
from Government Printer, Canberra; price, 2s.
C.W.G.: Write Chief Veterinary Officer,
Stock and Brands Branch, Agricultural De-
partment, Sydney... .H. 8.: Warrumbungle is
a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning “small
mountains”... .J.W.: Gordon’s “Australasian
Air Guide” (monthly, 3d.), published by
Richard Geraint, 79 Pitt-street, Sydney....
J.P.: The “Times” Illustrated History of the
War (22 vols.); price, in purple half-leather
£lB, in red full leather £22. Obtainable from
the “Times” office, 255 a George-street, Sydney.
A.R.V.: He is looking at a portrait of his
son.


frv «
m
I
By Appointment^
The Perfect Whisky
The mellowness, softness and
quality of this Whisky—the
only one distilled outside the
British Isles that has won and
retained international repute
will instantly appeal to the
discerning palate.
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street.
Sydney.
Distilled by Hiram Walter & Sons Ltd., Walkerville,
Ontario. Canada. Since 1858.
n
CC6/38
Whisky
PRE - WAR
STRENGTH
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COOEE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
1
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
1
'•Cv
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS .
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE C fREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.T.H.: Nothing in that batch... .L.P.:
Don’t like purple dawns... .M.N.K.: Nor
“tender heart-melting passions”... .T.R.8.:
Take a spell for a while... .T.P.D.: Morbid
without reason T.C.D.: Material is good
enough, but you’ve spoilt it by striving after
effect... .F.H.C.: First page was enough....
J.N.T.: Suggest you bury them where you dug
up the sample... .L.T.P.: Might make a couple
of pars T.S.D.: You’re a little behind
the times... .G.8.R.: Would probably result
in a libel action... .H.F.P.: A few years of
practice might help... .N.T.A.: Priscilla very
dull N.R.C.: No use for plays 8.C.:
Interest in both is purely 10ca1... .M. 8.: A
glimmer A.V.N.: An old, old trail
D.G.8.: Your traveller misses the bus again;
ending weak... .R.W.: Yes, but it needs oiling.
. ...M.N.P.: Metrically pleasing, but too many
cliches... .L.F.: You’ve been reading “Charge
of the Light Brigade” G.A. and J.W.:
Curious... .E.L.R.: A grin there... .J.E.: Sad
in more than one sense... .W.M.: Try else-
where D.D.: The right road, but bumpy.
W.J.T.: “Australia” is a big theme to
tackle in 12 lines S.E.C.: Wordsworth might
have liked it... .N.8.J.: Bards who fall in the
lake are all too rare... .J.F.H.: Exquisitely
presented.. . .P.D.8.: You’ve cut the best part
of it... .P.F.N.: Misplaced levity... .T.R.L.:
An English magazine had a yarn very like it
last year... .L.D.T.: Patchy... .K.E.R.: Tepid
bellerdrammer... .H.G.P.: You’re wasting
stamps... .L.D.N.: Not for us nor, we think,
for anyone else... .V.R.: A new plot and dif-
ferent treatment might make a yarn of it....
R.P.S.: A school of journalism might use them
as a list of “dont’s” L.D.8.: Characters
too sketchy... .L.R.D.: Vague H.T.N.:
“Patches” should find a place with a daily....
G.8.T.: You’re fishing with another man’s line.
.... T.P.D.: Whatever you like, but don’t send
them our way T.R.: Not good, not bad; just
a yarn.., .T.N.S.: “Stranger” is quite at home in
the w.p.b T.Y.: No cheque for “Chequers.”
T.WJ.: Tec and his bloodhound are trail-
ing each other homeward... .R.N.F.: Merely a
rehash of the last we accepted T. 8.: Inter-
esting to see five consecutive sentences in
monosyllables P.T.S.: Dunno what we’ve
done to deserve those inflictions T.L.S.:
Nearly made the grade L.8.F.: No
R.W.: A tentative chuckle here and there,
otherwise p00r... .L.F.V.: Don't mind passing
judgment on legible MS T.N.D., R.F.,
H.D.E. and F.L.: Not for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.C.: Your seven dwarfs are keeping each
other company in the basket R.M.: Why
is the gent, in the nightshirt aiming a blunder-
buss at the moon? C.S.: Think out some
smarter gags V. 8.: An old wheeze with a
new coat of paint, and an amateurish draw-
ing P.N.: Capital-Labor see-saw idea has
not had a breathing spell since it was first in-
vented 1.G.: We’re a little tired of that
old maid and the burglar under the bed
J.8.W.: Don’t overcrowd your drawings
P.J.: Phil May beat you to the idea by 50
years A.L.: Not keen on humor based on
the pranks of lunatics... .K. 8.: You have one
set of rubber stamps for men and another for
the ladies C.A.W.: Sheer waste of ink and
paper H.A.: You’ve a long way to go
D.M.: Lessons should bring you to publica-
tion standard H.8.J.: Spend more time over
details, and let your jokes be fresh J.F.:
The chap in the background shouldn’t be that
size, and the lady bulges in the wrong places.
... .C. 8.: Horse looks like a fugitive from a
boneyard... .W.M.: Neatly drawn, but the
subject matter is stale G.S.: It is time that
gag on doctors’ mistakes was buried R. 8.:
Nice piece of work, but the gag is feeble
W.C.K.: It is a bit late in the day to begin
throwing bouquets in that direction G.H.D.:
Drawing is no masterpiece, and it doesn’t fit
in with the wheeze F.S.: Returning flagpole
sitter, also the lady who is standing on her
head M.S.: You’re sacrificing quality for
quantity HJ.: Try standing at that angle your-
self and see how you get on L. 8.: Jest a little
too far-fetched; sketch clumsy... .E.T.: You’re
warned off until you make considerable im-
provement 8.F.: Why keep that scratchy
style? N.H.H.: Wash drawing is patchy,
and gag is labored... .D.O’N.: Your flair at the
moment seems to be as a designer of patchwork
quilts S.D.: “Fishing -in - troubled - waters”
gag has had its day R.T.H.: Couldn’t make
head or tail of that effort.. . .A.G.A.: As full
of life as a tailor’s dummy... .G.C.: It met
with a cool reception.
A MIXED GRILL.
“ Spare Skeats”: Sorry to demolish an
ingenious argument, but the people
“Britisher” says are alone entitled to be
called “Britons” (B. 26 / 5/ ’3B) are Celts.
He names the Welsh, the Cornish, the
Bretons and the Irish as Britons. All
are Celts, and speak versions of the
Celtic tongue —as do the Scottish Gaels —
which the red-haired invaders brought
from the Continent only a couple of
centuries before Caesar. The Celts fell
heavily on the “Iberians” they found in
Britain, drove them into Wales and
other remote corners or absorbed them.
They did the same by the Iberians of
Ireland. That country, by the way, is
not and never was part of Britain proper,
which includes England and Wales only
and, in “Great Britain,” Scotland.
* * * *
“Xo”: Newspaper versions of Hitler's
“march on Austria” have conveyed an
impression that Britain’s reputation suf-
fered in Europe because it didn’t poke
a martial nose into things. Another angle,
by an Australian girl and described in
a letter to her Melbourne parents, in-
dicates that it still pays to be British when
wandering through a disturbed Europe.
The lass was in Austria during the first
days of the fuss and, with other tourists
and refugees, was stopped at the frontier.
“Forward British,” was the cry of the
guards ; and the Australian girl was joined
by a couple of Americans. It was a
case of “Pass, friends,” for all three.
$
“Jungor”: I saw the Calvert expedi-
tion to the Kimberleys led by the late
Larry Wells (B. 19/5/’3B) at Mullewa,
on the road to Cue, in 1896. It ended
in tragedy; two of the party left the
others at a place since known as Separa-
tion Well, planning to rejoin them. Fate
ruled otherwise, and the two men, Wells
and Jones —the former, I think, a cousin
of the leader—perished in inhospitable
country. Wells returned from further
north and found the bodies; that was
the end of the expedition. I was the
first pressman who had an interview with
the explorer when he returned to Fre-
mantle by steamer in 1897, catching him
for a brief talk at Geraldton. A surveyor
named Rudall had been dispatched by
the Westralian Government to look for
the lost men from the Pilbara side, and
had been misled by the natives’ account
of an unidentified corpse —it proved to
be that of a black gin. The two would-
be rescuers were very near one another
at one point, but Wells never knew it
until he returned to civilisation.
“El V.”: If there is one thing I ad-
mire it is the thoroughness of Queens-
land Government departments. Jurymen
empanelled in a criminal case were taken
away from their businesses and their
homes for 13 days, and locked up under
guard in a hotel for 12 nights. “It was
the most miserable fortnight we ever
spent,” the foreman said. And at the
end the Government weighed in fees
which worked out at just over £1 Is. per
24-hour day —less stamp duty and relief
tax.
$ * * *
“Ente Marid”: Our new Minister is
doing great work to make Territorians
tidy. Under the Crown Lands Ordinance
reserves are defined as “any lands re-
served for recreation or amusement or
for any other public purpose.” Thus the
thousands of square miles set aside for
abos. in the wildest parts are reserves;
and in a lot of other places there are
reserves which look to me like chunks
cut out of Eden. But they don’t to Mr.
McEwen, apparently. Henceforward,
under a new and voluminous set of regu-
lations, it will be unlawful to damage
plants on reserves, or deface any tree
or seat on them, or leave orange peel
about, or bring a dog on a reserve ex-
cept on a cord or chain, or without
authority play a tin whistle, jew’s-harp,
saxophone or digeridoo. And no citizen
may hold a public meeting on a reserve.
* * * *
“Collector”: The comment of “Lyndo”
(B. 26/5/’3B) that there is a steady rise
in the value of pewter is a bit out of date.
As a matter of fact, pewter, like its
cousin Sheffield plate, has been under
an eclipse of late years after a renaissance
lasting half a century. The pewter of
collectors is not confined to the pots from
which our forefathers were accustomed
to absorb beer, but included many beau-
tiful and artistic articles, made mostly at
Sheffield. Production was at its highest
in the days of Queen Anne and the
earlier Georges. William Morris and his
following revived the old cult. The col-
lection presented to Sydney should open
the eyes of the average Australian to the
beautiful artistic effects that can be
achieved from the humblest materials.
* * * »
“Topsman”: I was interested in the
assertion of a member of a female depu-
tation to the P.M. that women are sub-
jected to as much injurious differentiation,
compared with men, as they were a cen-
tury or so ago. Looking back on that
golden age of my profession, I find every
evidence that they not only held equal
privileges with the meeker sex, but en-
joyed some that the latter had no claim
to. Not only did they share with men
the right to be hanged for 150 crimes,
and to be flogged, transported, pilloried
and imprisoned for debt, but they were
favored with the special crime known in
common law as petit treason. For that
they could be burned alive, or—in cases
where they had employed poison—boiled
like a crayfish.


U
Warn
: ■:
m
s
. i
<!!(
IT}
s
ft
m
i. — ,iCT 39*4g§>
,-W
FROM the huge annealing fur-
naces in Lysaghi's Mills, the
iron emerges fitted for whatever
may be demanded of it. It is this
care at vital stages of its produc-
tion which ensures the absolute
reliability of Lysaght's Special
Tankmaking Iron, which is giving
unrivalled service and satisfaction
to users throughout Australia. This
iron is sold under a special guar-
antee, particulars of which can be
obtained from the manufacturers.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
In the annealing
furnaces under
rigid pyrometric
control, the grain
structure of the
metal is changed.
LYSAGHT
ORfi
AUSTRALIA
TANK MAKING
LYSAGHT'S
SPECIAL
TANKMAKING
IRON
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
LT2
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought . . . ~ 20
Wire netting „ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O'Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS:
XVI.
In opening the second campaign for
conscription—“modified” conscription, it
was called—the Prime Minister had said,
“I tell you plainly that the Government
must have this power. It cannot govern
the country without it and will not
attempt to do so.”
c „
The referendum over, Mr. Pew was
. , , . t . , , . . , ,
leminded of this undeitaking — it ha
been repeated in terms as explicit ovei
and over again—from a hundred plat-
forms. His immediate resignation was
demanded, and not by victorious Noes
alone. He called his colleagues together
to discuss the position.
There was one among them who had
never been keen on the Fusion and had
been opposed to putting conscription to
the vote. He was a fine old Australian
of a type that was vanishing: a stout-
hearted explorer who had led two parties
across thousands o[ miles of unknown
country destitute of surface water without
losing a man or shooting at a native ;
a man of vision who, in association with
an engineer of genius, had transformed a
shallow river mouth into a modern deep-
water harbor and had piped water 380
miles to arid goldfields; a ruler who for
10 fruitful years had governed his native
State on the old-fashioned principle that
it is the duty of Governments to govern
—and that without burdening posterity
with unproductive debts. His waterworks,
harbor works and railways paid. They
were expected to yield interest and sink-
ing fund, and they did.
A simple, loyal, earnest character, as
solid as one of the karri trees of his own
Swanland, Sir John Forester would have
been an .deal leader of the nation in war-
time had destiny summoned htm to that
position when he was in his prime.
Admired by the Labor people, though he
had never been one of them, and on
excellent terms with all the denomina-
tions, he would, as Prime Minister, have
been able to appeal to the nationalist
feeling which Mr. Cluck and Mr. Disher
had failed to inspire, and which had
turned against Mr. Pew. But he had
grown old, and cancer had him in its
clutch
However, he was not too old or too
sick to realise that ignoble dodging of
responsibility was not action and that a
pledge given to the nation was a pledge
in very truth, and not a meaningless
formula.
So nobody was surprised to read in
the newspapers after the Cabinet meet-
ing that Sir John Forester had “refused
to place himself unreservedly in Mr.
P ew s hands.
The party was more complacent. It
debated the situation for five hours: then,
hy 63 votes to two, it adopted a resolution
t hese terms: “The National party
expresses its continued confidence in Mr.
Pew, and, in view of the exceptional cir-
. ~ .
cumstances, considers that, in the best
interests of the country and the Empire,
]yj r Pew s h oldd retain the leadership.”
xhe malcontents were from Sir John’s
state.
When the terms of the resolution be-
came known, there was such an outcry
that it was deemed expedient to have
another party meeting. At this a very
embarrassing motion was handed in:
“That the National party approves of the
Government honoring the pledge it gave
to the people that, unless it got the power
as ked for, it could not and would not
° n ,he Government, by tendering
resignation and that Mr Austin
cha PP el be asked “> form a Gover "-
ment.
Mr. Pew’s friends rallied and an
amendment was carried, the minority
numbering seven. The amendment was
to the effect that “the matter be left in
the hands of the Government to take
whatever steps it deems advisable to give
honorable effect to the pledge given to
the people of Australia.”
Four days later Mr Pew ca u ed at
Government House and offered his resig-
nation “without offering advice as to
who should be asked to form an Admini-
stration ”
His Excell asked Mr . Pew t 0 carry
on he decided to issuc another com _
; and ared receive ca||ers .
Th cre ca j lers that cabme „
1 . A , a „ ay ‘
After Mr. Pew came the leadei of the
r ‘ Cruder. . According
to Mr. Intruders own narrative, as corn-
™unlcated to Parliament, the Governor-
General asked lot advice and Mr. In-
tfuder made certain suggestions, but left
wlt hout a commission,
Then came Mr. Cluck, Mr. Watteau,
Mr. Higgins (already disposed to forgive
Mr. Pew for having likened his mind to
a toac l , in a ess P o °l )’ Mr - Joynter
(° ne Mr. Pew s most feivent admirers)
Mr. Sagacity, who was a lawyer,
Sir John came last and stayed longest,
The Governor-General reported these
conversations to Downing-street. His
memorandum on his talk with Sir John —
it appears in volume XI of The Official
History of Australia in the War is a
pithy contribution to the story of those
days.
Sir John was the one dissentient. He
treated the practically unanimous vote ol
confidence given at the party meeting to
Mr. Pew, in which he had joined, as
tine politesse, having no practical signifi-
cance. He denounced the Prime Minister s
autocratic ways, his want of method in the
conduct of affairs, and asserted that all
real business was hung up in favor of lime-
light exhibitions on the platform. Sir
John ended by offering his services to form
a Government, and in support of his
claim pointed out his popularity with all
classes, including Roman Catholics, the
absence of hostility to him personally
among the Labor members and his long ex-
perience in the public service.
The Governor-General had himself
thought a Forester Administration “one
of the most promising solutions of the
problem,” but wanted to be sure that
it would command a majority in the
House. He sent for Mr. Cluck and Mr.
Watteau.
I asked whether they considered there
was any chance of Sir John securing an
adequate following. Both gentlemen were
uncompromisingly of opinion that he
could not form an Administration, and
stated that he had lost rather than gained
ground in recent years.
.So after dinner the Governor-General
sent for Mr. Pew and commissioned him
to form a new Administration. And
technically it was a new Administration.
“Being instructed to save the Empire
by saving the party bacon, Pew went
through the mockery of resigning on
Monday, forming the old Ministry into
a new Ministry on Tuesday and resum-
ing the old business of selling gold bricks
at the old address on Wednesday.” So
wrote an outraged critic.
Mr. Pew’s “new” Government —“my
fourth,” he explained—was immediately
challenged on the score of having broken
its pledge. The Prime Minister said he
had handed his resignation “uncondition-
ally” to the Governor-General, and that
amounted to fulfilment.
What I meant by the pledge was —In-
truder or me. What my colleagues meant
was —the Nationalist party or the Official
Labor party. The Governor-General, in
a way almost unprecedented, exhausted
every effort to obtain information as to
the state of the House. His Excellency
came back to me and asked me to accept
a commission.
This was interpreted by a cynic to mean:
“Here I was. Here I am. Here I stick.”
The vote went the right way, and “my
fourth” Ministry remained in office.
But Sir John Forester retired after a
few weeks. He had been created the first
Australian-born peer named “Baron
Forester of Bunbury, and of Forret in
Fife.” Now a doomed old man, he set
out aboard a troopship, hoping that he
would last long enough to take his seat
in the House of Lords; but he never
reached London. He died at sea, sur-
rounded by soldiers from his own State,
some of them grandsons of old friends.
Meanwhile, recruiting for the A.I.F.
had dropped to 1918 in February and
to 1518 in March. This, although the
authorities were now taking bantams —
five-footers going 33 inches round the
chest. It was obviously a case for re-
course to two never-failing expedients of
Australian politicians in time of trouble.
A royal commissioner (the Chief Jus-
tice) was appointed to find out how many
recruits were needed to maintain the
existing divisions in the field, and a con-
ference was invited to “formulate a plan"
for getting them.
The royal commissioner having re-
ported, and the conference having
resolved that it would “make all possible
efforts to avert defeat at the hands of
German militarism” (carried unani-
mously!), Mr. Pew started on his travels
again. The Fifth Army had been smashed
and the Germans were striking for the
Channel ports, so London needed him.
Before he left it was suggested that he
should be nominated for the Nobel Peace
Prize.
May brought the news that Australian
soldiers had helped to save Amiens, par-
ticularly by retaking Villers-Bretonneux
after a wonderful night march. At an
earlier period of the war the censorship
had been so strict that the public was
never really allowed to know what was
going on, and so stupid that a censor
blue-pencilled a suggestion that Mr.
Pease, the Minister of Defence, could be
replaced with advantage. But even the
censorship had discovered that recruit-
ing improved when the nation was
strongly moved by war news, good or
bad, and 1918 saw no repetition of such
imbecilities as cutting down the descrip-
tion of Fromelles to a small paragraph.
In that month of May there were 4888
volunteers.
With abysmal folly, some of the Labor
leaders chose in that very month to
launch a defeatist campaign. There had
been an eruption of articles and pam-
phlets to the general effect that the Allies
could not beat the Central Powers, and


Conklin,
PENS—PENCILS—SETS
Modern Gifts for a Modern World.
fd
A wide range of styles and
prices is provided, enabling
the purchaser to exactly
meet his individual pref-
erence as to appearance,
size, writing performance
and price.
Every CONKLIN is a good,
dependable writing instru-
ment, carefully made in
every detail of the best
materials obtainable, assur-
ing a long life of perfect
service.
CONKLIN NOZAC PENS—
the world’s finest precision
writing instrument, in which
modern design harmonises
with streamline styling—
the Visible Ink Pen that
“Winds like a Watch.”
Pens 22/6, 30/-, 40/-;
Pencils to Match 17/6,
25/-. Complete Sets 40/-,
55/-, 65/-.
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
—guaranteed Free Service
for ever—in all Modern
Colour Combinations. Pens
30/-, 40/-; Pencils to
Match 25/-. Complete
Sets 55/- and 65/-.
CONKLIN CRESCENT
PENS are dependable writ-
ing instruments, made of
the best materials available.
Six different colours. The
Pens are priced at 15/-;
Pencils to Match 7/6; and
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Case 22/6.
From all Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
M
m
IISI
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Qii
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals.
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres.
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £lO
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SO FAT SHE HAD TO
SELL HER BUSINESS
New Health at 50 —Thanks to
Kruschen.
“Two years ago,” writes a woman, “I was
running a very successful business. It was
strenuous, but the chance of a lifetime. At
the time I weighed 18 st. 10 lbs.—but I was
exceptionally strong. Then I began to feel
tired; in fact, always tired. My feet and legs
began to swell, and my eyesight began to fail.
Eventually I had to sell my business and go
into a nursing home.
“One day a friend said, ‘Get your fat down.
Start taking Kruschen.’ In desperation I took
her advice. To-day I weigh only 12 stone
8 lbs. I feel perfectly fit, and yesterday I
walked 7 miles. I am 50 years of age, and have
been passed for life insurance. I am starting
a new business, and, with renewed health, I
shall make good again.”—(Mrs.) B.E.
Kruschen is an ideal blend of mineral salts
found in those European spas which have been
resorted to from time immemorial by the over-
stout. Before the first bottle of Kruschen is
finished, fat begins to go. And it continues
to go, until there is no more superfluous flesh
to burden the body and endanger the health.
fd
mw
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
(GERMANY)
TAIR
It will pay you to visit this mammoth
selling centre —the market place of a
hundred countries throughout the world.
Everything new, novel and useful is made
available at prices that permit unusually
satisfactory profit margins.
AUTUMN FAIR
begins
AUGUST 28 tH
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment,
F urniture, Photographic,
Sports Goods, Engineering
and Building Pairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks) available of Lars G. Brundahl,
Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig
International Industries Fair, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne. J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen
Street, Brisbane. H. C. Ittershagen, S'henton
Park, West Australia.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote vou prjjpe for the original.
0
0
XV
IS*
A
m
mm
v. ,\ 5
o^h
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada .
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.),
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
a cry went up for “Peace Without An-
nexations or Indemnities.”
On May 16, the Sydney Trades and
Labor Council decided to its own satis-
faction that “the greatest service we can
render to the men at the front, their loved
ones at home and humanity in general is
to stop the war.” The Brisbane Labor
Council’s Great Thought was that “any
member of the Labor movement in this
State who appears on a recruiting plat-
form, or does any other act involving any
further participation in the war by Aus-
tralia, fails to correctly interpret the
views of the workers and displays lament-
able ignorance of the fundamental prin-
ciples of the working-class movement.”
The middle of June found Mr. In-
truder (not himself a delegate), the
Premier of Queensland and 30 other
gentlemen at the triennial conference of
the Australian Labor party (“Official”
Labor party to Mr. Pew) in Perth. There,
after secret meetings, it came out that
the conference had blamed “existing
Governments” for “devoting their whole
endeavors to the continuance of a dis-
astrous struggle” instead of “making sin-
cere efforts to obtain a speedy peace.”
Also that it had passed the following
resolution:
Further participation in recruiting shall
be subject to the following conditions: ( a )
That a clear and authoritative statement be
made on behalf of the Allies, asserting
their readiness to enter into peace negotia-
tions upon the basis of no annexations and
no penal indemnities; ( b ) that Australia’s
requirements in manpower be ascertained
and met with respect to (/) home defence,
(2) industrial requirements; an immediate
inquiry, upon which the Australian Labor
party shall be adequately and officially
represented, to be held, and its decisions to
be immediately given effect to.
Provided that this determination shall be
immediately submitted by each State
[Labor] executive under the direction of
the Federal [Labor] executive, with a re-
commendation from this conference for its
adoption, to a referendum of members of
all branches and affiliated organisations,
and shall become operative upon a major-
ity of the votes of those voting being
cast in the affirmative, the ballot to close
not later than November 1 next. In the
event of the Commonwealth Government
interfering with the conduct of the ballot,
the foregoing decision as to recruiting shall
thereupon be immediately operative.
There followed this precious resolution
the expulsion of the enemy from the
Marne, the victory of the Australians
at Hamel, Germany’s Black Day, the
taking of Mont St. Quentin and the
smashing of the Hindenburg line of de-
fences ; but arrangements for the re-
cruiting ballot went on. Turkey was
defeated, Bulgaria caved in, Austria-
Hungary crumbled ; but the thoughts of
doctrinaires and defeatists were still
centred on their ballot. Only when vic-
tory had manifestly declared for the
Allies (“the Allies cannot beat the Cen-
tral Powers”) was the ballot abandoned.
A healthy opposition had manifested
itself even before the tide of war turned ;
and, as it happened, only the procras-
tination which was the craziest feature
of the crazy proposal averted another and
more serious party split.
{To be continued.)
The Australian Gets the Verdict
AFTER hovering round Sydney
Stadium for months, with nobMy
breaking a neck to take him on, Ken
Overlin (list. 711 b.), of Uana s o>vvn,
had his chance last week in a 12-round
engagement with Fred Henneberry (list.
s|lb.). Financially it was worth waiting
for: scribes had been barracking well for
Ken in the meantime ; Fred has his own
following; as many more appear to
nourish a hope of seeing Fred take a
beating ; and there are those who just go
along to see a boxing match. Sum total:
the best house boxing has drawn in
recent years.
They got their money’s worth, even
including the large number who declared
loudly that Joe Wallis had never given
a worse decision. The American made a
gallant and spectacular showing. He won
the first part of the fight comfortably, and
he fought with great confidence, elusive-
ness and vigor throughout. His manners
and general methods appealed to the
crowd; it liked his hard hitting and
stand-off fighting, and most of those pres-
ent would no doubt climb over barbwire
entanglements to see him go into action
any time.
All of which was to the good, but not
enough to the good to make the decision
fairly worth hooting. Joe Wallis is a
wideawake old bird. Wild and woolly
lunging doesn’t deceive him. He isn’t
taken in by haymaker clouts that land
on elbows or gloves with a wallop that
reverberates resoundfully round the
bleachers, and from there, and to the
shortsighted, looks wonderful stuff. It
can be taken, too, that he allows some-
thing to a boxer who needed a bicycle
for chasing the other cove round the
ring. He’d allow something to a boxer,
too, for the other cove’s holding and rest-
ing on him when caught, and something
also for continuous aggressiveness ; for
unspectacular but sweet and speedy in-
fighting ; for taking a bit coming in and
fighting in past it and keeping on fighting.
All these things were in Fred’s favor, and
told against the Virginian’s otherwise
good and often splendid showing.
Fred began better than he usually does.
He planted a light left hook in the first
exchange, and looked like forcing the
fight right away. Then the invader
opened out and tore in with terrific
lunging wallops. It was a powerful on-
slaught directed to the body, looking as
threatening as it was spectacular. Cer-
tainly the American was punching a good
deal harder from a distance than we’ve
seen them let ’em go for a long time.
Of much more effective quality was a left
hook he got clean on to Fred’s usually
extremely elusive jaw in the second term
He also countered Fred’s attack with a
whirling two-handed battery to the body,
a few blows of which broke through
Fred’s defence, and then Fred threw the
round to the bow-wows by bringing his
head up under Ken’s jaw. Joe spake the
words of a Dutch uncle, and Fred kept
his head in control thenceforth.
Anyhow, Overlin won the round by the
full margin; and he took the third, in
which he grazed Fred’s countenance, and
the fourth also. Overlin in these rounds
moved about the ring with the speed of
a ligntweight. At long range he kept
hammering in spectacular fashion a*
Henneberry’s body, varying this violent
method with occasional good, clean,
straight punching, including two clinking
rights to the jaw in the fourth. These
were beautiful punches; if only a tenth
of the stuff Overlin let loose had been
as efficient, it would have been a one-
man fight. As it was, the power of his
punches—mostly taken on elbows, shoul-
ders or gloves looked enough to do
great damage no matter where the blows
landed. But Henneberry’s tough even
at his vulnerable points ; on his defences
he’s ironbark. Overlin was certainly
making him fight now, and in the fifth
the local lad showed at his best so far,
by his clean and punishing infighting.
Even so, Fred had still more grazed off
his face by the end of the round.
Overlin opened the next with a spec-
tacular effort that set the gods roaring.
He came straight out of his corner and
shook Fred with a magnificent left to
the chin. Its effect was to make Henne-
berry fight like a bearcat. He kept boring
in in his nicely-poised compact style,
shortening his punches and ripping them
m and up with great force. Overlin
steadied him once with a fine right cross,
and held him off with long-range upper-
cuts ripping powerfully into the body.
A clean, shaking right cross evened
things Henneberry’s way, and his pur-
suing, aggressive infighting evened it more
so.
So far the points were Overlin’s. Even
so, the whisper that the odds had veered
from twos on Henneberry to 6 to 4 on
Overlin made extraordinary hearing.
The seventh was pretty even going. In
the eighth Overlin was at his spectacular
best. He rocked in his powerful swingers
with a force that tested Henneberry’s
balance at every blow and shook his
frame from bow to keel. Overlin had
much the better of this round ; Henne-
berry won the rest by an increasing
margin in each, which a gallant effort
by the invader in the last couldn’t even.
It was clear in the ninth that Fred’s
steady, continuous punishing efforts in
close were having their effect. While he
looked fresh and fit for another 20
rounds, the American —Henneberry has
an extraordinary record of victories over
Americans —was beginning to look dis-
tressed.
Still, this excellent middleweight was
anything but a beaten man, as the dandy
fighting of the tenth and eleventh rounds
was to show. He had slowed up a bit, and
he was mostly either bolting from trouble
or holding and leaning on Fred, but there
was still fight in him, even though Fred
was making him miss so badly that the
swinging stuff which looked so spec-
tacular earlier now began to look crude.
One swing in particular cut a swathe
over the head Fred hadn’t dipped more
than an inch, and as it passed over there
was Henneberry underneath and inside
it, fighting at his neatest and swiftest.
In these closing rounds his uppercuts,
short stuff from clean inside Overlin’s
defence, had Overlin’s head bobbing like
a cork.
In a punishing onslaught in the eleventh
Henneberry opened the right Overlin eye,
and there was a certain amount of
goriness about the last two rounds, tend-
ing to make Overlin, at the time Joe
Wallis’s hand went unhesitatingly on to
Henneberry’s head, look every bit as
punished as he possibly felt.


use six bullocks in the single-furrow plough to turn
up that last bit of cleared land, he said, and Roddy
had made no end of a fuss about tying the tails of
two bullocks together when John yoked them for the
breaking-in. “Quoted poetry at me and called it cruel,
but what other way can you break in bullocks? I
really don’t know what to say to Peregrine,” lamented
John, pulling at his great beard ...
THE two young things came back presently, bring-
ing the rich, dank smell of the bush with them, the
, strange quiet of those who have sojourned with the
mysteries. Roddy got his flute now —blowing bubbles
like a baby, thought John, still upset about Roddy—
and Tiffany sat on the bullock-hide against his knees,
feeling how she liked Uncle John’s room with its cut-
down casks for chairs, shelves for plates and wooden
pegs for coats and hats. Now and then they talked,
throwing thick logs on the fire, watching the great
black kettle boil up for tea that would be sweetened
with lumps hacked from the twenty-pound block of
black sugar in a tub.
Aunt Darien, said Tiffany, was lovelier and fun-
nier than ever, and officers simply haunted her musi-
cales and stood ten deep for her hand at a dance.
What that impish personality was doing to Aunt
Caroline Tiffany mustn’t tell, but she found herself
giggling to think of it. Poor Aunt Caroline always
got so very much the worst of it when she tackled
Darien ; but she would keep on doing it, thought Tif-
fany, getting rid of her secret laughter over telling
how she had seamed a pair of trousers for Brian on
the new hired machine and forgot to tie the thread-
ends. “So they all came undone and he couldn’t get
home till dark. But he would hold on to his dignity
though he was flapping like a scarecrow,” chuckled
Tiffany, rocking with delight.
“You shan’t make my clothes when you live with
me,” said Roddy, pulling her hair. “Otherwise I’ll
let you do just what you want, my girl.”
“Salaams, my lord,” retorted Tiffany.
Young noodles, thought Jermyn, suddenly dis-
gusted. Some day they’d learn that no human being
can do what he wants if he lives a thousand years.
THROUGH these days Caroline felt her cup over-
full of trouble. Mr. Andrew Greer disappeared as
suddenly as he had come, and Linda was moping like
a sick cat for that Silk creature and beginning to take
to religion with Sophia. So Caroline made a cast at
Hew Garcia, whose father had been lucky enough to
get his title cleared by a chief long ago, and now had
Hew managing a fine little property, some twenty
miles away. Hew was at first attracted by plump, pink
Linda ; but it seemed that making love to her was
like trying to take fire from a glow-worm, so when
in town he attached himself to Darien’s train. Here,
he thought, swaggering in the omniscience of twenty-
one, was a woman one could die for —her eyes, her
hair, her friendly, laughing ways.
Many men told Darien that; but now it seemed
that before long there would be a sterner lady to die
for, since Gore Browne had seen fit to lift the strict
and long-established embargo against the sale of
ammunition to the Maoris, who, declared the whole
town in a tornado of disgust, would now go hell-for-
leather after guns.
Even Sir Winston, asserting that where there is
no vision the people perish, had not the vision to
guess that in less than three years the Maoris would
spend £55,000 on munitions of war. Nick Flower
knew something about it, going here and there, sell-
ing no end of spades and axes and knives and shovels
to chiefs as the great pas grew laboriously greater
with trenches and palisades and underground pas-
sages, and the women brought filled baskets of
kumeras and maize and onions up the cultivated
slopes to fill the patakas against the time of war.
Nearly as naughty a besom as„ Darien (thought
Flower), this New Zealand, cursed in turn by each
English Prime Minister who found he couldn’t get
rid of her that way. There
she was, persistently put-
ting new and unpronounce-
able names on the map,
dropping crimson blossom
between bluest sea and sky,
grabbing endless troops, so
badly needed elsewhere, to
use for her own nefarious
silly ends, giving up sweet vagrant scents to her great
lover the sea, dreaming of those many lovers who had
wooed her through the centuries.
Indeed, New Zealand’s lovers had been more than
fails to the lot of many virgins since Abel Tasman
first found her, since Captain Cook left the English
flag and a number of pigs there in 1769. But Eng-
land had not been interested then. Holland had come
with its broad-beamed mercantile sailors who (being
greeted by lusty warriors with greenstone axes) had
not inquired further. Russian scientists had come,
making friends in a gentlemanly manner and some-
what attracted by seal-pelts. Yet they, too, had shown
no desire to put the Maori warrior in their pocket.
France came, painstakingly charting headlands and
christening channels, to be tomahawked and eaten in
reward. The Spanish came, plumed and prudent, and
swiftly sailed away. England skirmished, made
sporadic entries, went home piecemeal. None was
eager for closer relationship with those fierce up-
standing brown tribes who came from the devil knew
where and brought him with them to help wipe out
the gentle earlier race dwelling there and make the
much-desired land their own.
The Maoris won her through fight and they’ll try
it again, thought Flower. Some of the chiefs upheld
England because they had set their mark to the
Waitangi Treaty, others were for wiping the floor
with her, and all of them were now wiping the floor
with each other as a prelude, while the women cried
“Riria, riria . . . fight on” in their passionate, melo-
dious voices, driving their men into frenzy, the reck-
less jades.
V.
HLL her married life Haini Fleete’s heart had
secretly cried “Riria” ; and now she went
down into the Waikato to see her elder daughters,
who were married to lesser chiefs of her father’s
tribe, and sat by his own fire with the old chief, who
was still sacred to his warriors since he had never
signed the Treaty and occasionally killed a few of
them to show that he didn’t hold with newfangled
ways. .
Corny cared not a fig what became of his daugh-
ters, whom no respectable white man would marry.
“But always, always he says his sons are pakeha and
must fight with the pakeha,” said Haini, crouching
by the fire in a mat, looking with her beautiful,
haunted eyes at the tattooed old chief who was her
father.
“And what kind of sons are they, wahine?”
“Some”—Haini lost count of her children now and
then —“some are nothing. Rupe and Hoani work on
the wharf. Hori has gone to sea on a whaling-ship.
Peto has the chest-trouble. For Hemi ... Ido not
know,” she said, feeling uneasily that she knew too
well. Hemi, with his thin English face and hips and
the Maori fanaticism in his dark eyes, was being torn
by the warring natures in him.
“I think it is time you took Hemi to make him
be chief when you are dead,” Haini said slowly, feel-
ing her words traitor to Hemi, who could not leave
Tiffany Lovel, although Haini had begged him often.
They will not let you marry her, my son, she had
told him. But Hemi had said: “I shall soon have her
under my mat and then what can they do?” Wild,
foolish Hemi, riding with Tiffany on the hills, bring-
ing her little offerings to the fern-gully. “Take Hemi
quickly lest worse befall,” said Haini, staring into the
fire.
(To be continued.)
THE WILD DUCK
BY DOUGLAS STEWART
ON the flat where the goldfinches flashed among
the dry stems and seedpods of the thistles,
Denny wounded a rabbit, killing it afterwards,
when the dog had caught it, with a blow on
the back of its neck;, and then, half a mile further
on where the track crossed a swampy gully draining
down to the river, he fired again, and a quail that
had whirred up from a mass of lawyer-vine on the bank
dropped with a grey flurry into the watercress below.
John’s only chance of a shot, for he was not
quick enough even to get his gun to his shoulder when
the wild creatures whirled up or ran from their feet,
came when the dog pointed a pheasant, but then, just
as he was going to fire, Denny knocked his gun up
and drawled, mocking him, “So you’d shoot a hen,
would you!”
John was tempted to mimic him. For the thou-
sandth time since his arrival two days previously for
the opening of the shooting, he noticed, with a whip-
lash of irritation, how countrified, thick and slow
Denny’s voice had 'become since he had taken up the
farm. He was like an animal, John thought, so quick
to kill the rabbit or the quail, and then relapsing into
a drawling, inhuman sort of lethargy.
Yesterday Denny had dragged him miles over the
hills to show him the cocksfoot breaking green where
the bracken, had been burned. “You can’t kill the
stuff, you can’t kill it”’ Denny said with stupid satis-
faction, "as if the miserable grass was his own flesh
and blood! It had been a relief to get back to the
house and talk to Edith. Afterwards, while Denny
got the guns ready for the morning, the two of them
took the dog for a walk.
As if he had heard his wife’s name in his friend’s
thought, Denny said, “Let’s get back to the river and
see if Edie’s turned up with the lunch.”
They clambered along the banks of the stream.
It was in high flood after the rains, and yellowish
foam and willow leaves eddied about the snags at
the edge. The only birds they saw, scared up by
shooters on neighboring reaches, were flying fast and
high as they had been since daybreak.
“Well,” Edith mocked them, “where are all the
ducks?”
“They ducked,” John laughed.
“Too many guns out,” her husband explained.
“The mob’ll be away downstream out of harm’s way
by now.”
“Listen!” cried Edith.
“I heard it,” Denny answered.
“What?” asked John, bewildered.
“There it is again,” the girl exclaimed as a wild
drake's call came through the bush downstream. “One
flew along very low as if it might be wounded just
after I came along with your lunch.”
“Might be an odd wounded one,” Denny agreed.
“Anyhow, it can wait now till we’ve fed.”
“Come here, you brute!” he snarled suddenly as
the dog began to sneak into the bush.
Denny had not eaten many of the mutton sand-
wiches before he was on his feet again. He walked
through the bush a little way to a point where the
view downstream was clear. Then he came hurrying
back to the others.
“’Struth!” he said in an excited whisper, “the
whole blooming mob’s there. Every duck on the
river! About quarter of a mile down on the far side.
Reckon there must be sixty of ’em, some on the bank,
some in the water, all bunched up together. One of
us has got to stalk them and bag as many as he can
on the water, and the other can wait here and have
a crack at them as they fly over. They're sure to
follow the water along. You go and I’ll wait here ;
and go quietly as hell!”
“No, you go,” said John. “I haven’t finished eating.”
“You’re crazy,” Denny declared. “You’d better
have a crack at them after coming all this way to
shoot ducks.”
“I'd sooner you went,” answered John, looking
up with lazy decision from the grass where he and
Edith were lying.
“Oh, all right! ” Denny snapped with sudden
anger. “Hold the damn’ dog, then. I don’t want him
chasing after me and scaring them up.”
T" IPTOEING, and unconsciously crouching, Denny
* made his way through the bush. When he judged
he was about fifty yards from the ducks he sank to his
hands and knees and began to crawl. He didn’t quite
know why, but he was feeling vicious, and when
his hand brushed against a nettle he cursed softly
and kept on cursing. Closer to the stream, where
the ground was black and soggy under thin moss, he
lay flat on his belly and wormed his way inch by
inch to the bank, thrusting the gun cautiously before
him. He could see a glint of the stream now through
the trees, and, though he could not see the birds for
the bulrushes at the water’s edge, a fierce excitement
beat through him as he heard the soft quacking of
the ducks and the harsh, reedy calls of the drakes.
Suddenly there was a thunder of wings and a
crashing in the rushes as the birds flew up in a volley
and the dog came bounding towards him.
“I told them to hold the swine!” he yelled, kick-
ing at it and swinging his gun to his shoulder and
firing blindly into the cloud of wings that whistled
between him and the sun.
Sick with rage, he squatted on a log and rolled
a cigarette with hands that shook. Why had they
let the dog go, curse them!
A slow thought formed in his brain and took
possession of him. By God, if that was why they let
the dog get away
He picked up the gun and swung into the bush.
Unconsciously he trod lightly, crouching again and
holding the gun at the ready, as he had when he
began to stalk the birds.
John and Edith were still lying on the grass as
he had left them, so absorbed in the silence that had
fallen about them that both were startled at his
approach.
“What happened?” asked John.
“You let the dog go!” he accused him.
. “Blast it, I never thought about it,” John
apologised.
Denny’s voice dropped again to his sarcastic
drawl. “What did you think about?”
John looked at him sharply. What was he driving
at, standing there with that black, accusing stare, his
knuckles white against the gun-barrel. Denny was
as slow as Edith was quick and passionate, but —how
keen and rapid he had been when he bowled the
rabbit over among the thistles! Uncertainly, with
panic at the back of his brain, John stood up. His
hands fumbled for his gun, leaning against a tree.
“Anyhow,” said Edith, swiftly and brightly, “it’s
a good job we don’t care for wild duck.”
“You do!” Denny gibed.
“Not really enough to be worth killing anything
for,” Edith said deliberately, knowing that the crisis,
if there had been a crisis, had passed as swiftly as
wings in the clear afternoon.


FLU
COLDS
Smashed Quickly with
i r
9p
Eucalyptus Extract
mm
mmmM
s
mm
i H
mm,:-:
m
m
m i
■k
m
■
8838$
7 lu-Colds often start with sore throats —so take no risks with
<lu at. the first sneeze or sign of sore throat, gargle with a few
drops of Double ”D” Eucalyptus in a tumbler of water.
If you would smash Flu-Colds speedily,
you must attack them internally as well
as externally, for the germs which first
attack the nose and throat find their way
into the bronchial tubes, and it is here that
most of the danger lies. The following
Double “D” 3-way Treatment enables the
antiseptic vapors of this pure Eucalyptus
to penetrate through the nose and throat
into the bronchial tubes, with the result
that Flu-Cold germs are quickly destroyed.
1
TAKE 3 drops of Double “D” on
sugar.
i
RUB chest and back thoroughly with
Double “D.”
f
INHALE 15 drops of Double “D” in
hot water when retiring.
You will get quick results from this treat-
ment, but be sure you use the genuine
Double “D” Eucalyptus, which is double dis-
tilled, free from all irritants, and is the one
Eucalyptus particularly suitable for medi-
cinal purposes. You run no risks when you
use Double “D” Eucalyptus —it is pure,
strong and safe. Refuse substitutes.
9d ENORMOUS SALES 1/3
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and ' New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
a to ?s»s«5S
ryy
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti
fully printed in sepia-tone.
S'
c°
#
&
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
onl y
from


*“ “LYSAGHT’S” -
100% Australian Made From Australian Material 100%
Our Name is a Guarantee that you get
only the Best Article
WIRE NETTING
RABBIT PROOF
MARSUPIAL
DOG
SHEEP
with Centre Strand
if desired.
POULTRY
BIRD
M
4 “
-2MB
PROOF
WIRE
(All Gauges 00 to 30)
FENCING WIRE
Black and Galvanised (all Gauges)
Ordinary, Soft and High Tensile
BALING WIRE
Black, Galvanised and Self-colored.
TINMAN’S WIRE
Soft and Hard.
NAIL WIRE
WIRE for MANUFACTUR-
ING PURPOSES
Soft and' Hard of all descriptions.
Look for our MARKER in Every Roll of Netting
lOWA
12, 13 and 14 Gauge.
Length per cwt.:
460 yards to 670 yards.
BARBED WIRE
SPECIAL 1 *
•SPECIAL’' (Long Distance).
12 J and 14 Gauge.
Length per cwt.:
620 yards to 930 yards.
WIRE
NAILS
ALSO CLOUTS
STAPLES, BRADS,
PANEL PINS AND
SLATERS 1 NAILS.
.
...
Wwmm
mKUm
ft
ZINC
OXIDE
ALL GRADES USED
FOR MANUFACTURE
OF RUBBER, PAINTS,
ETC.
AERIAL VIEW OF THE WORKS.
Our Netting and other products are known throughout the Commonwealth as of the highest standard,
and are obtainable from all the leading Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents .
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. PTY. LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS
17-19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. WORKS: PARRAMATTA RIVER
