

The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—No. 3048.
Wednesday, July 13, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
SYDNEY’S CHANGING SKYLINE
The changing silhouette of Sydney s skyline is
writing a great new chapter in the city’s story
of growth and confidence. Recent months
have witnessed many scenes of the tearing
down of old buildings, the towering skywards
of webby masses of scaffolding, and then the
emergence of some great, new and delightful
building, fit cause for civic pride. One of
the most beautiful of these new buildings is
Shell House, topped by its enormous clock.
At the opening of Shell House, the Premier
of New South Wales (Mr. B. S. B. Stevens)
after being welcomed by the General Manager
of The Shell Company (Mr. Vernon Smith)
said, “Establishment of a world-wide cor-
poration in any city carries an obligation to
live with and grow up with the community,
to fashion its organisation so to link its
interests with the needs of the community.
The Shell Company all the way through has
evidenced its policy in that important prin-
ciple. As a British community we are proud
the characteristic efficiency it has dis-
played.
Erected at a cost of £275,000, Shell House
has many interesting features worthy of note.
The 10 storeys are serviced by five speedy
elevators which travel at 600 feet a minute,
the doors being fitted with photo-electric
safety-ray apparatus to prevent closing while
passengers are entering or leaving the cars.
The square clock tower which rises impres-
sively above the building has a clock on all
f OU r faces, the dials being 16 feet across and
visible from practically every part of the city,
Externally the upper floors are all faced with
terra cotta> anc j a p l a j n mou lded architrave of
terracotta surrounds the square-headed open-
ing Q f the ma i n entrance. A cafeteria with
kitchen and service rooms fitted with the most
modern equipment is situated on the lower
ground floor.
Shell House is beautiful, dignified, well and
truly wrought for the purpose it has to serve,
and, as the Premier said, “Its ornamental
value alone constitutes an asset of great civic
value, and one which should appeal to our
sense of civic pride.”


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
SOME DETECTIVES IN THE DOCK.
With Stephen Leacock on the Bench, the con-
viction of a novelist for writing a detective story and
his subsequent committal to the w.p.b. (whence at
dead of night he can surreptitiously be withdrawn and
examined) should be a simple matter. About all
Leacock asks, he says in Here Are My Lectures
(Bodley Flead), is that there should be a Body :
I always take a look to see if there’s a chapter
headed “Finding of the Body.” And I know everything
is all right when it says “The Body was that of an
elderly gentleman, well-dressed but upside down.”
The Body must conform to type. It must be the
sort of Body which, except in fiction, doesn’t become
one. A small, mild man, without an enemy in the
world ; a stockbroker; an aunt; or, above all, an
English country gentleman. Everybody likes to see
Squire murdered on the village green, but a gangster’s
Body has as little news-value as an Eskimo’s. Lea-
cock’s own murderee (in a lecture on detective fiction)
is Sir Charles Althorpe, who sat alone in his library
at Althorpe Chase:
It was late at night. The fire had burned low in the
grate. As Sir Charles sat thus in his armchair, his
head gradually sank upon his chest, and he dozed
off into slumber.
And then the butler with a poker, a nephew with
a bottle, a daughter with strychnine, a Chinaman with
a blowpipe or even a Dead Hand with a dagger
looms up from the shadows.
After the terrified maids have found the Body in
the morning, says Leacock, enters the Detective,
followed by the Poor Nut:
“But how,” I exclaimed, “in the name of all that
is incomprehensible, are you able to aver that the
criminal wore rubbers?”
My friend smiled quietly.
“You observe,” he said, “that patch of fresh mud
about 10ft. square in front of the door?”
If Richard Hull’s Excellent Intentions (Faber)
were tried by Leacock, Hull would be convicted on
the mere name of the victim. The godfathers and the
godmothers of “Henry Cargate” must have intended
him to be murdered from the start. And he is a
country gentleman to boot (or, in this case, to
poison). Leacock makes no stipulation as to the
sort of person the villain should be, but it’s a safe
general rule that he must be someone highly improb-
able. Hull is almost entitled to a nonsuit on the
ground that his suspects are not merely highly improb-
able but utterly impossible. Someone put poison in
Cargate’s snuff ; it might have been the gardener, the
butler or the vicar; it might have been the nurse and
it probably wasn’t the stamp-dealer ; there’s not suffi-
cient motive for any of them to have done the dirty
deed. But the story is told by means of the trial of
the accused, a fairly uncommon device which gives
Excellent Intentions, if not a conviction as a full-blown
detective novel, at least half an hour’s probation for
living up to its title.
Pondering the modern detective as he has evolved
from Sherlock, Leacock decides that one of his essen-
tials is an affectation for good wine or music, poetry
or meccano—anything to make him at once human,
debonair and slightly ridiculous:
A few minutes later we were seated at one of the
tables of a dingy little eating-place whose signboard with
the words “Restauranto Italiano” led me to the deduc-
tion that it was an Italian restaurant. As he ordered the
drinks I realised that this amazing man knew as much
of the finesse of Italian wines as he did of playing the
saxophone.
The detective in Lynn Brock’s The Silver Sickle
Case (Crime Club) passes all the tests. His name is
Venn, he is debonair and cynical, with just a dash of
Brazenose, and he smokes exclusive Turkish cigarettes.
The Silver Sickle Case, from its very Opening, must
be convicted as a true thriller:
On July 14, 1936, shortly before midday, Constable
Plummer was patrolling with dignified sedateness along
the East Drive at Southmouth, congratulating himself
that in 10 minutes he would call it a day.
Of course, he immediately meets the Body, which
is Mr. Partington, a country gentleman. Lynn Brock
nearly puts himself out of court by introducing an-
other Body—that of Miss Behennick, who gets bumped
off at the Silver Sickle roadhouse. But, on the whole,
with Mr. Partington’s Body, a nasty gardener, a
lunatic,, a nasty old woman, a drunken chemist, a
suspicious Jar, a blackmailer, a superintendent who
says “Ah, Ga!” in a dumbfounded sort of way, Mr.
Brock is entitled to a conviction.
Leacock’s summing up of The Silver Sickle Case
might point out that it lacks what is beautifully
called “heart interest.” For the true detective story,
he insists, must have a futile but fair daughter of the
murderee falling in love with the detective, or prefer-
ably (he needs some compensation) the Poor Nut:
In she came, Margaret Althorpe, wild and all dishev-
elled. Oh, yes, the best writers always dishevel them
up like that. But she has to please all classes of readers
all the same, and so: Her complexion was neither
dark nor fair and her religion was neither Protestant nor
Roman Catholic. She was not a prohibitionist, but she
never took more than a’ couple of gins at a time. Her
motto was, “No, boys, that’s all I can hold.”
Leacock should have mentioned here her blushful
innocence, the detective’s rugged restraint. He would
certainly have referred to those odd phenomena if
he had read The Vanished Prospector, by T. Lund
(Werner Laurie). The train steams into Portage Bend,
and Corporal Mason, as Mr. Lund interestingly points
out, notices:
Apart from the engine it consisted of several freight-
cars, one day-coach and another car which was half day-
coach and half express-car.
Why this should be is never, unfortunately, made
clear, for out steps the Girl.
She tells Mason that someone has murdered Pa.
So Mason rushes off, arrests murderer, and then :
“I’ll confess something to you, Jimmy,” said Mary
with a tender smile. “One day day up in Portage Bend
a certain policeman seemed to find his way into my
mind, and he has taken up a permanent abode there
as a. man worthy of trust, respect and love.”
The last word came “almost in a whisper,” but
Mason heard it and clasped her to his bosom, so
that’s all right. And the author is all right, too, for,
instead of being convicted for writing a detective story,
he is going to be acquitted on the ground that he
hasn’t written anything remotely like a story of any
sort.
One last offender, however, Josephine Bell’s Fall
Over Cliff (Longman’s) earns the utmost severity of
the Court. Not only is it a detective story with five
of the most desirable Bodies (uncles, aunts and country
cousins), but it is a good one. The Poor Nuts of
the coroner’s jury thought that Keith Warwick (ah!)
fell over a cliff for fun, but Dr. Wintringham, who’s
a pleasant and plausible sleuth, found a good family
reason not only for his death, but for four previous
deaths by “accident” in the clan. It would intrigue
even Leacock, and it is humorously told.
Leacock himself, if he will step into the dock for
a moment, is accused of writing a book that’s not
nearly as humorous as it should be. Here Are My
Lectures is one of those scrapbooks into which eminent
authors cram everything that is remotely saleable, and
if, as the extracts quoted here indicate, he can still do
all his old tricks, he does them much too disjointedly.
It is a farewell book, semi-serious, so doubtless he’ll
be forgiven.
Conquistador in the Pacific.
In Magellan: Pioneer of the Pacific (Cassell;
The Roycroft), Stefan Zweig has a magnificent story
to tell ahd he fully realises its dramatic qualities.
Magellan’s history has the sombre force of a
great tragedy. He was a Portuguese by birth, of the
petty nobility, an adventurer by temperament. He
was born in his own true age, the era of the great
maritime discoveries. He served as a supernumary,
an independent fighting man, with Francisco
D’Almeida in the East Indies, pioneering the spice
trade by sea.
He got little out of it but wounds and the friend-
ship of Serrao, a Portuguese knight who left the
service of his country to become a rajah in the
Moluccas, still beyond the verge of western pene-
tration.
In Magellan, obscure soldier of fortune, arose
the will to become himself a discoverer and conquis-
tador. In Portugal, lame and without occupation, he
studied in the royal library and made the acquaint-
ance of Ruy Faleiro, the foremost cartographer of the
age. Between them they discovered what they took
to be. sound evidence of a passage through South
America to the Pacific and the spice islands.
Magellan went to the king of Portugal and asked
for a fleet to make the voyage. He was no courtier,
he alienated the king and was coldly rebuffed. He
then, like Columbus, carried his plans to the Court
of Spain where the 18-year-old king—later to be
known as the Emperor Charles V. —received him with
enthusiasm. A year and five months later he sailed
with five ships for the Americas.
Magellan’s belief that he would find a passage
has long been one of the great historical mysteries.
Zweig supplies a plausible solution. It is that Magel-
lan had found, in the king’s library, evidence of sailors
having reached the estuary of the River Plate, and he
jumped to the conclusion that this would provide a
waterway through the continent. He discovered that
it did not, and, without taking any of his fellow-
captains into nis confidence, pushed on south.
Winter caught the fleet on the inhospitable Pata-
gonian coast; it was forced to lie-to in the bay of
San Juan. The Spanish captains mutinied, but Magel-
lan outmanoeuvred them, and when spring came in-
domitably led his little fleet further south. He dis-
covered the Straits of Magellan and brought three
ships through, one having been lost and one desert-
ing. After that, success was assured, but provisions
were almost exhausted. For three months he pushed
across the Pacific with sick and starving crews, dis-
covering the Ladrones and the Philippines.
Magellan had reached the spice islands ; he was
the first commander to have circumnavigated the
globe, but neither he nor his heirs were to profit by
it. He was killed in a battle with the Malays on the
island of Mactan, in an expedition undertaken to
impress the natives with the invulnerability of the
Spaniards. At home in Spain his wife and son died
in poverty, and, there being no one to claim the riches
he had won, they lapsed to the Spanish Crown. One
ship only, the Victoria, reached Spain again.
This story is told fluently and dramatically, and
the reader’s attention is sedulously drawn to all the
highlights. The story is also linked to to-day by the
parallel the author draws between the conquest of the
sea and the conquest of the air, and by applying to
his material the “historical realism” now fashionable
in northern Europe:
Always when important discoveries or inventions are
made those who make them believe that they do so
under stress of moral impulsion, whereas often at
bottom material motives are at work... .Throughout
that age of amazing discoveries and explorations the
driving force was the mercantile spirit. Behind the hero
stood the trader.
And:
Had Magellan failed to find the strait of which he
was in search, had he failed to complete his exploits,
he would have been bluntly accused of murder in sweep-
ing out of the way a Spanish captain who raised objec-
tions to his dangerous adventure. Magellan, however,
was endorsed by a success which conferred on him
immortal fame, whereas those who died ingloriously
have been forgotten, and the chroniclers, judging by
accepted standards, approve his harshness and unfeel-
ingness.
Stefan Zweig is a professional biographer with
not the slightest trace of historical specialisation. His
subjects range from Jeremiah to Marie Antoinette,
from Erasmus to Freud, and each is treated with the
same detached scholarly care, the same bland reason-
ableness. Zweig’s highly competent professionalism
ensures that he would never make a failure of an
assignment, though that doesn’t mean he turns off a
creative masterpiece. Magellan, translated from the
German by Eden and Cedar Paul, is lavishly illus-
trated in photogravure.
Jack Hides's Last Book.
In his last book, Savages in Serge (Angus and
Robertson), J. G. Hides tells of a night he spent with
the Papuan natives, “the first of more than a thou-
sand in which I was to see the watershed of practi-
cally every river and mountain range in the land and
capture more than 150 convicted murderers.”
A lad at the time, he was wandering through the
bush when he saw the fires of a band of
Koiaris, whose language he had picked up from
prisoners. In some fear he approached them.
They knew him but gave no sign. He went up
to a fire where two old men squatted, and “by way of
breaking the oppressive silence timidly asked where
they were going.” Their answer was given in one
word, “quiet and deliberate.” Next day he accom-
panied them, uninvited but tolerated, on their journey
inland. To “preserve his dignity” he had to hold his
own with spear and arrow among the dark lads of
his own age. Eventually he was captured by white
men and taken back to Port Moresby, there to resume
acquaintanceship with killers who were later to follow
him in official serge and to whose ranks he wns
destined to bring many a wild recruit.
Hides was essentially a man of action. His reflec-
tive moments are. rare, and when encountered rather
startling. He endorses the benefits that civilisation has
brought to the natives in these terms:
To-day the natives ride along the streets and roads of
Port Moresby on bicycles, or in some old, worn-out
Ford; they play cricket matches, and Don Bradman’s
pictures graces the walls of some of their palm-thatched
houses. Yet, not so long ago, these natives came into
town selling pineapples and fish, with no other covering
than a vine.
Elsewhere he is considering the future of the
natives:
Judgments without understanding were grim jests to
play on primitive man. But a great work had been
commenced in Papua. When a mantle of fertility covered
its forested lands, when factories rose upon the shores,
giving industry to thousands of Papuans, then, I thought,
and then only, would we have done our duty and vindi-
cated to some extent our right to tear these people
from their dancing and fighting, and the things they
and their ancestors have held so dear.
Hides doesn’t dissimulate when it comes to put-
ting the other fellow’s view of the matter —nor waste
himself in attempts to reconcile it with his own:
I have gone far into the most strange and hostile
corners of this land. Sometimes the inhabitants resented
my intrusion, especially when I had come to take men
for murder. “Is this your mother’s country?’’ they
have shouted at me from spur and crag. And when I
could not answer them, and tried to explain that
murder was wrong, they yelled insultingly at me, demand-
ing my right to teach them how to live.
Hides’s book is a tribute to the native constabu-
lary. It is full of action, story after story of expedi-
tions into remote and dangerous places, a record of
his followers’ faithfulness, courage and doggedness in
the pursuit of killers who were mostly captured with
clever avoidance- of bloodshed. It records also acts
of personal devotion to the white leader, as when it
was necessary to creep in single file through the low
entrance of a dwelling in which a wanted man was
probably waiting armed with something sharp and
heavy. At the last moment a constable jostled his
leader aside and entered first.
Incidentally, Savages in Serge is an inferential
tribute to savages without serge, for lone patrols must
be very dependent on tribesmen's respect for fair deal-
ing and for the spirit of friendly pacts. Hides’s books
brought him into prominence, but he did not forget
his fellow-patrol officers. Savages in Serge is dedi-
cated to Murray, of Papua, and “the outside men —
unhonored and unsung.”
Waugh's Newspaper Farce.
Salter, of Lord Copper’s “Daily Beast,” was not in
the least surprised when his chief told him to send
800t —who did a weekly quarter-column of natural
history under the heading, “Lush Places” —to cover
an incipient revolution in “Ishmalia.” Salter had him-
self been quite happy—and at the height of his ambi-
tion —in a job selecting jokes for Lord Copper’s “Funny
Cuts” when he was suddenly told to take the foreign
editor’s chair on the daily ; so he knew the inconse-
quent nature of newspaper appointments.
The facts of Boot’s appointment were that Lady
Stitch, anxious to advance the interests of another
800t —a young novelist —had spoken to Lord Copper
about him. Lord Copper had spoken to Salter, and
Salter put on the wrong Boot. Boot, the nature
specialist, was speedily hailed from his rural home
and found himself aboard a special ’plane headed for
Ishmalia, still protesting that he preferred Lush
pi aces **
In the fastnesses of Ishmalia —somewhere in
North Africa—he found the other special correspon-
dents easing their taut nerves with bouts of ping-pong
in the intervals of manufacturing news and waiting
for something really big to break. These, having their
papers’ headlines in mind, cable rumor as fact, and
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’—Always.
THE SENIOR STORE ”
m
ilSi
%
■ ■
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
Sale.
Sale Reductions for the Tennis Enthusiast
3
Vx
SLAZENGER "AUTOGRAPH'
iliXl-—A notable racket at a notable reduction. Dual imported asb frame
in laminations. Walnut insertion. Buttressed or streamline throat.
Overlay shoulders. Plain spiral or recess groove grip. Finest Bentley
orange or “Perfecto” gut. Fully guaranteed. Price, each 60/-
Sale Price, each ■ S'i/6
• STREAMLINE "AERODYNAMIC"
1-1 IT2 —Designed and constructed by Slazenger, streamlined on aero-
dynamic principles to obviate wind'resistance and-give the ultimate in-
speed and power- This is the genuine 1938 model with bevel edge
frame in selected imported ash, shoulders inner and outer braced. New
style groove grip. White vellum-cased shoulders and throat. Strung
with high quality- Orange “Perfecto” gut at championship tension.
World’s fastest racket. Fully guaranteed: Price, each .......... 75/-
Sale Price, each 45/-
# ALEXANDER "MASTERPIECE"
111T3— Probably the finest all-court racket.in the whole Alexander series.
Massively modelled from quadruple laminations of English long-grain
ash. Double braced shoulders, streamline handle, recess grip. Top
grade gut.. Fully, guaranteed. Alexander’s List Price 52/6
Sale Price, each . -37/6
M
m
m
¥
£7 / 19 / 6 Home Billiards
TABLE TOP
Convert an ordinary Household
Table into a true-running, correctly-
angled Billiards Table in 30 seconds.
/ic/.
The size is 7ft. x 3ft. 6in. _ Finest
iiuality rubber in cloth covered cushions; six inset pockets, with
polished brass frames and leather buffers. Close weave green
cloth. Complete with polished ash cues, set of Composition
Billiard Balls and Score Board.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price £7/19/0
Sale Price £7/15/-
DARTS!
Regulation material for new popular game, .just arrived from
England!
English Cork Dart Board, 16in., double sided . 31/-
English Cork Board, 18in., Nat.'Darts Assn. Regulation.. 35/-
English Elm Board, 16in., double sided 35/-'
English Elm Board, 18in., N.D.A. Competition Standard.. 30/-•
Darts, each 4d. Per dozen. 3/»
Dart Score Blocks (Regulation: 48 score sheets for teams
up to 8 players) ! '3/6
Dart Rules: Official Rules of the National Darts Association
of England 3d.
114/6 DICK CARR GOLF SET
Here is an excellent bargain for the golfer. Get your set now and enjoy a full
season’s golf. Set includes the Dick Carr Autograph Mahogany sheath, steel shaft
brassie, with U.S.A. persimmon head; also mid iron, mashie and putter with
rust-proof heads. Golf bag and two golf balls free with each purchase.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price 114/6. Sale Price
105/-
L
3816 TENNIS NETS
IIIT4 Tennis Nets with double
white canvas tops; tripple steam
tarred; double mesh in all wearing
sections. Flexible rust-proof wire
already looped for service. The
length is 42ft. x 2ft. 6in. The prices
L
are according to the weight of hemp.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Prices
38/6 45/- 52/6 59/6 67/6 72/-
Sale Prices—
-35- 39/6 47/6 54/6 62/6 67/6
rata
Vj
WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW
CHALLENGER
LIGHT CLUB RACER
£B/12/6 Speed CYCLE
Only best English parts are used
in the “Challenger.” The
frame is of English lightweight
weldless steel; tyres 28in. x
1 fin., of Australian standard
make; best plat'ed handlebars;
£& 5 4
narrow racer seat; five coat enamel finish, hand lined
and decorated. Tool bag, tools, oil can, inflator, bell
and approved reflector go with it. Anthony Horderns
Regular Price, £B/12/6. Sale Price £B/5/-
Terms:
Deposit 16/6, with 6 monthly payments of 25/5.
ROYAL ENFIELD
- LIGHT ROADSTER
£B/10/- English CYCLE
The frame is made entirely
in England, of finest Enfield
gun steel; highest grade
Black English Dunlop tyres;
detachable mudguards; best
<o
CN
00
English tourer saddle;
finished with Black English triple-coat enamel, with
gold lines and crest. Eadie Coaster Hub. Tool bag,
tools, oil can, inflator, bell and approved reflector, are
yours with the purchase.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price £B/10/-
Sale Price £B/2/6
Terms;
Deposit 16/3. with 6 monthly payments of 25/-.
ROYAL ENFIELD
LADY'S TOURER
£B/19/6 Lady’s CYCLE
This is England’s favorite
Lady’s Tourer! Made of
finest Enfield gun steel,
with highest grade Black
English Dunlop tyres;
df
English rubber treads and
chromium-plated handle bars. In Black, with gold
lines and crest. Tool bag, tools, oil can, inflator, bell
and approved reflector included among the equipment!
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price with Eadie
Coaster Hub £B/19/6
Sale Price £B/12/6
Terms:
Deposit 17/3, with 6 monthly payments of 26/6.
• Spoils Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid, except oh Bicycles, Billiards Table Tops and Dart Boards, to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant”
by G.B.LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
I.
HAT with Parliament, debts and the
g Maori question, the North Island was
W ISt s by now gloomily conscious of its re-
| m w p semblance to the middle-aged father of
6k a family. But the South was still youth-
fully building houses, bridges, fences
and cathedrals with happy inconse-
quence ; riding breakneck down shingle slopes and
through flooded rivers; combating scab in sheep,
pleuro-pneumonia in cattle and rabbits in Southland
(since Grey’s gift had already proved how much more
blessed it is to give than to receive), and still strong
enough to ride twenty miles after the day’s work to
hear a woman sing and back in the red dawn to
tackle another day.
On the Plains men principally rode to Bendemeer,
and (since every home station kept open house then,
although the visitor might be sent out to kill a chicken
for supper) they never felt shy, though coming in bat-
talions. Tiffany loved the fine, if thinning, air of
gallantry that clung yet to these hearty gentlemen
riders bred in England’s public schools, and rescued
the younger ones from darning their socks with bod-
kins, and listened with patience if they wanted to talk
of Home. But did they come drunken (as sometimes
happened, since their lives were lonely) she fright-
ened them more than Darien, ordering them out to the
stable to “sleep it off.”
“You are very young, Mr. Copperfull,” said
Tiffany, turning from them in disdain, and the abject
miscreants dared not face her again for weeks.
Darien thought Tiffany too hard. “They haven’t
near so much sense as sheep, Tiffy,” said Darien,
discussing men before a grinning row of them. “So,
as a sensible woman, I feel we must just make the
best of ’em.”
DARIEN was very satisfied with her brains, which
indeed served her so excellently that she bought
new gowns for Tiffany as well as herself when every-
one went to Christchurch to see the Duke of Edin-
burgh in April of 1869. For, despite the clipping of
Governors’ wings and the dismissal of the Imperial
Army, New Zealand was loyal, and proved it so
violently up and down the two large islands that a
less tireless people might have been sorry for the
Queen’s son.
Tiffany, certain she had persuaded herself that
life was now over for her and so nothing mattered,
found herself confounded by the knowledge that it
mattered very much when Brant Hutton fell in the
amateur steeplechase at the race-meet, and that both
her new gloves were split when she got her hands apart
again as he came limping in. Darien, who had been
suspicious for some time, nodded when she saw the
gloves and —since she had already been gambling far
ahead of the modest shillings proper for ladies —pre-
pared to gamble with Brant Hutton as soon as occa-
sion offered.
But the young men were being very gay in town,
and ladies must be decorative at races and
promenades, and even at Coker’s Hall, where they
went valiantly to roller-skating in honor of the Duke.
Here they looked so helpless, so angelic among the
clouds of fuller’s earth rising from the boards that
whiskered gentlemen, staggering hastily to the rescue,
were sometimes moved to proposals on finding them-
selves unexpectedly on their knees before the fair.
So Caroline’s Emily got a proposal at last; and took
it, driving home a bride with her youthful station-
manager to the Plains. She knew she might have
done better, since Mr. Carter’s prospects were as poor
as his salary ; but Tiffany at least had done worse,
going home with no rings at all.
Tiffany knew she might have married more than
once if she had not steadfastly denied those little
crumbs of sustenance so necessary to nervous lovers.
“Just a nod or a blush would do it. And instead . . .
what do we get?” complained Toby Bayles, eating
burnt chops and half-raw potatoes in Hutton’s cot-
tage after a sad return from town.
“Well? What do we?” asked Hutton, knowing
well enough.
“Made fools of. The number of times I’ve tried to
propose to that girl you wouldn’t believe. I —l didn’t
mean to marry yet, but if I could get her I’d do it,
by Jove. Last time I went on my knees all proper,
and she was down beside me in a wink and said she’d
help me look for it.”
Hutton wrinkled his dark eyes with laughter.
“Did you tell her what you were looking for?”
“I tried, but she said it must have dropped
behind the cushions. ’Pon honor, I tried to take her
hand while we were looking. But Lady C. came in
and hit me with another cushion and it burst. We
spent the rest of the afternoon picking up blasted
feathers,” ended Toby with a groan.
That (or something like it) was the way pro-
posals always went with Tiffany Lovel; and since
Hutton had danced with Lady Calthorpe at the Duke’s
Ball he knew why. “Tiffy’s such a fool,” she had said.
“Won’t let a man propose until he knows the truth
about her, and until he proposes how can she tell
him? I’d tell ’em if they ask me.” There was Hutton’s
chance, and he couldn’t take it; muttering something
about Miss Lovel’s face telling all the truth a man
needs to know.
Now he paid for his chivalry by trying to answer
his own questions, which followed him about for
days ; peering over his shoulder while he was dosing
a sick mare, coming between him and his book of
nights, dripping redly out of the tin as he painted a
tip-dray. He had heard vague stories, dismissing
them sternly as spiteful woman lies, but Lady C.
had given them a body, damn her, he thought, tramp-
ing into his little sitting-room, looking round on its
bleak bachelor discomfort. He had so often dreamed
Tiffany there enchanting everything into laughter
and beauty. And he had all an Englishman’s jealous
insistence on chastity in a woman.
11.
BECAUSE a Wellington paper had sent him along
as special reporter, Jermyn suffered with the
Duke throughout New Zealand ; endeavoring to
describe a plethora of regattas, races, balls, proces-
sions and speeches in becoming language and won-
dering what he was really made for.
Hau Haus had killed the valiant and picturesque
Von Tempsky; and though Major Kemp with his
Maoris and Whitmore with his Rangers were gradu-
ally cleaning up that mess it had broken out in a
more dangerous form on the east coast, said young
Jerry, invalided home after nearly eight years of war
and unable to talk of anything else.
But Peregrine could talk of something else.
“What are the Southern folk saying of this railway
business, Jermyn?” he asked.
Jermyn said that, except for a slight variety in
curses, they said the same as the North. Since the
Government, instead of allocating Crown lands for
railways, had allowed provincial councils to sell it to
speculators, who were out to make everyone pay
through the nose, gentlemen had little power left to
them but speech. “What particular mistake are you
all making now?” asked Jermyn pleasantly.
There seemed to be so many. What with taxa-
tion (really colossal), stagnation, recuperation and in-
vitation to the Waikato king (now sitting tight in the
THE STORY concerns New Zealand’s
early history so far as it affected Lovels,
who arrived in 1839, a few months before the
country was annexed to the Empire.
Chief among the characters are, of course,
Lovels — Sir Peregrine (he got the title when
his brother John was killed by the Maoris);
his wife, Sally ; their children, Roddy,
Tiffany and Jerry ; Uncle Henry (“bluff,
bragging old soldier”); Peregrine’s cousin
Jermyn ; John’s widow, Lady Caroline, ' and
her daughters; and Sally’s younger sister,
Darien (Lady Calthorpe), also widowed during
the Maori Wars.
Others are Nick Flower (“own brother to
Peregrine on the wrong side of the blanket”),
Corny Fleete and his brood of half-caste
children.
wild King Country on the edge of the wilder Urewera)
to come out and be introduced to his Queen’s son,
Government was at the end of its really brilliant wits.
“Give us back the Waikato and we will talk,”
retorted the Waikato king. So that snub had to be
tactfully conveyed to the Duke, who, thank heaven,
didn’t wish to meet Te Kooti.
Men were talking of Te Kooti as once men had
talked of Napoleon.
“The one real soldier genius the Maoris have
ever had,” said Jerry. “But such a devil” . . . Sally
hid her eyes to hear Jerry talking of the forced march
of the Rangers across the island after the massacre
of white men, women and children at Poverty Bay.
“But we couldn’t catch him, though we did our best
for months,” said Jerry, staring out of blue hollow
eyes. “He has made the Urewera his headquarters
now.”
yOUNG JERRY and his kind (one felt) deserved
well of New Zealand, though all she was like to give
their generation was a crushing load of debt. Voyag-
ing to Auckland with the Duke, Jermyn would have
liked to tell him of young Jerry, put something of
the pioneer notion in his mind. But Dukes get only
the hors d’ceuvres, such as balls and race-meetings,
and are apt to go home with the notion that the
colonies might contribute a bit to Mother England’s
exchequer.
“Why the devil didn’t we put all our sores fore-
most like the Italian beggars? We have plenty,”
Jermyn complained to Major Henry.
“The English never do,” returned the Major, as
though that was an answer. “Oh, Lord, Jermyn, if you
could only get me out for a night on the tiles again.”
But nobody could have done that. A reckless
youth had the Major by the toes, and Sophia
had him by what hair was left on his troubled head.
How terrible for a woman when there is nothing
left her but to do her best.
Auckland was plainly doing its best, with float-
ing docks and wharves out to deep water at last,
and buzzing ferries ; and its empty houses were going
down to the Thames goldfields, where, it seemed, every-
thing was very lively. Now that magistrates had
taken the place of missionaries there seemed little law
anywhere, and Maoris collected their vast rents on
the Thames fields with rather more than exactitude.
Yet gardens and houses were sprawling further
in Auckland, and the scents of cherry-pie and mag-
nolia filled the air when Jermyn went to dine with
members of its Harbor Board and learned with a
proper reserve that the town had a deep affection for
Sir Peregrine Lovel, who had done so much for it in
the early days. “His encouragement, his speeches in
our Parliament”
Ghosts companied Jermyn up to the nearly
deserted barracks. Young gay ghosts, drinking half
the night away, putting heads under pumps at dawn,
toasting lovely women, who were now staid mothers
of families. O’Reilly, that jovial blade, had greying
whiskers now. But his regiment was soon going home.
They were all going home, with a sour colonel ask-
ing what the country had got out of it all but
twenty-five years of muddle and waste and debt.
“Well, we’ve seen some of the world’s best
fighters . . . and so have they,” returned O’Reilly. And
since everyone had had too much war, they were
soon talking women. And gallant officers felt very
sentimental indeed. What with pig-hunts, regattas,
horseracing, flirtations and quantities of smoking-caps
embroidered with holly-berries or forget-me-nots, the
little country had been kind to them, in spite of the
bush. Now the end of this year 1870 would see the
last of the dashing whiskers, the jaunty forage-caps,
the tight-waisted scarlet or blue uniforms. Only New
Zealand’s sons would serve her now, rolling the shirt-
sleeves high on their young, sinewy arms.
A whole epoch finishes with them, thought
Jermyn, walking down the hill. The young ones,
going with harder eyes and harder mouths, would
never drink till dawn, never climb Jacob’s Ladder for
bets, never scatter IOUs lightly into Nick Flower’s
greedy hands. A heavy task for the youngsters, to
haul New Zealand’s stranded ship off the rocks again.
No elegancies for the youngsters making their own
traditions, cursing (like as not) the traditions of their
elders.
Jermyn felt very much an elder, going back to
Major Henry, to Sophia offering him a hot posset.
111.
nICK FLOWER, having dropped IOUs long ago
(as he dropped everything as soon as it had done
its work) walked about Revell-street, Hokitika, in
a broad-brimmed felt hat and heavy satin stock, ac-
knowledging salutes from smiling wives of bank
managers, from humble women curtsying beneath
dark head-shawls, from landlords at every tavern
door, from all the red-shirted crowd shouldering along.
A triumphal progress, and well-deserved ; since a
man who can persuade a Government which he has
consistently fleeced to promote and pay him is no
common man, thought Flower, turning abruptly at
a corner where the blaze of golden bracken, of sand-
hills winking in the sun led on to the cemetery. To
a man ocupied so intensely with mortal matters any
suggestion of the termination of that mortality is
necessarily unpleasant, and there was so much he still
meant to do. .... ,
Here came Rod Lovel, walking in his rough
miner’s dress with that indefinable air of ease and
authority which Flower could never compass, with
the sure visions of youth in his good-looking brown
face and eyes. In Hokitika, as elsewhere, the women
were after Rod, always so carelessly courteous, pass-
ing now with a careless nod and smile. But tur-
bulent enough had been Rod’s and Flower’s discussion


of the humiliation put upon Tiffany. Fierce words,
then a straight punch from Rod which would have
floored another man. Flower had stood like an ox,
never hitting back . . .
So they had made peace, as men do ; smoking
half the night together, talking, since bitterness turns
to garrulity with age, and this young cock had been
a good listener.
When the time came (in some far, far distant
future) for Flower to make a will Rod might get his
riches, for Peregrine Lovel would be dead then and
Flower would never halve them. Every man would
be able to talk of the great fortune left by Nick
Flower . . . who had been uncle to Rod Lovel all the
time. So Flower had envisioned the future in his
mind, following Rod’s blow for his sister.
Now, in the hot, dazzling street, people were
suddenly shouting, running. White dust rose like a
wall against sun and the blue sea. Flower stood a
little dazed on the rough footpath, and something
out of a pantomime with crimson nostrils and foam-
ing jaws burst from the dust, knocking him back-
ward. He did not feel the great horses, the heavy
brewer’s wagon, pass over him ; nor did hfe feel any
pain when Rod Lovel’s face came through the dust
(or some kind of mist) later, bending very low to hear
Flower speak in a queer thread of a voice, like a
small creek trickling through flax-bushes.
Flower had seen too many deaths not to know
that his next journey would be under the velvet palls
and the ostrich plumes, but he felt too tired to care.
There was only one thing he wanted now, and he
wanted that so urgently that Roddy took Cobb’s
coach next morning over the mountain passes and the
long Plains and caught by luck the weekly boat now
running from Christchurch to Wellington. “Hurry,
hurry,” he found himself saying to the boat. “Time is
very short for Nick Flower.”
HE came unheralded, as folk always did in those
days. For although a telegraph cable now con-
nected the two Islands, few considered it old enough
to be trusted with messages ; and so Jermyn was just
reading of David Copperfield’s proposal to Dora, and
Sally weeping a little, when Roddy walked in, turn-
ing sentiment to joy.
“Oh, Roddy! Oh, my darling, you’re more
beautiful than ever,” cried Sally, lifted high in Roddy's
arms, not unlike a little slim girl, now that crinolines
were gone. Reluctantly Peregrine discovered that he
agreed. Roddy was still the Lovel prince, since Jerry
would always look a yokel. He was nearly pleased,
greeting Roddy, asking if he had returned a beggar
or a millionaire.
“About half-and-half, sir,” said Roddy, sitting
down with Sally on his knee, cocking her cap still
further over her ear. “There! What a rakish girl
you are, my little mammy. I have a few pounds in
the bank,” he said, looking over her head at Pere-
grine. “And I have come to beg your signet-ring for
Nick Flower. He’s dying.”
“My What insolent nonsense is this, sir?”
“He has a fancy for it. Dying men often have
fancies. He’s your elder brother,” explained Roddy
genially. “Only your father forgot to marry his
mother, you see.”
To Jermyn’s inexpressible admiration, Peregrine
retained sufficient control of himself to send Sally
from the room before there was further talk. But
Peregrine had to sit down, nor could he keep his
eyeglass up. “I —absurd,” he said feebly.
“By Jove! Now I understand,” said Jermyn,
truly understanding at last that strange likeness to
old John, that strange hate between these two men
of the same father.
“Quite true,” said Roddy, going to his story;
ending with: “And as he could never wear that ring
while he lived, he wants it to die in. I told him
you’d send it when you knew the circumstances,”
added Roddy, getting up to prowl about and sniff at
red roses glowing in a silver bowl. Years of practice
had taught Peregrine concealment of a mind which
had learned to work rapidly. He asked: “How many
wives does he leave behind?”
“None. Except my grandfather’s kind. He has
always told me that.”
Peregrine was silent. A sick man’s fancy? Flower
was too cunning, too hard-headed for that. Either the
whole matter was a monstrous lie invented for the
further humiliation of Sir Peregrine Lovel or it was
a request for recognition, for permission to identify
himself with Lovels at the last in order to leave them
his vast fortune. A very proper gesture, going far
to redeem an evil life.
“What does he offer in exchange?” asked Jermyn,
watching Peregrine.
He wou ld disclose that when he got the ring,”
said Roddy, rather indifferent, being intent on arrang-
ing a moss rosebud in his buttonhole.
Peregrine sat thinking. “Naturally the ring
W ° U “xr retUrn to me at bis death?”
No. He was very decided about that. He wants
>h h- 00m r * n § biat belonged to his father buried
wi n him. To confront the old man with in Hades,
e said Poor chap!” Roddy laughed, then sighed.
e ! a .”’ blood is thicker than water, he thought,
n ering why it should have taken Nick Flower,
ana not Peregrine, to show him that.
T dvpl e £ e ? r . lne s hut his thin lips tight. Bury the sacred
conlH fteir * oorn with the Lovel bastard! Indecency
go no further. Now he knew why he had so
hated this man, feeling his father so often in Nick
Flower’s hectoring ways. Only the same blood could
hate like that, and he had always seen the likeness
to John, though never imagining
He thought again. Naturally there were several
signet-rings in the family.* Major Henry had one,
though he never used it. There was an old ring
which had been a grand-uncle’s somewhere. If he
could find that, probably it would be near enough to
deceive a dying man.
“When do you return to Westland?” he asked.
“There’s a lugger going down to Lyttelton to-
morrow night. A plaguey nuisance one can’t get
round by Cook Strait, but such a nasty nest of little
islands and cross-currents I never did see.”
“I’ll think this over and let you know, Roddy.”
“I hope you’ll send it, sir,” said Roddy, flushing
beneath the bronze. “Lovels have done little enough
for the poor old chap and . . . and he does belong.
A sick man’s fancy”
“Must be respected. Quite so,” said Peregrine,
stalking away.
“Whoop!” cried Roddy, slapping Jermyn between
the shoulders. “He’ll do it. More bowels in His
Omnipotence than I thought.”
“Much more,” said Jermyn dryly. Peregrine was
up to something. He would bamboozle Nick Flower
yet. Egad, New Zealand should make him dictator.
NICK FLOWER was far gone when Roddy brought
the ring. Only sheer determination, said the
dapper little doctor, was keeping life in the broken
body. “A few more hours ... if so much.”
Flower, looking eagerly with his narrow eyes,
saw a golden Lovel head, such as his own once had
been, bright against the window, darker as it stooped
low above him.
“My father told me to put the ring on your
finger, Uncle Nick,” said Roddy, giving that name
to Nick Flower for the first and last time.
“Let me hold it first.”
How the hairs stood out on those great hands,
now so pale and feeble, thought Roddy, watching
them turning the ring, rubbing it softly between
thumb and finger as though they loved it. He could
not see, as Flower had been seeing through these
long nights on the borderland, bluff Sin Roderick
in his red hunting-coat and high white stock stoop-
ing through a low door, filling up a dusky little room
when he came to fondle the girl whose dark eyes
had contrived to hold his heart so much longer than
his stately lady at the Hall could do. “Hey, you little
rogue. Play with these,” said Sir Roderick, tumbling
his gold jingling fob and his ring into the lap of the
little boy in the checked frock and pinafore. The
little boy had loved them all ; but specially he had
loved the ring in which the gold held the silky suavity
of age, in which the stone had melted into the setting
until only the texture told the change. Hatred of
Lovels had become a small thing beside a sick man’s
fancy for wearing that ring at last, thus to challenge
old Sir Roderick finally with the heirloom denied so
long.
Bewilderedly the feeble hands were recognising
something wrong with the ring. Much new gold
Flower had handled of late, and this was new. This
ring had never been worn by generations of Lovel
men. It was heavier, less rounded by wear. There
was a faint edge where the stone sank in . . . Flower
closed his eyes. Lovels, dishonest to the core, had
tricked him. Roddy, for whose sake he had almost
forgiven Peregrine, had tricked him. Instead of gay
old Sir Roderick, he saw a ghostly Peregrine smiling
with black close-set eyes.
“Tell your father,” he said with difficulty, “that
I wish to express my feelings to him . . . and you . . .
in a proper manner” ——
“It was little enough to do,” said Roddy, with
tears in his eyes.
Indeed it was little enough. Nick Flower sighed,
then said sharply: “Bring Draper at once. I want
to make my will.”
Now, through the mists surrounding him, he saw
Darien with her sunbonnet falling off her red curls,
trying on satin slippers in a flax-gully . . .
IV.
AT Bendemeer a driftwood fire was very gay and
scarlet in the big-room chimney, with lights and
shadows peering into the armchairs covered with
cretonned roses where gentlemen sat smoking their
pipes in the comfortable manner no other lady’s room
would allow. They had been singing catches—Toby
Bayles and Mr. Hutton and young Creston the cadet,
and for Tiffany the male voices still lingered in the
room that was never particularly feminine for all its
cosy cretonnes and hangings. Darien, now at the
little piano, pervaded it that big bright oil-
painting of herself above the mantel, her desk with
its papers stuck on files, her row of riding-whips
on the wall by the outer door, her brass pots stuffed
with wool-samples on the top of Tiffany’s book-
shelves.
No delicacies, thought Tiffany, sewing fiercely at
a sheet knowing that Brant Hutton was watching her
from under his hand, through his pipe-smoke, and
feeling her cheeks reddening like the cretonne roses,
her hands trembling foolishly. She slipped out of the
backdoor and down the narrow connecting passage to
the kitchen. Darien, building here and there in her
casual fashion, had connected the kitchen, added the
back verandah with its stores and dairy, and Tiffany
ran through to the verandah as though escaping some-
thing chasing her. There must be no more adventures
for Tiffany, since adventures (it seemed) were so
dangerous for women. Loves were so dangerous, wild
unstable things.
She stepped out into the backyard, looking away
to the mountains. Above them smoky russet was
melting swiftly to ethereal saffrons, softening to tur-
quoise that strengthened into indigo where stars were
coming out very fast and bright. A moon, so fragile
that her young body took the color of the russet,
was hesitating on the icy peaks, turning gold, slip-
ping down behind the wall. Frost, conserving each
least sound with its jealous enchantment, brought the
faint distant song of the river wandering through its
scrub islands and shingle-spits with its thin winter
streams, brought an echo from a barking boundary-
dog, the blurred murmur of men's voices down at the
whare beyond the dim ordered confusion of hack-
stables, draught-stables, sheds, stores, workshops . . .
In a few years I shall be middle-aged, and if a
middle-aged woman hasn’t acquired the saving salt
of cynicism she is lost, thought Tiffany, struggling
to be very cynical with herself. “You need a mental
emetic, my poor girl,” she said, turning to go in and
staying as feet rang on the frosty ground round the
corner ; and Brant Hutton came, catching her cold
hands in his strong warm ones, flooding her with such
an unexpected rush of words that she stood dumb like
any foolish thing until he put his arms about her
and kissed her lips.
ONE who slept with a less easy mind than Darien
might have thought ghosts abroad in Bendemeer
that night. Wrapped in a shawl that could not warm
her, Tiffany crouched long by the embers of the fire
in the big room, listening to the accusings of the arm-
chair where Brant had sat.
“You didn’t tell him all,” said the chair smugly.
“I told him about Dick,” said Tiffany. “You didn’t
tell him all,” repeated the chair. “I told him I thought
it a true marriage and I’d been mistaken ; that was
enough,” said Tiffany. “Was it?” jeered the chair.
“I never asked him about his early life,” pleaded Tif-
fany. “Women are different,” said the chair.
Well, one knew that, but perhaps Chinese philo-
sophers meant everybody when they wrote about the
golden mean. If one didn’t speak of the wrong,
couldn’t one pretend it wasn’t there? asked Tiffany,
wishing she didn’t see Brant sitting with shadowy
judgment in the chair.
But the chair (and Brant) made short work of
philosophers, who, they declared, were no better
than politicians. It might be wise for some
women to hold their tongues, but you can never be
happy with a man unless you know he knows the
worst of you, they said.
Tiffany huddled down with face hid in her cold
hands. Fate had been leading her in paths too dark
and lonely to follow, but now she was out of them,
now the Plains were a majestic space and a begin-
ning instead of being a blank end. She had no “Please
Gods,” as Sally had. Only her own fighting defiant
soul. She glanced round the room, so full of Darien,
and stood up.
“I will be happy. I shall have my own home
and meaning now,” she said, and went to bed, shut-
ting the door on the chair.
IN Wellington, Sally had need of many “Please
Gods,” finding Mr. Lovel’s emotion over Nick
Flower’s death quite inexplicable. For days he was
as fretful as a child forbidden to lie on the hearth-
rug and suck its toes. Some equally infantile image
presented itself to everybody seeing Peregrine going
about the house in a black scowl ; complaining of the
food, a draught from the window, insufficient starch in
his evening shirt . . .
“He don’t seem to know what he wants,” said
puzzled Jerry, smoking with Jermyn in the verandah.
“He knows well enough,” said Jermyn dryly.
“But Darien’s got it.”
“Darien? Do you mean Flower’s money? Why
should he expect that? Tainted stuff! I wouldn’t
handle it,” said Jerry, thinking how it might have
been one of Nick Flower’s bullets that killed Brian.
It would have been pleasant to tell Jerry that
Peregrine had undoubtedly tried to turn a last trick
on Nick Flower and had it turned on himself instead.
After wearing no ring for a week.. Peregrine had pro-
duced one which he called hTs great-uncle’s, but
Jermyn knew better. Flower had got the great-uncle's
—and so Darien had got a fortune. He said:
“Darien don’t mind handling the money.”
Assuredly she didn’t. Flourishing her new cheque-
book, set gaily on new piracies, Darien was determined
to buy Bendemeer. “I offer you a fair price, and
besides you Lovels would never make it pay,” she
wrote. “With my money”
Peregrine stood burning the letter between his
fingers until the black and the red wisped together
and dropped on the carpet. “Oh, Mr. Lovel!” cried
Sally. Peregrine turned with his black scowl.
“Will you kindly remember my correct cogno-
men? Jerry, you will go down at once and turn
that woman out. I shall not sell Bendemeer. And a
woman who accepts money from a notorious evil- •
liver is no fit manager for property of mine. Jerry,
you will turn her out.”


JERMYN said of Sally that she never learned to
control anything except herself, though that was
more than most of us learn in a lifetime. She con-
trolled herself now and went to write to Tiffany,
weeping a little because she could not be at Tiffy’s
wedding. “Brant says it must be over before the
mustering and shearing,” Tiffy had written. “Every-
thing waits on the sheep down here, and nobody
would dare to die or be born in shearing time.”
Sally smiled, dabbing her eyes. Dear, dear Tiffy,
who was going to be happy at last, since even Roddy,
who had come from Westland to investigate, liked
Mr. Hutton.
“There is nothing I would not send you if I
could, my darling,” Sally wrote in her delicate Italian
hand. “But I fear papa is too occupied with business
to think of presents just now. I have a pair of un-
worn stockings that will fit you, and my Honiton lace
scarf for your wedding-veil, and I am making you
some shifts”
Unfolding the scarf that (like all Sally’s belong-
ings) smelled freshly of lavender, Tiffany felt that a
woman’s secret strength must needs be greater than
a man’s since it has to combine the strengths of sub-
mission and commission. “I think mamma has a
strong character, Roddy,” she said.
“More than you guess.” Roddy rubbed his
chin, watching Tiffy’s profile, clear and a little
haughty, against the window. “Jermyn has wanted
for years that she would run away with him,” he said.
_jj,. i T Z
Rod f y ’ • • • Tiffany clutched the filmy
bU J°™\. ,°!: h SCa ™ aS tbou Sh clutching Sally. Was
re is mere.
“No. And you know there wouldn’t be. I hap-
pened to overhear something long ago . . . and I’ve
watched them ever since. They have loved each other
very much, Tiffy, but she’ll stick to her last. A brave
woman.
“Oh, yes.” Tiffany sat thinking till Darien came
bouncing in, scattering her orders, chasing Roddy out
to help Jerry with trestles for the wedding-breakfast
table. “Such charming manners, and such hands. I
wish he weren’t my nephew,” said Darien, looking
after him. “Now, Tiffy, come along at once” . . .
In Darien’s hands weddings were ready to behave
as spectacularly as all else belonging to her. She
had seemed specially spectacular to Jerry nervously
advancing Peregrine’s proposition about turning her
out.
“ T u * ui i • » u • j *
That st.ff black ng, she cried, standing up
before the fire like a man looking so capriciously
feminine with her short red curls and green flowing
gown. “Thinks himself God Almighty and the whole
New Zealand Parliament, don’t he? Well, you tell
his lordship that he can buy Macky’s land if he wants
any, but if he thinks I’ll leave Bendemeer when I’m
just getting the wool known he can think again. Dod-
dering old fool,” said Darien, smiling at Jerry so
seductively that Jerry’s subsequent letter to his father
carried no soothing to a gentleman who had just been
assisting to vote a price of £5OOO on the head of Te
Kooti . . . who would probably bring in the King
Country now and give us another general war.
For weeks Parliament was as nervous as a lover
about Te Kooti. But the king providentially refused
to play second fiddle to such an upstart who had
no begats. And the Arawa tribe remembered
that they had voluntarily made a road through their
i • , , „ , & . ,
t y so that the Duke might see Rotorua. And
numberless chiefs now receiving salaries from the
Government for keeping quiet, while their warriors
got flour and other rations, had their own opinion
concerning a bird in the hand and thought Te Kooti
monstrous foolish not to settle down. But meteors, it
seems, do not settle easily ; so Te Kooti continued to
play havoc, until native alles, scornful of pakeha
methods of handling him, pleaded to be allowed to
catch the fellow in their own way . . . which, said
Jerry, was the only way it ever would be done.
“I wish,” complained Darien, coming into the
woolshed where Jerry was hanging curtains before
each bin for sitting-out places during the dance to
follow the wedding, “that we could shut Caroline up
in the press while we’re dancing. I think you’ll have
to lame her, Roddy. She takes up such a confounded
amount of room.”
y
CTKrnA rcflw;™ rv m L , ~ N
~ i V lB St r ° i-f e i aS , su^ rS bods )
would have been thankful could she have shut
round P S rm w S i mc^ Jth * Round and
Z d • PP y hC A S ? U ' rre l l ' cage ;
b ]fi , f vr m z / gzag . s no^- nd Emily had
t • ’ ridln § about in a fine new blue habit
and rfevpr &nd a t& bat a ved ’
afford it ” said °u r VlS !}‘ C £ n 1
too fhoHPb? nndf y ' Af 3 IVC ° nC fOF h 6r ’
too, thought Linda ,
• i , suns fi ine ; Roddy was chasing the little
girls round the great pile of driftwood hauled from
the riverbed for firing. “You laughing rogue,” said
, ? , - y ’ ca Nhing Prue s slender little body in his arms,
inking how her sleek black head and graceful neck
had more than a hint of Andalusia. With a flower as
red as her lips behind her ear . . . But Prue’s red lips
asked awkward questions.
“Why do gentlemen ring their wives the way
they do pigs, only in another place, Cousin Rod?
I’ve always wanted to know.”
“For the same reason,” said Roddy gravely. “To
keep them from nosing where they shouldn’t.”
“It don’t keep grandma from it. A ring in her
nose wouldn’t.”
“Even rings can’t achieve the impossible,” said
Roddy, going in to pass the time of day with Caroline,
who hoped there would be plenty of the gentry at
Tiffany’s wedding.
“The vulgar people I have had to consort with
down here you wouldn’t believe,” said Caroline. “But
I hope I never forget what I was born to.”
Caroline, remembering what she was born to, sup-
plied a constant proof of how the mighty were fallen.
She had filled the two rooms built for her by Andrew
with such a multitude of crochet mats and mantel-
drapes having bright woollen balls and tassels, such
an infinity of horsehair chairs and sofas (“the latest
fashion”), such an army of fretwork brackets holding
vases and little statuettes and framed photographs, that
Linda trembled every time she had to dust them, and
often wondered what happened when mamma retired
there in dudgeon (as she did whenever Darien came
to Durdans), mamma seeming so very large at these
times and the rooms being so small.
THERE was a wave of prosperity in New Zealand
1 now, and Darien rushed on the crest of it, letting
everybody know.
“I didn’t think much of that last draft of horses
for India,” said Darien, who had just been down to
Christchurch to see them shipped. “My Lamplighter
colts are better, Andrew. Lord, I’m glad I bought
that stallion, though I had to pay through the nose
for him. But I can afford it.”
“In my day,” remarked Caroline, whose red
cheeks seemed the redder for being supported by
grey hair instead of black, “ladies knew nothing of
such unladylike matters.”
“If you had you might be able to earn your own
keep now,” retorted Darien, winking at Andrew, sit-
ting with crossed legs and her red head bare.
An eccentric woman, but undoubtedly clever,
thought Andrew, unaware how often these qualities
had to go together in women, since there was no other
way of getting their cleverness out.
“A lady who has done as much as I have might
be allowed a small corner somewhere without being
submitted to insinuations,” said Caroline haughtily.
“What use would a small corner be to you?”
inquired Darien, looking Caroline over with a critical
eye.
So there was little wonder that Caroline (accom-
panied by reticule, fan, gloves, knitting and other
necessities) immediately left the room.
“That person is mad,” she told Andrew later. “Do
you know that she rode over the other day in green
satin slippers?”
“She said Nick Flower would like her to wear
them,” put in Linda, who spent anxious days trying
to protect Andy.
“Shocking! If you ask me I think there was a
good deal more in that legacy than people know.
A Lovel, even if we could not acknowledge him,
should leave his money to Lovels, not to deranged
females.”
“Darien’s derangements take her further than
most people’s sense,” said Andrew, quite ready to pro-
tect himself. “She is the cleverest woman I know,
and I don’t remember asking you anything about her
legacy.”
“I think, Linda,” said Caroline, “that Andy needs
a dose.”
Once Andrew had looked round from his sheep
and cattle and tentative ploughland which nor’-
westers had such a habit of filling the house with,
and, surprised at seeing so many tall young heads
and bright observant faces round him, ordered a
governess, much as he ordered tons of flour and sugar
for the storeroom. Prue had flung herself so sav-
agely at learning that Miss Dobby, whose inventive
powers were almost as unequal to demand as her
knowledge, had to resort to daily punishments in-
stead ; and what with Deb constantly upsetting ink
over her copybook and Lady Lovel treating her like
a housemaid, Miss Dobby was moved to go weeping
to Andrew, who suddenly discovered that soft dark
eyes and hair were intended by Providence for flirta-
tions . . . and who was he to deny Providence?
Yet Providence denied him; presenting him
shortly with a red-eyed Miss Dobby, fluttering with
shawls and umbrellas, climbing into the springcart,
to be driven by the stableboy into vast distant realms
of the unattainable, while Linda waved her good-
bye with smiling face and turned to pat Andrew’s
cheek with a plump little hand.
Prue had her own idea of that, lying in bed with
Janet, who always feared to sleep alone.
“It’s as well papa didn’t want Dobby to teach
him anything but flirting, for that’s all she knows
anything about,” remarked Prue.
“Oh, Prue!” Why Durdans didn’t fall and crush
Prue at least once a week Janet could never under-
stand. “Oh, how can you speak like that of dear
papa. Parents are sac-sacrosanct,” said Janet, having
got that out of a “Sunday at Home.”
Prue began to laugh, repented and kissed the soft
little cheek instead. “I do love you, Jan,” said Prue.
There would be no more governesses, and so she
would have to learn what she could for herself . . .
and she was so tumbled and torn already with all the
great things she meant to do. “You’re the same kind
of Lovel as Cousin Rod and myself, Prue,” Tiffany
had told her once. “Always trying to hitch your
wagon to a star and bogging it in a quicksand.”
y ET Tiffany’s new quicksand had become for her an
" exultation. Here was something worth fighting
for, suffering for. Brant would not have let her go
that night, whatever she had told him. But he
would have calculated after, felt for ever after
that sword which would destroy. So she had chosen
to sheathe the sword in her own flesh, to bog her
feet in her own quicksand, to live the lie that it had
been innocence and not guilt which Sackville had
cast away. And what matter so long as this dear man
of hers went whole and happy? Tiffany laughed at
Nessus, at the sunshine, at the nor’-wester blowing
her skirts over her head until Roddy (coming to sit
on her bed as he had been used to do) inquired if
she were writing poetry again.
“Love-songs, eh?” suggested Roddy. “Let me
set ’em to music, Tiffy.”
“I have, I think. In my heart. Oh, Roddy, I’m
so happy. I’ve got something to really fight for
now ... I wish you had, dear.”
“Fighting don’t suit my features. They were
formed entirely for love and dalliance, as many ladies
have told me.” Roddy considered Tiffy sitting with
arms round her drawn-up knees under the coverlet,
her bronze hair ruffled round her glowing face. A
good fighter, Tiffy, though what her special fight
might be with the excellent (if somewhat solid) Hutton
he couldn’t guess. Roddy thought that possibly their
education explained himself and Tiffy. Both trained
that it was a sin to think for themselves, and both
knowing that they must do it or perish. So they did it,
and Tiffy had nearly perished.
“Possibly our progenitors were too respectable,”
he said. “Look at our pater, cursing England in the
best polemics of his day, yet eternally doing his
damnedest to create another England out here. Look
at Corny Fleeter defying all his English blood and
tradition to set up house with a Maori, yet wanting
to kill his sons because they wouldn’t be English.
Neither of ’em can get away from what they were
born to . . . and neither can we. But ours was a very
different bearing, my Tiffy.”
“Earth floors,” said Tiffany, “and playing with
Maori children round the cooking-trench. Your flute
and my little Tane god in the fern-gully. We shall
never have such good days again, even if there
were morning prayers and daily whippings. But we
can’t always be children, Roddy.”
“I mean to be.” He was smiling now, debonairly
gay in the candlelight. “A pity to grow up and
father families. Let Jerry and Brant Hutton do that.
I am the in-between generation, I think.”
VI.
SINCE Captain Chief Ropata had gone the right
way to work by turning Te Kooti out of those
legendary Urewera mountains made tapu by all
the ancient gods, except to the fierce tribes dwelling
there, Jerry thought we would have peace soon.
“Ropata will run him to a standstill soon and give us
peace,” said Jerry, feeling that his young life had
never known the meaning of the word until he came
to Bendemeer ; that New Zealand (hard-driven maid)
would never know it in the North . . . unless the Par-
liament removed to Christchurch.
Peregrine was content to leave it where it was.
Wellington was a worthy frame for Lovels: expand-
ing with decorum, filling with companies urgent to
have as a director (at a salary) on their prospectus
Sir Peregrine Lovel with his impeccable manners, his
stainless reputation extending over thirty-odd years of
difficult colonisation. There were pickings from Auck-
land, too, where he was an original shareholder of
the Steam Navigation Company and other lucrative
affairs, while his support of Julius Vogel in his very
bold policy of public works had convinced many
waverers that Vogel must be more far-seeing than
they suspected.
Peregrine had even learned how to make capital
out of his mistakes, thought Jermyn, feeling that
Vogel (really Prime Minister, only the country was
still shy of that title) was borrowing too many mil-
lions from England.
. “We’ll end on pinnacles or penury, and I back the
latter,” said Jermyn. But Peregrine considered that
a Lovel should take risks as long as he could afford
it, and had prepared for these gay and reckless 1870’s
by buying a new watered ribbon for his eyeglass and
refusing Tiffany a trousseau.
SO Sally took her own risks, tinkering with the house-
hold accounts, with much desperate lying to Mr.
Lovel (who would not remain Sir Peregrine in her
mind) about this sudden extravagance in candles,
towelling and preserved fish. The only thing I have
ever been able to do for my children is to lie for them,
thought Sally, transforming fish and candles into fine
nainsook and lace, to be secretly shaped into shifts and
nightgowns, secretly sent away to Canterbury. Yet
since it’s God’s business to punish souls, and not Mr.
Lovel’s, it is only God I’m going to tell about it,
thought Sally, whose mind quite often tumbled Mr.
Lovel off his pedestal now ... for how could any
wife help it after more than thirty years? The care-
free Sally who had romped with Darien in the long-
ago chintz bedroom was so vanished that Sally would
not know that laughing, dimpled girl if they met.
The Sally trembling at Mr. Lovel’s shadow on the


wall was gone. Even her love for Jermyn had become
staid.
We have grown old in making this new country,
thought Sally ; taking the daily promenade with Mr.
Lovel, feeling New Zealand still young and fractious
and wild-haired, because she saw so many Parliamen-
tary debates. Down by the dark, deep harbor, so
different from Auckland’s shimmering blue, they met
Lucilla walking with her little girls.
“So Tiffany’s being married to-day,” said Lucilla,
a little patronising. “I have sent her a telegram. I
hope she gets it.”
It seemed likely, with 1600 miles of telegraph
now in the country, but Sally was quite overcome.
The expense! Such a dashing notion. Lucilla was
dashing, with her full blue-and-white striped skirts
and a little silk jacket and such a long blue feather in
the side of her pork-pie hat. “We sent a musical-
box that played three tunes by the last steamer. Mr.
Piper thought of it,” said Lucilla, looking hard at
Peregrine.
“So very kind,” murmured Sally, being afraid
to look at all at Mr. Lovel, standing like a monu-
ment to himself, as she told Lucilla that the clergyman
was coming all the way from Christchurch for the
wedding. “They are building a cathedral in Christ-
church now,” said Sally, flooring Mr. Lovel with
that.
“I hope Christchurch remembers that it has to
help us pay for the war,” remarked Lucilla, passing
on. Cathedrals sounded like a luxury when one needed
railways and sanitary systems.
As the whole burden of the war and its vast
aftermath had fallen on the colony since 1866,
Christchurch had small chance to forget. Not the
least corner of New Zealand, taxed and custom-dutied
to the bone, could forget. Yet money trickled in from
the goldfields, from the kauri-gum fields in the Far
North, from the Waikato coal; and Jerry (writing
Peregrine a letter, which he sat over for a whole even-
ing) considered that the Plains country was rich with
gold.
“It would be a sad pity to lose Bendemeer,”
wrote Jerry, “but I could never handle this big place
and all the men as Darien does . . . not for years
anyhow. Perhaps she’d be content with half if you
let her stay. She really has a remarkable eye for
sheep and horses. It’s a gift.”
Peregrine had less than no desire to add even
half Bendemeer to Darien’s gifts, but long considera-
tion brought the belief that he’d better do it. Darien
(coarse and vulgar, he thought, as she now must be)
was not likely to marry again, and so in time it would
all come back to Jerry, with Nick Flower’s money
added if Jerry played his cards well . . . which none
of my children have ever been able to do, thought
Peregrine, cutting a new pen preparatory to writing
to Darien. Great Heaven! Had any man ever done
so much for his family and been so ill-rewarded?
Even Sally had a cold and had waked him last night
by coughing.
VII.
you can keep a woman going on compliments and
dry biscuits, but to get any value from a man you
must fill him, declared Darien, determined to
make Tiffany’s wedding a feast for eyes and ears and
stomachs, since in the nature of things it would be
attended principally by men. It took something like
hysterics from Tiffany to make Darien forego her
intention of a brass band from Christchurch and sub-
mit to piano, two violins and an accordion for the
dancing ; but not Tiffany and Roddy combined could
prevent the wedding-march played by Robertson on
his bagpipes. For weeks, through the clear spring
evenings, horses snorted in their stalls and wekas ran
off to hide in the tussock while Robertson consented
to see the difference between a wedding-march and a
dirge-like coronach.
“Gin theer’s ae thing a mon shouldna be licht-
hearted aboot it’s a wedden’,” said Robertson, glower-
ing out of his rusty beard.
“I’ve sent to town for lashings of Burgundy and
champagne and a barrel of beer,” suggested Darien,
always a little anxious about Robertson, who was
the best overseer she was ever likely to get and knew
it far too well.
“I drink whusky, mem.”
“Oh, there’ll be plenty of that . . . but not if
you play coronachs,” said Darien, going off to set the
great camp-oven to a red roaring and the hut-cook
to boiling hams and sides of bacon over his open fire.
All Bendemeer was dragged at the wheels of
Darien’s galloping chariot; with Jerry and such
station hands as could be spared clearing the cart-
shed, laying flooring, making trestles for the table,
making forms and stools to eke out the chairs, hang-
ing curtains of Turkey twill, while Roddy rode round
the district with invitations (printed in silver with two
hearts at the top), and Tiffany and the cook were
daily dizzy with talk of plum-cakes, sponge-cakes,
custards, pastries, mincemeat, jellies, turkeys,
chickens . . .
BECAUSE Sally so wished it, Jermyn came down for
the wedding ; and Darien, greeting him with floury
hands and a large apron, marvelled that she had wasted
so much time in learning to curtsy for Jermyn. An
elegant and slightly withering dilettante, this Jermyn,
scnbblmg awa y his days. Where would she be now
it she had married him ? But she could make him
useful.
I want a column in every paper you can arrange
or, Jermyn. And they are all to be sent to Peregrine,
show him what I can do if I choose, though he
{? I ? e 1 have more than half of Bendemeer, the
mean black hound.”
h , llf »Y ° l l, s er e m to be doing remarkably well with your
dina ' rm y n > w ho had already seen the wed-
ding preparations.
3m!/ of course > I can afford it.”
married ton ° ff to find Tiffany. “Don’t get
even NiW P ?^ ten ’, m Y nut-brown maid,” he said, “or
even Nick Flower's fortune won't stand it."
Tiffany put down the white tulle she was frilling
for her wedding hat, and looked up in despairing
laughter.
“If I didn’t laugh I couldn’t bear it. There are
even bowls of goldfish for the table, and a cake from
Christchurch with a sugar Cupid on top.”
“She thought she’d killed the woman in her with
sheep, but it will out,” said Jermyn, thinking how this
rather pale, rather shy Tiffany was all woman and
just as eager as any other woman to set her feet on
strange roads. “You’ll have to help me, Tiffy. I’ve
never reported a wedding before.”
“Did she dare ask you to do that? Oh, Uncle
Jermyn, I do beg your pardon for us all.” Then she
began to laugh. “If you could contrive not to use
‘bizarre’?”
“Then it must be a blank sheet with ‘White Moun-
tain-Lily’ in the centre. That’s what Darien calls
you.”
“Why not make a nosegay of us? Aunt Caroline
could be a snapdragon, and Darien a lady’s-slipper,
and dear little Janet a love-in-the-mist ... all sur-
rounded by a nice derangement of bachelor’s-buttons.”
“This is not a fit state of mind for a young
woman on the dangerous edge of matrimony,” said
Jermyn, pulling one of the long thick curls that rolled
back from her candid forehead to fall on her shoulders
in the fashion of the day. But what was a fit state?
wondered Tiffany later, hiding for a few quiet minutes
behind the woodpile ; hearing the hum of bees in the
wallflowers and the patch of red clover ; watching
the small white clouds high overhead. Darien had
feared a nor’-wester that would blow everything inside
out and turn the cream with its heat. But it hadn’t
come. Perhaps what we feared most never came,
thought Tiffany, knowing what she would fear all her
life long.
Roddy walked round the woodpile and imme-
diately began to play “Hail the Bride” on an imag-
inary flute, but Tiffany ran into his arms.
“Oh, Roddy, hold me tight. 1 think I’m fright-
ened. All this show and solemnity and —and prom-
ises make me want to laugh.”
yET she found herself shaking all over as she
came on Jermyn’s arm into the long room, now
so unfamiliar with an arch of cabbage-trees, and
a white paper bell to stand under. Caroline
had powdered her nose until she looked like
a flour-sack in purple silk, and Linda was crying
in bright blue, and Emily in crimson with lots of
black fluting. There were dozens of strange faces.
They were all strange faces . . . and this strange man
taking her hand . . .
Roddy, watching anxiously, feared that she would
faint. But the saying of the vows was loosening some-
thing in her, freeing her from Dick Sackville at last;
and if she made those vows to a God she couldn’t
believe in, at least she believed in Brant, turning to
him with such a smile when all was done that he kissed
her straightway.
Then they were all kissing her, crying over her ;
Darien marching.them out in procession to the cart-
shed and never knowing if it was a wedding-march
Robertson played after all. For what with Roddy
with his guitar and Jerry with a flute and Toby
Bayles with a drum and the bachelors with their stock-
whips it was not the kind of thing Darien had meant
in the least. So she took a stockwhip herself and
herded them into the shed, getting one good crack at
Caroline’s fat legs.
Even Darien, it was agreed, could not have
thought of anything more. Men, accustomed to stark
months of potatoes and mutton, fell almost deliriously
upon plump geese and turkeys browned to richness,
pink hams, crisp mince-pies, jam tarts, iced cakes (in
the shape of hearts), colored jellies, sausage-rolls, silver
bowls of early strawberries from Christchurch, great
glass bowls of yellow clotted cream.
“Champagne,” murmured Jermyn, “flowed in
rivers, and one could have bathed in beer and wine
and whisky, but I did not observe anyone doing so.”
He offered Tiffany a sickle to cut the cake, and Brant
Hutton presented Darien with the sugar Cupid on
his knees, and Toby Bayles begged a pin from Caro-
line to catch the goldfish, and a hen who had made
her nest unobserved in the rafters did her best for
everyone by laying an egg and announcing it loudly.
Roddy gave the first toast, singing to his guitar:
A ragamuffin husband and a rantipoling wife
They’ll fiddle it and scrape it through the ups and
downs of life,
and Tiffany’s smile had a hint of tears. Oh, this
dear ragamuffin Roddy who would be rantipoling all
his days.
Jermyn was very eloquent and Brant Hutton very
nervous in speeches, and then Darien made a speech
at the table-head, clashing two spoons together for
silence.
They danced in the shearing-shed to the accordion
and violins, and they danced reels on the tussock to
Robertson’s bagpipes. They sang “Auld Lang Syne,”
and cheered themselves hoarse; and when all was
done Darien stood beside Jermyn, watching horses
and buggies disappear in the scarlet of a new day.
“I think you could make two columns out of
this,” she said complacently.
I.
ao Sally, whose often-bewildered blue eyes so
generally had to see life through the eyes
of others, this Wellington life in the golden
’seventies was difficult to compass. Every-
body seemed rich except herself—who
couldn’t even send pretty clothes to Tiffany’s
babies. Everywhere she saw her friends
ceasing to cut down their husband’s trousers for the
boys and ordering fine broadcloth by the dozen yards ;
and candles were simply rampant on dinner-tables,
and the new Government House on Lambton Quay
was lit up all over almost every night. Yet the more
money Mr. Lovel had (and Jermyn said he was very
rich) the less he liked to part with it. How wonder-
ful it would be, thought Sally, walking past the shops
with Mr. Lovel, to go in and buy hundreds of yards
of grenadine and tarletan and lovely useless things
for Tiffy, and Noah’s Arks and leaden soldiers and
. . . oh, everything else for Tiffy’s little boys.
Jermyn was rich, too. Roddy (who had gone
away, as far as America this time) said Jermyn’s
rooms at the Queen’s Hotel were palatial and he must
be making a pile out of his scribblings. It always hurt
Sally when Roddy talked of Jermyn’s “scribblings,”
although she didn’t like them herself so well as she
used to do. I suppose I’m growing old, thought Sally,
who had never looked for faults in any but herself.
K* AULTS were assuredly the last thing a rising man
■ should look for in himself, thought Jermyn, tak-
ing his mail at the crowded post-office when the Eng-
lish boat came in and returning to his “palatial
rooms” to be very grave over it. So many
bouquets the mail brought him (and they were in-
creasingly pleasant). And something else it brought,
about which he must consult Sally. But she couldn’t
expect him to do otherwise, he thought, and then felt
a twinge of shame. All her life Sally had never ex-
pected enough . . . and so that was what she had got.
He moved about the sitting-room, where he kept
up a kind of celibate elegance in spite of Victorian
landladies; stood critically before the long narrow
mirror in its gilded frame. At fifty-odd he didn’t look
within ten years of it. No grey yet in the loose fair
waves of hair; few wrinkles round the brown eyes,
which had not lost much of their light; a figure slim
and graceful still (only he could be aware of a faint
stiffness); an interesting face, with the mouth barely
sagged at all; an interesting personality . . .
Quite unknowing that he was trying to see him-
self in the eyes of the presenters of all the bouquets,
Jermyn took his malacca cane and grey doeskin gloves,
cocked his tall hat at its usual angle and went out to
call on Sally. He hoped to the Lord she wouldn’t cry,
he thought. Yet, but for her, he might have married
long ago ; been tied neck and foot, instead of being free
to take this great chance now offered to him. After
all, he had something for which to thank Sally, poor
wretch, he thought.
Wellington (who never forgot that her motto was
Suprema a situ ) was looking very conscious of
supremacy and prosperity, with the little waves
sparkling all across her great harbor set like a cup at
the bottom of bush-hung hills. There were wreaths
of white manuka, flashes of golden gorse on the hills,
and quite a display of bunting on the big and little
craft nosing against the black wharves. Streets were
like corkscrews and houses like bird’s-nests, all jaunty
in the sun; and comfortable citizens going about
their business were eager to greet Jermyn, who had
been such a power in the papers before he refused to
report any more of these fantastic Parliamentary
doings. Besides, as a gentleman whose books are not
only read but bought by England, this little colony
couldn’t expect him to waste more time on her.
Perfumed notes (often on colored paper with
lace edges and occasionally a coronet) told him by
each English mail of A Summer’s Day or Young
Lovers lying (bound in white vellum) with Mr.
Moore’s Melodies and Mr. Tennyson’s Poems
on the thick plush covers of centre tables in draw-
ing-rooms, of the quantities of fair eyes weeping
oceans over his heroines, the quantities of palpitating
hearts that could be made happy for ever by his
autograph. At first the caustic Jermyn in him revolted
(though curiously pleased); had felt that a few blunt
letters from males might supply a robuster stimulus.
But he never got them, and the perfumed notes were
so charming and the cheques sent by his publishers
so large
So now Jermyn wrote for the dear ladies ; gain-
ing his knowledge of them at the bread-and-butter
dances, very popular while Parliament was sitting ;
at archery meetings and croquet-parties, in drawing-
room tete-d-tetes, where females, discovering in him a
mellower flavor than the harsh colonial vintage, con-
tinued crowning him until he now walked naturally
like a conqueror.
■ IKE a conqueror he came to Peregrine’s bijou
. residence, laying stick and hat on a side-table, look-
ing round, delicately drawing off his gloves. On the
mantel was a silver frame in which Jerry was grouped
with his 1 wife and baby in fashionable attitudes;
(Continued on page 50.)


Wenlock Jakes, star man, even invents news for Ish-
malian consumption in the hope of stimulating action.
Boot, running true to native form —he has no
“news sense” —cables lengthy descriptions of the
scenery and comments on the weather. When Salter
cables “No news. Anxious,” he replies thanking him
and saying he is quite well!
Boot eventually effects a scoop. He has an affair
with a native girl who knows another girl working in
the President’s house, which leads to him sending a
cable, “Nothing much has happened except that the
President has been locked up in his own palace by
revolutionaries Lovely spring weather. Bubonic
plague has broken out.”
That is the skeleton of Evelyn Waugh’s Scoop
(Chapman and Hall ; Angus and Robertson). In the
end the Boots are mixed again, which shows that the
technique of the bedroom farce can be shifted to the
newspaper world and made to fit. Novelist Boot gets
the knighthood Lord Copper intended for his foreign
correspondent, Boot of “Lush Places” gets his old job
back, and his brother, so that Copper—who never saw
any of the Boots —shall not learn of Salter’s mistake,
gets a job at a high salary.
The manner of Boot’s recall from Ishmalia is
rather good. Lord Copper, in a moment of abstrac-
tion, falls to drawing a cow on his blotter. He gets
along fine until he has to decide which are placed
higher, the horns or the ears. After covering his blotter
with experimental and unsatisfactory sketches he im-
patiently presses his buzzer and demands to see “the
man we keep to write about the country.” “That was
Boot, sir. In Ishmalia.” “Well, have him brought
back.”
Scoop is farce spun around a sufficient core of.
truth to make it worth while. It is perhaps a little
long for what is in it, but it compensates for that
with great moments. Evelyn Waugh has a nice turn
for amusing cynicisms. In describing Ishmalia he
mentions that for many years it has been unmolested
by large European Powers. “Punitive expeditions got
more than they were looking for; so in the end
humanitarian considerations prevailed.” Boot is sent
to observe the Patriot side of the struggle, but he has
some difficulty in distinguishing them from the
Traitors.
Livelier History.
To put aside extremes —those who rush Gibbon
from end to end so they can start him afresh, and
those whose intelligence is about equal to the demands
of a talkie—there still remains a fairish paddockful of
general all-round readers whose interest it is easy to
engage with history in the debunking vein patented
by Lytton Strachey and plagiarised by an inky ocean-
ful of sprat and tiddler writers since.
The method is quite simple: the debunker just
takes some well-inflated figure and deflates him and his
times. If the debunker can dig up a few facts not
available to previous chroniclers, he can enhance a
semblance of erudition by also blowing his scribbling
forerunners to smithereens while on the job ; anyway,
he can be clever at the expense of such people as the
Duke of Wellington, Lord Nelson and Queen Victoria
—especially Queen Victoria.
If his university education—always a great help
in writing this sort of history—has included a smat-
tering of lectures in the medical classes, he can light
out along the byways declaiming that Byron wrote
his sort of poetry because he had a club foot and the
Hanging Judge performed in his well-known manner
only because he had a stone in the kidneys.
That is quite the easiest and most certain way
of making history entertaining. Its disadvantage is
that the product will probably be no longer history.
To be able to write what will be at once valid history
and engagingly entertaining reading for the general
all-round run of readers between the addicts and the
dolts is a somewhat more notable—at all events it is
a more rare —achievement. In a sense Macaulay did
that, but others have been casting aspersions on the
validity of his history ever since—some of them, like
his most peeved attacker, Winston Churchill, them-
selves laying down whole acres of distortion for yet
others to have a happy time invalidating.
But Macaulay is himself history, and the writer
in mind here is the author of to-day who can put on
the table a true work of history capable of not merely
interesting but highly entertaining the reader who is
neither a sworn disciple of Clio nor an Ethel M.
dunderhead. The art, it must be admitted, has not yet
been brought to great heights in our own part of the
world. Professor Scott, in his fine contribution to the
Official War History —the volume dealing with what
was happening in Australia while the war was on —
got somewhere near to being a historian and a good
entertainer together, but mostly the books produced
by our historians are not much more than source
books. They are rarely both valid history and at the
same time as entertaining to contemporary readers
as a richly-woven, living novel.
One who can certainly be placed high as a model
in this sort of writing is E. Wingfield-Stratford—he
who some few years ago wrote the monumental two-
volume History of British Civilisation, and who is now
achieving the still more remarkable feat of making
strikingly rich reading entertainment out of no less
hackneyed a figdre than the King Charles who lost
his head at the block. This, also, is to be a two-vol.
tome ; the first, of over 500 large pages, was published
late last year, and at the end of it Cromwell has been
little more than sighted. It is titled King Charles and
the Conspirators (Martin Seeker and Warburg), and its
general theme is that almost from the beginning of
his reign Charles I. “was faced by a revolutionary con-
spiracy, pursued with an entire lack of scruple, and
with ruthless determination to employ all the resources
of propaganda and mass suggestion.”
That statement of his theme contains part of the
author’s secret for bridging the centuries. The mere
reference to the “resources of propaganda and mass
suggestion” makes the present-day reader feel in
familiar surroundings. For to-day, as he well knows,
those resources are being used with matchless ruth-
lessness and on a scale hitherto unknown.
In Charles’s day there were only the surrepti-
tiously-printed pamphlet, oratory to very limited
audiences and the ordinary means of mouth-to-ear
gossipry. Consider the “resources” of to-day —the
loaded stuff cleverly disguised in newspapers, books
and all other sorts of publications ; the distortions
possible by sheer histrionic talent over the radio, and
by faking photography and a commentary of innu-
endo on the films. The wonder is that any indepen-
dence of thought remains anywhere. And then there
are the countries where independence of thought is
prohibited and mass suggestion has full sway.
Even if only subconsciously, the reader has this
mental association of his own scene when he reads
Wingfield-Stratford’s phrase, and the object of the
historian —to project familiarly the historical scene
he has in view—is thereby made easy, by putting the
reader, through a little association of familiarity, in a
comfortable and readily receptive state of mind.
The author has other and more really valuable
means of engaging the reader: he is a vigorous and
crystal-clear writer; is able to take figures out of
history and present them as living human beings ; has
the true free-flowing narrative gift and the novelist’s
sense of dramatic values. But his use of reference to
the familiar present-day scene is still of great import-
ance in his secret for making valid history eminently
engaging to read. He will say, for example, in com-
menting on James’s rule of peace, that “quietness is
the mother of prosperity, especially in an island State
without frontiers,” and the reader must feel th!e
validity of the comment for all time, and for no time
more than now. Or this, touching on the Thirty
Years’ War:
Looking back on it now, we can see that, for Eng-
land, there was but one sane or safe policy, which was
to stay -peacefully at home behind her encircling sea,
and refuse, on any consideration whatever, to sacrifice
an English life or a pound sterling in a contest in which
her prospective gains were nil and losses unlimited.
Obviously the writer hasn’t only the Thirty
Years’ War in mind, and neither will his reader have.
He says of James’s critics:
They are all agreed that he ought to have acted in
some very firm and decisive way, instead of talking and
negotiating endlessly to no very great apparent effect.
It rings familiar in the reader’s mind as a clear
comment on the critics of the one who is to-day doing
just about exactly for Britain what James did. There
is the same sort of familiarity—and with a bite to it
—in this latter reference to James: —•
But sucfi ignoble services as that of keeping their
blood unshed and their pockets full are seldom received
with thanks by those on whom they are conferred.
James was finding the path of peace one of ever-increas-
ing unpopularity. Public opinion had been solid behind
Parliament in its insistent bellicosity, and there were
few who did not blame the breakdown of co-operation
on to the King.
With slight alteration it is contemporary history,
up to the point that this history has so far
reached. Not at all, of course, the deplorable
physical wreckage that James at last became, Cham-
berlain has at least the faint physical resemblance of
being one hobbled with gout. Pessimists may get such
joy as they may—having in mind whatever figure of
physical elegance they will —in recalling, with this
author’s aid, that when James went, the super-hand-
some Buckingham took charge of England’s destiny
and instantly England was involved in two or three
wars scarcely less stupid than the two or three which
loom up to-day.
It should be said that though this author uses
these and more direct references to the living scene as
a means of bringing forward his historical time and
people alive across the centuries, his main concern is
setting up a valid record of history in lively narrative
form. And that he does magnificently. Charles is
his hero, but not blindly so ; oddly, a reader who
doesn’t care a hoot for Charles one way or the other
may end the book disliking Charles most heartily.
The villains of the drama —and it has all the mount-
ing tenseness of true drama —are the conspirators—
Pym, Hampden, Eliot and the rest. He whales into
those with wonderful gusto.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Tasmania, Now and Then : A. D. Baker (J. Walch
and sons, Hobart). A cornucopian outpouring of his-
torical and explorational data and anecdote, descrip-
tion, verse, garden notes, photographs, each according
to the writer’s mood of the moment, and all combin-
ing to laud the beauty and interest of the Derwent-
side. The verse, though it sometimes limps a little, is
always sincerely felt, and the rest is factually depend-
able. Mention of snow-capped mountains, poplars,
oaks, mist, rust-red apples and moist earth carries
the authentic sniff of Tasmanian air.
The Quest of the Golden Fly : S. G. Macdonell
(Quality Press). In 1924 the author led a gold-seeking
expedition up the Fly River in the Speedy Ann.
Beyond the junction of the Alice River they discovered
a hill of gold 24 hours before it was swallowed by
an earthquake. They came out with five thousand
pounds’ worth of gold each. Macdonell tells of the
party’s adventures, including brushes with natives, in
very spirited style. Other members of the expedition
were Ray Hudson, Howard Bennett and Gordon
Holmes.
Australia Advances: David M. Dow (Funk and
Wagnalls). An Australian primer for American
readers outlining our history, topography, social and
political development and the scene to-day. Neces-
sarily contains much that is familiar to Australians
but excellent for its purpose. Of local interest are
two chapters analysing the Australian effort to combat
the depression. In the writer’s opinion the success of
experiments which rested on the Arbitration Court,
the Commonwealth Bank and the Loan Council, and
involved “a combination of deflationary and inflation-
ary methods,” is on a par with “past achievement in
Parliamentary democracy and social legislation” and
of “practical value to the rest of the world.”
The Making of a Scientist: Raymond L. Ditmars
(Angus and Robertson). Popular account of Ameri-
can naturalist’s field excursions. As a boy the prin-
cipal word in his vocabulary was “Why?” In pursuit
of the answer he has been led by desert, mountain
and jungle to inquire into the nature of blizzards,
volcanic eruptions and hurricanes, also into the per-
sonal habits of most animals found in North and
South America.
Hints for Platform and Parliamentary Speaking :
Arthur Ponsonby (Allen and Unwin). A slim little
book —one of the “Practical Handbook” series—with,
inside it, nothing more nor less than the cover claims.
The author is Lord Ponsonby of Shulbrede.
Fiction . . .
Champion: Jack Hilton (Cape; Angus and
Robertson). London setting. Prize ring, politics,
domestic squalor. Well written, but drags.
Return Not Again: Annette Heard (Muller).
Negroes and poor-whites in the cotton belt. Good
color and characterisation, but hackneyed situations.
A first novel by a promising writer.
In These Quiet Streets: Robert Westerby (Arthur
Barker). A night in the lives of the occupants of a
second-rate London residential. Quite readable —
except that the same material has often been handled
in much the same way.
Dark Lantern: Sonia Deane (Hutchinson;
Dymock’s). The wife of the man she loved confided
in Sandra a guilty secret. Withstanding her natural
selfishness Sandra behaves honorably, and in the end
is rewarded with David’s honorable love.
Rainbow in the Morning: lanthe Jerrold (Robert
Hale). After the first shock of discovering that her
father is a well-known film actor, Alma is changed
from a docile daughter of a repressive mother into a
girl of character and purpose.
Various Verse
Garchooka, the Cockatoo.
Though the waters, wind-stirred and red-glowing,
Shadowed by the evening gloom of gums,
Bend in their banks the way the day is going,
While a dusk-gold haze of insects comes
Over the ripples in their colored flowing—
Garchooka, beating from hisi branches, screeches
Discord up and down the river-reaches.
S.A.
REX INGAMELES.
Triumph.
(The poem is based on a Maori legend of Mount Egmonf.)
Though through the woods and night’s dark blue the mountain
Shines like the peace that I have fought to know,
Lighting the blue tranquillity of thought
Like a white candle with its flame of snow,
This beast whose bones are rock, whose cold fur snow,
Whose devil’s spawn of shadows, fanged with rain,
Darken the green grass and the murmured gold
And chill its lifeblood as they prowl the plain,
Has battled in the nightmare lists of lust
And won this moment’s white serenity
With flame and fury and a long, long travail
In bitter isolation by the sea.
Rearing his dragon whiteness to the sky
To battle with the swordblades of the wind,
He calls the golden fury of his youth
And his great crimson sunset to my mind,
When tressed with cool green waterfalls of fern
That down her huge luxuriances streamed
To hide her naked curves, her misty hollows,
His blue enchantress on the distance gleamed,
And burning for that phantom of delight
Against all earth’s hostility he hurled
The comet of his passion into war
While thunder roared and earthquake shook the world.
Crumpled in one great clangor of red flame
As with the crash of shattered bones of rock
And ruined dreams, and the gold future lost,
He reeled defeated from that giant shock,
And dripping the hot lava of his blood
Where shame had seared his glory like a brand,
He raged the forest fire of his defeat
In scarlet devastation through the land
Till clouds of bronze obscured the midday sun
Flaring in sullen horror from his track,
And league on league of havoc told his passing
When earth beneath a crimson moon lay black.
Those legendary times when cold earth breathed,
And huger than noon upon a young hill’s grace,
Flooding with shock of fire a cup of stone,
The mountains got their broods in vast embrace,
Are old, are cold; but though at sea’s blue edge
His scarred magnificence of rock and light
Guttered through lonely centuries, a tower
Of gold by day, of crimson in the night,
Till now, grown old with storms, grown old alone,
Smoothed by the years and gentled with the snow,
Only the flowering saffron of the dawn
Or sunset’s rose revives his ancient glow,
He still has cold grey menace to unloose
Upon a world that saps his strength away,
A 1-ileak and craggy solitude that holds
Tlfe mould and dark stealth of the woods at bay.
And through the blue night now his smoke of light
In silver thunder shows his power’s increase
From blind stark need and catarac.ting flame
To the white triumph of a torch oi peace.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS SIEWART.


*
Let . natU ;T stairt^ 5
, lig ht, Mr! a i
from
flood y° ur
“INSULOX” (AGEE) GLASS BRICKS
Are admirably suited for every type of design and the recent extension
of the Glass Brick range has ensured a brick for every purpose. In
stairways particularly, architects are turning more and more to this new
material which admits evenly distributed, softly diffused natural light and,
at the same time, excludes glare and heat.
n
3-. i
1
I :
m
■
i
'i s'
;
mmm
I
■
. H
m
*
mm
■
I
j
m
n
■
gum ■■
warn
m
mm
wm
H
' M
'm
I
m
mm
m
I WmmM&
N|p
sra
■
RpS
m ■■■.;■ l. T* »
#?s• \\ * % iwsS&s?:
■Hi
■■
11
Mm
§i
m
:
H
n
■
38$ :
mm
wmssm
mmm
g
I*;:..:
s®B£>
H
WiPlli
■ill
Hi
SBk Above: Interior view of the Stair Tower
in the new Sanitarium Health Food
Company’s factory at Warburton, Victoria.
Glass Brick illumination is the outstanding
feature.
Architect: E. F. BILLSON.
Builders: T. R. & L. COCKRAN.
ft Left: The entrance hall of the Signs Pub-
lishing Company, Warburton, Victoria.
Here again the large panel of Glass Brick
Masonry provides an abundance of softly
diffused, natural light.
Architect: E. F. BILLSON.
Builders: T. R. & L. COCKRAN.
OR the transmission of natural, glareless daylight into
offices, homes, factories, hospitals, hotels and every
kind of building which opaque walls formerly made dark
and dingy, there is no building material that is so
utilitarian and advantageous as Glass Bricks. In addi-
tion to transmitting diffused daylight without allowing the flow of
heat, they are sound-deadening, moisture-proof and of great
structural strength. They prevent the passage of air and gases, are
impervious to weather, vermin and acids, and will not absorb
odours or grease. Economical in construction, no plastering,
painting or papering is required on either interior or exterior walls.
They can also be cleaned and maintained at very low cost.
POST THIS COUPON
Australian Window Glass Pty., Ltd., Euston Road, Alexandria, Sydney,
New South Wales.
Please send me, post free and without obligation, a copy of your
illustrated brochure ‘‘Welcome Daylight.’'
NAME
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
GLASS BRICKS ARE SIMPLE TO ERECT
Laying glass bricks (hiring the
construction of a modern
factory. “IXSULUX” (Agee)
Glass Bricks are light, easily
kindled and are laid in the
same manner as other masonry
units.
ill
. m
m
■
AUSTRALIAN WINDOW GLASS PTY. LTD.
■ ™ ■ | N CORPOPATID IN VICTORIA ~
EUSTON ROAD ALEXANDRIA N.S.W. TELEPHONE L 3333 (fl LINES)


FAMOUS
WINES
*
■f
h
g Wife
*..v *a
'
'
"
*»H ■ I
•It
m
W : JM*
>m»x>
. . . .*1
R
rwvw/
90


BACK TO THE OLD “POSSIE.”
The Chamberlain Government has made friendly agreements with Italy, Eire, Turkey and Germany (on the Austrian loan question), and is negotiating another with
the U.S.A. And it is arranging for the withdrawal of foreign soldiers from Spain.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
CHAMBERLAIN AND ROOSEVELT.
A defect of foreign-affairs reporting of the kind that
came in about three years ago is that significant
speeches are served up in snippet form ; and the more
important the speaker the skimpier the snippets.
Mr. Chamberlain, for instance. “After referring
to ‘bloodthirsty pacifists,’ he said I do not believe
that the country desires the adoption of a challenging,
aggressive attitude instead of a peace-seeking one, but
if there is no other way of preserving freedom we
must fight again.” That is from a four-inch “S. M.
Herald” “report” of what is styled “a comprehensive
review of the Government’s domestic, armaments,
food-reserve and foreign policies” (the same amount
of space was given to the impertinences of a minor
politician named Locker-Lampson, who had sent an
abusive telegram to Herr Hitler), and the closing passage
conveys an impression very different from that pro-
duced by a fairly ample Melbourne “Argus” report:
“Shipowners have been warned. If, despite the
warning, they, for the sake of profits, send to Spain
ships that are bombed, is it reasonable that we should
be asked to take action that might involve not only
them, but you also, in the horrors of war?”
Mr. Chamberlain added that almost every week
rumors of war were heard over this question or that . . .
“I wonder whether, since the world began, it has
ever seen such a spectacle of human madness and folly.
We won the last war, but [?and] if our liberties were
endangered again we would fight another war if there
was no other way of preserving them. But just think
what the use of force involves us in. Three and a half
million men from all parts of the Empire were killed
or wounded in the last war. In war, whichever side
may call itself victor, there are no winners. All are
losers.”
Granny “Herald” never lets the Chamberlain dog
get the better of it in her leading articles, but she
should really let him have his bark in her reports.
The cablegrams that so rarely do justice to Mr.
Chamberlain do more than justice to Mr. Churchill,
Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Attlee. Though its foreign
policy has succeeded in its main object, that of keep-
ing the Empire out of the war to which it was drifting
in Mr. Eden’s time, the Chamberlain Government
has such “a bad press” in Australia that Liberals of no
consequence, like the garrulous Mander, get reported
in overgenerous snatches, while Ministers of the stamp
of W. S. Morrison, who may be the next P.M., are
almost ignored.
The President of the United States is a favorite
with overseas correspondents, but the recording of
even his speeches errs exasperatingly on the side of
brevity. On July 4 Mr. Roosevelt dedicated a peace
memorial on the field of Gettysburg. It was men-
tioned in the report that —obviously in sincere flattery
of Lincoln’s Gettysburg speech—he limited his speech
to 700 words, and, with the Congressional elec-
tions ahead and a possible third-term nomination in
prospect, it must have been about the most important
address of his career. For Australians and Maori-
landers the occasion was interesting, since the future
of this man has a bearing on their future, and his
measures have had —and will continue to have —
greater effects on the world than those of any Presi-
dent since Lincoln, if not Washington. So newspaper
readers who try to follow world events intelligently
would have been glad to have the whole 700 words;
but all they got was a few detached sentences, clumsily
dished up:
“We are near to winning another conflict for
economic freedom for our common country.”
“The United States is again engaged in an effort to
preserve under changing conditions the people’s Govern-
ment for the people’s good.”
He inferred (sic) that the New Deal fight against
’ his opponents was “a conflict as fundamental as Presi-
dent Lincoln’s.”
While the long-necked geese of the writing world
hiss dispraise at Mr. Chamberlain they have nothing
but eulogy for this President. History will not accept
their verdicts. It will note that before the latest
mammoth lending-and-spending programme was
entered upon, the debt of the United States had reached
$37,775,000,000. At the end of Mr. Hoover’s last full
year it amounted to $19,487,000,000. Doubling the
national debt is a queer way of “winning economic
freedom for our common country,” especially when
there is precious little to show for it.
Estimates of the number of American unem-
ployed, after years of the New Deal, differ, but all
agree that it is vast. That of Mr. Lewis, the pro-
Roosevelt Labor leader, is 13,000,000 ; that of Mr.
Hoover, 12,000,000. Though the farmers have had
everything done for them, from being paid to plough-
in their crops and kill off their stock, to receiving huge
subsidies for combating soil erosion (Washington’s
way of getting round an adverse Supreme Court judg-
ment), even their protectors admit that they are in a
bad way.
The Republic is a prey to spy-fever and to strikes
with violence: in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and
Los Angeles, the private armies of Lewis and Green,
Bridges and Beck battle for the control of the Pacific
Slope as if it were a conquered province. And, in
their own argot, it is “lousy” with Reds, at the head
of whom are novelists, magazine-writers and news-
papermen, more arrogant than their British congeners
though not less obsequious where Moscow is con-
cerned. And since the discouragement of “big” business
has become part of Government policy, even the inven-
tive genius of the Americans has flagged. Under the New
Deal they have invented little save strip-tease, new
forms of nigger-music and -dancing and a way of
presenting indecent drawings with the literary per-
formances of brisk Red boys like Ernest Hemingway
and selling the combination in millions of copies.
Long before the boom burst Dean Inge suggested
that the Asiatic peasant, cultivating his ricefield, had
a greater survival value than the American artisan,
with his 4000 or 5000 dollars a year, and his car. The
Australian Herbert Gepp—a thoughtful observer,
though no accepted authority on bread prices—
returned from a recent visit to the U.S.A. troubled
over what he saw there and vexed with doubts
as to whether it will last. The world cannot
escape American influences, though increasingly criti-
cal of such as proceed from Hollywood, Harlem and
Tin-pan Alley, but it no longer looks to Washington
for political guidance, as it did in 1918-1919. Alarmed
and dissatisfied nations alike are turning to London
for comprehension and justice. The moral leadership
of the political world has passed to Chamberlain’s
England.
Flying-boats Come to Darwin.
The motto of the world’s flying services has always
been Per Ardua ad Astra. Canberra seems to have
its own version in rough Latin, Per Argua ad Astra
—“through brawl to the stars.” Muddle and rumpus
have attended every step it has taken in the aviation
field ; and some of the steps have been divided by
years.
When the Empire flying-boat scheme was pro-
pounded in 1935, Canberra was the only party that
demurred and procrastinated. Africa and Malaya
accepted flying-boats and abolition of surcharges with-
out hesitation. Finding persuasive arguments useless
when addressed to Canberra, the British Government
forced the issue in June, 1936, with an announcement
that it would introduce a flying-boat service to Sydney
and carry letters at per half-ounce, whether Can-
berra liked it or not.
So Canberra knew two years ago that it would
have to handle the mail from Britain on a new basis
which would involve delivery via Darwin. It knew
that there would be two, perhaps three, 24-passenger
boats coming into Australia every week and as many
going out, and that passengers would expect that
arrangements at Darwin would be a little better than
those obtaining at outback Iran villages. But even
when boats were waiting for the gun, it had not been
determined whether there would be a surcharge on out-
ward mail, whether there would be another surcharge
on inward mail other than letters for Brisbane and
Sydney, and whether inward mail would be borne by
’plane or train. Decisions on these points were arrived
at only when the first flying-boat was about to
leave London.
That first flying-boat reached Darwin at dusk.
Fuelling arrangements were such that a tanker barged
into the machine, denting it, and delaying its pro-
gress to Townsville. Passengers were kept aboard
in the limited space while Customs men went through
their formalities, and doctors worked on them, vacci-
nating five persons —one, a lady, had to be done on
the leg. The boat rocked in a choppy sea, and a
Customs man, overcome by the motion and the ether,
became unpleasantly ill.
It was three hours before the last passenger was
landed from open and spray-swept launches. When
they did get ashore in the tropic dark they were herded
into a half-open Customs shed into which the wind
howled, and extracted one by one. After that came
a half-mile walk along a soggy railway line to cars;
and so to bed, “two in a room.”
British newspapermen were among those who
endured these experiences in the capital of the other
Federal Territory. While their papers were publishing
the furious messages they sent, the first Dutch air-mail
liner came in. She is faster than the Challenger, and
it did not moderate the blasts of criticism directed
at Canberra when people learned that her schedule
had been carried through without a hitch.
While Australians were shrugging their shoulders
at this latest example of Canberra ineptitude, word
came from Maoriland that when the flying-boat service
is extended 1200 miles to that Dominion, Maoriland
letters for Britain will be carried for three-halfpence
the half-ounce, as against the fivepence to be exacted
by the Government at Canberra.
It was reserved for London “Daily Mail” to give
an unconsciously humorous twist to a sorry story by
suggesting that Mr. Thorby, the responsible Minister,
would resign. These people don’t know our Thorbys.
Flannelled Ambassadors.
Yet another exhibition of bad temper all round has
been provoked by the vested interest which masquer-
ades under the name of Test cricket. This is just
about what the former game, with, its friendly spirit
of rivalry, has developed into, and its ramifications
under the new form are spreading. Dividends from
it no longer go only towards supporting cricket clubs.
Broadcasting stations and newspapers have found that
it returns them handsome profits ; they have found,
too, that it pays best if a row can be worked up over
it. And rows have now become inseparable from it.
It has been suggested more than once that this
wrangling travesty of a once-excellent game should be
dropped. Controllers of cricket don’t like the idea—
the dividends from Test matches are colossal. Many
cricketers are out of favor with it —they may get trips,
advertising contracts, business appointments or re-
flected glory out of the false status to which this
game has been elevated and the hero-worship that has
become associated with it. These and others who
swallow after-dinner twaddle about “flannelled ambas-
sadors of Empire” can rely on the strongest backing
from the stunt press and broadcasters.
Meanwhile the “ambassadors” and what is made
out of them and their antics tend to rupture rather
than strengthen mutual good feelings. The recent
row at Nottingham— plus what use was made out of
it —was typical of what Test cricket is increasingly
coming to represent. For once, oddly enough, the
Australian yelp press failed to exploit this shindy for
its full worth, but the wrangle has been raging loud
in England.
There, being one of three touring Australian
Ministers on a needless expedition and with nothing
better on his hands to do, Mr. Menzies has been drawn
into the squabbling. In a 8.8. C. broadcast he men-
tioned that people in Australia and Great Britain
have “quite a real capacity for getting annoyed with
each other.” Proof? “If you had been in London
and had been following the brilliant contributions
made to insular prejudice and Empire disunity by
most of the cricket writers of the London evening
press, you would need no further proof.” Pressed
by a daily to indicate exactly what he meant by
“insularity,” Mr. Menzies retorted: “Just read your
cricket writers. Read all of them. That is enough.”
Passing over the idea that a Commonwealth
Attorney-General might have been better employed
on some of the legislation that has been carried
through in his absence, enough of the cricket writers'
comment to indicate its nature is worth glancing at.
This, for example, from “Reynolds Weekly”:
Coming fresh from the home of caustic cricket
comment, Bradman and co. brand the Trent Bridge
barrackers as a bunch of hoodlums. Judging by Aus-
tralian standards, they are worse than the larrikins of
Sydney’s famous “Hill” —for Jardine didn’t hold up a
Test when that savory section got busy on the job of
giving him a dubious ancestry.
By way of further gingering up the wrangle on
hand, “Reynolds” dips into a book by Oldfield for
some of the fuel that once made a glorious hot-
tempered blaze in Australia —from that moment at
Adelaide when Oldfield was hit on the head by a ball
from Larwood. Oldfield, among the flannelled ambas-
sadors of Empire:
Woodfull told me that his only regret was that he
had not the presence of mind to declare the innings
closed there and then. Such a declaration would have
been a dramatic gesture of protest by one who had for
so long masked his feelings.
On that “Reynolds” comments with spirit, and with
some sense:
A Woodfull declaration would certainly have meant
the end of that Test —and, maybe, the bunch of Aus-
tralia-England matches. And, considering how the
games always seem to breed bad feeling, who would
really be sorry?
Another notable contributor to the latest Test
wrangle has been Australia’s monocled old friend
C. B. Fry. Mr. Fry threw out a gentle leg-pull by
dubbing the Australians “South Sea Islanders,” and
the “Evening Standard” took delivery of the shoal of
biters, publishing some of their effusions. Mr. Fry
further threw out the helpful suggestion that “Aus-
tralians are grand sportsmen —but in terms of their
own conception of sport.” Among his shoal of pub-
lished supporters was one who regarded “the Aus-
tralian spirit in games as a dire contamination.”
Then there was the matter over which this latest Test
squabble arose —the “game” itself. On the barracking
associated with it —now always of greater interest than
the actual “play”—Arthur Gilligan reported:
I have heard those fellows on the “Hill” at Sydney
say things while I have been out in the middle, but
never have 1 heard the like of what happened at Trent
Bridge.
The plain truth of “what happened at Trent
Bridge” was that the Australians, forced into the posi-
tion of having to play for a draw, played cricket so
dull that the crowd naturally resented it, the resent-
ment being expressed in a fashion which was as natur-
ally resented by the batsmen. This having happened,
those who draw their best dividends from the vested
interest by building wrangles out of it naturally
reached for the fuel; and in no time everybody was
hot and bothered.
Wrangles are still raging, and will probably con-
tinue to rage, with increased ill-feeling on both sides,
till this series of Tests is over. By sheer boost these
engagements have been elevated both in England and
in Australia to a place out of all proportion to their
real merit. The whole Test business needs deflating.
Brought down to a normal level of occasional games
between the two countries they could at least do no
harm. That they do good, as now played and wrangled
over, not even their most rabid supporters would
contend.
If allowed to continue on the way they are going
they will lead one of these days to something silly
happening. Unless they can be put on their proper
] eve l —fathoms below the absurd position they have
been jumped up to —they should be suspended until
all concerned recover their lost sense of proportion
and with it their sense of humor.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Tune-in to Ottawa."
Lionel Curtis, the author of Civitas Dei, a very
thoughtful book, wrote before Italy left the League
that, “as the Covenant stapds, Ireland, Canada, Aus-
tralia, South Africa and New Zealand are all solemnly
pledged in terms to preserve against external aggression
the territorial integrity of Finland and Russia, of every
State in western Europe but Germany, of almost every
republic in Central and South America.” And so
they are. But —
these pledges are dead. No miracle can restore
them to life. They are corpses hung round the necks
of the nations that signed them.... The only effective
cure is to cut them away by a frank acknowledgment,
made in the light of bitter experience, that in signing
them we all made a mistake.
The Canadian Government has taken this course.
I n a speech delivered on Empire Day, the Prime
Minister pronounced “League sanctions dead, and
assured the country that they could never draw Canada
into war under the obligations of League member-
ship” (Ottawa correspondent of the Sydney “Sun”).
In a previous speech, Mr. Mackenzie King had shown
himself alive to the danger to which the Dominions
were exposed by an inflammatory and utterly un-
scrupulous interventionist press. He mentioned that
a speech he had made on his last visit to Europe had
been grossly misreported, but he had not corrected
it: in the situation that then existed, correction might
have made a bad business worse.
In Sydney on July 2 the Australian Prime Min-
ister praised Mr. Chamberlain, “a man with the
courage and clear foresight and power to face up to
realities.”
But for the realistic policy of the British Govern-
ment we might have been plunged into the horrors of
another international war.
True. But Mr. Chamberlain’s troubles are not
over. He still has to contend with the unscrupulous
interventionist press, and with scaremongers and war-
mongers and pacifists and idealists gone wrong. The
forces arrayed against him are powerful, and it is by
no means certain that he will prevail over them. It
would strengthen his hands and make for the security
of Commonwealth and Empire if the Australian Gov-
ernment, following the sound Canadian example,
came out with a declaration that Australia will in
no circumstances be dragged into a League war to
preserve the territorial integrity of Finland, Russia
or any other State in Europe, Asia or America.
Sequel to a "Stopwork" Meeting.
Queenslanders are threatened with another Govern-
ment railway strike, and have taken the threat
with impressive phlegm. Grievances of a handful of
railwaymen concerning transfers from their own dis-
trict to meet a seasonal rush and a time allowance
for meals on passenger trains were expanded accord-
ing to the familiar Left-Wing technique, and demands
for a shorter working week and the like were served
on the management in the Left-Wing manner.
A stop-work meeting was called in Brisbane —for
4.30 p.m. As Premier Forgan Smith remarked, “it
was not an unqualified success.” About 150 attended,
and as a result peak-hour suburban services were held
up. It was raining at the time, the temperature was
the lowest for 50 years, and the curses of homing
fellow-workers drowned such expressions of sympathy
with the stop-workers as may have been let loose.
Commissioner Murton had warned those con-
cerned that a stop-work meeting would be dealt with
as a gross breach of discipline. He was as good as his
word: men who attended the meeting at the sacrifice
of public convenience were fined £1 apiece. A Com-
bined Unions Committee, headed by a voluble extrem-
ist named Moroney, thereupon demanded “immediate
action to enforce a complete cessation of work on the
railways.”
The strike-or-no-strike issue will not be finally
decided until actual deductions are made from the
penalised men’s wages. But unionists are not keen on
a strike, the travelling public is against it, and the
Labor Caucus is backing the Government.
The last Government railway strike occurred in
1927. On that occasion Mr. Murton’s predecessor
invoked the provisions of the Arbitration Act, held
a one-man meeting—being the sole employer involved
—and locked out the whole service. That courageous
action was immediately effective. There is little likeli-
hood that a repetition will be needed now.
No Communist Jews!
The Lyons Government grievously offended the
Sydney morning papers by supporting Mr. Chamber-
lain’s foreign policy instead of Mr. Eden’s. Now
its Mr. White, addressing the International Confer-
ence on Political Refugees in France, has given fresh
cause for offence.
Realising the unhappy plight of Austrian and German
Jews, Australia has included them on a pro rata basis
comparable with any other country. The new arrivals
are largely sponsored by the Australian Jewish Welfare
Society.
Australia, in the circumstances, cannot do more....
Privileges cannot be given to one class of non-British
subjects without injustice to others. Moreover, as we
have no real racial problem, we are not desirous of
importing one by encouraging large-scale foreign migra-
tion.
The great majority of Australians will approve of
that statement, with reservations as to what a “pro rata
basis comparable with any other country” precisely
means, and why they were not informed of this con-
cession when it was granted, instead of when it has
been in operation for a considerable time ; but “S. M.
Herald” is indignant.
Humanitarian sympathy and economic self-interest
join in striking fashion to advance the cause of the
refugees from Austria who wish to become citizens of
Australia There cannot but be disappointment with the
negative nature of the speech made by Mr. White....
Our need for more citizens to develop and defend
this continent is undeniable... .During the past two or
three years the Australian fund for German refugees
has found work for about 600 men and women in Aus-
tralia and this without taking employment away from
anyone else.... The refugees are seeking to come here
and bring with them extremely valuable assets in the
way of practical skill, professional knowledge and
cultural attainments.
On the next page of the paper there is a report from
Canberra saying that already “more than 6000 Jews
are seeking entry into Australia from the Continent,”
and in a month or two this number may have been
doubled or trebled. In a neighboring column it is
mentioned that in two days of rioting in Palestine “35
Arabs and nine others were killed and nearly 170
injured” ; that a British policeman and six Arabs were
injured in a bomb explosion in the Old City of Jerusa-
lem ; that in Jerusalem also a “bus crowded with Arab
countryfolk was bombed, four persons being killed
and 15 injured” ; that the British police have searched
the offices of the Jewish Labor Federation and placed a
Zionist Revisionist leader under arrest; that the British
army in Palestine has been strengthened and a British
warship has arrived at Haifa prepared to land marines;
that the “Times” correspondent urges “an immediate
necessity for the authority of the Government to be
strongly asserted” and gives as one of the reasons
“the existence of a fanatical element among the Jews.”
Strictly limited immigration of Jews, vouched for
by such good Australians as Samuel Cohen, Aus-
tralians will not object to, but they will not tolerate
any influx of foreign Jews on the scale which evidently
appeals to the League’s principal mouthpiece in Aus-
tralia. No Government could sanction such an influx
and live.
Nor will any Government be permitted, wittingly
or unwittingly, to let Communist Jews cofne in. Every
immigrant Jew from Europe or Palestine should be
made to sign a declaration that he has never been a
member of a Communist organisation, open or dis-
guised, and realises that he will become liable to de-
portation if he joins any such organisation in Australia.
Resident Communists stirred up the recent wharf boy-
cott of Japanese and German goods, and are trying to
frustrate the Government’s plans, such as they are, for
national defence. Wherever Communism has estab-
lished itself formidably, there has, at the worst, been
civil war —whether Communists or the other side start
it is immaterial —and, at the best, division of the nation
into two camps. And Communist Jews —vain, clever,
arrogant, seditious; Trotsky, Zinoviev, Radek, Bela
Kun, Samuelsky, Rosenberg—have been in all civil
wars.
One Is Enough.
Since the Stevens Government returned to business
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, it has been incessantly
sniped at by candid friends in both Ministerial parties.
Some of the snipers are aggrieved because Mr. Chaff ey
and Mr. Shand were pushed out of the Ministry—or
“shot sitting,” as one of their champions put it —and
others because of the treatment of Police Commis-
sioner Mac Kay, the speed limit for motor vehicles, the
handling of the s.p. business, and, above all, the grow-
ing delegation of power to self-sufficient departments,
with which is associated a pronounced tendency to
treat private members with contempt.
On that subject, Mr. Solomon, the youngest
member of the*House, made an arresting speech. Mr.
Bate, he said, had referred to the widening breach
between Parliament and Cabinet. There were other
influences that were causing a greater breach —one
which the House itself had created, and which the
House must mend, or it might see the present system
of government perish: the setting-up of boards and
commissions with powers as great as those of the
House itself.
The heads of these concerns are impudent to
members. It is impossible to get a direct reply from
the Commissioners of Main Roads, Railways or
Transport ; the reply always comes from some secretary
or other. The Milk Board has been given power to
make laws.
Parliament must take from these authorities the
power it has given them and must maintain the principle
of Ministerial control. Regulations should not become
operative until after they have been tabled for a proper
time.
The Government is in its seventh year of office,
and the longer Governments linger in Australia the
more they seem to despise Parliament and admire
bureaucrats. The Ministerial alliance has lasted for
18 years. There are signs that it is wearing thin.
But at present there is no alternative to a U.A.P.-
C.P. Ministry. The Opposition is weak in numbers,
and is divided into two Labor groups, which seem to
hate one another even more than they hate the other
side. The Heffron group claims to represent half a
million workers, but it made a miserable showing at
the recent election ; and of the other mob it is suffi-
cient to say that it is still led by Mr. Lang—now in
his 62nd year, but, if anything, wilder than ever.
Paradoxical as it may seem. Parliamentary gov-
ernment is suffering in Australia because there are
too many Parliaments. The cure for the condition
is the abolition of excessive legislatures and the setting-
up of provincial councils. One Parliament is plenty.
Victoria's Unemployed-Belief Tax.
Replying to a deputation representing 40 professional
and trading organisations, Premier Dunstan said his
Government couldn’t possibly abolish or even greatly
reduce its unemployed-relief tax. A few hours after-
wards it was announced that the 1937-38 receipts
from this tax amounted to £1,934,534, nearly £250,000
more than the estimate, and that the number of
unemployed had shrunk by a further 3000. At the
end of the . financial year it was 36,000 lower than
during the peak year 1932-33, when a 30 per cent,
higher tax yielded £440,000 less than Mr. Dunstan
found necessary to extract for relief, etc., last year.
True, the Premier explained that £330,000 a year
is swallowed by interest and sinking fund payments
on money borrowed for earlier relief, and that another
£BO,OOO goes in administrative costs. He added:
An unfortunate feature which usually accompanies
requests for tax-reduction is that the poorest people
suffer.
But every Victorian earning more than £lO5 a year
is “suffering” already ; and people on just over £2 a
week are among the poorest in the State. One way
in which the Premier could relieve people little better
off than their brethren on relief would be to lift the
taxable minimum.
Several deputation speakers suggested a more
equitable policy: abolition of the “emergency” tax
and, if necessary, an “ordinary” income-tax increase
sufficient to cover genuine unemployment needs. This
would effect a substantial saving- on the administrative
cost; and the tax would be drawn from net instead
of gross incomes. And there is a good South Aus-
tralian precedent.
Don't Pigeon-hole It!
“M.” explains why:
A report on animal production presented to the C.S. and
I.R. by Dr. John Hammond, a Cambridge animal-nutrition-
research man, is worth Australia’s attention. “Follow Maori-
land,” says Dr. Hammond in effect, and strive to improve
the returns from good land instead of wasting time, money
and human lives on poor land.
Methods by which Australia might increase chilled-beef
and dairy-produce outputs are stressed by the doctor, and
he strongly advises dairying districts to Grow More Pigs. In
this visitor’s judgment “the market for heavy fat mutton sheep
is declining, while that for srriall sucker lambs is increasing"
—a remark which should tickle S. Aus. and Victorian dis-
tricts in which the swing to fat-lamb raising has been more
noticeable lately than in most other parts of Australia.
But there are local problems incident to these proposed
changes that will have to be solved by Australian ingenuity.
Dr. Hammond recognises the advisory limitations of a visitor,
however expert he may be in farming theory that other coun-
tries have turned into successful practice. Distance and
climate so alter circumstances in different parts of the Com-
monwealth that it would be foolish for any investigator to
lay down hard-and-fast rules for general application. This
temptation Dr. Hammond avoids.
This report is, in substance, one of the soundest argu-
ments yet advanced for extension of agricultural and animal
research. And that means provision of salaries and con-
ditions good enough to retain the services of the experts
trained in these departments, and too frequently—in Victoria
especially—won away in their most valuable years by more-
attractive private jobs.
To co-ordinate the work of State officers tackling similar
problems, and to avoid overlapping, appointment of key Com-
monwealth research men and a C.S. and I.R. advisory com-
mittee of representative interests is suggested.
This Hammond report is one that should not be forgotten
or overlooked by Canberra and State departments.
Power Alcohol.
“E.H.M.”: In a report issued under the authority
of the Commonwealth Government, L. J. Rogers, the
Government fuel expert, refers unfavorably to power-
alcohol production. He points out that in Queens-
land production is now 600,000 gallons p.a., and that,
using molasses, this could be increased to 2,500,000
gallons. By fermenting syrups instead of molasses, a
6,000,000-gallon output could be reached. But
Production of alcohol is inherently uneconomic and
constitutes a heavy burden to the Government and the
consumers.
Mr. Rogers scouts the notion of extracting
alcohol from sugar-beet, sweet potatoes and wood
waste —he does not mention maize—“because the cost
is estimated tentatively at Is. 9d., Is. 9|d. and Is. Bd.
respectively per gallon.”
But it is difficult to be even “tentative” about
large-scale production from sweet potatoes.
Ten years ago, before processes had been cheap
ened, a special committee of the Commonwealth
Engineering Standards Association —it included Dr.
Guthrie, chief chemist to the C.S.R., J. B. Hender-
son, the Queensland Government Analyst, and R. N.
Kirk, B.H.P.’s Sydney manager —reported:
There are in Queensland many large areas of light
sandy loam which are eminently suitable for sweet
potatoes Yields up to 20 tons to the acre are (in
good seasons) not uncommon without irrigation, and
up to 35 tons per acre have been officially reported.
On these areas, working on a large scale and with
skilled supervision, prospects are attractive.
Mr. Rogers goes on to say that in Queensland,
under the Motor Spirit Vendors’ Act, petrol-sellers are
compelled to buy 1| gallons of alcohol for every
100 gallons of petrol imported into the State. Alcohol
is blended with petrol in the proportion of 15 parts
of alcohol to 85 of petrol; the fuel “is sold at a price
Id. per gallon lower than standard grade petrols,”
but Id. per gallon is added by importers to the price
of pure petrol. No difficulty is experienced in dispos-
ing of the small quantity of fuel on the Queensland
market; but “oil companies do not seek to extend their
sales.”
It may not suit oil companies, but it would cer-
tainly suit Australia to have a large source of vege-
table fuel supply at the cost at which it is provided in
Queensland.


“AN D IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLE'S INKS”
“D.E.”: It is noticeable that the
juiciest and vaguest persecution stories
from Vienna come to Australia through
the medium of London “Daily Tele-
graph.” For example:
The Vienna correspondent of the “Daily
Telegraph” is reliably informed that 12,000
Jews have succeeded in leaving Austria
since March 12. A Jew asked in despair,
“Where can I go?” He was told “The
road to the Danube is open.”
There is good evidence that 800 Jews
and Jewesses have attempted suicide in the
past few days, according to the Vienna
correspondent of the “Daily Telegraph.”
The majority succeeded.
I suspect some sympathy of the circum-
cision here. The founder of the “D.T.,”
Edward Levy, was Jewish on both sides
of the house. Becoming an uncle’s heir,
he added “Lawson” to Levy by royal
license, and in process of time became a
baronet and the first Lord Burnham. A
Jew of the florid type, he had enemies who
refused to address him as Lawson ; the
most pertinacious of them was W. S.
Gilbert, and unless my memory is playing
tricks they were parties to a bitter libel
action. Levy-Lawson-Burnham’s son,
the Lord Burnham that Australians have
met, had no enemies ; he was a fine old
boy in every sense of the word. The
“D.T.” sent a man to Australia two or
three years ago. He went to Canberra
to see Mr. Casey, and I think Mr. Casey
will agree with me that his visitor had
one of the most commanding conks ever
seen out of Palestine.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The most unusual car-thieves
on record have operated in Adelaide. The
car was parked near the Regent Theatre
at eight. At eleven also it was there, but
with not only mudguards and bonnet
damaged, but also the steel top, on which
were grass and mud. There is something
engaging about persons who, after run-
ning away with a car and capsizing it,
could have the consideration to get it
right way up again, and the nerve to
restore it carefully to its starting point.
“El V.”: This ban by the various
boards of control on cricketers and tennis-
players living with their wives abroad
shows how stern and undomesticated
modern life is becoming. Even a little
before Waterloo, Wellington would have
lost half his army if he had forbidden
officers and soldiers to bring their women-
folk with them on campaigns to patch
their pants and cook the corned-beef.
Spain, during the Peninsula scrap, was
full of ladies of various social degrees,
and some people added to their comfort
by taking an odd hour off between hos-
tilities to marry a local girl when there
was no reasonable possibility of import-
ing one. To such a match the Empire
owes an historic name Ladysmith
called after a Spanish donna who be-
came the spouse of a peppery little
British soldier. The same custom pre-
vailed oil warships. There were even
ladies at Trafalgar, and one or two chil-
dren were born during or directly after
the battle. In those days the country did
not take war nearly so seriously as a
modern generation takes its cricket.
* * * *
“Coif”: A novel point in industrial liti-
gation has been successfully raised in
England. A jury in the King’s Bench
Division awarded a Mrs. Price, widow
of a man killed while in the employ of
defendants, £6OO for loss of his “expec-
tation of life.” She had already received
£2OOO compensation under the Acts of
1934, but it was never anticipated that
an action lay for compensation in respect
of lost expectation of life or that this
could be regarded as a tangible asset.
“Someshing cornin', Steve—I can hear it rumblin'!'
“ Sh'on'y me stummick!"
“Mak”: Someone in Vic. couldn't
have seen the “Crime Doesn’t Pay”
film cpr - in whirh a tmrW hold nn
film series in which a truck-hold-up
gang was brought to U.S. justice,
any wav Victoria has had another
road hold-up. This time four men
stopped a transport 15 miles out of
Melbourne by yelling to the drivei
that his tail-light wasn t working ; then,
in fillum-gangster style, one o em
the drier’s 8 ribs F
forced down a sltroad abom
£5OO worth of cigarettes and tobacco was
lifted from the load. As a final gesture
the driver was knocked out and booted
into a near-by mudhole, but this didn’t
raise a big enough thirst to interest the
toughs in a consignment of beer for
Maryborough’s pubs.
* * . . * *
“Perry”: T admit it doesn t happen
often, but occasionally a passenger man-
ages to get the better of the railway
authorities. Travelling to Goulburn from
Sydney I had as company from Moss
Vale a determined-looking woman with
a boy of nine in tow, who, when the
guard requested her ticket, handed up
her own pasteboard but remarked that
young Bill was ticketless. To a demand
for Bill's fare she replied that she had
no money, that her husband had been
on the dole, and had gone to the country
on the chance of a job, that he was now
ill in hospital and wanted to see her.
“There wasn’t nowhere I could leave
the kid,” she concluded, “so we just had
to come along.” The worried official
muttered that Bill would have to get off
the train. “What! dump that poor kid
out alone in a strange place! I don’t
think!” said Bill’s mother emphatically.
The suggestion followed that she might
alight also. “Not me,” was the reply.
“You can’t put me off. I got me ticket!”
When I last saw them the argument was
still on, but I had a feeling the lady was
well on the way to a win.
* * * *
“Soundtrack”: There can be no doubt
as to who are the important people in
the U.S.A. Following the revelation
that Gary Cooper is the highest-salaried
man in Gahd’s Own Country comes a
N’Yark cable to the “S. M. Herald”
chronicling that on the Glorious Fourth
454 people came to a violent end —and
Jane Withers burnt her finger letting off
a cracker!
* * * Hi
“T.P.0.”: The old Alhambra Music
Hall in Sydney’s Haymarket is being de-
molished. Almost the pioneer of Syd-
ney vaudeville theatres, it was in the
forefront in the eighties and early nine-
ties of the last century. The Harry
Rickards boom at the Castlereagh-street
Tivoli about 1893 sent the older variety-
hall tottering, and Rickards took it on
lease, running it in addition to the “old
Tiv.,” but the venture lasted only a fort-
night. Great vaudevillians of the ’nine-
ties appeared at the little Haymarket
ich accommodated a bare 700,
Bm J Emer Charlie Fan ing, John
Cole Pope and S ayles, Harry
Rickards and Florr ie Forde, among others,
Florrie Forde now near 70 and still acting
j n London, is the only survivor of the
Lunch. Movies made a fitful appearance
at Q j d pj ace j n 1912 or thereabouts,
s * nce when d has beer ! u ? ed by Mick
Simm °" s as a ?° ra Se *P* ,
„ n A „. Th tplpnhnnp subscribers
. ?’ A c ’ Thr f e ele P hone SUbSC f lb ® *
,n Sydney duectory have unwr ing y
achieved fame as a result of some jokestei
with a knowledge of mathematics. A
person is asked to pick up the latest
’phone book, select a number, multiply
it by 100, deduct the original num-
her, and then total the figures of
t h e result. The answer is invariably
18, 27 or 36. Take 87971. The
7971 X 100 = 797,100; and 797,100
7971 = 789,129 ; and 7 + 8 + 9+ 1 + 2 + 9=
36. Ihe questioner asks the questionee
for one figure only ol the result; the
numbers 18, 27 and 36 (multiples of 9,
incidentally) each have entirely different
figures, and the knowledge of any one
figure is enough to md.ca.ethenumben
“Now turn up the page of the phone
book indicated by your number, says
the questioner, “and count down the cor-
responding number of ’phone numbers in
the left-hand column. Right? You are
looking at the number of the Astro Fish
Cafe [if 36 was the figure].” If the ques-
tionee had answered “eight” or “one”
(indicating 18), the eighteenth entry on
page 18 is the Brookvale police station ;
the twenty-seventh entry on page 27 is
the name of an unsuspecting citizen of
Strathfield. A baffling stunt when done
only once or twice with the same person.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The fate of Adelaide’s old
Leg. Council building is under discussion.
When the new Parliament palace is com-
plete, with the Railway palace on the
other side, the little old mid-nineteenth-
century structure will look dwarfed and
out of place. General opinion seems to
favor demolishing it, to make a central
garden ; with, as possible extras, a vast
underground parking-place (easy, as the
ground falls away towards the river), and
a fresh road out to the north, to amelior-
ate a congestion of traffic that Light, the
founder, never dreamed of.
* * * *
“Itzhen”: When artist Harry Julius
was doing theatrical drawings for The
Bulletin he and I covered a play staged
by a group of young Chinese in the
rooms of the Sydney Kuomintang
Society. Harry’s job was the easier, since
he had merely to sketch the actors, where-
as I was called upon to criticise the per-
formance, which was given in Chinese.
However, the producer obligingly pro-
vided me with two inter-
preters, who took turns to
babble into my ear trans-
lations of the speeches,
punctuated with naive
requests for laudation
of various performers.
Harry, immaculate in a
starched front, was, dur-
ing the frequent intervals,
the cynosure of admiring
Chinese, his sketches excit-
ing much talk. The show
ran almost to midnight,
then Harry and I were
carried off to a chop-suey
joint in the Haymarket.
Speeches in Chinese in our
honor, and the drinking of
our healths in most fiery
liquor, indicated to us that
the write-up should be a
flattering one. Some days
after, Harry and I were
visited by a deputation of
elderly Chinese gentlemen
—probably the fathers of
the young actors —and
were overwhelmed with
thanks and fruit, sweets,
nuts and ginger.
* * *
“Dhas”: Australia has
sent a lot of good jokes
overseas, very often pay-
ing their secretaries’ and
typistes’ fares, too ; but a
kindlier advertisement for
these shores is contained
in exports I’ve recently
seen in English journals—
reproductions of Bulletin
drawings. The Liverpool
“Weekly Post” has lately
reproduced Frith, Scorfield and Jolliffe ;
“Reynold’s” has had Frith, “Tit-Bits”
Scorfield, “Pearson’s” Anne Drew and
Such, “Humorist” Jolliffe and Ethrington,
and Glasgow “Evening Times” Such and
Unk White. Glasgow “Herald” has
apparently been peering between the red
covers, too, for it starts off an article
about Glasgow black-and-white men with
the statement “All good cartoonists do
not come from the Sydney Bulletin ;
Glasgow itself has brought out a few.”
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Called in a hurry to a
60-year-old farmer, I found him in bed
with the good old military disordered
pulse and ideas about impending death,
he having learned to feel his pulse in the
correct way from a daughter-nurse.
Luckily for him it wasn’t Nature’s other
warning against more physical exertion
than his elderly body could stand —the
atrocious pang of angina pectoris. His
warning, taken sensibly, needn’t shorten
his life or debar him from his little com-
forts of tobacco and a reasonable amount
of what makes sailors sing. But, he’s got
to slow up on the job of living—activity
and worry both. “Sorry to call you out,”
he said next day, “but everyone my age
nowadays seems to be dying of either
heart disease or cancer.” Most are, but
only for the good reason that they are
living long enough to reach the ages when
such really old-age complaints are the
normal thing to die of. A century and a
half ago they would have passed out
long before with typhoid, typhus or
smallpox.
CAPTAINCY MADE EASY.
“It’s easy to skipper a side from the Stand.”
—Patsy Hendren.
Lookers-on, says a proverb, see most of the
game,
But that isn’t to say they’re entitled to claim
Superior knowledge concerning the way
It ought to be played by the fellows who play.
’Tis far from an arduous role anyhow
To sit on the fence and slang those at the
plough,
Or holes in the work of the toiler to pick
Who’s swinging the kelly or laying the brick,
And to hint ’twould be better were you in
command.
Oh, it’s easy to skipper a side from the Stand.
There are know-alls, no end, who will never
have done
Explaining how battles that should have been
won
Were lost —from the depths of capacious arm-
chairs —
By the man on the spot.who directed affairs.
There are pundits at bridge ever ready to spot
The slams that might well have been bidden
and got,
Or of wily and subtle defences, the use
Of which would have cooked the antagonists’
goose
If only themselves had been playing the hand.
And it’s easy to skipper a side from the Stand.
We all make mistakes; we’re infallible, none.
But those who insist what we ought to have
done
When we didn’t, or failed to attempt what we
should
By forcing the pace when the going was good,
Or using the bat less for weapon than shield,
Or leaving avoidable gaps in the field,
Or anything else that provokes their dissent,
Are only sagacious after th’ event.
No telling what strategy they might have
planned,
The wiseheads who skipper the side from the
Stand.
By trial and error (or maybe success)
We all in our various callings progress.
But verily he has a possie that’s soft,
The amiable cherub who sits up aloft
And weighs ev’ry movement and judges each
shot
By whether it proves advantageous or not.
And where googlies are tossed or expresses
are hurled
It’s the same as with most other things in the
world:
Rare merit the job in the field may demand
But it’s easy to skipper a side from the Stand.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“S ”; “-phe g rea t heart of the Aus-
tralian people” is still in its right place
and not in its boot, behind its left ear
or out the window, as von Luckner in-
cidents and war-jitters would lead us to
believe. And the dailies know it. On
the day the posters of the morning
papers, referring to remarks by Cham-
berlain, shrieked BRITAIN WILL
FIGHT, the midday “Sun” placarded
Sydney streets with GREAT SYDNEY
HORSE DEAD. I look forward to the
day when we’ll have EUROPE
VANISHES IN TIDAL WAVE in the
morning, and HAS CUP FAVORITE
COLIC? at noon.
* * :]: *
“T.”: As a vast itinerant legshow in-
ternational lawn-tennis has established its
place in the scheme of things— most of
the young women concerned in it seem
to be dressed as if they were going into
or coming out of a bath —but it should
be kept out of foreign politics. When
Cramm got 12 months for “moral delin-„
quency,” a set of puffed-up players,
headed by Budge, pronounced the thing
a frame-up, and demanded his imme-
diate release. The ultimatum being re-
jected, and the threatened consequences
failing to materialise, the puffed-up
players proceeded to Wimbledon, there
to be informed that the moral delinquent
would not be allowed to nominate for
future tournaments. Then Dorothy
Round, now Mrs. Somebody, was heard
from:
Dorothy Round said that if Cramm was
banned at Wimbledon she would refuse
to play there as a protect.
Miss Round, who won the singles in
1937, has since married. After the birth
of her child, expected soon, she intends to
train for the 1939 series.
And it is very obliging of Mrs. Round
Somebody to take the stunt Press into
her confidence so completely. But this
campaign for Cramm is just empty-
headed arrogance and cheek. The par-
ticulars of the case, names and all, have
been published, and the man did not
exercise his right of appeal. He is a
baron —otherwise a junker—and as an
ambassador with ingratiating manners in
countries very hostile to their system, he
must have been useful to the Nazis, so
what on earth could they gain by trump-
ing up a charge against him? The truth
is that both Nazi-ism and Fascism have
a strong Puritan basis. This is the real
explanation of the proceedings against
Cramm.
*!' »i' * s|t
“Westernhaugh”: Why this differentia-
tion between the Duchesses of Gloucester
and Kent (B. 6/7/’38)? To a British
family like the Scotts publicity of the
kind is loathsome. To the Greek relatives
of the Kents it is manna from heaven.
Nicholas, the Duchess of Kent’s dad,
used to push it for all he was worth.
* * * :]:
“Pardon Me”: An interesting Ameri-
can publication is The Seamen's Hand-
book For Shore Leave, which also con-
tains information useful to tourists. It
costs but 50 cents, and in it you are told
where to go for amusement in 377 dif-
ferent ports, as well as where to find
lodgings, help in case of need, or the
services of a laundress or a lawyer. It
also tells you what not to do. For in-
stance, in Algiers—“avoid the Kasbah at
night and beware of the native women.”
In Bilbao —“a good clean boyish fun, if
of a boisterous nature, may incur trouble
with the police.” And the red-light dis-
trict in Dakar and the liquid in Funchal
are stated to be bad. Strange as it may
seem, this book of worldly wisdom,
which also says where V.D. clinics are
“Honorable tough guy make humble servant much fatigued.”
located, was started by a woman, Mrs.
Henry Howard, of Newport. She
founded the American Merchant Marine
Library Association, and herself, hus-
band and three sons are all great sailors,
and form the middle and both ends of
the officers and crew of a fameus
52-footer, the Alice.
sfr * * T
“Colonel Bungstarter”: All these
howls about women replacing men in
jobs and the need for shoving them back
to the kitchen and nursery have come
too late. I blame lawn-tennis for start-
ing the whole thing. It got ’em loose
from stays, flounces and swooning and
made them fancy themselves bounding
about on a court and showing a bit of
ankle. Then some male fool replaced
the old penny-farthing bicycle by one
that they couldn’t really fall off, and
they got into breeks, and the habit of
scooting about by themselves showing a
lot more than ankles. Another ass
brought golf out of Scotland soon after.
It seemed safe there, for women never
played in those days. The canny Scot
saw to it that they didn’t. But, once over
the border, it spread like a pestilence,
providing another excuse for chucking
away stays and pursuing the innocent
male to his most exclusive haunts. It’s
the man who’s heading for the kitchen
and the nursery.
“Salmon Gums”: Generally speaking,
England feels itself in the grip of a
drought if a month passes without rain,
and Australians, with memories of three
or four successive rainless years, smile
tolerantly at the news of hand-feeding,
stock —in some cases from tins. But
England has known really bad droughts.
The worst on record occurred in 1740.
Frosts which lasted from Christmas till
the end of February froze the Thames,
completely blocking navigation and de-
stroyed all crops. No rain fell for 12
months, fuel and provisions became
scarce and springs and wells dried up.
Water was sold in the streets of Lon-
don. The period claimed almost as
many victims as the Great Plague. It
is nice to read that “those of opulent
fortunes were inspired with a remark-
able spirit of compassion and humanity.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An unpublished Dennis
poem is treasured at Laura (S.A.), where
he lived for some years as a youth. He
sent it to the town’s 60-years celebration,
being unable to attend in person. It is
largely a string of old-timers’ names,
skilfully woven into the verse:
How many a man, how many a lad,
Whose head now slowly greys,
To a song grew glad, as I grew glad,
In the long-gone Laura days.
“Morehead”: C. J. Dennis made very
few trips to Sydney, and I can only re-
call one visit to The Bulletin office.
Dennis conversed with David McKee
Wright in the editorial-file room, and
David, who had just published An Irish
Heart, was complaining about autograph-
hunters and various pests who chase
authors. “That’s one reason I live at
Glenbrook,” .said David. “You’re
lucky,” said Dennis. “I live at Toolangi,
and although the nearest railway is
about 14 miles away I’m pestered with
tourists who hang around with cameras
and autograph albums.
The beggars break
down my fences, tramp
across my vegetable
garden, help themselves
to water from my tanks,
then demand that I pose
for them and give them
my signature. Some
even want to see
through the house as if
it were a museum. I’ve
erected a warning
‘Trespassers will be
crucified.’ ” Henry
Lawson, who drifted in
during the tail-end of
the conversation, gave
one of his quiet
chuckles and his eyes
twinkled. “D en n i s,”
he said, “I can see you
joining the Society for
the Abolition of Auto-
graph Hunters which
Rod Quinn and I have
formed. The cows
should be taxed out of
existence.” “I’m with you,” said Dennis.
“What’s the sub?”
* * * $
“Captain Pintle”: Watching the ships
of the world pass by on the broad bosom
of Father Thames, herself the training-
mother of sea-minded British boys, the
spirit of the old Cutty Sark must rest
at last in peace. Ten years ago I was
aboard her in Falmouth, where Captain
Dowman dreamed of refitting her for
another Australian voyage and taught
sea-scouts the business of masts and
yards, and work aloft, like the fine sea-
man he was. He had bought her back
from the Portuguese in 1922. La
Pequina Camisola was the nearest they
could get to the ship’s Scottish moniker.
Her old rival, the Thermopylae, came to
an inglorious end in 1907 as a torpedo-
target for the Portuguese Navy. Cutty
Sark is 70 now. Built in Dumbarton
for Captain “White Hat” Willis, her stern
carried a punning allusion to his name,
sea-famous for penury, “Where there’s a
Willis away.” She was at her best in
the strong, steady winds on the Austra-
lian route —the frequent light airs of the
China Sea never suited her.
* * * *
“Ming”: The young man selling soap
and toothpaste mounted the steps and
rang the bell. A voice in the distance
(feminine) called “Wait a minute,” and
after many minutes a stout lady in a
green wrapper appeared. Her indigna-
tion on learning the caller’s business was
extreme. “You people,” quoth she, “seem
to think we have nothing to do but
answer the door to you. Here I am all
behind with my work, and my husband
coming home from a trip to-night and me
with everything to do and not a soul to
open a tin or hammer a nail.” “I’m
sorry, Madam,” said the young man,
noting the mention of nail-driving. “Per-
haps I could give you a little help in
what you are doing just now.” “I’m hav-
ing a bath,” snapped the lady, prepar-
ing to slant the door.
“Ahoy, commodore an' rear-commodore, what? 'Ope our Wash don't make youse seasick!"
WHITEWASH.
[After reading some recent books.l
Victim of unjust deridings,
Have you heard the joyful tidings
In Elysian abidings
Where you lie?
You for decades who were fated
To be mercilessly slated
Now are rehabilitated,
Billy Bligh.
They were schemers base and rotten
Who conspired to put your pot on,
And a final sock they’ve gotten
In the eye.
History will rate you rather
Differently from Macarthur,
And your fame will carry farther,
Billy Bligh.
Now the truth’s about you written,
We discern a blunt, hard-bitten,
Resolute and sturdy Briton,
Not a guy
Who when things became a welter
Would lose heart and helter-skelter
Dive beneath a bed for shelter,
Billy Bligh.
Such contemptible aspersions
And calumniating versions
Of your laudable exertions
Fade and die.
And 1 can’t help feeling that you,
Now the cleaners have been at you,
Are entitled to a statue,
Billy Bligh!
N.S.W.
IFOED.


fd
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVE N"A~
10 for 9d...20 for V 6
E1866
vm>vm
SPECIALLY
m
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons and Casey wound up the finan-
cial year with a surplus of £3,498,300,
chiefly the result of excessive postal taxes
and of revenue duties on excessive im-
ports. Butler, Dunstan, Stevens and
Dwyer-Gray claim credit balances;
Forgan Smith and Willcock report
deficits. All the State Governments would
have to report deficits if loan expenditure
were added to spendings of tax-money,
as is the case in the U.S.A.
Curtin, as well as Lyons, is having
trouble with trade-union bosses who re-
fuse to help the Government to defend
Australia unless it subscribes to Moscow
policy and gets ready to go into League
wars. Under the National Incubus Bill,
these Red nafks will be among those
privileged to form “approved societies,”
a privilege granted to them when life-
assurance cos. of proved patriotism and
efficiency were ruled out. Canberra was
never in a crankier mood than when it
made that differentiation.
Victorian prohibitionists have entered
upon their hopeless task of trying to get
a three-fifths majority in October for
total and compulsory drouth. They had
Archbishop Head, Maurice Blackburn,
the Labor M.H.R., and Mrs. Weber,
M.L.A., on the Melbourne Town Hall
platform at their first meeting, and it
was reserved for the Archbishop to make
the most striking utterance.
Coming from England, where bars are
open till 10 p.m., I regarded the six-
o’clock closing as something like a gift
from Heaven.
Workers whose toil occupies them till
after six regard it as hell.
Sydney master-bakers have repeated
their bad joke of announcing a reduction
of a farthing in the price of the two-
pound loaf —now 4|d. over the counter
and s|d. “delivered at the door for cash.”
They add, as usual, that it is all “in ac-
cordance with the price-scale recom-
mended by the Gepp Commission.” The
householder’s sentiments are “To the
devil with Gepp and his farthings!”
Provided third-party insurance is made
compulsory in N.S.W. and Victoria, as
it is in S.A., some of the border restric-
tions on private and commercial road
transport may be removed. Malcolm
Mclntosh, the S.A. Minister, took up the
case of the private motorist, the taximan,
the tourist-car owner, the common car-
rier, the farmer and the storekeeper with
their own lorries, and if he has his way
they will each get some concession. A
good move, but Commonwealth control
of transport, with removal of all restric-
tions, would be better.
For the year to June 30 old-age and
invalid pensions cost Australia
£15,800,000. That was upwards of
£3,000,000 more than the entire proceeds
of income tax, land tax and estate duties.
Sardonic Asiatic humorists are doing
their best to brighten the dark tragedy
of the war in the north. To prevent the
Japanese establishing a seaplane base un-
comfortably close to Indo-China, the
French occupied a group of reefs and
lagoons called the Paracels, and the
Domei press agency suggested that the
Japanese would protest on the ground
that -they belonged to China. And a
Japanese report described “a fierce battle”
in which 50 Japanese ’planes brought
down 51 Chinese machines —“45 in furi-
ous dogfights and the rest on the ground”
—with the loss of one ’plane. The ver-
sion from the rival camp is that 15
Chinese ’planes shot down three Japa-
nese raiders and came back 14 strong,
and that the Japanese victory was gained
over dummies —“fake ’planes of wood
and bamboo.”
“Who dies if England lives,” said Ben-
nett, the former Canadian P.M., arguing
for a one-in-all-in Canadian foreign
policy and quoting Kipling. Sydney
“Sun” made it “Who lives in England
dies.”
Melbourne “Age” reminds the new
Senators that “they were given a man-
date to reform an electoral system which
makes mockery of every democratic prin-
ciple of representation.” Unfortunately,
the initiative rests with the Government
and 17 of the Government’s 20 sup-
porters in the Senate will have to face
the people at the next election, the 15
Labor Senators being in for six years.
With proportional representation— i.e.,
“reform” —only 12 Ministerialists at most
could be re-elected, so Labor would be
assured of a majority. The odds against
“reform” are about a billion to one.
An official comparison of Melbourne
food prices, prepared for Fairbairn,
Why don't 'ee shut door after ’ee?”
“Door wadden shut when I opened un."
M.H.R., shows that there was a case for
the recent rise in the price of butter.
With the penny on, the increase on the
average for April, May and June, 1914,
20.52 p.c. (15.35 d. to 18.50 d.), is the
lowest on a list of 24 commodities. Kero-
sene showed the highest increase, 65
p.c. ; then came bread, 63.33 p.c. (3d.
to 4.90 d. the 21b. loaf), and rump steak,
59.28 p.c.
In the fierce light that beat on the
detaining of the first flying-boat passen-
gers for four hours at Darwin, an almost
simultaneous N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment achievement was overlooked. An
axle or something ran hot on the Albury-
Sydney express, and ijn the result Sydney
people expecting letters from Victoria
and other States and second-class mail
matter from England, had to wait a day
for them. A ’plane could have been
hired, but Mr. Hartigan he don’t hold
with them newfangled notions.
There’s talk of all Maoriland’s Terri-
torials resigning in protest at the kicking
out of the four colonels who criticised
Labor’s tinkering with defence. The
Government mightn’t notice that they’d
gone, but it would be a pity to waste
7400 new blue uniforms.
Asked to abolish, or at least reduce,
his unemployed-relief tax, Dunstan
pleaded that he couldn’t do it and
asserted that on an income of £5OO “total
tax” in Victoria was less than in any
other State. This refers only to income
from personal exertion. On income from
property, Victorian taxes are higher
than the taxes in other States, “ordinary”
rates being double the rates on “earned”
income. Why this should be so, thrifty
old people past “earning” income, of
whom Victoria has a larger proportion
than any other State, have never been
able to understand; and if Dunstan
knows he takes good care not to en-
lighten them.
The jargon of Parliamentary reporting
rarely has a grin in it for the reader, but
this started a multitude of grins in Syd-
ney last week:
The Government Whip, Mr. Ardill,
moved that leave of absence for the
present session be granted to the member
for Mosman, Mr. H. W. Lloyd, because of
urgent private business. The motion was
carried.
The urgent private business was defend-
ing a conspiracy charge.
Members of the superfluous talking-
shop in Macquarie-street, Sydney, are
talking of raising their screws—already
excessive for what they do—from £670
p.a. to £875 p.a. The argument for this
political banditry is that “£875 was
recommended by Judge Edmunds in
1913.” Similarly, Judge Edmunds, as a
Hughes commissioner, recommended the
terms on which the wartime coal strike
was settled, the method being to give
the miners what they wanted and let the
mineowners gouge it out of the public.
The case had been taken out of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, and
the outraged Justice Higgins called the
whole business “a most baleful pre-
cedent.” Which it was.
In a dry comment on Casey’s finance,
Curtin pointed out that in three budgets
an aggregate surplus of £92,000 had been
anticipated, whereas the actual balance
was £8,543,000. A result of clumsy over-
taxation, direct and indirect, on no
coherent plan.
The people of Millicent (S.A.) have
told Butler very plainly that they don’t
want his betting shops. A ratepayers’
poll having been vetoed by Supreme
Court injunction, the citizens took one
on their own account, and the voting was
46 for the betting joints and 312 against.
One result was an immediate waning of
enthusiasm for licensed s.p. among
N.S.W. Assemblymen.
The Chamberlain Government achieved
a great stroke of policy when it induced
all the Powers interested in the Spanish
civil war to agree to the withdrawal of
all foreign troops from Spain, and
secured first contributions to the cost
from France, Germany and Italy. Of
course, this didn’t prevent one section
of our Glorious Press from insinuating
that Germany is supporting Chamberlain
out of fear that his Government may
fall, or another from suggesting that it
must fall.
Proteges of English bishops and Aus-
tralian newspaper proprietors let them
down badly last week. Chinese rioted in
Singapore, other Chinese threw bombs
in Shanghai (Chinese and a Sikh police-
man were among the casualties), Jews
shot up Arabs in Palestine, and Spanish
“Government” troops, driven out of an-
other town, saw that there were no
churches left. According to Page Croft,
the British M.P., before they quitted
Castellon they went in for mass murder.
But English bishops and Australian news-
paper proprietors never dwell on these
unpleasant subjects.
One Horsfall Carter, editor of the
“Fortnightly Review,” is quoted as writ-
ing that Chamberlain has “thrown away
the Dominions’ goodwill which Mr. Eden
built up.” This when the Canadian and
Australian Governments, Forgan Smith,
Butler and nearly every Australian news-
paper of any consequence are supporting
Chamberlain’s foreign policy, while
Federal Labor has at least acquiesced in
it. Some very ill-informed persons pre-
sume to speak for the Dominions in
Britain.
U.S.A. Government finance does
really stagger the imagination. During
the year to June 30, Roosevelt had his
fifth successive deficit and the country’s
eighth—sl,4s9,ooo,ooo. In expenditure
on recovery and relief, $2,264,000,000
went west; but it included loans as well
as receipts from taxes and services.
Two Australians were at the Moscow
May Day celebrations Mr. McGillick
and Mr. Outteridge. They found the
Russians “happy and carefree and with-
out unemployment.” But being patriots,
they decided to return to this poor
damned capitalistic country instead of
remaining in Elysium.
Defending the 30 m.p.h. speed limit
Bruxner complained of Sydney news-
papers “misleading the public.” Acci-
dent figures, for or against, will be mis-
leading always unless serious accidents
are compared with serious accidents,
minor bumps with minor bumps.
In Sydney and Perth the cry has gone
up at the same time that the tramways
should be abolished. The difficulty is
that they are Government tramways, and
that £9,000,000 has been sunk in them
in Sydney and £1,500,000 in Perth. And
abolishing the tramways won’t abolish
the debts.
H. H. Bell, boss of the Melbourne
Tramways Board, who went abroad say-
ing trams are the only caravans for his
city, is now, it seems, weakening in favor
of buses driven by producer-gas. Other
transport bosses who are in a position
to back their caprices with public money
are keen on trolley-buses, petrol-buses
and Diesel-buses. Perhaps when a few
more borrowed millions have been sunk
in all manner of Government buses
someone will invent a really satisfactory
scooter that will enable the able-bodied
population to attend to its own street
transport. Then even members of Trans-
port Strangulation Boards will become
sinecurists.


BORROWED PLUMES.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St: George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
!E3
<i <*4«
ONE
company
£
£
£
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the “spread” over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
ov No. 5598.
->
PREVENT}
BACK.
OP
BOOT
SAC,(,IN(y
MEXICAN
RIDIWCj
BoC>¥
fd
[double I
screwed]
SOLE
.GUSSET
S»OES
PR.EVENT
CNTtRIMCi:
f
ALL SIZES
IN TAN CALF
ONLY.
296
» A
ImoLvw. <
PERTONAL ITEMS
Tom Lyons, dead in Sydney at 77,
was better known to many Tasmanians
than Joe Lyons. He managed “a cer-
tain consultation,” owned and bred race-
horses, was chairman of the T.R.C. for
years, and had a seat .on the Stock Ex-
change. Long ago it was his boast that
he never gave a tip on a racecourse, but
he broke the habit when Edward of
Windsor, then Prince of Wales, visited
the Speck. Tom gave him a stone moral,
on which the Prince put £2O. It came
in a bad last. “I’ve never done anything
like that before, your Royal Highness,”
said the contrite Lyons, “and I’ll never
do anything like it again. Here’s the
twenty pounds.”
Australia is getting a quietly conscien-
tious Victorian for its next Auditor-
General —Ralph Abercrombie, Director
RALPH ABERCROMBIE.
of Navy Accounts. In 1923 he was sent
to London to look into claims from ship-
owners for bringing home the Diggers,
and saved the Commonwealth thousands
of pounds. Before that he was 10 years
with the Vic. Treasury. As the name
indicates, Abercrombie’s the son of a
Scot, and, of course, addicted to golf.
Mervyn Chinner, new head of Vic.
Parliament’s Hansard staff, has done 38
years’ hard listening to politicians. He
met the first of them when he started
with the old Adelaide “Register” in 1900.
He left the “Register” in 1915 to form
S. Australia’s Hansard staff, and three
years later transferred to the Common-
wealth Hansard staff in Melbourne.
Rather than go to Canberra, he returned
to newspaper work with Melbourne
“Argus,” but by 1924 he was back on
Hansard, this time for the Vic. House.
He’s one of the few with first-hand ex-
perience of reporting the leaders of Aus-
tralian Federation.
Adelaide City Council elections saw a
lawyer (Rymill) go out and a doctor
(Makin) go in. It also saw the exit of
Jack Rees after 22 years’ service and the
failure of the once well-known Bert
Edwards to “come back.” A. G. Barrett,
re-elected unopposed as Mayor, has been
almost since boyhood local manager of
the Melbourne firm of Maltings.
George Mason Allard, appointed to
the Federal Commission entrusted with
the drafting of details of the national
health insurance scheme, provides the
actuarial brains of a tripod whose other
legs are Judge Dethridge and Dr. R. D.
Mulvey, Allard, who for 13 years was
lecturer on banking at Sydney Uni., acted
as Public Service Royal Commissioner
from 1917 to 1920, and thenceforward
for nine years was chairman of Amal-
gamated Wireless, sitting on the board as
Commonwealth Government’s rep. He’s
president of the Australian Institute of
Chartered Accountants, and added K.B.
to his moniker in 1926. He’s 71, and
his home town is Sydney.
W. E. M. Campbell, who succeeds the
late Lance Lewis as Adelaide manager
of Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., learned
the pastoral industry with Ben Chaffey,
was inspector all about western N.S.W.,
and has latterly been in the Melbourne
office.
E. H. Brdmby, for many years
Librarian of Melb. Uni., dead at 92,
was one of the earliest pupils of the
Melbourne Church of England Gram-
mar School. He was the youngest son
of Dr. J. E. Bromby, the first headmaster
of the school.
One of the old identities of the N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture, Mark
Reynolds, reached retiring age last week,
and his fellow-officer 9 made him a pre-
sentation and said kindly things about
him. Reynolds was one of the first
students enrolled at Hawkesbury College,
which gave him a diploma in 1892. A
career of farm management was inter-
rupted by the S’African war, in which
Reynolds served as a non-com. He
joined the Department in 1908 as field
instructor,, became manager of Cowra
Experimental Farm, and later agricultural
instructor.
C. B. Mott, who becomes designing
and road-construction engineer to Bris-
bane city, is an old Brisbane Grammar
School boy who became an engineer
via a Mcllwraith scholarship. He has
built most of the Greater Brisbane
bridges of the last decade, and has lat-
terly been helping to construct the
Stanley Dam, which is to hold the city’s
water-supply.
Queensland lost a capable meteorologist
in Travis Rimmer, a Lancashire man who
took a first-class honor degree in physics
at Ownes College, Manchester, became
a meteorologist, spent years in making
a trig, survey of Fiji, and settled down
as a lecturer at Queensland University
in 1921. For some time he had been
the recipient of a C.S. and I.R. grant
to aid him in his long-distance forecast-
ing research. A heart attack carried him
off at 57.
The yachting record of G. H. Jackson,
now touring the Queensland coast, would
be hard to beat. Son of a father who
reached Maoriland in 1846 and a mother
who landed four years earlier, he began
sailing boats 61 years ago, and started
to build the first which he owned in 1887.
He had a record of 200 crossings of Cook
Strait by sail and motor, and eventually
settled in Sydney in 1937, sailing his
Spindrift across the Tasman. At 76
he is still active on a sheet.
In the days before the passing of the
Federal Bankruptcy Act Salsbury’s
Law and Practice in Bankruptcy was
handy on the shelf in every Australian
law office. The author, Frederic Hamilton
Salsbury, who died in England last week,
was an English barrister, a product of
Harrow and of Trinity, Cambridge, who
wrote this work while practising at the
N. S. Wales Bar. With George Rich,
now of the High Court, he founded the
Bar Council, and was its first hon. sec.
Towards the end of his legal career he
was Registrar of Bankruptcy in Sydney.
He married a daughter of W. H. Suttor,
of Bathurst, sometime an M.L.C. Retir-
ing in 1922 he returned to England. A
son, Frederic, is on the staff of London
“Daily Express.”
H. M. Ford, a good friend of Aus-
tralian trade, has resigned the commer-
cial managership of Glasgow’s Clyde
Trust which kept him in contact with it.
Ford served in the war in the Sherwood
Foresters. He began his career as an
employee of the Imperial Russian Gov-
ernment and held several official posi-
tions before taking his Hampshire accent
and love of cricket to Glasgow 12 years
back. Some time ago he visited Australia,
and since his appointment has been an
inevitable host to every official visitor to
Scotland from the Commonwealth.
“Macann”: Ex-Senator Bob Elliott,
whose Melbourne home holds the “largest
collection of Orpens, private or public,
outside England” (B. 6/7/’3B), looks like
having to write off a tidy amount for
depreciation. An Orpen oil sketch of
W. M. Hughes has sold in London for
the basement - bargain price of 60
guineas ; it had last changed hands for
£420. However, this particular Orpen
was probably never worth more than the
latest valuation. It was one of the
sketches of statesmen which Orpen did
preparatory to his official painting of the
signing of peace in 1919. “Billy” sat
only once for it, and Orpen completed
it in an hour and a half. But, apart
from this, Orpen has slumped horribly.
In his lifetime the painter’s finished por-
traits cost as much as £1500; one of
these recently sold for £2OO.
„ John Grenfell Crawford, economist of
the N. S. Wales Rural Bank, leaves
Sydney in September to take advantage of
the fellowship awarded him by the Com-
monwealth Fund of New York. He will
study agricultural economics and work
in with U.S. Government departments.
Crawford expects to be away two years
or thereabouts, and will still be a young
man when he returns. Born at Como
(N.S.W.) 28 years ago, he belongs to an
industrious family. His father, though a
railwayman (and an advocate of arbi-
J. G. CRAWFORD.
tration), was first president of the United
Bank Officers’ Association; a brother,
a Woolley scholar, is professor of his-
tory at Melbourne ’Varsity; another
brother is secretary of the Civil Aviation
Board. J.G. gained his B.Ec. at Sydney
’Varsity, and was a lecturer until joining
the Rural Bank in 1935.
Member for Darling Downs (Q.) in
the House of Representatives, Arthur
William Fadden, pictured here by
Dubois, got his seat at the by-election
caused by the death of Littleton Groom
A. W. FADDEN, M.H.R.
two years ago. Fadden, who was born
at Mackay (Q.), was for some time town
clerk of his birthplace, and later estab-
lished himself as a chartered accountant
in Brisbane, with a branch at Towns-
ville. Forty-three last birthday, married,
and plays golf.
Back from London after four and a
half years as N. S. Wales Agent-General,
A. E. Heath says he is not interested in
a political career, but will work hammer
and nails for the Sydney timbermen who
made him a lucrative offer to come out
and look after their association. He was
president of the association from 1928
to 1932. A third-generation Australian,
he was born in Maryborough (Q.) half
a hundred years ago, qualified as a char-
tered acountant in the Speck, and started
in business in Sydney in 1909. He en-
listed in 1914, but enteric fever while he
was in camp put him out of the running.
When A. C. Saxton, of Saxton and Sons,
timber merchants, died in a yachting acci-
dent, Heath was appointed g.m. of that
business. His suit-cases would make a
hit in any impressionist exhibition as a
travel symphony in labels. He has visited
the U.S.A. and nearly all the European
capitals in search of information about
industries and armaments.
Gone on holiday from Moresby, W.
M. Strong, chief medical officer. He
turned up in Papua with the Daniels
Expedition in 1903 loaded down with
degrees from Cambridge, and remained.
Strong’s greatest work has been on native
diet —he has revolutionised the stamina
of the plantation laborer—but another
interesting job was his training of native
medical assistants. These lads get a
preliminary coaching on the spot, and
are then sent to Sydney Uni. for a few
months before being allotted to villages.
It was with some doubts that S. F.
Hinchcliffe arranged in the Victoria
League rooms, Melbourne, an exhibition
of work by the children of a London
County Council school at Chelsea. Hinch-
cliffe, who is an exchange teacher in
Australia, thought the work might be of
interest to teachers and to members in
and out of the League headquarters, but
the idea made much wider appeal, and
the exhibition was all too short. Among
the exhibits were drawings and paintings,
studies in design, hand-blocked linens
and amazingly well done lino-cuts and
potato-cuts, though no one would guess
that the lowly spud was the origin of the
blocks.


(3jettev ituf
Gmdtatt
MuftXuf
Setter"
K
Red
pack
55-;
*5
10
od
20
3-S
<SL
ILD
8231-6-8


ABORIGINAITIES
“Wang”: “The most intellergent dog
I ever seen,” said Dan, “belonged to
Terry Dolan. When Terry, come home
from the township one night there was
a letter on the kitchen table from his
missus; it says she was fed up with him
an’ had bolted with the bloke wot was
workin’ fer ’em. They’d gone in the
buggy, takin’ about fifty quid an’ the
dog. I happened along next mornin’,
an’ Terry tells me he didn’t mind the
missus clearin’ out, but he was feelin’
crook ’bout the dough an’ the dog. Just
as we was yarnin’ there, the dog comes
in with a length of rope round his neck.
He fussed an’ fawned about Terry, and
then he starts actin’ queer. First, he
gathers up a lot o’ sticks and lays ’em
in a heap ; then he grabs a billycan off
a bench an’ stands it on the twigs. He
barks an’ looks up at Terry, an’ then
makes for th’ creek and dives in. He
comes back carryin’ a magpie’s feather.
After more barks he rushes to a holler
log an’ crawls through it- a coupler times ;
then lays hisself down flat alongside it.
Terry lets out a yell. ‘l’ve got it,’ he
says; ‘come along with me —I know
where me dough is now.’ An’ sure enough
he found it. The couple was where the
dog told us they was —camped at Holler-
log Flat up on Magpie Creek!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Since the recent dry spell
has almost eliminated the entire rabbit
population in parts of the Ma State, an
increasing number of sheep are losing
the upper or lower parts of their faces,
snapped off by ravenous foxes deprived
of their normal prey. This, in addition
to its destruction of valuable native
ground birds, makes me heap more
curses at the day the fox was imported.
“Binatang”: In the Mortlock Island
(New Guinea) this little tragedy in four
acts is regularly staged. At a certain
phase of the moon crabs bring their eggs
down to wash them in the sea. A short
distance offshore a school of fish waits
to rush the crabs, making them drop
their eggs, which are eaten. Further out
a school of bigger fish waits to catch the
egg-eating ones, so they in their turn are
eaten. Now conies the turn of the
natives, who also know of this arrange-
ment —they wait still further out to net
the big fish. And so a good time is had
by all. Anyway, why do crabs have to
wash their embryonic offspring?
* * * *
“Hanko”: Those rail-walkers who go
in pairs holding on to sticks to preserve
a balance (B. 29/6/’3B) are only mugs
at the game. Bonehead Bob, who once
used to trip lightly over the Vic. railways
system, always went solo and scorned
aids to equilibrium. Bonehead’s trouble
was that he developed ambitions to go
Blondin inter-State. Heading north on
his last trip he stepped neatly upon the
running rail to as far as he got. and
only once did he put a foot wrong. That
was at the border, where the break of
gauge mucked him up, and he went over
on his ankle and down on his ear in front
of a fast goods. Alas, poor Bonehead!
Lie was so cut up at his first mistake that
he retired to a hole in the ground.
* H= *
“Nagheer”: They certainly do grow
up tough about the Northern Rivers of
N.S.W. A 52-year-old farmer of North
Casino was driving home on a chilly
June evening when his horse began to
play up. He had unharnessed it to save
the sulky from damage, when it landed
him one which knocked him uncon-
scious and tangled his legs in the reins.
Then it bolted, dragging him for a
quarter of a mile over a rough road
before the reins gave way. He lay un-
conscious for 11 hours through a bitterly
cold night, and, coming to at 5 a.m.,
managed to summon help from a near-
by farmer. After slight exposure-effects,
a broken nose, a bump on the head and
a few abrasions had been treated at hos-
pital, he arrived home none the worse for
an experience which would have killed
most city-dwellers.
* * * *
“Notaden”: I’ve read accounts by
allegedly accurate observers concerning
the stately, measured, partnered quad-
rille and lancers measures danced by
native companions, but if these are true
our local brolgas are a low lot, led
astray by jazz-fans. I’ve watched hun-
“You don't think them nurses will mix our babies up, do you?”
'dreds of social gatherings on the flats
below here, both at sunset and sunrise.
The sunrise hop is the madder of the
two, but both have always been as free
from restraint or dignity as any nigger
hooch-party in Haiti. Always interesting,
mostly graceful (except when a dancer
hops on one leg or turns somersaults on
the ground), the whole performance is
one of uncontrolled individual self-out-
flow. Even in the mating season it is
entirely individual while the madness pre-
vails. But, after watching brolgas in the
silent, lonely business of daily food-get-
ting, I don’t wonder that they feel the
need of a little excitement now and then.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A gun-trap beats all
the baits, decoys or steel traps for col-
lecting a really cunning dingo, but it
needs proper setting. An old 12g. s.b.
shotgun, cut down to 20in. to spread
the shot (BB) is best. Pivot a shaped
metal strip on a screw so as to press on
the trigger when the 3in. projecting end
is pulled forward. Have the trigger-pull
light. Drive two stout short stakes a
dozen paces from the dog’s pad-track.
Sight the gun to Min. above pad-level,
and make sure that no road or used track
is in the line of fire. Load the gun and
lash it securely in place, uncocked of
course. Make a length of fine wire fast
through a hole in the trigger-lever end,
and lead it across the pad, Sin. from
ground level. Make that end fast to a
thin peg, and adjust the wire with other
thin pegs to a tension which will just
bring the trigger-lever against the trigger
with no slack. Then —not before —cock
the hammer. All through, keep man-
smell away from the dog’s padway, foot,
hand or otherwise.
* * * *
“Yokain”: “Turon River’s” trick of
catching rabbits by setting traps around
lopped tree tops (B. 15/6/’3B) is elemen-
tary compared with the one put over by
me and Saltbush Sam. Noticing that the
rabbits were nibbling at the gum-trees
where branches hung down, we made
ladders out of saplings and put them up
against the gums. As soon as we saw a
fair crowd of rabbits aloft eating the
tops I shifted the ladders on, leaving Salt-
bush to skin such as fell down from over-
eating. When we had bunnies on
the place up a tree in every sense of the
term, we went to the squatter for a price
for leaving them there. When he haggled
about having no shade for his §heep we
threatened to put up the ladders and let
them down, upon which he paid up like
a gent. Easiest money I’ve ever made.
* =F * *
“Naturalist”: The termite won’t do
much reconditioning in dry country with
fallen hardwoods, however destructive
the gnawers may be among green and
growing timber (B. 22/6/’3B). Natural
decay is already well advanced by the
time the white-ant takes a hand after the
quickly-decaying sapwood has been
nibbled away. Have seen blood wood and
stringy bark down 50 years in badly-in-
tested termite country, yet the logs, apart
from the deep sun-cracks, the original ant-
produced hollows and the eroded and
perished under-surfaces, were perfectly
sound and ant-free. It is the fallen soft-
wood which .the termite likes ; but even
some of this (notably red cedar) is
given a miss by the destructive tunnellers,
however scarce chewable material may
be.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: A survey of the kur-
daitcha cult lends support to the theory
that at least two waves of aboriginal im-
migration peopled the north, centre and
west of this continent. Well known
among the Aruntas and other centre
tribes is the kurdaitcha man, the tribal
slayer who goes forth to his killings wear-
ing shoes the uppers of woven hair, the
inch-thick soles built up of emu breast
feathers’, cemented with blood—the idea
being that no distinctive footprints shall
bc left by which the victim’s relations
might identify the killer and start a ven-
detta As far west as Coolgardie this
sort of thing was known. But there is
no mention of it among the western tribes
right from C. Leeuwih to C. London-
derry. Still, on many of the larger islands
off Westralia’s nor’-west coast the kur-
daitcha walks—which seems to prove that
a wedge of later invasion was driven be-
tween these tribes and those of the centre.
Curiously, the shoes worn on the nor'-
west island show an adaptation which rep-
resents progress. Originally, these were
soled with feathers from sea-birds,
the emu being absent; but with
the advent of the goat, placed on
many of the islands with the idea of
providing pearlers and shipwrecked mari-
ners with meat, the hair from Billy and
Nanny is used, making a shoe that is a
distinct advance in durability on those
worn by the executioners of the centre
tribes.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: Mentioned recently that
wombats had been caught in chaff-bags.
Well, they must have been extra-strong
bags. Knew two Frenchmen ringbarking,
on hilly country who, on being told the
marsupials resembled pork, had a go
at capturing one. One man pushed his
blanket down the burrow as far as he
could, pegging down the doubled-back
corners ; the other stampeded their quarry
out of the ferns, where he was feeding.
The wombat came at its best speed and
hurled itself head first into the hole.
The Frenchman leaped and grabbed, but
merely got two handfuls of soil as his
only blanket disappeared underground.
That was the last they ever saw of wom-
bat or blanket.
* :fc * *
“Old-timer”: The blue cattle-dog hav-
ing lost a master who “wouldn’t part
with it for a tenner” but thought nothing
of going on a bender and leaving the
tyke to fend for itself, was having a
tough spin as it made north. Flunted
from farms, given short shrift in towns,
it was reduced to living on beetles, offal,
etc. When it came wearily out of the
timber and gazed at his horse-team stuck
in the sand, Jim Dandy cursed it, but
the blue dog was thirsty and cringed to-
ward the water-bag. J.D. was humane,
gave it a drink, then set about the hope-
less task of trying to make his sullen
shatters pull. Suddenly the prads jumped
into the collars, the waggon creaked ;
another jump and the load rolled clear
of the sand. Dandy, astonished, saw the
blue dog under the waggon silently
nipping heels. He gave praise to heaven
and that night the canine wanderer fed
royally in its new home,
* * * *
“First Blue”: “Skull’s Creek’s” jibe (B.
29/6/’3B) at our failure to develop a
national maggot industry equal to that
flourishing in the Old Dart is a little
unkind. The species advertised for sale
in British fishing magazines is a more
aristocratic breed than those bedecking
the carcasses along our outback poison
trails. Far from relishing the odoriferous
diet on which the Aussie species thrives,
the homeland maggot or gentle de-
mands such delicacies as waimed oatmeal
and the like. Even if the local species
was suitable for commerce, I can t pic-
ture any of the Australians I know wast-
ing much time pampering the brutes as
is done in England. Still, the impo:-
tation of a few champions from Eng-
land might result in improving our stocks,
There would always be the risk, however,
that crossing the two types might pro-
duce a maggot menace beside which the
dingo-Alsatian problem would be a meie
nothing.
A SOUTH SEA ODYSSEY.
Three centuries ere Tasman marked
The name New Zealand on his chart,
The Maoris saw its mountains rise
Their snowy peaks to colder skies;
Its rich land waiting spade and seed,
Its wide arms opened to their need;
And there to dwell for evermore,
Let down stone anchors by the shore!
Six lean canoes of patient build,
With brown folk and their chattels filled,
To steer by signs of sun and star,
Go out across Hawaiiki’s bar:
Six long canoes, henceforth to be
As fabled ships, in legendry,
Go forth from their green island home
To full two thousand leagues of foam!
As leaves the band its homeland shores
Bronze rowers dip their spoon-shaped oars,
While plumed chieftains rhythmic beat
A song of parting to the fleet.
Anon it meets the Sou’-East Trade;
Inboard, the dripping paddles laid,
They hoist mat-sails, and on the lee
Fades green Hawaiiki from the sea.
Week follows week. The migrants fare
With lessened food and water spare:
Cramped children grieve; tired women moan,
The spearsmen strong have leaner grown ;
The salt sores sting, the gods take toll;
But strong in purpose, brave of soul,
With votive chant and magic song
They drive their black canoes along,
Till out and distant, faint and dim,
A long white cloud breaks o’er the rim
Of morning seas. In coming hours,
White cliffs, green forests, rata flowers,
Enchant their eyes, old Maui’s land,
At last, at last, the grateful band,
Behold, with all its woods and streams —
The sacred island of their dreams!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Leo”: “It pays ter look after yer
appearance,” said Stepper. “Once in
Bathurst I was gettin’ down the street
dressed like a man o’ means when a
youngster catches me be the arm. ‘Ere,
Mister,’ ’e says, ‘yer dropped this, didn’t
yer?’ an’ ’e pushes a wallet into me ’and.
“Yes!” I says, feelin’ in me inside pocket.
‘Thought so!’ ’e says, ‘though I didn’t
actchally see yer drop it. There was only
you an’ that old bloke goin’ across the
road when I seen it on the ground: an’
’e doesn’t look as if it could be ’is.’
‘Yes, it’s mine,’ I says, openin’ it, an’
struth! it’s crammed full o’ rustybacks
an’ fivers. I tosses the nipper a note
an’ I gets fer me life. Next day I see
in the paper where old Woolpack, who
gets round like as ’e ’adn’t a bob, is
advertisin’ fer the wallet.” “I s’pose,”
said Bleary, “ ’e ’ad a big reward ready
fer y’ when y’ took it back.” “I dare-
say ’e ’ad,” said Stepper.
$ * * *
“Retrod”: A lioness in South Perth
zoo having produced twin cubs, the
powers that be conducted a competition
to give the public a say in naming the
progeny. The consequent deluge of sug-
gestions included such majestic appel-
lations as Leo and Leone, Rex
and Regina and Max and
Maxine ; contemporary cogno-
mens like Decima and Don,
Elizabeth and George and even
Enid and Joe, and such delight-
ful designations as Castor and
Pollux, Swallow and Ariel and
Elizabeth and Nero. The judges
ignored them all, choosing
Grace and Noble, “in honor, not
only of Anglo - Australian
cricket, but of their own dig-
nity and charm.” It remains for
Taronga Park to take up the
glove by christening a couple of
macaws McCabe and McCor-
mick.
* * *
“Komediak”: Out timber-cut-
ting in the Otway forest (Vic.)
we were in a bad way when
tobacco supplies gave out. After
the usual argument Old Joe was
chosen to walk the 10 miles to
the nearest farmhouse and
’phone into town for the weed
to be sent out by the mailman
on his next trip. The line was
bad and Joe had trouble in get-
ting through, but finally suc-
ceeded in ordering three pounds
of flake-cut. Next afternoon the
parcel arrived ; after nearly two
days without a smoke the gang
were naturally short-tempered,
but their profanity on opening
it was a revelation. The mail-
man had got the message all right, but
instead of three pounds of flake-cut he
had brought three pounds of gummy-
shark, masquerading as “flake.”
“Absoballylutely the best servant I’ve ever had!”
“Drover”: Unable to endure his thirst,
our cook pulled out at a. W.Q. township,
and when we secured another who’d been
chef at the local pub we had visions of
tucker a little more appetising than salt-
beef and damper. The cattle were touchy,
and, living up to past nightly perform-
ances, they rushed off camp during the
second watch. After we’d collared the
mob and put it back on camp the boss
rode in to get the cook to prepare a
bit of a snack. “You blokes get yer
own; I’ve snatched it,” came a voice
from aloft. Our babbler had shinned up
a tree when the bullocks went and neither
threats nor jeers would entice him down.
He roosted in the tree-fork until day-
light.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: The taste lingers, but 1
starve for the substance. Has any coast-
bound Australian ever come across the
Fiji taro? I want to know of a shop
which purveys the vegetable. Minus
soup, the taro is a three-course meal —
bulamakow, bread and fruit salad. Kai
Vitis eat it three times a day, and they
need nothing else for perfect health,
strength and beauty.
j}s % *
“Rambler”: From the homestead of
a Murchison (W.A.) sheep-station we
watched smoke ascend on the eastern
horizon and grow until the flames must
have been eating through hundreds of
acres. But the owner remained unmoved.
“Spinifex,” was his explanation to the
city visitor, who had been expecting him
to rush off to the scene of the conflagra-
tion. “Do no harm ; might, in fact, give
the grass a chance to grow if we have
any rain.” “How do you know,” per-
sisted the cityite. The owner gave a
brief exposition on the distinctiveness of
smokes. Spinifex, being slightly resinous,
burns fiercely, generating a heat that sends
clouds of darkish smoke billowing almost
straight upward. Scrub, trees, etc., give
a darker smoke, but, generating a slower
heat, send their smoke clouds upwards
with a lazier, more rolling motion. Grass,
which means feed, and brings every avail-
able fire-fighter hurrying, gives only a
thin, light-colored smoke which disperses
quickly as it ascends. Knowing the dis-
tinctiveness of various smokes paves the
competent sheepman many unnecessary
journeys.
* * * *
“Puss-in-Boots”: Abos. of the War-
burton Ranges, in central Westralia,
place timber over wells and put a small
amount of water near by, which invari-
ably attracts the thirsty wild dog or emu.
In the water they soak goong-goong bush,
resembling saltbush and native to the
Ranges country. The goong-goong re-
leases a drug into the water potent
enough to kill small animals; two
minutes after drinking the prey is usually
stiffened alongside the pool. The native
rushes in and tears out the innards ; the
rest of the animal or bird, not being con-
taminated, is edible.
* * *
“Murrungurry”: A handsome but un-
sociable little beast is the red or ringtail
possum, which builds a dome-shaped,
birdlike nest in the fork of a tree. It
never frolics with its fellows in the even-
ing like the silver-greys, but is more
of a hatter. Many may be seen in the
bush with bedraggled ears, and some-
times with the ears half missing. A
selector caged two, intending to keep
them as pets. One was full-grown and
the other half-grown. From the first
they were as antagonistic as strange cats,
snarling and scratching at each other.
Tnside a week the big fellow had almost
torn the ears off the little chap. They
were then liberated —at different ends of
the paddock.
* * * *
“Williami”: Has any Aboliar ever seen
a dog that was the equal of a tame cat
"Now isn’t that astonishing? My horoscope said I’d meet a tall , dark
man in strange circumstances.”
in a fair duel? Have nevej known puss to
kill Fido, but, left to themselves in a
point-to-point go, the feline will always
beat the canine to a frazzle. A Mel-
bourne greyhound the other day fled for
assistance. He brought back two other
elevated hare-chasers and called on the
battle again with Thomas. Puss did not
go ingloriously to his last ditch, but the
greyhounds’ racing days are ended. Two
are wall-eyed and the third is lapping
warm milk and porridge. On latest ad-
vices he is not yet out of danger.
* * * *
“0.R.”: Beds? A cocky in the Vic.
snow country who planned a trapping
holiday was particular about his night’s
rest. His mattress spoke volumes for
the hay-producing qualities of the farm.
The monster was complete with a tail
about 3ft. long for turning up at the
foot of the bed ; this, the designer ex-
plained, was for extra warmth. After
much struggling the thing was tied up
with binder-twine and placed on the
dray ready for transport to the camp.
The cocky himself took the reins and
was standing in the front of the dray
when the big “tick” burst its bonds. It
sent him flying, and continued unravel-
ling along the horse’s back. The boss
collected a broken collarbone and the
horse and dray were stopped a mile from
the house, while the mattress was de-
posited against the cultivation-fence.
After providing a bed for all the dogs
on the place and an occasional feed for
the cow during the winter, the contents
were used to cover two acres of tomato
plants the following spring.
* * * *
“M. Bada”: Recently mentioned that
there is no word in any of the New
Guinea dialects meaning “thanks-.” Cor-
rection. The Motuan, most comprehen-
sive dialect of them all, has no exact
equivalent of the word, but the Suau
tongue contains the pleasant and liquid
“agutoi lai lai,” which means
“thanks very much.”
* * *
“Western”: An adult person
lost in the trackless wilderness
will invariably wander in a wide
circle ; but my experience is that
the lost child almost always
keeps to a fairly straight course,
walking right away from
searchers and help. I have had
two experiences bearing this out.
Over 30 years ago a six-year-old
wandered away from Kunanal-
ling, 25 miles north from Cool-
gardie. Trackers from all over
the then-populous goldfields
were assembled for the search,
which went on for weeks.
Months later the tiny remains
were found by a woodcutter in-
credible miles from home and
several miles beyond what had
been regarded as the absolute
limit of search. My other case
was that of a 10-year-old
strayed from a picnic party. He
was found, still alive, nearly 20
miles from starting point, and
undoubtedly would have wan-
dered farther only that he
struck the Kalgoorlie-Menzies
railway line. In both cases these
lost ones had walked straight
ahead from each day’s starting
point, though usually at a tan-
gent from the previous day’s
direction. A policeman with
half a dozen such searches to
his credit agrees with my observations. It
is this straight-ahead walking that so
often brings the matter of the lost child
to grim tragedy.
THE KILLER.
Slowly the years have drifted, on tides of time
allow,
Since from the river you broke that morning
long ago;
Your mates had churned the water to sullen
yellow foam,
Far and blue were the hills your- giant heart
called home.
And when they rode to head you, to turn you
to the herd,
All of the hills’ wild spirit that lived within you
stirred;
For when they reached your white flank you
swung as swivels swing,
Five hundred heads were lifted to hear your
challenge ring;
With wide white longhorns gleaming, and mad
with lust and hate
You caught the black horse broadside —the bay
mare swerved too late;
Three cruel times you gored her, and while
the good mare bled,
Away towards the foothills in headlong flight
you sped.
We knew you roamed the hills where long-
horns reigned as kings,
Grazing in hidden valleys and drinking at foam-
fed springs,
Till after three long years you left the scrub
again
That day the best of stockmen was with us
on the plain.
He rode to give you battle, his place was in
the lead
When from the camp at midnight thundered
the mad stampede.
The big horse raced beside you. He stooped
to grasp your tail—
You turned as lightning flickers—we heard the
chestnut wail,
An awful scream that echoed across the ridge
and plain
As the horse in mortal terror screamed out its
life in pain.
Then crashing through the timber with long-
horns dripping red,
Again towards the ranges you galloped from
the dead.
Deep in the hills we shot you, and there your
bleached bones lie,
Wide to the wind and weather beneath the
impartial sky;
But when upon the midnight the white mist
wreathes and clings,
Still on the ghostly ranges your savage chal-
lenge rings.
QUBENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House* 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Every Razor
Fully Guaranteed.
“BENGALL” RAZORS
Will Last
jor Years.
5410
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-ground Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable from All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. ’
Specially File-cut and
1764
Combining:
all the latest improvements,
gimpted for firm handling.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; .T. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
iWRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ing-s. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074.644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2J „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420,000 ..1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 24 p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 ..1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 .. .. 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ ~ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
This big pastoral, pastoral-finance and
merchandising organisation, which is
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
keeps on expanding by absorptions and
otherwise. During the last term it ac-
quired at unstated figures the stock-and-
station agency businesses of Pearson,
Rowe, Smith and Co., Melbourne (Vic.);
W. J. Hawthorne and Sons, South Graf-
ton, and E. F. Hodges, Parkes (N.S.W.);
the Mount Gambier business of P. Lear-
month and Co., and S. J. Stuckey and
Son, Millicent (S. Aus.). Trading condi-
tions were mixed. More wool was re-
ceived, but less was sold and there was
a heavy carry-forward, owing to with-
drawals in hope of a price recovery which
didn’t eventuate:
Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold. Forward, per Bale.t
1933.. 317.704 327,147 30,747 £ll 9 1
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 20 4 5
1935.. 307,048 253,841 61,935 12 13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301,598 292,873 19,205 20 14 2
1938.. 314,078 257,889’ 75,394 15 15 3
* Includes 25,525 bales burnt and appraised.
t For year to June 30.
For the 12 months to June 30 the drop
in the Australian average per bale was
£4 18s. lid., the figure for June being
£l3 ss. 7d. as against £l9 9s. Bd. a year
earlier. The chairman says:
We were fortunate in that the wool
from our stations was sold at the remun-
erative prices ruling at the commencement
of the season, and that our business is
well spread. Also, we have had the ad-
vantage of a good season in S. Aus. to
compensate for the drought in N. S.
Wales and elsewhere. The result, how-
ever, was assisted materially bv expansion
in our stock and land business.
The merchandising section expanded,
too.
What the co. missed on the swings it
picked up on the roundabouts. Gross
earnings were up £47,149:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5,000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5,000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2,500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2,500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2.000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62,553 3,000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3,000 98,188
1936.. 658,195 415,726 62,552 5,000 174,917
1937.. 725,511 456,290 62,552 10,000 196,669
1938.. 772,660 518,801 62,510 10.000 181.343.
The growth of £62,511 in exes, was
mainly on account of the new businesses
acquired, which have not yet had a
chance to contribute much to the pool.
After paying debenture interest and send-
ing £lO,OOO to the staff provident fund,
the amount available for distribution
among shareholders was £15,326 lighter
at 7.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
8.2, 7.2, 4, 8.1, 3.2, 2.6, 4.7, 9.5, 15.9
and 16.3 p.c. back to 1928. Owing to the
state of the wool market and the seasonal
outlook, a point was chipped off the div.
reducing it to 7 p.c. For the 20 years
to the close of accounts in 1929 divs.
averaged 15.8 p.c.; but conditions have
changed since, the average for the last
eight years being 5.5 p.c., lowest 2\ p.c.
and highest 8 p.c.
Owing to extension of the wool-selling
season and drought in certain areas, the
demand for accommodation from clients
increased toward the close of accounts:
1930. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,418,702 1,418,694 1,418,694 1,417,702
Sundry credi-
tors . . 1,309,696 536,904 621,921 858,692
Liquid assets 398,515 1,105,372 958,994 481,214
Advances .. 5,886,051 4,073,886 4,143,436 4,751,588
Pro perties
and stock 290,904 216,197 216,342 224,987
Premises,
etc. .'. 649,158 615,402 812,416 837.915
Other assets 166,564 142,008 174,328 219,823
The net addition to advances was
£608,152, premises were up £25,499 and
“other assets” increased by £45,495. To
meet the outlay liquids were drawn upon
for £477,280 and the co. leant upon
sundry creditors for an extra £236,771.
Still, trade creditors could see 11s. 2d.
of every pound coming to them in liquids
when the books closed, and the balance
and the debenture debt were more than
two and a half times covered by advances
alone.
As for the current term, recent rains
have relieved the outlook, though cold
weather now hampers the growth of
winter feed, and handfeeding continues
in parts of N. S. Wales. Prospects are
for a lighter and probably less well-
grown clip, but a better average price
than last season’s is hoped for, follow-
ing the new temporary trade agreement
with Japan, which has undertaken to
make two-thirds of its foreign wool pur-
chases in Australia. Its Australian pur-
chases are expected to amount to 350,000
bales or more.
The market for the scrip has mostly
followed the wool market, and the pound
shares, which fetched 355. 3d. a year
ago, are now priced at 28s. 9d. The
return at the lower figure is 4.8 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis, and each variation of
1 p.c. in the div. would affect the yield
by 0.6 p.c. The backing is 335. Bd. in
net tangibles.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
To- Nominal
wards Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£j £ £ £*
1931.. 4,392 Nil 4,392 4,392
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1,044 5,436
Loss. , Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2,436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7,947 17,283
and Ord.-^
1930.. 15,224 6Jp.c. = 5,819 9,405 7,878
Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 .. .. 9,357
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9,741 19,098
Share premiums, £21,739 .. . . 40,837
1938.. 41,258 10 p.c. = 22,453 18,805 59,642
Considering the patch of bad weather it
ran into at the start—it bought the
Waitemata brewery at Otahuhu, near
Auckland, and kicked off with an issued
capital of £75,000 in 1930 —this young-
ster has made extraordinary progress,
thanks to the popularity of its brew and
the management’s policy of keeping a
tight hold upon exes, and buying up
hotel freeholds and leaseholds, thus
widening and anchoring turnover, which
has stepped along in fine style as condi-
tions improved, employment increased
and spending became freer again. A re-
duction in the excise on beer from Is. 6d.
to Is. 3d. a gallon in 1934 also helped.
To finance expanding turnover £40,000
of 5 p.c. pref. capital (it advances with
the ords. beyond 5 p.c.) was gathered jn
the 1936 term. Then, during the next
12 months, two parcels of ords of 40,000
shares each were put out at premiums of
2s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. per share respectively,
and another 50,000 ords., which brought
with them £18,750 of share premiums,
were offered and snapped during the
period covered by the latest accounts. In
addition to the £81,312 of share and pre-
mium money gathered last year (part of
the money was in respect of an issue in
the previous term), the co. leant upon
sundry creditors for an extra £12,538,
went to its bankers for £59,425 and raised
a further £190,762 on mortgage:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £78,207 £108,582 £188,771 £248,344
Sundry creditors 9,575 18,084 33,995 46,533
Overdraft . . 19,226 - 59,425
Mortgages . . 48,680 239',442
Land and
buildings .. 11,405 16,177 111,553 438,277
Plant, etc. . . 31.885 47,487 89,149 135,260
Leaseholds, etc. 7,128 8,264 19,765 22,417
Stock.. .. 17,994 33,106 45,903 56,732
Sundry debtors 12,747 15,706 27,704 48,422
Cash, etc. . . 618 11,866 28,142
The new money went mainly into “land
and buildings,” chiefly hotel properties,
up £326,724. A new building to house
plant for the production of a continental
type of lager and installation of a new
system of storing and serving draught
beer in hotels at a cost of about £lOOO
per unit account for portion of the in-
crease. The net addition to the plant
item was £46,111, stocks were up £10,829
and debtors’ Balances £20,718. When
the books closed, the floating debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £BO4,
which increases to £240,246 on inclusion
of the mortgage. Including £1656 of
capital still to come in, there was 225. 3d.
of outside money at risk in the business
for every pound belonging to share-
holders.
For this co. the steep rise in costs in
the Dominion has been more than offset
by expanding turnover, following the
purchase of hotels already referred to,
growth of employment and lift in wages
and therefore spending-power. Last
term the spring in gross earnings
(£148,192) was £50,533. Including
£35,505 (up £11,505) set aside for the tax-
gatherer and an unspecified provision for
depreciation, exes. (£106,934) took
£31,314 of the increase, leaving the net
result (£41,258, up £19,219) at 18.4 p.c.
on average capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined), compared with 16.1, 17, 10.1 and
3.1 p.c. for the four preceding terms. The
div. (the first of p.c. was paid in 1936,
followed by 9 p.c. for 1937) was lifted a
point, making it 10 p.c.
Since the close of accounts nominal
capital has been increased to half a
million by creation of 250,000 new ords.
of £1 each. No harm would be done
if the div. was maintained at 10 p.c.,
more capital issued and the outside debt
reduced.
At 365. 6d. the pound ords. return 5.4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The well-
protected prefs. seldom come on to the
market. The net tangible backing is
255. Bd. ords. and £7 14s. 9d. prefs.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, Dividends ,
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
• £ £> £, £> £> "L
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929.. 11,011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums ,on new shares, £521 .. 41,996
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,101
12 p.c.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14.073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
174 p.c.
1935.. 18.984 2423 437 174., „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ ~ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937.. 18,937 2777 500 20 „ „ 4500 11,160 90,026
1938.. 32.463 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550114,570
The board doesn’t figure profits in quite
that way. The acting-chairman summed
up the results of the year’s operations
thus:
The year showed a satisfactory increase
in the volume of business. Unfortunately,
however, the continually increasing number
of motor-car accidents prevented profits in-
creasing in proportion to the volume of
insurance handled. Results this year had
shown that the increase in [premium] rates,
which took effect from August 1 last,
was quite justified. The profit was very
little greater than the previous year’s.
The profit claimed was £13,703 (up £393).
The difference between that figure and
the £32,463 shown in the table repre-
sents the inprease in the amount reserved
(total £53,899) for unearned premiums—
premiums actually received but the risks
in respect of which were still current
when the books were ruled off.
The volume of net premiums received
was easily the best yet, being £46,701
more than the previous year’s:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1927.. £83,028 £29,206 £38,370 35.2 p.c. 46.2 p.c.
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 ~ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1933.. 50,062 17,866 20,493 35.6 ~ 40.9 ~
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 40.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ 31.2
1936.. 73,982 34,252 23,376 46.3 ~ 31.6 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 „ 36.7 ~
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 „ 35.9 „
Although claims were up £19,415 and
exes, increased by £16,126, they took
approximately 30s. and 16s. respectively
less of each £lOO of net premiums than
in the previous term. The result was
a spring of £11,160 in the underwriting
surplus, £26,691. Interest, rents, etc.,
amounted to £5772 (up £2366), making
the excess of income from all sources
over actual outgoings and charges £32,463
(up £13,526), as shown in the introduc-
tory table. After deducting bonuses to
policyholders (£2913), the £29,550 that
remained was 118.2 p.c. on capital as
against 64.6, 72.1, 66.2, 5.6, 43.6 and
23.8 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was kept
at 20 p.c., and nearly five times as much
as was distributed was sent to reserves,
described as nominal in the table because
they include provision for unearned pre-
miums already referred to.
When the books closed, paid capital
was £25,000 in 5000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which advance with the ords. beyond
that rate, and 45,000 ords. The lot,
together with reserves, etc., and £32,405
coming to outsiders, was invested in
Government securities, etc., £97,320, cash,
etc., £21,407, book debts £14,087, free-
hold £48,548, and equipment £5llB.
Although policyholders could see net
tangibles equal to more than twice last
year’s losses, the ratio of net tangibles to
net premium income was only 103 p.c.,
and a bit more than that is usually looked
for. So those on the register (prefs. and
ords.) at March 15 last were offered
50,000 new £1 ords., one for one, at par.
These shares are to be called 10s. each,
payable 2s. 6d. at the beginning of May,
August, November and February. When
all the cash on this lot is in, paid
capital will be £50,000, on which
the profit claimed last year (£13,703)
was equal to 27.4 p.c., of which 11.5
p.c. was from investments and the bal-
ance underwriting.
At 335. the ords. return 6 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. on a 15
p.c. distribution. At the moment appear-
ances are that the co. will be able to
maintain a 20 p.c. distribution.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
. r _ Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
„ £ £ £ £ £
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. =25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
1929. . 46,976 12J „ ~31,250 4,290 11,436 259,892
1930.. 40,180 121 „ ~31,250 3,182 5,748 265,640
1931.. 17,572 10 „ ~25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 S „ ~20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934. . 27,070 8 „ „ 20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 „ ~20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 „ ~ 20,000 2,955 12,090 305,515
On the market buyers offer 395. for the
fully-paid pound shares, with sellers
standing off at 41s. At 40s. the return
on an 8 p.c. div. basis is 4 p.c., which is
a very satisfactory yield from a sound
stock with a strong liquid backing. The
net tangible cover is 445. 5d., all but
2s. Bd. of which is represented by the
(.“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


. FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY: This advertisement is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe for shares.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue at par of 1,000,000 5 Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each
in
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
of AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1915, of the State of Victoria.)
PAYABLE: 5/- per share on application; 5/- per share on allotment;
and the Balance by Instalments of
5/- per share on 31st January, 1939; 5/- per share on 31st July, 1939.
Provided that the applicant shall have the right to pay up shares in full on application or allotment, or at any time thereafter before 31st July, 1939, subject
to adjustment of any accrued dividend so that shares so paid up in full may rank equally in all respects with those issued as fully paid on allotment.
The dividend on the 5 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares will be payable half-yearly on 31st January and 31st July in each year. The first dividend will
be payable on 31st January, 1939, and will be calculated from the date of allotment to the date of payment.
Dividends will be payable free of exchange in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: 7,500,000 Shares of £1 each . . . £7,500,000
ISSUED CAPITAL:
3,732,569 Ordinary Shares of £l each, fully paid £3,732,569
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION:
1,000,000 5 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each £1,000,000
HELD IN RESERVE:
2,767,431 Shares of £l each £2,767,431
7,500,000
£7,500,000
There is no Debenture Stock or other Loan Capital outstanding.
THE WHOLE OF THE ABOVE ISSUE OF 1,000,000 5 PER CENT. PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 EACH, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF 12,000 SHARES
RESERVED FOR ALLOTMENT TO THE TRUSTEES OF THE STAFF PENSION FUND OF THE COMPANY, HAS BEEN UNDERWRITTEN FIRM BY J. B. WERE
AND SON; ACCORDINGLY NO SHARES WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR SUBSCRIPTION BY THE PUBLIC GENERALLY.
The Underwriters have agreed to make available from their firm allotment up to 43,500 shares for subscription by and allotment to the employees of the Company
and its subsidiaries.
DIRECTORS:
SIR HAROLD BEAUCHAMP, Kt., Wellington, New Zealand, Gentleman.
MALCOLM McCAUL BRODIE, 111 William Street, Melbourne, C.l, Merchant.
HAROLD GORDON DARLING, 44 King Street, Melbourne, C.l, Merchant.
SIR GEORGE ALFRED JULIUS, Kt., B.Sc., 8.E., Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
Engineer.
THE RT. HON. LORD McGOWAN of ARDEF.R, K.8.E., D.C.L., LL.D., Millbank,
London, Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries, Limited (England).
HAROLD JOHN MITCHELL, Millbank, London, President of Imperial Chemical
Industries, Limited (England).
JOHN GIBB NICHOLSON, Millbank, London, Director of Imperial Chemical
Industries, Limited (England).
SIR WILLIAM LENNON RAWS, Kt., C.8.E., 380 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l,
Chairman and Managing Director
JOHN ROGERS, 0.8. E., F.1.C., Millbank, London, Director of Imperial Chemical
Industries, Limited (England).
SIR ALEXANDER STEWART, Kt., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l, Engineer.
NORMAN TAYLOR, B.Sc., F.1.C., 380 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l, Chemical
Engineer
BENJAMIN EDWARD TODHUNTER, 0.8. E., Millbank, London, Director of
Imperial Chemical Industries, Limited (England).
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BANKERS TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES:
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
SOLICITORS:
BLAKE & RIGGALL,
120 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS TO THE UNDER-
WRITERS:
WHITING & BYRNE,
101 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUDITOR:
WILLIAM SHEARER PHILIP (of Flack & Flack),
Chartered Accountant (Australia), 128 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
CERTIFYING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THE ISSUE:
FLACK AND FLACK, Chartered Accountants
(Australia), 128 William Street, Melbourne, C.L
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE:
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
PERCY JOHNSON LEIGH,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON, Capel Court, 375 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office:
117 Pitt Street (B. Grennan, Manager).
London Office:
39 Lombard Street, E.C.3.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
LIMITED, in which a controlling interest is held by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited,
of England, is making a public issue of 1,000,000 5 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares
of £1 each to assist in financing the continuing growth of its business and the expansion of
its manufacturing operations in Australia. ■■
The Company conducts, either directly or through subsidiary companies, an extensive
business in the manufacture of chemicals, explosives, ammunition, leathercloth, and other
products, and in the distribution of chemical products and dye-stuffs produced by its
associates overseas. Through associated Australian companies it is also interested in the
non-ferrous metal, aircraft, fertiliser, paint and lacquer, and ammonia industries.
At present attention is being devoted to the establishment, through a subsidiary com-
pany, 1.C.1. Alkali (Australia) Proprietary Limited, of the alkali industry in South Australia.
Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited will shortly commence
the erection of a plant for the production of synthetic ammonia and nitric acid at its works
at Deer Park, Victoria. . .
The funds derived from the present issue will be applied to the financing of these
activities. . , _ .
The Company owns the whole of the capital in Brunner Mond & Company (Australasia)
Pty., Ltd., Nobel (Australasia) Pty., Ltd., Leathercloth Pty., Ltd., Industrial Chemicals Pty.,
Ltd., 1.C.1. Alkali (Australia) Pty., Ltd., Zanic Pty. Ltd., and Imperial Chemical Industries
(N.Z.), Ltd
A majority interest in the Company is held by Imperial Chemical Industries Limited,
of England, the balance being held mainly by Australian Glass Manufacturers Company,
Ltd., The Broken Hill Pty. Co., Ltd., Broken Hill South, Ltd., Commonwealth Fertilisers
and Chemicals, Ltd., Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd., North Broken Hill, Ltd.,
and The Zinc Corporation, Ltd.
THE COMPANY’S ASSOCIATION WITH IMPERIAL CHEMICAL
INDUSTRIES
Under an agreement with Imperial Chemical Industries, Limited, of England, the
Company is entitled to full and free information with regard to, and the right to use in
Australia and New Zealand, all present and future patents, inventions, secret and other
manufacturing processes, technical and other information in connection with the manufacture
and sale of a wide range of products manufactured by the operating groups of Imperial
Chemical Industries Limited, England. These include the major manufactures of the
explosives, metal, alkali, general chemical, fertiliser, and dye-stuffs groups, but exclude the
production of petrol by hydrogenation.
ACCOUNTANTS’ CERTIFICATE:
Messrs. Flack and Flack, Chartered Accountants (Australia), who conducted an inves-
tigation of the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries for the purposes
of this issue, have presented the following certificate:
We have examined the Books and Accounts of your Company and its wholly-owned
Subsidiaries for the five years ended 30th September, 1937, and certify that the combined
nett profits, after eliminating inter-company dividends and charging all working and general
expenses, providing for depreciation and income taxes payable, and making such adjustments
as are in our opinion appropriate, were as follows:
Year ended 30th September, 1933
Year ended 30th September, 1934
Year ended 30th September, 1935
Year ended 30th September, 1936
Year ended 30th September, 1937
128 William Street,
Melbourne, C. 1..
15th June, 1938
£201,738
£186,006
£223,353
£260,485
£328,436
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) FLACK AND FLACK,
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
NETT PROFIT
The Certificate of Messrs Flack and Flack, Chartered Accountants (Australia), shows
that the adjusted nett profit of Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand,
Limited, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, after making full provision for depreciation,
taxation, and all other charges, rose from £260,485 for the year ended 30th September, 1936,
to £328,436 for the year ended 30th September, 1937.
An expenditure of about £700,000 has already been incurred on the alkali works at
Port Adelaide, and this expenditure is at present unproductive. The alkali plant is expected
to commence operations in 1939. The installation of the ammonia synthesis plant at Deer
Park will be commenced at an early date, but the work will probably not be complete until
some time in 1940. Both plants, when in operation,. should increase the earnings of
the Company.
COVER FOR PREFERENCE DIVIDEND
On the basis of the nett profit of £328,436 of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries for the year ended 30th September, 1937, the annual requirement of £50,000
for the 5 per cent, dividend on the £1,000,000 of new Preference Capital would be covered
6.57 times, without allowing for the earning capacity of the new capital.
ASSETS BACKING FOR PREFERENCE SHARES
The Nett Tangible Assets of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries as at 30th
September, 1937, together with the proceeds of the present Preference issue of £1,000,000
less the estimated costs of the issue, would provide a nett tangible assets backing of
approximately £4/6/3 for each £1 of Preference Capital
In the above figure of £4/6/3, no value has been included for goodwill, patents, processes,
trade marks, etc., which are of very real value to the Company
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS
The Articles of Association of Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New
Zealand, Limited, are being altered to provide that the holders of the Preference Shares
shall be entitled in priority to the holders of all other classes of shares in the capital of
the Company whether present or future: —■
(a) TO be paid out of the profits of the Company from time to time made available
for distribution by way of dividend a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the
rate of Five per centum per annum on the capital from time to time paid up on
the Preference Shares held by them respectively, such dividend to be calculated
from the date of allotment and to be payable half-yearly on the 31st day of
January and the 31st day of July in each year, free of exchange in the capital City
of any State of the Commonwealth of Australia.
(b) TO repayment on a winding up of the capital paid up on the Preference Shares
field by them respectively, together with all arrears of dividend, whether earned or
declared or not, down to the date of such repayment; but shall not be entitled to
any further participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
VOTING RIGHTS
The holders of Preference Shares will have the same rights as the holders of Ordinary
Shares, to receive all notices, accounts, balance sheets, and reports issued by the Company,
and to attend at any General Meeting of the Company, but they will not be entitled to
vote at any such General Meeting in respect of their Preference Shares unless the dividend
thereon is in arrears for more than three months, or unless a Resolution is proposed for
reducing the capital of the Company or winding up or sanctioning the sale of the under-
taking of the Company, or a proposition is submitted to the meeting which directly affects
their rights and privileges.
RESTRICTION ON FURTHER SHARE ISSUES
No further shares ranking pari passu with, or in priority to, the present issue of
Preference Shares will be issued except with the sanction of the holders of at least three-
fourths of such shares for the time being issued.
MODIFICATION OF RIGHTS
The rights and privileges attached to the Preference Shares will not be subject to modi-
fication, abrogation, or alteration, except with the sanction of the holders of at least three-
fourths of the Preference Shares for the time being issued; nor will any repayment of
Preference Capital be made otherwise than on a liquidation without a like sanction.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Application will be made as soon as practicable to the Stock Exchanges in all the
Capital Cities of Australia for official quotation of the Preference Shares.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 1,000,000
shares, being the whole of the present issue.
The requirements of the Companies Acts relating to Prospectuses have not been fully
complied with in this Abridged Prospectus, and applications will proceed only upon one of
the forms of application annexed to a printed copy of the full Prospectus, which is dated
7th July, 1938. A copy of the full Prospectus has been filed for registration with the
Registrar General of the State of Victoria. Duly certified copies thereof have also been filed
with the Registrar General of New South Wales, who takes no responsibility as to its
contents, and with the Registrar of Companies of the State of South Australia.
Copies of the full Prospectus, to which forms of application are attached, may be
obtained at the Registered Office of the Company, but, as already Stated, the whole of the
shares of the present issue, with the exception of 12,000 shares reserved for allotment to
the Trustees of the Staff Pension Fund of the Company, has been underwritten firm.
Accordingly, no shares will be available for subscription by the public generally.


r.injiimm'tiiiiiii
'I
;p
£l2O A YEAR
when you are 55
YOUNG man, here is good news for you.
It is really old news, but you may not have heard about it.
Through the A.M.P. Society you can arrange (for a very
small weekly or monthly investment) to have an income of your
own for life when you reach 55.
Let us suppose that you will be 24 next birthday. For an
investment equal to less than 12/- a week you can take out
an A.M.P. policy for £l,OOO, payable at 55. If you should
die the next day you would then leave an estate of £lOOO. If
you should die in ten, twenty years’ time, the estate will have
grown greatly with bonuses. If you should live to 55, the £lOOO,
plus bonuses (possibly £1750 altogether), will be available to
you in a lump sum, or as a life annuity of something like £lO
a month.
A stout plan. . A plan worthy of the consideration of every
young man. There’s an A.M.P. office near you. Ask that a man
be sent to talk this offer over with you. Don’t delay. The
younger you are the less you will need to invest.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
NOBELa
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety * Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirlc & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Eederal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEKHAN, TAS.: J. S. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Daigety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
more or less liquid surplus. But duplicate
taxation, especially heavy probate duties,
makes Queensland stocks unattractive to
investors in the other States.
Here is a more detailed view of the
attractive position of the finances: —
IQSO -joo.-f IQIfi
Pfid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 36,115 33',068 51,425 52,615
Stock.. .. 208,298 135,930 144,754 147,811
Book debts .. 76,095 38,364 82,705 72,415
Cash .. .. 63,676 47,122 25,291 47,080
Freeholds and | f
Investments .. J ( 309,471 308,139 307'538
Despite the decline in wool prices and
severe drought in parts of the Thompson
and Barcoo districts, where the sheep
(those left alive) have been removed to
agistment country, debtors’ balances were
£10,290 lighter than at the previous bal-
ance, and the cash holding was strength-
ened by £21,789. Including stocks (up
£3507), the more or less liquid surplus
was £12,765 stronger at £522,229, or
41s. 9d. per share. Cash and investments
(mainly Government securities) together
were equal to 28s. 4d. per share. What-
ever capital expenditure was involved in
the recent extension of activities of the
Brisbane and Sydney branches to the
manufacture and packing of groceries
and foodstuffs seems to have been more
than met out of earnings. The co. is
obviously well equipped to further
enlarge its trading and/or return part of
its capital.
The co. is in the general merchandising
and agency business, with headquarters
at Rockhampton and strong connections
in central and far-western Queensland,
Earnings, therefore, are governed partly
by conditions in the pastoral industry,
Ever since the trouble in the ’nineties the
policy of those in control has been to
build up strength, visible and otherwise,
with results already indicated.
Appearances are that half, or nearly
half, the 8 p.c. div. comes from invest-
ments outside the business. Also, since the
beginning of this century, paid capital
has advanced from £93,750 to its present
figure (£250,000) with the aid of only
£11,250 of cash subscriptions ; and at the
end of May last reserves were heaped
£55,515 higher than paid capital.
The spring in gross earnings for the
iast term was £5883:
Gross
Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456
1930.. 124.241 84,061
1931.. 92,044 74,472
1932.. 88.163 00,413
1933.. 81,298 57,882
Gross
Profit. Exes.
1934.. £82,440 £55,370
1935.. 87,653 56,315
1930.. 87,592 55,789
1937.. 95,208 62,140
1938.. 101,091 65,446
Including an unspecified provision for
taxation and bad debts, exes, took £3306
of the increase, leaving the net result
(up £2577) at 14.2 p.c. on capital, as
against 13.2, 12.7, 12.5, 10.8, 9.3, 11.1,
6.4 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1930. The
cautious board kept the div. at 8 p.c.;
for 20 years to the close of accounts in
1932 it was steady at 10 p.c., sweetened
with a 24- p.c. bonus during the fattest
periods.
Although the outlook at the moment
is not so bright as it was a year ago,
the margin between earnings and dis-
tributions is wide, and shareholders’ pros-
pects continue to look rosy.
£1,000,000 5 p.c. Pref. Issue
Imperial Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, Ltd. (paid capi-
tal £3,732,569), is making a public issue
of 1,000,000 £l5 p.c. cum. prefs. at par.
The money is wanted to put up works
to turn out synthetic ammonia and nitric
acid, etc., at Deer Park (Vic.) at an esti-
mated cost of £400,000, and to provide
£557,000 toward the cost of new alkali
works now being erected at Port Adel-
aide (S. Aus.) by a subsidiary, 1.C.1.
Alkali (Aust.) Pty. The other £43,000
is to cover the estimated cost of the issue
(approximately lOd. per share), including
underwriting.
Excepting 12,000 shares reserved for
allotment to the co.’s staff pension fund,
the issue has been underwritten and taken
firm by J. B. Were and Son, the Mel-
bourne stock- and sharebrokers, at an
underwriting commission of 9d. per share
(=£37,050). The co. is therefore not
asking for applications from the public
direct; those desiring to take up portion
of the issue should apply to the under-
writers.
The rights attaching to the shares are
a fixed cumulative 5 p.c. (a trifle more
than the yield obtainable from most
front-rank pref. Shares on the market),
and, in the event of a wind-up, priority
as to capital and arrears of divs., if any,
whether earned or declared or not. Voting
rights are restricted to proposals directly
affecting the privileges of the present
issue, reduction of the co.’s capital, sale
of the undertaking, or should the dividend
fall three or more months into arrears.
Further, the said pref. rights and privi-
leges cannot be altered, nor part or all
of the capital be returned (except in a
wind-up), nor new shares issued ranking
pari passu with, or in priority to, the
prefs. now offered, without the consent
of at least three-fourths of the holders
thereof.
For the last three years the co. has
paid a steady 8 p.c. After providing for
contingencies, profit claimed for the 12
months to Sept. 30 last was £321,189 as
against £230,503 and £178,303 for the
two preceding terms. Including the un-
distributed profits of the subsidiaries, net
earnings of the organisation last year
were £328,436, compared with £260,485
and £223,353 for 1936 and 1935 respec-
tively. The consolidated balance-sheet of
the co. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries
showed paid capital, £3,732,569 ; reserves
and undistributed profits, £269,009 ; cur-
rent liabilities, £311,319. Property, plant,
etc., figured at £1,086,152; investments
in associated cos., £711,270; stocks,
£1,020,181 ; debtors, £458,076 ; Govern-
ment securities, etc., £11,967; cash.
£377,673 ; goodwill, etc., £647,578. In-
cluding the present issue, the net tangible
backing for the prefs. is £4 6s. 3d. per
share, and their annual requirements
were over 6i times covered by last year’s
net earnings of the organisation that
leaves out of the reckoning any return
from the new capital, which can be ex-
pected to earn its keep, and probably
more.
The co., registered in Vic. at the end
of May, 1928, is an offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co., Eng-
land, which holds a controlling interest
in the business. The rest of the ord.
capital is held by Australian Glass, B.H.
Prop., B.H. South, North 8.H., Zinc
Corp., Electrolytic Zinc and Common-
wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals. The
activities of the co. and its associates
embrace manufacture and/or distribution
of explosives, chemicals, dyestuffs,
leathercloth, fertiliser, ammonia, paint,
aircraft, etc. It owns all the shares in
the following cos., whose paid capitals
are shown in parentheses: Brunner
Mond (Aus.) Pty. (£150,000), Nobel Aus.
Pty. (£1,236,226), Industrial Chemicals
Pty. (£250,000), Leathercloth Pty.
(£400,000), 1.C.1. Alkali Pty. (£700,000
to be increased to approximately
£1,250,000), Zanic Pty. (£7000), and
1.C.1. (N.Z.), Ltd. (£200). In addition
jt has substantial share interests in a
dozen or more other Australian manu-
facturing concerns.
_ The new factory in S. Aus., capacity
50,000 tons of alkalis per annum, will
turn out caustic soda, soda ash, washing
and cooking soda and other alkalis, and
give employment to about 400 persons.
Salt, obtained from sea-water by solar
evaporation, will be the main raw
material. Production is expected to begin
during the last half of 1939. The new
explosives factory at Deer Park, impor-
tant from a defence point of view, is
expected to start production early in
1940.
English parent co. (paid capital
£74,202,683) and its associates in Aus-
tralia, S. Africa, Canada and India are
the principal factor in the heavy chemi-
cals business throughout the British
Empire.
When its reconstructed and electrified
plant sets in again towards the end of
this year, Kundang Tin, Selangor
(F.M.S.), hopes for a change of luck.
Cost of the alterations was estimated at
between £35,000 and £40,000. At the
end of December last the co. had £14,670
in cash, and, to meet the balance of the
outlay, has arranged to borrow up to
£lB,OOO at 6 p.c. The £lB,OOO is likely to
stand in the way of any early distribu-
tions to shareholders, who have had a
disappointing trot to date. The co.
formed in 1927 to take over 20,000,000 '
c.y. estimated to average 0.751 b. t.o.
Ground dredged to the cessation of opera-
tions in 1931 was bored to average 0.981 b.
t. 0., but recoveries were only 0.5831 b., or
59.4 p.c. of bore values. Original boring
of the remainder indicated 0.6271 b.
values, but checkboring gave only 0.361 b.
In a trial run last term 567,000 c.y. was
turned over to July at a cost of 4.58 d.
per c.y. for an average recovery of 0.271 b.
t.o. The year’s profit was £lBB7. Much
depends on what the reconstructed plant
can accomplish in regard to costs, at
present high, and recoveries—the tin is
particularly fine —and on the trend of
metal prices, to which earnings will be
particularly susceptible on account of the
low-grade wash. Electric power is to be
obtained from Rawang Tin, which is
working the adjoining property. Capital
is £125,000 in £1 shares, priced around
7s. 6d. in the sharemarket. Twelve
months ago dredging reserves were esti-
mated at £20,000,000 c.y., recoverable
content 3000 tons t. 0., assuming a 92
р. recovery.
* * * *
Malcolm Newman, just back from
Return Creek, Herberton, N.Q., reports
good progress with Tableland Tin, N.L.’s,
constructional programme. So far over
£34,000 has been laid out in connection
with the workshop and equipment, quar-
ters, railway sidings and power plant,
and a further expenditure of £ll,OOO has
been budgeted for to complete the last-
named. By the time the old Return
Creek co.’s reconditioned dredge is
started up, £27,000 will have been spent
on water supply, including preparation
for the big dam, work on which has been
suspended till after the wet season. The
small dredge, which will have an effective
digging depth of 55ft., is expected to set
in when rains fill the existing dams (stor-
age capacity 200,000,000 gallons) in
October. This unit and the water
supply will have entailed an outlay of
£50,000, but with tin around present
levels it is expected to earn profits of
between £40,000 and £50,000 p.a. on
production of from 30 to 40 tons
t.o. monthly, which should help pay
for the big 4,000,000-c.y.-yearly dredge,
plans for which are now being finalised.
Close-boring ahead of where opening out
will take place has indicated wash going
over lib. t.o. per c.y., which is consider-
ably better than values shown on the
prospectus plan. Proceeds of the fourth
call (making the £1 shares paid to 12s.
6d.) and sale of forfeited shares, most of
which have been disposed of, are ex-
pected to provide sufficient funds to com-
mence production with No. 1 plant. Con-
cerning the big dredge, reduced prices
and better deliveries than those ruling 12
months ago now seem indicated. The
prospectus mentioned at least 73,000,000
с. of wash.
* * $ *
“Throgmorton”: Claude de Bernales
(chairman) told shareholders of a new


KOSCIUSKO
Spring Snow Tours
Leave Sydney Friday,
September 16, 23, 30; October 7, 14, 21, 28 .
£915 /-
Covers Every Incidental Expense .
CARNIVAL EVERY WEEK
SPECIAL CARNIVAL ON
EIGHT HOUR DAY
Ask for Free Pictorial Folder .
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House, Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising.
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
GOLDSBROUGH MORT & COY. LTD.
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
June 29, 1938
Mr. K. M. NIALL, Chairman.
I regret to say, since our Annual Meeting last year,
we have lost two valuable Colleagues- —Mr. It. H.
Meares, who was a member of our Board of Advice
in Sydney, and Major L. A. Lewis, who was on our
Adelaide Board as well as being the Manager of our
South Australian business. Mr. Meares was an ex-
perienced pastoralist who took a lively interest in
the Company’s concerns, and, for personal as well
as business reasons, his loss is very much felt by the
Sydney Management as well as by ourselves. Major
Lewis was not only a most able and energetic
Manager with an exceptional aptitude for supervision
of the business and Branches entrusted to him, but
he was also very closely associated with the Pastoral
interests of Stouth Australia. At the time of his
death he held the position of President of the Stock-
owners’ Association of South Australia', and his death
will be keenly felt by all who knew him.
To fill the vacancy causied by the death of Major
Lewis, the Board have appointed Mr. W. E. M.
Campbell to be Manager of Adelaide Office. Mr.
Campbell was for many years the Company’s Pastoral
Inspector for the Western Riverina and West Darling
country and is already very well known to many of
our South Australian clients. More recently he has
occupied the post of Sub-Manager at Melbourne.
SIR FREDERICK H. TOUT: I am pleased to
advise that Sir Frederick H. Tout has accepted a
seat on our Sydney Advisory Board. Sir Frederick
Tout is a well-known figure in Pastoral and Financial
circles, and I am sure you will be glad to know
that our Sydney Management is to have the benefit
of his wide experience, particularly as New South
Wales—from the Wool Broking point of view—is the
most important of all the States.
Dealing with the business of the Meeting, I will
first refer to the main fluctuations in the Balance-
sheet. On the Liabilities side: —•
SUNDRY CREDITORS at £701,629/5/11 show
an increase of £161,277, principally due to an
increased liability to our Bankers against which we
held deposits totalling £136,500 which have since
matured.
On the Assets side:—
CASH, DEPOSITS AND GOVERNMENT
DEBENTURES totalling £370,505/7/5 show a
reduction of £476,152. This is due in part to the
growth of business, but in the main to heavy
demands of our Clients consequent on the extension
of the wool selling season and on their increased
requirements to meet drought expenses in certain
areas.
ADVANCES, £4,751,588/8/3. The increase here
is £608,152, which is explained by my previous
remarks relative to the cash position.
FREEHOED AND EEASEHOED BUSINESS
PREMISES, £837,914/16/1, shows an increase of
£25,499, due to the purchase for our Branch busi-
nesses of various properties mostly in the country
district of South Australia, and also to the acquisi-
tion of land at Tottenham, Victoria, which we con-
sidered it desirable to secure for future expansion.
MERCHANDISE, £102,067/6/7, is higher by
£24,195. Our business in this section, I am pleased
to say, is healthy and growing, which accounts for
this increase. ,
PROFIT AND EOSS. Gross Profit for the past
year amounted to £772,659/12/5 which is an in-
crease of £47,149. This was achieved despite the
fact that 34,984 bales less wool were handled during
the period and at lower prices. I may say we were
fortunate in that the wool from our Stations was
sold at the remunerative prices ruling at the com-
mencement of the Season and that our business is
well spread and we have had the advantage of a
good season in South Australia to compensate for
the drought in New South Wales and elsewhere. The
result however was assisted materially by expansion
in our Stock and Land business.
EXPENDITURE, £581,317/0/3 is higher by
£62,476, accounted for by the increased activity
in our Stock and Land section referred to above, and
substantial additions to our Staff, consequent upon
the acquisition of new businesses mentioned in the
Annual Report. Increased taxation also accounts for
£6,492.
DIVIDEND. The net profit, £191,342/12/2',
although lower by £15,327, is considered satisfac-
tory in view of all the circumstances. Having regard,
however, to this reduction in net profit, the state
of the wool market, and the unsatisfactory seasonal
outlook in certain large and important areas, your
Directors decided to recommend a final dividend cf
5% to shareholders in lieu of the 6% recommended
last year.
THE WOOE MARKET: The 1937-38 wool
season must be regarded as an unfavorable one, as
the c-lip was marketed during a period of unusually
disturbed and uncertain world economic conditions,
and values ruling during the major portion of the
selling period provided little, and in some eases no
margin of profit for the producer.
After an exposition of the course of the market
and the demand from the various wool-using
countries, Mr. Niall continued.
It will be recalled that the trade agreement reached
between the Commonwealth and Japanese Govern-
ments in December, 1936. provided that the latter
would permit of the importation of 800,000 bales
of Australian wool into Japan for the 18 months
ending to-morrow, but owing to the restriction of
overseas credit and Government control of imports
of wool, purchases were disappointing and will not
reach by a wide margin the quantities permitted
under the Agreement.
It is hoped that, before the commencement of
next season’s sales, a further agreement will be reached
with the Japanese Government, which will permit of
more extensive and regular purchases being made
by Japan throughout the season.
Whilst the fundamental position of the staple
appears sound, and the decrease in the growing clip
should give strength to the position, the market
tendency remains uncertain, and material improve-
ment largely depends on a restoration of confidence
in world markets, and on a removal or modification
of trade and exchange- restrictions:
Unfortunately, in seasons such as the present, dis-
cussion occurs in regard to schemes which have as
their objective the fixation of a minimum resene
price for wool. Such proposals are fraught with
danger, and may result in the restriction of the free
flow of wool into consumers’' hands, and ultimately
cause a serious accumulation of stocks in the primary
market. They would also contribute towards the
increased use of artificial fibres, which are already a
very serious competitor with wool.
It has to be borne in mind that the speeding up
of communications over recent years means that users
are closer to their supplies of raw material, and low
stocks in hand may not, therefore, have the same
significance as a few years ago—so far as the
statistical position is concerned.
Mr. Niall then referred to the seasonal conditions
resulting in the various States and added: —
Whilst generally throughout Australia the outlook
has considerably improved as compared with the
beginning of the year, it must be borne in mind
that cold frosty weather is setting in, and that the
growth of feed from the rains of a few days ago
may be disappointing. Handfeeding, particularly
in New South Wales, has for many months been
resorted. to, and in many areas must still continue,
at least to a modified degree. The Autumn lambing
in that State has been a failure and heavy mortality
amongst the grown sheep, when counted at shearing,
is inevitable. Realising that New South Wales
carries approximately one half of the total sheep
of Australia, this is a matter of very grave concern.
As regards the Company’s own properties, condi-
tions on COrinda in Queensland have been good
throughout. Our New South Wales properties, how-
ever, have suffered drought conditions since January,
necessitating limited handfeeding, but all have now
had temporary relief.
Owing to the drought conditions which have
existed, .1 am pleased to say that the rabbit and
blowfly pest have been less in evidence than for
a long time past.
At the conclusion of the Chairman’s speech the
'ollowing General Observations, inter alia, were made:
GENERAE: Following the greatly reduced in-
come from this country’s main product it is wise
to anticipate repercussions on other industries and
a reduced spending power generally during the
current year. There is always a lag in these
sequences, however, which is unfortunate, _ for it
prevents prompt adjustments in costs. This con-
cerns our Company very considerably at the moment,
because we have to bear a good deal of tne brunt
in cases, common under existing conditions, when
outgoings of our clients exceed income. Banks and
other financial houses, no doubt, face a similar
situation, and, bearing in mind the heavy commit-
ments of this country in the matters of Defence
and National Insurance, and also a very large Corn
moinvealth Conversion operation, I do not think I am
being unduly pessimistic if I forecast a somewhat
difficult year.
It is not my particular province to deal with
Banking matters, but it does seem —judging from om
own experience—that the Banks are likely to have
fairly heavy demands made upon them during the
lag period to which I have referred, and I sincerely
hope, therefore, that no inroads are made on then
Reserves at this juncture, by any compulsory trans-
fers to the Commonwealth Bank, such as are recom
mended by the Royal Commission. Primary pro-
ducers and industrialists alike, largely depend upon
the trading Banks for their individual wants, and,
from their experience in the past, they know the
trading Banks can tide them over the lean period
which occurs through the incidence of unfavorable
export prices or poor seasons. This knowledge, cn—
ables them to proceed with their avocations in a
spirit of confidence and it would seem to me to be
a most unfortunate happening if such confidence is
in any way disturbed.
and more valuable Great Boulder at the
recent annual meeting in London. Last
year ore reserves were substantially in-
creased, nearly 2s. sd. a ton was chipped
off costs, and three new finds of major
importance were made. Profit at
£73,553 was £13,500 down, due to in-
creased outlay on reconditioning existing
shafts to previously disused levels, and to
provision for depreciation of plant in-
stalled during the year, and which didn’t
come into operation until after the close
of accounts. The first of the new finds
was No. 9 lode on the 1650 ft. and
1800 ft. levels of Hamilton’s workings in
an area previously unexplored. The
gold shoot, of good size and grade,
showed indications of persistence. The
second find was a new lode in the main
workings at the 2650 ft. level. It contains
high-grade ore and is exposed at the low-
est present level in the mine. No. 3 find
was the two additional caunter lodes
close to the old Boulder main reef. Each
is long and narrow but high-grade. The
chairman predicted expanded produc-
tion, increased dividends, further addi-
tions to ore reserves and lower costs for
the current year. When the mine was
floated 44 years ago it was labelled a
wild cat; the shares fell to a low figure,
and the directors were urged to abandon
the venture. Since then £6,495,340 has
been distributed in divs which ceased
to flow from 1924 to 1928, during which
time tnbutors picked the eyes out of what
remained in the mine. When it appeared
to be on its last legs, the gold bounty
and the rise in the price of the metal
gave the co. an entirely new lease of life,
and divs have been paid annually for
the last decade, and seem likely to con-
tinue for many years yet. The co. will
presently start an important diamond-
drilling campaign from Lake View and
Star into Great Boulder ground, and per-
mission has also been obtained to extend
a drive from the 1400 ft. level of Lake
View into Boulder s property.
* * * *
Lake View South (W.A.) was reck-
oned in the early days of Kalgoorlie to
be in one of the best positions at the
south end of the Golden Mile. Still, it
broke a London co. in the booming ’nine-
ties and after, and was later a source
of expense and worry to others. How-
ever, the late Dr. Laver had great faith
in it, and from him the show was ac-
quired by the Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
Ltd. A co. was formed in 1935 with a
capital of £60,000 in 240,000 ss. shares,
The doctor was handed 80,000 paids and
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie took the re-
mainder at par. Latest accounts show
a loss of £465, and the financial position
is nothing to hallelujah about. Directors
report that a diamond drill has inter-
sected the upward continuation of the
west lode above No. 2 level, and that
leading stopes on the east and west are
showing improved values.
* * * *
London backers of Herman Mandel-
stam are reported to have paid a deposit
on Ingliston Consols Extended (W.A.)
which has yielded most of Meekatharra’s
gold production to date. A number of
adjacent blocks, on and off “the line,”
which were forfeited a few months ago,
have been repegged by their representa-
tives.
* * * * *
The treatment plant at Mt. Jackson, a
Westralian gold-mining venture which in
the last year or two singed the fingers
of the bulls in Perth, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, has temporarily shut down be-
cause returns have fallen far short of
estimates. The Mines Department has
been asked to allow one of its officials
to report on the property. About 18
months ago the co. announced that
regular profits would be obtained “from
now on.”
* * * *
On July 29 London-controlled South
Kalgurli Consolidated (W.A.) will send
out in sterling 2s. 3d. (Is. 6d. div. and 9d.
bonus) per ss. share, making total dis-
tribution for the year to the end of
March last 3s. 3d. as against 2s. and
3s. 6d. for the two preceding terms. From
the 2s. 3d. an unstated amount of British
income tax has to be deducted.
* * * *
A platoon of Swan Bitter workers has
arrived at Mt. Magnet (W.A.) and started
digging on the Broken Bond, over which
the co. holds an option. The property
adjoins the old Morning Star, which
shone brightly in the early ’nineties. Later
its light dimmed, and finally went out.
* * * *
Westralian odds and ends: Bullfinch,
which has had scarcely any-publicity for
years, and which nowadays is subdivided
into claims worked by different parties,
is still on the gold-producing list, and
seems likely to remain there for some
time Lady Shenton’s development
continues to expose patches of wealth
of limited extent Blue Bird* continues
to lay golden eggs. The last two years’
lot fetched about £50,000 Perth-
controlled Mt. Ida, Ltd., is steadily ad-
. . j ’ , T ocf
vancmg toward regular producti .
crushing was 400 tons of low-grade dump
Stuff for a vield over the plates of bullion
i J t Af in « tnns
Valued at £563. Treatment Ot
a day is expected by the beginning of
t j
• y *
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.L.P.: Co. will send out 3d. per share
on Julv 20 T ast nrevious distribution. 4-Id. per
nju y zu. Last previous n * * „[
share in October, 1937... .H.H.: (1) the nrst
two seem to have more speculative possibili-
ties than the rest. (2) When the price ranges
from 15s. to 255. the commission is 4d. per
share, and from 255. to 30s. sd. per share....
at. TT i j oanitol nnnrp-
A.T.: Hold both; fair prospects capital appre-
ciation in a few months W.J.S.: It was a
speculative statement Specker: (1) Reedy
Creek (Vic.). (2) Area contains 18,000,000
c.y. of wash, averaging Bd. per yard, with gold
at £8 and tin concentrates at £175. (3) Yes.
(4) Values occur on five floors at depths of
30ft., 50ft., 70ft., 90ft. and 220 ft. (5) Dredge
digs to 90ft. with 12-C.f. buckets; annual capa-
city, 2,000,000 c.y L.W.V. : Cannot say
how long you may have to wait for benefits,
but the co. should show the best return in
the long run F.C.A. and N.L.W.: Shares
are a gamble. All that can be said definitely
is that geological prospects are favorable
E.M.: (1) In Maoriland sellers ask ss. 9d.
for the ords. and 16s. for the prefs., both of
£1 each, without attracting buyers. (2) No.


A
A
m
D'Wi
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceeds £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district,
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY If. lIEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 400 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and N<>iv Zealand.
Australian Drug.
At 12s. 9d. Australian Drug
ords. return £6 7s. per cent, on
last year’s (4 p.c.) div. basis, and
in view of the shareholding in Drug
Houses of Australia the scrip is
interesting.
Patents.
A LOCAL ANAESTHETIC AND
PROCESS OF MAKING IT.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7973/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
BALL JOINT.
The Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
26933/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable fr'&m Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The “Mystery” Market
Sharemarkets have taken a turn for the
better in Australia, and good industrial
slocks in a number of cases have settled
in price midway between early-1938 aver-
ages and the low point touched on June
18. British Tobacco is an instance; sell-
ing around 50s. for some time, quotes for
the shares went below 455. for awhile ;
present price is around 475. 6d. British
Tobacco is representative of the average
of industrial shares in this regard.
Our base-metal stocks are particularly
subject to what is at present known in
New York as the “mystery bull market”
—no one can certify to the real reasons
lor the upward surge in share-prices on
Wall-street. The Wall-street influence
has helped to put up the price of base
metals, and consequently quotes for Aus-
tralian Barriers and Mt. Lyell. Though
even that section of Americans who are
apprised of the unhappy immediate pros-
pects of U.S.A. industry can tag no defi-
nite cause to the “mystery bull market”
in their own country, there are some
people who are hoping that, though the
present upward movement may be illogi-
cal on the evidence available, it may be
tending to catch up with logic ; in other
words, that the low point touched in
the downward swing wasn’t warranted,
and that stocks all this time have been
really worth more.
It was the gold-price scare of April,
1937—it, too, started from New York —
that tipped booming prices of all man-
ner of commodities and shares off their
balance. The rumored reduction in the
price of gold didn’t occur, but did prices
stop falling? Not on your life. They
had been too high before, and they kept
sliding for just over twelve months; and
only after lead and spelter had sunk to
the lowest point since the worst of the
depression was there any sign of recovery.
It has been the opinion here for a long
time that if business in the U.S.A. and
France could regain confidence world
trade would quickly benefit. Politics
have a lot to answer for in both coun-
tries. That is why such stocks as Zinc
Corp., B.H.P. and Mt. Lyell were spoken
for when down so heavily recently; Aus-
tralia, even if costs are tending to rise, is
still in good mechanical order to respond
to increased world spending povyer.
Though the U.S.A. and France are in
poor shape even yet, especially as regards
employment, and indexes of share-prices
from New York are still likely to be
temperamental, any tendency to abandon
experimental economic government
should aid a general return of confidence.
So far as Britain is concerned, there, as in
Australia, there is a pressing need for
keeping costs down.
■—:
when metals were up in early 1937 the
shares in New Broken Hill Consolidated,
a promising Barrier concern in which
Zinc Corp. has a large interest, were
quoted as high as 265. They have been
below 13s. since, falling as metals fell,
yet during the same time the mine hasn’t
produced half an ounce of metal to be
sold at any price. Lately the scrip re-
covered swiftly to 18s. 6d. mainly for the
reason that lead and spelter were higher
for the time being and other Barrier
stocks were up. Irrespective of whether
N.B.H. shares are now too high or too
low, the wide fluctuations in the shares
of this non-producing mine illustrate the
futility of an investor worrying about
day-to-day fluctuations in metal prices,
The system of giving much weight to
“Your missus says Lawyer Treliving's going to Write y'r will for ’ee,
Tummas.'
“Does she , dang ’ er? Time 'nuff to think o’ that when Ah’m dead!"
fluctuations would seem to have been
introduced by people who buy and sell
shares on commission. Fluctuating prices
encourage speculative buying and selling.
f * =l= *
The leases of Barrier South, Ltd., in
which New Broken Hill Consolidated
owns most of the shares, are being passed
on to N.8.H., and the old South co. is
in liquidation. Zinc Corp.’s new main
(Freeman) shaft is expected to be down
to the 15th level by January next; No.
11 level has been reached. An arrange-
ment has been made with N.B.H. Consol
for the joint equipment and operation
of the adjoining sections of the leases,
and already Zinc’s main south drive on
No. 12 level has been advanced nearly
300 ft. into the N.B.H. property. N.B.H.
has handed Zinc Corp. £lOO,OOO sterling
as a provisional payment under the
operating agreement.
*i* * *
Good results are looked for from
Bradford Cotton, Mauri Bros, and
Thomson, Kandos Cement and Austra-
lian Cement (though these cos. have an
operating co. that doesn’t pass on every-
thing), Broken Hill Prop., and the brown-
paper cos. when accounts come to hand
shortly. Wool broking concerns 'will show
reductions, and. retailers may have only
slightly-improved or even poorer results
to exhibit. i > ' r , AJ" '<
* : *■. i -1= ; i. i i * .
Australian Paper Manufacturers, th'e
co. controlled by Australasian Paper and
Cumberland, has ..applied for three min-
ing leases covering, bauxite deposits near
Boolarra, Gippsland.y Bauxite is largely
used in...making aluminium, and as a
heat-resistant in lining furnaces; what
A.P.M. proposes .doing yyith the deposits
isn’t yet clear. The co.’s. pulp. mill at
Maryvale is steadily progressing, and a
small test plant is treating 40 to 50 tons
of pulp weekly.
Sellers were hanging more tightly to
Australasian Paper ords. last week, 31s.
and 30s. 6d. being paid, after previous
business at 295. 6d. The scrip, not allow-
ing for any div. accrued, yields 5 p.c.
up to 325. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Australian Glass ord. shares rattled up
to 995. last Thursday. On a 15 p.c. div.
basis that reduced the yield to 3 p.c.,
and if the whole of the profits disclosed
last term were handed to ord. holders
the return would be slightly under 6 p.c.
There are some who think disclosed pro-
fits could stand some stretching in view
of the low valuation placed on fixed
assets and the steady increase in liquid
resources and investment. Benefits are
now looked for by way of a bonus issue,
which is probably the last thing the Glass
Co. would like to make, in view of
yappings sure to be heard from the
Opposition at Canberra. Perhaps the
fact that Jack Frost has taken charge in
the F.C.T. is encouraging the sharemarket
to dream. In any case, Glass is one of
the strongest investments in the Com-
monwealth.
* * # *
There was a good deal of talk in
Pitt-street, Sydney, last week concerning
the forthcoming profit figures of Cash
Orders (Amalgamated), and there were
some who could impart “information”
laying down trading results to the nearest
thousand pounds. The ord. shares, down
to as low as 15s. 6d. at one stage this
year, were keenly bought up to 17s. 6d.,
with sellers growing more coy. The
scrip is right enough of its type.
* * * *
Westralia turned out 555,538 fine oz.
of gold during the first half of 1938,
which compares with 473,798 oz. in the
same period of 1937. Good going.
* * * *
The Commonwealth cheque for 1937-
38 from greasy and scoured wool sold
in Australia amounted to £43,515,769,
against £60,175,497 in 1936-37. Turn-
over was 2,760,759 bales, against
2,899,144 bales. Sales were 4.8 p.c.
lower in volume, 27.6 p.c. lower in cash
return. Monthly details and the 12
months’ total and averages are given
hereunder:
, —‘Price per
G reasy
Total and
Bales. Cheque. Greasy. Scoured.
T , £ d. d.
July .. 10,736 255,346 11.7 21.2
August .. 31,939 731,248 15.2 18.6
September 281,157 5,398,523 14.4 14.7
October.. 331,373 5,850,572 13.7 13.9
November 321,074 5,198,473 12.9 13.0
December 220,579 3,593,959 13.2 13.3
January.. 274,915 4,277,504 12.7 12.8
February 323,668 4,755,445 12.0 12.1
March .. 370,306 5,309,101 11.8 11.8
April .. 180,432 2,472,244 11.1 11.2
May 236,280 3,305,327 10.9 11.0
June .. 178,300 2,368,027 10.0 10.5
12 months 2,760,759 43,515,769 12.5 12.7
The average price of greasy (12.5 d.) com-
pares with 16.4 d. ; greasy and scoured
( ; 12.70.) with 16.7 d. At June 30 there
was a heavier carryover amounting to
235,701 bales.
# # # %
Koitaki Rubber ord. shares have been
sold at 205., and though that is the
lowest actual sale this year, recent quo-
tations were weaker, but no business had
been done until Tuesday of last week.
The commodity overseas has been firmer
lately, following introduction of the re-
striction scheme. Koitaki’s plantations
are in Papua.
* * * *
Some people who take the Dow-Jones
share-price index in the U.S.A. as their
sharemarket guide claim that, as it rep-
resents a States-wide expression of the
value of certain industrial and railroad
stocks on New York ’Change, it is a
reliable-enough indicator for putting a
valuation on Australian stocks. The
Dow-Jones index is undoubtedly an ex-
pression of American buying - selling
opinion of American stocks; but what
is that opinion worth when the industrial-
share index plunges to 98 and, in the
space of two or three months, re-
covers to 138? Obviously the per-
son who accepted the 98 or its
equivalent as the true value of his
shares when he sold them some
time back is wondering what has
made those shares worth 138 or so
now. Have prospects of profit-
earning really improved, or is it
merely that “market psychology” is
feeling better? If the latter is the
case, as is likely, “psychology” was
obviously wrong at 98, and it may
therefore still be wrong at 138 —
either optimistically or pessimistic-
ally. Following mob-psychology
never made or protected money for
anyone, and there is a danger that
if Australian investors blindly fol-
low overseas market trends they
may find, on the one hand, that
their Australian investments have
been white-anted by adverse Australian
economic conditions, or, on the other
hand, that they have lost opportunities
brought about by favorable economic
conditions peculiar to this country. They
should remember, too, that since the re-
armaments boom of early 1937, markets
generally have been right out of gear,
and about as rational in behavior as a
brumby.
•. * * * *
The ords. in Associated Pulp and
Paper, the Burnie (Tas.) fine-writing and
-printing paper enterprise shortly to
begin operations, are selling at 18s. lOd.
They are an interesting proposition at
the price. Broken Hill money and initia-
tive (with Gerald Mussen) started the
venture.
* * * *
Kandos Cement paids (B. 6/7/’3B)
lifted by a shilling last week (to 265. 6d.),
regaining the highest point reached in the
last couple of years. The yield is still
over 6 p.c. Australian Cement ords. have
dropped back to 335. 6d., and the return
in this case has increased to just under
6 p.c. Kandos scrip remains the better
proposition.
* * * .-1=
In Melbourne last week:
Awaiting the balance-sheet shortly to be
presented, the sharemarket bid up to 9s. 6d.
for Yellow Cab scrip (par 7s. 6d.). It will be
interesting to see how market hopes compare
with actual results. The co. certainly should
have had a good year.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were still to be
had at 525. 6d., yielding just under 5 p.c. on
a 13 p.c. div. basis. British Tobacco ords.
at 475. 6d. returned £4 ss. per cent, on a 10
p.c. basis, and Henry Jones scrip gave approxi-
mately the same yield at the same price. Glass
returned a little over 3 p.c.
Yarra Falls scrip at 38s. gave £5 ss. per
cent., Australasian Paper ords. at 31s. re-
turned £5 3s. per cent. Holeproof ords. at
245. 6d. gave £8 2s. per cent.
Herald ords. kept around 635., a fair busi-
ness being done at this price—up 9s. in a few
weeks.
G. J. Coles ords. were firm at 84s. in spite
of threatened restrictions on the export of N.Z.
capital. Maoriland has been a big supporter
of Coles and other chain-store concerns.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
HI!!
inn
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“I'd SWEAR he run down there!”
“Bluebeard's Eighth Wife” “Dangerous to
Know.” —Talkie theatre ad\'t.
Maybe, but Bluebeard was worse.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Bankrupt Sent to Gaol. Failed to Keep
Books.”— “S. M. Herald.”
At least he’d be popular with lending
libraries.
4 4 4 4*
“Summonses for driving while under the
influence ol drink and careless driving were
dismissed.”— “Sim.”
While under the influence of careless
driving” must mean when the wife’s in-
structions become ragged.
•2* 4* 4* 4*
Stated that William the Conqueror was re-
sponsible for the flesh of a cow being called
beef.”
It was a guest-house keeper who first
thought ol calling the flesh of a rabbit
chicken.
4 r 4* 4* 4*
Women may not be well up in logic,
but they know how to reduce millinery
to an absurdity.
4* 4- 4* 4-
Fleetwood-Smith's second over cost £13.”
Bimdaberg “Daily News and Mail”
So this is what the cricket writers refer
to as an expensive over !
Stop Watch.
“While endeavoring to steal a watch, a pick-
pocket was knocked unconscious by the
owner.” —News item.
With wicked hope the watch he saw,
But, when he tried to shake it,
The owner socked him on the jaw,
A nd — well, he couldn’t take it !
T. W. N.
“A man carried a ladder into a courtroom
and, under the eyes of magistrate and officials,
took the clock from the wall.”— News .item.
The thief who took the court-room
clock
Felt sure it was no crime ;
He’d heard the magistrate was fond
Of giving people Time.
Elm.
•b *b 4* *h
“During his search for work he had a quarrel
with one employer, and was given a black
eye.” —Short story.
Well, wasn’t he looking for a job?
*!• *b ❖
“New 9d. stamps will bear a drawing of a
platypus. This should challenge overseas scepti-
cism about the existence of the animal,” states
the P.M.G.’s Department.— “D.T.”
Lick that!
•f* 4* *b *b
“Protesting against shortage of fruit, Vienna
women sang anti-Hitler songs.” —News Hem.
Peaches giving Hitler the raspberry.
•b *b *b *b
Lao Tzu said: “Govern a great nation
as you would cook a small fish,” but
some countries seem to be using a bit
too much batter.
*1- -I- - T » 4*
Staggering.
“N. S. Wales Commissioner of Railways
suggested that working hours in Sydney might
be “staggered” to relieve peak-hour traffic con-
gestion.”
Staggering has been an unqualified
success in the little factory I run at
King’s Cross for the manufacture of
shoulder-holsters for bottle-openers.
I introduced the scheme in a fit of
remorse one day when, coming to work
at nine, I flung an elderly stockbroker
out of his seat in the tram to the cold,
hard roadway, and returning home at
five found it necessary to bang two
flappers’ heads together so that I could
slip into their seat while they were still
dazed.
I began staggering the hours by re-
questing the staff to come to the factory
at ten, and leave again at four. The
alacrity with which they accepted the
proposal showed an admirable civic
spirit, and when the senior girls sug-
gested that it would help the traffic
authorities even more if they arrived at
eleven and left at three I gladly agreed.
My private secretary adopted the
scheme with wholehearted enthusiasm.
She now comes at
twelve and leaves at
two. As her lunch
hour has always been
from twelve to two
it suits her splen-
didly. Perhaps the
only one who is not
too pleased is the
office-boy, who,
arriving at one and
leaving at one, is
kept in a state
of feverish activity,
bewildering to one
of his somewhat
lethargic tempera-
ment.
It has, of course,
been necessary for
me to take the lead
in this reform, and
every day, accom-
panied by my caddie,
I attend the office
from two p.m. till
noon, very often
walking in back-
wards and absent-
m i n d ed 1 y sitting
down on my head.
Stoo.
Be Your Own Mechanic!
II. — Noises and Their Elimination.
According to the individual tempera-
ment, owners react in various ways to
what might be termed the audible defects
of their cars.
Some regard a rattle with considerable
affection, becoming alarmed only when,
for some unaccountable reason, it either
disappears or becomes merged with an-
other. Others pay a total disregard to
the protesting shrieks, groans, squeaks
and rattles which give a combined noise
like a platoon of skeletons doing the
rhumba on a galvanised-iron roof. Chug-
ging blithely along, they usually take
pride in the fact that their buses have
done 8000 miles without being greased,
and philosophically accept the view that,
as the vehicles have got to fall to pieces
sometime, it’s not worth trying to keep
the things together.
Yet again there is the very fussy “week-
end” owner-driver who regards a noise
in his car as a personal affront. He can
immediately be recognised by the pained,
strained look as he goes carefully along,
oblivious to the scenery around him,
ignoring even the clutching hands and
shrill admonitions from the female rela-
tives behind, his ear eternally cocked for
any sound foreign to the smooth purr of
his engine.
To illustrate the hold that this habit
often obtains, I instance the case of an
acquaintance who, puzzled by a mysteri-
ous rattle the car developed on one of
his Sunday-afternoon wanderings, went
into his usual trance, slowed down to 15
m.p.h. and unconsciously hugged the
crown of the road as, head on one side,
he tried to locate the aggravating noise.
It wasn’t long before there was a honk-
ing procession of cars a mile long behind
him on the winding road ; these he bliss-
fully ignored until a sarcastic cop ordered
him into the kerb. He didn’t mind the
fine so much; what mortified him was
the fact that the rattle turned out to be
nothing more than his youngest kid play-
ing in the back seat with a bag of
marbles.
It is to the owner keen to keep his car
rattle-free that these hints are addressed.
Immediately you become aware of the
slightest rattle get out the toolkit, setting
your spanners out in a neat row in order
of size. For this job you will, of course,
change into your second-best suit. Wear
neither boots nor socks, however ; you
can thus use, like the abos. do, the toes
for picking up the various implements.
(Should you happen to be out with the
family for the day and the rattle develops
on the way, pull in at the first picnic-
ground you come to and set to work:
“He's all right, boss—it ain't as
’eavy as it looks."
the tablecloth thrown across your creams
will keep most of the grease off ; above
all, don't delay.)
Next, tighten up every nut you can see.
To save time you would otherwise lose
through grabbing wrong-sized spanners,
keep a rule by you and measure each
nut first. Owing to this being covered with
hard-dried mud, accuracy, of course, will
not be possible unless this is first re-
moved. Try brushing it off with a
woollen duster; should this prove un-
successful, chip it off with a cold chisel
and tack hammer.
Having measured the nut and selected
the corresponding spanner, get a good
grip, press your feet hard against some-
thing as a lever and pull hard. When
the spanner flies off the nut and yours
hits the differential behind you, put on
an old hat: this will lessen subsequent
impacts. Don’t bother about the dis-
turbed dirt that keeps falling down. Bath-
ing the eyes later in strong milk will get
most of it out.
Having gone right over—-or under—the
car and replaced by new ones (a distinct
advantage here in living close to a garage)
the bolts and nuts you snapped off bv
too much pressure, examine the shock-
absorbers.
No need to consult the guidebook to
find out where these are: just look - for
the most inaccessible part of the car. To
manoeuvre into a position to dismantle
them, it will be necessary to get a good
grip with the back of the neck against
the brake-drum, with the left knee tak-
ing the strain as it rests against the right
ear on the ground. If you are in
the correct position it should be possible
to shift the casing nuts l-32nd inch at a
time.
Should the fox-terrier playfully run off
with the shock-absorber arm, don’t make
the mistake of getting from under the
car and immediately giving chase. Your
neck will havp such a kink through being
cramped up in the one position for so
long that you will run in a circle and
bang up against the garage wall. Five
minutes of neck massaging and you
should be fit to start the chase.
Having put everything back as nearly
as you can remember, give the car a try-
out with a short run. The first thing
you will hear is the same rattle. Don’t
do your block. Reflect calmly that you
have narrowed the field of search down,
and rejoice that it is, at least, not a body
knock.
It must, therefore, be in the engine.
S. W. K.
Green Look Explained.
“A French scientist says that mankind is of
vegetable origin.”
Though sceptics claim that this is just
another
Of postulated scientific furphies,
The fact remains it’s true. One proof is,
brother,
That ’mong the sons of men are many
Murphies.
We’ve Swedes galore, though different
their speech is
( They’re blonde, and rather square
about the boko),
And when the summer sun beams on
our beaches
We peel, which makes us one with
beet and choko.
Our pugs have lugs like cauliflowers;
and seedy
We feel at times, whether from ’flu
or bunions
Too many humans seem to be too
weedy ;
And don’t these hard-boiled flappers
know their onions !
BO.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Realist Views the World.
[Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post" article
by Will Durant, an outstanding American foreign
correspondent.]
There is a certain dignity in giving out, as the
causes of our Galahad-quixotic mood, such magnifi-
cent and soul-stirring words as “Communism,”
“Fascism” and “Democracy” ; others may fight for
metallic dross or greasy fuels or paltry continents ;
but we, sons and lovers of philosophy, will fight for
isms, and the loudest catchword that issues from the
jaws of Mars. All this does philosophy great honor ;
but no one inured to history can believe that dif-
ferences in types and theories of government will be
the causes of war.
Democracy, Communism and Fascism are merely
the moulds in which diverse peoples in diverse con-
ditions have been organised to pursue similar ends
in diverse ways; they are the products of different
geographical and historical conditions ; they are not
forms of national virtue or vice.
The real causes of strife will be not diversities in
forms of government but nationalistic rivalries for
material goods. Land to receive an expanding popu-
lation ; foreign food supplies to nourish an industrial
society ; raw materials and fuels vital to modern in-
dustry ; foreign markets to buy surplus products, and
foreign markets to receive the surplus capital, pro-
duced and unconsumed at home ; trade and military
routes and stations on land and sea —these are the
things that diplomats speak of to diplomats, that
guns speak of to guns. Only by adjusting in specific
piecemeal these material demands and disputes can
the Second World War be postponed ; only by remov-
ing these causes individually as they arise could peace
be organised on the earth. If we persist in hating
on a grand scale, instead of thinking in detail, we
must reconcile ourselves to the trenches.
The prolongation of peace requires a scandalous
realism and a moderate sacrifice. Its first objective is
the reconstruction of European unity; the second is
the pacification of the East; the third is the restora-
tion of world trade.
Japan is conquering China because Italy quarreled
with England. Only through unity can Europe stand
against an Orient in arms, and resist the closing of
Eastern markets. To unite, it must overcome the
needs of the nations poor in land or fuels or minerals
or food—ltaly and Germany.
The spearhead of world peace lies in concessions
to Italy ; wisely, they are being considered. If guaran-
tees can be given to assuage Italy’s fear of being
bottled up in the next war as in the early months of
the last, they should be given ; they would be a small
price to pay for the liberation of the British fleet for
action in the East. If Franco must win in Spain, let
him ; a rearmed Britain, a reorganised France and a
pacified Italy may force upon Spain the civilised com-
promise that might long ago have been effected there
if Oxonian dreams of peace had not lulled the British
Lion to sleep.
The reconciliation of Italy is the unavoidable
approach to the problem of Germany, for success with
Italy would facilitate success with Germany, and
would make failure with Germany less tragic to the
West. The German problem is the most complex of
all to-day, being so mingled with good and evil that
emotion finds every opportunity in it, and reason
every obstacle. Here is a brave and vigorous people,
which in the last war stood off almost the whole
world alone ; a people that has probably done more
for music than any other in modern history, and more
for philosophy, and more for science, and more for
scholarships. Now, with the wisdom of hindsight, we
can see how childish it was of us to force upon it a
democracy that could not possibly find there the con-
ditions that had supported self-government among
ourselves —geographical isolation, military security,
libertarian traditions and abounding natural resources.
It seems unbelievable that a professor of history
should have led us into this absurdity.
In one aspect Germany’s achievement has been
astonishing and admirable. But it has been accom-
panied by an appalling surrender of orderly liberty and
chivalrous decency. How can we encourage the
creative renovation of Germany and at the same time
oppose her sadism and her militarism?
The problem can be approached by measures
that lead to war, or by measures that lead to peace.
A policy of war would at the very best bring Ger-
many again to her knees, with another Versailles, an-
other decade of disorder, another Hitler and another
war. For the Jews of Germany and Austria it would
mean the completion of their crucifixion ; for Asia
it would mean another opportunity to dislodge the
white man and his trade ; for the Western world it
would mean impoverishment, bankruptcy, probably
revolution, possibly the collapse of industry, order
and culture, the enthronement of barbarism, the begin-
ning of a Dark Age for hundreds of years.
It should not be necessary for Hitler to sell Ger-
man aid to Franco in return for Spanish copper. By
a trade agreement prosperity would return almost
overnight to Germany and Russia. In like manner
it is better for Germany and France, for Germany
and England, for Germany and America, to trade
rather than to fight. .
How can Germany be persuaded of this? Only
by some gesture of reconciliation. The return of the
Germany colonies, even the cantonisation of Czecho-
slokavia, would again be a small price to pay for the
unity of Europe. The union of Austria with Germany
is natural and forgivable ; it will make easier the task
of controlling Germany by winning Mussolini to
Western Europe ; what is unpardonable is the absorp-
tion by Austria of the cowardly cruelty that represents
not the soul of Germany but a neurotic reaction
against defeat, suffering and fear. We may reasonably
hope that the return of prosperity and pride to the
German nation will ease the racial tension, end this
medieval barbarism and enable those indebted to
German culture to love Germany again without
apology and without shame.
Given the unity of Europe, it becomes possible,
without war, to rescue European and American in-
terests in Asia. A united Europe, with a co-operating
America, could bring Japan to terms.
Finally, the third objective in the organisation
of peace is the restoration of world trade. On this
sector of the peace front, as on the Italian, much
progress is now being made.
“The Future Lies With England.”
[This digest of a London “Sunday Graphic” article
by Beverley Baxter, M.P., comes at least as a change
from the insistence of the “into action” brigade that
John Bull’s prestige has sunk to the depths—a charge
based wholly on his declining to launch 1914 over again,
making “the world safe for democracy” via Spain,
China, Czechoslovakia or whatever route to the old
shambles offers.]
According to Mr. Lloyd George and others who
think like him, Great Britain’s moral stock is lower
to-day in Europe than that of any other country.
It is a serious accusation. Only one thing could
justify it. Is it true ? If it is not true, then those who
utter it should be condemned as slanderers and
defamers. Europe can give the answer.
On a recent 3000-mile journey in Europe I dis-
cussed with one of the most powerful figures in
Vienna —Dr. Neubacher, founder of the Anschluss
party in Austria —the growing tension between
Britain and Germany. Dr. Neubacher spoke with a
sincerity that could not be doubted. “The one thing
we desire,” he said, “is a lasting friendship with Eng-
land. Our two nations together could keep the peace
for a hundred years. Such a friendship has always
been the dream of Herr Hitler. He has written it and
he has said it constantly.”
All right. Let us dismiss it as propaganda or as
soothing syrup. Come to the home of a Jewish family
in a house outside Vienna. They are charming and
cultured, lovers of Austria but living now in the
shadows. “The whole world looks to England,” they
say. “She is strong, just and merciful.”
But let us leave Austria, for after all it is a sad
place, where one is still more conscious of the silent
footsteps of the ghostly past than the harsh staccato
of the marching feet of Germany’s Army. Let us go
to the last gay capital of Europe, Bukarest, where life
—graceful, ardent, noisy—reminds you that the world
was once young.
1 had a long audience with King Carol, who is
not only very much a king but a most astute poli-
tician. “The future of Europe lies with England,”
said his Majesty. “I am neither pro-German nor anti-
German. I want 20 years’ peace and economic free-
dom to build up the resources of my country. If
England continues to exert her great influence in
Europe, then nations like Rumania can have both
military and economic peace.”
That same attitude of mind — “If England con-
tinues to lend her influence as she is doing now” —I
heard expressed a hundred times in half a dozen
languages. Wherever the subject was broached one
found the same approach. There was a quick and sen-
sitive appreciation of the problems of a nation like
Britain drawn by instinct by its overseas Empire yet
confronted with the feuds and fears of the Continent
at its doorstep. Never once was Britain accused of
bad faith. Instead, the people of Europe see in Great
Britain a nation that is powerful but not a tyrant;
patient to the very breaking point, but the sincere
guardian of peace ; a nation that is actuated by good-
will to all, a nation of dignity and honor, a nation
which holds in its hands the promise of better things
for the troubled peoples of the earth.
They do not talk in terms of reprisals and bomb-
ings and armaments. There is no war panic in Europe.
They do not want war, but they will not shrink from
it if it comes. For centuries the tide of conquest has
ebbed and flowed over their territories and they know
that the peasant and the good earth will still be there
when the tide goes out.
Instead, they are more interested in the new world
that may come from the leadership of nations of
goodwill like America and Britain. “If Englatid con-
tinues to use her influence as she is doing now”
They speak of the French army, of Russia’s aero-
’planes, of Germany’s mechanised units. When they
speak of Britain it is always in terms of moral
strength.
It is a historic lie to say that this country s
prestige has sunk in Europe. So opposite is the real
truth that it leaves one staggered at the responsibility
thrust upon us as a nation.
There have been many inglorious chapters in
British foreign policy since the war, but Europe sees
beyond them and yields to Great Britain the undis-
puted moral leadership of Western Civilisation.
A Job for Solomon.
[John Bull’s No. 1 Nuisance was given another un-
pleasant advertisement last week, when more than 10U
Arabs and Jews were killed in street fighting in Pales-
tine within two days and the British cruiser Emerald,
on its way home from the East Indies, had to be
diverted to help quell the rioting. Articles indicating
the seriousness of the clash of races in this mandate
have appeared from time to time in “Uncabled Addi-
tions”; the knotty nature of the problem of ever
making a peaceful settlement in Palestine is further indi-
cated in the London “Times’ ” Jerusalem correspondent s
article here briefly condensed.]
There is one particular question upon which the
latest Palestine Partition Commission must decide—
namely, the role which the Jewish State is expected
to fill in relation to world Jewry, for upon it will
depend their decision how much land can in justice
to both Jews and Arabs be given to the Jewish State.
Indications are that most Jews in Palestine would
vote for partition on any reasonable lines, as the only
means available to secure more immigration and con-
solidate what they have already won. But with the
pressure of world events behind them, and especially
the recent attacks upon Jews in Rumania and Austria,
their crying need is for some safe refuge.
Many Jews in Palestine, and where Jewry is not in
contact with the misery of the unwanted Jews of
Europe, are against partition and for some other plan.
Some ask for the continuance of the Mandate, others
suggest making Palestine a Crown colony; a few are
ready to agree to a bi-national State in which for a
fixed time the Jews agree to a numerical minority
pending future negotiations. Some believe that the
U.S.A. type of federal union could be applied under
a British-controlled Federal Government to which
certain powers could be yielded. Others again would
treat the whole of the Holy Land as a religious entity
to be held in trust for the three great monotheistic
religions to which it is sacred.
But all these alternative plans break down at one
essential point: the crying need of the Jews for as
much immigration as the economic structure can be
made to bear, and a refusal to consider permanent
minority status. As it is just this which the Arabs
most fear, hope of agreement along these lines is vain.
This practical obstacle is what makes realistic Jews,
rendered impatient for a solution by world miseries,
turn back to partition as the only possible course.
While conservative religious Jews protest that none
of them has the right to sign away his God-given
heritage in any part of the Promised Land, and others,
secure in their enjoyment of American or British citi-
zenship, fear the possible effect of the creation of a
Jewish State upon their future status and protest that
Palestine at best cannot begin to offer a solution for
the world Jewish problem, there are many whose
imaginations have been caught by the prospect of
once again having an independent sovereign Jewish
State, be it never so small.
Of the Arab opposition to partition there is little
more to say than that they will not have it, and do
not think it will ever be attempted. Instead, they
ask with monotonous insistence for an Arab State,
enjoying treaty relations with Great Britain, in which
Jews now in Palestine, and no more, may have rights
equal to all other citizens provided they abandon the
political aims of the National Home.
The attitude of the Jews and the Arabs being
such, the Partition Commission has something more
to do than to discover where the racial groupings are
and draw between them a defensible boundary in the
military sense, with due regard for British Imperial
interests as well. They have the more difficult task
of finding a psychologically defensible boundary. Nor
have they merely to arrange a compromise between
two negotiators who are ready to bargain, but to deter-
mine how a reluctant and hostile landholder can be
made content with the forcible expropriation of some
of his property in the interest of an importunate
buyer. Their deliberations are not only over a prob-
lem as it presents itself locally in Palestine, but over
its ramifications in Poland and Iraq, in New York
Rough on a Duchess!
London “Evening Standard” (17/6/’38):
Since his return to England Captain
Wattis, who served with the International
Brigade in Spain, has been loud in his denun-
ciation of the treatment handed out to English-
men who have been fighting for the Republican
cause.
In an endeavor to counter these argu-
ments, the Duchess of Atholl organised a meet-
ing and brought down three speakers who had
also served in the International Brigade.
The meeting had a strange conclusion.
Sir Henry Page-Croft, warmest of General
Franco’s champions in Parliament, rose and
asked “whether it was not a fact that all
three speakers had at different times been in
serious conflict with the forces of the Crown.”
Upon which, without the slightest sign
of embarrassment, one owned to eight months
in gaol for sedition ; the second replied, “l
was one of the instigators of the Invergordon
mutiny, and I’m proud of it,” while the third
revealed that he had been in prison for 10 years
for espionage.
This concluded the proceedings.


“K
\""7
u
130 B
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6.
“If it’s ein Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, S 3 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS. SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Eranches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
and in India, and indeed in London and Rome and
Geneva as well.
Roosevelt Retains His Grip.
[ln this (condensed) article London “Daily Mail’s”
Washington correspondent, J. Frederick Essary, sums
up on President Roosevelt’s present political position,
with a view ahead of the elections to take place in
November.]
It is now possible to indicate with some definite-
ness the state of mind of the American people as we
plunge into another Congressional campaign. We
have had test votes in a number of States which are
important; and nation-wide polls by professional sur-
veyors which are interesting, if not conclusive. Neither
shows that President Roosevelt has lost appreciable
ground in that section of the American electorate that
has supported him and given him immense majorities
in three successive elections. His political grip on the
great lower class of the people is unshaken. If it
remains unshaken there is not the remotest chance
that the forthcoming vote will be a repudiation of his
Administration.
His party stands to lose a few seats in the House
of Representatives and perhaps one in the Senate.
That is taken for granted. It would seem to be inevit-
able. The unwieldy Democratic majority in Congress
is abnormal. There are perhaps 40 seats in the House
now held by Democrats whose constituencies are
strongly Republican. These Representatives wiere
swept into power by the 1936 Roosevelt landslide, and
will probably be swept out again.
Such a loss would have no significance. The
Republicans must gain 128 seats out of the 435 to
overturn the New Deal majority. That is probably
a political impossibility.
With a Republican victory unthinkable, the one
important question involves the future control of the
Democratic party. Until a few weeks ago this seemed
debatable. Insurgency against the New Deal on the
part of Conservative Democrats, in and out of Con-
gress, appeared to be formidable, determined, and
in a sense successful. But Conservative boasts that
the Tory element in the party would seize control of
the Democratic National Convention in 1940, write
its platform and nominate an anti-New Deal ticket
are heard no more. For something has happened
that has demoralised and all but silenced the Conser-
vatives. That something was the “voice of the people.”
it made itself heard in the early party primaries of
April and May. They were test votes, not between
Republicans and Democrats but between Old Deal
and New Deal Democrats.
Illinois, second State in the Union, was heard
from. The Administration’s friends won. South
Dakota, a minor State, voted. Another New Deal
victory. Then came Florida. Senator Claude Pepper
is 100 per cent. Administrationist. His leading oppo-
nent (he had three) was frankly anti-Roosevelt. If
this typical Southern State should go against the Presi-
dent, the South as a whole might well be regarded as
antagonistic. Florida’s vote was an overwhelming
victory for Pepper and the President. The Senator
polled a greater vote than all his opponents combined.
The effect of this primary has been electric. Party
insurgency in Congress has languished. Recalcitrant
Democrats realise that the President has lost little, if
any, of his strength among the voters. And many of
the Conservatives have run to cover.
First manifestation of this precipitate retreat came
in the House of Representatives. A petition was cir-
culated in the House to resurrect the Wages and Hours
Bill, to which insurgents had previously given what
was generally regarded as a death blow. This was
now thrown open to signers, a few days after the
Florida vote. A veritable stampede of legislators
followed —Republicans, New Deal and Old Democrats
alike. Within an hour from the time signing began
a majority had put their names to the document. Such
a somersault had not been seen in Congress in a
generation.
All this has come about, moreover, in the midst
of an industrial depression which, by all the rules,
should severely discredit the Administration, put it
on the defensive and perhaps spell its defeat. This
might have been true if Mr. Roosevelt had not stepped
in with his new “spending-lending” pump-priming
programme involving Federal outlays of more than
£800,000,000. This programme has brought cheer to
employed workers no less than to those unemployed.
Undoubtedly it has done much to keep the great mass
of the “under-privileged” population from despairing
of the Democratic Administration, as it despaired of
that of Herbert Hoover in 1932.
The recognised Labor group in American politics
remains loyal to the New Deal. That group is critical
of this or that policy, to be sure. It ventilates its
disappointment whenever it finds it cannot write the
legislation in which it is most deeply interested. But
there has been no open break, and it is difficult to
foresee one unless the Labor group may feel itself
strong enough as time goes on to challenge the two
old parties, a prospect far from promising.
All-round Conscription.
[Australian politicians—and particularly the national
leader, Mr. Lyons—are even more shy of conscription,
or compulsory national service, than their British
counterparts attacked by Frank Owen in this (con-
densed) London “Daily Express” article, in which he
envisages, in the event of war, conscription on whole-
sale lines.]
Of all the old turnips dressed up by the Socialist
Party to scare the electors off the Government, con-
scription is No. 1 vegetable. The trouble is that the
Government themselves still believe in the turnip.
Ministers are genuinely frightened of the word con-
scription a good deal more than the electors are.
Conscription is the most democratic form of
military service. There is no ducking it. Every fit
man fights. Surely that is just and proper? Nobody
objects to serving on a jury or paying taxes, though
naturally we all grumble about it. But these are
part of our duties. And the supreme duty of the
citizen is to defend his country.
Revolutionary, democratic France was the first
nation to bring in conscription, the famous “Levy in
Mass” of 1793. Democratic France still has con-
scription. So have Switzerland, Holland, Belgium.
So has revolutionary Spain. None of these countries
objects to compulsory military service. They believe,
or at any rate they hope, that they will only fight in
defence of their own hearth and home, and soil.
Here it is different. Or it would be more true
to say that it was different. The last time we were
“fetched” it was to fight on a foreign territory. Con-
scription then involved sending vast armies overseas
to France. Indeed, we also sent an army to the
Dardanelles. The Turks could not get at us so in
order to accommodate them we arranged an away
fixture.
There is no prospect of that happening again.
Never more would the British people give such a
hostage to an enemy or to an ally.
So conscription will not be applied for the pur-
pose of universal military service. In the next war,
however —if there is a next war—we shall see a
stupendous increase in the output of death-dealing
weapons. In Paris I have just watched a column of
infantry marching. They did not resemble the
columns of 1914 which set out for battle with four
machine-guns to the battalion. Every soldier in this
French battalion slung a machine-gun. To keep up
that vast equipment and fire-power is going to place
terrific strain upon the arms factories.
Will they be able to bear it under present con-
ditions of production? Will there be industrial con-
scription?
For my own part I don’t see why one set of men
should be herded off to the front at coolie wages and
suffer “forced marches, wounds, mutilation, imprison-
ment, death,” while a second set draw inflated wages
or maybe profits on war supplies at home.
That is what happened last time. But don’t let
anybody, from the Amalgamated Engineering Union
to the Federation of British Industries, think that it
will happen next time. I am not advocating indus-
trial conscription. I am simply telling you what is
coming. Industrial conscription is coming.
Nor is it only labor that will be conscripted.
Wealth is going to be pressed into the national ser-
vice. Men of riches will be compelled to give over
their holdings and place their fortunes at the disposal
of the Government. For we shall not run the next
big bonfire on the basis, pay-next-November-if-we-
remember. The Americans will certainly not lend
us another thousand million pounds for another
World War. Next time it will be pay as you go.
The truth that will prevail is this: That in the
next war we shall be all in from the word go. To
men of wealth and those of poor estate, to men of
fighting age, to boys in the early morning of life, and
old fellows facing sunset, to women and to children,
something like the same fate is due if war comes.
It is an all-powerful reason for keeping clear of
war wherever we can and whenever we can, and at
almost whatever cost that a great strong nation like
Britain can afford to pay.
Ataturk’s Turkey.
(Condensed from an article by Arthur Merton in London
“Daily Telegraph.”)
When the Kemalist movement started in 1919
Turkey lay crushed by defeat, her army broken, her
administration chaotic. Within 14 years of the pro-
clamation of the Republic such a transformation has
taken place as to make the country unrecognisable
to those who knew the Old Turkey.
Go where you will you encounter evidence of
a strong and stable Government, of a far-seeing hand
guiding the country’s re-organisation. Public security
is assured by an efficient body of police. Justice is
administered with an even-handedness unknown
under the Sultans. As you move about you may note
the rising morale of the people of every class.
This most remarkable national recovery in
history is everywhere attributed to the active realism,
dynamic personality and vision of the President,
Mustapha Kemal Pasha, now known as Kemal Ata-
turk —the Chief of the Turks. Ataturk originally
gained his hold on the imagination of the people by
his military prowess. He has strengthened that hold
by his democratic ideas.. He refused the offer of the
throne. Since his first nomination as President he
has never donned military uniform, and he has main-
tained the closest contact with the masses. He is
known to everyone. All speak of him in familiar,
affectionate terms. In their eyes he can do no wrong.
Undoubtedly the most striking feature in Turkey
to-day is the prominent position women hold. You
meet them everywhere —in Parliament, the offices, the
courts as judges and barristers, the hospitals, the tech-
nical schools. A woman pilot led the Turkish Air
Force past Ataturk on Independence Day. Women
parachutists participated in the aerobatics. Women
mechanics were prominent in the parade of aviation
workers.
Ataturk’s restriction of modern Turkey to the
area which was the cradle of the race, his refusal to
follow an imperial policy or retain the Turkish
minorities in neighboring lands, his pacts with neigh-
bors, all have had for object—to eliminate outside
commitments, secure peace on the frontiers and so
be free to concentrate the country’s energies on in-
ternal regeneration.
That regenerated Turkey is destined to play an
influential part in the future of the Near and Middle
East there can be no doubt. Her geographical
position can enable her to be an effective barrier to
the ambitions of certain States whose policy is a
menace to world peace. Ataturk is not organising
for war. He is organising so that if Turkey’s frontiers
are threatened she may be able to defend them.
The Turk now has little use for his former ally,
Germany, and there is lively distrust for Italy and
Russia. By contrast British shares stand high, for
the Turk realises that Britain also works for peace
and that she is sympathetically interested in seeing
his country capable of standing on its own.
For the British Empire, indeed, a strong and
friendly Turkey cannot fail to be welcome. Her
ability to defend her frontiers must undoubtedly con-
tribute materially towards the maintenance of the
balance of power in the Mediterranean, which is the
corner-stone of British policy.


SPORTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
The worth of South Australian jumpers
was further demonstrated when Grant-
ley won the Steeplechasers’ Flat on
the middle day of the V.R.C. G.N.
meeting. Five candidates commanded
more support than Grantley, about whom
sevens could be had ; Gnair was 9 to 2.
George Dally, who came across from
Adelaide with Grantley, had declared
that, whereas Gnair might outjump his
compatriot by a length at every fence,
Grantley was the faster galloper. So it
proved. Scardus, as at Williamstown,
where he won a similar class of race
from end to end, set the pace. Both
Adelaide horses were within striking dis-
tance of him at the home bend. Gnair
knocked up and Fullarton eased him
down to a canter; Grantley finished full
of running to score by \\ lengths from
Scardus and Green Cape, who dead-
heated for second.
In his palmy days as an owner “S. A.
Rawdon” won a Newmarket Handicap
with Blague and a Doncaster Handicap
with Broadsword. The Melbourne news-
paperman now depends mainly on
timber-toppers. For the third consecutive
season he landed the George Watson
Hunters’ Cup on Wednesday, through the
agency of Deckard' (Lanius-Pistilla), who
started at a shade better than evens and
never gave the opposition a look-in.
In the £2500 cross-country event on
Saturday, Green Cape, a first-season
’chaser, scored by 30 lengths—it could
have been 60 lengths—in time (6min.
Bsec.) that was only three seconds out-
side the course record for “about three
miles and a furlong.” Grantley was
third ; Gnair was done with a long way
from home. Apparently his two pre-
vious races at the meeting had taken
all the go out of him.
Green Cape improved by *sec. on
the figures put up by Last End 12
months ago, and did it on a heavy track.
When such deeds as Green Cape’s are
performed there is no warrant for say-
ing that the standard of Australian
’chasers has declined.
National Steeple betting had fluctuated
remarkably during the week. After his
brilliant display on July 2 Gnair touched
7 to 4, and it looked as if he might go
out the hottest favorite in the history
of the race, despite a 101 b. penalty. But
after that failure on the flat, Grantley
came into nearly as good request as
Gnair. In the final discussions on Friday
night Green Cape rose to the head of the
quotes. Course patrons rallied so
strongly around Gnair that he started
at 5 to 2, with Green Cape at fours
and Grantley at 9 to 2. Deckard found
solid support at tens.
Fullarton, on Gnair, allowed every
rival but one to lead him out of the
straight. Moving up along the river
stretch he quickly hit the front and a
repetition of the Kensington Steeple tri-
umph seemed on the cards.
However, Deckard wouldn’t permit
Gnair to obtain a break. He “mixed it”
with the topweight and actually out-
jumped him at fences opposite the stand
Gnair almost fell over one of them. This
was the beginning of the end for Fullar-
ton’s mount, who made more blunders
and tired so badly that, although still in
control seven furlongs from home, he
was pulled up before reaching the half-
mile.
Never putting a foot wrong, Green
Cape kept handy to Gnair and Deckard
for half the journey, supplanted Deckard
at the last of the abattoirs treble and had
the race won there. It was a three-horse
contest from the time that Gnair dropped
out. Grantley finished five lengths behind
Deckard, without ever showing promise
of getting nearer.
Bill Burke, who trains Green Cape,
originally owned him. The gelding re-
entered Burke’s stable eight months ago.
He carries the colors of “L. Street,” pro-
prietor of half a dozen butcher’s shops
in the suburbs. One is in Lygon-street,
Carlton ; hence the name “L. Street.” A
wager of £2OOO to £5 was landed by
“Street” on the National double. It was
his only bet.
Frank Dummett, who rode Green
Cape, won the National double last year
on Triteleia and Last End. His victory
was witnessed by Harry Treen, a erack
cross-country horseman of years gone
by. In 1917 Treen landed the Doutta
Galla Hurdle on King Mostyn and the
G.N. Steeple on Old Mungindi for the
Rajah of Pudukota ; both jumpers were
trained by the late J. C. Finn. Retired
from the saddle, Treen now works for
W. Hawthorne.
His good third in the G.N. Hurdle
naturally caused Giant Killer to be made
favorite for the Keilor Hurdle on Wednes-
day. Bill Burke’s young jumper opened at
5 to 2, touched twos and eased to a last-
minute call of 9 to 4, with sixes bar one
on offer and Davanthus at sevens.
Davanthus had finished fifth in the
National. The merit of that perform-
ance was enhanced by the jockey “Bluey”
Armsden having ridden with a broken
collarbone, the result of what in the first
instance was regarded as a harmless fall
in the Maiden Hurdle. Maher had
the Wednesday mount, and in his hands
Davanthus won comfortably from Giant
Killer, with Dornford a moderate third.
David sired first and second horses. His
progeny are natural jumpers.
Euphorbus failed to strike form in
Melbourne. He finished last in the Keilor
Hurdle. African, crashing seven fur-
longs from home, suffered his first fall as
a hurdler. Bill Tasker’s gelding mis-
judged his distance and unavailingly tried
to put in a “short ’un.”
The most popular win on Saturday was
that of Pooley Bridge in the Doutta
Galla Hurdle. Favorite at 5 to 2,
“Pooley” finished magnificently to 'score
by 11 lengths from Davanthus (7 to 1)
with Laveur (7 to 1) a close third. Bert
Foulsham, his trainer, declared that
Pooley Bridge would have won the
National Hurdle on an ordinarily fine
day.
On Saturday Pooley Bridge was No.
1 on the card. So also were Dannevirke
and Jolly Boy, who appropriated the
Two-year-old Mile and Trial Hurdle, re-
spectively. Dannevirke (9 to 4) was the
first choice of backers, but Jolly Boy
(11 to 2) had fewer followers than Erua
and Clanhaven in the jumping event.
Ridden a waiting race, Dannevirke
prevailed by half a length from Merri-
dale, with the improving Lanarus three-
quarters of a length farther away. Both
Merridale and Lanarus were well in the
market at fours. Merridale suffered by
being compelled to make his own pace.
Jolly Boy led from end to end, but
the Adelaide horse Celtic King put up a
good fight with him. Clanhaven’s was a
poor third. He made a spectacular leap
at the obstacle in front of the judge’s
box, but lost ground at several other
hurdles. Erua crashed with Fullarton at
the first, landed on his head and lay
stunned for several minutes.
Seven competed in the Footscray
Steeple on Saturday ; three finished. Mar-
text, a stable-mate of Seymour, easily
accounted for Conde and Oakey. Each
of these runners figured at 3 to 1, shar-
ing favoritism.
Stoic (Heroic-Hasta), the handsome
chestnut colt that Dick Bradfield trains
for C. O. Fairbairn, was favorite on Wed-
nesday (at threes) for the Lawn Handicap
after Judean, a stable-mate of Somerset,
had held that honor. Judean receded to
fours, at which he was in equal request
with Othello, another member of the
Heroic tribe.
The Flemington track was heavier than
on the previous Saturday, and revelling in
such going, Stoic led from end to end.
He had three lengths to spare from
Othello, who beat Judean by a neck for
second money. It took lmin. 16sec. to
cover the six furlongs. Regular Bachelor,
who holds the course record —lmin.
9|sec. —floundered home in sixth posi-
tion.
Folly of trying to follow public form
was illustrated in the Gooparle Welter
on Wednesday. Four days previ-
ously there was seven lengths’ day-
light between Lautus and his nearest
pursuer at the finish of the Iramoo
Welter, and punters accepted 5 to
4 about him in the Gooparle. Lautus
ran last. Places were filled by Parodier
(15 to 1), The Egotist (25 to 1) and Pol-
dean (tens). Parodier, a four-year-old
son of Heroic, is partly owned by Jim
Hackett, the retired Sydney fielder. Keith
Voitre had the mount. Usually Dew-
hurst rides Parodier. His chagrin at
being associated with the downfall of
Lautus can be imagined.
King Gee ran a good race in the
Gooparle Welter, and a better one in the
July Handicap on Saturday. Helped by
Voitre’s riding the Sydney horse reached
the judge half a head in advance of
Rivette, after the two had been locked
together for a full furlong. Keeping
Watch (3 to 1 favorite) ran third, but
never really flattered his backers. At
fives (sixes could be got) King Gee was
in half a point less demand than Rivette.
Though Lady Kooringal set a terrific
pace, being 20 lengths ahead at one stage,
the 1| miles Bray brook Handicap occu-
pied 2min. 12isec. Irving, mildly sup-
ported, beat the unlucky Aitchengee by
a neck, with Somerset 3>\ lengths away.
Hardwood earned credit by running
fourth.
* % iJC *
“0.H.”: Dakwood, winner of the G.N.
Hurdle, belongs to H. and M. Bourke,
of Pakenham (Vic.). The Bourkes have
a fondness for jumpers, and have been
very successful with them. They won
the £lOOO Steeple at Moonee Valley twice
with Brenda’s Son and once with Irish
Rufus, besides getting second money in
an Australian Steeple with Ancient Mari-
ner. As a yearling Dakwood was bought
in Sydney by Hughie Bourke for 27|
guineas, two other youngsters being
snapped up cheap at the same time.
When they were led out of the train
Mick Bourke said to his brother, “Why
didn’t vou buv a truckload of them?”
Through a fall in the Cup Hurdle at
the last V.R.C. spring meeting Dakwood
broke a bone in his neck, and it was
feared that his racing days had ended.
A subsequent jar caused the bone to slip
back into its natural position.
* * * *
Queensland-bred horses continue to
show their quality on southern courses.
Buzalong, one of the fancies for the
Epsom, did not have to exert himself
unduly to win the Moorefield Handicap
at the course of that name, though he
carried 9st. 81b. The descendant of Car-
bine went out at 5 to 1, and as soon as
Darby Munro called on him he galloped
away from the favorite, Televise, and
Gimme. Jovial Son acted as pacemaker
to the half-mile and then stuck his toes
in and refused to gallop. That ought to
be his finish as a racehorse.
Buzalong has Bst. 121 b. in the Epsom.
He is a good miler, and his prospects
look bright even at this stage.
Publicity is staying on well in his races,
and his Epsom weight is 7st. The Heroic
colt won the Carlton Mile from Blinky
Bill in excellent style: the half-length be-
tween them at the finish could have been
increased. Flamari was a poor third.
Publicity started at 5 to 2, the price
lengthening with heavy support for Kai
Tere. Kai Tere was level with Publicity
at the half-mile pole, but in the next fur-
long was beaten. Blinky Bill was ridden
in front. The smart little chap got a
decided advantage going out of the
straight and ascending the hill, but Bartle,
on Publicity, had his measure at the
home turn.
Bartle was also seen to advantage on
Parlance (backed from fives to threes) in
the first division of the Flying Welter ;
he got a run on the rails all the way.
Fearless and Correct both ran on
strongly; Goorka’s outside position was
against him, and the old horse was never
a danger.
The second division of the Flying
Welter went to Gymkhana (9 to 2), who
has had a course of hurdling to sober
him. Though he ran about in the last
furlong, he scored nicely from Patusan
and Kow Tow.
Mrs. D. L. Clayton is having a run of
luck. She recently scored with Tony and
Astounding, and she had the pleasure
of seeing Fox Foote (8 to 1) run away
with the first division of the Encourage
Stakes. Grosvenor Square, trained by
the former jockey Dickson for Mrs. J.
Jones, led all the way in the second divi-
sion. He was a 5-to-l shot.
The rails position and Munro helped
Aeolus to make it two for the Riddle
stable (Riddle also trains Parlance), but
Aeolus (6 to 4) had to be ridden out to
defeat Royal Prince and Kuttabul in the
first division of the Juvenile. Much easier
was Dinah Lee’s task in the second divi-
sion. A nice Heroic filly who cost book-
maker Matthews 550 guineas, Dinah Lee
is raced on lease by “L. Cleao” whose
absence led to her going out at 10 to 1.
Second to Dinah Lee was Excursion, one
of Booth’s team ; Miss Crimea, bred by
Booth, but raced by Moorefield trainer
Gibbs, was third.
* * * *
“Macann”: “S. M. Herald” as chief
supporter of the Stevens stable, offers
what reads like a tip straight from the
horse’s mouth on the probable effective-
ness of the proposed s.p. legislation.
“Granny” is coming out with a bi-weekly
race supplement, in which “small bettors
who prefer ‘each-way’ wagers will be
specially catered for.” Each-way betting
is one of the main props of the s.p. in-
dustry ; it isn’t practised on the race-
courses. So “Granny’s” special service
will be for the benefit of off-the-course
punters. In effect, the tip from the
horse’s mouth is that the likelihood of
s.p. being stopped by any enactment
the Stevens crowd is game to risk is nil.
* * * *
Hua is to be kept for weight-for-age
events in the spring. He is out of the
two Cups. He has never shaped like a
horse that would be handy in a cup field.
$ $
Most of Alan Cooper’s horses are up
for sale in Sydney at the end of the
month. The owner of Mala says that
ill-fated steed was insured for £6OO0 —
£lOOO less than he gave for the animal.
That softens the blow, but premiums on
racehorses in training are very high and
have to be renewed from season to
season. And Mala had to be insured
by Cooper for two seasons.
jjs * *
The Q.T.C.’s report for 1937-38 shows
clearly the influence that reduction of
taxes and legislation against off-course
betting has had on metropolitan racing.
Attendances were 249,406, up 67,811 ;
profits amounted to £12,482, as against
£7660 in 1936-37 and £2400 in the previ-
ous year.
* * * *
L’Aiglon is not to run in the Metro-
politan, Dan Lewis says. He is being
trained for the Melbourne Cup, for which
he has Bst. 21b. Not much for a four-
year-old with a Sydney Cup on his
record, but somehow Sydney Cup win-
ners have fared badly in the Flemington
race for a good many years.
“Hotham”: The Australian National
Football League will again at its annual
meeting at Melbourne in November dis-
cuss the introduction of the code in M.L.
and America. South Australia likes the
U.S.A. idea; Victoria is all for M.L.
Cost is the hurdle, since a tour would
mean sending two full teams to give ex-
hibitions. Years ago the Australian game
got a footing in Capetown and Johan-
nesburg, but found Rugby and Soccer
competition too strong.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Leamington Hurdle: Whernside;
next, Koke King.
Murrumbeena Handicap: Rivette
or Aitchengee ; next, Hardwood.
Malvina Welter: Rivette or Paro-
dier; next, Beaustone.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Publicity or
Arabia ; next, Misnomer.
Canterbury Handicap: Publicity
or Dulcedo ; next, Hope.
Park Stakes: Bramol; next,
Rummage.
Ashbury Handicap: Gimme.


<3>
a
Dlie flew
D
D
a
TO-DAY your cherished ambition to own a
Humber can materialise, for now at the lowest
price in Humber Snipe history at a price you
can afford to pay the new Humber Snipe offers a
luxurious 5-passenger saloon which maintains the
traditional dignity and inherent refinements always as-
sociated with the name Humber. The beautifully
/
streamlined English coachwork is all-steel (fabricated
in Australia). The luxurious interior provides roomy
comfort for five people, with contour-correct seating,
draughtless ventilation, and complete insulation of the
body from noise, fumes, heat and cold. The side valve
engine with “Cushioned power” mountings gives silent
running, virile power, and flexible top gear perform-
ance. The steering column is easily adjustable to suit
the driver’s height; “Evenkeel” suspension upholds
Humber’s claim to “the World’s most comfortable
rear seat ride;” Triplex safety glass, full opening wide
angle wind-screen and Triplex windows these and
other features make the Humber Snipe outstandingly
attractive to you. In your own interest, you should
arrange for a demonstration soon.
W. Australia:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
N.S.W.:
JOHN MCGRATH LTD.
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Queensland:
JOHN MCGRATH LTD.
35S Wickham, St., Valley, Brisbane.
South Australia:
DEVONSHIRE MOTORS LTD.
71 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Victoria :
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY, LTD.
222 Exhibition St,., Melbourne, C.l.
Tasmania :
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street, Launceston.
World Exporters
&
ROotES 1
Devonshire House,
Piccadilly, London.
Australian and N.Z.
Representative:
C. E, BLAYNEY
Kembla Bldg., Margaret
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NHUB


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
THE
lIMITCn iNSURAN CE
(Jill I C V COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE § HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands anc
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remed)
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
FREE !
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE OF RE-NU
LIQUID NU-METAL. RECONDITIONS
Cars, Trucks, Tractors, Buses, Motor-cycles,
Standing Engines, etc. While-U-Drive. Just
deposit thru Spark Plug Openings on
Pistons, Saves Rebore, Ends Piston Slap,
Rattles, Oil, Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts,
Restores New Compression, Power, Top Speed,
Zip, etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles.
Harmless Finest Engine. Anyone can use it.
Trial Sample, 6/6. We send C.O.D. Re-Nu
Coy., op. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Twenty other lines. Agents required. Free
samples.
Ins and Outs
With further rain and spells of drying,
the wicket remained tricky, and the
dhampion county was all out for 205 —
17 behind Australia. The Tykes would
not have done so well but for courageous
hitting by the tail-enders; the veteran
’keeper Woods walloped woundily for
41, and young Robinson supported him
with 32.
Waite bowled at his best and gauged
the possibilities of the wicket early. His
victims included Hutton, Leyland, Barber
and Sutcliffe, and he had 7 for 101.
White made a promising start, slowing
down his pace. Then he reverted to his
buzz-’em-down style, and faded out with
3 for 36, all taken when he kept to the
s’ow, spinning stuff. Smith and Mc-
Cormick also bowled after a fashion,
though neither was suited by the con-
ditions.
With a first-innings start, the Aus-
tralians began their second knock full
of hope. The innings was a greater col-
lapse than the first, though the York-
shire fieldsmen were generous in missing
catches. Bradman top-scored with 42 —
he had been missed first ball.
Badcock reached 22, Barnes 19,
Hassett 17 and McCabe 15 ; 132.
Smailes with 4 for 45 justified
his Test selection, his tally for
the match being 10 for 137.
Bowes, opening well, got 2-28.
Verity 3-46.
“Tails up!” was the slogan as the
Sheffield Poodles faced a paltry 150 runs
to beat the Australians with a whole day
to get them in. But their luck was simply
verminous. The tail-enders, Wood and
Verity, who had been sent in for a few
minutes to play out time on Monday
night, soon departed; McCormick
bowled Wood for 4, and Verity was
run out —by a bit of Hassett-Bradman
kidding—for 9. Sutcliffe was defying the
sodden wicket in his old-time style when
Fingleton trapped Hutton off Waite for
18. At lunch Sutcliffe was 36 n.o. and
Barber 15 n.o.
That was the end of it, rain washing
out further play, and the match ended
in a draw much in favor of Yorkshire.
* * * *
“Sale”: Cabled that the Old Trafford
groundsman was so careful about the
pitch he prepared for the Test that he
spent all his spare time hunting sparrows
off it. Sounds absurd, but Brisbane was
faced with a similar dilemma before the
first Test match ever played there. It
was a hot, dry spell, and just before the
match the hordes of swallows which
migrate south to Queensland yearly for
nesting found it hard to get wet mud for
their nests. The water-soaked pitch at
the Exhibition was manna from heaven
to them ; they descended on it in mil-
lions until it was in real danger of re-
moval by air.
The Australians took a busman’s holi-
day when they hied them from foggy
Sheffield to moist Manchester. Whereas
the cinders from Sheffield stacks cause
little inconvenience to players wise
enough to play in caps with a steel lining,
the “damp,”as it is called in Manchester,
dissolves these into blobs of adhesive
black mud which leave the frugal-
minded cricketer visiting Manchester
obsessed with a lifelong loathing of laun-
dries. Otherwise, apart from the fact
that the wise cricketer never visits Man-
chester save when well-equipped with oil-
skins and seaboots, and a supply of
cotton-wool for his ears in case he runs
into a mob of ladies leaving the weaving-
sheds of an evening, it is not half a bad
shop.
The selection of the English team for
the third Test caused some growling, the
omission of Fames raising a lot of bristles
among local experts. Further, the choice
of the ageing Nichols and Goddard
savored of defeatism. One wonders what
has become of the slogan “Youth first”
which the English selectors bellowed so
busily at the beginning of the season.
Intermittent rain following heavy falls
the previous night prevented any play
on Friday. The captains did not toss,
preferring to wait and see how conditions
would shape. Saturday was a replica of
Friday—just one damned shower after
another. The Old Trafford wicket made
the artificial lake at Blackpool look like
the contents of a pintpot after a Bolton
tripper has wetted his whistle. All day
long the players loafed drearily about the
pavilion, and all day long optimistic
groundsmen tried to get rid of excess
water with the devices which Old Traf-
ford ground committee has been taught
by experience to install. At 4.30 the
umpires announced another dead day.
And another washout was drearily anti-
cipated on Monday.
The financial aspect is serious. Old
Trafford holds more people than any
other ground in England, and a huge at-
tendance was a certainty if decent condi-
tions had prevailed. As it is, the cash
“And remember , gentlemen , no rough stuff.”
takings, now so important in cricket,
are no larger than they were at the same
period of the last tour, and the rain at
Manchester means a heavy loss to
Marylebone, Lancashire and the Board
of Control.
It was at Manchester that the only
previous Test abandoned because ot
adverse weather was staged. That was
in 1890, when Murdoch was captain.
Officially the game went down on the
records as a draw.
In 1921 rain converted the then three-
day game at Manchester to a two-
day fixture. Skipper Tennyson over-
looked this, and after his side had lost
4 for 336, closed the innings so as to give
the Australians an hour or so on a
pitch that was beginning to develop
stickiness. Armstrong was quick to point
out that in a two-day game this was
illegal, and England had to carry on
with the bat. The Old Trafford crowd
gave the Australians the rough edge of
tongues not remarkable at any time for
refinement, and there was a painful scene,
even for Old Trafford. Armstrong re-
fused to play until the crowd dried up.
This it did eventually, and thanks to a
score of 40 by Collins next day—it took
five hours to make the match was
drawn.
The match against Warwickshire is
set down for to-day. The Midland
county had a strong batting side last
season, but was short of real bowlers,
Hollies excepted. The morale of the side
can scarcely have been improved by the
decision to oust the tried Wyatt from the
captaincy at short notice and substitute
Cranmer, a Rugby international three-
quarter, who is in the average county-
captain class as a cricketer.
* * * *
P. A. Gibb settled the argument in
a recent Bulletin as to whether any
University undergrad, has ever played for
England while at his University by get-
ting himself selected for England in the
Manchester Test, an injury hanging Ames
on the peg. Gibb has a great record with
bat and gloves for Cambridge, and has
done well for Yorkshire in the few days
when there has been a place for him.
He scored a century in the ’Varsity
match with Oxford at Lord’s.
* * * *
“Donnerwetter”: The situation in
Europe came a step closer to catastrophe
when it was learned that the Board of
Control had refused Bradman’s request
that his wife might travel to England
when the cricket tour is over. The jour-
nals which have seen Mussos in every
bush and heard Hitler bummeling behind
every dyke tell us that Bradman has
been greatly upset by the refusal, and
is considering his next step, which may
be “an extremely serious one.” No
wonder our non-friends marvel at the
ways of the British race when its pro-
fessed mouthpieces make such mountains
of such puerilities. Bradman is a nice
young fellow, but if he were to drop out
of Australian life tomorrow the country
would not be a wit the worse for it, and
the fodder newspapers and their follow-
ing of fools would be chasing a new
sensation next week.
Footbrawl
By beating Melbourne, 13-14 to 11-8,
Geelong put itself back in the V.F.L.
“four,” the win placing it ahead of Rich-
mond and Melbourne in percentages.
Carlton, still on top, beat Hawthorn,
12-12 to 8-15. Footscray kept in second
place by downing South Melbourne,
19-19 to 10-10. Collingwood, in third
place, had only six points to spare against
Fitzroy, 10-19 to 10-13. In the other
game North Melbourne again disposed
of Richmond, this time by 14-3 to 12-11.
Essendon was on tour in Tasmania.
*•♦•••
There were no surprises in the Asso-
ciation games, but Port Melbourne went
close to giving Brunswick ’Wick’s first
hiding; final points were, 11-17 to 11-8
in Brunswick’s favor. Brighton, Prahran
and Northcote, next in order to Bruns-
wick, all scored comfortable wins.
“Fitzcray”: There was some fun at the
midnight hour when the season for the
acceptance of permits for players desir-
ing to transfer from the V.F.L. to the
Association and vice versa closed. Scout-
ing by both parties has been ferocious,
and the Association is quoting one special
instance of nerve and persistence. At
the last hour an important League official
rang up the secretary of the Association
and asked for the address of a player
who had been put “in smoke” by the
Association. The request was refused,
of course, but not without ungrudging
admiration for the scout’s superlative im-
pudence.
* * * *
Randwick went to the top of Sydney’s
Rugby Union table as a result of its two-
points win over Western Suburbs
they’d been sharing the lead. It was a
grand game, the best of the season, and
drew the biggest crowd. ’Wick scored
two tries and West one ; 13-11. Manly,
St. George and North share the third
position. Saints downed Parramatta
12-3, and in-and-out North was five
points better than ’Varsity, 14-9. Manly
was beaten, 9-6, by the inconsistent East
team in ,a game in which no goals
were kicked. Drummoyne cantered away
from Gordon, six tries to none, 33-15.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Threequarter Dick,
dropped from the All-Blacks because of
German measles, will join the team in
Sydney, leaving in time to play in the
later games. Money is coming in from
all over M.L. for his expenses, and the
All-Black authorities are willing, pro-
vided he is declared out of the infective
stage.
* * * *
“Maitland”: A British Rugby team is
touring South Africa. Considering the
comparatively short distance between the
two countries one would have expected
more frequent exchanges, but whereas
the British have toured South Africa four
times the ’Boks have sent only three sides
to Britain. In South Africa Britain has
won seven of 17 Test games, the last in
1910, four have been drawn and six won
by the home players. In Britain, of 14
games, the ’Boks have won 12, lost one
to Scotland and drawn one with England.
* * * * '
Queensland began well against N. S.
Wales in the League Rugby match on
Sydney C.G.; then Little, the hooker,
got marching orders, and after that the
Maroons had no chance. N.S.W., 44-7,
10 tries to one. Said a disgruntled spec-
tator to the other passengers in his
homing tram, “Soon they’ll have to be
payin’ us to watch ’em.” The fact that
only 22,000 people altogether witnessed
the M.L.-Sydney and the N.S.W.-
Queensland matches shows how the
League game is waning. Yet, if the
Government permits l|h|e outrage, the
Soccer people will be denied the use
of the Cricket Ground for their matches
against the Indians.
*** * •
“Stand Off”: The Maoriland Rugby
Leaguers wound up their tour of
N.S.W. and Queensland by drawing with
Sydney, 19-19, in a dull match, v The
management, dissatisfied with the Syd-
ney concern’s refusal of a conference,
announced that the tour will just about
pay. Institution of a yearly exchange
of visits between M.L. and N.S.W.-Q.
is advocated. There will be nothing
doing.
Nineteenth Hole
The British open golf championship
stayed at home, R. A. Whitcombe win-
ning with a card of 295 for the four
rounds.- Adams was second with 297,
and Cotton, the holder, third with 295.
The last two rounds were played in a
roaring gale, and only nine players broke
80 in the third round. The few American
entrants did nothing. None of the Aus-
tralian amateurs qualified for the final
36 holes of stroke, though Hattersley
missed the final 40 by a stroke.
“Hoylake”: One of the surprises of
the British open was the prominence
of the former Australian footballer
Shankland, who was the only player
from Down Under to enter the final
days’ play. Shankland learned his golf
at Royal Sydney, where he was a caddie
with Sam Richardson under Carnegie
Clark. Dropping golf for football, he


AFTER HIM WITH A WINCHESTER
46 Grain Staynlees Hollow Point
Bullet. Super Speed
.22-cal. Hornet Super Speed Cartridges,
velocity, 2625 F.S.
Price, per 100
Muzzle
22/6
1
.220 Winchester Swift Super Speed Cartridges,
46 grain hollow point bullet. Muzzle velocity,
4140 F.S.
Price, per 100
55/-
Freight Extra.
NEW MODEL 70
fd
CALIBRES
.22 HORNET Standard Grade. 20in. and 24in. barrel.
.220 SWIFT ~ „ 26in. barrel.
on
Bolt action six shot high power Repeating Carbine. 20in. round tapered barrel. Lyman gold bead front sight
integral ramp base with quick detachable cover. Lyman No. 48W receiver rear sight. Lightning-fast /1 1
speed lock, one-piece walnut pistol-grip stock. Weight, about I\ lb. Price L\J/ m
With Sporting Rear Sight. Price £lB/10/-
Model 70 Rifle with 24in. round tapered barrel. Weight, about BJlb. Other specifications and prices same as carbine.
Carriage Paid.
COWLES
’PHONE: M 3388.
AND DUNN
71 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
V7*
m
%
-
umea
NEXT
ORIENT LINE
CRUISE
Summer Cruises to
NEW ZEALAND
(Auckland and Wellington)
Late October ... "Orcades"
Xmas Cruise .... "Orford"
New Year Cruise . . "Otranto"
Late January . . . "Oronsay"
Book early for choice.
Noumea is fascinating —and French. In the shade
of its spreading flamboyant trees, diminutive
figures of Javanese women move gracefully
among the crowd and add a cosmopolitan air.
VIA GREAT BARRIER REEF
LATE JULY by ORAMA
* Commencing from Brisbane and ending at Sydney. Fares
include steamer or rail passage Sydney-Brisbane after the cruise.
LATE AUGUST CRUISE
Carrying First Saloon and Tourist "B" Class; Fares as detailed above.
ORIENT LINE ERITISES
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited, Incorporated in England.
went to England with the 1929-30 Kan-
garoos and later returned to play for
Warrington League club in Lancashire.
There he went back to golf for summer
employment, and was soon assistant pro-
fessional at Haydock club, where he is
now head pro.
<- * * *
“Susie Swattit”: N.S.W. women’s golf
championship at Rose Bay was taken by
Miss L. W. Hore, associate champion of
The Lakes and Moore Park clubs, from
Mrs. Clements, of Manly, winner in 1929,
by 8 and 7. The winner’s short game
was noticeably accurate. Two married
ladies also figured in the Victorian cham-
pionship final. Mrs. Evans defeated Mrs.
Dwyer' 7 and 6.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: So tempestuous Suzanne
Lenglen is dead, at 39. It is wasting ink
to write of her tennis standing—there was
none like her among women players.
Naturally she was accused of tempera-
ment, just as are great artists, singers and
gamesters, using that word in its good
old English sense. If she had a fault
it was that she couldn’t “take it.” Even
temporary defeat was apt to drive her
to distraction —witness the scene she
created when Mrs. Mallory beat her in
America. But she let artistic privilege
carry her too far when she kept Queen
Mary waiting at Wimbledon. Suzanne
turned professional, but the unhappy
entrepreneur who had paid her a round
sum down in advance to go over dropped
a poultice. The money came in handy
in beezness, for the lady had the sound
commercial instincts of her race.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Budge has now won three
of the four great tennis titles in the one
year: there is the American national
event to come. The young man has had
a pretty easy trot. At Wimbledon and
on the Continent the opposition was
feeble compared with that which faced
Crawford at Wimbledon in 1933: the
Australian had Vines and Perry, among
others, to contend with. Like Budge,
Helen Wills-Moody has been an eel
among the whitebait. She has put up a
record in winning at Wimbledon eight
times. It is sad to read that while she
was winning it, Suzanne Lenglen, whose
record she at last passed, had been given
up by the doctors in Paris.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: The proposal to hold
the Davis Cup tourney every two years
was turned down by 14 votes to 7 at
the meeting of the Davis Cup nations
in London. Britain, Canada, South
Africa, Australia and Germany >We
among the minority, while America
headed the standpats. At the same time
a committee to find some means of re-
lieving the congestion in the overcrowded
European zone was appointed.
* * * *
“Milton”: Queensland has acquired its
first woman professional Miss Flo
Francisco, of Toowoomba. Miss Flo has
won many Q. titles, including the mixed
doubles, in partnership with Hancock.
Presumably the young lady will confine
herself to coaching ; at the moment there
is no other field for professional players
of either sex in this country.
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: Clergymen bewailing the
absence of congregations might do worse
than recall that the foundation members
of Christianity were mostly sailing-men
of the fisher variety and take a leaf from
their ancient Book. Sydney Sailing
League reports that £12,000 was taken
at the 18-footer racing pursued by the
League on Sundays last season, and that
congregations totalled nearly 200,000. A
fleet of ecclesiastical 18’s, manned by
churchwardens, with fast steamers on
which collections could be taken up,
sounds like a moneyspinner.
* * * *
“Blade”: Mosman (N.S.W.) R.C. is
“selling” rowing, as the Yanks have it.
The club is inviting young fellows with
a taste for rowing or without to try their
luck with the club, which will supply
expert coaching without cost to the
learner. Classes are to be held on Satur-
day afternoons and Sunday mornings,
and when the season opens in a month
or two pupils will be given their chance
to qualify for the club crews. It is a
capital idea, and one that might be ex-
tended to other sports. In Brisbane years
ago boys who showed cricket or football
aptitude at Brisbane Grammar were cir-
cularised on leaving school by one lead-
ing cricket organisation and the famed
Past Grammar football club, and more
or less trepanned, with most gratifying
results.
sj« jjj j|j
“Quarter Butt”: Westralian Bob
Marshall’s retention of the world’s
amateur billiards championship revealed
him as something out of the ordinary.
The Englishman Kennerley places him
as far ahead of other amateurs and
Kennerley has met and beaten all the
others, here and in Britain —as Lindrum
is ahead of the professionals. There is
some talk of Marshall turning profes-
sional but he would do well to sleep
on it. He and Kennerley failed to
“draw” in Sydney. Then Marshall —who,
like Lindrum, was born in Kalgoorlie—
is past the age when the professional
swells of the past and to-day began to
devote their lives to the most exacting
of games—for that is what professional
billiards amounts to. All the champions
of the past had hardly reached their
’teens before their exceptional abilities
marked them out for laborious days and
years of practice on the green cloth.
* * * *
“Strangler”: London has just enjoyed
its first “mud” wrestling match. This
took place on a mat smeared a foot
deep with a mixture of clay, motor-oil
and soot. As the wrestlers flopped about
the filth flew all over the place, and the
front trenches were quickly evacuated.
The notion might be carried further. For
instance, a match might take place in a
trough filled a foot deep with beer.
This would be hallelujah for the wrest-
lers and referee, and, unless pressmen
have changed since I was one, not a
single front seat would be deserted.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Everybody Sing”
Allan Jones, Judy Garland, etc.
Mr. Jones differs from all other known
Joneses —including the heroic Potato
Jones—in being really beautiful. He has
a presence to flutter the heart of any
flapper in Christendom, and maybe any
among the less barbarous people as well.
His smile can only be described as
lovely, and what pearly teeth he has got!
Also, he can sing. He has a voice
which probably doesn’t need the boosting
it gets from the machine to comfortably
fill out a theatre. Further, he is a pretty
fair actor as singers go, though it has to
be said that the only part he has so far
been called on to play has been that of
Mr. Jones.
All this in his favor acknowledged, he
had still seemed to be missing on a cyl-
inder somewhere. Possibly that was
because he used to figure in Marx Bros,
pictures, in the savage humor of which
his slightly too prettily elegant good
looks struck a false note. Then, in the
singular cause of Hollywooden “art,” he
has had to sing ’em muck of such a de-
gree of muckiness that Melba would
have found an even more descriptive
term for it. He is a natural sentimental-
ist, and singing sentimentalism he has
been thick and sticky.
Perhaps he is good in this current
M.G.M. offering at Sydney State because
he is really improving all round as a film
artist. Or perhaps it is that he has better
songs to sing. Or again it may be that
the comedy is so excellent that all those
playing in it are lifted a bit above them-
selves. At all events, Mr. Jones seems a
new man.
The also-melodious Judy seems a new
woman, albeit a young ’un. As girl
screen artists go, she’s now shooting up,
but still makes a credible showing in a
school uniform. She is a forceful young
lad}' —a sort of effort by Nature to hold
a balance against such juveniles as Bobby
Breen and Shirley Temple. Judy’s of
the natural tomboy make-up. She can
sing like the dickens, too, and when she
inclines that way, has a sweet voice.
She doesn’t often incline that way.
Mostly her long suit is “hot rhythm,”
“swing” and suchlike Hollywooden im-
provements on Harlem. Up to a point,
that’s all right. It puts ginger very often
into dull proceedings, and Judy certainly
has the vigor for beefing it out. Present
film-taster’s objection has been that in
the beefing out business her voice gets
metal edges on it that cut his eardrums
to ribbons.
That happens a few times in this film ;
but generally Judy, like Jones, rises
above herself, some of the credit being
without a doubt due to her having tip-
top songs to sing. Judging on only one
hearing, the melodies seem far above
average, and the words certainly are. The
verses actually say something; they
could be printed and would read quite
well. As a rule the stuff songs are made
of, put into print, looks unutterable
piffle.
Another capital performance in the
film is that of Billie Burke. How long
this excellent actress has been on the
boards and on the screen it would be un-
chivalrous to discuss, yet here she is
seeming to improve with every appear-
ance. Blessed with one of the trimmest
rigs even Hollywood has witnessed and
a very charming phiz, she plays young-
ish matron parts in a style no other film
actress approaches. When, as here, the
matron is one amateurishly trying to be
an actress, her affected bad acting, her
displays of temperament, her outright
futility are of comedy’s purest essence.
Others in the very strong team include
Reginald Owen, Lynne Carver, Fanny
Brice and a few more covering a range
of talent from sound, straight acting to
broad comedy—broad in the histrionic,
not the questionable, sense. As far as
that goes, though the comedy is up-
roarious, it couldn’t be cleaner.
The Brice lady is the outright funny
one of the show. An ex-Russian princess,
now slavey-maid in an Amurrican house-
hold, she incites uproar at every entrance.
One of the very few authentic
comediennes in filmdom.
The construction of the thing is extra-
ordinarily good. Well cast, every char-
acter is interesting, and the narrative is
more than passably strong. But what
keeps the comedy really moving is its
string of funny situations.
These are extremely cleverly worked
up. From almost a standing start the
comedy in each of them keeps mounting
up till it touches the heights of up-
roariousness. Then only a very slight
pause, and there’s another scene starting
to mount up. Yet, though it is right to
say that the film consists of some dozens
of these comedies, it would not be right
to describe them as separate scenes. They
lead on from one to the other, making a
complete and most entertaining musical
comedy.
“The Adventures of Gary
Cooper”
Gary Cooper.
Correct label of this tub of romance
at Sydney Regent is “The Adventures
of Marco Polo,” but Clarice went along
Gary Cooper, Basil Rathbone, George Barbier in “The Adventures of Marco
Polo,” at Sydney Regent.
to take a lucky dip for Gary Cooper and
fished him out every time.
Gary Cooper being sought for in every
balcony in Venice, Gary beating all re-
cords to Pekin with half a minute of
shipwreck, half a minute of desert, two
seconds of snow and there he is at the
court of Kublai Khan!
Messer Gary wins the Emperor’s heart
by shrewd judgment at a court beauty
contest; wins the Emperor’s daughter’s
heart because she was doomed to marry
the Shah of Persia but dreamed of a
tall dark man.
Kublai, prompted by sinister chamber-
lain or grand vizier, dismisses Marcooper
to do some spying for him at the court
of a rival warlord. Messer Gary is
happily making love to warlord’s missus
when he gets word that Emperor, on an
expedition against Japan, has been de-
feated ; villainous vizier is attempting to
dethrone him, wed daughter.
So Gary comes riding home in time
to stop fair maid from puncturing her
charms with a dagger, and the warlord,
loyal to Emperor at the last, defeats
villainiser and puts Kublai back on
throne. Gary gets girl.
It’s all done with the minimum of
effort, maximum of Gary. A few thou-
sand more warriors and an emperor who
doesn’t say “I’ll sign” like a weak-kneed
embezzler under the third degree would
have improved it.
Support is “Who Killed Gail Preston?”
and there were enough people, not count-
ing the audience, who had good reasons
for bumping off the yawp-lady to make
it a passable puzzler.
State Theatrette Cricket.
What Test cricket has become when
one side has been driven into playing for
a draw was beautifully illustrated by a
newsreel at this address last week.
The camera roved over the crowd,
showing a rare spectacle of mass bore-
dom. Some were stretched out on the
ground sound asleep. The master-touch
was a close-up of Fleetwood-Smith and
O’Reilly while their captain was saving
the side—even they couldn’t stand it.
Commentary was of the acid sort — e.g.,
barracking defined as something per-
mitted only in Australia.
The theatrette has lately got back
to its former business of showing a
crowded hour or so of shorts covering
interesting happenings all over the globe.
With such a bill it’s always worth a visit.
“Sally, Irene and Mary.”
Alice Faye.
On the current bill at Sydney May-
fair, this has several passably-good people
in it beside the lush young lady in the
lead, who is blessed with attributes, includ-
ing a soulful yawping voice and accom-
plished ogling optics, likely to make male
youths regard her as the greatest actress
who ever lived.
Best of the others is a dry Amurrican
radio poisonality who really dominates
the film. His humor can be indicated by
one sample. Taking up a huge peach
from the office table at which he’s seated
he shaves it before eating with one of
those electrically-driven safety razors
which have lately been figuring in the ads.
He does the job without any appealing
to the audience’s sense of humor ; his
apparent ignoring of the audience
throughout is itself a most agreeable
change, particularly from Miss Faye’s
method of fairly throwing her charms
at the spectators.
For the rest the film’s just a length of
lightly entertaining froth, no better and
no worse than the general run of its kind.
Its construction might have been the result
of its directors starting off on a bender
and deciding on what would come next
in between successive highballs.
“Stolen Heaven.”
Paramount hasn’t been very decided
about this Prince Edward offering—
whether to make it a straight-out musical
or a piece of romanticised jewel-thieving.
Olympe Bradna, a neat, smiling new-
comer, is a singer and dancer when she
isn’t working as member of a Continental
gang of jewel thieves. When the Viem-
nese police pick up her trail she and the
handsome violinist leader of the gang
(Gene Raymond) escape into the forest
where they find a hiding-place with a
world-famous pianist (Lewis Stone) who
is living in retirement.
It opens in a Viennese beer garden ;
the Bradna dances through the forest in
a peasant costume, and for the finish
peasants come riding in haycarts 'from
miles around for a great music festival.
Color would have made it. As it is, it’s
a pleasant trifle and a waste of a half-
dozen good stock players.
“Tip-off Girls”
What are called the “tip-off girls” in
U.S.A. apparently work in collaboration
with organised gangs whose business is
“hi-jacking” the transport companies
which carry quite a large percentage of
Uncle Sam’s merchandise in competition
with the railways. Hitch-hiking, the
lasses make up to the drivers, find out
what they’re carrying and ’phone the in-
formation to the gang. It’s long odds
against any cargo getting through, and
the mortality among lorry-drivers is high.
Done into a film as a support to
“Stolen Heaven” at Sydney Prince
Edward the business makes rattling good
gangster entertainment. The racketeer-
ing rings true, and there’s plenty of gun-
ning and car-chasing to give it a dash of
excitement.
“Invisible Enemy.”
At the Sydney State screening of this
opus which present film-viewer attended
a girl in the audience yelled out, “Oh, I
can’t stand this!”
She wasn’t being sarcastic. The vil-
lain of the piece—international oil con-
cession plotter Vataspouter, or some such
name —was just then reaching out a foot
to press the button to connect the current
to electrify the chair to send the hero to
kingdom come.
As screened pseudo-mystery goes, it’s
f.a.q. entertainment, with comic virus in-
jected by Herbert Mundin.
Flagstad’s Wagner Night.
The Taits and the A.8.C., who between
them do most of the catering for the
musical entertainment of Australia, got
together in the right spirit last Thursday
night and gave Kirsten Flagstad a
chance of showing not only Sydney but
the rest of Australia how she copes with
Wagnerian roles.
Flagstad had previously sung some
Wagner extracts to pianoforte accom-
paniment, the ingenious Mr. McArthur
providing a very fair imitation of
orchestral effects, but the Thursday Town
Hall show had the benefit of the A.B.C.
band, led by Lionel Lawson and directed
by Joseph Post, and the singer could let
herself go.
Senta’s Ballad, from the “Dutchman”
was the first excursion. In this, and in
Elisabeth’s “prayer” and “greeting” from
“Tannhauser,” which followed, she gave
these well-worn but very impressive
declamations the benefit of the sort of
voice Wagner must have heard in his
soul when he was scoring them —a voice
of great power, the utmost purity of
tone, and, withal, human tenderness.
It is in infusing the human quality
that Flagstad excels. Most of Wagner’s
earlier heroines are so highly charged
with idealism and mysticism that it is
very difficult to bring them to life. Flag-
stad accomplishes this miracle and makes
it seem easy. Her beautiful, effortless
legato, unperturbed by those leaps up and
down in the scale which have daunted so
many stout hearts, has precisely the right
color for its orchestral background.
The evening’s great purple patch,
though, was the “Liebestod” of Isolde.
As was fitting, this was worked up to
by its elaborate orchestral preparation,
during which the singer remained seated.
When she rose to deliver the most tre-
mendous outpouring in all opera, expecta-
tions were raised to such a pitch that the
slightest shortcoming would have been
an anti-climax.
But Flagstad is the Isolde. Throughout
that swirling, almost turgid spate of
emotion she drew continually in increas-
ing measure upon her powers, and
reached the triumphant conclusion in a
positive blaze of vocal glory.
It was a great night. The audience,
expecting more, was reluctant to go
home, but for once there was to be
nothing to confuse the impression created
by the evening’s great occasion.
Back to a piano background on Satur-
day night, Madame demonstrated her
musicianship in some beautiful lieder
singing Brahms, Schubert, Schumann
and Richard Strauss. In Schumann’s
“Nussbaum” she touched the hem of
perfection. But the highlights of the
evening were the vigorous “Ritorna
Vincitor” from “Aida,” and a group of
Grieg lyrics.
Flagstad’s singing of Grieg is, despite
her magnificent Wagnerian efforts, the
most delightful musical experience she
has given to Sydney.


u
h
R
Vickers
DRY MARTINI
Welcome dinner tonight
with great enjoyment-after
a Vickers Dry Martini. Fill
thick tumbler half full of
broken ice and add dash
Orange Bitters, one-third
glass Italian-type Vermouth,
two-thirds glass Vickers Gin.
Then stir up, strain into
cocktail glass, and squeeze
lemon on top.
W/zm
Sgsgggs ' >
GET WISE MISS SC/lu6ffa/ui
Good brushing isn’t
enough! To make teeth
really sparkle, you need
the right tooth paste, too
Pepsodent containing
IRIUM. It ends Scrub-
Hard disappointment, is
the complete formula for
beautiful teeth!
BECAUSE OF film
p e psoden‘ |j of scraping it off.
away lostea LOlc qk!
BECAUSE of iR soap
BEC ?:”odent reff-nres N t HO
l wiKST - Sa^!
I BECAUSE OF \WWM ;
1 „
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
IRllßfl
THE PEPSODENT CO. <AUST.) PTY. LTD. (iNCORPORAT^^.CTOR.A)
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
AU 138/71
m
kJ
(v-'*
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherryvvood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . . . 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . ..11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild .. .. 7/6
“Skipper,” medium .. .. 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . . . 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Vdd 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
\dd 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturer!; Co. Ltd.
”<• MERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY. BRISBANE
Tauber in Melbourne.
Screen Tauber, gramophone - disk
Tauber and wireless-wave Tauber, all
rolled into one but minus the monocle,
gallops on to Melb. Town Hall platform,
swirls round the Steinway, bows and
waves friendship to two or three thou-
sand confirmed Tauber-addicts starved
for an opportunity of demonstrating
their appreciation in person.
Strongly built and of middle height,
the world’s greatest Schubert exponent
leads off with four Schubert lieder. Ex-
pectations that he would sing down to
that mythical section of the public which
is supposed to subsist on lollipops and
to find excellence indigestible are dis-
appointed. Except for a request encore
or two, he sings beautiful songs with
what seems as near perfect tone, form
and color as it is possible to imagine.
Sometimes his voice abruptly soars
into a strange falsetto, but it only adds
another bit of variety. Sometimes he
drops into a pianissimo which barely
reaches, but does reach, the upper strata
of the balcony. How many millions of
times he has sung Schubert’s “Standchen”
isn’t known, but he sings it now with
the utmost meticulousness of tone.
He isn’t the universal entertainer Tib-
bett is. While Tibbett’s hands and eyes
contribute to his meaning, Tauber
contents himself with the conventional
gestures of the average operatic singer—
that is to say, he moves his hands about
like a conjurer taking a rabbit out of a
hat; but he sings with the same con-
summate ease as Tibbett, and there is
little if anything to choose between the
voices of the baritone and the tenor.
Percy Code, of A.8.C., made his first
bow of the season as conductor of Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra on Satur-
day to a vast crowd so eager to hear
Richard Tauber’s voice that it gave only
perfunctory applause to the “Fidelio”
overture. It was a good performance,
however.
Although it has been stated that
Tauber’s voice lacks volume, there was
no lack of it in his singing of the arias
from “The Magic Flute” and “Don
Juan” of Mozart, or of artistry either.
The house wouldn’t let him go until he
had repeated the last-named item, and
two heavenly songs by Grieg and two
by Richard Strauss further brought the
house down.
In fact, few voices have been heard to
soar as Tauber’s soars through the Town
Hall auditorium, and few singers have
been able to carry a full orchestra with
them with so little embarrassment.
Adelaide’ s Theatre Needs .
Ruth Draper’s season at Adelaide
Royal was a striking artistic success, but
towards the end there were Press mur-
murs about comparatively poor houses.
Blame was laid on the fittings of the
old house, as compared with modern
(especially picture) theatres.
There is a strong movement by the
Repertory and other amateur bodies,
also the University, for a new theatre
which would cater especially for their
needs, as well as for “intimate” shows
such as the brilliant Draper monologues.
Suite by Saxophone.
Sigurd Rascher has given in Adelaide
what he says is the world’s first perform-
ance of Suite 3, op. 16, by Glaser (a
young Dane), scored for solo saxophone,
accompanied by the A.B.C. orchestra
under William Cade.
The folkdance motif gets brilliant treat-
ment from the new instrument; form
classical, execution modern. Rascher
promises for Melbourne a Dressel con-
certo; for Sydney, Debussy’s Rhapsody,
rescored for him by Ansermet.
Adelaide Artbursts.
Dora Wilson, as seen at the Society of
Arts Gallery, has moved a long way from
her old fondness for pastels of the human
vertebrae discreetly presented.
Here she is mostly landscape in oils, or
rather, city glimpses, fairly divided be-
tween Sydney “Rocks” and unusual bits
of Collins-street (which she can make
seem quite French), with an occasional
excursion to Port Fairy or even Rouen.
Three of her best prove her versatility:
the portrait of a little native “princess,”
an interior of Temple Court, Melbourne,
and fishing-boats of St. Ives drawn up
at low tide. Thinness of painting very
noticeable here, so that the white canvas
shows through, to represent sand, paint
on a boat and various other things.
Lizette Kohlhagen, perhaps more
esteemed in Sydney than in her native
Adelaide, also has a show. Her lino-cuts
are masterly ; paintings only average.
Leila McNamara, wisely pricing low
her charming bits of shore or gum-tree,
has sold over 20 of them —unusual these
days.
The Graphic Arts Society of Vienna
has a show at Decorations, Wyatt-street.
Louis McCubbin, on behalf of Adelaide
Gallery, has selected three pictures very
diverse in style.
A study by Reuss is a bold outline in
greasy crayon, just a matter of a dozen
line depicting the head of a woman asleep.
An etching by Paeschke, entitled “Play-
ground,” presents a mass of children —
possibly 40 in all —in rather faint outline
but so mixed up that it suggests a picture
puzzle. A striking etching by Frank
Brangwyn, of Barnard Castle, is most at-
tractive.
Man and Wife Show.
More than 70 paintings by Amalie and
A. D. Colquhoun splash lively color
on the walls of Melbourne Athenaeum.
Mostly portraits and landscapes, the
majority of them well drawn and splen-
didly painted.
A few of the landscapes, Australian,
English and Scottish, have been shown
before; Mrs. Colquhoun’s “Milking
Time at Marums” and her husband’s
“The Thames at Low Tide,” “Tower
Bridge” and “The Colquhoun Arms” are
fairly typical of their best in this section.
He appears to favor cool grey tones,
while she works better when there’s
warmth of light and color before her.
Among the portraits, Colquhoun’s
freely-painted “Miss Rosemary Mathew,”
the quieter study of Gregory Cowans,
and a vital, colorful, full-length of-a girl
in a floral evening dress are good ex-
amples of the artist at his best. Mrs.
Colquhoun’s portraiture has vigor, well
instanced in two young boys, “Gerald
and Kim,” intent on a mechanical toy,
in the attitude of a small girl, “Dione,”
and in the more serene character of
“Mrs. Penington.”
Versatile E. A. Harvey.
Represented in the National Gallery
sesqui. show of Australian art by one of
the best still-lifes ever painted in Aus-
tralia, E. A. Harvey has ambition be-
yond that line, and in his show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, presents
essays in oils on many themes.
He paints landscapes, mostly in fog or
mist, in a manner reminiscent of Whistler,
and gets telling effects of lighting in such
waterside studies as “The Backwater.”
There are various flower and other
still-life arrangements, and these, techni-
cally, are probably the best of the bunch.
Figure studies and a portrait are stiff.
Australian Compositions.
A.8.C., which is doing a lot to help
and encourage Australian musical com-
posers, presented from 2FC one night
last week a performance of a cantata
entered in an A.B.C. competition, to-
gether with other works of Australian
origin.
The cantata, “The Warriors,” by Nor-
bert Wentzel, of Sydney, was sung by
the full Radio Choir, with adequate
orchestral backing, under the baton of
G. Vern Barnett. It proved to be a well-
scored work, with plenty of vigor in the
martial passages, and contrasts of mood
that lent themselves to interesting choral
treatment. The words were not recog-
nisable, but in heavy choral passages they
never are, no matter how well-trained
the choir.
“Elegie,” also by N. Wentzel, an
orchestral work, had its second Austra-
lian performance. It is worked out in
very leisurely fashion, and some of its
emotion is vague, but there are good
ideas in it.
Another Australian choral work was
Fritz Hart’s “St. Bernard’s Hymn,” in
which the ladies’ choir excelled itself.
The semi-Gregorian opening chimes with
the title all right, but the rest of the
work is in a free cantata style that
probably would have astonished the
saint immensely.


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
JF you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care Is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
Personal and Missing Friends.
Would JOHN MADDEN (formerly of
Leichhardt, near Sydney, Australia, last heard
of in England about 1918, who is entitled to
a legacy under a Codicil to the Will of his
father, the late John Madden, if claimed before
15th August, 1941), or any person knowing
his whereabouts, communicate with Stephen,
Jaques and Stephen, Solicitors to deceased’s
estate, Box 206 D, G.P.0., Sydney.
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN.
RE ELIZABETH LOUISE ALLEN, late of
8 Wellington Road, Red Hill, Brisbane, m
the State of Queensland, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that RICHARD
ALLEN and all persons claiming to be next of
kin of the abovenamed ELIZABETH LOUISE
ALLEN, late of 8 Wellington Road, Red Hill,
Brisbane, in the State of Queensland, deceased,
who died on or about the Twenty-second day
of April, a.d. 1938, at Brisbane in the said
State, arc hereby required to forward prooi
of their relationship to THE PUBLIC
CURATOR, Brisbane, on or before the First
day of September, 1938.
AND that after the expiration of the last
mentioned date, the Public Curator will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
DATED this thirtieth day of June, 1938.
R. J. S. BARNETT, Public Curator, Edward
Street, Brisbane.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The most exciting thing that happened
to Sydney last week was the arival of
the British and the Dutch flying-boats.
Flying-boats have come and gone before,
but these marked the beginning of the
ferry service of the air. London to
Sydney, Sydney to Europe all in a few
days. No longer can we look upon our-
selves as Pacific islanders, as Rod Quinn
puts it, “begirt by seas and far apart,”
we are just another roosting place for
the machine-made waterhen whose eggs
are mail that will, businessmen hope,
hatch into big business. Fashion will
now be brought so speedily to our door-
step that this Letter prophesies that in-
stead of wearing in June winter suits
and knitted wear designed six months
before for the women of Europe and
America, Australian well-dressed women
will expect fashion designers to give
them in June the winter silhouettes that
will be worn by Europe the following
December.
Crowds poured out to Rose Bay to
greet the Challenger, and by the time
the great flying-boat had taken up her
moorings all the best positions close to
the air-station were taken up. The waters
lit by the late afternoon sun were lively
with small craft. From a woman’s point
of view the eagerly-looked for was
Muriel Howlett, the clever Australian
girl who travelled from England as
8.8. C. flight announcer. She stepped
ashore, a trim figure in a powder-blue
woolly three-piece. The other woman
passenger to disembark at Sydney was
Marjorie Shuler, an American journalist
who is flying over the world, and intends
to cross five continents in commercial
’planes. She is known as “the lady in
lace” because she plans most of her
“flying” wardrobe, which must weigh so
little, in this delightful and uncrushable
fabric. Miss Howlett’s wardrobe was
specially designed. Worth noting are the
soles of non-slip felt on her “flying
shoes.”
Our American cousins passed the flow-
ing bowl last week to the glory of Inde-
pendence Day. First of all, there were
great comings and goings in the home of
Consul-General Wilson. From two
o’clock in the afternoon cars that posi-
tively seemed to spin along to “the Star
Spangled Banner” took the road to his
Edgecliff home. Later on all America in
Sydney (or so it seemed) was gathered
in the ballroom of the Australia. And
was it emotional with color? Red, white
and blue, everywhere, also Stars and
Stripes, Australia’s starry emblem, and
the Union Jack. The menus, too, shook
hands across the sea, as it were, and had
printed on them the words of our
National Anthem and those of “The Star
Spangled Banner.”
Flowers were brilliant, and so were
jewels. Hair was worn in curls and
trimmed with orchids. One graceful table
decoration featured a model of the May-
flower: her sails of white flowers sped
her gently on a sea of violets. President
of the American Society A. C. Aubry
and Mrs. Aubry entertained a large
party, America’s Consul-General a
notable in the group. Mrs. Howard
Steiner, one of the dance committee
which had worked so hard for the night’s
success, was pictorial in black velvet, the
fairness of her skin intensified by the
touches of cerise in her cape and flowers.
Stiff with gold embroideries was Mrs.
John Belisario’s black coat. Robin Eakin
and Joan Scott-Fell were there, Robin
stepping blithely in gold laces, Joan look-
ing like a French miniature with her
curled hair and her off-the-shoulder
flowery taffetas. White chiffons and
orchids were allied in Mrs. R. Doyle’s
frocking. Actress Betty Balfour was there
with husband Jimmie Campbell. The
Harald Bowdens were in the same party.
Young pianist Valda Aveling will face
a large audience at the Town Hall on
July 14. This will be Valda’s farewell
to Sydney, as she then joins the army
of young Australians with talent seeking
the stamp of Europe on their work. In
between flights with Bach and Debussy
the teen-old gets a thrill out of the frock
she is to wear at her big concert. Of
powder-blue velvet it is being made on
picturesque rather than sophisticated
lines, and should suit the young player’s
brunette coloring. Box plan at Paling’s
looked very healthy last week-end ; over
1000 of the best seats bought and paid
for.
Artist Mabel Hookey, of Rokeby
House, Rokeby (across the bay from
Hobart), is in Sydney, and means to hold
an exhibition here when the wattles
bloom in August. Writer, artist and
farmer, she paints the hills and dales of
her Apple Isle as a hobby, and has ex-
hibited in the Paris Salon. Among other
publications she has written a lively
book, Bobby Knopwood and His Times.
Miss Hookey, who inherited wide farm-
lands and a big homestead from an aunt,
shares with a sister the joys of house-
keeping and the modest pride of offering
visitors to Rokeby House some of her
own vintage—parsnip wine, for instance,
that looks like Burgundy.
Nancy (more widely known as Bunty)
Scott-Fell, daughter of the Bain Scott-
Fells is one of the prettiest figures on the
ice-skating rinks this season. She makes
a special study of languages, and is a
worker in the cause of T.B. children.
Photograph from Monte Luke.
Flocks of pigeons fluttered in the pale
sunshine outside the Art Gallery, while
in its cold courts flocks of small school-
girls, as brightly alert of eye, listened
to Margaret Preston, as she told them
the points to look for in such dissimilar
artists as Velasquez, Turner, Constable,
Goya, Watteau and others. This is the
third of Margaret’s series, and was a
great draw. The big court on the right
as you enter the gallery was filled with
rows of the art hungry. Director of the
Gallery Will Ashton was on deck to
welcome knight Philip Street and his
lady, who were front seaters, and to pass
votes of thanks.
When Flagstad served Wagner with
orchestra, the singer seemed to think
conductor Joe Post did a good job judg-
ing by the smiles and the handclasp
which she bestowed on him at the end
of the “Isolde” music. For days before-
hand the management had been puzzled
how to pack them in, and the Town
Hall was simply bubbling with enthusi-
astic humans. Flowers and laurel wreaths
and rounds of applause were the per-
formers’ reward. As this concert was
being broadcast, great numbers of A.B.C.
chieftains were in the house. Mrs. Cleary
and two pretty daughters came with the
chairman of the Commission. Mrs.
Moses, her shoulders warmed by a small
ermine cape, came with her tall husband.
Mrs. Harald Bowden brought Mrs.
Avery, slim, fair, and wearing a fitting
ground-length powder-blue coat. Mrs.
Avery was, just prior to the introduction
of sound films, an English screen actress.
Another new face, a pretty, round
French one, was that of the French girl
organist, Renee Nizan. After the con-
cert the E. J. Taits (her coat of dyed
summer ermine was one of the hand-
somest present) gathered up Kirsten, her
husband, Edwin McArthur, and manager
Levien, and they all went off to Romano's
for supper and chatter.
it . , frtrt
Trust the Navy to think of comfort.
At last weeks party m the A ba ,
because the day was chill there were
little coke braziers set about the deck.
The little gurgles of satisfaction with
which the fair greeted the sight must
have sent a glow of satisfaction through
Captain Acland and his officers. The
Albatross sailed the wintry seas last
Monday on her journey to England, and
the cocktails were a farewell libation.
Many good-byes were said, as some of
the Navy wives are bound for England,
too Mrs Acland, who went off in the
Aorangi to journey by way of Maori-
land, was trig in black frocking and
silver-fox furs.
A J • *, , . A u,» rp
Rear-Admiral an d Mrs. F ,
at this party. A toque of green velvet
CcoSr Major-General 1 & and
his wife, Colonel Lorenzo and Mrs.
Lorenzo and the Bertie Kellys paid their
respects The flower-crusted toque of
Mrs. F. N. Cook was admired. Her
Lieutenant - Commander husband is in
the Albatross and Mrs. Cook sails to
England in the Orontes.
_ . c , „ -r r
This is Mrs. Paul Schramm, wife
the AustnM piamrt who has just con-
eluded his third tour with the A.B.C.
Paul will give his only public recital in
Australia on Saturday evening next, in
the Conservatorium. This concert will
benefit the Rotary Fund for crippled
children. Photograph from Dayne.
“Streamlined” young flying woman
Nancy Bird was the guest at the Lyceum
Club’s lunch last Friday. Nancy, who
has been flying an aerial ambulance for
the Far West Children’s Health scheme,
spoke graphically of her experiences.
Mothers present thought feelingly as she
spoke about the lot of children whose
menu is almost bereft of green vegetables
and fresh milk. Mrs. A. G. Thomas
asked Nancy to accept membership of
the club. Mrs. Ivy Moore, an enthusiast
of aeroplane travelling, gave the young
airwoman a copy of her volume of
poems, Australian Violets.
The journalists are massing forces for
their tenth yearly ball. Last Friday there
was a preliminary meeting of the general
committee in the Carlton Hotel. The
date of the ball will be September 3. The
place will be David Jones’s ballroom.
There was a great family gathering at
Oswald Cheeke’s on Friday at the cock-
tail hour. The party was in honor of
nephew George Cheeke and his wife.
They come from a little beyond Victoria
in Vancouver. Also present were young
cousins Franz Degan and Gag Beaton.
Franz’s father was there with his wife.
Mrs. Arthur Cheeke, Ruby Adams and
Thea Proctor, who is a cousin of Mrs.
George Cheeke, from Vancouver, were
others of the family. Pianist Paul
Schramm, Patrick Bellew, Violet Roche,
the Snowden lady, a Dixon cousin,
Etta Cowan and Mrs. Moreing with the
attractive smile were others. Olga Mc-
Lean, from Charleville, wore a little
pointed hat to suit her pointed chin, and
was smartly black-and-white. Nearly all
the women at the party wore black except
Mrs. Degan, who is an artist, and showed
it in her color scheme of French blues
and the dark-red embroideries of her
Bulgarian blouse.
In Victoria (8.C.), Mrs. Cheeke says,
they pride themselves on being English.
In fact, the province is considered by
some visitors to be more English than
England. The climate is not very severe ;
light falls of snow in the winter, but not
enough for sledding, and occasionally
some ice-skating. The round of life, as
this pleasant young woman tells it,
sounds very like life in Maonland s
Southland. As in Maoriland, the owners
call their holdings farms. The George
Cheekes have a farm where all the savor
and flavor of the big forests come to
them in the great log fires that warm
their rooms during the rather long win-
ter. Mrs. Cheeke found that 80 deg.
in her home land seems much hotter
than 80 deg. in Suva.
Probably no woman singer who has
faced Sydney audiences has more or
better jewels than Kirsten Flagstad. Her
sapphires are magnificent—large frag-
ments of the sky and sea they look. Hex-
diamonds would not quail before any
Hatton Garden test, and her pearls are
above price. She wore these last at
Saturday’s concert plus a gold lame
frock. The bodice of this was made
bolero style and glittered with diamente.
The long and full skirt swept into a train.
Unlike most artists Kirsten does not
dream of life as an unending climb of the
peaks of fame. Her attitude seems to be
that fame is a very nice laurel wreath to
finally take and hang up in the family
circle.
Monday afternoon’s flutter at the
Overseas League Club rooms was the
sherry merry to Fay Compton, the
Stafford Hilliards, the Paul Schramms
and Dr. Ehrman Ewart The afternoon
had been soft and warm, and the
Leaguers turned up in great numbers.
One or two go-ahead women even wore
millinery that was definitely spring.
Kathleen Gaden and Violet Roche in-
troduced v and welcomed the guests.
Among Mary Gilmore’s promising
clutch of young verse-writers is Mona
Brand. Mona, a Sydney girl now living
in Victoria, has just published a slim
book of verse, titled Wheel and Bobbin,
to which Dame Mary has written the
foreword. Mona has spent some of her
short life in Queensland, so she should
know something of Australia. Old pupils
of North Shore Girls’ High will remem-
ber her contributions to the school maga-
zine. After she left school Mona took
to advertising, and worked as * copy-
writer for some time in the advertising
department of Anthony Horderns’. Her
book is now on sale at this store and at
the Roycroft.
Brian O’Brien, a Maoriland broad-
casting personality, is in Sydney, taking
something of a busman’s holiday by
visiting all our studios. Children’s hour
sessions are his speciality, and he feels
that much can be done to make them
a training ground for the mind, as well
as a means of amusement. Before he
took up radio Brian was a man of law.
Down from Bangkok on a holiday
is Mrs. Segaert, wife of former Consul-
general for Belgium in Sydney. Bangkok,
as far as woman is concerned, is a house-
keeper’s paradise. She and her husband
are enjoying the sociallife, the interest-
ing atmosphere and the purple patches >
of royal entertainment.
You’d be surprised at all the women
you know and I know who are taking
to ice-skating. A lot of them are plump
and they say that skating reduces them.
It certainly brings their weight down.
One well known who is a beginning
Sonja Henie had a brainwave the other
afternoon. After she had had her three
or four bobs’ worth from the instructor
she gamely started out to practise by her-
self. She was all right till she came to
the first opening from the rink where,
of course, the rail comes temporarily to
an end. She gazed at the glacier-like
surface with a shiver, then with a smile
of sudden enlightenment, she simply
stepped out from the rink on to the un-
frozen surround whei'e a few paces
brought her from rail end to rail begin-
ning.


Age 40!
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic, Kidney, Bladder,
Acid or Associated Disorders.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100 —though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians—are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills. '
mt
XiiiS
m
m n
.
s«c
•:.w>
£s£
m
zmm
mm
'■ssmifs-x-tzm
wmrnm
HM
$S
ji
K«S
%
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
fd
fdfdfdf
Diaqram showinq Tqpes oP
Needle-point Uric Acid crqstals
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you, and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time sufferers
from Kidney-Bladder-Acid Ills who have failed to get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
■:'?■.
iiif
.
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
1 feel I cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
WEARY BODIES REVIVE - YOUTH Returns
as Harrison's Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(‘marante
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health* strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails—it is free! Titee
sizes: 2/-, 3/-, 5/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated l Laboratories, Daking
House, Sydney.
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) 0. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN 1
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson."
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed fiye weeks—thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know.-r-(Signed) J. Taylor.’’
end ageing kidney,
Bladder and Acid Ills-With
HARRISONS PILLS


Divorce Notices.
TO HARRY HOOPER formerly of Napier
Street Fitzroy in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown
And PATRICK KELLY formerly of East
Melbourne in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that ERNEST FREDERICK
PRICE has instituted proceedings for divorce
in the Supreme Court of the State of Victoria
against his wife JOYCE PRICE on the ground
that since her marriage to the said Ernest
Frederick Price she the said Joyce Price has
been guilty of adultery with each of you the
said Harry Hooper and the said Patrick Kelly
and has joined you the said Harry Hooper and
you the said Patrick Kelly as co-respondents in
the said suit AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that in accordance with the order of
his Honor Mr. Justice Martin made the 29th
day of June 1938 the time within which you
may enter an appearance to the said suit was
fixed at 21 days from the 9th day of July
1938 and the time for filing of an answer was
fixed at ten days from the entry of appearance.
UNLESS you enter an appearance to the suit
at the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court Law Courts William Street Melbourne
Victoria within 21 days from the 9th day of
July 1938 and cause an answer to be filed at
the abovenamed office within ten days from the
entry of such appearance the suit may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.
J. W GALBALLY.
TO BEATRICE THELMA FERRALL formerly
16 Sutherland Road Armadale in the State
of Victoria Married Woman but now of
parts unknown.
AND TO WALTER MARSHALL formerly
of 16 Sutherland Road Armadale in the
State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that ROBERT LESLIE
TERENCE FERRALL husband of you the said
BEATRICE THELMA FERRALL has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground that since the celebration of marriage
the said Beatrice Thelma Ferrall has been
guilty of adultery with the said Walter Marshall
and one Alan Hoy. UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne in the State of
Victoria within twenty-one days of the date
of the publication of this notice and file an
answer in this suit within a further ten days
the case may proceed in your absence.
MAHONY O’BRIEN & HARTY, 20 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Wellington District.
(Wellington Registry.)
No. 4969 (In Divorce).
TO RUSSELL CLAUDE JAMES formerly of
Wellington Barber but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARJORIE
LOUIE JAMES has filed a petition for
divorce against you in this Court on the grounds
that on or about the 9th day of October 1932
you wilfully deserted her without just cause
and such desertion has continued in full force
and effect for three years and upwards and
that unless you enter an appearance and file
the answer in the said Court at Wellington
within 40 days of the appearance of this
advertisement the said petition will be heard
and determined in your absence. A copy of
the citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of July,
1938.
G. E. POLLOCK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
George Cecil Kent is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
Offices of Messieurs Kent & Webb, Solicitors,
109 Customhouse Quay, Wellington, New Zea-
land.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 416 of 1936.
BETWEEN CYRIL ROY CLANCY Peti-
tioner
And LILLIAN ELIZABETH CLANCY
Respondent
And WILLIAM GRAHAM Co-respondent.
TO CYRIL ROY CLANCY formerly of New-
castle in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that in default of your
applying to have the Decree Nisi pronounced
herein in your favor on the twenty-sixth day
of May one thousand nine hundred and thirty-
six made absolute the abovenamod Respondent
will move this Court on the twenty-ninth day
of July 1938 or so soon thereafter as the
course of business will permit for an Order
that the Decree Nisi aforesaid be made abso-
lute AND FOR AN ORDER that the costs of
the application be paid by you.
DATED this eleventh day of July, 1938.
J. DOUGHAN,
Deputy Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL ESQUIRE, Solicitor, 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle; By his Agents, N.
Cherry Willis & Corcoran, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Forewarned is forearmed. Members
of the Grand National Ball Committee
know all about the scarcity of flowers in
July, so two months before'their dance
they ordered enough vegetables to deco-
rate the Palais. Pumpkins were piled in
golden parapets across the stage, with
faces cut out and heads lit up, and more
pumpkins sat upon posts around the
room —afterwards many of them were
souvenired for the children at home. On
the tables were harvest festivals of
carrots, sticks of celery and mounds of
gold and silver pine cones, which didn’t
get eaten in mistake for the salads. If
they were eaten it was on purpose —
supper was by ticket at a buffet from
11 to 2. Mrs. Gilbert Crawford was
liaison officer for the pumpkins, Win
Moran painted the pinecones, and it was
at Mrs. Haffee Fern’s that committee
people gathered to cut the hundreds of
yards of streamers in the colors of each
horse running in the Grand National
Steeple.
One of the loveliest frocks in the room
was Mrs. Gilbert Crawford’s Lucien
Lelong model of heavy black moire with
flowers upon the skirt made from ribbon
and stitched with tiny beads. An inter-
lude in the proceedings was a hobby-
horse steeplechase with 14 men as the
jockeys, among whom were brothers-in-
law-to-be Bruce Wenzel and Jack
Manton (Jack’s fiancee Pat Wenzel is
still in America). Mrs. Stuart Hancock
arrived bright and early in black net and
with a popgun under her arm, the start-
ing gun in the great race. A little later
she joined Denise Cockrill (Denise in a
long slim-fitting coat of black-and-gold
brocade) for the selling of baskets full of
lucky-number caps. Jenny Adams in sea-
green tulle swirling over lame and Peggy
Finkelstein in a long bustle-backed coat
of lipstick-red velvet and gardenias in
her dark hair looked after the tickets at
the door. President of the committee
Mrs. S. J. Staughton was unable to be
present, but Susan came with a party
who had met at her home earlier in the
evening for a spot of dinner. Proceeds
of the dance, which is the fifth Grand
National Ball to be held, went towards
the Ministering Children’s League’s Cot-
tage-by-the-Sea.
Melbourne people entertained one an-
other last week with a variety of social
activities, and in so doing kept them-
selves almost warm enough for comfort.
Out at Flemington on the second and
third days of the Grand National meet-
ings the weather was as pleasant as the
depth of winter can be, for there was
no wind to ravage careful and expensive
curls and no bite in the cold that puts
unwelcome purple finger-prints upon
even the finest complexions. On the last
day furs were sumptuous and lapel
flowers plentiful in spite of empty
gardens around the city.
Among the hats of all kinds and shapes
Mrs. Ken Niall’s black velour with its
saucer brim slightly fluted on one side was
particularly becoming. Mrs. Geoff Grim-
wade wore the sort of tweed jacket suit
that is a heart-warming addition to any
Melbourne wardrobe—over the short
coat went a full-length coat with pockets
and buttons in exactly the same tailored
layout. Responsible for dashes of color
among the blacks and browns were Mrs.
Jimmy Fell, dashing in her purple en-
semble ; Mrs. Jack Edgar, in a forest-
green coat, and Valerie Crowther, in
larkspur-blue frock and hat that accom-
panied her squirrel coat. Edith Anderson
managed to find a marigold to match the
bright yellow scarf she tucked into the
waistcoat of her petrol-blue tweed suit.
Also flecked with blue were the tweeds
worns by Pamela Armstrong for her
frock, long coat and perky gipsy cap.
In between race meetings there were
numbers of private cocktail parties at
which everybody kept warmed up inside
and out, for none of them happened
without either central heating or fire-
places filled with smouldering mallee
roots. Dances, too, were features of the
week, and so were dinners, formal and
buffet, the latter an invaluable invention
in these days when cooks and maids are
worth their weight in bullion and the
“extra” for cleaning arrives with two
children instead of the more customary
one.
Among mothers who rose to the occa-
sion with parties for their fair young
daughters were Mrs. Hume Turnbull and
Mrs. D. Gordon, who togethef gave a
dance at No. 9 Darling-street for Mrs.
Turnbull’s younger daughter Jean and
for Mrs. Gordon’s Ann and John. An-
other special guest was Dr. and Mrs.
Tucker’s Margaret, who accepted the
hostess’s invitation to make her debut
upon that evening. Mary Murphy was
another of the week’s debs, when she
slipped into a thistledown confection of
palest-pink tulle for the dance, also at
Darling-street, given in her honor by her
mother, Mrs. Alex. Murphy, of The
Briars, Mornington, and by her aunt,
Mrs. George Paxton.
The A. O. Barrett family tree has its
roots firmly embedded in the old home
Llalbert, Orrong-road, Armadale, where
the magnolia-trees are as high as the
house and the tall gums planted by the
boys before the war are as much part of
the place as they are.
But now that four sons have flown
from the nest, leaving only Alfred and
Julian at home, Mr. and Mrs. Barrett
have decided to make the break, to give
up their home, live at Myoora for a time
and perhaps later on travel where the
spirit moves them. The family gather-
ing last week was a worthy good-bye, for
everybody was there. Twenty-five sat
down to dinner, and the grandchildren
behaved like angels. In the assembly
were Harvey, Lance, Bob and Rod with
their wives. Rod and Mrs. Rod (who
was Joanne Matters, of Adelaide) gave
an open-house party on Sunday at their
home in Hawthorn when guests were
given the honors as to time, for invita-
tion gave a choice of a welcome between
11.30 a.m. and 7.30 p.m.
The Athol Shmith portrait is of Mrs.
Dan Reddan, who is on the committee
of the Palm Court Ball to be held on
July 14 to help defray expenses for
“The Crescent Moon,” for the idea is
to commence the operatta season in
August with a clean sheet and no debts.
Mrs. Reddan is a dancer of professional
standing so that her help will be invalu-
able to the “Crescent Moon” ballets.
“Up at the Shop” they think of Keith
Mackartney’s musical talents in the same
breath as his inventions and adaptations
of comedy and burlesque, but Mr. Mac-
kartney has his serious moments.. One
such was at the British Musical Society
where as baritone soloist he contributed
two groups of songs. It was a Purcell
evening, introduced by Lorna Stirling
with a talk on Purcell, who for nine years
was attached to Magdalen College,
Oxford. The B.M.S. is losing William
McKie to the same centre of culture, his
new appointment being that of organist
and choirmaster to Magdalen College.
The society is carrying on its aesthetic
work, but everybody misses much-loved
nonagenarian Thomas Brentnall and un-
tiring enthusiast Sybil Hull, whose un-
timely death took place several months
ago.
Picking winners at the races was no
harder than forecasting the results of
the Women’s Golf Championships of
Victoria, played this year at Riversdale.
For the first time for as long as most
people can remember Shirley and Mrs.
Sloan Morpeth, the Tolhurst sisters, failed
to qualify. Weather conditions during
the qualifying rounds were appalling, es-
pecially in the afternoon, when everyone
was wet through and golf was almost
water polo. In the quarter finals Betty
Kernot, Leslie Bailey, Lois Barbour and
Miss M. Bell were put out by Joan
Lewis, Mrs. C. L. Evans, Mrs. J. J.
Dwyer and Peggy Nankivell respectively.
Mrs. Evans and Mrs. Dwyer got into the
finals, played on a day of pleasant
sparkling weather, and Mrs. was
an easy victor, 7 up, thus keeping faith
in her promise of last year when she was
runner-up to Nell Hutton. Her oppo-
nent, Mrs. Dwyer, was before her mar-
riage a few years ago Marion Nixon, of
Orbost.
Well-knowns missed from Victorian
golf this year were Nell Hutton and
Bertha Cheney. Nell, who won the title
last year, is on a three mark, writes that
she is having a grand time in England,
where she is learning an enormous lot
about golf, and is hoping to return home
via the U.S.A. She and Bertha both
played at Hadley Wood in the Vesta
Golfing Society’s prize competitions
which are organised to bring together
women golfers of Great Britain and
overseas.
Seldom at any exhibition of paintings
have so many subjects of the portraits
been present as at the opening of the
show by Amalie Colquhoun and A. D.
Colquhoun in the Athenaeum Gallery.
lVtrs. H. F. Richardson brought Suzanne,
for A. D. Colquhoun had painted her
with her sisters Judith and Ruth. Several
members of the d’Este Kibble family
were present, with little Dione, and the
Peter Manifolds came in the morning to
see how small Helen fared as the baby
of the show. Mrs. Colquhoun, who
painted Dione and Helen, has a manner
and a gift of patience that makes angels
of her young sitters. She sings to them,
tells them stories and even amuses them
with a peep-show. Absentees were the
McMahon Balls, who with Jenny (painted
by Amalie) recently arrived in England,
and Gregory Gowans (painted by A.D.),
at present in Sydney on legal affairs.
Mrs. Sidney Rubbo, who is married to
the bacteriologist son of artist Dattilo
Rubbo, was in the crowd and on the
wall in Austrian peasant costume. Easily
recognisable were the dimples of “Smiling
Jenny,” belonging to Mrs. R. S. Robin-
son, who came down from Deniliquin
especially for the opening. Rosemary
Matthew, Heather Sleeman (and her
three sisters, but they only in person),
auburn-headed Rhoda Heathcote, Olga
and Marcia Hausegger and Diana Park-
Smith were also present in duplicate.
Diana, who plays an excellent game of
tennis, was painted as a tennis girl in
her white culotte, and carrying racquets
and blazer. Mrs. L. L. Hutchison was
interested in the portrait of her bal-
lerina daughter, whom she hasn’t seen
for three years. Dorothy, who is now
with the Anton Dolin Ballet, was painted
in a lilac ballet frock in what Mr. Col-
quhoun describes as the warmest winter
studio in London, for such was the vir-
tue of his old-fashioned coal and coke
stove.
Broothorn pictures here Dr. Greta
Hort, the new principal of the Univer-
sity Women’s College, who has chosen
“The Scenery of Denmark and its His-
torical Background” for her first public
lecture in Australia. The lecture, which
is part of a series in aid of the extension
funds for the Women’s College, will take
place at Menzies on July 18. Originally
it was planned for Mrs. Karl Kumm’s
house, but Dr. Hort’s name is proving
such a magnet that the committee became
alarmed about accommodation. A dona-
tion from Mrs. Kumm is defraying the
extra expense involved.
Espinosa, who arrived in Melbourne
last Monday was accompanied by his
Australian wife, Louise Kay, who was
born in Mosman, Sydney. The couple
have two children—Yvette, who is mar-
ried and living in Rhodesia, and Eddie,
who has been dancing in London in
“Crescendo,” the ballets of which are
his mother’s choreography. Another
Australian interest in “Crescendo” is that
Edna Moncrieff was prima ballerina.
Edna, a niece of Gladys Moncrieff, is
small, slim and dark, and is like her aunt
in face and features. Her greatest suc-
cess in Australia was at the Criterion,
when she was dancing with Bobbie
Helpmann.
Last Monday, when the Monterey
berthed in Sydney, was an important day
for one of the passengers, Professor
Perley and for a Melbourne writer,
Maie Clements, who went up to Sydney
to meet the ship—the couple were mar-
ried during the afternoon and are ex-
pected back in Melbourne early next
week. Miss Clements is the author of
Not by Bread Alone, the scene of which
is laid in Melbourne. Her second book
now in the hands of the publishers is to
be called Chaff Before the Wind and is
dedicated to Professor Perley. Its plot is
enfolded in Folkestone, Kent, where Miss
Clements was born and spent her girl-
hood. The Professor is a Canadian, was
Rabbi of the Liberal Synagogue in Mel-
bourne, and left here two years ago.
Recently he received an appointment as
Professor of Theology at the University
of Indiana. In addition he is a Master of
the Hebrew language. With Mrs. Perley
he leaves once more for America in the
Mariposa on August 19.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely ... the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
iooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
ter e mf d / est n urant open tm ™ if l»'Kht. Special
te ms for Overseas visitors. Details from
™ , MAp LETON HOTEL,
° 0V CabW TO?. PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables. liachflat, Lesquare, London.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Ouerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO (Imported). Amazing
v -' introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis,
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS, large (3iin.
x red, meaty Tomatoes per plant.
AMAZINGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW.
Government tested seed, 2/6 packet, posted.
Sole Distributors, N.S.W. Seed Co., 17a Pitt
Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
d
When
a Woman
tells you:
that perhaps she
should not boast,
but her teeth are
very white,
and she has used
nothing but
Calvert’s since she
was twelve,
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth i
%*AR/r
t
a
yjt
VP
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Tourists and T.I.
“Black Rock”: More in sorrow than
in anger, Sydney’s James Murdoch has
been holding forth on the spirit of despair
and neglect that impressed him when he
visited Thursday Island.
Yet, now that air communication has
become so swift and comfortable, there
is no reason why T.I. should not be the
Bermuda of Australia. Other parts of
the tropics may swelter, but there is
always a breeze at T.I. And other islands
lie about it —Prince of Wales, with
tinkling streams and waterfalls, and
Goode, which presents a scene of sur-
passing beauty on moonlit nights, when
there are ships coming in and out.
Not far away is Badu, a curious
mission isle; and Murray and other
islands in Torres Strait are the nearest
things to Elysium that the Australian
world provides. Cape York and Somer-
set, the pioneer headquarters of the Jar-
dines, lie almost within sight. Just be-
yond them are wild natives and abound-
ing game for the hunter.
For sport T.I. has splendid reef fish-
ing ; for color, the pearling fleets, with
their exotic colored populations. The
place is healthy and cool.
A first-class hotel and flying-boat con-
nection with the southern capitals—the
sort of connection which Bermuda has
with the American mainland—would
transfer T.I. into an enchanting winter
resort, and might turn it from a half-
Asiatic-half-blackfellow hamlet into a
real white Australian town. As things
are, whites are in the minority.
The Canberra Touch
“M.H.E.”: Airlines of Australia have
provided a service which brings Towns-
ville within daylight reach of Sydney, and
have extended it to Cairns. They are using
the most modern Douglas ’planes—
machines which would be irreplaceable
for months if damaged seriously. It rained
heavily last week, and the Douglas DC3
had to stop at Mackay because there is
no surfaced runway at Townsville—the
’drome was “softened by the heavy down-
pour, and it was feared that the heavy
machine would become bogged.”
This company has another genuine
complaint. Having established its Towns-
ville service, without subsidy, it is now
faced with the passenger competition of
the New Guinea service. The New
Guinea service uses DHB6’s, not nearly
so fast as the Douglases, and is supported
by a Government subsidy of Bs. per
pound on mail carried.
Mr. Thorby says that he cannot take
the responsibility of making private air-
lines pay. But the fact remains that while
the DHB6’s, which he does subsidise, are
poor defence units, private airline
machines can, with little structural organ-
isation, be developed into heavy bombers.
“Dick Tafone”: July 5 certainly was
Brisbane’s record as an airport. On that
day 25 major service flights came in or left,
five of them part of the new services which
bring London within nine days or less.
Eight flights were between Brisbane and
Sydney, 10 between N.Q. centres and
Brisbane, and one for New Guinea. Two
quite new features overshadowed the lot.
At 10.20 a.m. the Cooee, Capt. Lynch-
Blosse, first of the flying-boats on the
new Sydney-London air-mail run
alighted in spray on the Brisbane River
and came to moorings. Passengers are
due in London on July 14. By noon,
the Dutch Lockheed liner, Capt. Van
Cessell, showed as a sky-speck, and three
minutes later was roaring over Archer-
field ’drome towards the landing. Very
annoyed, too, about being half an hour
late on account of a most unexpected
Cloncurry (N.Q.) happening—cold. But
for a dented float, the Challenger, too,
would have alighted on the river.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe wasn’t un-
grateful, only reminiscent, in his recep-
tion of the drop of O.P. rum I brought
back from a city visit. “Cripes, Bill,”
he said after a critical sampling,
“Y’orter tasted Walrus. ’Course yer
wasn’t born then” (I’m sixtyish), “but one
nip uv Walrus’d put more go inter a man
than a pint er this. They useter make it
on a steamer nam’r Walrus. Useter
grow a lotter cane all along the Brisbane
River them days, an’ the Walrus useter
pick it up. Crush it, too, and pan the
sugar. An’ distil the rum. I wuz workin’
up near Oxley, an’ the boss’d get a drop
orf the old skipper when us blokes was
trashin’ or cuttin’. Should’ve seen the
caneknifes flyin’ inter it after. Wouldn’t
never’ve ’ad any of them union troubles
if Walrus rum’d stayed on. Made a
bloke feel friends with the ’ole world.”
* * * *
“Nerang”: The peaceful seaside
suburb of Southport (Q.) enjoyed a mild
sensation when a lady witness who had
been at some pains to explain she was
English and not “colonial,” accused the
Beak of besmirching her character. She
had given evidence in a valuation case,
and the Beak remarked that, while it was
no doubt true, it required corroboration
and suggested the lady get someone “to
“McCabe s out, Ma ; y' may as Well git round the traps now.”
support her.” The lady explained with
considerable heat that she had been a
lorn widow for years and had ever since
supported herself, she valuing her charac-
ter too much to get anyone to support
her. After considerable trouble the
harassed Beak managed to clear the mat-
ter up and the lady departed.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Come to Sunny Queens-
land and Get Warm, is it? Not this
perishing winter. A Wallangarra man
washed a pair of trousers and pegged
them on the line to dry. Next morning
they were frozen so stiff that they could
be stood upright on the ground. A Bris-
bane butcher found that the thermometer
stood at the same 41 deg. in his shop and
the adjoining freezing-room. Stanthorpe
has had all its water taps frozen, and its
male citizens are still afraid to shave
before going out into the icy breezes.
At Warwick, the police magistrate was
frozen out of the courtroom and obliged
to transfer the hearing of a case to the
magistrate’s room, where there was a fire.
Even Herberton, nearly 1000 miles north
of Brisbane, has been sitting round the
fire of an evening and grumbling at the
cold. In fact, we’re beginning to wonder
whether the South Pole hasn’t slipped its
moorings.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Queensland’s new motor law
is worthy of the bureaucracy which in-
vented it. First, the would-be driver goes
before an examining body, has his
physique looked at, submits to a driving
test and an examination on traffic regu-
lations, and then —perhaps—gets a “cer-
tificate of competence.” Then, if he is the
owner of a car, he applies for “an
authority to operate.” This costs him
7s. 6d., but he can pay a compound fee at
a reduced rate to allow such members of
his family as are declared competent to
operate. It is cheaper to the driver than
the southern system, but its main merit
from an official point of view is that it
calls for more official notice and more
forms than a mere “License to drive”
system. As a safeguard against car theft
or misuse of authority it is about as
useful as the average “No Trespassing”
and “Don’t Spit” notices.
s? * * * *
The report of Cairns Harbor Board
shows the immense development which
has taken place over the last few years.
Thirty years ago 54,000 tons of cargo
passed through the port; last year,
293,000 tons. Port revenue has increased
from £12,000 to £68,500. The Board has
been steadily paying off the cost of
harbor construction, and its debt is down
to £240,000.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Tully and Innisfail
(N.Q.), long renowned as the two rainiest
towns in Australia, lost their pride of
place in June, with meagre performances
of 1009 and 741 points respectively.
Queensland still holds the record, but
it was Coolangatta, right down on the
N.S.W. border, which scored it, with
1198 points for the month. Tallebudgera,
20 miles or so north of it, came second
with 1051. Brisbane rainfalls were all
below the average, but Birdsville in the
far eastern corner up against South Aus-
tralia astonished its normally dessicated
inhabitants with nearly two inches of
actual wet rain.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The final phase of the tragedy
of a North Queensland exile was acted
in a Sydney court the other day. The
exile was an out-of-work goat. Born in
the purple at the Towers, he made his
name in youth by romping home in a
Northern Goat Derby, finishing so far
ahead of his competitors that the second
animal could scarcely see his tail in the
distance. A discerning southerner spotted
his virtues and, according to his own
version, bought him, rechristened him
Lang and brought him to Sydney to
raise the dust and live a life of pampered
luxury in keeping with “horns like
antlers.” Billy had toast for breakfast,
fruit salad and cauliflower, and one three-
course meal a day. But the R.S.P.C.A.
would not allow him to race. In the end,
according to the police, poor William
was discovered tied to a tree by a chain
which had been on him so long that it
had worn a hole in his neck. The owner
was asked by the Beak to cough up
£4 11s. as fine and costs.
“Duporth”: Brisbane is likely to ac-
quire a training school for the R.A.A.F.,
and rightly. From Myrtletown all the
way up the river to the suburbs the land
is so flat as to be almost one vast natural
aerqdrome, and there are plenty of long
reaches for flying-boat comings and
goings. The northern capital had about
the first gliding school and club in Aus-
tralia. Tom MacLeod, a long, lean
barrister, who has since married into the
British peerage and stood for the Flouse
of Commons, was the moving spirit, and
the main rendezvous was a hill at
Oxley. From experience, I can say that
it included some of the hardest places
in Australia to fall on.
* * *
“Physalia”: To anyone who has seen
and heard the thunderous, crashing
strokes dealt, at 12-second intervals, by
ocean rollers ardhing and falling in mil-
lion-ton onsets upon the Great Barrier
Reef’s outer parapet, the whole vast struc-
ture seems the very archetype of all that
is immemorially deep-rooted and solid.
Yet, it is not. Piles, driven in the hope
of supporting lighthouses, go through a
surface crust into loose coral lumps and
mud or sand. Two bores, 700 miles
apart, put down by the Great Barrier
Reef Committee, went through a few
yards of surface coral, then traversed
loose coralline fragments in mud and
sand for another 450 ft. and finished up
in beach sand. Every scientist in the world
who attempted to predict the results of
either bore was wrong —particularly in
the depth of coral expected. What of it?
If the G.B.R. slid off
Queensland’s coast
into 11 fathoms,
quite a lot of things
would happen to our
tropic North.
* *
“Yarr i”: Lady
Elliot Island, off the
C.Q. coast, a low
patch of sand and
coral, topped with a
lighthouse, where
the motor-ship Port
St. John came to
grief the other day,
had its previous
wreck back in 1864,
when the Wild
Wave crashed there.
But its big neighbor,
Fraser Island, is the
island of wrecks.
Relics of disasters
were found there by
the earliest explorers.
Since then it has col-
lected the Stirling
Castle (Captain
Fraser) in 1836,
schooner Julia in
1871, Chang Chow-
-1884, Rockton 1889,
Sarah Pile 1895,
Aramac 1904, Wai-
wera 1905, Marloo
1914 and the Maheno 1935. It also
holds the mystery of two little white
girls, thought to have belonged to sur-
vivors from an unknown wreck, who
were rescued from the blacks and brought
to Sydney in 1859. There were then
8000 abos. on Fraser Island.


<OR Hi/
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness inan should ignore.
It’s the station with a null
in the country district*
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B KNOCK ' s PAGES -
Doublet for General S.-W.
Reception.
The short-wave listener is not particu-
larly interested in doublet aerials designed
for amateur band use alone because peak
efficiency is wanted in reception outside
these bands. A doublet with a top cut
for resonance in the amateur 20-metre
band is not the best performer at 16, 19,
25, 31 or 50 metres and the design out-
lined here, from “Television and Short-
wave World,” is of interest to the s.-w.
listener in a quandary as to what to do
about a suitable doublet.
The arrangement of the aerial is shown
in the drawing. It consists of two sym-
metrical halves fed in the centre by a
low-impedance twin-wire feeder which is
terminated in the coupling coil LI. Dis-
tance A in each case depends on the
wave-length, which is of the utmost im-
portance ; as maximum signal strength is
generally required on the lower wave-
lengths it is suggested that the aerial be
cut to give maximum gain around 20
metres. This will not provide maximum
gain at 40 metres, but the loss will be
very much smaller than if the aerial were
cut for 40 metres, and then used mainly
on 20 metres. The shorter length re-
quired for 20-metre operation will pro-
vide greater selectivity and less noise
pick-up, while with the average modern
receiver there is very little need to use
more than 30 to 35 feet of aerial length,
It is suggested that the length A in
each case be made 16ft. 6in. long, and the
distance from A to B should be approxi-
mately sin. This means that in the centre
there is a triangle having two wire sides
The feedline can be constructed , as indicated, with ceramic
insulation or the EOl-type cable, now available on the
Australian market, may be applied.
of sin., with insulation of the same length
for support. This triangle should be kept
symmetrical. The junction between the
end of the triangle and the beginning of
the feeder should also be arranged so that
it will not fill up with water during bad
weather.
If the aerial is to be used for reception
of a particular station the exact length
of A can be calculated from the formula:
L equals where L is the length of
the aerial in feet and f. is the frequency
in kilocycles of the station to be received.
Another simple formula is: L equals 1.56
multiplied by the wave-length, where L
is the aerial length in feet and the wave-
length is given in metres.
It is not necessary to cut the top
length accurately, for variations up to
10 p.c. will not have any appreciable
effect. Of the two coils LI and L 2, the
latter is the normal grid coil in the re-
ceiver, and LI is merely a small link coil
wound on top of L 2. This link coil
should have one or two turns, but more
can be added if it is thought that greater
signal strength should be obtained.
If this aerial is above 35ft. in average
height the amount of noise picked up
will be negligible. Possibly the feature
of noise filtration in the low-impedance
lead-in is the most useful asset of a
doublet aerial such as this.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
Transmitters used for short-wave pro-
grammes from Rome and the E.I.A.R.
network include 12R07, 16.88 metres;
12R08, 16.84 metres; 12R06, 19.62
metres; 12R05, 19.78 metres; 12R04,
25.4 metres; 12R03, 31.13 metres;
12R02, 42.98 metres, and 12R01, 49.46
metres. Other commercial stations of
the Rome-Torrenova group are often
used for the purpose of relaying pro-
grammes to Tripoli and other North and
Central African colonies.
* $ * *
“Enno": If a mystery short-wave
broadcaster is heard about 21.30 G.M.T.
in the region of 29.8 metres, it is likely
to be the pirate German station which
is causing Nazi officials many headaches.
The announcer states that the transmis-
sion comes from the German Liberty
Station, and that the channel adopted is
roughly 29.8 metres. The wavelength is
slightly altered when jamming occurs,
and the address, obviously false, is
announced as 65 Boulevard D’Aragon,
Paris.
* * * ■ *
“Cluny”: A minor, though aggravat-
ing, defect in many radio sets is the dial
lamp’s habit of unaccountably flickering
on and off. The fault is usually due to
mechanical strain thrown on the con-
necting wires by the rotating portions of
the dial. There are two excellent methods
of ensuring trouble-free dial lighting. One
is to make the connecting wires six to
eight inches longer than the utmost pres-
sure exerted upon
them at any point
of rotation can ex-
tend them, solder-
ing all joints.
Where this remedy
is not applicable
lead the pea-lamp
wiring along the
outer axis of the
ganged condensers,
allowing an inch
or two for play
during rotation,
and keeping the
wires out of con-
tact with dial or
needle. A little in-
genuity will easily
adapt either method to suit the most
fancy dial.
* _ * * i:
“L.T.FU : The Bulletins radio
editor was the guest of Brisbane radio
identities at the luncheon to inaugurate
Radio Industries Dinner Club of Queens-
land. Bert Brayne, of Tracksons, was
in the chair, and speakers included
senior radio inspector Armstrong and
Arthur Walz, VK4AW. Don B. Knock
outUned the ’ activities o£ Sydney . s R .,. F .
c i u b and wished similar success for the
northern city’s club as a means of assist-
jng those prominent in the radio in-
dustry to keep in closer personal con-
tact. Among those present were Geoff
Le Quesne (Vesta Batteries), Leighton
Gibson, of Philips, and chief engineer
Dixon, of 4BK.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
The Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver is
now in action at Thargomindah. The
aerial at present consists of a wire at-
tached to a nail in the iron roof of a
garage, thence across to the receiver in
the residence. Results are perfectly satis-
factory. The aerial is 60ft. overall and
at an average height of Bft., yet the re-
gional stations at the “top” of the broad-
cast band are heard very well right
through the day if an earth connection
is used. No earth is necessary for short-
wave reception.
Before breakfast the best stations of
the 31-metre band are Paris, GSB and
CSW. DJN is very good later on and
W2XAF fair. Half a dozen stations can
be logged on this band all through the
morning, and the band is better than 25
metres until midday. There is a good
assortment on J 9 metres, with the Ger-
mans among the best. Paris is good,
Daventry weak and Moscow very strong.
At 12.17 GSD and GSB are the best
Empire stations. From 3 p.m. onwards
DJE is far ahead of GSG, but on the
other bands the Empire stations leave the
Berliners standing. COCQ is quite good
from before 3 p.m., and XEWW, just
above GSB, is very fair.
The only band to show good results
at night just now is 31 metres, and even
then VLR and VK3ME fade out of the
picture at 8.30 p.m. The very strong
stations are KZRM, YDB and ZBW, but
YDC on 19.8 metres fades out by 8.30
p.m. GSJ is the only Empire station
audible at 8.45 p.m., and then only at a
whisper.
After initial tests more opportunity has
been available for prolonged listening, and
more verification of callsigns and an-
nouncements has been possible. Stations
identified include GSP, GSO, GSF, with
GSO being especially fine all morning.
DJL, DJB, DJQ and DJR are good until
closing at 2 p.m. Paris is very good on
19.83 metres, YDC very good, JZK fair
only and RKl’s English news session on
19.95 metres around midday at excellent
strength. Others are WIXK, GSB, Paris,
W2XAF, DJN, KZRM, CSW, EAQ.
TP A 3 and 4, RNE, 2RO, DJD, DJO.
GSD, W2XE, WBXK, WIXAL and OLR.
Most of these can be heard throughout
the morning at varying volume.
The 19-metre band is the strongest
from Ba.m. onwards, but before noon
the 31- and 25-metre stations increase
considerably in strength. GSF and GSC
are not nearly as good copy as GSI, GSD
or GSB. The noon-2 p.m. session is very
fine on 19, 25 and 31 metres. From 3
p.m. onwards all bands show very power-
ful signals. The 49-metre band at night
shows WBXAL at very good strength
until 10 p.m., and at the present time
VK9MI (the m.-v. Kanimbla) has the
strongest signal. Two weak South
Americans have been heard on this band
just above VK9MI, one, a Venezuelan,
working on about 51 metres. Just under
49 metres a Penang station is easily
logged.
At night the 25-metre band is a blank
just now, YDC has got going properly
on 19 metres, and is very good at times.
GSG is often fairly good on 16 metres
but very erratic in strength. On this band
W3XAL is excellent, the wave-length
being announced at 9.30 p.m. as 16.89
metres. At 2 and 2.30 p.m. TGWA gives
its frequency as 9658 kc. in the 31-metre
band, and the location, Guatemala City.
The broadcast is by the national network
of Guatemala, and relays are taken from
station TGW. This station has been
heard on many occasions previously, but
only now identified.
Final observations at the time of writ-
ing give a summary of stations thus:
MORNINGS.
31 metres: CSW, OLR. DJN. GSB.
KZRM.
25 metres: RNE, 2RO, OLR, DJD,
TPA3 and a very strong unknown
station between RNE and TPA3.
19 metres: Best station is GSO, fol-
lowed by DJR, DJQ and DJB. YDC
also good.
From 11 a.m.:
25 metres: WBXK, TPA4, DJD, GSD.
31 metres: DJN, W2XAF, WIXK.
W3XAU and GSB.
AFTERNOONS AND NIGHTS,
Noon to 2 p.m.:
19 metres: GSI better than GSF but
far behind the Berliners.
25 metres: RNE, TPA4, DJD, GSD,
TPA3 and a Cuban.
31 metres: GSB and DJN are very
fine.
From 3 p.m. on:
16 metres: DJE excellent.
19 metres: GSO and GSF.
25 metres: GSD excellent and TPA3
fair only.
31 metres: GSB very good, Berlin
poor, COCQ and XEWW quite good.
WBXAL on 49 metres can be heard at
4 p.m., and by 4.30 has increased in
strength up to 5 p.m. This station opens
well at 8.45 p.m., but fails about 10
p.m. At night even the 31-metre band
is patchy. The best station is VPD2,
followed by KZRM, then ZBW. VK3ME
suffers particularly from fading, and
VLR and VK6ME are not without the
same trouble.
It is only rarely Australian 20-metre
amateurs are heard here, but the Ameri-
cans come in very well.
K. B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
The writer took the opportunity dur-
ing a two weeks’ visit to VK4 to meet
in the flesh a few northerners who previ-
ously had only been known by callsigns
—VKs 4MM, 4JL, 4WT, 4LX and 4AW
among them. In Queensland 56mc. plans
are maturing, but as yet there is no com-
parison with southern activity. Sydney,
with modern 56mc. stations, such as
VKs 2AZ, 2WJ, 2EM and 2NO long in
action, is far ahead of the north, both
in design and application. Territorial
observations around Brisbane show that
the contour of the country is well suited
for unimpeded ultra-short-wave work.
No doubt an efficient network of 56mc.
stations will be established around Bris-
bane in the near future. No week-ending
vessel on the waters of Moreton Bay
The Australian War Memorial at Villers
Bretonneux. An artist’s impression of the
105ft. tower. The memorial will be
unveiled by H.M. the King on July 22
in the presence of the Queen and of the
President of the French Republic. The
ceremony will be broadcast from
Dav entry.
could fail to put a strong signal into a
headquarters station at a reasonably
elevated city location.
The ’phone signal signing VK4JL on
40 most week-ends originates from
Nimmo Love’s 52-footer Sweetheart.
Old-timer Tom Elliott, of television fame
(one time A4CM), was visited at the old
Observatory tower on the Terrace. Here
is a location par excellence for U.H.F.
work, but other activities unfortunately
keep Elliott from applying his equipment
and location to amateur tests. That a
callsign badge may have its uses was
demonstrated when visiting 4CM. An
unexpected caller at the same time was
VK3ET who had both travelled with
VK2NO on the same ship for two days
without either being aware that the other
was on board.
It seems possible that the ICW signal
logged at the writer’s station on 56mc.
during a schedule with WBANO (B.
22/6/’3B) may have originated from
Maorilahder ZL2UD. A letter from
ZL4AI states that ZL2UD has recently
been reaching out on “five” and at the
time the unidentified signal was logged
in Sydney was on the air with ICW
transmissions from Hastings, 180' miles
distant from Wellington. A further DX
report comes from P. A. Morrison, who
received VK2NO across the Tasman a
year ago, to the effect that he has received
signals from ZLIIR of Te Aroha, 270
miles away. These results will spur the
ZLs on to greater activity. The general
opinion at N.Z.A.R.T.L. H.Q. is that,
with any reasonable activity on that side
of the Tasman, 56mc. contacts with VK
are not far distant.
Amateurs are often professionally en-
gaged in radio, one such being Gavin
Sampson, now GSZZ, and previous
holder of the call ZL4AI. Sampson is
now with the B.T.H. Co. in England, and
was responsible for the designing and in-
stallation of some of the extensive radio
apparatus on the Queen Mary.
VK6AB writes from W.A. to ask for
co-operation for tests across the conti-
nent on 56mc. It is quite possible that
under favorable u.h.f. conditions a 56mc.
signal may be at a useful distance be-
tween Sydney and Perth. VK6SA is well-
known for his strong signal on 28mc.


’'RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Austraiia, acceptabie at “The Bulletin”
Office, 202 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeies (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number- the
August and September issues (which
vvouid normaHy appear in July and
August) are omitted.
?rom eS u a s e A mailBd t 0 subscribers direct
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times. p n
“Radio” is the fastest selling of ail
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
mm.
w
K
. enietl
hen YOU ate
si to »rtl E* « icket
tTd^Usuddemv^
tee your local
sensitive
SKOHIOMVH
The World's Standard Radio Valves
(ADVERTISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.)
when that band is open in the summer
months, and when short skip exists on
“ten” there is a chance that an efficient
56mc. station in W.A. might get to the
East. VKSLJ writes saying that his loca-
tion is ideal for “five,” and that a Jones
56mc. Super Gainer is under construc-
tion. His transmitter uses crystal control
with a 40-metre crystal in a Jones 6L6G
oscillator. The oscillator quadruples to
10 metres and another 6L6G doubles to
five. The final stage is an Eimac 35T.
VK2NO.
Australian Radio Service
Manual.
A compilation of circuit diagrams and
details of receivers marketed by Aus-
tralian radio manufacturers has long
been needed by radio dealers and ser-
vicemen throughout the Commonwealth.
Now to fill the need comes the Aus-
tralian Official Radio Service Manual,
from the Strand Press, Brisbane, Queens-
land, a 390-page volume edited by A. G.
Brayne, A.M.I.R.E. (Aust.), well-known
in the Queensland radio industry. Apart
from essential receiver data, tables, and
power supply information, many service
hints have been included. The grouping
together of the many types of receivers
is so systematically done that even the
inexperienced radio mechanic can see at
a glance just what he is likely to be
dealing with.
W.I.A. General Meeting.
The annual meeting of the W.l.A.’s
Westralian division elected as council-
lors for 1938-39 K. Anderson (VK6KS),
C. Brown (VK6CB), A Buckie (VK6AB),
E. Doddy (VK6WH), G. Moss (VK6GM),
J Park (VK6BB), C. Quin (VK6CX),
F. Tredrea (VK6FT), and A. Wyle
(VK6BW). Other officers included:
Students’ rep. (on council), VK6BB;
QSL managers (jointly), VK6LY and
VK6CP ; technical director, VK6GM ;
station manager, VK6NL; librarian,
VK6EI, and auditors, VK6CC and
VK6IG.
The “West Australian” cup was won
by W. Weston (VK6MW) for the second
year in succession ; the Hayman trophy
went to G. Rann (VK6KO); the presi-
dent’s cup was tied for and therefore
set aside in favor of pennants for the
successful entrants, C. Brown (VK6CB),
J. Park (VK6BB) and VK6KO/CX in
association (G. Rann and C. Quin); the
“6MW trophy” was carried off by
VK6WH. An interesting award was the
Lawrence trophy offered for the most
advanced student member, which went
to J. Ewing whose A.O.C.p. paper was
considered outstanding. The R.l.’s trophy
(a handsome large-size globe donated by
Mr. G. A. Scott) was awarded for its
first year to W. Weston and A. Wyle,
who tied.
Membership of the division has almost
doubled itself during the year.
"Radio" for June, 1938.
The latest issue of “Radio” contains
technical articles of interest to amateur
radioman and engineer alike. Frank
Jones gives complete details of his new
1938 “model 222” receiver, in which the
new 6JBG converter valve is used. This
valve is now available in Australia and
the article should have a particular appeal
to VK amateurs and SWLs who con-
struct their own receivers. John Kraus
(WBJK) gives some new design data on
the now well-known “flat-top beam
aerial” and a light-duty beam rotating
system is described by WBMPJ, Other
technical articles are: “Operation of
Zero-Bias Modulators,” “A Midget Port-
able Receiver,” “Manually - operated
Push-to-talk Relay System,” “A Disk-type
Frequency Meter for Amateurs,”
“Midget 90cm. Transceiver,” “Practical
Design of Uni-directional Arrays,” “An
Inexpensive Exciter-transmitter for Be-
ginners,” “A Cathode Ray Oscilloscope,”
“Solenoid Type Relay Construction,” and
“A Beat-frequency Audio Oscillator.”
“Radio” is obtainable by annual sub-
scription, 18s. 6d., through The Bulletin
office, 252 George-street, Sydney.
“Think We'd better Wake ’im or 'is missus?”
The Question Box.
(1) What causes a crystal set to function?
(2) Could I pick up 4 QN Townsville ( about
100 miles away) using one? (3) If not, in
what way could the receiver illustrated in the
accompanying cutting be improved to make
this reception possible? —6Bs.
(1) The crystal set has three essential parts, a
tuned circuit to bring in the desired signal, a
crystal to rectify this signal, and the head-
phones, with a fixed condenser across them, to
make the signal audible. Crystals of minerals
such as galena are able to pass current far
more easily in one direction than in another,
giving the rectifying action necessary to make
signals audible. For a more detailed explana-
tion, The Outline of Wireless obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 10s. 4d., posted,
should fill your needs. (2) The effective range
of a crystal set is generally from 15 to 25 miles,
although instances of reliable reception over
far greater distances have been reported. It
is possible you will be able to pick up 4QN,
but this is purely a matter 'for experiment.
A long aerial, say up to 150 ft., including lead-
in, erected as high as possible, would have to
be installed, together with an effective earth-
ing system. However, if the experiment should
fail, a single-valve receiver with regeneration
would bring in 4QN and several dozen other
stations at good headphone strength. (3) One
way of improving the receiver you mention, in
order to get greatest possible distance, would
be to use an aerial tuner.
* * * *
I have an ordinary car generator driven by
an engine in a shed some 400//. from the
house, and I wish to do away with the carry-
ing of accumulators to and fro for charging.
Would it be possible to run two wires between
the shed and the house, and use some form of
step-up transformer ?— 686.
As the generator output is D.C., a trans-
former is out of the question. If the generator
is of the six-volt type, or even the 12-volt, it
would also be impracticable to run wires from
the shed to carry the charging current, as
the losses would be excessive. Your best plan
would be to shift the generator and engine
driving it closer to the house.
* * * *
How much power does a radio receiver use
from the A.C. mains?— 6B7.
From about 70 to 120 watts, depending upon
the number of valves in the receiver. The
average set consumes about as much power as
an 80-watt lamp.
* * * *
I am enclosing a circuit of a crystal set
covering from 200-500 metres. Can this be
converted for short-wave operation, and, if so,
what alterations are needed? —688.
It might possibly pick up local amateurs work-
ing within a distance of a mile or so from
you, but there would be little hope of hearing
anything else. Seven or eight turns on each
of the coils should give you approximately the
coverage you want. The .0001 mfd. fixed con-
denser shown on your circuit should be con-
nected across the headphones, and not in
parallel with the tuning condenser.
* * * *
/ have a vibrator-operated receiver which has
been serviced at least six times, although the
fault still remains. On switching on, the set
performs normally for about an hour, then
the volume fades almost completely. At regu-
lar intervals during this fade-out there an?
short bursts of loud reception. —69o.
Could be due to any one of several causes.
It would be worth while checking over the
smoothing condenser on the input side of the
vibrator unit. A good scheme would be to
ask the serviceman to replace the entire unit
temporarily, to determine whether or not the
fault persists. If it does not, the vibrator unit
is at fault; if it does, the cause of the trouble
will be found in the receiver.
* * * *
(1) Would damage to my receiver result from
using the A battery below a half-charged con-
dition ? (2) Would reception be materially
affected ? —689.
(1) No harm could result to your set, but
the nearly exhausted battery should be re-
charged immediately. (2) If the A battery
becomes discharged to such an extent that
reception begins to fall off, an immediate re-
charge is indicated.
/ have a 1936 model battery-operated dual-
Wave superhet. Would it be possible to fit a
more modern dial, and to extend the short-
wave range (19-50 metres ) to, say, 13-100
metres? —6B4.
No. If you want a more modern receiver
your best plan would be either to sell or trade
in your present one.
* * * *
What is the probable cause of a high-pitched
howl in my seven-valve superhet (1932 model ) ?
It occurs only when the dial is tuned to below
220 metres, but once started persists up the
dial to 300 metres. —69l.
This is undoubtedly oscillation, most prob-
ably in the R.F. stage. A thorough check on
all components up to the plate of the mixer-
oscillator, and on the alignment, should dis-
cover where the trouble lies.
* * * *
Volume from my six-valve receiver, bought
six years ago, often suddenly doubles or fades
out, each variation being accompanied by a
plop. There is sometimes, too, a continuous
fluttering, and crackling is always present. —692.
Most likely caused by electrolysis in a coil
winding or a defective electrolytic smoothing
condenser. As well, the valves should be tested,
* * * *
For making home recordings I am taking
the output from a pair of 45’s in push-pull to
a pick-up of 1200 ohms impedance. Could you
supply me with details of a suitable matching
transformer? —693.
A transformer of a ratio of approximately
2f to 1 would be suitable. However, an ordi-
nary 3f to 1 audio transformer connected with
the secondary as primary and vice versa should
give a match that is close enough for all prac-
tical purposes. Try as an experiment rewinding
the pick-up bobbin, completely filling it with
26 gauge enamelled or silk-covered wire. The
armature damping should be made fairly stiff.
This low impedance recorder head is then
merely connected to the secondary of the
speaker transformer, the leads to the speaker
voice coil being disconnected. It would be a
simple matter to install a double-pole double-
throw switch so that the recorder or speaker
could be used at will.
* * * *
(1) Can I receive the Empire short-wave
stations direct on a “One valve crystal reflex”
set? (2) Was it possible to receive KDKA in
Manchester, England, on favorable early winter
mornings during 1925 using John Scott-Taggart’s
“One valve crystal reflex” set described in
“Popular Wireless” of that year? —694.
(1) The various Daventry transmitters can be
heard during peak periods quite well with a
regenerative single valve receiver provided a
good external aerial and earth are used. With
a receiver of the type mentioned, reception
should be even better. (2) KDKA was easy
on 63 metres with the simplest of receivers in
the North of England at that time. Don B.
Knock first heard KDKA testing in late 1922
when located in Wigan, Lancashire, and
using a regenerative detector and one audio
stage. The reception was reported in “Wireless
World” and because overseas short-wave recep-
tion was unknown at the time, editorial com-
ment was to the effect that the signal must
have been a harmonic. That it was a direct
short-wave signal was amply proved when
reports followed speedily from other amateurs.


THE WHETTER
gp»!»»wmn«££2~!
. i
wmmm
■ n
sllli
w -
1&:
I ■■■-;.' :
&W
’mmm:
■UK
n
■ ■". K.
s#^
H
: . '
m
m
n
■
£S
p
n
*
■
:
m
:'■ :
1
I 1
■
■I
■
:;. x
«
warn
m
A Present with a Future
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. ' .
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS. ■
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: D. Reddan & Co., 330 Flinders Lane. Melbauag.: :
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Monarch House, Creek Sheet, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornells, Coltons and Hofinungs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay
Ctmof Pr» rf li


lysaqmt's
ih
PRoor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
. ; i, i
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
*T 1 u.* 'A l . ' *
' 1,1 . '
« r<J3p : 29k
i,Y
4*
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHrS" WIRE. WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: Considering the adverse
season experienced, lower values were
not surprising. The opening sales were
chiefly remarkable for the number of
passed-in lots. Though next day saw
better clearances, prices were lower all
round. The market improved a little
and a firm tone at the reduced levels
held.
The highest prices at auction were 520
guineas for a Dalkeith ram and 500
guineas for a Bundemar. A Uardry ram
was passed in at the opening sale at 580
guineas. The best figures were made in
two private sales —750 guineas for the
Egelabra sire which won the Grand
Championship at the Show, and 700
guineas for a Dalkeith ram which was
a winner in the strong-wool section.
Many studs were not represented, and
a number of the sheep sent down showed
the effects of bad times. Buyers favored
well-known studs. Lesser-known studs
and small studmasters fared badly.
There was a more general demand for
plain-bodied rams and for strong-woolled
sheep. Some rams were very* wrinkly—
overdeveloped, in fact —but they seemed
to suit a small proportion of buyers---
chiefly studmasters. Big-framed, strong-
woolled rams from S. Australia met a
ready demand. These sheep have made
a name for themselves as heavy cutters,
and are particularly suitable for interior
districts, where fleeces have a tendency
to fine up. On the whole, merino sales
were 30 p.c. lower than last year.
Corriedales met an even worse market
than merinos. Only a little over half the
offerings were sold, and the average price
was less than half last year’s figures. The
quality of sheep submitted for sale was
quite as good as last year. Top price
was 175 guineas for a Cullingral ram. r;
There was varied competition for
British breeds. Southdowns were in short
supply, and buyers would have .taken
more had they been available. A Bruns-
kill Southdown by the imported Sand-
ringham ram topped the breed sale at 40
guineas. Romneys and Ryelands were,
also limited and sold well. An imported
Border Leicester ram brought‘the top
price of 155 guineas, and Dorset Horns-
were in good demand.. Average prices
all round showed a decline on last year
of over £3 a head. . •
In the. past buyers had to go from one
broker’s showfloor to another some
miles apart. This year they ’ were all
together at the Showground in . well-
lighted pavilions. . 1
Shearing Regulations.
“J.R.D.”: The “fair-shearing” regula-
tion imposed last year on certain classes
of merinos to be exhibited at Sydney
Show proved a success. District com-
mittees inspected the sheep within three
weeks of shearing, at which time they
could have no wool longer than half
an inch. The sheep were tattooed and a
certificate issued to the owner.
It meant that this year there were no
complaints about exaggerated lengths of
staple. There were sheep with sin. staple
shown, but with the certificate behind
them they gained full marks for the per-
formance, instead of having doubts raised
about their shearing.
As it stood, the regulation did not
cover the shearing of young sheep, and
this led to an unfortunate incident when
a ewe which was awarded Reserve Grand
Championship and also Reserve Cham-
pionship in the medium-wool section was
later found to be ineligible as, being
under two years old at time of judging,
it-had not been shorn for inspection. In
future all sheep to be shown, except
those in lamb classes, will have to be
covered by a shearing certificate.
The scheme has received the warm sup-
port of Corriedale breeders, both asso-
ciation and society. Country show com-
mittees are falling into line, and Queens-
land, Westralia and South Australia are
revising their regulations.
Another improvement will be in the
marking of inspected sheep. The tattoo-
“Talkin' of willy-willies , I remember one up our way that blew down trees that were never blown down
before.”
ing method is to be replaced by a special
ear clip.
One other extension should be made.
All sale rams should carry a shearing-
inspection certificate. At this year’s Syd-
ney ram sales one or two studmasters
notified purchasers that their offerings
had been shorn and inspected. Other
breeders gave no information. A “fair-
shearing” tag on the ear of a sale ram
would carry a lot of weight.
The Menace of Bovine T.B.
I ■ ■ . '' ;
“K.Mc.”: Until recent. years health
authorities assured us that bovine Tuber-
culosis was not transmissible to humans,
but then a doubt arose,/ and all herds
supplying milk to metropolitan areas were
tested and reacting animals destroyed or
isolated. At the recent Pastures Protec-
tion Boards’ conference in Sydney, a
suggestion to eliminate t.b. cattle from
all herds in the State found much suppoit.
The disease, being non-hereditary, is
easy enough to eradicate by regular test-
ing and isolation of reacters—but the
isolation is the snag.
Freeing dairy-herds is the first and most
important step. Buffer areas—say, a
fenced chain-wide road—would be needed
to separate clean from infested herds to
prevent reinfestation. And all introduced
cattle would need to be tuberculin free.
When to Wean a Calf.
“Silky Bag”: The objection to weaning
\ c .
the calf as soon as it is born is that a
valuable stimulus to milk-secretion is lost,
and the mother may never come into her
fullest flush. By far the safest way is
to leave the calf with its dam anything
from two to four days, on good pasture,
Remove whatever milk the cow will give
dui ing this time.
Certainly, the cow will make more fuss
when the calf is taken from her, but by
this time she is on her best milk-flow,
and rarely does she hold her milk out
for more than one milking.
It pays to keep the calf alive for the
first week, so that it can always be pro-
duced to coax the cow to let down milk
if trouble arises.
Walkabout and Birdsville Diseases.
“Brumby”: 1 have seen horses with
walkabout disease (B. 22/6/’3B) in dis-
tricts where there was no whitewood.
Walkabout has been likened to Birds-
ville disease, which takes heavy toll in
some dry seasons in s.-w. Queensland.
Complications differ. When affected with
Birdsville a horse always becomes para-
lysed in the hindquarters. If taken away
from sandy country mild cases often re-
cover, but in most the disease leaves its
mark. Full control of the hind legs is not
regained ; most prads having had a touch
of Bd. drag their hind feet,
a weed that flourishes in sandy coun-
try during dry periods in Birdsville dis-
trict is said to be the cause of the trouble.
As yet it has not been identified. In
recent years moving the horses to hilly
pasture at the first sign of the disease has
reduced deaths to a minimum.
G° e thing is certain, whitewood does
not cailse Birdsville.
;
a « • u r> , •
A Spring Horse Complaint,
“Horsey'': Some horses, particularly
in the spring, get pimples like enlarged
human blackheads on the neck, back and
withers. If left alone these often swell
? nd s “PP“rale- Squeeze the lumps gently
to remove pus, and dress with a lotion,
|iquor plumbi acetatis , fl Qz _ methylated
so l. coaltar 6 drahms, distilled water 1
quart.
Occasionally the pimples develop into
nasty-looking sores or sitfasts. When this
happens remove all dead skin and dress
with the lotion.
jf becomes raised or thick-
ened after healing, reduce to normal by
applying iodide of sulphur ointment once
a day.
Keep all collars and harness clean,
Wash over the affected parts directly after
work. It is best not to work the horse
while being treated.
Waste With Lucerne Hay.
“Ager”: There is often heavy waste
of the most vital part of the feed —leaves
—when bales of lucerne hay are broken
up and fed to stock in the open.
Get a galvanised-iron tank, one tier
high, and put in a very weak syrup of
water and molasses. The day before
using the bales, soak them in the liquid
for a few hours. Make a small platform
of sawn timber, on to which the soaked
bales can be hauled. The surplus fluid
can then be drained back into the tank.
Break the bales next day, cut them in
two and turn them over to the sheep.
They will like the hay all the better
for being damp and sweet.
{Continued on next page.)


A WHISKY WITH
MANY QUALITIES
Bv Appointment
%
tZw>,
<%>
oT; of <* o„ d
r *tol ned that hQs *' d * the
w! " in stn rnoi ‘on Q l r n Qn d
discern nt 'y Op D * Put * -
„ erf »/no _ . PPeo x
Co„ 0 .. 9 'o
b 0,,,,/' 0 " C/ u()
,:>« ■>
' o! ‘s. »«l . , be "’9
4'*>oo< rt , W
c osf» Pre-*, n
Sc °>ch k° <*« ' "'•"W
f °* bo,
, ne 9^o// e w c °c*.
J O/ln Uy
Jo/, n „ ' ed -
-388 J* C ° l t „
@adiaN
Whisky
(M
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd
Walkervillc, Ontario, Canada.
Since 1858.
EXPERT ADVICE
on.
EXCHANGE
m
SC
m
The British and Foreign Exchange Department of
the Bank of New South Wales is completely
equipped to deal with the numerous problems which,
from time to time, confront importers and exporters.
Specially trained officers of the Bank are available
to advise on all matters pertaining to exchange.
Direct exchange quotations on all countries are issued
daily and forward exchange contracts are entered
into to suit the requirements of special transactions.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
EST.
fd
t 8 i 7
344 C. 1938
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Any Chance for Flax?
“El V.”: A meeting of the Common-
wealth Agricultural Council at Canberra
last month considered “Australia’s
present necessity for a greater variety in
its agricultural production” and decided
that linseed flax was worth looking at.
The U.K. and Ulster import 100,000 tons
of flax per annum, of which less than
1000 tons is raised within the British
Commonwealth.
Simeon Lord, 140 years ago, saw the,
same hope of salvation for Australia in
flax as some others did in wool, and the
one Agricultural Department of those
days supported him. Later there was a
small flax industry in Gippsland, and at
various times attempts were made to
grow it in N.S.W. and Tasmania. Dur-
ing the war, when there was a world
shortage, the peak acreage rose to 1600
acres, but within a few years was under
200 acres, and even the granting of a
bounty did not encourage growers. In
1933 a Commonwealth committee re-
ported that expansion was impossible be-
cause of the restriction of local demand
and the impossibility of developing an
export trade.
However, flax has linseed as a by-
product, and there should be no difficulty
in developing a local trade there if it can
be produced cheaply enough. It might
help solve the drought-feeding problem.
Farmers in various districts already are
considering the matter. There is a pro-
posal afloat in the rich Kingaroy (Q.)
area to found a co-operative company to
start the industry.
Irrigating Menindie Lakes.
“K.Mc.”: A. R. Pursell has modified
his scheme to irrigate the dry lakes at
Menindie (B. 5/5/’3B). He now pro-
poses to construct only one weir across
the Darling near Menindie —to im-
pound 50,000 acre feet of water, and
by storing water in three empty lakes
to have a total of 428,000 acre feet
available for irrigating the beds of Lakes
Menindie and Cawndilla (62,000 acres).
Pursell suggests that the scheme should
be co-operative and conserve cheap fodder
for Far Western N.S.W. He estimates
annual production at 200,000 tons of
hay, 100,000 fat lambs, 1,956,0001 b. wool
and 2,737,500 gallons of milk. Profits
from the last three items—and, as the
ground requires so little preparation for
irrigating, good profits should be pos-
sible —are to go towards meeting costs
of producing the hay. If estimates are
borne out, hay would cost only 4s. per
ton. But 200,000 tons per annum is far
too little hay to supplement the natural
pastures where droughts occur so often.
North Coast Maize.
“St. Neots”: An lowa Silvermine-Hic-
kory King cross won the recent N.S.W.
maize competition. It had been grown
for -some time in the Dorrigo district.
The soil, a deep basaltic loam, was
mouldboard - ploughed in August, and
harrowed in October. Previous crop was
Italian rye-grass. A definite three-course
rotation is followed—potatoes, rye and
maize. It is a good idea to broadcast the
rye between the maize in March. Rows
are 3ft. 9in. apart; two grains dropped
every 20in.; 2cwt. per acre of fertiliser
proved helpful.
Fitzroy was a close second. The soil
was alluvial loam. It was the second crop
following 40 years under pasture. Pre-
vious crop was very late maize for feed.
Ground was ploughed in early November.
At the end of the month it was re-
ploughed, and well worked with a disk-
harrow prior to sowing. Two or three
grains were dropped every 3ft. in rows,
3ft. lOin. apart. No fertiliser.
This Clarence Fitzroy type shows much
variation from recognised standards in
regard to size of ear and shape of grain.
The ear-worm caused a pronounced
decrease in yield this year. In one com-
petitor’s crop 90 p.c. of plants showed
evidence of ear-worm attack, and 50 p.c.
of the ears were not fully filled as a
result of an early invasion.
Early winter ploughing is the best
remedy for control of both fungus and
insect pests of maize.
Hints for the Farm.
“Tryit”: Runner ducks have a marked
liking for fluke snails. A few along fluky
creeks are an asset.
“S.S.”: When laying water-pipes or
bore or well columns, put used motor
sump oil on the joint threads. It makes
a cheap rust-resisting, lasting joint, and
saves trouble unscrewing bore columns.
For bore and well columns, have an old
pint pannikin or tin just larger than the
pipe with 2in. to 3in. of oil in it. Im-
merse the thread in it just before screw-
ing together. On horizontal pipelines,
apply oil to thread with an old paint-
brush or rag swab.
“O. W. Waireki”: A few old horse-
shoes half-nailed on the sides of cattle
or sheepyard posts, make handy hitching
places.
“5.8.”: Cheaper on dairy farms than
alum for whitewash is plain skim-milk.
Lime slaked with just enough water to
powder it and then stirred into pure
skim-milk gives a fast permanent white-
wash. It can be improved by adding
clean fat soaped by boiling with caustic
soda.
“Sandy”: A small cultivation on the
lower side of a cowyard or pig-run
makes a handy paddock for cow- and
pig-feed. The soil never runs out owing
to the manure and fine soil that is con-
tinually beipg washed down. An ordi-
nary fence is enough for cows, and a
barb and K-wire fence will keep Dennis
where he should be.
“Werrimee”: Try this way to put up
the frame for a galvanised-iron or fibro-
cement shed. Instead of cutting tenons
and mortising ground and wall-plates, lay
the uprights on the ground, and nail a
batten on the tops and bottoms, previ-
ously marking the spaces on the battens.
Then place the whole in position, and
nail the bottom batten to the ground-
plate and the top batten to the wall-plate.
“Mullengah”: If beef cattle can be
brought through the winter without loss
of condition the topping-off period is
reduced often by six months and stock
retain their young “milk fat.” Grass
hay, or first-cut lucerne, can be stacked
in the paddocks, thatched and fenced.
When winter begins, pull the fences down
and let the stock have access to the hay.
If stacks are built around a pole fixed
firmly in the ground, they will not fall.
Pit silage is good, but calls for more
handling than hay. In good seasons
plenty of grass can be harvested during
spring. If,their stomachs are kept full
in cold weather cattle will be warm and
will hold condition.
“Red Devon”: Clover-seed is not the
only reason sheep acquire a taste for each
other’s wool (B. 8/6/’3B). In Tassie’s
Lake country it is not uncommon in a
bad winter for sheep to be caught on a
coil in the open by a fall of snow over-
night. Anything over a foot, especially
if they are weak, will do the trick. In
the morning they start milling; a wall
of snow is pushed up and they’re there
for keeps if not spotted. They will hang
on for days on a wool diet under these
conditions. The usual custom is to drive
a mob of cattle from the nearest timber
out to the sheep and beat down a track.
“Cockyson”: It’s quite possible for a
beast to pick up a tick in a regularly-
dipped paddock (B. 1/6/’3B). Kangaroos
and wallabies, also the kanga-rat, are tick-
carriers, and it is by no means uncom-
mon for a cow to pick up a matured tick.
Have seen our milkers, clean after a
recent dipping, with apparently full-
grown ticks on their flanks and under-
parts. Though a blood-gorged tick looks
helpless on the ground, it can attach
itself to a resting beast, especially at
night when the cattle are sleeping.
“Valerin”: The proposed campaign to
locate and destroy ’hopper breeding-
grounds in the sparsely-settled western
N.S.W. areas is a man-sized job, but the
only method likely to meet with success.
Poison-baiting in settled country will
never beat the outback migration which
does the real damage. A visiting S’Afri-
can engineer told me that little can be
done in that country to control locust
plagues because the breeding-grounds are
in adjoining Portuguese territory where
the authorities do nothing.
“W.D.McC.”: Ensilage may be all
right as fodder for the grazier who has
plenty of help and plant to handle it (B.
15/6/’3B), but for the small man it is
plain Hades. And when one ton of
prime oaten is equal to three tons of en-
silage why worry about making it? Every
farmer should conserve as much grass
and cereal hay as possible. One of the
best assets on a farm is a hayshed where
every load put in is safe from the
weather. If sulphur and salt are sprinkled
on the hay as it is put in, the loss from
mice will be very small.


Be a Diesel Engineer
Earn £’s Weekly E XTRA
through practical training in spare-time home study
/\W
*
k
KB
can quickly qualify by practical
correspondence training in your
spare hours for a well-paid
position in Diesel engineering—the coming
profession for trained engineers with specialised
technical knowledge. Never were opportuni-
ties so great as in this relatively new and
uncrowded field of engineering.
BIG DEMAND
For Trained Men
More and more, the advantages of Diesel
power are being realised in all departments
of industry. Power users are changing rapidly
to this cheaper and more efficient form of
power. The demand for the skilled, trained
man has never been so great.
The College can teach anyone about Diesels,
even those who know nothing about internal-
combustion engines.
EXTRA Earnings
Here is your chance to capitalise on these
opportunities. NOW is the time to get into
Diesel engineering and qualify for the big, well-
paid positions that await the expert Diesel
engineer.
Expert Instruction
The scientific instruction offered by the Diesel
Engineering College, which specialises exclu-
sively in Diesel training, is your guarantee of
success in this fascinating profession.
If you are really ambitious—if you want to
earn more—if you want to get ahead of the
next man—to stand out by virtue of your
knowledge—send in your enquiry to-day
regarding the Diesel Engineering College
courses.
It doesn’t matter how far away you live, you
can qualify just as easily as the man in the
city through these well-planned, comprehensive
courses.
Over 1000 Students
Throughout Australasia
The Diesel Engineering College has over 1000
students in all parts of Australia, New Zealand,
rederated and Mandated Territories, New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands. This vividly
1 ustrates the fact that our course of training
is we and favorably known and our practical
service to all of our students has shown success-
ful results.
Primary Course
The Diesel Engineering College engineers,
er years of research, have prepared a com-
pre ensive course for the beginner in the con-
s rue ion, operation and maintenance of Diesel
YOU
n*L INMtCTION NOZZLt
CRANK CAI*
rcAYgNC/r/f
9&M r
\
Section through 2-stroke Com-
pression-Ignition Engine.
Above is one of many Diagrams used in the
Course of training, and very fully described
in the Paper dealing with this matter. Every
subject is fully explained and illustrated with
diagrams similar to the above.
engines. The lessons are set out in the simplest
manner, with countless illustrations, diagrams,
etc., and are checked by competent examiners
who help the student. This course covers two
main sections of Diesel engineering, either or
both of which may be selected: TRACTION
DIESEL (tractors, lorries, motor-buses, etc.);
STATIONARY DIESEL (power plants for
factories, farming, electricity, etc.).
Advanced Course
(Including High-speed Diesels)
For mechanics, engineers, and those who
already have a preliminary knowledge of this
interesting and coming motive power.
This Advanced Course is covered by 12
lessons, and is plainly written, with all neces-
sary charts and diagrams, enabling the student
to make a comprehensive study of this im-
portant subject. All phases of research and
latest developments are covered from operation
to installation.
The many intricate Diesel problems which
occur and will continue to crop up are
thoroughly and comprehensively dealt with in
this Advanced Course, and the students’
answers to the questions in the Lessons are
carefully checked and commented upon by
engineering experts.
Diploma Given
The student of either course should, upon its
successful completion, be possessed of all the
necessary technical knowledge required of a
competent DIESEL engineer, and, in recogni-
tion of the fact, is awarded the Diploma of
the College.
FREE BOOK
A free book has been prepared to give you
complete details of either course in which you
may be interested (whether Primary or
Advanced). Send for it to-day.
Specially prepared by the Principal ot the
College, Mr. W. Kingsford Smith, it tells you
simply and clearly of the opportunities in
Diesel engineering and gives full details of
the Diesel Engineering College courses, terms,
etc. The fees are low, and may be paid either
in cash or by easy instalments.
Remember, on sea, land, road, in factories and
in the air, the cry is for Diesel power and for
Diesel-trained engineers.
Find Out NOW
what opportunities Diesel engineering offers
YOU. Learn how you can, in your own time
and as you wish, study under the guidance of
qualified experts. And remember it’s the
TRAINED man that gets the highly-paid job.
It Costs Nothing
for you to send in your enquiry—and there is
no obligation. But it may be the turning point
in your life—may show you the way to a
successful lifetime career. So write now—•
to-day.
NOTE. —The College has just moved to much
larger and more commodious premises at the
address shown below.
Offices at SYDNEY Newcastle
MELBOURNE.
Remember! There is no obligation if you
write for the Free Booklet.
Be sure and advise, when you write, whether
you require particulars of the Primary or the
Advanced Course.
FREE
BOOK
gives you full information
regarding the courses of
this, the largest Diesel
Engineering College in
Australasia.
Post this enquiry NOW.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE.
The Principal,
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 A George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Without obligation to me, please forward full information regarding your
course (state if Primary or Advanced Course
is required).
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 13/7/’3B.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
„ HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
...... _ General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
/Jj, 1 °fv ces a £ Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking lastitutions covering Australasia and the World,
; Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
• SHORT STORK
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written I
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S* School o£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to bell or To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth, keen to start prospecting, wants ex-
perienced partner with outfit. Go anywhere.—
157.
Exp. and competent woolclasser, member of
Woolclassers Assoc, of Australia, requires sheds.
Refs. —165.
Experienced shipping clerk wants to buy active
interest in transport company.—156.
To buy musical monologue “The Wedding
of the Gravedigger’s Daughter” and song “Why
Build a Wall Round a Graveyard?”—117.
To buy new or second-hand, The Double
Event, by Nat Gould. —106.
To buy Bassett Hull’s Stamps of New South
Wales. —185.
Words of short poem published about 20
years ago and containing the line “If God let
go the awful stress He holds on Life’s im-
mensity.”—97.
Words of poem “The Wooing of Hazel
MacKay.”—143.
, Invalid wants recent issues of “True Life
Story” and other American magazines.—121.
Works dealing wth the plague and fire of
London by Bell, or any others of note. —163.
Information Sought.
Particulars of air ambulance services in Aus-
tralia ? —191.
First service was established in 1928 by ar-
rangement between the Queensland and
Northern Territory Air Services (now Qantas)
and the Australian Inland Mission. The com-
pany provides aircraft and pilot and the mis-
sion the physician. Base is Cloncurry, whence
flights are made as required into western and
northern Queensland. In W.A. the service is
maintained by the MacRobertson-Miller Avia-
tion Co., which, using Wyndham as its base,
employs a ’plane specially fitted for ambulance
work. This aircraft is used on the regular
Ord River-Wyndham air service, and is avail-
able for medical service when required. The
Vic. section of the service, with the aid of a
small Commonwealth grant, provides a phy-
sician and bears the cost of flying operations.
Service is also available at Port Hedland (W.A.)
under joint management of the MacRobertson-
Miller Co. and the W.A. section of the service.
Similar work is undertaken at Kalgoorlie by a
local aircraft owner. For outback districts of
northern Australia the Commonwealth medical
officer is a licensed pilot, and, by arrangement
with the Government, uses his ’plane to visit
patients at distant isolated centres. With assist-
ance of a small Government subsidy, the Far
West (N.S.W.) Children’s Health Scheme main-
tains an aerial baby health clinic at Bourke
and surrounding district. A ’plane is chartered
from a local owner to carry nurses to various
centres.
* =t= * *
Who controls wireless telegraphy and tele-
phony in Queensland ? What licenses are issued
to operate wireless equipment in Queensland?
— 189.
The Commonwealth Government. Various
types of licenses are issued by the P.M.G. At
June 30, 1937, they were: Coast six, ship 15,
aircraft five, land 33, national broadcasting three,
commercial broadcasting 16, broadcast listeners
101,324, experimental 227, portable six, special
10. The six coastal stations are situated at
Brisbane, Cooktown, Rockhampton, Thursday
Island, Townsville and Willis Island. They are
owned by A.W.A. and are used for transmitting
commercial messages. In 1936-37 they sent
436 service messages of 5667 words, 4269
weather messages of 95,594 words and 19,081
paying messages of 219,085 words.
* * * *
What endowments have been made to (1)
the Sydney University, (2) Melbourne Univer-
sity, (3) Brisbane, (4) Adelaide and (5) Perth?
(6) Expenditure of each ? —192.
(1) Too many to state here. Some outstand-
ing are: Challis Fund (£380,920), Bosch Fund
(£252,848), Russell Fund (£104,771), Fisher
estate (£42,616) and large annual revenue from
the trustees of the McCaughey Bequest. Ex-
cluding principal of the latter, the credit balances
of private foundations amounted to £1,257,318
on Dec. 30, 1935. In 1930 the Uni. received
£100,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation in
aid of the building and equipment of a clinical
laboratory for the medical school. (2) Sidney
Myer (£60,000), Samuel Gillott (£41,000), Ed-
ward Wilson (“Argus” Trust) (£34,000), Samuel
Wilson (£30,000). R. B. Ritchie provided
£30,000 for the endowment of a Chair of Eco-
nomics, and a similar amount was received from
the Supreme Court Library Fund for a Chair
° u Law. Dr. James Stewart founded
scholarships in anatomy, medicine and surgery
£26,000, and Francis Ormond contributed
£20,000 to the Uni. and over £100,000 to
Ormond College. (3) To Feb., 1937, the
Quensland Uni. had received £161,292 from
the McCaughey estate, £32,071 from the Walter
and Eliza Hall Trust and £20,000 from T. C.
Beirne for the endowment of a Chair of Law
(4) Thomas Elder (£100,000), Langdon Bonv-
thon (£71,000), T. E. Barr Smith (£35,000),
Jane Marks (£30,000), family of John Darling
(£25,000) and R. B. Smith and family (£21 000)
Peter Waite bequeathed properties and shares
which realised £58,450. (5) Winthrop Hackett
(£425,000) and Robert Gleddon (£60,000) (6)
1935 Sydney £201,342, Melbourne £200 573
Brisbane £63,713, Adelaide £109,187 Perth
£34,539. ’ ’ m
B' hat are the conditions of immigration into
Australia ?—193.
Generally Asiatics or other colored immi-
grants are not permitted to enter Australia as
permanent settlers, but there are special ar-
rangements with India, China and Japan under
which facilities are afforded for subjects of those
countries who are bona fide merchants, students
or tourists to enter and remain in Australia
under exemption while they retain their status.
White aliens wanting permanent residence must
obtain landing permits or special authority
for admission from the Department of the In-
terior. Favorable consideration is given to:
(1) Dependent relatives of persons already settled
in Australia, subject to satisfactory guarantees
for maintenance. (“Dependent” includes wives,
children under 21 years, adult single daughters
and sisters, parents and fiancees.) (2) Those
who are nominated by persons in Australia
guaranteeing that they they will not become a
charge on the State, who will engage in trades
and occupations in which there is opportunity
for their absorption without detriment to Aus-
tralian workers and who have £ASO landing
money. (3) Those who will engage in trades
and occupations in which there is opportunity
for their absorption without detriment to Aus-
tralian workers and who have £A2OO landing
money. Immigrants must hold valid national
passports yiseed by a British Consul for travel
to Australia except in cases where visa require-
ments have been abolished by reciprocal ar-
rangements with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Exemptions so far apply to nationals
of Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Den-
mark, France, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden
and Switzerland.
* * * *
I am desirous of studying short-story writing.
What is the best method? Buy books on the
subject or take courses at some school ? Would
correspondence courses help? —l24.
The mechanics of plot construction can be
instilled by correspondence courses, but the
ability to write is usually gained only by vora-
cious reading and persistent writing. In short,
the only sure road to short-story writing or
any other sort of writing is the making of per-
sistent attempts at it.
***!!!
What is the system of preferential voting? —
The elector inscribes 1,2, 3, etc., against the
names of the candidates, denoting the order in
which he prefers them. In the counting the
most poorly-supported candidate is first elimi-
nated and the second preferences of those who
voted for him are distributed among the re-
mainder. Again the lowest-polling candidate is
eliminated, and so on until a candidate is
elected by an absolute majority comprised of
first and transferred preferences.
* * * *
(1) How many miles of railways are there in
Australia, and what proportion is Government-
owned? (2) Revenue? (3) Miles run? Pas-
sengers and livestock carried? (4) Rolling
stock? (5) Persons employed? (6) Persons
killed or injured in connection with railwavs ?
—lO3.
(I) Of 27,897 miles open for general traffic,
27,094 miles, having a capital cost of
£336,391,365, were Government-owned. (2)
Gross revenue from all Government railways
was £43,234,061, working expenses £31,286,087
and net revenue £11,947,254. After payment of
interest charges of £12,758,290, exclusive of ex-
change, a net loss of £811,036 resulted. (3)
73,000,000 miles, 378,000,000 passengers and
33,000,000 tons of goods and livestock were
carried. (4) 3629 locomotives, 8004 coaches
and 85,994 other vehicles. (5) Exclusive of
construction staff, 102,447 persons were em-
ployed at June 30, 1937, and an average of
101,010 throughout 1936-37. (6) 171 killed
and 1717 injured. All figures at June 30, 1937
or for 1936-37.
* * * *
(J) p “ rtic "lars of subsidised schools in
N.S.W.? (2) Provisional schools? —s7.
(0 localities where there are insufficient
children to maintain a departmental school, and
where a private teacher is engaged by one or
more families, under certain conditions (obtain-
able from the N.S.W. Educational Department)
a subsidy may be paid by the Ed. Dept
Teacher must be at least 16 years old and must
possess educational qualifications at least equiva-
lent to the N.S.W. intermediate certificate ex-
amination. Parents must provide free board
and lodging for the teacher, but any extra
remuneration to be paid by them is a matter
lor mutual agreement. Subsidised schools are
controlled by promoters—usually parents of
children m attendance bui are inspected
periodically by an officer of the Ed. Dept (2)
Provisional schools are the smallest type of
full-time schools under control of the Ed
Dept. Teachers are employees of the depart-
ment, and have undergone two years’ training
at a teachers’ college. Standard of education
c n w n , Ce into these c °Heges is
that of the N.S.W. leaving certificate examina-
tion.
* * * *
(1) What was the original name of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.)? (2) Was its population ever
greater than that of Sydney? (3) Was Mel-
bourne’s population ever greater than that of
Sydney ? —9342.
(1) On Nov. 2, 1788, Phillip planted the
settlement calling it Rose Hill after George
Rose, a secretary of the British Treasury. On
June 4, 1791, the name was changed to Parra-
matta, an abo. place-name meaning “place
where eels lie down.” (2) In Oct., 1792,
George Thompson wrote: “Sydney is the spot
where the first settlement was formed, merely
for the advantage of good water and the con-
veniency of the harbor. In this part are only
gardens sufficient to supply the inhabitants with
vegetables, etc Parramatta is the grand
settlement.” At that time Parramatta had 1970
inhabitants to Sydney’s 1170, but soon began
to lose ground. (3) The 1871 census gave
the. population of Melbourne and suburbs as
206,780- and Sydney and suburbs as 137,776;
1881, 282,947 and 224,939; 1891, 490,896 and
383,283; 1901, 496,079 and 481,830.
* * * *
(I) Chief agricultural products of Norfolk
Island? (2) How to obtain land? —9914.
(J) Bananas, beans and passionfruit. (2)
The policy of issuing grants in fee simple ceased
many years ago, and freehold lands are now
held mainly by the original grantees or their
descendants, who, with few exceptions, are not
disposed to part with them. Term of a Crown
lease is usually about 28 years, and rental
ranges from 2s. 6d. to 10s. per acre p.a. To
obtain first-hand information, prospective settlers
should visit the island before negotiations to
buy or lease land. Settlement should be under-
taken only by those with sufficient capital to
maintain themselves until their land is culti-
vated and productive.
* * * *
How to bend timber for use in constructing
a caravan? —9921.
Soften timber with steam and, while still
hot, bend round a suitable form, using clamps
and levers to supply the necessary pressure.
Where bend is severe, use a metal strap on
the outer surface of the bend, with end blocks
fitting hard up to the ends of the wood to
prevent breaking on convex side. Timber must
be dried on the form under pressure until set.
* * * *
Method to stop seeping in cement tanks? —41.
If tank is new, a handful of oatmeal thrown
into the water will usually find its way into
the pores and seal the tank. If old, pick sur-
face and render it with a mortar of one part
cement to two parts sand. Mortar may be
made more workable by adding about 7 p.c.
of hydrated lime.
* * * *
How many industrial disputes were there in
Australia during 1936? Causes? Workpeople
involved? Working days lost? —190.
There were 235 industrial disputes involving
60,587 workpeople and causing a loss of
£468,825 in wages and 497,248 working days.
For increase in wages there were 16 disputes
involving 2014 workpeople; against decrease,
one involving 40; on other wage questions, 48
(12,930); for reduction of hours of labor, one
(20) ; other disputes about hours, four (488);
against employment of non-unionists, four
(1612); other union questions, 16 (4011); em-
ployment of particular classes or persons, 81
(22,978); working conditions, 43 (10,985); sym-
pathetic, five (1062); other causes, 16 (4447).
* * * *
What constitutes a misdeal in five hundred?
—l9B.
According to Hoyle Up-to-Date it is a mis-
deal, and there must be anew deal by the
same dealer, if the cards have not been pro-
perly cut; if the dealer does not give the same
number of cards to each player on the same
round; if he gives too many or too few cards
to any player; or if he deals too many hands;
or if he neglects to lay out the three cards for
the widow after dealing the first round and
before dealing the second. A player not hold-
ing an ace or court card cannot demand a
new deal.
* * * *
(1) When did Queensland become a separate
State ? (2) When was its Legislative Council
abolished ? (3) How many members are there
in the Leg. Ass. ? (4) List of Queensland
Governors ? —196.
(1) In 1843. It was given a separate member
in 1851, two in 1853, four in 1855 and nine in
1858. Colony of Queensland was created in
1859. (2) March 23, 1922. (3) 62, each
elected for three years. (4) Sir George Bowen,
appointed 1859; Col. S. W. Blackall, 1868;
Marquis of Normanby, 1871 ; W. W. Cairns,
1875; Sir Arthur Kennedy, 1877; Sir Anthony
Musgrave, 1883; Sir Henry Norman, 1889;
Lord Lamington, 1896; Sir Herbert Chermside,
1902; Lord Chelmsford, 1905; Sir William
MacGregor, 1909; Sir Hamilton Goold-Adams,
1915; Sir Matthew Nathan, 1920; Sir John
Goodwin, 1927; Sir Leslie Wilson, 1932.
* * * *
How many motor vehicles are registered in
the various States of Australia, and what is
the revenue derived from them? —195.
1935-36: N.S.W., 260,345 vehicles registered
provided a gross revenue of £2,184,785; Vic.,
219,925, £1,592,925; Queensland, 108,166,
£727,476; S.A., 73,601, £626,593; W.A., 56,552,
£342,198; Ta5.,21,595, £134,160; N.T., 1025,
£1713; F.C.T., 1675, £10,309. Figures exclude
trailers (10,276) and road tractors, etc. (1102).
* * * *
What goods did Australia export and import
to and from Germany in 1935-36 ? Value ?
194.
Imported machinery, worth £603,829, metal
manufactures £439,610, drugs and chemicals
£352,333, paper and stationery £208,138, earthen-
ware, china, glassware, etc., £170,663, gloves
£147,854, optical and scientific instruments
£148,004, piece goods £134,549, apparel
£100,712, textiles (excluding piecegoods) £81,435,
timepieces £76,314, oils, fats and waxes £67,573,
bags, baskets, etc., £53,065, jewellery and fancy
goods £51,678, musical instruments £44,611,
and paints and varnishes £37,500; exported
wool worth £2,052,436, hides and skins £108,766,
fresh apples £96,532, stones and minerals
£31,338, drugs and chemicals £16,328, sausage
casings £13,111, metals, scrap £9892, and gums
and resins £4IOB.
* * * *
Brief biographical details concerning Sir
Joseph Byrne, Governor of Kenya?— 9994.
Born October 2, 1874. Educated St. George’s
College, Weybridge, and Maison de Melle,
Belgium. Joined the Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers
1893, and served in S. African War, including
the Siege of Ladysmith, where he was wounded.
Served as Asst. Adj.-General at the War Office.
Best way to kill, preserve, mount and pack
for posting to England butterflies, moths, etc.?
—9988.
Ihe preservation of moths and butterflies
does not call for any very special method,
apart from placing in the box with the speci-
mens substances for keeping insect pests away.
If, however, the insects are to be mounted or
set, a fair amount of skill and patience will be
necessary as well as appliances for setting the
insects. An account of setting butterflies, moths
and other insects is given in the “Australian
Museum Magazine” for January, 1931. If it
is not desired to set the specimens, these may
be placed in triangular butterfly envelopes,
labelled with the locality, date of capture, etc.,
and placed inside a stout box, with a little
powdered mothball or flaked naphthaline to act
as a deterrent to insect pests. The box should
be labelled “Natural History Specimens Only,”
and should then travel at sample rates. The
stamps should be placed on a luggage label
which should be securely tied to the box, and
both box and label should bear the address
of the consignee.
* * * *
What part did Narcissus play in mythology ?
— 199.
He was a beautiful youth, son of Cephisus
and the nymph Liriope, and was born at Thes-
pis in Boeotia. He saw his image reflected in
a fountain and became in love with it, thinking
it to be the nymph of the place. His fruitless
attempt to reach this beautiful object so pro-
voked him that he killed himself. His blood
changed into a flower which still bears his
name.
* =fc *
What are the averages of Bradman and Mc-
Cabe in all Test matches against England to
date ? —107.
These figures are to the end of the Second
Test match at Lord’s, 28/6/’38: —
Highest Not
Matches. In. Score. Outs. Runs. Av.
Bradman ..23 44 334 4 3721 93.02
McCabe ..22 39 232 3 1899 52.75
Brief Answers.
L.T.D.: February 29, 1936, fell on a Satur-
day. .. .T.P.: 791,497 motor vehicles were regis-
tered throughout Australia at June 30, 1937. An
increase of nearly 49,000 on the 1935-36 figure.
. ...L.C.: Rivets would do the job, but oxy-
acetylene welding would be more suitable....
... .K.R.F.: This page does not criticise short
stories... .S.M.: American auxiliary yacht Hur-
ricane was wrecked on the Uluma Reef, near
Samarai, New Guinea. It was owned by G.
Mefferd and R. Kauffman... .M.T.: Your name
does not appear in the list of prizewinners....
R.W.: When mountain tops are eroded and
valleys filled the plateau-like result is known as a
peneplain... .W.W.: As your wife is in pos-
session of the furniture by virtue of an appa-
rently unconditional assignment made by you,
your chances of recovery appear to be remote.
If, however, you should attempt to recover,
you would require the services of a solicitor.
. ...L.L.: The Harness-maker’s Manual, 16s.,
post 6d., and Practical Leather Working, 2s. 3d.,
post 3d., both from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney L.D.: “Banjo” Paterson was born
at Narrambla, N.S.W G.H.G.: Sheep-lice
may live for two to three days in wool that
has been plucked out against fences, drafting
yards, etc. Yards should be safe for clean
sheep after three days... .I.D.: Both muscovy
and Indian-runner ducks are bred in numerous
colors, the latter varying through black, choco-
late, fawn and fawn-and-white to pure white.
For markings of any particular variety write
Agricultural Department, Brisbane. White duck
referred to is probably the Aylesbury. It has
a pink-white or flesh-colored bill, dark eyes,
bright orange legs and feet and pure white
plumage... .J.G.: Diesel-engine driving would
be your best course A.A.L.: Officers of the
Imperial service are lent from time to time to
the M.L. Government for service in ships and
establishments of the naval division... .P.T.R.:
Write Mines Department, Sydney C.D.
tralian meat importations into the United King-
dom for 1936 were chilled beef 296,000cwt.,
frozen beef and veal l,512,000cwt., frozen mutton
and lamb l,499,000cwt., and pork 233,000cwt.
P.L.R.: Fires caused by electricity in M.L.
between 1932-36 numbered 3020, and caused
damage estimated at £188,990 L.T.N.: Den-
sity of Sydney's population at 1933 census
was 7.91 per acre, Melbourne 7.88, Adelaide
3.04, Brisbane 1.22, Perth 1.74, Hobart 1.1....
P.B.T.: For five years 1931-35 the average wheat
yield of Canada was 13.6 bushels per acre,
U.S.A. 13.6, Argentina 13.8, Australia 12.2,
U.S.S.R. 10.8. Owing to bad seasons figures for
Canada and U.S.A. are below normal....
R.A.Y.: Question too vague P.B.D.: From
the Prologue to Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales.
Means a begging friar P.T.B.: You must
get the author’s permission K.T.N.: Cinna-
bar is the principal ore from which mercury
is obtained. Most important accumulations of
the ore in M.L. are in the north of Auckland
province L.T.B.: Niue or Savage, lying
about 300 miles east of Tonga, is a coral island,
36 miles in circumference and 64*028 acres in
area H.T.N.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Sydney H.N.R.: Try Arthur Yates, Sussex-
street, Sydney T.N.D.: (1) Yes. (2) Yes.
(3) Cut down food and give a sprinkling of
areca nut. (4) Should be docked young. (5)
Best consult a vet T.L.: Cannot prescribe
without seeing patient C.H.: Angus and
Robertson; 7s. 6d., postage 4d A.E.C.:
English prices: Sixty years of Cricket Form,
5s., Cricket and Golf (Dent’s “Modern
Sports”) 6s. each. Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney, should have them... .G.W.L.: No ser-
vice manual available. Cameron Motors, Ltd.,
19 Bridge-street, Sydney, might help you
W.C.S.: “Architecture” is the official journal
of the Royal Australian Institute of Archi-
tects of N.S.W. Published monthly, Is
L.E.M.: The abo. word for beauty is Eleebana.
D.S.: Joe Louis defeated James Braddock
at Chicago on June 22, 1937 A.B.: (1), (2)
and (3) No difference in pronunciation. (4 a)
Yes, colloquially; ( b ) the translators of the
Authorised Version of the Bible sponsor it
N.G.: Pronunciation is the same.


MS ii
iisl
wm
•JL®
saMsi
’>-i W‘J* v\
•V!i'!.»,V,a
<
S>Ms?a
fcJVty*
mi
All in the patent
Everfresh 2-oz. tins at 2/6.
the Rubber
Band to
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink —
be thankful ♦ . ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to . . . try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Puttchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson f s Pleasure , the mild blend*
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
c At all good tobacconists .. . ask for
jftamcjis
The Ideal Tobacco
UlB7O
FROM CHINA to PERU.
“Pharos”: So Egypt proposes to have
a navy again. In the remote past, if we
are to believe Herodotus, the Gyppos
owned powerful fleets both on the Medi-
terranean and the Red Sea, and sent
Red Sea ships to India and Ceylon.
Up to the battle of Navarino the
Egyptian viceroys maintained a strong
fleet in the inland sea, and in Mehemet
Ali’s time the country kept its end up as a
sea Power of sorts. The service gradu-
ally rotted out until the opening of the
Canal and the British occupation spelt
“finis.”
sjc Hi ❖
“Mak”: A volcanic past has presented
Maoriland with many gifts, and to-day
North Island architects and builders are
interested in the possibilities of building-
stone deposits believed to have been
tossed to the surface at Putaruru, a few
miles from the great Arapuni hydro-
electricity scheme, during some distant
eruption. An Italian started working
them more than 50 years ago ; now
the stone has been used to face Dunedin’s
railway station and to build an Auck-
land church. Putaruru’s rock is claimed
to be stronger and less absorptive
than that from the better-known Oamaru
deposits in the South Island. It is
quarried in three colors —grey, pink and
cream.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Those bullheaded ad-
vocates of army-mechanisation at all
costs and their feeble imitators in Aus-
tralia have been given some additional
reason to think hard. In Spain the
machines of both sides have been im-
mobilised during winter campaigns, and
that sort of immobilisation caused the
defeat of the Italians at Guadalajara.
And the flooding of the Yellow River
basin not only stopped the advance of
the Japanese Northern Army but hope-
lessly bogged hundreds of mechanised
units, including transport, supply and
artillery. I would give something to see
a mechanised force manoeuvring on the
Darling Downs and similar country after
heavy rain. Even the old “T” pattern
Ford Lizzie, most undefeatable of motor
transport, was never able to go abroad
under such conditions.
H= * * *
“Wire”: A recent reference to the
25-mile barbed-wire fence that the British
are running across the border between
Northern Palestine and French Syria,
whence come all the raiding parties, set
me wondering whether it will be electri-
fied, as was a similar fence on the Indian
N.W. Frontier when the Pathans were
troublesome at the end of the Great War.
The new idea roused furious indignation
among the tribes, who sent messages to
the British protesting that it wasn’t British
fairplay. They pointed out that when they
themselves crossed the border nothing
worse happened than clean, healthy
throat-cutting, and frying Believers alive-
oh with invisible fire was over the odds.
* * * *
“Captain Costigan”: Permit me to
deprecate the inhuman assertion (B.
29/6/’3B) that “under the duelling code
it was quite in order to drill an adversary
with a .45 calibre lead bullet at 12 paces.”
This smacks of American border ruffian-
ism. I have a pair of old duelling pistols
by Egg, of London, typical of their kind,
with a calibre of .22 or thereabout. They
are smooth-bore, saw-handled and flint-
locks, with a trip trigger to permit of the
finest of “hair” adjustments. They are
loaded by unscrewing the barrel just
above the smaller powder-chamber in
which the powder is inserted, the bullet
placed above it wrapped in a cloth patch
and the barrel screwed on again. This
was to give all hands a full view of the
loading and to prevent any funny busi-
ness. Good seconds usually insisted on
15 paces, not 12, and in later days 22
became fashionable, the length of the
modern cricket-pitch being derived from
this. If the affair was really serious the
shots might be exchanged across a table
or with each duellist holding the corner
of one handkerchief in his pistol-free
hand.
* * * *
Magela ’: That war poem of Kipling’s
referred to by “S.T.S.” (B. 22/6/’3B)
was dedicated to Lauder, not Marie
Lloyd or Lyde,” and Lauder’s name ap-
peared in the first verse:
Er Rv C fin ain fate had touched a heart
t- I fif , ty , years ma de cold,
1 oS t lee ’ Lauder > and thy art
Oerblown and overbold.
hi^L?,? lain > t J| e . allusion by Kipling to
as witnes S “?u S ng f° r Lauder’s songs,
convoking ™nes.”‘ C C ° ffer S,ocked W ' th
Tilley 11 vvhrt k'f^ n s' s “Lyde" was Vesta
wasTady’de j^rece/ 011 iQ the She
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.McK.H.: Couldn’t quite swallow Piri
R.W.: Nothing there to take the eye....
K.P.: Why don’t you wring that morepork’s
neck? ... .N.G.: A batch of three just when
we thought the “death-in-the-desert” school
had closed down J.S.: Sending that nasty
little brat home for paternal correction
C. 0.: You’ve a long way to go before you
appear in our “much-esteemed” pages
K.F.: That’s a deep-worn track R.E.C.:
Neatly-handled, but it’s undernourished
A.F.W.: Cut, and try it on a daily... .A.P.F.:
Five murders, three suicides and a gum-chewing
detective. Out! L.W.P.: Nothing new in
that batch E.J.S.: “Mother” may be, but
she doesn’t rhyme with “bother” G. 5.8.:
Saw it only dimly through the tears... .A. 8.5.:
Didn’t like the “dirty old dustman” 8.H.8.:
It’s only a fragment J.W.A.: You’re crowd-
ing in on Con Drew’s pastures R.H.: “The
rising tide of fate engulfed him,” then hurled
the whole of it into the w.p.b P.S.: Might
pass as brief sketches, but you make them all
too wordy D.A.C.: “Tangled Skein” is
right P.M.: Write out of your own experi-
ence. . .T.E.McC.: Dogged, but it doesn’t do it.
... .W.M.H.: Sympathise, but it’s bunkered
C.McE.: Try a woman’s paper W.J.8.: Pas-
sable for a song H.M.8.: Very c105e....
C.M.: That bushman’s no Tauber... .C.D. and
P.H.P.: “We would like to hear what you
think of it.” No, you wouldn’t J.G.W.:
Rum rhymes... .N.M.: Thereabouts... .P.K.:
Looks as if you’ll have to wait another 19
years.. . .W.J.D.: Reason’s better than the
rhyme... .A.S.M.: Hops off on the right foot,
but doesn’t get anywhere; keep off coffin jokes.
....P.McM.: How does one “believe in” the
scent of flowers?... .V.M.: Try it on a
flapper mag J. 5.0.: An American weekly
featured that racing yarn a couple of months
ago T.H.W.: And those gin-drinking flap-
pers have strayed a long way from home
G.8.C.: Afraid not L.M.: That won’t help
raise the mortgage on the “happy home of his
childhood” W.A.S.: The w.p.b. shrank
from that “death-dealing hail of bullets”....
E. Feeble fable W.F.P.: Hopeless
F. : Show that “plea for understanding” to
the girl N.V.-H.: Couldn’t make your
butler or his “young master” comfortable
here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.8.W.: Which is the dog, and which the
sheep? T.8.M.: Briefly—scratchy line
work, poor drawing and no-good gags
D.W.H.: If you’ve never seen an aeroplane
don’t try to draw 0ne....0.W.: No place here
for miniatures... .E. 8.: We paid Is. in de-
ficient postage to see those ink-smudged atroci-
ties A.L.C.: If you must send us caricatures
see that they’re of people in the news
G.E.P.: You mustn’t copy R.S.: Look us
up again after you’ve completed your studies.
A.R.G.: You’ve exhumed a long-dead
Jjatch this time... .C.F.: Those gags might be
all right in an American comic paper
F.G.W.: So that’s the new and entirely indi-
vidual style R.J.P.: Not a smile in any of
them P.R.: What happened to the horse’s
hind legs? T.D.: Well-drawn, but it’s not
amusing E.W.C.: Yes, we’ll buy jokes
without drawings, provided they’re good and
new....A.D.: The block-maker shuddered
when we showed them.... W.E.8.: Drawings
lack finish and jokes are in poor taste
L.C.E.: You’ve no idea of perspective
J.P.8.: Low did that, and better... .A.W.R.:
You haven’t improved it... .G.O-S.: A would-
be jovial school-teacher first made us laugh at
that ancient wheeze... .H.M.M.: Afraid you’ll
never make a fortune by drawing... .W.T.L.:
Incomprehensible... .J.V.D.: A crowd of
poorly-drawn figures and horse that never was
on any land.
Anglo-Iranian (formerly -Persian) Oil
showed £7,455,094 profit for 1937, up
£1,332,000 stg. A div. of 25 p.c. was
maintained on the ord. capital, which
was lifted by a one-for-two bonus issue
during last year. The British Govern-
ment has a substantial interest in the co.
* * * *
Martin Benson, who has bought
Nearco, Europe’s Grand Flaneur, for
£60,000, runs a stud at Newmarket and
has already installed there the 1934
Derby winner Windsor Lad, for which
he paid £50,000. He is known all over
the world as “Douglas Stuart,” and is
the biggest racing commissioner the game
has known. Benson has made millions out
of s.p. and looks in a fair way to do
some of it in on the very tricky game
of breeding bloodstock.
“Veteran”: The University of Cali-
fornia wants to send a Union Rugby side
to Australia next season, and hopes to
include M.L. in its tour. An American
uni. team toured N.S.W. and M.L. in
1910; in N.S.W. it won two games and
drew one out of eight, and in M.L.
drew one out of five.


agMjß
%
BETTER
T
?e
m
Owners say:
MODEL “M” (Illustrated)
Gives up to 31 Horsepower.
Averages 1 Gal. Fuel per Hour.
Remarkably Free from Mechanical Troubles.
Always on the Job and No Time Lost.
A SIZE AND TYPE IN WHEEL AND TRACK TYPE
TRACTORS FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
f
NQBranch
STUPTST
TOWNSVIUf
ENGINEERING Supply c<?Cf AUSTRAIIA L T . D
Also at No. 1 East Street, Rockhampton.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations
Sheep bought ”
Wire netting ” 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O* Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
the bulletin newspaper co pty ltd..
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book w 11 be forwarded to you.
IN THE CENTRE-NOW
BY A. P. NOONAN.
I HAD heard so much about Lasseter’s
“reef” and deserts and flying doc-
tors that I decided Central Australia
must be the most interesting place
within thousands of miles that a young
journalist could trek to. I’m still a
young journalist, and still on the wander,
but the nine months I spent in the
Centre won’t be forgotten.
A lot of impressions had to be re-
vised. A bushman isn’t nearly so much
at sea in the city as a city man is in
the bush. And there is no tale-spinner
anywhere to beat the Far-inlander. It
is a custom of the country to pull the
leg of every newspaperman who comes
to Tennant Creek, and I dropped in for
my share.
Also, I learned some of the local
idioms. The dead bullock in the soak
where I drank and bathed was decidedly
“on the nose” ; the Lasseter myth was
the greatest “wrought” in the Territory’s
history. Slang that knows not the talkies
is on everyone’s tongue out there.
Going from rush to rush and listening
to miners’ talk, l gathered that practically
all of the Territory’s mineral resources
are known to bushmen and prospectors.
Lasseter or no Lasseter, no new dis-
covery of any consequence has been
made in Centralia since 1901. That may
seem extraordinary in the face of The
Granites and the Tennant Creek rushes ;
but even these two belts were known to
be auriferous 40 years ago.
Starting out in 1898, geologist Allan
Davidson made a three-year prospecting
expedition through the Centre, and did
a good job, as time has testified. Before
this time the Arltunga goldfield had been
discovered, and was being worked in a
small way, and the existence of gold
round about the Tennant Creek telegraph
station was known.
Transport difficulties and working
costs were obstacles to profitable de-
velopment ; and, though the Centre has
had its share of decent mining specula-
tors, there have been others.
Besides auriferous country, there is a
large metalliferous area —silver-lead, wol-
fram, mica, copper, opal and tin. Nearly
all of these minerals occur round Barrow
Creek, which is probably the most
diversified mineral belt in Australia. But
costs are staggering.
Petrol at Tennant Creek is 4s. a gal-
lon. Beer is Is. 6d. a glass, an apple 4d.
to 6d., and bread a shilling a loaf. Most
other things are more than 100 p.c. up
“Soup, ALWAYS soup! 'Avon'l if got some consommy fer a change?”
on the prices in coastal areas. Accord-
ingly, metal production and margin of
profit must be two or three times as great
as in other parts of the Commonwealth.
There is gold at Tennant Creek. But
it is hard to get. The main drawback
of the field is its inconsistency. On a'
claim one might be following a good lode
anything from 50ft. to 200 ft. in depth,
when suddenly, and without any warn-
ing, it will chop right out. I saw instances
of this in the Eldorado mine, which is
the biggest up there. At 100 ft. depth in
a drive the lode cut out into an absolute
blank, with the most obvious line of
demarcation.
Two tributors started working an
abandoned show called The Pinnacles.
The original claimants had given it up
as a bad job. The newcomers raised
30 tons of ore, and out of that they got
a little over 300 oz. of gold—over lOoz.
to the ton. Inconsistency is the Tennant’s
other name ; besides, the gold occurs in
the toughest ironstone lode a unique
and unfavorable little feature.
And there is gold at The Granites —a
place that got the most sensational pub-
licity that any mining field in the Interior
has received. It is a little auriferous belt
in the midst of “red” country ; no more
than enough for one or two good claims.
Chapman’s is still working.
It is an arid place, and water was
unprocurable within 30 miles until Chap-
man put down a bore. The supply thus
yielded was inadequate for all-comers as
long as the rush endured. Last-comers
pegged out claims in the sand. The gold
may have continued
down in its limited
quantities to the
strata under the
sands; but who,
knowing the real
features of this area,
would have included
this sand among “the
places I should like
to try”? Fortunate
that many people
did not die as a re-
sult of this fiasco.
Arltunga is in the
Macdonnell Ranges,
70 miles east of
Alice Springs. For
33 years it has been
worked spasmodi-
cally and with vary-
ing success by pros-
pectors and gougers.
some of whom still
have a lot of faith.
A member of the
N.T. Mounted col-
-lec t e d a pickle-
bottle of fine gold
from the creeks
whilst stationed out
there a few years
ago. He was shifted
before the price of
gold soared.
“Easy come, easy
go” might have been
invented for the In-
terior. A fellow at
Tennant Creek who got a thousand
pounds for a show had nothing to dis-
play but a broken leg at the end of a
fortnight.
I saw the mansion of another miner
who won £4OOO from the field. It was
a two-roomed, galvanised-iron bungalow,
with a verandah adorned with iron
brackets. I didn’t see the landlord;
he went back to his* old job, boring on
the stations, to earn a crust. His money
allowed him to live the affluent life for
a few months —to his entire satisfaction.
Although some very good pay-dirt has
been found on the Winnecke, north of
Tanami, the country is very difficult to
get at and to work. Nearer The Barrow
you come to the Home of Bullion, said
to be the richest show in Central Aus-
tralia. Gold has been found there, but
the best mineral deposits are of silver-
lead. It is not being worked, and I don’t
know whether any options have been


THREE MONTHS ON
BISCUITS AND MILK
Woman's Remarkable
Recovery.
Everyone who is subject to any form of in-
digestion should know of this woman’s experi-
ences. Advice from one who has had such
severe attacks is advice worth having. She
writes:
“I suffered from indigestion, gastritis and
constipation, and was so very ill I had (on medi-
cal advice) to live on soda biscuits and milk for
three months. Well, a friend advised me to
take Kruschen, and now I am pleased to say
my troubles are ended. I can eat and enjoy
a good meal without any painful after-effects,
and there is no sign of constipation. I would
advise anyone suffering the same to take
Kruschen.”—(Mrs.) M.R.L.
The immediate effect of the six salts in
Kruschen is to promote a natural flow of the
digestive and other vital juices of the body.
You will find to your satisfaction that you
are able to enjoy your food without any dis-
tressing after-effects. And as you persevere
with the “little daily dose” you will see that
the relief which Kruschen brings is lasting
relief.
SADDLER-MADE
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
"STAYS-ON"
FITTINGS.
(Ulus. Right.)
No. A SUPER
BLEACHED ALL
FLAX CANVAS,
FLEECY CHECK
df
LINED, sft. 6in„ 44/-; sft. 9in„ 45/6;
6ft., 46/6.
df
WITH HIND-LEG
STRAP FITTINGS
(Illus. Left.)
No. CA ALL
FLAX CANVAS,
FLEECY CHECK
LINED, sft. 6in.,
42/-; sft. 9in., 43/-; 6ft., 44/
Post 2/9 per Rug.
Write for 1938 Rug List.
WALTHER it STEVEKSOMH
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
PTY.
LTD.
u
KING THE ROAD’
BATTERIES
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
taken over it by big company interests,
But when the Interior is opened up for
its minerals you will hear of the Home
of Bullion.
Other gold shows have been worked
at Kurannali and The Crystals, two fields
nor’-east and east of Barrow Creek re-
spectively. Three men raised £BOO-worth
of gold out of Kurannali in 1936, but
couldn’t make it pay. Apart from these
fields, which are recognised as having
definite gold deposits, many traces of
the yellow metal have been found in
outlying parts not designated. There are
colors at Hatches Creek, where the
wolfram is got, and I saw a show in the
Davenport Ranges which had been tried
out by a famous prospector, Bill
uarnaut.
But the main hope of the North as
far as gold is concerned centres in the
Mount Isa Co.’s efforts to develop How-
ley Creek, or Brock’s Creek, as it is
more generally known. Testing has been
going on for a consumable time. Tanami
¥ s , *‘ s too. but it is a lonely,
distant and desolate spot. _
Mica has been taken profitably from
S.f 1 f Al 'ce Springs ever sinee a
The se fleids are
~“1? y . b X I l al i ans n t OW - T h !
story attaching to the finding of a market
pT‘ff a ,L S ln ‘ e , re i tmB - A a USSla >’
Simon Rieff, thought these mica deposits
should have commercial value, so he sent
samples to British metal buyers. They
were not interested in Australian mica,
they said; they got all their mica from
America. The Russian sent similar sped-
mens to dealers in U.S.A. Their reply was
much more favorable: they would take as
much of that mica as he could supply,
Rieff got in touch with the British dealers
again, sending the American reply for
their edification, and they came in with
their heads down. Marvellous what a
little competition will do!
One of the proudest possessions of
the Interior is the Jervois Ranges, again
out east. Here we have a little gold,
silver-lead, copper and mica—a real con-
glomeration. The Jervois Ranges are
inaccessible, and the working of the de-
posits is impossible without a compre-
hensive treatment plant.
Three of the most interesting mining
propositions in the Interior are Hatches
Creek, the Wauchope and Mount Hardie,
where the wolfram occurs. The price
of this metal rose meteorically in 1937.
A few men had been working on the
Hatches Creek-Wauchope fields at the
beginning of the year at a price round
£2OO a ton. When the Sino-Japanese war
broke out it rocketed to over £4OO a ton.
Men flocked to these fields from all
round the Interior, thinking to peg out
claims and sell for fancy prices to specu-
lators. But somehow speculators refuse
to respond hysterically to anything but
gold.
The Wauchope is an exceedingly rich
little area of wolfram country. The
mineral occurs in what are known as
blanket lodes. Thick layers of pure wol-
fram are struck at times; last year three
tributors, using compressors and jack-
hammer drills, got 14 tons in three
months. On Hatches Creek, the Treasure,
owned by Simon Rieff, Walsh’s Hit and
Miss and Dr. Buller Murphy’s Pioneer
are rich in the metal.
Last year, according to southern news-
papers, men were dying from drinking
water taken from Kangaroo waterhole,
the main soak on the field, which was
getting low. It was supposed to have
been contaminated by the treatment
plant. That plant was a mile down-
stream ; and nobody died at Hatches
Creek last year. They are too tough out
there to do anything like that.
Another southern newspaper alarm was
raised because a bushman had been
missing from his camp for four days.
Four days is a very short period in the
Centre. The sufferer was found camping
with another man at a waterhole eight
miles away ; at the precise time of his
discovery he was fishing in the pool.
There were other things of much more
moment to the miners and gougers on
the wolfram fields. For instance, the
price they were getting for their metal;
it dropped very rapidly before Christmas,
from £lB a hundredweight to exactly
half. A miner with a dual-wave wireless
set on the field learned that it was still
quoted at £lB on the London Metal Ex-
change. The stuff did fall heavily later.
The wolfram fields are the best one-man
propositions in the Interior when the
quote is anything from £2OO a ton up-
wards. Most of the extensive shows are
being worked with machinery now, how-
ever, big interests having taken them
over.
A MIXED GRILL.
The Bank of N.S.W. has a first mort-
gage of £20,000 on the “new” “Labor
Daily,” but a Mr. Nelson explains that
there are “no political complications.”
The bank has never indicated any desire
to interfere. Our negotiations are on
purely ethical business lines.
Until recently Mr. Nelson hotly denied
that capitalism had any ethical side.
* * * *
Maoriland Labor boasts that its insur-
ance scheme will be a long way better
than Casey’s ; it will provide against “all
the contingencies of life,” except whitlows
and water on the brain. Yet the per-
verse will persist in regarding life as a
struggle, and in saying that it wouldn’t
be worth living if it wasn’t.
* * *
Queenslanders differ as to whether
£1,600,000 should be spent on the bridge
which is to span the Brisbane River from
Kangaroo Point to Bowen Terrace, but
even objectors realise that it will be a
most impressive structure. Design,
materials—except for a fraction of 1 p.c.
—and workmanship will be all-Austra-
lian. The “Courier-Mail” has empha-
sised this pithily —the steel, it points out,
comes from Newcastle and Port Kembla ;
it was fabricated at Rocklea, and Bris-
bane itself supplies the concrete. And,
although the money has been borrowed,
it is Australian money ; the A.M.P. lent
a million at 4 p.c.
* * * *
“Zedo”: One of the most curious wills
Queensland has seen was that of W. W.
Farquhar, formerly shire clerk of Eids-
vold, who died a few months ago. It
directed that the Farquhar home should
be burnt, since the testator looked on it
as sacred to his family and wished no
strangers to inhabit it. The executors
were helped out of a quandary by the
Crown ; the place was built on a miner’s
homestead lease and the Crown exercised
its right to forbid the destruction of an
improvement. 'An old Mt. Morgan pal
of mine directed that his wife, with
whom he had quarrelled, should come
into his property only if she put on his
bluchers and waded a mile up a well-
chemicalised creek in them. The lady
did it, being a woman of spirit
* * * ‘ *
Murrungurry”: If Brisbane switches
P| a nt-names for its streets
(B. 5/5/ 38) it will have plenty of prece-
dents in Queensland country towns. Bar-
caldine s arteries are named after trees,
Blackall s after flowers, while Yalleroi,
near Blackall, chose grasses. In Long-
reach the roads have bird-names. Ilfra-
combe, on the Q.C.R., adopted numerals,
like N. York.
% % sH
“Toowong”: Brisbane will scarcely
seem the same without Sandford Jack-
son, the Nestor of its medical profession,
who had practised there since he came to
Brisbane Hospital as a 21-year-old
medico in 1882. He founded the Queens-
land branch of the B.M.A. which, seven
years ago, established the Jackson lecture
on medical history in recognition of his
services. The doctor was a man of
handsome presence, full of life, and a
mainstay of public movements such as
the Bush Nursing Association. His hobby
was history. He leaves two doctor sons
and a daughter, who married Queens-
land’s first Rhodes scholar, R. C. Roe,
now director of an English wool firm.
* * * *
“X.N.”: In 1922 there were 76,249 in-
capacitated A.I.F. men on pension. The
number declined steadily until 1926, when
it reached low-water mark at 72,128.
There has been a steady rise since. In
1936 the 1922 figure was passed; last
year there were 77,076 on the list. Pen-
sioned dependents of incapacitated sol-
diers rose from 93,995 in 1921 to 172,389
in 1931 and declined to 145,308 in 1937.
Pensioned dependents of deceased sol-
diers, at their peak at 50,436 in 1919,
have fallen to 29,422. Taken all round,
numbers of pensioners advanced from
225,000 in 1920 to 251,806 last year. The
top number was 283,322 drawing
£7,996,180 in 1931. In 1937, the total
amount drawn was £7,683,000. It is
one of the national liabilities that no-
body grudges.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Still hale in Melbourne is
the last surviving member of the original
Lynch Family of Bellringers. Founder
Henry started the tintinabulating business
in 1867, and the bells are still ringing.
First peal was cast in England, and for
70 years thereafter the bells rang from
one end of Australia to the other, except
for an interval of seven years, when the
quaint melodious band of moustachioed
brothers toured China, Japan, India and
Java. When the one family ceased to
make a large enough quota to manipu-
late the 100 bells, nephews and cousins
stepped in to keep it going. William,
youngest son of Henry, is the sole sur-
vivor. He is 82 and in retirement.


another of Roddy. Such a mess Roddy had made ol
his life, wandering everywhere when he might have
written songs to live in white vellum covers on ladies
tables.
Frowning at Roddy, Jermyn did not hear Sally
coming in, and so she stood a moment to control
that little jump of the heart his presence always gave
her. Mr. Lovel was growing more like these new
hard black steel nibs every year ; yet Jermyn was
continually more suggestive of a quill pen with a
large bright feather writing in ever looser-flowing
lines. I do think such silly things, thought Sally, feel-
ing that this rather placid, rather florid Jermyn was
really handsomer than ever —if you didn’t remember
a tragic Jermyn burning up with tempestuous brown
eyes, tilting with sharp lance at all the trickeries and
negations.
Jermyn turned, and his smile had a slight con-
straint. Sally’s panniered gown of blue-and-buff
checked alpaca was in the mode, and so was the ruffle
at her white throat and the little black silk pocket
hanging from her waist; but she contrived to impart
to them a kind of simplicity, a childishness which
was so much the essential Sally that he was finding it
increasingly hard to meet. Yes, assuredly she would
cry . . .
“Oh, Jermyn. Is the English mail in? Did you
hear about your book?”
“Certainly. I have heard a great deal. I have
some letters and critiques to read you.”
“I’m so glad. Wait till I get my sewing. Wrist-
bands for Jerry, his wife has so little time,” she ex-
plained, setting out the mother-of-pearl inlaid work-
box, the little gold thimble, the embroidery scissors,
the emery pincushion shaped like a strawberry.
Roddy (extravagant boy) had had the thimble made
from the first gold he got in Southland ; Tiffy had
sent the scissors (receiving a penny in exchange so as
not to cut love); the strawberry was from Jerry. In
some way it was easier to meet Jermyn’s extraordinary
correspondence, which pleased him so surprisingly,
when supported by her children. “Now I’m ready,”
she said, sitting (this simple Sally) sheer in the light
from the window, which showed the grey in her hair,
the delicate wrinkles round eyes and mouth.
“H’m,” said Jermyn, clearing his throat. “About
twenty epistles from admiring readers. You won’t
want to hear them.”
“Of course I do.” Since Jermyn had apparently
brought them he must not be disappointed, though
Sally did wish some of the readers would find in
Jermyn’s books what must be there, even if she were
not clever enough to find it herself . . .
But he seemed satisfied; so let him read them
with his beautiful intonation, let him pause impres-
sively on sentences that made her want to laugh, let
him look up at the end of each of the turgid things
for applause.
“Oh, Jermyn, I don’t understand,” she always
wanted to cry. “Surely you can’t like all this?” But
since he seemingly did, it must be Sally who was
stupid, as she always was. These English ladies must
know so much better than a Sally who had never
been anywhere or done anything. “Oh, Jermyn, how
vastly she does admire you. Oh, isn’t that nice? I
liked that bit, too, Jermyn!”
AT last Jermyn put the perfumed envelopes away
and took out a long document like a will or some-
thing. “From my publishers,” he said.
“Oh, what do they say? It is sure to be very
nice,” cried Sally, so glad to get rid of the sentimental
ladies.
Jermyn got up and leaned against the mantel,
where he read the document right through without
stopping, even to “Your obedient servants” at the
end. When he stopped, his voice seemed to go on
echoing in the quiet room as Sally had heard it
echoing in her heart for over thirty years . . .
“Well?” said Jermyn, rather impatiently.
“Oh, Jermyn, how wonderful!” (Even her lips
knew by now what he wanted.) “Of course you must
go. How much they admire you.”
‘You see how it is? Now 1 have got my
public, I must keep it, and there is no way of doing
that but by getting into touch with life of the present
day. Period work—as I have just read you—is going
out of vogue. Unless I go to England I shall not
keep my fame . . . and that my publishers think it
considerable is clear by the terms they offer me.”
Were these pretty scented notes, these under-
lined gushings fame? Sally supposed so. Gentlemen
(she would never get rid of that belief) knew so
much more than women. Fame —any kind of fame—
must be the proper thing for gentlemen to strive for.
Even Mr. Lovel was famous now, and only Sally
knew how cross he got if his claret was not properly
mulled.
“Why, Jermyn, of course you must go to Eng-
land and be famous,” she said.
“1 ... I regret . . . naturally . . . leaving you” . . .
“But I shall be so proud. Oh,” cried Sally,
openly dabbing her face since he saw the tears, “I’m
only crying because I’m so proud. It is wonderful.
You are being wasted out here.”
“Perhaps . . . some day you might come to me,
Sally.”
Sally knew she was not very clever, but she had
wits enough to meet that.
“I never could. Don’t think of it. Think of all
the fine ladies you’ll be meeting. Those who write to
you, you know. You ought to marry thqm ... I
mean one of them. They could help you so much.
They understand.”
Did they? Did they
understand as she did this
Jermyn who, for all his
cleverness, knew so little
of women that the bits of
her he was always putting
in his books were only the
superficial Sally, her silly
little ways and sayings, the muddles she made of
things. But, of course, as a gentleman, he could not
write about a Sally struggling always towards eternity
. . . especially as he didn’t believe in it. So many
years since last the glad trumpets had sounded in
eternity for Sally. Yet (in spite of the gushing ladies)
she couldn’t help hoping to find Jermyn there. He
was smiling now, looking pleased.
“Well, they do seem to understand, don’t they?
The letters they write ... I am vastly beholden to
them. As an artist . . . But we shall always be good
friends, Sally?”
“Oh, yes.” They had been good friends for so
long now. “Always good friends, Jermyn.”
Peregrine came in, and for once both were glad
to see him. Sally ran for wine and cake. Mr. Lovel
always liked wine and cake for his guests, and Jermyn
was a guest now. “Jermyn’s going to England,” she
cried. Anything would be easier than hearing him
say it.
<<D rOBABLY y° u are better out . of this countr y”
■ said Peregrine, sitting down stiffly. “Not claret,
my dear. I would prefer Burgundy.”
Burgundy (he felt) gave just the extra fillip neces-
sary to a man who, having lived through the tumults
of ’seventy-five and ’seventy-six, was finding this
year of ’seventy-seven almost too much for him. It
was surprising that Parliaments could continue to
show such unabated and alarming energy.
“How is Grey?” asked Jermyn.
Grey, said Peregrine acidly, was behaving as
might have been expected of a person who had left
gardening on Kawau Island to fling himself into
politics as a private member in order to fight against
the abolition of the provinces. “A dozen provincial
Parliaments kept up by a population of four hundred
thousand. Ridiculous. Naturally they had to go,”
he said, staring into his glass as though he saw the
provinces drowning there like flies.
“Certainly getting rid of them has made the
central Parliament more powerful,” agreed Jermyn,
yawning a little. These colonial mare’s-nests were
less than nothing to a man with his feet already setting
on larger ways.
And Sally had once actually suggested that he
should write about New Zealand. There is nothing
to write of, he had told her. No history, no tradition,
nothing of the least importance to anyone outside
itself. England takes not the slightest interest in all
her little rag-tags of Empire, he had told a Sally asking
if they couldn’t all be joined together in one large
splendid cloak.
“Grey is an old woman.” Thus Peregrine dis-
posed of the provincial Parliaments as he emptied
his glass, and ignored the impassioned eloquence of
Grey, who had made history by forming New
Zealand’s first Opposition and was still scampering
up and down the country making speeches . . . which
was more than indecent in a man of nearly seventy.
“It is well we have Atkinson as Premier.” (Since
you weren’t chosen yourself, thought Jermyn.)
“Naturally he got his following through his war-time
service, and possibly at this juncture he can do more
for the country with his plain bluntness than another
with Grey’s brilliant rhetoric.”
“We haven’t such another.” Jermyn got up. All
those dainty missives to be answered, as well as the
publishers But Grey and his Opposition had done
something. Besides rousing Auckland to the extent
of wanting to go to war under them, they had scotched
the religious side of the new Free and Compulsory
Education Bill. So schools were to be entirely seculai,
and Peregrine’s eyes became quite glassy with fury
when he spoke of that. To a man who read morning
prayers every day of his life, and would (one felt)
even if there were no more than a canary-bird to
listen, secular education was Grey’s crowning crime.
“An eternal disgrace to any country. No prayers
to open the schools with. Purely a vendetta of
revenge against abolition. I always suspected Grey.”
Yet you upheld him for long enough, thought
Jermyn. Peregrine would always uphold Governors
and Parliaments, no matter what their color.
“He’s a great man, though. He fights —and how
he fights—for what he believes in,” said Jermyn, going
away with his courteous good-byes, his kind smile to
Sally. <
(To be concluded.)
COCKY
BY E. M. ANDERSON.
BARNEY was the driver ; his idea of the stylish
thingwaira' hand-gallop, and Artie and I took
turns tellins? him that he wasn’t driving a
sun-team 'but 6ne cdd horse 3 attached to a
f. ’
se. sev^ed^«5 e v^ ed^«i d Good*Mttrphies'all
rt'oV ho? over the fence an’d pinch
d it out Barney ” I said. “The job’s not far
on frS? here, Ld no sense giving us a bad
pec”S? n Si? S & ItfcSitcf
couple of shillings So all three of us climbed down,
- d two
right"to^e^dug. bE We f walked 6
the house between the rows, and it was a shame the
£?„'The rabbitshad in and helped them-
selves to the spuds. If the pests would eat one and
be done with it, that wouldn’t be so bad, but they
nibble a bit here and a bit there, and destroy half the
crop. There were racecourses a foot wide leading
down from the tunnels the bunnies had dug under the
netting fence, and it didn’t look as if anybody had
tried to stop them at all.
The farmer came down to meet us, shrugging
himsdf into an owSra,; one of those mfefit miliary
tunics dved a dingy black that you get from the sal-
vage stores. It was about half past ten on Sunday
STM forTUTh. TS tatstSS
cap on a mop of greasy-looking hair that needed
cutting.
We told him we wanted to buy spuds, and he
turned back and led the way, saying: "Yams, yarns!
Come up to the shed. I got a bag out from Bathurst
only yesterday.” ... . , , f .
That fairly knocked the wind out of me to
think of a man buying potatoes when he had a place
of his own, with them growing and ready to dig. 1
mentioned that the rabbits were digging them
him pretty thoroughly, and he replied in a a -
puzzled way, not really complaining: I don t rea y
know how to deal wth ’em. There’s four or five tram
set along the fence, but it don t seem to make mu
difference.” ,
Four or five traps! Four or five hundred and
a bucket of strychnine would have been nearer the
mark. If it hadn’t been for the fencing job we weie
going to it would have paid us to stop there tor a
while, and it would have been easy money.
It was plain what was wrong-the whole farm
was as neglected as it could be. Even the potato
patch had been only half-worked, but in that soil the
crop couldn’t help being pretty fair.
The shed was a big one, well built ol galvanised-
iron on a strong bush timber framework but inside
chaff and corn lay on the floor where it had spilled
out of the bags, and the fowls were helping them-
selves. There was a heap of sawn t.mber badly
stacked and some of it sliding down, and tne toois
were stuck about everywhere and getting rusty,
Harness and machinery lay out in the open, and near
Mo
the strength was going out of them. 1 wouldn t have
—taking, gM-ut*"use^in^ so ,
,han Ar,fe ln d B ra , ?ed°htse, £ up against a post tc, watch
a hen that wasi inthe act of laying ma
K we|
knew’ strutting around the camp
that night with the banjo, taking oft this lanky s i -
less bloke to a T, and singing some doggerel about
buying spuds that he’d make up as he went along^to
the tune of Waltzing Matild y g
man. . , . , , , •
While the chap was weighing out the spuds, his
two half-grown sons came into the shed. typical
rat-faced bush larrikins they were ; by comparison
the farmer looked an honest plodder. The boys
passed the time of day with us and went out again
with boxed ferrets slung over their shoulders and a
COU P)f ° f do | s f Sundav over on the
. The lads like to fermt of remarked “There’s
&&&$
ESTI *they
« no holiday ha’ving their hi, of sport
tit ho™* eighteenpence,” said the
tarrner. n . , n(S . and Barnev made to
. 1 paidl him for the P ota ‘°^ a| td Barney made to
take up the bag, but the tarmer slung
° U “No no” he said “I’ll walk down to the road
No. no, he sa
Wl m •
y ° Ur vyj lde we we re walking back he kept asking
aue stions how far we’d come, where we were going
’ jj e to j d us £ fi e chap we were going to
• fi ard and we would want to
wo* ft* ™ a jjar i ov£j . on u§ He
we coldd CO me up any time and spend an even-
-nfT • the missus and the girls were fond of a bit of
mg , tne missus <uiu b
com yjVi! y n we go t to the road he put down the bag
SDuds an d walked all around the wagonette,
- ned j t j nc h by inch, walked off a few feet to
whole then came back and made his pro-
see Jt as a m ,
“Great wagonette! ” he said. “Finest vehicle
seen j n these parts! Great pair of wheels!” He
h is hand on one of them, and said quite softly.
himself in a tone of awe and fulfilment: “Not
-P


'~Jkis masterpiece is
ihe spirit he. always serves.
11 '
55$
(ji
sS
tzy
fH
m
11
WL
w
SS
JVame
r
. •'
yy
;:*|
(DGollums
Scots (Übisk^
( r**•#%• «Mt) iw««m
(D c GiUum's
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dfdf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone. .
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable ,
onl y cl'
from
< *
70
W
, Cfi K a O’*
r /
0
.w
:o $
°
..-• * *>sig#


c 'NabjoXaJr>
RLL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
pi CUi&foaUan wmM
* WARATAH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OK GALVANIZED
WARATAH
yOhA 'YleUinq
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FUAT M
"WARATAfI'
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
* ’WARATAH'
. .
Stud. ‘J-eJIMJUML
LIGHT AND STRONG §
‘WARATAH
HINGED JOINT FENG
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
’■WARATAH 4 '
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN GATE
tkefr.taodu£t&
m
£ x X
X
—..■xy-v.
m
Wx
■
• x\
y\ : :
-XV
■■
V •'
.:.. .-H
X X, ;,
: VVi-,
XXX ■ x-xX
■
'
X ■:>■
x : ; :j . '
fiP®
mm
Mggxxx':
m
iM||||
r M
ii
V
'■f. "
X x^^B
1111
• v . ? X '•>
MBS -
,
1
M
m*
mu
XX
£3
m
m,
mm
m
x
m
m
B
Mi
m
m
mm
m
fS3S
m
mm
m
m
m
m
I
PSAN
X
m
RA
y®
II
i!
111
KM
m
mm
greet
... -
IRON
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
«: | ", x '
RYLHNDS BROS .(RUST.) PTY. LTD.
WDRKS • NEWCRSTLE* N.5.W.
HERD OFFICE • 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,MELBOURNE.
