

*4?,
timiim
v\\
Q
1
I
m
If
fij
£
mri
s**
v
HI
«3*
J
Sii
*c
IJ
■HOJ
r
WOLFES
THIS
ALCOHOLIC BEVHRAof
l to HoJUnd. *nd
pint e h. o;s
HR
Hot * ‘Schnapps ’ ’
for Cold Snaps
H OT aromatic and palatable, a Wolfe’s Schnapps
ioddy is an unfailing friend when you’re chilled
to the bone. You’re most susceptible to colds and
Winter ailments in changeable weather when the
blood stream is sluggish, when the kidneys alone
bear the strain of eliminating impurities. Then is
the time to rely on Woife’s Schnapps; then is the
time that your system needs the assistance, the
purifying action of this splendid medicinal beverage.
Keep a bottle at home, for no other spirit can
truthfully claim the same medicinal virtues.
WOLFE'S
(Stlundam
SCHNAPPS
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3042.
Wednesday, June 1, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
S. H. PRIOR PRIZE.
Intending competitors need to post their entries
now for the 1938 S. H. Prior Memorial Prize. Closing
date is next Monday (June 6), and entries have to be
lodged at The Bulletin office, Sydney, or be in the
post not later than that date.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is a permanently-
established award designed to advance Australian and
Maoriland literature and give practical encourage-
ment to writers in both countries. Provided the
standard fixed, broadly speaking, by the winners in
1935 and 1936 —Tiburon and All That Swagger —is
reached the award of £lOO is made annually.
Last year’s judges considered that no entry
measured up to their idea of the standard ; they felt
that none of the entries could be called a contribution
to Australian literature. Therefore no award was
made. Whenever this happens the amount is auto-
matically added to the next year’s award, that for this
year having been thus brought up to £2OO.
By now it should need no stating that there are
no strings attached to this Prize. It is an outright
award for merit and in no way subtracts from possible
profits that may be made out of the MS. If the MS.
is suitable for Bulletin serial purpose the author is
paid additionally at serial rates arranged between
Bulletin and author. The trustees of the Prize under-
take to publish the winning MS. in book form, and
here the author’s profits are on established royalty
basis. The Prize, in short, is completely separate.
If good entries which do not win appeal to The
Bulletin as serials they will be so published by
arrangement with their authors, who still retain all
book rights.
Christmas and Other Crimes.
Ever since Katharine Mansfield wrote about her
childhood in Maoriland there has been a tendency
for many writers to regard mere reminiscence as suffi-
cient for a short story. “Those were the days” as a
theme —unless the writer can make it dramatic, or
unless, like H. E. Bates or Llewelyn Powys, he can
regard himself in retrospect as a small, hunted animal,
like an otter or a water-rat, so that the narrative
has at least the appeal of nature notes —can become
as tedious as any “story of my life” told by a ship-
board bore.
Bates can get away with the boy “Alexander”
because of his passion for nature and the beauty of
the prose his passion evokes. But, lacking either beauty
or passion, the love of Hector Bolitho for his Uncle
Joseph must be less interesting. Bolitho, according
to a recently-published story, used to stay with Unc.
in M.L. for Christmas:
Uncle Joseph always nailed it up. Then he would
call my aunt.
“Ruth, Ruth, come here for a moment!”
“Oh, Joe, what is it?” But she’d come, and just as
she walked through the door, not seeing the mistletoe
over her, she’d pause for a moment. Then Uncle
Joseph would kiss her in front of all of us.
Possibly Bolitho’s excuse for this appalling revela-
tion is that it was written to order for a Christmas
number. The desire of the dailies for little Scrooges
of stories at Christmas to replace the usual syndicated
serials about Dirty Dan falling over cliffs has been
responsible for many such productions. The writer
may pluck a quill from the Christmas goose and go to
it like this:
Andrews winced. There were times when he thought
Littlefield did not possess a soul.
For three days the two detectives had shouldered
heavy packs and trudged the rough valley-floors, fording
treacherous streams, struggling through sudden groves of
bush, searching, ever searching. Somewhere in the valleys
Graham lay in hiding. They had to find him, bring him
back.
Andrews shuddered.
“And to-morrow is Christmas Day. What a place
to spend Christmas! Paradise!”
“Perhaps we shall receive a Christmas present —the
finding of Graham,” Littlefield ventured.
Not for the first time, Andrews winced.
It’s a treybit to a whole plumduff that they find
the murderer (plus heart of gold) on Christmas Day;
that murderer saves flatfoot’s life ; and that, tears of
joy coursing down their rugged features, they watch
him either escape or die. In the epic from which that
extract was taken he escapes.
Even happier tales to tell while the Yuletide log
crack-cracks on a summer’s day are the stories of
virtue rewarded. Simple tales, they blossom every
December. A recent flower:
Allison mounted on the run and galloped down the
road, pulling up to listen again. Then suddenly round
a bend a struggling group came into view; a horse
uprearing wildly, with a woman in the saddle who
rained futile blows upon a man clinging to the bridle.
To his amazement Allison recognised the rider as
the governess and the man as the half-caste.
And, finally, to everybody’s amazement:
Tenderly, with a deep thankfulness in his heart at
her escape from an appalling fate, he drew the unsuspect-
ing girl to him and held her close.
Tenderly, and with deep thankfulness in his
heart, this research-worker turned from that story to
one which bore the signature of a woman who has
half a dozen novels to her name:
“Come on, Martin,” he said impatiently. “It’s all
easy now, all downhill.”
“1 warn you,” Martin began.
“Oh, don’t croak! If the girls don't mind, surely
you can do it. Come on, Hilda, we’ll make a start.”
Alison waited for Martin to finish his pipe, and the
two followed soberly.
“Good girl!”
Martin pressed a hand on her shoulder as they started
and Alison flushed happily at his praise.
It was a story about mountains, full of the blush-
ful hiker. Nobody got lost, but the impetuous youth
had an uncomfortable night, and serve him right.
Akin to those stories are the uplift sketches, not
even attempting to tell a story, which lurk harmlessly
in English journals devoted to scouting or fretwork
but which, from the prominence sometimes given to
them here, give “colonial” literature a comical repu-
tation overseas. Just as genuine Australian poets have
had to battle against the disaster of the trumpeted
poetasters, prose-writers have to fight the moralising
of stories such as one (also from a reputable writer)
beginning with a picture of sturdy pioneers on a
sailing-ship, and concluding with their descendants
bound for England on a luxury liner:
I wish that old blighter, my grandfather, had settled
in Canada instead of New Zealand. We’d have been
nearer Europe and had decent ships to cross in.
Possibly the writers are putting their best into
their novels and writing short stories of this sort for
market. There could hardly be any other explanation
of a novelist, known in three countries for his realistic
stories of slums and prisons, publishing the heart-
rending short story of an old lag who loved a mouse.
The stories referred to in this article have not
been gathered haphazard, though a little research
would reveal plenty like them. All are included in
one volume published by British Authors’ Press ; and,
since it is entitled Tales by New Zealanders, it claims
for itself a national significance and demands criticism
from a national viewpoint. There are some good
yarns, some interesting Maori stories, and there is
one story about a bull by E. Mary Gurney in which
the sentimentality of the ending is more than atoned
for by the quality of the prose, the magic of her land-
scapes. There is enough in that one story to show
that the book does not by any means represent the
best work that Maorilanders are doing.
In an introduction, the publication of which was
an extraordinary action, for it is devoted to damning
the book with faint praise, Hugh Walpole says:
This is a book of New Zealand short stories, and I
will say at once frankly that the interest of the volume
lies in the simple fact that they are stories about New
Zealanders by New Zealanders. I would say that, in
general, the stories themselves are of the unsophisticated
kind. Many of them might be, without the New
Zealand atmosphere, simply magazine stories.
Apart from that sentimental interest, and the few
good stories, the only service the book does literature
hereabouts is to illustrate the faults into which even
good writers can slip.
Underdogs' Day.
Stacey Hyde, author of Each Had His Day
(Geoffrey Bles) is a “proletarian novelist” with a
difference. He is more entertaining as a pure story-
teller and more convincing as a portrayer of the
industrial scene than most of his kind. The reason
is the broad humanity of his approach.
His story deals with twelve hours in the lives
of persons in a Thames-side engineering firm, old-
established and conservative, the high reputation
of its output a matter of pride with all hands.
Personalities range from the owner to unskilled
laborers.
A detached irony displaces the usual marked
bias of this sort of book. Hyde sees the men of
each tier of industry whole, not only in relation to
the “underdog” but also in relation to their own
difficulties. Industrially considered, they are all
underdogs, the men to their foremen, these to depart-
ment managers; these to the owner and the owner
to circumstance.
One of the best things in the book is a meeting
of department heads called by the owner when there
has been a succession of losses on jobs and of late
deliveries. There is humor in the way Works, Draw-
ings, Estimates and Castings each try to lay the blame
on the other while Ownership tries by grim thrust-
ing to get at the truth. There is candor in a laborer’s
admission to himself that at heart he has a great affec-
tion for the works. Its salty masculinity rounds out
the pattern of his life, offsetting the feminine atmo-
sphere of his home. “He was fond of the place, and
even, in some inexplicable way, of the men he dis-
liked. They gave color and meaning to life. The
factory was not merely a place where he earned his
daily bread, but an abiding place.”
The “one-day” novel has its difficulties; Hyde
surmounts them skilfully. He eschews the artificiali-
ties of the reflective method in which the characters,
with obviously informative intention, brood at length
over their past lives. He gets his half-dozen main
narratives started in terms of action in the first couple
of chapters; old Charlie Combs, the laborer, with his
invalid wife and his daughter who is not as good to
her mother as she might be ; Wyatt, works manager,
with a job too big for his rather limited capabilities,
and henpecked ; Jarvis, hunchbacked machinist and
student of the poets, in love with a girl whose lax
morals, when he learns of them, indirectly bring about
his death ; Frank Notley, supporter of his mother and
his unemployable father, and in love with Dorothy
Combs; Dorothy, with matrimonial designs on a
department manager who sees in her only a possible
companion for a Continental holiday; the ill-assorted
friendship of Jarvis and Jack Butler; Graham, son
of the founder of the business, hankering at heart for
the Riviera ; Sir James Norton, who wishes to
“Fordise” the plant’s manufacturing processes.
The feeling of the works is well achieved. A
dozen bits of by-play lend veracity to the main issues ,
a little horseplay in working hours, some s.p. trans-
actions, a quarrel, a conversation between a couple ot
department heads, a lunch-hour meeting of a religious
group, exchanges of repartee between machinists. The
descriptive element is limited to single sentences, vivid
and effective. In the machine shop a mechanic glances
through a “kaleidoscope of flickering belts and twirl-
ing pulleys.” In the foundry the gaunt columns sup-
porting the glass roof loom dimly through a haze
of green distilled from the chemistry of yellow sun-
light upon blue smoke.”
Before the knock-off hooter goes a murder has
been attempted, Wyatt has fired Charlie Combs and
has himself received his walking-ticket, other situa-
tions have been solved or their inevitable futures
indicated, there has been one of those heroic rescues
that are almost a commonplace of industry, and the
factory has changed hands.
A Foreign Correspondent.
Stephen Bonsai was one of James Gordon
Bennett’s bright boys in the palmy days of the
New York “Herald,” and in his early twenties repre-
sented the journal in London, Paris, Berlin, Vienna
and many minor European capitals. In Heyday in
a Vanished World he gives the inside version of many
coups and scoops with which he was associated.
He has a good word to say for Parnell, though
the Irish leader treated him cavalierly-—kept him hang-
ing about for weeks recording Parnell’s reply to the
“Times” “Parnellism and Crime” articles, and then
decided not to publish it. As to the divorce action
that ruined Parnell’s career, Bonsai says, “Many dis-
tinguished Parliamentarians were notoriously involved
in marital triangles or even quadrangles. But as long
as these matters were ‘corked up’ and kept out of
court, as long as the injured party was complaisant
or sophisticated, the public did not care a hoot.” But
the “Times,” which had paid Parnell £5OOO rather than
face his suit for libel in connection with the perjured
“Parnellism and Crime” articles, hit back (so Bonsai
suggests) by settling a small annuity on Captain
O’Shea as the price of his filing a petition in divorce.
Bonsai has a memory of the last days of John
L. Sullivan, when the old fighter was a saloon-keeper
in New York, tyrannised over by a “villainous-looking
little old man.” John’s explanation was “That man’s
me father, so help me. Of course, I take after me
mother. She was five-foot-ten and tipped the scales
at 200 on her wedding day. She could make the
little runt behave himself. But I can’t.”
An interview with Von Moltke was one of Bon-
sai’s big achievements. The Prussian War Lord had
a noiseless laugh. Bonsai got him talking about the
American Civil War, which he seems to have studied
minutely. His summing-up was shrewd:
Grant, though slowly and reluctantly, found out he
could not compete with Lee in strategy or tactics.
After being worsted a number of times Grant had the
great good sense to see that his defeats that were
depleting the forces of the victors opened to him the
only possible avenue of success, and he kept at it
hammer and tongs.
At one stage of his career as a correspondent
Bonsai fell upon evil days. With a roving commission
in the Balkans he let his salary bank up in the Paris
office, in charge of an accountant who was doing
quite a lot of embezzling, and in a subsequent quarrel
with the office over the money he behaved in a way
Bennett considered insolent, and was sent back to
New York. There he had to hang around on the off-
chance of getting an occasional day’s casual work at
2\ dollars a day. This endured till a Bonsai article
on foreign affairs, rejected by the editor of the
“Herald,” appeared in “Harper’s.” Bennett was furi-
ous at what he deemed treachery and ingratitude, but
the editor was honest, and explained matters. Result,
complete reinstatement. “Send Bonsai to Fez imme-
diately”—and on that note the reminiscences end.
Twilight of Austria.
In Twilight of a World (Jarrolds ; translated by
H. T. Lowe-Porter), the famous Austrian writer Franz
Werfel has collected eight of his shorter pieces, com-
pressed novels and long short stories, given them as
a prologue “An essay upon the meaning of Imperial
Austria,” and cemented each into the structure by
means of a short introduction.
They do not, as intended, make a coherent struc-
ture or conjure up a very clear picture of Austria in
decline because they were not originally written with
that intention. They remain obstinately isolated frag-
ments. Each in itself is of a very high order, yet just
as they refuse to form a whole so does each one miss
the true short-story form.
However, there is much that is good. The stories
are all of an intimate nature, close-ups. The first, “Poor
People,” is a story of a little boy’s wakening to the
knowledge of suffering in the world through the family
life of his governess and his innocent participation
in her love affairs. “Estrangement” is the intricate
analysis of a brother’s and sister’s love for each other
revealed through the girl’s delirium after an accident.
“Savario’s Secret” reveals, tortuously, the psychology
of a forger of Old Masters.
In “The Staircase,” the shortest of all, a young
girl who has just escaped from anxiety and unhappiness
into security and joy yields to the sudden temptation
to throw herself from a high balcony. “The Man
Who Conquered Death” is the pathetic history of an
old gatekeeper striving to defend his home in a shrink-
ing world. “The House of Mourning” the author
describes as a “satyr-play” set in a “house of joy.”
“Not the Murderer” is a study in parricide. The
longest and most ambitious is “Class Reunion,” also
{Continued on page 8.)


‘‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
FAMOUS
Be
LOW PRICES
Your Own Printer
flOio
EASY TERMS ARRANGED.
DEPOSIT £ll-
- MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 16/6.
WRITING MACHINE
UNDERWOOD “JUNIOR” PORTABLE
No matter what your writing need may
be, you will find the Underwood Junior
Portable the ideal machine; easy to
use, convenient and speedy in action.
Manufactured in the world’s largest
typewriter factory, the Junior Portable is a full-
fledged writing machine with standard size ribbon,
right- and left-hand shift keys, back spacer, a stand-
ard easy-to-reach line space lever, a shift lock and
many other writing conveniences formerly found only
in higher-priced portables.
At Anthony Horderns’ £l2/12/-
flQl2-
EASY TERMS.
DEPOSIT £l5/2—12 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 19/10.
with
THE NEW
“ADANA’'
PRINTING
MACHINE
ANTHONY HORDERNS SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W.
FOR "ADANA” PRINTING MACHINES.
Do your own printing; earn money; print for
others with this handy, compact new “Adana”
printing machine. Suits printing for office,
factory, school, club, church, small traders,
etc. Ideal for beginners or for experienced
users. Simple, easy to operate, fully automatic,
possessing endless money-making possibilities.
Price, complete with outfit of accessories and
quantity of type £lOlO -
Write for full details and samples of work
actually printed on the No. 2 Adana.
1
paj
■
ms
1
m
■: .
IB
m
<s&
A
mm
Stationery—Second Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Ltd.
’PHONE: M 24 0 1 , DAY AND NIGHT
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 27120, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Early New Zealand by the Author of "Pageant”
by C.B.LANCASTER
ILLUSTRATIONS BY
A. STUART PETERSON.
I.
HE strangeness of Jermyn stepping quietly
ashore, quietly taking her hand, walking in
silence with her up to the walled garden
among the cherry-trees. The strangeness
of walking securely as a wife with Jermyn
along the rustling cabbage-tree track into
the garden. Somewhat different, this, from
making the virtuous promenade with Mr. Lovel.
Presently, thought Sally, her heart beating fit to choke
her, they would begin to run and jump and sing like
children waving glad hands, weaving measures . . .
Under the dark cherries Jermyn stopped sud-
denly, twisting her to him. Then, with a queer rough-
ness, which was so unlike courteous Jermyn, he took
her in his arms. If she could die now, she thought
with closed eyes under his kisses. If they could both
die, going into eternity without the weary years
between. Darien would look after Tiffany, God, her
heart pleaded, and she can darn her own stockings
nicely. Tiffany wouldn’t miss me much if she had
Darien . . . Jermyn was holding her off, and the world
coming back. God had not heard.
“How long is this to go on?” he demanded,
harsh, abrupt.
“What, Jermyn?”
“Don’t juggle with me. I can’t stand it. I’ve come
back for you, Sally. You’re mine now. Not his.”
“I —I think I’ve been yours for ever, Jermyn. I
think we must have had other lives . . . together.
Sometimes I seem to remember . . . This won’t be so
hard, dear, once we get used to it.”
“Used to what?”
“To—to” —oh, how difficult men always made
things—“to waiting, Jermyn.”
“For what?”
“For —for the next life. I know God means us
to be happy there.”
“He hasn’t concerned himself much with our
happiness here.” Then he took her face gently
between his hands and turned it up to his long gaze.
She held her breath lest the sweet enchantment of
his eyes, of his strong hard palms against her skin
should be gone. “Come away with me, my dear love,”
he said tenderly.
She freed herself with a cry. “Jermyn! Oh,
Jermyn! You don’t know what you’re saying.”
“Don’t I? I’ve had time to think, haven’t I?
If there’s any wrong in this it’s yours for continuing
to live with Peregrine when you love me. It is your
wrong, Sally.”
“Oh, no, no. Please, Jermyn. I married him”
“He married you before you were sixteen. And
he ought to be hung for it. I’ve come back for you,
Sally, and I don’t mean to let you go again.”
“But, Jermyn . . . Oh, there are not the words,”
cried Sally, entangled among the immensities.
“Jermyn, we couldn’t be happy . . . doing such wrong.
I —l think some day we may be happy . . . just wait-
ing. Don’t you?”
“No, I don’t. Good Lord! What a woman’s
idea. Peregrine has never needed you. He’s a self-
contained soul rotating entirely on its own axis. He
has never loved you and you’ll always be outside his
life.”
“I —I know,” she faltered, trembling.
“You have never loved him. You have never
really lived.” Oh, what a strange terrible Jermyn
staring at her like a Denunciation out of the Bible.
“Lying by his side in the nights it is me you think
0f.... . long for.” Now he had his arms round her
again, his cheek to hers. “My dear and only love!”
he whispered. “I’ll teach you what it means to be
frightened with joy.”
Surely this dark weakness upon her must be
death. But one doesn’t die so easily. There would be
fifty years . . . fifty. She began to cry, trying to make
him understand.
“Jermyn, don’t you see . . . this life don’t really
matter so much when we shall have eternity. I
always keep telling myself that. ‘Oh,” she cried, feel-
ing herself becoming a perfect fountain of tears, “do
you think I will be able to pin a buttonhole in your
coat there, Jermyn?”
“A buttonhole?” he said, frowning.
She shook her head, trying to smile. “You
won’t understand. I think of such silly things”
“You have only one thing to think of now,” he
said, impatiently cutting through this raffle of woman’s
words. “By all God’s laws you are mine, and I shall
make you mine. Your heart cannot refuse me, and
soon-your body won’t” . . .
She gave an inarticulate cry at that, running
from him up the garden like a pale moth in the gloam-
ing. So the moon coming radiant up the sky saw only
a young man in mulberry-color coat treading angrily
among the dropped cherries.
SALLY ran into the house where everything seemed
to look at her with alien eyes. She ran into her bed-
room, past the great dark four-poster where she slept
each night with Mr. Lovel, and dragged the heavy
curtains awqy from the window. Air. I must have
air, she thought, forgetting that she had just come
from it and sinking on her knees since legs were so
suddenly weak.
The Holy Immolation of Matrimony seemed so
near and eternity so very far. And, for all her brave
words, how did she really know that Mr. Lovel would
not require her to make the virtuous promenade with
him there also? If he did . . . and the Bible saying
that wives must always be in subjection to their hus-
bands . . .
Dizzily she felt her spirit going up and up with
Jermyn who had swept away that vague eternity
where one did things for ever with harps and given
her instead bright surety of large serene comforting
eternities—trampling, glorious eternities with the star
of joy upon their foreheads.
“I can teach you what it is to be frightened with
joy” . . . Oh, cruel Jermyn, to use words which con-
jured up such sublimity of fear.
Sally huddled down on the floor. What was com-
merce with far-off eternities to that?
11.
CAROLINE’S dinner-parties, one felt, were seldom
a success, and because she had the impertinence
to give one in celebration of Darien’s engagement
before Peregrine had even thought of it, this one
promised to be less successful than usual. Yet Lord
Calthorpe, having once let himself go, had so heartily
succumbed to the sensation that Darien felt more like
Lady Hamilton than ever, wearing her diamond en-
gagement ring and her lover’s diamond locket to the
dinner and using her fan to such purpose that surely
Jermyn could not help being jealous.
Jermyn had come with inner rebellions. Up and
down the dark harbor he had rowed himself into ex-
haustion last night; cursing the day that he was born,
the strange fierce powers that drive a man against his
conscience. To-night Sally in her old blue gown rich
WHAT WENT BEFORE . . .
To New Zealand in 1839 come Lovels —
Peregrine, tall, lean, efficient {“he would have
them all on his shoulders. And he could carry
them, manipulate them, dispose of them to his
will, like God”); easy Sir John, his elder
brother; bluff, bragging old soldier Uncle
Henry ; Jermyn, the untried boy; John’s
Lady Caroline, “Voluptuous without Indeli-
cacy” ; Peregrine’s fifteen-year-old wife Sally
{“not even Peregrine, for all his efficiency, could
found a family without a woman”); her
younger sister Darien —all of them impover-
ished in England, but ready, under Peregrine,
to found a new aristocracy in a new land.
They settle at Kororareka Beach, neigh-
bors to Corny Fleete and his half-caste
brood, to Nick Flower the trader, who
smuggles guns to the Maoris and is “own
brother to Peregrine on the wrong side of the
blanket,” to all the conglomerate riff-raff of
the Beach. Peregrine builds a shipyard;
builds, too, a family.
In 1840 comes Captain Hobson to annex
New Zealand to the Empire, to shatter Pere-
grine’s dreams of kingship, to sign the Wai-
tangi Treaty giving the land the Maoris owned
back to the Maoris, making trouble for future
Governors in the signing, and then to sail away
to the south to his new capital at Auckland.
Peregrine follows him with Lovels when the
Maoris raid the Beach, and sets up the ship-
yard again, sending John out to establish a
farm.
Hobson is followed by a succession of
Governors {they “fell like leaves... .and New
Zealand had disposed of three in a short eight
years”). Further south, Wellington, “that up-
start town which had actually set up its own
legislation,” continued to “beget bastard settle-
ments’’ all over the place. Darien, thinking
rather of Jermyn, gets herself engaged to a
young officer, Lord Calthorpe, while Jermyn,
writing now for the “Chronicle,” tries to per-
suade Sally from her “virtuous promenade”
with Peregrine.
with embossed flowers, withdrawn into that sweet
remote enchantment which was part of her, un-
doubtedly had more value than any man’s bright
honor.
Jermyn, writhing with misery, looked round in
hatred on white shoulders and gay scarves, on all the
badly-cleaned silver with which Caroline disguised
the sparseness of her food, on Caroline making more
than usual efforts to keep conversation on a high and
ethical plane because she always found so much every-
where that needed bettering. Let her try her ethics on
me, by Gad, Jermyn thought, cutting his meat fiercely.
What with the silver and the ancestors on the
walls and her puce-braided satin —one could do so
much to freshen shabby, gowns with a little more
braiding—Caroline felt herself justified in the remark
that she always thought the English the most civilised
of all races.
“Well, don’t y’ know, I wish you’d define civili-
sation, Lady Lovel,” said Calthorpe, blinking over his
high stock.
“Delicacy forbids,” said Jermyn, determined to
be difficult.
“I should just think it did,” said Darien, remem-
bering what civilised people could say and do.
“I always think,” declared Caroline, who was
so quickly out of her depths that one wondered if she
ever was in them, “that one should say what one
thinks.”
“Even if one thinks what one shouldn’t say?”
asked Darien, glancing at Calthorpe, who looked so
insignificant beside beautiful haughty Jermyn that if
it wasn’t for the diamonds and the envy of all. her
friends one simply couldn’t bear him.
“Oh, my dear! I hope I never think such
things!” said Caroline.
“What things?” demanded Jermyn. “The per-
spicacity of ladies in knowing what they shouldn’t
think before they think it commands my constant
admiration.”
For the first time Caroline wished the gentlemen
wouldn’t leave the whole burden of conversation on
her since it was impossible just yet to say what she
really thought about Sally. She struggled back to
the ethical plane. “The thing I always think is how
proud we should be of our religion, because every
part of this country has been first colonised by
churches.”
“England should have left us alone,” said Corny,
who unfortunately had to be asked since he was one
of the few rich men in the town.
“Oh, but,” cried Caroline, really scandalised,
“England can never let anyone alone. She must
colonise. It is her Destiny.”
“She thinks it is,” amended Jermyn.
“If Grey” began Major Henry, rather
troubled by Jermyn.
EVERYBODY sat up. Grey seemed a queer pet for
the gods to have made; but it was surely through
their intervention that England had not only sent him
five hundred time-expired soldiers to settle with their
families round Auckland so that he could sleep safe of
nights and allowed him to use hundreds of Her
Majesty’s forces to build walls and make streets —not
only that, but England had lately clapped a knight-
hood on his stiff head. So Governor Sir George Grey
walked with Vulcan and Zeus, and once he was safely
in the conversation he could be trusted to choke out
everything else.
“ ‘Hail, mighty monarch! ’ ” began Sir Winston,
who had just remembered something he had been
trying to think of for weeks:
Hail, mighty monarch whom desert alone
Would without birthright raise thee to the throne.
Thy virtues shine particularly nice
Ungloomed with a confinity to vice . . .
“That was said of George the Fourth, I believe.”
“You find our Governor’s virtues particularly
nice, don’t you, Peregrine?” inquired Jermyn, peering
past a candelabra upheld by Cupids round whose
plump middles Caroline had tied chaste bows of pink
ribbon.
Jermyn at a dinner-table, considered Peregrine,
was apt to make people feel that they had been tak-
ing violent exercise unduly prolonged. Possibly he
was drunk again, though who could get drunk on
this wine . . . Peregrine said with dignity, ignoring
the fact that Grey had publicly snubbed him over the
gold-reward business: “It is under Governor Grey
that Auckland district has arisen to the astonishing
record of four thousands houses and over a million
sheep”
This was the way Caroline’s parties always went,
thought Sally, very thankful when Caroline began
gathering up eyes round the table, gathering gloves,
handkerchief and feather-fan.


“Oh, la,” she cried, being as voluptuous as she
could without indelicacy, “I think we will leave poli-
tics to the gentlemen.”
“Yes,” said Darien, flinging a mocking glance at
Jermyn, who would not accept it. “Let us leave them
to the gentlemen who always know what to do.
Jermyn, at any rate, didn’t know what to do, and
so Darien must teach him since if his temper to-night
didn’t mean jealousy she would like to know what
did. So she peeped at her radiant self in all Caro-
line’s mirrors, and sat down presently to sing for the
delectation of Jermyn, whiskered officers and other
lesser fowl. Being engaged was not all the fun it
should be, and perhaps Jermyn wouldn’t be either.
But probably nothing was, thought Darien, feeling
the necessity for philosophy in any dealings with
gentlemen.
IN the dining-room with its florid flock paper, gentle-
men (soon almost as florid with argument) were
unbuttoning waistcoats and tempers, with old Barnes
declaring that this would be a better world if only
men kept their brains in their bellies, like the animals.
Sir Winston suddenly rediscovered Kororareka.
“Our sacred fane, sirs. There the rude forefathers of
our colony began . . . building the first boat, the first
church, the first plough. The first white child born
there ; the first sermon, cricket match . . . Paths of
glory leading not to the grave, but to”
“Penury and Grey,” said the Major, brushing
snuff from the orange velvet of his waistcoat—though
who could be a dandy in these days?
But the gentlemen, who had quite enough of
penury, could never have enough of Grey, who,
abetted by the Colonial Office, had lately crowned his
infamy by setting aside the sub-governors of New
Ulster and New Munster and all the infant legislative
administrations. Conditions, he declared, were too
complicated for separate controls. So he made him-
self complete lord of New Zealand, while gentle-
men, who had not yet had the chance to administer
anything, daily imperilled their immortal souls with
blasphemy, especially after dinner.
Peregrine never blasphemed. He had had a bigger
fight than he expected to get on the Common Council
(welcomed with a salute of twelve guns from Fort
Britomart, to say nothing of flourishes with bugles,
and crippled by conditions from its beginnings), but
he still hoped for a seat on Grey’s little pocket Coun-
cil. For all Grey’s wry political grimaces and stiff-
neckedness he must look round presently for men of
worth.
“It ain’t right that all hay for regimental horses
should have to be imported,” growled old Barnes. “I
cud grow tons on that land o’ mine ... if I cud get
it surveyed an’ use it.”
“You will never get it surveyed, sir,” said a stout
gentleman with convictions. “Busby has been fighting
for his surveys from the beginning, and so have we
all. No Maori will allow surveys on land unless we
can prove a clear title ; and how can there be clear
titles when a fellow can upset a sale because of a fire
lit under a tree where his grandmother was buried
forty years ago?”
“That blasted Waitangi Treaty!”
“ ‘The venom still remains, And the poxed nation
feels it in their brains’ —Dryden,” said Sir Winston,
very pleased that he could recall the author of those
venomous lines.
“Hay from abroad is often musty, too,” said
Captain O’Reilly, grimly.
“What,” demanded Major Henry, who had un-
locked John’s cellar some time before, “do that in-
fernal C’lonial Office ... Downin’-street duffers . . .
know of us? Ain’t we the country . . . body, blood
and bones. Were we not... did we not get on damned
well with the Maoris before annexation? Gentle-
men,” he cried, fired with the notion and splashing
brandy in all directions, “I give you No Annexation.”
It was a magnificent idea, only more than twelve
years too late. Some one pointed this out, reducing
the Major to tears, so that he laid his grey head down
among the broken meats.
“Bloody country’s goin’ to the perishin’ bitches,”
he mourned. And here no one contradicted him.
111.
UNDISTURBED by distracted colonists the
seasons continued their stately procession; whip-
ping warm blood into fair cheeks with the winter
wind, attacking susceptible hearts with a gay onslaught
of color, of scent, of tinkling goat-bells, cattle-bells on
the ferny hills of a warm evening when it was quite
la mode to walk out in parties—which had a curious
habit of dissolving into couples. Bishop Selwyn’s
palace grew some towers, and in Sally’s garden scarlet
verbena was impudent among tall white arum lilies.
Caroline was the first to have her photograph taken
by the new daguerreotype method (which prevented
so many ladies from following her example), and in
response to the gold reward Charles Ring discovered
a few nuggets on Coromandel Peninsula, down the
harbor. But the Maoris chased him off the land with
no more than a handful.
Up at the barracks morose officers, always start-
ing off on some wild-goose chase after the Maoris,
became outspoken over breakfasts of rump-steak
washed down by gallons of beer.
“We’re always damned and drowned and starved
in this foul country. Why don’t Grey build us roads
if he must send us into it?” (In the seclusion of the
mess a man could air his mind.) “Why don’t Grey
get us the convicts the Colonel is always begging for?
They could make us roads . . . Why don’t Grey import
Chinese, as that Canterbury fellow Fitzgerald sug-
gests? Why don’t England”
“Bah!” said O’Reilly, flicking dust off his Wel-
lingtons, “England would give the country legisla-
tion to-morrow, but you don’t catch our Lord High
Panjandrum yielding an inch of his powers.”
“Pass the beer,” said Lord Calthorpe sourly.
“We’ll be dry enough to-morrow.”
“We’re never dry in the bush,” said a lieutenant,
inviting curses since surely everyone must know that
on the morrow Calthorpe would leave his fair lady
for months of unmentionable hardship . . . although
he certainly did his best to mention them to Darien
when she presented him with a pair of carpet-slippers
worked patiently by Tiffany, who would do anything
for her.
“Give us a kiss, my charmer,” said Calthorpe,
taking more from those full red lips than Darien
could easily bear. So she pushed him off, straighten-
ing her white neck-ruffle. Men did maul so.
“Good-bye, and don’t get your feet wet,” she said,
feeling that now she could concentrate on Jermyn,
who was being so peculiar that he must be mad in
love with her and didn’t dare say so. I suppose I
shall have to say it myself. Men always leave the
hard things for women, she thought.
AND now there was this chatter about Haini Fleete.
Auckland ladies did not call on stately Haini, who
was a wealthy chieftainess in her own right. But the
proprieties must be observed. “Let him marry her
properly, my dear,” said the ladies, handsomely, “and
we would have little objection. But it would not be
right otherwise. We must keep up the standard at all
costs.” So they said, heroically shutting their eyes to
Maori wives in all directions and inviting the gentle-
men to dinner. But Corny, said Jermyn, knew what
he was about, since the chiefs would certainly con-
fiscate Haini’s land if he married her.
Meanwhile, down in the flax-gully, Hemi asked
a thirteen-year-old Tiffany to marry him, and Tif-
fany told Roddy about it on a dusky evening in the
attic.
“A Maori marriage is so easy. Just four feet
under a mat. But I didn’t want to, Roddy, and
mamma wouldn’t like it.”
“I should say not,” cried Roddy, getting quite
hot in a new consciousness of his white blood. “Mon-
strous wrong of Hemi to ask you. Of course,” he
mumbled, getting hotter with the thought of slender
tawny little Eriti Fleete, “it’s different for a man.”
“Of course,” said Tiffany, wondering why. But
everything was different for a man. She sighed, knit-
ting her straight dark brows. Poor Hemi had been
so splendid in the bush-gully, letting himself go with
the fiery eloquence of the Maori. “... .Listen, Tihane,
to the call of aroha ... of love. Soon I shall go from
here to learn to be a chief and wear the mat and
huia feather. Soon I shall sing ‘Red plumes of the
kaka’ while I go with my warriors to the battle. But
always will remain my deep love for you, Tihane.
Ina koia tera”
It was quite hard to resist dear Hemi being so
melodiously dominant. But he went very well in
verses, even if she didn’t want him under a mat.
Indeed, he went so surprisingly well that Roddy only
had to alter a few words before he took the result
to Jermyn. “It’s meant for poetry, though it don’t
rhyme,” said Roddy, blushing. “Tiffy made most
of it. Do you think it is poetry, sir?”
Since Bible quotations, Maori waiatas, and trans-
lations from old Chinese songs found in Major
Henry’s books were so finely mixed in the children
by now, Jermyn need not have been so nonplussed.
“Where the devil did you infants learn all this,
Roddy?”
Roddy looked bewildered. From earliest Koro-
rareka days he and Tiffany, along with the little
Fleetes, had assisted at births, deaths and tangis, since
every important Maori event takes place among in-
terested spectators in the open, and no Maori has
ever been taught that the natural is immodest. Tif-
fany and Roddy, though submitting perforce to Eng-
lish notions, were still iconoclasts at heart.
“All what? It is quite true, sir.”
“It reads like it. Good Lord” . . . said Jermyn,
frowning.
Elegant verse was the order of the day and all
papers had given much space to Mr. James Fitzgerald’s
“Night Watch of the Charlotte Jane,” written while
the Canterbury Pilgrims were still at sea and having
a kind of homesick courage.
Here’s a health to the land we are leaving,
, And the land we’re going to.
Every one could understand that. To every exile
the land they were leaving would be for ever the first,
the dearer land. But here (so far as Jermyn knew)
was the first voice of those who were no exiles, to
whom New Zealand was the only land they knew.
They knew the Maori, too, egad, thought Jermyn,
reading:—
Why did you bear me under the dark totaras, my\
mother,
With sad warriors leaning on their taiahas and the
white men drinking in the town ?
We are losing our land and we cannot marry the white
girls, my mother.
The wind came out of the bush and through the tus-
sock, saying:
What is the use ? You were better in the womb, Maori
warrior.
“Devil take it! You have no right to know all
this, Roddy,” said Jermyn, reading through to the
end.
“But it is quite true,” persisted Roddy. “Is it
poetry, sir?”
“I should call it so.” Jermyn stared at Roddy,
feeling that he had never realised Sally’s children
before. Yet there was in these verses much of that
Sally who was always peering through wistful en-
chanted mists. Much of her in Roddy, although he
had already that sapling height which the English
stock seems to breed in a new country —probably
maturing too quickly for tough fibre. Nothing in
Roddy with his flute, his poetry, the dreams in his
brown eyes to march with practical Peregrine and
his founding of families.
These verses would plague Peregrine like the
deuce. Jermyn said:
“I’ll print these, Roddy, though they’ll need some
editing. We English are prudes, though you and Tif-
fany don’t condescend to notice it. And I will put
your name to it.”
“Oh, Uncle Jermyn! Oh, will you really?”
Roddy was glowing like a sunrise. “But it’s mostly
Tiffy’s, you know. Could you put her name on
them, too?”
“Certainly. And don’t tell anyone. It will be a
surprise, you see.”
BUT even Jermyn was unprepared for the surprise
of a Peregrine who considered any publicity of
women nothing short of profanation. Almost speech-
less under a shower of amused and somewhat un-
pleasant congratulations, he carried the “Chronicle”
home and shook it in Sally’s face.
“Is this . . . this indecency your doing?” he
gobbled. “Where is your sense of modesty, of . . .
of all that you owe to my name? Roddy shall have
a good thrashing, the maundering young idiot, but as
for my daughter . . . Good God, it is too much! ”
cried Peregrine.
Frightened, Sally read with awe. An unexpected
something leapt up in her rejoicing. Her o.wn chil-
dren had the words she never had for that lovely ghost-
like haunting in her life. “They wrote it?” she cried.
“They have written the most outrageous and im-
pudent indecency,” declared Peregrine, getting his
breath back. He raged about the room like a judg-
ment, shaking the paper. “My daughter! The first
time a female Lovel has ever been so abandoned as
to get herself into print. Even in death-notices she
should be merely ‘the wife of.’ ’Pon my soul . . .
Where is the girl? Tiffany!”
Tiffany came running. A particularly buoyant
and charming Tiffany, thought Sally, her bright hair
snooded back with a lilac ribbon, her lissom young
body (growing so tall) very slim above the spread
skirts of lilac cambric.
“What have you to say to this, Miss?” demanded
Peregrine, thrusting the paper at her. Tiffany’s clear
glance flashed over the page. Sally saw her color
rising as the ecstasy of creation approved descended
on her. She clasped her hands, shining like a star.
“Oh! It’s ours,” she exclaimed.
Then Peregrine became so frantic that Sally wept
like a river. Did not Tiffany realise what she had
done? Was she really ignorant of the fact that even
the most abandoned of women rarely had their names
in the papers, and when they did get them there other
women were not supposed to know it? Did she not
realise that she was now branded for ever?
“Branded! ” he cried, shaking her by the shoulder.
“Never imagine, Miss, that there is any worth in this
. . . this indecent rubbish. Why, the two of you
can’t cook up a rhyme between you. Your uncle
Jermyn has merely used you as a means to insult
me” . . .
“Oh, no, no,” cried Sally before she could stop.
He turned, staring down on her with those black
close-set eyes.
“And may I ask what you know about it? Are
you in the plot, too?”
“No, Mr. Lovel,” murmured Sally, feeling how
white she must be looking.
“Then kindly do not interfere. Verses! Drag-
ging the Lovel name into vulgar publicity for verses!
My daughter! And you cannot even rhyme! Get
the cane.”
“Oh, please, Mr. Lovel” . . . cried Sally.
“By heaven,” cried Peregrine, forgetting his gen-
tility for once, “I’ve a good mind to whip you, too.
Tiffany! Get the cane.”
THE Holy Immolation of Matrimony was hard to
swallow during the next days while Tiffany con-
sumed bread-and-water behind locked doors, and
Roddy had three thrashings “to knock the nonsense
out of him,” and Caroline openly hinted that she had
expected something of the sort now, and Mr. Lovel
went about looking like the whole Book of Martyrs.
Indeed, Jermyn had done much mischief, the
harem instinct being still strong among the English
gentry, who said continually, “how terrible for the
poor girl to get herself so talked of,” and then talked
the more. Urged by Caroline, John came in to be
quite sententious about the sanctity of womanhood
to Jermyn, who laughed in his face.
“My eye and Betty Martin! What a storm in a
tea-cup. If Peregrine will produce children he must
take the consequences.”
“But ... a girl” . . . protested John, tugging un-
happily at his beard, and wishing Caroline would talk
to Jermyn herself. But she had been so mysterious,
saying that poor Tiffany needed such care.
“A girl is merely a soul which has had the ill-
luck to be confined in a female body,” said Jermyn
lightly. Through these days Peregrine was doing
Jermyn’s wooing for him more effectively than he


could do it himself, and so Jermyn felt quite rqerci-
less. This would teach Sally what sort of husband
she had chosen for her children and (since Peregrine
had temporarily forbidden Jermyn the house) she
would have plenty of time to think of it.
“What is the matter with you all,” he demanded
of puzzled John, “that you don’t realise the value of
a definite new voice in a new land? Poets make a
country, not politicians. Do you think all the poli-
ticians in the world could keep alive Ireland’s hate of
England if it wasn’t for ‘The Wearing of the Green’?
‘An’ if the color we must wear is England’s cruel
Red’ —I’ll warrant you, John, the word ‘cruel’ has
never been used so effectively before or since” . . .
IV.
771 HEN the first whippings were over Roddy had
IjLp gone upstairs through the warm brown shadows
to ask how Tiffany did. For himself he was
very sore, and uncertain if it had been worth while.
But the answering little voice, though weary, was sur-
prisingly happy. A strange mounting sense of escape
into freer air was round Tiffany kneeling at the key-
hole on the other side of the locked door in the dark
attic.
“But we’ve done it, Roddy. Don’t you see?
We’ve got the splendidness of knowing we’ve done
something worth printing. He can’t take that away
ever. We” she struggled for the right words,
“we’re people now, Roddy dear. We’re us.”
“He says we’re never to do it again,” mur-
mured Roddy, unable to rise to that height.
“He can’t stop us,” cried Tiffany, shocked when
the words were out, but instinctively knowing that
she and Roddy had arrived at something that must
be held on to. “I mean ... he can stop the printing,
but he can’t stop us making poetry in our minds.
He can’t, Roddy . . . and I’m making one now.”
Tiffany being a pioneer to this extent was rather
terrifying but comforting. Roddy knew just how she
looked behind the locked door, with her eyes lit like
candles and her russet hair standing out and her soft
chin up, and he couldn’t be beaten by her.
“Then I will, too. But he’ll try to stop us,
Tiffy.” Incalculable persons, fathers ; begetting you
and then disliking what you did for ever after. Roddy,
so fresh from an example of Peregrine disliking him,
wondered why parents had children. “He’s not starv-
ing you, Tiffy?”
“Only bread-and-water for indecency. But Aunt
Darien brought a custard. If you could throw me up
some peaches through the window”
Roddy threw them up and went to spread lesson-
books on his bed, winking away a few tears lest Brian,
perched on the iron end of it, should see. Brian had
such ways of making a fellow feel a fool, and his
talk was always far more grown-up than Roddy’s.
“Lord, what a fantique women make over catch-
ing a man,” said Brian, swinging back and forth like
a little black monkey. “Madam Darien is proud as
Punch over that stale little fish of hers.”
“Ladies don’t catch men,” said Roddy, very
certain that mamma had never tried to catch papa.
“That’s all you know! Wait a few years, my
boy, and they’ll all be after you, as they’re after
Uncle Jermyn—he’s too fly for the lot of ’em. Not
that I ain’t fond of the dear creatures,” declared
Brian, remembering good fun with Uncle Lovel’s girls,
who squeaked so when you squeezed ’em. But the
only girl Roddy liked was that Eriti Fleete. A nigger,
thought Brian, who had already absorbed Auckland’s
notion of Maoris.
NEVER, thought Roddy, had he felt so mixed up.
He was still disorganised, going next day to float
in the harbor between blue sky and blue milk-warm
water, with a few white clouds like small ships sailing
high. To unripe, romantically-developing Roddy,
Beauty was still a continual summer in the heart,
although papa made ugliness everywhere.
“Curse Lovels,” said Roddy suddenly; then
swam out and flung on his clothes in a hurry, run-
ning along the cliffs towards Orakei pa.
On the low cliff above Orakei pa a crowd of
brown youngsters were at the moari—that monstrous
Giant Stride whereon Maori warriors practise swing-
ing themselves over ramparts into an enemy pa. But
there were only children to-day on the moari; going
round in huge leaps on the long flax-ropes ; drop-
ping over the cliff: into the warm sea. All natives
dive feet-first and all whites head-first because, said
Uncle Jermyn, civilisation allows nothing to be done
in the natural way.
A bunch of ponies tied to flax-bushes told that
all the Fleetes were here. Roddy stood watching the
young naked bodies fly out against blue sky. There
was Hemi, his muscles rippling, the cage of his ribs
showing. Hemi was fast shooting up into a big man ;
but little Peto still kept his round child-belly, and
Hori was thick-shouldered and black and hairy like
an ape. There was chubby Rona, sleek as a seal.
And there Eriti with her slim, tawny limbs and her
big soft tawny eyes, like a Syrian maid out of the
Bible. Swift, small-breasted Eriti, a yellow clout
about her middle, the narrow hips and shoulders of
her flowing like a song, like a sweet music. Roddy
flung off his clothes, caught at a flying rope and fol-
lowed her.
Eriti looked back, her long black hair streaming
like a banner, and Roddy was gaining on her with
great strides. Round and round they went, leaving
the ground like birds, touching at longer intervals, and
now her black hair blew’ in Roddy’s face. For
the first time he wanted to put his arms about this
flying miracle and hold it close. Now the warm
gay water had him, and there was she, smiling . . .
“Eriti” . . .
i.
o , “"'' 10R Caroline life was on two planes—hers
and the rest of the world’s —and she rarely
ceased her efforts to lift the world up to her.
For weeks she tried earnestly to lift Sally
up; sitting in the pretty chintz parlor with
black ringlets bobbing out of her big
bonnet and black eyes rounding while she
spoke of Mr. Flower’s iniquities (which seemed to
include swarms of wives) and the duty we owe to our
sex, Sally dear.
“Yes,” said Sally, stitching blue muslin frills and
not listening very much to Caroline —who at last had
to take to prowling of evenings along the sweetbriar
hedge dividing the sections in the hope of discover-
ing something that would help poor Peregrine.
Caroline found prowling very difficult for a lady
of her bulk. But reward came at last on a hot night
when Peregrine went out, swinging his cane jauntily
as though his house were not falling about his ears,
and Leta Baizey called with her brother to take
Darien to a Small and Early, and the children were
in bed. Just the night for an assignation, thought
Caroline, with even the garden so immoral in the
languorous sweetness of its scents and its dim white
bosses looking more like female bosoms than Mrs.
Simpkins pinks.
She wound her head in a black veil and her body
in a long, dark shawl, followed the little path to
the wicket-gate, and let herself through into Sally’s
garden, which was breathing out such fragrance of
heliotrope and roses that it was far more immoral
than her own ... to say nothing of the dim flitting
of little moths everywhere. I am so sensitive, thought
Caroline, crossing the lawns and pausing under the
parlor window, which was shut of course, since night
air is so dangerous, and she was taking great risks
herself.
Cramp caught her presently, standing there. But
Sally must be snatched from the burning, though she
wished the assignation would soon begin. It did
begin. The opening of a door, a low laugh from
Sally, a low answer in the unmistakable voice of a
man. Only sin spoke so low. Indeed, after listening
in vain for ages, after trying in vain to peer through
the curtains, Caroline, quite wearied in well-doing,
had to give it up and go home. But she had enough
to feed on, feeling almost too full-fed when next
morning she took the children to Lovel Hall for the
opening of the Christmas box from England, and
almost, though not quite, afraid to look at Sally,
whose very face must be blazoning her wickedness.
BUT Sally, in crisp blue cambric with full white
muslin under-sleeves and a little blue bow in her
cap, was quite shameless ; lifting out layers of straw
and paper after Jermyn had wrenched away the bands
of iron and prised open the lid ; telling Roddy to bring
Aunt Caroline a chair ; laughing with Major Henry,
so jovial in loose tussore with his tall hat over his
ear; laughing with Jermyn sitting on the steps with
the sun catching his dandy little whiskers.
“Isn’t it a huge box?” said Sally. “So vastly
good of Miss Clorinda.”
Everyone was waiting with shivers of excitement
for Peregrine to begin. Magic events, the English
boxes, to exiled English, to children especially whose
only contact with England they were. They smelled
different from anything else, thought Tiffany, glow-
ing and sniffing. And they were different; particu-
larly Lovel boxes, with old Aunt Clorinda alter-
nately believing that her relatives were living in the
laps of savages or of luxury and trying to provide for
both contingencies.
Everything feels so Christmassy, thought Sally,
grateful to Jermyn for being so kind last night help-
ing her tie up Christmas presents and never frightening
her at all. And he had spoken so beautifully about
Zoroaster’s belief in the coexisting principles of Good
and Evil which enjoy using man as their battle-
ground that (although she didn’t understand very well)
she felt Zoroaster must be helping him. And after
Darien came back they had hung a piece of mistletoe
in the verandah, Jermyn promising to kiss Caroline
under it to-day . . . Mr. Lovel was beginning to
unpack at last, though how he could have waited so
long with all those eager eyes on him . . .
“ ‘Shoes for the little girls,’ ” read Mr. Lovel slowly.
“I hope they fit. My aunt is apt to forget that children
grow. Put them down, Tiffany. You cannot try
them on now.”
“Oh, Roddy! Look!” cried Tiffany, holding up
the shining things while Sophia screamed: “Straps!
I’ve always wanted straps!”
“Please do not quarrel, children. Put them aside.
A parcel for you, Sally. Do not open it now or we
shall never be done. ‘Another roll of brown-and-gold
checked gingham for frocks,’ ” said Peregrine, reading
the legend like a Lesson in Church amid the vocal
anguish of the little girls.
“Oh, we had that check last time. Oh, I did
want something pretty”
“Children! ” Conscious of how much of his valu-
able time was being wasted, Peregrine quelled the
clamor with his eyeglass. “What is this? Lavender?
Imagine taking up important space with”
“0&!” cried Sally and Darien, bending flushed
faces over it. Childhood, dear England for ever gone
in this enchanted lavender.
“A-dear me, I cannot read this,” said Peregrine,
blinded by the eyeglass.
“Confound it, boy,” exploded Major Henry,
“don’t you know that an English box should be all
uproarious mirth and muddle? Here ... let me at it.”
“I fear stooping might be dangerous at your age,
sir,” said Peregrine shortly. Brian lifted sardonic
brows at that plump little bunch of a Belinda whom
Caroline was lacing so unmercifully in an effort to
produce the waist unintended by Nature. She giggled,
and Jermyn made an attempt to mend matters by
tying himself into a brown woollen petticoat and top-
ping it with a fragile bonnet of white lace and flowers.
“I fancy these must be meant to go together,” he
said, mincing down the verandah while the children
relieved their tension with shrieks of joy.
“If you have no consideration for the ladies,”
said Peregrine, really angry, “I think you might show
some for my aunt, who could not have expected her
gifts to be so ridiculed.”
“Oh, certainly,” said Jermyn, staring with sudden
solemnity under the bonnet. Peregrine was digging
his own grave in this exhibition. No loving woman
could possibly bear it.
“ ‘Red flannel’ —ah —undergarments,” read Pere-
grine, putting aside a bundle smelling strongly of
camphor. “ ‘Soap. Pears’ scented’ ”
“That’s mine.” Caroline grabbed. Even pity for
Peregrine couldn’t keep her back longer. • “Aunt
knows I can’t abide unscented. And that violet
pelerine must be meant for me . . . oh, here’s a coat
for John.”
It was a dreadful moment. Tiffany, going red as
a damask rose, scarcely dared hope Caroline would
win. But now Darien was into it, intent on holding
more than her own, diving her bright curls into the
box.
“You don’t want these fashion books, Caroline.
You’re far too original. Nor this sage-green scarf” . . .
“It would suit Sophia,” cried Caroline, hanging
on.
“Not it. Here’s something with spots for her.
Oh, what an exquisite lace”—-
“Peregrine,” screamed Caroline, almost scup-
pered by superior agility. “Do you mean to let this
saucy piece take everything?”
“I don’t want everything,” said Darien, begin-
ning to enjoy herself immensely and flinging out a
rain of socks, waistcoats and stuff petticoats. “You
can have all those,” she announced, burrowing deeper.
Knowing how wicked it was to laugh so at Mr.
Lovel hovering helpless, Sally mopped her eyes, hop-
ing that no one saw. But Jermyn’s laughing eyes
did.
“No dollies?” pleaded little Lucilla, tugging at
Peregrine’s coat-tails. “Sir, please, ain’t there no
dollies for me?”
“Bless your heart, we’ll find you some dollies,
my poppet,” said Major Henry, beginning to haul
out the bowels of the box by armfuls, scattering balls,
dolls, knives, games into eager little hands while Tif-
fany danced like a maenad, tangling bright skeins of
wool in her hair.
Peregrine turned on his heel and walked off. The
despoilers went mad with glee then, and Major Henry
and Jermyn kissed everyone under the mistletoe. But
Caroline, taking her children home at last, couldn’t
forgive Peregrine, who had let Darien steal that length
of gold tissue. I shan’t tell him about Sally until I
feel inclined, she thought.
11.
nEW ZEALAND (it seemed) in her struggle to
become the Land of Promise had only succeeded
in establishing herself as the Land of Continual
Probations. So loudly had she streamed for represen-
tative government that after a long hysteria of special
sessions and the passing and repealing of many Acts
and ordinances England at last gave birth to a hybrid
called the Constitution Act, and was now mopping
her brows and hoping those imbeciles at the Anti-
podes would be content with that.
Governor Grey was so far from content that it
was rumored he would resign, and this, said everyone,
was the most promising sign yet. But when gentle-
men came to examine into the reservations of the
Act more chairs were broken at the Mechanic’s Insti-
tute, and Sir Winston was moved to talk about the
soul.
So life went on much as usual through the bright
weather. Great bronze pigeons cooed and black-and-
white fantails flitted down in the bush-gully, where
Roddy made magic with his flute and found the har-
monies taking the shape of Eriti surprisingly often.
John chopped down more tall trees, felt the hairy
pasterns of the Clydesdales, which he would presently


sell to strain their great hearts out hauling the muni-
tion wagons, and was very happy living a bachelor
at the farm.
Up at the barracks bugles blew and drums rolled ;
smart pipeclayed regiments marched out in the blue
service uniforms into the dark bush, and others re-
turned, draggled and weary, with elbows out and mud
on their eyebrows. On the English grass lawns of
Lovel Hall and other handsome homes peacocks
spread their dazzling tails to a challenging sun, and in
the Government House gardens ladies; (unhappily
powerless to grow new feathers so easily as the pea-
cocks) spread their nets of sly glances and smiles for
impressionable gallants.
The Harbor Board enclosed more of the grey
mud-flats preparatory to laying another street among
the pervasive odors of drying and decaying refuse,
and Belinda, who was to come out at the ball, which
everyone hoped would help the new Parliament to
get properly on its feet, was laced so tightly by Caro-
line that her red cheeks paled and she fainted daily.
* ‘ M AMMA says I’m to have no more milk or butter
* T | till I’m safely married,” sighed Linda, who
loved her fleshpots and plenty of fun and giggles.
Darien, who couldn’t really go off in an elegant flop
yet, though her waist was smaller than Linda’s, was
watching her recovery with critical eyes. It certainly
did look a good way to a man’s heart.
“I suppose it’s because I have more character,”
she thought, nightly provoking more ardencies at the
little carpet-dances to accordion music, which were so
fashionable, and being provoked by Jermyn, who so
seldom seemed to be anywhere now.
Lord Calthorpe’s company returned and, after
an anxious time with barbers, hairdressers and tailors,
flung itself in pomatumed eagerness upon the town.
Calthorpe, too red and much too surprisingly lively,
flung himself on Darien, demanding instant marriage.
“We’re for Van Diemen’s Land next. Can’t leave
you behind, y’ know.”
“I can’t go without a trousseau,” said Darien,
hedging in sudden panic.
“Bah! Tell that to the marines, my dear. A gal
like you don’t need clothes.”
“I must have seven complete sets of everything,
and at least twenty gowns.”
“Eh? The devil you must? Doosed awkward
that,” said the little lord, scratching his sandy head.
“What for?”
Darien sprang up with a swirl of pale-green skirts
and scarves. “I won’t go at all. I won’t marry
you. I”
“Go it, you cripple,” returned Calthorpe admir-
ingly. “My eye, you’re a beauty when you get in a
wax, Darien.”
“I won’t marry you,” cried Darien, stamping.
Calthorpe shut his eyes.
“Look here, I’ve had enough fireworks for a few
months. What’s the game now? Stop showin’ off,
my good gal, and give me a kiss.”
“I shall never kiss you again . . . odious wretch! ”
Calthorpe got up. His muscles, Darien dis-
covered, were alarmingly stronger.
“Then I’ll kiss you,” he said amiably. “Like
this . . . and this . . . and this . . . You’ve found a
new scent, you monkey. Now, my charmer, come
an’ dance. You know damn well you .couldn’t give
me up if you tried.”
“I won’t marry you,” gasped Darien, being
dragged along.
“O waly, waly, up the bank,” replied Lord Cal-
thorpe cheerfully, handing her over to a seeking part-
ner. Women’s tantrums, though doosed amusin’, grew
troublesome after a vigorous life with men. Cal-
thorpe, who never had much conversation, said at the
buffet, “Goin’ to be married next month,” and left
it there.
Desperate, Darien made a final attack on Jermyn,
which yielded so little that she cried her eyes red,
and then wrote in her diary:
“Hope is for ever fled for the present and I am
engulfed in Disspair. I went as far as a girl should
and much further, but Jermyn is abcessed with honor
so I’ll marry the lord and perhaps I’ll find a married
woman can say more. It’s a mercy my trousseau is
nearly ready, and I’ll get that bolt of true Indian
muslin out of Peregrine somehow . . . proud puffed-up
cake.”
111.
nOW the country went into hysteria over elections
to the provincial councils, which, in Grey’s usual
manner of putting the cart before the horse, were
to precede the first Parliament. Peregrine approved.
Parliamentary members, so scattered by the geographi-
cal imp who had constructed New Zealand of two
large and one smallish island attended by a multitude
of satellite minute islands, couldn’t be expected to
meet often, while provincial councils, operating at
once and in their proper places, would lay necessary
foundations, he declared, going at once to the laying
of his own.
So New Zealand’s six provinces set to work ;
making magnificent speeches, since the country really
had more than its share of erudition, while ladies did
what they could for their candidates at routs and
card-drums ; and at Caroline’s weekly musicales Tif-
fany and Belinda had to play “The Battle of Prague”
so often that in the end they nearly knew it. Bul-
lockies named their great patient beasts after candi-
dates, giving the unpopular one all the whip, and every
gentleman’s son, including young Lovels, returned
from school with bloody noses.
Everything, shouted the Major, full of brandy
and speeches, was going excellently. But he deflated
suddenly when Nick Flower’s name came into promi-
nence as opponent to Peregrine in his ward, and
Lovels went hurriedly to the examining of Flower’s
credentials, finding them as elusive as the man him-
self.
“The dog’s never in Auckland anyway. Put him
in the stocks when he comes,” cried the gentlemen,
while the “Chronicle” sarcastically welcomed “this
Flower of our aristocracy,” and recommended the
public to pluck it ere it withered at the hustings.
Rumors began spreading, none knew how.
Flower, said agitated gentlemen buttonholing every-
body in the streets, owned half Auckland. He owned
most of the shares in Graham’s Bond, that bluff stone
building on the waterfront which impressed new-
comers with such certainty of Auckland’s stability.
The fine block of stables building for the military at
Epsom was financed by him. He held the lOUs of
half the men in town . . .
Some truth in this last anyway. So when Flower,
mysterious fly-by-night that he was, appeared in Auck-
land, walking about just like a man and not the engine
of destruction everyone now felt him to be, gentle-
men made haste to invite him to the clubs, and even
to their houses. Get the fellow drunk and talking,
they said, and the prison authorities will soon relieve
us of his presence. Only a life of unmitigated evil,
they were sure, could make a man look so big and
prosperous in the New Zealand of their day.
NOT much trouble for Nick Flower to see through
the gentlemen. Nor through Darien ; handling her
subjects royally at a carpet-dance, wearing a cheap
muslin (ninepence the yard, said his trader’s instinct)
with diamond earrings and lockets, wearing the rich
impudence of her auburn curls tied up with a blue
ribbon, and yet contriving to look more like a queen
than a courtesan.
“So now you are grown up,” he said, making his
clumsy bow. “I suppose I must call you Miss Vibart
now.”
“So now you are invited to gentlemen’s houses,”
said Darien over her fan.
“Still the same Darien?” He laughed. “No, I
shan’t call you Miss Vibart.”
“Not worth while. I’m marrying Lord Calthorpe
next week,” said Darien, watching him cautiously.
If he were really as rich as people said . . .
“Yes. I heard that you too were a climber. It’s
hard work. If you had a heart I might be sorry
for you.”
“I can take care of myself, thank you.”
“No woman knows how to do that. Who will
buy your wedding-slippers? Will you give him a kiss
for them?”
“Kisses don’t mean much,” said Darien, reflect-
ing. “I’ve had so many . . . and they mostly taste of
brandy.”
He sat down beside her, leaning close. “Mine
don’t,” he said.
Darien felt excited. A kiss from this man would
be experiencing. But unluckily her wedding was too
near for that now. She said, curious:
“Why do gentlemen invite you to their houses?
Is it because you’ve made so much money with your
smuggling?”
He leaned back, crossing his legs as no gentle-
man would do in a lady’s presence.
“Your tongue will get you into trouble some day,
young lady.”
“It does . . . and gets me out again. I think I’ll
denounce you to the Governor as a smuggler.” (Unless
you buy me off, she thought, feeling eager.)
“I should advise you not,” he said, amused.
“Grey must have heard so much already that he is not
likely to welcome further conversation on the sub-
ject without proof.”
“You’re the proof.”
“Oh, my dear girl! Where’s your logic? But
you always did jump at conclusions ... as you have
jumped at little Calthorpe. Though I dare swear he
won’t be the conclusion of your career.”
“I don’t mind your being a smuggler so much.”
said Darien angrily, “but I do mind your not know-
ing how to talk to a lady.”
“I don’t see how you know whether I can or
not.”
Darien jumped up,
her hands tingling to box
his ears.
“You are an odious
insulting wretch, Nick
Flower. I shan’t invite
you to my wedding.”
“Then I needn’t send
you a wedding present?”
That stopped her, by
Jove. Always a greedy
little pirate, Darien. A
greedy, courageous little
pirate, he felt her looking
him over and was ridicu-
lously pleased that the
tailor had done so well
with his evening clothes.
“I want no presents
from you, sir,” said
Darien, hanging on to her
pride with a struggle.
“No? I’ll wager that’s
the first time you’ve said
that to anybody. Well, I’ll
tell Lord Calthorpe not. to
invite me. We are old
friends.”
Calthorpe redeemed
some of his lOUs every
time his remittances came
in. In future it was not
likely to be every time, for, though the diamonds were
palpably heirlooms, Darien would be dressing up to
them before long.
“Oh, do you know him? Don’t send him the
wedding present, then. You knew me first ... didn’t
you?”
“Yes,” said Flower with sudden gravity. “I knew
you first.” Better than anyone else will ever know
you, he thought. God, where couldn’t he get to with
this vital unscrupulous spirit to help him? With
Peregrine Lovel’s signet-ring on my finger I’d only
have to hold it up, he thought, saying:
“You are the greatest opportunist I know . . .
except myself. I’m glad it’s not you I’m meeting at
the hustings. I wish you happy,” he said, leaving her
to Major Henry with a bow.
Next day Nick Flower sent her twenty golden
Spanish guineas in a little box. Now I can get those
extra things I need so badly, thought Darien, hastily
stuffing the box into the frilled pocket of her apron.
If Peregrine saw he’d make her send them back with
appropriate comments on the fellow’s insolence.
CHILL winter sun peered through the loopholes at
_ St. Paul’s to see Darien walking up the aisle on
Sir John’s arm to be married to Lord Calthorpe, who
was a small red splotch beside a larger one in the
chancel. The air was full of the fresh cold scent of
chrysanthemums and the heavy odor of flax-leaves
waving in bunches at the end of every pew. The
barrel-organ grinding out “O God, Our Help in
Ages Past” was d(?ing it for Darien. Sally, in a pale-
blue bonnet in the front pew, was crying for Darien.
Everywhere ladies were crying and gentlemen mur-
muring admiration like a river ... all for Darien. She
tried to see Jermyn and Nick Flower, but these silly
billows of white illusion got so in the way, and what
should she do if she wanted to blow her nose?
Now Bishop Selwyn, looking like a great bank
of clouds in his lawn sleeves, was booming away, and
Calthorpe trying to put the ring on the wrong finger,
and Sarah Wells, who was chief bridesmaid, sobbing
so loudly that she nearly drowned the barrel-organ as
they all went into the vestry.
Lonely creatures, women, thought Jermyn, watch-
ing Sally’s piteous little face. Sally had been so
occupied with Darien of late. And then there would
be the elections. And then she will need me, thought
Jermyn, his heart pounding.
“Oh, please God, don’t let her ever find out she’s
made a mistake,” whispered Sally, hoping against
hope. Jermyn could have had this, thought Darien,
as Calthorpe put back her veil in the vestry and
claimed his first marital kiss. Poor Jermyn! who
must be feeling fit to kill himself.
Yet one couldn’t bother long about Jermyn with
the barrel-organ going bravely through its four tunes,
and six little nieces, frilled out like pink peonies, to
throw posies, and red ranks of soldiers making a
dazzling arch of swords to pass under, and four
splendid Clydesdales garlanded with the bridegroom’s
regimental colors to draw the nuptial bullock-cart to
Lovel Hall, where the peacocks awaited them with
spread tails.
“Oh, Sal-volatile, I hope all my weddings will be
as fine as this,” cried Darien, still glowing with the
toasts and compliments and wine, and kissing Sally
out of her going-away green bonnet edged with
swansdown . . . and what a tattle there’d be if
folk knew that Nick Flower’s gold paid for
it, thought Darien, running down to scatter
glances and last words among the broken-hearted
young bucks crowding round ; to hold up rosy, pout-
ing lips for Jermyn’s kiss (she would have that any-
way) ; to sail away with her little lord on the Ocean
Queen to Sydney, where they would wait for the
troopship to pick them up.
Calthorpe (somewhat unsteady in his hessians
since the champagne had been so good and being mar-
ried so doosed awkward) regarded her with an
amorous if rather bleary eye.
“Thank the Lord that’s over. Eh, my charmer?”
he said.
Would-be orators hauled off a platform by their kicking legs.
“But everything’s just beginning ” cried Darien
radiantly. Adventures ahead now
<DnON my soul, Peregrine, you’ve done us un-
common well,” declared Maior Henrv nrowl-
ing round the remains of the wedding breakfast, where
g reat mounds of jellies, the pink enticement of hams
the flakiness of jam tarts in crystal bowls and a hun-
dfed °ther delights still raised their heads among crisp
slices of melon, cakes gay with icing and the brown
glow of sherry in cut-glass decanters. “Haven't had
(Continued on page SO)


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “ The Cape ” and spend a
shiy. holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
WW'
ff
/
m
# \
MMI 111 I I
\
ii
KING THE ROAD’
BAtTIIM
published separately as a novel. It exploits the curious
and often cruel perspective of life forced on men who
meet their schoolfellows again after many years.
More striking than any of them is the prologue
with its passionate and despairing vindication of the
old Austria before it was shattered by the war. It is
Werfel’s contention that if it was not the ideal State it
was at least its germ. The idea was the House of
Habsburg binding together a heterogeneous collection
of nationalities.
Intense feeling fuses his style into something truly
noble, especially in his description of the funeral
cortege of the Emperor Francis Joseph as it passed
through the stricken city with its “invisible exhala-
tions” of “muddy earth and iodoform.”
The noble relic passed, like a wraith in the mist,
in the twilight of a world, before the fixed eyes of the
populace. Once more they saw the gold lace and the
leopard-skin sleeves of the Hungarian magnates, once
more the knightly snow-white mantles of the body-
guard, once more the plumed helmets of the gendarmes
of the Burg, and once more the waving green feathers
on the generals’ dress hats. The towering fourgon of
the dead was scarcely visible, so thickly was it sur-
rounded by troops of black horsemen carrying great
spluttering torches in their hands.
Werfel says “The Austrian born in old Austria
has no longer a home.” But Twilight of a World
has no bearing on recent events ; it was written and
published before they took place.
Some Ballad-writers.
The suggestion to reprint some of The Bulletin
ballads written since Bertram Stevens’s anthology of
1920 (B. 5/5/’3B) is a worthy one. It would not only
preserve them, but would show how the tenor of
ballads has risen to a livelier note as life in Australia
rose from the shilling-an-hour standards.
They would have to be good ballads, though, to
compare with Banjo Paterson’s “Thirteenth Trump”
and “The Geebung Polo Club,” Will Ogilvie’s “Wee
Scots Night” and Brunton Stephens’s amusing verse
about the Chinese station cook who provided rabbit-
pie for a week. He was asked why the menu was
changed:—
All at once I tried to stop him,
But it came out with a run,
“Lasta week plenty puppy,
This week allee puppy done.”
One of the best-known survivors of the ballad-
ists of the ’nineties is Roderic Quinn, still hale and
hearty. Quinn’s “Red-tressed Maiden” and “The
Hidden Tide” are fine poetry.
In the ’nineties and early 1900’s, through the
encouragement of The Bulletin and George Robert-
son, one of the founders of Angus and Robertson, a
school of more or less literary singers arose whose
ballads reflected the life of Australia with great
fidelity. Some of them still clung to the pessimistic
note set by Adam Lindsay Gordon, but others were
much more cheerful. So on one hand we had Henry
Lawson writing:
I’m tired of raving at wrong things which must to the end
endure;
I’m sick and tired of the selfish rich and tired of the selfish
poor;
Of the awful wrongs of the Social Plan (both sides and in
between);
I’m tired of The Bulletin’s own Fat Man and I’m also
tired of the lean.
On the other hand was Will Ogilvie with his
“Wee Scots Night,” all humor, James Hebblethwaite’s
“Pull Up the Stakes and Go,” Mary Gilmore’s “Mar-
ri’d” and Hugh McCrae, always a happy singer, in
such lines as those of “Red John of Haslingden.”
Kendall’s verse rang like the music of a stream, Victor
Daly’s imagery was vivid. Then the mood swings
round again to the grim in Barcroft Boake’s “Where
the Dead Men Lie.”
In every State on every lonely outback march,
our balladists lived, and some still live. They in-
cluded Brunton Stephens and M. Forrest in Queens-
land, “Dryblower” Murphy in Westralia, R. J. Cassidy
(“Gilrooney”) and Cecil Winter (“Riverina”) on the
Overland.
Not many Australians sang of the sea till
E. J. Brady came into the light with his “Ways of
Many Waters.” Grant Hervey, in a lesser degree, sang
of the world of waters, as did other men writing under
pen-names, like “Albatross,” who was then mate on
an Australian steamer.
As “W.E.F.” points out, A. G. Stephens encour-
aged many of these when he edited the Red Page. He
liked originality, such as he found in Brady’s lines
describing a skipper, “McFee of Aberdeen,” who
“Rolled around the rolling world that rolls around
the sun.” And these of a sailorman:
The Lord He knocks us off our pins
To go and feed the fishes.
The Lord forgive us for our sins—
Our sins is most delicious.
Grant Hervey’s “Bunniz” (meaning Buenos
Ayres) had these lines:
Oh! Bunniz! Come to Bunniz!
The thrashing engines whine,
I know no place where fun is,
To beat the Argentine.
Many Maoriland versifiers, however, took their
inspiration from the sea. Arthur Adams, Jack Barr,
Jessie Mackay, Lilia Gormhuille McKay, Dick Harris
and Ernest Currie are some who reached out from the
lonely islands they called home and found inspiration.
Currie’s song of Maoriland with its refrain “The Last
Little Land of All” was a home song for his fellow-
countrymen. It contrasts with the vivid lines in
Dorothea Mackellar’s “1 Know a Sunburned Country.”
Australian ballads go a long way back. The
whalers of Hobart Town, Twofold Bay and Sydney
wrote them. The most famous whaling song, “The
Hat with the Black Velvet Band,” was a striking
example. It was the whalers’ theme song—their fight-
ing song, drinking song, as well as their whaling song
—yet its words have completely passed away. So
with the songs of the shipbuilders of the Derwent. In
the lonely bays where they cut down and hand-sawed
the timbers, they had clever singers. There was one
John Wilson, who built hundreds of small craft, who
encouraged his men to write and sing ballads.
One of these, written in 1882, ran thus:
Come all ye sawyers stout and bold
Whose hearts are on these blue-gums sold
And list while I a tale unfold
Of the poor downtrodden sawyer.
When we work hard and cut the stuff
The buyers come and treat us rough;
They swear the measure’s not enough
And rob the weary sawyer.
The convicts had songs, too, but few of them
would bear printing, as they referred to their task-
masters in strong terms.
WILL LAWSON.
A Sydney Professor's Book.
The Auld Sinner, by Cowan Harper (Angus and
Robertson), is a reminiscence entertainingly told in
semi-fictional stvle
1 *
The author (Professor S. Angus, St. Andrews
College, Sydney) recalls a profane old reprobate, Davy
Duncan, in the Ulster-Scots farming community of
his boyhood years, who was regarded as an awful
example by the unco guid. Davy is a native of the
district but has been mysteriously absent during most
of his adult years. It; turns out that as a young man
he was deeply in love with a girl who died of a
“decline.” At his funeral his almoner reveals the
extent to which the district has benefited from his
secret charities.
The story of Davy’s life provides the author with
a text for something very like a short “sairmon” in
his concluding chapter. His book, however, doesn t
fall between the stools of its moral and artistic pur-
poses, for he brings undoubted humor to the first
and considerable narrative skill to the second.
Portraits of local identities, pictures of the rural
scene, the communal mentality, imagined conversations
between characters are all exceedingly well done. He
has a number of theological axes to touch up, but he
keeps his eye on the humanities. “Cowan Harper
has the tools for success in straight fiction. The Auld
Sinner is being published simultaneously in America
and Australia.
World's Great Thinkers Library.
Angus and Robertson forward for inspection
specimens of this library produced by Carlton House,
New York.
One of the things the Americans do well is the
republishing of classics, the mass production oFgood
books in good bindings that can be sold in library
editions far more cheaply than would be possible
with isolated publications.
This latest is a library of 20 volumes of philo-
sophy, the authors ranging from Plato to Havelock
Ellis, and including Marx, Schopenhauer and Freud.
It is a decorative library edition, and the series is
comprehensive. For the thinking reader who can’t
afford to buy his books singly the library does an
excellent service.
Reviewed Briefly,
Dent’s “Master Musicians” . . .
Latest additions to Dent’s “Master Musician”
series are Palestrina, by Henry Coates, and Berlioz,
by J. H. Elliot.
The Palestrina volume discloses that, despite
Groves’s hilarity over the suggestion in an early edition
of the Dictionary of Music, the great master of ecclesi-
astical music was twice married. His second choice was a
wealthy widow who owned a fur business, and Pales-
trina (really Giovanni Pierlingi, born at Palestrina)
devoted a lot of spare time to the furriery interests
and did well enough to buy a row of houses.
Mr. Elliot’s volume is a bit overshadowed by the
W. T. Turner and T. S. Wotton biographies, published
since this work was written, but before it got into
print. Mr. Elliot doesn’t take Berlioz’s tragic tenden-
cies very seriously, giving a commonsense account of
a bizarre career.
General . . .
Trout and Fly in Tasmania: R. H. Wigram
(Angus and Robertson). Of interest only to the devout,
and pretty closely restricted to Tasmania, but anyone
who can’t catch trout in the Speck after reading the
author’s excellent advice ought to beat his rod into
a knitting-needle. Anglers elsewhere will find a few
useful tips in it.
My Quest for Peace: George Lansbury (Michael
Joseph). Some of the splendid substance of this im-
portant book has already been embodied in a Bulle-
tin leader-page article. Mr. Lansbury gives an account
of his peace-crusading visits to Hitler, Mussolini and
leaders of other nations. A most readable book, hall-
marked by its author’s deep sincerity, it matches even
the missions it describes as a contribution to the cause
of world peace.
British Rule and Rebellion : H. J. Simson (Black-
wood). An interesting inquiry into what the author
claims to be the failure of British rule in Palestine.
The author suggests that Britain shows weakness in
its dealing with resort to violence in Empire countries
and places held under mandate ; that recent rebellion
in Palestine had its beginning in the extreme modera-
tion formerly employed in dealing with rebellious
elements.


I AWARDED
(50 MEDALS f
4 —\ \—
- f
Perth"
m 4
50 Golb
anil
1 'ftllHf
188?
1888
66.
'■ONBOn
1888
BNISStus COOKEMr
5O Gtflii
anb
Prm fttbidsi
BY APPOINTMENT
MELBOURNE INTERNATIONAL
FOOD
PAMS
ounedin
0" /
■(111' 5
1888
'3&>:
1888
18 8 9 1889
1889
1889
1889
White Label
A Fine Scotch whisky
0F RARE age
<John Dewar & Sons E-
distillers
lonJonOffice A \TD
Dt ®« House SC 01 LAND
NET CONTENTS l PINT, 6FL.OZS.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
Here is an actual size illustration
of the handy flat bottle,
ķ
VOU will find new satisfaction and
delight in every glass of “White
Label"; satisfaction that is derived
from the eminent quality of the
Whisky itself—delight in the rare
flavour that has developed from its
ripe maturity. Call for a “White
Label”—today.
DEWARS
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH li//udykij


n
HH
m
£s=
1
P'C
as
C4,i>
CV
ii_
s3s
Ifc
ar
SW
M
I
1
«
ss
NX
I
s&chi
as
iTE
I
M
S’
S
u
%
J
sill
I
111
S*
K
ihite
mm
mm
Uv
i
MS
§
peat kvfes'tern
Sparklind’Mties
IMPERIALVRESERVE
’<? Champagne af'Ouslrolia


PLAYING TO EMPTY HOUSES.
“Blast it, comrade, that’s Trotsky you’re carrying!”
“Aw, wot does it matter when the show’s a flop?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
oouth Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Aus .). Ltd.,
... Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place. 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
, h ' ree to , any address in Australasia.
weekly 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. od.;
5 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
F A ee to , ANY address Overseas (British
Empire). 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
PUNCH-DRUNK NEWSPAPERS.
In 1914-18 Australia and Maoriland sacrificed
the cream of a generation of their young manhood.
Other countries did likewise; but to these young
countries, depending on the building-up of their popu-
lations for their ultimate existence, it was a sacrifice
of singular severity. Together, in a just cause, Maori-
land and Australia lost in killed 77,000 splendid young
men. There came back to them maimed and
incurable about another 150,000. Many thousands of
those apparently returned unharmed are to-day pitiful
human wreckage, with the physical and even more
fearful effects of what is euphemistically
called war experience” breaking them up with about
only half their normal life lived. The deaths and
collapses last Anzac Day bear tragic witness to it.
Is it forgotten? Has it lost all its significance in
keeping the public mind in these countries clear and
sane? Is all that tragic and horrible business so un-
important now that these countries would go unitedly
and eagerly into that shambles again—into a worse
shambles for any of the rotten causes disguised as
matters of great national urgency? Has the mere
passage of a handful of years been so smoothing an
agent that the people of these countries are now ready
to be stampeded into war for causes other than the
one single cause for which we could fight with reason,
the defence of the Empire?
Communists obviously take this view and are
making the most of it. And their dirty work is aided
by “capitalist” newspapers far more than by their own
Red press.
Time and again newspaper posters, headlines and
news’ stories have suggested that war was inevitable ;
that all the horrible slaughter of 1914-18 was to be
on us again overnight—for a political whim; for an
artificial mess of hocus-pocus like the League of
Nations; for the retention of some European frontier
drawn on the map by politicians now universally
discredited ; for some remote affront to false dignity ;
for causes not worth the sacrifice of an abo.’s dog.
This detestable journalism is keeping alive old
hatreds and daily intensifying them; it is playing
upon the sense of fear. And though the war scares
and sensations of the last three years have turned out
to be exaggerations and falsehoods, this incredibly
foolish and indescribably dangerous game goes on.
In the course of his presidential address to the
Australian Newspapers’ Conference in Sydney Mr.
R. E. Denison significantly stated that
the present deplorably unsettled condition of world
affairs has stimulated public interest in overseas news.
The vastly-increased volume of cable news now being
received in Australia imposes a very heavy additional
burden on the newspapers.
The “burden” referred to by Mr. Denison is the
financial burden. There is no evidence that the New
Journalism finds the moral burden any burden what-
ever.
Australians, thanks to the number and authoritative
standing of the sources from which their cable services
are gathered, are able to enjoy not merely the benefits
of one or two sources, but a complete and carefully-
weighed compilation, free from political bias and propa-
ganda.
Not a fortnight after Mr. Denison said that
his Sydney newspaper, the “Sun,” came out with scare
posters: “Britain Warns Germany”; then, “Britain,
France, Russia Warn Germany.” Supporting this
bid for penny-ha’pennies was the usual scare-headlined
jumble of what, on closer examination, turned out to
be nothing more than the usual hearsay and guess-
work, drawn from, among other sources of “authori-
tative standing,” the London “News-Chronicle.”
Is there no moral burden imoosed on those who
here traffic in the rubbish drawn from such a tainted
source to at least try to assess its worth by whatever
shreds of the old standard of journalistic veracity
remain? The rubbish —liberally sprinkled with “it
is understood,” “there are well-founded reports,”
“apparently,” “this is regarded,” “a newsagency mes-
sage alleges,” an (unnamed) “French Foreign Office
spokesman declares” ; signposts, every one of them,
either to hearsay or falsehood —was unblushingly
dished up as fact. There was no possible inference
to be drawn from an uncritical reading of the whole
mass of it in conjunction with the posters except that
we might find ourselves at war at any moment.
With that impression, fixed by the screaming
scare-posters, people in Sydney, at least, went to their
beds that night. Next morning, the denials, including
one of the highest importance:
It is authoritatively denied in Paris that a French
Foreign Office spokesman issued a warning about what
France would do in the event of Germany crossing the
Czech frontier.
The statement thus denied had appeared in most
of the Big-City dailies (two, aid not publish the
denial). It was the most sensational part ot tne war-
scare story. The “Sun,” drawing from sources of
“authoritative standing,” had these amplifications:
France and Russia have assured Czechoslovakia that
they will fulhl their treaty obliga.ions to assist her if
she is attacked by Germany, states the Prague corre-
spondent of the “News-Chronicie.”
Assurances by Britain that sne will stand by France
in such a situation have been conveyed officially to
Germany, both through the tmbassy in Lonuon and
the Foreign Oltice in Uerlin.
It is understood in London that the Foreign Secretary
informed the German Ambassador, ana that tne
British Ambassador to Germany simultaneously tend
Herr von Ribbentrop, that if the French honored their
obligation to Czechoslovakia Britain wouid stand by
France.
Take the denial of the alleged warning to Ger-
many by a “French Foreign Office spokesman” into
account, and the whole of this hysterical war-scaring
becomes palpably guesswork based on hearsay.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” cables made their bid
in this shabby contest with a story —headed “Europe
Saved by Poland’s Stand”—purporting to reveal that
the Polish Foreign Minister had told the German
Ambassador at Warsaw that “if France and Britain
entered the lists in defence of Czechoslovakia, the
Polish Army would come into action on the side of
the Western Powers.” This was a blatant lie, and
was nailed as such by an official Polish denial, pub-
lished in the cable columns of the “Sun” and other
papers, but not published in the “D.T.” That sheet,
however, had this, from Paris:
There is confidence now that Poland will not support
any action by Germany against the Czechs.
So much for the “Warsaw dispatch” which had
“saved Europe.” But the “D.T.” had not done with it.
In the face of the official denial —which it did not
itself publish—it now incorporated the lie in a leader
as fact: “the factor that finally persuaded Hitler to
hold his hand was Poland’s threat of intervention.”
Also competing in this contest, Sydney “Labor
Daily” cable columns offered this as fact:
Unexpectedly the British Government came forward
with definite eleventh-hour assurances that if war broke
out it would fight on the side of France, Czechoslovakia
and the Soviet.
The truth was that not one of the Governments
alleged to have issued these threats to Germany had
been guilty of any such stupid diplomatic blundering.
France did not threaten Germany ; Britain did not
undertake to support France ; there was no Polish
threat. This was to be made clear by a further cable:
A British Official Wireless announcement praises Ger-
many’s attitude. The fact that the grave dangers which
threatened were averted is attributed here less to this
or that diplomatic move than to the general restraint
exercised by all the Governments concerned, and not
least by the German Government.
Thus all this violently-presented scare comes
down at last to its proper proportions—a difficult
foreign-affairs situation, quite evidently handled, as
far as the British end of it was concerned, with the
calm diplomatic sanity which increasingly enhances
Mr. Chamberlain’s position as the wisest P.M. Britain
has had for many years.
Mr. Chamberlain, at least, stands strongly for
peace. While the scare-hysterics of punch-drunk news-
papers go on, the British Commonwealth will increas-
ingly need somebody of his quality at the helm.
A Place to Keep Out Of.
No ordinary student can contemplate the political
map of Central Europe without a headache. There
could have been no ordinary minds at the Allied
Conferences which settled the fate of that part of the
world after the Great War.
The gentlemen of Versailles and St. Germains
went about their work blithely, though not precipi-
tately. Their objects, easily reconciled, were to take
as much as possible from Germany and to persuade
the Czechs. Serbs, Poles and Rumanians that good
Ring Wenceslas had come back to earth permanently,
and that from 1919 onwards it would be always
Christmas.
Their handiwork began to crumble straightway.
The League of Nations, which had been envisaged
with a United States chairman holding the balance
and France kept pacified and secure by an additional
Anglo-American guarantee, shrivelled into a League
presided over by a French chairman, eager to get the
last ounce out of Germany. That country was loaded
down with reparations, stripped of its colonies and
of one-seventh of its European territories and com-
pelled to maintain French garrisons, partly black.
Austria and Hungary were dismembered, Vienna being
reduced to so desperate a plight that the conquerors
had to succor it with loans.
To the Czechs, the peacemakers gave not only
lands which were theirs by virtue of centuries of racial
occupation, but a fringe of country on three sides
holding 3,000,000 Germans, whose ancestors had also
been rooted there for centuries. The new State received
this additional gift so that it might build defences
—against Germany —along the mountain ranges and
have additional coal and metals. Its Germans found
themselves much in the position in which Ulster-
men would be if they were included in Eire and
the Government at Dublin made a defensive alliance
against Britain with some large obnoxious foreign
nation.
The Germans in Czechoslovakia are compelled to
serve in an army organised by a French mission.
They have seen Czechoslovakia build a ring of forti-
fications, modelled on the French Maginot line,
chiefly in their districts. The issue with these Germans
is not so much release from Czech rule as release from
alliance with the hated French and Russians against
Germans. The problem cannot be solved unless the
German districts are allowed to secede from Czecho-
slovakia or Czechoslovakia becomes another Switzer-
land pledged to neutrality.
After Czechoslovakia, the map-artists turned
their minds to the eastern Slavs. On Poland was be-
stowed country inhabited by Poles, with a corridor
to the Baltic and a fringe of borderlands populated
by Germans. This measure turned East Prussia into
isolated territory. Danzig also became isolated
territory governed by the League and Poland jointly.
It remains so for the moment, by grace of Germany.
There are 34,000,000 Polish citizens—almost two-
thirds of them racially Poles.
Next, Rumania was built up from a country with
8,000,000 people into one with 19,000,000 by the gift
of Transylvania. Hungary, deprived of Transylvania
and districts added to Czechoslovakia, was restricted
to 36,000 square miles, carrying 8,000,000 people, with
poor industrial resources. Southern Slavs and Mon-
tenegrins were “freed” — i.e., handed over to “gallant
little Serbia.” This move was supposed to represent
the reunion of sister-nations.
Gallant little Serbia stripped the new territory
of its shirt and used the proceeds to build old Serbia
into an industrial area. An Australian who went
down there in 1927 wrote that in every village the
liberated citizens “seemed to be singing songs of
hate, songs full of a horrible passion of anger,” directed
against their new masters. Up to that time, the central
Government was in the pocket of France —army, note
issue and everything else were patterned on French
equivalents. After the assassination of King Alexander
on French soil and France’s swing to the Left and to
alliance with the U.S.S.R., the Yugoslavs cultivated
Italy, the country’s natural ally across the Adriatic.
There remains Bulgaria, a country less than half
the size of Victoria, with 5,000,000 sturdy, stolid,
resentful, though uncomplaining people.
Not one of these countries is stable. The Zeklers
and Saxons of Rumania despise their alleged Roman
masters. Bulgars on one side and Croats on the
other loathe the Serb, who responds with interest.
The proud landowning Magyar looks down on
the city-bred Left-wing Czech. Poles in Czech terri-
tory long for “liberation” as ardently as Germans
in Poland and in Czechoslovakia. The Montenegrin
has his own ideas about else ; and the
Turks whom the invasions have left behind turn up
their noses and feel their right hands itch every time
they encounter any of the rest of the boiling of races.
Czechoslovakia’s relations with Germany have
become a source of anxiety to the world. Its relations
with Poland are little better; the Poles affect con-
tempt for the Czechs as a lower order of Slavs and
fear their relationship with Russia. Hungary leans
towards the Germans, German being a second language
of most of its people in the cities and towns.
United —if they could be —these Slav and Magyar
nations would be quite capable of looking after them-
selves without anybody’s help. Together, if the
Rumanians are included, they number 90,000,000, or
more than twice the population of France. They
have oil, coal, iron, radium, great wheat belts and
water power. They have abundant inter-communi-
cation by rail and water, along with defensible barriers
of mountains.
To Britain they have little to give. Without
exception, their trade with the U.K. is comparatively
small and is always conducted with a substantial
credit balance on their side of the ledger. There is
little reason, therefore, why Britain should prize them
as a sphere of influence, or follow France in the
latter’s blind determination to provoke the fear and
hatred of every Balkan country which it can turn
into part of a circle of enemies round Germany, as
a factor in the French system of “defence.”
If the Reich is really bent on world dominion,
Czechoslovakia is not a good place in which to begin.
Not nearly as good as Scandinavia, with its food,
timber, metal, shipping and technical resources and its
fine harbors on the North Baltic and the North Sea. But
the Scandinavian countries have no fear of Germany,
though they are afraid of Russia. No French voices
are heard begging them to hurry into defensive alli-
ances. The French know from experience that the
Scandinavians are a hard-headed people who have
learned that the easiest way for an outsider to buy a
fight is to be seen holding the coat of somebody who
is always looking for one.
E. H. M.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Churchill!
Mr. Winston Churchill is getting far more space
in Australian newspapers than he receives in the press
of the party to which he now chooses to belong in
the land that knows him too well.
When Mr. Eden resigned Australians were invited
to believe that Mr. Churchill would secede and a
considerable body of Conservatives with him. Mr.
Churchill’s plan for gingering up “collective security”
and Mr. Churchill’s invitation to ten unnamed small
Powers to encircle Germany are mentioned in the
cables every few days. A Sydney weekly is running
a series of Churchill articles. During the Austrian
crisis Mr. Churchill favored a Perth weekly, by
request, with a Special Message; subject, “Will There
Be War?” And the daily that claims the largest circu-
lation in Australia regrets that “Mr. Chamberlain did
not see his way to harness the great dynamic talents
of Mr. Churchill to the reorganisation of the Air
Ministry and the speeding up of the new expansion.”
Surely Gallipoli should be enough to sicken Aus-
tralians of Mr. Churchill for all time. Not only
because it was a reckless gamble which failed, and
in which so many of their splendid sons were sacri-
ficed, but because it deprived the Empire of the
services of “Jacky” Fisher when it most needed the
greatest seaman of the age.
This has been made plain by a distinguished
Englishman, Viscount Esher, in the third volume of
the letters and journals written by that friend and
confidant of kings, princes, statesmen, diplomats,
soldiers and sailors.
In Viscount Esher’s journal for May 15, 1915,
there is this entry: —
The King... .told me that Fisher had resigned. The
endless quarrels with Churchill have come to a head.
And on May 17, 1915: —
I saw Fisher, and he told me that it was impossible
for him to stay any longer at the Admiralty with
Churchill. He had disapproved of the Dardanelles
operations from the beginning; he gave all his reasons
to the Prime Minister, but was overruled He said that
the Grand Fleet has been dangerously weakened, and
that the whole margin of preponderance over the Ger-
mans has been sent to the Near East Besides all this
very grave difference of view in matters of high strategy,
he complains of Churchill’s methods of corresponding
with the Admirals. He showed me a very strong
minute written by the Lords of the Admiralty endorsing
his views.
So the windbag prevailed over the man who knew,
and the Empire paid the price.
The memory of Lord Riddell is honored by all
journalists. In his Intimate Diary of the Peace Con-
ference, Lord Riddell wrote this note, the date being
January 26, 1919: —
I drove in the same car with Winston, who spoke
much of the Bolsheviks, against whom he is very bitter.
He would like military intervention in Russia by means
of British, French and American volunteers.
In subsequent conversations Lloyd George said: —
Winston is in Paris. He wants to conduct a war
against the Bolsheviks Winston was very-excited
about Russia. He was most insistent and prepared to
sacrifice both men and money. Now he is changing his
views on Russia.
The gentleman has changed them completely. Nowa-
days he wants to conduct a war with the Bolshevists
and the French and his ten unspecified small Powers
against Germany.
To Viscount Esher he was “deficient in imagina-
tion and impatient of opinions that do not coincide
with his own, a fatal defect in a civilian Minister
who has to consider the initial moves in a great war.”
Fisher found him “too changeable—he has a different
scheme every day.”
The danger of this journalistic stunting for
Mr. Churchill is that it may be worked up into an
appearance of a popular demand for the restless
old political adventurer —“The Dominions Want
Churchill! ” Actually, Churchill, given his head, would
be more than the Dominions could stand.
Water for the Interior.
The rain of the late East Indian monsoon made its
way southward to Australia. It received the kind
of reception given to royalty. Within 24 hours it had
changed the whole prospects of large areas in eastern
States, portions of which had been going through the
worst drought in a generation.
In some places sheep which could not be given
away suddenly acquired a normal value. The out-
look for the wheat, sugar and grazing industries was
revolutionised.
Losses have been heavy, particularly in sheep,
but many of the graziers most affected will reap some
compensation from the increased price of breeders.
Australia is a unique continent. Mesopotamia,
Asia Minor, Iran, the Punjab plain, parts of Eastern
Europe and the Mississippi-Missouri region get as little
rain, or less ; but they have reservoirs which Australia
does not possess.
When rain fails them the people of all of those
areas can look with a feeling of comfort at great and
muddy rivers running a banker from the local reser-
voirs—high mountain ranges which store winter
moisture in the form of snows and decant it, along
with useful fertilising silt, at the time when it is most
needed.
There are in Central Australia stations which
yielded fortunes, but which, under stress of over-
stocking, have reverted to the sand and have been
abandoned. Western N. S. Wales, in the saltbush belt,
has slowly lost stock-population, and to-day it is less
than in the early ’nineties.
Country nearer the coast has not developed in
carrying capacity commensurately with improvement
because “development” consists of one long alter-
nation of prolific seasons, which leave no reserves
behind, with deadly periods of water-shortage which
leave the land devastated. When the rains come rivers
sometimes run 40 miles wide in western Queensland.
The water goes to waste.
It is idle to say that much of it could not be
saved and stored. With the cleaning-out of many
of the big stream-beds, levees, planting of timber,
pipeline services and hay reserves at key points, the
effects of drought would be mitigated considerably.
And it should be possible to divert much of the water
which now goes to waste down the Georgina, Thomp-
son, Diamantina, Bulloo, Paroo, Warrego and Darling
to effective uses by canalisation and locking.
No money? There is plenty for less important
city and suburban “works” which produce nothing.
-<►—
Back to Sanity.
Though assured by the Council for Civil Liberties,
and by some State politicians and political bishops,
that they had right on their side, the Sydney members
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation decided that
their ban on the loading of tin clippings, scrap iron
and tallow consigned to Japan wasn’t worth carrying
on at the price of the introduction of the licensing
system on Port Jackson wharves.
At a “stopwork” meeting last Wednesday they
carried a resolution “deploring the action of the
Federal Government in forcing them to load war
material into vessels for foreign belligerent Powers,”
and “viewing with horror the coercive measures threat-
ened by the Government,” but declaring in between
these anguished expressions that the embargo was off.
It is off in other ports as well.
Communists, of course, strove to have it con-
tinued and extended. But when a show of hands was
taken they and their sympathisers numbered only a
few score; on the side of sanity were thousands.
Hands were not actually counted, there being no
necessity, but the Communists were beaten by 25 or
30 to 1.
Apparently the average Sydney trade-unionist is
fed up with these noisy and mischievous people. The
community is likewise fed up with political bishops
and professors who blither about “Russia’s mighty
experiment for the world,” and with provincial politi-
cians who meddle in national matters, and is glad that
the Waterside Workers’ Federation has rejected their
foolish counsels.
The National Incubus Bill.
Mr. Lyons’s uncompromising refusal to pay doctors
more than 24d. per week for treating an insured
person under the “National” Health and (particu-
larly) Pensions Bill emphasises the insignificance of
doctors as a political organisation. His Government
hints darkly that it will establish its own medical panel
if necessary. Any number of highly-skilled doctors
could be got, at cut rates, from Germany and Austria,
but the Australian insured might not care for these as
the promised free choice of doctor. None the less,
they would probably give better service than the
“coughs and colds forward —bottle of No. 6 each —
rheumatics stand up” procedure of English panel
doctors.
Sponsors of other demands must be taken seriously
by Canberra. The lower pension rate for women
is to be “rectified” at “some slight addition” to Federal
grants. It is hoped to placate the large class of single-
handed land men, whom the bill proposes to exclude
entirely, with hints of “sympathetic consideration.”
Limitation of proposed benefits to insured persons,
not including wives and families, has created an uproar
productive of assurances that “something” will be
done. Small employers, too, are to have it made easy
for them.
The bill was based on strict actuarial figures. If
these limits are altered, even to a slight degree, the
whole financial basis of the vast scheme will be dis-
organised. The original figure ran to £285,000,000.
If half the promises alleged to have been made are
honored this will be exceeded by at least another
£100,000,000. A great deal of explaining will be
required when the matter of extra Federal taxation
required for their fulfilment comes out in committee.
No more inappropriate time could have been
chosen for introducing the measure. After June the
Government majority in the Senate will be heavily
reduced. The Minister of Health and the Attorney-
General are absent in England. The overseas situation
is such as to render large expenditure on defence
imperative and urgent, with consequent increase in
taxation.
Has Mr. Lyons attempted to visualise what would
happen to the scheme if Australia had to fight for
its life at home and abroad in another international
war-madness? Does he fully realise that the whole
vast accumulated pensions fund will, in 40 years from
now, still be unable to meet the pensions bill of 1978
by more than £15,000,000?
Kill or Cure?
“Humanist”: The case of 65-year-old Alfred Spicer,
hanged in Sydney for the foul murder of a six-year-
old girl, revived the disputation for and against the
death penalty. What ought a democratic community
to do when murder has been done and the murderer
has been caught, tried and convicted? To slay the
slayer, many think, is an ignoble surrender to the
baser feelings and passions, particularly the passion
of vengeance. But the community has the right and
the duty to protect itself against the killer. How
protect itself?
To the point are the views of Dr. Stanton Coit,
the London ethicist, who advises, in certain obvious
cases, detention in a mental hospital, and, in others,
such a mode of imprisonment as would give oppor-
tunity to study the causes of mental aberrations, to
examine motives, to change the distorted vision. Says
Dr. Coit:
Incurables and incorrigibles are indispensable aids
to our finding out the possibilities and the varieties of
form which human nature may take, and the conditions
which bring about moral as well as mental deformity.
When we know these things we may be able to put an
end to all conditions that cause insanity and moral
disease, and to rid sane minds of the wrong sentiment
of self-deification.
As a sympathetic reviewer of Dr. Coit’s pamphletised
lecture pointed out, the scaffold deprives society of
the power to pursue this self-defensive and beneficent
inquiry.
Wide Open.
On May 18 Dr. King, one of the northern flying
doctors, set out from Wyndham to treat an urgent
case 200 miles away at Victoria River Downs. There
is a track all the way and the route is often flown.
The doctor and his pilot did not reach their
destination. As it happened, they were safe, but this
was not known for two days, although several
machines took part in the search. And it was fast
work in that particular field—almost a record in the
history of lost Territorian airmen.
There are no real air maps of the Northern Terri -
tory or of any northern air route. There are no emer-
gency landing-grounds worthy of the name. Yet there
are hundreds of spots on which even large aeroplanes
could safely land.
Seeing that it is so hard to find ’planes which
come down on regular routes, even when speeds,
intended journeys and times of departure are known,
what sort of a task would it be to discover unsus-
pected ’planes which had come unheralded over the
sea, perhaps from points 1500 or 2000 miles away?
The aerial charting of the North, the laying-down
of emergency landing-grounds and the regular patrol-
ling of waters capable of being used as harbors by
heavy seaplanes, and of open spaces suitable for aerial
landings, have become necessary to the defence of
Australia.
Politics, Pigs and People.
“ML.”: To plain men, this seems to be the order in
which officialdom is viewing the three major con-
siderations affecting Melbourne’s most pressing social
problem, the provision of more hospital accommo-
dation.
Work on the hospital it is proposed to build
in place of Royal Melbourne, now occupying a city
block, can’t be begun until the City Council shifts
its pig market from Parkville. The council wants to
transfer the pig market to South Kensington; the
Dunstan Government objects for “health reasons.”
The “health reasons” are that the pig population
would be congested in the event of floods and that
it would be too close to dwellings anyhow. Actually,
the level planned for the market is higher than that
of any flood on record, and the pigpens wouldn’t be
any nearer to residences than are the abattoirs and
the Newmarket saleyards, which enrich the air of
the same locality. By political chance, however, the
veto suits members of the Labor party, without whose
support Mr. Dunstan’s minority could not “govern.”
It would be for the good of the greatest number
if the Parkville site were used for the erection of a
less expensive hospital than the institution for which
Mr. Dunstan is prepared to find £BOO,OOO (£500,000 is
to be borrowed), one capable of taking the overflow
from a modernised Royal Melbourne and other
public hospitals which are forced from time to time
to turn away injury cases through lack of beds.
Hertzog In Again.
“Der Jong” : “Within the lifetime of persons now
present, the British Empire may break up,” said
Malcolm MacDonald to the Empire Press Union ; and
no doubt he had South Africa in mind. But the
result of the Union elections gives no cause for
pessimism. The Fusion Government was returned
with a huge majority over all parties.
Though it lost five seats, it will have 111 members
in the Assembly. The Dutch Republicans—the
Nationalists, so called—raised their party representa-
tives from 21 to 27, and the extreme British rump —
the Dominion party—now numbers eight instead of
five. Labor, with three, and the Socialists, with a
solitary comrade, remain negligible.
Women, exercising the franchise for the first
time, made practically no difference, though they are
reported as having polled heavily. Many who knew
something of South Africa in the years after Vereenig-
ing, feared that the bitter antagonism of the Boer
women, which continued after their menfolk had
decided to make the best of things, would help to
augment the Republican vote. In the defeat of
A. P. J. Fourie, the Minister of Commerce and Indus-
tries, and the narrow majorities of Prime Minister
Hertzog and Finance Minister Havenga, there was
some evidence of the old feeling in back-country
electorates. But the Republicans had to reckon with
the fact that, under Fusion rule, South Africa has
reached a prosperity it never knew before. And once-
hated Johannesburg is the chief factor; unnourished
by gold, South Africa is not an ideal agricultural or.
pastoral proposition.
The Fusion is for the maintenance of the British
connection. With Italians in Ethiopia and Nazis in
South-west Africa, coupled with the ever-present
native menace, once-hostile Afrikanders have been
obliged to realise that continuance in the Empire is
distinctly the best bet.


Society
" AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.”: By describing Kalgoorlie as the
“wickedest city in Australia,” a visiting
clergyman started a controversy the
echoes of which have been heard round
the continent. A supporter, also a clergy-
man, gave his testimony in Adelaide
“Advertiser”:
Kalgoorlie and Boulder have between
them about 20,000 people. They are
served by an up-to-date brewery, about
50 to 60 hotels, innumerable illegal bet-
ting shops, big two-up schools, the dogs,
the trots, two racecourses, and, for good
measure, a street of new and up-to-date
houses of ill-fame. What more could
anyone want?
It was signed “John McNeill.” John
McNeills take some beating when their
thoughts turn to moral invective.
* X * *
“Dhas”: The sob-brothers who are
cabling the gossip about Bradman and
co. are not doing their job thoroughly.
So far we’ve learnt of Fleetwood-Smith’s
knee, McCormick’s ankle, Waite’s shoul-
der, McCabe’s neuritis, White’s toe and
O’Reilly’s tooth; but which toe or
tooth? Robert Taylor, Garbo and the
Dutch royal family are still more amply
chronicled.
:Jc
“D.E.”: Young Menuhin —judging by
his photographs, quite a fat boy now —
married his Victorian girl in a London
registry office. With the charming dis-
cretion they always display on these
occasions, the newspapers spread them-
selves on the subject of the bride’s under-
clothing, on which, it seems, “200 ex-
pert needlewomen were engaged for a
fortnight.” Details? Why, certainly:
Nearly three dozen sets of the briefest
scanties. The most lavish negligees. A
bridal set of diaphanous white chiffon with
appliqued satin wedding bells and trimmed
on the edges, the bride’s name being deli-
cately embroidered on each garment. Lin-
gerie of chiffons, satins and velvets
trimmed with costly Alengons and Valen-
ciennes, the daintest cobwebby lace (my
dear!), embroidered with point torque.
Linen sets of the finest drawn threadwork,
trimmed with Irish lace, costing pounds a
yard. Nearly 1000 pieces (if you under-
stand me), and all carried out in moon-
light blue and white.
And don’t imagine that “the wedding
dress alone cost two-pound ten and two-
pound twelve and six the wedding
cake”:
The bride was married in a Hartneli
lovebird grey romaine diagonally tucked
dress. Her coat was trimmed with fox
cuffs. Her stitched tulle halo hat had an
osprey on its upturned brim.
Presents:
A large cheque, a mink coat, a nutria
coat, a red fox cape, two complete sets of
jade and diamond and emerald and dia-
mond earrings, clips, brooch, rings, neck-
lace and bracelets.
And all made out of aspirin tablets. But
not wholly in Australia. The Nicholas
firm is one of several Australian concerns
—Berleis and the O.T. people are others
—which have established themselves in
Britain in the last few years and done
very well there in competition with the
world.
% sfc sfc
“Palisades”: News of the rioting in
Jamaica revives old memories. None of
the British West Indian islands has a
blacker record of riot and rebellion, with
bloody accompaniments. The trouble
began a couple of centuries or more ago
when runaway slaves discovered that the
tangled mountain: forests of the interior
gave them safe harborage from their
white pursuers. They established them-
selves there as a self-supporting com-
munity and periodically raided the plan-
tations, massacring without mercy all
white folk. Numerous expeditions sent
against them were repulsed, and it was
only when terms were made with them
and they were given a clean sheet that
the menace of the “Maroons” ended.
Their story has inspired Jamaica’s colored
population to a degree of truculence not
often seen in the West Indies, and trouble
is perennial among them. In the ’sixties
Eyre, the explorer, was Governor of
Jamaica. An organised rebellion broke
out and Eyre declared martial law after-
much pillage and bloodshed, executing
several of the leaders. The wowser
element in Britain, led by John Bright
and Gladstone, laid an information for
murder against Eyre. He was trium-
phantly acquitted, though his career was
ruined. With that precedent in mind,
one does not envy the men who have to
handle this latest Jamaica problem.
“Look out for that top rung — it's a bit rickety."
“Airini”: My neighbor already had
three fine boys, but the arrival of a
daughter was the signal for great domes-
tic jubilation. Bill’s missus made it clear
that the baby was not going to be named
after any aunt or third cousin, and when
she sent Bill off to register the infant
she wrote the name Felicity clearly on a
piece of paper and bade him hand it to
the authorities. On the way down Bill
met a couple of A.I.F. cobbers, who
naturally insisted on his drinking his
daughter’s health with them. It was late
afternoon when Bill, somewhat under the
weather, arrived home. “Well, did you
register baby all right?” was the inquiry
that met him. “Well, no, I didn’t exactly,”
admitted Bill. “When I got to the place
I couldn’t find that piece of paper. And
when I told the bloke in the office I
couldn’t remember whether you wanted
the kid called Ferocity or Publicity he
says I’d better go home and make sure.”
* * * *
“Verri”: A Sydney painter whose wails
were decorated with nude studies, gifts
from brothers of the brush, was
astonished when his unusually satisfac-
tory charlady gave him notice. He
asked for reasons. “It’s them,” she ex-
plained, with a comprehensive sweep of
her arm towards the nudities ; “I can’t
stand ’em.” “But,” the owner protested,
“you’ve worked here with them for six
months and never complained. You
don’t mean to say you object to them
now.” “I don’t objee’ at all,” the lady
replied ; “but w’en I come here it was
summer, and I didn’t seem to notice ’em
much. Now it’s turned cold I get shivers
down me back ev’ry time I look at ’em,
and I go round feelin’ chilly all the
time.” Rather than lose an excellent
char the artist hastily took down the
unclad ladies and packed them away until
warmer weather prevails.
* * * *
“Failed 8.A.”: I had thought the Syd-
ney yelper press the limit for tangled
blither, but am compelled to hand the
chupatty to Calcutta “Forward,” an
Indian native-controlled daily. Referring
to the Eden-Chamberlain fuss, the jour-
nal says “Hats off to Mr. Eden,
helping to (ear off the veil that was cover-
ing the essentially Fascist face of the
Tory Rump.”
* * * *
“Kohi”: Of the 44 subscribers listed
in the first directory issued—sB years ago
—by the old Melbourne Telephone Ex-
change Co., only one appears in the
latest 444-page city ’phone book with
its original call-number—John Zeven-
boom’s brush-manufacturing house. The
name has altered through the years to
John Zevenboom and Co., and to-day’s
partnership and firm contains no Zeven-
boom —the founder died about 40 years
ago but the firm still occupies the
same Elizabeth-street site. The Zevenboom
locality has so far missed the conversion
to automatic working which, when the
new directory came into use on Satur-
day (May 28), gave the Jas. Henty firm
—now Parbury, Henty and Co. —a dif-
ferent call-number from the 3 that tele-
phone users had asked for since June,
1880.
* * H= *
“Tuar't”: Communists suffered two
shattering shocks last week. The Water-
side Workers’ Federation turned down
the anti-Japanese boycott they had
worked up, and their campaign against
the skipper of the Seeteufel crashed in
sheer futility. I have long been con-
vinced that their “movement” will never
amount to anything in Australia. The
public has become dead tired of their
cheeky demands that men should throw
up their jobs for the gratification of Mos-
cow, as a preliminary to going to war
for Austrians, Red Spaniards, Czechs,
Chinese or Russians ; and then Commu-
nists have shown themselves such dull
dogs. In a community with a sense of
humor the effect of their gloomy proces-
sions, in which unsmiling young men and
women with flat foreign faces carry too-
faithful pictures of their scowling Tartar
and Circassian leaders, is exactly the
reverse of what they were intended to
produce. On the other hand, their walk-
ing denunciations of Von Luckner, thrust
among shopping crowds, only made
people laugh at them and warm to that
jovial old legpuller. Von Luckner has
been a success in Sydney, so much so
that he could talk bilge over the air about
his juvenile worship of Buffalo Bill with-
out being dismissed as a bore. Some-
how he appeals to the Australian tem-
perament, even in the case of Sydneians
who have no illusions about him —unless
it is in respect of his capacity for sur-
rounding beer without showing any
effect. This is considered exceptional by
Germans themselves. The Count, it
seems, thinks nothing of emptying a five-
gallon keg in a day.
* * * *
“Keg”: I suppose I can be classed as
one of the N.S.W. quota of men trained
in anti-gas methods; anyway, I have
attended the full course of lectures—two.
I haven’t seen a modern gas-mask, none
being placed at our disposal, nor could
I assimilate the mass of details hurled
at the class by our lecturer. I suggested
that a handy digest should be distributed ;
the “%key man” promised to do his best,
but was not hopeful, as expense had to
be considered. I am a tram conductor.
If a gas attack came I might be in the
thick of it. It would be a poor lookout
for my patients if I were in a position
to practise on any.
* * * *
“Fisher”: The bright young fellow
“King’s Inns” mentions (B. 19/5/’3B) had
a less fortunate disciple in the Law
School at Sydney. While the Faculty of
Arts employs the Continental pronun-
ciation of Latin, the Medical and Law
Schools cling to the English variety.
Everyone is happy about the anomaly
except Arts graduates who go on to
Law ; the Latin of Justinian, through the
medium of a law lecturer, generally floors
these gentlemen first go. An infuriated
ex-Classics-Honors man got up a round-
robin requesting lecturers to “repeat
Latin quotations twice, in order to give
educated men a chance to understand
them!” The authors were fined half
a guinea a head for impertinence.
* * * *
“Sawbones”: “Specs” (B. 19/5/’3B)
can’t have much knowledge of phy-
siology. Any mug student knows that
everyone has a blind spot, one in each
eye, where the optic nerve enters the
eyeball. “Specs” could demonstrate this
to himself by closing one eye and look-
ing straight ahead with the other. If
he holds one finger at arm’s length in
front of his open eye and moves it
sideways it will disappear from his
vision about a foot out from the middle
line of his body. It soon reappears,
showing that the blind spot is a very
small area. The spot disappears when both
eyes are open, since if a ray of light
is focused on the blind spot of one eye
it is focused directly on the other in
the region of greatest visibility.
* $ s{c
“Old J.”: One fact which has a bearing
on the very palpable decline in jour-
nalistic credibility and manners is the
gradual extinction of the Old Roman
type of newspaper proprietor who was
his own editor. He hasn’t vanished alto-
gether, nor have his standards been for-
gotten, even in the cities, and you can still
find him without difficulty on the coun-
try press, more power to its elbow!
All the same, city journalism increasingly
tends to fall under the control of imita-
tion Northcliffes with a bent for buying
qp papers and shutting them down
(Northcliffe never did that), and flash
young gentlemen of limited intelligence
who come into money. Hence excessive
power with little sense of responsibility ;
sensationalism, suggestiveness and small
beer ; cheap skite and vulgar booming of
friends. The Old Roman type of news-
paperman has no friends —only principles.
*..**'*
“S.”: I always thought the magazine-
story lad who gets into trouble by
skedaddling when he finds himself on
the scene of a crime was simply asking
for it; but after a meeting with the Lor
at Camden (N.S.W.) I’m not so sure.
Standing on the Nepean bridge in the
darkness before sunrise, I was spoken to
by a burly fellow who had ridden up on
a motorbike. He asked suspiciously what
I was doing there. When I said, quite
truly, that I’d got up to watch the sun-
rise, that settled things; he’d have be-
lieved anything but that. He was a
policeman, and there’d been a burglary
just up the road. I’d taken a ticket from
Sydney to Campbelltown, another ticket
to Narellan, and then walked to Camden,
and I really felt criminal by the time
I’d explained all that. The curtain fell
on a touching scene: a dark bridge ; the
Lor peering down the back of my neck
to read the name-tag on my shirt, which
was the only means I had of establishing
my identity. Damn the dawn!
AXIS.
What curious words in several
New settings, days like these, we scan,
Since crises international
To rack this troubled world began!
An axis is the line you plan
Round which a body turns and taxies,
But German and Italian
Now have their special brand of “axis.”
Of syllables they’re prodigal,
Some adjectives no papers ban;
Consider “ideological,”
Likewise “totalitarian.”
Once they’d have stumped the average man
Who into neater compass packs his
Ideas. But now they’re counted an
Adjunct as requisite as “axis.”
A peacemaker we used to call
That worthy cosmopolitan
Who liked to see his land a pal
With ev’ry other tribe and clan,
From Yugoslavia to Japan.
To make “appeasements” now he backs his
Barrow to wheresoe’er he can —
A word as hardly-worked as “axis.”
And calm and steady, through it all,
Grim strife or entente cordiale,
When bellum rages or when pax is,
Our earth pursues its natural
Itinerary round its axis.
N.S.W.
MIFPORD.


“Burglar’s Improver”: Blime, them
Brisbane Johns is the limit! Young Billo
goes up there for a bit o’ smoke when
the Sydnee Johns gets stickybeakin’, an’
an old dame gets ’im pinched ’cos ’e
was lookin’ fer birds’-nests while ’er
washin’ was ’angin’ out. They finds a
screwdriver an’ some bits er wire on ’im.
Billo pulls a line of talk about them
bein’ the tools wot ’e used fer gettin’
oysters fer a ’onest livin’, an’ the Beak
lets ’im orf with a warnin’. The court
sarge asts ’im friendly like where ’e
gets ’is oysters, an’ Billo tells ’im them
there stone walls along the river is just
lousy with ’em. And, strike me fat, ’fore
Billo lands out o’ the flamin’ joint, if
them Johns ain’t got ’im up on a charge
of takin’ oysters in a perhiberted place
an’ the pore little cow gets knocked back
a coupla quid.
* * * *
“Ardrigh ’: The movement to save
Achnacarry Castle, the ancestral home of
the Cameron clan, along with clan lands
(B. 6/4/’3B), has spread to all the Aus-
tralian States. Donald Cameron, who
was a soldier and a Commonwealth ex-
politician, is chieftain, and Australia will
be represented at a rally of the clan to
“May I have this one with you, sir?”
be held at Achnacarry next month. It
will be a tame affair beside the last one,
which preceded Bonnie Prince Charlie’s
rebellion. Indeed, clan tradition has suf-
fered serious changes since the Forty-
five, as witness the fact that the Queens-
land secretary to the clan movement is
not merely a woman, but—by marriage
"It'll be crook for ole Joe Thompson if one of them chain
stores opens up 'ere!”
—a Mackay. Two hundred years ago
the Camerons were not partial to having
either women or Mackays associated with
their affairs. A nineteenth-century
Lochiel had reason to curse the day
women were invented. He chanced to
stroll through the West End of London
in his kilts, and an indignant crowd chose
to recognise him as John Brown —not
the John Brown whose body lies moul-
dering in the grave, but the gillie o’ that
ilk. If it had not been for a couple of
Irish policemen, the chieftain would have
been in greater danger than his ancestor,
Black Ewan, was exposed to at Killie-
crankie.
“Kiwit”: Even casualty wards have
their lighter moments. One of a pair of
bulky young men who dropped in at
Royal Melbourne went berserk —punched
the walls, chased a dresser with a mop
and finally headlocked a doctor, dragging
the medico up the corridor to minister
to his mate. It took a bunch of J. Hops
to subdue him. I doubt whether the
Law would have been necessary had Dr.
Dunlop been in attendance. Best known
as a slashing Rugby Union forward, Dr.
Dunlop was heavyweight boxing cham-
pion of the University when he was
there. His departure for England during
the week may have robbed the night-staff
of a rousing corridor scrap.
* * * *
“Spenton”: The Anglican Synod at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) tried lately to lure
back the moving finger and cancel a
half-line of history writ in 1534. It
carried a motion to the effect that “the
Minister for Education be requested to
delete from history books used in Stale
schools the clause stating that Henry
VIII. founded the Church of England
as being contrary to fact.” Nothing much
happened except a brisk controversy in
a local paper.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Humor seems
to be on the down-grade among English
bishops. His Grace of Kingston took
the opportunity to scold the House of
Lords in some detail for its tendency to
marital naughtinesses, as recorded in
newspapers. At a clerical gathering?
Not on your life —at the Home for
Friendless Girls. It is to be hoped that
his official superior will give him a suit-
able telling-off for putting ideas into the
heads of lone maidens.
* *
“Coif”: An interesting instance of the
archaic condition of the law in N.S.W.
was the necessity for naming John Doe
as a fictitious guardian of a minor con-
cerned in a court case. John and his
offsider, Richard Roe, derived originally
from the statutes of mortmain which
forbade the sale or transfer of lands to
the church. Churchmen retaliated with
the doctrine of uses and trusts, which
enabled a grant to be made to an ecclesi-
astical foundation in trust until John
Doe should proceed to Rome and re-
turn. As John never went to Rome, the
grant amounted to a freehold.
Pollock, in his Leading Cases Done
into Rhyme, has a magnificent Ode
to John Doe in the Swinburnian
manner. Before I call down a
thousand corrections on my head,
1 would add that the foregoing
sketch of John and his activities
gives only a slight idea of the duties
he was called upon to perform.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: If “Piscator” (B.
26/5/’3B) takes Zane Grey for anything
but a mug in respect of accurate
knowledge of Australian fish and their
habits, then he either hasn’t read Z.G.’s
writings carefully or he doesn’t deserve
his own pen-name. Grey didn’t even
realise that the jack mackerel of N.S.W.
and S.Q. waters is identical with the
fighting wahoo about whose prowess he
has written yards of yarns. His nonsense
concerning the bloodthirsty glare of an
Bft. grey nurse shark makes any fisher-
man's infant laugh, and the india-rubber
“White Death” in his Great Barrier Reef
film has evoked the derisive raspberry in
many a Queensland seaside picture show.
Zane Grey may be all right for hanging
on to a couple of hundred quids’ worth
of rod machinery from a swivel chair,
while a skilful launchman enables him
to tire out big fish, but there his fish-
knowledge ends.
* * . =;= *
“Syd Nea”: As a street name, High
has its points (B. 26/5/’3B). In King-
street, Sydney, I was hailed by a country
dame who inquired the way to “the
principal part of the town: I mean, which
is the way to the principal street?” I
said I was darned if I knew which was
the principal street, but suggested that
George-street might come up to her
expectations. George-street was “High-
street,” and also “Sergeant-major Row.”
Pitt is the Sydney street with the oldest
name. It was once “Pitt Row” ; and even
the antiquarians don’t know whether the
Pitt is there in compliment to the states-
man or whether it was derived from the
fact that thereabouts were pits front
which water used to be drawn.
“Schnoirer”: “Liberal” Judaism, now
on a fairly solid footing in Melbourne,
has arrived in Sydney, where a Temple
of Progressive Jewry has been estab-
lished. The schism has reached con-
siderable proportions in the U.S.A.; in
Germany (before the Hitler upset) and
in France synagogues on the same model
abandoned the Saturday Sabbath. Lon-
don’s Liberal synagogue—the wealthiest
of all—has allowed Jews who have mar-
ried Gentiles to remain congregants. The
main objectives of Liberal Judaism are
modernisation of the ritual and sub-
stitution of English for Hebrew. It is a
fact that few Jews know much Hebrew ;
nevertheless the traditional synagogue,
insisting as it does that a boy must be
sufficiently versed in the traditional
language and scholarship to qualify for
his Ben-mitzyah, and thus gain admis-
sion to the congregation, has been a
bond of union to the race in all ages
and all the world over. It should be'
said that Liberal Jews in England and
America have been most generous givers
to Jewish causes.
* * *
“Sixenate”: Conscience does make
cowards of us all—of some much more
than others. A young man pinched some
of the firm’s cash, and, seeing Retribution
approaching, fled to a boat bound for
overseas. He has since wandered the
world, doing fairly well, but haunted
always by the fear that that old cow
Retrib. would get him. It so worked
upon him that he resolved to return to
Australia and face it out. The police
dusted out an old warrant, and he duly
appeared in court. The amount of his
peculation was £4 17s. 6d.! The Court
decided that he had suffered enough.
HOMOEOPATHIC.
“About 60 per cent, of doctors marry nurses.”
—Chairman of Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney.
What makes these mutual attachments start,
The end of which is easy to foresee?
What is it links together, hand and heart,
The man and maid who erst were fancy-free?
A lot of forces doubtless play their part,
But none so potent as propinquity,
An axiom that nobody asperses
Who sees how many doctors fall for nurse?.
“How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
Makes ill deeds done.” But isn’t it as true
That contemplation of the converse leads
To highly meritorious actions, too,
Resulting in the state which supersedes
That which the bachelor and spinster knew,
And sends twin spirits out into the farness
In the felicity of double harness?
What countless patients fall beneath the spell
Of dainty hands that temperatures take,
Of sympathetic eyes that on them dwell,
Of gentle arms that banish pain and ache,
And think—and maybe very often tell
Ihe owners—what ideal wives they’d make,
Without presumably the least suspicions
They’re nearly all bespoken by physicians.
She views him as a demigod whose nod is
Law, in whatever form he may assert;
While she to him, if not a semi-goddess,
Is an entrancing nymph, alive, alert.
Debarred a fashionable blouse or bodice
And wearing an abbreviated skirt,
But summarising to the whole vicinity
The rarest attributes of femininity.
They tend our ailments and in time we learn
They’ve found that they are soul-mates, he and
she.
When docs, to ministering angels turn
For conjugal existence vis-a-vis
1 think that in the habit you’ll discern
Something akin to homoeopathy.
Like draws to like, beyond all controversies.
What better brides for medicoes than “nursies”?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
a:
10 for 9'
20 for 16
D 382
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
mm
Wm
§
m
/:
CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE C
POLITICAL POINTS
The Queensland Diggers passed a uni-
versal-training resolution at their annual
conference in Maryborough. It was a
facer for Minister Foil, who had come
armed with an account of his Govern-
ment’s wonderful defence measures ; but
with a great effort he prevented his jaw
from dropping.
When put to the vote the wharfies’ boy-
cott resolved itself into a struggle be-
tween the Australia First and Australia
Last sections, and the Australia Firsts
\yon. Somebody dug up a 1934 resolu-
tion in which Labor declared itself
against participation in
Any war.... arising out of the existence
of the Polish Corridor, any Balkan disturb-
ance, French ownership of Alsace-Lor-
raine or the Saar, or the union of Austria
and Germany.
That expresses Australian sentiment,
bishops, editors, professors and Commu-
nists notwithstanding.
In 1914, according to G. H. Deane,
chairman of the S.A. Rifle Association,
Australia had 80,000 members of rifle
clubs and 27,000 joined the A.I.F. Now
there are only 47,000 official members of
rifle clubs, and a limit of 50,000 has been
set, on the ground that ammunition costs
so much. It is a crazy economy. South
Africa has 112,000 riflemen —service in
rifle associations is obligatory on young
citizens not called up for military train-
ing—and feels all the safer for having
them.
The new “Argus” is backing the Young
Nats, who are trying to depose Dr.
Argyle, whom the old “Argus” stoutly
defended. Argyle has turned 70 —rather
old for a party leader, if State politics
have become small beer.
In a foreign-affairs debate at Ottawa,
Mackenzie King, the Prime Minister,
said his country has no commitments,
cannot be drawn into war by the League
of Nations and will not go into an Em-
pire war except by decision of Parlia-
ment. As for his Government, it has
offered no advice to London and Lon-
don’s decisions are not binding on it.
There has been no earthquake in Canada,
though if Lyons said the like our Glori-
ous Press would do its best to work up
an imitation of one.
The Sydney doctor who was sentenced
to 12 months’ hard for “having injured
a woman when driving a car while
drunk” will have to do 10| months, less
good-conduct remission, from the date
of the conviction ; his appeal failed. It
is strict justice, but many a worse offen-
der has escaped scot-free.
As a U.A.P. paper puts it:
Yielding to determined pressure, the Gov-
ernment decided to extend medical benefits
to wives and children of persons insured
under the “national” scheme. It will cost
the Commonwealth about £300,000 a year.
Those who forced the Ministry’s hand were
Messrs. Stewart, Marr, Lane, McCall, Har-
rison and Jennings.
By a pleasing coincidence there are
about 3000 more women than men in
Lane’s electorate (Barton), 4000 more in
McCall’s (Martin), 5000 more in Stewart’s
(Parramatta) and Jennings’s (Watson),
6500 more in Marr’s (Parkes) and 8500
more in Harrison’s (Wentworth).
A long-distance argument on defence
expenditure in Queensland has been
raging since the Government’s proposals
were announced. Forgan Smith said his
State should be getting more for its fac-
tories and workshops. Thorby replied
that manufacturers would doubtless put
in for more if Foggy’s taxes weren’t so
steep. Foggy retorted that it was like
Thorby to say things like that: Thorby
had gone about Queensland saying them
during the State election campaign, and
everywhere he opened his mouth the
Labor candidates increased their majo-
rities. Then the Taxpayers’ Association
mentioned that the average rate of com-
pany taxation in Queensland is 43d. in
the £ and in the rest of Australia 22d.
That drew Foggy’s fire from Thorby.
A few weeks ago our Glorious Press
was blithering about Great Chinese
tories. Now it is rejoicing because
“300,000 Chinese troops escaped from the
dragnet cast round Soochow” when it
was taken by the Japanese. The cleverest
thing done by the Chinese during the
war was the scattering of “no surrender”
leaflets instead of bombs from ’planes
flown over Japanese cities. That made a
deeper impression than all the victory
“whoppers.”
Minister Perkins has put 20-odd crime-
and-sex magazines on the prohibited-
imports list, and Chief Secretary Gollan
“Sorry, gentlemen; I’ve given up the case. Better send for another consultant —if
you can get one for tuppence-ha’penny a week.”
sa Y s he has warned the publishers of
two N.S.W. periodicals that they are saii-
ing ver Y close to the wind. A warning
in less explicit terms had been issued by
Dunstan in Victoria. Gollan intimates
* at h f >? S? in S “ t 0 , di f ovsr , h ° w
tar actual crime has been influenced b>
sadistic and indecent publications ; and
i t is a field that should be studied, especi-
p • romnarativelv short nerind
all 7 as ’ l n a comparatively SfiOrt perioa,
scores of cases of interference With chll-
dren have been reported to the police in
N.S.W. alone. But nowadays sexy stuff
hits the degenerate in the eye nearly
every time he takes up a paper.
Air-Marshal Edward Ellington, Insoec-
tor-General of the R.A.F., will arrive in
Australia on June 15 and leave on July
18. In the interval, it is announced from
Canberra, he will “make a thorough in-
vestigation of Australia’s Air Defence
problems.” Leaving out the Territories —
and they have to be defended—Australia
has an area of 2,974,581 square miles
and a population of 6,800,000, scattered
round 11,300 miles of coastline in vary-
ing degrees of density. So the Air-
Marshal should find the job easy and
be able to fit in a good deal of golf during
his month of meditation.
A. E. Heath, whom Stevens appointed
to N.S.W.’s London office, is back in
Australia. Stevens and co. are astonished
that he didn’t stay until his successor
arrived, his successor being the Under-
secretary of the unnecessary Premier’s
Department. No doubt the man wanted
to do something more useful for his
living than cadging tickets for dead-
heads and Court invitations for social
climbers —the most important duty of
Agents-Generals nowadays.
It is admitted by the secretary of the
Navy Board that trimmings for officers’
uniforms are imported, as also is the
salmon served in R.A.N. messes. He
adds that “if any Australian-trawled and
-tinned fish could be procured of similar
quality” purchase might be considered.
As the first official recognition by the
Defence authorities of the possibility of
the existence of any kind of edible fish
—made edible, that is, by suitable tinning
—in the waters in which the Australian
Navy floats, his report is of historic
value. Forward, the Army!
Casey’s “national”-insurance measure
has done something—attracted to Can-
berra for a day or two almost the greatest
crowd of paying guests that ’Berra has
known. An F.C.T. Rip Van Winkle re-
turning from the local equivalent of the
Catskill Mountains might have imagined
that a multitude of ladies and gents had
just heard that only one income-tax is
payable in ’Berra and were rushing to
make the most of it. The catch is that
the one tax applies only to income earned
within the F.C.T., and that Casey’s bill
proposes a new impost.
J. M. Dunningham was the N.S.W.
Minister who looked after the 150th
Anniversary celebrations. He did the
big job well, and it is sad to think that
it should have shortened his days. As
Minister of Labor and Industry, Dun-
ningham made friends for his Govern-
ment and blunted hostility to it. There
were two unique tributes to his worth:
(1) Lang, Heffron and all their followers
who could possibly attend were at the
funeral, and (2) a decent interval elapsed
before the first candidate for the vacant
Assembly seat announced himself In
previous cases the scramble for a dead
member’s place began before the burial.
During the hectic week in which it
alleged that the French Foreign Office
Spokesman had Warned Germany and
that the Situation was Saved by Poland’s
Threat to Intervene on the Anglo-Franco-
Russo-Czech side, Sydney “D.T.” quoted
what it called a Moving Appeal to All
Who Believe in Democracy from a new
addition to American Left Wing jour-
nalism, “Ken.” Fragments of the “mov-
ing appeal”:
* Hitler would no more have dared move
on Austria without the nod from Halifax
than Mussolini would have dared move
on Ethiopia three years ago without the
winks from Laval and Hoare. From
Hoare to Halifax was a step deeper into
the dirt of double-dealing.
Surely the “D.T.” gets enough lies from
European sources without having to
draw on the U.S.A.
' One of those gaseous railway-union
bosses, Morrow by name, has formed a
new Labor party in Tasmania, having
been expelled by the old one for contu-
macy or something—he denied that
Premier Ogilvie’s national-training motion
had been carried unanimously, as stated
by the A.L.P. conference press committee.
So far the new party and its adherents
could be accommodated in a bar-room
with a 12ft. counter.
One day last week a dozen Arabs and
a Jew were killed in Palestine —about as
many more were wounded —and two
British cruisers had to steam to Kingston,
Jamaica, to prevent a massacre. The
Caribbean coon threatens to become as
great a problem as the Arab, and he has
a tendency to fry captives from which the
Arab is free. His sugar islands are no
longer of much account to Britain —mili-
tarily they are useless —and it might be
a good plan to sell them to Uncle Sam
for the equivalent in war debt and out-
standing interest. Sam’s erring children
could do any frying that might be
deemed necessary.
In 30 years, as the “Primary Producer”
has discovered, the Westralian State debt
has soared from £19,222,600 to
£92,332,800, though the population hasn’t
even doubled. The increase for 20 years,
1917-1937, was £51,418,000. And this is
exclusive of large settlement loans of
which the State has been relieved by the
Commonwealth. And no small part of
the £92,322,800 doesn’t earn interest,
being represented by abandoned farms
and “works.”
The Russian-alliance rags have been
at it again. Their troubles about “the
psychology of Russia,” which worried
wise old Esher over 24 years ago, and
drove him to write in this premonitory
strain:
Under Alexander a hundred years ago,
in the Crimea sixty years ago, and the
other day in Manchuria, Russia, suddenly
and for no obvious reason, unexpectedly
collapsed.
It cracked up again in 1917, and again
in 1920 against the Poles; and would do
it once more, and perhaps drag the
Empire down with it, if the Empire swal-
lowed the bluff and brag of its Red and
Pink fools.
Maoriland Labor, which is preparing
for a general election, has ceased to be
cocksure about it since it got such a
doing in city municipal polls. Dunedin
and Auckland, as well as Wellington,
turned it down, among those defeated
being the Rev. Cox, who was after his
third term as Labor Mayor of Dunedin,
Neilson and Chapman, Ms.P., Martin,
M.L.C., and Mark Silverston, a director
of the Reserve Bank. Worse would have
befallen the party had polling taken place
after Jordan’s denunciation of British
policy at Geneva, instead of before.


TOTAL AND IGNOMINIOUS SURRENDER.
“I don’t believe there is any equality of the sexes. There never was and there never can be.”
—Archie Cameron , Assistant Minister of Commerce. Men preponderate in Mr. Cameron’s electorate, Barker (S.A.).


ĸ
Tropical
Outfitters
IKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
'*• of Queen Street, Brisbane,
specialise in all Tropical Wear
for men . . .
Write, or, when visiting Brisbane, call
at the Leading Men’s Store and obtain
particulars of Pike’s Tropical attire, in-
cluding Suits, Helmets, Underwear, etc.
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
Of Queen Street
Brisbane
ONE ?
COMPANY? >
£
£
£
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the * spread ” over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry” session each Wednesday night at 9.30 from 21!E.
Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
m
PYROX - h
LICENCE BOSCH »/- Each.
SPARK PLUGS
t/a/37
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some June birthdays:
Medico-knight David Hardie (Brisbane), 82,
on 4th; Mrs. /Eneas Gunn (We of the Never
Never), on sth; ex-Defence Minister T. W.
Glasgow, K.C.8., 62, Justice Inglis Clark
(Speck), 56, Justice Boyce (N.S.W. Supreme
Court), 66, and Federal Film Censor O’Reilly,
61, on 6th; Prof. G. V. Portus (Adel.), 55, on
7th; Dr. C. J. Prescott (Sydney), 81, and S. L.
Gardner, M.H.R. (Robertson), 54, on 9th;
G. R. Steer (g.m. Brisbane Tramways), 65,
on 11th; John Lane Mullins (N.S.W.), 81, Kent
Hughes, M.L.A. (Vic.), 43, and Canon Ham-
mond (Syd.), 68, on 12th; Rowland James,
M.H.R. (Hunter), 53, on 14th; Tas. Railway
Commissioner F. P. St. Hill, 64, on 15th;
author Archer Russell, 57, J. H. Prowse, M.H.R.
(Forrest), 67, and Bishop Halse (Riverina), 57,
on 16th; Justice Cantor (N.S.W. Industrial
Commission), 51, on 17th; P. A. M. Mcßride,
M.H.R. (Grey, S.A), 46, Frank Tate (Vic.’s
former Director of Education), 75, on 18th; Dr.
J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen. of Quarantine),
58, R. A. Crouch (former M.H.R. for Coranga-
mite), 70, and J. W. Kitto (Aus. Broadcasting
Commission), 67, on 19th; former N.S.W.
Govt. Printer Alfred Kent, 66, on 21st; Prof.
J. B. Cleland (Adel.), 60, on 22nd; author
Frank Dalby Davison, 45, and knight Gilbert
Dyett (pres. R.5.5.1.L.A.), 47, on 23rd; R. O.
Blackwood (Vic.), 77, on 24th; knight Harold
Luxton (former Lord Mayor of Melb.), 50,
and Errol G. Knox (Editor, Melb. “Argus”),
49, on 25th; author C. L. Barrett (Melb.),
59, and Melb.-born Prof. W. K. Hancock
(Birmingham Uni.), 40, on 26th; Dr. Stilwell
(Vic.), 50, Dr. Fred Watson (editor of His-
torical Records), 60, and Speaker George Pol-
lock, M.L.A. (Q.), 48, on 27th; ex-Speck
Senator J. H. Keating, 66, on 28th; Tas. Solici-
tor-Gen. Philip Griffiths, 57, knight Victor
Wilson (ex-Commerce Minister), 61, and painter
Norman Carter, 63, on 30th.
Jack Dunningham, the N. S. Wales
Minister in charge of the Anniversary
celebrations, died in his office from a
heart attack. He was only 54 and one
of the most popular members of the
JACK DUNNINGHAM.
Stevens team. His carefree, well-
groomed appearance and customary air
of well-being belied both his energy and
the state of his health; for his heart
had given trouble for a long time, and
his working hours often ran to 16 or
17 in the day. He had been in Parlia-
ment since 1928, and a Minister since
1932, his chief occupation being the
unemployment problem till he began the
Anniversary job.
By way of a suburban council, J. T.
Packer has graduated from the real-
estate business to the chairmanship of
Melbourne’s Milk Board at £lOOO a year.
Born in Prahran in 1888, he followed a
lot of his business brethren into public
life and has been on the Caulfield
Council for 19 years. A member of the
original board which investigated Mel-
bourne’s milk supply, he became a part-
time member of the present three-man
board when, as a result of legislation
recommended by the inquiry, it was
J. T. PACKER.
created in 1934. Now he has succeeded
the late E. A. Kendall as full-time chair-
man. According to the new Milk
Board boss, Melbourne is drinking 800
million more gallons of milk a, year than
it did before the board began its pub-
licity campaigns.
Delegates from every State and visitors
from Maoriland were at the conference
of the Australian Veterinary Association
at Melbourne when W. L. Hindmarsh,
director of the N.S.W. Vet. Station at
Glenfield, became president. He was
born in Melbourne but is a Sydney Uni-
versity graduate, and went overseas as
vet. officer on the troopship that carried
the sth Artillery Brigade ; from Egypt
he was transferred to the Ist Artillery
Brigade in France. Although his father
was a Sydney businessman and his grand-
father an English civil servant, earlier
forebears all farmed Northumberland
acres ; a brother, P. Hindmarsh, head of
Hurlstone Agricultural High, also at
Glenfield, joined the Hindmarsh return
to the land and its problems. W.L. says
the experts he met across the Tasman
a couple of years ago knew that a recur-
rence of “suitable” climatic conditions
would start another epidemic of facial
eczema among stock ; but there was, and
is, very little they could do about it.
Back in S.A. for a holiday is Robert
Rymill, of Penola, explorer of Green-
land and the Antarctic. He has been
welcomed by the Geographical Society
and other learned bodies, and especially
by Profs. Douglas Mawson and Harvey
Johnston, who have both been far south
themselves. Rymill has no great opinion
of Grahamland, his latest exploration
field. Meteorological work there would
be useful only for forecasts in South
America, he says; also, the possible
minerals may be tackled only with im-
mensely improved transport, say half a
century hence.
Bob Raine, who has died at 72, was a
familiar figure in Roma-street (Brisbane)
markets in the days when it was a pic-
turesque and influential haven in which
a Premier and a Treasurer —Denham and
Barnes—were to be seen listening to the
oratory of Joe Allen, who combined auc-
tioneering during the latter part of his
career with a seat on the Board of Cricket
Control. Bob was the silent member of
the regular morning auction party, but,
like most North of Ireland men of his
austere type, his nod was a sounder con-
tract than a lot of other people’s sealed
indentures.
Australia has a remote association with
the Newdigate prize for verse since a
descendant of the donor was Governor
of Tasmania and Westralia. M. R.
Thwaites, the Victorian Rhodes scholar
for 1936, has joined the list of winners—
it includes Matthew Arnold and Laurence
Binyon, who wrote “For the Fallen” —
having been awarded the prize (worth 21
guineas) for a poem entitled “Milton,
Blind.” Thwaites is taking an honors
course in classics. He went to Geelong
Grammar and Trinity College, Mel-
bourne University, and is a sprinter and
a footballer. His father is headmaster
at Ballarat College.
M. R. Thwaites is by no means the
only Australian whose verse has oeen
highly praised by English dons. As far
back as 1822, an Australian would have
won the Chancellor’s Medal at Cam-
bridge for a poem on Australia if the
not-yet-forgotten Praed hadn’t been in
the field. He was William Charles Went-
worth, and in the last line of his verses
he referred to his native country as
“A new Britannia in another world.”
Emanuel Myerson has signed his last
receipt for house-rent. A Rumanian
Jew, Myerson came to Sydney 40 years
ago and made a bit of money in the
tailoring business and a great deal more
as a houseowner. In his heyday he had
more tenants than any other man in
Sydney, and more arguments with them
than any three men.- He counted a
wrangle over a shilling well won if it
cost him thousands—as “Smith’s Weekly”
discovered when he sued it for libel,
and, on the score of a triumphant re-
port that he had, in effect, lost the case,
sued it again. Yet the queer little Jew
did generous things, nor was he ever
known to brag about them.
In Thomas W. Haynes, Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce has an author as
well as a successful businessman as its
new president. Houghton’s published his
novel Our Daily Bread in 1933, and
REV. E. NORMAN McKIE, the Kirk’s
new Moderator in N. S. Wales.
The Bulletin knew him as a contributor
long before then. He is managing direc-
tor of Parbury, Henty, the company
into which the old merchant house of
Jas. Henty was turned in 1931, and
a director of the Springvale engineer-
ing firm of Geo. W. Kelly and Lewis.
For half of his 60 years he was g.m.
of the Mt. Lyell chemical works, and
before he retired he helped it reach
a peak in 1930, and assisted Common-
wealth Fertilisers on to its feet.
S.A.’s Lieut.-Col. Ross Blyth Jacob
earned the right to represent the Diggers
of Australia at the unveiling of the
Villers-Bretonneux memorial with ser-
Lieut.-Col. ROSS BLYTH JACOB.
vice at Anzac and the Somme and active
interest in the R.S.L. In August, 1914,
he commanded H Company of the 10th
Battalion, where the Broken Hill men
were, and at the landing at Anzac he
had charge of C Company. He served
in the Somme as second in command of
the 50th, and in 1917 was given com-
mand of the 10th and promoted to lieut.-
col. Now he is vice-president of the
S.A. branch of the R.S.L., after three
years in the president’s chair. Red
Cross, unemployment and centenary
doings have all occupied his attention.
Six hundred square miles of sheep coun-
try in the north-west of the State, where
he is in partnership with two brothers in
a pastoral company, also help to keep
him busy. He was born at Snowtoun
(S.A.) in 1888.
The civilian section of the R.A.A.F.
lost one of its most capable officers when
M. P. Allsopp, was killed in an Avro-
Anson crash with his mechanic, Corporal
W. A. Lockwood. Allsopp, once a Royal
Artilleryman, transferred to the R.A.A.F.,
but retired to join Vacuum Oil when he
had reached the rank of Flying Officer.
He made some of the earliest long-
distance flights in the Commonwealth
and contributed a lot towards the aerial
fuel organisation of the outback. At
the time of his death, he was Vacuum’s
N. S. Wales sales manager. He was
only 37.
The death of Thomas McCallum, at
78, left George Ritchie and David Gor-
don, both 73, the oldest men in S.A.
Parliament. Ritchie, with 36 years’ ser-
vice, is the senior in that respect; he
has held almost every office except
Premier or Treasurer. Gordon, an old
newspaperman (from the “Register”), is
now President of the Leg. Council. Both
have figured in “honors” lists.
C. B. Lethem, dead at Mt. Tamborine,
came to Queensland about the time of
separation. One of the first Brisbane
Grammar School boys, he became chief
Railway Dept, surveyor in 1890 and held
the job till 1918, when he retired.


The
V/////////////A
ALL the world over, smokers are
L demanding milder tobacco
milder cigars, milder cigarettes. Australia
is no exception, and here tens of thousands
of smokers of cigarettes that sell at ten for
sixpence are eagerly turning to " Capstan
Special Mild,” finding that they are mild
and fragrant yet satisfying. The reason is
the special blend of hand picked, mild
Virginia leaf that is exclusive to Capstan.
Ask for *'Capstan Special Mild” —
!
I .
in the REDp&cfa!
Jim
muni /
t«s
<o^
no
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
7755V-5-B


ABORIGINALITIES
“Skull Creek”: Gave chase to a fox
in the home paddock, but as my horse
was leg-weary from scrubber-bunting I
hadn’t much hope of bagging the raider
until I saw that he was headed towards
a gun-carrying stranger. Pulled up to let
the stranger have a fair go, but to my sur-
price and disgust he rested on his gun and
watched calmly while the animal scuttled
to the safety of the river bank. The
red devils had been playing old Harry
with the ewes and lambs, so I told the
gunman what I thought of him. He
wasn’t perturbed in the least. “My dear
fellow,” he said when I paused for breath,
“you were hunting the beast —technically
it was your fox —I simply couldn’t butt
in, you know.” I rode home wondering
whether I was a cad or just a bounder.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A female tick found
on an imported dairy cow at Wooden-
bong (N.S.W.) has probably caused more
trouble and argument than any other
single insect in Australia’s history, for
her appearance in a herd which has been
dipped every 14 days for the last 12
months shakes the foundations of the
extensive tick-eradication scheme on
which the Commonwealth and N.S.W.
have been spending £150,000 p.a. for the
last 10 years. The herd was in an area
where over 3000 head of stock had been
examined up to the end of April without
the discovery of a tick. Now it is in
quarantine, intensive search is being
made, and if more are found it will
mean remodelling the whole big scheme.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: “Worro’s” wild emu
that palled up with the sheep (B. 12/5/’3B)
reminds me of a wallaby which has
thrown in his lot with the dairy herd on
a Gippsland (Vic.) farm. The little hop-
per accompanies the cows to pasture and
returns with them to the milking yard.
When separating is in progress he stations
himself near the skim-milk spout and
shares the froth with the cowyard cat.
He may knock over a can of cream and
get mixed up with the legropes and
machinery belting now and then, but, as
he hops round the herd and stirs it up
until it takes the homeward track as
milking time nears, the cocky overlooks
his shortcomings.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: While agreeing with
“Gamey” on the merits of “hung” meat
and game, its unpopularity among Aus-
tralians is largely due to the fact that,
save in winter, our climate makes hang-
ing impossible. Refrigeration is no good
and tends to toughen meat rather than
otherwise. At the same time I fancy
even “Gamey” would hesitate, as the
writer did, to eat game “hung ’ as it was
under the regime of an English fore-
elder with whom I spent occasional holi-
days. He insisted that all his feathered
game be hung in the larder by the tail
leathers. The cook was allowed to take
to the kitchen only those birds which
had fallen to the stone floor by reason
of those feathers pulling out.
* * * 8:
“F.Y.7”: Unless stock-saddles have
changed since my time in the outback (B.
19/5/’3B), the bar from which the stirrup
hangs is provided with a snap-catch which
can be locked to prevent the slipping-out
of the leather of which “Warrigal” writes.
All the same, writer could always buy a
good old-fashioned hiding by locking the
snap. The powers that were held, and
rightly, that if the snap was locked when
the rider came unglued there was a first-
class chance of a passport to Paradise
should a foot catch in the stirrup. With
the snap left open the leather canie out
with the first pull.
* * * *
“Wagger”: That legend of the tailed
men of Papua has cropped up again,
Administrator Hubert Murray having
made his perennial mention of them in
his report. It was Billy MacGregor who
started the story. He was satisfied that
it originated from the practice of the
Upper Musa tribes on the n.-e. coast
of Papua wearing their hair in long,
pan'danus-bound pigtails down their
backs. But the legend is universal. Even
the allegedly civilised Scots entertained it.
Lord Montboddo, a contemporary of
Walter Scott, not only believed that
humans should have tails, but held that
“ 'Op it, y' glutton — you've 'ad enough."
the whole race would suddenly develop
them. Like a far-seeing man, he had
holes bored in all the seats in his house
against the day. Contemporary writers
tell us this was a source of embarrass-
ment to his family of pretty daughters,
who were often called on to explain the
perforations in a day when tails were
not alluded to by young ladies.
“Turoar”: “Me an’ Tarry Tom ud
orfen bin in a ’ole if we wasn’t ’speri-
enced men,” Old Bob said. “Take the
time Tarry ’as the go-in with Paddy
O’Smacker. Paddy’s a Melbin bloke.
’E’s trainin’ fer a wrastler, an’ comes up
for a season lumpin’ wheat ter git useter
’urlin’ big weights erbout. But when ’e
starts pokin’ out ’is chest an’ reckins ’e’s
a real ’Ackinsmit Tarry decides ter take
’im down a peg. Tarry’s pretty strong,
too, an’ ’e bets Paddy a quid ’e can play
tricks with a bag uv wheat what Paddy
can’t. Paddy covers the note an’ we
erranges the match. They starts orf from
the stack in the station yard, both luggin’
a bag on their shoulders. Tarry leads the
way. First, ’e crawls through a culvert
under the line, pushin’ ’is bag in front
uv ’im. Pat does it, too, but ’as a ’elluva
job, ’is shoulders bein’ a bit wide fer
easy goin’. Then Tarry ’eads fer the pub
an’ swallers a pot with 'is bag on ’is
’ead. Paddy nilly breaks ’is neck, but
manages ter git ’is beer down without
droppin’ ’is bag. Last uv all, Tarry goes
back ter the dump, puts ’is bag on the
top, then stands at the bottom to catch
it when I push it over. Poor ole
Paddy does it, too. It’s a fiftin-foot drop,
an’ ’is bag knocks ’im rottin, an’ ’e’s laid
up fer a week. That’s where ’sperience
comes in. If Paddy ud ’ad it ’e'd ’ave
filled 'is bag with cocky-chaff, too.”
* * * *
“Pommy”: Shearing was in full blast,
and I went out to pick up a singleton
ewe and her lamb that had evaded the
muster. I found her and sent her in the
right direction. A dam lay across our
track, and thither the ewe headed. Reach-
ing it, the old girl stood on top of the
batter, watching me, and making no at-
tempt to drink. When I reached the
bank she stamped her foreleg, spun
round —and took a deliberate header
into the dam! When she reached the
opposite bank and climbed the batter I
rode round, fully expecting her to trot
off and join her lamb. Not she. One
look, and she was sprinting again across
the stretch of water, about 20 yards.
Four times she did this, not once allow-
ing me within five yards. Once she trod
water because I stood waiting and then
made back to the opposite bank. Sheer
exhaustion after that trip defeated her.
Had she not been hampered by a 101 b.
fleece I wonder what the outcome would
have been. I hog-tied her and dumped
her—not in front of the saddle, but
underneath some tobacco bushes ; caught
her lamb and rode back to the home-
stead for the buckboard.
“Nordbo”: Do flies work under the
direction of some central committee,
king, dictator or union secretary?
Camped on the Cairns-Port Douglas road
(N.Q.), I noticed that the platoon of flies
which apparently was assigned to my tent
invariably numbered about 15. If I
swatted a dozen of them, within an hour
or two the casualties were replaced by
fresh troops. If I put aside my swatter
(a rolled-up newspaper) and observed a
temporary armistice, the original number
was not supplemented. It seemed almost
as if periodically a scouting fly looked
in through the tent door, consulted his
papers, and murmured i “Fifteen is the
allotment for a tent of this size and food
resource. Let’s see now” ; then, counting
the army of occupation, “h’m, 16 here ;
near enough, though—all sereno,” and
continued his tour of inspection.
*** * .
“Salmon Gums”: Industry, the virtue,
has taken the knock in my corner of
God’s green footstool. During late
autumn my citrus trees suffered a visi-
tation from hordes of aphides, but by
assiduously and expensively spraying 1
just managed to keep abreas of hem.
‘ M O y h.*in^ e he o S. ,o ”MTSre
loaded with ’em.” “What are you spray-
ing with 9” I asked “Well, I ain’t ’zap’ly
done anythin’ yet,” he admitted. “But I
must—soon ” Three weeks of inactivity
on his part,' and then he came across to
report considerable improvement. “Hun-
dreds of ’em dead,” he exulted. “Just
turned brown” Investigations revealed
the presence of another parasite working
havoc with the aphides. “There's none
of that in my trees” I said; “wonder
“You’re killin’ ’em with that
dam’ spray,” he pointed out. Do I have
to give in and announce a cornplete vie
tory for laziness and procrastination?
“Lower Tops’l”: Watched a fisherman
butchering a dozen wombats on the dila-
pidated wharf at Robe—that picturesque
old port, famous in the pioneering
days of s.-e. S.A. “Wombat,” he told
me “is next to horse as the best bait
for’crayfish-pots.” The district is appar-
ently the home of these marsupial pigs,
and the township kids catch as many as
they want. While Mr. Wombat is out
feeding at night, a chaff-bag is propped
open over the mouth of the hole. Then
the animals are disturbed by spotlights,
when they make for their holes and are
scooped up in the bags.
* * * *
“Ming”: Old Henry had lived by the
river for 40 years, and his two-roomed
shanty afforded shelter to sundry travel-
lers who arrived at dusk and didn’t care
to tackle the rather treacherous ford until
daylight. All were welcome except the
district bush missioner, whose presence
cramped Henry’s style and subdued his
usual raciness of narrative. Tt not un-
naturally astonished us the other day to
hear Henry singing the missioner’s praises
at the Bushman’s Arms in the next town-
ship, as he related how the man of good
works had arrived covered with mud and
wheeling a damaged motor-cycle, while
numerous abrasions bore testimony to
the severity of his encounter with a stray
cow. “But I thought you couldn’t stick
the parson, Henry?” a friend remarked.
“Neither I could,” agreed Old Henry.
“But I seen that night he was a decent
sorta cove. Y’see, up to that I hadn't
heard how he could talk when he was
worked up!”
“Bufo”: Lots of Australians, even bush
folk, seem to think that the platypus
is a rare animal nowadays, heading fast
on the road to extinction, like the possum
and koala. In actual fact, it is surprisingly
plentiful, and in some quite unexpected
places, too. Man is no longer a hunter
for its lovely skin, and aeons of ancestral
experience equip it effectively to cope
with other enemies. Instead of the single
joey of most marsupials, it lays two or
three eggs at a time, and the youngsters
are well able to fend for themselves
two months after hatching. Platypus flesh
does not seem attractive to hunting ani-
mals, and in any case the burrows are
admirable little fortresses against any
ordinary enemy. Its senses of hearing
and vibration are extremely acute, and it
is an intelligent animal, capable of de-
tecting dangers instantly and acting for
safety without delay. There is every
reason to think that it will see the mar-
supials out, just as it saw them in long
before mankind was on this earth,
*** t *
“Ornithos”: I rise in support of
„ N heer „ (B . i 2 /5/*3B) and his tin dogs.
Struck the tike first in Queensland,
where it was known as a Warrego dog.
On the same station I also met what we
called a “Kyabra pup.” It consists of
a few pounds of pebbles in a kerosene-
tin. A hefty kick on each side leaves
the corners sticking out as handles. Held
in both hands level- with the waist, and
rotated rapidly, the resultant din will
'drown the yapping of a dozen tobacco-
tin tikes, and will shift sheep when N. s
hound will produce nothing but an m-
dignant stutter of gummy jaws.
THE RIVAL.
This love’s a funny sort o’ thing—there’s of’en-
times 1 think
It’s jist as fatal to a man as gamblin’, say, or
drink.
The bliss a feller gets from it is mostly mixed
with pain;
I'm half inclined to curse the day I fell for
Liza Jane.
But that’s not fair—she ain’t to blame —I know
what’s up with me,
The curse of every lovesick bloke—it’s jist plain
jealousy.
Don’t think I’m all churned up because of
what some gossip says—
It’s simply this: Eliza Jane has caught the
knittin’ craze.
Wool —miles an’ miles of flamin’ wool is all
that’s caused the hitch;
I find I’m not as pop’lar now as some new
fancy stitch.
An’, ’stead of us two holdin’ hands, she gently
puts in mine
The job of windin’ skeins an’ skeins of “three-
ply superfine.”
It’s pretty tough to think that, when a feller
meets his girl
An’ talks of love, she bends her head an’
whispers “Plain an’ purl.”
A poor neglected coot—that’s me—with wool-
entangled wits,
Who hangs around, half-mesmerised, while Jane
Eliza knits.
These nights a bloke can’t even talk—he might
as well be dumb;
He has to sit in silence watchin’ Liza’s busy
thumb
Countin’ stitches by the hundred while she
purses up her lips
An’ glances up resentful every time a feller
slips.
It’s got her down, this knittin’ game, an’ me
as well. It seems
The clickin’ of the needles taps farewell to
lovers’ dreams.
Well, I can bear it, I suppose, but still it riles
a man
When he’s playin’ second fiddle to a half-made
cardigan.
VXCTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


“Wang”: “The worst windstorm I was
ever in,” said Dad Gumbough, “was at
Gargle Flat. I’d bin into the township,
an’ be the time I left Ryan’s pub it was
blowin’ a tornado an’ was black as the
inside of a nigger’s pocket. I couldn’t
even see me own nose. Anyway, I man-
aged t’ grope me way to where me horse
wus tethered, an’ I mounted him an’ set
off homewards. Blow! Even the hurri-
cane-lamps in front of Ryan’s wus blew
out. Me horse wus a good one, an’ with
me head down I coaxed him on. He bent
into it game, an’ went flat out. Well,
after about an hour, just when I wus
thinkin’ it wus about time we’d struck
the homestead, I experienced a queer
sorta sensation of me feet strikin’ the
ground. Then all of a sudden the wind
eases, an’ I sees Ryan lightin’ a lamp
a coupla yards from me. Yair, I hadn't
gone five yards the whole time, and me
horse had dug a trench in the road four
feet deep tryin’t’ plough inter the wind!”
* * * *
“E.S.”: The station abo. usually bears
a white-fellow nickname, as Tommy
Saucepan, Jacky Jacky, Tarpot, Billy
Bumble and Quartpot. But it isn’t so
generally known that the whites they work
with or for, particularly squatters, have
blackfellow nicknames, always used in
camp and in conversation between them-
selves. Binghi has the labelling propen-
sity in a humorous degree. He has a
quick eye for the prominences that de-
light the caricaturist, and thereon he
hangs the designation. A squatter on the
Bulloo whose mouth was mostly agape
was called Mooginja —“fly-catcher” ; a
neighbor who was bald-headed was
nicknamed Yannaburrie —“a claypan.” A
station manager who was wont to come
upon his men unawares was called
Quebie —“a sneak” ; and one who was
always strolling about the place was
known as Yammagadji —“old walkabout.”
* * * *
“Palmdale”: “Lego’s” par. (B.
12/5/’3B) brought back memories of the
major tragedy of my life. It was in the
big timber country of W.A. (where the
dogs have to learn to wag their tails
up and down) that I built my bush-hut,
I split jarrah posts for the foundations.
After a little while the house took on a
decided list to port, owing to the stumps
on one side taking root and growing
faster than those on the other. The
fault was easily overcome by the use of
a little fertiliser on the backward ones,
and soon I became quite expert at
gauging the correct amount to use to
keep the joint on an even keel. When
my humble abode crept higher, and
finally reached the 300 ft. mark, I was
swollen with pride. Then came tragedy.
Tripping over the doorstep one day I
crashed to the ground. I heard later
that people came miles to my funeral.
* * * *
“Gam”: Old Joe had been into the
township, where he had celebrated to the
full, but his horse knew
the way and was trot-
ting carefully home-
wards. Joe sat on the
floor of the spring-
dray, his back to the
horse and his feet
against the tailboard;
swaying gently to the
motion of the cart, he
was soon sound asleep.
An acquaintance, com-
ing from the opposite
direction on horseback,
shouted “Good day” to
him, and Joe woke with
a start. He stared down
at the road before him
in bewilderment. “Spare
me days!” he said;
“when I left town I was
drivin’ a horse in this cart. Now I’ve
gone and lost the old blighter!”
* * * *
“A.D.T.”: The worst walking I
know of is on the Barkly Tableland
(Q.). Take a line, say, from where
Tottenham Creek runs through the
border-fence and go sou’-west to hit
the junction of the James and Rankine
rivers. Roughly, that might be 30
miles. Unless a man was shod with
horseshoes he’d be barefooted by the
time he reached the rivers. The
ground, cracked and loose, is strewn with
limestone boulders, gibbers and pebbles,
which have a sharpness akin to a
butcher’s knife and a rasping effect equal
to a file.
* * * *
“Man Cook”: Though those hard, sun-
baked grassless patches of claypan seem
useless and uninspiring things, there are
times when they deserve some little
praise. In very dry periods dam water is
a stale and almost sickening drink. The
lightest of showers will leave shallow
pools on the claypans. They may be too
shallow to even dip a billy-lid ; a man
may have to cut out a small hole with
a penknife for some to run into before
dipping, and, though pale yellow and
gritty, it is fresh and a mighty fine drink.
* * * *
“Krill”: The termite is not the only
insect which provides useful building
material. A weevil found on the Eyre
Peninsula (S.A.) constructs hard cocoons
of calcareous material, and in places they
are so thickly scattered that they are
sieved from the sand and used for road
repairs. These limestone cocoons are
“HoW did you lose your leg ?”
“I didnt lose it, lady—the quacks doped me an pinched it.”
not known to occur in any other part
of Australia.
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird”: A new snigging track
has a greater attraction for bush creatures
than all other tracks combined. Anything
that crawls, wriggles, fox-trots or hops
will make straight for one. Possums
particularly delight in scampering up
“That there 'Damme Boay' ez purty little toon, Richard .”
and down them, following a long one
sometimes for more than a mile. The
broadness of the tracks ensures a dry
jacket through stretches of tall, dew-
dripping grass, and the squawkers prob-
ably find the smooth, powdered surface
soothing to their naked feet. Ground-
feeding birds, such as doves and curlews,
also have a special weakness for them,
and bush kiddies will run a new one
from end to end. Even an old-man
kangaroo will turn aside to explore a
new track, and dingoes will make use
of well-defined snigging marks until they
become grass-grown again.
* * * *
“Ex-Hobo”: The most affluent bag-
men I ever met were two young Danish
ex-sailors who, when they descended on
a strange town, ransacked the telephone
directory for Danish-sounding names.
The subsequent razzia never failed to
give a good yield in tucker and pocket-
money. Has any Scotch choom of the
fraternity tried it on the Macs?
# * * *
“Wingina”: At bloodless killing some
of the nor’-west (W.A.) abos. could give
the Indian thug and the Jap jiu-jitsu
practitioner a few points. At Roebourne
Cockroach was accused of the murder
of his gin. The body was
free from marks or bruises,
the post-mortem revealing
only a mysterious dis-
located neck, with which
the victim had lingered for
three days. The defence,
which postulated a fall
whilst climbing to reach
a “sugarbag,” looked like
getting away with it until
the Crown produced a
witness who had to stand
sideways to look at the
Bench, owing to a dis-
located neck with which
the victim had walked
about for over a year, his
head being turned
permanently across
his right shoulder.
Exponents of this
style of killing
approached their
victim in friendly
fashion; then,
quickly placing the
left hand on top
of victim’s head,
the right hand un-
der the chin, gave
a vigorous jerk up-
wards and side-
ways, the neck
joints of the verte-
bras snapping like
a carrot. Ninety-
nine per cent, of
cases were fatal,
paralysis of the
legs and throat
muscles rapidly
setting in. It took a fairly powerful
individual to do the trick; Cock-
roach was such a one—die nad worked
through four wives until the fearlessness
of a bereaved sister in reporting the
murder gave the Crown the chance to
send him for life residence to Rottnest.
* * * *
“Komediak”: A feature of the out-
back which seems to have gone the way
of the dodo and the truthful press cable-
gram is that once-favorite pastime of
the country younger set the barn dance.
A decade or so ago bush folk thought
nothing of riding 20 miles or more unin-
vited to a cocky’s home and, taking pos-
session temporarily, turn it into a dance-
hall for the night. But when a party of
young folks tried to organise one down
in the Otway (Vic.) district not long back
the agriculturist whom they had nomi-
nated for the honor, normally a most
sociable chap, hounded them off the
premises. Later in a conversation over
a pot of beer in the local pub he held
forth caustically on the “darned impu-
dence of young fellers invadin’ a joker’s
home uninvited and stoppin’ him from
listenin’ to his favorite serial on the
radio.”
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Among substances hard on
boot leather is snow, especially if there’s
a thin frozen crust that breaks under
the tread. Sfout boots soon fall to pieces
under such conditions, and every winter
the “zigzag” track on Mt. Wellington
(Tas.) is liberally besprinkled with high
heels lost by flappers loath to discard
delicately feminine corn-concealers.
* * * *
“S.”: “Lombardena’s” abos. who
wouldn’t eat shark disappoint me ; the
comparatively civilised Maori revels in
it, and strips of the drying meat, smelling
to the sky, adorn the walls of every
eminently desirable bijou whare. With
some regret I’ve declined that delicacy
on occasion, as I have weeks-old shell-
fish, but I’ve grilled young shark over
an open fire on the beach at Pukearuhe
and liked it. The flavor is sharp and
slightly oily, very much like the M.L.
kahawai or the universal mullet. And,
anyhow, what do you eat in a trey’s
worth of fish and chips?
* * * *-
“C. 8.”: The Hindoos in N.Q. have
unwittingly given a new word to Aus-
tralian slang, namely, the verb to hindoo,
meaning “to do together.” The term
has come into use from the fact that,
when cutting sugarcane, they load to-
gether, truck by truck, whereas the whites
invariably load singly or, at most, two to
one truck. Hence “Let’s hindoo it!”
* * =B *
“Talus”: I came across a brown snake
in the middle of a ploughed paddock;
spotting me at about the same time, he
made for a grassy gully about 200yds.
away. He had a five-yard lead when I
started after him with a hoe, but had
increased it to nearly 20 by the time
he reached the gully. He went as straight
as an arrow and got away through sheer
speed. The ploughed ground handicapped
him as much as it did me. I have an
uneasy feeling now when I think what
would have happened if he’d decided to
chase me!
* * * *
“Gam”: A Mt. Gambier (S.A.) cocky
has an original method of dealing with
snakes. While working among the hay
on his badly-infested property he at-
taches a suitable length of binder-twine
to his closed heavy pocket-knife. When
a snake is sighted, the knife is swung
round until the right momentum is at-
tained. The raised head of the reptile is
then a sure target, and a k.-o. is always
scored.
WHERE THE ROADS DIVIDE.
The red road goes unbending,
Unbending o’er the plain,
Through a glitter, never ending,
And a scent of fallen rain.
And never a hill nor hollow
Through those pastures rich in wool —
Faith, she is the road to follow
That takes you to Thoolabool!
The white road, winding over
A range of tangled trees,
Has the warm, wide skies above her
And, below, the windless seas;
But she skirts a coastal river,
With its fleet of steam and sail,
And the fields where cane-tops quiver
On the beach at Innisfail.
So here’s a penny falling
That, falling, shall decide;
There are many voice calling
Where these roads I love divide;
While the season’s sun is moving
Over growth of flock and soil
And my heart’s as set for roving
As my hands are fit for toil.
N.S.W.
FRANK MCCALL.


*
01
arc
*
COMPETENT
MANAGEMENT
of Agricultural
and Pastoral Properties
In its 60th year of experience in the manage-
ment of Station and Farm Properties, The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is able to offer invaluable assistance
to those concerned about the future care and
management of property.
Management by the Company relieves depen-
dents of many worrying problems.
Full details are available on application.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated In Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806.
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart.
R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves, t
o £ £ £
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 ~ ~ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 ~ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ „ 22,400 368 25.551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
Loss.
1932.. 3,559 Nil 20,472
Profit.
1933.. 19,553 6 p.c. = 16.800 2,753 23,225
1934.. 21,462 6i „ „ 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74 „ „ 21,000 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 ~ ~ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ „ 22,400 8,740 50,705
t Not including depreciation reserve.
The Australian sugar industry is faced
with the problem of overproduction,
which has become acute owing to con-
tinued growth in output of raws and the
minimum export quota of 400,000 tons
for Australia agreed to at the Inter-
national Sugar Conference in London in
1936. Consider these figures:
Tons (94 n.t.)—
Average,
1926-28. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Aust. consumption 344,000 337.000 359,000 355,000
Export . . . . 143,000 310,000 423,000 448,000
Total . . . . 487,000 647,000 782,000 803,000
The continued growth in production is
due largely to improved methods, which
increased the yield of cane and its sugar
content per acre, and only partly to
bigger acreages. What the industry has
to face is the fact that, on the basis of
last year’s figures, it has an assured
market for about 755,000 tons.
By a narrow majority, a conference of
millers and growers recently recommended
that the peak and pooling systems should
remain as at present, subject to minor
alterations designed to give a little relief
to certain sections. However, the Queens-
land Government, which buys all the
raws, decided last week to purchase the
coming season’s output on the same basis
as last season’s, leaving the question of
overproduction and its related problem of
mill quotas still to be dealt with. What
the Government proposes to do with raws
it cannot sell locally and/or export it has
not stated. Unless the international posi-
tion in the world’s sugar markets im-
proves, and it shows no sign of doing so
at the moment, the problems of growers*
and millers here will become more dif-
ficult.
Last year this Bundaberg grower and
miller crushed 142,646 (down 3981) tons
of cane, and its output of raws was 2100
(down 696) tons in excess of the mill peak
allowance. The No. 1 pool final price
for raws is expected to be £l7 3s. per
ton and for No. 2 (excess) pool £7 ss.
per ton. For the previous season the
figures were £l7 Is. 4d. and £7 2s. sd.
respectively. After sending £12,096 (up
£687) to the depreciation reserve, making
it £143,218 (= 35 p.c. of the book value
of fixed assets), the net result (up £263)
was 11.1 p.c. on capital as against 11,
10, 7.6, 6.1, a loss, 8.8, 6.7 and 8.1 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 8
p.c., and there is nothing in sight at .the
moment to suggest that it is likely to
be reduced during the current term —the
co.’s irrigation scheme has proved excel-
lent insurance against adverse seasonal
conditions.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1927. 1935. 1930. 1937.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 18,594 20,463 24,516 29,283
Freehold s,
in a c hinery,
plant, etc.. . 255,612 369,657 396,574 407,877
Stocks.. .. 63,545 30,277 36,717 38,729
Govern ment
securities, etc. 15,910 15,000 15,000 15,000
Sundry debtors f fiQn J 33,861 34,708 29,678
Cash, etc. .. j \ 22,068 7,205 23,123
* Including provision for taxation.
The year’s growth of £11,303 in the
book value of fixed assets reflects expen-
diture on additions and renewals to the
mill buildings, plant, etc. Cash was
strengthened by £15,918, and the amount
coming to sundry creditors (up £4767)
includes an unspecified provision for tax-
ation. The growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£77,247) was £8133.
The market prices the pound shares at
30s. 9d. as against 325. a year ago. At
the lower figure the return is 5.2 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Including the de-
preciation reserve (=los. 3d. per share),
the net tangible cover is 335. lOd.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
& & £ £ C
1928.. 100.901.16,374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288.525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181.178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2,885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1,792 . . 177,388
Profit. 54 p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 . . 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. . . 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 . . . . 150,873
Written off Target Woollen Mills
account, £16,734 .. .. .. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
* Includes £40,367 of arrears paid by issue of ord.
scrip.
The table opens at the end of the co.’s
most prosperous period (a steady 15 p.c.
was paid for the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1928) and just before
it ran into a crop of troubles beginning
with reconstruction of the main premises,
to finance which the board had gone to
its bankers for £349,337 when the books
closed in 1931. Then, owing to slump
and difficulty with stocks, losses aggre-
gating £85,239 showed up for the four
years to the end of February, 1934. In
the following term adjustment of stock
values spoiled results, but the prefs. got
into the picture again with 5y p.c. (after
a three years’ wait), and the balance of
their arrears was wiped out in the next
term (by the issue of 40,367 f.-p. ords.),
when an all-round 5 p.c. was paid, fol-
lowed by 6 p.c. for each of the last two
years.
Though earnings have stepped along
with the improvement in conditions gen-
erally over the last three years, they are
still only a shade over 54 p.c. of the
average for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1928. The co. now has
to meet much fiercer competition than
it used to, owing partly to the aggressive
sales policy of retailers generally and
partly to the appearance of Coles and
Woolworths near by. This means finer
profit margins, and costs are on the up-
grade.
There was a substantial increase in
turnover last year, and gross earnings
(£360,567) stepped up £19,996. Exes.
(£299,003) took £18,457 of the increase,
leaving the declared net result only £1539
better at £61,564, or sufficient to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate (6 p.c.)
and show 8.1 p.c. on the £540,367 of
ord. capital. The div. was kept at an
all-round 6 p.c., leaving £12,768 for re-
serves. But that leaves out of the reckon-
ing a profit of £827 on the sale of
property and an “inordinate” loss of
£16,734 in connection with the co.’s
Target Woollen Mills. Including these
figures, reserves were £2139 lighter than
at the previous balance at £146,907. A
further non-recurring loss of £11,224 at
the Target Mills, together with deprecia-
tion (£13,495, up £1406), was charged
against gross earnings.
As for the current term, last week’s
rains should mean much so far as main-
tenance of turnover is concerned ; but
costs are still on the up-grade. Since the
close of accounts the payroll has aver-
aged £495 a week more than for the
corresponding period of the previous
term, mainly owing to increased awards,
and if it comes into operation the
National Insurance Act will also bump
up outgoings.
The market, which didn’t anticipate
the mill losses referred to, prices the
ords. at 225. as against 235. 3d. before
publication of accounts. The prefs. are
also priced at 225., the return in each
case being 5.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing is £3 10s. 4d.
prefs. and 255. sd. ords.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1932. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £772,902 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities .. 390,054 337,823 376,593 388,977
Property .. 731.386 723,352 725,400 726,484
Plant, etc. . . 163,320 145,427 144,348 137,894
Stocks . . 399.943 362,370 409,351 414,243
Book debts . . 36,716 79,961 69,810 79,813
Cash, etc. . . 12,769 11,024 15‘,396 15,110
During the year finances were put on a
sounder basis. A mortgage of £250,000
(terms not stated) was obtained from the
A.M.P., and the overdraft was reduced
from £333,588 to £57,065. The amount
coming to sundry trade creditors in-
creased by £38,907, making it _ £74,912.
Including mortgages, the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£120,195) was £2231.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar.. Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£££ £ * £
1928.. 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 ( 4g4 g 57,170
Provident Fund, £1791 .. j
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7i 79 i 3994 61,104
Written off, £3645 )
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil (5407 66,571
Provident Fund, £Ol2 .. )
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil (,3349 69,890
Provident Fund, £SOB .. )
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 \ 71949
Provident Fund, £524 .. j
1933. . 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 1 20 g 7 74 036
Provident Fund, £612 • • J
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
193 o!! 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22 403 6 ~ ~ 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26 622 6 „ ~ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938. .
Seasonal conditions and the state of the
world’s wool-textile trade are the chief
factors affecting earnings of those in the
wool-and-produce and pastoral-finance
business. Only twice in the last 35 years
(1921 and 1930) have shareholders in this
semi-co-operative co. failed to receive a
div., the average being a shade under
6\ p.c., which is. more attractive than it
looks, because clients, who are mostly
shareholders, receive substantial cash
bonuses in the form of rebates of carded
commission charges. The outstanding
feature since the war has been steady ex-
pansion of the business by absorptions
and otherwise. A little over five years
ago the co. bought the goodwill of Grant,
Hedge and Cos., a Melbourne firm of
stock and station agents, and with it a
substantial and growing Victorian turn-
over.
The recession of £8773 in earnings dur-
ing the last term was due mainly to the
fall in prices for wool and livestock, fol-
lowing dry seasonal conditions and slack-
ness in the overseas textile trade, a heavy
wool carry-over, and steadily mounting
costs. The co. received 1941 fewer bales
of wool, sales were down 2043 bales and
the carry-over was 9064 bales heavier, as
the following figures show:
r* -1937 >
Carry
Receipts, S'ales, Forward,
Bales. Bales. Bales.
Sydney . . .. 103,010 95,617 8,817
Melbourne . . .. 30,257 28,688 1,928
Total .. .. 133,267 124,305 10,745
r-> —1938 \
Sydney . . . . 96,276 93,529 11,564
Melbourne . . . . 35,050 28',733 8,245
Total . . . . 131,326 122,262 19,809
The pleasing feature there is the growth
of the Victorian business. The season
opened with the Australian average at
£23 15s. Bd. per bale for July; but the
figure had dropped to £l3 14s. for April,
the average for the 10 months being
£l6 2s. 7d. as against £2O 17s. Id. for
the corresponding period of the previous
season. Livestock sales compare as fol-
lows: —
1937. 1938.
■r~ 1 r 'i
Sheep. Cattle. Sheep. Cattle.
Sydney .. .. 282,191 17,047 266,650 14,647
Melbourne . . 341,942 13,347 377,795 12,194
Total . . . . 624,133 30,394 644,445 26,841
The extra 20,312 in total sheep put under
the hammer was entirely on account of
Newmarket (Vic.) sales. Prices eased
during the last half of the term.
Gross earnings from all sources
(£156,230) were £7263 lighter. Exes.
(£138,381) were up £lslO, leaving the
net result (down £8773) at £17,849. After
handing clients £2924 (10 p.c. of wool
commissions as against 20 p.c. for the
previous term), enough remained to show
5.3 p.c. on capital as against 7.8, 6.3,
3.4, 6.6, 3.9, 3.9, 4.4 and 2.3 p.c. back to
1930. A couple of points were chipped
off the div., reducing it to 4 p.c.
The £43,102 of fresh capital gathered
during the year, together with £131,809
added to the overdraft, went £124,089
into advances and £54,098 to reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors:
4924. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £93,871 £249,116 £256,851 £299,953
Sundry } f 325,878 271,780
creditors, etc. 169,790 361,692 1
Overdraft, etc. j ( 53,386 185,195
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 416,275 439,939 440,992
Stocks . . 2,170 10,994 14,921 14,782
Book debts . . 90,553 ] f 316,551 440,640
Cash and public {• 315,917 -J
securities . . 15,753 J 8,012 8,115
The net growth of £1053 in freeholds
reflects the purchase of city office
premises in Melbourne. When the books
closed, more or less liquids exceeded the
debt by £6562, an improvement of
£46,342 over the twelvemonth.
Last week’s widespread rains, and signs
of stronger buying support in the wool
market, have taken a lot of the dullness
out of the outlook for the current term.
At 19s. 3d. (225. a year ago) the pound
shares return 4.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution.
The cover is 255. lOd. in net tangibles.


THATS T-HE PHILIPS
TWILIGHT VIAL "
IT'S one of the many out-
standing and exclusive features
found ONLY in Philips Radio-
players. Hear one in your own
home!
Models from 16 gns., and terms
are available to you.
PHILIPS
mdiQ^ojSM
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name ;
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PACE” STATION BOOK
■■■nBBBBBHHI BRB
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
SOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
Held WEDNESDAY, 18th MAY, 1938, at the Offices of the Society, No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
NEW RECORDS ESTABLISHED
INCREASED NEW BUSINESS AND INCOME
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS DURING 1937, OVER £1,800,000
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
New Business—excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed Income
Policies—lB,9sl Policies, assuring £12,928,476 4 3
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £16,210,433/14/11) . . 1,402,742 18 8
Total Income for the Year 3,565,439 6 10
ECONOMY.—The percentage of Renewal Premium Income of the Ordinary Department absorbed
in expenses (excluding Taxation and Self-charged Rent) was only 9.415 per cent.
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies issued during the year 83,936
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies and
Accident and Sickness Benefits) £15,364,647 5 3
.Total Income for the year 1937 4,598,582 17 7
Interest Income 904,638 6 7
Total Surpluses for year 724,633 11 10
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1937 21,377,912 12 3
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the
Policyholders only.
CONTINGENCY RESERVES OF £550,428/19/9
INTEREST EARNED ALL DEPARTMENTS—£4/10/5 Per Cent.
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE
INCEPTION, £26,945,807
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional service to the assuring
public.
PURELY MUTUAL—NO SHAREHOLDERS—PIONEERS OF GROUP
ASSURANCE
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P. Sir DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.
General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.B. ALEX. COOCH, J.P.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.I.S.
Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A. Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M. 8., B.S.
LOCAL BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS:
NEW SOUTH WALES, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman;
Sir KELSO KING;
ALLEN C. LEWIS. Assoc. Inst, C.E.;
Sir GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Manager: JOHN ANDERSON.
Consulting Medical Officer: A. MAITLAND GLEDDEN,
M.D. (Brux.), F.R.C.S. (Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.),
L.R.C.P. (Lond.).
WESTERN AUSTRALIA, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H. B. JACKSON, K.C., Chairman;
CHARLES DIAMOND; J. J. POYNTON; D. M.
McWHAE, M.D., M.R.C.P., Medical Director.
J. A. EDWARDS, Manager.
QUEENSLAND, 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Directors: JOHN E. TRUDE, Chairman; Dr. S. F.
McDONALD, M.R.C.P., Medical Director.
F. H. IRONSIDE, A.C.1.5., Manager.
STH. AUSTRALIA, 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Directors: Brig.-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., V.D.,
Chairman; C. T. C. de CRESPIGNY, F.R.C.P., Medical
Director.
A. J. CROSS, Manager.
TASMANIA: 18-20 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
91 Cameron Street, Launceston.
Director: Sir JOHN C. McPHEE, K.C.M.G.
Branches in New Zealand, South Africa and Great Britain.
National Reliance Trust
To Re-
Mar Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes. .. • • • • 2.254
Capital profit, £3Ol .. • • L 963
1931.. 1343 2\ p.c. = 1043 300 1.653
Capital loss, £519 .. •• •• 2.172
1932.. 2167 2i p.c. = 1252 915 1,257
Reserves.
Capital profit, £3736 .. •• 2,479
1933.. 1276 2$ p.c. = 1252 24 2,503
Capital profit, £13,751 .. •• 16.254
1934.. 2789 5 p.c. = 2504 285 16,539
Capital profit, £2975 .. • • 19,514
1935.. 3319 5 p.c. = 2504 815 20,329
Capital profit, £4867 •• 25,196
1936.. 5158 6 p.c. = 3756 1402 26,598
Capital profit, £24,358 .. .. 50,956
Unexplained addition, £941 .. 51,897
1937.. 11,714 6 p.c. = 10,427 1287 53.184
Unexplained addition, £4528 .. 57,712
1938.. 16,304 6 p.c. = 14,112 2192 59,904
This one of the Were group of invest-
ment trusts (they have a joint secretariat,
the aim being low overhead) was formed
at the end of 1929, when the economic
position was sliding swiftly. Still,
earnings enabled divs. of 2| p.c. to be
paid for each of the first three years, fol-
lowed by two lots of 5 p.c. and then 6
p.c. for each of the last three terms. Yet
the price of the fully-paid 10s. shares in
the market has fallen from 13s. 6d. a
year ago to 9s. 6d. last week-end. On
a 6 p.c. div. basis the return at the lower
figure is 6.3 p.c., which is a very high
yield from an investment trust stock. On
the basis of market values at the end
of March (they have since strengthened),
the net tangible cover was Bs. Bd. per
share.
Chief causes of the weakness are the
extent to which the management has bor-
rowed to swell the investment portfolio
and the heavy shrinkage in the market
value of the securities, as the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £50,082 £100,164 £200,000 £250,000
Loans, etc. .. 1,114 51,239 175,964 133,514
Sundry creditors 1,677 4,088 11,566 6,513
Investments .. 67,559 175,898 442,846 461,545
Sundry debtors 3,441 11,094 9,605 3,255
Cash .. .. 1,956 34 40 123
Introduction of £50,000 of fresh capital
early in the last term eased the position
somewhat. Together with surplus earn-
ings and a reduction of £6350 in debtors’
balances, the money was used to clip
£5447 off loans raised against securities
(£122,388), £37,003 off deposits held
(£11,123), £5050 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£6513) and to add
£18,699 to the aggregate cost price of
investments, raising the figure to £461,545,
which was £106,202 more than their
market value (£355,343) at the end of
March —a depreciation of 23 p.c. At the
previous balance, market value was
£60,496 in excess of book value.
While borrowing to invest on a rising
market shows capital gains, on a falling
one it just as surely shows capital losses.
These gains and losses, however, are not
necessarily realised. The real danger lies
in the possibility of having to sell securi-
ties below cost in order to liquidate bor-
rowings. Much, therefore, depends upon
when the loans have to be repaid and the
course of the market meanwhile, or it
might be possible to borrow from Peter
to pay Paul pending a recovery of the
market.
Originally the co.’s funds were invested
mostly in Government securities; now
they are represented mainly by industrial
equities, or ord. shares:
r Shares
No. of Bonds Pref. Ord.
Investments, etc., p.c. p.e. p.c.
1931.. 35 92.7 2.1 5.2
1934.. 200 17.9 10.1 72.0
1936.. 319 2.3 8.6 89.1
1937.. 483 0.4 6.2 93.4
1938.. 509 2.1 g.l 88.8
The geographical distribution of the port-
folio compares as follows:
1937. 1938.
Australasia . . . . 65.9 p.e: 54.7 p.c.
Gt. Britain .. . . 10.8 „ 15.0 „
U.S.A. . . . . 14.8 „ 25.9 „
Canada .. .. 2.9 ~ 3.9 „
Other countries . . 5.6 ~ 5.0 ~
There was thus a general movement of
the co.’s funds toward the U.S.A. and
U.K. last year. According to the League
of Nations and the Melbourne Stock
Exchange share indexes, the average level
of ord. share prices for the 12 months
to the end of March fell by about 12
p.c. in Australia, 24 p.c. U.K., 41 p.c.
U.S.A. and 27 p.c. Canada. Since the
close of accounts prices have hardened,
o Continued on next page.)


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
269 PXTT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Will Carry Out Your Will?
YY7IIEN your experienced eye and hand are gone, who will see to the conservation of your
Estate? Who will see that your affairs are carried on with the utmost efficiency in the
interests of your family and other beneficiaries?
You will, of course, appoint in your Will an Executor and Trustee. You will want to see
that that executor has these qualifications: He must have a wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and legal problems; he musit have absolute probity; he must be accessible
at all reasonable times; and he must never grow too old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a .private person, but you CAN find them in Perpetual
Trustee Company, Limited.
An interview with a Senior Officer of the Company would convince you that the Company is as
experienced in the management of country estates as it is of city estates. Perhaps you would
prefer to write for booklets? An interview would be best, but write if you prefer.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited.
DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope.
11. Y. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £53,000 000
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: >11787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
‘■Yelgab,” Melbourne.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * :Jt
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. Oleib.). — Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept In order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Kxtra quality steel, xylo. handle
Superfine steel, ivory handle
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum Into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits § and f blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
and there appears to be reasonable pros-
pect of more substantial gain, especially
in the U.S.A., as the year advances.
Growth in the year’s gross income
(£19,572) was £5434. Exes. (£3268) in-
creased by only £844, leaving the net
result (£16,304, up £4590) at 6.9 p.c. on
average capital as against 6.7, 8.2, 6.6,
5.6 and 2.6 p.c. back to 1933. That leaves
out of the reckoning a realised capital
gain of £2417 on exchange of securities
and a book gain of £2lll in respect of
exchange—all balance-sheet figures now
appear in Australian currency. These
gains were added to reserves.
Austral Malay Tin, Ltd.
First Australian co. to prospect for
tin in the Far East—it was originally the
Malaysia Syndicate—Austral Malay has
a gilded history. Of the £IOO,OOO of capi-
tal paid up, £BO,OOO represents gift scrip
scattered in 1924. Ten years previously
the co. had distributed its entire holding
in Larut and Kamunting Tin, and all but
8000 shares of its interest in Kampong
Kamunting, among those on its register.
In addition, capital of subsidiary ven-
tures, only one of which has not yet
reached the div. list, was first offered to
the parent’s shareholders.
Following imposition of the tin-pros-
pecting ban in Malaya and Siam at the
outset of slump, the board turned its
attention to alluvial- and lode-gold pros-
pects, chiefly in Australia and the
Dominion. In June, 1936, Austral N.Z.
Mining was sponsored to exploit an allu-
vial proposition along the Clutha, South
Island, Maoriland, where upwards of
100,000,000 c.y. is estimated to be avail-
able ; 56,000,000 c.y., averaging 3gr., has
been proved. A.M.’s holding in the co.
gives it a one-sixth equity in profits. If
prospectus estimates of ss. 6d. a share
profit p.a. are realised, returns from this
source would represent 11.4 p.c. on the
parent’s own capital.
A.M. acts as g.m. to all its pups, capi-
talisations, etc., of which follow:
Shares A.M.’s Face Paid Market
Company. Issued. Holding. Value. To. Price.
K. Kamunting 140,000 8,000 5/- 5/- 11/-*
Asam Kumbang 100,000 21,125 £1 £1 32/-*
Ulu Yam .. 100,000 21,600 £1 £1 26/-*
Thabawleik .. 160,000 41,100 £1 £1 33/6
Puchong .. 180,000 25,920 £1 £1 25/-*
Pungah .. 430,000 74,465 £1 £1 25/3
Austral New Zealand—
Ords. . . 205,000 6,250 £1 13/-
Deferreds 35,000 35,000 1/- 1/-
* Buyer.
Austral Malay’s interest figures in its
books at £S 172,487. Australian mar-
ket value, taking the holding in Austral
N.Z. in at par, is £267,000-odd. At
balance day cash and War Loan totalled
£S 18,876 ; outside liabilities were neg-
ligible.
With the exception of Puchong, which
has yet to declare a div., and Thabaw-
leik, all the working pups contributed
more to the pool last term:
f —1937 Profit*— v Divs. Share v
Company. Share. Amt. 1937. 1936. 1935.
K. Kamunting £24,081 3/5 3/- 1/9 -/6
Asam Kumbang 31.314 6/3 4/6 3/6 2/6
Ulu Yam . . 14,564 2/10 -/6 Nil Nil
Thabawleik .. 26,540 3/4 3/- 3/6 4/-
Puchong . . 9,871 1/1 Nil Nil Nil
Pungah . . 98,917 4/7 2/3 1/6 2/-
* After deducting depreciation and taxes.
After capitalising the year’s prospecting
expenditure (£5576), the net amount
available for A.M. shareholders lifted
£3683: —
Dividends, , Profit —— N “-Dividends—,
Dec., Etc. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
f £19,843 £17,108 3/5 3/- £15,000
I Wi’itten off shareholdings, £5227.
1936 > 17,556 15,626 3/1 2/- 10,000
( Written off shareholdings, £5227.
, 9 0 7 j 21,441 19,309 3/10 2/- 10,000
1 Written off shareholdings, £5227.
Div. was maintained at 10 p.c., and the
customary £5227 written off sharehold-
ings. The balance lifted visible reserves,
subject to prospecting account £5576, to
£95,639.
Last term the F.M.S. Government
waived its prospecting ban as far as
established producers were concerned.
Austral Malay made 25 applications for
prospecting licenses; one was granted,
and a further 14 are under consideration.
The co. is also investigating a likely tin-
dredging proposition at Garrawalt Creek,
Queensland, and an alluvial gold pros-
pect in Maoriland’s South Island.
The market highly regards Austral
Malay’s £1 shares, buyers offering 565.
With quotas and tin prices both down,
returns from investments will be sub-
stantially lower in the current term.
During 1937 metallic tin averaged £240
London; last week-end the figure was
down to £l5B. Though some improve-
ment might result when the much-
discussed buffer pool commences to
function, chief requirement for a higher
price is an increased demand, particu-
larly from Uncle Sam.
The fall in the price of tin has
swiftly changed the outlook, tempor-
arily, it is hoped, for many of the small
tin-producing shows in the Common-
wealth. Asa case in point, take the
Tingha cos., near Tenterfield (N.S.W.).
Tingha Alluvials produced 17 tons tin
oxide in the six weeks to Feb. 17, valued
at £2600. In the seven weeks to May 19
14+ tons t.o. was reckoned to be worth
£lßßs—a drop of only 14 p.c. in quan-
tity, but over 28 p.c. in value. With costs
but slightly up, estimated profit has slipped
from £IOO6 to £405. With Tingha South
the same sort of thing has occurred—
quantities down 9 p.c., values nearly 23
p.c. lower, profits halved (from £1795
to £890). Briseis and Aberfoyle (Tas.),
Carpathia (N.S.W.), Normanby (Q.) and
others are in much the same boat. Table-
land Tin, Malcolm Newman’s big dredg-
ing show at Return Creek (Mt. Garnet,
Q.), is expected to begin with its smaller
dredge later this year ; meanwhile it isn’t
working its ore out at low prices, and
in a few months the restriction scheme,
which won’t affect Australian producers
as regards output, may put a better com-
plexion on quotes for the metal. Newman
is on the Tableland property now, and is
pleased with progress.
% * * £
On Feb. 28 Guinea Gold (Adelaide)
held 69,845 shares in Bulolo, Ltd., New
Guinea. Assuming that none have since
been sold, present market worth of the
lot, after deducting liabilities as at
balance day and leaving any other assets
out of the reckoning, is equal to 16s. 3d.
per Guinea Gold share, as against a
market valuation of the latter of 13s.
sd.—a capital difference of almost 3s.
Last term the holding co.’s investments
(market value at balance day £458,387)
turned it in £48,759, of which £45,843
was left after meeting administrative
exes., etc. Divs. of Is. 9d. (87-|- p.c.) per
2s. share absorbed £43,750. The co.
formed in 1926 to acquire leases on the
Bulolo River and at Koranga, New
Guinea. New Guinea Goldfields took
over the latter property, the vendor co.
passing on the share consideration to
its shareholders, and Placer Development
formed Bulolo to exploit the former de-
posits, for which Guinea Gold got
£50,000 in cash and 70,000 f.-p. $5 Bulolo
shares. Taxation difficulties have pre-
vented the co. from passing these to
those on its register. Bulolo is paying
$1.50 a share half-yearly, and better can
be expected when the new dredges
(making seven in all) commence digging
next year.
* * * *
Reedy Creek’s three months’ clean-up
to May 18 produced 1720 z. gold and 1.3
tons tin concentrates from 42,000 yards.
Revenue is estimated at £1595, working
costs at £1450. Time was lost owing to
Easter holidays, plant troubles and dry
weather. Next clean-up is scheduled
for the end of June. It will need to be
better than the present one. The show
was handed over to the present co. by
Beechworth Alluvials; it is on Reedy
Creek, where (at Eldorado) the Cocks
co. is making a good thing out of dredg-
ing for gold and tin. The Reedy is a
tributary of Ovens River, which produced
a good deal of alluvial in the past.
He % ’ He *
A local request that the Queensland
Mines Department put down a series of
diamond drill holes on certain reefs
(Imperial, Warrior, Pilot, Stockholm,
Swedenborg, Black Jack and Wellington)
in the Charters Towers district hasn’t met
with the support of district geologist
C. C. Morton, who considers that single
boreholes might give misleading results,
owing to the sporadic nature of the
shoots in the reef formations. He thinks
that fewer than four holes in any locality
would be useless, and that, owing to the
hardness of the granite, the cost of drill-
ing below a few hundred feet would be
disproportionately high, and for the same
reason deep shaft-sinking is not likely to
follow even favorable borehole indica-
tions. All things considered, the recon-
ditioning and extension of old workings
is preferable to an extensive drilling cam-
paign.
$ v ; i : *i*
“Throgmorton”: Wilunas have been
going up, and both bears and the manage-
ment wonder why. There hasn’t been
any notable improvement in the appear-
ance of the bottom workings, which,
according to two inspecting geologists,
hold out little hope of the- mine ever
staging a successful comeback. Values
have certainly been better lately at 1200 ft.
level in the Bulletin lease, \\ miles
or more north of the main workings, and
experiments of a smelting expert from
Canada are believed to have increased
the percentage of gold extraction ; but
these things don’t appear to justify the
big rise that has lately taken place in the
market for the scrip. A good borehole
development in country below the bottom
(2400 ft.) of the newly-sunk internal shaft,
where a drill is about to be installed,
would probably cause the market to soar
higher still.
4t * v *
London is reported to have under-
written the £25,000 10 p.c. convertible
note issue of Tindals Gold Mines (W.A.),
which is to be offered shareholders
shortly. Together with a promised State
Government £30,000 loan, the proceeds
of the issue are expected to be sufficient
to cover the cost of an up-to-date treat-
ment plant, and put the mine on a profit-
earning basis. In 1935 the co. acquired
Tindals goldmine, Coolgardie, from
Herman Mandelstam and others for
£30,000 cash plus 1,980,000 fully-paid
2s. shares. The public paid 2s. apiece
for a further 2,500,000, making issued
capital £448,000 in 4,480,000 shares of
2s. each. What was left of subscribed
capital (£250,000) after deducting the
vendor’s cash payment, flotation and
establishment expenses, etc., was laid out
on buildings, plant and development. Ore
reserves, principally between the 200 ft.
and 500 ft. levels, are estimated at 250,000
tons, averaging 44dwt. a ton.
* * * :ic
Westralian odds and ends:
The grade of ore in Sons of Gwalia’s
reserves is now estimated at 6.4dwt. per
ton, compared with 7dwt. a year ago.
This and the cost of sinking the new
internal shaft make maintenance of divi-
dends at the current rate doubtful. The
market, however, doesn’t think 50... .Ex-
periments in the smelting section of
Wiluna’s plant have led to the installa-
tion of a rotary kiln to deal with slurry
composed of concentrates and residues
in known proportions. The product
(clinker) is transferred direct to the
smelter, thus eliminating filtering, roast-
ing and cyaniding Enterprise Gold
Mines, N.L., didn’t bother to oppose a
recent successful application by a pros-
pector for forfeiture of its Callion lease,
near Davyhurst. Like those of previous
holders, the co.’s attempt to turn the
property to profitable account proved
a failure. .. .Western Mining Corp. is
getting a little gold from its Collard’s
lease in the Ora Banda district, near
Broad Arrow, but so far returns have not
been impressive. The co., however, still
has hopes From Kurnalpi, the State’s
richest alluvial goldfield of the early
’nineties, the Mines Dept, reports a few
small rich returns from ribbon-size for-
mations. Although many nuggets and
pieces were specked and unearthed by
dryblowing, nothing worth calling a reef
or a lode has ever been discovered on
the field Block 45, N.L., has secured
exemption on its Kalgoorlie holding.
Directors are trying to induce London
investors to come in, but past perform-
ances and present prospects are not very
encouraging... .When the Is. interim div.
and Is. bonus are paid this month, the
golden-plumaged; Blue Bird, at Norseman,
will have distributed £20,000 within the
past 12 months, or double the co.’s issued
capital. Its source of wealth is rich, but
opinions differ regarding chances of per-
manency. ..
announces an early increase in plant
capacity, thus enabling more of its own
ore and that of its subsidiary (Norseman
Developments, N.L.) to be treated. The
additions will include a Beilis Morcom
engine and compressor and mill extras,
a fine grinder, Merrill Crowe precipita-
tor and more thickeners and agitators.
The co. draws its mill supplies from the
Norseman and Iron King blocks, and
the subsidiary from the Penneshaw lease.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s 1937 accounts
show a profit of £127,826 on an issued
capital of £224,800. Depreciation and
income tax together took £45,769, and
an interim 20 p.c. div. (£38,781) was paid.
After deducting a final at the same rate,
and directors’ extra pay (£3829), £4464
is carried forward. Ore treated was
110,069 tons, or 12,343 tons more than
in 1936, the grade being slightly higher
at 8.29dwt. Recovery increased from
87.3 p.c. to 92.9 p.c., while costs were
less. Balance sheet shows cash, £84,501 ;
investments, £9000 ; shares in subsidiary
cos., £275,725 ; broken ore, £57,188 ; due
from subsidiaries, £21,239. Broken ore
reserves are estimated at 116,700 tons of
7.8dwt. value, compared with 111,800
tons, averaging 8dwt., at the end of
1936. No estimate of proved but un-
broken ore is given.
* * * *
Although low yields are obtained from
the re-treatment of old dumps at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), low costs enable satis-
factory profits to be earned. In Feb-
ruary Lake View and Star treated 50,044
tons of Associated tailings for 1104 fine
oz. gold. This is equivalent to llgr. per
ton, or 44d. with the metal at 4d. a-
grain. Costs were under 30d. Golden
Horse Shoe is putting through about
47,000 tons of Mgr. sands per month.
Spargo’s Reward, whose geological
appearance, according to a Bulletin man,
doesn’t inspire confidence regarding per-
manency, yielded £10,000 worth of gold
during the 5£ months to the end of
April; but working costs, development,
etc., swallowed nearly all of it.
* * * #
Camp Bird, Ltd., which began gold-
mining in United States and still has
interests there, also holds shares in Gold
Fields Australian Development and half
the issued capital of Australian Selection
Trust, which has a substantial holding in
a Dutch New Guinea co. Camp Bird
shareholders were recently told that ore
of good value and width was exposed at
874ft. (the lowest level) in the Gold
Fields co.’s Moonlight group at Wiluna
(W.A.), and that auriferous gravels were
being tested by the New Guinea concern.


SMOKE-OH!
It used to take personality to make a
politician, not personalities.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The wisdom of Solomon was only the
folly of a polygamist, after all.
4* *l* *l*
“Sportsmen who expose themselves to wet
weather in game-shooting should beware of
rheumatism. ’ ’ —A dvt.
It is associated with shooting pains.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Too many wives have no interest in the
conversation of their husbands.”
— Woman’s paper.
Except when they talk in their sleep.
4* 4* 4* 4*
If life is not worth living it’s because
there’s something wrong with the liver.
4* 4* 4* 4*
There is hardly enough room to air
your opinions in some modern flats.
“Blast it, I forgot to dot the I!”
“A psychologist declared that elephants
excite wonder in the mind of a child but
leave an adult unimpressed.” —Sydney paper.
All the same, when adults start to see
pink elephants they sit up.
4* •i 1 t
“Scientists say that the world will last at
least another five million years.”
This should be heartening to music
firms which sell grand pianos on hire-
purchase.
“The evening pigmented the sky with amaz-
ing hues from scarlet to green and purple.”
—“Sunday Sun."
The dye-ing day.
Feminine Evidence.
“A Sydney magistrate remarked that it was
very difficult to make women defini:e, as dis-
tinct from emphatic, in their statements.”
“Yes, indeed, your Honor, I know all
about this case. All about it! That’s
why I’m here. That man’s guilty—you
can take my word for it! He ought to
go to gaol.
“Did I see the attempted murder? Of
course I did, just as if I was there with
my own eyes. No, I wasn’t exactly
there, but I was talking to Mrs. Whatser-
name last Tuesday—no, I think it was
Thursday—and she said
“Oh, yes, I quite see that, your
Worship. Of course, what she says has
nothing to do with the case. But if you
won’t let me say what I know, how can
I give any evidence?
“No, I didn’t hear him threaten his
wife, but the lady next door said she
“Very well then, your Worship, I think
it is useless. It seems a peculiar way of
doing justice. I may not have seen any-
thing, but I’ve heard a lot and I’m cer-
tain as I am standing here that he’s
guilty. You’ve only to look at him”
“And finally, my dear, they actually
acquitted him! No evidence against
him, they said, when positively they
wouldn’t listen to a word of what I
had to say! I shouldn’t wonder if that
magistrate is in the pay of someone!”
Hamer.
•i* ' •£ *f*
Incendiary.
“In 1936 respondent met a woman he had
known 16 years before. She kissed him when
they met. After that his manner towards peti-
tioner changed.” —Divorce report.
Stir not the ash of old desire —
The warning, plainly put, in this is :
A lot of fat is in the fire
When' old flames hand out burning
kisses.
H.
•J* 4*
“In spite of his 30 years in the police force
he has a great faith in human nature.”
— “D.T.”
A John Hoptimist.
Dot and Dash.
“So I thought my best line would be to say
for Smones will probably bite and say
( •.. •)• If so, Jith will pretty certainly cap him
with ( ), and then, don’t you see, that
would let me in with ( )! ” — “S. M. Herald.”
This dotty conversation idea is not
new. When Mrs. Blinker charged Horace
like a regiment of Dervishes going into
action about a little shortage in his pay-
envelope, he defended himself to the last
dot.
“You double-crossing little hound!”
howled Mrs. Blinker, “where’s that other
three-and-six?”
(“ ”), replied Horace indignantly.
“You’re keeping another woman, you
wretch! ”
(“.... ”), snapped Horace.
“I’ll knock this dot, dot and bracket
stuff out of you! Come on, who is she?”
Horace drew himself up proudly and
let drive a fierce
Mrs. Blinker aimed to do her best, and
did it.
Horace rolled under the kitchen table,
faintly murmuring (“!*!*!*!*”).
McM.
+ + 4* 4*
“An Indian fakir held out his arms for so
long that he has lost the use of them.”
This should serve as a warning to
some of our week-end fishermen.
4* 4* 4> 4*
“There are no such things as miners’ rights
in these days.”—"S. M. Herald."
The writer evidently has never got into
an argument with a miner.
4* 4* -4* 4*
The Big Test.
“Bradman made a good impression as an
orator.”—“ S. M. Herald."
Why not? Cricketers should never be
stumped for something to say. They’re
able to avoid silly points, dropping their
h’s, or handling anything that’s a bit over
the fence. They are able to cover a
wide field and can always score by re-
ferring to “Our Glorious British Umpire.”
Their speeches are invariably padded, but
they have the advantage of being able to
appeal for light on any subject.
D. McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
According to the latest cable rumor,
there is a woman who may call him Herr
Hitler.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boos for Bradman,” read out Mr.
Subbub from the evening paper heading.
“Fancy!’’ said Mrs. Subbub, looking
up from her knitting. “And the papers
always used to be making such a fuss
of the fact that he was a teetotaller!”
As Requested.
“Give me the cold, clear air of June!”
He spouted, a poetic wight
Who thought to find a heart in tune
In her he wandered with that night.
The girl considered him a 100n —
For poetry she deemed a blight;
So, fed up with his blither and his blare
She did her best by giving him the air!
H. M.
The Last Straw.
Time was when I her cheek could press
’Gainst mine. Now that is barred, in
case
(And this she never fails to stress)
Her paint and powder l displace.
Convinced was I that wedded bliss
Of which they speak is so much blurb
When lips, I found, I could not kiss
Lest that new lipstick l disturb.
The bonds of Hymen now are slack —
Our very happiness at stake —
I can’t get her to scratch my back
Because her pointed nails may break!
BO.
Among the New Inventions.
“An American has invented an automatic
hat-raiser.”
Various other inventions designed to
lessen the constantly-increasing burden of
social amenities are on the market. One
of the most popular—that is, among
those who wear it — is the automatic
back-slapper.
This gadget can be concealed beneath
the coat, and its micro-sensitive wires
pick up with extraordinary speed the
approach of a descending hand. In a
flash a heavily-weighted hand on a flexible
arm shoots out, beating the human back-
slapper to the slap.
It will discourage the friend who comes
up behind and gives you a tremendous
thump on the back that makes you
almost swallow your lighted cigarette.
For those cursed with outsize friends who
possess hands like twin hams extra-
heavily-weighted hand extensions are
procurable.
Another useful contribution to com-
fort is the automatic hand-shaker.
This consists of a concealed telescopic
arm at the end of which is a hand ar-
“.... without undue strain on the neck
muscles. ...”
ranged in a series of powerful springs.
It is guaranteed sudden death on tne
jovial fellow who insists On pumping
your hand up and down in a bone-
crushing grip for about a minute, at the
end of which you have to prise your
fingers apart one by one. For those who
wish—and who do not? —to see their
quondam tormentors squirming at la??
in the grip of a hand far more powerful
than their own provision is made for
extra springs. It also comes in handy
when feminine acquaintances with more
friendliness than foresight put out their
hands on meeting you in the street at
a time when you are loaded down to the
Plimsoll with parcels.
This automatic hand-shaker has the
further advantage that it can be used in
conjunction with the back-slapper.
There is now no need for any man to
go miserably through life jerking every
".... enable him to get his second
wind ....”
few minutes at a tie that persists in mov-
ing round under his left ear, or repeatedly
tightening up one that keeps working
loose.
The automatic tie-tightener-and-tugger
has solved this problem for ever. It
should be particularly welcome to the
married man. The fitting of one of these
little machines to his chest will mean the
cessation of the eternal “There you are
again, Henry, pulling at your tie. You’ve
got it just like a rag. Now if you had
done it the way / said it would have
been all right. But, no, you think you
know best,” etc.
The popularity of the roll-your-own-
cigarette inevitably led to the invention
of the automatic waist-squeezer.
What ardent lover would let his girl
think that he had detached his arm from
her waist to roll a cig.? Yet there are
moments, as every follower of the mushy
sport knows, when the mutual-admira-
tion line of talk starts to drag a little,
and it is then that a gasper is welcome.
Also, after indulging in a lengthy and
glutinous kiss, a man must, like the
“.... beating the human
back-slapper. ...”
whale, occasionally come up for air,
and a fag will enable him to get his
second wind.
It is in circumstances such as these that
the waist-squeezer demonstrates its
worth. The inventor, a keen student of
psychology, first worked it out that,
under Cupid’s potent spell, no gifl would
register surprise that one hand could be
still around her waist while two more
were engaged in rolling a cigarette. The
arrangement is adjustable as to length
(according to the size of waist) and pres-
sure required.
The automatic neck - stretcher - and-
twister is an invention which fills a
long-felt need for. the picture-goer of
short stature.
When a large person sits in the seat
directly in front of him all the wearer
has to do is to fit the instrument under
his chin and press a button, stopping
when the neck is stretched sufficiently to
give him a clear view of the screen. The.
padded chin support will allow him to
maintain this position without undue
strain on the neck muscles.
Should the outsize person in front also
have the irritating habit of jerking his
head from side to side (this formerly
necessitated the victim behind having
to do the same in concert, only he had to
go a bit further), the twister comes into
action. Picking up on its delicate mechan-
ism the sound waves displaced by the
moving head in front, it puts pressure
on certain nerves at the required side
of the neck, causing it to move involun-
tarily in the opposite direction to the
front head, thus giving the wearer an un-
terrupted view.
S. W. K.


Decline from a Boom.
1017
March
April
Oct.
Nov.
Nov.
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
May
Bank of N.S.W. ..
16.
29.
26.
11.
26.
13.
17.
18.
26.
£37.9
£38.5
£34.2
£33.5
£33.1
£33.7
£32.6
£31.7
£32
National Bank ..
£8.0
£7.9
£7.6
£7.3
£7
£7.2
£7.2
£7
£6.6
Carlton Brewery ..
64 1-
63/6
65/6
65/-
61/6
66/6
67/6
65/-
66/6
C.-Perkins
26/-
26/9
26/6
26/3
25/6
26/-
23/6*
24/6
23/*
Tooth
57/-
58/3
54/9
54/9
52/9
55/9
55/-
54/6
55/3
Goldsbrough, Mort 39/6
39/-
34/6
33/9
30/9
32/6
3!/-
30/9
30/6
Wmchcombe
36/6
36/6
33/6*
32/9
30/6
32/6
31/3
29/6
28/6
Adelaide Steam ..
32/6
32/6
32/6
32/6
30/9
33/3
34/-
33/-
34/3
Q’laud Insurance
60/9
60/-
56/-
57/6
57/6
57/6
54/-
50/-
52/3
Aus. Gas “A” ..
£7.2
£7.3
£7.5
£7.4
£7.3
£7.4
£7.5
£7.3
£7.5
Associated News . .
24/3
23/7
23/6
23/3
23/-
23/3
22/4
21/6
20/9
Australian Glass ..
93/6
90/-
92/6
92/-
85/-
94'/-
94/ft
93/3
93/3
Australasian Paper 39/-
35/-
33/6*
31/9
31/-
33/3
32/3
31/3
31/6
Australian Cement
31/6
31/6
31/6
31/9
32/-
33/-
33/6
32/-
34/-
British Tobacco ..
53/-
50/-
48/6
50/-
49/9
50/3
50/-
48/3
48/3
Broken Hill Prop.
91/3
81/3
66/3*
64/-
60/-
64/6
61/9
60/6
60/6
Burns, Philp
80/-
73/-
58/3*
57/9
54/-
55/9
54/-
55/-
53/6
David Jones
44/6
45/-
42/6
41/9
41/-
41/9
42/-
43/-
40/-
Electrolytic Zinc . .
66/6
57/6
52/3
48/6
45/-
50/3
46/6
44/6
38/9
Fairymead ..
39/3
37/6
32/6
33/-
32/6
36/-
35/-
34/9
3373
G. J Coles
£5.3
£5.2
£4.7
£4.6
£3.9
£4.3
£3.9
£4
£4.1
Gordon and Gotch
52/-
52/6
54/6
54/9
52/-
52/9
53/-
53/-
54/-
H Jones ..
46/-
46/9
50/3
49/-
48/-
49/9
49/3
50/-
48/9
Melb. “Herald” ..
74/6
71/-
66/-
62/6
61/-
67/6
64/-
63/6
54/6
Mauri Bros.
75/-
74/-
68/6
68/6
68/-
68/6
73/6
70/-
69/-
Myer (Melb.)
38/-
37/-
34/6
34/6
31/-
35/-
34/-
32/6
29/6
Yarra Falls
43/-
42/-*
40/-
40/-
38/3
39/3
37/9
37/3
38/3
North Broken Hill 89/3
70/9
57/3
52/-
50/3
57/6
51/-
50/-
42/-
Broken Hill South 58/-
46/9
41/-
39/3
35/6
37/6
33/-
32/3
28/-
Mount Lyell
52/6
45/3
38/6
36/6
31/9
34/-
30/3
29/6
23/-
* Ex
rights.
BREWERY PLANT FOR SALE
AT TOWERS BREWERY, CHARTERS TOWERS
A varied assortment of Brewery Plant for sale at sacrifice prices. All guaranteed in good order
and condition. Items include:—
12-head Rotary Bottling Machine ... £lOO
Progressive 1936 Improved Spray Type
Pasteuriser, with Trucks Complete. . £175
Auldjo Compressor £3O
Two Pulp Washers, each
Two Cornish Boilers, price for the two
Fermenting Tun, new .
£2O
£B5
£lOO
Also—Fermenting Tuns, Cylinders, Air Receiver, Shafting, Pulleys, Boilers, Pumps.
Full Particulars from
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LIMITED, TOWNSVILLE.
Broken Hill Prop.
Broken Hill Prop, shares at
around 60s. yield 4.1 p.c. on a \2\
p.c. div. basis, and that rate is
covered better than most.
SOUND ADVICE, based ou an extensive
variety of practical experience of over 40
years, given on Business, Personal or Financial
Matters that I am competent to deal with.
Fees are in proportion to the importance of
the matter involved. No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
7G Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: BW6115.
BRITAIN
York Minster.
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—. Lo-
ndon to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
k
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Dov/n Again
The Australian sharemarkets are in a
swooning condition. That they aren’t in a
state of collapse is because of the gener-
ally-high level of internal prosperity, the
robust earning-capacity of most indus-
trial investments, the high level of em-
ployment, and the long view taken by
many people who, on the experience of
the past decade, now prefer ordinary
shares to other forms of investment. But
though industry itself, as represented
by the ord. shares listed on Stock Ex-
changes, is still in good fettle, Stock Ex-
change members and their clients are
not universally happy. They have been
involved in the more sensational and
speculative aspect of the recovery years,
and are now enduring the most devas-
tating setback since 1931. Hence faint-
ing-fits in the sharemarket, not evident
in other phases of our economy.
For two or three years up to April,
1937, it was a bull market of the first water,
with speculative profits galore just waiting
to be picked up. As usual, a large number
of people were drawn in when prices
were near their sensational peak ; they
put their money into shares then, some-
times borrowed funds as well, assisting
the boom while it was on. In their
hurry to sell in the ensuing crashes they
precipitated falls when, if they hadn’t put
their money up already, they could have
bought in much more advantageously on
the way down, and could have, inciden-
tally, supported the market.
People are loaded up with scrip
that cost them a good deal more than
present-day prices, and, since they can’t
turn their holdings over at a profit, they
won’t or can’t invest in anything else.
So far as those people are concerned
who have shares paid for in full with
their own money and who are satisfied
with a good income, the factors of great-
est moment just now are the trend of
prices for primary products, the direction
of costs and interest rates, the employ-
ment and banking positions and the
seasons. It is possible for the share-
market to cut its own throat without
deeply affecting people outside ; but the
other circumstances just mentioned are
always widely felt.
The most serious of the “real” factors
affecting us at the moment is export
prices. Here it is that we get first-hand
experience of how markets are overseas.
An index calculated to reflect Australian
export prices in relation to the import-
ance and vplume of the exports shows a
drop from 1268 (peak) in April, 1937,
to 731 in March, 1938. Put in another
way, wool has fallen from 18.6 d. to
11.3 d. over the same period, wheat
from ss. 4d. to 45., raw sugar from
£lO 15s. to £7 14s. per ton, and lead from
£39 13s. (Aust.) in March, 1937, to
£lB 11s. in March, 1938. Some of these
items have strengthened slightly since
March; others, especially lead and
wheat, have weakened. Beef and butter
have improved over the year.
Trade-union employment hasn’t been
better for many years than it is just now.
Building activity isn’t at its peak, but it
is higher than at this time last year. City
skyscrapers aren’t so much in evidence,
homes being more the order of the day.
Good rains have just fallen in western
N. S. Wales and other parts, making the
outlook for wool- and wheatgrowers
much more encouraging. A turn for the
better in export prices now would be
the tonic the doctor ordered. Such prices,
however, depend on overseas conditions
—which are horribly mixed,
Investors who have followed this
page s suggestion and bought high-class
ord shares showing £air return S s from
sound industries have had little to worry
about. The policy still has more to
commend it than any other that can
be called to mind.
The Bank for International Settlements,
G f which our former visitor Otto
Niemeyer is chairman, in its report pre-
sented in Switzerland on May 9 drew
attention to the great change from boom
conditions in early 1937 to a decline in
prices, production, commerce and con-
sumption at the end of the year. The
s i ump j s st M going on. The 8.1.5. points
G ut that the boom was so short that
people were taken unawares with the
slump; it stresses the influence of falling
Stock Exchange quotes on the volume of
business in general, an influence not
only psychological, but real through the
effect that windfall profits and losses have
on public spending. Economic develop-
ment by Government action, in the
fashion at present, creates work on the
one hand; but, the 8.1.5. observes, it
also creates uncertainty that is hamper-
ing to private enterprise. Economic
nationalism and unstable exchanges, too,
are standing in the way of increased in-
ternational trade.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch’s half-yearly ord.
div. of 6 p.c. (12 p.c. p.a.) has been
accompanied by a 1 p.c. bonus. The
scrip (B. 12/5/’3B) had risen steadily to
545. 6d. until the general recession in the
market about 10 days ago ; it has now
regained that fighre. If 13 p.c. p.a. be-
comes the regular distribution, yield at
the present market will be s'p.c., allowing
for the div. accrued; if the bonus is
repeated half-yearly, making 14 p.c. p.a.,
the return will be 5.4 p.c.
* * * *
Barrier mines steadied last Tuesday
and firmed slightly on Wednesday, when
cables from London showed a better
tone in the metals market. On Thursday
they were sick again—New York was
uneasy—and Friday found them worse.
The sharemarket has taken a longer
view of the position than it did
when North dropped its div. before;
this time it has slaughtered South
shares as well, and the principle
of valuing Norths at half as much
again as Souths hasn’t been lost sight of.
Zinc Corp. ords., which fell to 775. 6d.
at one stage of the debacle,.recovered to
Bls. for a time later, and were actually
in better shape than North or South.
They should be, too, because Zincs are
more of a holding proposition than the
other two.
* * * *
Zinc Corp.’s final ord. div. for 1937,
payable July 1, is 4s. 6d. stg. a share,
less U.K. income tax at 3s. 6d. in the
£l, and makes Bs. 6d. (85 p.c.) for the
year, compared with 6s. (60 p.c.) in
1936. Deducting tax (which in some
shareholders’ cases will be wholly or
partly rebatable) and converting into
Australian currency, the rate is 87£ p.c.
for purposes of comparison with the
price of the scrip in Australian currency
—which last week was 80s. The £1
participating prefs. receive p.c. stg.,
less tax, for the year. At 80s. Aust. for
the ords., payment of the final div. will
reduce the price to about 755. net. Dur-
ing 1937 lead averaged £23 6s. Id. in
London, spelter £22 6s. lid. During the
first four months of 1938 the averages
were £l5 15s. 7d. and £l4 7s. sd. re-
spectively. Last week lead fetched
£l3 12s. 6d., spelter £l2 ss.
*'* * \ *
The prevailing affection for sound
gold-producers was especially evident last
week. With commodity prices down, and
a general feeling of business depression
having got into the system of the Old
World and the Land That Columbus Dis-
covered, the investment-indicator points
to gold-producers; the metal is likely to
be firm, and any lift in costs at least
checked. Great Boulders saw 10s. 2d.
in Adelaide for the first time in many
months ; Perseverance scrip lifted to 3s.
Bd., North Kals. to 235. 5d., while
Wilunas soared, speculatively, to 225.
lOd. Lancefield, which has had a strike
(now settled) and other troubles on its
hands, was bought into at 65., but the
mining position here is obscure. Tritons
were only a shade firmer, and Queens-
land, Victorian and Fiji issues, though
more active than usual, were offered
fairly freely. Wellington Alluvials
(N.S.W.) again went to above 6s.
Australasian Paper ords. at 315., re-
turning over 5 p.c., are still one of the
most attractive issues offering for in-
come purposes. In view of the present
robust earning-power of the operating
co., notwithstanding the large sums tied
up in assets not earning anything for the
time being, the future offers as much
promise as in the case of most other
manufacturing industries. None of the
new Tasmanian paper cos. will be com-
petitors.
* . * * *
One of the few stocks to improve its
position on Sydney ’Change last week
was lilawarra Steam, which lifted by Is.
6d. to 435. On the basis of the increased
div. the return is 4.2 p.c. It is a pros-
perous and well-in concern. North
Coast Steam shares have dropped back
Is., to 405., now returning 4 p.c.
* % X *
Ord. shares in Melbourne Steam at
something below 30s. represent the most
intriguing issue in the steamship group.
On a 7 p.c. div. basis the return is 4.7
p.c., while earnings last term, exclusive
of allocations to depreciation reserve,
were 9.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
* * * *
Loloma, Fiji, which has just paid its
first div., won 17,0440 z. from 14,148
tons during its initial eight clean-ups (to
May 18). Average recovery has been
24dwt. If costs are no more than 40s.
a ton, profit to date should be better
than £115,000; if exes, run to 605.,
then the figure would drop to. about
£lOO,OOO. The extent, value and acces-
sibility of ore reserves, proved and pro-
spective, are the other important items
besides present costs. At last week’s
weaker.price of 225. for the shares, mar-
ket valuation of the show is £907,500.
In the first 22 weeks’ operations of the
new plant, Emperor has turned out
18,3270 z. from 60,117 tons, average
6.ldwt. Head value, which averaged
6.Bdwt. for some months, rose to 7dwt.
in the period to April 20, and dropped
to 6.sdwt. in the latest (to May 19),
when recoveries were a trifle over 6dwt.,
as against 6.sdwt. in the preceding run.
Market interest is static at around 11s. 6d.
Mt. Kasi, on the other island of Fiji,
is managed by Major Peterson, and has
no connection with the Theodore group ;
in the first 20 weeks of 1938 this mine has
turned out 31330 z. from 14,320 tons, an
average recovery of 4.3Bdwt. exclusive of
slags ; slags last year lifted ordinary mill-
ing results from 4.23dwt. in the monthly
returns to 4.sldwt. in the annual
accounts. Kasi should be netting 15s.
a ton on ore going through at present.
* # * Sj!
Berlei ords., of frequent Bulletin
mention, strengthened to 41s. 6d. last
week. It is a well-conducted and soundly-
financed business.
* * * *
Meggitt, Ltd., has difficulty in filling
orders for stock foods made from linseed
after the oil has been extracted. There
has been talk that the co. may venture
into lines not made from linseed. The
production of linseed foods is limited to
the demand for oil in the paint and
other trades, as sheep-nuts, oil-cake, etc.,
can’t be made without turning out oil
also.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer ords. slumped to 295. 6d., standing at
the lowest level for years. The shares looked
good buying. Herald scrip flopped to 545. 6d.
at one stage.
G. J. Coles ords. were checked in their
upward spurt by the reaction in the market
that followed the slump in Barrier stocks.
Above 85s. not long ago, they were down to
81s. 3d. at one stage on Thursday.


AUSTRALIA'S MOST POPULAR
1 H M:
m
■
mmgm
mmm
■mam
•■■■*?"
The Weldon Radio Clock
(Mantel Model).
Pat. Appl.
' A ust. 3351137.
Gt. Britain 34771137.
New Zealand 78955/37.
Foreign Pat. pending.
RADIO
SET
The 1938
WELDON
RADIO
CLOCK
Whether you live in the crowded city areas or in a remote rural district, you owe it to yourself to
inspect the 1938 Weldon range. See for yourself the magnificent cabinet designs and hear for
yourself the glorious tonal qualities. If there is no Weldon dealer in your district, write for full
particulars direct to the manufacturers and distributors, BLOCH & GERBER, LIMITED, with
which is associated Weldon Electric Supply Co., 46-48 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6291
(9 lines).
The increasingly popular Weldon Radio
Clock range is EFFICIENT and MODERN
—an article of unquestionable utility and
beauty combining two of the most widely-
used household commodities, an efficient
and reliable radio receiver and an equally
reliable 8-day clock.
Could you imagine anything more useful
and modern?
You will be proud to own and prouder to
demonstrate to your, friends a Weldon
Radio Clock.
Weldon Radio Clocks are protected by
patent applications in all principal coun-
tries of the world, and are available in the
following models:—
Mantel Range .
MODEL 2/38A. —For standard Broadcast
programmes. 240 volt A.C. operation.
5 valves. LIST PRICE 17 Gns.
MODEL 2/38D. —For Australian and
Overseas reception. 240 volt A.C. opera-
tion. 5 valves. LIST PRICE, 20 Gns.
MODEL 2/38V. —For Australian recep-
tion. 6-volt accumulator operation (no
Bor C batteries). 5 valves.
LIST PRICE 25 Gns.
Grandfather Clock Range.
MODEL 2/38G. — (Same description as
2/38A. LIST PRICE 25 Gns.
MODEL 2/38DG—(Same description as
2/38D.) LIST PRICE 28 Gns.
MODEL 2/38VG—(Same description as
2/38V.) LIST PRICE 31 Gns.
Here are five other popular members of
the Weldon 1 938 range.
These models are housed in the conven-
tional console-type cabinets.
Each model is a leader of its class. Cabinet
design is strikingly beautiful and modern.
Technically they embody all the latest
achievements of radio science.
Australasian Reception.
MODEL 3/38. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 17 Gns.
MODEL 4/38.—5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 19 Gns.
Australasian and Overseas
Reception.
MODEL 3/38D. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 18 Gns.
MODEL 4/38D. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation. LIST PRICE 21 Gns.
MODEL 5/38D. —5 valve, 240 volt, A.C.
operation, with exclusive automatic tele-
phone type dial. LIST PRICE, 25 Gns.
In addition to Weldon Radio, BLOCH & GERBER, LTD.
(which is the largest radio and electrical wholesale warehouse in
Australia), carry comprehensive stocks of all other radio and
electrical lines, including:—
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS (SEVERAL
BEST KNOWN MAKES)
WASHING MACHINES (AUSTRALIAN
AND CANADIAN)
VACUUM
CLEANERS
WELDON IRONS
WELDON JUGS
WELDON
TOASTERS
LAMPS
VALVES
FLEXIBLES
WIRES
RADIO
ACCESSORIES
WELDON BICYCLES
IMMERSION
HEATERS
BATTERY CLOCKS
RADIATORS
LIGHTING
FIXTURES
BATTERIES
ELECTRIC CLOCKS
CABLES
ELECTRICAL
ACCESSORIES
DEALERS! We guarantee to give better prices,
the best parts and the speediest and most
courteous service in Australia.
WRITE FOR COMPREHENSIVE CATALOGUE.
Agencies are still available in districts where we are not already represented.
WELDON RADIO, DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED AND DISTRIBUTED BY
BLOCH &. GERBER Ltd
With which is associated Weldon Electric Supply Co.,
46-48 York Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MA6291 (9 lines).


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Comintern Adopts “Peace.”
[All the methods outlined by London “Times” Riga
correspondent in this (condensed) article have become
increasingly familiar in practice here in the past two
years, especially the pretence that the aim is world
peace. I Ins masterpiece of humbug and Hypocrisy
seems to have hoodwinked a great many people, includ-
ing conductors of Great Dailies, whose “carefully com-
piled” cables consistently play up to the new Comintern
programme and avoid presenting such exposures as this.]
The Seventh World Congress of the Comintern
in Moscow (July-August, 1935) accepted instructions
to mask activities, to discard the word “war” from the
programme in favor of the word “peace,” to inscribe
“Fight for Peace” and “United Front” on the Com-
munist banner. The word “Socialism” was also
adopted for use in public in preference to “Commu-
nism” and “Bolshevism.”
The Congress passed a resolution that the chief
immediate task of the Comintern was to agitate for
a “United Popular Front” in all countries. It was
explained that this merely meant new methods of
fighting ; that agitation for “the mass struggle against
war must be linked with reliance on State help from
the Soviet Union and its mighty Red Army” ; that
leaders outside the Soviet Union who did not carry
out the new tactics would be removed ; that if war
broke out anywhere the device “Fight for Peace”
would be the most effective weapon for “turning war
into civil war against the bourgeoisie.”
This plan was put into practice by the non-
Russian leaders sent home with instructions from
Moscow. Though “Fascism” was held up as the arch-
enemy, the chief subversive activity was prescribed
for the “democratic” countries, hope being given up
for the time being in Germany, Japan and Italy.
France, Spain and Austria were expected to yield
the best early fruit. Paris had already been made
the European centre of the Comintern, the capital
from which appeals, manifestoes and other revolution-
ary matter could be launched without ostensibly com-
promising Moscow. Now, with Paris as its point
d'appui, the Comintern engineered the outbreak of
civil war in Spain.
No secret was made of this achievement in Russia.
Spaniards were brought to Moscow in great numbers,
trained in the art of civil war, then sent back as
leaders to put their training into practice with the
aid of non-Communist “Socialists” under the banner
of the “United Popular Front.” Matter published in
Moscow claims that active assistance to the “United
Popular Front” and the civil war was rendered con-
stantly throughout 1936 and 1937, including the supply
of Soviet tanks and aeroplanes.
France is regarded in Moscow as the most friendly
nation. This friendship makes her the more vulner-
able ; the closer the friendship, the better the oppor-
tunity for disintegrative attack. The “new orienta-
tion” of the Comintern is devised for attacking friends
and partners while marching together ostensibly in
unity against Fascism. The Committee in Moscow
points out that the Comintern section in France had
only 87,000 members in 1936, but by the end of 1937
the number had risen to over 340,000 —a fourfold
increase in one year—and that during this period
France had been kept in a constant state of turmoil
on the verge of violence and street fighting.
The Communist party of Poland is described as
“one of the best sections of the Comintern, though
obliged to work deep underground.” It appears, how-
ever, that Moscow considers the present inopportune
for turning Poland into “another Spain,” as this would
give Germany and the Soviet Union a common fron-
tier, and risk a major war with Russia as a principal.
All the countries of Europe are treated individu-
ally, with the same prescription: the “united front” ;
strikes and disorders ; civil war ; Soviet government.
None of these stages can be skipped. Stalin himself
has made the most authoritative pronouncement on
this point, which is reaffirmed in all the latest relevant
resolutions of the “Staff of World Revolution” in
Moscow. This declares there can be no real revolu-
tion without civil war, as the only road to Soviet rule
is the road of violence.
There is more variation in the programme and
methods applied to countries outside Europe. The
Arabs are being urged to fight for abolition of “arti-
ficial frontiers” by means of which Britain and France
have “torn the country into bits.” The Comintern
reports explain unambiguously that the end here, as
in Europe, is to cause and maintain disorders, thereby
undermining existing authority. Leaders of the Com-
intern section in India are for the present stage trying
to work with the Congress party for national emanci-
pation from British rule, hiding their Soviet aims until
a stronger hold on the “united front” be established.
In China the united front has been firmly laid.
Comintern spokesmen declare that the war in China
is pouring water on their mill; that, whatever be
the fortunes of war, the Comintern is sure of victory,
with civil war in Japan as well as in China. They
admit there are great difficulties in working within
Japan, but they are rallying elements of discontent
and are willing to make a united front with any exist-
ing organisation, no matter what its hue, if only it
may serve to attract the masses and undermine order.
The discipline prescribed by the World Congress
in 1935 has been strictly enforced. Many of those
shot as spies or wreckers in Russia have really been
sacrificed to Stalin’s Comintern policy, and all the
sections abroad have been purged of lukewarm leaders
and “extremists” unwilling or unable to join in estab-
lishing and maintaining the various “united fronts.”
America’s Two Voices.
(Condensed from an article in London “National Review.”)
There are two American “Foreign Policies”: Con-
gressional and Administration. Congressional foreign
policy is based on the assumption that the United
States should not concern itself with moral issues : it
should maintain an impartial attitude towards treaty-
breakers and treaty-keepers; both aggressors and
victims of aggression should be placed on the same
footing. Administration foreign policy is based on
the opposite assumption ; that the United States is
essentially concerned with moral issues, must bring
moral pressure to bear upon treaty-breakers and play
an active part in upholding international law.
Congressional foreign policy, moreover, is based
on the assumption that the prevention of war is no
concern of the United States; her only problem
should be how to keep out of war. Administration
foreign policy is based on the assumption that the
United States has a duty as a great Power to work for
world peace and, should war break out, to use her
influence to shorten its duration.
Throughout the past ten years these two foreign
policies have jockeyed for position. Usually Con-
gressional policy thwarts Administration policy,
occasionally Administration policy thwarts Congres-
sional. Britain more than any other country suffers
from the dual voice with which the United States
speaks in foreign affairs. Every time a crisis arises in
international affairs part of the campaign of those who
oppose Administration policy is to attempt to discredit
Britain.
Mr. Hull’s statement regarding the China
situation that, though there was no agreement with
Britain, it was “appropriate and advisable to proceed
on parallel lines where practicable” seemed to
justify Congressionalists’ worst suspicions. England,
they cried, was trying to get the United States to pull
its chestnuts out of the Far Eastern blaze ; England
was trying to line up the Democracies for an
inevitable war with the Dictatorships ; England was
once again expecting every American to do his duty.
England had vast interests in the Far East; America’s
stake was less valuable than the domestic chewing-
gum industry. There is something almost pathological
about the state of mind of the Congressional
isolationist where England is concerned.
Whatever the future of the struggle between
Administration and Congressional policies, one fact
is certain. As long as the present situation continues
Administration policy cannot be relied upon. Con-
gressional foreign policy implies that the United
States will never co-operate politically with other
nations ; but the agency through which other nations
keep in touch with the United States, the State Depart-
ment, adheres to the rival Administration foreign
policy and so can never admit it. Every Foreign
Office must accommodate itself to an imaginary
condition in order not to offend the United States
officials with whom alone it can deal. The complete
triumph of the Administration would be one of the
greatest steps forward towards international stability.
Failing that, its complete defeat would be preferable
to the present contradictory situation.
South America’s Shirtiness.
- [After all, dictator-rule (by any name preferred) is
nothing new in South America, as C. V. R. Thompson
points out in this comment, condeggpd from London
“Daily Express.”] “
More used to taking dictation than all the world’s
typists are Latin-America’s 90,000,000 people.
Latin-America invented dictatorships, and until
Mussolini and Hitler came along had a monopoly of
them. There was hardly a State that selected its
ruler by popular vote. There was hardly a town oi
village that didn’t have a sub-dictator who, by putting
the town’s best-looking men in pretty uniforms, main-
tained control until some one came along with a
stronger private army or prettier uniforms.
To-day there is again hardly a country south
of the Panama Canal that knows the meaning of the
word plebiscite.
There is Colonel Fulgentio Batista, a typist until
he decided to do some of the dictating in Cuba. There
is sour, solemn Lazaro Cardenas, who controls
Mexico. There is pouchy-eyed Getulio Vargas, who
likes to think of himself as the Napoleon in morning
clothes of Brazil.
Military juntas dominate Ecuador and Venezuela.
No one could call the Chile Government strictly con-
stitutional. And even the Argentine Republic with a
Parliament and a popular vote is not as democratic
as America’s Secretary of State Cordell Hull could
wish.
There is a lot of talk of the great foothold
Fascism and Nazism are gaining. It is true there
are still a number of colored-shirt groups that are
claimed by agents from Berlin and Rome. But it
is also true that the colored-shirt groups have been
organised by men with political ambitions for their
own personal creed, not Mussolini’s or Hitler’s. It is
also true that there is not enough genuine spon-
taneous sympathy for the “isms” in Latin-America
for any man to try to stage a Nazi coup.
That is why Washington has remained so
unperturbed over the reported turn towards Rome and
Berlin in Latin-America. That is why Washington is
sure that Latin-America will remain good, if rather
quarrelsome, neighbors.
The Czechoslovakian Tangle.
[First published in “Gringoire,” Paris, the article
by Bertrand de Jouvenel from which this digest is made
is here condensed from London “World Review.”]
If there are two States which should naturally
have upheld each other they were Poland and Czecho-
slovakia, the first to be menaced by a German
reawakening. They had hardly come into existence
when they began quarrelling. Their disputes con-
cerning bits of territory lasted for four years and
occupied the Conference of Ambassadors, the Council
of the League of Nations, the Court of International
Justice—in fact, all the international organisations
then in fashion.
What was more serious was that in 1920, when
the Bolshevik invasion threatened to destroy Poland,
the Czechs showed no anxiety. The Supreme Council
of the Allies was then meeting at Spa, and, not wish-
ing to send French troops, the Government of M.
Millerand attempted to make the Czechs intervene.
They refused. The Hungarians, who had just liberated
themselves from Bela Kun, would gladly have
marched, but they had no common frontier with
Poland and the Czechs refused them permission to
pass. This, accepted in Poland to-day as historic truth,
has greatly damaged relations between that country
and Czechoslovakia.
As for Franco-Polish relations, when Hitler came
into power the Nazis of the Free City of Danzig
became excited, and Poland, in conflict with them,
did not feel completely supported by France. This
made Warsaw think that, in the event of conflict with
Hitler’s regime over the Polish corridor which sepa-
rates Germany into two parts so oddly, France would
not hold to her engagements. Germany offered a
treaty of non-aggression. It was accepted with joy.
Then France allied herself by the Franco-Soviet pact
with Poland’s hereditary enemy. Perhaps at the
present moment Poland would still help us if Germany
attacked us. Apart from such an eventuality, Poland
has entered the German system. If Germany comes
into conflict with Czechoslovakia, for instance, Poland
would be neutral —and an accomplice.
Russia has common frontiers neither with Ger-
many nor Czechoslovakia. Russian troops would have
to pass through Poland or Rumania. In both coun-
tries they would come up against a refusal. What is
the reason of the diplomatic visits exchanged between
Warsaw and Bucharest? It is a matter of mutual
promises of aid against a Russian attempt to force a
passage through one or the other to go and rescue
the Czechs. We have every reason to believe the
Polish-Rumanian forces quite capable of stopping the
Russian Army.
France has no other method of relieving the
Czechs than by attacking Germany. Experts accord
an enormous advantage to the defensive in modern
war. In order to relieve the Czechs a very rapid
offensive would be necessary. That would involve
immense risks. Moreover, the French Army has been
thought of as a purely defensive instrument for too
long to be capable of rapid offensive war at present.
French intervention in conflict between Germany and
Czechoslovakia would turn out to be a struggle on
our frontier which would go on for months without
preventing the destruction of the Czech Army.
{Comment by Lord Rothermere in London “Daily Mail.”)
French Ministers are the prisoners of their own
follies. They know the Franco-Czechoslovakian alli-
ance is dangerous to their country and thoroughly
unpopular in France itself, but they cannot see their
way to go back on their word.
A large party in the French Parliament demands
the denunciation of that treaty. At least half the
French press is dead against it. In high French mili-
tary circles it is stated that if an attempt were made
to mobilise the army in defence of Czechosk>Yakia
Postscripts to a Scare.
Though others ran it close, Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” won the latest war-scare competition outright
with, among others flights of fancy, a ridiculous
canard crediting Poland with having, through its
Foreign Minister (Colonel Beck), warned Germany
that Poland would go in with France and Britain
against Germany on behalf of the Czechs.
This, said the “D.T.” had “saved Europe.”
Poland officially denied the lie. The “D.T.,”
famous for “giving Australia leadership,” is seem-
ingly unaware that Poland has a pact with Germany,
as well as a further agreement made only a month
or two back. As for Colonel Beck,- this is how he
appears editorially to the “Eeftish” Condon publica-
tion “Time and Tide” (14/5/’3B) :
The latest participant in the discussion of
Czech-German affairs is Poland. Our Ambassa-
dor in Warsaw has had a talk with Colonel
Beck about the matter. We may reasonably
doubt whether the Polish Foreign Minister’s atti-
tude was very cordial. His views are well known
in this country. In Colonel Beck’s opinion,
Prague is the real centre of the Comintern. A
slight improvement is reported in Polish-Czech
relations. Serious improvement is unlikely, how-
ever, while Colonel Beck is in power.
Other postscripts to the war scare will be
found under the heading “The Czechoslovakian
Tangle,” including further light on the stand Poland
would have taken had the stupid diplomatic blunder-
ing imagined by the press really taken place and
had it led—as any such stupid blundering must have
done —to war. Feeling in England against any Czech
war is also indicated.
Making use of the improved bi-weekly airmail
service to Australia, THE BUEEETIN introduced
“Uncabled Additions” as a corrective to the wild
hearsay, guesswork and worse served up in cables
as fact. Also to present in condensed form the com-
ment of experts and authorities on world affairs
and other matters of widespread interest.


WHon
PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE .nd
CENERAUNSURANCE CO.LTD.
Heart Office—37l-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
Wingello lfouse, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to Undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
k
rEVERWEAR FLOORING;
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents :
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
1139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
SADDLER-MADE
HORSE
RUGS f\
WITH
"STAYS-ON"
FITTINGS.
No. A—S UP E R
BLEACHED ALL
FLAX HEAVY
CANVAS, FLEECY CHECK LINED.
sft. 6in., 44/-; sft. 9in., 45/6;
6ft., 46/6.
No. KA—KHAKI “LEAKPRUF”
DUCK, FLEECY CHECK LINED. sft.
6in., 42/-; sft. 9in., 43/6; 6ft., 44/6.
POST 2/9 PER RUG.
WRITE FOR 1938 RUG LIST AND
SAMPLES OF CANVAS.
■
WALTHER & STEVEHSOM KZ:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
a very large proportion of reservists would not respond
to the call.
(Philip Gibbs, in London “Times .”)
Why, it is asked in Germany, should Britain
deny the will of the Sudeten Germans to liberate them-
selves from the rule of the Czechs, who, in that ethno-
graphical absurdity called Czechoslovakia, are actu-
ally in a minority among the combined numbers they
govern with no light hand? Why, they ask, does
England object to those Sudeten Germans linking up
with their fellow-Germans if that is their desire, and
by what right do we object?
I confess I don’t know the right answer.
At present German leaders, I am told, are trying
to calm these Sudeten Germans in order to avoid a
popular explosion which might lead to the menace of
a European war. But here is another question they
ask: Why should Europe be even remotely threatened
by, a war which would lead to frightful horrors and
general ruin in order to uphold an artificial State
which reproduces in a small area all the mixture of
races of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire? Within
24 hours of war Czechoslovakia would have dis-
appeared off the map and Europe would be fighting
to the death for a non-existent State which was a
violation of all racial ideals. Is that, they ask, Eng-
land’s present line of policy? If so, where is the sense
of it?
That question also is hard to answer.
• (J. L. Garvin, in London "Observer.")
What is Czechoslovakia? It is a nonesuch State
like no other on earth. The Czechs proper are a
minority ruling and rather lording over a mixed
majority of other peoples—Germans, Slovaks, Mag-
yars, Ruthenians, Poles. Is this democracy?
What we are asked to guarantee is the racial
ascendancy of the Czech minority over the rest.
France and Russia have renewed that bad pledge. It
should be absolutely impossible for a British Cabinet
to adopt it.
Russia is separated from Czechoslovakia by terri-
tory about a hundred miles wide. Moscow announces
that to fulfil the unhappy pact with Prague the Bol-
shevik armies will demand right of way over Poland.
That would be resisted to the death by Poland in
alliance with the Greater Reich and the other anti-
Comintern Powers. Let us make no mistake about
what this sort of programme would mean were Britain
to underwrite it. It would involve us in simultaneous
war with the following countries, at least—Germany,
Italy, Japan, Poland, Nationalist Spain and Hungary.
That list might easily receive an addition or two in
the swing of hostilities.
George Lansbury Speaks Out.
[These are points made by Britain’s veteran Labor
leader in his outspoken book My Quest for Peace.
(Michael Joseph, Ltd.). They are not presented with
any continuity, but are to be read as points selected
here and there from Mr. Lansbury’s chapters.]
The policy of appeasement through collective
justice has never yet been tried. I am confident that
Stalin, Mussolini, Hitler, Roosevelt, Blum and Cham-
berlain meeting together would soon find a way out.
Ws must not allow the men who made the vengeful
peace treaties to take control; they should remain
dumb and leave to younger, wiser men the task of
handling the present situation. I know, no one better,
that dictators are difficult and hard to trust; but they
are here and they control masses of people, and we
must either negotiate or fight.
I cannot forget my own part in this business of
aerial warfare. 1 was a member of the Labor Govern-
ment which not only retained the right to bomb people
living within the Empire, but also defended this kind
of warfare as being more merciful. I have since been
quite ashamed that I was part of that Government.
Together with my young friends I opposed the
Afghan wars, the Zulu, Kaffir and other African wars,
as well as the British war against Abyssinia. All this
is years-old history, but it is history, as also is the
story of the British war on China for the purpose of
forcing the Chinese Government to allow the import
and sale of opium in that country. I am sure our
people would never sanction such a policy again ; but
when we arc judging others who are at present striving
to blast their way to imperialist power it is well to
remember our own past and that we too conquered
because our weapons were more deadly than those
owned by people described as uncivilised.
Neither Germany nor Italy started the arms race.
It was the Allies who consistently refused to disarm
and carry out their promise, made at the end of the
war, that when disarming Germany and Austria they
did so only as a preliminary step towards their own
disarmament. This promise was never honored.
Even in peace times great empires always have
some small war on their hands. Even under the man-
date system we have found ourselves faced with war
in Palestine, a war which is not yet settled because
of conflicting interests which are very difficult to
adjust. I must repeal that I do not in any way think
our rulers more inhuman than others: it is conditions
which make most people what they are; my com-
plaint is we do not give as much attention to the
causes of disorder as we should.
The sins and follies of all Governments, including
our own, have left a legacy of misery and suffering
throughout Europe which is indescribable. No one who
sees at first hand the silent suffering of masses, or who
listens to the conversation of people who live amid
the nightmare of fear lest the horrors of war break
out again, can ever sanction war. We at home are
too apt to think that we alone remember war horrors
and others forget. This is not so. When the Armis-
tice brought a respite from slaughter, I met scores of
French, Swiss and Germans. No word of hate came
from them, only joy and thankfulness that the war
was over and a fear that the folly of statesmen and
rulers might once again plunge them into war.
My observation of the Germans, talking with a
few of them in the streets, convinces me that the mass
of people in that country and in Italy tolerate and
accept the present form of government not be-
cause of theoretical beliefs, but solely because they
believe the home and foreign policy of Herr Hitler
and Signor Mussolini will enable them to enjoy a
better and more peaceful standard of life.
My experience everywhere is that ordinary people
in all lands dread the coming of war and talk and
pray for peace. If it were possible to take a plebi-
scite in all countries, there would be an overwhelming
vote for peace at any price.
It was impossible in Warsaw to speak to a Gentile
or Jew without understanding how much they all
longed for peace. More than once we heard the
words: “Poland must not be dragged into war again.
You English do not know what it means to have your
country overrun by many millions of alien soldiers.
It is collective peace, not collective war, for which we
must strive.” \
During the last war the youth of the world was
enlisted to save democracy and destroy militarism:
neither objective was accomplished. The war which
the world is now preparing for must take as its slogan
—’“Join up and fight to make the world safe for
barbarism.” War cannot be destroyed by war. We
shall kill the war spirit when we substitute co-opera-
tion for competition and are willing to be partners in
a world commonwealth within which peoples will live
at peace, because collective-justice has taken the place
of violence and war.
Naval Bases in Eire.
f Condensed from London “Sunday Times.”)
The agreement between Eire and Great Britain
will add to the defensive position of the Empire and
its vital maritime trade routes. Though the important
“treaty ports” are rendered to Eire, their use by the
British Navy in the event of war is implicit.
On the south coast lies Queenstown, where in
1917 were based 35 destroyers for trade defence duties.
In the north Buncrana, where there were 29
destroyers in 1917.
The defences of the “treaty ports” have lapsed
since the end of the Great War. Now there is to be
a considerable increase in their strength. An Irish
Navy of small coast-defence craft is to be created.
Practically all the material required is to be purchased
in Great Britain. Irish rearmament is not to be con-
cerned only with coast defence. The air forces are
to be strengthened and a large part of the army
mechanised.
Another factor which will strengthen the position
will be the establishment in Eire of new factories.
At least two large steelworks are to be established.
A Fraud That Hoaxes Millions.
[Limited only by its smaller population, Australia is
every bit as profitable a hunting-ground as U.S.A. for
the charlatans attacked by Fred C. Kelly in the article
here condensed from the “Readers Digest” for May.
In Australia they are to be heard babbling their hocus
over the air, sections of Our Glorious Press serve it up
to their readers, and there are even tipsters who under-
take for a consideration, without legal hindrance, to
forecast the results of horseraces by astrology.]
It seems incredible that in our age of science a
superstition surviving from the dark days of man-
kind's mental infancy should find believers. Yet at
least 250 newspapers in the United States print daily
articles on astrology. Nearly a dozen magazines are
devoted entirely to this form of humbug.
During the last 300 years not one recognised
scientist anywhere in the world has professed belief in
the slightest connection between the stars and man’s
destiny. The only feeling scientists have about
astrology is one of disgust that in a nation of free
schools such hocus-pocus should have believers.
It all began with the early astrologers in
Babylonia and Assyria, and their successors in Arabia,
Egypt, Greece and Rome, who identified the planets
with their pagan gods. They believed the planets had
powers similar to those attributed to the gods whose
names they bore. To-day, probably not even the most
ignorant astrologers believe that Jupiter, Venus,
Mars and the other pagan gods ever existed except
in mythology. Nevertheless, they ask us to believe
that large chunks of rock or gaseous matter, floating
in space millions of miles away, somehow exercise
influence on us because they are identified with the
names of characters in fairy tales !
Two events alone in astronomical history should
reveal to the most credulous the charlatanry in
astrology. Just when astrologers had all the planets’
administrative chores neatly distributed, the as-
tronomer Herschel discovered Uranus. Then in 1846
Neptune turned up. Evidently for centuries Uranus
and Neptune had been loafing along taking no part
in directing human affairs—though each was bigger
than Mercury, Mars and Venus combined ! The
astrologers soon found congenial jobs for them. In
a popular book by the late Evangeline Adams,
famous for making astrology pay, we find that Uranus
rules the railroads and Neptune governs aviation.
Most of the patter in newspaper astrology
columns and books is of such obvious banality that
one shudders to think of the mentality of those who
take it seriously : “Uranus in the seventh house,
from which he sends you the vibration that is funda-
mental in your life, causes much of the excitement
of your life to proceed from your contacts with other
people.” This is the sort of guff, endlessly repeated,
with which astrologers impress their prey.
For several years Professor Schlesinger, Director
of the Yale University Observatory, has made it a
practice to write to newspapers devoting space to
astrology, courteously asking Why they represent them-
selves as dedicated to truth and enlightenment and
then deliberately spread superstition. Usually the
excuse is that the “daily horoscopes” amuse the
ignorant, make them buy papers, and do no harm.
But of course they do harm. Such features
keep alive a superstition through which fakers col-
lect money under false pretences. Even more serious,
as Watson Davis, editor of “Science Service” says, is
the danger that “the innate commonsense of readers
and their natural desire to know the true from the
false may be dulled by this constant barrage of
unscientific thinking.”
For a time radio exceeded the newspapers in carry-
ing astrology to the gullible. When Evangeline
Adams began her radio talks in 1930 she received
in the first three months 150,000 requests for horo-
scopes, and a year later the letters were pouring in
at the rate of 4000 a day.
No matter how widely the truth about astrology
is disseminated, some people will always believe in it
because, the psychiatrists say, they suffer from a
neurotic condition much more serious than ignorance.
Reason won’t help those who want to be fooled.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Rather more than a year ago this
Page told itself that Dutiful was a good
horse in the making. The chestnut has
done little racing since; but, brought
back into the game recently, he has had
three races for two seconds and a first.
The win was achieved in capital style in
a middle-distance handicap at Rosehill
on Wednesday.
Dutiful is owned by Harris, who punts
in a big way, and was trained by
Jamieson, who also puts in substantially
when he fancies a horse. The pair had
to take evens for most of their money
at Rosehill, though 6 to 4 was laid.
Kinsfolk’s rider tried to steal the race.
This mare is not hanging on nearly as
well as she did last season, and she had
settled herself before she reached the
straight. There Bachelor King tackled
Dutiful, but at the weights and over the
distance he was no match for Harris's
horse, who beat Bachelor King and Peri-
mond comfortably. Bachelor King kept
coming in on Perimond, being too much
of a handful for his jockey, Neale, but
it made no difference to the result.
Respirator, a Windbag colt, had pre-
viously won for Jamieson. After the
meeting Harris took Dutiful from
Jamieson’s stable. He declares that there
is no ill-feeling, and the public is left
to conclude that a horse obviously at
the top of his form will benefit from
change of air and scene.
* * * *
The Ring reckons Canterbury Park one
of its bad courses, and is ultra-careful
there as a rule. But it couldn’t help
showing a profit on Saturday’s meeting.
Autoland, who is owned by H. Long-
worth, gave most of the brotherhood a
“skinner” when he won the Flying Welter
from Envoy and Gipsy Chief. It was
his first run after a long spell, and the
distance —six furlongs—was reckoned too
short for him, so 25 to 1 was “freely”
offered. Heads separated them. Publicity
was favorite, and was in the van until
the last furlong. He may have done
better had his rider not been so anxious
to get to the front, and his turn will
come.
Like Autoland, Dulcedo is by Pro-
mised Land. Partly because he is sup-
posed to be unsound, and partly because
he was ridden by Farrell, a Newcastle
lad, unknown in Sydney, Dulcedo’s Can-
terbury Handicap price was, at first, 10
to 1, though it firmed to sevens. As a
matter of fact the despised jockey rode
a fine race, and Dulcedo had it won
half a mile from home. Cid ran on well
to get second ; Chatham’s half-brother,
Minnesota, was third. Cid had been set
an impossible task. His rider allowed
him to drop to the rear, and the race
was Dulcedo’s when Cid began making
his run.
Bianconi (2 to 1) outstayed a poor lot
of opponents irf the Campsie Handicap.
Levant, the favorite, was second, and
Marie Belle was third. Euphorbus, get-
ting ready for jumping races at Randwick
and Melbourne, was the pacemaker for
a mile.
Backers of favorites made no mistake
in the divisions of the Juvenile Handi-
cap. Early Bird (11 to 8 on) won the first
and Ilona (7 to 4) the second. Early
Bird, a daughter of The Buzzard, shaped
like a coming stayer: she was squeezed
near the three-furlongs pole, but finished
like an old stager. Ilona had a nice run
all the way.
Mikado was almost as good for the
bagmen as Autoland. He ran on strongly
to take the first division of the Park
Stakes —at 20 to 1. The second division
went to Rummage (9 to 2). She had
failed badly at Warwick Farm, but the
class was not so strong on Saturday, and
punters who ignored a queer drift in the
market got good odds. Darby Munro
had Rummage in the right place all the
way, and at the finish she easily held
off Rosante.
:|c * * *
C. A. Russell, the trainer, has suc-
ceeded Alan Cooper as the Sydney racing
reporter’s most fluent source of “copy.”
After Bianconi had returned to his stall
at Canterbury Park, Mr. Russell copi-
ously explained to them what had been
the matter with the noble animal (“kid-
ney trouble”), what treatment had been
administered (“a dose of sweet nitre ”),
why he (Mr. Russell) had chosen to re-
move the bandage and how much he had
put on.
With wet conditions obtaining I deemed
it advisable to refrain from unnecessary
bandaging because of the fact tha. Ban-
dages pick up moisture. However, 1 con-
tended that one bandage was essential in
order to reduce the jarring effect when the
horse galloped.
And so —
I instructed a commissioner to invest
£2OO on him. Of this sum, £lOO was for
the owner, Mrs. Madge Dwyer, and the
other £lOO for myself. My commissioner
secured £250 to £lOO on two occasions.
Just as well Mr. Russell employs a com-
missioner to do his “investing” for him.
If he tried to “secure” wagers on his own
account he might have difficulty in get-
ting the words out in time.
* * * *
All Tattersall’s Club and half Rand-
wick turned out to see the last of Jack
Dunningham. He was N.S.W.’s first
bookmaker-Minister, and if he had been
spared a month or two longer he would
have been its first bookmaker-knight.
Dunningham was never exactly one of
the big fielders at Randwick, but he was
never neglected, punters being attracted
to him by his beaming smile and his fine
voice—in that respect he had no rival.
He gave up the bag on being admitted
to Cabinet, but when a bit of patronage
came his way he did not forget old rac-
ing pals who had fallen on evil days. As
a youngster Dunningham played Rugby
Union football for Glebe, and, though his
calling prevented him for years from at-
tending matches, he never lost his in-
terest in the Union. From the time he
was elected ten years ago, the good-
hearted fellow was in great request for
dinners, luncheons and “smoke socials,”
at all of which he was expected to make
speeches. These demands on his time
and —though naturally abstemious —his
digestion were trebled when he was
placed in charge of the 150th Anniver-
sary arrangements, and a plague of minor
worries was added. Not till the end came
—at 54 —was it realised that too much
had been expected of the ever-obliging
fellow.
* * * *
Randwick lost another of its notabili-
ties last week, and a good fellow, too —
Jack Whitworth. A Maorilander for
whom George Price rode long before
Price filled out into a nuggety middle-
weight, Whitworth brought Artillerie to
Australia about 30 years ago and twice
won the Caulfield Stakes with her. Also
he took Artillerie and Prince Foote for
two Cups for big money, and he always
thought he would have collected if
Artillerie hadn’t been hemmed in on
the rails. Whitworth settled down at
Randwick as a trainer and had some use-
ful horses in his stable, but never got
another as good as Artillerie. He had
been a hotelkeeper in Maoriland, and
he returned to hotelkeeping at Bargo
(N.S.W.) and in his old suburb, where
he kept the Hotel Randwick. He was
65 when he weighed out for the last
time.
* * * *
Horses racing at Ascot (Vic.) on May
25 were almost indistinguishable until
they approached the home turn. Over-
night fog hadn’t entirely lifted in late
afternoon. No in-running betting was
attempted: only a super-optimist would
venture an opinion as to the whereabouts
of any candidate. Stake-money for a
seven-event programme aggregated £950,
no race being worth less than £l5O,
except the two divisions of the Encourage
Handicap. In the latter case £5O had
been added to the original allotment, thus
providing £lOO for each division. The
former “pony” club cannot be accused
of illiberality. Sydney racing people
would cheerfully part with any of their
proprietary clubs if they could get an
Ascot.
Peerie (Lanius-Girouette), winner of
the Trial Hurdle at Ascot (Vic.), is trained
by O. R. Cox, whose uncle owned Graf-
nax, a great ’chaser of bygone years.
Cox also was represented by Trentwood,
and Trentwood was in better demand
than his stablemate. Peerie scored easily
from Elegance and Burramit, with
Trentwood fourth. Both Peerie and
Trentwood are in the G.N. Hurdle, but
neither impresses takers of Hurdle-and-
Steeple doubles. Even less can be said
for the prospects of Maritime, Steel Spear
and Royal Mail, who finished “down the
course.” But Elegance may have to be
reckoned with in the G.N. Steeple.
With Tactical, a son of Simeon’s Fort,
Len Robertson, the Melbourne trainer,
won the Ascot Vale Stakes in March.
He produced Citadel, another son of
Simeon’s Fort, for the second division of
the Encourage Handicap at Ascot, and
this three-year-old was backed down to
9 to 4. In Keith Voitre’s hands Citadel
finished well, but he failed by half a
length to overtake Verdant Ray, who
comes from the Gippsland town of
Longford. Verdant Ray had won nine
times out of 10 'starts before tackling
metropolitan company at Ascot. Punters,
to their sorrow, allowed the Greenstead
mare to go out at twelves. Percy Miller’s
Devoted Son, by Constant Son from a
sister to Rampion and Ramulus, shaped
well enough to suggest that Jack Holt
may win with him later on.
First division of the Encourage Handi-
cap went to Crowsaint, a Crowdennis
gelding, about whom eights could easily
be had. Favorite was Profit, a handsome
little stallion by Gilt Edge from Gloam-
ing’s sister Refraction. Hot support for
Profit was induced by his easy defeat of
Kagawa at Avenel on May 10. Tables
were turned with a vengeance at Ascot.
Kagawa ran second, less than a length
behind the winner. Profit beat few
rivals.
At Ascot Jack Holt, who formerly
trained Mooramong, helped himself to
some of the 6 to 1 which was laid against
that Ronsard gelding in the Cambridge
Handicap. He had the satisfaction of
seeing Mooramong win cleverly by a
head from Marion Melton; the favorite,
Finch, was third. E. ,H. Nichols has
landed three races on end with Moora-
mong, who has improved wonderfully
since his removal from Mordialloc to
Ballarat.
Victory of imported Peggy O’Neill at
2 to 1 in the Wallingford Trial Handi-
cap brightened the spirits of backers,
but they were on tenterhooks until No.
3 went up in the frame. Peggy O’Neill
just squeezed home from Conwardil.
Mate o’ Mine was a fast-finishing third.
He carries the colors in which Palfresco
landed the Caulfield Cup of 1935, and,
like Palfresco, he is by Son o’ Mine.
The money lost on Mate o’ Mine at
Ascot ought to be recoverable soon.
* * * *
From a Grand National viewpoint the
most noteworthy feature of Moonee
Valley racing last Saturday was the
Commonwealth Steeplechase success of
Leaomus (Comus-Lea Loch). He scored,
running away, by five lengths from the
favorite, old Montargis, with Philax third.
All six starters met with support, the
shortest price being 3 to 1 and the longest
sevens. Leaomus figured at 6 to 1,
though he hadn’t sported silk since last
November, when he fell in a steeplechase
at Caulfield. On Melbourne Cup day
Leaomus finished third to Seymour and
Scardus over the Flemington fences. Tom
Branigan, who trains the gelding, reckons
Leaomus the best stayer he has handled
since Bright Maid captured the Australian
Steeple of 1922, beating two extra good
’uns in Haoma and Mountain God. He
beamed with satisfaction on finding that
R. M. Cuthbertson’s timber-topper had
received 9st. in the Grand National.
Three weeks before his Moonee Valley
reappearance, Leaomus fell in a special
school over fences with one of H. E.
(“big Harry”) Connolly’s jumpers. He
didn’t have any more private lessons.
The display in public on Saturday was
faultless. Leaomus came home so
strongly that he must be conceded more
than an outside chance in the National.
Dakwood, favorite for the Federal
Hurdle at the rather remarkable odds of
15 to 8, received a sound drubbing from
Dornford (9 to 2) and a 12-to-l chance,
Davanthus, who had a bitter duel for
control until Dorrtford drew away at the
home bend.
Overnight rain had made the track
somewhat heavy. Progeny of Windbag
gallop best when the sting is out of the
turf, and Dornford seemed to relish the
going. His rider, Oakey, recently re-
turned from a visit to India, where he
was one of several Australian jockeys
retained by the Royal Calcutta Turf Club
to compete in events on the flat as well
as over obstacles. Indications are that
F. W. Hoysted will make use of Oakey’s
services at winter meetings. Hoysted
used to engage Fullarton whenever pos-
sible, but Fullarton has tentatively under-
taken to ride Pooley Bridge in the
Nationals, and Hoysted is obliged to look
ahead for suitable pilots for Heroic Chief
and Dornford.
Hurdle failure of Dakwood can be
ignored. Horses often shape surprisingly
well “first up,” as Dakwood did at the
Valley on May 7, and then decline in
form until they become solid. Dornford
has improved with racing. So, too, may
Dakwood. Physically, he looks a stone
better horse than last winter.
Tom Bradfield, who took Evening Mist
to Sydney at Easter, landed the Mount
Alexander Handicap with his own horse,
Maluno, a four-year-old gelding by
Heroic from Desert Song, by Spearhead
from Even Song. As a yearling Maluno
cost 800 guineas. Originally he carried
the colors of F. S. Austin, for whom
young Bradfield did so well with Bimilla.
Now commencing to justify his good
looks and high lineage, Maluno (9 to 2),
with splendid assistance from Frank
Dempsey, vanquished Dunloe (fours) by
half a neck.
Underestimated at 14 to 1, the con-
sistent Beau Ham earned third money by
a great finishing effort. Haughty Stare,
favorite at 7 to 2, was well forward to
the turn and then faded out. Jovial Son,
from Sydney, who ran fifth at 33 to 1,
ought to pay his way in Melbourne ; but
Imbiber, in the same colors, ran second-
last in the Headwind Highweight.
Keeping Watch, owned by the paddock
bookie Eddie O’Brien, brought joy to the
ringmen when he annexed the Keilor
Handicap by a neck from Petunia Park
(tens), with the 7-t O-4 favorite, Parodier,
half a head farther off. Six furlongs
appeared too short a journey for a horse
that had run in races, so odds of
25 to 1 went begging about Keeping
Watch —tote divs. for ss. were £7 17s. 6d.
and £1 16s. 6d.
The Piccaninny Handicap, for juveniles,
went to French Gem (Beau Fils-Fission),
trained at Williamstown by R. Sinclair
for G. W. Badman, of Adelaide. She
opened favorite but ended up in slightly
less demand than Dannevirke at 5 to 2.
The two-lengths victory wouldn’t have
been so pronounced if Dannevirke had
come earlier on the scene.
After beating Silver Reign by half a
head in the Headwind Highweight, Gold
Token (7 to 1) had to survive a protest,
which the stewards took nearly half an
hour to decide. Gold Token hung out
in the straight and carried Silver Reign
with him. Stevenage, who belongs to the
Maharajah of Kolhapur, proved a false
favorite at twos.
* * * *
“0.H.”: The luck of the game! At
Moonee Valley a man who staked £2 on
the members’ tote asked for No. 2 (Keep-
ing Watch) instead of No. 1 (Parodier).
The tickets had been issued before he
realised the error. “I’ll try to sell them
again,” said the girl at the window.
“Don’t trouble,” the punter replied ; “I’ll
give it a fly.” He collected £63 and,
speeding over to the issuing window,
forced £5 into the hands of an amazed
young woman.
* * * *
“0.T.”: H. N. (“Bert”) Leonard, who
won the Grand National Hurdle of 1931
with Cockcrow, figures on the records
as breeder of Laveur, a G.N. Hurdle
nine-stoner. The Silvius gelding was
presented by Leonard to Joe Mulcahy,
and is trained and raced by Mulcahy’s
son. Mulcahy, senior, prepared Cockcrow
for his National victory. The association
between Joe and the Leonard family
dates back to the time when Mulcahy
acted as foreman to W. S. Hicken-
botham, who turned out a host of win-
ners (including that well-remembered
galloper and brood mare Fishwife) for
the late William Leonard. Laveur is a
year older than his brother Lautus. The
latter was retained by “Bert” Leonard,
and is in the Flemington stable of Dick
Bradfield.
-
(Continued on page .)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Farm Novice: Leeds ; next, Gill-
town.
Flying Handicap: Lynch Law ;
next, Publicity.
June Handicap: Gold Spark;
next, Bachelor King.
Welter: Jeanne d’Arc; next,
Stuart M.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Royal Handicap: Regular Bache-
lor ; next, Reaper.
Sandringham Handicap: Dun-
loe; next, Jovial Son.
Buckingham Handicap: Barham ;
next, Plymouth Hoe.


Operating Theatre, Mercy Hospital, East Melbourne, Victoria. One
of hundreds of modern hospitals where Exide “Keepalite" equipment
safeguards the lives of patients by preventing sudden lighting failures.
nnajUM
Oep® n^
S£R\|lC&S
Batt® r ' cS
gm
m
i
mm
' ■■.■■■■ - :
:7
■
k,,. •
4 ■ ■ \
4'
: •
.
-V
warn
m
M
mi
■
mm
■jr ; : ■ *
mm
■1
11 -
4HB
m
■ .
m
mas
1 i.:
;
11 i I
- X : '7x:77:'-
ilw'
■I
■ '■ .-v ..
■■
iHi
m
IISII
7;
M 1
H
K
*
.
i :
■■. •
HIS:
H
i
gl
i
.
M
HHH
■ m
m
Silver City Comet. Built by the N.S.W. Government Railways to
establish a fast passenger service between Parkes and Broken Hill, this
Diesel-engined power train is fitted with two groups of 32 Exide cells
for starting and as an emergency power plant for lighting, air-condition-
ing, refrigeration, etc.
■1
m
m
■lll
m
m
:
~,
■
a
mamm
Fire Brigades throughout Australia equip engines with Exide Batteries
because they know dial Exides can be relied on for split second starts
in a crisis!
♦
iiiiiiiiiiiliaiill
East-West Air Route Beacons. Exide Batteries provide the power to
light the beacons on the East-West Air Route of 1,450 miles (Adelaide
to Perth). Once again Exide reliability safeguards human life!
T HROUGHOUT the length and
breadth of Australia, trans-
port services are operating, mes-
sages are being flashed to and
lro, hospitals and fire brigades
are safeguarding public health
and welfare . . . through the
reliability of Exide Batteries.
Outback, Exide Batteries are at
work supplying countless farms
with light and power. On
Australian roads, hundreds of
thousands of motor vehicles also
demonstrate Exide dependa-
bility. What Exide is doing for
Australia, Exide is doing for the
world! Fifty years of consistent
battery development have won
for Exide a position of unassail-
able leadership.
MELBOURNE
BTC
BH
i i
msm
■ :l
••■ ::
1
■
V/v -S> } ~ V SWJS^
m
mm
m
V
if
n?
* u*
Biiiil—
.
Illlli
iMs
Your Car Needs Exide Dependability. Six out of ten
new cars are initially equipped in Australia, with Exide
Batteries. Follow the lead o£ the greatest car manu-
facturers —get an Exide for quick starts, bright lights,
prompt ignition.
Bass Strait Telephone and Cable Service.
Five telephone conversations, 14 tele-
graphic messages and one broadcast pro-
gramme are despatched simultaneously
between the mainland and Tasmania by
this service, using 648 Exide storage bat-
teries, ranging in -weight from 61 lbs. to
962 lbs.
ķ
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
BATTERIES
Obtainable from Dealers throughout Australia


VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
BIRTHDAY MEETING
MONDAY, 13th JUNE, 1938.
Entries for the following races close
at the offices of the V.R.C., Melbourne,
at 3 p.m. on Monday, 6th June, 1938.
MARLBOROUGH HURDLE RACE, £5OO
Two miles and a quarter.
PRINCESS HANDICAP £5OO
Seven furlongs. (For two-year-olds.)
THE ROYAL STEEPLECHASE . . £5OO
About two miles and half a lurlong.
BIRTHDAY HANDICAP £750
One mile and a half.
LANCASTER HANDICAP £5OO
Six furlongs.
CORNWALL HANDICAP *. £5OO
One mile.
All entries to be accompanied with
£l.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Sec. V.R.C.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
Entries for the following races close at the
offices of the V.R.C., Melbourne, A.J.C., Syd-
ney, S.A.J.C., Adelaide, W.A.T.C., Perth,
Q.T.C., Brisbane, C.J.C., Christchurch, W.R.C.,
Wellington, A.R.C., Auckland, D.J.C., Dunedin,
T.R.C., Hobart, and T.T.C., Launceston,
at 3 p.m. on Tuesday, 7th June, 1938.
Maribyrnong Plate, 1938. £l5OO. Five furlongs.
The Cantala Stakes, ,1938. £2500. One mile.
Melbourne Cup, 1938. £lO,OOO (and trophy
£200). Two miles.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, 1939. £3500 (and £305
subscribed by nominators of sires). Seven fur.
Ascot Vale Stakes, 1939. £l5OO. Six furlongs.
Edwd. Manifold Stakes, 1939. £lOOO. One mile.
Victoria Derby, 1939. £5OOO. One mile and a
half.
Oaks Stakes, 1939. £2OOO. One mile and a half.
St. Leger Stakes, 1940. £l6OO. One mile and
three-quarters.
NOMINATION OF SIRES (AUTUMN
MEETING, 1940), £5 EACH.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Sec. V.R.C.
„ MOTOR .
AND ALL GENERAL
INSURANCE BUSINESS
Low Premiums, Liberal Policies, Prompt Settle-
ments an attractive proposition that will
appeal to the wise and prudent.
Don't carry the risk yourself. Let the
V.A.C.C. carry it for you. Insure
your Car, Home, Furniture,
and all Insurable Property.
AUTOMOBILE CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE INSURANCE CO. LTD.
357 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE, C.I
Phone: MU6511 (5 Lines).
N. McLEOD JOHNSTON. Manager.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Miller Has Revenge
The return 12-rounder between Micky
Miller and American Claude Varner at
Melbourne Stadium saw Miller given by
new ref. Jack Carroll a points decision
every bit as unpopular with the mob as
was the decision in their previous bout
in favor of Varner. The former judgment
led to the sacking of Merv Williams, a
rattling good ref., and some of last Fri-
day night’s demonstration was a protest
against that sacking.
In the first of these engagements Miller
fought a sluggish fight, and thoroughly
deserved to lose. In Friday night’s
clash he came out of the coma that
seems to oppress him a lot these days
and fought as he can fight when he’s
on his mettle. He needed to. The
American matched him in aggressiveness,
but there was so little in it at the end
that a further clash between the pair
remains as good a drawcard as ever.
Ins and Outs
The Australians’ match with Surrey
ended in a draw and a father of a fuss.
The county finished the first knock with
271 (O’Reilly 8 for 104), but instead of
making it follow on, with the almost dead
certainty of scoring a win, Bradman de-
cided to bat again. This roused the ire of
the Oval crowd, a different proposition
from genteel Lord’s, and a lot of bar-
racking resulted. Bradman’s excuse was
that he wanted to give his men batting
practice and to save his bowlers. As,
however, he sent in Badcock and Bar-
nett, both of whom have had plenty of
batting, and closed when two were down
for 232, the tale looks a bit thin, especi-
ally as the bowlers he employed in Sur-
rey’s second attempt did little but toss
’em up.
Badcock hit hard for 95 and Barnett
ran up 120 n.o. It was the ’keepers
highest score in first-class cricket, his
Shield best being 94.
After Gregory had retired hurt, 5,
Fishlock banged the casual Australian
bowling about until he left with 93 up.
Stumps saw 1 down for 104, Chipper-
field taking the wicket.
Rain prevented play on the first day
of the match with Hampshire. The
county has always been rated a sporting
side, and in the past has given Australian
teams more than one gallop. There are
some good batsmen in the team, and the
attitude of most of them, led by skipper
Moore, is hit out or get out. Four ex-
ceeded 1000 runs last season, and five
made centuries. In McCorkell, an open-
ing batsman and ’keeper, and the quaintly
named Pothecary, Hampshire has two
first-class professionals as well as Arnold,
who topped the averages. Fast bowler
Herman took 133 wickets last year, but
the team is comparatively weak in this
department.
There was no rain on Thursday. The
wicket had been covered but was wetted
in spite of it. Bradman sent the county
in, and the pitch, playing up a little in
the early stages (it could not be called
a gluepot), suited O’Reilly, who ended
the Hants innings of 157 with 6 for 65.
White took 2 for 19: it transpires that
he was sickening for ’flu. F.-Smith’s
tally was 1-35. The home batsmen for
the most part took the long handle.
Parson Steele was run out with 24 ; others
to hit up a few were Arnold (23), Creese
(22), Paris (18) and Pothecary (16).
On a wicket now slow and easy, Brown
and Fingleton got to work at once.
Pothecary caught Brown at cover off
Boyes, a left-hander, for 47. Bradman
then joined Fingleton, and the two were
together at stumps: 1 for 204, Fingleton
81 and his skipper 71.
The match came to a swift conclusion
on the third day, rain forcing a draw.
Bradman had closed the Australian
innings with 1 down for 320. His own
score he raised to 145 n.o. (Fingleton
was unbeaten with 123), completing his
1000 runs by the end of May.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Bradman’s decision against
letting Surrey follow on brought a storm
of newspaper criticism on his head. Some
of the better-class journals, headed by the
“Times,” deplore the barracking of the
Oval crowd and the hysterical abuse of
the lower type of newspaper, pointing out
that the captain of a team has the right
to employ the tactics that most advantage
him, provided they come within the rules.
In the past the follow-on was compulsory.
A reversion to the old rule might bring
back to big cricket some of the sporting
spirit which is fast departing from it.
* * * *
“Greenjacket”: To the end of the
Hampshire match the Australians had
scored 17 centuries in eight matches:
Bradman five, Hassett and Fingleton
three each, Badcock two, Brown, Mc-
Cabe, Barnett and Chipperfield one
apiece. No other Australian team has
come near this record. Whether it is
attributable to superlative batting or
inferior bowling must be left to the dis-
cretion of the cricket student.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sydney papers are
featuring a discussion as to the greatest
bowler of all time. It is hard to believe
that most of them and their correspon-
dents claim the honor for O’Reilly. Men
who know the game will ask what earthly
claim O’Reilly has to be ranked above
such proved masters as Spofforth, Turner
and Hugh Trumble. If O’Reilly lasts
as long as those players and piles up
such a record of wickets and averages
he may claim to be numbered with the
immortals —but not yet, Bill!
* * * *
“Aigburth”: A London “Times”
cricket writer refers to Bradman as “the
second-best batsman the world has
known,” and Sydney press experts can’t
understand it. Those who can remem-
ber W. G. Grace are better informed.
W.G. had 41 consecutive years of first-
class cricket —from 1865 to 1906 inclu-
sive—and ended with an average of over
42 runs. When one considers the wickets
of his early years and the bowlers he
encountered throughout his career, one
must admit the “Doctor’s” pre-eminence.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Bradman’s “1000 in May,”
notched in seven trips to the wicket, not
only gave him the best average for
the feat, but made him the first batsman
to bring it off twice —he did it in 1930
also. Hammond in 1927, Grace (1895),
Hallows (1928) and Hayward (1900) are
the only others on the list.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Fame has its handicaps.
Reading a London review of a new
edition of Meadows Taylor’s Confes-
sions of a Thug, I note that the writer
airily refers to a member of the strangling
profession who averaged two murders
a week for 40 years as “The Thug Brad-
man.”
Footbrawl
Carlton has been beaten at last —by
Melbourne, 16-11 to 14-8. Nevertheless
Carlton is still at the top of the V.F.1..
list, and four teams are running
level for second position. Footscray sur-
prised St. Kilda, which had been running
second to Carlton, the scores being 17-19
to 7-13. Collingwood, 23-11, found
North Melbourne, 10-7, fairly easy ; and
Richmond, 18-9, was too good for Gee-
long, 12-16. Hawthorn’s displays are de-
lighting the faithful this year: it ac-
counted for South Melbourne, 18-12 to
13-16 ; Fitzroy had its first win of the
season, beating the strong Essendon side
by 14-9 to 11-13. Thus far this year’s
matches have been unusually close and
interesting.
Leaders in the Vic. Association com-
petition are unchanged after Saturday’s
games. Brunswick beat Yarraville, 23-16
to 12-7, and the second team, Brighton,
just headed Camberwell, 22-21 to 21-13.
* * * *
One point only separates the first five
teams on Sydney’s Rugby Union premier-
ship table. University and Drummoyne,
both beaten on Saturday, have yielded
their top position to Randwick, and
share the second place with Manly and
North. ’Wick downed the Students, 11-6,
thanks largely to Towers, who put more
dash into his work than for some time.
He notched all his side’s points (a try,
two penalties and a converted goal), then
midway through the second half moved
from centre to full-back when Bedford
was injured, and there he three or four
times pulled down the ’Varsity forwards
with the line close handy. North and
Drummoyne turned on a hard-tackling
game in the mud. There was no score
the first half, and each team managed
one try in the second, but North added
the extras for a goal and ran out ahead,
5-3.
Manly had its win against St. George,
15-11 (three tries to one), and West
galloped away from the in-and-out East
lot, 23-8 (also three tries to one). The
greatest margin, and the most surprising,
was Gordon’s 28 (five tries) against Par-
ramatta’s 3 (a p.g.).
* * * *
“Hooker”: Having evidently read its
Bulletin, Manly tried the old 2-3-2
scrum against Gordon (B. 26/5/’3B), but,
finding the forwards, used to the 3-4-1,
unable to pack properly, went back to
that formation during the game. A
hasty trial of the kind without rehearsal
is no criterion of the system’s merits,
and a good deal of practice and coaching
would be necessary for efficiency. Fur-
ther, hooking with two men in front is a
more expert job than that of the single
hooker, supported on each side by a
heavyweight. There can be no com-
parison between the two systems as to
the pace and cleanness with which the
ball leaves the scrum with two experts
in front.
* * * *
“Gate”: A proposed agreement to pre-
vent the poaching of players after the
visits of Rugby League football teams
to England or Australia has been drawn
up. Briefly, it provides that no North
of England club shall sign up an Aus-
tralian or Maorilander who has played
in England, while no Australian or M.L.
club may sign up any Englishman who
has played with an English team in
Australia. Footballers who have lived
two years or more in either country
are exempted. As there has never been
a case of an English player being kid-
napped for an Australian club, it is prac-
tically a one-way agreement.
* *
“Jachris”: The Rugby League Board
chose a Sunday for its meeting to con-
sider the squabble about the last tour
in England, kept talking all day, and
then impartially “censured” everybody. It
announced the profits as £3419 odd,
and graciously agreed to let the players
divide half. Gate-money has gone up in
Sydney since the police move against
the s.p. blokes. For Saturday’s Cricket
Ground match between the competition
leaders, Canterbury - Bankstown (un-
beaten yet), and South, there was a 20,000
crowd. It was a draw, 3-all.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: The Australian
Soccer heads have adopted a five-year
plan by virtue of which teams will visit
Britairf and South Africa in 1939 and
1941, and South African, Scottish and
French teams will come to Australia in
1940, 1942 and 1943. It will be a great
thing for the round-ball game if the
scheme works. It will be a still greater
if the Soccer authorities resolve in future
to take all risks and profits themselves.
* * * *
“Everton”: It is likely that profes-
sionalism will soon be recognised by the
Australian controllers of Soccer. For a
beginning the Rugby League system of
cutting up the gates between players and
the controlling body may be adopted.
Payment then will be followed by the
signing up of players and the transfer
system as practised in England.
Nineteenth Hole
Considering that they were barely ten
days off the boat Mick Ryan and Harry
Hattersley played highly creditable golf
in the British amateur at Troon, Hatters-
ley especially. In beating Peters, the No.
2 Scottish player, 2 up, in the third round,
Hattersley went round in 68 ; and it is
pretty certain that the Sydney lad had a
few pounds on himself: he is a shrewd
punter. He was defeated 2 up in a
quarter-final by the Canadian Ross
Somerville. It was an even go to the
17th, when a missed short putt by Hat-
tersley gave the Canuck a lead. Somer-
ville has won the Canadian amateur title
six times, and took the American in
1932. McKay lasted till the third round ;
Ryan till the fourth.
The final went to an American, C. R.
Yates, of Atlanta, Georgia—same as
Bobby Jones —who overcame an Irish
player, Ewing, 2 up; Ewing had ac-
counted for Somerville in a semi-final.
“Hoylake”: The Australians in Britain
are to play 10 matches against clubs in
Scotland and England, including Oxford
and Cambridge Universities, between
June 2 and the open championship at
Sandwich, opening on July 4.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Ever since amateur-
ism cropped up in sport the bestowal of
open orders for prizes has been attended
by ancient and fishlike smells. The
N.S.W. golf authorities, out to stem the
abuse of the system, have made a lot of
interesting discoveries. All sorts of
articles have posed for the time being as
trophies—undies and corsets among
them. Reminds me of a sportsman who
used to exhibit a trophy over his mantle-
piece—a pair of garters of the flamboyant
type in fashion in the naughty ’nineties.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: England was wiped
out in the second round of the European
Davis Cup contests by the Yugs. The
Slavs were on their home courts and
never gave the visitors a chance, winning
all five rubbers.
“Forest Hills”: The long delay about
fixing a venue for the Australia-Mexico
Davis Cup round has ended in a de-
cision to play at Kansas City. Clay
courts, will be used, and the dates have
been altered to July 28, 29 and 30. The
Australians will be disadvantaged, for
they will have to come straight off the
clay courts to meet the others qualifying
for the American zone final, Japan or
Canada, on grass a few days later.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Once more we
are threatened with a visit from Vines
and Perry. The money can’t be as good
as it used to be at home, for it is stated
that if Budge can be roped in as a fresh
gate attraction the tour will not take
place. There does not seem to be a
fortune in such a tour, even if the
A.L.T.A. consents to open tournaments


SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
i Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild .. .. .. 6/3
All British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium 6/9
Africander, mellow and mild .. 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild 7/3
Normandie, medium 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Mack, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong 7/6
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“PM” nn,t pi..» a/a
Zig Zags 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
CD MERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY; BRISBANE
We will send You a
FREE Demonstration
Sample.
of AMAZING RE-NU LIQUID
NU-METAL. Just deposit thru
Plug openings on Pistons.
Reconditions while-u-drive.
Saves REBORE, ENDS PISTON
SLAP, RATTLES, NOISES,
OIL, PETROL WASTE, RE-
STORES NEW POWER, COMPRESSION, TOP
SPEED, ZIP, etc. GUARANTEED GOOD for 10,000
MILES. HARMLESS FINEST ENGINES. Send for
Trial Tube. Price, 6/6, or we send C.O.D. Anyone
can use it; 20 other lines. Free Samples. Agents
required.
RE-NU LTD.,
jfi
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
(Est. 1932.)
s*sj®N&B£
Doctors say that il your Hormone Glands an-
nerves function well you will be vigorous am
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure reined
for loss of vitality. The price of this won
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ
direct for particulars of this MODER>
TREATMENT.
ym
m
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
WINCHESTER
MODEL 69
BOLT ACTION REPEATING RIFLE.
.22 cal. rimfire bolt action box magazine repeater. 25in. round tapered
barrel, American walnut one-piece stock with pistol grip and semi-
beavertail forestock. Composition butt plate, military type action,
safety firing pin. Sporting front sight with blight non-tarnishing
metal bead, mounted on low non-glare ramp base with slip-on sight cover. Two 5-capacity
detachable magazines, one for long and long-rifle, other for short. Shoots regular and super-
speed cartridges. Take-down model. Weight, about 51b. With sporting rear sight .... 87/6
With adjustable peep sight 90/-
twmmmuu
Model 69, fitted with adjustable tear peep sight
and Winchester No. 3 2|-power telescopic sight.
Price £7/10/-
dis
Model 69, fitted with adjustable rear peep sight
and Winchester No. 5 5-power telescopic sight.
Price £8
Winchester Telescopic Sights with high bases and mounts.
No. 3—22 power 50/-. Fitted to rifle 607-
No. 5—5 power 65/-. Fitted to rifle 75/-
Carriage
Paid in
N.S.W.
COWLES AND DUNN
’Phone: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The MAGIC of HEENZO
the 3-in-ONE money-saving
family remedy for
CHEST,
NOSE &
THROAT
AILMENTS
COSTS 2/- & SAVES £’s
m
For all CHEST
AILMENTS
Take HEENZO
internally
You save lots of money by simply adding a
2/- bottle of concentrated Heenzo
(obtainable at all chemists and stores) to
sweetened water, thus making a large family supply equal in quantity up
to £1 s worth of the best ready-made-up remedies for chest, nose, and
throat ailments. It is important to remember that Heenzo does not
a *l y Pp is ° ns therefore is equally good for young and old as an
internal remedy for coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, and influenza. For
immediate relief from catarrh and colds in the head, exhaustive tests have
proved that there is nothmg m the world better than just a few drops of
Heenzo m each nostril, night and morning, whilst for the
S ° re throats ' made-up Heenzo used as a gargle is
ĸ
CATARRH
Also Colds in Head. Put a
few drops of made-up
HEENZO in each nostril—
night and morning.
WHOOPING
COUGH
Call doctor immediately for
Injections. Ease the cough
With made-up HEENZO.
HOW TO USE HEENZO
IN TREATMENT OF
COUGHS— COLDS—
Take HEENZO every few Same treatment as coughs,
hours until cured. If taken at first sign, cold
will quickly vanish.
INFLUENZA
Go straight to bed. Take
half teaspoonful of concen-
trated HEENZO In wine-
glass of hot water every
four hours. Ease cough
with made-up HEENZO
Keep bowels open.
CROUP—
Four doses of HEENZO
daily, also take when cough
is distressing.
BRONCHITIS
Take night and morning,
and when cough is
distressing.
mm
m.
m
SORE THROATS
Gargle with HEENZO fox
Immediate relief.
'HEENZOI
should be used in every home and office.
—in no other way could the tourists find
decent opposition; the terms are a
hurdle —50 per cent, of the gross.
“Top Spin”: No sooner was it cabled
that Vines and Perry might come to
Australia than a Sydney journal sug-
gested that the tourists might entice away
our Davis Cup hope, Brom-
wich, as the fairies in the
poem did the fair Ellen.
Still, there should be a way
of warding off the danger.
Since the Kisch business the
Federal Government is not
likely to forbid the landing
of Vines and Perry. But a
precedent lies right to hand.
A Ministry which can ban
the export of iron ore
should have no qualms
about shutting down on the
export of promising tennis-
players.
* *• *
“Centre Court”: Accord-
ing to the cables, Wimble-
don is considering the hold-
ing of a tournament be-
tween amateurs and profes-
sionals, six a side. Jf de-
cided on, the match is to
take place after Wimble-
don. This means that if the
crack American profes-
sionals are to take part they
must hurry up, since the
All-England meet ends on
July 2. It is suggested that the idea of
the promoters is to improve the standard
of play. More likely, now that English
amateur tennis has no stars to draw the
crowds, improvement of gates is the real
objective.
Miscellaneous
From J. P. C. McDonald, acting secre-
tary of the Sculling Championship Com-
mittee (Woodburn, N.S.W.):
My committee has instructed me to write
thanking you for your help in the matter of
raising the . necessary funds to send Evans
Paddon to Canada to race Bobby Pearce for
the world title. We appreciate the contribution
of £5; we appreciate the publicity still more.
It is felt that favorable mention in a paper
with such a reputation for sound national
policy as The Bulletin has will do much
towards giving prestige to our task; it has
certainly been widely talked of in the Richmond
River district.
. Your donation was the first we received from
any paper and the only one from any paper
outside the district; our “Northern Star” has
sent along £5.
Sufficient has been raised to enable the
Paddons, father and son, and their com-
panions to leave for Canada on June 9,
but more is required to free them from
anxiety about training expenses and re-
turn passages. Strange that so little sup-
EVANS PADDON.
port should have come from Sydney,
which used to pride itself on the patron-
age it gave to this manliest and most
strenuous of sports. “A match for the
championship of the world and £5OO a
side.” It had a magic ring in those days,
and no worthy waterman ever went short
of backers.
Dick Green (“born Sydney, August 23,
1836”), Elias Laycock, Mick Rush, Jim
Punch, Edward Trickett, Bill Beach,
Peter Kemp, Henry Searle, John Mc-
Lean, Jim Stanbury—surely this genera-
tion has not forgotten who they were and
what they did. To our fathers Beach
was a greater national hero than Mur-
doch or Spofforth.
Trickett (“born Parramatta River,
1850”) was actually the first Australian
world champion in any sport. When the
news of his victory over the Englishman
Sadler on the Thames (June 27, 1876)
reached Sydney, “there were scenes of
wild enthusiasm, and on his return these
were repeated, and a purse of £B5O was
made up for him.”
Like Trickett, Evans Paddon is six feet
and thirteen stone of sound Australian
manhood. He is a born sculler —better,
they say, than his father, who defeated
D’Arcy Hadfield for the world cham-
pionship and held it for three years,
1922-25 —and he has fairly earned the
opportunity of racing for the champion-
ship without being worried about money
matters.
* * * *
“Spike”: Whatever individual' nations
may think about it, the General Council
of the Olympic Federation at its meet-
ing in Brussels decided that the 1940
Games are to be held at Tokio, from
September 21 to October 8. Japan
has been busy on its preparations for
some time, and the sports arenas and
various buildings are well under way
towards completion.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“A Yank at Oxford”
Maureen O’Sullivan, Robert Taylor.
Loud and prolonged applause for this
absolutely tophole comedy at Sydney St.
James.
Plot is slight and familiar, but has
never been better exploited. Taylor,
small-town Yank, cocky and loud-
mouthed, enters Oxford mainly on the
strength of his athletic prowess, and is
there snagged on British traditions and
conventions at every turn. He is ragged,
has his leg tugged, and gets decidedly
snooty until he finds that the college is
everything that schoolboy mags, say it is.
Through all that runs a light heart-
interest with the O’Sullivan lass and ani-
mosity with her brother, who is conduct-
ing an affair with a bookseller’s wife.
Follow the usual complications and some
noble self-sacrifice, until all ends happily,
with Taylor stroking the Oxford eight to
victory against Cambridge.
Since it’s an M.-G.-M. film it’s well
acted. Taylor turns in a first-rate job,
shows some comedic ability and gener-
ally lifts himself out of the pretty-boy
class. Masterly performance also from
Lionel Barrymore as the Yank’s parent,
and Miss O’Sullivan at her best in cheery
mood. On the English side (the film was
made in England) are Vivien Leigh, a
very pert and capable minx, topnotcher
Edmund Gwenn, and neat work from
Edward Rigby and Robert Coote.
Directing is outstanding; every time
the story threatens to preponderate the
film shudders and dives back into
comedy or stabs out some bright wise-
crack. It is packed with such incidents
as Taylor accidentally planting a hearty
boot on the hindquarters of the dean of
the college (Gwenn), and with such situa-
tions as Coote practically begging to be
sent down in order to inherit the boodle
of an uncle who was similarly treated.
Main line of humor, however, is Uncle
Sam v. John Bull, and, since none can
turn up Uncle S. foibles better than
Uncle S. himself, J.B. wins most of the
way on points, though U.S. naturally
comes out on top at the finish.
Amurrican filmsmiths do this sort of
thing very well; they make no savage
representations and prefer, if anything,
to turn the laugh on themselves. They
also have much respect for professorial
Oxford. On one occasion only is their
sport-wushup contrasted against the
Hon. Cholmondeley’s proverbial love of
learning, and then their side provides
the laughs. Throughout the rest of the
film, barring an absent-minded prof, and
a sporty old dean, the educational and
traditional aspects of Oxford seem to be
held in reverential awe.
Much of the humor which appears to
be at the expense of U.S. is often, on
second thought, a neat poke at J.B.
Taylor, for instance, having cracked wide
a British convention by conversing with
a complete stranger, informs him that
“We could put the whole of England in
a basket.” “With what object?” puts
the kibosh on that oft-stated platitude,
but is also a gentle dig at J.B.
Same thing occurs when Taylor decides
on a course of Amurrican history'.
“There’s hardly enough of it,” from the
prof., is both right to U.S.’s jaw and a
neat exploitation of J.B.’s “colonial atti-
tude.”
None of this light verbal punching and
counterpunching directly affecting Aus-
tralians or Maorilanders, audiences in
these parts are in a singularly happy posi-
tion for sitting back and enjoying with
complete detachment a most diverting
show.
“Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs.”
This most ambitious effort of the
Disney factory to date is stringing out
traffic-blocking queues at Sydney Plaza,
and well it might. There are stretches
of it in which the craftsmanship is
altogether marvellous. The coloring is
delicate and nicely balanced, and detail
has such unbelievable variety that the
whole of it would probably not be taken
in after seeing it a dozen times.
One of the purest stretches is that in
which the dwarfs make their debut.
The little men —each an individual charac-
ter—are seen toiling away in a mine
glittering with diamonds. This is fair
enough; but presently they are seen
trudging happily home through the woods
Robert Taylor, Edward Rigby and Edmund Gwenn in “A Yank at Oxford,”
showing at Sydney St. James.
after the day’s toil singing merrily away,
and what the Disney factory has made
of this is both bright entertainment and
an artistic triumph. It outstrips all the
extremely exacting and extensive work
that went into making it and emerges as
an apparently flawless entirety. Fairy-
tale atmosphere haunts it. It might be
poetry; certainly it is enchanting.
There are other stretches with almost
the same pure quality. One is that where
Snow White, with the assistance of un-
countable humorous little representatives
of the gentler creatures —squirrels, small
deer, tiny blue birds, big-eyed bunnies
and what have you—gives the dwarfs’
home a spring cleaning. It struck one
viewer, at least, that this had more of
the authentic quality of pure enchantment
in moments when Snow White was not
actually present; when the little naturals
were all at it there in their dozens on the
assigned jobs. Here, too, both the detail
and the unity are marvellous achieve-
ments. Every single creature is a living
individual, in his most fleeting acts as
well as in his looks. The interior of
the dwarfs’ house is something the dwarfs
themselves might have built.
The very high standard of which the
foregoing are especially appealing ex-
amples could be illustrated from many
other portions of the film. General views
of the castle and of the woods have
the authentic touch. The furry and
feathered creatures are exquisite qll the
way through; the dwarfs are almost
always good ; the humans are the weak-
ness, but even they sustain the fairy-
story quality. Of them, the Witch is
the most successful and the Prince the
least so. The Disney factory could not
have thought much of its Prince. He is
comparatively wooden ; sometimes he
moves in jerks like a cardboard figure.
In view of the outstanding merit of the
production as a whole, it seems rather
extraordinary that these bits of jerkiness
were allowed to get out in it.
Tiny tots, of course, will be completely
overcome by this film. Adults will find
that it is fairly advertised as being not
merely a full-length cartoon, but some-
thing quite different from all previous
films in this genre.
All this admitted, the widely-circulated
idea that here is a challenge to acted film
is utter nonsense. Acted film’s chief
weakness is that its shadows are too far
removed from reality, and the remove
here is further still—into a lovely place,
certainly, but still into a place of arti-
ficial fantasy. A great part of its enter-
tainment appeal probably lies in its
novelty.
Cynics might get their own peculiar
wry sort of pleasure out of it by accept-
ing it as satire on the simplemindedness
of the bulk of mankind, not revealed in
their lining up in queues to see this
pretty fairy-story, but in the fact that
the romantic love story which is a mere
incidental to it is the sum total of all
that at least 99 talkies out of every
100 have in them.
“The Goldwyn Follies.”
Andrea Leeds, Adolphe Menjou, Rilz Bros., etc.
The variety and class of material in-
cluded in this offering, due at Sydney
Regent on Friday, make it pretty near
the most palatable froth experienced to
date. For the main ingredients —song-
andance and vaudeville —there are top-
line artists, and spectacle is better than
usual and more lavish for being filmed
in technicolor.
The Ritz brothers have seldom turned
on anything funnier than their aping
of mermaids in conversation with Barn-
acle William, or a stretch of yawping
which attracts to their vicinity a fabulous
number of cats. Edgar Bergen and
Charlie McCarthy are another excellent
team making their first full-length appear-
ance. Their speciality is wisecracking
and swift backchat, all the more enter-
taining because Bergen is a ventriloquist
and McCarthy his dummy. Phil Baker
and Bobby Clark are both well cast and
lightly amusing, as is Jerome Cowan, an
easy, clean-cut actor, and Menjou, who
can play the part of a fillum-magnate
in his sleep.
The tuneful side verges on extremes.
A straightforward presentation of ex-
cerpts from “La Traviata,” wit\ Helen
Jepson and Charles Kullmann, both of
Metropolitan Opera, is of sufficient
quality to suggest that, well-staged and
lavishly got up, one of the lighter operas
would prove a popular change from the
current run of flicks. Miss Jepson is
very easy on the eyes and a well-poised
actress; her singing of Toselli’s “Seren-
ata” is another highlight of the film.
A few light catchy Gershwin tunes are
attended to by Kenny Baker, who at
times is just a yawper but occasionally
rises a cut above.
Dancing is miles and away above the
average. In the “Water Nymph Ballet
the ballerina (Vera Zorina, late of the
Russian Ballet) rises dripping-wet from
a water-lily pool which hardens under
her feet; she dances on it, then away
to join the ballet, presently returning
to submerge into the pool again. It is
particularly effective and beautiful, even
though it couldn’t be done anywhere
except on the screen.
Miss Zorina’s dancing is worth a film
on its own, and on top of her artistry
as a ballerina she is an engaging come-
dienne. Her role —an easy one admittedly
—is that of a Garboesque actress, and
she carries it off splendidly, especially in
a spot of pother with the Ritz brothers.
The story is the film’s weakness —a
hackneyed affair in which Miss Leeds,
as bewchus country maiden copped by
fillum-magnate and taken to Hollywood
to “humanise” him, finds the singing
proprietor of a hamburger joint and
helps him to stardom and a fadeout
clinch.
That, however, impinges only slightly
on the main business of the film. The
usual quota of luxurious settings, gowns,
etc., is thoroughly exploited in color,
which medium goes on improving with
each showing.
Taken all round, the film makes out-
standing entertainment and sets future
frothiness something to live up to.
Sydney St. James Supports.
These merit a heading to themselves,
not only because they are excellent, but
because, being so, they represent a depar-
ture from the increasing talkie-house
policy of making a good picture carry a
dreadful dud. This has become so bad in
Sydney that it mostly pays to go along in
time to see only the main picture.
This St. James bill is fine all the way
through. The main picture—“A Yank
at Oxford” —is a tip-top entertainer; one
that can be guaranteed enjoyable. The
supports include an uncommonly funny
comic cartoon, a delightful Fitzpatrick
travel glimpse of Budapest, and a well-
made “Crime Does Not Pay” effort
attacking medical quackery. The
Fitzpatrick film, in exquisite color, is as
good as anything even Mr. Fitzpatrick
has had a hand in.
“Madame X”
Gladys George.
Unearthed and rejuvenated by M.-G.-M.
this offering at Sydney Capitol hovers
between sentimentalism and a sterling
portrayal of a woman’s capacity for self-
sacrifice.
The title role, in which Ruth Chatter-
ton featured some years ago, is a fair
enough part, and Miss George manages
it pretty well all the way, giving a con-
vincing portrayal of the steady downfall
of the young sassiety woman of the
opening scenes to the drunken old har-
ridan of the finish.
Warren William makes a feasible hus-
band, and John Beal as his son manages
nicely some of the way, rises to some
height in the court scenes near the end,
then lets his part slop over just before
the fadeout. Reginald Owen is the family


COMEDY
THAT WAS
MADE TO BE
AT,
S
m
mm
M(
m
m
mm
M.
i
■
mm
r
m
&
r\
mm
sr
©
m
?■
> “**
K
CINEXOUMD
V-
m
N
m
71
. H
K
Hi
-■
-
M
*
K
■
■ ■
■
■
SP*
m
| . N
t*
ppp
pg«^. *
H
-^wgSP* 8 *
w
wm?
-
101
PRrt*
m
LETTY CRAYDON
JOE VALLI
ALEC KELL AWAY
GEORGE LLOYD
GWEN MUNRO
Produced i* Directed by
KIN G.HALI
friend, and as much at home in that
as he is in anything else.
“Panama” supports “Snow White and
the Seven Dwarfs” at Sydney Plaza, and
has the striking merit of being so incred-
ibly dreadful that the next worst picture
ever made might seem a masterpiece after
it.
“Sweet Devil,” at Sydney Embassy, is
a dreary English comedy in which any-
thing intended as funny is followed by a
five-minute lag during which spectators
are apparently supposed to recover from
attacks of ha-ha. Between naps present
showman gathered that Bobby Howes
and Jean Gillie were chief offenders.
“Dinner at the Ritz,” at Sydney Em-
bassy, is a mystery opus, and remains as
such after one or two fuddled explana-
tions. There are a moider, some bonds
and a scrap of paper; the Annabella
lady wears two disastrous disguises—a
Spanish marquesa and a sooty Indian
princess ; acting is patchy and direction
worse. Film is a British export, and
should be done away with before it
damages John Bull’s reputation.
“A Bride for Henry,” at Sydney State,
gets straight to business with bride wait-
ing at altar for ’groom, who is recover-
ing from a hangover. “As a purely
social gesture to save & purely social
situation” bride weds one of her earlier
satellites, and they go off on the honey-
moon, in which, however, ex-’groom also
figures. Rib-tickling situations develop.
Acting is patchy and sometimes over-
done, but the comedy is of sufficient
quality and quantity for the film to be
agreeable light fare.
“It Happened in Hollywood” : Poorly
acted and directed ; plot worse. Cowboy
hero Richard Dix and actress Fay Wray
become falling stars with the advent of
“talkies,” but regain stardom in a piece
of highly improbable fiction. Their fall
is sufficiently real to be embarrassing,
and their rise is unconvincing.
“The Jury’s Secret”: Kent Taylor
commits moider; then figures on jury at
trial of wrongfully-accused. The de-
velopment of an interesting situation is
marred by a dozen different faults, and
the film is among the shoddiest seen to
date.
A Theatre for Sydney.
Exit the Firm (J. C. Williamson, Ltd.);
its theatres, wardrobes, scenery, rights
and sundries to be taken over on June
11 by a £lOO,OOO company which
promises, among other things, to build
a new theatre for legit, shows in Sydney.
For generations the Firm was the real
theatre in Australia. Like the bulk of
the product that was to deal legit, the
dirtiest blow, the original J.C.W. hailed
from Gahd’s Own. A Pennsylvanian,
bora 1845, he was with a stock company
touring Canada at 16. In ’73 he married
Maggie Moore, and with her came to
Australia a year later, opening in a play,
“Struck Oil,” which he had himself
adapted from a script bought from an old
Californian miner. He had a shot at
London and elsewhere before coming
south again to be member of a company
of which from 1900 he had sole control,
as it soon had almost complete control
of the Australian stage.
At its top the Firm had a whole string
of legit, houses going full blast in Sydney,
as many in Melbourne, and others scat-
tered about the remaining capitals. It
had opera, light opera, ballet, dramatic
and musicomedy companies touring Aus-
tralia and Maoriland; the best of offer-
ings were regularly brought to these parts
from overseas ; many young Australian
actors and actresses who were to make
good abroad learnt their business in its
theatres. Its standards were high; its
shows were well put on; it stood in the
direct tradition of the English theatre.
Even before the coming of the talkies
it appeared to be on the retreat before
the opposition of the movies. None the
less, at the advent of the talkies it still
had several theatres running in Sydney,
with offerings of drama, comedy and
musicomedy. The opposition of the
talkies seemed to freeze it into immobility.
It did not abdicate; it just stagnated.
One after another the Sydney theatres
became cashancarry emporiums, pub
sites or—the final irony—were turned
into talkie palaces.
Only the Royal—just lately going as
strong as at any time in its career—
remained. Possibly recent extraordinary
successes there stimulated the project for
providing Sydney with a new legit,
theatre, though there has been talk of this
for years. In the meantime there has
been plenty of evidence that such an
enterprise would be sure of large public
support.
It has been announced that the pro-
posed theatre will be a thoroughly up-to-
date affair, which should mean comfort
comparable with the luxury of the talkie
houses. It might need to be big enough
to allow a profit to be made on a large
area of cheap seats. Legit, prices—
though defensible in view of production
costs—helped the talkies get firmly estab-
lished by being, like Randwick race-
course charges, so high that only the rich
could afford them. People don’t com-
plain vocally about being—as jt appears
to them—fleeced in this way.; they just
resent it, and when opposition comes
along with cheaper rates they cross over
to it in a body, and may take winning
back. The legit, theatre isn’t the only
instance.
Given a well-designed, comfortabU
new theatre, with prices that won’t make
a theatre night-out seem too much like
reckless luxury, and this projected enter-
prise should turn out trumps.
One other thing—its shows will need
to be good. The best of the talkies set
a very high entertainment standard. For
most of this year they have only
occasionally touched that standard, and
the policy of using one good picture to
carry a shoddy one has become so com-
mon as to seem established. If it is,
the new theatre people will have no com-
plaint about that: it will tend to drive
audiences their way in flocks. That
apart, the talkies certainly do offer a
stiff entertainment opposition, though if
there are not enough admirers of the
living stage drama in Sydney to keep one
good legit, house going, it will be time
to tow this city closer to Hollywood for
its own convenience.
All Tibbettans.
Melburnians were all Tibbettans on
Saturday night at the Town Hall. Not
only was the auditorium stuffed to suffo-
cation, but a spare audience in the organ
loft and on the platform spun its prayer
wheels of applause right up to the feet
of this musical Buddha.
The baritone with the small moustache
and the tormented face, which changes so
suddenly to gaiety, sang Lully, Scarlatti,
Handel, Strauss, Brahms and Leonca-
vallo with perfect diction and apparently
complete conviction, while his extraordi-
nary voice ranged from a whisper to a
melodious bellow which would have made
the rafters ring, if there had been any.
He also endowed with the same vocal
splendors lullabies in which stockbrokers
and motor-cars made their unconven-
tional appearance, niggers rode to heaven
on horses a thousand miles long and
with moons for eyes, and British soldiers
mashed Burmese maidens ; and just be-
fore the interval, after treating Handel
with the utmost reverence, he parodied
him to the words of “Mother Hubbard.”
It is no use the intelligentsia asking
why he does it. If another singer did it,
both the intelligentsia and the ignoranti
would be left as cold as frogs ; but if
any highbrow said that he did not re-
spond to the Tibbett infection one would
know he was evading. Tibbett does it
because he likes it, and if he had a voice
like an old crow he would still be a con-
summate actor.
“Grief Goes Over. ,i
If a well-to-do widow has three sons
she may be desolated when one of them
goes very wrong and finally shoots him-
self, yet she will soon recover her spirits.
Again when the girl-wife of another son
dies in childbirth, desolation ; yet within
a year the elder woman, and the boy
widower also, will be back at the old
gaieties. For time goes on, and “Grief
Goes Over.”
Such is the simple story, the cynical
moral, of Adelaide Repertory’s latest
three-night production, which is by Mer-
ton Hodge, Maorilander, yet another
medico playwright. (He also wrote “The
Wind and the Rain.”)
Fred James, as producer, had found
and drilled a cast without a weak spot
in it. Mimi Mattin, an experienced
player, revelled in the leading part, which
combines humor with tragedy, simplicity
with commonsense. There was much
other clever work, but the best chances
went to young Ronald Peterson and
Rosai'e H-m <~ -wcomer) in their brief
youthful love affair.


c
(Germany)
IMJSTVXO
THE WORLD’S SHOPPING CENTRE
\o other cosmopolitan market can compare with Leipzig in size, international attendance, or volume of
business transacted. You owe it to your business to investigate its profitable advantages.
AUTUMN FA T R commences AUGUST 28th
rnmnrisilifr General Samples, Textiles, Office Equipment, Furniture, Photographic, Sports
Goods, Engineering and Building Fairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) available ol Lars G. Brundahl,
Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis House, Martin Place,
( I p 0 Box 3127 P Sydney. C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. J. M. Beiers,
305 Queen Street Brisbane. 11. C. Ittershagen, S'henton Park, West Australia.
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bacliflat, Lesquare, London.
Personal and Missing Friends.
PATERSON, William Henry, born South Mel-
bourne 1880. Resided mostly in Queensland.
Son of Alexander and Mary Jan& Paterson
(both deceased), late of Croydon, Victoria.
Anvone knowing whereabouts please communi-
cate with DOYLE & KERR, 413 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney almost shouted “Hooray!” the
other morning when it had to rush to
the bathroom cupboard for its water-
proofs and goloshes. The drought had
broken, and there wasn’t a city man or
girl mean enough not to smile over the
joyous tidings the raindrops 'would be
to the outback. The cities in Australia
never really get far away from the farm
lands. They say it’s the same in South
America, especially the Argentine. Wool
and cattle, grain and hides are the reali-
ties on which our city life rears itself,
the foundations of our tallest skyscraper.
We are, no matter how sophisticated our
city pursuits, at heart a pastoral people.
Nothing that was said on the 24th
about “hands across the sea” and being
“children of the Empire” could equal
the speech made by Captain G. A. Scott
at the Victoria Club’s lunch to celebrate
the day. Somehow, that the Navy can
produce orators as well as heroes comes
as a bit of a shock. Anyway, his speech
was so stirring that it was a wonder all
present did not grab the little flags on
the table and burst into “Britannia Rules
the Waves.” Shoulders under silver fox
capes (none' better than the Sheldon
lady’s) and under Persian lamb —Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones’s coat in grey looked
like a celebration of the firm’s 100th
birthday—and under bunny thrilled as
he spoke of the little island in the grey
north to which we owed allegiance.
Liked the diction of Lord Wake-
hurst when he replied to the toast
in his honor, the sweep of Mrs. Walter
Swinson’s hat, the clear, incisive way the
Philip Street lady acted as spokeswoman,
the smart black satin toque of Lady
Wakehurst, the head crammed with
learning of Mungo MacCallum.
The arrival of the Von Luckners —
Count and Countess —was the excitement
of the Empire Day dinner. They came
as the guests of Mrs. Mark Foy, and
looked as though they enjoyed them-
selves. The Count kissed the hands of
the ladies he was presented to, and kept
his party entertained with his stories.
Not one, a listener tells, had a war flavor.
Well, the Empire Day dinner was the
glittersome affair of the week. This was
the yearly loyal offering of the Empire
Society, and nearly 400 diners sat about
the flag-decked tables at the Australia.
There were no high-flower effects on the
official table, but red and blue flowers,
the lovely poinsettia among them, glowed
richly. Tiny Union Jacks struck another
note of Empire.
The Governor and his decorative wife
came to this dinner. Hyacinth-pink and
silver cloque, pearls and an eye as bright
as her diamonds were contributed by
Lady Wakehurst, who sat between acting-
president George Mason Allard and
knight Philip Street. Well, there’s always
that about being a Governor’s wife —at
these functions you’re always in the com-
pany of the grave and reverend seigneurs.
The Allard lady, who helped her
husband receive, wore with her deep
blue and silver brocades a cape of
ermine. The Mayoral Nocks were
in the official group, burgundy crepes
flashing with sequins her choice. The
C. J. Jordans also got into the
photographer’s range; so did the
Philip Street lady. The Countess Von
Luckner’s frock was unexcitingly flower-
patterned black moire. Mrs. Foy’s satins
were lightly patterned in a floral design.
Dr. Mowll and Mrs. Mowll, the Reverend
Wylie Blue couple and Hope Johnston,
in his tartans, were notables.
A note from Lord Beauchamp tells
of his arrival at Madresfield Court, where
he and his family are looking forward to
the visit of the head of the American
Ligons. He had just returned from a
yachting holiday. With secretary David
Smyth he had left the yacht at Colombo
and joined the Conte Biancamano, where
they found the Duke and Duchess of
Sutherland and Lord Beauchamp’s niece,
Lady Lettice Ashley Cooper. At Bom-
bay Somerset Maugham joined the party.
In October, with three of his children,
the Earl goes off to a family reunion in
Washington. Then they go to Holly-
wood, later look in at Sydney and return
by way of Ankor Wat.
Frances Hotham took possession of St.
James Hall last Thursday night. To drift
with her along the canal of Soochow,
that amazing feat of engineering, com-
pleted before civilisation had come to
Britain, to glimpse the junks with their
immense diversity of sail journeying
leisurely down its wide reaches (China
seems still a land where man is not the
slave of time), to peep into the domestic
relations of the sampan, is unforgettable.
Some of these pictures are in color, and
those of the once-forbidden city give a
vivid idea of the aesthetic beauty and
riches that surrounded the life of the em-
perors. Here gleam porcelain, marble,
the famed corridor in red lacquer.
A noticeable thing about all the pic-
tures was the happy look on all the chil-
dren’s faces. Even the small ones bear-
ing such unpropitious names as “Not
Wanted” and “One Too Many” came
smiling through. What a slum area in
the East can mean was shown by one
picture whose appalling shelters of straw
and cardboard had been taken over by
the Government, owners being compen-
sated with £1 for each. Jade fountains,
porcelain pagodas, lion dogs! There is
the great porcelain pagoda, built in 1403,
with its 11 storeys and overhanging eaves
of green porcelain. It is Marco Polo
brought to the eye. It is the stuff fairy
stories are made of. Frances delivered
her lecture (and just one complaint, a
little more detail would not go amiss) in
a long black evening frock scrolled in
gold.
Herewith Mrs. Georg Szell, wife of
the visiting conductor whose season with
the A.B.C. symphony orchestra began
last night. Both are natives of Prague
the Golden. Now half their year is spent
in Glasgow, the other in Holland. The
lady speaks in five languages, and cooks
in one palate—that of the connoisseur of
good food. Dickinson photo.
Randwick lost two U.A.P. personali-
ties suddenly last week. The first was
Minister for Labor and Industry Dun-
ningham, who, in addition to his usual
duties, had been Minister in Charge of
the Celebrations ; the second was Sarah
Hynes, who was president of the U.A.P.
women’s committee in Randwick for
many years. Her death followed by a
day or so that of the Minister, for whom
she had a warm friendship. Sarah, who
was 78, and proud of it, was a tiny
woman —just a scabbard for the rapier
of energy that was her spirit. A
B.A. of Sydney Uni. and a botanist
of distinction, she also knew Aus-
tralian politics from beginning to end,
and was one of the first staunch
supporters of the Women’s College within
the University. Indeed, she was a member
of several societies that have the better-
ment of their fellow-beings at heart. The
late Mrs. Ellis Rowan was one of her
greatest friends, and it was Sarah’s per-
sistent endeavors that had the Rowan
collection saved for the nation. Her
father was a sea captain, and Sarah was
born at Danzig. As a girl she lived in
the house that had been the home of
Keats when he was next-door neighbor
to Fanny Brawn.
Here’s a pretty girl who has the cause
of the Blind Institution and the Kinder-
gartens at heart. She is Jean, one of the
daughters of the medical A. J. Gibson
couple, of Bellevue Hill. Jean plays tennis
and golf hard, but finds time to indulge
her literary taste. She’s an ex-pupil of
Hopewood House, and was Australia in
the recent pageant in the Town Hall.
Dorothy Welding photo.
There were roses on the table and
raindrops around the door when visit-
ing conductor Georg Szell and his dark-
eyed wife were welcomed to Sydney. A
group of music enthusiasts banded
under the cumbersome title of the ladies’
committee of the 1938 Celebrity Orches-
tral Season were responsible for the
party, and the Philip Street lady, who
is president, was the hostess. One of
those big rooms in the Australia was
the scene of conviviality, and tea the
beverage. Chairman of the A.B.C. Com-
mission Cleary was there, and his re-
marks were, as usual, well worth listen-
ing to. Mr. Szell said thank you, while
his wife smiled over a barrage of smoked
fox.
A.B.C. councillor Mrs. Couchman,
over from Melbourne, wore burgundy
crepes; Mrs. C. L. Jones’s frock was
demurely grey, her hat black and shal-
low-crowned. The Alexander Gordon
lady wore- a small black hat on her
neatly-curled hair. Mrs. Crawford
Robertson, looking very like Ella Shields,
wore an all-black jputfit. Mrs. Walter
Burfitt and the Sheldon lady were there ;
so was that brilliant pianist Mrs. Walter
Swinson. Dr. Barry, Mr. J. W. Kitto,
Dame Mary Hughes were others. The
Szells have taken a flat at Ashdown,
Elizabeth Bay, and are looking forward
to a touch of home life.
Talking to Mrs. Mark Foy after the
E.S. dinner, this Letter asked if she
had met the German Count in some of
her world travels just previous to the
war. But no. It just happens that he
has friends among her friends. She is
hoping that he and the Countess will be
able to spend a few days with her in her
mountain home at Medlow.
Australia’s friends the Junior Red
Crossers are busy putting finishing
touches to hundreds of gifts for their
great exhibition in June. These will later
on be distributed to small girls and boys
with sick or disabled soldier daddies.
Along with the exhibition, as usual, gaily
steps a pageant. Hundreds of children
will take part in this pretty sight, and the
Philip Street lady will hand out the prizes
for the winning sets. The Premier’s wife,
Mrs. B. S. B. Stevens, and Mayoress Nock
will be at the Town Hall at two o clock on
June 10 with hundreds of others to see
jt A* letter from St. John’s Wood tells
of Mrs. Jessica Lee’s doings. She
had been to the Glasgow Exhibition, and
found it one whirl of interest With
some old Australian friends ex-aimy
sisters and war workers—she goes to the
ceremony at Villers-Bretonneux on July
1. She tells an amusing story of being
offered a first-class seat at the boatrace
from two visitors from Blayney N -S.W.
because they sawher with the current copy
of The Bulletin under her arm. She had
been to the rose show at the Royal Horti-
cultural Society’s hall in Westminster and
seen the rose named after Don Bradman.
Mrs. Lee expects to come back on a visit
next year to see son Laurie and daughter
Mary. The latter is secretary at Mars-
den Girls’ School in Bathurst, and Laurie
is an agricultural science master at Ail
Saints’ in the same town.
One of the young assistants in David
Jones’s was starry-eyed with excitement
the other day when this Letter was buzz-
ing about the many tables on the ground
floor. The youngster’s exuberance
bubbled over in speech. “We’ve had to
take the Town Hall for our hundredth
birthday ball, and what do you think, we
are giving all the directors a present.
There’s a solid silver loving cup for Mr.
C. L. Jones (he’s a grandson of the
founder), and a gold watch for Mi. E 1 ad-
ford and one for Mr. Edwards. Oh,
yes, and there’s to be a great cake with
100 candles, and every one of us is to
have a slice. Mrs. Jones is going to cut
it.” All these things befell last Saturday
night, which happened to be Charles
Lloyd Jones’s own birthday. It’s a sale
bet that nobody enjoyed the staff ball
more than that just-beginning saleslady
on the ground floor.
Norda Mata’s dance recital in the Con-
servatorium drew a good house. A little
group of Lyceum Club rn'embers headed
by Mrs. A. G. Thomas and another
group from the Drama League were in
the front seats. Mr. Thomas gazed with
added interest at the temple dances, for
had he not secured and carried the statue
of Buddha from its shelf in an antique
shop to the Conservatorium? These
dances were created by Norda after her
visit to the ruined city of Angkor in
Cambodia. One of the best presentations
of the evening was the cobra dance.
Norda clothed her acts in rich fuchsia
tones, in golds and reds. She specialises
in the interpretation of the mask, and
the first part of her programme was
given over to dances in masks represent-
ing Vanity, Hypocrisy, Drunkenness and
so on. Pretty Philippa Fitzhardinge
Seton played a small part.
American writer and lecturer Mrs. E.
M. Caldwell was the guest of the Society
of Women Writers last week. And if
ever a guest paid for her midday salad
with entertaining chat it was the same
traveller. Mrs. Caldwell is on her way
back to U.S.A. after some months spent
in South America. Most of the time
between trips across the Andes and ex-
cursions to ruined greatness she stayed
on estancias with friends. Often in the
morning she rode across the Pampas,
and whenever a gaucho saw her, no
matter what the distance, he would ride
along at furious speed, pass her and her
quieter steed, wheel around, and with an
incomparable gesture sweep his broad-
brimmed felt hat from his head and fling
it, crown down, on the ground before
her horse’s feet. There it lay till she
had passed. Then, without dismounting,
the gaucho would swing down, pick up
the hat and go about his affairs. This
was just a little courtesy to the guest
of his master. There’s something in this
Spanish blood after all.
The programme at the Musical Asso-
ciation’s monthly meeting last Friday
was interesting because it was composed
entirely of works by Mrs. Alfred Hill.
The music was played by a group ot
clever young musicians, and was en-
joyed by the guests of honor, Georg Szell
and Mrs. Szell. Black Chantilly lace
with a cherry ribbon at the waist was
worn by Mrs. Szell. Her cape of black
Persian lamb drew a second glance. Presi-
dent Sverjensky and Mrs. Hope Gibson
received the guests. Mrs. Hill was handed
a sheaf of flowers as radiant as Mrs.
Szell’s. Joan Cleary was at this party
with her father.
A sherry party with a bookish flavor
circled around American writer Mrs.
Caldwell. Given by Dora Payter and
Violet Roche, it drew writers and artists
to Greenknowe-avenue. Nina Murdoch,
Harry Tighe, the Derek Burnells, Will
Lawson, Neville Smith, the J. J. Haidies
were among those who lifted a glass to
toast the much-travelled guest, who even
now is ploughing a few more watery
miles on her way to Samoa.


m
Wk.
mm
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
IN JUST TWO MONTHS
Marvellous Success of
Remarkable New Treatment
WAS BALD FOR i 6 YEARS!
“Hair has started to grow over parts which
have been bald for 16 years.”
(Signed) G. L. Horton, 0., S.A.
Great Distribution of Hair Treatments!
WHAT I DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR.
It does not matter if your hair is falling
out, if you are fast going bald —or what
you have tried! I know you have not used
the BIGHT method! My own hair fell out
in handfuls until I fast began to go bald.
I tried everything; but now I have a thick,
lustrous growth of hair thanks to the im-
portant discovery that—
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
They never have—because it is impossible!
There is one underlying principle that
stimulates New Hair Growth—that prin-
ciple is involved in the new Kelso Murchi-
son Treatment! It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new
angle. With it you can stop your hair
troubles overnight! Don’t waste more time
and money on worthless “tonics” and
“hair restorers”; but accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this special
offer coupon in the post to-day!
NOW YOU CAN TEST IT
YOURSELF!
VIOW, you can test it yourself—try this
’ famous treatment in your own home
—under any condition you like, and if it
doesn’t grow new hair, rid yon of dandruff
or any other hair trouble you sdfifer from
within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
—not one penny! But you must hurry;
this offer may never be repeated, it places
you under no obligation; all you have to
do is to post that coupon NOW!
ACT AT ONCE!
This is your great
OPPORTUNITY.
NEW HAIR CAN BE GROWN.
AFTER 15 years the Murchison Method has
established a sound reputation in the special
sphere of work of banishing and Preventing
Baldness and the accompanying hair maladies.
The many hundreds of voluntary testimonials
from grateful users of this treatment sent from
all parts of the globe are more than adequate
proof of the efficacy of the Murchison Method.
IN one case treated recently, it was estimated
-*■ that the treatment had grown fully 85.000 new
hairs in less than two months. The average head
of dark hair contains approximately 110,000 hairs,
the average head of fair hair 150,000 —according
to European Baldness Specialists. In this case
the person using the treatment was
practically totally bald. In less than
two months he had a head of strong
healthy hair—after being bald for 10
years! It will be seen therefore that
the estimate is well within the mark.
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Days AMAZING TRIAL Offer]
ANOTHER 1500
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO
“BULLETIN” READERS.
Read this PROOF!
“You asked me to report in one month on your
treatment for the hair. The month isn’t quite up
yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait that long. I
could have told you after one application that
your treatment would certainly grow hair. I have
used a lot of different ‘restorers’ in my time,
but yours is the only one that I ever used that
I have had any faith in. You said it would cure
dandruff in one week. Well, I can beat that
easily, as it cured my dandruff in one night.
It has completely changed the colour of my hair.
It has turned it from its dry, dead, straw-looking
colour back to its original shade of brown, and
now, after about three weeks’ use, I have a lot
of new hair growing all over my head. It’s
growing like wildfire. I might mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go, either.”
E. J. REYNOLDS, M., Vic.
WONDERFUL. RESULTS.
“I have been using your hair treatment for one
month, with wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has stopped falling
out, and all the dandruff has disappeared, also
the itchy scalp. Where it used to be short and
thin, it has grown much longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it has new life in it, thanks
to you. I think your course wonderful, and so
easy to do.”
MISS M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
RipThis_ouf-and POST/
U J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
17” Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
/
| j NAME
| ADDRESS
. E
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Use Coupon
Below!
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amaz'ng FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers wi.h the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
O How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
0 How to Develop Latent Ability.
O How to Cartoon.
0 How to Caricature.
0 How to Sell Your Work.
0 How to Illustrate for the Papers.
0 How to Sketch and Draw.
0 Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY I
Make Money in Your Spare Time.
COR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, is offer-
* ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to a!!
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist—then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by?
This Book
is Free to
YOU!
Stlliii
! Ho-W to t«« w Art***
t«w>» B, “*
M .
System of Art
'
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment. NOW!
“HOW TO BE AN FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw—develop your talent—
how to cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Pill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now—at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, “How To
Be An Artist. 1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name .
Address
,1/6/’3B.


3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. . . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE .
Will
Enjoy
ELI
m
mm
m
mS
mLj
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and a
24-hour hot-water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 459 of 1938.
BETWEEN VIOLET MAY CREMMING
(falsely called Gray) Petitioner
And ROBERT JAMES GRAY Respondent.
TO ROBERT JAMES GRAY of Waverley in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET MAY
CREMMING (falsely called Gray) has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and
is applying for a decree for nu Uity of marriage
on the ground of bigamy AND TAKb
NOTICE that you are required to enter _an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Eighteenth day
of August One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
will be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of May,
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
FRED M. DODD, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
One
Melbourne
Chatter
It’s a feather in the cap of the Little
Theatre to have had Ruth Draper to tea,
for Miss Draper rarely accepts invita-
tions. She visited the Little Theatre be-
cause she liked the sound of it and the
work it is doing and possibly also the
tone of Mrs. George Bell’s letter of in-
vitation. As Miss Draper never goes
anywhere where she has to meet large
crowds of people, the party was com-
mittee only and very small indeed. The
tea-table was set on the stage, and the
guest of honor afterwards cast a friendly
eye over dressing-rooms, back garden and
open-air box office. She said St. Chad’s
and its background reminded her very
much of several Little Theatres in
America. Later she removed her “mask”
to the small group of kindred spirits,
talked of and invited opinions upon her
work and suggested several plays for
Little Theatre productions of the future.
While Mrs. George Bell was helping
entertain Ruth Draper at the Little
Theatre with the thought at the back of
her mind that she must hurry home after-
wards and pack up her own and Toi-
nette’s things for a week’s holiday at
Albury, husband George was opening
Eileen Pearcey’s exhibition with a call
to arms for the moderns around the flag
of individualism in art.
Miss Pearcey, otherwise Mrs. Ramsay
Moon, is holding her show at Riddell’s
Galleries, and she means to have an
exhibition in Sydney before she and her
five-year-old fiery-headed little son Felix
leave for their home in England to join
Mr. Moon, from whom Felix inherits
his coppertop. Miss Pearcey is a ver-
satile, imaginative artist who includes
among her drawings and paintings
portraits, landscapes, still-life and a
section of over a dozen studies of the
Uday Shan-Kar Hindu Ballet, for which
seats had to be booked in London weeks
ahead. Most of her pictures were com-
pleted in London and Paris, but she
hasn’t been idle since her return to the
home of her girlhood. Framing, mount-
ing and painting the mounts for her
pictures have kept her artistic nose to
the grindstone for some time.
Among those who came to the open-
ing were many old friends. Mrs. Victor
Wischer was noticed with violets in her
coat; Lucy Swanton was there in green ;
Mrs. Milner Arnold wore a brown coat
and tarn; Mrs. Brian Fitzpatrick, Mr.
and Mrs. P. O. Phillips and W. A. N.
Blackett were there promising themselves
a second visit; Mrs. Sid Rubbo wore a
trim grey suit and a brown hat; Val
Frankel Cohen’s tangerine scarf covered
with leopards’ heads was to most people
reminiscent of the Zoo but to Val it was
a reminder of her close-ups with big
game in the Kruger Animal Reserve.
One afternoon last week when Mar-
jorie Goodisson and Cynthia Wood met
lor a snack of coffee and biscuits, Mar-
jorie took the opportunity of offering
felicitations to Cynthia upon her engage-
ment to Colin Lachlan Mclnnes, where-
upon Cynthia replied with a word of
approbation about the way Marjorie’s
suit matched her blue eyes. But more
congratulations were to come. On that
same afternoon Mr. Dunstan made
known his approval of Marjorie’s ap-
pointment as investigating officer to the
Housing Commission.
Miss Goodisson, only 24, is an old girl
of St. Michael’s, and had three years in
residence at Janet Clarke Hall while
studying for her diploma in social science
at the University and doing practical
wofk through the Board of Social
Studies. In this way she learnt the work-
ing methods of various clubs and bene-
volent societies. Soon after her gradua-
tion she was asked by the Charities
Organisation Society to write a survey
of all the charitable institutions in Aus-
tralia, which report was published in
pamphlet form. Another commission
(also honorary, but good experience
nevertheless) came from the Housing
Board ; it was to interview several hun-
dred applicants for the houses at Fisher-
men’s Bend and to choose 42 families
for occupation. When this was finished
Miss Goodisson made sociological inves-
tigations and reports on slum houses and
families in most of the poorer suburbs.
Her last job, from which she resigned to
take on her new appointment, was liaison
officer for a manufacturing firm.
In the Athol Shmith photo, is a member
of the committee, Mrs. R. H. Hunt, wife
of one of the Vice-Consuls for the U.S.
The American Women’s Auxiliary works
for the Children’s Hospital, where it
maintains a ward of six beds. Members
also do sewing and knitting for the chil-
dren, and some drive small patients to
and from after-care departments for
treatment. Last year the American ball
raised over £BOO for the hospital.
The American Women’s Auxiliary likes
to get in early and work slowly and
surely up to the grand climax of con-
certed effort, the Fourth of July ball to
be held on the first, because Friday is
easily the best night for such a grand
do. The committee people are already out
and about with their propaganda, and
tickets are falling like autumn leaves into
hundreds of outstretched hands ; but there
is a limit to even the leaves of autumn,
and those who don’t get in bright and
early may have the bad luck to miss the
dance.
Mr. and Mrs. David Robertson gave
a welcome home with cocktails to their
daughter Maxine, otherwise Mrs. Laing-
Hay, who has come to Australia to spend
a few months. An important item on
her Customs clearance list was a Scottish
terrier now spending a couple of months
in quarantine, quite pleasant after his
restricted life on board ship. At the party
Mrs. Laing-Hay wore a little black bolero
frock, a sable cape and a black hat of
Edwardian shape giddy with cyclamen-
colored flowers and with a long coarse-
mesh veil hanging down the back. To
demonstrate to her friends how intriguing
such styles can be she drew the veil over
her face and under her chin and tied it
in a knot high on the crown of her hat.
She says this is how women abroad are
borrowing ideas from pre-war fashion
books and finding them entrancing,
although they were never meant as a
counterfoil for the drinking of cocktails
and the smoking of cigarettes.
Among guests at the party were the
Charles Nodrum and Arthur Boyes
couples and the A. B. Patersons, who
several times a week watch their son Bill
kneeling on the floor with Noel Franken-
berg, both adding pencil marks and
margin notes to plans of houses, for they
are building their own home in Sargood-
street, Toorak, to be ready in time for
their marriage at the end of the year.
Edith Hoare came to the party wearing
silver foxes and an extra tuft of the same
pelts in her cap. Phyllis Fuller’s black
hat was encircled with white pique leaves.
Mrs. George Saenger found it easy to
dispose of several tickets for the cruise
to Honolulu run in conjunction with the
American ball. One of her ticket-takers
who won’t be going cruising even if he
draws the winning number is H. G.
Greenhills, of Colombo, who is being
shown the sights of Melbourne by his
son Clive. The latter is almost an Aus-
tralian, having lived here for four years.
Mr. Greenhills, senior, means to see Syd-
ney before returning homewards.
Mrs. Lanfear Thompson, known
among her comrades of paint-and-palette
persuasion as Madge Freeman, means in
future to spend more time in Melbourne
and less in Bendigo. Her attractive studio
in East Melbourne was in another cycle
of life a stable. It has an upper storey
at present reached only by stepladder,
which another artist, V. Vassilieff, has
booked for a family abode-cwm-studio ;
up to the present he has lived in Fitzroy.
Miss Freeman plans to spend week-ends
in Bendigo, her old home town before
she went off some years ago to live
abroad and study in Paris. Up there she
has a number of painting pupils, and
means to hold an exhibition of her work
in the near future.
Tibbett the singer or Tibbett the show-
man —it doesn’t matter which—has
proved himself 100 p.c. of both. His
notes are luscious and resonant in spite
of the Town Hall acoustics, his voice
production as perfect and as unobtrusive
as the inner workings of a machine. Per-
haps he takes a breath every Christmas
—there’s no sign of its happening more
often. His smile is a personal thing, as
if bestowed individually upon each rapt
listener in the audience. He didn’t forget
the folk in the organ loft, but occasion-
ally turned his broad back on the rest
of to sing to them alone.
The*Tibbetts shared their gardenias, his
single bloom in his buttonhole, her spray
of three or four flowers in her dark hair.
Mrs. Tibbett sat with several members
of the Tait family, including Mrs. A. H.
Scott. Noticed also was Mrs. Sid Myer,
who met the Tibbetts in America. On
the previous day at Menzies she had
lunched with Mrs. Tibbett, who was all
in pavement-blue and silver foxes. At
the concert Mrs. Myer wore green
orchids, furs, a lovely gown of sequin-
encrusted ivory crepe, and was accom-
panied by various Baillieus, including
Mrs. John Reed. Diamond tiaras don’t
seem to matter these days, luxury in-
stincts hankering after white ermine and
white foxes.
As to the crowded house, sufficient
to say that, although sitting on the
gallery steps was discouraged, history was
made by touts in the street reselling “the
only seats left in the house,” and by the
fact that P. Finkelstein and E. J. Grave-
stock spent the entire evening without
even a chair between them.
Nancy Rees and John Hutchison went
all the way to Brighton for their wed-
ding, the reason being that St. Andrew’s
at Brighton is Archdeacon Hewett’s
church and the Archdeacon has married
all of Mrs. George Rees’s daughters and
christened all her grandchildren. Nancy
is the fifth in the flock to embark upon
matrimony. Her sister Pat, who was
bridesmaid, and Flight-Lieut. Max Wat-
son, who was best man, also have a date
with the Archdeacon in September. Ihe
reception was at Menzies, and the newly-
marrieds are spending their honeymoon
in Sydney. After a leisurely trip bac*
by car they will go to live in Mrs. Rees s
house in Malvern for a few months or
until they make up their minds where to
build their own home. Mrs. Rees and
Pat are now on their way to Brisbane to
miss the winter and to see something of
Dr. and Mrs. D. A. Dowling and their
children, whose domicile is much more
accessible than it used to be on Thurs-
day Island. Mrs. Dowling is another
sister in this big family of daughters.
Margot Stainthorpe, whose photo, is
by Antoine, is, with Mrs. Oliver Mellows,
joint ticket secretary of the Mercy Hos-
pital Ball to be held at Earl’s Court on
June 7. Dame Enid Lyons is coming
over from Tasmania especially to bestow
a smile apiece upon the 10 debutantes
to be presented to her. Mrs. James
Dwyer is president of the committee, and
the immediate past-president, who was
also the first president, was Mrs. E. L.
Kiernan, who will be missed at the dance,
for she is abroad with her children, who
are either at school, being “finished,” or
working for future careers at ’Varsity.
Mr. Kiernan has sold his home at Ivan-
hoe, and is hoping to join the family in
England later in the year.
The Godfrey Ellises yesterday caught
the Cathay with difficulty, but looking
very bright and well, although they said
they both felt popeyed as the result of
so many parties. They haven’t eaten
alone for three weeks, and remember a
quiet night at home with the same dim
affection that they do their nursery
rhymes. Among most recent farewells for
the popular couple were cocktails for as
many people as could be fitted into the
Toddy Stewarts’ flat in Coolullah-avenue.
Margaret and Charles Russell also
brought forward cocktails at their flat
at Ulawarra, and Dudley Ward had his
on tap at Fordham-avenue, Hawthorn,
where everybody did the Big Apple
then and later round about midnight at
the Toorak Cafe. The Lou Molines'
party was at their home in Malvern, and
the Bill Percivals’ Sunday morning
quenchers and chasers were intended as
a housewarming at Beaumaris, but
eventuated as a good-bye to Coolullah-
avenue.
So hard and dry has the ground been
for hunting that mothballs were shaken
out of pink coats for the first time this
year, not for a frosty gallop over open
country but to wear at the Melbourne
Hunt Club dance in the Berwick Hall.
A general opening for conversation was
“When will it rain?” and at la.m. when
a few drops fell everybody turned out
of doors to see if they were real or
imaginary.


Cruise in July through the
calm and sunny waters of the
Barrier Reef to Papua . . .
land of the haunting tom-tom
and of ceremonial headdresses
both weird and beautiful.
NEXT CRUISE:
V 74
m
&
w
*
s\
PAP 114
VIA GREAT BARRIER REEF
EARLY JULY by ORONTES
* Commencing from Brisbane and ending at Sydney. Fares
include steamer or rail passage Sydney-Brisbane after the cruise.
OTHER WINTER CRUISES
Carrying First Saloon and Tourist "B" Class; Fares First Saloon as above, Tourist "B" I guinea less than quoted above.
ORIENT LINE CREISES
#
Orient Steam Navigation Company Limited, Incorporated in England.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
The women members of the Brisbane
Goethe Bund gave a party to farewell
Mrs. Max Jahn, wife of the retiring Ger-
man Consul, and to welcome Mrs. H.
White, whose husband has just been ap-
pointed to the job. Mrs. M. Von Ploen-
nies (who was Miss Macrossan, sister of
Queensland’s Puisne Judge, and whose
son is president of the society) acted as
hostess. There were narcissi and jon-
quils for Mrs. Jahn, and carnations for
Mrs. White.
Mervyn Baynes, grandson of the late
Hon. Harry Groom and great-grandson
of W. H. Groom, Speaker of the first
Federal Parliament, is shortly to marry
Venters Jubb, whose people come from
Toowoomba. Mrs. T. L. Cooper gave
a pre-wedding tea for the lass at Rowe’s,
with miniature brides as place-cards.
There was a beautifully-worked cloth for
the bride-elect to put in her glory box.
Dorothy Youngman, of Taabinga, who
is in Brisbane for the wedding of Mar-
jory Kent and Jan Elliott on June 1, is
to be one of the bridesmaids, a sort of
dress-rehearsal for her own wedding,
which is to take place in Brisbane at the
beginning of August. Her young man
is Peter Graham, and the wedding is to
be at All Saints’ Church.
A wedding of interest to friends in
Victoria and South Australia was cele-
brated at St. Michael’s and All Angels’,
New Farm, when Shirley Blore Bednall,
daughter of the late E. Blore Bednall
and of Mrs. Blore Bednall, now of Mel-
bourne, formerly of South Aus., was
married to Alan F. H. Dawson, second
son of Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Dawson, of
Mansfield (Vic.). The bride, given away
by her mother, wore a redingote frock
of hyacinth blue and a velvet toque, and
added a bridal touch by pinning a posy
of lily-of-the-valley and orange-blossom
to her shoulder. E. M. Menzies, Sydney
was best man. The reception was held
at Lennon’s.
Quite a large party went up from Bris-
bane'to Toowoomba to be present at the
wedding of Rex King, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Hubert King, and grandson of the
former Commissioner for Railways in
Queensland, to Margaret Griffiths,
daughter of Atherton Griffiths, of Too-
woomba. St. Luke’s Church heard the
Voice.
Silver leaves and clusters of blue
berries made the supper-tables lovely at
the Loreto Convent ball. Mary Stewart,
the president, and the joint secretaries,
Mary Herbert and Joyce Armstrong, re-
ceived the guests, among whom were
Archbishop Duhig and Rev. Dr. J. Eng-
lish. Justice and Mrs. Webb and Dr. and
Mrs. J. R. S. Lahz were in the official
party.
WESTRALJA.
The funds of the Children’s Protec-
tion Society made the excuse for Rep.
Club members to spend weeks of prepa-
ration and brainwork on fancy cos-
tumes for their ball at the Embassy.
Adjudicators Mrs. D. D. Paton, Kitty
Gillies and Justice Henry Moseley had
a stiff task in awarding the prizes. Bruce
White and lovely Pat MacManus as
Robin Hood and Maid Marian (she in
leaf-brown and woodland-green satin and
fair plaits falling below her waist) made
a storybook pair, and the A. J. Bishop
couple, befeathered and bebuttoned, car-
ried out their “Pearlie King and Queen’'
characters in every detail. Recently re-
turned from dancing engagements
abroad, Rene Esler and Gerry McMor-
row gave exhibitions of the newest
dances as they should be done.
Dorothy, second lass of medico and
Mrs. Kasner Moss, of West Perth, kept
a matrimonial date with the Carew-Reids’
good-looking second son Edward at the
altar of Perth College chapel, where
Archdeacon Hudleston tied the knot.
Tailored earth-brown roubaix with high-
lights of gold satin and upturned gold-
feathered halo to match set off the bride’s
sheaf of autumn berries ranging through
gold to red-brown shades. Dorothy
Adams lent support in rust-red angora,
with deeper rust suede etceteras and
Florentine beret exactly matching.
Kilts rampant and Scottish blood up,
the pipers of the Cameron Highlanders
stood at the entrance to the Embassy and
gave stirring welcome to guests arriving
for the regimental ball. From scarlet
mess-jackets to gleaming silver-buckled
slippers the officers were point-device
in every detail. Their C.O. had his
mother, Mrs. Louch, carrying heather
posy against her black ninons, to help
with the receiving. Major Lloyd piloted
his other half wrapt in palest-blue crepe
pencil-striped with gold, the Ray San-
aovers swung a lightsome kilt and a
gleam of creamy satins through the eight-
some reel, and the James lady’s silvery
laces were a pleasant foil for the brilliant
uniforms.
Something novel in honeymoons was
devised by Angela Doolette and Jack
Mann after their nuptials at the pic-
turesque and historic old St. Mary’s
Church set among the vineyards at
Middle Swan, one of the earliest settled
districts about Perth. Three weeks on
wheels touring the sou’-west in a super-
caravan with all mod. cons., including
radio, followed the wedding of this daugh-
ter of a well-known goldfields person-
ality of the early days, D. L. Doolette.
Sheila MacPherson ’maided, and small
Robin Ferguson carried out page duties.
At the invitation of Chief Secretary
W. H. Kitson, M.L.C., and State Ship-
ping Service manager S. S. Glyde, hordes
of guests trooped up the gangway to in-
spect the gaily bunting-draped new
motor-ship Koolama. Lounges and
smokerooms were massed with poinset-
tias and banks of autumn foliage and
blooms, with pride of place being given
to a floral replica of the new ship com-
posed of golden marigolds and red
berries.
In honor of Mr. F. LeMessurier, who
returned to Adelaide after three months’
sojourn in Perth, the Cullity couple of
Nedlands chartered the green lounge at
the Adelphi and invited crowds of guests
to drop in at the cocktail hour. Mrs.
Cullity draped a fur cape over her deep
blue crepe suede girdings.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide had its first Highland ball
last week, when 700 dancers turned up
at the Palais Royal for the big func-
tion of the Scottish Regiment, which, re-
formed, is back again in kilts. Lady
Dugan looked charming in a pale-pink
brocade patterned in silver, the front of
the bodice draped with powder-blue chif-
fon that finished in long sash ends on the
left side. Pink and pale-blue sequins
formed epaulets, matching the coronet
she wore.
Alfresco gatherings in Adelaide aren’t
always successful, but the garden party
given by Mrs. T. R. Scarfe at her lovely
home, Eden Park, Marryatville, to enter-
tain the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary
overcame the hoodoo. Wearing a smart
black ensemble, and hatless as she always
is, Mrs. Scarfe received on the lawn with
Mrs. B. H. Morris, R. L. Butler and
Howard Dunstan, vice-presidents of the
Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary. A short
programme of singing was rendered in
the house, the wide staircase m the huge
lounge being turned into a concert plat-
form. The vocalists were Mr. Howard
Pfitzner, Miss M. Radford and Miss
Margaret Pirie.
The marriage was celebrated at St.
Peter’s College chapel of Margaret Ken-
nedy, of Wodgina, W.A., and Dr. Pedler,
son of the R. J. H. Pedlers, of Waverley
Ridge, S.A. The bride was gowned in
white cloque on princess lines merging
into a slight train, the bridal veil of tulle
held in place by two small feather mounts.
There was a large attendance at the
Town Hall for the opening recital by
basso Alexander Kipnis. Mrs. Kipnis
and Mrs. Raymond Lambert (wife of the
pianist) were in the official party with the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress. Mrs.
Kipnis, tall and fair, was striking in a
white chiffon flowered with large pink
roses, the deep hem of black taffeta on
the very full skirt being appliqudd with
the same roses. Mrs. Lambert chose
a white French crepe trimmed with white
silk fringe.
TASMANIA.
The United Service Institute ran a big
shivoo at Anglesea Barracks, which were
gay with shields, badges, flags, trophies,
colorful dresses and uniforms. President
Lieut.-Col. A. P. Crisp and Mrs. Crisp,
with the organising sec., Major Field, re-
ceived about 300 guests. A novel feature
was a realistically-built sandbag dugout
canteen. The Lieut.-Gov. and Miss Evans
were there, also the former Command-
ant and Mrs. Whitham, over from Mel-
bourne on a visit.
A nicely decorated Zealandia was the
venue of a successful dance in aid of the
Tas. Sanatorium. Mary Caulfield, as
usual, was responsible for the tip-top
organisation.
Mrs. Ronald Dick is home again, after
seeing her daughter and son-in-law, the
Wilbur Jacksons, off from Melbourne
en route to Malta, where Paymaster-
Lieut. Jackson expects to be stationed for
two years.
Joan, younger of the two R. A. Clive
girls of Ballarton, Old Beach, and Gavan
Page, only son of the Chief Justice and
the late Mrs. H. Crisp, announce their
engagement.
The staff from Tarraleah and Lake
St. Clair fare welled their manager, Mr.
Maclean, at the Imperial before he left
on his trip to America. Mrs. Maclean,
who shared the honors, wore a fawn
tailored costume with brown hat, and
daughter Shirley, in navy, and her sister
Corinne, in grey, completed the family
party. The Tasmanian Society also sped
the parting member with cocktails at
Hadley’s next day.


i
W
m
i I
©
©
4
s®£
S 5S
1
ķ
that provide high quality entertainment
from broadcasting studios give the best
reception in your set. A regular overhaul
of your radio will give better and brighter
programmes. See your local radio
supplier . . .
and be sure to Re-valve with new Micro-sensitive
RADIOTRONS
(ADVERTISEMENT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS VALVE CO. PTY. LTD.)
THf
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
32-watt Negative Feedback
Amplifier.
The circuit diagram for a newly-
designed negative feedback amplifier
shown here comes from “Radiotronics,
No. 86,” issued by A.W. Valve Co.
Two 6L6Gs are used with output up to
32 watts, with 425 volts on the plates.
Resistance coupling is employed through-
out, making the amplifier more accessible
to the amateur versed in P.A. systems or
modulators than where transformer
coupling is used. High-grade audio trans-
formers are expensive items, and resis-
tances of the best make are obtainable
relatively cheaply. A 6N7G does double
duty in the input as a first-stage amplifier
and phase inverter, exciting two 6J7Gs
in pentode connection. These in turn
drive the 6L6G output valves. The dia-
gram shows volume control in the grid
of the first section of the 6N7G, with
input for a pickup.
A high-gain microphone can be applied
with switching through the usual micro-
phone transformer if desired. Points
marked X and Y in the control grid
return circuits of the 6L6Gs show where
a 0-to-l milliammeter may be connected
temporarily to ensure balance. If de-
sired, variable resistances could be used
in place of the fixed .smeg. resistors
shown, but the latter are less likely to
cause drift or noise. Cathode resistor
of the two 6J7G valves is 1000 ohms
and without any by-pass, and these valves
are used with series feedback arranged
fiom a voltage divider across each side
of the output load.
There is little else calling for comment
except the power supply, which should
give 425 volts at 213 ma. with good regu-
lation. An 83 is suggested with a trans-
former giving 500 volts per side and
choke input filter of 20hy. inductance,
plus adequate smoothing capacity.
In some circumstances the 5000-ohm
resistor forming part of the bleeder
could be replaced partly or wholly by
a speaker field coil. Two 2500-ohm
field coils could be connected in series,
and each would then receive around 10
watts. Care should be taken in this case
that the voltage drop, from screens to
eanh is 325 volts maximum.
The circuit is a particularly attractive
arrangement for a large amplifier, especi-
ally where weight is a consideration.
Fidelity and response are considerably
bettei than in the case of an amplifier
without feedback.
V. c.
What's What in Radio.
The G.E.C. of U.S.A. will complete a
25kw. short-wave station at Belmont,
California, to synchronise with the 1939
Golden Gate International Exhibition at
San Francisco. This station will have
directional aerials of the latest type
directed to the Far East and South
America. Signal gain will be approxi-
mately 300 p.c. over ordinary aerials, and
the station should be heard strongly in
Australia.
* * * #
A proposal was put forward at the
International Communications Confer-
ence at Cairo that no country shall
broadcast advertising matter on wave-
lengths between 200 and 1875 metres
in a language other than its own.
An Italian ultra-short-
wave broadcasting station
is in action at Monte
Mario, Rome, using wave-
lengths of 6.9 and 7.5
metres. Radiated power is
two kilowatts.
* * *
An R.C.A. engineer has
developed a giant cathode-
ray tube for television re-
ception. It is 4|ft. long
and 3lin. in diameter, giv-
ing a picture 18in. by 24in.
The high vacuum neces-
sary causes a pressure of
5£ tons on the glass end
of the tube, which is 2in.
thick. The problem with
cathode-ray tubes previous
to this development was
lack of brightness, but the
new tube is too intense for
a darkened room. The
picture can be viewed in a
brightly-lighted room or in daylight with
ease.
The Dutch short-wave broadcasting
station operated by the Philips Co. at
Eindhoven has
made a change in
transmitting time,
now 5 to 6.30 p.m.
Australian eastern
standard time, in-
stead of 6.30 to
8.30 p.m.
'i-
Radio license
figures at the end
of April totalled
1,035,246 for the
Comm onwealth.
Experi mental
licenses have
reached 1898.
* *
Further proof
that seven - metre
transmissions are
by no means con-
fined to optical
range is afforded
in the consistent reception at Worthing
(Eng.) of the television programmes from
Alexandra Palace in London. The dis-
tance is 60 miles, and signals on both
sound and vision give excellent results.
Mairt difficulty is to overcome radio in-
ductive interference from car-ignition
systems and low-flying aircraft.
Radio Comment.
“Thermostat”: An English magazine
talks of television in Australia, and states
that tests have been conducted on tele-
vision wave-lengths with a transmitter
operating from the heart of Sydney, with
observations made at a range of 15 miles.
If any tests have been made, Sydney radio
circles have yet to hear of them. Tele-
vision for Sydney or any other Australian
city is ,f pt a d r °am. of t*»e future.
* * * *
“Querex”: Every radio constructor
should keep cellulose cement handy in
the workshop. It may be used for repair-
ing loudspeakers, cementing coil turns in
position and even repairing broken
moulded components. Instead of drill-
ing holes and laboriously fixing name-
plates to panels with small bolts and nuts,
I find cellulose cement a quick and handy
way of making such fixtures. Thinned
clear lacquer with cellulose base is ideal
for lacquering polished metal surfaces as
a precaution against tarnishing and for
cementing.
Marine Communication
Records.
“N.R.S.”: In B. 22/12/’37 reference
is made to a contact between S.S. Iron
Knight and VIP, Perth, W.A., over a
distance of 3000 miles. While serving
as wireless operator on M.V. King
James, bound from Vancouver to Syd-
ney in 1928-29, I arranged a schedule
with KPH on 450 metres. The ship
was equipped with +kw. R.C.C. syn-
chronous spark and +kw. emergency
equipment. First log entry is on Nov.
15- TR QRB 2800 to KPH. From then
until Nov. 26, when TR QRB 5100 to
KPH, 17.59 S., 173.03 E. During this
schedule I missed only one night, owing
to heavy static. My log could, no doubt,
still be verified at KPH. As spark
transmitters are rapidly becoming marine
oddities, it would be interesting to learn
of any better performance with spark
of any power.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Quilpie. Receiver, Ideal
T.R.F. Battery All-wave Receiver, de-
scribed B. 28/4/’37.
At present the 31-metre band is best
before breakfast, with more stations and
stronger signals in evidence. Those
logged recently at good volume are GSB,
OZF, W2XAF, DJN, OLR4A, KZRM,
WIZK, W3XAU, 2RO, LLR, CSW,
EAQ and a French station just below
DJN wljich ceases transmission at 8 a.m.
Less powerful stations can be found, one
just below 2RO. This is probably
CTIAA, and another may be COCQ
Two weaker stations are heard a little
below W3XAU. The 25-metre band
shows RNE, usually the best station,
TPA3, DJD, JZJ, 2RO and OLR3A have
also been heard. Best on the 19-metre
band are GSO and DJR. On the 49-
metre band ZRH is strongest, with DJC
next.
At midday the 19-metre Germans have
much better signal strength than the
Daventry stations. The 25-metre band
around this time includes RNE, TPA3,
TPA4, DJD and GSD, the best being
TPA4 and RNE. The only 31-metre
station in the early afternoon is VLR,
which is very strong. During the later
afternoon GSD is easily the best station
A view of Broadcasting House in Berlin, Germany.
until 5 p.m., when EAQ opens with
better strength than GSB.
At night all 31-metre stations are good
and DSJ and YDC the best of the high-
frequency stations. On 49 metres
WBXAL is weak at 8.15 p.m. but rapidly
gets stronger. PCJ cannot be heard on
19.7 metres during the
transmissions. Sometimes OLR can be
heard at night on 19.58 metres, but does
not compare with the Germans. GSG
is now stronger than DJE at night, and
is still improving.
Best time for the 31-metre Americans
is between 8 and 9 a.m. WIXK and
W2XAF are nevertheless usually stronger
than W3XAU. This appears to be a
good time for the 25-metre band as
WBXK and W2XE can be heard nicely
at 9.30 a.m.
No receiver here can raise a 49-metre
station during the late afternoon, but
CQCQ can usually be heard from about


Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a puli
in the country districts
of W.A the station
that will buck up you?
sales.
6AM
i Prince’s Chambers,
H’ Iliain street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
ISIHI3HI‘" J,,W * OIOV
mk wmMO
■
UtfO&
ccofflv
CH- A
QfT&j
RB
nbbv
but".,
rfROR e
prbQU
th£
AT
PAR
/,
s.
4>
, yith a
• „to * scl is l» fec
L istcn ‘ n Lc«^ i “ tor nc ***
f <t f
u- k "* £ , Xi»- ' 4 u.or>'<-«
t’l wrred t V tocc«« lMla oW t” «*
a f<* ct | t t time s?
.he"* o’* 0 ’*
m
m \
WHCMWIIW
AI £eAV' oS
*5B& r.
, r cnioy
of 1° A
NO C*
*fr tho
co " s ‘dt
A ,r | poW er i ea r utl
giving cl£
ho k aS . ° nce o f
enced *e dep eoJ»
« at ? d l a Sfr supply
eett °p e ;; e d «•'* {ot
bebo a«o^ atoti
its
£vet e;
s
a<ty
CeW
vvitV' atv unV^ tct
ot* atl
u i:;;-t de -
tH *‘fee «gjS3B&' d
toptet
tC^’
ui* eS
S et
HO R
, *,4 *«**••
a tteO« o 0 r( ,e o an aU ' e . U t o®
K v°“ lwe , ?«'
lnce aod u Ve**°®
gtea«t co ° V ?ta cti<* ttv ,\ s a va3
teti° tate
tvo
jus* <* s
CtVA-
o
Mi
tM
an
(j/ppED
EQ
*
I
IB*
fcVfeß
R t
VIST
ptv
VID.
s yD^ eV
3 p.m. Some very strong 20-metre ama-
teurs have been coming in at night, an
Arizonan and an Indian being par-
ticularly good.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
President Watts, of R.5.G.8., gives
details in “T. and R. Bulletin” of some
of the preliminary results of the Cairo
Conference. These are not to be con-
sidered as final, but are merely the find-
ings of the technical sub-committee. The
frequency proposals are of most interest.
Contrary to expectations, the committee
recommended that the 160-metre band
should remain the same so far as
amateurs are concerned. In the 80-metre
band, ranges between 3635-3685 kc. and
3950-4000 kc. were allotted to services
not open to public correspondence and
to aeronautical services respectively. In
the 40-metre band administrations may
have the right to place broadcasting
stations by derogation between 7200 kc.
and 7300 kc., but the allocation in the
frequency chart for amateurs will prob-
ably remain at 7000 kc. to 7300 kc. It is
a relief to find that the facilities for
broadcasting stations do not include the
low-frequency end. The new arrange-
ment means that some countries will un-
doubtedly put short-wave broadcasting
stations in the high-frequency end of the
band, thus adding to the commercial
stations already working where they
please in the band. Twenty metres will
apparently remain as it is, but this is by
no means definite. The 10-metre and
five-metre bands are still exclusively ama-
teur. Amateurs may be authorised to
work between 112mc. and 120mc. What-
ever the outcome, it is likely that Aus-
tralian amateurs will still have the com-
plete support of the wireless branch of
the P.M.G.’s department.
In the scramble for the 20-metre band
the problem of sideband splatter by ad-
jacent stations has in some instances given
rise to ill-feeling. Vigilance committees
work in the interests of each and every
VK amateur, and no amateur should
object to advice directly over the air
from another station should there be
anything wrong with the transmission.
Brawling over the air can only lead
to trouble from official sources. If the
20-metre band was amateur stamping-
ground only, matters would not be so
serious, but the general public knows the
band through the medium of dual-
wavers, and the impression that amateurs
use their equipment to abuse each other
will not help anybody.
Visiting Sydney last week Maurice B.
Anderson, chief radio operator of the
A.I.M. station at Cloncurry (N.Q.).
Anderson is one of radio’s old-timers,
and in 1927 did a world voyage on the
barque Helen B. Stirling, using his own
equipment to maintain the first com-
munication with the world from a wind-
jammer. Previous to his appointment
with the now extensive radio network in-
augurated by “Flynn of the Inland” he
was active in S.A. as ASMA. On rare
occasions Anderson has a yarn with ama-
teurs from his Cloncurry base on the 40-
metre band, but most of his time is en-
gaged in working the large number of
pedal stations on the commercial fre-
quencies allotted.
The 40-metre band has been showing
good DX tendencies lately, and on some
evenings Americans can be worked at
good signal strength with all the reli-
ability of six or seven years ago, local
QRM permitting. A station putting a
strong signal into Sydney is F7JDY in
Noumea. Some local stations are “hog-
ging” the band by lengthy ’phone duplex-
ing. The ultra-highs are available for
such communication. Twenty metres
holds up well on DX, but American sig-
nals have during recent evenings dis-
appeared with remarkable suddenness.
Stations worked by the writer on 20
recently are CNBAN in Casablanca,
Morocco, and U9ML in Siberia.
When looking for possible 56mc. ? DX
watch also for short skip on 28mc.,
especially when the barometer is falling
and temperature on the rise. Anything
is likely to happen on “five” under these
conditions. Constant watch on “ten”
should be maintained in preference to
blind calling with the hope of DX on
“five.”
The well-organised week-end test by
the VK3 Division of W.I.A. brought
no 56mc. DX results, and an examination
of reception conditions generally shows
that the elements were unkind. The
VK3 stations using the 20-metre channel
reported complete blanketing of all sig-
nals from midnight until 7 a.m. on the
morning of 22/5/’3B, and on 10
metres it was the same. Everything
below 25 metres disappeared until late
morning on all commercial frequencies.
Under these conditions it is evident that
56mc. would be unlikely to yield DX
results. Careful watch was kept on the
band in Sydney, and stations co-operat-
ing were VKs 2NO, 2EM, 2AZ, 2WJ,
2HL, 2MQ and 2AJH. VK2NO checked
up with the Victorians on results on 40
metres, working VK3PB and VK3KU.
In the history of 56mc. activity in
N.S.W. the early work of VK2BP, then
at Hazelbrook, Blue Mountains, was a
great incentive to the development of the
band. VK2BP went off the air 18 months
ago, and a good test station was lost
to the Sydney experimenters. It is
likely that another Blue Mountains
station will soon be in action, this time
from Wentworth Falls, where VK2LZ,
now engineer at the 2KA broadcasting
station, will open 56mc. communication
in his spare time.
Zero Beat Radio Club of Sydney has
been heard transmitting on 40 metres On
Friday evenings from the clubrooms for
the benefit of country members. Trans-
mission takes the form of club news and
slow Morse practice. Callsign of the
station is VK2ZD.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
cpieries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Is the capacity-resistance bridge (B.
28/4/’3B) suitable for the measurement of in-
ductances? (2) Where can I obtain oscillator
shield boxes and portable battery-set cases ? (3)
I have a five-valve battery receiver which de-
velops trouble when the A battery is getting
low. When switched on it may work for five
minutes and then stop. If switched off for a
while it works again for a similar period. What
is the trouble? —674.
(1) No. (2) Price’s Radio Service, Angel-
place, Sydney, or Reco Radio, Royal Arcade,
Sydney. (3) Trouble is that the , A battery is
at the limit of discharge and picks up slightly
after standing. Get the accumulator charged
without delay.
* * * *
Read somewhere that some types of audio
transformers will make good high-impedance
chokes for screen-grid detector coupling with
the primary and secondary connected in series.
What terminals should be connected to put the
windings in series without inductive opposi-
tion ? —677.
Connect the plate terminal to the C negative
terminal, and use the B -plus and grid ter-
minals for the choke connections. . Best trans-
former for this purpose is the old Philips type.
* * * *
1 have a two-valve converter which is good on
London, Japan, Manila, China, Russia and Java.
It is impossible to get London or Berlin after
about 4 p.m. on the 19 -metre band, and the
only American heard has been New York at
7 a.m. The converter is being used in con-
junction with a six-valve superhet with 59’s in
push-pull to a Jensen A l 2 speaker. Aerial is
a doublet 25 ft. high, converter uses 6D6 and
6AI valves, with coil switching and built-in
P°w?>' pack. What is wrong? —673
J>h° r t waves have vagaries not apparent in
ordinary close-range broadcast reception. If
' after to pick Up Daventr y
a i te s, 4 P- 1 ?-’ other receivers in this part
ot the world are doing the same thing. Re-
ception periods and signal strength vary from
jr .® ct,ons Wlt h seasonal changes and under
the influence of sunspot activity. Your con-
verter appears to be working normally, judg-
ing by the stations logged. Americans are
never very strong in comparison with Daventry
or Berlin, although some American amateurs
at times may be heard very strongly on 20
metres. Inquire if anybody else with a dual-
wave receiver can hear London after the time
you lose the signal on your converter.
* * # m
(1) Is it possible to cut out all interference
due to ignition in a car-radio installation by
using condensers ? If so, where should they be
placed. (2) What is the best number of
valves. (3) Would a three-valve receiver work
satisfactorily ? (4) Method of obtaining plate
supply from car battery ? (5) Where can circuit
and components be obtained to make a set?
(6) Is the building of a car receiver more diffi-
cult than an ordinary home receiver? —67s
(1) Ignition suppressors in the form of re-
sistors are used either at the plugs or at the
distributor; sometimes at both. Suppressor
kits can be bought. (2) Five valves is the usual
line-up (3) Only if it is intended to use it
over short ranges. (4) Synchronous vibrator.
(5) Radiokes, Ltd., Vine-street, Redfern, N.S.W.
(6) Yes. It must necessarily be more compact,
and complete screening is needed. It must also
withstand continual vibration.
* * * *
(1) Name of Australian agents for a short-
wave coil assembly described in The Bulletin
some time ago which tuned from 30 to 70
metres, had ceramic insulation and a switch
that shorted out unused coils? It was of
British manufacture, selling for about 115. —676.
(1) No Australian agents known. The unit
was obtained direct from the manufacturer,
Lissen, Ltd., Isleworth, England.
* * * *
Where is bakelite varnish (referred to in
Question Box, B. 19/5/’3B) obtainable in Syd-
ney ?—678.
From Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place.


(orsißjHrrs
*
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
SMsHBk-. .... t?i.::. ,
X&KIJi
W4k
-0
mmmri
.V"
4
ni»*
«SM*
ESTABLISHED 1884
... I*
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros* & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSASHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Average Quality and Wool Types.
“Geelong”: Exporters agree that since
the breaking up of many large merino
flocks the average quality of the Austra-
lian clip has fallen, but that improvement
is practicable. This does not refer to the
increase of broad quality wools—much
excellent style crossbred is produced in
areas where it is most profitable—but to
the growth of nondescript and diversified
types, resulting from careless breeding.
Lamb-raising nearly always results in
lowered wool quality, but a compromise
is possible. Downs breeds are necessary
for lamb-raising, but too many can be
used, and an infusion of their blood into
breeding ewes should be avoided. Pol-
warths and Corriedales have shown what
can be done with combined wool and
mutton.
Downs wool varies slightly with the
different breeds, though it all has one
common characteristic harsh and
straight fibres, resulting in lack of felting
property. This, with its spongy nature,
especially fits 7 for the hosiery trade, and
for making cloths requiring a free, lofty
nap. Production of such wool could well
be left to England.
Even a Downs-mer. cross wool is
spongy and characterless, often contain-
ing grey fibres. This makes difficult the
classing of small clips of mixed breed.
Buyers of worsted suitings types do not
want it mixed with hosiery wool.
The use of distinctive breeds, such as
the footrot-resisting Romney Marsh, to
suit different localities is necessary, but
there is room for standardisation.
Controlling Footrot.
“Corriedale”: . Whether “Teg” (B.
12/5/’3B) likes it or not he must use
some method of paddock control to beat
footrot. It is useless paring feet and dis-
infecting if the sheep are turned back on
the plots which they have already con-
taminated. Some of the pared-feet will
become contagious within a week.
Treatment by paring and footbaths
should be the start of the control. The
sheep with pared feet must be separated
from those without lesions, and each lot
placed in paddocks that have run no
other sheep for 30 days.
The no-lesion mob will not contract
footrot, and can be moved back to the
original plot after it has been 30 days
unstocked. The mob with pared feet,
however, must come in for treatment
every week, and the whole process must
be repeated. This makes a lot of work,
but it is essential.
Footrot germs die out of pastures over
the dry summer, and are only kept alive
in chronic bad feet. If these are cleaned
up no germ is carried from season to
season.
On damp pasture there is only one
principle —“clean feet for clean pasture”
the whole time.
Counts in Wool.
“Kyamba”: As a rule there is no
need for the grower to be able to say
exactly how his wool will coun't in spin-
ning so long as he knows the difference
between coarse, medium and fine sorts —
that anything much under 60’s in merino
is coarse, that the average clip runs from
60’s to about 64’s or super 64’s, and that
anything much higher than that is fine
wool. The buyer and the manufacturer,
however, base their calculations on
counts.
Trade-book definition is “the number
of times 560 yards can be spun out of
one pound of wool.” When a buyer
estimates that wool will produce, say,
a 64’s count, its top will spin 560 yards,
64 times to the pound. .A top is the
first stage wool goes through after
being scoured —not necessarily clean-
scoured, but ready for combing and sub-
sequent processes of manufacturing.
In measuring spinning count the
spinner uses a metal reel a yard in cir-
cumference, with an attachment which
counts the winds up to 80. Every 80
yards is called a lea, and seven leas form
a count'(or hank).
Naturally, the finer the wool the more
yards it will spin to the pound. There-
“Hey , if you Want to play ’ ide an seek , git away from the 'ut."
fore, when we speak of a 60’s merino,
a medium type of fibre is indicated that
will spin 60 counts of 560 yards to each
pound, i.e., 33,600 yards ; 70’s give 39,200
yards and 48’s only 25,880 yards to the
pound.
Wrinkles and Honey.
“G.H.H.”: M.O.L. flyblow experts
need to alter their perspective.
Water-rot bacteria are always in the
fleece, and the time of their activity dur-
ing wet periods is the time of spread in
flock by contact. Flies blow the slightest
taint of some bacterial organisms but
totally ignore others; of the water-rot
series. Apart from the breech, wrinkles
seem to me usually harmless, except that
they tend to form bacterial hatcheries by
prolonging humidity in fleece beyond
normal rain periods.
The extra swint, yolk and other body
excretions fail to attract flies, but may
. aid bacteria, and summer humidity may
bring maximum bacterial activity, but this
is the time of minimum primary blowfly
incidence. The practical period of maxi-
mum incidence is limited to spring and
autumn.. Even then the fly and bacterial
activities do not always arrive togethei.
All ’this accounts for irregularities,, in
strike, and a five-year. test minimum is
necessary to try out plans.
Flies do not like certain household
eatables —-honey and sugar in particular.
Try them out in, fly dressings. The re-
sults should be worth collating.
A Three-stand Team.
’C.V.S.”: “Bungaree’s” team for a
three-stand shed (B. 12/ 5/’3B) would do
the job well provided all mechanism ran
smoothly. My objection to the overseer-
classer-expert is that, even with spare
handpieces, machine trouble may take
his attention away from classing. Engines
often require coaxing. ' v
I did not expect satisfaction from the
presser-cook, the team not being my
choice, but one I saw working. In that
case, the presser-cook was employed by
a large shearing company. He took the
job with an eye to getting in as cook
in larger sheds.
. I claimed the team was unbalanced,
suggesting an extra man—-one overseer-
expert to help pen up, one classer-roller
to help piecepick, one picker and penner-
up, one presser-piecepicker, and one cook.
Bacon for London.
“Pappamosca”: Pork and bacon offer
one of the biggest opportunities to Aus-
tralian farmers.
Roughly, the same factors govern,lamb
and pork in the English market. The
butchers .demand a light, lean carcass—
60ib. to 801 b. They need a uniform run
of carcasses, which makes both packing
and estimating easy. Body points in
market competitions are awarded on a
carefully calculated standard.
In a total of 115 points, five go for
color, which should be clean, fresh and
white in porkers ; points are not awarded
on this score for baconers. A perfect
fine, smooth skin earns another five
pointsso does freedom from bruises
and hair. Eight points go for hams;
which should be fin'e-boned and well-
filled, seven for th§ make-up of the
shoulder. ' Streak carries heavier, marks
(12). Thus marketing points total 15
and breeding points 27.
The other 73 points are awarded by
exact measurements judged against those
of-a-perfect carcass standard. A perfect
thick “eye muscle” of the loin registers
">8 • back fat thickness is assessed 20
points, body length in proportion to
weight another 20 points, and shortness
of leg is worth a maximum five points.
What is needed is a low-set, well-
proportioned, symmetrical animal with
as little bone as possible subject to sound
constitution and health, and with the
flesh so distributed that cheap cuts are
at the minimum and choice at a maxi-
mum.
The space between the hams, which
should be well, filled with lean meat,
should be shaped as nearly as possible
to the perfect “U”—this symmetry affects
the whole formation of the beast and
particularly those parts off which the
dearer cuts come. The shoulder should
be lean because it yields cheap meat.
The belly, while thick, must carry a
' high ratio of lean. Eye-muscle is impor-
tant because, measured half-way down
its width, it provides a criterion from
• which general leanness of meat may be
judged.
Back fat is measured in baconers Hin.
■ from the middle line ; in porkers, lin.
It gives a fair idea of general carcass
fatness. Carcass length is measured on
the inside diagonally from the meeting
of the sternum with the first rib to the
symphysis pubis bone in the pelvis. This
sets loin length standard. Leg measure-
ment is taken on a back leg from the
symphysis pubis to toe tip. The objec-
tive is to estimate borie-to-carcass-weight
ratio.
It is a pity that a few perfect carcasses
cannot be sent from England for general
display among Australian breeders. With
a little labelling, their merits could be
made- clear. Actually, no country is
more favorably placed than Australia to
breed exactly, the ; porker and baconer
which the English, market needs.
Northern Coastal Fattening.
“X.T.”: The coastal-fattening idea has
developed so far in North Queensland that
there is .now an association to promote
it, and in the Tully district much is being
done towards pasture improvement. W.
H. Vestey, looking in there recently, was
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


' ■
ill . . i
■
— ~ ~~———:tjjt?*** '
O&S&S Sis; *H.V yYY 4W * V ■ . !. . •!■■■ ■ ' V ‘ YY'Y W • ; :0 <•' . ifY YYYiY jS'' '‘ i ‘ YY'Y: >Y Y
rn To’ff
. : .#- s ::. i, . \ . . .-• •>': •• , . ■ '; .;:. ':; ;• '. ..
~ - > ' ' i f -:A
., ssrnrnmmmM. i V ‘
! |jf
i i
, . : /:/ ,
Z
m
> i '
i m
i :
>
YY-Y.Y i
-r
. ! j
:
m,
U
#
Mi : <xy|
: m
e
m
m
m
i
m
r- i
\v\.v J&-
z "
•' *«*»•
i I i
%
a
11
1
w
4
1
*
m
, 4|Jp IJ
n
O' 1
m
m
m
w%
•m
m
m
■
F i
WWm
1
is
: I
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats that is what you get in
every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without
fattening.
TO 0 H EYS
OfITIHEfIL STOUT
I!
■
"There's New life in Every Bottle
//
\¥:
' •
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents: VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


UN
V
£
4408.
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
OF
acospqg?
S>
’<y
1
1938
1835
2S
1 835
Sydney Office
in George St.
183}
1
lilll §gi|p;
m
Ml
m
■
ST
m
ml
Ml
r f ?*
Present Melbourne Office:
A View from Queen Street.
Launceston Office
1836
103 years ago The Bank of Australasia was granted a Royal Charter by His
Majesty King William the Fourth, and on the 14th Dec., 1835, the first Australian
Branch was opened in Sydney with an initial paid up capital of £zoo,ooo. From
this small beginning The Bank of Australasia has steadily progressed until to-day
its assets exceed £55,000,000. Although the Bank has shown such extraordinary
growth, the same courteous and efficient attention is always given to each
individual, everyday transaction.
The Bank of Australasia
Incorporated in England by Royal Charter in 1835.
(The liability of the members is limited.)
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived•
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
S’ ID Brvant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »>
Sheep bought >» "
Wire netting »»
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared*
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1938 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 2521 BB). Sydney,
and your account book w ll be forwarded to you.
astonished at the scale on which pasture
improvement is being applied on plains
which have been regarded hitherto as
barren.
On Brice Henry’s place the land is
turned with a tractor and a 12-furrow
disk plough, taking an hour to the two-
mile-long lap. Pamcum muticum, Guinea
8“? “ d ?‘ h « Pflures are then put in.
With the kind of growth on the Tully
h.gh-ratnfa l land, it needs cons ant
grazing to keep the pasture down. Other-
wtse, it is waist-high in no time.
A Visitor Looks at Maoriland.
“Molecule”: R. B. Stoltz, chairman of
the Dept, of Dairy Technology at Ohio
State University, who recently visited
M.L., has been telling of his experiences,
The quality of the greater percentage
of M.L. butter is very high, he found,
the scores ranging from 93 to 96 a score
93 j s tarely exceeded in the U.S.A.
His opinion is that perhaps the high
quality is kept up because the butter
must com p e t e with Danish and other
high-grade products, and that otherwise
the jyj l. dairyman would not be so care-
ful Daily delivery of the cream to the
f actor y j s rightly judged to play a big
t in the high-quality product,
consumption per head in M.L.
. , , h , 0 f the u.S. “One can
a , t a 95 . score bu , te r with the
relish as ic e-crea m ," says Stoltz.
other side of the picture, he
organised control over tuber-
cu]osis or c * ntagious abortion, and so
M.L. is far behind the U.S. in safeguard-
j ng the health of the consumer. “The
milk business is antiquated and could be
compared to ours of a quarter of a
century ago. Most of the milk is sold
loose, and very little is pasteurised. It
was difficult to obtain milk, at the best
hotels. The greatest objection was that
they didn’t serve the milk cold. Cold
milk to them means milk that is not
steaming hot.”
The U.S. has given great attention to
milk-production, treatment and distribu-
tion, and to-day the consumer in that
country is almost fully protected. Aus-
tralia lags behind.
Hints for the Farm.
“J.H.S.”: The pineapple, fruit and
plant, is very susceptible to frost, the
lightest touch being enough to damage
it. Each fruit —if the entire plant
cannot be protected—should be covered.
Nothing serves better than a paper-bag,
tied low down to prevent it being blown
off. If no bags are available, any strong
paper will do to wrap the fruit.
“Zedo”: In winter months, when pigs
are disinclined to wallow, give them an
occasional mist spray of crude fuel oil
to keep down lice. Do the job late in
the day so that the oil will not produce
sunburn. Three oilings spread over a
month should do the trick.
“Booraby”: A small tree-fork makes
a handy gate-fastener. Leave 3in. of
butt for handle, and bolt the prongs
loosely to the post so that they will
swing easily over the gate-head. Two
stout, wide forks, set in the ground 6ft.
or Bft. apart, boarded between and at
the ends, make a neat and lasting feed
trough for horses. One stout fork is a
quick-made stand for a grindstone. The
axle is held in slots on top of the prongs,
ajid the stone turns between them. Two
upright forks with a cross-piece make
a Spanish windlass. One fork and a
lever become a lifting-jack, or a hoisting-
gallows for sheep. A light fork on the
poddy’s neck prevents it getting through
fences, and a similar fork makes the best
wire-strainer.
“J. Want”; The biggest individual
transaction in sugar land in the district
has just been concluded on the Tully
(N.Q.), where 233 acres have been sold—
though the area includes 67 acres of
grassland for £24,250. The seller is
Brice Henry, son of one of Jimmy
Tyson’s nieces, who originally held 1280
acres which he has gradually subdivided.
The buyers are a syndicate of Cypriotes.
“Pani”: Gold Nugget maize is fast
becoming a rival in N. S. Wales to the
popular and high-yielding Fitzroy; it
beat Fitzroy by five bushels in a Govern-
ment test recently held at North Orara
(N.S.W.). It is a fine amber-yellow grain,
very even and sampling well, is strongly
husked (a protection against weevil) and
more than usually resistant to leaf blight.
“Bingen”: Large-scale experiments
have been made in the German Rhine
valley recently to decide the effects of
fertilisation on wine quality. It was
found that liming combined with a well-
balanced fertiliser both increased the
yield and the sugar and acid contents
of the wines, sulphate of potash aotfjg
most towards improving quality. lne
results applied not only to poor yielding
vineyards and low-quality vintages, but
to the best that the Rhine can grow. Is
any work along these lines being done in
Australia?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from. Service Department.)
What is the cause and cure of blood scours
in calves? —59655.
Blood scours and white scours are caused
through germs which attack the intestinal tract.
Both conditions often merge one into the other.
White scour usually affects calves up to 10 days
old, while blood scours generally attack calves
from 14 days old. It is important that diarrhoea
due to organisms is of an infectious nature,
and that infection will remain in calf-yards, in
the pens, etc., for long periods. The microbes
which cause scours are present in the excreta,
and other calves running in the same pens as
infected ones are liable to pick up the germs,
often months after the original case has been
removed. Infection may take place through the
open navel before healing or, later, through
the mouth. Scours due to infection develop-
ing after the first three days, particularly when
the calf is bucket-fed, are associated with the
method of feeding. Unless the calf is valuable,
it is often not worth while to save it; but such
animals are a danger to healthy stock unless
isolated. Dose with 2oz. of castor oil, starve
for 48 hours, then allow the calf to suck its
mother. If this is not desirable, small quanti-
ties of warm whole milk might be given every
couple of hours. All animals should be re-
moved from infected surroundings as soon as
blood scours become apparent.
* * * *
When, as Sydney R.A.S. reckons it, does
(1) a filly become a mare , (2) a colt a horse, (3)
a heifer a cow, (4) a steer a bullock ? —59444.
(1) and (3) Three years or at first drop. (2)
and (4) Three years.
*’* * *
(1) Is there any gully country on the Sydney
side of Leura (Blue Mountains ) suitable for
turkey and guinea-fowl farms? (2) Where can
one pick up pure-bred stock for the purpose ?
— 59480.
(1) In gullies not too shaded it would be
possible to rear turkeys and guinea fowls in the
Leura district. However, it would not be satis-
factory to undertake turkey-raising in that
locality, as the birds would have to be hand-
fed and very little profit could be expected.
(2) The following are breeders of bronze tur-
keys: Hawkesbury College, Richmond, N.S.W.;
Mrs. G. P. Cain, Adelong, N.S.W.; Mrs. J. H.
MacVean, Ladysmith, via Wagga, N.S.W. Bona-
venture Poultry Farm, Mount Druitt, N.S.W.,
breeds guinea fowls.
* * * *
(1) Avenues through which I may be able
to get in touch with graziers needing experts
for coming shearing season ? (2) Is there an
experts’ association, and, if so, qualifications for
membership and address of secretary? —59699.
(1) Best chance is with contractors. Although
their regular staffs receive preference, the
bigger firms engage additional men each season.
List of registered contractors is published in
the “Graziers’ Annual.” Apply to any graziers
Who conduct their own shearings. Application
should state clearly experting experience, shear-
ing-shed experience, if ‘ any, whether proficient
in all makes of machinery and handpieces,
ability to drive oil and steam engines. Addi-
tional qualifications are ability to run a shed
as boss of the board and to shear. Latter is
not essential, but valuable. (2) Yes. Mem-
bership is open to any man practising or
qualified to practise. Subscription, 10s. 6d. per
annum. Secretary, D. H. Jackson, 77 Mitchell-
street, Enfield, N.S.W.


;
Each year strain on your vital organs
increases. More and more you risk Illness
and Breakdown through Kidney, Bladder,
Acid, Blood-Pressure, Rheumatic and
Urinary 1115...
The cause of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid' Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills can follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS— as
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON S PILLS .
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vital Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
ĸ
HARRISON’S PIUS Restore all the
VITAL ORGANS: 2±SS
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes of ageing ills
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London, whose signa-
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison’s Pills.
Harrison’s Pills combine the most valu-
able known, agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful Urination, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints, Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis. Sciatica, Lumbago, etc. Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney, Bladder and
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons, Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head. Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OP VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors—Amalgamated Lab-
oratories, Sydney.
HARRISONS PILLS
Young Men—Middle Aged Men
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
US
' >*^fe , k'^
(Tr°
,d % o^ao^
f O w ' f}d er f %,C *
A opP B ,c3 V*
AV^V
t<iP' n 9
c°<*
Age
itself
means little
WHEN
Kidney»
Arid »
'BBlWnnl associated
Troubles
are Conquered
m
mmarn
fe cc
•• <?<"'>. jL
m
WM
END
that
ageing
Painful
BACK-
ACHE
with
HARRISON'S PILLS
This Safe, Sure Way
ml
Diaqram shouiinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crystals
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp—weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
: m
;
wmm;
v 3 1f hM
mmm m
\m
4
r
: zm
:>
■ss


The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
ķ
ĸ
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . . .
■
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
Sizes, Jin, Sin., gin., Black Handle 12/6
Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and fc-arn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written]
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
• C.s. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apa»t for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The rigid of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentleman, Sydney, journalist, publishing,
clerical and organising exp., sober and reliable,
wants position.—973B.
To buy Money in Bees in Australia, by Ray-
ment, and Australian Bee-lore and Bee Culture,
by Gale, in good condition and cheap.—973s.
To buy copies of the “Lone Hand” from
May, 1907, to December, 1913. —9739.
To buy books by Bill Nye.—972B.
Words of recitation beginning:—
Now, Frederick Crehaw was the broth of a boy.
He stood six feet eight
And his arms was as round as another man’s thigh.
—9713.
Information Sought.
What were the batting figures of Trumper
{Australia) and Faulkner ( S. Africa) in the Test
matches in Australia in 1911-12? —9324.
First Test, Trumper 27, Faulkner 62 and
43; second Test, Trumper 34 and 159, Faulk-
ner 204 and 8; third Test, Trumper 214 n.o.
and 28, Faulkner 56 and 115; fourth Test,
Trumper 7 and 87, Faulkner 20 and 80; fifth
Test, Trumper 31 and 74 n. 0., Faulkner 52
and 90.
* * * =F
What cricketer holds the record for making
the most scores of a hundred or more in suc-
cession in first-class cricket ? —9552.
C. B. Fry, who made six three-figure scores
in succession in 1901, five for Sussex —
106 v. Hants, 209 v. Yorkshire, 149 v Middle-
sex, 105 v. Surrey, 140 v. Kent—and 105 for
the Rest of England v. Yorkshire.
* * * *
What is the qualification for a player to take
part in Test cricket? —9415.
A cricketer is entitled to play for any coun-
try in which he is residing or has been resid-
ing during the four immediately preceding years,
provided he has not played for the country of
his birth during that period. Any player who
has once played in a Test match for any
country shall not afterwards be eligible to play
in a Test match against that country without
the consent of its Board of Control.
* * * *
(1) Is Ray Actis, the American light-heavy-
weight boxer who was knocked out in 55 seconds
by Ron Richards at the Sydney Sports Arena
recently, rated very highly in the United States?
(2) When and where was he born ? (3) When
did he begin boxing ? (4) Names of some of
the men he has beaten ? —9722.
(1) In the majority of American ring ratings
for 1937—published last January —Actis is rated
as the world’s fifth light-heavyweight, being
preceded by John Henry Lewis, champion
of the world, A 1 Gainer, Tiger Jack Fox and
Englishman Jock McAvoy. (2) San Francisco,
August 26, 1911. (3) In 1932. (4) Swede
Berglund, Johnny Miler, Frank Rowsey, Carmen
Barth, George Nichols and Jack Gibbons —
a son of the once-great middleweight Mike
Gibbons.
* * * *
How has the heavyweight championship of
Great Britain changed hands since 1935 ?
Was not Len Harvey holder of this title before
he defeated Jock McAvoy in London last
month ? —9598.
Len Harvey was heavyweight champion of
Great Britain in 1935, but Jack Peterson de-
feated him for that title on points in 15 rounds
at London on January 26, 1936. Ben Foord
then beat Peterson for the championship on a
technical knockout in three rounds at Leicester
on August 17, 1936, and Tommy Farr out-
pointed Foord in 15 rounds at London on
March 15, 1937. Farr is still heavyweight
champion of Great Britain, and it was the
British light-heavyweight championship that
Harvey won from McAvoy on April 7 last.
* * * *
What weight did Carbine carry in the various
Melbourne Cups for which he competed, and is
his victory in 1890 with 10 st. s lb. a record?
—9515.
Carbine was awarded Bst. as a three-year-old,
but did not start. As a four-year-old he was
awarded lOst. and ran second. In his fifth year
he carried lOst. 51b. and won easily. As a six-
year-old the handicapper gave him lOst. ,121 b.,
but his owner declared that he was weighted
too heavily and he did not run. When Carbine
scored in 1890 with lOst. 51b. it was the biggest
weight ever carried to victory lh the history of
the race. Archer won with lOst. 21b. in 1862
and Poitrel had lOst. when he won in 1920.
In 1920 Eurythmic carried lOst. 51b., but broke
down and did not complete the course. Phar
Lap finished eighth in 1931 with lOst. 101 b.,
while Peter Pan had lOst. 61b. in 1935 and ran
fifteenth.
* * * *
For what purposes is the Commonwealth
loan of £7,000,000, recently underwritten in
London, required? On what terms was the
loan floated? —9706.
The loan is for the following purposes: (a)
£2 000,000 for defence in accordance with the
authority recently granted by Parliament in
Act No. 45 of 1937 ; (b) £5,000,000 for convert-
ing a portion of the Commonwealth short-term
debt in London represented by Australian Trea-
sury bills held by the Commonwealth Bank.
The terms of the loan are: Nominal interest
rate, 3£ p.c. per annum; price of issue, £99
p.c.; currency, 18 years, with the option of re-
demption at the end of 14 years
**> * *
Value of imports from Czechoslovakia to
Australia and Australian exports to Czecho-
slovakia for each of the last 10 years? —9733.
1927-28, imports £586,328, exports £22,744;
1928- imports £679,965, exports £21,737;
1929- imports £583,325, exports £21,320;
1930- imports £271,038, exports £22,751;
1931- imports £197,402, exports £21,172;
1932- imports £260,944, exports £38,635;
1933- imports £260,249, exports £94,489;
1934- imports £353,796, exports £103,988;
1935- imports £394,521, exports £614,419;
1936- imports £467,107, exports £1,127,018.
* * * *
Why are not the members of the Australian
Siege Brigade who sailed from Australia on
active service overseas in July, 1915, entitled to
the 1914-15 Star ? —9601.
Regulations governing the award of the 1914-
15 Star prescribe that the recipient shall have
served on the establishment of a unit in a
theatre of war on or before December 31,
1915; and, unless a member of the Siege
Artillery Brigade has complied with this con-
dition, he is not eligible to receive this medal.
The Siege Artillery Brigade embarked from Aus-
tralia on 17/7/’l5, and did not enter a theatre
of war (France) until 27/2/’l6.
* * * *
(1) What does a Commonwealth passport
cost, and for what period is it valid? (2) Must
an Australian subject possess a passport before
he can leave for New Guinea ? —9730.
(1) The fee for a Commonwealth passport is
£l, and it is valid for five years. It may be
renewed for a further five years, but it cannot
be extended beyond 10 years from the original
date of issue. A fee of 2s. is charged for
each year of renewal desired. (2) Travellers
to the Mandated Territory of New Guinea must
have passports specially endorsed for travel to
the Territory or, in lieu, permits to enter the
Territory.
* # * *
Where can 1 obtain a list of Australian in-
ventors ? —9646.
Each year the Patents Office, Commonwealth
Bank Building, 3 Martin-place, Sydney, publishes
a list entitled “Proceedings Under the Patents,
Trade-marks, Designs and Copyright Acts.”
The present price is 55., and the publication
contains approximately 3000 names.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to patent an idea, giving
only verbal explanation ? (2) What is the mean-
ing of the term “patent applied for” ? (3) Is
the protection thus obtained applicable through-
out the world? (4) To whom should one first
apply to take out a patent? —96Bl.
(1) No; full details of the'invention must be
given in a specification and drawings prepared
in the prescribed manner. (2) That a patent has
been applied for but not actually granted.
(3) No, but the fact that an application for an
Australian patent for an invention has been
lodged gives the applicant a prior right, against
other persons, to a patent for the same inven-
tion in another country, if that right is exer-
cised within twelve months. (4) The Commis-
sioner of Patents, Canberra, but it is advis-
able to do so through a patent attorney; see
advertisers in “Wild Cat” column.
* * * *
(1) What advantage is to be gained by con-
verting existing land leaseholds or c.p. in N.S.W.
to lease in perpetuity ? (2) Are there any re-
strictions in regard to standing timber under
this title ? (3) Does the title come up for re-
appraisement after improving, and, if so, can
cupital value be increased by virtue of improve-
ments ? —9473.
(1) Conversion of a lease with a term to a
lease in perpetuity gives a better leasehold
tenure, and conversion of a conditional
purchase to a homestead farm (which is a per-
petual lease) reduces the amount payable an-
nually from an instalment of 5 p.c. of the
capital value to an annual rent of 2\ p.c. of the
capital value. (2) Timber conditions are not
altered. (3) No.
* * * *
I have been married twice. / have children
belonging to both families living. I have made
a will, the children (all married) by my first
wife getting only small recognition. After my
death, if they were dissatisfied, could they
legally make any further claim on my estate ?
9686.
The Testator’s Family Maintenance Act
(N.S.W.) provides that if a person disposes
of his property by will in such a manner that
the children of such person, or any or all
of them, are left without “adequate” provision
for their proper maintenance the Court of
Equity may on application to it order that pro-
vision be made for them out of the estate of
the testator. Application should be made
within 12 months of the grant of probate.
* * * *
Can a N.S.W. hotelkeeper legally refuse to
serve a sober man a drink during the usual
legal hours? I have been informed that he
can. —9682.
The Act contains a list of the persons to
whom a publican can refuse to supply liquor,
such as young people under the age of 18 years,
aborigines, drunken or disorderly persons, etc.,
but he cannot refuse to serve any person law-
fully entitled to be served with liquor.
* * * *
(1) / propose driving a car generator from a
small stationary engine for battery-charging
purposes, etc. Any special precautions to be
taken? (2) Any books on the subject ?—' 9654.
(1) Yes, if not already known, ascertain the
correct speed and output of generator from
agents, and do not exceed either. In order to
charge an accumulator the generator voltage
must be 25 p.c. higher than the accumulator
voltage, so that a 74v.-Bv. generator will be
required to charge a 6v. accumulator. An am-
meter should be connected in the circuit to in-
dicate the charging current. (2) Dynamo Man-
agement and Electric Accumulators (Amateur
Mechanic and Work Handbooks), price 2s. 6d.
each, from leading booksellers.
* * * *
How to dye and polish a leather overcoat ?
—9687.
If the coat is of new leather and this is a
first treatment, it will be better to send it to a
commercial dyer and finisher. The amateur
can scarcely expect to get a uniform result with
such a large piece of work. If the coat is
merely worn, clean it thoroughly with a damp
cloth first and let it dry. Go over the light
parts with a cloth dipped in a dye made from
a little Vandyke brown dissolved in boiling
water; procure color from a hardware or paint
store. Allow to dry, and if the color is not
dark enough add more brown to the mixture,
which must be heated to make a good solution.
Then polish with a good white shoe cream and
finish with a soft woollen cloth. If the worn
parts are not very light in color, a good dark
brown shoe cream or cleaner will do all the
renovation, treated as applied to shoes.
* * * *
In making shaped concrete pots and tubs I
have difficulty, no matter how dry my mixture
is, in making it stick in curved and overhang-
ing places. I have been told the addition of
lime to the mixture increases its adhesiveness,
and I would like to know if this is so, the lime
used and in what proportion. —9691.
You might add hydrated lime to the mixture
to the extent of 7 p.c. of the weight of cement
used. A greater proportion than this will affect
the strength of the concrete. You should watch
very carefully to see that the sand or aggregate
is thoroughly clean, and the sand graded from
coarse to very fine.
* * * *
A few details concerning John Gunther,
author of “Inside Europe”? —9701.
Born Chicago 1901; educated Chicago Uni-
versity. In 1922 joined Chicago “Daily News”;
became assistant London correspondent two
years later. From 1926 to 1930 correspondent
in Paris, Berlin, Rome, Scandinavia, Near East,
Geneva, Spain and Moscow, and correspondent
from 1930 to 1935 in Vienna and the Balkans.
He later became chief correspondent in London,
then resigned to devote himself to writing.
Publications other than Inside Europe include
four novels, Tlte Red Pavilion (1926), Peter
Lancelot (1927), The Golden Fleece (1929) and
The Brieht Nemesis (1932).
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning Ralph
Stock, author of “A Recipe for Rubber” and
other novels, who spent some years in Aus-
tralia ? —9696.
Who’s Who, 1938 has the following to say
about him: “Son of Elliot Stock, publisher,
and Fanny Beilin. Educated: Nowhere except
in the world at large. Cowboy, teamster on
railway construction, lumberman, miner, waiter,
etc., in Canada and United States; deck-hand,
steward and cattleman on various ships; plan-
tation overseer in the South Pacific Islands;
journalism, novels, stories, boundary-riding and
pineapple-planting in Australia; shipwrecked in
eight-ton boat on voyage to South Seas, 1914;
commision in Machine-gun Corps during war;
sailed in 47ft. boat from Devonshire across
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans to Tonga; further
cruising and writing; short stories in leading
American and English magazines.”
What was the occasion and in what context
did the convict Barrington use the phrase about
leaving his country for his country’s good?—
9731.
The phrase occurred in a prologue for the
opening of the Playhouse, Sydney, on January
16, 1796, when Dr. Young’s tragedy, “The
Revenge,” was played by convicts. The stanza
in which the phrase appears is, as follows:
True patriots we; for be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good,
No private views disgraced our generous zeal,
What urged our travels was our country’s weal.
* * * *
Words of verse giving the rules of the road
at sea? —9710. . ,
There are different versions. Here is the most
generally-accepted one:
Two steamships meeting.
When both side-lights you see ahead,
Starb’d your helm, and show your RED.
Two steamships passing.
GREEN to GREEN, or RED to RED,
Perfect safety—Go ahead.
Two steamships crossing.
If to your starboard REG appear,
It is your duty to keep clear;
To act as judgment says is proper;
To Port —or Starboard —Back, or Stop her.
But when upon your port is seen
A Steamer’s starboard light of GREEN,
There’s not so much for you to do,
For GREEN to Port keeps clear of you.
Both in safety and in doubt,
Always keep a good look-out;
In danger, with no room to turn,
Ease her —stop her—go astern.
* * * *
Number of keyboards, stops and pipes in
the grand organ at the Sydney Town Ha//.
Also, range in measurements of pipes! rvnat
did it cost? —9694. , ,
It possesses six keyboards, 126 stops and
8756 pipes. The pipes vary in length from a
fraction of an inch to 64ft., and m . circum-
ference from a quarter of an inch to 4 T ft. The
instrument cost £17,000.
Brief Answers.
W G E.: (1) A three-blade bronze propeller
having a blade width of sin. or 6in. (2)
Diameter 15in., pitch 13in. Cost about 50s.
.F.G.L.: (1) The D.K.W., of German
manufacture (Hammond Motors, Ltd., 1 Niths-
dale-street, Sydney). The B.S.A. (Stan Hill
Motors Ltd., 80 William-street, Sydney) has a
four-stroke engine with front-wheel drive. (2)
Do not know of any....F.E.: From the
account given in your letter, quite impossible
to give any opinion as to the exact nature of
your trouble. Best plan is to consult a
specialist in these disorders... .T.M. : There
arc so many possible causes for the signs and
symptoms you enumerate that any attempt at
diagnosis without actually seeing the patient is
mere speculation... .K.T.R.: Any of the prepa-
rations you name are suitable for the purpose
intended, but the milk should be taken sepa-
rately CH.: No use suggesting any tonic
“for a growing girl going to work” without
knowing what’s wrong with the girl, and you
are not clear on that point. Anyway, prepara-
tions of iron don’t ruin the teeth, especially if
the teeth are brushed after taking medicine....
R F • Can’t give details of treatment. Trouble
has no relation to digestive or intestinal upsets
MRS- (1) A lady’s letters are addressed
in 'the care of her hostess, as it is assumed that
she is the guest of that lady for the duration
of her visit (2) All are the same; some slight
differences are observed as to whether the guest
is the particular friend of either host or hostess,
but as the guest is not the householder or
the owner of that address it is impolite to
omit the ‘‘Care of” direction. Children are
usually assumed to be under the protection of
the hostess. (3) The rules are based on common
politeness and clear directions for the postal
authorities 5 their observance assists Quick and
correct delivery of mail matter J.M.: It is
almost impossible to restore wearing apparel
to its original crispness. Fibres and fabrics,
particularly in the lower grades, are subjected
to chemical treatments beyond the amateurs
skill • really good materials are not much
affected by cleaning. Cottons and linens re-
spond to starching or dipping in gum water,
with ironing to follow; woollens are best left
untouched by any restoring tricks.. . .A.J.R.:
The first N.S.W. Travelling Art Scholarship
for landscape painting will be competed for in
April, 1939. It is tenable for one year and
carries an allowance of £250. Applications close
on December 31, 1938. The work of com-
petitors should be sent in on Monday, April
17 1939, and will remain on view at the
National Art Gallery until April 30. Further
particulars regarding the competition may be
obtained from F. Hutchins, Department or
Education, Bridge-street, Sydney F.A.W.:
According to the last official census there are
707 species of birds known in Australia....
J M G.: (1) Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of
salt mixed with three teaspoons of brown
sugar in a cup of water. Remove the heads
from two quarts of prawns and place in this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with a
rubber ring. (2) No. (3) Use No. 2 gut line,
a No. 12 fine long-shank hook, burley with
pollard, and bait with a small piece of prawn
or worm. Some use a small quill to buoy
the hook about 6in. beneath the surface....
A.A.: Harness-Cask Creek, described as a
tributary to the Clarence River (N.S.W.), cannot
be located from records in Sydney. The
District Surveyor, Lands Dept., Grafton, may
be able to supply you with the desired infor-
mation... .H.W.C.: (1) Very little work has
been done in Vic. on mushroom culture. (2)
Mushroom Growing, by R. Mas, is obtainable
from leading booksellers... .F.D.: The most
efficient treatment for bot flies in horses is the
administration of carbon bisulphide in the form
of a ball. This is given in a 20-c.c. capsule
after 36 hours’ starvation. The dose may be
repeated on the second day and a mild saline
purgative administered R.J.: Two experi-
enced men possessing a motor-boat and suitable
lawful nets should be able to make a comfort-
able living fishing on the north coast of N. S.
Wales. For further information write to the
Chief Secretary’s Department, Sydney....
R.M.C.: (1) He buys the copyright m the
article. The effect of this is to confer on the
holder the sole right to produce or reproduce
it in any material form. (2) No, unless in selling
it to the first purchaser he has reserved the
right to re-sell its publication in another State.
(3) It might do so, as publishers prefer to buy
the exclusive rights R.J.: (1) Would depend
on circumstances. For example, if the death
was due to some heritable weakness in the
family the non-disclosure of which might have
affected the acceptance of the risk. (2) Yes,
it is an important factor C.S.R.: (1) Yes.
.(2) Sufficient for the child’s “adequate main-
tenance.” (3) No. (4) If the provision made
in the will is insufficient to maintain her ade-
quately, application could be made to the Court
to have it made adequate L.W.M.: It ;is
a dividing fence, and whether the properties
have been built upon or not does not attect
the question. He is liable for his half-share ot
the cost of the fence... .S.J.S.: (1) The widow
could dispose of the “care of the sword as
she saw fit. Apparently she desired it to
remain with her three sons. D is now the only
survivor of these and would therefore be
entitled to its sole care. (2) The widow is
entitled to dispose of the bible as she sees fit.
(3) All the law could do, in the event or liti-
gation, would be to interpret what it believed
to be the intention of the original holder....
0.E.: Before proceeding you would have to
show that you had, by advertisement m the
leading newspapers in the several States and
by such other inquiries as may suggest them-
selves, made every effort in your power l °
locate him for the purpose of serving P r °ccss.
If satisfied, the Court could then dispense
with personal service R.G.8.: Aust: ™
Amateur Cine Society, Box 1463JJ, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .W.H.: Carbine was bred at the
Sylvia Park stud, Auckland (M.L.). • •-M.G. .
At the 1910 census the foreign-born white popu-
lation of the United States included 2,501,5 lb
Germans.


ESTABLISHED
1834
THF
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E.i
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
I
k
FREE!
Guidance to the big
money career. Send
now for our amaz-
ing FREE BOOK, “EARNING
MONEY WITH YOUR PEN.” MSS.
CRITICISED FREE. Write Desk B,
BRUSH SCHOOL of AUTHORSHIP
O’BRIEN HOUSJk YOUNG ST., SYDNEY.
AT 83 SHE DEFIES
RHEUMATISM
After Suffering Acute Pain
for Years.
Rheumatism first attacked this old lady in
1931, and gradually spread from her arms to
all parts of her body. She was almost helpless.
Then she started to take Kruschen Salts, and
now she sends the following letter in her own
handwriting:
“1 have suffered from rheumatism since
1931. At first, I felt acute pain in both arms.
1 could not sleep for pain. It grew worse,
and gradually crept down to the tips of my
fingers. Next it reached my knees and ankles,
which made me quite helpless for a long
period. A friend recommended me to take
Kruschen Salts. I find they do me more good
than any other medicine, liniment, ointment,
etc. This is my own writing, though I am in
my 84th year.”—(Mrs.) H.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of needle-pointed uric acid
crystals in the muscles and joints. Kruschen
Salts stimulate your liver and kidneys to
healthy, regular action, and assist them to get
rid of the excess uric acid which is the cause
of all your suffering.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTiI AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. .. £.1.250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE.
Head in Green Bronze.
(Colonial Edition.)
“Lovers of the short story will find in
this collection some of the most enchant-
ing examples that are likely to come their
way.” —“Evening News.”
OSBERT SITWELL.
Those Were the Days
(Overseas Library.)
“The year will see few novels of more
importance or with more vitality... .This
fine piece of work is grand fun.”
—“Time and ' Tide.”
R. HERNEKIN BAPTIST.
A Cargo of Parrots.
(Overseas Library.)
This is a drama of ship life, at
once appealing, pitiful and terrible.
It is the record of a great contest be-
tween two types of man violently
opposed to each other. One is an
American retired sea captain, and the
other an East African native who risks
all he had in a long sea voyage with
white men.
BARONESS BUXHOEVEDEN.
Before the Storm.
With an Introduction by Sir John
Squire 15s.
“The kindly qualities of the Russian
people, the antique amenities of their
country life, are delightfully described....
The charm of the old social order is felt
on every page.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Swish”: In attempting to confute that
story of the Eton flogging, “Pardon Me”
(B. 19/5/’3B) betrays a ludicrous ignor-
ance of the facts. Dr. Keate, the flogging
head of Eton, flourished over a hundred
years ago. In those days there was no
Sandhurst or Woolwich. It was the regu-
lar thing for lads to go straight from
school into the service. One of my great-
grandfathers, Henry Wynyard, in later
days rector of West Rowton in York-
shire, went from school to the First
Footguards at 16, and served with them
under Moore at Corunna only a little
later. The Eton “book” is an institution
too well authenticated to admit of con-
tradiction. As to Keate being called to
account for flogging his repentant pupil
when the latter visited him for the pur-
pose in Switzerland, the suggestion is so
fatuous as to require no answer.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: That story of the Gyppo
potentate who sank a spot during
Ramadan (B. 19/5/’3B), excusing him-
self by saying that, though the Prophet
forbade the drinking of milk and water
during the fast, he had said nothing about
what the Yanks call “hard liquid,” recalls
another happening at the same place and
time. The Light Horse regiments strung
along the western border after the
evacuation had special instructions to
make friends of the local notables, many
of whom, like Fahmy Pasha, were men
ol wealth and importance, and courtesy
calls like that described by “Ibn el Issar”
were a regular thing. Duty prevented
my attending a State dinner given by
one of these gentry, though all my mates
went. Later in the day a delegation
arrived from the sheikh with a huge
basket of fruit and a flowery message
of sympathy. I thought of refusing the
gift in that land of cholera, plague,
enteric and typhus, but finally accepted,
though I had to hand the chief messenger
50 piastres dusturi. Years after, reading
Kipling’s story in his memoirs of what
happened to him when he refused a
basket of fruit from a rajah because it
had a 500-rupee note in it, I was glad
I had come across. When Kipling’s
native servant heard of the refusal, he
said, “Until we get back to Lahore you
eat and drink nothing save from my
hand.”
* * * *
“El V.”: Never in its chequered his-
tory has the Dominions Office in London
held so much blue blood as since the
late Cabinet reshuffle. Lord Stanley, the
new Minister, is heir to the ancient
earldom of Derby, which was earned
by an ancestor when he placed the Crown
on the head of Henry VII., after Bosworth
Field. Among his direct predecessors
were a Chancellor to Henry VI. and a
Victorian Prime Minister, and there is an
earnest school of British adherents to the
tradition that a former earl wrote
Shakspeare’s works. Meanwhile, the
Duke of Devonshire, who was here a
year ago before he succeeded to the title
he was then Lord Hartington—is to
keep the Parliamentary Under-Secretary-
ship. His family’s oldest title goes back
only to the early seventeenth century, but
on his mother’s side he comes from the
Landsdownes, whose senior barony dates
from 1120.
* * * *
George Rutherford, eldest brother of
the late Lord Rutherford, has died at
Auckland, aged 71. Fourth of a family
of 12, George stuck to the flaxmilling
business he had learned from his father,
and in which young Ernest Rutherford
also took a hand till Science beckoned
him.
* * * *
Concerning the diamond market,
London “Mining Journal” states that
sales in 1937 aggregated about £9,000,000,
compared with £8,000,000 in 1936,
£6,250,000 in 1935 and £11,000,000 a
year in pre-war days, before heavy
taxation and necessity for economy
had affected the moneyed classes. These
days prices for larger sizes of cut gems
immediately reflect any speculative ac-
tivity. Smaller stones of cheaper qualities,
used in inexpensive jewellery, find a
much wider market than formerly, and
do not exhibit the same sudden fluctua-
tions in value.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: It must be delightfully easy
to write poetry to-day—supposing you
have anything at all to say. No selecting
and matching of words or metres or
rhymes ; “anything goes.” For instance:
He saw himself
Balanced as Blondin, more headstrong
Than Baby Hercules, rare as a one-cent British
Guiana.
It is from a quite serious “poem” by
C. Day Lewis in the London “Mercury”
for March.
* A t
“Lansdowne”: McCormick, says a
cable, stepped out 30 paces for his run
to the creases in the Oxford match. What
an amazing distance a bowler like this
must cover in a single over, starting from
and returning to his base, especially as
his impetus carries him yards down the
pitch and no-balls are a frequency! At
a conservative estimate, McCormick
would travel over a mile in four six-ball
overs, a test of any speed merchant’s
physique. Yet in the old days there
were bowlers, like Richardson, of Surrey,
who could pound down their expresses
for an hour or two at a sftetch. Cer-
tainly overs were shorter then; the
gradual lengthening of them up to the
Australian and M.L. eight-ball has been
an extra handicap for the fast bowler.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.V.N.: Nicely done, but hackneyed....
J.J.G.: The parson will still have to “perse-
vere”. .. .A.S.M. and E.V.8.: Close G.R.:
Not much kick in “Mullumbimby” P.A.A.:
“Yellow Men” the nearest H.W.: Seventeen
puns!... .N.C.: An extremely mad hat
R.H.C.: “Lights” out P.K.: Competent
enough, but not new, strong, or even pretty.
.... A.R.: Sounds attractive:
And to hear the shearer cursing
Because the wool is damp
Yhile the magpie continues versing
As he flits about the camp.
. ...G.8.: Tram crash spoilt it E.R.1.:
Liked them, but Icarus and Canute are strange
bedfellows... .S.S.S.: If you could remove the
“perchances,” perchance E.M.8.: Pleasant
water, but shallow... .C.N.S.: “Vainly” is cor-
rect.... Ora B.: She fell short M.L.: No
bone for dog called 810 g... .C.J.R.: Both bel-
lerdrammer R.8.C.: “Fragrant Fragment”
somewhat fragile... .F.W.: Not that 0ne....
W.S.: You don’t seem to strike our needs
H.S.: Longwinded, and the point is vague....
F R F.: Well enough done, but the idea doesn’t
click M.G.M.: Cooling off in the w.p.b
H.L.S.: “The fruits of your labor” aren’t
even windfalls G.H.T.: Slush L.Y.: Try
it on a children’s page R. 8.5.: We’d have
to see the yarn first... .P.F.T.: That triangle
has had its points worn down R.D.S.:
Afraid n0t....A.D.T.: “Could you do any-
thing with these?” Plenty, but we’ll return
them... .M.R.8.: No corner for gin-sipping
Geraldine... .8.F.J.: Pretty stuff without meat.
'-H.T^C.: Very 1.L.D.: Dreary imposssi-
bmties... .G.L.D.: There are much better ways
of handling that material L.T.N.: Have
seen them both before... .G.T.N.: You’ve cut
the best part of it R.H.F.: Even with the
long explanatory letter we still dunno what
it’s all about... .L.F.R.: That’s the best you’ve
done to date P.R.V.: No setting for that
“literary gem” H.T.W.: Try us with some-
thing lighter... .P.C.D.: Old homestead mort-
gaged, goil and aviator. Out! F.R.C.: Not
advisable R.N.F.: “I don’t kiow who wrote
this.” Well, we won’t blame you for it
G.J.: Nothing new in that batch H.L.S.:
Try an American magazine L.T.C.:
Fair, but the finish spoils it R.8.D.:
“Sailing, Sailing”—sailing home 8.R.N.:
Clumsy treatment of a good idea R.T.:
Not enough laughs there.. . .F.D.R.: Your
typewriter needs a new ribbon.. . .G.T.G.:
Sloppy sentimentalism R.D.A.: Pay more
attention to characters... .T.R.D.: Find some
way of introducing your yarns or tell them
in the third person D.R.S.: No, nor any-
thing like it 1.L.C.: It’s only an echo
P.S.T.: So once again the new typist thaws
her boss’s frozen heart J.N.J.: Do what-
ever you like with them, but please don’t send
’em our way... .P.T.N.: Yes, it’s quite pass-
able; an American mag. published it a few
months ago G.T., 8.N.F., F.L.P. and
R.S.C.: Try them elsewhere J.T.P.: You’re
well off our beat A.F.S.: Keep trying, but
write about people you understand G.D.:
Nothing there that hasn’t been done a dozen
times before A.M.: No pennies for that
nasty old beer-swizzler F.C.H.: It ends with
everything in the air S.H.W.: Why not take
a less-jaundiced view of life? J.R.C.: And
you, too, could write of happier things 8.E.:
Hopeless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
• CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.L.: You’re the third this month with
that Dad-in-the-pigsty gag G.D.: Draw-
ing shows faint promise; jokes need to be con-
siderably brighter W.A.J.: The only thing
you managed to get straight was the part in
the old cove’s hair.... W.R.G.: Everything
wrong from the spelling of Czechoslovakia on
the signpost to the uniform of the frontier
guardsman W.N.: Slight improvement in
drawing, but gags are gettirig duller 8.5. C.:
Nicely drawn, but there’s nowhere in our pages
for fairies... .A. 8.: Pug was counted out
C. : Could find no humor in the tadpoles
D. : It’s time that ancient wheeze was put
under lock and key S.H.: Didn’t fancy the
two dwarfs tottering round on stilts F.G.:
And the antics of bushfire brigade didn’t even
raise a smile A.J.8.: This week’s worst.
N.C.: Gags are better suited to American
comic papers F.T.S.: Stick to your studies
for a year or so L.W.S.: That cow has been
disturbing spooning couples as long as we
can remember W.T.: Office boundary-rider
rounded up your collection of prehistoric
monsters and ran them off the premises
P.M.D.: Sending your Pitt-street farmers back
for repairs H.0’8.: Crayon sketches too
smudgy—make your work clean-cut A.D.:
The basket is still receiving them P.P.:
Drawings have merit as decorations, but no
humorous value C.K.: A temperance journal
might snap up that attack against the Demon
Drink J.M.: Fireworks cartoon is a damp
squib W.A.8.: Lauder said it first
C.F.: “Get-your-hair-cut” drawing badly needs
trimming itself C.H.: You’re a feeble
punster M.D.: Creeping nearer to print
level, but you’ll need to turn in brighter jokes.
A.S.: About as humorous as a family crest
or a design for a fowlhouse T.T.: Blots,
smudges, half-erased mistakes and a wild and
woolly style.


SMALL
DEPOSITORS
FINANCE 810
UNDERTAKINGS
3E
n
The savings of the people constitute the
foundation of our financial system.
Thousands of small deposits administered
by the Bank of New South Wales are used
to finance industry and trade, thus creating
employment and increasing production.
The people have entrusted deposits
amounting to over £95,000,000 to the Bank
of New South Wales, the oldest and largest
bank in the Southern Hemisphere.
BANK of new south wales
ESTABLISHED 1817
SYDNEY TO PERTH IN 3£ DAYS
ACCELERATED TRI-WEEKLY TRAIN SERVICE.
COMMENCING JUNE 4.
FARES FROM SYDNEY* TO PERTH
And intermediate N.S.W. stations.
Adults.
Ist Class £lB/18/6
2nd Class £ll/9/3
RETURN.
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£2l/9/-
£ll/16/3
Adults.
£33/9/-
£2O
SINGLE.
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£ll/16/6
£6/12/9
nduding reserved seats, sleeping berths (where provided) for
he through journey (Sydney-Perth), and meals on the Trans-
;ontinental and West Australian Railways.
Seats and sleeping berths may be
booked four weeks in advance.
Write to the Chief Traffic Manager, Sydney Station, for any
further information, or call at Challis House, 8 Martin Place.
Sydney.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (54).
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XV.
The strange and terrible year 1917
dawned upon a world in which all the bel-
ligerent nations were war-weary, though
hope of an early settlement there was none.*
The President of the United States
had found both sides singularly irrespon-
sive to his Notes and his recommenda-
tions of a peace without victory. He was
about to lead his unready and somewhat
bewildered people ipto the having
conjured up Fourteen Points “in the
interests of all,” and prepared speeches
for every occasion. One, addressed to
the German people, explained, in the
language of Luther, that he had changed
from being Too Proud to Fight because
he could “do no other.”
“We have no quarrel with the German
people,” he said, “but a feeling of sympathy
and friendship. Germany entered the war
without the German people’s knowledge
and approval.” Greatly to his astonish-
ment, the German people continued to fight.
It was the year of Nivelle and the
mutinies of his tortured soldiers; of the
knockout of Russia and Rumania ; of
the fall of the Romanoffs, of the middle-
class revolution and the conquest of it by
the Bolsheviks. Year in which German
submarines sank 55 merchant ships in
one week and 881,000 tons of shipping in
one month, and in which Jellicoe despair-
ingly admitted to Sims that if sinkings
went on at that rate Britain could not
continue in the war and that he could
suggest nothing. Year of Caporetto, Cam-
brai and Passchendaele —of the ringing
of London bells for a victory that was to
merge in a defeat; of the agony of Italy ;
of the exhaustion of the British Army
after three months of fighting in Flanders
mud that cost it 400,000 men, not a few
drowned.
And in Australia it was the year of the
Great Strike and of the second conscrip-
tion referendum.
The immediate cause of the strike was
the introduction of time-cards in two
Government railway workshops in New
South Wales. It was held that the time-
card was a nefarious American device
for getting the last ounce out of servants
of the State who would never think of
loafing, and so depositing them on the
industrial scrapheap before their time.
War-weariness, repressed pugnacity, re-
sentment at the rising cost of living, the
I.W.W. agitation and hostility to Mr. Pew
and his War Precautions Act were affect-
ing people’s minds. Crude ambitions had
been excited by the Irish rising and the
Russian Revolution. Respect for the
Government had been weakened by the
first conscription referendum. Trade-
unionism was strong and its punishments
were terrible. Men who did'not want to
give up their work and wages preferred
to leave rather than be branded with
the hated name of “scab.”
Before long most of the N.S.W. rail-
waymen were out, and seamen, coal-
miners, carters, gasworkers and wharf-
laborers had declared sympathy strikes.
The Waterside Workers’ Federation
called out its men, not only in Sydney,
Newcastle and Melbourne, but in ports
as remote as Bowen, Mackay and Fre-
mantle.
“Don’t you fellows know there’s a war
on?” one of the strikers was asked.
“Why are you doing this?” The reply
was “Because we want to show the
bloody Government it’s not going to run
this country.”
The case of the Sydney coal-lumpers
excited particular disgust. They had
been enrolled in a naval transport. bat-
talion at increased pay and with improved
conditions. They sported badges, had
their president and secretary among the
battalion officers and had given an under-
taking to the effect that “in no circum-
stances, and on no consideration what-
ever, shall work on transports and naval
cargo ships be stopped.” Stopped it was,
however, in obedience to the lesser of
two loyalties.
The registration of the union was can-
celled and the battalion disbanded.
The coalminers, for their part, had
gained higher pay, shorter hours and
better conditions of work than they had
ever had before. It was pointed out that
the coalminers had their own card sys-
tem: every skip of coal raised to the
surface carried on it the token of the
man who had hewn and filled it, and his
fortnight’s pay was computed on the
quantity for which he had been respon-
sible. Nevertheless, the coalminers re-
mained on strike till October 3, although
the railwaymen, who had come out on
August 2, had gone back —such of them
as found their positions still waiting for
them —a fortnight before.
Many unions were faithful to the
greater loyalty. The A.W.U., which had
30,000 members in the A.1.F., did not
forget its mates. The conscience of the
nation being thoroughly aroused, coal
was cut, ships were fuelled and loaded
and food lorries driven by voluntary
labor; and the strike collapsed. But it
left behind memories which are bitter yet.
“The strike was the fruit of a de-
liberate policy to hamstring the Govern-
ment’s efforts in regard to recruiting.
It was engineered by the same men
who drove out of the Labor movement
every man who dared to put his country
before his party and its petty interests.
It was supported by the 1.W.W., by Sinn
Fein, by every disloyal section. Volun-
tary recruiting has failed, and Sinn Fein,
which shrieks for liberty and takes Ger-
man gold to do Germany’s dirty work,
Sinn Fein, which is the paid tool of the
great enemy of liberty—Sinn Fein and
those other sections of which I spoke
have killed it.” Mr. Pew speaking. It
was his way of opening the second con-
scription campaign.
In the two battles of Bullecourt, four
Australian divisions had suffered 10,000
casualties; and, as the pro-Haig Official
Historian acknowledges, “those battles
shook the confidence of the Australian
soldiers in the capacity of the British
command: the errors were obvious to
almosi everyone.” Mes s m es ,
success, cost the A.I.F another 6700
men. And in what Foch called Haigs
duck-march through the inundations,
on a plan which the Frenchman de-
scribed as “futile, fantastic and danger-
ous,” it lost another 38,000 men.
These facts were concealed from the
Australian people, nor, of course, were
thev told that when “one of Haig s prin-
cipal coadjutors paid a visit to the
Flanders battlefront” —his first—after the
dreadful campaign “in the ghastly ex-
panse of mud which covered this water-
logged country,” he “burst into tears,
crying, ‘Good God, did we really send
men to fight in that ?' ”
But they were supplied with a super-
abundance of whirling rhetoric and in-
vective by Mr. Pew. On the railway
platform at Warwick, Queensland, there
was thrown at Mr. Pew “the egg that
hatched out the Commonwealth police.
And one of Mr. Pew’s referendum coun-
cils came out with what it called Ihe
Anti’s Creed.”
I believe that men at the front should be
it was right to sink the Lusitania.
I believe in murder on the high seas.
I believe in the I.W.W.
I believe in Sinn Fein.
1 believe in the murder of women, and
a i believe B that Nurse Cavell got her deserts.
I believe that treachery is a virtue.
I believe in general strikes.
1 believe in burning Australian haystacks.
I believe in mine-laying in Australian
waters
I believe in handing Australia over to
Germany.
Mr. Watteau declared, for his part,
that “any man or woman who votes
No is either igno'rant or disloyal. He
was a very chagrined Mr. Watteau when
the results came out, for 1,181,747 votea
No 93,910 being soldiers and sailors.
The No majority was 166,588, Westraha
alone—for the second time—giving a de-
cided majority for conscription, 84,1ib
to 46,522.
“What else could anyone expect? a
conscriptionist growled. You couldn t
carry Free Beer if Pew ran the referen-
dum.”
. ~
(To be continued. )


"AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
ķ
“M9MJB
mmm
0)
s.
38—1
"S
\JL
e
ame
is
CD c Callums
\7Le (Ilhisky is-y
Distributors for the House of McCallunr
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
A JURYHAN’S DAY
BY “EL VERDUGO.”
TEN o’clock any morning in any
sessions court.
The procedure varies a bit as
between States and between Judges,
but the essentials are the same.
There are the same square courtroom,
the same uniforms, the same tiers of
seats, filled with jurors ; the same gallery
and the same dock. In N.S.W. sessions
courts it looks like an old-fashioned
killing-pen, with its high back, its iron
bars and its subterranean approach.
The dock is one thing which the
Americans do better than the British and
Australians. In U.S.A. the accused, be
he murderer or petty thief, usually sits
with his counsel at a table; but in Aus-
tralia he is put into that pen, locked care-
fully in and kept there until the Judge
releases him or sends him down the
resounding stone steps which lead to
gaol.
Ten o’clock strikes, and here is the
Judge. He is in a black gown and a wig
rather the worse for wear. He is pre-
ceded by an official or two. Everybody
stands. He takes his seat. Everybody
sits except the court officer.
All persons who have business with
the Court are asked to draw nigh and
they shall be heard. A couple of jurors
want to go back to work. After 10
quiet words with the Judge they go.
“Call Bill Jones!”
A disappointment, Bill. He is about
19, with an engaging, open countenance,
slightly vacant but healthy and still with
the bloom of unshorn youth on it. He
is wearing a cheap but well-cut suit, a tie
in good taste ; his hands are neatly kept.
“William Jones, you are charged that
on the blank day of blank you feloni-
ously....” Bill has been discovered on
the way to Katoomba blithely driving
somebody else’s car. He pleads guilty
without emotion. A large constable gets
up and reads a record far bigger and
more terrifying than Bill, who has ex-
cited the sympathy of other Courts and
been bound over more than once.
Constable Whosthis goes into the
box, a lean, well-dressed, young-middle-
aged man who would be a disappoint-
ment to caricaturists. He is brown from
the sun, and he speaks as well as and
more clearly than the average professor.
The constable knows Bill’s family—
decent people. He has seen Bill’s old
schoolmaster, who says Bill was an in-
telligent scholar. Bill has had good
jobs but cannot keep them, and never
seems to be able to pass a car without
pinching it.
A young solicitor and the Judge have
a friendly confab, very much as if they
were partners in the game of providing
for Bill’s future. The solicitor has dis-
cussed Bill with his relatives, and they
don’t know what to do about him.
“Why did you take the car?” asks
’Sonor. “If you wanted to go you could
have gone by train.”
Bill hasn’t the faintest idea.
There is a further Bench-solicitor-
police discussion. Eventually everyone
agrees that the best thing is to leave Bill
in the custody of his country for a year
so that he can go to a prison farm. Bill
seems to think there is nothing wrong
with that.
As he descends into Avernus, he smiles
to himself as soon as he is out of range
of the Judge’s gaze.
The world is full of young drifters of
this type —they are the greatest problem
of the Courts,
But here comes Mister Phelim Brown.
He must be Mister, because the court
crier calls outside the door for “Mister”
Brown after his first salvo. Mr. Brown
is a stocky, middle-aged, good-humored
chap, fairly well dressed.
He goes straight for the door of the
killing-pen, as if he knew every inch
of the track. He even helps to close
himself in. He beams at everybody and
pleads “not guilty” cheerfully when
charged with unlawful possession of a
red cow and a white calfskin. There
had been a calf inside the skin.
“Liam O’Flaherty,” says the first wit-
ness in polished, high-school accents, “ser-
geant of police stationed at Blank-street.
On the umpteenth instant I went to a
house in Macquarie-parade with Con-
stable Smith. I saw the defendant there
and said to him: ‘We have been in-
formed that you have a red cow and a
white calf on your place which are the
property of So-and-so, and were unlaw-
fully removed from his property on the
19th ultimo.’ ”
“The defendant said: ‘ Wait till I open
the front door.’ We watched him run
down the side of the house and drive a
red cow into the paddock.... ”
The tale goes on crisply of how Mr.
Brown, when asked about the cow, said
it had been left there by his grandmother,
who was on holiday in Victoria; how
the white calfskin under the wardrobe
was an heirloom ; how efforts to trace
Mr. Brown’s grandmother had failed.
Constable Smith tells the same tale.
An indignant ratepayer, whose indig-
nation evaporates after a few suave
words from the Judge, identifies Straw-
berry and the remains of her offspring.
A barrister asks a few questions. Mr.
Brown goes into the box.
He denies that there ever was a cow.
He implies that if there was one —which
he does not admit—the police brought it
with them for the purpose of making out
a case against him. Angry? Not at all
—he is merely stating “facts.”
Counsel say a few more words. The
Judge tells the jury what the law is. The
jury file out.
They find themselves in a suite of
rooms which look like anterooms to
Long Bay. A long table is laid with a
white cloth, and there is a jug of water
on another table in the corner. A notice
forbids jurymen to talk in the yard. They'
all go into the yard and all talk at once.
Anybody who believes that the jury is
immediately going to convict Mr. Brown
has never been on a jury.
In such a case as Mr. Brown’s, there
will be seven or eight convinced that he
is guilty and two or three who aver in
chorus that they will not believe the word
of a policeman. And there will be, per-
haps, an ingenious fellow who thinks
that the cow may have hidden herself on
the premises, and that the accused, being
a poor workingman, was not aware
of her presence till his attention was
called to her by the police ; that it was
then a natural thing for an alarmed
workingman to try to get rid of her.
When asked “What about the calf-
skin?” this juryman will say, possibly:
“How do you know it’s a calfskin? We
never seen the calf.”
Old hands on the panel leave this
fellow alone. They know that he will
come round presently. They concentrate
on the three who will not believe the
police. These always have a tale to
justify their scepticism.
" It usually turns out that they have
had an experience something like this:
On a quiet, open road with a mile of
visibility in front, they were driving their
cars carefully at 20 miles an hour with
both eyes on the road, both hands on
the wheel, both feet on the pedals and
their whole attention concentrated on
being on the proper side and watching
for pedestrians. And then hops out a
large, flat-footed, freckle-handed con-
stable with a notebook and a question:
“Hi, what the hell do you think you’re
doing?”
And three days afterwards he swears
in court that those jurymen were career-
ing down a busy street at 80 to 90 miles
an hour, and steering with their feet.
The motor laws are responsible for
more*feeling against the police than any
other cause. In two years I have never
had anything to do with a jury which
did not include a Traffic Constable’s
Victim.
However, even traffic constables’ vic-
tims are usually convertible in the end,
but not often before lunch. When that
gloomy but excellent meal is finished and
the argument which rises when two of
Mr. Brown’s peers discover each other’s
diametrically opposed views on Hitler and
Mussolini is over, there will remain,
probably, one stern and uncompromising
wight who keeps on repeating: “I don’t
think he done it.”
He puts over a barrage of questions:
Who saw Mr. Brown take the cow? If
he stole it, why didn’t they say so instead
of saying they found it on his property?
How do they know he wasn’t miles away?
The whole jury (former sceptics leading
the fiack) can now be depended on to
explain to the doubter that Mr. Brown
isn’t charged with stealing Strawberry,
merely with, having her unlawfully in
his possession. Eleven goqd men and
true doing this to an obstinate colleague
sound like the Hill talking to Jardine.
At length the doubter is convinced.
He has to be, in self-defence, especially
after the newly-married juror who has
been most longwinded in doubt during
the morning discovers that he can be
locked up all night if the jury do not
agree before 5 p.m.
Back into court, the jury are lined up
near the dock, so that they will have
to look Mr. Brown in the eye when they
give their verdict:
“Guilty, y’Honor.”
Mr. Brown doesn’t faint or scream. He
smiles wistfully at everybody. A brisk
constable reads a list of convictions.
One of the witnesses for the prosecution
goes into the box again and says Mr.
Brown is not a bad sort of a bloke, works
hard, keeps his wife and only occasion-
ally steals cows, and that, seemingly, not
with any violence.
Mr. Brown, on his part, admits hand-
somely that the police have behaved like
gentlemen to him, though he still seems
hazy about the existence of the cow.
’Sonor evidently decides that Mr.
Brown is one of those fellows who drift
naturally toward cows without malice or
covetousness. Mr. Brown is bound over
to keep the peace.
Mr. Brown says “thank you” very
politely. His Honor beams. The police
smile. The jury file out into another
yard.
As they leave two of their voices will
be raised:
“What? Only seven bob for a whole-
day job? What do they think a man is?”
Also, usually, one of those who was
most sceptical in the jury room can
generally be counted on to remark that
he knew Mr. Brown was guilty all the
time.
It is true that a juryman sometimes
only makes seven shillings in his day.
But it is worth a lot to see the Australian
system of justice at work. In some of
its processes it is rough and ready, but it
works impersonally, good-humoredly and,
in lesser courts at least, with swift effici-
ency and with a courtesy between Judges
and judged which makes conviction
almost painless. Moreover, in these days
it leans largely to mercy—sometimes, it
seems to the onlooker, too far towards it.
But that is because the criminal class
has become a small fraction of the popu-
lation. A very large proportion of those
who come before Quarter Sessions Courts
are pathological cases, sorry drunks who
have done something in their cups, or
pathetic bits of human wreckage who
have stolen for dying wives or because
of some queer fate which has driven them
and their families to starvation. One
not very often sees in these days the
old-time thug countenance.
When it does appear, there usually is
something stiff in store for its owner.


near enough. Too many toasts,” he announced, sit-
ting down again while the children ranged here and
there picking up delicacies like young pigeons. “Have
a bite, my nut-brown maid,” invited the Major, offer-
ing half a mince-pie to Tiffany.
Peregrine, strolling with hands under his coat-
tails, felt compensated. That abominable girl’s wed-
ding had cost him more than he could well afford ;
but he was done with her now, and it was a most
effective riposte to any who might think that his
lOUs were among Nick Flower’s sheaves. He paused
by Sally, who was gathering up the extra knives and
trying to remember who had lent them, and spoke
kindly, for she had been quite as retiring and efficient
as a wife should be.
“A well-managed affair, my dear. I have just
been speaking to the reporters. Will you be good
enough to let them have the lists of gifts and guests
presently? There are to be two columns in all the
papers.”
“La, there you are, Peregrine,” cried Caroline.
“There is something very unpleasant that I feel it only
right to tell you,. . . privately.”
Caroline was always feeling things like that. The
Maori boatman drunk again, thought Peregrine, fol-
lowing her into the garden, where her red nose under
a violet velvet bonnet was more than usually an
assault to the senses.
“I’ve been holding it back,” gasped Caroline.
“But a wedding ... so sacred ... so terrible for you
... I feel it my duty . . . it’s about Sally.”
Peregrine stopped dead, looking like a very high
grey chimney wearing a buttonhole bouquet and an
eyeglass.
“I do not discuss my wife with anyone, Lady
Lovel.”
“La! Do you call it discussing to tell you she
has a lover?”
“Have a care what you say, Madam,” said Pere-
grine, feeling himself going white round the nostrils.
“Oh, I know what I’m saying” . . . Out it came
in a torrent. Sally shamelessly going off with Mr.
Nick Flower in the middle of Auckland ; admitting
him to the house when she was alone ; letting him
stay for hours and hours. ... In Caroline’s mouth
Sally became a convicted and habitual sinner, and
indeed Caroline was quite persuaded of it by now . . .
besides, don’t even one straw show the way the wind
blows? Peregrine was at first quite incapable of
stopping her. He stared down at the white pinks,
the blue forget-me-nots . . . Suddenly he put his
hand up.
“Kindly leave me, Lady Lovel. And be thankful
I do not put you in court for defamation of character
... as I certainly shall do if this calumny goes
further.”
“B-but” . . . Caroline burst into loud weeping. “I
only wanted to help”-
“Get back to your house,” said Peregrine, chasing
her like a stray dog, slamming the wicket-gate on her.
Then he stood still on the path.
In the Lovel Hall parlor Leta Baizey and Sarah
Wells’were singing “The Captain with His Whiskers
Took -a Sly Glance at Me,” and young bucks who had
had too much champagne were laughing and clap-
ping. Peregrine walked off to his study and locked
his door. As yet only two things were clear in his
mind. He believed Caroline’s story with its wealth
of silly detail because she hadn’t the wit to invent it.
And next week he must meet Nick Flower at the
hustings.
IV.
SINCE Mr. Swainson, the Attorney-General, had
decided that “spirits poor enough to need screen-
ing by secret ballot” were not fit to share in gov-
ernment, the voting for the provincial councils was
to follow the good old lines, with everyone free to
break everyone’s head and be ridden about in barrows
and jump on hats, while brawny laborers looked to
the handles of their spades and shovels and got some
useful practice on the waterfront when the names
of their candidates came up.
Nick Flower, who had done his work already
down his underground ways, did not appear again
until the day of the voting. But Peregrine was every-
where ; dragging Sally out to Howick, Onehunga and
other settlements, where she kissed the babies and
talked to the women, dragging her to all his speeches
in schools and halls and church-porches. Never (felt
Sally, climbing wearily into bed) had Mr. Lovel wanted
her so much or seemed to like her so little when he
had her. Yet she did her best, even under those cold,
glittering eyes that so frightened her.
Jermyn says he’ll be normal again when this is
over, she thought, lifting on her elbow to see him
sleeping with the nightcap
tassel on his brow like a
decoration. Major Henry
always said Mr. Lovel was
headed for drums and deco-
rations . • • Distressfully,
Sally thought how almost all
she knew of Mr. Lovel’s
feelings came from others . . .
The Maoris (to whom dignity usually means more
than life) were puzzled anew at their white rulers
when they saw them at the hustings on that evening
of noise and red, flaring torches and the weak, yellow
light of oil-lamps in the booths. Battle they under-
stood, and laughter; but not the two so shamelessly
combined, defiling both. There was more than sur-
prise in watching would-be orators hauled off a plat-
form by their kicking legs and then drinking with
their assailants out of the same bottle ; more than
disapproval when a hearty dingdong with spades and
shovels ended in everyone binding up the bloody
heads. Sticks, rotten eggs and cabbages flew; curses,
laughter and hurrahs rocked the murky air.
Major Henry, making a last speech that no one
could hear, was offered bottles from all directions
and drank from all. Sir Winston, bellowing a last
burst of quotations above the roar, declared that the
seals of office already glittered in Peregrine’s eyes.
There were cheers for Colonel Wynyard, Auckland’s
first superintendent, howls for Cordery, rotten eggs
for old Barnes . . .
Nick Flower, thrusting his great height every-
where, was received by loyal shouts. He was smiling,
knowing how well Swainson’s decision had served
him So many men in his hands, so many might be,
that there was little likelihood of danger in an open
vote. Peregrine (who knew that he would have been
better at home, but couldn’t bring himself to it) stood
immobile in the flickering lights with Jermyn beside
him Jermyn was almost sorry for Peregrine, who
seemed on. the verge of collapse. Yet why make such
ado? He could quite easily engineer a by-election and
get in on that. .
“The counting must be almost finished now,
said Peregrine with dry lips.
Then the roars went up, the huzzahs and howls
as a clerk read out the list of names. Half-way down
it Flower, leaning with hands in pockets against a plat-
form, heard his own. He had beaten Mr. Peregrine
Lovel by forty votes.
He dodged round the platform to escape; but he
was hoisted up, made to speak, made to submit to
being carried round on heaving shoulders, to the
accompaniment of accordions, whistles, songs. As he
came down he saw Peregrine Lovel’s dark lean face
on a level with his own. There was moisture on the
high forehead and round the mouth, and Flower tasted
fully the triumph he had set out to gqin. The seat on
the council meant nothing to him. Probably he would
never use it. But this meant very much.
“Congratulations, Mr. Flower,” said Peregrine,
courteously. He held out his hand, drew Flower closer
to mutter at his ear: “I shall expect you at nine
o’clock to-morrow evening in my Shortland Street
office. I do not expect you to fail me.”
{To be continued.)
FUNGUS
by Goa Drew
THE most grievous spectacle in the world, barrin’
an empty beer glass, is a man who finds himself
broke on a race day, which is what happened
to me and Handsome Harry in Western Queens-
land one summer. We’d been introducin’ the good
old Esmeralda-wheel at a shearin’ shed near Bardu-
thulla when someone noticed it had a secret brake.
They gave us ten seconds to hit the breeze, and
bein’ solicitous of our bodily health we accomplished
the act in one. Without the wheel to get us a crust
we were like Ajax shorn of his locks, but hearin’
that there was a race meetin’ at Barcombe we availed
ourselves of the Railway Commissioner’s hospitality
and dropped off the rattler as she was steamin’ in.
All we had was our appetites and a lead two bob,
but at billiards that night Handsome ran our crook
two rogues into sufficient mazuma to see us on to
the racecourse, where we landed next day with a
packet of fags and a penny.
“There’s only one thing to do,” says Handsome.
“We’ll have to try and dig up a goose. Come over
to the bettin’ ring.”
We kept movin’ so long that our eyes nearly
fell out lookin’ for a mug, but the first race went
by and the horses were bein’ saddled up for the
second before we found him —an old bloke in a wide-
brimmed cabbage-tree hat.
Standing on the edge of the bettin’ ring he viewed
the landscape behind a jungle of whiskers, and before
you could wink Handsome had grabbed him by the
hand and was shakin’ it like a pump-handle.
“Spare me days,” he breezed. “If this ain’t the
most pleasant surprise I’ve had in a coon’s age. Fancy
meetin’ G. K. McNamara so far away from Dalby.”
It was the old bridge, but Fungus fell for it. “You
must be makin’ a mistake, mister,” he said with a
grin. “My name ain’t McNamara.”
“Well, what do you think of that?” gasps Hand-
some. “I could have sworn that you were my old
friend G.K.M. Never mind, there ain’t much harm
done I expect, and the drinks are on me.”
“I ain’t got time for a drink just now, gents,”
says Fungus. “I want to back a horse.”
“I’ll bet it’s College Boy,” says Handsome. We’d
picked out College Boy as a pretty good thing, havin’
seen him capture a race or two on the unregistereds
in Brisbane.
“No, it ain’t College Boy,” laughs Fungus. “Can
he gallop?”
“Gallop?” says Handsome, “He’s a racecourse
certainty ; a friend of mine came all the way from
Brisbane to back him. You’d better shove a tenner
on him. I’ve just put a pony on him myself.”
Fungus pulls a roll of notes from his pocket big
enough to gag an alderman. Then he puts it back again.
“No,” he says, “I came out especially to back Fanfare.”
“That’s right,” I breaks in. “If this gent, has got
a fancy for Fanfare we shouldn’t try to put him off it.”
“Of course not,” says Handsome.
There’s a bookie callin’ the odds a few paces
away and Handsome hails him. “What price Fan-
fare?” he asks.
“Two to one,” answers the bookie. “He’s favorite.”
“I think you can do better than that,” says Hand-
some. “Let’s make some inquiries.”
He led the way into the ring, and although there
was plenty of five to two on offer about Fanfare he
kept sayin’ we’d get a better price directly. But instead
of gettin’ better the price against Fanfare got worse.
Two or three times the books nearly had the old
bloke’s money, but he hung on to it like a Guards-
man on to a pint of beer.
About five minutes before flag fall we had the
ring pretty well to ourselves, for most of the crowd
had gone to the front of the stand to see ,the start.
All at once Handsome pulls up dead and listens.
“Quick. Give me that money,” he says, snatchin’ a
tenner that Fungus had been carryin’ round in his
hand. He dashed away to the far end of the ring and
was back in half a minute smilin’ all over his face.
“I got you threes,” he says to Fungus.
Fungus took the ticket and shoved it in his pocket,
then we went over to look at the race. The journey
was seven furlongs, and the horses were linin’ up at
the barrier some distance to our left.
“There’s Fanfare,” says Handsome, pointin’ to
a horse that was reefin’ and tearin’ in his anxiety to
get away.
“I see him,” answers Fungus. “He’ll win.”
“Unless College Boy beats him,” says Hand-
some. “You’ve just got time to slip a saver on him if
you make it snappy.”
“I don’t think I’ll bother,” says Fungus. “They
told me that Fanfare can’t get beaten.”
“Just as you like,” says Handsome.
THREE times the starter got the field to breast the
tape, but each time Fanfare was so anxious he
broke the line. At last the starter got them into line
for keeps and sent them away to a beautiful start.
Fanfare found his legs sooner than the others and
shot to the front before they had gone a hundred yards.
“See him,” says Fungus, aIT excited. “He’s in
front already.”
I ran me eye back along the field to see how the
land lay. Two lengths behind Fanfare was a bay
horse in green, and almost on his heels a batch of four
racin’ together. College Boy was a good way back.
The field ripped up to the turn, spun round the
bend and tornadoed along the back of the course in
a cloud of dust. Fanfare had gained another two
lengths on his mates and looked as if he’d take some
catchin’.
Fungus lets loose a yell. “I told you gents, he
was a good ’un,” he cries. “Nothin’ can catch him now.”
“It’s a bit early to be sure,” rejoins Handsome.
“The race ain’t quite over yet.”
They dipped into a hollow then, and came racin’
round the side of the course. Fanfare was five lengths
in front by this time and gallopin’ just as strong as ever.
“I’m sorry you gents didn’t have a bet on Fan-
fare,” says Fungus as the field swung into the straight.
“They haven’t a chance.”
“Just one,” says Handsome. “Have a look at
that horse racin’ third.”
Fungus shook his head. “X wouldn’t give him a
donkey’s chance,” he says.
“That’s College Boy,” says Handsome, “and he
hasn’t started to gallop yet.”
As if the lad on College Boy had heard him he
started to ride, and the horse shot forward like
a bullet out of a gun. In half a dozen strides
he had passed the second horse and was tearin’
after Fanfare. At the distance he was a length behind
him and seemed to be gatherin’ pace as he flew.
Twenty yards from home he ran up level with Fanfare,
then with a neat exhibition of horsemanship the jockey
landed him past the judge with half a neck to spare.
Fungus looks a trifle dazed. “You were right,
mister,” he says. “That horse can gallop all right.”
“Yes, I’m sorry I couldn’t persuade you to have
a saver on him,” says Handsome. “He started at
four to one.”
“That’s all right,” says Fungus. “Now if you
gents don’t mind I’ll leave you.” With that he buzzes
off and leaves me and Handsome lookin’ at each
other.
“Oh, well,” says Handsome. “Another certainty
beat. I suppose we’d better beat it back to the bettin’
ring.”
“And then what?” I says. I was feelin’ flamin’
tired and thirsty.
“And then we’ll collect,” says Handsome. “I
plonked the old bloke’s tenner on College Boy.”
“On College Boy?” I yells. “Then that ticket
you gave Fungus was a ring-in?”
“You’ve guessed it,” says Handsome. “I picked
it up in the bettin’ ring.”


I
Eulogises Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
as a Remedy for Lumbago and Sciatica
Brigadier Walter S. Solomon, of the Salvation Army Territorial
Headquarters Staff, Sydney, is widely known and highly respected,
not only for his Army work in Australia but also as a Padre in
France during the Great War, where he served for well over three
years. With his characteristic desire to assist others at all times, he
has sent the following letter relating his experiences with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills while suffering from Lumbago and
Sciatica:—
The Salvation Army,
1 40 Elizabeth Street,
Dear Sirs, Sydney.
I understand that you are the agents for Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
I want to tell you of my unbounded confidence in them.
About seven years ago I was asked to try them, as this was the only
medicine my friend had in the house, and as it was late on Saturday night
and no other remedy was available. I tried them. I was suffering from
Lumbago and Sciatica, to which I have been a sufferer for the last 24 years.
The next day I was much better, and after a few days lost all my pain.
Whenever I get a backache I fly to these pills, and every time I get relief
in 24 hours, and in a few days am quite free from pain.
I never travel now without a bottle in my bag.
They are worth their weight in gold, and when you realise what
wonderful pain removers they are I marvel at the cost being only 1/3 a bottle.
I am voluntarily sending you this testimonial, and you are at liberty to
use it in whatever way you like. If it will help some other sufferer to get the
relief that I have got I shall be very happy.
Yours truly,
(Signed) WALTER S. SOLOMON.
The old idea that rheumatic conditions are caused by Uric Acid is being discredited,
and the opinion is now held they are caused by failure of Nature’s chemical processes,
particularly in the small intestines and the liver, which causes toxins (poisons) and
dangerous by-products to enter the blood stream. These toxins affect the muscles, nerves,
and joints, and movement becomes painful.
In other words, medical authorities are coming to the conclusion that the way to combat
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica and such rheumatic conditions is to keep all the organs of
digestion and elimination in a state of healthy, vigorous functioning. Regular free bowel
movements and an active liver are necessary to relieve the strain on the kidneys.
The use of
DrJMORSES
i
I
*
PILLS
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
has proved of great benefit in thousands of such cases. If you suffer from a rheumatic
condition, which is often indicated by Lumbago and Sciatica, a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is recommended, combined with an outward application of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment.
FATHER,
MOTHER
AND CHILDREN
ALL NEED MIRPIL
Father! Does your face feel
razor-dragged after shaving? Do
your hands get chafed and rough
through gardening and golfing?
Mother! Do you feel all on edge
owing to sore hands after the
washing-up and other household
duties?
Does the children’s skin get
chapped and dry through exposure
to the elements on their schoolward
way and at play?
i Do you know that Mirpil is speci-
ally suited for such cases?
Mirpil Skin Balm is a scientifically
prepared lotion for Rough, Chapped
and Chafed Skins, Red Hands, Chil-
blains, Sunburn, Windburn, as a
base for powder, and after Shaving.
On sale all chemists and stores or
from The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
makers of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, 23 Lang Street, Sydney, and
6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms 1
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
•««**¥
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĸ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subset ibers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of $
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
cP
(0
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
jS?
Obtainable
only
from <
,s '
0*
je’J
otf \0 S^ fc


TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS,
3.
N o.
TASMA
Va
r\
{
h
tS*.
(7
J
<5
%
/
s'
AVERAGE
A
9r
0
RECEIVER
<</
A
<</
\
0
<?
COMPROMISE
A*
u
A
Q
x
0
X
A.
O
<<;
Or
A
#
A
%
©. %
V£* <*
% \ \
A%%
°<j °*.
x> < %Jv n >
"\r %
j
There is nothing “variable” in
the “selectivity” of the builders
of Packard, Hudson, Standard
and Ford cars when it comes to
the choice of auto radio for
1938 models. Each of these
famous cars has standardised
on Tasma Auto Radio.
Flirtatious Frank, depicted here, obviously believes in variable selectivity.
So (from another point of view) does Tasma. So does Sir Noel Ashbridge,
Chief Engineer of the 8.8. C. And so will you when you have heard what
a wonderful difference perfect Variable Selectivity makes to the new Tasma
Receivers. Ashbridge insists that no radio can extract FULL musical value
from a programme unless it has Variable Selectivity. Ashbridge knows what
he is talking about. You’re not interested in the technicalities of Variable
Selectivity—but you’ll be interested to the point of enthusiasm when you hear
its action in the new Tasma.
HERE ARE SOME OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA’S LEAD]
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING: Enabling any one of the 125 Stations calibrated
on the Tasma dial to be tuned at the flick of a finger and thumb with hair-
line accuracy.
OVERSIZE DIAL: 20 inches of tuning space floodlit in green, with pointer
and stations covering the full circle. Even a deaf man can tune a Tasma
perfectly.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE: Both above and below the normal limits, pro-
viding for the addition of new broadcasting stations as they come on the air.
AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL: All A.C. models incorporate Audio
A.V.C., permitting weak stations to be played louder and precluding annoying
variations,
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY: A luxury feature giving full musical volume and
absolute selectivity over any programme you may select.
INBUILT MAGIC EYE: The Magic Eye of the Tasma is built INTO the dial
to ensure immediate visual indication of exact tuning.
OCTAL VALVES: The new Tasma Receivers are equipped with Octal-type
tubes and include the sensational “Beam” power output valve.
: i
THE TASMA “BALLERINA”
“A tribute to the designer’s
art . . . looks and performs
like an expensive set. Its
presence in the low-price field
comes as a happy surprise”
. . . that is how a famous
radio critic describes the
Tasma “Ballerina.”
Model “505” —5-valve Broad-
cast A.C. receiver. 22 Gns.
Model “510”— 5-valve Dual-
wave A.C. model. 25 Guineas.
Model “575” —4-valve Broad-
cast receiver, battery-operated.
25 Guineas.
k
THE TASMA “BABY”
The compact design of the new
Tasma “Baby” in its strong,
stylish Bakelite cabinet renders
this set particularly attractive to
those who desire to take their
music with them from room to
room or from house to house.
Model “505” —5-valve Broadcast
receiver, A.C. operated. 16 Gns.
Model “510” —5-valve Dual-wave
A.C. model. 19 Guineas.
Model “575” —4-valve, Broadcast
battery-operated receiver. 19 Gns.
m
THE TASMA “PRINCESS”
The most luxurious receiver in
the medium-price field of to-day.
A dual-wave set which, in the
opinion of experts, has never
been equalled in the same price
class. It possesses every refine-
ment known to radio science.
Model “530” —6-valve, dual-
wave A.C. model. 35 Guineas.
Model “585” —5-valve, Dual-
wave Battery operated. 35 tins.
Air Cell operated. 37 Guineas.
Vibrator operated. 40 Guineas.
(Prices slightly higher
in West Australia .)
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
ķ
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS, LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. ( Ballarat Distributors .)
SOUTH AUST ; OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA; NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD.. Rirtnven Street, Toowoomba.
