

m
W
vii
Australia needs your co-operation in the big Cash and Conversion Loan operation now
being made.
Money is needed for urgent Defence purposes also, and for repayment to those who are
unable to convert their maturing securities.
Interest £3/17/6% p.a.
Apply any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stock Broker.
ĵ
Treasurer.
The Bulletin
Limerick No . 7: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.—N0. 3068.
Wednesday, November 30, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE THEATRE IN RUSSIA.
Australian playgoers this year have not had pre-
S r n u t 0 t * lem a professional company even one
of the great classic dramas of the world. In Moscow
theatres during the 1934-35 season were presented
plays or dramatisations of the works of Balzac, Beau-
marchais, Dickens, Dumas, Fletcher, Goldoni, Gozzi,
Hamsun, Moliere, Schiller, Scribe, Shakspeare and the
Russians Chekhov, Dostoievski, Gogol, Gorki, Ostrov-
ski, Pushkin and Tolstoi.
That is not to say that all is well with the theatre
under the Soviet. The hand of Stalin is heavy on it;
foreign classics that could be produced a few years
ago are now barred ; Russian classics are barred ; the
great producer-managers of the early years of the
Revolution are discredited; contemporary play-
wrights, whose very lives are at stake, conform to a
dull theory of “socialistic realism.” According to
Norris Houghton, who studies the Soviet theatre in
Moscow Rehearsals (Allen and Unwin), under the
new Terror it has lost the color and variety which
fascinated him so short a time ago as 1934.
Houghton, an American, went to Moscow in that
year with a Fellowship from the Guggenheim Foun-
dation. The Revolution, he found, had done two
things to the theatre: it had flooded it with propa-
ganda plays, and it had given free rein to experi-
menters in the technique of production.
In the first days of the new regime the propa-
ganda plays had a tremendous appeal. Bewildered by
the thunder of events, desperate with starvation, their
passions aroused to feverish intensity by bloodshed
and horror, the people flocked to the playhouses
where the Bolshevists tried to tell them what it was
all about. Those were the days of immense crowd
scenes on the stage ; battle scenes ; the Capitalist was
the villain, the Red soldier the hero. When the Red
soldier had defeated the Capitalist the play was over.
The stage was in the centre of the theatre, and the
audience, grouped round it, were drawn almost physi-
cally into the struggle they were watching.
Then, with the five-year plan, came the drama-
tisation of machinery. Houghton says that even these
plays, devoted to showing how efficiently a farm
could be run with a tractor, appealed to the people.
Machinery was strange and exciting to them.
After that, the propaganda play evolved into the
present “socialistic realism” —which Houghton can’t
define but says is supremely dull. It seems to mean
anything that accords with the ideas of Stalin, and
the ferocity met with by anything that doesn’t accord
with those ideas makes it obvious that the playwrights
must prefer to be decorous and dull. The earlier
propaganda plays as Houghton describes them might
appeal to foreigners as spectacles, but none of them
could have much intellectual appeal.
The experiments in production with good plays,
however, sound extremely interesting. There is the
attempt to draw the audience into the play, or to
make the play reach out and embrace the audience.
The regisseiir Okhlopkov carried this so far as to have
an actor hand to any spectator sitting beside the stage
a loaf and a knife for him to hold. Meierhold, one
of the greatest of the now-discredited producers, de-
stroyed the naturalism of the stage —that is, the meti-
culous imitation of nature, the careful illusion of
reality nearly always attempted on the English or
Australian stage —and asked his audiences not to for-
get that they were in a theatre, as other producers do,
but always to remember that they were in a theatre.
As Houghton puts it, his productions said to the
audience:
See: this is the back brick wall of the stage. This
is not sunlight that floods it; you know as well as we
do that it is night outside and that the light is only
electric. We actors are not extraordinary beings apart;
we dress as you are dressed. We are just as concerned
as you in what is going on outside this building. If
we hear any fresh news from Samara or Odessa we'll
let you know.
There seem to be plenty of objections to the
method. Bringing in “news from outside” doesn’t
help a play much, as anyone can testify who has seen
a talkie interrupted for the announcement “Mrs.
Jones, whose husband is outside declaring he is a
wheelbarrow, is wanted at once.” Drawing the audi-
ence into the play is all right, but drawing the audi-
ence sympathetically into the business of acting might
create the glutinous camaraderie of a revival meeting
or a “community sing.” There was an amateur show
in Sydney not long ago where the audience formed
the jury in a trial scene ; it made people fidget and
scratch.
But Meierhold’s method isn’t as naive as the
quotation makes it appear. He experimented interest-
ingly, by the use of stylised personalities and “impres-
sionistic” scenery, with the symbolism in character
that is usually successful in poetic dramas if not else-
where. Another regisseur, Tairov, seeking to create
heroes after the Grecian fashion, carried his symbol-
ism further, formalising scenery, movement, gesture
and speech into aesthetic abstractions. The test of all
the experiments was the simple one of whether or not
they could draw audiences. Houghton says they could.
Together with his notes on production, Houghton
has chapters on the training of actors, and in particu-
lar on the Stanislavski method, according to which it
takes four years of intensive training to make an
actor. During the first year not a word is spoken by
the trainee. All his acting must be done in panto-
mime, and he learns ballet and acrobatics. Next year
he masters the externals of plays, the words and the
appearance of the characters. Then he begins a
psychological study of the dramas.
Summarised, a few of the things he has to learn
over the four years are: History ; history of the Com-
munist party ; political economy ; dialectic material-
ism ; literature ; military affairs ; psychology ; history
of the theatre ; history of art; musical appreciation ;
playwriting, directing, mastery of acting; dancing,
acrobatics, fencing and physical culture.
That programme in itself indicates that the Rus-
sian theatre is worth considering. Houghton’s book,
apart from its political sidelights, is not of any great
general interest, but anyone interested in the produc-
tion of plays will find it worth while.
Looking Over Europe.
Robert Young’s A Young Man Looks at Europe
(Heinemann) is one of many such surveys, but it is
outstanding because it is so well written. He makes
no claim to inside information or special privileges.
In a survey of the surface of troubled Europe he tells
only what he saw and heard as he travelled from city
to city with Hans, a young German friend, and Claire,
Hans’s beautiful French wife.
They talked to soldiers in the train, waiters,
doctors, students, old ladies, peasants, refugees, news-
papermen—anyone who came along. A convincing
picture arises out of it all.
The canvas is stretched between Verdun and the
Spanish War. Verdun, 20 years after the war, its
monuments crumbling back into the earth, its German
war graves desolate and neglected, its tress renewed
as if there had never been a war there, has the regret-
ful tenderness of Gray’s “Elegy.” “From the road
Verdun is like a city of lavender, the grey squat towers
of the cathedral rising above tiled red roofs still liquid
from yesterday’s rain.”
Into this idyll is intruded the terrible story of
the defence and capture of Fort Vaux, laconically
related by the soldier guide who showed the travellers
through its scarred and blistered galleries. That was
the past. Wherever Young went in France and Ger-
many he met veterans of Verdun.
The Spanish War is never far from the author’s
thoughts; he harks back to it with a sort of pained,
incredulous surprise. That is the present. In effect
he shows Europe between two warnings. His brilliant
impressions move like an army through a defile
between overhanging cliffs.
In Paris he saw the strange phenomenon, good-
natured rioting on July 14, a demonstration without
animus watched critically by a populace that has
known 150 years of intermittent revolution. In Ger-
many he saw a kindly and pacific people being eclipsed
by militarism. He pursued the Hitler legend up hill
and down dale. He met a hundred Hitlers in the
imagination of the Fiihrer’s admirers. One saw him
as a dreamer and idealist, a man of supreme sensi-
bility, another as the prototype of virile German
manhood, another as bluff good nature personified,
another as a Machiavelli in subtlety.
The chapter on Poland is particularly interesting
with its picture of the stunted enduring peasantry,
whose insistent land hunger is like one of the great
slow forces of nature mounting toward irresistibility.
In Poland and Hungary, says Young, a sinister symp-
tom has appeared, the falling away of literature and
of the arts and crafts of the peasantry. Hungary
above all is irridentist.
Looking at Europe as a whole Young saw a con-
tinual flux of refugees, and another related pheno-
menon. The tension of Europe tends to throw off free
communities —people whose situation becomes so
desperate that they step outside the law and fend for
themselves. There is one such community outside
Prague. A number of young people who found them-
selves being thrust to the wall in the city went out
into the hills and built themselves cabins. They live
off the soil and pay neither rent nor taxes. No tax-
gatherer dare go there; otherwise they are peaceable,
and the health of the community is excellent.
Remarque’s novel Three Comrades offers evidence
of a similar state of quiet lawlessness having existed
in Germany.
Study of a Job.
The exploitation of some industry in all its tech-
nical detail is becoming increasingly fashionable in
fiction. Halper did this in The Chute when he took
the routine of a big mail-order house for his back-
ground ; James Curtis exploited the transport business
in England in his They Drive by Night, to name a
couple of books recently reviewed on this page.
Now A. I. Bezzerides uses a similar background
in his Long Haul (Cape) ; but this time it is on the
Pacific coast of the roads from Los Angeles
to San Francisco.
The meat of this novel is in the delineation of
the transport business. The tricks of the trade, its
ramps and rackets, the cut-throat competition for
loads, the endurance tests that this competition forces
upon the drivers —and the consequent accidents —
supply the excitement and interest. The characters,
Nick and Paul Benay, Paul’s wife and Nick’s girl, are
caught and crushed in the great octopus of the busi-
ness. This sort of thing needs good handling, and in
Long Haul it is well done. It is an image of life,
man against a system. Nick’s struggle to “make good”
is a pocket epic.
The Benay brothers were working for one of the
big freight agencies on a commission basis ; there
was plenty of work, but they couldn’t collect their
money. When Nick tried to force the issue he got
some of the money but the jobs dried up, so they
decided to haul for themselves, buy oranges cheap in
the south and sell them dear in the north.
They were up against another set of sharks, and,
with no margin of capital, the prey of every accident.
They began with high hopes. “Were on our own
two feet, and if we keep our eyes open and try like
hell things’ll come our way. They’ve got to. Other-
wise their ain’t no justice in the world.”
It didn’t work out like that. Paul, badly hurt
in an accident with a drunken driver, lost his nerve
and took a job in a packing works. Nick carried on
alone. He was driven to every shift of cunning to
keep going. The number of trips necessary to show
a profit left him in a permanent state of exhaustion,
struggling with sleep. Circumstance closes in slowly
and inevitably on him.
He struck a patch of bad luck, so that he was
for ever dodging foreclosure. Then he couldn’t afford
his license, which meant dodging the police as well.
He was forced to buy shoddier and shoddier loads
until he ruined his markets. Finally he returned to
the freight agency, to be robbed more brazenly than
ever and without redress. At last he fell asleep at the
wheel, crashing over an embankment. In this
desperate struggle to earn a living he hardly had time
for any private life.
Long Haul is written graphically, and the char-
acters live.
A Novel by Bates.
H. E. Bates is best known for his short stories,
but Spella Ho (Cape) is his seventh novel.
It traces the slow growth of Bruno Shadbolt from
his bare beginnings in 1873, when he was a penniless
country boy of twenty, unable to read, write or cipher,
to affluence and the bitter and ironical fulfilment of
his ambition in 1931. David Copperfield is its remote
ancestor, Martin Eden and Albert Grope its colla-
terals. It marches along one of the well-worn high
roads of fiction.
Bruno begins at scratch. He is utterly ignorant
and unequipped, a great uncouth lump of putty. The
two forces that work upon him are love ar.d money-
making. Behind them both, greater at last than either,
is the influence of the old house, Spella Ho.
The great mansion, standing empty and desolate
in its decaying splendor, is the first thing to touch
his imagination. It is witness to another world, and
the wonder it wakes in him, half admiration and half
greed, works like leaven through his whole life. It
starts in him an unconscious hunger for beauty and
for money, and these —the first in the guise of love—
are the two forces that shape him and come together
again at last when in his old age he possesses
Spella Ho.
The house governs his life also in a more concrete
way. He gets his start in life stealing and selling
coal from it, and later, when it is put into commission
again by the half-mad old woman, Mrs. Lanchester,
he finds work there and meets Louise. Louise provides
the first of the love stories. A girl from an orphan-
age, tyrannised over by Mrs. Lanchester, Bates cap-
tures her in a wild sweetness of morning, and, despite
everything, her love for Bruno is an idyll ended by her
early tragic death.
He had never known, and afterwards knew he
would never know, anyone like her. And slowly, in
his mind, the fruit of his emotion about her ripened.
They would escape to lie under the limes in the park,
in the heavy-colored honey afternoons of middle
autumn, in a world still untouched by frost, and he
would feel his emotion for her turning over and color-
ing and filling with the juices of adoration.
After Louise there were other women, Gerda,
Jenny, Lady Virginia, whom he might have married,
and who drowned herself in the lake at Spella Ho
when he didn’t. Lady Virginia is like Louise come
back again ; the chance has corpe a second time, but
there is a flaw in Bruno’s nature which pulls him back
from happiness.
Between the love stories, the complement and foil
to them, winds the tale of Bruno’s moneymaking
schemes, often nefarious. They bring him at last to
Spella Ho.
The book is very well written, with a beautiful
glossy surface. Whether it is that its execution falls
off a little as the story proceeds or that the mind
grows dulled to a perfection of style that strikes
sharply upon it at first, the second half of the novel
seems to sag a little with its own weight, and to be
less spontaneous and more artificial than the first half.
South Seas Wanderer.
Temple Utley wrote to his mother during the
voyage from which he was never to return in the
yawl Inyala:
I often say to myself when I take the wheel at
night, the sky a blaze of stars and the ship cutting
a phosphorescent track through the black, “Where
would I sooner be? Whom would I change places
with?” I tell myself, “Nowhere and no one. One lives
fully like this —doing things and dreaming.”
From his childhood he had wanted to sail to
the South Seas, but there seemed not the remotest
hope that he would ever do so. He had no boat,
no money, his living to earn and dependants to keep ;
and, badly gassed in the war, he was forbidden to
exert himself. Yet the impossible happened.
A friend, Buchanan, picked up the Inyala cheap.
“She was an old-fashioned boat of plank-on-edge
type, very strongly built, with oak frames and pitch-
pine planking; and the surveyor passed her as per-
fectly sound. She is yawl-rigged, and her length fifty-
one feet overall.” Buchanan asked Dr. Utley and
two other friends to sail round the world with him.
They agreed, but for one reason or other all dropped
out, including the boat’s purchaser.
Utley couldn’t let the chance slip. He hastily
swotted up some navigation and set out with two
paid hands, fishermen from Cornwall. He sailed
from Newlyn to Vigo, in Spain, thence to Madeira
and Teneriffe and across the Atlantic, in the wake of
Columbus, to Trinidad, in the West Indies. So far
the voyage was without major event, and the record
is of small happenings, of night watches, of sunsets,
o Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
fl S
mm
m
m
V
!Nl*t
s
>'-:#v8kV.*?
>:
0
B
m
&8m :?«S;a
3fci&KS$S883?$?v
*"•
iwSSK
::■:•••
11*
Pi
-
wa-
rn
ft1
Ns
\
X
(l,\i 'f'"
M'
X
:x
X
NS
o
Up-to-date Car and Trailer.
Solid pressed steel. Length
overall, 24 inches. Car en-
amelled Red, Trailer Yellow.
At Anthony Horderns'. Price,
each 13/6
i -
■.)
'/'Us
r-'i
to
\
-fi
m
Sm
CP
5
fk/j
K -Pfi f/'
L I
Mickey Mouse Doll. 20 ins.
overall. Strongly made, in
a good quality Velveteen
covering. Red, Black, Yel-
low and White. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, each, 3/6
i m
Beautifully finished
Shooting Game.
Complete with Pistol
and Pellets. Will give
hours of enjoyable
entertainment. At
Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, set 4/3
Toyland at Anthony Horderns' is simply
overflowing with excitement 1 More
Toys than ever before. Dolls, Wheel
Goods, Games, Mechanical Toys . . .
EVERYTHING you could think of to
make their cherished dreams come true
when Santa Claus visits them on
Christmas Eve.
The famous "Golden Arrow"
Racer. Sturdy steel construc-
tion. Long running clockwork.
Length overall, 19 inches. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price 13/6
The "Peerless” Truck, No. 21. For children 5 to 8 years. Length
52 inches. Crank drive. 10 inch Disc wheels. All acces-
sories. Blue enamelled. At Anthony Horderns'. Price, 61/9
/
v.
The "Peerless" Sports Car, No. 23. For children 2 to 5 years. Crank
drive. 8 inch Disc wheels. Length 34 inches. Enamelled Red or
Blue. At Anthony Horderns', Price, each 33/11
Cyclops Scooter,
No. 3. Length 4 4
inches. 11 in. disc
wheels. Roller
bearing. Brake
and parking stand.
At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, 27/9
"Baby Betty" . . every
girlie's favourite. Com-
position head. Celluloid
arms and legs. Soft
body. Dressed in var-
ious colours of organdie
muslin. Sleeping eyes.
At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes, ins.—
10 12 14 16
4/9 5/9 8/6 9/11
PRICES—
At Anthony Horderns'.
Sizes, ins. 18 20 22
PRICES 12/6 14/9 19/9
The popular "Topsy"
Doll. All composition.
Dressed White mus-
lin with coloured
pipings. 12 ins. high.
At Anthony Horderns'.
PRICE, each 5/-
• Toys—Second Floor—Gconjc Street. Free delivery city and suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Phone M 2401
Day or Night


And Soberly Attested
BEER AND BETTY
BY S.H. COURTIER
DRAWING BY ARIA.
WHEN I was appointed supercargo to the
Walrus —3000 tons, Captain Oliver Ballast,
bound for Hong Kong with assorted ales —I
anticipated just another of my many routine
trips. And such it would have been but for the
appearance of Betty.
Betty—the skipper called her that in honor of his
late wife—joined the ship in peculiar circumstances.
A week out of Port Phillip, the skipper and I were
splicing the mainbrace at eight bells of the forenoon
watch when we were startled by a tremendous hissing.
“Wot the flamin’ ’Ades is that?” the skipper in-
quired, his pot dropping to the floor.
I was not able to enlighten him, though I sus-
pected that every steampipe in the Walrus had simul-
taneously burst. We bolted on deck to find the mate,
attended by members of the watch, gazing at the star-
board quarter, where the ungodly uproar appeared to
originate. In response to the skipper, the mate said
he did not know what was wrong, nor was he parti-
cularly anxious to poke his head over the side to
find out.
“Ar-r-r-uh! ” skipper exclaimed, and he called for
volunteers to investigate the trouble. When no one
stepped forward he threw discretion to the winds. “Y’
putty-ribbed swabs!” he bellowed, “I’ll do it meself.”
Accordingly he approached the side and peeped
over —for perhaps the tenth of a second. Then he
sprang back with a cry of terror. At the same moment
a frightful apparition of huge gaping jaws and pro-
digious fangs rose over the quarter and glared
at him. It was Betty.
U7ROM the crow’s-nest I had a good view of what
* followed. Within a split second the sole person
remaining on the deck was the skipper himself; I
accidentally kicked him on the jaw as I leapt up the
rigging.
There he lay, temporarily hors de combat, with
that fearful head pendent over him. The head, I
might add, was the forward terminus of a great sinuous
body which was, as we proved by actual measure-
ment later,-fully sixty yards long. At the time, how-
ever, I was not interested in that aspect of the matter,
nor in the fact that I had received optical demonstra-
tion of the existence of that creature, regarded by
some as fabulous, the sea-serpent. I was waiting for
the skipper to disappear within its maw.
Strangely, he did not suffer that unpleasant fate.
Recovering consciousness he stared upward in utter
despair. Suddenly hope dawned in his eyes. He rose
to a sitting position. The serpent did not devour him.
He gained his feet. The serpent merely swung its head
after him and increased the awful noise.
The skipper peered into the yawning mouth, then
bellowed for all hands to appear on deck. “It can’t
bite,” he said, thrusting his hand into the hissing
cavern. “Got a bone in the gullet.”
We gradually assembled about the skipper, though
at a respectful distance. The truth of his statement
was evident to our eyes. Wedged just above the
creature’s tonsils was what I rightly judged to be the
vertebra of a whale. The serpent was as harmless as
a rabbit with a broken jaw.
“Now, men,” the skipper roared, “slug the brute
with the yardarm while it can’t move.”
By this time the importance of the occasion had
dawned on me ; so, as the men moved to put the in-
human suggestion
into action, 1 raised
my voice in protest.
I was not going to
see the world’s first
sea-serpent slain out
of hand.
“Skipper,” I said
earnestly, “here we have the
living proof of what scientists
have hitherto declared to be a bio-
logical and alcoholic impossibility, and
you’re going to kill it! No, by lingo,
no!”
“Blast the scientists,” said the
skipper.
I pointed to the sea-serpent’s eyes,
brimming with pitiful appeal. “Look
at that, just asking us to get the bone
out. Skipper, is it going to be said you
turned down 2 dumb creature in dis-
tress?”
“Never let .a snake git away on
me yit an’ I’m not startin’ now,” he
growled.
Nevertheless I had won. While
I hitched a chain around the bone the
skipper reluctantly ordered the hands
to man the winch. The job was
tougher than I expected. For some
minutes it seemed as if the winch
wasn’t up to the strain, but steam told
at last, and out came the bone.
The serpent rested its head on the
taffrail with every indication of relief.
Then it threw a backward somersault
and vanished beneath the waves.
Thinking it was saying farewell we
rushed to the side. The skipper gave
a scornful laugh.
“There’s yer kindness ter animals,”
he sneered.
The serpent itself was my reply,
for at that moment it shot up out of
the water carrying a sixteen-foot shark
in its jaws. With a gaze ardent with
respect and admiration it deposited the
shark at our feet. Then it took up a
position some fifty yards abreast of
the ship and cruised along, eyeing us pleasantly though
watchfully.
“There you are, Cap,” I observed. “Gratitude.”
“Cripes, yer may be right,” the skipper admitted,
hopping out of reach of the shark’s teeth.
And that was the way we were adopted by Betty.
Bemused by varied emotions we watched her undulat-
ing over the swell at a steady eight-knot clip. Then
the skipper got a swipe behind the knees from the
tail of the shark. ,
“Kill that flamin’ brute, somebody,” he snarled,
picking himself up. “An’ back ter your ruddy work.
Wasted enough time already.”
With a baleful scowl he retired to the chartroom,
where, when I joined him, I found him making an
entry in the log:
125 deg. 43min. 27sec. E., 17deg. 38min. 54sec. S.
SOS from sea-serpent. Removed obstruction from
throat. Eight bells, all’s well.
“Wonderful instinct, gratitood,” the skipper
murmured pensively.
'"THAT was not exactly how the crew described it
* later when we counted no fewer than forty-seven
sharks, three octopuses and ten swordfish, in various
stages of dissolution, littering the deck. Granting that
Betty had occasion for gratitude, she was carrying the
sentiment a trifle too far. The skipper, forgetting that
a short time before he had wanted to break Betty’s
back for her, merely laughed.
“All good money on the side,” he said. And he
ordered the hands to get busy and skin the repulsive
objects and pack them away for sale to the heathen
Chinee.
After presenting us with
the spoil from the deep Betty
remained at a distance. We
could see she was favorably
inclined towards us, but she
resisted all blandishments to
attract her on board. The
skipper exhausted every ruse
known to himself and the
crew. Seeing that the services
of an expert herpetologist
were needed I took the
matter in hand.
I obtained a saucer of
milk —condensed, of course,
as we carried no cow —and
the loan of a fireman’s tin
whistle. I commenced to play
the “Song of the Volga
Boatmen.” Betty, figuratively
speaking, pricked up her ears.
I glided into “No Burdens
Yonder” and she began to edge nearer. I burst forth
into “The Harp That Once.” To my dismay Betty
at once displayed signs of agitation and went into
reverse. Kicking myself for forgetting that any hint
of Ireland was anathema to snakes, I hastily switched
into “Three Blind Mice.” Before I had reached the
last sad note Betty was up the side and lapping the
milk as though she had been doing it all her life.
For once the skipper’s tongue was scuppered, but,
as I told him, I had never known milk and music to
fail with a snake of any description.
In two days Betty was at home on the Walrus
and had superseded the cat in the affections of the


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Seccnd £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, I 939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
crew. As for the skipper, his first homicidal intentions
had sunk into oblivion and he had assumed all the
credit of Betty’s capture. In fact, he went silly over
her, petting and fondling her at every opportunity.
The result was that Betty quickly developed uppish
ideas and seemingly imagined that the ship was merely
a place where she could bask in the sun.
Unless you've experienced it, you don't know what
a confounded nuisance a hundred and eighty feel ol
sea-snake can be, for, instead of coiling up. as an ordi-
nary snake would, Betty must try to occupy as much of
the deck-space as she could. You would emerge from the
gloom of the after companion and, your eyes dazzled
by the light of day, tread on a tail and hear an agon-
ised squeal somewhere up on the fo’c’sle. You
couldn’t help it, however much you disliked hurting
a harmless creature; the Walrus wasn’t the Queen
Mary.
The incident of the funnel also served to illus-
trate the effect of the skipper’s adulation upon Betty.
The Walrus suddenly and inexplicably began to lose
speed. The skipper yelled profanities down the tube
at McAvish the chief, and Mac bawled obscenities
up the tube at the skipper. Finally Mac came up. He
was fighting mad.
“Look,” he fumed, pointing at Betty wrapped
around the funnel with her wide-open mouth enjoying
the fragrance of Newcastle coal, “how the devil can
a man keep steam up with a thing like that blocking
the draught?”
The skipper refused to do anything about it. If
Betty wanted to swallow smoke let her. He wasn’t
interfering with her pleasures. Mac retired in im-
potent fury. It was apparent, therefore, that the
skipper would make a perfect fool of Betty if he
wasn’t checked. I determined to talk very seriously
to him.
“The way you’re going, skipper,” I said, “you’ll
ruin that snake, and, what’s worse, all our chances of
becoming wealthy. Betty’s a wonderful money-box
properly handled, but she’ll be worth less than a
poodle-dog if you don’t take a pull.”
The skipper stared incredulously. “What! That
snake worth money! Garn, ’aul in yer courses an’
pipe down, mister.”
“Well, she is worth money,” 1 asserted, and I pro-
ceeded to show how.
In the first place I pointed out that Betty was
unique, being the only sea-serpent in captivity. I then
reminded the skipper what a wonderful draw snakes
were in sideshows or at the zoo. Besides, what about
the extraordinary interest people take in dead snakes,
measuring them and holding them up by the tail to
be photographed? And Betty was far from being
dead.
“If we put her on show,” 1 said, “she’ll coin a
fortune for us in no time at all. Just to show you—
what’s the population of the world?”
“ ’Ow the ’ell do I know?” the skipper snapped.
“Doesn’t matter,” I replied, “only this. Fully
three-quarters of the world’s residents will pay us a
bob a head just for the pleasure of a look at Betty.
Work out the profits for yourself.”
That put a different light upon the matter, and
the skipper became highly excited. He anxiously
asked to be let into the details of my scheme.
“Well, it’s very simple, skipper. We’ll take Betty
from port to port and exhibit her at each place. Of
course, we’ll use only the very best ports where the
best people are.”
“An’ the best pubs,” the skipper added thought-
fully. It was that simple remark that inspired me to
my most remarkable effort. I clapped the skipper on
the back with delight. “By Jingo, skipper, I’ve got
it! There’s no need for us to yank Betty all round
the world. We’ll select one port, the most suitable
stand, so to speak, and let the world come to us.”
“An’ where’s that?” the skipper asked.
A glow of triumph lit my features.
“Sydney Harbor,” I said.
The skipper swore a tremendous oath. The ad-
vantages of the harbor were obvious even to him.
With its many appointments, such as the ’Loo and
the Spit and Fort Denison, it was unquestionably the
best thing of its kind extant. And if anything more
were needed to make it perfect, Betty was the answer.
The only harbor in the world with a sea-snake —
Sydney Harbor! I imagined the thrill of watching
Betty basking on Pinchgut.
• “Or loopin’ the loop orf the bridge,” said the
skipper.
“Absolutely all good money to us,” I summed
up. “Royalties from the Harbor Trust and life-
savers for cleaning up the sharks, commissions from
the pubs for attracting tourists, publicity fees from
the City Council. And, over all, the bob a time to
see Betty.”
“We’re ’ome on the bit,” the skipper declaimed.
“But,”. I warned him, “we can’t rush into this
baldheaded. Betty must be trained. The public
won’t stand raw art. And we can't train her while
you’re fooling with her all the time. From now on.
skipper, cut out the petting. It's hard work for Betty
till we’re ready to start in the harbor.”
“She’s in yore ’ands,” the skipper said.
UNFORTUNATELY, the damage had been done.
Betty’s nature had lost its pristine simplicity. I
could not coax a single response from her. For a
week or more I was sunk in despair, then suddenly a
way to lead her opened up. It was the discovery of
Betty strung athwart the bows, head to port, tail to
starboard, with a fog of beery aroma hanging about
her. We raced down into the forward hold, where a
heap of broken staves told the talc. Betty had swiped
no fewer than sixteen eighteen-gallon barrels of malted
ale, part of our consignment to Hong Kong.
Very annoying, no doubt, but it indicated the
solution of my difficulties with Betty. 1 started giving
her an issue of beer at the end of her daily lesson. The
consequence was her training proceeded apace. Betty
would do anything for beer.
1 did not realise how much she would do till she
went on strike for more. Instead of one barrel a
day she demanded two. And she got them. In the
circumstances we had to yield to her ; but we were just
piling up trouble for ourselves, for it was not long
before Betty’s price had risen to live barrels a day.
“Cripes, she’ll clean us out yit,” the skipper said.
His words were grimly prophetic. Betty’s appetite
for beer soon grew so exorbitant that unless she got
a dozen barrels each day she would have deserted the
ship. She was, as a result, more than half stonkered
most of the time. On top of that came the woeful dis-
covery that we were running short of beer. We had
only four or five days’ supplies even if every man on
the Walrus immediately signed the pledge. The con-
signee’s share, 1 need not say, was nah-poo.
However, I was not beaten. My instinctive know-
ledge of snakes and their ways again rose to the
occasion.
“Where’s the nearest port?” 1 asked the skipper.
“Broome. Two days away.”
“Good,” I said. “We’ll head in there and load
up with more beer.”
“Wot about the blinkin’ snake?” said the skipper.
“Well, we can't take her with us. It would ruin
our ddbut in Sydney. She’ll have to stay here.”
“But ’ow?” the skipper gaped.
“Leave it to me and lend us your cap,” 1 replied.
He complied with my request and watched my
subsequent actions with wondering eyes. 1 made a
small but sturdy raft. On this I fastened the skipper’s
cap ; then, after lashing it to a sea-anchor, 1 heaved
it overboard. I next drew Betty’s attention to the
cap. I was not mistaken. Without hesitation she slid
into the water and fastened her eyes on it/ The crew
yelled their admiration.
“If you drop your hat in front of a snake,” 1 said,
“it’ll stay there and watch it as long as you like. I’ve
killed many a wriggler that way. Starved ’em to death.
Now get our present bearings so we’ll know where
to return and we’re set.”
The skipper did so and we set out for Broome,
leaving Betty lying awash and staring immovably at
the cap. We reached Broome in the time stated by
the skipper, and were astonished to find the entire
population on the pier, cheering wildly as we drew
in. We understood the reason when, as we explained
our mission, the jubilation changed to bitter revilings.
“A shipload of beer!” said the port officer caus-
tically. “Break it down. That’s what we thought you
were bringing us. There’s a drought on here. You’ll
have to go on to Fremantle if you want beer.”
Well, that tore it properly. Instead of being four
or five days away from Betty we were absent for over
a month. And when we did get back there was sign
neither of Betty nor the cap. Not one sign, though
we scoured the seas for hundreds of miles around. In
the end we had to drink the beer ourselves.
Still, I can’t believe Betty is gone for ever. Some-
where, on the vast lonely bosom of the ocean, she is
drifting with her eyes fixed on the skipper’s cap. There
is qnly one thing we can and on loading up with
beer until eventually we do find her.
STUDY
BY LES ROBINSON.
IT was, I think, because I had applied Lor a posi-
tion in an educational establishment that L had
such an unpleasant dream.
“Your calligraphy is very bad indeed, and
you arc backward in arithmetic,” the headmaster was
saying, gazing at me over his spectacles with dis-
approval. “I would advise you to spend your even-
ings and week-ends in trying to improve both, instead
of gallivanting about.”
1 determined, though a born gallivanter, to take
his advice, but, somehow or other, it didn’t seem to
make much difference, for when the examination
results were out I nearly always, by a familiar but
none the less sickening coincidence, found that 1
had been awarded a paltry twenty or thirty marks.
The dream-scene changed. 1 found that I had
left school, and, to my dismay, was an office-boy
again. “Your calligraphy is execrable,” the boss was
saying peevishly. “You don’t seem to be at all good
at figures either, and are most lamentably deficient in
other respects. 1 would advise you, my boy, to attend
night school instead of standing about street corners
yarning and smoking.”
How f wished, when I woke next morning feeling
jaded and depressed, that I had not answered the
advertisement after all. What did T know about educa-
tion? Had I ever assimilated properly even the rudi-
ments of one?
“Your calligraphy is execrable. You don’t seem
to be at all good at figures either.” I could still
(even while shaving and standing under the shower)
hear teachers and employers telling me so and com-
menting unfavorably as well upon my many other
deficiencies, which seemed to keep on increasing
instead of diminishing despite my unstinted, though
irksome, efforts to be so entirely different as to be
almost unrecognisable.
Then, after a while, I told myself that, since I
had answered the confounded advertisement, there
was only one thing to do. The vacancy was not to
be filled for three months. I must, as in my school
and office-boy days, eschew inaction, recreation, diver-
sions of any kind, and, for the period specified, once
again, with fortitude and assiduity, strive to make my
handwriting legible, if possible, and to solve, once
more, even by accident sometimes as formerly, the
simpler arithmetical problems.
When those three months had joined the millions
of others that, from time immemorial, have sped or
dawdled by, I was requested by the management of
the educational establishment to call and be inter-
viewed by its staff superintendent.
J NOTICED, as soon as I was ushered into his study,
* that he resembled a large, overgrown schoolboy.
He, however, although I coughed after standing there,
hat in hand, for a moment or two, took not the
slightest notice of me. He was intent upon fashioning
a cocked hat out of a sheet of notepaper. Seeming
very satisfied indeed when he had completed it, he
began next to make a paper boat. That, when
finished, he regarded as an even greater success, evi-
dently, for he smiled as he flicked it towards me
across the shiny surface of his table.
Still without a word, he immediately commenced
to construct a paper aeroplane, which, upon com-
pletion, he flung into the air, narrowly missing my
ear. Chuckling with a childlike elation he was no
longer able, it seemed, to suppress, as he watched
its brief flight, he now began to make a paper frog.
This seemed a little more difficult or involved, for he
frowned slightly and it took him longer, but he suc-
ceeded—beyond his expectations, I gathered—for he
seemed positively to gloat as he put the finishing
touches to it.
“Can you make them?” he asked, breaking the
silence at last.
“I'm afraid not,” 1 replied ruefully.
“Why, any schoolboy can, and a heap more
besides,” he exclaimed in pained surprise.
He then proceeded to show me a couple of simple
but nevertheless ingenious tricks with string.
“Know any?” he queried.
“One,” I murmured. “At least I used to. 1 don’t
know whether I can do it now.”
He handed me the string.
I tried, but perhaps because of nervousness, per-
haps because I was never intended to be a performer
anyway, I merely succeeded in creating a tangle.
I think he must have come to the conclusion
that, as I could neither make things out of paper nor
perform tricks with string, my education had been
sadly neglected in other respects as well. At all events
he was, t could plainly see, disinterested in me, for,
after a few perfunctory and for the most part irrele-
vant questions, he intimated in an absentminded
fashion, for he had now begun, with a fresh sheet of
o Continued on page 7.)


When Jupiter Double-crosses Scorpio
SKINNY HAZLITT, ASTROLOGER
BY A.C. HEADLEY.
DRAWINGS BY LOCK.
“ Q CUT,” said Skinny, “you remember the way
Bill was going on about astrology.”
“Do I remember?” said I. “Ain’t I
Taurus the Bull, and I gotter look out for
accidents when Jupiter double-crosses Scorpio? Ain’t
you Leo the Lion, ain’t Rusty Nailon Rusty the
Rat? Do I remember the dough Bill passed to Rusty
Nailon to save you from breakin’ your heart? Do I re-
member? I’m tryin’ to forget.”
Skinny thumbed the pack of cards and dealt
himself four aces.
“Scut,” he said, “there’s money in it. It’s just
like tellin your fortune from a teacup, only you don’t
even need the tea. All you gotter do is tell ’em to
beware on certain days, and when nothing happens
they think it was because they were bewaring, and
what a wonderful astrologer you are. It’s easy. Scut,
we’re going into the astrology profession.”
“Skinny,” said I, “the profession is crowded.
“There’s Snowy Fallon, who is Sago the Seer ; there’s
Dickie Johnson, who is Seero the Sage ; and there’s
Joe Porter, who puts ads. in the paper and calls
imself Mysto the Mystic. The city is lousy with
them.”
Skinny shuffled the cards.
“It ain’t the city I’m thinkin’ of,” he said, “it’s
the rural industries. We gotter bring the joy of the
future into the ’earts of the yokels.”
There s just one trouble,” said I, “and that is we
don’t know anything about astrology.”
Skinny grinned. “For sixpence you can buy a
book all about it. And we could borrow Chirpy
Wilson’s tent.”
“Chirpy,” I told him, “is in gaol. Six months for
objecting to police protection.”
That’s what I’m sayin’,” said Skinny; “’e"can’t
be usin’ ’is outfit. We’ll go an’ visit ’im.”
Chirpy was pleased to see us.
“The outfit?” he said. “Sure, you can have it.
I won’t be wantin’ it. What’s the spiel—bearded lady,
crystal-gazing or Dr. Moan’s Elixir of Life?”
“Astrology,” said Skinny.
Chirpy put his finger under his nose as though he
wanted to stop a sneeze.
“Wait a bit,” he said. “Don’t tell me. It’s the
stars, and Leo the Lion, and propitious times for
business enterprise.”
Skinny dived into his pocket and pulled out the
book.
“Chirpy,” he said, “when was you born?”
jl£ VENTUALLY we had the show ready for the
road. Skinny had had a sign painted with fish
and cows and symbols all over it and called himself
Professor Veero, the Wise Man of the East.
Things surprised me, they went so well. There
were we practically turning away customers. All the
female yokels for miles brought in the egg money for
the pleasure of having Skinny call them Taurus the
Bull or Scorpio the Scorpion. It got so that even
the men came along to ask us if we’d mention to their
wives that to-morrow was a propitious time for
corned-beef and carrots or lamb’s fry.
We’d done about half a dozen of the bush towns,
showing a pretty fair dividend, when Chirpy Wilson
showed up.
“Skinny,” he said, “I been out a coupla weeks an’
I been lookin’ for yer ever since. This is a beaut.
This is big dough for us if on’y we get there in time.”
“What’s a beaut.,” said I, “an’ what’s big dough?”
“Look,” said Chirpy, “you know how women
fall for this bunk about the stars? Well, listen ; I’ve
found a woman that can put big dough in the purse.
She just laps up this astrology stuff. She even falls
in love and out of it by the stars.”
“Listen, Chirpy,” said Skinny, “in this town we’ve
got dozens of ’em like that.”
Chirpy stuck his finger under his nose.
“Skinny,” he said, “this is diff'rent. She’s got a
horse. I see it with me own eyes do six in one-
fifteen.”
Skinny was beginning to look interested.
“I’ve seen sixes run faster,” he said.
Chirpy waved his hand. “Yeah, but this is
diff’rent. This is bush-track stuff. Skinny, we could
clean up plenty. Listen, it’s so good that she’s got
three punters in on it with her already, and it ain’t
even ’ad a start yet.”
“And where do we come in?” said Skinny.
“It’s the astrology, Skinny. She does everything by
it. She follows it up in one of them women’s
papers. She even runs the horse by it. In fact, she’s
called it Libra, because it was born in October. It’s
been entered and scratched out of three races because
Libra wasn’t propitious. And now it’s entered for
We’n’sd’y, and look.”
He pulled a paper out of his pocket and pointed.
“Libra [it said], this week you will be successful
in your undertakings. It is a good time for personal
enterprise, particularly on Wednesday afternoon.”
“There you are,” said Chirpy, “an’ unless we get
to work on a little idea I got tucked up me sleeve
the punters will be there to tear the pockets out of
the Ring. You can tell her that the time ain’t come
for the ’orse to win. All y’ gotter do is fix up your
tent in the town. I’ll see that she comes to see you.
Listen, Skinny, we can run this ’orse just like it was
our own.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “Professor Veero has de-
cided to go into the horseracing game.”
“Scut,” said Chirpy, “it’s a beaut. She’d believe
anything a genuine astrologer told her.”
“We hope,” said I.
“Listen,” said Chirpy, “I’ll go on ahead and then
youse two catch the next train and set up your stand.
I’ll put in some good work on all the things you said
that came true.”
and I filled in the morning packing up
the things, and the ladies who came to watch us
kept asking if we were moving because there was
going to be a flood or an earthquake or somethting.
It was a town where this Mrs. Odgers
lived, and it looked as though we might manage to
do a decent amount of business even without the horse
deal. We humped the luggage down from the station
to a vacant allotment and spent the rest of the after-
noon fixing up the tent. It was dark by the time
we’d finished, and we went down to the pub for some
food. The first thing we noticed was Chirpy. He
winked as we came in and put his finger up to his lip.
Skinny ordered a couple of beers.
Chirpy edged his way along to where we were
and put his beer up to cover his mouth.
“Listen,” he whispered, “Mrs. Odgers’ll be along
firs’ thing in the mornin’. I tol’ ’er all about you an’
she couldn’ ’ardly wait. You know what t’ do in the
mornin’.” And he slipped away.
“Listen, Skinny,” said I,
“maybe it ain’t entered your
thick skull, but ’ow are we to
know this Mrs, Odgers when
she does show up?”
“I never thought of
that,” said Skinny. “The
only thing is we better ask
all our customers what their
names are before we start in
on the stars.”
H RS. ODGERS came
* after three Smiths.
“Ah,” said Skinny, “you
wish to know your future,
which is directed by the stars
which guide your destiny?”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Odgers.
“First,” said Skinny, “you’ve got to tell me when
you were born.”
“On the eighth of April, eighteen eighty-live, at
sixteen minutes past eleven in the morning. Aren’t
the stars wonderful to tell your fortune?” she gushed.
Skinny waved his hand.
“Lady,” he said, “I’ll have to consult my chart
of the heavens.” He dived into the other half of the
lent.
“Isn’t it wonderful?” said Mrs. Odgers, turning
to me.
“The way Professor Veero does it,” said I, “it’s
nothing short of a miracle.”
Skinny came back.
“Lady,” he said, “you’re a Hairys, which is bad,
and on We’n’sd’y of this week you will ’ave a great
disappointment.”
“Ah,” said Mrs. Odgers, “that can’t be right,
because the horoscope in the ‘Women’s Paper’ prac-
tically says that Libra will win.”
“Libra?” said Skinny, looking as though he didn’t
know what she was talking about. “The sign of
Libra?”
“It’s my horse,” said Mrs. Odgers. “It was foaled
in October and that’s why I call it Libra. Look!”
She fished out a copy of the paper that Chirpy had
shown us. “You see, it says that it is particularly
good on Wednesday afternoon, and it’s in the two
o’clock race.”
“Lady,” said Skinny, “you’re makin’ a terrible
mistake. You’ve been forgettin’ to take the sign of
Libra in conjunction with your own sign of Hairys.
You gotter get them so that they are both workin’
together. If I was you I’d scratch your horse on
We’n’sd’y.”
“But I can’t scratch it,” she said. “I've promised
to let it run. There are three gentlemen who train
and feed it for me. They are getting impatient. I’ve
got to let it run, but now I won’t put any money
on it.”
“It’d be better,” said Skinny, “if it didn’t run
at all. It might break its leg.”
“That’s true,” said Mrs. Odgers, “but I can’t
break my word.” Then she was gone.
\UE met Chirpy in the pub that afternoon. It was
. empty, so he didn’t trouble to sneak along the
bar. Skinny told him what had happened.
“Skinny,” he said, “we gotter do somethin’. Libra
ain’t gotter win t’-morrer.”
“The way you been talkin’ about this Libra,”
said I, “it can’t help winning.”
Chirpy shoved his finger under his nose.
“Scut,” he said, “I been thinkin’ of that an’ I’ve
been talkin’ to the boy that rides it. I got an idea
that ’e’d listen to reason.”
It was dark and there weren’t many people around,
so the three of us went down to show the boy some
reason. He was a little runt of a feller, who didn’t
look as though your false teeth would be safe with
him.
“Ha,” he said when Chirpy worded him about
our proposition. “You gonna bring dessication to the
king of sports. Me soul flinches from your ’orrible
suggestion.”
“Look,” said Chirpy, “there’ll be a real packet
in it for you when we clean up. All we’re askin’
y’ to do is see that Libra don’t strain ’imself unneces-
sary. It’s just like we belonged to the R.S.P.C.A.”


notepaper, to make something else, that the interview
was at an end.
A few days later I received, without the least
surprise, the typewritten thanks of the management for
having answered its advertisement, coupled with a
notification that the vacancy had been filled.
Why, oh why, I asked myself, had I not wasted
my time at school; frittered my evenings and week-
ends away? I know lots of fellows who seemed
always to do so, yet in after life they had got on
well in sport, or as bookmakers, shopkeepers, com-
mercial travellers, contractors, agriculturists, show-
men, estate, insurance, shipping and employment
agents, aldermen, hotelkeepers, politicians, mechanics,
musicians, painters, warders, undertakers or laundry-
men.
Only for those studious habits of mine the fatal
promptitude with which I took always the advice
tendered me, whether it conflicted with my own
inclinations or not, I might now be employed in an
educational capacity, or as staff superintendent of a
paper-toy factory.
The little feller’s eyes got smaller. “I couldn’t
besmirch me honor f’r less’n twenty quid.” he said.
“The stewards is very strict.”
Chirpy took us to one side.
“Skinny,” he said, “we gotter do it. You’ve got
some dough. We gotter stop Libra from winnin’
i'-morrer. Besides, if it runs bad it’ll drive the punters
off it an’ we’ll ’ave the market to ourselves. We can
work it so that we’ll git any old price when we back
it.”
Skinny dived into his pocket and pulled out the
notes. Chirpy handed them to the little feller.
“Gents,” he said, “it’d be waste if you backed
Libra with peanuts t’-morrer.”
\A RS. ODGERS was in early Thursday morning.
IVI “Professor,” she said, “you were right, and
I'm so happy that I did not invest a penny on Libra.”
“The stars,” said Skinny, “hold destiny in their
hands.”
Mrs. Odgers smiled. “But it’s all right now for
Saturday. I’ve found a horoscope that is propitious
for both Libra and Aries, and my horse is entered
for a maiden event.”
Skinny looked stunned for a minute.
“Lady,” he said, “are you sure you got a cor-
rect reading?”
“It’s in the> newspaper,” said Mrs. Odgers.
“Ah,” said Skinny, “newspapers. You ca’n’t take
no notice of them —it’s just mass production. They
ain’t fitted to everyone. ‘Ow can they tell you was
born at such ’n’ such a time?”
“That’s true,” said Mrs. Odgers.
“For two shillin’s,” said Skinny, “I can give you
a special readin’.”
Mrs. Odgers fumbled in her bag.
“Lady,” said Skinny, “Saturday is a bad day for
you. Capricorn is in opposition to Jupiter and Virgo
is low in the west. It couldn’ be worse. Lady, I
wouldn’ on no account run that horse.”
“But I’ve promised,” said Mrs. Odgers, “and after
I read that bit in the paper it seemed so good.”
To cut matters short we saw Chirpy, and the
upshot of it was that Skinny paid out another twenty
notes.
“Skinny,” said Chirpy, “we’ll get it all back with
interest. Supposin’ it does corst y’ another twenty.
What’s it matter? There’s the market improvin’ all
the time. And then, if the ’orse is good enough,
which it is, there ain’t nothin’ t’ stop us buyin’ it off
the old girl. All y’ gotter do is tell ’er that five is ’er
lucky number, and she’ll sell it to us for a fiver. That’s
all you gotter do. It’s a real racehorse an’ you got
the chance to test an’ try before you buy. You got
the chance to clean up big. That’s what you gotter
think of.”
On the Saturday the boy besmirched his honor
again.
But I was getting a bit sick of it when the old
lady toddled in on the Monday to tell us she’d had
a special horoscope from the city which gave the
conditions O.K. for the next mid-week meeting.
Skinny tried to drum her off it, but it seemed
that all she did was go round promising people to
start the horse. Chirpy kidded Skinny in for the
twenty notes again.
“Listen,” he said, “the punters are layin’ orf it a
bit now. They ain’t so keen. The price keeps goin’
up.”
Libra ran a bad race on the Wednesday, and
Mrs. Odgers cdlne in to congratulate us. She wasn’t
worrying much about the horse, because it wasn’t
entered till the following week.
“Scut,” said Skinny when she’d
gone, “Libra is gonna win his next
start, punters or no punters.”
Chirpy agreed with us.
“Skinny,” he said, “I know you
must be getting pretty low in the
funds. We’ll go right out and tell the
boy that we don’t want no strong arm
next start.”
The boy didn’t seem pleased.
“Listen,” he said, “what about me
reputation? I been besmirching me
honor and what do I get out of it?”
Chirpy rubbed his finger under
his nose.
“That’s what we’re telling you,”
he said. “We decided that honesty is
the best policy.”
“It ain’t the best policy for me,”
said the boy, “unless I get something
out of it. It oughter be worth thirty
quid for me to win that race.”
Chirpy started to argue, but we
could see right away that he wasn’t
interested in arguments.
“Thirty quid,” he said, “or no
winner.”
“Skinny,” said Chirpy, “this is the
chance for yer to git your sixty quid
back. The boy’ll take thirty and
you’ll be on a winner. That’s only
ninety and you’ll be able to git ten to
one about it. Even if you’ve on’y got
twenty quid to stick on it, you’ll be
showin’ a good profit. And then we
can think about buyin’ the nag.”
Y\J ELL, that was that, and on the
day of the race we went down
to the course. Libra was in the first,
and you could hear bookies every-
where calling it at ten to one. By this time we only
had about twenty quid of our bank left, so Skinny
dived in and shoved the lot on.
I’ll never forget that race and the way Skinny
looked when Libra tailed in a bad last. He looked
at Chirpy and I looked at Chirpy, while all Chirpy
did was look at us and rub his finger under his
nose.
“Skinny,” he said after a bit, “something must
have happened to Libra.”
Skinny looked at him.
“Libra,” he said. “You can ’ave Libra, you can
’ave Taurus and Scorpio and Leo —all of ’em. You
can ’ave the lot.”
“I’ll be needin’ the tent,” said Chirpy, very soft.
“I gotter make a livin’ now I done all me cash on
Libra.”
“Chirpy,” Skinny said, “you can ’ave it.”
Out of the wreck we’d managed to keep enough
for our fares, and we came straight back to the city.
We were dead broke, and we had to get money from
somewhere, so Skinny hit on the idea of touching
Snowy Fallon for some.
“Scut,” he said, “Snowy is Sago the Seer, and
the way people fall for this astrology game he oughter
be rolling in coin.”
We went along to see Snowy. The way he
greeted us you’d have thought we were a couple of
rich uncles.
“Skinny,” he said, “I been lookin’ all over for
you. I heard you was in the astrology game.”
Skinny shrugged his shoulders.
“Snowy,” he said, “now you’re hearing we’re out
of it.”
Snowy grinned. “All the better,” he said. “I
want someone to look after me business.”
“You goin’ somewhere?” said Skinny.
“Listen,” said Snowy. “I just got a wonderful
opportunity. Chirpy Wilson just writ and told me
that a woman who’s mad about astrology owns a
racehorse that can do six in one-fifteen.”
Skinny looked at me and then suddenly he started
to laugh.
“Listen, Snowy,” he said. “We’ll be back in
half an hour.”
I didn’t know where he was going, but I fol-
lowed him. He dived straight out of the place and
along the street and into a big building. It was one
of those sporting newspaper places. Skinny walked
right up to the inquiry desk.
“Listen,” he said, “I want to find out about the
form of a horse called Libra. It’s been racing in
the country districts.”
The fellow went away and came back in a few
minutes.
“Libra,” he said, “used to be a horse called
Boots. It changed its name a month ago. It’s been
racing for three years and hasn’t been placed better
than seventh.”
“Yeah,” said Skinny, “and who owns it?”
The feller looked at his paper.
“The owner,” he said —“Odgers, a Mrs. J. Odgers.
She bought it a month ago from a feller named
Wilson.”
Skinny shoved his hands into his pockets.
“Scut,” he said, “Wilson, a Mr. Chirpy Wilson.”
I didn’t know what to say.
“Scut,” Skinny went on, “let’s go back and look
after Snowy’s business before he loses it.”
He was a little runt of a feller. “I couldn’t besmirch me honor f’r less’n twenty quid,” he said.
Little Lament.
When shall I go home again
To where my childhood has not ceased?
And how shall I this grief contain
That cannot any how be eased
Except near waters that I know
That run obliquely to the west
From where the twilight mountains glow
Like opals on the evening’s breast ?
Except in fields that swim with dew
When morning touches them to light,
I cannot know that joy I knew;
Or when across the winter night
That holds great stars upon its breath
Paused in the silence after rain,
A curlew, like the wake of death,
Cries down its unintended pain ;
Or when the orange orchards flower
Beside the river, to the south,
Haunting the moonlight hour by hour
Blown softly north into my mouth,
Where by the north-west-loitering stream
l sit, more young and more alone
And happier, in this watching dream,
Than 1 Had ever dare to own.
Say how I shall this grief contain
That cannot any ways be eased ?
O when shall l go home again
Where my lost childhood has not ceased ?
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


BRINGMHILDREN
TO MELBOURNE
You enjoy a family holiday at the
Victoria in a family atmosphere.
The surroundings are dignified,
cuisine excellent, and special ar-
rangements have been made tor the
accommodation of children. "Room
only" tariff: 4/- to 7/6 singles; 8/- to
16/- doubles. Ulus, booklet from
Dept. IN.
VICTORIA
PALACE
JtS LIT. COLLINS ST.
t... H.in MELBOURNE
j
A central market for 300,000 buyers
COME TO THE
Twice a year, 300,000 shrewd buyers from all
over the world gather at the Leipzig Inter-
national Trade Fair to investigate the newest
developments in every phase of industry . . .
to gain valuable selling and advertising ideas
. . . and to take advantage of the keen prices.
It will pav YOU to choose YOUR requirements
from the displays of over 0000 exhibitors who
make the Leipzig Trade Fair their selling
centre!
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
(GREATER GERMANY)
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks) available of LARS G.
BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for the
Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis
House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box 3127 P,
Sydney; C. N. KEPPKL, Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne; J. M. BEIERS,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane: H. C. ITTERS-
HAGEN, Slienton Park, W.A.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED.
SPRING FAIR
COMMENCES
MARCH 5. 1939.
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment,
Furniture, Photographic,
Sports Goods, Great En-
gineering and Building Fairs,
The “STETSON”
A new shipment has just arrived
featuring the latest shapes and
shades in 2|, 24, and 2-f inch
brims. Silk Lined 63/-
Unlined 59/6
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
of dolphins, sailors’ cranks, squalls, of going short
of money in port and short of rations at sea.
Utley had very nearly everything to learn about
the sea, which doubled the adventure. Sometimes he
found an original way of getting what he wanted, and
he met every situation, however trivial, with delight-
ful freshness. When he wanted to catch a dolphin
he found he had to jump overboard first to attract
the attention of the school. He then hooked one
with a piece of red rag as a bait:
To my great joy I got a bite and landed the fish.
It fought like the devil. It was the first one I had
ever seen at close quarters, and I thought I had never
seen anything more beautiful. It also did all the right
things in dying. I shed a crogodile tear or two, but
thoroughly enjoyed the fresh food.
At Barbados Utley fell in love ; at Panama he
put a new copper bottom on the Inyala and sailed
through the canal; in the Galapagos Islands he met
dramatic adventure and nearly died of it, scribbling
in his log, “If I have got to die I have had a fitie
time and thoroughly enjoyed myself.” At Tahiti he
married, warning his bride, “With me, vagabondage,
poverty, perhaps disgrace, perhaps success—but that
is very unlikely.” At Suva the voyage ended. He
set up practice as a doctor, and there died of blood
poisoning two years later in April, 1935.
This story is told in the first person in A Modern
Sea Beggar (Peter Davies), pieced together, an obvious
labor of love, from logbook, letters.and a few articles
in yachting magazines, by his widow and his sister.
It makes a good story, and the best thing about it
is the doctor himself, with his joy in life and his
unfailing interest in everything about him.
The Tylorstown Terror.
After watching Jimmy Wilde in one of his fights,
Harry Weldon, the music-hall comedian, asked Mrs.
Wilde, “Who called your husband the Tylorstown
Terror, Mrs. Wilde?” “I think it would be Jack
Scarrott,” she told him ; “and why?” “I’d like to
meet Jack,” mused Weldon; “he must have a kinder
heart than most.”
In his autobiography, Fighting Was My Business
(Michael Joseph, Ltd.), Wilde admits, too, that the
adjective “merciless” was among the many lacked
on to him, but he explains the boxer’s viewpoint;
that, though there is never any desire to see an oppo-
nent badly marked, there is, and must be, a fixed
desire to beat him. “If I saw a man being badly bat-
tered outside the ring,” explains Jimmy, “I don’t think
I could stand it. Any accusation of brutality, levelled
against all boxers as a class and not simply against
one, must be withdrawn because of that fact.”
He could have added that a tremendous amount
of genuine good sportsmanship is also revealed by
boxers in the ring, and he could well have argued
that even an ounce of the quality revealed there,
where men are starkly pitted against each other, has
more real weight than a ton of it displayed at tennis,
golf, cricket or any of the general run of sports where
the test is never either so extreme or so exacting.
Most of Jimmy Wilde’s staggering total of 864
fights were with men heavier than himself. It
is an established axiom of the ring that a man over
12st. can give away all sorts of weight; a lightweight
may give away a pound or two ; but a flyweight
should not give away more than ounces. Wilde, who
weighed a little under 7st., gave away up to 7st. ; he
fought men double his own weight! ’ That is fair
enough ; but he gave away a stone and more to good
men, men in the world-championship class ; and that
is extraordinary. And at that, of his 864 ring battles,
there were only five in which he failed to knock out
his man or get the verdict.
The fights, of course, were not all first-class
affairs. Born in a Welsh mining township, and work-
ing underground in the mines when he was 10 years
old, he did his early fighting with a boxing booth—
Scarrott’s ; after the manner of Jimmy Sharman’s in
Australia. He had his initiation in the Noble Art deep
down underground in the mines, and from a charac-
ter as remarkable as the setting. This was Dai Davis,
“one of the oldest mountain fighters in Wales.”
The mountain fighters, who exist to this day,
although the bouts are more secret now than they
were in those days, were a class apart. They were
descendants, in a boxing sense, from the bare-knuckle
days of the Regency. Fantastic tales of the strength
of the combatants reached me. There was talk of men
lasting 30 and 40 rounds, and being as fresh at the end
of it as at the beginning. I learned soon that it was no
exaggeration. What made it more remarkable was that
the fighters would finish a heavy shift, have a two or
three hours’ sleep, and then walk as many as 10 or 12
miles across the mountains to a fight lasting for hours.
He was to find that these battles went up to 50
rounds. Wilde himself fought with the mountain men,
of course giving away weight. He was skinny to the
point of absurdity; a wiry, thin-stovepipe atom, with
a knockout punch in each hand, no matter what the
size of his opponent. Once to help Scarrott Wilde
signed up to fight for him for four hours for a purse
of £4O. In three and a half hours, without taking his
gloves off, he had nineteen knockouts to his credit;
then half an hour’s rest and another four knockouts.
Twenty-three knockouts, all under sixty seconds, in
four hours, to the credit of a skinny wisp of a boy.
Much of the credit, no doubt, would be due to
his first mentor, who had the right idea not only of
fighting but of the fighting spirit. Wilde, at the time
Dai Davis's assistant, or boy, seeing Davis's face bat-
tered and his knuckles raw one day, asked him what
he’d been doing. Davis’s answer has the classic touch:
“Just keeping fit, boy, just keeping fit.” Persisting,
Wilde gathered that the fight had gone thirty-nine
rounds on a hot day in the hills, all for a few pounds.
Down there in the depths Davis taught him to
fight. In time Wilde emerged from the mines to meet
and beat the best of them, in Britain and America,
frequently giving away three or four stone. He gives
an account of his fine career as brisk in its way as a
rattling good scrap, with curious asides and glimpses
behind scenes. After his fight with Young Jennings,
one-time world flyweight champion, whom he beat
in eleven fierce rounds, Jennings commented: “Very
good, very good, Jimmy! Keep it up. You’re a
ha’porth of Sam Langford already.” In his fight with
the American Pal Moore in war-time Moore used
a punch that was held as foul in England. Eugene
Corri, who refereed, whispered in complete serious-
ness, “I can’t caution him, Jimmy. General Pershing
is here ; it would look so bad.”
Wilde estimates that in his 860-odd fights he
must have been hit on the mouth an average of 10
times a fight—nearly 9000 blows in the face while in
the ring, not counting the other 9000 or so that he
must have had in training. He never wore a mouth-
guard, and yet he finished up with his teeth sound. On
the way he made a tidy fortune, and did most of it
in backing dud theatricals and through an s.p. joint
the patrons of which apparently didn’t back duds. On
the way also he won a great collection of trophies,
the best of which were stolen from him in one burglary,
though they’d have had only paltry value when
melted down. The first of his trophies had long since
succumbed to melting, in rather different circum-
stances. Winning it as a fine silver coffee-set, he took
it home and it was given pride of place on the
mantelpiece. There it melted and ran away.
Sea Pie.
Humfrey Jordan’s new book, Ship by Herself
(Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s), is a near-detective
novel; in fact, it is a little bit of everything to please
everybody. The setting is the sea —which Jordan
knows so well —and the time covers the voyage from,
presumably, Maoriland to Southampton.
Everything conceivable happens aboard the
Pacific Queen ; plots, the murder of Lord Carp —a big
businessman —suicide of the murderer, a birth, a
cyclone, a rescue and a happy ending. A constant
patter of light comedy ensures that the reader doesn’t
get het up dangerously over the adventures of the
hero, heroine and villain.
When the prima donna wants to practise during
church service the purser neatly sidetracks her:
“Madame Elsa,” he smiled, knowing her real name
to be Jones, “aren’t you being a little too modest?
If you were making magic below, what chance would
the bishop, above, have of capturing any attention?”
Madame Elsa lapped it down. Smiling also, she
promised not to insist on stealing the poor bishop’s
act. And the purser went about other jobs knowing
that he had already earned his day’s pay unpleasantly.
This slightly acid form of wit pervades the book
and endeavors to give its naive contents a veneer of
sophistication. There is nothing new about Ship by
Herself. It is a composite of old favorites from the
story-tellers’ pantry.
The detached world of shipboard offers a tempt-
ing ready-made framework for which many novelists
have fallen recently, from Anne Parrish in her witty
and satiric Sea Level to James Couzzins’s concen-
trated drama, S.S. San Pedro. Ship by Herself is
scarcely in the ruling class, but it makes a time-killer.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Sons of the Sword Maker: Maurice Walsh
(Chambers ; Angus and Robertson). Love and war
in Gaul and Ireland in the days when Octavian
became Augustus. A good medium-weight.
The Doomsday Men: J. B. Priestley (Heine-
mann). Western American setting. A social fantasia
running through a linked series of stories, and skir-
mishing lightly with present-day troubles. Readable.
Doves in Flight: Diana Young (Nicholson and
Watson). Extravaganza involving a playwright, the
Minister for War, the secret service, a charming lady
and a gentleman who is deservedly knocked over by
his own statue.
Haven’s End: John P. Marquand (Robert Hale).
Upper Ten of colonial New England. A minor varia-
tion on the theme of Marquand’s artistic success The
Late George Apley, and closer to his regular beat as
a “Saturday Evening Post” writer.
Murder in the Hurricane: Eustance L. Adams
(Sovereign Thrillers ; Methuen). Tangle of gangsters,
G-men and crook lawyers ending in an all-in gun
fight during a storm on the Caribbean.
Verse . . .
The Spires: Florence Hagelthorn (printed for the
author by the Arrow Printery, Ltd., Melbourne).
Archbishop Duhig’s foreword has high praise for the
verses on religious themes. The lighter verses have a
neat touch of humor:
Mr. Tinkettle, the Temperance Man,
1 am happy to say, is dead.
He lies in his grave most decorously
With a tombstone over his head
Proclaiming in metal that Mr. Tinkettle
A decorous life has led.
Rhythms' of Challenge: Richard Coles (Central
News Agency, Napier, M.L.). Reflective verses, with
occasional felicity. Too many “balmy” breezes and
“azure” seas.
Youngsters’ Fare . . .
Christmas at the Four Paws Club : Abbie Phillips
Walker (Hamish Hamilton). Mr. Fox, Mr. Bear, Mr.
Skunk and other worthy souls celebrate Christmas at
their log-cabin club... .Pepito: Sheila Hawkins
(Hamish Hamilton). A little Spanish boy and his
donk, lavishly illustrated in color and every illustra-
tion an amusing story in itself.
General . . .
The Lyrebird: R. T. Littlejohns (Angus and
Robertson). Thirty photographic plates—with descrip-
tive text —illustrating the home and habits of the lyre-
bird. The pictures are delightfully intimate, and, con-
sidering the extreme shyness of the subject, evidence
of the cameraman’s skill and patience.
The Golden Road: Arthur Stanley (Dent). An-
other capital anthology, this time of travel, as person-
ally experienced and described by some 250 authors.
The modern travellers, including those of the air, are
well represented in the selections.
A Sail to Lapland: Douglas Dixon (Blackwood).
Breezy record of what was evidently a most enjoy-
able leisurely yachting trip about Northern European
waters, with especially interesting remarks on the
Scandinavian countries. Makes good lightly-enter-
taining reading.
Prince Charles Edward and the Forty-five : Wini-
fred Duke (Robert Hale, Ltd.). Considering its sub-
ject, perhaps the highest praise that can be given to
this work is to record that it is, as nearly as any book
can be, unbiased. A very carefully and freely docu-
mented piece of historical writing, it sets forth calmly
what actually happened from Charles’s arrival in
Scotland to the close of his romantic career, but
leaves the romance to show through by its own force,
without resort to coloring.
Men Without Wives: H. Drake-Brockman (Pater-
son’s Printing Press, Ltd., Perth). Prizewinner of the
150th Anniversary competition. Brings to mind
Coonardoo and On Our Selection, blended with a
pinch of light romance. The young Perth-bred heroine
begins by being charmed with the north-west cattle
country, comes to hate it, and is about to leave her
husband and bolt south when she is influenced by a
momentary glimpse of an older woman’s heroism.
Ma Bates, a typical rough diamond, is so loyal to the
north-west that she offers up jubilant thanks when a
flooded river prevents her being sent south to receive
medical treatment for a dangerous internal growth.
The characters range from silvertails to crude rural
types and half-tame lubras. Relations between white
men and black women are glanced at. The play has
its scraps of genuine humor, its effective gags—“ His
name’s Lucas-Jones, and don’t forget the hyphen
because he's that sort of a Jones” —its moments of
realism and sincerity and its false patches, such as
the note on which it ends. In point of construction,
the third act draws the theme together, though the
second act might easily have been the beginning of
another play.


Greatest Offer ever made to Sufferers from
m
-M
' • ? - • •
7 7'T'J 71 111 go to any Chemist or store
LI /Ll C/ and buy a bottle of
BIDOMAK
The Tonic of the Century
Use this as directed, and if you have not begun to
feel the benefit within 14 days return the nearly
empty bottle to the Distributors, and your money
will be refunded without question.
This amazing guarantee of Benefit or Money Back is
given by the discoverer of Bidomak because he knows that
Bidomak will give real benefit if you take it in accordance
with his simple directions.
Bidomak provides a method of supplying energy to the
cells of the body wherever the natural supply of vitality is
insufficient to maintain the normal activity of glands and
w*
COM
organs. It provides vital mineral
elements. It is a scientific com-
pound of certain vital mineral
elements which are lacking in the
average modern diet, and which in-
clude ferrum, calcium, sodium,
potassium, phosphates, glycerophos-
phates, sucrose, as well as other
necessary elements.
These are the cell foods which
are vitally necessary for the blood
to build up and maintain the cells
and tissues of the body by activating
and rejuvenating the cells—which
banish the infirmities due to nerves
and constitutional weaknesses.
BIDOMAK restores vital energy
and gives back youthful en-
thusiasm to those who have
been ill. It makes old arteries
young again it tones up vital
organa which have become
sluggish it is winning back for
thousands the zest for life, the
thrill of popularity and the en-
thusiasm of wonderful health
and good spirits.
Lack of Confidence ... Headaches...
Nervous Indigestion... Sleeplessness...
Listlessness... Anaemia... Nerve Pains
and other similar nervous and consti-
tutional weaknesses.
NO BENEFIT-NO PAY
GUARANTEE
By Discoverer of
BIDOMAR
Blessing of Vigorous Health.
For men, women and children of naturally
weak constitution BIDOMAK gives the chance
of revitalised, vigorous health, whilst those who
are obliged by their work to be keyed up always
have found in BIDOMAK a most certain way
of keeping always thrillingly fit.
BIDOMAK increases Oxygen in
the Blood Stream
and thus it increases the supply of red corpuscles
and charges the blood and tissues with an in-
creased supply of revitalising, life-giving oxygen.
BIDOMAK creates New Healthy
Nerve Cells
and provides a full supply of healthy nerve
fluid, at the same time removing poisons and
wastes from the system. BIDOMAK creates a
storage of energy and nerve force overcomes
every run-down condition, every disorder not
due to germ attack but just to lack of energy
and drive. It gives that vitality so essential t'o
full recovery from illness that tonic stimulation
without which convalescence is a long-drawn-
out agony of depression. It improves the
activity of every gland and organ in the system,
and supplements the driving force of the com-
plicated machinery housed in the human body
whenever that force falls below the requirements
of the individual.
Take a course of BIDOMAK and your
whole attitude towards life will be changed.
Rejuvenation.
You will feel rejuvenated—remade you
will discover this inner consciousness of well-
being will create for you a popularity you never
knew before. What a glorious satisfaction it
will be for you to enjoy the thrill of perfect
health without the aid of powders, tablets or
drugs for this is just the enjoyment which will
be yours when you take a course of BIDOMAK.
Go right down to your chemist this very night
and get yourself a bottle of BIDOMAK—it will
do you good from the very first dose.
EVERY BOTTLE OF BIDOMAK
CONTAINS ALL THE FOLLOWING
VITAL MINERAL FOODS:
AS MUCH “FERRUM” AS 800 OYSTERS
cy
550 pts of Milk
50 lbs. of Beef
66 lbs. Lettuce
5 lbs of Spinach
50 pts Orange
Juice
AS MUC H “C A LGIUM”AS 80 EGGS
ĵ
4 pts. of Milk
40 ozs Cheese
130 lbs. Bananas
22 lbs Lettuce
5 Dts. of Orange
Juice
AS MUCH “POTASSIUM” AS 22.0ZS. OF LETTUCE
&
rjy*.
£ b
S lbs Cabbage
17 eu Carrots
22 ozs Spinach
AS MUCH “SODIUM” AS 10 PTS. OF ORANGE JUICE
m
125 Ibj Cabbage
10 lbs Bananas
5 lbs ol Lettuce
13 lbs Spinach
AS MUCH “PHOSPHORUS" AS 11 LBS. OF SPINACH
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
44 pts Orange
Juice
44 lbs Carrots
90 ibs. Bananas
134 Ibs. Cabbage
(New Zealand 3/6 per bottle)
3/- for a Large Bottle —All Chemists and Stores
THE TONIC OF THE Brain and that Depressed'Feeling


A gift in keeping with Yuletide...senJ your friends
in England a case of ...
FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN
WINES
For full information ring or Write to:
B. SEPPELT & 50N5 LTD.
Interstate Branches:
King William Street, Adelaide. Collins Street, Melbourne. Sussex Street, Sydney.
Queen Street, Brisbane. Packenbam Street, Fremantle. Crystal Street, Broken Hi 1.
London Office: Australia House.
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY...No freight charges to pay!
SANDRINGHAM.
Both at home and abroad, Seppelts’ wines enjoy a wide
reputation for excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appreciated on any festive
occasion. What finer or more appropriate gift could you
choose for friends or relatives in Britain? A gift of a case
of Seppelts’ assorted wines carries with it the correct atmo-
sphere of good cheer and fraternity that symbolises the spirit
of Yuletide.
The cases are assorted, containing dry, still and sparkling
wines to your selection. Delivery is made from Seppelts’
London House; thus you have no freight charges to pay.
To each hamper will be attached a card or letter bearing
your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/-, and full details can be obtained
from any of Seppelts Houses.


THE DISINHERITED KNIGHT TO THE RESCUE.
“Union under one Parliament is Mr. Scullin’s objective.”
“By my halidome, thou shalt be freed, fair maiden, if the knights Coeur-de-Lyons, De Billy and Bobminyies don’t weaken!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch 04ms.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
"THIS ALL-FEMALE POLICY."
It was provided in the industrial award for N.S.W.
country shop assistants that in departments such as
hardware, kitchenware and crockery, napery and
towels, half the employees must be males. Gilpins,
a Victorian chain-store concern with 29 branches in
N. S. Wales, applied to the Industrial Commission for
exemption from this clause, stating that if it were
enforced in their case 120 employees would have to
be dismissed. Their counsel said they had never had
men or lads in any of their N.S.W. branches and
that, “in order to preserve their policy of employing
only females,” they were prepared to pay “male rates”
to a due proportion of the 120 women and girls threat-
ened with dismissal —they asked in addition that “the
ratio of junior to senior females should be altered.”
The application was refused ; but, as “the Com-
mission did not desire to cause any sudden large dis-
missal of females,” the concern was allowed until
January 31 “to preserve its policy of employing only
females.” Said the president, Justice Browne:
This all-female policy might almost be called a
new religion, and if Gilpins got this relief it might
gain countless converts in a very short time.
It has gained countless converts already in Australian
cities.
An observer has only to spend half an hour at any
busy station or tram-stop to be staggered by the pro-
portion of women and girls coming to or going from
work, and it seems to be increasing every month. They
are not only typists, shop assistants and factory hands,
with nimbler fingers and greater knowledge of what
the job requires than can be claimed for the other
sex ; they throng into banks and insurance offices ;
they are crowding men out of the hairdressing busi-
ness ; they are to be found working lifts, handling lug-
gage in cloakrooms and doing a hundred other jobs
once reserved for men. The men they have displaced
are called intermittent relief-workers or something
like that. Many of them can be found killing time on
the beaches, day after day, week after week and
month after month, till they are void of ambition and
hope. Sympathetic people inquiring into their appal-
ling lot are told that there are still more appalling
cases —those of men in their twenties who have never
worked.
“This all-female policy” is startlingly illustrated
in Commonwealth electoral figures. There are still
more men than women in Australia: those who were
enrolled for the election of October 23, 1937, num-
bered 2,045,552, there being 2,037,672 women. In
almost every country electorate women were in the
minority; evidently the Gilpin “policy” has not
been extensively copied in country towns. But in all
the Big-City residential districts women preponderated.
N. S. Wales— Men. Women.
Wentworth .. .. .. 27,602 36,145
Warringah .. .. .. 28,326 35,127
North Sydney .. .. 27,302 33,994
Parkes .. .. .. • • 26,072 32,556
Watson 28,025 33,230
Parramatta .. .. .. 27,515 32,065
Martin 27,079 30,806
Dailey 28,247 31,521
Barton 28,691 31,209
East Sydney .. . • • • 26,910 29,074
Lang 28,677 30,631
Victoria —
Fawkner .. .. .. 28,034 38,024
Balaclava .. .. .. 29,389 37,250
Kooyong .. .. .. 29,095 36,882
Henty .. .. .. .. 29,331 34,082
Melbourne Ports .. .. 28,724 32,693
Yarra 29,788 33,354
Bourke.. .. .. 28,859 31,534
Maribyrnong .. .. .. 30,016 32,339
Batman 29,165 31,215
Melbourne .. .. .. 30,168 30,922
Queensland —
Brisbane .. .. .. 28,378 32,934
Lilley 27,901 31,661
Griffith 29,251 31,750
South Australia —
Adelaide .. .. .. 29,602 35,606
Boothby .. .. .. 30,559 36,113
Hindmarsh .. .. .. 31,927 33,760
Westralia —
Perth 26,881 31,794
Fremantle .. .. .. 27,408 31,026
Tasmania —
Denison .. .. .. 12,073 14,502
Bass 12,804 13,713
853,799 987,512
So there were 133,713 more women than men in
these city electorates. If lasses and lads in the 17-20
age-groups were added, the feminine preponderance
would assuredly be greater still. Something must
be allowed for the effect of Great War losses
of city men (though post-war immigration, which
was predominantly male, neutralised these to
a large extent), and men still go from the
cities to jobs in the country, leaving their
womenfolk behind. But when all is said and done this
amazing preponderance of the city woman must be
accepted as being principally the result of her long-
continued and increasingly successful competition with
men for jobs, many of which are notoriously not
needed by those possessing them.
And these feminine triumphs in the industrial field
have had effects of their own, economic and social.
The young man in a good job is a good buyer in
the Australian market. He has a hearty appetite for
Australian food. Although some of him have taken
to going without Australian hats and playing in shorts
instead of flannels, he cases his limbs in Australian
woollens, has one or two suits of Australian tweed
and steps out in Australian boots or shoes. By com-
parison, the young city woman eats little, and the
material for the scraps of clothing she wears is all
imported. Imported also are the stuffs she smears or
sprinkles on her lips, her cheeks, her eyebrows, her
hair, her back and her legs, when those members are
exhibited to the public gaze. She wears wool only
in the form of “jumpers” and—now and then—rain-
coats. As a consumer of the produce of major Aus-
tralian industries, she is almost a total loss; and her
good job is apt to leave her on the shelf, whereas
the young man in a good job generally marries.
The story ha> also its cultural side. The young
man in a job sometimes reads Australian books, as
well as Australian newspapers, and is occasionally in-
terested in Australian art, though not nearly to the
extent that obtained before the entertainment and in-
struction of Australian youth were handed over to
Hollywood and New York Jews. The young city
woman has little use for Australian letters, newspapers
or art. Australian women are writing capital novels,
but they have few Australian readers among their
own sex; for their public as well as their publishers
they have to go abroad. The city businessgirl de-
mands Hollywood stuff in all her reading, and Holly-
wood and Tin Pan Alley stuff over the air. Hence the
vogue of moving-picture magazines, “Hollywood
Dicks,” life stories of “stars” to canned music, and
comic strips with film characters as the central figures,
and hence the acres of ,mush about the private lives of
film actors served up for flapper consumption by
alleged Australian papers written in the American
language.
In all these matters we have copied the U.S.A.
That country has made a fetish of the young city
female, as a worker as well as a theme for countless
film plays, newspaper photographs and magazine illus-
trations, for at least five and twenty years. It may be
fantastic to suggest that there is a connection between
this overelaboration of the unimportant and pro-
digious unemployment, but the fact remains that after
six years of furious spending (the national debt having
in that time been doubled) unemployment remains
furious—the American Federation of Labor’s esti-
mate is 13,000,000, and the Administration admits to
10,000,000. On the other hand, Max Lamshed, a
member of the Adelaide “Advertiser’s” editorial staff,
who was recently in Germany, reports that in that
country there are “only 300,000 out of work.”
Mr. Lamshed found in Germany busy factories,
vast rebuilding and motor roads which the president
of the American Automobile Association described
to him as “stupendous—much better than anything
we have at home.” His investigations left him doubtful
about Nazi finance and the position of the German
worker (he works ten hours a day, and 20 p.c. taken
from his wages leaves him with “the equivalent of
about £2 Australian a week”), but his final impression
was that “a new economic force has entered Europe,
virile and ambitious.”
“Virile” is the right word. There is no flapper-
worship in Germany. Women have their place in
the Nazi system, but in industrial matters it is a sub-
ordinate place: women with city jobs who did not
need them were deliberately sacrificed to young men
who did. Many of the dispossessed damsels found
domestic work, which Australian girls will not take
—certainly the general conditions are not nearly what
they should be —and in news-reels and newspaper illus-
trations that reach this country they don’t look un-
happy. For most of them matrimony has regained its
attractions, since the Government substantially helps
young couples to make homes for themselves ; and
in four years the birthrate per 1000 of population in-
creased from 14.7 to 18.8. Australians, who have
seen their own birthrate decline from 27.20 per 1000
in 1911 to 16.55 in 1935, will allow that this is an
achievement. Incidentally, Hitler has sent the Holly-
wood monopolist about his business —a fact noted
enviously by Mr. Norman Rydge, of Cinesound, who
is trying to get our Governments to save what is left
of the Australian film industry.
There is nothing radically wrong with the demo-
cratic system. In this country it is carrying too many
passengers and too much junk, but they can be got rid
of without a revolution, nor does our existence as a
democracy depend upon our fighting Germany, Italy
or Japan or all three. But the German way of life is
a challenge to the American way of life and, in -par-
ticular, to the vulgar materialism and overfeminisation
inculcated by Hollywood. And it is a challenge from
which we are not exempt.
A Move to End Chaos.
At long last there has been an outbreak of thinking
nationally at Canberra. Mr. Scullin began it; Mr.
McEwen, then Mr. Menzies continued it, with words
of paternal approval from Mr. Lyons and Mr. Curtin,
and no adverse comment from anybody except pro-
vincial politicians like Mr. Playford and Mr. Dunstan.
Representatives of all the Commonwealth parties
support proposals for a Parliamentary session to dis-
cuss constitutional reform, with referendum to follow.
When they have recovered from the shock of such
an outbreak, Australians will do well to consider the
general proposal against the pressing background of
the reasons for it. In brief, it is that the Constitution
should be recast, in the light of- national and inter-
national problems that have arisen since it was
framed, to enable the national Parliament to func-
tion supremely as the Parliament of the nation.
It merits as a whole the thoughtful consideration
that will need to be given eventually to its parts. If
the move is carried through with the accord and vigor
of its beginning, something solid will have been done
towards ending the chaos of seven times duplicated
and therefore extravagantly costly and bad govern-
ment which is the fundamental drag on this country’s
development as a rising, progressive and adequately
defended nation.
There is scarcely a part of the proposal or the
reasons for it that The Bulletin has not advocated
and pointed out for years past. In urging the abolition
of the unnecessary and cumbersome State Parliaments
this paper goes further than anything that is likely
to be put to the vote. That will have to come eventu-
ally ; meanwhile the ending of these depressing insti-
tutions’ power actively or passively to sabotage
national measures is at least a start towards setting
up a system of government that might be something
more than a bad joke.
What a joke it is was most clearly stated in the
preliminary discussion by Mr. McEwen. In his job
of Minister for the Interior he had discovered a stag-
gering host of impediments and anomalies, his relating
of which is like turning over Bulletin files. Like
other advocates of this pressing reform, Mr. McEwen
has the air of being surprised and shocked by his
discoveries. It is no news to The Bulletin that “seven
Governments and Parliaments, with all the duplica-
tion, overlapping and inefficiency that are inevitable,
are draining Australia financially and stultifying its
progress.” That must be patent to anyone who looks
for a minute at the fantastic spectacle of a country
with fewer than 7,000,000 people maintaining 616
politicians and their attendant Governor-General,
Governors, Cabinets, High Commissioners, Trade
Commissioners and Agents-General, to say nothing
of each of the seven Governments adding the further
burden of the boards and commissions to which they
delegate their duties and functions.
“Draining Australia financially” is putting the
thing politely. Only a fairly rich and hitherto very
fortunate country could have endured it so long. In
the face of such things as restricted world markets
and world unrest, it can be endured no longer.
There is, of course, the now-fashionable com-
paring of this travesty of democracy with totalitarian-
ism, to democracy’s disadvantage. The question
should be kept out of the discussion: the Parliamen-
tary system is the choice of the Australian people and
it will remain their choice. The test of government is
whether it works to the greatest advantage of a people.
In this case it obviously does not, but that is no fault
of the form ; it is the fault of an accumulation of
anomalies which have been allowed to gather or have
grown naturally out of changing conditions.
Mr. McEwen stands on sound ground in declaring
that “if the people appreciated the seriousness of the
inefficiency of our system and the opportunities it
presents for evasion of responsibility, they would
tolerate it no longer.” In his department alone, in a
space of 12 months, he had come up against “many
instances where matters of major policy have been
rendered extremely difficult to deal with or have
been dealt with in an unsatisfactory manner.” He
instances the passive resistance of certain State Gov-
ernments to reintroducing assisted British immigration.
The search for oil, assistance to the pearling industry,
a satisfactory aborigine policy are more of his
examples of urgent national matters affected by the
division of authority.
Next year I am to grapple with the problem of the
standardisation of railway gauges, where again the real
difficulty is not the physical one of standardisation or
the financial one of paying for it, but the reconcilia-
tion of conflicting Governmental interests.
Mr. Menzies capped Mr. McEwen’s list with a
whole bagful of anomalies —the supposed national
Parliament being unable under the Constitution as
interpreted to deal effectively with such urgent national
matters as trade and commerce, health, manufacturing
conditions, transport, the fishing industry, unemploy-
ment insurance. Mr. Scullin listed as “among the
outstanding problems still awaiting solution”
industrial development, national defence, monetary
reform, organised marketing, transfer of unemployed
from sustenance to permanent and useful work, simpli-
fied methods for the regulation of labor and control of
corporations to prevent combines and profiteering.
Pending the ultimate abolition of State Parlia-
ments, the removal of their power of interference
with national legislation under such heads has become
urgent. If the advocates of what would amount to a
lasting change and an immeasurable gain to Australia
as a nation first clear their own minds about what is
required, and then put the question clearly and
honestly to the vote, there should be no doubt about
the result.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
No Time for Narks.
That flapper-press idol Mr. Anthony Eden said the
other day in his superiah fashion that “to attempt to
enter into negotiations with Germany under present
conditions would be to court not only failure but
humiliation.” He added that it was “unthinkable”
that “Britain should even contemplate discussions.”
The French Government very properly decided
that contemplation of that sort was not “unthinkable”
for France. The representatives of that country and
of Germany are to sign a mutual declaration against
war on the lines of the historic document which Mr.
Chamberlain brought back from Munich; and if,
in the result, the Franco-German frontier becomes as
peaceful as the Swiss territories in which French and
Germans have lived together in friendship for cen-
turies, not only the present age but future ages will
have cause to rejoice.
The idea that we must boycott even discussion
with foreign Governments because we disapprove of
their internal goings-on is something new in British
practice, but it seems to have many champions.
Major-General Bodenschatz, described as a senior
officer of the German Air Ministry, visited London
last week, and it was suggested that he wanted to
clear the way for an air agreement providing for the
limiting of armaments and the sparing of city popu-
lations if war should come. Such an agreement would
be blessed by every mother in Britain, Germany and
France ; but at once there were newspaper protests.
It would have to be negotiated with Goring, and
Goring must have some sinister object or he would
not propose it. In any case, to negotiate an air agree-
ment with Germany would be a betrayal of the
German Jews.
In the same spirit, the new interventionist Little
Englanders have discovered diabolical motives in Ger-
many’s proposals for great canals and roads through*
Central Europe (one road is to go through Czecho-
slovakia and will, it seems, amount to a further dis-
memberment of that country), and in the Italian plan
for transferring a very small part of a very large—
indeed, tragically overcrowded —population to new
settlements in Libya. The New York “Daily News,”
in an article dealing with the Jewish refugee problem,
struck a different note:
There is imperative need for tact by statesmen and
nations that are attempting to rescue the refugees.
It looks as if nothing but tactful, careful and polite
negotiations with Herr Hitler can save the Jewish
minority. Without German co-operation nothing can be
achieved.
Without German co-operation neither can an enduring
peace be achieved. Just as no part of the human
family should be rejected because its Government has
behaved badly—or we think it has —so no Government
should be outlawed because we object to its methods
of governing its own country.
In these matters we cannot possibly help the
world, our own country or even ill-treated citizens of
foreign countries by being narks.
Change in New Guinea.
Among other fears which the Stunt Press haS been
trying to fan is one that Germany is on the verge of
demanding the return of New Guinea.
It seems unlikely for several reasons ; but even
if Hitler is set on it he could not go about the business
without asking the Japanese for their section of the
Pacific mandate. And any approach to that mandate
question would disturb Uncle Sam, who would be
particularly worried if Samoa were involved as well.
Moreover, the London Naval Agreement, which
limits German naval tonnage to 35 per cent, of British,
does not provide for the safeguarding of sections of
a German Empire 12,000 miles from Cuxhaven.
Pacific colonies would be a heavy naval liability for
Germany.
Nevertheless, public opinion in New Guinea has
been stirred by rumors. And the Rabaul “Times”
says:—
Australian policy has been so overridden by the
League that the Administration has felt it must pander
to the Permanent Mandates Commission This policy
is definitely detrimental to the normal commercial pro-
gress of the Territory.
A true bill. At present, the Government cannot
handle the native without meeting the views of the
delegate from Liberia. It is forbidden to institute
normal defence measures. It must be very wary about
excluding citizens of League countries. It would be in
an awkward position if a League Assembly suddenly
decided that New Guinea would be a good place for a
large colony of European Jews.
United with Papua, New Guinea would make a
Territory twice the size of Victoria, all with a certain
rainfall and abundant water, labor, timber'and power
supplies. Under intensive methods the uplands would
carry large numbers of whites, in addition to the
natives who occupy them.
The Government has, it seems, adopted in prin-
ciple what The Bulletin and then the member for
Flinders urged upon it —a unified administration for
both territories with a capital—preferably Moresby—
in Papua ; and that is something gained. But N.G. is
to have a sort-of-a-kind of temporary capital at
Salamaua first.
Cayenne for Cameron.
Mr. Cameron had a “bad press” when he was made
P.M.G., and commercial radio stations controlled by
or connected with newspapers joined in the hue and
cry. The “Labor Daily,” which is about to change
its name —evidently without changing its Red asso-
ciations and methods of controversy—announced that
“the long arm of Hitler has now stretched out to
control the Australian Post Office.”
Hitler controls Dr. Asmis, the German Consul-
General in Australia; Dr. Asmis controls the Nazi
organisations in the Barker electorate, and the Barker
Nazis control Mr. Cameron.
Mr. Cameron chose to ignore this lying insult to
a Digger, and to ignore also an attack on him by
“2GB’s news commentator, F. E. Baume” (“Labor
Daily” report). Mr. Baume, who, when not bellowing
from 2GB, is editor of the “Sunday Sun,” seems to
hate Mr. Cameron almost as much as he hates, Mr.
Chamberlain.
The appointment of Mr. Cameron is an affront to
every liberal-minded person in the country. He is a self-
confessed admirer of dictator-countries. He has the
power now to censor newspapers and radio broadcasts,
and to stifle all criticism.
But last week it fell to Mr. Cameron’s lot to get
home on 2GB very neatly. School examinations are
raging in New South Wales, and 2GB hit upon the
notion of broadcasting what were described as “model
answers to Intermediate Examination questions”—of
course as an advertisement for some concern —a few
hours after the questions were put.
Protests at once came from the Education Depart-
ment, the Teachers’ Federation and the Secondary
Teachers’ Association, and the Minister, Mr. Drum-
mond, denounced the stunt as “a very undesirable
form of propaganda.” The effect on highly-strung
children who had written answers different from those
broadcast can be imagined, as also can the effect on
parents of unnerved youngsters unable to sleep.
Mr. Drummond communicated with the Post-
master-General. That gentleman made a few well-
chosen remarks, and the “model answers” incon-
tinently went off the air.
During the same week Mr. Cameron instructed
the permanent head of his department to hand lists
of telephone subscribers with “silent” numbers to
senior police officers, with the proviso that no “silent”
or other telephone line must be tapped by the police.
“Silent” numbers have been used extensively by s.p.
bookmakers, who are not only lawbreakers but tax-
dodgers, and in South Australia, as the Police Com-
missioner reports, they have been found in the attics
of suburban dwellings raided as gaming houses—in
one case, three were found in one room. Mr.
Cameron’s action removes an old grievance of State
Governments, and it can no longer be said, with injury
to Commonwealth prestige, that Commonwealth facili-
ties have been placed at the service of persons who
get their living by breaking State laws.
Mr. Cameron has already been denounced for
ending the “silent”-telephone ramp. He will be further
assailed if he interferes to prevent licensed radio sta-
tions being used as vehicles for quack puffs of quack
medicines, for quack war-scares and for quack essays
on foreign affairs, compounded of ignorance, malice
and uncharitableness, which may in this contracted
world get our peace-loving country into trouble with
foreign countries. But if he stands up to stunt news-
papers and blah-merchants, the people will be behind
him. They will be pleased to think that they have at
last a Cabinet Minister with a backbone.
The Physical Standard Fetish.
Much nonsense is talked about physical standards,
particularly concerning military requirements in that
line. There is every reason why the Australian
Government (beg pardon, the seven Australian Gov-
ernments) should strive towards higher and higher
standards of health and physique for the citizens,
but there is no sense in turning down offers of good
soldiering material because the brass-hatted brain can
never get away from the picture of a neat parade
line in close formation, with as little variation as pos-
sible in the carefully-graded cap levels from flanks to
centre.
As war goes nowadays, the short, light man has
definite military advantages over the long and bulky
one. He takes up less room, needs less cover, offers a
smaller target and is easier to transport. An eight-
stoner of sft. 3in. can handle rifle, machine-gun or
bomb as well as one of double his weight, and can
put in particularly dirty work with a bayonet against
a taller opponent unused to such low-down attack.
Under Australian conditions, transport of troops
by ’plane may become of first-rate tactical importance.
Per ton of actual fighting unit, eight-stoners run to 20,
12-stoners to 13. Lightweight troops for air-trans-
port in Indian frontier troubles are already being en-
listed in Britain.
Another ridiculous limitation is that of requiring
any man who wants to be a permanent soldier to own
ten sound teeth in each jaw, effectively engaging with
their opposite numbers. Thousands of young bush-
men, stockmen, miners, fishermen and others whose
occupation requires them to keep as fit as any soldier
can possibly need to be could not fulfil this require-
ment. Well-fitting artificial dentures are completely
effective, and if the permanent soldier really must
show an ivory grin it would be worth the cost to supply
them, and any necessary dental treatment as well,
to otherwise suitable applicants for enlistment. And,
if also necessary, a spare set for active service, in
case of accidents, carried in a metal container, and
altered as required during the man’s term of service.
If there must be a height limit there is no sound
reason why it should not be reduced to sft. This
would extend the field of selection among physically fit
Australians by many thousands. Also, it might bring
out a military genius who would otherwise remain
undetected. None of the most gifted ones in history,
excepting Marlborough, would have any hope of get-
ting into the Australian permanent forces to-day.
They would be turned down under the height standard.
Marlborough would probably join them as a reject,
for it is history that he had a lot of trouble with his
teeth. Any modern suburban dentist would have fixed
up John Churchill’s chewing apparatus, but the ten
sound opposing ones in each jaw would fail him under
the Australian military limit.
Two Thousand Men Missing.
An Australian writes from Calcutta:
I read in a Melbourne “Herald” puff for (he National
Travel Association (cutting enclosed) that “last year 2000
retired army officers and civil servants in India went to Aus-
tralia to make their homes”
Two thousand! It’s a greater number than normally
retires in India each year. I had friends and acquaintances
who retired in 1937; none of them went to Australia. Some
of the National Travel Association’s 2000 must have had
families. The question is what became of the 2000, plus wives
and infants. Did they beg to be put off at Cocos or what?
It is asserted, again, that this association is giving a
“service” to “70 newspapers in India.” Names are not
mentioned, which is just as well. I have found nothing
about the activities of the National Travel Association in the
“Statesman,” of Calcutta and Delhi, probably the leading
newspaper in India, or in the “Pioneer,” the leading newspaper
ol tiie United Provinces. Reuter supplies the only news of
Australia that ever gets into these papers.
So the National Travel Association has been holding
its annual meeting at Canberra. It looks as if you will soon
be saddled with another Government department!
The saddling has been done already. Although
every State Government has a tourist bureau in Aus-
tralia, usually with several branches, as well as an
Agency-General in London, and although the Com-
monwealth runs Australia House in that city and sup-,
ports a flock of Trade Commissioners and Assistant
Trade Commissioners in Asia and the Dutch East
Indies, the National Travel Association collects
p.a. from Canberra and as much again when
a show like the San Francisco Exhibition is mooted.
As for the 2000 retired army officers and civil
servants alleged to have come from India last year
a migration report reached this office from the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Statistics at Canberra during
the very week in which the letter arrived from Cal-
cutta. It shows that during the last three years arrivals
of persons of British nationality were exceeded by
departures, net losses being 2139 in 1935, 1080 in
1936 and 411 in 1937. And persons of British
nationality “include Maltese and Cypriotes.”
Cancer in Victoria.
“Pawang” discusses it:
Dr. Thomas Cherry, Melbourne University’s cancer-
research man, has published a monograph on the local
incidence of the disease, which carries off an average of 24
people in Melbourne weekly. For some reason not yet
fully comprehended, cancer is linked with tuberculosis, and
there is a similar distribution of deaths from both diseases.
Analysis of the figures for Greater Melbourne shows that, in
proportion to population, cancer mortality is greater in
Essendon, Brunswick, Fitzroy, Collingwood, Richmond, Port
and South Melbourne, suburbs clustered about the city, than
in more distant suburbs like Footscray, Williamstown,
Prahran, Malvern, Oakleigh, Sandringham, Mordialloc and
Box Hill. The whitest areas are Braybrook, Preston, Heidel-
berg, Kew, Hawthorn, Camberwell, Caulfield, Brighton,
Moorabbin and Chelsea, which belong to the category of
outer suburbs.
Dr. Cherry deduces from his survey that, since the inci-
dence of cancer and tuberculosis is low for a city population,
it is the more significant that industrial suburbs should have the
blackest record. Both diseases find fewer victims among
women than among men; but among women, as among men,
rates rise or fall according to the group of suburbs. This
suggests that, to a great 'fextent, both sexes contract both
diseases in their home surroundings.
At the same time, there is evidence to show that pre-
disposing causes lodged in the heredity are sufficiently
strong to determine where and how cancer manifests itself
in the individual. Chinese and Javanese coolies working on
the same plantation show a marked difference in the “site”
affected. These sites curiously agree with those which are
found to preponderate in their native countries. Local investi-
gation in this field of research is restricted, because the best
the Anti-cancer Council can do at present is to supply Dr.
Cherry with one woman assistant.
Study of pre-cancerous signs and symptoms is important,
because if these were known it would be possible to define
the sudden “accident” which changes the innocent into the
malignant lesion. Evidence from occupations is inconclusive.
Immunity is not the perquisite of wealth or learning, and civil
servants have almost the same chance of getting cancer as
hewers of coal.
But a suggestive hint is contained in the fact that a
decaying branch of the transport industry has a bad cancer
record. The rate is high among carters and drivers of horse
vehicles, who are constantly being replaced by younger motor-
drivers. It may be, after all, that cancer is only one more
of those diseases which are always with the individual but
which only become deadly when his resistance is lowered.
Nothing lowers resistance so much as loss of hope. When a
man loses hope he becomes a prey to all sorts of dreads.
If cancer could be proved to be in this category of diseases
it would have to be ranked amongst all those alibis with
which humanity protects itself against the admission of defeat
and failure. Hence such “cures” as Dr. Koch’s would have
to be put into the dustbin. If the sudden “accident” of
which Dr. Cherry speaks is simply hopelessness, such as every
young man feels when his girl throws him over, the campaign
against cancer will become more a problem of psychology than
medicine. It is odd that the increase in cancer since 1841 has
almost exactly balanced the decrease in tuberculosis, just
as if the body was tired of using the old excuse and was
finding another.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Leon”: Earl Beauchamp’s protection
against bores was the assumption of an
abstracted, absentminded expression.
Occasionally there was some indication of
what it covered, as when, in his Gover-
norship days in Sydney, he was con-
fronted by a drearily talkative acquaint-
ance from England. “Do you know,”
boomed the nuisance, pumping the aris-
tocratic mitt, “it’s nearly three years
since I saw you. “Very good of you,”
murmured the Earl; “very good of you.”
* * * *
“Wodgii”: Norman Rydge, of Sydney,
pleading for Cinesound, the only Austra-
lian film company still in the business of
regular production, though precariously,
mentioned that in Australia 77 per cent,
of the moving-pictures shown are Ameri-
can ; in Germany, only 18 per cent. In
other words, Germany has plugged what
was, in one way and another, a consider-
able drain on the national income and
preserved the German theatre for German
writers, producers and actors of the native
drama and film-play. And for Shakspeare.
William is still worshipped by the Ger-
mans (and, incidentally, Dickens is still
one of their favorite authors). In Berlin
on a recent night there were seven per-
formances of Shakspeare plays. I ran-
sack my memory and consider a genera-
tion brought up on Hollywood films,
and am envious and regretful. I wouldn’t
wager that Australians have seen a
Shakspearean performance as good as
any of the seven for seven years.
* * * *
“D.E.”: When did “panic” become a
verb? I ask this because M. F. Troy,
sometime Speaker of the Westralian
Assembly and now Minister of Lands,
has protested that “it would not be a wise
policy for the community to be panicked
into a course of action which time and
circumstances may prove to have been
entirely unwarranted”; and because a
farming paper agreed that “it would not
be wise to panic growers or the com-
munity.” Presently, no doubt, Mr. Troy
will “contact” growers and the latter will
be “issued with” something or other.
English is so beautiful and so expressive
a language that the tendency to make
ugly verbs of inoffensive nouns should
be resisted, especially by gentlemen like
Troy. The “panic” Minister was a
school-teacher, though it is a long time
ago.
* * * *
“Runa”: Reference to a pictorial serial
in which the heroine held a knife aloft
for ten days (B. 23 /11 / ’3B) recalls a
picture show I attended in a small M.L.
town in the days when movies were
something almost incredible. It was a
one-man affair, and when it became
necessary to interview latecomers at the
door and collect their cash the screen
became a fixed picture until the interrup-
tion was over. It was all right when a
scenic was on, but the stoppage of a
Melbourne Cup race caused some indig-
nation, and when the hero hung over a
pool infested with crocodiles the tension
was acute until his faithful Friday
rescued him. But the climax came when
the hero and heroine, who were having
a clandestine love affair, were suspended
in a kiss. Between the anxiety of the
sympathetic onlookers lest the villain
should profit by the delay, and the frivol-
ous observations of the light-minded over
the “Hold that kiss” atmosphere, the
hall was a hotbed of dissension until
some miscreant threw a hymnbook—it
was a church hall —and irreparably dam-
aged the sheet. After that the operator
had a large rent to contend with, and
late patrons came in free.
* * * *
“Oran”: Mention of Herbert Hoover’s
early days in Westralia (B. 23 /11 / ’3B)
recalls a prophecy made about him by
a fellow-engineer who also later became
well known. As young Hoover one day,
after a spirited discussion on world
affairs, walked out of an office in which
sat J. H. Curie and Warden Owen (writer
of Cossack Gold) Curie remarked “There
goes a future President of the United
States.” And Hoover was then in his
twenties.
* * * *
“Juvenis”: There has been a lot of
fuss of late about the influence on the
mind of youthful Australia of crime
magazines and films. I draw attention to
two advertisements in a Sydney paper
in this connection. One shows a
very accurate toy version of the
Thompson sub-machine gun which the
American gangster introduced to civi-
lisation, with the information that “this
“Serve the lady, Joe, while I finish me smoke."
“ Aw, cant y' see I'm studyin' form?"
roaring, flashing, mechanical G-man
gun is perfectly safe for even the
smallest boy.” The other is a complete
outfit for a policeman—Yank variety.
It includes a baton, whistle, revolver
and holster, metal badge shield —as per
Hollywood—and finally a dear little
pair of handcuffs, complete with key.
There is money waiting for the genius
who puts a Kelly Gang outfit on the
market. All the appurtenances, includ-
ing the famous armor and helmet,
should be included, and, in case the
modern small boy has forgotten our
national hero and his friends, a short
history of their exploits in words of one
syllable should be tucked into the
outfit.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The opening of the
Hopetoun Channel, enabling wheat ships
to complete loading at Geelong, has
dealt the last blow to Williamstown as
a port. Big ships move past the de-
serted quays to and from the Yarra
mouth which leads to Melbourne’s very
centre. To those who can recall the days
of hot youth when Loch Line clippers
reared lofty masts and spider-webs of
rigging-tracery high above, and Williams-
town pubs echoed to the brawls between
proper sailormen and the blanky tin-
kettle mechanics from the mail steamers,
it is a tragedy. Even the lockup isn’t
what it was when Cockney Joe, refresh-
ing after a night in it and a five-bob
morning fine, remarked appreciatively:
“Blimey, mate, hif we ’ad gaols like that
hin Hold Hengland, they’d never be
bleedin’ well hempty.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maoriland shared with
Melbourne possession of the remains of
Phar Lap. M.L.’s share was the skele-
ton ; Melbourne’s the skin. Owing to im-
proper handling the skull and neck bones
of the great racer were found to have
suffered damage, in that decalcification
had reduced some of the parts to the
thickness of paper, and E. H. Gibson,
F.Z.S., of the Otago Museum, was re-
quisitioned to repair the damage. This
he was successful in doing, and the skele-
ton of Phar Lap now is a favorite exhibit
at the Dominion Museum in Wellington.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The old outer-circle Mel-
bourne railway, now defunct, used to
have its humorous happenings. A high-
nosed dowager climbed in one morning
at Bayswater, her hands plunged deep
in a large hairy muff. She seemed to
set considerable store on the article,
talking into it, and even inserting a bis-
cuit. When Mickey, the ticket collector,
appeared, she withdrew one hand to
offer the requisite pasteboard, which
looked much the worse for wear. “The
number’s ate off, ma’am,” said Mickey.
“Ye’ll have to take another ticket.”
“Phwat are yez pratin’ about?” replied
the lady in an even stronger brogue,
“Sure, I just bought it.” The head of
a Peke emerged from the muff and
yapped savagely until she thrust it back.
“An’ ye’ve a dog wid ye,” said Mickey.
“Agin the regylashuns.” “It’s not a dog,
ye omadhaun,” she snapped; “it’s a
rabbit.” “But rabbits don’t bark,” ex-
postulated Mickey. “They always do in
matin’ time, ye fool,” she came back
triumphantly, atod Mickey retired de-
feated.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A youth found guilty at the
Third Civil Court in Melbourne for hav-
ing hit another over the head with a
bottle for no explainable reason got the
shortest sentence on local record. Jus-
tice Lowe sentenced him to imprison-
ment until the rising of the Court.
’Sonah then folded up his papers and
upended himself, the prisoner took a
step towards the door accompanied by a
policeman, the court crier shouted “This
honorable Court stands adjourned,” and
the bottle-wielder found himself at
liberty. His durance-vile lasted almost
exactly five seconds.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Some time ago Mel-
bourne’s Wine and Food Society, whose
president is the veteran viticulturist De
Castella, sat down at its quarterly ban-
quet to a menu and wine supplied by
the sister-body of California. Subse-
quently the Californian gourmets re-
ceived ten cases of Australian wine, and
smacking their lips in expectation decided
to have a special dinner to celebrate the
occasion. It then occurred to them that
it would be only fitting if the “regional
wine of Australia should wash down the
“regional” cuisine, and they wrote re-
questing examples of the same. This was
very flattering of them, but, alas! what
is Australia’s “regional” cuisine?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A motor service pro-
prietor who runs a fleet of cars between
Warrandyte and Melbourne has made
a novel request to the Transport Board.
He asks for permission to charge pas-
sengers a sliding rate based on their
salaries.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: “Adelaide’s” mention (B.
23 /11 / ’3B) of Charles Bastard, lessee of
the Adelaide Baths, being in charge for
over 50 years, and having succeeded his
father, reminds me. It must have been
Bastard, sen., who used to go the rounds
of the State schools once a year to beat
up the custom of the small fry for his
establishment. The way he did it was
ingenious. While the headmaster and
teachers solemnly stood by, the old fel-
low would read newspaper accounts of
all the worst drowning fatalities of the
previous year—how little Willie Smith
had fallen into a tank, and his sister, in
an endeavor to save him, had tumbled
in after him, both being drowned ; how
Jimmie Jones had been swept off a rock
by an ocean swell, and how his distracted
mother had to stand impotently by and
watch him sink ; and so forth and so on.
Then he asked for a show of hands on
the question as to whether it was a good
thing to know how to swim. But the
story that influenced me was the one
about the boy who was drowned in a
shallow dam, partly because he couldn’t
swim and partly because a youth was
reluctant to step in and pull him out
because he was wearing a brand-new pair
of trousers. The position of the boy did
not horrify me half as much as the posi-
tion of the young man. After listening
to Mr. Bastard, I went home and spent
a frightful night dreaming of being in
the predicament of the young man with
the brand-new trousers and of not hay-
ing the courage to sacrifice the trousers.
I decided that it was my duty to learn to
swim in order not to put any young man
in such a terrible predicament, and the
next week I was round at the City Baths.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungslarter”: Press refer-
ences to the new Point Cook memorial
recall that strange contraption which, in
earliest war days, provided so much ex-
citement for air-trainees. Known politely
as the “box kite,” and colloquially by
other names, it was a Bristol biplane,
capable of a full 50 m.p.h. when all was
well in its touchy and uncertain interior.
Its cockpit was so full of wires that rig-
ging tests were popularly supposed to be
conducted by putting Peter, the mess-
sergeant’s canary, inside and whistling to
him. If Peter managed to get out to
secure the dainty which the whistle con-
noted in his simple mind, then some
wire had been overlooked. One train-
ing test was to take the “kite” up to
1700 ft., which was its average best.
Amongst those who flew the crate were
Captain White, now M.H.R. for Bala-
clava, and Lieutenant (now Air Vice-
Marshal) Williams, at present com-
manding the R.A.A.F.
GET READY!
“Form, form, riflemen, form!
Ready, be ready, to meet the storm!”
Counsel surely as sound as when
The tocsin rang from Tennyson’s pen
(Only now it’s militia-men),
With hardly a line less apropos
Than it sounded eighty years ago.
“Storm of battle” —and what did he say?
“Well if it do not come this way.”
Well, for certain, but what’s the good
Of underrating the likelihood?
Better get ready in case it should.
-Would you do your bit for your country? Then
Shoulder your burden, militia-men!
Forts and battleships, ’planes and guns,
They’re all the sinews of war, my sons,
But scant protection in these we’ll find
Without the training, body and mind,
Of the men within and the men behind.
Poets, they tell us, are born, not made,
But it isn’t so with the soldier’s trade.
Compulsory service, it appears,
Has a sinister sound in Lyons’s ears.
Exerting pressure on anyone
To learn to carry and use a gun
Is a thing, he reckons, shouldn’t be done.
So, till we’ve a leader once again
With a bolder heart and a broader ken,
Into the ranks, militia-men!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.”: When the seventh Edward suc-
ceeded Queen Victoria, four of his chil-
dren were at the crowning. With the
death of Maud, Queen of Norway, they
are all gone, but his sisters Louise (born
March 18, 1848) and Beatrice (born
April 14, 1857) and brother Arthur (born
May 1, 1850) are with us yet. The
astonishing old people are linked with
some of the greatest periods of British
history; their mother knew not only
Wellington, Collingwood, Peel, Glad-
stone, Disraeli, Wordsworth, Tennyson
and Dickens, but must have known
persons who had been acquainted with
the two Pitts, Burke, Fox, Sheridan,
Burns, Blake, Johnson, Scott, Byron and
possibly Walpole, Pope and Swift as well.
Maud died in England; feeling death
approaching, she hastened to her native
country —a pathetic ancestral habit. The
widower is a Dane, and she was literally
“a sea-king’s daughter” when she mar-
ried Haakon in 1896 ; but it is improb-
able that any Scandinavian poet versified
the nuptials as mellifluously as did Tenny-
son when her mother married Edward:
Sea-king’s daughter from over the sea,
Saxon and Norman and Dane are we,
But all of us Dane in our welcome of thee,
Alexandra!
No Court poet ever did that sort of thing
better than old Tennyson.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: An unusual procession passed
through Camberwell (Melb.) the other
day. Fourteen girls on bikes pedalled
slowly in front of a hearse, followed by
the customary mourning coaches. They
were friends of Gwen McArthur, a well-
known girl cyclist, who was drowned in
the Yarra recently.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne,
still in pawn as an airport, is a vast, wind-
swept flat punctuated by waterlogged
depressions and crossed by the concrete
“Must be something the matter with ram, sir. Lambs have long tails!"
highway to the Williamstown ferry. At
one end is the garden city erected by the
State. Across the river are haunts of
metho.-drinkers. On the south coast,
fronting the surges of Hobson’s Bay,
are the fleets of the fishermen, some
of whom have lived here, father and son,
almost since the days of Batman.
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., has a
huge body-building works in the centre,
and scattered about among the tussocks
are the Government aircraft factory which
makes fighters and bombers, a soap fac-
tory, an enormous coal dump and a
shooting range. Seagulls scream and
herons meditate between these islands of
industry, but the chief fauna are the
goats which harass the young lady artists
who come from the city
to paint the varied land-
scape. The goats are an-
other industry of Fisher-
men’s Bend, their milk be-
ing sought by the Lascars
from the steamers lying in
the Yarra, whose religion
forbids the drinking of
cow-milk.
* * *
“F.S.”: Judge Magen-
nis, of Melbourne, who
admitted to probation a
youth who pleaded guilty
to attempting to adminis-
ter chloroform to a sleep-
ing girl, because the evi-
dence showed the accused
was in love with the girl
and had been too shy to
propose, evidently knew
something of the effects
of extreme diffidence. It
isn’t confined to relations
with the other sex. A
Melbourne man, now
middle - aged, often tells
how he came by his
false teeth. Sent down to
the city by his country parents to have
some aching teeth extracted, he meekly
submitted himself to a dentist in Collins-
street. The toothpuller happened to have
taken several drops too much, and ex-
tracted every molar in his head. The
boy was too shy to protest.
* * * m
“Cauboy”: More than any other art,
even opera, Russian ballet depends for
its effect on a solemn state of awe and
apprehension in an audience. The other
night at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, Antal
Dorati’s baton hung suspended, the corps
de ballet swam trembling on their toes,
Baronova swayed gently on one of hers
and Paul Petroff, having completed nine
whirlwind turns, was standing petrified
as the music rose to a crescendo and
abruptly stopped. Then the deathly
silence was broken by a sceneshifter’s
“Right-oh!” uttered in an unmistakable
Australian accent.
* * * *
“N.”: All this talk about workers’
compensation reminds me of an engine-
man I met on a Ma State boat. He had
lost three fingers, two toes, an ear and
other portions of his anatomy ; had been
scalded twice, and suffered other minor
disabilities. While he was mentioning
the number of years he had spent in
hospital, on sick leave and in living on
the money he had been paid for each
missing member, he kept shoving wood
under a rusty boiler with such a reck-
less disregard of possible consequences
that 1 came to the conclusion that he was
preparing for the major catastrophe that
would pension him off for the rest of
his life.
» * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne’s constabulary is
to have most luxurious barracks. The
beautiful 80-year-old bluestone building
at the corner of Russell-street and
Latrobe-street is to be replaced by a
three-storeyed administrative block. A
ten-storey central block will contain 150
bedrooms shut off from traffic noises, with
dining-room, messroom, library, recrea-
tion centre and gymnasium, in order to
have all bachelor Hops in the city area
sleeping on the spot and ready for emer-
gencies. At the rear will be a parade-
ground and an area for sudden mobilisa-
“It's from my new pen-friend at Alice Springs. She says if We're ever
passing that Way the girls'll be glad t' see us."
tions, as well as a roof exercise-ground.
The old mansion in Latrobe-street, which
was occupied by the Duke of Edinburgh
during his Melbourne visit, and which
was bought by the men themselves, will
be incorporated in the building. Two
wireless masts and an observation tower,
from which a constable will direct in-
coming and outgoing traffic, complete the
equipment. The cost will be £lOO,OOO,
when the Dunstan Government can find
the money ; but there will be a start early
next year with an advance of £20,000.
Design is by the P.W.D. architect Percy
Everett, and is as modern as one of
George Bell’s paintings.
* * *
“Pingin”: “Jaby” (B. 9/11/’3B) and
others have the facts a bit mixed as
regards the Diver Hughes epic at Bonnie-
vale. The writer was sitting in Mines
Minister Gregory’s office when word of
the disaster came through. Gregory
promptly had a special train and two
divers (Hearne and Curtis) sent up from
Fremantle. But these men knew no-
thing of underground conditions, and
did not make any attempt to descend
the mine. Hughes was a miner from the
Golden Mile who had done some diving
in the pearl business. He remarked to
some of his mates that he thought he
could do the job, and the manager sent
him down to Coolgardie right away.
jje * *
“Spokeshave”: One of the alleged
surprises of “The Women,” at Melb.
King’s, is the fact that a play with no
men in the cast is surveyed nightly by
packed houses in which women are con-
spicuous by their rarity. It was confi-
dently expected that the women of
Melbourne would relish the opportunity
of hearing women making a mock of
women. Why this notion got about it is
difficult to imagine. The attraction of
Clare Boothe’s play is precisely that of a
music-leg-and-dance show. That is to
say, there is a lavish display of feminine
beauty, plus a lot of naughtiness. But
the absence of a good-looking leading
man makes a world of difference to the
composition of the audience.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The facade of the old Bank
of N. S. Wales, which used to be the
pride of Collins-street, will shortly enjoy
a resurrection, arising as the front of
(he new Commerce School at Melb.
University. The frontage design was
based on that of the Library of St.
Mark in Venice, designed by Sanso-
vino in 1536 and regarded as an almost
perfect example of Italian Renaissance.
The craftsmen who carved the Melb.
copy signed each stone, as in many of
the city’s old buildings. In its new
position it will be framed in unrelieved
cream brickwork, and the rest of the
building will be carried out in giodern
fashion. Other architectural gems of
Collins-street have either gone to the
crushing mills or been used for break-
waters or filling.
He * * *
“S.T.S.”: Didn’t expect to find in
The Bulletin (16/11/’3B) such a phrase
as “speculated, and acquired the classic
and inevitable mortgage.” It is exactly
the tone I have found in England, where
—without any exaggeration—to have a
mortgage on your home seems to be re-
garded as a last and probably fatal re-
source, about equal to having, in Aus-
tralia, a bill-of-sale on your furniture.
Thus all but the rich go on paying rent
all their lives. (Nor, consequently, do
the wealthy look about, as here, for
mortgage securities, as the safest of all
well-paying investments.) Now, 1
thought a great strength of Australia
was the wide desire to own one’s own
home. And how can you do that (un-
less rich) without a mortgage? Interest
less than the rent would be ; each im-
provement you make belongs to yourself
and not to a landlord ; the feeling that
you have a stake in your country ; and,
incidentally, a long-term mortgage is a
real help in selling, if and when you
want to realise.
CRINOLINE.
“Since Queen Elizabeth revived the crinoline,
fashion houses are working overtime... .The new
crinoline is more supple than the Victorian one,
permitting travel by motor-car without damage or
loss of dignity.”— “S.M.H.” cable.
The old crinoline, the old crinoline
Of the days when the Windsor widow was
Queen,
What a garment it was to enfold and drape
The southern half of the female shape,
Leaving never a charm to display or disclose
From the willowy waist to the twinkling toes!
But we’d counted it out as gone to the pack,
Deemed it a mode that could ne’er come back.
The old crinoline, the old crinoline,
How it bulged in a garden-party scene!
What a vision it brings of leisurely groups
Engrossed with mallets and croquet hoops!
With what quiet decorum they moved around
In the billowy gowns that swept the ground,
The grandmammas of the nymphs in shorts
Who scamper over our tennis courts!
The new crinoline, the new crinoline,
It won’t be quite such a stiff machine
As the one that left such a little room
For man in the old-time coach or brougham.
It will “give,” one gleans, in a motor-car,
Nor keep a couple apart too far,
As, by all appearance,, it seemed to do
In the pictures Leech and his confreres drew.
The new crinoline, the new crinoline,
Will it help our women to glide serene
Over floor and pavement, and call a stop
To the mincing gait and the birdlike hop
That the tight and the skimpy skirts impose
On maid and matron alike? Who knows?
Will it dull the lure of the figure slim,
The shapely leg and the ankle trim?
If there’s any danger of that, I’ll lay
Long odds that it hasn’t come to stay.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Give
CRAVEN A
Mii-Xmat'
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Scullin having made constitutional
reform a live question again, Premier
Playford (S.A.) sounded the first blast of
a penny trumpet against unification and
Premier Dunstan (Vic.) is echoing him
almost daily. Premier Stevens (N.S.W.)
seems too scared to take up a definite
attitude. Unification came to Britain cen-
turies ago, and the results have been
rather wonderful, but if it came to Aus-
tralia seven State Premiers would find
their useless occupations gone.
The all-night-sitting method of conduct-
ing the business of the nation was turned
on again in the third week of November,
and the subject was the Budget, which
should always be considered in good
time by a full House. Fairbairn, who
busied himself during the recess mar-
shalling pertinent facts, had to deliver
them to a handful of dozing Ministers
and members; the rest were asleep in the
Chamber or somewhere else. The man
from Flinders was bitter about it, and
no wonder.
In S.A., campaigning for the Labor man
in Wakefield, and at Canberra, Curtin
has been fearfully sarcastic about the
Lyons-Hughes recruiting campaign. He
annoyed both elder statesmen by reveal-
ing what he says Hughes said to him:
How would it be if you and the Prime
Minister acted together with me, as a
link with the Australian Defence League,
if I can persuade him to make up his
mind on a matter on which he appears now
to have no mind.
Billy assured Curtin, according to the
latter, that “I will be travelling about
Australia making speechqs” and that none
of the other links with the League would
be required to attend many of its meet-
ings. Hence the Labor leader’s acid
conclusion: “Mr. Hughes will be a miss-
ing link.”
Billy to Joe:
Your telegram. What I said to Curtin
was simply that the suggestion that he
should act with you was mine, that I had
mentioned it to you, and that you were
turning it over in your mind.
It irresistibly recalls the old Bar story of
Westbury’s instruction to his junior:
“Take a note of that. His Honor says
he will turn it over in what he is pleased
to call his mind.”
A Tasmanian measure copying the
Sydney transport-strangulation policy—
except that the joss is to have one head
instead of two —has been thrown out by
the Leg. Council. Premier Ogilvie
threatens an election or at least a refer-
endum.
None of the parties at Canberra is
easy in its mind about the army. Frost,
of Franklin, embarrassed mainland Labor
members by reminding them that the
“Tasmanian Labor Conference unani-
mously carried a resolution in favor of
the reintroduction of universal training.”
And Frost attended it.
Communists have stirred up more tre-
mendous strikes in France, and the
Government may outlaw them, as Fin-
land does. Chamberlain, visiting Paris, was
greeted by “large cheering crowds” ex-
cept near the Gare du Nord. There “a
solid section of Communists, fists raised,
cried, ‘Down with Munich. Betrayer of
Czechoslovakia. Vive Eden!’” The
Stunt Press records complacently this
insult to the old Prime Minister by the
scum of Europe. What Germans have
done to German Jews is lady-finger
work compared with what Paris Reds in
two periods have done to Frenchmen —
and would do again if they got half a
chance.
Rankin and Fairbairn, Ms.H.R., who
were both in the A.1.F., have dealt very
roughly with the Ellington report and
with the Government’s refusal to publish
the Air Board’s reply. Referring to the
English officer’s statement that the pro-
portion of accidents in the R.A.A.F. was
greater than in the R.A.F., Rankin said
witheringly that the critic was chief of
staff on “the blackest day in R.A.F.
history,” when eight ’planes crashed, nine
young men were killed and 20 seriously
injured. He added as a final crusher that
the only group that suffered no mishap
that day was commanded by an Aus-
tralian, Cole.
Plans for removing ruined farmers
from what was alleged to be wheat coun-
try are engaging the attention of two pro-
vincial Governments. Hundreds of vic-
tims of loan-settlement hang out in what
was described in Westralia as “the north-
eastern wheatbelt,” and hundreds more
are preparing to quit what was billed
in Sydney as “the south-western wheat-
belt.” The latter have been promised
£3OO a head to quit, and protest that it
isn’t nearly enough. Politicians who
“Gentlemen, gentlemen , let us stop calling one another names and
co-operate!"
swore that “the north-eastern wheat-
belt” and “the south-western wheatbelt”
would grow bumper crops season after
season, and backed their opinion with
four or five millions of public money,
still fancy themselves as statesmen and
can be heard saying that national union
under one Parliament would Destroy
Australia.
In an eight-point summary, pithily
expressed, Menzies has told the nation
of its Parliament’s tragic deficiencies in
national powers. The fifth point deals
with transport, the “fluidity” of which is
described as “one of the wonders of out-
age.”
But transport, except in relation to inter-
state commerce, is beyond the control of
the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth
is the chief regulator of marine transport:
it is the regulator by arrangement of
aviation, but it has no real control over
railway or road transport at all.
In the State with two-fifths of the popu-
lation, where railways and roads are
controlled by Sydney commissions, nomi-
nally responsible to a Sydney Parliament,
it is now proposed to have commission-
run aeroplanes, though they can't trade
beyond State boundaries. And the Syd-
ney Government may agree —it is stupid
enough.
British Guiana, the Virgin Islands,
Kenya, Nyasaland, Northern Rhodesia
and, of course, the Dominions (all of
them) have been suggested as new homes
for Jewish refugees. Queer that there
is no mention of the U.S.S.R., since
Siberia, hailed as another U.S.A., has
a Jewish Autonomous Territory, of
36,490 kilometres, and only 60,000
occupying it. An English writer alleges
that Stalinists have killed more Jews in
five weeks than Nazis have killed in five
years. Possibly “a Fascist lie” ; all the
same, it would be really interesting to
know why the U.S.S.R. is so mysteriously
off the list of retreats for refugees.
Ex-Premier Butler has two opponents
in Wakefield —Sydney McHugh (Labor),
who was in the Adelaide Assembly for
a time, and P. H. Quirke, a Clare farmer.
Quirke is the only resident candidate,
Clare being a Wakefield subdivision.
There are 28 subdivisions, and last year
Hawker led in all but four —Peter-
borough, Maree, Cockburn and North-
field. Butler will not repeat that per-
formance.
Playford, who stepped into Butler’s
shoes as Premier at Adelaide, will be able
to exercise local influence in his favor
on December 10, for Nortons Summit,
scene for 60 years or so of the Playford
market garden, is in the Wakefield elec-
torate. In any case, it is a Liberal strong-
hold ; in October last year it voted 1594
for Hawker and 667 for Davis, then the
Labor man.
Eden tried to prevent the Anglo-Italian
agreement coming into operation, and he
won’t have any granting of belligerent
rights to “General Franco, the rebel
leader,” or any negotiations with Ger-
many. Japan the young gentleman in-
cludes in a denunciation of “breach of
international engagements.” When Britain
was floundering along under the Lloyd
George Government, which backed the
Greeks against the Turks and the White
Russians against the Reds and promised
Palestine to the Arabs and the Jews,
Admiral Jacky Fisher came out with a
slogan: “Sack the lot.” Eden’s slogan
must be “Fight the lot.”
Gullett has taken to saying forcible (or
forcible-feeble) things at a great rate.
One week’s issue, condensed:
The Government had immediate reason
to fear armed molestation of Australia
from the sea during the September crisis
and displayed cowardice in failing to tell
the people of the danger The Kyeema
inquiry is a mockery and a travesty of
justice. Putting the head of the Civil
Aviation Board into the box before a
tribunal on which two of his subordinates
are sitting! A volunteer militia as a first
line of defence is a policy of scarcely less
than murder. I, together with most Min-
isters, was opposed to the volunteer system,
but the subject was decided by the Prime
Minister in accordance with his own per-
sonal views.
Gullett himself was a Minister when the
“subject” was “decided.” So he and
“most Ministers” let Lyons “decide” it
“in accordance with his own personal
views”!
“There are 160,000 unemployed,”
said Forde, M.H.R., at Canberra, “and
30,000 others who are not strong enough
for manual labor.” “S. M. Herald,” re-
porting Forde, demanded in the same
issue the admission of Jewish refugees
in considerable numbers, and ordered
the Government to look sharp about it
—“leave the selection to Mr. Bruce.” It
is to be hoped that “Herald” employees
won’t have to battle for their jobs with
the Old Girl’s protdgds. There are sure
to be newspapermen among the refugees,
and —as Granny ought :to know —the
German-Jew reporter can learn English
in no time.
It takes something to startle Stevens’s
Water Board, which is spending
£3,000,000 a year “on loan account” and
as much more as it can borrow; but
even the Water Board was startled when
it learned that its president, one Upton,
had authorised the spending of £1039 on
a main to take water to one (1) property
at Camden. The property is the Camden
Park Estate, source of part of the milk
supply for which Sydney pays Bd. a
quart, bottled. Other Camden people
were among the objectors. The board
withheld its approval of the expenditure
till the president returns from a holi-
day ; and then, no doubt, approval will
be given. Boards are like that.
It has been repeatedly alleged, mostly
in untrustworthy quarters, that a foreign
squadron was within striking distance of
the Australian coast when war for poor
Czecho. seemed probable. Lyons said last
week that his Government has had the
story investigated, and there is nothing
in it.
Victoria’s Government Statist has made
the startling revelation that there were
fewer children born in Australia
last year than in 1900. In St. Kilda and
Malvern the birthrate has fallen to 10 per
1000. Both are refaned suburbs, where the
women greatly outnumber the men.
Australian resourcefulness and Eng-
lish philanthropy are happily combined in
a Nuffield plan for having 5000 “iron
lungs” made at the Morris works and
distributed among Empire hospitals treat-
ing infantile paralysis cases. The in-
ventor is E. T. Both, a South Australian
engineer, and his respirator—which is
chiefly of plywood—is described as the
last word in cheapness and simple effi-
ciency. Another Australian has invented
a “convalescent waistcoat”; a third has
come out with a patent check on auto-
matic ’phone calls. But for the national
fiscal policy they might never have had an
opportunity of inventing anything.
A company which makes boots and
shoes in Collingwood (Vic.), and which
reports a bad year, gives as its reasons
(1) price-cutting in the trade and (2)
“shortage of women operatives.” There
is no unemployment among young
women, but Street and Hughes could
get the 35,000 recruits they are after if
they enlisted all the able-bodied work-
less men.


" YOU STAV HERE WHILE t GO AND GET A DOCTOR.''
“A LITTLE LEARNING IS A DANGEROUS THING”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Beserve Fund .. .. . •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Beserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BBISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOUBNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PEBTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FEEMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT SENT GOLD UP?
WILL PRICE HOLD?
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES
MINES AND METALS
December Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co, Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
mm
■
;V
Out
SIZE 72x60'
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some December birthdays:
Botanist Richard Baker (Syd.), 84, knight John
Evans (Tas.), 82, artist George Bell (Vic.), 60,
and authoress Helen de Guerry Simpson, on
Ist; knight Raphael Cilento (Director of Health,
Q’land), 45, Judge Kelly (S.A.), 40, and knight
Jas. D. Connolly (former W.A. Agent-Gen.),
68, on 2nd; knight Stanley Argyle (Vic.), 71, and
knight David Rivett (C.S. and 1.R.), 53, on 4th ;
Major-Gen. John Gellibrand (Speck), 66, and
Dr. Charles Anderson (Australian Museum),
62, on sth; Judge Brennan (Q’land), 54, on
6th; T. J. Hartigan (Chief Commissioner of
Railways, N.S.W.). 61, Speck Chief Sec.
D’Alton, 43, and Archbishop Prendiville
(Perth), 39, on Bth; Prof. T. H. Johnston
(Adel.), 57, on 9th; Bishop Nutter Thomas
(Adel.), 69, on 11th; former N.S.W. Senator
Hardy, 40, and Vic. Min. of Agriculture Ned
Hogan, 54, on 12th; Brig.-Gen. H. A. God-
dard (London “Times’s” Aust. rep.), 69, and
authoress Dulcie Deamer, on 13th; S.A. Chief
Sec. George Ritchie, 74, on 14th; W. Warren
Kerr (Vic. State Savings Bank Commissioner),
74, Dean Jose (Adel.), 70, and Prof. H. J.
Wilkinson (Q’land), 47, on 15th; Dr. Cecil
Purser (Syd.), 76, artist Elioth Griiner, 56, and
Prof. H. C. Richards (Q.), 54, on 16th; Rev.
T. E. Ruth (Syd.), 63, on 17th; A. O. Badman,
M.H.R. (Grey), 53, Prof. V. A. Bailey (Syd.),
43, and poet R. J. Cassidy, 58, on 18th; J. T.
Jennings, M.H.R. (Watson), 60, Maj.-Gcn.
Lavarack (Chief of Gen. Staff), 53, and D’Arcy
W. Addison (former Speck Agent.-Gen.), 66, on
19th; Federal Attorney-General Menzies, 44,
Herbert Brookes (Melb.), 71, and knight-aviator
Keith Smith, 48, on 20th; “Texas” Green,
M.H.R. (Kalgoorlie), 69, on 21st; knight John
Harvey (former acting-C.J., N.S.W.), 73, and
knight John Butters (Syd.), 53, on 23rd; W. A.
Collector of Customs Bird, 60, on 25th;
authors J. H. M. Abbott, 64, and S. Elliott
Napier, 68, knight Harry Sheehan (gov. Com-
monwealth Bank), 55, and Dr. J. J. C. Bradlield
(of the Bridge), 71, on 26th; painter W. Lister
Lister, 79, Bishop Hart (Wangaratta), 72,
and Dr. Buntine, M.A. (Hale School, Perth),
40, on 27th; knight G. Mason Allard (Syd.),
72, Dr. E. E. Anderson (St. Andrew’s Coll.,
Syd.), 66, Speck Min. for Agric. Robt. Cosgrove,
54, and H. P. Brown (Director-Gen. of Posts
and Telegraphs), 60, on 28th; Justice Draper
(W.A.), 74, knight Hubert Murray (Lieut.-
Gov. of Papua), 77, and ex-Premier Theodore,
54, on 29th; knight Kelso King (Syd.), 85, and
Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, V.C., 55, on 30th.
DEFENCE MINISTER G.A. STREET.
The varied life-story of F. A. Jennings,
dead in M.L.: Educated at St. Peter’s
School, Adelaide; then a commercial
teacher in the city, a master at Mel-
bourne Grammar and at Armidale
(N.S.W.). War service, mathematical in-
structor to the troops on the return
voyage, and again in Sydney. Moved
to Hamilton (M.L.) as hotelkeeper, and
finally gave up both mathematics and
management for music, which had
always been a strong sideline with him.
Major-General Sir Winston Dugan,
who has been Governor of S.A. since
1934 (when he retired from military ser-
vice), and is designated as the next
Governor of Vic., was born in Ireland
SIR WINSTON DUGAN.
61 years ago. He was in the S’African
War, and commanded the Royal Irish
Regiment in France in the early part of
the Great War, during which he rose in
rank to brigadier-general, and immedi-
ately prior to his retirement was in com-
mand of the First London Division of
Territorials. Like his predecessor, Hore-
Ruthven, now G.-G. as Lord Gowrie,
Dugan found S.A. congenial, showed a
lot of political tact, and proved a
sound adviser.
The “iron lung” which Lord
Nuffield is giving to thousands of
hospitals is not the only invention
of the young Adelaide physicist
E. T. Both to attract world-wide
attention. He recently produced a
new type of cardiograph which
provides instantaneous diagnosis
of the heart at the bedside, and a
sound-detector of his has been
applied in principle both to dis-
covering gun positions and for the
more peaceful job of grading dried
fruit. It was the infantile paralysis
epidemic of last year which
started Both thinking about res-
pirators, and the appropriate de-
sign occurred almost by inspiration.
Three-dimensional films are another of
his interests, and a gadget of his in this
connection is likely to be adopted. He
was one of Professor Kerr Grant’s most
distinguished pupils, and it was an Adel-
aide syndicate that sent him to London.
Charitable institutions are no doubt
pricking up their ears at the news that
Lord Nuffield will pay another visit to
Australia next year. This year he popped
in and popped out without making a
single benefaction, but in 1937 he left
behind upwards of £lOO,OOO, including
a mite of £25,000 for the Lud Mayor’s
Fund in Melbourne. February is his
favorite time for dropping in, and his
visit in 1939 will be in that month.
There are few things finer in Aus-
tralian medical annals than the story of
Emma Muriel Walker, just dead at 60
in Melbourne. For 30 years she was in
charge of the Infectious Diseases Hos-
pital at Fairfield. When she began it
was a small affair of 60 beds, and it has
never been anything but inadequate. But,
although she had impoverished herself
by her endless charitable benefactions,
she risked her job by battling incessantly
for more and more equipment and
accommodation, her chief allies being
the periodic crises like the late infantile
paralysis epidemic, when Authority was
prepared to grant from fear what it re-
fused to reason. The enormous number
of respirator cases during last year’s
epidemic would have kept her on her
feet if she had been able to stand on
them ; but she was suffering herself from
an incurable disease, and directed the
campaign from a sickbed in the hospital.
When she died the Fairfield institution
had 750 beds and a staff of 230 nurses.
W. M. Mehaffey, the Commonwealth’s
new Director-General of Works, has had
a varied experience. A Maorilander and
a graduate of Canterbury College, he
was lecturer in engineering at that
academy, then assistant engineer of the
Auckland (M.L.) Harbor Board, after
which he transferred to the Bananaland
Harbors and Rivers Department. He
was 19 years in the Commonwealth
Lighthouse Service, and from 1931 to
1936 Director of Lighthouses. Then he
was Director-General of Works for the
Department of the Interior until the
depression made his title a mis-
nomer. The job was revived a couple
of years ago.
A South African couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Schonegevel, who passed through
Perth recently on their way to Mel-
bourne, Canberra, and Sydney, ought to
provide eastern presshounds with plenty
of copy. Mr. Schonegevel (it is pro-
nounced “Schooner-heaval”) is the
youngest man alive entitled to wear both
Queen’s and King’s South African war
medals, and is also a Great War veteran.
He’s interested in mining. Mrs. S. was
formerly Enid Chamberlain, daughter
of Herbert Chamberlain (brother of
Joseph) and thus first cousin to Neville.
The Schonegevels have travelled all over
the world, and have just spent four
weeks in Westralia.
WING-COMMANDER O.R.
GAYFORD ,
Staff Commanding Officer of the Flight
from Egypt to Australia.
Captain Wilfred Rupert Patterson,
whose flag flies on the cruiser Canberra,
commenced his naval career at 17 as a
middy, became a gunnery specialist, and
served through the Great War. He
CAPTAIN W.R. PATTERSON.
reached captain’s rank five years ago, is
now 44, and prior to his Australian ap-
pointment was chief of staff and flag-
captain to the vice-admiral commanding
the Reserve Fleet. He now holds a
similar position in relation to Rear-
Admiral Custance. A C.V.O. came his
way last year.
Adelaide University is to bring back
a good Australian from Britain to fill its
Chair of Economics, vacant since Shann
died in 1935. K. S. Isles is a Tasmanian
who took a first-class commerce degree
there. Living in Adelaide for a year or
two, he won the Tinline award, and then
at Cambridge the Adam Smith prize. He
has since been a lecturer in his subject
at Edinburgh, and a prof, in Wales. Also
he is a practical man, and subjects of
his published books vary from Australia’s
monetary policy to the economic aspect
of pig-feeding.
The Australian Literature Society’s
gold medal for the best novel by an
Australian author has been awarded to
Seaforth (Kenneth) Mackenzie for his
The Young Desire It. Mackenzie is
Westralian-born, and is a grandson of
the George Paterson who was in Forrest’s
expedition to the Kimberleys. He was
destined first for agriculture and then for
the law, but finally reached Sydney,
where his Our Earth so interested
Norman Lindsay that he offered to
illustrate it.
Died last week in a Darlinghurst
hospital one of Australia’s veteran
journalists, Frank Charles Hogg.
He was the second son of Admiral
R. G. Hogg, Surrey, England, and
was intended for the Navy, but
instead migrated to Sydney in
1879, and learned his job as a
newspaperman in the Sydney “Mail,”
“Daily Telegraph” and “Evening News”
offices, later becoming editor of the
Wagga “Express.” Eventually he be-
came proprietor of the “Monaro Mer-
cury” (Cooma, N.S.W.), which he car-
ried on for many years, retiring in 1931.
He was 80 at the end.
A young Melbourne medico started
off in an aeroplane the other day to be-
come a locum tenens of an unusual sort.
He is Dr. John Laver, nephew of
Prof. Laver, the acting musical director
of Melb. University. Young Laver, who
graduated at Perth Uni., flew to Cloncurry
to relieve Dr. G. Alberry, the “flying
doctor.”


" Bettet (nun Ci*f?stMt
thafie blended
bettei /"
\
\
:■•: ::
s
mm
xxx-xvx-x:xx*x*xvxv:
I 1 —
Mfegf - f •
X A'A-W S
/
...
■
pi*
mm
saasssgaaasgs
: ;...
CAPSTAN MILD
better known as
/ x/
M
7
CAPSTANS
Also Medium Strength in
the Blue Packs.
Full Strength in the
. Brown Packs.
m
87418-10.8
10 FOR 6d.
20 FOR 1/“
Also Flat and Round 50's and 100'$
They*re GOOD because they re absolutely PURE!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Skeeter Muldoon, a
broken-down jockey, struck Mallee Hen
for the annual picnic races. Two horses
were entered in the brush hurdle, but no
rider could be found for one until Skeeter
volunteered. Word got around that
Sheets was no amateur, and soon his
mount was favorite. At the back of the
course the other boy veered in at a hurdle,
the nags collided, and both riders rolled
in the dust. Unhurt, Skeeter shook the
dirt out of his eyes, saw what he thought
was his mount hooked by the bridle in the
fence, saw the other rider getting up. He
seized the reins, jumped aboard and set
sail, passing the post before they caught
the other horse. He was surprised by the
hostile reception he got from the crowd
—until it dawned on him that he’d
grabbed the wrong horse.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: I’m satisfied a racehorse
can’t keep in a fly’s dust in point oi
speed. Whilst exercising a pretty slick
prad, the flies had us so maddened that
to get a little respite I bashed them ofl
with a small bush and sent the animal
at his top for half a mile. When I pulled
up a bunch of the pests which had been
around the horse’s ears until they
decided to show us the way came flying
back to see what was detaining us.
il! * * *
“Arachne”: “Cooper’s Ale” (B.
9/11/’3B) must have been imbibing some
of his pen-name before finding that his
redback had eaten the trapdoor spider,
leaving only the legs. The black cove
doesn’t eat his prey—or, to be correct,
“she” doesn’t do it. She is one of the
sucking variety which absorbs the juices
of the meal and leaves the carcass
behind.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Catching hares with your
bare hands (B. 16/11/’38)? Huh!
Teamstering in western Vic., I frequently
picked a surprised puss from its squat.
Longlegs had a dull habit of watching
the rolling wagon. There, a more strenu-
ous excitement was to be had in run-
ning down quail per boot. The birds
were of the weak-flighted butterfly
variety, and the method was to dash after
them on flushing. Generally they
dropped inside 200 yards; on the next
rise they could manage barely half that
distance, and at the third up, provided
you were right on their wheel, they soon
tumbled to earth exhausted. The art of
the pastime lay in giving the bird no let-
up once you sooled yourself on to it, and
that meant a 300-yard gallop without
stopping because of a stitch, to get your
second wind or to admire the knee-high
“everlastings.”
# * * *
“Bufo”: A tomcat who died after 19
years’ service in keeping the rats away
from the mummies and other contents
of the British Museum has been boomed
as the longest-lived of known cats. He
was a mere baby beside the veteran who
as a kitten accompanied the O’Reilly
brothers 3500 ft. up the wild face of the
Macpherson Range (S.Q.) in the spring
of 1904, and liked the place so much
that he refused to be found when they
left for the winter. Two days after they
had returned in the next spring he walked
into the hut, robust but plainly glad to
see them again. Through the following
four years the same performance was
repeated, until the homestead was com-
pleted and the family took up permanent
residence. After that, he lived with them
except for an occasional few days’ walk-
about. When I saw that tomcat last, he
was 24, active and healthy, and would
play like a kitten in the sun. He lived
into the 1930’5, which would make him
26 at least.
* * # *
“Cornisher”: Tell “Cooramin” (B.
9/11/’3B) that the wonga pigeon and
the squatter don’t get out into western
Queensland. They belong to the coastal
fall. The spinifex quail to which I re-
ferred isn’t the spinifex pigeon. The
quail is omitted from some bird books ;
the pigeon is in most of them. I get
my stuff out where the bull feeds, not
from printed pages. The quail is a rain-
bow-splashed little chap, most frequently
“Can I help you , miss?"
"No, churl — I'm Waiting for the Red Cross Knight."
found from Opalton to the junction of
the Barcoo (W.Q.). He is as I described
him. The pigeon is a much bigger bird,
brownish, with a fanned tail, and the
most polite fowl in the bush —it stands
up and bows elaborately when anything
goes past it.
V * * *
“W.P.T.”: Tortoises do eat snails and
slugs, despite “Chelonian’s” assertion (B.
9/11/’3B) that they are strict vegetarians.
I’ve had one for years, and kept him in
the garden by means of a long string at-
tached to his carapace. He also
relishes a bit of raw meat now and then.
Of course, he eats greens as well, but
never does any damage of consequence
to the garden. Also, lest anyone take
“C.’s” advice, let me warn him that
keeping seagulls in captivity is an offence,
in N.S.W. at any rate.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Dogs have a way of not
being understood. That is what old Jack
told me. Now, the trouble is that we
haven’t got the right sense to know how
to speak to a dog. Let Jack show us
how. He calls his dog: “Nigger,” he
says, “I have a task for you. It must be
performed at once and without fault.
Listen carefully to what I say. Take a
straight line across the lower paddock.
Slip under the second panel of the fence
into the corn crop and go straight ahead
until you come to the track. Stand still
on the track and wait until I whistle.
One long whistle will mean that I have
sighted the fox. You must find him and
drive him from the corn out into the
open. If I don’t whistle in half an hour
you come back home.” Simple enough.
The rest of the story is that the dog, fol-
lowing the instructions perfectly, headed
the fox up to the house, and Jack got it
fair between the eyes. A dog will do
anything for you if you use good clear
English, but you must avoid fancy
accents.
“Towser”: I’d like “Darkie’s Master”
(B. 9/11/’3B) to explain this about tele-
pathy with sheep-dogs. Time and again,
just to test my theory that they don’t
always instinctively do what is right, I’ve
sent my old fellow up the string of a
mob of sheep. I’ve willed that dog to
work wide, 50 yards or more, and he’s
done it. And, half-way up the string, I’ve
sent the dog a message to “cut ’em.”
That dog has repeatedly done what all
his training and instincts must have told
him was sheer idiocy. But in obedience
to the master-mind which controlled his
movements, the old fellow has turned and
cut the mob as instructed telepathically.
No fluke. Working normally that dog
would no more think of cutting a string
than of chewing bits out of the jumbucks’
hind legs.”
* * * *•
“Skull Creek”: A farmer in an isolated
Victorian district decided to keep up
with the times by erecting a bright red
mail-box by his front gate. After several
important letters had gone astray he
made inquiries and found that an ancient
neighbor, who sometimes brought out the
mail, had ignored the letter-box and
placed the mail in the hollow log which
had done duty as a post repository for
many years. The old chap was surprised
to find that the “red contraption” was a
letter-box —he thought it was one of them
fire alarm things. When it was pointed
out to him that the nearest fire brigade
was 300 miles away, he shook his head
doubtfully. “Don’t make no odds,” he
said ; “there ain’t no end to what they
can do nowadays.”
* * * *
“Billy See”: Those quartpots! I once
attended the obsequies of a couple of
thousand of them at the Kalgoorlie rub-
bish tip. A Groper hardware firm had
imported them in a moment of aberra-
tion. But the W.A. digger never had
time for such an utterly cranky utensil.
Last time I saw them a stone-broke dry-
blower was surveying the pile and won-
dering if they would repay burning for
solder. Who ever invented the atrocity?
Apparently they were a relic from the old
sailing-ship days when the shellback had
to pack a pot into a crowded sea chest
and needed something with a folding
handle. Quite efficient for going up to
the galley for an issue of soup or coffee
—but in a bushman’s outfit! Gimme a
billy! Of course, you can juggle the
things with a couple of sticks. But that
bloke who could hang his over the fire
(B. 2/11 /’3B) —well, I suppose you could
do that if you punched a couple of holes
with a nail and rigged a billy-handle. But,
then, it wouldn’t be a quartpot; it
would be a billy ; and the real quart-
pot devotee absolutely scorns anything in
tf)e shape of a billy. He loves to do his
juggling tricks with a couple of sticks
through the wobbly handles. Anyway,
what unsociable vessels they were, each
man boiling his own pot of tea, instead
of all hands dipping into the common
gallon billy, to which everyone contri-
buted his quota of post-and-rail or orange
pekoe!
r * * *
“Koax”: Reported from M.L. that a
plague of frogs has overrun or over-
hopped the country, or rather that part
of it known as Te Aroha, wherever
that is. The frogs are everywhere ; in
the shops, houses, and even the babies’
cradles, like the Pied Piper of Hamelin’s
rats. But here is the pinch. For some
reason unknown, frogs are protected by
law in Te Aroha and are taking full
advantage of their immunity. Writer
sees here a fine chance of settling the
trade feud between M.L. and Australia.
Let the. Pig Islanders throw the door
open to our citrus fruits and we will
reciprocate with a shipload of snakes,
f.o.b.
* * * *
“Pindan”: Watched a city scoutmaster
the other day demonstrating the abo.
methods of fire-making to his troop. For
a quarter of an hour he sawed away with
two pieces of dry wood, and although
he managed to get them warm he failed
to produce a spark. Actually, the real
abo. fire-saw is just as efficient as, if not
more so than, our forefathers’ flint and
steel. Select a short length of bone-dry
wood, but not old and decaying. Split
open one end and keep it open by means
of a wedge. Into the cleft lightly stuff
very dry grass or bark, well fluffed up
of course. Then cut a shallow groove
across both edges on top of the cleft.
Next take a longish piece of dry wood,
harder than the deft piece. This is the
saw, and it must be thin-edged enough to
fit the groove; also smooth-edged so as
not to interrupt the continuity of the
friction, and heavy enough to give suffi-
cient pressure by its own weight. Usually
the abo. finds these qualities in the edge
of a wommera. With a wommera-edge
he saws briskly across the double edge of
the cleft (that’s the main part, having
the double edge), quickly producing
smouldering wood particles, which, fall-
ing into the cleft, soon have the tinder
smoking. But the fire-drill —well, that’s
another story. I’ve tried many times to
spin a fire-drill but couldn’t even get the
point warm. Can any white man do it?
Easy enough to spin the drill between
the palms, but the pressure needs to be
downwards, and a white man’s muscles
always seem to lift upwards. Yet I have
seen an old abo. produce fire with a drill
inside a few seconds.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Dunno why the Coun-
cil neglects our bottle-tree, always at
home to stickybeaks in the Bunya Moun-
tains (Q.). As an ornament to a domi-
cile, with its short, massive trunk and
ridiculously tiny yet artistically effective
top, it’s second to nothing in the
three kingdoms. And your own bottle-
tree is different from every other bottle-
tree. As stock food it leaves the. field
standing. Many a scrub cocky, beset by
drought, has kept his milkers sleek on
nothing else. Everything inside the bark
is not only edible (misleading word
that!), but eaten by cattle to the last
ton. Conservation of fodder? Let Nature
do it.
THE BALM OF BENEVOLENCE.
“Yair, it’s my belief,” said Jimmy the Jaw, and
nodded again to Bung,
“That these international ‘storms’ are mostly
due to the waggin’ tongue.
With nations it’s just the same as with blokes;
if they bait each other enough
They'll finish by havin’ an all-in go after one
calls the other’s bluff.
“The trouble with this old world of ours is
that tolerance gets the bird.
There’s too much snarlin’ an’ snivellin’ an’
abuse of the printed wnird.
These gore-thirsty bishops they yell for wars
(though tney, ol course, uati go>,
While hordes of them bath-chair brigadiers
search round for a likely foe.
"What with radio blurbers an’ scribes galore
an’ the gospel of hate they preacn,
An’ professors 'oo write so much for the press
when they’re handsomely paid to teach,
An’ the rest of the windy bunch, it seems to
me that there’s little chance
For the dove o’ peace. That fowl, in fact,
is led a helluva dance.
“Us ’umans ’avc trouble enough as it is, from
the pram right through to the hearse,
Without all this boneheaded barneyin’ to make
it a damn’ sight worse.
Live an’ let live! that’s the motta for all.
Respect for the next cove’s view.
There’s no need to get off y’r bike if ’e don't
see eye to eye with you.
“What’s that y’ say? It’s all bunkum, eh?
Why, y’ quarter-witted galoot,
I’ve stamped on more intelligent things than
you with me blasted boot.
So I don’t know what I’m talkin’ about?
Why, ’struth, if y’ come outside,
Y’ ignorant, cross-grained swine, I’ll take it out
of y’r flamin’ hide!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Ellenvale”: A squatter in our
Vic. district employed a rouse-
about whose ability to oversleep
in the mornings was a matter of
no little pride to his easygoing
master. Alarm clocks placed in
kerosene-tins and other wake-up
devices failed to disturb the lad’s
slumber; the only way to rouse
him was to overturn the bed. One
Sunday morning his employer and
some of the other sporting bloods
of the district arranged a tipping
competition just to see how long the
rousie would sleep if given a fair go.
The party, equipped with watches and
suitable refreshment for what might
prove a long vigil, gathered under the
trees in front of the men’s hut. The
hours passed . . . dinnertime . . . tea-
time . . . and still the sleeper snored on.
More refreshment was procured, watches
were re-wound, and at 11.25 that night
the hut door opened and the marathon
sleeper appeared. He yawned a time or
two, glanced at the stars and, after
muttering “Strike me! A bloke mus’ be
goin’ crazy—wakin’ up in the middle of
the night,” went back to bed again. Next
morning he had to be tipped out of bed
as usual.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: What is the most widely
distributed of all sea creatures? I’m
tipping the chiton or sea-snail. Broke
for a feed up Exmouth Gulf (W.A.) way
and looking for mutton-fish, we came on
a number of queer-looking molluscs
stuck to the reefs. With flat, horny
shells, articulated much the same as a
crayfish tail, they looked good enough to
eat; and boiled in the bailer they were,
though they carried more shell than meat.
Years later met a zoologist who knew
the Barrier Reef. “They’re chitons,” he
informed. Still later met an Englishman.
“Seen them on the coast of Devon.” And
a Yank had seen them around about Cali-
fornia. Looked them up in a book of
marine zoology and found that they
existed everywhere. Sea-snails, but they
don’t look like snails, and they taste like
whelks, i.e./like a lump of boiled rubber
tyre, and nearly as tough. Still, when
one’s hungry !
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: We have a hound
on our staff that devotes his whole time
to killing snakes. Originally a hard-
working sheep-dog, some years ago he
decided that snake-killing was a much
more interesting career for an ambitious
mong, and since then he has accounted
for hundreds. His habit of carting his
victims home and draping them, across
the back doorstep is taken so much as
a matter of course that last week the
missus of the house booted out of the
way what she thought to be a dead ’un.
The surprised serpent slithered into
the woodheap, but as Bluey arrived
during the subsequent attack of mild
hysterics the visiting reptile was soon
added to his tally.
* * * *
“Notaden”: What markings can a
dingo show without being suspected of
crossbred ancestry? The general idea
among bushmen is that the only dinkum
kind are the red-yellows. But in his
Voyage, published in 1798, Collins
described red-with-some-white and black
as the only two hues. Forty years later
Gould stated the commonest color as
red or reddish-sandy, with black-and-
white or black markings not unusual.
Gilbert, his collector in Westralia,
records a wide variety from red to black-
and-white. Lucas and Le Souef give the
usual tint of coat as from yellow or
brownish-red to black, dogs from the
West being darker, and refer to albinos
which breed true. They say (1909) that
“it is now a difficult thing to obtain a
“ Over!"
pure dingo in Australia.” Over 15 years
later Prof. Wood Jones, after extensive
investigation, concluded that purebreds
could show all the varieties of markings,
size and shape popularly credited to
crossbreds, and that crossbreds are rare.
Who’s for which?
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Old Mac, having installed
one of the new electric fences, was proud
to show it to his neighbors, but soon
became annoyed as almost every day
somebody came by and gave the fence
a tug in order to enjoy the mild shock it
gave. Mac thought hard one night, and
next day the fence carried a number of
the following warnings, prominently dis-
played: “The voltage in this wire has
been increased heavily. To touch it
would be fatal. Anyone caught disobey-
ing this warning will be prosecuted.”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Lots of sea creatures
jump the rattler for a free ride now and
then, and quite a few of them live on the
game. Those two sucker-fish, for ex-
ample, that hung on to the big shark
even after we’d harpooned the beast
alongside and then stuck to the side of
the boat. The sucker is really a modified
fin, but it takes a heavy pull to drag its
owner loose. They not only get a free
passage, but a share in the tucker when
the shark is collecting a meal. Hagfish
are the most ungrateful of rattler-
jumpers, for they combine free trans-
port with free tucker from their host’s
flesh. A species of pilot-fish lives
dangerously in the throat and gill cavity
of the great ocean-going white shark, but
they are said to make a definite return
for hospitality by investigating such sus-
picious circumstances as a baited hook,
and warning the boss in time. The few
that I’ve seen have been rotten bad
judges of such matters.
* * * *
“Wang”: “I’ve heard of blokes havin’
that much money they didn’t know how
much they had,” said Dan. “I wus sorta
in that catchergery meself once. I wus
on the tramp, an’ one afternoon I goes
up t’ a cocky’s place fer a job or a hand-
out. As I’m nearin’ the house a great
black mong takes t’ me, an’ has me pants
nearly ripped orf me before the cocky’s
missus comes an’ drags him orf. Her
ole man’s away, she tells me ; but he
ain’t wantin’ any hands just then. She’s
quite upset when she sees me pants, an’
gives me an ole pair of her husband’s.
They’re pretty warby, but they’re better
than what the dog’s left me of mine.
When I gets back on the road I changes
into the pants I’ve been given, an’ sets
orf again. It’s a blazin’ hot day, an’ a
bit farther on I strikes a pub. I ’aven’t
got a cracker, so I puts it on Bung fer
a quencher ; but he turns me down cold,
the unfeelin’ cow. I pitch camp a mile
or so further on, and I’ve just got the
billy on when a ’orseman comes gallopin’
up. He’s carryin’ a gun. ‘Are you the
bloke what had a pair of pants given
him this afternoon?’ he ses. I ses ‘Yes,
why?’ ‘I want ’em back,’ he ses. ‘Y’
can’t,’ I ses, ‘l’m wearin’ ’em.’ He jumps
orf his horse an’ levels the gun at me.
‘Take ’em orf,’ he yells. It ain’t no use
arguin’ with a madman with a gun, so
I pulls the damned strides orf. He grabs
’em an’ starts feelin’ about ’em, an’
presen’ly I sees him pull out a coupla
notes from the linin’ at the top. ‘Me
two tenners,’ he ses ; ‘on’y place I cud
hide ’em from th’ missus.’ Then ’e
shoves ’em in his kick, chucks the pants
back t’ me, an’ goes ridin’ orf whistlin’.
An’ t’ think that I’d had ernough on me
t’ buy up all th’ beer in ole Misery’s
shanty an’ didn’t know it!”
* * * *
“Colly”: There is a popular belief
that only falcons take their prey on the
wing. I saw a wedge-tail eagle, diving
with half-closed wings, strike
with his talon a full-grown
gobbler, smashing the turk.’s
head to pulp. Again, I was rid-
ing past a dam set in timber.
There was a whirr, and two
ducks hit the water and swam
in jerky circles. Then came a
long-drawn whistle, like a high
wind, and a wedge-tail flashed
down over the treetops, wings
furled, talons lowered. The
ducks had beaten him by 50
yards. He saw the water below him,
sat back on his haunches, spread his sails
and flapped resignedly away.
* * * m
“Whirr-Plop”: “Sharpshooter” (B.
26/10/’3B) is astray in assuming that the
pointed .303 bullet “mushrooms” upon
impact with a soft body; all h.-v. pro-
jectiles oscillate. With the .303 this oscil-
lating continues for 200 to 300 yards
before the bullet settles down into a true
spin and, incidentally, is the cause of
what at times appears to be poor marks-
manship. The .303 has its centre of
gravity well back from the point, which
is filled with aluminium or compressed
paper, not lead. Almost any check to
the point of the bullet causes the heavier
base to take charge of affairs, and the
bullet spins end over end. The mess this
makes of either man or beast is consider-
able, and explains the large hole of exit.
“Sharpshooter’s” targets would mostly
come within the 100- to 350-yards range.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Eels are sometimes found
in inland waters (B. 9/11/’3B). Irrigat-
ing on Tapalin vineyard, on the north
side of the Murray River, I caught an
eel about 18in. long in the main head-
ditch
Father will give his consent if you accept his terms —one pig down,
the balance spread over two years."
THE CAMP BY ULONG.
We pitched a camp by a shallow creek
On the way to old Ulong;
Many a tent ere another week
Stood white in the sun and strong,
For game men came o’er the narrow track
From the lands of wheat and wool,
To blast a road through the ranges black
And live while their days were full.
Beside the wash of a waterfall
The “ranch” in its rudeness stood;
An iron roof, a hessian wall;
Its catering not so good.
There Reilly chef d while his nasty “right”
Kept ever complaint at bay,
Though he drank his grog in the shop at night
Or played in the “school” by day.
Our fights were fought where the green grass
grew —
Ah, what were they all about?
For love or honor? We barely knew,
With the red blood up and out,
As toe to toe on the level ground
We held to our rugged rules,
Till the strong handshake, the final round,
And we’d grin like a pair of fools.
Fair girls who danced to the violin,
Soft dreams with the moon above—
Too wide the world we were roving in,
Too narrow your walls of love!
Yet back I’d be with a heart to seek
The wine from your wells of song
In the camp we pitched by the shallow creek
On the way to old Ulong.
N.S.W.
FRANK McCALL.


&*/' / ,
i?
se
an
mm.
2X»a
ecm
may not meet to-day’s conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and
other factors may affect the intentions expressed
in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you con-
sult your Solicitor and have your Will revised
periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of
appointing THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS &
AGENCY COMPANY LTD. as your Executor, its
appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and
moderate charge, the services of a Company with
more than 60 years' practical experience in the
administration of Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits, £959,810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS, 401 & 403 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
H. O. Blackwood Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G. (Chairman) Hilder
W. D. Stewart N sw _ Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
T»r n o 1C OQ
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hole or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
t Dividends v To Rp- Re-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1931.. 20,317 9 p.c. 15 p.c. = 10,400 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 „ 20 „ „ 14,338 ( - 7fi7
Kstab. a/c written off, £10,667 ) ’ ’
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 .. .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.*- 19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560 .. 04,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 22$p.C.= 26,552 21,073 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 .. 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 .. .. 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015 .. .. 172,223
1936 .. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. - 38,803 21,301 193,624
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 .. .. 95,514
1930.. 72,787 9 p.c. 171 p.c.= 59,030 13,157 108,671
1937. .111,461 9 ~ 15 „ ~04,245 47,216 155,887
-Staff fund, £5OOO 150,887
Reserves capitalised, £56,601 .. •• 94,280
1938. .125,212 9 p.c. 16 p.c.=i 104,117 21,095 115,381
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. .. 112,881
* Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
t Subject to goodwill (£304,229 at October 1, 1938),
and excluding depreciation reserve (now £92,978).
Though costs are rising rapidly in the
Dominion, chain stores seem to be feel-
ing the pinch less than most other
traders. But with the appearance of
McKenzie’s Department Stores, and
others operating on the chain principle,
competition is getting more of an edge
on it, and seems likely to continue to do
so. Still, the market sees no cloud in
this co.’s sky, and prices its f.-p. ss. ords.
(the pound shares were split in four at
the end of 1937) at 19s. 3d., or there-
abouts. The return at 19s. 3d. is 4:1 p.c.
on a 16 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for around 5 p.c. on his money
counts on a 20 p.c. div., a one-for-two
cash issue at par, or a one-for-three gift
issue. The well-protected pound prefs.
at 395. yield 4.6 p.c. ; they carry a fixed
cumulative 9 p.c., with priority to capi-
tal, but do not share in surplus assets.
The net tangible cover is £9 12s. 6d.
prefs.. and 3s. 4d. ords. The market thus
values the goodwill of the organisation
at over £2,000,000 —the intangible, not
treated as an asset herein, figures in the
books at £304,229.
The co., which is an offshoot of Wool-
worths, Sydney, set up in the Dominion
in 1929 with a capital of £50,000-odd.
A year ago there were 19 stores in the
chain, all in busy centres, and paid capi-
tal is now £672,608 (50,000 £1 prefs. and
2,490,432 ss. ords.), of which £345,186,
or 11s. Id. per pound of ord. capital, is
bonus scrip, distributed during the last
five years. The last gift, one for ten
(£56,601), was in December, 1937. So
ord. divs. are worth more than double
the declared rate on cash-paid capital.
During the 12 months to the end of
October, turnover continued to expand,
and the £222,947 of capital gathered in
the previous year got more of a chance
to show what it could do. After adding
£16,958 net to the depreciation reserve
(£92,978) and allowing £98,000 (up
£24,000) for taxation, the net result
was £13,751 better at £125,212, or
enough to pay the pref. div. (£4500)
and show 19.3 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 26.7 p.c. and 21 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from 15 p.c. to 16 p.c., which might be
taken as an expression of the board’s
confidence in the outlook for the busi-
ness. The allowance for taxation was
equal to Bs. 9d. per pound of declared
profits (£223,212) as against 7s. lid. for
the previous term. Appearances are, there-
fore, that provision has been made for
the extra Government bleeding of Is. in
the pound on co. profits announced after
the recent elections. If the £98,000 set
aside for taxation last term is approxi-
mately the amount required to meet the
bill when it arrives, then the Government
is taking nearly as much out of the
business as shareholders.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a sound
financial position and continued expan-
sion of the undertaking:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £148,016 £393,035 £615,982 £672,608
Mortgage .. 89,581 79,967 113,500 110,500
Sundry creditors 33,697 114,091 102,240 99,113
Freehold .. 53.108 143,213 246,574 294,991
Leasehold . . 8,950
Plant.. .. 75,084 120.549 143,960 161,454
Shares other cos. 15.000 15,000
Stocks . . 139,898 276,685 384,913 405,422
Debtors, etc.. . 24,488 15,154 59,486 59,854
Cash, etc. .. 6,482 3,130 95,138 112.707
The growth of £56,626 in capital was on
account of the bonus issue already re-
ferred to. Surplus earnings, plus pro-
vision for taxation, etc., were sufficient
to enable £3OOO to be chipped off the
mortgage, £3127 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, £48,417 to be added
to freeholds, £17,494 to plant, £20,509
to stocks and £17,569 to cash, etc. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£368,370) was £44,573.
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 226,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
19.32. . 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 f 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 f 376,254
1934.. 184,821 32,530 61,222 90,081 f 540,547
1935.. 210,943 36,939 66,819 106,197 f 646,006
Net unexplained additions, £65 .. 647,059
1936.. 252,031 44,802 84,667 121,514 f 768,573
Property reserve taken in, £24,101.. 792,674
1937.. 290,101 44,505 90,783 155,7G5t 946,489
Loss property, £1574 .. .. .. 944,865
1938.. 334,349 ’ 41,147 101,026 191,188 t 1,136,053
•Net funds apart from capital.
tAfter paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
Of all the Australian life offices which
set up since the war, this one (it was
formed in Sydney in 1921) alone
has developed capacity to pay regu-
lar and satisfactory bonuses to policy-
holders and dividends to shareholders,
and that within its first decade. The
co. was put on its feet by E. J.
Mooney, its managing director, who
gathered only £14,512 of capital—there
are 15,135 ? p.c. prefs. and 14,875 ords.,
all of 10s. each, called to 8s. —and at
June 30 last he had built up a volume
of solid revenue-producing assets with a
book value of £1,178,369, up £190,364
over the twelvemonth. Branches have
been established in all the Australian
capitals except Hobart, and healthy
expansion of the business continues.
During the 12 months to June 30, an
extra £32,227 of life premiums (£281,318)
was gathered—about 30 p.c. of the life
contracts are in the Ordinary and 70 p.c.
in the Industrial department. The small
fire and accident business turned in
£2658 (up £64), and interest and rents
(£50,373, mainly rents from the co.’s
fine new buildings in Sydney and Mel-
bourne) were up £11,957, making the
spring in total income (£334,349)
£44,248. Despite a growth of £5961 in
surrenders (£17,492), claims were £3418
lighter. Including the tax bill (£2426, up
£873), the lift in exes, was £10,243.
Still, excluding taxes, the ratio of exes,
to net premium income was 34.7 p.c. as
against 35.4 p.c. and 37.5 p.c. for the two
preceding terms; they are encouraging
movements. After paying shareholders
an all-round 7 p.c. and allowing for a
loss of £1574 on the sale of property,
charged direct to a reserve created for the
purpose, the year’s surplus was £189,614.
The amount added to the Life fund was
£191,152, raising it in excess of the mil-
lion-pound mark (£1,099,709) for the first
time.
As for interest, the office assumes that
its funds will turn in only 3\ p.c., a very
stringent rate for a 17-year-old. After
deducting taxes, the net effective return
on the mean life fund was 4.9 p.c. as
against 4.5 p.c. and 4.3 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. It was the margin here,
'together with what look like a very
favorable mortality experience and satis-
factory expense rate, that enabled rever-
sionary bonuses to policy-holders to be
increased by from 5 p.c. to 11 p.c.,
according to the nature of contracts, a
year ago. These increased rates of bonus
—£2 15s. p.c. on whole-of-life (payable in
the first year) and £1 17s. p.c. on endow-
ment assurances —have been maintained
for the last term.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,010 £14.610
Liabilities* .. 4,935 14,999 26,955 27.705
Mortgages . . . . 207,775 309,891 368,961 488,607
Govt, securities . . 26,716 131,408 67,544 67,544
Cash, etc. .. 1,327 13,506 9,894 2,921
Debtors .. . . 1.788 2,008 3,899 3,840
Loans on policies 3,251 31,042 49,454 59,239
Equipment . . 4,696 4,668 • 8,050 9,882
Shares in other cos. 1,682 3,388 3,437 3.437
Freeholds . . .. 206,488 476,765 542,899
* Other than under policies.
Last year’s surplus went mainly into
freeholds (up £66,134) and mortgages
(up £119,646). When the books closed,
freeholds accounted for 46 p.c. of total
assets, and mortgages, which give life
cos. a better net return than Govern-
ment securities these days, 41.4 p.c.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928. .40,408 15 p.c.= 22,425 17.983 103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625 122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23.024 15 p.c.= 22,425 599 108,961
Written off investments, £5OOO .. 103,961
1931.. 16.180 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39.684 15 ~,,22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32.496 15 ~,,27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46.153 15 ~,, 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OOO .. 128,924
1935.. 49.425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48.269 15 „ ~30,000 18,269 106,018
Reserves disappear. £lOOO .. .. 165,618
1937.. 52,980 18} p.c.=37,9C8 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. .. 255,630
Reserves capitalised, 29,214 .. .. 226,416
1938.. 54.701 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
The position is every bit as attractive
as it looks. Only once in the last depadc
has the co. paid less than 15 p.c. (that
was in 1931, when 10 p.c. was distri-
buted), and over half the capital is bonus
scrip (the last gift, one for seven, was
handed out about a year ago), thus mak*
ing dividends more than double the de-
clared rate on old holdings. Plant, the
chief earning asset, has been kept abreast
of every modern development, and sub-
stantial allowance has been made for
depreciation, enabling much equipment
to be paid for out of earnings, and then
from the same source severely written
down. Last year’s allowance for depre-
ciation (£29,130, up £10,560) was equal
to 112 p.c. of the book value of plant
at Sept. 30, or 18.8 p.c. of the plant and
freehold figures combined. At that rate
the two items would be entirely written
out of the accounts in a little over five
years.
Further, more than half the co.’s funds
are represented by well-selected share-
holdings, worth a lot more than their
book value (they include a subsidiary in
Melbourne, which set up in 1923, and a
factory in Tas., which began about 10
years later), and a number of well-let
Sydney freeholds, bought when the
market for real estate was at its lowest
or thereabouts. Here is the position as
balance-sheet figures show it:
1919'. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £202,500 £233,714
Creditors .. 51,982 17,531 38,513* 35,161*
Freeholds .. 31,324 42,046 138,096 128.934
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 33,606 26,061 25.976
Stocks .. 42,410 26,434 37,047 33,524
Book debts, cash
and iuvestm’ts 19,778 185,119 235,625 335,265
* Including' provision for taxation.
To provide last year’s bonus-scrip issue
and disclose a little of the inner strength,
the book value of assets was written up
£75,000, which accounts for most of the
growth of £99,640 in the omnibus item
shown in the last line' in the table. It
also accounts for all but £24,469 of the
growth of £99,469 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£333,628).
After providing for taxation and de-
preciation, declared net earnings were
£1721 better at 23.4 p.c. on capital as it
now stands. The special 3| p.c. cash
bonus sent out in 1937 was dropped,
leaving the div. at 15 p.c., which is worth
17.1 p.c. when allowance is made for the
bonus issue already referred to.
As for the outlook, recent experience
in the U.S.A. and England suggests that
there is ample room for further expan-
sion of the industry here. Much will
depend upon the price at which local
mills can turn out the board, and upon
whether the Federal Government will
protect the industry against dumping of
wood shooks from overseas. These
shooks are really waste timber, mostly
from Canadian mills, cut to sizes for
assembly into cases, and come into the
country under a by-law for refund of
duty when re-exported. The claim that
the fibre container is more efficacious in
many ways strengthens the case for pro-
tection.
At 86s. the co.’s pound shares return
3.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. A 19 p.c.
distribution would lift the return to 4.5
p.c. and call for £10,295 less profit than
was claimed last term. Visibly the cover
is 41s. in net tangibles.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
*PJ
£o*
Hi I
m.
&
nuiui
It
;v mull'
ttltui
lllll^
II
o_
o*
■=■ lII'
‘= ? VV rttt
'" to l ' W\* V
- C
—<n! Z(£kJ f Z,
■JZ,-
C T
,',,l'r^ 7
£=r*""-
EO
&
•"iiii; | iiii> 1
=sa
Coo
fcoAW.
o=s
CTJ
o
Cj
Broad deep swimming
s'§‘
pools for cool plunges when the sun is high * * *
sheltered spots for lazy sunbathers * * * water
sports * * * pleasant companions * * * an ideal
environment for a carefree round of fun and
pleasure * * * are highlights of P & O Travel,
j
IRIIIM WON US!"
SM) THOUSANDS OF NEW
PEPSODENT USERS
Pepsodent is winning thousands of enthusiastic
users! They’ve seen how quickly safely
thoroughly IRIUM helps Pepsodent clear away
dingy surface-stains from teeth, and bring back
the natural beauty of their smile! IRIUM
Pepsodent’s wonderful new cleansing agent, can
do this for you and do it without soap, without
grit, without pumice. Try it yourself today, and
see how quickly Pepsodent containing IRIUM
gives you a smile you’re proud to show the world!
AU 1 038/25J THE PEPSODENT CO (AtfST-? »T_T.__LTP._(»HCQBPO»ATED_ntjnCTOWiA)^
mmm.
ml
1 V 0 1 w o n o 0 a $ 0 W 1 H 1 SI 1ZI S H-A
'WMnl 6wsvwp> y3jv9%6 %af yg n | U g smojwn
lNlQOSdld
Myer Emporium (S.A.)» Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £, jg £
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4,347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 „ „ 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ ~ 27,000 42,266196,013
Despite the contraction in the price
of wool, wheat, barley, hay and sheep,
sales of this big department store (it is
Adelaide’s largest) continued to expand.
Gross earnings (£456,025) were up
£28,465. Including provision for taxa-
tion (£21,000, up £6000), exes. (£358,969)
took £19,428 of the increase, leaving the
net result £9037 better at £97,056, or
approximately three and a half times the
annual pref. requirements. After pay-
ing the pref. divs. (£27,790) enough re-
mained to show 23 p.c. on ord capital, as
against 20, 16.8, 13.1, 8.4, 6.4, 5.7, 3.4 and
2.1 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., and the 1 p.c. bonus sent out
in the previous term was repeated, mak-
ing 9 p.c. for the year. The £42,266 that
remained lifted reserves to £196,013,
making the growth therein £152,298 over
the last decade.
The £697,000 of capital is in 100,000
A and 297,000 B prefs., both 7 p.c. cumu-
lative and ranking in the order stated
for divs. and capital, and 300,000 ords.
Public interest is confined to the prefs.,
the ords. being all held by Myer Em-
porium, Melbourne, which bought con-
trol from the Marshalls in 1928, paying
30s. each for two-thirds of the holding,
the balance being taken later at par.
Outstanding feature has been the success
of the management’s vigorous trading
policy, moulded on lines similar to the
parent’s. Many lines previously imported
have been displaced with manufactures
from the co.’s own workrooms, to which
a fur factory was added a year or so ago.
During the last term, further additions
and alterations were made to the main
store, and an adjoining leasehold
(Donaldson’s) in Rundle-street was
bought, the men’s wear section of the
business being transferred thereto.
Finances are healthy and movements
in balance-sheet figures encouraging:
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 166,047 362,661 262,317
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 491,852 553,614 602,883 598,169
Furniture,
plant, etc... 112,907 105,666 98,278 88,492
Stocks . . 241,722 284,454 365,103 340,406
Book debts . . 102,924 117,110 119,784 132,065
Cash .. . . 10,351 10,414 71,254 46,092
Liabilities consist of £175,433 (down
£110,796) coming to depositors and
£86,884 (up £10,452) to sundry creditors.
To meet the reduction in deposits and
carry an extra £12,281 of debtors’
balances, cash was drawn upon for
£25,162 and stocks were reduced by
£24,697. On fixed assets £14,500 more
was written off than was spent. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£256,246) was £62,766.
At 295. the A shares return 4.8 p.c.
and the Bs at 28s. yield 5 p.c. The net
tangible backing is £8 18s. 7d. As and
£2 13s. sd. Bs.
For the three years to the end of 1937
the Federal, Queensland and Westralian
Governments together spent £128,335
on an aerial reconnaissance, etc., of the
mineral resources of Northern Australia ;
and the work continues, though many
consider that the money might be better
spent on areas where geological indica-
tions already suggest that more intensive
investigation should be undertaken. In
its last report the survey committee con-
siders that the Croydon and Hodgkinson
(N.Q.) goldfields and the Herberton
(N.Q.) tinfields are worth further in-
vestigation by large-scale organisations.
I: also thinks The Granites goldfield
(Centralia) might repay further investi-
gation with a view to large-scale opera-
tions, though many competent geologists,
representing large capital interests,
looked at the field during and after the
boom of half a dozen years ago.
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


<p
o
V (
4>
s - '
Hsr
LIKE K
MAGIC CARPET
No matter where you are in Australia, New
Zealand or the Pacific Islands, nor where you
want to travel, all the arrangements for your
journey, even to the smallest detail, can be
made through the nearest Branch of the Bank
of New South Wales.
There is no charge for the services of the
Bank's Travel Department.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTMENT
418C.1938
MAN LY!
Queen of
Pleasure Resorts
r„ — ** <jT
r:
afc“
“Just Across Sydney's Famous Heads”
Sixty Miles of Scenic Wonder
The Dress Circle view of Sydney Harbour, embracing over sixty
miles of magnificent harbour views, is obtained from a Manly
Beach Steamer—the finest and cheapest of all harbour trips.
Manly’s Free Wonder Pool
The largest enclosed Free Bathing Pool in Australia affords endless
fun and enjoyment Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving Towers,
Springboards, Crazy Floats, Rolling Logs, and Horses and many
other aquatic novelties are in the WONDER POOL. Remember
. . . it is free!
Why Not Stag At Manly ?
TRAVEL BY STEAMER
It’s Safer — Quicker —Cheaper
Season Tickets cost per day:—
Gent.’s, 4|-d.; Lady’s, 3^d.; Children, 1 £d.
Daily Fares: Adults, 6d.; Children (up to 14 years), Id.; 5 years
and under, free.
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY
STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
No. 2 Jetty, Circular Quay
’Phones: 83221, 83783
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sidney.— Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never never leaves the State, and is alwr,ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
The geological survey now in progress
at the Barrier (N.S.W.) for the combined
cos. suggests that, failing discovery of
new ore-bodies, the South’s ore reserves
will approximate 4,150,000 tons, of an
average grade of about 14 p.c. lead, 12
p.c. zinc and 6oz. silver per ton. At the
present rate of treatment, which the
management hopes to maintain, there is
approximately 11 years’ work ahead of
the mill.
* * * *
Kanieri Gold Dredging, one of the
Pratten interests, should be in early pro-
duction. To complete payments on the
dredge (capacity 400,000 c.y. monthly),
it has been necessary to arrange for
£30,000 of additional finance owing to
the rise in prices, but if things go as
expected—and the backers are confident
—it should not be long before the co.
is clear of debt. The property is at
Tucker Flat, Kanieri (M.L.). Boring has
indicated 55,000,000 c.y. of wash,
recoverable value 3.lgr. per c.y. With
costs at 3d. a yard, the lot should
return an average profit of £126,000
p.a. (Bs. per share) over 11 years. The
figures are based on gold at £6NZ an
ounce—the difference between that figure
and its present price is expected to take
care of taxation, etc. Values are found
in coarse gravels, “remarkably free from
clay and buried timber,” to a depth of
73ft., and, unlike the Barrytown venture,
recovery is expected to present no diffi-
culty. Issued capital is £205,000 in
200,000 £1 ords. and half that number
Is. deferreds (taken by the promoters for
cash), which rank for profits and in vot-
ing power equally with the ords.
* * * *
Referring to developments at Lake
View (W.A.), chairman Agnew says that
in Chaffers section, on the 2360 ft. level,
ore averaging 7dwt. a ton over an ex-
posed width of s£ft. has been encoun-
tered at 911 ft. south, and driven on for
a distance of 48ft. This discovery is
probably the downward continuation of
No. 2 lode, which has not been worked
below the 1200 ft. level in this section
of the property. On the 3530 ft. level,
No. 4 lode winze, 250 ft. south of
Chaffers shaft, has been deepened 85ft.
in ore averaging 9fdwt. per ton over an
exposed width of 4ft. In the Hannans
Star section, 1090 ft. south of Chaffers
shaft, the main lode drive has been ad-
vanced 59ft. in ore averaging Bdwt. per
ton, over an exposed width of sft. No
work on this lode has been done lower
down. In the Associated section, on the
300 ft. level, a diamond drill has stabbed
Tetley’s lode, which averages
over a width of 23ft. A small block of
ore situated on the eastern boundary of
the Associated, and inaccessible from the
Lake View workings, has been sold to
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, which is
operating an adjoining block.
* * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) shows a profit
for the year to June 30 of £4962, after
deducting £11,139 for development, £353
for technical investigations and mine ex-
ploration and £5OO directors’ fees. Capi-
tal expenditure totalled £1659, of which
£1376 was in respect of plant. Cash and
bullion in hand amounted to £8679.
Positive ore reserves are estimated at
4000 tons, averaging Bdwt. The probable
reserve “is impossible to estimate until
further development has been done.”
While in the early stages the ore located
by the diamond drill north of the main
cross-course, below the old No. 3 level
(325 ft.), seemed promising, subsequent
development has been disappointing. As
for No. 6 (625 ft.) level, known as the
Shenton or Central shoot, early results,
although satisfactory, have not yet been
confirmed by stoping. Location of the
downward trend of the Alpha shoot to
the No. 7 level in reasonably good values
is necessary to improve the position of
the mine and finances. The possible
detrimental effect of porphyry on the
lode below the 725 ft. level is being in-
vestigated.
* * * *
At June 30 Edna May Amalgamated
(W.A.) had £12,432 cash and bullion in
hand to meet liabilities of £2093. Ten
of the 20 head of stamps commenced to
fall in July, 1937. For the year to
June 30 last, 11,713 tons ore was milled
for 37090 z. gold over the plates, a re-
covery of 6.33dwt., leaving I.9sdwt. in
the tailings, which a leaching plant,
capacity 200 tons weekly, has com-
menced to handle since the close of
accounts. All-in costs averaged 555. 6d.
a ton, leaving the net profit at £598.
That was after capitalising £7OOB spent
on development. The co. is opening
up the Central and Consolidated, ore-
bodies ; meantime, ore from the Edna
May and South stopes is expected
to keep the mill going till the end
of this year. The co.’s properties
comprise the old Edna May, Deeps,
Central, Consolidated and McMahon’s
mines at Westonia. In the past
the group produced 412,273 tons of
14.3dwt. ore. When the present co. took
over 160,300 tons of 11.3dwt. stuff
was estimated to be awaiting extrac-
tion, but development is not yet suffi-
ciently advanced to prove the accuracy
of the estimate. Central hanging-wall
reef, however, has been driven on for
71ft., value Bdwt. over 48in.; Middle
Reef, 62ft., going 9.3dwt. over 50in.;
Consolidated lode, 135 ft., averaging
7.sdwt. over 85in.
* * * *
Ore position of Waroonga (Lawlers,
W.A.) and Riverina (Menzies) mines,
taken over by Murchison Gold Develop-
ment in 1934 for £31,500 In cash and
£lOO,OOO in scrip, split between Austra-
lian Machinery and Investment Co. and
Gt. Boulder, two De Bernales shows:
( 1937 r- 1938 ,
Waroonga— Tons. Dwt. Tons. Dwt.
Sulphides .. 82,(100 5.0 111,020 6.57
Oxides .. 20,000 3.5 20,000 3.5
Riverina .. 34,324 8.0 32,700 7.5
The figures are those at June 30 each year.
Waroonga battery capacity is 5000 tons
monthly ; Riverina, following recent in-
stallation of new power unit, 2000 tons
monthly. Riverina commenced crushing
in April, 1937, but has yet to attain a
profitable basis. After charging develop-
ment, loss on mine account for the first
four months (to October) of the current
term was £3097 on treatment of 6369
tons. In the same period Waroonga
netted £BB5O from 16,910 tons, also
after charging development outgo. Re-
coveries averaged s.6dwt. and s.3dwt. re-
spectively, and working costs 435. 6d. and
30s. Combining the results, the four
months’ profit is £5753, which is at the
rate of £17,259 p.a. before taking over-
head, depreciation, etc., into account.
All figures are Australian. With the
annual interest bill on the parent’s
£145,000 of issued convertible notes call-
ing for £14,500 stg., immediate div. pros-
pects for holders of the 1,203,459 issued
f.-p. ss. shares aren’t bright.
* * * *
Last year the Westralian Government
spent £28,473) assisting prospectors and
others under the Mining Development
Act and on additions to State batteries,
etc. Under the same headings, this year’s
aggregate figure is expected to be
£41,000 or thereabouts. During the last
five years Government assistance to pros-
pectors in Westralia has totalled £98,986,
and repayments have amounted to
£18,764. The assistance has been largely
from Commonwealth grants, from which
£79,734 had been spent up to last June.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
11l
III!
SHI
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEy Sydney.
Telephones: BW2061 (9 lines)
B6363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“New gladiolus named Don Bradman will
withstand high temperatures.”
Centuries should mean nothing to it.
“Two men convicted for forging wigmaker’s
will.”
Some false heir is indicated.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Melbourne City Council is the largest pro-
ducer of gas in the Commonwealth.”
— "Argus.”
Canberra is expected to make a special
effort to regain its lost pre-eminence.
4* 4* 4« 4*
“Labor seems to be suffering from torpor.”
—Communist paper.
Or is it Languor?
■J* 4* 4*
Undertakers are not overenthusiastic
about the principle of live and let live.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Funny the way these bad old eggs
have a habit of getting fresh!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My husband tried to deceive me by keep-
ing whisky in a liniment bottle.”
—Wife in divorce suit.
On discovering this, no doubt, she
rubbed it in!
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Is the longest way round the sweetest way
home?” — Women’s mag.
Taxi-drivers think so.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her glamor set his heart on fire.”
—Extract from novel.
After marriage it would be her cook-
ing that would give him heartburn.
4- 4* 4* 4*
“Tenants expose bogus landlord to the
police.”— News item.
Must have promised to do some re-
pairs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One of the most natural things for the
despoiler to do—in his march of ‘progress’—
is to take a piece out of the park or any other
open area available.” —“ S. M. Herald.”
Granny’s slang is getting awful.
Wouldn’t “sheilah” or “tab” sound better
than “piece”?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Honey will not go sugary if kept in a dark
place.”— Household hint.
Many a chap has found that trying
to keep his honey in a dark place makes
her go quite sour.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Defendant asked to have his sentences made
concurrent with others imposed last week,
adding that he wished to be married next year.”
— “S.M.H."
He wants to get the shorter sentences
over first.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Three boys disappeared from their Bangalow
(N.S.W.) homes, and, when found, said they
had wanted to become boxers.”— News item.
They probably started their careers by
getting thick ears.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Can you read character at sight?”
—" World’s News.”
My character-reading of folk at first sight
Is something of which I am proud.
But I never was gifted with very fast
feet —
So l don’t dare io read out aloud.
A Surprise Packet.
“Now for a surprise, listeners. Right
here in the studio we have Big Chief
Fuller Bull, the noted wrestler, who in
this interview will throw some absorb-
ingly interesting light on his technique
in the ring.
“Tell me, Fuller Bull, how did you
come to take on this wrestling game?”
“Sure. When I was a younker so
high down in old Kentucky, my mammy
ses to me, ‘Fuller, yo sure is gonna eat
one big helpin’ of Bonedust Breakfast
Biscuits fo yo breakfus every mornin’
and grow up into one big tough guy.’ ”
“You don’t mean to tell me that Bone-
dust Breakfast Biscuits made you the
tough guy you are, Fuller?”
“Sure.”
“And Bonedust Biscuits are absolutely
loaded with vitamins!”
“Sure.”
“Is it a fact that every time you score
a fall you murmur a little prayer of
thanks for Bonedust Breakfast Biscuits?”
“Yep, sirree.”
“Do you believe that one Bonedust
Breakfast Biscuit is equal to a porter-
house steak and four dozen oysters?”
“Brother, you’re gazin’ at the answer
to that question right now.”
“Thanks very much, Big Chief. That,
listeners, concludes our interesting side-
“I DO envy you men Wearing trunks this hot weather!”
lights on the art of wrestling. Good-
night.”
McM.
Conveyances.
“Leaving in a hurry, she soon sought an-
other conveyance.” —“Sunday Sun."
These hurries may be all right for
short journeys, but they are dashed un-
comfortable for lengthy ones. But there
are worse. I knew a woman who flew
from Sydney to Brisbane in a huff. She
lost some of her luggage there and con-
tinued her journey to England in an
awful stew.
She travelled about Europe in (1) a
restless mood, (2) a desire for forgetful-
ness, (3) fits of ennui; but she only used
hurries when she wanted to catch a train
or get to places of amusement. She came
back to Australia in a repentant mood,
but got into a fury at Colombo when
there was no letter there. This did not
carry her far. She arrived in Australia
iu an agitation hard to endure, and from
Adelaide to Sydney she was in a condi-
tion of despair.
But her husband met her quite affec-
tionately in Sydney, and with him she
went home in an absolute ecstasy, quite
the most comfortable conveyance she had
experienced for months. It was a lesson
to her never to get into a huff or fly
in a bad temper again. They are always
vehicles of discomfort and misfortune.
H. M.
A Sure Cure.
“Convicts’ wives are now allowed to stay
with their husbands in certain Russian prisons.”
When Ivanovitch Quiterocki, a Ukrainian
comrade-cocky,
Got off his bike and lathered Com-
rade Serge
{The collectivist inspector) ’cause that lad
commenced to hector,
He found himself the victim of a purge.
A nd, alas ! within a week a strong de-
tachment of the Cheka
Had yanked him off and tossed him
into clink.
He proved anything but pliant; in fact,
he was defiant.
Then he hunger-struck, and soon com-
menced to sink.
But the governor was canny, and soon
hit upon a plan. He
Simply threatened Ivan’s wife would
be allowed
To join him. Well, that tore it! Ivan,
knowing he’d be for it,
To authority and discipline soon
bowed !
BO.
Desert Song.
I think that I could never have
A camel for a crony.
I hate their nose and feet and shape —
Their knees are bare and bony.
But underneath their homely hump
There lurks romantic feeling.
To Mrs. Camel, Mr. Cam
Is strikingly appealing.
RIP.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XI
Owing to the expense—for Madame
La Republique keeps a tight hold on the
Legion’s purse strings—forts in the
Sahara are built of mud —plain, common
or garden mud.
Under the fierce sun the fort remains
rocklike, but under the influence of mois-
ture it becomes pliable and viscous.
Heavy rain, of course, renders it partially
liquid, and when this occurs the troops
garrisoning it have to hold the walls up
with long wooden battens until the sun
dries it again. It is inconveniences and
hardships such as this which make a
legionnaire’s work so exacting, especially
if an Arab attack occurs while they are
holding the fort, literally and figuratively.
Still being in the horrors the night I
reached Fort Baksheesh I insisted on
sleeping outside it with the camel. Be-
fogged though I was, I could still reason
that if Mustapha kept hiccuping while
on the camel lines suspicion would be
aroused. Again, in my cups I am a vic-
tim of claustrophobia, and any area less
extensive than the open Sahara I find
stifling. Deeming me still suffering from
le cafard the commander humored me.
A heavy dew must have softened the
wall during the night, for on being awak-
ened next morning by Mustapha’s angry
bellowings I found that, when I attempted
to get up to see what was wrong, my foot
was imprisoned in the wall.
I remembered dreaming that Sergeant
Vinblanc was blown up like a huge
purple football and that I was drop-kick-
ing him around the parade ground. In
my sleep I must have pushed my foot
through the softened wall, and on its
drying in the early morning sun I was
trapped.
Mustapha was, if anything, in a worse
plight. In his drunken torpor he had
leaned heavily against the mud wall and
his starboard hide had stuck fast to it.
As water was too precious to waste in
reducing the wall to a mushy condition
which would allow us to be freed a
fatigue party was detailed to chip us
away. Their remarks as they toiled away
in the blistering sun for the two hours it
took to release us were so unkind that
my faith in the innate decency of human
nature was sadly shaken. Even at that,
Mustapha left several square yards of
hair embedded in the fort, and it took
me until midday to chip the rest of the
cement-like mud from around my hock.
In the meantime our escouade under
Lieut. Bleauxflai had arrived, and I was
again put on their strength. The O.C.
rather pointedly remarked on the dis-
hevelled state of both my charge and
myself, and hinted that to clean ourselves
up would not be amiss.
To say that I was deeply hurt at this
innuendo against my personal cleanli-
ness, about which I have always been so
meticulous, is no exaggeration. Let the
camel answer for himself. For me, my
daily bath is, as I have previously
stressed, almost a religion, even though
the means of indulging it be limited at
times to half a cup of precious water.
The oasis, unguarded except from the
embrasures in the fort itself, was vacant.
It was an easy matter to throw a few
buckets of water over Mustapha and
lather him well all over with soap. After
that I lathered myself and, diving into
the oasis whilst holding the oont’s long
lead, eventually succeeded in dragging
the reluctant beast in.
It must have been the tremendous
splashing and the bellowings of the pro-
testing Mustapha as I endeavored to wash
the soap out of his eyes that attracted
the attention of some overofficious
fellow in the fort, for, just as I was get-
ting the last of the soap out of my own
ears and hair, the O.C. came running
down. I thought at first that the fact of
his running so quickly in the heat of the
day was indicative
of something really
serious. Perhaps the
Arabs had been seen
approaching for an
attack and he had
come down person-
ally to warn me.
He was so over-
come as to be at
first speechless, but
at his opening words
I could detect that
he was slightly
vexed.
“If ever the Legion
had a more brain-
less idiot,” he began.
It isn’t easy, I
admit, to look digni-
fied whilst standing
up in a shallow oasis
in one’s birthday
suit holding a snarl-
ing camel, but I
take pride in that I
managed it. Drawing myself up to my
full height I looked up at the officer and
curtly interrupted him.
“Come, come, lieutenant, where is your
vaunted French logic?” I said sternly.
“ ‘Brainless’ is obviously the ultimate.
The ‘more’ is therefore redundant and
indefensible. And, anyway, you ordered
me to clean the camel and myself. Can
one clean oneself by massaging oneself
with sand? Do you supply vacuum-
cleaners to troops in the middle of the
Sahara? What, then, but to use water,
of which there appears to be a copious
supply here?”
“But, you stupid blankard,” he
shrieked, “this is the only drinking water
within 200 miles! I’ll”
“Well,” I interrupted him again, “is
it beyond your disused imagination to
get a fatigue party to scoop the suds off
and let it settle?”
Before the sheer remorselessness of
my powerful arguments he bowed in
defeat.
“Bien, bleu," he said lamely, “I see I
have made a mistake.”
But I have ever been magnanimous.
“Regard the incident as closed,” I said,
not unkindly.
S.W.K.


/
4aJ Q
Hl
**
A
885
i\
AV// .JMfy
V« / /
.
::;; f: «
an
mm.
w
XX, %
Mi
WMMMk
I
tBMi
//f.
4#®;
/.V' /
ALL-STEEL BODY • PASSENGER-CAR RIDING COMFORT
• SAFETY GLASS ALL ROUND • FOUR HYDRAULIC
SHOCK ABSORBERS • OIL BATH AIR CLEANER
CHECK THESE VALUE FEATURES
AGAINST PRICE: Special all-steel unit
construction, in Straight side and Well-
type models, exclusive to Ford V-8.
V-8 engine with aluminium cylinder
heads. Petrol economy of 20 m.p.g.
and better in everyday service. Crank-
shaft bearings proved in heavy duty
truck service. Easy-action, self-energis-
ing brakes 186 sq. in. braking area.
Torque tube drive and radius rods.
Three-quarter floating rear axle with
straddle-mounted pinion. Safety glass
in windscreen and all windows (except
rear doors of panel vans).
FORD OFFERS A COMPLETE RANGE OF
UTILITIES. Whatever your requirements,
there is a Ford Utility in payload ratings from
6 to 15 cwt. and many body styles to meet your
needs efficiently and economically. Let your
local Ford Dealer arrange an “on-the-job” test
for you under your own conditions. Convenient
purchase terms available.
(Prices F. 0.8. Ford Plant, Plus Sales Tax)
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD Utilities
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F15.24V
A
St
&
'S
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or C'iill upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
. D.. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and Npw Zealand.
For Sale.
FOR SALE or Exchange, Queensland Cypress
Pine Registered Sawmill, long job.—No. 291,
Advt. Department, Bulletin, Box 252188,
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Trade Credits, Ltd.
A considerable number of shares in
this Sydney concern were sold in the past
by Hamiltons (Australasia), Ltd., at
prices above par ; some changed hands
at 255., others at 305., and there may
have been dealings at figures different
from those still. The terms on which the
shares were sold, or appeared to have
been sold, by Hamiltons have in some
cases brought forth letters addressed to
The Bulletin expressing dissatisfaction
with the deal. Usually the complaint is
that difficulty has been experienced in
disposing of Trade Credit shares at the
price paid to the share-dealers. One
farmer from the north of Victoria, for
instance, is feeling the pinch of drought
and would like to sell his holding, but
so far has been unable to find a waiting
market at near his price.
The operations of Trade Credits, Ltd.,
are, and should be, something separate
from any outside share-selling schemes
that have to do with its scrip. During
the past 12 months T.C.’s capital has
remained unchanged at £135,826, so that
no new scrip whatever has been issued.
The board is at present, however, con-
templating raising further capital in order
to extend the co.’s operations. As to this
new issue, it would be made “strictly in
accordance with the company statutes,”
the report says.
The figures published in the annual
accounts show expansion, and payment
of the 10 p.c. div. has been repeated in
quarterly distributions. The business, it
has been explained, embraces the financ-
ing of certain types of Hading trans-
actions carried out by manufacturers,
wholesalers and some limited cos., the
idea being to finance traders rather than
the public.
Registered on June 18, 1936, the co.
has shown the following results since:
June, Profit. Dividend. Deficit.
£ £ £
Brokerage, etc., and goodwill .. 18,060
1937 .. 11,983 10 p.c. = 10,884 16,961
1938 .. 16,895 10 „ „ 13,582 13,648
Last term gross profit from charges, etc.,
lifted by £7739 to £32,909; operating
exes, and directors’ fees were £2954
heavier at £13,067 ; provision for taxa-
tion was £l2B lower at £2946. The net
result thus shown was up £4912; at
£16,895 it represented 12.4 p.c. on aver-
age capital, compared with 14.1 p.c. in
the preceding term. The 10 p.c. distri-
bution left £3313 towards offsetting the
£18,060 of intangibles with which the co.
started off, reducing the extent to which
capital is not visibly represented by net
tangible assets to £13,648, or approxi-
mately 2s. a share.
Distributions made by the co. have
been liberal, leaving an inadequate
margin to secure certainty of regular
divs. in the future. This liberality is not
desirable in the affairs of a young finance
co., but it may help the board in the
raising of new capital, said to be appro-
priate at the rfioment. Still, the sooner
a more conservative line of profits-distri-
bution is adopted the better.
If the co.’s book debts are thoroughly
sound (a most vital point, naturally), its
trading operations to date may be said to
have been quite successful. The accounts,
directors’ and auditors’ reports say no-
thing about the state of debtors’ balances,
so it may be assumed that they are re-
garded as good. There is a “contingent
bonus fund” of £13,294 (up.£76B), which
represents something in the nature of dis-
counts and doubtful debts reserve. Its
aim is to induce prompt repayments from
borrowers. Deferred interest amounts to
£7005.
Changes in the finances have been
slight:
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £135,826 £135,826
Overdraft .. .. 17,661 25,654
Creditors .. • .. 4,035 3,649
Deferred interest .. 7,367 7,005
Bonus fund .. .. 12,526 13,294
Debtors 164,688 176,514
Cash, fittings, etc. .. 2,235 2.052
Intangibles .. .. 18,060 18,060
“Considerably more good, profitable
business could have been accepted if
further capital funds had been available,”
the board says.
The shares of Trade Credits aren’t
listed in Sydney, and it would be in the
interests of shareholders if some move
were made at once to have them quoted
on ’Change. At present their market
value is guesswork. The performances,
etc., of some listed finance cos., and the
market value of their scrip, are here
compared with the latest results of Trade
Credits:
Net Pro-
Shares, Tan- fits, Div., Share
Nom. gibles. p.c. p.c. Price.
Aust. Securities 8/- 9/4 13.1 7* 8/-
Aust. Guarantee 17/- 18/7 20.9 10 23/-
Mutual Accept. £1 21/11 21.1 12* 23/-
Mutual Credits £1 21/6 11.6 8 197-
Trade Credits .. £1 18/- 12.4 10 ?
Finance-co. scrip is not a very popular
investment. An old-established concern
like Australian Guarantee yields 7.4 p.c.,
Mutual Acceptance returns over 10 p.c.,
Australian Securities 1\ p.c. It should
be the aim of Trade Credits’ board to
build up stronger reserves and to see at
least 2()s. worth of solid assets behind
each £1 share. The directors, though
awake to this, have so far thought fit to
keep the 10 p.c. div. flowing.
The annual meeting of P. and G.
Finance last week in Sydney was in
some respects classical. It started at
11 a.m. on Tuesday and, apart from an
adjournment for lunch, went on to nearly
5 p.m. The atmosphere in the meeting
hall was in keeping with the weather
outside —warm and sultry, with thunder-
storms. Managing-director Pellow an-
nounced that he had a five years’ contract
at £3500 a year with the co., and evoked
a w'histling chorus from shareholders
who were facing a cut of 10s. a share
in their ords. Ex-managing-director
John Woolcott-Forbes, who, it was
stated, had been advanced £36,000 by the
co. in order to pay calls on shares he
held, said he had raised £lO,OOO on
his wife’s jewels in order to meet further
calls. He owned 100,000 shares, and
meant to “honor his obligations—every
bob of them.” The shareholders declined
to approve the directors’ report, and
received the accounts without adopting
them. Knight Harry Budge, chairman, was
re-elected by shareholders, but new blood
in the shape of R. A. McWilliam, E.
R. Griffin, W. Bruce Rainsford, G.
Scarf and W. J. Wilson displaced those
other directors who had resigned or
retired. McWilliam has done good
work in rehabilitating the William Brooks
business.
* * # £
The £841,838’ of profit shown by
Tooth’s, Sydney, represented 13.6 p.c. on
capital (12.5 p.c., 1937), and was made
comparatively easy by a nationally pros-
perous year, a remarkably hot summer
and Sydney’s 150th birthday celebrations.
Beer is still going down well in Aus-
tralia, and in Britain, despite the increase
in unemployment there, Bass and other
brews are selling better than at this time
last year. Perhaps sunspots or some-
thing have to do with this Empire-wide
rush on malt and hops. Victoria has
been sinking its full quota as well as
N S. Wales, and Queensland—well, that
State can always be relied upon. The
Golden West is well up to scratch ; Kal-
goorlie ran calamitously close to a short-
age of ale the other day. The S.A. Brew-
ing Co., Adelaide, is working overtime.
* * V *
In Melbourne last week:
Colin Fraser, at Broken Hill South’s
annual meeting, said that, failing the discovery
of any further ore-bodies, the mine’s ore re-
serves would be exhausted in 11 years. The
detailed geological survey now in progress might
possibly extend this life. Grade of known ore
is approximately 14 p.c. lead, 12 p.c. zinc and
6oz. silver per ton.
Australian Cement shares, after rising
to the record quote of 355., slipped back to
345. The Goliath co. declared a final ord.
div.‘ of lOd. a share, making Is. 7d. for the
year, or 11.9 p.c., which is made more at-
tractive by reason of the bonus issue during
the year.
Myer ords. were firmer at 30s. Austra-
lasian Paper continued weak at 295.


John McGrath at 365. 6d.
At 365. 6d. last week, John Mc-
Grath fully-paids are at their
cheapest for some years. It is a
very well-run motor-trading and
investment concern (handling the
Hillman and Humber in N. S.
Wales and Brisbane), and the yield
on a 12 p.c. div. basis is 6.6 p.c.
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you:
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead-
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £2O-£25 (approx.) you can
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
&9i
-'"•I
.
20
PAN' £S
CON'
prises, known throughout Australia. Income is paid twice yearly.
Custodian Trustees for Investors:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B5294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
It's a grand old
English Custom!
CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS
by giving one of these
fine modern English pens
\ \ /
L
m t
ij
'wmrn
WWW
m
• K-C
19
Iff
GIFT SETS
M
Kv::::S
-A
M 5
KJ
m
biw:!
Pens & pencils m
many styles & colours
X
cn
ss
XJL
other
Shorts
from.
15
a
PC
a
£3
ittrii
m
25'-
V
<Vj
cSd
<*•
u
m
vs
A!
PRICES 1
TO SUIT EVERYONE!
The New LEVERLESS ‘ Swan ’ costs
25/- (black or colours, mounted) or
21/- (black only, unmounted). Other
'Swans’ from 15/-. ‘Blackbirds’
from 10/-. ‘Jackdaws’ from 6/6.
OF ALL GOOD STATIONERS AND
JEWELLERS.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia)
Ltd., 6 Primrose Buildings, 255 A
George Street, SYDNEY.
So make it a LEVERLESS
m
a
■
THE PRESENT THAT everybody WANTS!
They’re made
in England
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
Always use
•Swan’ Ink
The Australian sharemarkets were
quiet again last week. New York relapsed
into dullness, and London and Australia
took their cues from Dow-Jones, as
usual. The Sydney wool sales continued
to find ready buyers at steady prices :
clearances were again excellent, and all
indications are for a short and sweet
selling season, with moderate returns to
the grower—lower than last year, and
bringing in less than £40,000,000 in the
aggregate. The likely effect of the reduced
prices is hard to gauge, but it most
likely will be felt principally in tighten-
ing credit conditions and perhaps higher
interest levels. A lift in the cost of
money, however, is something the banks
wish to avoid if possible.
# * * *
The excitement in the shares of Roma
Blocks Oil Co., N.L., was very uncertain
while it lasted ; 16s. was reached in Mel-
bourne on Nov. 14, but the sale was im-
mediately followed by others at near 125.,
and last week quotes were down to ss.
for the contribs. There are 120,500 20s.
shares paid to 12s. and 29,500 f.-ps. The
co. started off at Roma (Q.), drilling for
oil during the wave of enthusiasm that
swept that area prior to the slump, and
by 1935 it had sunk £55,709 in Roma.
That year an option was taken over the
old Devon goldmine in W.A., but a sub-
sidy of £2500 asked for from the West-
ralian Government was refused. Pros-
pecting for oil was later recommenced
at Mt. Basset (Q.), on a 5000-acre area,
Commonwealth Government agreeing to
advance up to £lO,OOO. A new issue of
20,500 shares was put out in May this
year to help finance operations, and the
market for the contribs. kept around par
(125.). Oil Advisory Board and Queens-
land Mines Department authorised drill-
ing to start at No. 2 site, Roma, on Aug.
29. Progress was quick, and in two
months 2630 ft. was reached, sticky shales
and coal seams being reported. In three
months 3620 ft. was reached, and the oil
horizon passed through in the old Block
16 well at 3320 ft. was expected to be
encountered in a short time. It was an
announcement that patches of crude
petroleum in mud had been struck at
3770 ft. that sent the shares up on Nov.
14. On Nov. 16 the drill was down to
3826 ft., signs of petroleum and gas being
in evidence at 3822 ft. On Tuesday of
last week (22nd) “sandstone, with slight
gas showings at 3922 ft.,” caused a fading
in the stock’s news value. Apparently
the market wanted nothing less than a
gusher. Last week-end, at 4020 ft., sandy
mudstone, with gas, was reported.
* * * *
In 1937 North Coast Steam (Sydney)
shares, then paying 8 p.c., touched a
“high” of 435. Since then the market
has gone as low as 365. 3d.the scrip
was recommended on this page a few
months back at near that figure. The
shares then lifted to 41s. 6d., and though
the final div. for 1937-38 made 8j p.c.
for the year, with prospects of 9 p.c. for
the current term, there were sales later
down to 38s. Last week the stock was
strongly supported, and buyers paid 435.
freely, obtaining a yield of 4.2 p.c. if
9 p.c. goes out this year. It is a very
solid enterprise.
* * * *
A. A. Boyd has been elected chairman
of Mt. Morgan’s new board for the en-
suing year. The next quarterly report,
covering operations for the 14 weeks end-
ing December 28, will be issued soon after
that date. After that a monthly report
will go out. Arrangements have also
been made for the preparation of a com-
prehensive report covering the co.’s
future operations. This last particularly
is a move in the right direction.
* * * *
Bank scrip drifted last week, N. S.
Wales £2O shares selling as low as
£29 195., which compares with a war-
scare price of £29 ss. and a 1938
“highest” of £33 15s. In 1937 there were
sales up to £3B 7s. 6d. Commercial of
Sydney was also marked down, the £l2
10s. issue being turned over at £2O 6s.
Lowest quote this year to date has been
£l9 135., highest £2l ss. Australasia,
E., S. and A. and Union issues have also
been stale of late. Apparently the pas-
toral and agricultural situation is caus-
ing worry, as well as the political un-
certainty, although it looks as if the
proposed new banking control legislation
will be shelved.
* * * *
Gordon and Gotch, in the midst of a
dogfight with periodical distributors con-
cerning prices and “returns,” declared a
final ord. div. of 7 p.c. last week, mak-
ing 14 p.c. for the year. These shares
have been frequently recommended here ;
last week they lifted to a record quote of
575. 6d. At that figure the yield would
be 5 p.c., allowing for the final div. The
business is valuable for its earning power
rather than for the price put on its assets
in the annual accounts. Assets are dis-
closed at only 275. 2d. net per share.
* * * *
In nor’-western Queensland the best
season for 15 years is indicated. The
history of the Q.N.P. Co. gives some
idea of how bad things have been in
those parts even when wool and cattle
prices were good ; this year many pri-
vate run-owners between Winton and
Cloncurry feel that “happy days are here
again” for the first time in nearly a
generation. Some are still understocked
by reason of the drought ravages over
many years, but given a couple of
seasons like the present the flocks can
be built up to carrying capacity. Both
sheep and cattle are becoming profitable.
Freezing-works on the coast are tending
to standardise prices for cattle, and it has
made a vast difference to the grower.
* * * *
Australasian Paper ordinaries were
inactive again last week, sellers offering
scrip at 295. in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne. The return obtainable on an
8 p.c, div. basis was a shade better than
5.5 p.c. The co. had an excellent term
for 1937-38, and prospects are encourag-
ing. Estate scrip is still depressing the
market for the shares.
* * * *
Mineral Developments (Fiji), Ltd., an-
nounces a union of interests -with Forest
Reefs G.D., Tavua G.D. Pty. and New
Lucknow G.M. for the purpose of open-
ing up the property at Forest Reefs, near.
Orange (N.S.W.). The ore on the sur-
face around the old workings appears
to be highly . mineralised, with some
copper in it; but the co. in its report
says that tests show the stuff it aims to
treat to be amenable to cyanidation,- and
a 90 p.c. extraction is hoped for. That,
of course, is something still to be
achieved. A two-compartment shaft is
down to 150 ft., and ,300 ft. is expected to
be reached by February. Borings have
indicated an ore-body ranging from 16ft.,
to 60ft. in width. Some time ago 400,000'
tons in an 800 ft. section of the lode
above the 300 ft. level was estimated to
go 6dwt., and costs were put at 205.,
which is a very low figure if it can be
realised. There are 187,500 shares (paid
to 55.) issued in Mineral Development
(Fiji), Ltd.
* * * *
Ballarat Woollen has returned to the
ord. div. list after a struggle lasting 14
years. The prefs. get 7 p.c., the ords. 1£
p.c. The business outlook generally, in
the opinion of the board, isn’t as good
as it was, but a higher ord. div. is looked
for next year.
* * * *
The ords. in United Provisions are
again offering at below 7s. in Melbourne
and Sydney. In their last term the
operating concerns earned £68,486, equal
to 3.4 p.c. on the holding co.'s ord. capital,
after allowing for the prefs., and a 3 p.c.
ord. div. was paid. The year’s result was
the best since 1930, .though the board
reports that conditions in the trade are
still difficult. Earnings in relation
to the capital account that was swollen
by the 1927 merger don’t appear very
robust, but finances have been kept in
good trim, depreciation allowed on plant
over the past 11 years representing
nearly 60 p.c. of its book value. The
subsidiaries have from time to time
bought up quantities of the parent’s scrip
on the market.
• * * *
Steamships Trading Co., Papua, which
last year paid an all-round div. of 10 p.c.,
is offering 20,000 new £1 ords. at par,
one for six. Prefs. and ords. are both
entitled to subscrbe. This is the third
issue of new capital made within the
past two years. In Nov., 1936, 20,189
7-10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 25,635 ords.
were offered, placed by Churchills, Ltd.,
at 275. 6d. and 30s. per share respec-
tively. Another 16,383 were placed later.
Present issue will lift subscribed capital
to over £136,000, against £50,000 two
years ago. The co. has a transport,
trading, rubber- and copra-plantation
business, and until recent years its ex-
pansion tightened finances to the point
where payment of pref. divs. was de-
ferred. All arrears, however, were
cleaned up in 1936, when copra and
rubber boomed. Last year’s profit and
10 p.c. distribution surprised some
people, in view of the slump in com-
modity prices. The co. would seem to
have a profitable merchandising busi-
ness, and its coastal and river transport
service helps also.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pogrom.
[Here, in items condensed from various sources, is a
co-ordinated account of the murder in Paris of a
German diplomatist by a young Polish Jew and the
vengeance visited on Jews in Germany and Austria.
Four English newspapers each use a different spelling
for the young Jew’s name; to avoid confusion that of the
“Times” has been adopted for this record.]
The Murder
(i Condensed from the Paris “Daily Mail,” 8/11/’38.)
Immediately the offices of the German Embassy,
in the Rue de Lille, opened at 9.30 yesterday morn-
ing a well-dressed young man, wearing a light rain-
coat, asked the hall porter to announce him to the
Ambassador as he had important papers to hand to
him.
The young caller was ushered into Herr vom
Rath’s office, and the door had hardly been closed
when the clerks and messengers in the outer office
heard five shots ring out. The door opened, and, cry-
ing for help, Herr vom Rath staggered out, holding
his chest with both hands, and collapsed in the hall-
way.
While two of the clerks attended to Herr vom
Rath, the porter and the messenger rushed into the
office, where, leaning against the wall, they found the
young man who had been shown in, Herschen Feibel
Grynsban, a 17-year-old Polish Jew.
The Murderer
(Front London “Daily Express,” 8/III’38.)
As he was seized Grynsban said: “This will
avenge the 7000 Polish Jews who have been ill-treated
by the Reich.” He threw his revolver on the floor.
On him was found a letter written in German
and dated October 31. It told of “the persecution of
Polish Jews in Germany,” described how 7000 were
held at the frontier while German-Polish negotiations
were being held.
Investigations showed that Grynsban had left his
native town for France in 1935. He had a passport
issued by the Polish Consulate in Paris.
He had asked the police authorities for an identity
card in April, 1937. His request was refused, and he
was ordered tp leave France in eight days. Instead
he went into hiding in a garret in the Rue Martel.
Confession
(From the Paris “Daily Mail,” 8/III’38.)
“I made up my mind to do this thing when I
received a postcard from my mother, dated October
31, in which she described to me the state of despair
of herself and my father after they had been expelled
from Germany without money, and sent to the Polish
frontier.
“I wanted to avenge the Jews. I wanted to
avenge all the Jewish people who are victims of the
Germans. The Germans are loathsome people.
Justice is needed. One of them had to be killed. I
fired on the first one, without caring who he was,
who came before me.
“I have only one regret to express—that is, that
he is not dead.”
Incitement
{Condensed from London “Times” Berlin corre-
spondent’s report, 9fll 1’38.)
The 400,000 Jews who still remain in the Third
Reich await in fear and anxiety.
The German press is devoted, almost to the ex-
clusion of any other news, to accounts of the shooting,
with attacks on the Jews which for violence and
abuse outstrip even the worst previous efforts of
German journalism.
The attacks on Jews inside Germany amount
practically to incitement to violence. The “Angriff”
announces that things are going too well with the
Jews, and names streets in Berlin where there are
many Jewish houses or shops. “We will no longer
look on,” the writer adds, “while Jews batten on us
in Germany, and outside the Reich shoot down Ger-
mans in so cowardly a fashion.” Other newspapers
announce that the time has come for a final settle-
ment of the Jewish problem, and repeat again and
again, though in more restrained language, the de-
mands of the “Angriff.”
The Terror
[Eyewitness account condensed from London
“Times” Berlin correspondent’s report, dated Nov. 10.
In Munich, Vienna and elsewhere outrages were of a
kind and on a scale so similar to those reported here
that this one graphic account can be taken as typical,
needing to be multiplied some scores of times to arrive
at a full picture of the Terror.]
The orgy began here in the early hours of this
morning with almost simultaneous outbreaks of fire
in nine of the 12 synagogues of Berlin, preceded by
attacks upon the Jews. The synagogue in the
Fasanenstrasse was entered by a mob of young hooli-
gans, who destroyed the interior furnishings of the
building and carried off the altar-cloth. This was
burned in the neighboring Wittenbergplatz in the
presence of a large crowd, whereupon the enthusiasts
returned to the synagogue with cans of petrol and
set fire to the building. When I visited it this morn-
ing the synagogue was still smouldering, and appeared
to be gutted.
While these attacks were being made upon Jewish
sacred edifices other gangs of young men, all in plain
clothes, but evidently acting according to a systematic
plan, toured the streets of Berlin, smashing the
windows of every Jewish shop which they encountered.
Hardly one of these businesses—easily distinguishable
by the fact that the name of the proprietor must by
law appear in large white letters on their windows —
escaped the attentions of these roughs. A short time
later another gang arrived and carried the work of
destruction a step further, and this process continued
until nothing was left of the shop or its contents.
A tour of the “devastated areas,” lasting the
greater part of the day, produced some strange im-
pressions. This morning in the Kurflirstendamm, the
chief shopping street of Berlin, Jew-hunts were in pro-
gress. On two occasions 1 saw terrified Jews running
before a small crowd of pursuers, led in every case by
young men of the type who have been chiefly re-
sponsible for to-day’s destruction. In one instance a
woman was in the hands of a crowd, which had
backed her against a wall.
The windows of every Jewish shop were smashed,
but destruction and looting did not begin in earnest
until afternoon. A large caffi in the Kurflirstendamm
had been plundered of its bottles of wines and spirits,
and these were being thrown at what remained of
the windows, or at anything breakable in the establish-
ment. The active participants in this display were
youths and little boys of the Hitler Youth—the only
uniformed body which I actually saw taking part
in the destruction.
A short distance away an elderly ex-service man
was engaged in battering his way into a Jewish dress-
maker’s shop by beating with a vacuum cleaner upon
the handsome walnut screen which backed the
window. In another shop youths were amusing them-
selves by hurling dressmakers’ dummies, which they
had stripped, through the large glass showcases of a
corset shop. A shop containing valuable furniture,
prints, and porcelain came off particularly badly.
Powerful young men picked up the delicate satin-
covered chairs and sofas and dashed them against
the walls until they were reduced to matchwood,
while others poured water and earth from the flower-
pots outside over books, pictures, and carpets.
Israels, one of the largest stores in Europe, equal
in size to almost any in London, was completely
sacked. Every one of the great show windows, which
number about 30, was smashed to atoms, and the
attackers invaded the ground and first floors of the
shop, destroying everything which they encountered.
The damage is estimated at at least 1,000,000 m.
During the entire day hardly a policeman was to
be seen in the streets where the “purge” was in pro-
gress, save those few who were directing traffic. In
no case, so far as can be learned, did the police dare
to interfere with the demonstrators, but instead con-
fined their activities to taking into “protective custody”
the Jewish owners of the damaged shops, and indeed
any Jew who might be in the streets, a measure which
the Jews themselves perhaps welcomed in the cir-
cumstances. In the Kurflirstendamm two army
officers in uniform did try to bring the fanatics to
reason, but were forced td leave because of threats.
The leading part played in the destruction by
the Hitler Youth —boys of the same age as Boy
Scouts in England—is interesting. They were usually
led by four or five lads a little older, but all
went to work with a will, sometimes with axes,
accompanying their efforts with concerted cries of
“Deutchland erwache! Juda verrecke!” (“Germany
Awake! Perish Judah!”). The crowd which looked
on showed, as far as could be judged, a mixture of
astonishment, amusement and disapproval. There
were few spontaneous demonstrations by the onlookers,
who were content to leave the work to those who had
undertaken to do it. Many Germans, however, ex-
pressed strong dislike of the methods employed, and
one working man remarked to me that as a German
he would not like to see the photographs that would
appear to-morrow in the foreign newspapers.
An American Leadership Myth.
[ln a leading article amounting largely to a distort-
ing of recent history to support a boost for Uncle
Sam’s “positive efforts” in international affairs, Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” (17/11/’3B) declared: “America
made such a ‘positive effort’ in 1931, when she tried
to enlist Britain’s co-operation to check Japan in Man-
churia.” The inference, of course, is that Uncle Sam
was willing and that messer John Bull let him down.
This identical myth is fairly roasted in a London
“Times” letter (here condensed) by Sir John Pratt,
former British Consul-General at various centres in
China, afterwards in the Foreign Office, and in 1929
appointed Acting-Counsellor in the British Diplomatic
Service.]
The “Times” Washington correspondent on
November 5 referred to the fact that
American commentators never fail to recall that in
1931 the British Government did not “go along” with
the then Secretary of State, Mr. Henry Stimson, in his
desire to invoke the Nine-Power Treaty when Japan
seized Manchuria.
It has occurred to me that this may be a favorable
opportunity to make one more attempt to kill this
myth, which has been industriously circulated on both
sides of the Atlantic and which has already done infi-
nite harm to Anglo-American relations.
There was no refusal to “go along” with Mr.
Stimson. A written answer was handed to the
American Embassy stating that the British Govern-
ment was most anxious to co-operate with America
in this matter and that, in view of their adherence to
this declaration, it was hoped that those of the
League Powers who were signatories to the Nine-
Power Treaty might also associate themselves with
the proposed joint invocation. The Foreign Office,
so far from refusing to “go along” with Mr. Stimson,
did all it possibly could to further his proposal.
Even more unfortunate is Mr. Stimson’s refer-
ence to sanctions in his book, The Far Eastern Crisis,
in which he says:
If a situation should ultimately arise when the Ameri-
can Government felt it necessary to recommend the
imposition, in co-operation with the rest of the world,
of an embargo on Japanese goods, I believed that such
a measure would have more chance of being adopted
by Congress if it were recommended following the invo-
cation of the Nine-Power Treaty than if it had been
recommended solely by the League of Nations.
It is this passage, carelessly read by the casual reader,
that has given rise to the absurd belief that the United
States actually proposed sanctions or strong measures
to check Japanese aggression and that the British
Government refused. Actually, of course, as Mr.
Stimson himself makes clear, the U.S. Government
was firmly opposed to sanctions. From first to last
it never wavered from its attitude that the proper
way of handling the dispute was to mobilise world
opinion. In this attitude it was loyally supported
by the, British Government, which conceived that its
proper role was to harmonise and co-ordinate the
actions of the United States and the League. Sir
John Simon accordingly exerted his great talents to
secure the adoption by the League of Mr. Stimson’s
doctrine of non-recognition.
Mr. Stimson believed that in the non-recognition
doctrine he had discovered a substitute for sanctions,
a moral force that would effectually check Japanese
aggression. Unfortunately, non-recognition proved
in practice a complete fiasco. Mr. Stimson’s bitter
disappointment is reflected in many passages in his
book, but let no one believe that it was any refusal of
Great Britain to support America that caused the
failure of the attempt to check Japanese aggression.
If non-recognition had been a success and not a
fiasco, and had caused Japan to restore Manchuria,
the handling by the League of the Sino-Japanese dis-
pute in 1931-32 would have been hailed as a perfect
example of what can be achieved by Anglo-American
co-operation.
Retort to Chamberlain Critics.
[While comment of similar nature to that here con-
densed from a London “Times” leader appears abundantly
in English newspapers brought out in every airmail, the
false notions that Mr. Chamberlain has no policy and
that his position has greatly weakened since Munich
continue to be propagated in Australian newspapers,
especially in Sydney. The explanation is easily seen:
their cabled political “news” (i.e., views), mainly drawn
from such anti-Chamberlain sheets as the “News-
Chronicle” and Manchester “Guardian” is swallowed as
the whole gospel by their leaderwriters. A curious fact
that must strike thinking people is that not one of these
belittling journals—“Cronk-News” and “Guardian” in
England; “S. M. Herald” and “Daily Telegraph” in
Sydney—has the semblance of a counter-plan to suggest
in place of the great peace policy which Mr. Chamber-
lain is actively furthering.]
Mr. Chamberlain’s policy holds the field. Once
more he has shown himself aware that the right way
to wear down words is by deeds. He has pledged
himself to follow up ,the Munich declaration with
“active and positive steps” —the first of these the visit
to Paris—and he has set expressly before himself the
aim of securing a negotiated settlement of outstanding
differences, sealed —and no other seal can give it
validity—by an agreement upon the stabilisation of
armaments.
The predominant mass of British opinion is per-
fectly clear as to his purpose and is wholeheartedly
with him. It will require mutual tolerance, no dic-
tation, negotiation on equal terms and a common
renunciation of warlike intentions, realised and proved
in an agreement on arms. There is no other way to
the restoration of confidence and the disappearance
of suspicion and abuse. What this country has desired
for years is a real understanding with Germany, not
in any exclusive sense, but as the key to peace in
Europe.
The changing of the map of Central Europe
signals the breakdown of a hopeless and danoerous
Murder and Vengeance .
The terrible tale pieced together on this
page from eyewitness accounts and other re-
port can be said without exaggeration to have
shocked and stirred humanitarian feeling
throughout the civilised world.
Beginning with the murder in Paris on
November 7 of the German diplomatist Herr
vom Rath by Herschen Feibel Grynsban, a
young Polish Jew, its sequel was the subjection
of German and Austrian Jews to a ferocious
campaign of violence and destruction.
Not the most ingenious apologist could
make out a convincing defence for what must
appear to outside onlookers as the aveng-
ing of a murder committed in singular circum-
stances by the persecuting of thousands of poor
wretches caged inside a country’s frontiers.
Such a resort to barbarism among a civi-
lised people must strike most people as well-
nigh incredible; certainly it is indefensible in
the light of the immediate circumstances.
Evidently the roots of this horrible affair go
very deep; deeper even than the prevailing
German anti-Semitism. Of grim significance
is the fact that youth figured so largely in it.
Broadly considered, outrages and perpetrators
—like the Nazi party itself —were born in the
terrible days of defeat, humiliation, inflation,
demoralisation and alien profiteers.


Solve Y our Christmas Present
Problem with Slippers
195 B
Give something which will be useful throughout the whole year.
An Albert Slipper, made in soft light Calf-skin, with a genuine Pump
Sole. Made in Black or Brown in full and half sizes.
Price 18/6
“II it's an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New. South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
policy that was doomed from the beginning. It might
have been slowly, quietly and safely liquidated. It
was blindly left to collapse, and it is thanks to the
Prime Minister that all Europe was not involved in
its ruin. The process of revision has in consequence
been harsh, swift, crude and even arbitrary at many
points ; but the broad effect is that Central Europe
has begun its always destined passage from an unstable
to a stable equilibrium. It has not been accomplished
without grievous suffering and the temporary disloca-
tion of economic life, but the lasting and fruitful con-
sequence will be that fewer Europeans than ever will
hereafter be living under alien rule.
Nothing is easier than to propagate the alarmist
view. Germany is now dominant, goes the warning,
in the markets of Central and South-Eastern Europe.
But where did the lion’s share of that trade go before
1914? Where will the economic pull of a vigorous
and populous industrial country be more naturally
and progressively felt than in the agricultural countries
on its borders? Germany, we are told again, is no
longer susceptible to blockade. Whether there is weight
in that argument or not, how do those who use it
suppose that it appears in obverse to a German citizen
ol whatever creed or party, and with what effect upon
his mind?
Germany is recovering, as she was bound in time
to recover, indeed to increase, the strength which was
hers formerly. Fortunately the British Empire has
never staked its security upon a resolve to thwart the
reasonable endeavors of the German people to better
their livelihood.
Recent events have opened up, not new terrors,
but a new and reasonable hope of stabilisation and
peace. They leave Britain and all that she represents
as strong in face of Europe as she was 25 years ago,
and they cannot vary the policy which she should
pursue. It is neither a search for peace at any price
nor a threat of war at every turn. It is a resolve to
throw her whole diplomacy confidently into the
organisation of international stability, which cannot
rest upon negations alone, and to back it by that
thorough organisation of British resources at home
and overseas which democracy now rightly demands
as proof of national preparedness not for war alone
but for peace itself.
Germany’s Birthrate Success.
[This digest of an article by a correspondent in
London “Times” adds further to information published
in these pages from time to time on measures taken
and success achieved in checking birthrate decline in
Germany. The writer puts forward the idea that some-
thing more than the special assistance measures has
been responsible.]
It is well known that the birthrate has gone down
in nearly all European countries. In Britain decline
began soon after widespread publicity had been given
to contraceptive propaganda by the prosecution in 1877
of Annie Besant and Charles Bradlaugh for selling an
American book that explained contraceptive methods.
The birthrate of England and Wales fell steadily from
36.6 per 1000 population in 1876 to 14.4 in 1933. It
has since risen slowly to 14.9 in 1937, owing doubt-
less to the increase in the number of marriages that
has accompanied recovery from economic depression.
In Germany the decline was exceptionally rapid ;
the annual number of births per 1000 population fell
from 34.3 in 1901-05 to 14.7 in 1933. In Italy
strenuous efforts were made to check the downward
trend, from 38 per 1000 in 1881-85 to 27.7 in 1926.
Nevertheless, the fall steadily continued, and in 1936
the birthrate was 22.2 per 1000. In France and Bel-
gium, in spite of family allowances and other measures
to encourage large families, the birthrate in the same
period continued to go down.
Germany’s birthrate has risen from 14.7 per
1000 in 1933 to 18.8 in 1937. No other country can
show so substantial an increase. In most countries
the birthrate continued to decrease. The experience
of Germany is unique.
In Germany the increase is attributed partly to
special measures. The most important of these is the
provision of marriage loans, which had at first a twofold
object: not only to increase the birthrate but to reduce
unemployment among men by withdrawing women
from industry. Consequently they were granted only
in cases in which the bride had been a wage-earner
for at least nine months in the previous two years,
or if doing housework at home was to be replaced by
a domestic servant; but since there is now a shortage
of labor this condition has been relaxed. The loans,
which vary in amount up to a maximum of 1000
marks, are given in the form of tokens that may be
exchanged for household requisites. No interest is
charged, but the loan must be repaid at the rate of
1 per cent, a month, and one quarter of the original
sum lent is cancelled at the birth of each child. Up
to the end of 1937 loans were granted to 900,000
married couples, and the total amount lent was
600,000,000 m.
Other measures were adopted. Lump-sum grants
were made payable on the birth of a child in a needy
family with not fewer than four children, and family
allowances were instituted. Another important feature
is the movement to check the “flight from the land.”
In Germany, as in other countries, the birthrate is
lower in the large towns than in rural areas. The
marriage loans are granted on specially favorable terms
to persons engaged in agriculture or forestry ; under
certain conditions such persons may receive the loan
almost as a gift; and special facilities are made avail-
able for rural housing and the provision of small
agricultural holdings, exceptional inducements being
offered to persons with large families. In the Italian
population policy also importance is attached to
checking urbanisation ; for example, a factory employ-
ing more than 100 workers may not be established
in a provincial town with over 100,000 inhabitants.
It is held by German statisticians that the re-
markable increases are not due wholly or even mainly
to the special measures. The family allowance sys-
tem cannot have played an important part, for it was
not instituted until 1936 and not extended to non-
insured persons until 1937. If the marriage loans
scheme were the main cause of the rise in the birth-
rate, it would have taken effect chiefly by increasing
the number of first births. But the statistics show
that there has been a large increase in second, third
and fourth births and even an increase in the fertility
of marriages of over 10 years’ duration.
In a recent book, Dr. Burgdorfer points out that
even if all the additional marriages, with their 300,000
additional births, were attributed to the loans, there
would remain 600,000 additional births that must be
attributed to other factors. He finds these factors
partly in the general social and economic policy of
the National-Socialists, which has brought about an
enormous reduction in unemployment and created a
new sense of social security, but chiefly in the new
outlook on life taken by the German people since the
Revolution of 1933.
By German writers on population the decline in
the birthrate is ascribed not to any loss of the physio-
logical capacity to produce offspring but to the volun-
tary limitation of offspring. The decline in the birth-
rate, it is held, is a symptom of a disease of the will,
the decay of faith, the denial of life. Dr. Burgdorfer
holds that it is a question not of economic but of
spiritual values, and that what Germany has done to
check the decline in the birthrate holds out a message
of hope to other countries.
Germany has so far achieved considerable suc-
cess in her efforts to prevent the onset of depopulation,
although the annual number of births is still 10 per
cent, below the number required for replacement.
Alone among the countries of the world she can show
a substantial rise in the birthrate. It is one of the
most remarkable of recent social phenomena.
Britain’s Diminished Shipping.
[Condensed from an article by London “Observer’s”
naval correspondent this digest supplements and brings
up to date earlier “Uncabled Additions” items dealing
with the startling decline in John Bull’s shipping,
amounting, in the event of war, to a most serious
menace to a country so dependent on imported food-
stuffs.]
in the light of the possible combination of
Powers that might then have been ranged against us,
and the fact that they possess between them more than
two hundred submarines, it cannot be considered
that the Merchant Navy was in any way adequate
to the task that would have confronted it had the
threatened war broken out at the end of September.
Those submarines are concentrated in three main
areas, many of them being ocean-going craft with
a very wide range of action. Between them, they
could have threatened every trade route in the world,
which means that we should have had to institute a
convoy system in practically every ocean. Com-
parison with 1914 is therefore eminently justified.
In that year Britain possessed 41.6 per cent, of
the world’s tonnage, and in 1938 26.4 per cent. Trans-
lated into other figures, our ships have diminished
by about 2000 vessels of 1,500,000 tons gross. As our
tanker tonnage has increased during the same period
from 500,000 tons to 2,500,000, it means that we
are weaker in ships to carry food and materials to
the extent of 3,500,000 tons. We had 17,500,000 tons
gross in such vessels in 1914, and have 14,000,000
tons now. Our war losses in shipping amounted to
7,760,000 tons, and our population has risen since
1914 by 4,500,000.
These facts are sufficiently disturbing ; but the
personel of the Merchant Navy, excluding natives,
has also fallen by 20 per cent, since 1914. Between
1911 and 1936 there was a decrease of 59,000 sea-
men.
While the number of our fishing vessels has not
diminished, the estimated number of fishermen in the
United Kingdom, regular and occasional, has fallen
by 44,381 since 1913. Adding this figure to the
Merchant Navy diminution means that we have over
100,000 fewer active seafarers now than at the out-
break of the Great War, which is very serious in-
deed.
The essential supply services of the country must
continue to run during war, and must be considerably
enhanced if armies are fighting overseas. The Navy
also requires its swarm of auxiliary vessels of every
sort from armed merchant cruisers to trawlers and
drifters. The personnel of the Navy increased by
about 200,000 men between 1914 and 1918, many of
whom came from the Merchant Navy and the fish-
ing fleets.
The number of men employed in the merchant
shipbuilding trade has also fallen by 25 per cent,
during the last quarter of a century, and still tends
to diminish.
On September 30 the total of 885,000 tons of
merchant shipping in hand was less by 151,000 tons
than that in hand at the end of June, and less by
299,000 tons than the volume in hand a year before.
On the same date no less than 1,827,000 tons of ship-
ping for British owners was being constructed abroad.
A Spanish Pirate.
On November 2 a freighter called the
Cantabria was sunk in an engagement off the
English coast, and Australian newspapers
featured the cable-story under sensation-head-
lines.
If, however, the engagement had been
fought in a fog, it could have been no foggier
than published accounts of it, which left the
impression that it was just a wanton attack
on an honest Spanish ship at sea, another of
Franco’s villainies.
Sydney “Labor Daily” had perhaps the
clearest account, the substance of it being:—
An unarmed cargo vessel was sunk by a pirate
raider. The victim was the 5649-ton freighter
Cantabria, formerly Alfonso Perez, now trading
for the Mid-Atlantic Shipping Co., London. The
pirate was the “armed trawler,” or auxiliary
cruiser. Nadir, in the service of General Franco.
The British steamer Pattersonian (315 tons)
rushed up to the rescue under the Nadir’s guns
and picked up i l of the Cantabria’s crew. The
Pattersonian then proceeded at full speed until it
was out of the pirate’s range.
Presented like that, it makes a pretty story.
There was, however, a sequel to it—no doubt
properly assessed as too unimportant to be
cabled, but still interesting in view of the fairly
free use of the word “pirate” in the “Labor
Daily’s” story.
This sequel was a letter in London “Times”
by A. Zubizarreta, writing as “the sole legal
representative in England of the owners of the
Cantabria,” to this purpose:—
Early in the Spanish civil war the crew of
the Cantabria mutinied, and, dismissing their
captain, seized the vessel and left Spanish waters.
Since then the owners, in spite of every effort,
have been unable to regain possession of their
ship, which during all that time has been used
for traffic between British and non-Spanish ports.
Vale, Cantabria! And perhaps a similar
salute to a former kind of journalism would not
be out of place.


YOUR TRIP TO EUROPE WILL BE INCOMPLETE—
unIess you visit Greater Germany and experience the pleasure of the sincere welcome
you will receive throughout this friendly country.
Travel in Safety, Comfort and at Nominal Cost.
Find out for yourself the real TRUTH of the Social and Industrial conditions of
the people. Visit the Labour Camps, Welfare and Youth Training Institutions,
the Winter Help Organisation. No person is allowed to go hungry or cold in
Greater Germany. . „
Letters of Introduction and the fullest of information will be gladly supplied by
Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Industries
Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney. ’Phone: 84006.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL WILL BE EXHIBITED AT THE LEIPZIG SPRING TRADE
FAIR, COMMENCING MARCH 5, 1939.
Christmas Number Next Week.
Sixty-eight Pages.
Price, 6d.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The mating of Windbag and Venetian
Lady ought to produce a good horse, for
the sire was one of the greatest race-
horses this country has ever seen, and
the dam was an excellent miler and as
honest as the day. In the summer of
1929-30 she won a succession of races
for E. F. Walker, among them being the
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes and the Don-
caster. Walker trains Buckshee, a result
of the union of Windbag and Venetian
Lady, and in a division of a Maiden
Highweight handicap at Rosehill on
Saturday Buckshee, a three-year-old bay,
galloped in a style worthy of Pa and Ma.
The distance was seven furlongs, and
Buckshee’s time, lmin. 26sec., was three-
quarters of a second faster than the time
recorded in the Clyde Handicap by the
best of what was thought a much
superior class of sprinters.
Buckshee was ridden by Bartle, who
has done the riding for Walker’s stable
for many years and was identified with
the successes of Venetian Lady. Buckshee
is a slug and had to be ridden all the
way, but many good horses have been
like that.
Let Slip is owned by A.J.C. committee-
man Hunter White. He runs his best
races at Rosehill, and the stocky chest-
nut had strong popular support for the
Clyde Handicap, starting joint favorite
with Sal Volatile at threes. Let Slip began
smartly, and was going easily in front
at the home turn. At the finish he held
off Moaenza, and, though Sal Volatile
came home strongly, she had to give the
leaders too great a start. Over a longer
journey she will do better —the Summer
Cup may not be beyond her. Red Sails
and Cathartes, also in the Cup, finished
nicely in fourth and fifth places respec-
tively.
Journal has been rejuvenated by an
old-time blood-tapping operation, and,
kept to the rails, he just won the Novem-
ber Handicap. He went out at sixes,
after opening favorite at 7 to 2. The old
fellow was badly placed in the first mile,
but McMenamin drove him along, and,
when Panrose and Unafraid shifted out,
Journal forced his way along the rails.
He battled on gamely to beat Unafraid
and Improvement, Masterpiece and Pan-
rose being close to the place-getters. It
was a fine finish, and a compliment to
handicapper Tanner.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy believes in giv-
ing his horses plenty of time to develop.
Six Hundred, an excellent type of five-
year-old mare, by Light Brigade-All
Pink, had started only once prior to
Saturday. Her track work must have
been good, for in the first division of the
Maiden Highweight she was backed from
12 to 1 to sevens. She was last away,
but steadily improved her position, and
had enough in reserve to take charge at
the home turn and win easily. Retort
was second, Harmony third.
The other division was Buckshee’s race.
One of four at 5 to 1, Windbag’s son
outstayed Dick Wootton’s unlucky mare
My Dear, Billy Moon being third.
A mix-up at the barrier helped Over-
bold —he wasn’t in it —to carry off the
first division of the Juvenile. A Brazen
colt owned by Newcastle sportsman
James Clayton and trained by Les Haigh,
of Rogilla fame, Overbold started at
9 to 2, and was too solid for Wingfoot
and Reading. Chiswick, a good-looking
son of Chatham-Nobility, showed in the
second division that he follows his sire.
He was an easy winner at 7 to 4, after
being laid early at 7 to 2. The pace-
maker, Folk Song, and Bravissima filled
the places. Pannade, carrying the Young
Idea and Avenger colors, was fourth.
Newcastle scored again through the
agency of Leeds (7 to 4) in the Novice.
Lifted along, as it were, by Darby
Munro, Leeds beat Gilltown —an im-
proved horse —in the last stride. Munro
got a great reception from the excited
backers of Bradford’s brother.
* * * *
The showing of Cathartes at Rosehill
was interesting in view of his summer
and autumn engagements. Last autumn
Cathartes dead-heated with John Wilkes
in the A.J.C. St. Leger ; and John Wilkes
had won the Williamstown Cup. Behind
the pair at Randwick were Silenus and
Bourbon, both since winners of good
races; in fact, it is now agreed that
Bourbon should have added the Mel-
bourne Cup to his list.
* * * *
Several Sydney racing notabilities were
in the news last week, notably Mr. John
Woolcott-Forbes, whose punting per-
formances have been copiously reported
by writers who go in for that sort of
thing. He was nicknamed “The Bull-
fighter,” and the public was given to
understand that wagering in hundreds
was nothing to him and that the sight
of him made bookmakers tremble. In
one quarter, at all events, he has been
recognised “as a genius of finance, a
romantic and colorful personality and
the owner at Gordon of perhaps the most
magnificent modern mansion in Austra-
lia” (with picture), and there have also
been references to his gorgeous carpets
and parties. But there were no echoing
raptures at the annual meeting of share-
holders in the Producers and General
Finance, of which the “genius” used to
be managing director. On the contrary,
there were howls when it came out that
the company, which has made heavy
losses, had advanced £36,000 to Mr.
W.-F., though the present managing
director said that no money had
passed and that the £36,000 was
“secured by deed on property.” Mr.
W.-F. himself made an emotional speech
to the effect that he had nearly
ruined himself “carrying shareholders”
and that he would “honor every obliga-
tion —pay every bob.” The report closed
with the assertion of a shareholder, un-
named, that Mr. W.-F. was not carrying
him and that “all you carry from me
is my wish that one day soon you’ll be
carrying your swag.”
Readers of the sporting columns afore-
mentioned will wonder that “The Bull-
fighter” didn’t go into the ring with his
head down, as they put it, and win all
that was required.
The Producers and General Finance
bought out Bears, the Sydney house-
furnishers. Angry statements made at
the meeting of shareholders concerning
the amount of the purchase-money and
other matters were subsequently denied
by Benny Bear in a letter to a news-
paper. Bear promotes boxing contests
—he has under engagement some of the
coons who are now hanging round Syd-
ney and skiting to whoever will listen
to them —and does a bit of punting.
# * * *
Rufus Naylor, who had that unsuc-
cessful dispute with the A.J.C., figured in
another lost argument in the Supreme
Court at Sydney last week. He has been
managing a concern called Sports Arena,
Limited, and in one of his effusive broad-
casts he alleged that he had “had to
read the Riot Act” to certain young men
who pushed bikes there. He added sub-
sequently, it was alleged: “I will not
have my £20,000 venture ruined by
gambling, and the four main offenders,
the cause of all the trouble, will be barred
from entering the Arena.” Harris
Horder, Beer and Freebairn sued Sports
Arena and Naylor for slander, and each
got a verdict for £250 damages. It came
out during the case that bookmakers
Matthews and Shaw were interested in
Sports Arena, and afterwards it was an-
nounced on behalf of the company that
“Mr. Naylor no longer has anything to
do with the management.”
* * * *
Ascot (Vic.) punters judged juvenile
form most accurately last Wednesday
when they made Quite True and Wings
of the Morning equal favorites for the
Ellesmere Handicap. (Price on offer
against each was 2 to 1.) After a tough
tussle down the straight the two fillies
finished level and stakes were divided.
Quite True is the first successful repre-
sentative of Winooka on the Victorian
turf. Wings of the Morning (Lo Zingaro-
Bush Warbler) was bred by Sol Green
at his Bacchus Marsh stud. Her dam
is a half-sister to Murray King, that 200-
to-1 Sydney Cup winner, and descends
from The Undine, whose sister, The
Victory, landed the Melbourne Cup of
1902. '
Big things were expected of Wings
of the Morning when the breeder re-
served her for his own racing purposes,
but she isn’t comparable with Esperanto,
the Lo Zingaro filly that J. T. Jamie-
son trains for Mrs. C. J. Bancks. How-
ever, her partial success would please
Sol Green, now en route to England to
attend the December thoroughbred sales.
Old Jack, second favorite at threes,
squeezed home by a neck from Musical
David (20 to 1) in the Trial Hurdle at
Ascot. Campaspe (10 to 9) blundered
badly half a mile from home, but was
making what promised to be a winning
effort when he almost sold out at the
final obstacle. Winner hails from Queens-
land, and is by Spearfelt, who has made
a great name for himself at the stud up
north.
Padale, a Friarsdale mare belonging
to J. E. Smedley, headed the quotes on
the first division of the Encourage Han-
dicap, being sto 2. She pulled her sup-
porters through in nice style, outstaying
Harold Badger’s mount, Kevastar. The
second division went to Old Style (tens),
who smothered High Falutin’ for speed
up the straight. High Falutin’ shared
favoritism with Gidgee ; the latter ran
last, after leading.
Not having raced for some time,
Trimon (Eastern Monarch-Trifold) was
considered by her trainer, L. J. McCann,
to be too “new” to have much chance of
success in the six-furlongs Tottenham
Handicap; but, Elliott being in the
saddle, Trimon shortened to 11 to 2.
Leading all the way, he vanquished
Trowsdale (6 to 4) by a neck. Badly
interfered with at the start, Gay Heiress
did well to finish third.
Mate o’ Mine (twos) was a good thing
beaten in the Seacombe Trial, which
went to Haikara (eights), who led
throughout. Haikara is trained by F. H.
(“Son”) Lewis. Mate o’ Mine ran him
to less than a length after experiencing
a very bad passage.
Defeat of Bridge Law (6 to 4) in the
Falkland Welter was quite as unlucky
as that of Mate o’ Mine in the previous
event. In this race also it was a case of
“first out, first home,” Arran Chief
causing the boilover. He started at
twelves, and paid £5 Is. 6d. for a dollar
on the tote. A perfect day so far as
weather went didn’t end at all perfectly
from the punting angle.
* * * *
Followers of W. Elliot did well on
Saturday at Moonee Valley, where the
champion Vic. jockey rode three winners.
Two of these, Golden Corn and Master
Motley, headed quotes on their respec-
tive races. The other —Great Divide —
was heavily supported, and started second
favorite.
Maschera (Ringmaster-Veil), owned
by “S. A. Rawdon,” was the first can-
didate inquired for in the Juvenile Han-
dicap, but she eased from threes to 9 to 2
when money came in for Golden Corn,
who shortened from sevens to fours. The
race gave no line as to the merits of
Maschera, who lost lengths at the start.
If Elliot had wished Golden Corn could
have won by the proverbial “street” in-
stead of a mere neck from the fast-finish-
ing Proof, first of the progeny of Metal-
lurgy (Rossendale-Calcite) to come under
notice in Melbourne. Among other races
Metallurgy captured the Bendigo Cup
and V.R.C. Bagot Handicap. He may
have a fair measure of stud success.
Golden Corn is an illustration of how
one mare can put a modest breeder “on
the map.” M. Driscoll, of Swanwater,
near St. Arnaud, mated Cornwreath with
Footbolt. The progeny was Anklet (dam
of Golden Corn), who is a sister to
Wheat Slump and Bowyang and a half-
sister to Sweet Corn, Flying Corn, Lyn-
wreath and Last Corn. With one excep-
tion, every descendant of Cornwreath
found his or her way on to the winning
list. All have been trained at Caulfield
by Jerry Tie, with whom W. Elliot
served his apprenticeship. Elliot has
maintained his association with Tie, as
Billy Duncan did with the late Justin
Curr. Even at the height of his fame
Duncan was always ready to ride for
Curr.
Archie Crofts’s 850-guinea purchase
Romany Chief had his second public
outing in the Juvenile Handicap, but was
not fancied, and finished last. The in-
tention is to give Romany Chief (Lo
Zingaro-Chevy Chase) an easy time just
now; Crofts thinks he will make a
stayer. Both sire and dam were im-
ported. The colt has a very short rein,
but he is built on stronger lines than the
majority of the Lo Zingaros.
Perhaps realising that he had cut things
too fine in the youngsters’ race, Elliot
left nothing to chance with Master Mot-
ley in the Benefit Handicap. He cut
down Larissa at the home turn, and beat
that rival handsomely, with Finch an
unexpected third. Master Motley (twos)
was a pronounced favorite. He now is
raced conjointly by A. L. McCracken
and the trainer. McCracken’s father was
chairman of the V.R.C. committee. He
won a Caulfield Grand National Steeple
with Knight of the Garter.
Roy Shaw landed the Fund Handicap
with Jakin (Windbag-Sangerin), the geld-
ing that he acquired at the dispersal sale
of the late Tom Pearce’s racing stud.
Pearce kept Jakin for sprint events, but
Shaw is successfully exploiting the horse’s
stamina. Jakin (5 to 2) was almost as
good a favorite as Keeping Watch.
Collaring Hautboy three furlongs from
home he scored in runaway style from
Keeping Watch, who narrowly deprived
Hautboy of second place.
Elliot’s third winning mount was on
Great Divide (fours) in the Highweight
Handicap. He got there by half a length
from the Spearhead mare Spray, who led
into the straight and is worth following.
Also likely to score soon is Intersection
(third), a stable-companion of Demotic.
Only One (Limond-My Own), bred in
Maoriland by J. S. McLeod and raced
by him in partnership with A. E. Cooper,
of Yanga station (N.S.W.), registered a
belated win in the Trial Handicap at
sevens. Love Parade (twelves) and
Mystic Lady (sixes) filled the minor
places. Love Parade (by Nightmarch)
carries the colors of M. Steinberg, who
last autumn did big things with Elanage.
He is a promising sort.
With Alex. Fullarton in the saddle
Glenlonan appropriated the Appeal
Hurdle at the cramped odds of 6 to 4.
Anything ridden by Fullarton over ob-
stacles is pretty sure to be favorite. The
runner-up, Equilibrium, won’t be a 15-
to-1 shot next start. He is back to his
best form.
“Poke and Potter”: A lad named
Watt, who hails from Nowra (N.S.W.),
made his fleeting appearance in the
cricket limelight during Country Week
in Sydney. In a score of 60 he hit six
sixes and five fours. No doubt this out-
rageous performance has settled any pros-
pect Watt may ever have had of reach-
ing first-class cricket. It strikes a felon
blow at the foundations of batsmanship,
as understood to-day.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Canterbury Handicap: Master-
piece or Improvement; next, Un-
afraid.
Ashbury Handicap: Friar’s
Switch ; next, Masterpiece or Im-
provement.
Park Stakes: Moaveil; next,
Haughty Clare.
Flying Welter: Roginer; next,
Royal Ensign.
FOR EPSOM.
Epsom Cup: Jakin ; next, De-
motic.
Tante Handicap: Finch; next,
Larissa.
Parkdale Welter: Bridge Law ;
next, Silver Bond.


%
here are
MANY
m
new
ways
to
serve
AfDA
V/JL oC
/
th
%
%
l
Vi
$
a
MINT JULEP.
In a large glass half filled with
shaved ice put 1 teaspoon of sugar,
\ glass ordinary water, and 3 or 4
crushed sprigs of mint. Add 1 nip
of White Horse Whisky, and stir
well. Dash a little rum over top.
Decorate with fruits and mint.
ASCOT.
Half fill shaker with cracked ice. For
each person add half cocktail glass
of White Horse Whisky, half cock-
tail glass of orange juice and white
of an egg. Shake well.
HORSE'S NECK.
Dash Angostura Bitters into a long
glass and add 1 nip of White Horse
Whisky, 1 dash of Benedictine, and
the rind of 1 lemon. Fill up with
Ginger Ale and crushed ice. Deco-
rate with slice of lemon.
POR quick and certain summer
* refreshment rely always on your
White Horse Whisky bottle. The
variety of cooling, thirst-quenching,
spirit-raising drinks it offers is
almost endless ... For proof, just
try the three suggestions above —but
be sure you use White Horse . . . No
other whisky has the flavour,
fragrance and smoothness essential
to their full enjoyment.
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
Equal to a Fine Liqueur.
FREE: A limited number of White Horse Swizzle-Sticks are now
available free. Just send your name and address and 2d. in stamps, tc
cover postage, to “White Horse,” Dept. B, Box 1446JJ., G.P.O., Sydney .


- -O
m %
%
wM&F*
1ltO r :S
I§BWC£D b &°y jl
bat uv mat*
ENNESSYS
☆ ☆ ☆
BRANDY
In the year 1300 Arnold de Villanova
wrote: “Man has become feeble, and there-
fore God has given him this Water of Life
[brandy] that he may grow young again.”
For more than 600 years good brandy has
been recognised for its health-building
values. For ' nearly two centuries
Hennessy’s genuine Cognac Brandy has
been the accepted standard for perfection
all over the world.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles,
Half Bottles, Quarter Bottles, and
Eighth Bottles.
Joint Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
GOLLIN AND COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
HARBOTTLE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.
The Worlds Best
IIMIFiIMUW
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 12S Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
Ins and Oufs
“Aigburth”: England’s net profit on
the Australian tour was £42,000. Aus-
tralia gets about £24,000, so the net profit
for the whole tour was £66,000 —a
setback for the Dismal Joes who pre-
dicted a poor financial season and were
confuted by a record one. The counties
where Tests were played get £3350 each,
• while the 13 first-class counties collect
£l6OO each—£loo more than last time.
No wonder county club officials include
Mister Bradman’s name in their nightly
prayers.
* * * *
“Kennington”: Marylebone is to ask
the Australian Board of Control to stand-
ardise all Tests in England and Australia
at 30 hours each, or five days of six
hours in England and six days of five
hours in Australia. As far as England
is concerned the Board will probably
agree, but the consensus of opinion in
Australia is that every Test be played
to a finish as for years past.
* * * *
Queensland made a good start in the
opening Sheffield of the season at Bris-
bane, scoring 495 for eight wickets at
stumps on Saturday night, after a storm
had hung up play for a couple of hours
on Saturday. Brown (84) and Rogers
(55) gave the side a great start, hoisting
100 for the first wicket. Brown jogged
along faultlessly until a fluke run-out
sent him back. Allen and D. Tallon got
31 and 36, and at stumps on Friday Cook
and Baker were going steadily with the
bowling well in hand.
The play on Saturday afternoon was a
trifle faster, though Cook’s 82 was mostly
singles. A fairly fast and tradesmanlike
157 by Baker was ended when Barnes
bowled him. At stumps on Saturday
Hansen was 21 n.o. and had Bill Tallon
for partner.
The bowling was poor. Murphy (2 for
143) did the bulk of it. Barnes, coming
on late, took 3 for 25.
* ft He ft
“Tenth Slip”: Good to hear that
throwing the cricket ball is to be revived
during the Sheffields in Sydney. It was
once tremendously popular, being a regu-
lar feature of athletic meetings as well as
of cricket games, and a lot of wagering
used to hinge on the result. In the past
such noted cricketer-throwers as Bonnor
and W. G. Grace picked up many a nice
little bet. The world’s record is 140
yards 2 feet at Durham (Eng.) by Per-
cival in 1884. “W.G.” threw 116, 117
and 118 yards in succession at the Oval
in 1868, and once threw 109 one way
and 105 back. King Billy, a Queensland
abo., is credited with 140 yards at Cler-
mont in 1873, and Anderson, of South
Melbourne, with 132 yards 9in. in 1916.
* # * *
“Towkay”: While the job of Sheffield
Shield management is always rushed by
N.S.W. officials when Brisbane is the
venue, the opposite is the case when
someone is wanted to handle the Ma
team on tour in Melbourne and Adel-
aide. This year there were no applica-
tions for this last job, though the time
for applying was extended ; finally Roth-
well, of the N.D. club, had to be con-
scripted. The long absence from home
and business entailed by the trip to Adel-
aide is blamed for this, but there are
those who thoughtfully mention that
Queensland pubs nominally close their
doors much later in the evening than
pubs in the southern States.
* * * *
“Nobby”: Newcastle has no reason to
be ashamed of its cricket standard, but
“Why shouldn't I bring him on the field? He'll stop 'em fieldin' too close in."
wants to improve it. Newcastle repre-
sentatives are hunting for a coach, and it
is said that Brown, at present with
Queensland, is being sought. Question-
able whether imported coaches do much
good. Ducat, Christy and Brown have
failed to bring Bananaland back to the
form when O’Connor, the Oxenhams
and Thompson, to mention only a few,
were parts of a notable State side.
* * * *
“Newlands”: After a pipe-opener
Hammond’s team in South Africa de-
feated Western Province by eight wickets.
W.P. scored 174 (Fames 3-32 and Edrich
4-10) and 169 (Fames 7-38). The Eng-
lishmen found the local bowling better
than expected, but Bartlett larruped it for
91 n.o. out of 276. Brinkhaus, a new
fast bowler, took 3-69, getfing Hutton,
Edrich and Gibb early. In the second
innings he again bowled Hutton, this
time for a duck.
* * * *
“Du Toit’s”: For a decade the Griqua-
land West side, which centres in Kimber-
ley, has held the high-score record for
S’Africa with 603. Hammond’s men gave
the diamond-diggers a dose of their own
medicine when they ran up 676 (Hutton
149, Edrich 109, Paynter 158 and Yard-
ley 142). All that seems necessary after
that is to say W.G. made 114 and 273.
Verity took 7-22 and 4-44.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: Passed through Fremantle
on his way to spend a holiday in his
Sydney home, Walsh, the Glebe left-hand
bowler, who has been with Cahn’s
private team in England. This side will
tour M.L. in January, when Walsh will
rejoin it. There are four Australians
in the Cahn band, Walsh, Lush, Jackson
and Mudge, all Ma-Staters. Walsh took
219 wickets for the side last season, cost-
ing about 10 runs each, and Jackson
topped the batting with 1800 runs, aver-
aging over 60 per innings. Lush, a fast
bowler on this side and little regarded as
a batsman, did well with the bat as well
as the ball, and was an exceptionally fine
fieldsman.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Another shooting acci-
dent has robbed a British athlete of an
eye. The first victim was Teddy Morgan,
the Welsh international three-quarter; the
other was our old pal “Farmer” White,
whose left-handed slows had so much to
do with winning the 1928-29 rubber in
Australia. In Tests White took 25
wickets on that tour, 13 being bagged on
Adelaide Oval, reputedly the slow-
bowler’s agony. He also headed the team
averages for the trip with 65 wickets at
22.63.
Nineteenth Hole
“Herpeton”: No wonder overseas
journals publish staggering stories about
golf in Australia and the dangers attach-
ing to it at the hands and teeth of the
local Ferae naturae. The Australian Golf
Club, which has its course within an
easy tram-ride of Sydney G.P.O. in a
section of Sydney’s suburbia, decided
recently to prune .the rough, which was
getting too thick. While on this job the
workmen slew 27 tiger-snakes, the tiger
being probably the deadliest and certainly
the savagest of all Australian snakes.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: Queensland’s official
golf season came to an end with the State
professional championship, won 9 and
7 from Anderson by Walker. Ander-
son has had a very successful run finan-
cially this season, his last cash prize
being the Dunlop Cup a week or so ago.
He and Walker have been taking it in
turns to down each other for a couple
of seasons past, and this time it was
Walker’s turn. The latter won the State
open in May, and in all has pouched
some £7O for the season —good money
for a Queensland pro.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The V.G.A. has de-
cided to follow the example of N.S.W.
and Queensland and hold an annual close


A MONEY-SAVING TYRE
aff BVor^
Upton*?# ll
j
n
I D
SAYINGS IN PRICE
Dunlop 9-T-l saves approximately 3/6
in every tyre £ (based on the popular sized
tyre—6.00 x 16). Saving on other sizes
approximately the same.
NON-SKID SAFETY
9-T-l’s safety tread pattern is modelled
on the same lines as that of the famous
Dunlop Silent “90”, giving unequalled
protection from skids.
EXTRA MILES
Dunlop 9-T-l offers the greatest mileage
value offer ever made. Sturdily built, they
will give thousands of extra miles of
wear.
C I I cure WITHOUT LOSS
JILCIiVL OF SAFETY
To meet the demand for a Silent, safe
tyre for modern cars, Dunlop has com*
bined both qualities in the Dunlop Silent
9-T-l.
THE NEW
DUNLOP
Di
IQ
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. I INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA! f 711/32
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE HOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
championship—that is, one confined to
local players. One advantage of these
affairs is that they give amateurs and
professionals an additional chance to
play against each other in open compe-
tition. As it is, there are few enough
opportunities outside some clubs which
hold “open” shows to which all players
are welcomed.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Most golfers had for-
gotten that the professional foursomes
of N.S.W. had resulted in a tie some time
ago. The replay took place during the
week, and the Bolger brethren won an
18-holes go by six strokes from Mc-
Kenzie and Cremin. The Bolgers re-
corded 70—one under par at Bonnie
Doon, where the game was played.
* * * *
“Mt. Eden”: Locke closed his M.L.
tour by beating Murray in a couple of
matches. The Afrikander says that he
will be back in M.L. and Australia in
1940, when his special objective will be
the M.L. centenary championships.
* * * *
“Kingston Beach”: Locke is not get-
ting much rest. He had a busy week in
Sydney, accounting for W. J. Bolger and
for Cremin, then hastened off for Tassie,
where he’s to meet Len Nettlefold at
Hobart, and, on the next day, Ferguson
at Launceston. Then back to Melbourne
for a couple of exhibition matches
before taking his hook homeward on
December 7.
* * * *
“Shirley”: The M.L. amateur golf
championship has this year been received
into the bosom of the great Smith family,
Smith, of Auckland, having downed
Reilly, of Wellington, 4 and 3 over 36
holes in the final. Smith, aged 20, is the
youngest player to win the event; he is
a brother of the Smith who was runner-
up to Locke in the M.L. open. Papa
Smith is one of Maoriland’s leading pro-
fessionals.
* * * *
“Pill”: The crow and the magpie have
long been noted for their addiction to
golf balls. At Darwin a species of bur-
rowing crab takes heavy toll of them.
One rural club in Brisbane suffered from
the ball-pinching proclivities of goannas.
Now Brisbane has supplied the only
authenticated case of a kite making off
with a ball. The bird carried the pill
over 100 yards before dropping it. This
happened in an important match, and
argument still rages over the incident
and the liability—if any —incurred by
the owner of the ball.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: With an eye on
future Brookeses and Crawfords, the
N. S. Wales L.T.A. issued a number of
free tickets to schoolchildren for the
opening of the match with Victoria. The
response was splendid, but not in the
direction expected. Players had to fight
their way through hordes of vociferous
kids demanding autographs. When finally
the main courts were cleared and the
match began, brats ignored it. On the
outlying courts members were playing
private games, and these were mobbed
in their turn. The tennis heads have an-
nounced that such conduct will not be
tolerated in future.
The matches the kids didn’t see resulted
in an 11-rubbers-to-eight win for the N.S.
Welshmen —Bromwich beat both Quist
and Hopman, and Crawford gave Quist
a run; Gilchrist, boomed for days
beforehand, was twice beaten (by Harper
and Long). The Victorian ladies downed
their Ma State sisters by six rubbers 16
sets to six rubbers 15 sets.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: As most expected, the
merely-creditable showing made by Gil-
christ in the Queensland tennis cham-
pionships against Bromwich caused the
yelper press to acclaim him at once as
a future Australian hope for the Davis
Cup. He will have to give us something
better than the performances of our
recent world-beaters, who have won
everything they tackled in the braying
forecasts of the press, but flopped when
the real test on the Davis Cup courts
came.
♦ * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Players in the
N.S.W. tennis championships with a ten-
dency to footfault are living in a state
of terrified anticipation. For the first
time for many years a “roving” footfault
judge is officiating until the semi-finals,
when a baseline judge will be able to
officiate. It will be a handicap on a
nervy player trying to concentrate on a
correct service and keep an eye out for
the wandering official as well. To such I
suggest enlistment of the services of a
“cockatoo,” who could sit in the stand
and give notice by an appropriate signal
of the advent of suspicious-looking
strangers at the rear of the court.
Miscellaneous.
As usual, Sydney oarsmen were con-
spicuous at Henley-on-Yarra, though the
star turn, the Grand Challenge Eights,
went to Melbourne’s Mercantile club,
after a great tussle with Haberfield, Syd-
ney’s baby club, which has done uncom-
monly well this year. Haberfield finished
one-third of a length behind Mercs, the
time for the mile being 4.44. It was the
first occasion on which Victorians have
won the Cup since 1933.
Sydney’s Police four ran away with
the Stewards’ Challenge Cup, Richmond
being three-quarters of a length away.
Herbert Turner, the Empire Games
champion, had only N.S.W. opponents
in the sculls ; he won for the sixth time,
making the score for N.S.W. 10 succes-
sive wins.
* * * *
“Splash”: That 100 per cent. Ameri-
can Nyoski Nakama, who is a Japanese
born in Hawaii, has accepted an invita-
tion to visit Australia this season* Flana-
gan, his great rival in the U.S.A., was
invited too, but, evidently having no fear
of his Aryan descent, has gone to fulfil
an engagement in Germany. Duke Kaha-
namoku, Nakama’s coach, will be un-
able to come along and renew the many
friendships made when he was making
new world’s records here years ago.
* * * *
“Spike”: The International Swimming
Federation has thrown a spanner in the
works of the Australian Olympic
Council. It has announced that the
Amateur Swimming Union of the country
concerned should have sole choice of
swimmers for the Olympiad, and that
there is nothing wrong with allowing
people whose expenses come from private
sources and not from the funds handled
by the committee to be sent overseas.
The latter, prior to the Berlin Olympiad,
not only insisted on final choice of the
swimmers and other athletes but refused
to endorse those nominated by irre-
sponsible bodies. The Federation’s
ruling means that any self-advertising
rag can send along a set of its pets to
the event while the council stands help-
less.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Olympic Games in Fin-
land in 1940 have been-, cut to 132 events.
Among the discards are polo, handball,
basketball and hockey. Handball and
basketball are childish events unworthy
of a place in an Olympic programme,
and polo, for all its merits, is a game for
a limited class only, and that is out of
place in an Olympiad. Hockey is an-
other matter, and might well have been
retained, played as it is all over the
world. The omission is sure to raise a
squeal from India, which has been
supreme in Olympic hockey for years.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: One of the V.F.L. clubs
hardest hit by the depresh was Footscray,
which three years ago found itself with
a debit balance of nearly £ISOO. The
club couldn’t pay players the £3 a week
allowed under the Coulter rule, but
guaranteed if they would accept a cut to
reimburse them when brighter times
came. The players agreed, and it is now
announced that at the end of the year
each man will receive £2OO of £3OO-odd
owed him. This will leave Footscray
with £6O in hand for next season.
* * * *
“96-97”: That fine Queensland for-
ward Graham Cooke is a restless soul.
After touring South Africa with the 1933
Wallabies, he went back there and
played in Jo’burg for a couple of years.
Back in Queensland he dropped big foot-
ball for a while, only to come back to
the State team last year. Now he has
joined the Queensland police, and whether
he plays again will depend on where he
is assigned for duty. Over 6ft. and
weighing 16 stone, Cooke is the type of
forward Australian Rugby needs badly.
* * * *
“Coalie”: Newcastle is the latest
Rugby League rebel. After cursing the
Sydney body for continuous pinching
of its players, it has presented an ulti-
matum demanding self-determination
and the rest of it.


Cruj-y^
ĵ
j
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-3
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. 'Phone: Cent. 928-929.
last Days
THE CHANG
SHOW
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: M6835.
FOLLY
GUARANTEED *”**
AMAZING MACHINE
CROWS HAIR
FREE
Trial
Offered
Don’t be Bald —Grow Hair without Medicine or Tonics —or Money Back.
Remarkable intermittent Vacuum Helmet used PRIVATELY BY HAND, or by
vacuum water tap pressure (no water touches the head). AMAZING INVENTION.
Scientifically renews THICK HAIR through STIMULATING deep-lying blood vessels.
HAIR FOLLICLES root after few treatments. NEW HAIR GROWS. CORRECTS
GREY HAIR, BALDNESS. DANDRUFF, ALOPECIA, EXCESS DRYNESS, OILINESS.
For men and women. Price 49/6. Free trial and advice offered. Agents required;
25 other lines. Re-Nu Co. (Estab. 1932), Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
Also optional Weight Reducing and Health Building Vacuum Pads.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Ballet in Sydney.
“Les Sylphides,” first item on the
Covent Garden Ballet’s programme at
Sydney Royal, seemed to present addict
as lovely a thing as ever graced a stage.
It was better than the “Spectre de la
Rose” of De Basil’s troupe, held affec-
tionately in the memory, and no doubt
it is better than anything the present
company can do with that ballet, because,
while partaking of the same dreamy en-
chantment, it is white and sharp where
the other is soft and pink, beautiful
where the other is sentimental.
It is pure surrealism, the statement of
a dream, but a statement that anyone
can appreciate. As with a dream, it
tells no coherent story, but the white
figures emerging from Chopin’s music,
now as sylphs, now as swans, now very
like the dryad-haunted gum-trees Roy
Campbell wrote about, make a pattern
that as a whole has meaning exactly as
have the most irrational of dreams.
The other ballets presented, “Le Coq
d’Or” and “Le Mariage d’Aurore,” were
an excuse for the ballet to show off its
tricks and the dancers to show off their
paces. “Le Coq d’Or” —really an extra-
ordinary hodge-podge of beauty and high
comedy, fantasy and low comedy, charm
and balderdash —was presented among
scenery that was a flame of color.
The story is something or other about
an astrologer and a golden cockerel, the
Queen of Shemakhan and an old un-
grateful king: astrologer wants queen,
king wants queen ; astrologer gives king
cockerel, which serves the State like Billy
Hughes by crowing at the sign of
danger ; king gets queen, astrologer asks
for her as his reward, king says nay,
cockerel pecks king to death. The danc-
ing itself is just as confused as that. The
king’s embonpoint is obviously a
cushion ; he climbs up a step-ladder on
to a wooden charger; the scenery in-
cludes a couple of giants brought in for
no other reason than that the company
happens to have a couple of giants
among the props.
Yet the king’s miming is really funny.
There is exquisite comedy, changing sud-
denly to loveliness, when the audience
is allowed to share the royal dreams.
Riabouchinska, as the golden cockerel,
dances with superb vitality. Somewhere
backstage there’s a make-up genius who
made Algeranoff the most deadly-looking
of astrologers, and Algeranoff himself
mimed splendidly. When he dies, he does
die. He could almost have been the
sinister person from “Les Presages.”
“Le Mariage d’Aurore,” a series of
divertissements, was the only ballet of
the three that gave the male artists a
chance to exhibit the dash and vigor that
always help to give solidity to these
feasts. The “Three Ivans,” who bounded
like kangaroos into an inconsequential
world of fairies, Little Red Riding Hood,
bluebirds and what-have-you, were mag-
nificent. Some more of them would
have been welcome. There was, how-
ever, plenty of scope for Anton Dolin ;
he and Riabouchinska made a lyrical
pair of bluebirds. Their dancing and
the valse of Baronova and Dolin in “Les
Sylphides” were the cream of a particu-
larly rich programme.
“My Lucky Star ”
Sonja Henie.
The Henie lass’s earlier films consisted
mainly of her skating ; they seemed pri-
marily an exposition of that pastime as
one of the most perfect expressions of
human grace and beauty. And with
the settings as authentic and natural as
Hollywood could make them the films
were genuinely refreshing and novel
entertainment.
But you can’t keep Hollywood down for
ever. Why in thunder worry about what
Yurrup offers when there’s all the snow
an’ ice you want right here in Gahd’s
Own? An’ ain’t we gaht swing bands
an’ thousan’s of crooners simply goin’
beggin’ to croon? An’ ain’t we gaht 40-
piece orchestras concealed on the cah-
ledge campus an’ all the romance youse
guys could ask for? An’ any li’l ol’
thing we ain’t gaht—waal, the prahperty
man’ll run it up in next to no time.
Yeah, guy, we’re civilised here in Hahlly-
wood, an’, what’s more, we’ve civilised
li’l Miss Sonja.
So the Sonja lass entered into the
Hollywooden orbit, and in succeeding
fillums was even depicted skating on a
“Sorry, William —I took it for the apple .”
limited ice-patch to a night club’s swing
band and wearing, among other things, a
bow-tie and top-hat. Her skating was
merely an incidental accessory—a good
one certainly—to the usual Hollywood
output of songandance, fallabout and
lavish but familiar stage display. A
hoof-tapper or yawper could have filled
her part.
Of that artificial kind this present
Sydney Regent offering is quite good. It
turns on some fair comedy, supplied by
such funny persons as Joan Davis,
Arthur Treacher, Cesar Romero, Billy
Gilbert and Buddy Ebsen.
What there is of Miss Henie’s skating
is, of course, the best of the film and
entertainment of a high order. Best of
it is a sort of ice pantomime of Alice in
Wonderland. Most of the story —mirror
episode, and so forth —is there ; charac-
ters as well. It is beautifully presented,
with just the simple significance that
pantomime demands; it is unreal,
grotesque, fantasy almost as pure as
“Snow White,” and Miss Henie, with a
wonderful exhibition of talent, even man-
ages to capture the same atmosphere of
fantasy in her skating.
“While New York Sleeps,” at Sydney
Regent, has moider here and moider
there, bang! bang! and lurv between,
a brace of crooks, a gent, and goil and
a night-club queen.
Flicks Improve.
*
Changes at no fewer than three Sydney
film houses last week were revivals. Both
Lyceum and Capitol dragged Jeanette
MacDonald and Nelson Eddy away from
the moths, the Capitol plumping for the
very recent “Girl of the Golden West”
and the Lyceum putting on “Naughty
Marietta.”
More interesting than either of those
was the Embassy’s revival of “The Count
of Monte Cristo,” not that the “Count”
is now anything to rave about, but be-
cause, though not such a very ancient
old-timer, it yet looks like something out
of the talkie Ark. To see it is to appre-
ciate how greatly talkies have lately im-
proved in one important respect—flow-
ing continuity of presentation.
Instead of scenes in the “Count” merg-
ing one into the next in an even narra-
tive flow, as they now are made to do
in all classes of films, they are almost
as separate as the acts of a stage play.
Each little scene mounts up to a deli-
berate climax, making it complete in
itself, so that the picture remains a col-
lection of parts rather than a unified
whole. That would be considered very
poor in any film constructed in these
past twelve months, during which tech-
nique, if nothing else, has steadily im-
proved.
One of the most remarkable improve-
ments noted has been in the speed of
comedy. American comedy has always
inclined towards fairly fast presentation ;
now it moves along at a breathless rate.
The influence has spread to the stage
comedy show, one or two from America
breaking all previous records for pace.
In English film comedy they still leave
pauses to enable audiences to grasp the
jokes, with a consequent tendency to-
wards dragging, which is the last thing
that could be charged against the Holly-
wooden output. But even in comedy
English films have improved out of sight
recently, “The Divorce of Lady X” being
one of the outstanding comedies of the
year. In serious films the English makers
have shown tremendous improvement,
the recent “Owd Bob” and the current
“The Challenge” being two of the most
honest in a fine record of naturalistic
films.
“I Married, an Angel”
Opening to extraordinarily good busi-
ness at Melbourne His Majesty’s on
Saturday, this turned out to be not the
best of recent selections from Ernest C.
Rolls’s stable.
The comedy of Fred Harper as the
nondescript Harry Mischka Szigetti was
only a little less anaemic than the
dialogue of Helene Denizon as the angel
who marries Peter Mueller (George
a banker. It needed a Gilbert
to an evening’s entertainment of
this fantastic theme, and John Vaszary is
no Gilbert. The music of Richard
Rodgers belongs to a slightly higher
order, but it is set to the lyrics of
Lorenz Hart, who isn’t a Gilbert either.
In the absence of any overwhelming
interest in a kindergarten story, an un-
responsive audience was left with little
to bite on but the new revolving stage,
by which one scene with its occupants
was wheeled off as another entered. As
a theatrical novelty and an engineering
triumph this had points about it; but its
presence reduced the dimensions of the
stage and hampered the ensembles,
The most engaging item in the con-
fection was the skit on the Roxy Music
Hall, but, except to those who may know
something about Roxy, the point would
be largely lost,
Helene Denizon, Jack Arthur, Jan
Kowsky and the corps de ballet, allow-
ing for small differences in the conven-
tions, were just as attractive dancers as
some of the recent Russians. Among
Australians present were Field Fisher,
confined to a few lines and a general’s
uniform, and Nellie Mortyne, as an in-
conspicuous duchess. Among the impor-
tations, Bernice Claire was light and
gamesome and shared a good voice with
leading-man George Dobbs. Maryon
Dale, as an ingenue, chipped a few
smiles on the flintiest faces.
Henley on Yarra.
The Bulletin man joined Melbourne’s
annual Henley walkabout on Saturday,
the sun shining brightly, the air still and
fragrant, the lawns clipped to perfect-
tion, the trees verdant and the sky a
heavenly cerulean.
The girls, having had their faces de-
nuded of all expression by the art of
the cosmetician, were somewhat less
beautiful than the weather when taken
in detail; but as an ensemble they vied
with the rest of nature in shape, variety
and color.
As an ensemble, too, Henley altogether
was an entertaining spectacle, though it
struck one onlooker that possibly the
only people who knew why they were
there were the press reporters, the ven-
dors of kewpies, the gents who guess
your weight for sixpence and the recruit-
ing staff of the Defence Department, who
were broadcasting through a loudspeaker
appeals to the girls to offer up their boy
friends on the altar of patriotism.
This onlooker also felt that if the re-
cruiting officers knew more about human
nature and the law of compensation they
would have addressed their appeal to the


bulletin
Limerick Competitions
NINTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The announcement of the Ninth
£5O Limerick Competition appears
in this issue on Page 41 (Radio
Page).
Particulars of the Eighth Competi-
tion are repeated.
you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
for
HILL CLIMBING
Strong hot sparks take your car
up the hills with less effort—
less knocking—less overheating.
A set of new Champions will
give your car new life. Best of all,
Champions quickly save enough
fuel to pay for themselves.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
a
Mill!
ifnm>
uni'!'!!
ill)!!!
HI
ssssss-
Z'vrq
? II
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
*’ CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
.
i
yj
1
If he’s between the ages of eighteen and eighty here’s the present he ’d
really like—a Yalet Safety Razor set. He’ll find it a fast-working,
simple razor. He, won’t be bothered taking it to pieces and putting
it together. All he’ll do of a morning is to pass the Yalet briskly
across the strop for a few times. Then he’ll be sure of a keen quick
shave. Valet prices run between 4/6 and 65/-
For Christmas. Valet
razor sets are packed in
an attractive seasonably
decorated Gift Carton.
VALET
NO. 55 nickel set (illustrated above). Contains self-stropping
“Valet” razor, three “Valet” blades and a strop of good quality
in hinged container. The whole in a highly polished nickel- i n /
plated case lined with velvet '
OF ALL DEALERS :: MADE IN ENGLAND
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LIMITED, 181 Clarence St., Sydney
boy who, having introduced his donah
to a pal in an unguarded moment, was
now standing staring into the brown
waters of the river with a suicidal expres-
sion. The Lud Mayor’s houseboat, the
girl in a blue dress condemmed in the
interest of public entertainment to recline
for five hours on a floating cabbage, the
fact that the Melbourne crew was that
moment beating Sydney’s, and even the
thought that £175 worth of fireworks was
going to be discharged that evening
meant less than nothing to him.
Concerts for Lunch .
Since organist William McKie de-
parted Melbourne city fathers have
done nothing to lower the standard of
the music which is on the house, so to
speak, at the Town Hall twice a week
at midday.
Last week the Vic. string quartet,
comprising Hyman Lenzer, Franz Schu-
blich, Mischa Kogan and M. Fraillon,
with flautist Richard Chugg, spread an
elegant repast in which the little-known
but delectable Quantz concerto was the
outstanding item.
Pianist Marjorie Summers fingered the
Steinway in pieces by Bach, Scarlatti,
Schumann, Brahms, Chopin and De-
bussy. Her sureness of touch was most
evident in a Bach prelude.
Artbursts.
Adelaide
At Preece’s gallery a young “Con-
temporary Group” of seven is showing
three or four works each. McNally, in
a warm opening speech, said he saw more
promise in Adelaide’s studentship than
anywhere else.
“ James Wigley is already known for his
chalk and pencil work, semi-caricature
groups of cinema or the “trots” ; some-
thing between Hogarth and Dyson, yet
with a Parisian touch, too.
Of the others, three have both vision
and pluck. Molly Burden tends to
Arabian Nights designing. Nora Young
varies from Wagner incidents to a parade
of the first horse landed here, with cos-
tumes of a century back. And Rosamond
Stokes draws upon the romantic poets:
Arnold’s merman, Blake’s tiger, Keats’s
“Belle Dame” (with a grotesque medieval
crowd to witness the knight’s martyrdom)
and notably a Blessed Damosel, the
heavenly stairway thronged with items
(including a pet dog) that would have
surprised Rossetti. It is pleasant to see
composition, imagination and audacity
in a generation that otherwise tends so
largely to cart-sheds and china figures.
The commercial firm of Black has
opened a new gallery in Rundle-street, of
really enormous size and well lighted.
It is showing a Lambert and works by
young South Australians who can now,
to the number of half a dozen at any
rate, hold their own anywhere in Aus-
tralia.
The Lionel Lindsay show at the Society
of Arts has so far sold about £6OO worth.
A small showing by Eldershaw at Bayly’s
gallery brought over £250.
Sydney
The sparing use of color, usually in
pastel tones, with a special preference for
mauves, which is characteristic of Thea
Proctor’s water-colors, makes outline of
paramount importance.
In this respect the artist is developing.
As many pencil studies of the nude in
her current show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, testify, she has been work-
ing at the technique of poses, with bene-
ficial results to her finished pictures.
“Andalouse,” “The Striped Blouse,”
“Spanish Dancer” and “Seated Girl,” for
instance, have a sense of balance and a
snappiness of design which, added to
Miss Proctor’s inherent gift of firm yet
delicate impression, give a very charm-
ing effect. Three prints—a lino-cut, a
woodcut and a lithograph—are all excel-
lent, and there are some very beautiful
paintings on silk.
The quaintly named Contemporary
Camera Groupe, which includes among
its exhibitors a couple of artists who do
their own drawing, has a show at David
Jones’s Market-street store, Sydney.
Principal exhibitors are Harold Cazneux
(who demonstrates his artistry as a land-
scapist in “Rampart of the Coast” and
“The Folded Hill,” and contributes the
best portrait of any sort yet made of
Norman Lindsay) and Cecil Bostock,
whose “Memorial,” “Transient” and
“Sparkling Cadence”' are camera classics.
Laurence Le Guay shows a very graceful
nude study, “Reverie,” and a “Street
Scene, Surry Hills” which captures the
spirit of that dreary slum. Max Dupain’s
best effort is a candid portrait of Mal-
colm Sargent. A. E. Dodd and Douglas
Annand show caprices in line and color
in various modern styles.
SEVENTH LIMERICKS.
No one should doubt, after the
seventh Limerick competition, that Aus-
tralia is a nation with one voice and
that at the right time there will be an
enthusiastic chorus from Maoriland. No
politician, moreover, if he’d had the
pleasure of reading the entries, could
have the slightest doubt about the public
reaction to a Parliamentary salary-hoist.
There were, it is true, a few cynics
who said, in effect, “We’d all do the
same,” but they were rare among the
hundreds of jovial suggestions about
sudden death or the next elections.
The winner of the £2O first prize was
E. Edwards, of 62 Bay-road, Waverton
(N.S.W.). The complete Limerick with
his last line reads:
I have heard politicians protest
That the good of the State is their quest.
So when holding such views
They raise their own screws,
They can claim there’s ONE grievance
redressed.
The second prize of £lO went to B.
J. Maslen, Somerville (Vic.), for the
thought:
It’s a damper that’s hard to digest.
The altered conditions for the seventh
competition made it possible to distri-
bute twenty £1 prizes. The winners of
these, with their lines, were:
N. Gallagher, 16 Dangar-street,
Kandos (N.S.W.):
Who can say that their state is not blest?
John Campbell, Belgrave Flats,
Lacey-street, Sydney:
It’s to succor the poor and oppressed.
E. Kidd, Kangaroo-street, Manly,
Sydney:—
Here’s hurrah for their ardor and zest!
D. C. Shannon, Mt Kokeby (W.A.):
I derisively laugh with the rest.
D. Ainsworth, 20 Nelson-road, North
Strathfield (N.S.W.):
’Tis presumption to question their zest.
Mrs. M. E. Power, 30 Guy-street,
Warwick (Q.):
It’s a bite that is hard to digest.
Mrs. H. Blombery, Arno Bay (S.A.):
They stick to the cream of the jest.
Miss B. Smith, Telephone Branch,
G.P.0., Brisbane:
We just smile at the time-honored jest.
A. H. Nelson, Second Beach, Cairns
(N.Q.):
It is breaking their hearts, I suggest.
T. Avent, 62 Havelock-street, Perth:
It revolts them, I dare to suggest.
H. N. Barlex, Fairlight-street, Manly,
Sydney: —
They begin their good deeds with great
zest.
Mrs. B. M. Le Quesne, 85 Glover-
street, Mosman, Sydney:
’Tis but fitting return for their zest.
Miss A. Steele, 37 Roscoe-street,
Bondi, Sydney:
My credence is put to some test.
R. R. Gibson, Forrest, Canberra:
The state of their minds may be guessed.
Miss N. Kiely, 17 Snowdon-road,
Christchurch (M.L.):
Who’d suggest they would feather their
nest?
J. N. Muntz, Weir House, Cohuna
(Vic.):-
We are not, we admit, much impressed.
Rev. C. J. Fletcher, Victoria-street,
Clayfield, Brisbane:
It’s another illusion gone west.
Mrs. M. Bongers, 50 Newcastle-street,
Rose Bay, Sydney:
I’m blessed if I don’t give it best.
Miss Anne Woolridge, 760 Malvern-
road, Armadale, 5.E.3 (Vic.):
Is it done from the Felton Bequest?
Ron K. Dempster, Irvinebank, via
Herberton (Q.):
I maintain they’re a pain and a pest.
As with the seventh competition, the
eighth and subsequent ones will close
on a Wednesday, and the prizemoney
will be £2O first, £lO second, plus 20 £1
prizes,


Don't Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD ROBERT MORRISON MILLAR,
formerly of Mosgiel, Otago, New Zealand, and
last heard of in Hastings or Napier, New
Zealand, or any person knowing his where-
abouts please communicate with
WEBB, ALLAN, WALKER & ANDERSON,
Solicitors, 49 Moray Place West,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
ĵ
j
T^ania
t4L holiday
So convenient to the Mainland, yet so
different in environment, a real change of
scene amid glorious scenery and historic
surroundings. Tasmania is truly the
Holiday Wonderland!
INTERSTATE AND OVERSEAS LINER SAILINGS
ENABLE YOU TO TRAVEL IN COMFORT.
Call or write for details of forthcoming sailings and all-inclusive tour
costs from your State and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Hobart Macquarie and Murray Streets
Sydney 4 Martin Place
" : ” 286 Collins Street
Perth A*M.P. Building
Adelaide 12 Pirie Street
Brisbane 196 Adelaide Street
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Past the shrieking newspaper posters
into the dream of ballet where the breath
of reality must not blow crowded Sydney
first-nighters last Friday. Before eight
o’clock a slice of the public who must
stay outside the fairy story lined each
side of the vestibule of the Royal. They
were as delighted with the procession of
ermine and chinchilla cloaking satins and
chiffons, the positively lush crop of
ostrich feathers, the glamor veils (some
of them dusted with glitter, some rose-
petalled) as the wearers later on were
with the snowy tu-tus, the burning blues,
the flashing emerald, the glowing rose
that costumed the stage.
Reflecting the ethereal quality of the
opening “Sylphides,” white was worn by
many women and girls in the audience.
In satin, georgette and tulle it was given
a vivid setting by the new furnishings
of the theatre. These hold the amethy-
stine reds of the fuchsia. The carpet
spreads in acres of softness, the chairs
clash with no woman’s color scheme.
The grace and the classic beauty of
Irina Baronova’s dancing lived up to its
publicity. Her childlike expression, the
gentle woodland scene and the Chopin
music drew the sigh of complete satis-
faction from the beholder. The thistle-
down Tatiana Riabouchinska, the virile
grace of Anton Dolin were other sub-
jects for the burst of chatter that broke
out at first curtain-fall when stalls and
circle emptied into the foyers.
Among the sparkle of plume and silk
and jewel were Gladys Moncrieff, greeted
on her arrival in the crowded foyer by a
cheer, and Mrs. B. S. B. Stevens, who
came with her husband, the State’s
Premier. In this party were Sydney’s
Mayor (Alderman Nock) and Mrs. Nock.
Valerie Bavin’s waist-length ermine cape
was worn with a white organza frock.
Another who wore ermine was Margaret
Burns. Silver fox furs were the choice
of Mrs. E. J. Tait and daughter Mrs.
Byron Wrigley ; the latter’s frock was in
a deep cyclamen shade. Three nice girls
were Valerie Kendall, Dorothy McLeod,
and Bettina McPhillamy. They came
with Miss Nancy Jobson. Mrs. T. H.
Kelly’s mist-blue chiffon frock had its
flower pattern tipped in gold. With her
was daughter Mrs. John McPhillamy,
red roses a splash of color on her white
chiffons.
In Mrs. Walter Burfitt’s party
were daughter Barbara and the younger
Walter Burfitts. Stephanie Edye was
there; so were Kathleen O’Neill and
Jocelyn and Shirley Poynter. All-white
was Mrs. Venour Nathan’s frock and
sari. Dorothea Mackellar’s white lace
cape had a black lace border. A
youthful enthusiast was Barbara
Salenger. Mrs. David Knox and Mrs.
H. Cary were together. A beaming
Francis Scully looked on (four of her
pupils are dancing in the ballet). Among
the knowledgeable ones were Arnold
Haskell, Mrs. Erik Fischer (she was
Helene Kirsova of the Monte Carlo
Ballet Co.), ballerina Tamara Grigorieva
and Guila Bustabo, all pink tulle and
rose petals. A very proud onlooker was
conductor Antal Dorati’s wife, a vivid-
looking figure in her cherry velvet coat.
And then back to their seats went
everyone for the almost eye-splitting
color of “Coq d’Or.” The queen’s tent
seemed to be set in a field of tall exotic
flowers. The barbaric blaze of Dodon’s
Court, the absurd bed-making scene, the
frolicsome triumphal march, the king’s
white horse, so high he had to climb into
the saddle by a red ladder, and the
haunting “Hymn to the Sun” fascinated
Sydney, experiencing it all for the first
time.
The British Drama League should be
able to jingle its money-box judging by the
number who went to the league’s party for
members of the ballet. The party, which
took place at the Australia, was billed
for 10.30 p.m. At 11.30 the members
of the ballet were beginning to arrive.
While waiting for them the ordinary boy
and girl got busy on the Lambeth Walk.
It was a great crush. It looked as though
all Friday and Saturday ballet audiences
had turned up. Alexander Gordon’s
lady (she’s president of the league) and
chairman Norman Catts and Mrs. Catts
welcomed all comers. Jeanie Ranken
and Violet Roche were there; so was
Justice Owen’s wife. Mrs. F. J. Davy
and Marie Bremner had smiling greetings
for practically everyone. Mrs. Lennox
Bode came; so did Mrs. Stirling Levis
and Joan and Mrs. E. J. Tait. Members
of the ballet who brought glamor to the
evening were Sono Osato, Tamara
Grigorieva, Vera Nelidova, Tamara
Tchinarova and Galina Razoumova.
Conductor Antal Dorati’s wife came with
them.
This is an up-to-the-minute Vandyke
picture of Jean Bakker, daughter of the
Anton Bakkers. Father is one of the
chiefs of the Royal Packet Navigation
Company. Jean, who set off from Syd-
ney with her parents on a world tour,
is to be married in London on December
22 to Lieutenant E. S. W. Maclure, son
of Sir John and Lady Maclure, of Brant-
wood, West Byfleet, Surrey.
The two met for the first time in Syd-
ney during the sesquicentenary celebra-
tions, when Lieutenant Maclure was a
staff officer in H.MS. Stuart, one of the
visiting cruisers. They met again in the
Strathallan, when the Bakker family was
travelling to Europe. During the voyage
they became engaged. However, the
family will not be in London for the
wedding, as Mr. Bakker had to continue
his tour, which will take him to South
Africa, Madagascar, Hong Kong,
Shanghai, Manila, Singapore and finally
Sydney, where he is expected to arrive
in February.
Lieutenant Maclure comes from an old
naval family. His grandfather, it is said,
hoisted the famous signal on Nelson’s
flagship the Victory at Trafalgar.
Mr. Bakker, among other countries,
visited Hungary. Here he spent four
weeks studying gipsy music, which is
his hobby. He is bringing back to Syd-
ney with him a large collection of manu-
scripts and gramophone records of the
music of Hungary. When the crisis was
boiling up he was in Prague, and stayed
at the Alcron Hotel, then Lord Runci-
man’s headquarters. He was for several
weeks in Germany and in his native
country, Holland. He looks forward to
his return to Sydney.
The water-lily and iris had the best of
it as far as the flowers were concerned
at the Lady Mayoress’s party. They
were quite at home in the fountain on
the balcony. In the drawing-room the
blue hydrangeas, the coleuses and
maidenhair were cool-looking ; petunias
bloomed in window-boxes and jacarandas
in huge tubs. Bougainvillea and red
roses arched the doorways. Reminding
that Christmas is just round the corner,
Christmas bells nodded in the fireplaces.
For the party, which was in honor of
Lady Wakehurst, woman, undaunted oy
the showers, put on her best hat. Lady
Wakehurst, too, seemed to" have her best
bonnet on. This was a sort of stream-
lined Gainsborough. Its upturned brim
was lined with white kid and wore a
graceful white plume at its left side. Gar-
denias were popular. Lady Wakehurst
wore hers at the neck of her black sheer
frock, Mrs. Nock at the shoulder of her
navy-and-white striped sheer. The hat ol
Chief Justice Jordan’s lady was navy, her
veil pink. Dame Constance D’Arcy was
there ; so were recent arrivals from Lon-
don Mrs. H. C. Phillips and daughter
Susan. Mrs. H. K. Prior wore a wide-
brimmed black hat with her black
frock. A white veil gave an added
importance to Mrs. Harold Bott’s small
white boater, and Mrs. J. L. Hardie was
smart in navy and white. Mrs. Leo
Quick’s corn-gold hat had an uppish
brim. Mrs. Charles Moses, Mrs. John
Flaviell, Mrs. Muscio and Miss Ruby
Storey, the Sheldon lady and Miss Kate
Egan were others noticed in the moving
groups.
This is Nellie Lamport, who will take
the part of Mrs. O’Day in “The Sea
Chest,” a play by Nora Kelly, which
will be staged by Planet Productions at
the Conservatorium on Saturday, De-
cember 17. The proceeds go to the British-
American Co-operation for World Peace
Movement. A Max Dupain photograph.
The Clovelly home of Dr. and Mrs.
G. S. Duncan provides graceful setting
for a party. Last Saturday night it was
decked with bowls of white and mauve
iris to greet Dr. Snd Mrs. Downes, who
have just returned from a journey in
Eastern Asia. The welcome-home dinner
party was for 12, the guests including Dr.
and Mrs. Honner, Mr. and Mrs. Schartl,
Dr. de Monchaux, Captain and Mrs.
Patrick. The hostess wore georgettes
rich in petunia and blue tonings. Mrs.
Downes, as befits one just returned from
Hong Kong and Shanghai, wore a slim
mandarin coat stiff with gold em-
broideries. After dinner Dr. Duncan
and Captain Patrick expounded the rival
merits of hillbilly songs and sea chanties.
Once across the threshold of the Troca-
dero last Thursday night, George-street
was left behind and you stepped into the
lounge of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel.
Here were piled fruits, palms, and blue
and green parrots in cane cages. Beyond,
at the end of the ballroom, were vistas of
palm-trees and the famous Diamond
Head, all purple shadows under a tropic
moon. It was the Night in Honolulu
Ball arranged by the American colony
and commemorated Thanksgiving Day.
The real turkey of Thanksgiving did
not appear until suppertime, but a very
handsome floral one (for some unknown
reason made of hydrangea), its tail and
wings outspread, held pride of place on
one table. On another was a canoe, its
pennant bearing the word “Joy.” At the
end of the room, opposite the stage, a
semicircular table was set around a full-
sized garden fountain, its basins filled
with lilies and greenery. On still another
a Matson liner danced on a sea of
hydrangea. Artistic and plaintive inter-
ludes were given by the Hawaiian band,
its members, all girls, dressed in Hawaiian
costume.
Fragrant leis were worn by the women.
Mrs. Aubry’s (her husband is president
of the American Society) was of white
carnations, her frock of smoke-blue chif-
fon. The Matson Line chief, C. E.
Brown, was there with his wife. Her
jacaranda-blue chiffons over orchid had
the square neckline bordered in hydran-
gea. Mrs. C. P. Sellards, whose table
showed a corner of Waikiki beach, with
native girls making leis, wore a black
skirt allied to a white top, the whole
finished with a bolero and sash in cycla-
men shades. Lucy Sprusson’s blue
organza frock had narrow pleatings of
red velvet at neck and hemline. She was
with Mrs. Dan Kelly. A red-and-white
gladioli lei gave color to Mrs. T. A. Mar-
don’s embroidered white linens. Mrs.
L. Novissimo wore petunia crepes. Ginette
Scamps was graceful in flowing white
tulles. Peggy Tindale’s blue chiffons
were frilled and trained. And among the
“most importants” of the night were the
United States’s Consul-General, T. Wil-
son, its Consul, A. M. Doyle, and its
new Trade Commissioner in Sydney,
L. C. Zapf, who, with Mrs. Zapf, arrived
just three Vveeks ago from Washington.
The proceeds go to the Far West Chil-
dren’s Health Scheme, the Golden Fleece
Kindergarten, and the Darlington Blind,
Deaf and Dumb Institution.
The opening of Thea Proctor’s show
in the Macquarie Galleries resembled a
Society of Artists’ private view. Sydney
Ure Smith, president of the 5.0. A., made
the opening speech, and the groups in
the rooms contained many S.O.A. ad-
herents. The paintings, in the delicate
tones typical of this artist, showed ladies
in bustles and pork-pie hats, carriage
parasols and other impedimenta of the
Victorian era. There were other ladies
as undressed as Eve and probably as
beautiful. Here and there were girls
modern in their expressions and their
clothes—such a one Was the portrait of
Deetje Andriesse, and Deetje, in a light-
weight suit, was looking at the befurred
picture of herself.
Very absorbed in her daughter’s exhi-
bition and in the words of praise lavished
on the work was Thea Proctor’s mother.
Arnold Haskell was present, the ballet
aura almost visible about him. Thea wore
a hip-length coat of blue frieze over a
blue-and-white printed frock. Mrs. Huff-
Johnston brought a rainbow-striped frock
to the view. Mrs. D. Lammers was at-
tractive in a black-caped suit. Eugenia
McNeil was in cosmos-pink crepes and
a black hat with a red and a pink rose
on it. Artist Rachel Roxburgh wore
embroidered white linen and a shady
white hat. Sheila Graham was cool-
looking in a blue-spotted white frock.
A red bag and a red-spotted veil gave
color to Mrs. Hall-Best’s navy-and-white
striped taffeta suit. There were two white
wings on Mrs. Gregory Blaxland’s black
boater. Mrs. Eagar Wright (Hilda Rex
Nicholas) was there; so were Mrs. Mc-
Millan and Mrs. Claud Plowman, whose
black frock was closely patterned in
white.
Among the passengers in the Orion
this week are Mr. and Mrs. R. Alexander
(she was Audrey Macleod). They are
bound for London. There Mr. Alexander
will be engaged in accountancy work with
a London firm for 12 months. Mrs. W.
Hull, wife of Dr. W. Hull, of Burwood,
will be another passenger for London.
She is taking her two boys with her, prior
to the elder going on to the University
next year. Mrs. Hull intends visiting
old friends in Germany as well, “circum-
stances permitting.”


Christinas Number Next Week.
Sixty-eight Pages.
Price, 6d.
Become an ARTIST
—QuicKly!
Brodie Mack's Amazing FREE
BOOK Offer to Young Talent !
pOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black
and' white artist, is offering absolutely FREE a copy of his
new book, “How To Be An Artist,” to all readers of
“The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
Let Brodie Mack
Teach You at Home
’ I ’HIS Book will amaze you with its possi-
bilities and the vast field it opens .up to
you. At last you will be able to learn all
branches of the black-and-white art under
the supervision of Brodie Mack. This amaz-
ing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home. If you have an inclination
for drawing, an inclination that' many of us
possess, then why compete with the crowd in
ordinary occupations? Brodie Mack can
develop your ability for this fascinating
accomplishment. Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illustrations, advertising,
catalogues, pamphlets, hooks, comic strips, cartoons,
etc. Many have developed this fascinating hobby into
a highly remunerative profession, embracing magnifi-
cent opportunities to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the bundy-punching
ruck of mediocrity and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop, or office routine; in addition to its
lucrative achievements, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of importance in the
public life of the community.
Make Money in
Your Spare Time!
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means of this
remarkable course for you to earn money in your
spare hours. He shows you how to “cash in” on his
experience. He teaches you how to rapidly develop
your latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you
reading this announcement points to you having a
desire to be an artist then send for this amazing
book and let us prove that we can make you a
skilled artist.
ft'
Al
H 0>
n"" 5
tA*’
l v- ■
//
m
m
<ttxfztr;
a
•f.n
U
m
WrO
r\*rf
■*/
y
\ j
m-
w; \
• ..• ■
Mb
W.
■ \
ms
mi
■j>*
WHAT THIS FREE!
BOOK TELLS YOU!
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your
Spare Time.
• How to Develop Latent
Ability. ,
• How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature. |
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the
Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book
TO-DAY.
Hurry Coupon
Along
NOW!
Learn to Sketch
-THIS EASY, RAPID WAY!
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men and women how to draw by easy, natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished drawing—the drawings that will bring
' n good £s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw by post successfully; the letters
Mr. Mack receives daily are ample proof of this. Many famous illustrators learnt this
way—they were not born famous. This is your opportunity to become a real artist,
capable of making faithful sketches that will surprise your friends, delight yourself and
take you out of the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR opportunity—are you
going to pass it by? Then get that coupon into the mail this moment. NOW!
THIS FREE BOOK
IS FOR YOU!
“HowTo Be An Artist” Is FREE!
Jever before Has a book of this nature been offered free;
that is why you should send for your copy now. This
brand-new book shows you how to draw develop your
talent—how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, and
how money can be made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post now—at once,
before you forget.
THE BRODIE MACK
CORRESPONDENCE ART SCHOOL
DESK L, 107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Tear Coupon —Post Now!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk L, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE a copy of your famous
book, “How To Be An Artist.’*' I enclose twopence in
stamps to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
30/ 11/’3B,
The Commissariat Stores
BY “J.H.M.A.”
IF Sydney permits its governing
authorities to pull down the old Com-
missariat Stores so that another civil-
service palace may be incorporated
in what is called “the Circular Quay
plan,” Sydney will demonstrate that it is
the only important place in Australia
that doesn’t care two straws for the
, f •. p , AJ
memory of ts founders. And yet Sydney
is the oldest site of British civilisation in
.u c u, t *u . u
the South Seas, one of the most charm-
mgly situated cities in the world, and
one that should be lull ol respect for
those who helped to found it.
Time after time local authorities have
been permitted by ratepayers and tax-
payers to destroy the little that is left
of Old Sydney. The result is that no-
thing remains of what stood close to Syd-
ney Cove about the time Macquarie came
here—there are no structures thereabout
at all of Bligh’s and King’s day—except
these massive and sound old buildings
* s now P ro P ose( l to demolish. It you
,vant t 0 c at houses of those days
you must go to Parramatta or the
Hawkcsb
'. . ,„ , , „
It was Lieutenant-Colonel Foveaux,
ten i{ Lieutenant-Governor aft«
lh(J B|igh rc b e | lion> who began , he con .
s truction of the old stores at the begin-
njng 0 f 1809. They were finished by
Macquarie, who added to Foveaux’s un-
dertaking the building at its rear, facing
on George-street, which bears his name
over its main entrance, together with the
date, 1812.
Strength and security are the principal
features of the structure. Its walls are
about two feet in thickness, and the
14-inch ironbark beams sustaining its
three floors and roof are still as sound
as when they were cut —probably in the
Lane Cove district —almost 130 years
ago. It is a building that might last for
many centuries to come, and it will be
to Sydney’s disgrace if it is sacrificed
for any so-called improvements or for the
mere accommodation of one of the city’s
administrative departments, the Maritime
Services Board.
According to the Quay scheme,
civil servants will occupy a magnificent
mansion standing in a sort of park, to
provide space for which many neighbor-
ing edifices will have to be removed. Of
course, in this country, nothing is reck-
oned by servants of the State too good
for themselves; but surely a row of
terraces behind Woolloomooloo Bay or
a superannuated warehouse on Darling
Harbor might be razed for their benefit
rather than this fine old building. They
would be just as handy to the harbor on
any place in its coastline as on Sydney
Cove, and if the stores were left to us
people who come to Sydney might see
something of what it was like before it
became of any importance.
The Commissariat Stores are too good
to lose. It will be a crime if they are
pulled down —just as much an unneces-
sary crime as the demolition of Dr.
Lang’s Scots Church was, and the sub-
stitution of a tramshed for Fort Mac-
quarie, to say nothing of the removal
of Greenway’s Hyde Park barracks that
is proposed and will probably happen.
If Sydney people can stand this latest
“improvement” they can stand anything.


Rheumatism
and
Neuritis
MANY NEVER SUSPECY REAL CAUSE
Rheumatism and Neuritis are now being
successfully combated by a new, scien-
tific method. Specialists have at last
traced the cause of these torturing ail-
ments to self-poisoning, i.e., a clogged
colon. As a result of inactivity of the
colon (large intestine) unevacuated frag-
ments of food waste encrust on the
colon walls—much as rust incrusts on a
wafer pipe—and there decay. Virulent
poisons and acids develop, seep into
the bloodstream and overthrow its nor-
mal "alkaline reserve." Once the blood
becomes excessively acid due to circu-
lating poisons in the form of urates,
rheumatic afflictions are bound to result.
The razor-edged uric acid crystals de-
posit in different parts of the body and
lacerate the nerves at every movement,
causing the torturing pains of rheuma-
tism, neuritis and sciatica.
To overcome Rheumatism and Neuritis you
must first clear away the encrustations of
poisonous waste on the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements do not do this—the walls
of the colon have become weak and inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This cleanses the
colon of all food waste and tones up tho
walls giving them back their power of nor-
mal movement. ‘Coloseptic’ overcomes all im-
pure conditions in the blood. Uric acid de-
posits are dissolved away as the blood re-
gains its normal alkaline reserve under the
influence of ‘Coloseptic.’ It also stimulates
the action of the kidneys, pores of the skin
and the lungs — other vital organs which
eliminate acids and poisons from the sys-
tem. ‘Coloseptic’ checks self-poisoning, com-
bats acidity, aids nutrition and establishes
better internal cleanness. By its concerted
action it overcomes the real cause of rheu-
matism and builds new, better health. At
all chemists. Individual size 2/9, Economy
size 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE. — A liberal Free Trial
Sample and interesting, intimate book will
be sent you. Send 3d. stamps for postage.
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division
(Divorce).
TO ROBERT HENRY LEWIS late of Presior-
worth Bodorgan in the County of Anglesey
W a l e s
TAKE NOTICE that a petition for the pre-
sumption of death and dissolution of marriage
by Eleanor Lewis of 10 Barkstone Gardens
Kensington 5.W.5 in the County of London has
been filed indorsed with a notice to you to
enter appearance at the Divorce Registry
Somerset House within 70 days after the date
of this publication and to file answer to the
charges therein In default of your so doing
the Court will hear the evidence and pronounce
judgment.
H. F. O. NORBURY,
Registrar.
MESSRS. FORSYTE, KERMAN AND
PHILLIPS, 44 Brook Street, Mayfair, London,
W.l, Solicitors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1815 of 1938.
BETWEEN VIVIENNE LEYLAND PREN-
DREGAST Petitioner
And JAMES BRANXTON PRENDRE-
GAST Respondent.
TO JAMES BRANXTON PRENDREGAST
late of Tamworth in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIVIENNE
LEYLAND PRENDREGAST has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is apply-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause of excuse; and take notice that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Twenty-fourth day of February
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of November,
a.d. 1938.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1848 of 1938.
BETWEEN SOPHIA CATHERINE FRED
ERICK Petitioner.
And EARL JOSEPH FREDERICK Re-
spondent.
TO EARL JOSEPH FREDERICK late of
Reynolds Street Cremorne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SOPHIA
CATHERINE FREDERICK has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of your desertion for three years
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Tenth
day of February next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CRICHTON-SMITH AND INNES KAY,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 30 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 501 of 1938.
BETWEEN ELLA MAY CATTERALL Peti-
tioner
And HERBERT WILSON CATTERALL
Respondent.
TO HERBERT WILSON CATTERALL
formerly of Brisbane in the State of
Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLA MAY
CATTERALL has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifteenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of November,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. lAN SHORT, Solicitor for Petitioner, 26
O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Henley came on the right day with
warm sunshine and no wind, fortunately
for everyone concerned, for the Sunday
following was one of persistent rain, a
joy for the grass and the gardens and all
the country folk. The Lord Mayor’s
Henley barge was a modernistic piece of
maritime architecture, with flat roof cov-
ered with hydrangeas and a central decor
of tall rectangular spires. A new idea
was to serve tea in a marquee on the
lawn directly opposite. It cut out con-
gestion and the danger of getting a hot
drink down one’s back, and gave the
mayoral guests the chance to walk back-
wards and forwards at their leisure be-
tween the canvas shelter, surrounded by
a luscious, if temporary, garden a-bloom
from tubs and pots, and the boat with its
carpeted decks, cocktails and view of the
races and what was happening on the
river. Among Councillor and Mrs.
Coles’s guests at their circular official
table built round a creeper-covered sap-
ling (serving for the day as a marquee
prop) were George Fairbairn and his
lady, who walked over from the presi-
dent’s houseboat.
The Amateur Sports’ and the Henley
subscribers’ barges were also present
and were, as always, crowded with
visitors. A number of launches were
moored to the river banks, but the tide
rose and fell so that those asked aboard
for a beer or two studied the angle, the
wobble and the width of the plank gang-
ways before accepting. Canoes laden
with girls, cushions and parasols ap-
peared, as in other years. Most of the
“Henley girls” wore simple frocks of
linen, but there were also a few in long
flowing organdies and georgettes, out for
the day and meaning to do the thing
properly.
White ensembles, tailored frocks and
shady hats, usually without veils, looked
particularly well. Mrs. George Stevenson
was among the white-clad, and her Texas
hat had two rows of burgundy ribbon,
one high, the other low, upon the crown.
Colonel Stevenson honored the occasion
as a nautical one with “creams” and
blazer. Others who looked particularly
cool were Mrs. Roy Chambers in ice-
blue and large hat and Eirene Angliss in
chalk-white flat crepe.
The newly-arrived American Consul
and Mrs. W. A. Foote were guests of
honor at an E.-S.U. late-afternoon party.
Mrs. Foote is a particularly charming
woman —English, but as easy to know as
an Australian, with a sense of humor and
an interest in life generally. Another
American present was architect Mary
Worthen, who wishes she had the kind
of short-wave radio that would pick up
the U.S.A. just for the turning of the
knobs. Her particular interest at the
moment is for Thanksgiving Day football
results, which must be as League finals
are to football fans in Victoria. Mrs.
Worthen expects that she’ll have to wait
a month before hearing these all-impor-
tant scores.
Some of the Guba flying-boat people
came to the party under the wing of Mrs.
George Higgins. They were her daughter-
in-law, Mrs. G. Ormsby Higgins, who
is from California, Miss Franklin,
matron of the Port Moresby Hospital,
the pilot, Captain Rogers, and the navi-
gator, Commander Yancey. The visitors
were a great success ; they all chatted
easily like good mixers. The Guba com-
plement established radio-telephone con-
versations with Port Moresby while they
were up on their high altitude lake in
Hollandia, and so arranged to pick up
Mrs. Higgins and Miss Franklin on their
way south.
On its return trip the Guba will
also carry Mrs. Higgins’s two young
children (at school respectively at Grim-
wade House and Rosbercon), who are
wildly excited at the thought of flying up
to spend Christmas with their parents.
Their father, who is manager of Papuan
Oil Development Co. in Port Moresby,
was not able to accompany the Guba on
its trip south. This is Miss Franklin’s
first visit to Melbourne, but she isn’t short
of cool-weather clothes. To the party
she wore a brown felt hat and a pony-skin
coat which lives in cold storage while its
owner is carrying on her good work in
the tropics. Mrs. Higgins’s olive-green
coat was collared with red fox.
One of last week’s brides was Margaret
Knight, only daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Glen A. Knight, of Armadale, who was
married to Joel Mace, of Sydney, in the
Toorak kirk. The couple met at Mel-
bourne University, where Margaret (who
is a past pupil of Toorak College) com-
pleted an honors arts course and her
future husband did engineering. Both
are keen on sport. Mrs. Mace plays ten-
nis and golf, played hockey for the Uni-
versity and Victoria, and was a member
of the Australian women’s hockey team
which visited the U.S.A. in 1936. Her
husband won his University blue for
lacrosse. Future home will be a flat at
Rose Bay, Sydney. The bride’s photo-
graph by Spencer Shier.
Gone are the days when drawing les-
sons were a bore to young children, when
scribbling was considered a sin, when
any effort of self-expression was discour-
aged as waste of time. The young of
this era need not be little robots but indi-
viduals, as is shown in the Exhibition of
Child Art from Many Countries, to be
seen at the Athenaeum. Sections cover
scribbling of babies of two to oils painted
by students of 18 to 20. European coun-
tries, America (including a collection from
Red Indian children in New Mexico),
Japan, work from various Australian
schools and kindergartens, and some
examples of the art of abo. children give
the show a variety of interest, for each
country has its own personality. Some
particularly clever importations had no
ages attached, so that it seemed hardly
fair to compare them with the Aus-
tralian work.
The exhibition came about through
Mrs. A. P. Derham —the idea has been
her dream for years. Mrs. Derham, who
is a lecturer at the Free Kindergarten
Union, was a Gallery student, and is
now very interested in modern art. She’s
fond of children, and is an apostle of the
creed of self-expression for the young.
She and Dr. Derham are the parents of
four sons: David at the University, Tom
at Dookie Agricultural College and two
younger boys at school.
The exhibition was opened by Lady
Huntingfield, who arrived on the tick of
the clock to find the Gallery crowded —
most people, being of the same mind, had
arrived early to have a good look around.
The more familiar cry at exhibitions is
for everyone to come late with a vague
murmur of a second visit “when there
isn’t a crowd, to see the pictures.” Among
those present were professional brains
like Prof. Osborne, M. A. W. Blackett
and J. F. D. Scarborough. Madge Free-
man christened a snappy hat which she
had made during the morning, funda-
mentals being cowboy shape, dusty-blue
color and pink bows upon the crown, all
a palatable mixture for a cyclamen frock.
Miss Freeman and Cynthia Wettenhall
each exhibited a section of work by their
pupils.
In the Spencer Shier portrait is Mrs.
Peter Ross, who as Joan Kernot faced
the altar of Christ Church, South Yarra,
last week. Guests at the wedding thought
the bride and ’groom looked even younger
than usual, so much so that “a pair of
children” was the verdict of their parents’
friends. Joan is the only daughter of
the Charles H. Kernots, of East St. Kilda,
and Peter the elder son of Mrs. Hugh
Macdonald Ross, of Sandringham. Mel-
bourne Grammar was well represented
at the wedding with the ’groom, his best
man, brother Jock, many old Grammar
boys and the school’s Rev. P. St. John
Wilson, who officiated. The reception—
sherry, tea and toasts —was at No. 9
Darling-street. W. E. Wainwright made
one of the afternoon’s wittiest speeches.
Jean Love became an Icelandic maiden
at the International Club gathering, when
Professor Lodewyckx gave an address on
“The Northern Countries, Especially
Iceland.” The professor brought back
with him many interesting souvenirs
from Iceland, including a girl's costume
of silk velvet and gold braid, which Jean
wore, and a collection of folk-songs
which she sang to Muriel Cheek’s accom-
paniment. ' She’s a Melba Bequest
scholarship winner, and has just com-
pleted her third year at Albert-street.
She has had a busy time with her work,
and recently has been doing 11 sub-
jects, including operatic dancing and
verse-speaking and studying French, Ger-
man and Italian (so the new Icelandic
words presented few difficulties). This
promising young student is getting prac-
tice at singing in public. All in one
week she sang at the International Club,
at the Eye and Ear Hospital when the
Central Council and Auxiliaries gave a
party to raise funds for Christmas, and
at a charity concert at Lilydale. Next
week she will figure on Milton Holden's
programme, when he gives a violin recital
in his home town, Stawell. No doubt
Western District friends will hear Miss
Love’s voice when she goes home to
Hamilton for the Christmas holidays.
The Consul for France and Madame
Claudon will be missed from Melbourne,
where they arrived three years ago from
Shanghai. M. Claudon spoke English
when he came here, but not as fluently as
he does now. Madame “hadn’t a word,”
and was slightly overwhelmed by the
problems of housekeeping. In the mean-
time she has mastered English with a
charming accent, become the mother of
a little “dinkum Aussie,” the second addi-
tion to the family, and delighted Mel-
bourne with admiration for her beauti-
ful brown eyes and her taste in dress.
The family leave for Sydney this week,
and will sail for France via Noumea.
The Claudons’ farewell aperitif party
in their own home was followed on the
same evening by the Alliance
good-bye, which so nearly overlapped
the late-afternoon gathering that Madame
had no time to change her frock and
went from one to the other in white
coin-spotted mulberry silk, her semi-
Edwardian coiffure being part of the pic-
ture of Parisian grooming. The Alliance
party was informal. Instead of supper
as a meal guests drank one another's
health in glasses of wine accompanied
by fast French animation and a smatter-
ing of English. Speechmakers included
Madame Gay and Dr. Crivelli. Presen-
tations from the Melbourne Alliance will
remind the recipients of time and place
—time through the hands of a boudoir
clock and place with a set of spoons,
their handles set with Australian opals.
The A.W.N.L. has swallowed Billy
Hughes’s volunteer propaganda in one
bite without stopping to chew. The ladies
received the leader of the campaign with
minds already inclined towards conscrip-
tion for defence, but Billy put it all over
them. “The pen is mightier than the
sword,” perhaps, but Billy's thunder
seems to be mightier than both.- The
little man prefers oratory to statistics, and
his deafness is a great protection against
pests who want to ask awkward ques-
tions.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-
page woman’s paper pub-
lished in the Common-
wealth. It features every-
thing a woman ought to
know. Once you read it
you will never be without
it. Every month six to nine
patterns are given away
free for a penny stamp for
postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
mm
<k
h
The Canadian
Australasian route to
Europe blends delight-
fully the vibrant,
youthful vitality of
Canada and the lan-
guid, unspoiled charm
of the South Sea
Islands.
Monthly sailings
via New Zealand,
Fiji, Hawaii and
Canada.
For full information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 Wiiliam Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
On Channel Island
“X.T.”: They opened the new hall
on Channel Island, off Darwin, with a
Saturday night concert; but not many
Darwin people crossed the water to it,
which was a pity. Matron Jones, who
has been in charge there for two years,
says it is a happy spot, and from all
accounts the concert bore this out.
It was an unusual concert. Except
for Miss Madge Gaden, who lives alone
in a little cottage, nobody knew a note
of music on Channel six months ago,
but all hands and the cook, aged from
10 to 26, turned out as performers,
though there was scarcely a surname
to be put on a programme.
This did not worry Rosie, Lily or
Mercia. They beefed out “Camptown
Races” as if there were no corroborees
or didgeridoos in their past; and Peter’s
dark ensemble did not prevent him from
being a “yodelling cowboy” mourning
melodiously for his Old Southern Home.
There were “hillbillies,” two-gun cowboys,
and three small fat persons who made
the northern darkness ring with “Who’s
afraid of the big, bad wolf?” Some-
body, surely its most exotic exponent,
recited “The Doctor,” and a choir
blended their voices in “Riding Down
the Sunset Trail,” “Waltzing Matilda”
and “John Brown’s Body.”
Miss Gaden was the life and soul of
the party.
An accomplished pianist, she played
“Valse Parisienne” and “The Glow-
worm” and all the accompaniments. She
marshalled the performers. She recited
“The Old Bush School.” She led the
laughter that echoed across the quiet,
phosphorescent water which quarantines
Channel Islanders from contact with
their fellow-Australians. She looked on
with pride at her pupil Elsie giving a
masterly performance on the mouth
organ and at Peter providing a camp
atmosphere with his concertina—the pair
were taught by listening to a mouth
organ-concertina duet on a gramophone.
Miss Gaden is a leper. She is the
only white girl among the 119 inmates
of the leprosarium, which is far from
the gloomy place one might imagine it.
When patients are cured, they protest at
being sent away.
Meanwhile they want more mouth
organs, sheet music and gramophone
records.
“Terrod”: Darwin has been seeing
more than its usual quota of ’planes.
First there were the record-breaking
British bombers; then three R.A.A.F.
Avro-Ansons from Camooweal, on their
way round Australia ; then an A.N.A.
Douglas D.C.3, which made Darwin
from Melbourne in 10{ hours, on its
way to carry the extra Christmas mail
between Darwin and Singapore. And,
of course, flying-boats and Lockheed
Electras and Super-Electras arrive every
week. Despite all that, there is as yet
no decent flying-boat base, even though
plans were drawn up over 18 months
ago. It seems likely that the boats will
have to be moored in the open during
the wet season, and, if the weather is
bad, passengers will have to choose be-
tween riding ashore in a motor craft or
spending the night on board.
* * * *
“Philp”: Price Conigrave, returned
from his latest expedition through the
N.T., reports that gangs of men did road
repairs just before the Ministerial party
arrived and disappeared a day or two
after it passed. It’s quite true ; in fact,
Territorians maintain that the same thing
happens every time a new Minister for
the Interior makes his trip through.
There were, however, other hurried
arrivals and departures of persons in the
path of the oncoming politicians; at
least two station managers, dreading the
prospect of 17 visitors in one lot, went
“Wot'll I do with the lucerne crop, Ma? Give it t’ Daise or put it in the cause?"
bush for a couple of days, returning
when the danger had passed.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: They breed an enervated
and weakly lot in the humid Queensland
tropics. A lad of 14, bitten on the wrist
by a brown snake, found he had no knife
to open up the wound. Putting his pea-
rifle muzzle to it he sent a bullet through
the bite, searing and opening up the in-
jury at one go. Then he put on a liga-
ture with string and a piece of stick and
went home and thence to hospital, whence
he was discharged as O.K. in due course.
* * * *
“Nakanai”: Thirsty place, New
Guinea, but we are reasonable about
licensing laws. Witness “Moderate,” of
the Rabaul “Times,” who complained
about the early closing of pubs at 11
p.m., and suggested making “the closing
time 3 a.m., the licensee to have the right
to close at 11 p.m if it were a quiet
night with little business.” “Moderate”
says there is “little enough scope for en-
joyment at night-time in New Guinea.”
Meanwhile, an unsympathetic Bench
fined a licensee who had all his bar doors
open at 12.10 a.m. —he pleaded patheti-
cally that he had a new wireless set in
the bar, and that it was necessary to
“keep open in order to control the
music.” The D.O. thought “30 persons
with beer on the table” was rather exces-
sive labor to swing one dial, even in a
tropical climate.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: I read that Melbourne
got quite excited about its first reported
case of Weil’s disease, a fish-cleaner at
the Fish Market, who had the unusual
misfortune of dying from it. An out-
break in England in 1928 was associated
with fish-cleaning, but the actual carriers
of all the four known Australian types
are rats. N.Q. cane areas have provided
the great majority of Australian cases.
Of the 21 recorded in the State for 1937-
38, N.Q. furnished 17, of whom 15 were
canecutters and one a scrub-feller in
cane country. None died, and systematic
rat-destruction has lowered the incidence
from 54 in 1935-36. No cases of perma-
nent invalidity resulted.
« 1 * * *
“Kaloa”: Samuel Griffith would no
doubt have been deeply surprised could
he have foreseen the manner in which
his excellent and concise Queensland
Criminal Code would have been applied
in time to come. When it was drafted
there was no Mandated New Guinea to
adopt it and no cars. And if there had
been nobody would ever have thought of
a Rabaul coon being allowed to drive one
of the precious vehicles. But coon, code
and car were all brought together the
other day in a Kaevieng (N. Ireland)
court, when one Tange was charged with
unlawfully killing four compatriots
through overturning a lorry as a result
of his furious driving. The charge was
laid under Section 289 of the code, which
says that it is the duty of every person
who has in his charge or under his con-
trol anything, living or inanimate, moving
or stationary, of such nature that in the
absence of care and precaution the life
of any person is endangered, to use due
care and precaution to preserve life.
Neglect is the natural path to a man-
slaughter charge. And, as the Judge held
that Tange was not exercising due care,
he is doing a quarter in Rabaul cala-
boose.
“Gain”: Australians and Germans in
New Guinea seem to have settled their
differences much better than European
politicians and newspapermen appear
able to do. When another contest
started between the Administration and
Kokopo there’ were Aussies and Ger-
man descendants fighting on both sides.
The fateful day saw an Antill, member
of a historic Australian family, and a
Rundnagel, scion of one of Kokopo’s
pioneering families, go in for a third-
wicket partnership, after the openers had
failed, and paste the leather all over the
gourier- ridden landscape until they had
notched 48 —pretty good scoring in the
Territory; but two Administration
bowlers, Melrose and Schmidt, disposed
of them. When Rundnagel took the
ball he polished off a couple of Admin-
istration men for ducks,
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The last report of
Queensland’s Inspector of Pearlshell and
Beche-de-mer Fisheries shows that heavy
catches fore ign-owned boats are
swamping overseas markets and lowering
prices to a non-profitable level. The posi-
tfon with trochus she „ js likewise P an
acute one, and nearly 100 men have had
tQ be paid off in {he 19 37_ 38 year xhe
pearlshell catch-value for the year was
£3l 000 less than for 1937 and trochus
£BOOO , ess But b6che . de . m ’ er produ ction
doubled . and ,
* * * *
“A'™*” = Queensland's Health Depart-
">“l las made the interesting discovery
that the so-called slender possum tick
can convey Q-fever from infected bandl-
coots to guinea-pigs So tar no living
conveying agent has been identified other
than this. It is a common parasite on
bandicoots as well as possums, longei
ihan caMle of scrub ticks>
and with a differently shaped head,
Bandicoots are the most frequent carriers
0 f the rickettsia organism which causes
the disease, and the slender possum tick
has been shown by test to bite man, but
a lot more work is necessary before it
can be regarded as a definite and prac-
tical infective agent. Q-fever is seldom
severe among humans, and 73 cases were
recorded up to June, 1938. The majority
were among abattoir workers in Bris-
bane, the rest mainly among farm-hands
between Brisbane and Gympie. It has
been gazetted as an industrial disease
under the Workers’ Compensation Acts.


empire's millions
Serving ALL of
WESTRALtA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
SI. George's House,
St. George’s Terraee,
Perth,
Western Australia.
ĵ
W£AK MfN AND WOMfN
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
B21 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
B2I
GL-fIND
TONIC
TfIBLfTS
BRANDAIERA
6C.V
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAUDAOJSR * CO. Ltd. BIKiUKOHAH. EN8
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Daventry Wave-changing
Technique.
Users of short-wave receivers are
familiar with the two methods of chang-
ing from one waveband to another. In
the older types of short-wave receivers
waveband-changing was nearly always
effected simply by changing plug-in coils.
Many experimental receivers still use this
method, and there is much to recommend
it from the viewpoint of what is known
among amateurs as “plug-in coil effi-
ciency.” In modern all-wave receivers
the plug-in coil has given way to switch-
ing. Transmitters, like receivers, also
have band-changing problems. At the
8.8. C. short-wave station at Daventry
three methods are used, including switch-
ing and plug-in coils.
In one of the systems, four sets of
tuned circuits are set upon a large rotat-
ing turntable and pre-tuned to the four
What is probably the largest plug-in coil unit in the world
being run into position on rails. The overhanging pro-
jection on the assembly carries the grid-tuning circuit, and
the two large tubular turns constitute the main anode
inductance. Situated between the turns is the feeder-
coupling unit.
different wavebands on which it is desired
to use the transmitter during the course
of the 24 hours. Any one of these
circuits may be selected at will by depress-
ing the appropriate switch, after power
has been removed from the transmitter.
The main contacts rise vertically by
some six inches, disconnecting the circuit
no longer required from the two water-
cooled valves. The turntable then rotates
through 90deg., and the main contacts
slowly descend until connection has been
established again between the new circuit
and the valves.
Another feature of this system is that
two pairs of valves are provided, one at
the front and one at the back of the turn-
table, so that, in the event of failure, the
turntable may be rotated through 180 deg.
and the spare valves brought quickly
into circuit.
Plug-in Unit on Rails.
With transmitters above a certain
power, however, even this type of wave-
changing becomes difficult to use, and
accordingly in the most recent trans-
mitters installed at Daventry a reversion
has taken place to plug-in coils. The
station uses what is probably the largest
plug-in coil unit in the world—so large,
in fact, that it is run into position on
rails. In all, four units of this type are
provided, one for each of the four wave-
bands on which the transmitter normally
works.
The largest units are for use in the
final stage of the transmitter, smaller
un . its moun . led on rubber-tyred trucks
being used in the earlier stages. In the
low-power stages separate pre-set ampli-
tiers are provided for each frequency
hand.
The t ruc hs used in the final stage of
t he transmitter carry, in addition to the
ma j n an ode tuning inductance, the
feeder-coupling coil and associated tuning
condenser. The smaller grid circuit in-
huctance is also carried above the main
inductance. When set up for use on 14
me tres, for example, the anode circuit
inductance comprises two single turns in
p ara n e |
xhe actual frequency on which the
Daventry transmitters work is generated
by cr y S t a l-controlled valve oscillators,
having a stability of better than one part
j n 200,000. These oscillators, of which
two are p rov ided for each of the
Daventry frequencies—GSA to GSP —
are situated in a central “drive” room,
yh e output from the appropriate oscil-
lator is fed to one
or more transmitters
by means of special
cables, and the
transmitter is then
tuned to this fre-
quency stage by
stage.
The condenser
readings, etc., found
in the initial tuning
are noted and used
in subsequent wave-
changes.
The third method
of waveband-chang-
ing is being used
experimentally. A
20kw. transmitter,
using high-power
screened-grid valves,
is fitted with con-
tinuously variable
inductances, by
which means the
wave-length of the
transmitter can be
continuously ad-
justed between the
limits of 13 metres
and 50 metres, a
special switch being provided to reduce
the power of the transmitter to a low
value while the tuning operation is taking
place.
B.C.
What's What in Radio.
Latest P.M.G. license figures for Aus-
tralia show a total of 1,095,451. Ex-
perimental licenses now number 1923.
* * * *
Norwegian whalers use a miniature
short-wave transmitter mounted in the
harpoon shaft. Thus the movements of
a harpooned whale can be followed from
the mother .ship.
* * * *
Long waves for broadcasting have
their supporters in Australia, but since
1927 all Australian broadcasting is on
medium and short waves. South Africa’s
technical advisory committee in broad-
casting affairs deplores waste of money
in “useless experiments” with long-wave
transmitters, wjiich are held to be un-
suitable for geographical and climatic
conditions in the Union. Medium-wave
stations will be used for thickly-popu-
lated areas, with short-wave stations to
cater for the country districts.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Television not a success?
This is how the English General Electric
Co. summed up this year’s Radiolympia :
“Some 50,000 people visited the G.E.C.
television booth, over 60 per cent, of them
women. It is unquestionably the femi-
nine interest that has been very largely
responsible for the boom. Visitors from
America and Continental countries where
there is no commercial television at all
have been astonished at the progress
made by Great Britain. Many engineers
came from America specially to study
television at Radiolympia.”
"Push-to-Talk."
This gadget, outlined in G6FO’s
“Short-wave Magazine” (England), will
be of interest to radio-telephony experi-
menters with a leaning toward break-in
operation. The quicker one can change
over from “send” to “receive” the better.
Many find that duplex working is not
always possible, and the “push-to-talk”
method offers an alternative.
Such a system can be devised if there
i$ a separate receiving aerial and some
means of switching the transmitter off
and on rapidly, with the receiver work-
ing in unison. This can be done by
using an old motor-car cut-out, rewound
to a high resistance to operate on a few
volts from a press-button switch. Press-
ing the button puts the carrier on the
air only when speaking. The idea can
also be used for C.W., working as a
keying relay, and as the primary circuit
calls for only a small local pocket-lamp
battery the relay can be placed any-
where handy.
The illustration shows an old cut-out
rewound to 500 ohms and working on
four volts. The contacts controlling
transmitter and receiver h.t. supply are
wired across the ordinary switches, so
that either the relay or normal switching
can be used.
A very compact system can be adapted
from an old hand-telephone arrange-
ment. In this, the bell-push controlling
h.t. can be clamped to the place where
the hand grips the instrument, and easily
operated by the thumb, the microphone
being spoken into in the usual manner
and the ear-piece plugged into a monitor
for aural checking or into the receiver
if speaker reception is not wanted. The
result is a rapid-fire method of speech
communication.
In addition to “push-to-talk,”. it is pos-
sible, by adding two D.P.D.T. switches
and two extra relay contacts, to monitor
one's sending with a buzzer at the same
time the transmitter is keyed. One
switch will throw the key straight to
the transmitter key-jack for normal key-
ing, and in the opposite position reverse
it for relay-keying of the transmitter
with simultaneous buzzer monitoring.
The other D.P.D.T. switch throws the
relay contacts either to “push-to-talk”
or buzzer monitoring.
N.P.S.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
waver (described B. 28/4/’37). Loca-
tion, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Morning reception is still good, best
stations being on 49 metres, GSA, DJC,
ZRK, ZRH and a very powerful
foreigner between GSA and DJC. On
31 metres there are Ankara, GSB, Mos-
cow, Paris, 2RO, DJX (the new German),
W2XAF, WIXK and GSC, but after
8 a.m. only GSB is worth while, and is
putting up a great performance.
On 25 metres VLR3 is very fine, with
GSD, DJD, RNE, TPA2, WBXK,
WJXAL and OLR4A. This Czecho-
slovakian station has almost the strength
of VLR3. On 19 metres stations are
DJL, GSO, W2XAD, W2XE, JZK and
later DJQ.
On 16 metres GSG and W3XAL can be
heard all morning. This band is hardly
worth attention in the daytime, but from
6 p.m. on provides good entertainment.
VK3ME is badly heterodyned by a new
station at Manila owing to proximity of
frequency.
Despite static, very good results are
obtained at night with the B stations on
the broadcast band, 2UW being heard
well through a heavy thunderstorm one
night, and this station is not one of the
best at this location. This T.R.F. receiver
shows up well in ratio of signal to noise
by careful use of the regeneration con-
trol, but this applies only to the broad-
cast band, there seldom being much noise
on short waves.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
With skip showing short on 20/ll/’38
on 28mc. it was hoped that 56mc. DX
might be possible. VK2GU, Canberra,
A.C.T., was audible on 28mc. around
midday, so the 56mc. transmitter was
started up on automatic C.W. for lengthy
periods. Careful listening brought no
results, but in the afternoon VK2LZ, of
Wentworth Falls, was on the band with
an R7 ’phone signal from a new C.C.
transmitter. He hooked up with VKs
2IQ and 2NO. VK2LZ and VK2IQ are
both planning 56mc. mobile stations, 2LZ
deriving power from a vibrator and 2IQ
using an Amplion genemotor. With
these two car stations on the road in the
near future some of the interest of the
mobile tests of three years ago should
be recaptured. VK2EM, of Killara,
N.S.W., is replacing the twin dipole beam
by a two-section vertical W8JK, and with
this higher than the previous system a
still stronger signal is expected from this
station. VK2WJ has made tests with a
new superhet, using the Australian
6K8G converter valve, and reports this
to be highly efficient at 56mc.
That some amateurs believe their ex-
perimental license allows them to imitate
broadcasting stations is evident when
one hears a station introduce a visi-
tor as a “guest announcer.” There
are no “announcers” in amateur
radio, and in any case the handing
over of the microphone to any visi-
tor or even member of the family is
a contravention of license terms.
An unexpected visitor to VK2NO
the other day was GM2ZN, en route
to Maoriland after a few years at
college in Scotland. Like most of
the G gang touring the world, he
carries with him an excellent re-
ceiver, a National NCBOX. He
plans to open up on 56mc. after
settling down across the Tasman. He
reported a great increase in 56mc. acti-
vity in Britain, where recently tests were
again run from such vantage points as
Mount Snowdon, in North Wales. Con-
tacts of 200 miles and more were
effected. Such tests suggest that under
similar conditions, and given efficient
equipment, it should be easily possible
to communicate with far distant points.
The important thing is to develop the
band to provide reliable communication
over distances of 100 miles or more from
“back-garden” locations.
W9FM’s latest report mentions the
possibility of a double maximum in the
11-year cycle, which was supposed to be
reached in July this year. A year ago
the U.S. National Bureau of Standards
reported 51mc. as the highest usable fre-
quency. Dr. Santangeli, of Italian HER,


m
\
v
l
m
\o*'
v c
<<e3
V\e T
op?
\V>°
1 •f\o' v
T&F
Even a trained radio engineer cannot tell the differ-
ence between an old valve and a new one by looking
at it. Be sure that the valves you buy are new. Insist
on Radiotrons in the factory-sealed carton.
For better and brighter radio entertainment . . ,
D injLflmnMO
il/iu iu i iiurlu
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
EimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Eighth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date December 7.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 8,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 7.
Results of this Eighth Limerick Competition will be
announced in “The Bulletin” of December 14.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd,,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
EIGHTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters')
ADDRESS
A cricketer fielding at Cue
Was the worst at a catch that I knew,
For when offered a “ sitter"
He'd nervously titter
Ninth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize . .
Second Prize
£2O
£lO
Twenty Other Prizes ... £1
Closing Date December 21.
For the Ninth Limerick Competition the prizes are: First
Prize £2O; Second Prize £10; and 20 £1 prizes.
It will close on December 21 and results will be announced
in “The Bulletin” of December 28.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
December 7 and December 14, and coupons may be filled in
from those issues or from the present one.
For the Ninth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick
in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to
reach
“Limericks No. 9,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 21.
NINTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A fisherman old and sedate
Once fished for three Weeks without bait.
When they questioned him why,
He Would gravely reply
The Seventh Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 35.
reports that his 56mc. work dates back
to 1926, but that his activity has been
affected by local regulations. Schedules
with England were successful when on
July 2 last he worked G2XC on 28mc.,
switching to 56mc. with only a few watts
in the aerial. He considers that summer
56mc. DX appears only when 10-metre
signals are heard strongly. All VKs in-
terested in the band should then get busy
without delay, for 10 metres is chock-
full of DX and semi-local signals. The
Americans have a big advantage on 56mc.
—W2MO has worked 1834 different
56mc. stations so far.
Eric Trebilcock is keeping up his listen-
ing schedules at Powell Creek, N.T., and
has just about roped in the world on
28mc. Nothing has yet been heard, how-
ever, on 56mc.
It is noted in I.A.R.U. news that
Rumanian amateurs are now officially
licensed, but the applicant for a license
must be a member of the Rumanian
Amateur Society. The license-examin-
ing commission has a delegate from the
society as one of its members. Some-
thing of this nature would, if applied to
Australia, be workable with the W.I.A.
in getting all VKs inside the ranks of
the organisation. Far too many licensees
ignore the need for co-operation. Though
there are many clubs scattered through
N.S.W., some of them with large mem-
bership, it is the W.I.A. which is recog-
nised by the P.M.G. and which is author-
ised to deal with amateur affairs.
VK2NO.
New A.W.A. Broadcaster for
Maoriland.
The new broadcasting station 2YH at
Opapa, Hawke’s Bay, M.L., operates
with power of 5000 watts on 395 metres.
This is the seventh A.W.A.-designed sta-
tion for the M.L. Government broadcast-
ing service, the others including the
Auckland, Christchurch and Dunedin
stations of 10,000-watt power and the
60,000-watt 2YA at Wellington. The last-
named is the highest-powered broadcast-
ing station in the Southern Hemisphere.
Radiotron 813 Beam Tetrode.
A new transmitting beam tetrode pro-
duced by R.C.A. should appeal to ex-
perimenters with high-power transmitting
permits. In Class-C telegraphy the 813
is capable of an output of 260 watts, and
as a plate-modulated amplifier it may be
used to give a carrier output of 175
watts. Driving power is very small and
varies from 0.5 to 2 watts, depending on
the class of service and applied voltages.
Neutralisation is unnecessary with ade-
quately shielded circuits, and maximum
ratings are permissible at frequencies up
to 30mc., with operation at reduced
ratings up to I2omc.
Characteristics are: Filament 10 volts
at five amps., maximum plate voltage with
modulation 1600, and 2000 volts for other
applications. It takes a giant seven-pin
bayonet socket, and this outsize brother
to the 6L6 and 807 types should be
useful also for R.F. amplifier service in
medium-power broadcasting stations.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) / am located in the British Solomons,
and am mainly interested in reception of news.
Stock Exchange quotations and copra and
other prices. / get these from VLR Melbourne,
but reception is often poor. Are there other
stations I could tune to? (2) What publication
or publications would give me advance pro-
grammes ? —737.
(1) Only chance other than VLR3, now on
25 metres, would be national stations on the
regular broadcast wave-lengths. Irregularity in
short-wave reception is unfortunately one of
its shortcomings, and owing to static trouble
the regular broadcast band would be difficult
for Australian stations in your location. (2)
Australian programme publications would be
out of date by the time they reached you.
The 8.8. C. airmails Empire programmes in ad-
vance for 10s. p.a.
* * * *
(1) Has the Eddystone All-World Four re-
ceiver ( air-cell operation) been reviewed in
The Bulletin ? (2) Is there any chart or
booklet dealing with the wave-lengths, callsigns
and times of transmission of Australian
stations ? —738.
(1) No. (2) A complete list of Australian
broadcast, short-wave and experimental stations
can be had from the P.M.G.’s Department,
Treasury Gardens; Melbourne; price 2s. 6d.
A list of stations, with times, may be obtained
on application to Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia),
Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney.


r<2
&
a:
%
%
%
'V/
I
" : iif
m w
...and he
shaved happily
ever after...
ROLLS RAZOR
—the ideal Christmas present
ONE HOLLOW-GROUND BLADE LASTS FOR YEARS
SELF-HONING—SELF-STROPPING—SELF-CONTAINED
ONE OF MANY TRIBUTES PAID TO
THIS WORLD-FAMED RAZOR
“/ am forwarding my Razor for a service
overhaul after 8 years of consistent use.
There is nothing on the market to compare
with a Rolls ' Razor, and I have recommended
it to .a number of my friends
☆ * *
The quality of Rolls Shaving Soap and Rolls
Shaving Brushes are in keeping with the
quality of the Razor. The Best in the World.
* * *
ROLLS RAZOR
THE WORLD’S MOST ECONOMICAL SAFETY
STROPPED AND HONED IN ITS CASE
ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY., LTD.
8 a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
D. REDDAN & CO.,
330 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
CORNELL’S, HOFFNUNG’S,
COLTON’S.
QUEENSLAND-.
BUTLER BROS. AUST. (PTY.), LTD.,
Creek Street,
BRISBANE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
HARRIS, SCARFE & S ANDO VERS, LTD., Hay Street, PERTH.


MTS
LYS
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
wwißi
*
RS
&
SB
.;r ■ „
i nan
mmmgt
3SW
7*%**Ss&
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty,, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Why Mixed Bales Don’t Pay.
“Murrawong”: No one conversant
with auction methods offers his wool for
sale in mixed bales. Most buyers
work on commission for overseas users.
Their orders are to buy certain types,
and they are limited to a price based on
the clean-scoured yield. Some specialise
in types —red dusty wools, burry pieces
or bellies, locks or free spinners’ fleece.
Others may seem to buy almost any-
thing, but their orders may be for as
many different mills.
Supposing a buyer has an order for
100 bales of good shafty 64/66’s broken
carrying light burr, he may have to
locate suitable lines out of 11,000 bales
on three widely separated floors. In the
big lots section he may find five suit-
able lots to aggregate his 100 bales. If
he had to go through the small lots
catalogue he might have to sample and
bid for 100 lots before he got what he
wanted, and, because of the difficulty of
matching the smaller lots, it is easily
realised in which section he would prefer
to find his wool.
The regular buyer ignores the bale
with anything from two to eight different
types of wool in it. Before it interests
him it must be sorted, and its various
contents, which may include fleece,
pieces, black wool, sheepskins, stained
pieces and locks, have each to be sepa-
rated and increased by adding further
quantities from other sources until five
or more bales of each can be offered for
sale. The work is done by repackers.
They buy mixed bales and small, badly-
classed lines at low prices.
Last year over 15,000 mixed bales were
offered for sale in Sydney alone. It is
safe to say that growers lost at least £2
per bale. Instead of spending money
on finding wider markets and uses for
wool, the grazier would benefit directly
by improving the marketing of his clip.
In a fair-sized clip the number of
mixed bales may be reduced or even
eliminated by regulating pressing so that
there are no leftovers at the cut-out.
With small or mixed flocks it is difficult
enough to make one decent-sized line,
and there must be a string of star lots,
oddments and leftovers to be marketed
in bags or butts or made into a mixed
bale.
In such cases the owner can still reach
the big lots catalogue by forwarding
his wool to a firm which carries out
classing and pooling. It will add each
type of wool to similar lots until there
is enough to form five or more bales.
Tn some centres organised marketing
of mixed bales, bags, etc., is compulsory.
Where it is optional the grower must
decide for himself.
Maintain Wool Quality!
“C.V.S.”: Lamb-raising and small
holdings are resulting in a lot of non-
descript wool. Retaining “Downs” cross
lambs for breeding gives rise to the pro-
duction of the type most affected by sub-
stitutes. Again, at the reduced prices,
wool cannot bear increased sorting costs
resulting from mixed types. The alterna-
tive is to manufacture from lines of
mixed quality wool resulting in an in-
ferior cloth.
Wool schools would do well to design
their courses more particularly for sons
of small farmers, emphasising the impor-
tance of standardisation and maintenance
of quality.
More Marking Hints.
“Win”: Most marking-time deaths are
due to shock. I find the best time to do
the job is when the lamb is about four
weeks old.
Holding correctly is essential. The
holder takes one hind leg and one fore-
leg in each hand, allowing the backbone
to rest along his chest. If the hind leg
is held just above the hock, with the
shin of the foreleg pressed along the
front of it, struggling can be reduced.
The main operation should be done in
two actions, not one.' After swabbing
“ They're the first geodetic machines built on the Wallis principle , boss!"
the tail and purse with some good mix-
ture —try equal parts of sump-oil and
kerosene —put lambs in a yard where
they can rest. It is dangerous to operate
while lambs are overheated or puffing ;
a mild day will reduce the risk.
Care of Syringes.
“J.R.D.”: Take care to clean syringes
and drenching guns before putting them
away. Carbon tet. may not damage a
gun, but arsenic or bluestone drenches
have a corroding effect. Valve springs
may be weakened or eaten through and
valve seatings badly pitted. Even guns
expressly made for drenching with blue-
stone should be cleaned out with water
on the completion of the job.
Leaving inoculating syringes unwashed
results in a sticky film that clogs and
binds the instrument. Further, where
black disease vaccine has been used,
delay in cleaning will leave the smell of
the vaccine in the syringe.
It is advisable to sterilise instruments
after use, but they should have cold
water worked through them, even if they
are to be sterilised to remove the vaccine
first. It’s not enough to dip them into
methylated spirits. The only thorough
way of sterilising is by boiling instru-
ments for at least 10 minutes. A small
portable copper sterilising tank that will
accommodate all the parts and needles,
earmarking pliers and knives, which can
be carried in it straight to the job and
kept boiling there if necessary, is worth
while.
Not Much Room for Mohair.
“Ghanam”: Mohair may spell the
road to salvation in some districts (B.
23/11 /’3B), but they’ll need to be pretty
small districts. S. Africa exports about
2.400.0001 b. in a good half-year, and
growers consider themselves well off this
year because the carryover at the end
of June was only 150,0001 b. against
400,0001 b. a little earlier.
Britain bought only half as much in
1937 as in 1935, France only 35 p.c.,
U.S.A. 25 p.c. and Japan 80 p.c. of 1935
quotas, and the total export dwindled
over three seasons from 10,636,0001 b. to
4,559,0001 b.
Turkey’s production—l2,3oo,ooolb. in
1936-37 —was 20 p.c. more than S.
Africa’s the year before. But there was
a fall of 50 p.c. in export in 1937-38.
Prices keep up, but the future depends
largely on the problematical re-entry of
Germany into the market.
Rearing Bobby Calves.
“Mookau”: The practice of sending
dairy calves to the killer directly after
birth is poor business. Usually the ex-
cuse is that the milk is needed for the
pigs ; but it is a better proposition sold
as veal than as pork.
Calves for veal must weigh 401 b.
dressed and be a fortnight old when
killed. Unless the youngster enjoys right
feeding at the beginning, it is apt to fall
off and be below standard weight. Care
should be taken that it is solid in flesh
and that its liveweight is 801 b better
still, 901 b it is sent to market.
Beware of Flag Smut.
“A.A.D.”: The new Victorian wheat
Baldmin (B. 16/11/’3B), evolved by Hugh
Pye, is expected to suit the dry western
N.S.W. districts—the outer fringe of the
belt from Gilgandra to Hillston. It has
been under trial at Condobolin Farm for
the last three seasons, with encouraging
results both as to yield and quality.
A Bald Early-Minister cross, it blends
the early maturity of the former with the
strong-flour character of
Canadian Minister, and is in
the medium-strong class. A
good yielding type of
medium - flour strength is
needed for the central-
western plains and outer
c.-w. slopes, and to replace
Bobin (weak flour) on malice
soils.
But in the N.SiW. trials
Baldmin has proved highly
susceptible to flag smut, a
serious defect. The disease
was the most destructive of
all in crops here a few years
ago before the introduction
of resistant varieties. Such
progress has been made in
the control of flag smut that
it is essential to move
cautiously when it comes to
encouraging farmers to grow
a susceptible variety.
Stating that more than 75
p.c. of the area under wheat
in N.S.W. is sown with smut-
resistant varieties, the Direc-
tor of Plant Breeding (H.
Wenholz) claims that the
achievement of plant-
breeders in producing these
resistant wheats has warded
off a major disaster. The
Department of Agriculture,
he adds, is making urgent
attempts to replace the
highly susceptible wheats
now grown —Waratah, Ranee
and Bobin.
Look to the Sow.
“Bundalinga”: Importance
of the boar has been stressed
so often that points of the
breeding sow may be over-
looked. No matter how good
the boar may be, if .the sows
do not have hardy constitutions and are
unable to carry and suckle big litters it
is impossible to raise very many pigs.
Get rid of sows that regularly pro-
duce small litters or pigs of undesirable
type. It costs just as much to feed a
sow that will produce a litter of four as
it does one that gives a dozen in a litter.
Cull brood sows for size of litter and
type of progeny. A sow has only a
limited number of useful years, and will
then drop small litters of poor-quality
pigs, weak in vitality.
[“Land” continued on page 44.)


iTuT&allefii/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
vm
cm
&
ntcrm
x/uu^[
e
.
.
Saxe up to £l5O a year on fuel
and secure 40% more work with
j
7*o
aoonna
On crude oil costing s}d. a gallon, Lanz Tractors are doing at least one-third more worn than
ordinary tractors which use kerosene at twice the cost! That is Lanz fuel economy. It makes
wheat farming pay, even with low wheat prices. Wouldn't you rather invest your money in your
tractor than in fuel?
Write for booklet, "How Angus Saved £l5O on His Tractor Costs." It gives some amazing but
true figures!
DISTRIBUTORS:—
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria & S. Riverina:
Geo. W. Kelly & Lewis
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany limited
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (WJL.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William and Forbes Sts.,
Perth
TOBACCO, TOBACCO, TOBACCO
Smokers, Look —
No Increase in ices.
DO YOU WANT GOOD VALUE
AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW ! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Oherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Eighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . . . . . . 6/3
All British, mild . . . . 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium . . 6/3
Old Peter, medium . . . . 6/3
Cavendish, strong . . . . 6/3
Beech Nut, medium . . . . 6/9
Africa, mellow and mild . . 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild . . 7/3
Normandie, medium . . . . 7/9
Winning Post, medium . . . . 8/-
Three Bells, strong . . . . 8/*
Bird’s Eye, medium . . . . 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, medium . . . . 10/-
White Lodge, light . . . . 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark . . 8/6
Cahills, medium . . . . 10/9
Union Leader, medium . . . . 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium . . . . 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only . . 8/-
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only. . 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild . . . . 7/6
“Skipper,” medium . . . . 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong . . . . 7/6
“Three Sailors” . . . . 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” . . . . 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . . . 6/6
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W. and N.T.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage In other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
E
SB
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kino St.. Svdnev
R-, i
“Zedo”: Now is the time to go over
banana plants for bunchy-top. To be
effective a weekly inspection is needed,
with a kerosene boy in attendance.
Every stool should be examined sepa-
rately and every plant infected and every
one attached to it carefully kero, d and
destroyed.
The disease is easy to spot at the leaf
tip, which, instead of curling down nor-
mally, throws itself back against the rib
, , , , ~ . , . .
and develops a wavy and yellowish look
while there are dark-green' dot-and-dash
markings transversely across the leaf
fibre.
When found, pour half a pint of kero,
down among the centre leaves, leave for
24 hours, then take out all diseased-
plant corms from the ground and cut
them into bits about 1 -J-in. through. Re-
move them from the plantation.
Paper Mulch for Pines.
“Woombye”: Paper, mulching, firs, in-
troduced by the Dole interests in Hawaii
nearly 30 years ago, is at last making
headway in Queensland, where the
Agricultufal Department has decided
that it is payable. Mulch paper
is made up in rolls 600 ft. long
and 3ft. wide. It is marked to indicate
planting points, and as one roll will take
1200 plants the cost works out at about
Id. for every four pines.
Mulching has many advantages—
weeding is practically unnecessary, mois-
ture is conserved, and the roots are kept
warm in winter. Ground needs thorough
working to a fine tilth and a smooth and
s , tol ? e ! ess surf ? ce - The beds ™ st be
slightly raised in the centre. Run a
couple of furrows 4in. deep down the
field about 3ft. apart. Then rake the
soil from the furrow edges towards the
cen tre till the bed is laid with a 2in.
camber. With beds sft. 6in. from centre
to centre, which is recommended for S :
Queensland replant land, 13 rolls of
P a Pf r wiU be n , eed f d P er , “re.
, be rnu l cb , sbo }fi d be *^ ,d d °' v j] a
rain 6 A stick is put through the centre
of the roll, a rope attached to each end
of it for “harness” and the paper pulled
out down the bed. Hoers should follow
1° <?arth down the edges of the paper as
fast as possible. The work should be
done J a calm day;
since a breeze can
make things awkward. It is well to run
a shovelful of soil across the roll, to
guard against the effects of wind before
tt has settled down,
Whenever it is necessary to break a
roll, the paper should be cut, not torn,
and the remainder of the roll lifted
bodily to its new position,
There is a special tool for mulch plant-
ing—an iron bent from its handle at an
angle of about 30 degrees and pointed
at its working extremity. It is used in
pushes
used to do the actual planting. The
pa per being marked makes spacing easy,
and a good man does up to 4000 plants
a day ; “ringers” are credited with 5000
P bin . ts -
Slips and suckers give best results, and
ZXSSU
be well stripped; and i eave s of both slips
and suckers should be clipped short so
as to be out of the wind until estab-
fished,
October is the best month for strip-
mulching, but the job needs planning a
season ahead so that the ground can be
in proper order. Don’t forget fertiliser
when preparing—standard 10-16-10 mix-
ture, about 441 b. to the chain.
“X.T.”: Results in W.A. with sub.
clover and lupins suggest that experiment
with- these plants should be worth while
in North Queensland and the Territory.
If sub. clover will grow as far north as
Geraldton (W.A.), there is no reason
why it shouldn’t be introduced to the
N. Queensland coastal region, and both
the clover and the lupin should make
themselves felt above the Newcastle
Waters line. But it isn’t worth trying
except with Westralian acclimatised seed.
“Mullengah”: Improved pastures have
enabled C. E. Prell, of Gundownnga,
Crookwell (N.S.W.), to increase wool
yield from 61b. per acre to 401 b. per acre.
Several years ago he sowed sub. clover
on the whole of his property and top-
dressed it liberally with super. Land was
poor when he started, but fertility has
been built up. Prell now sows 101 b. of
perennial rye and 41b. of Akaroa cocks-
foot per acre in the sub. clover with a
combine. The paddocks are stocked
during the operation, and the sheep com-
pact the soil, helping establishment of
the pastures. Because of past fertilising
and the soil-fertility-building capacity of
sub. clover, the rye and cocksfoot are
doing well. Rate of topdressing is lewt.
of super, per acre every year.
“Knowall”: “J.8.D.” (B. 21/9/’3B) ad-
vises when inoculating lambs to keep a
supply of needles ready in a strong dis-
infectant. If it is too strong and lodges
in the hollow of the needle it will destroy
the value of the vaccine. Boil the spare
needles in plain water, then dry them in
the same receptacle in a warm oven and
keep them covered till used.
“Narine”: Some s.-w. Queensland
graziers who used to regard a hay fork
as no tool for a gentleman farmer are
fast becoming consistent haymakers.
Around the Maranoa, star and windmill
and other native grasses on flats cure
quickly and sweetly when stacked
promptly after cutting. A little salt
should be added at intervals as the layers
are put into the stack.
“Valerin”: Oats look like touching
a record price this season. Drought-
feeding has cleaned up the surplus, and
Victoria, which grows more than a third
of the Commonwealth’s supply, reports
failure. In N.S.W. a large percentage
of the crop has been cut for hay. Oats
have been bringing the equivalent of 4s.
per bushel for wheat at country stations.
As an exportable product milling oats
are worth consideration.
“Chipper”: The latest mechanical
cane-harvester on the Fairymead Sugar
Co.’s plantation near Bundaberg (Q.)
gives great promise of success. Pre-
viously, the machine would not work on
rough ground and cut so much “top”
that it was not economic. These short-
comings have been eliminated. The
machine not only cuts and “tops” the
cane perfectly, but automatically loads
it on the trucks, it will handle 20 tons
an hour.
“Valerin”: Kill-quick methods of
treating skeleton weed leave me cold ; a
lengthy experience has satisfied me that
heavy grazing with sheep, mowing the
thick patches to prevent seeding together
with lucerne and grazing-oats is the only
successful way of controlling the pest.


w
wmm
m
. ■■ •>
It:
& it
mu
m
Vw.4
s:
:? : S\ 8
■ ■> ; v : '
a 8*
:3k i
sh our s
bi
1
m
*., «•*
V'
■fe
ti
H
■ .Ss
/
'••>'. :
8888
r >
9
ft
■r
55*23
#«S!
5 i
Mg
■t ;
SS &
m
Wsk*
WX
tWii&n&nS:
. :
~’U?_ V
BSS
Cash 4% P* Easy
Price mm<& GNS. Terms
Without special battery
23 Guineas
Ike 7leu>
AIRZONE
PORTABLE
LI ERE it is ... a REAL portable. Smart as
*■ paint . . . Can be taken anywhere . . . used
anywhere ... in the car, not for installation,
but whilst the car is running, is operated from
its own battery ... at the club ... in caravan or
trailer ... picnicking ... fishing ... at the beach
... on yacht or launch ... in the sick room, the
children's party . . . anywhere—everywhere.
Yes, here's real modern entertainment . . .
spelled with a capital "E" . . . and well it should
be, for Airzone have lavished their mechanical
and constructional genius to give listeners this
long-awaited portable so that folks "can have
music wherever they go."
You'll be thrilled with this wonderful Airzone
Portable . . . you'll take it everywhere you go,
and never be wanting for entertainment, no
matter where you may be. See it, at any Radio
or Music House or Department Store. Buy one
to-day, and be in the fashion ... because every-
body that is anybody will soon have one. Well
may Airzone boast of this portable . . . "The
first word in portables is the last word in radio."
WBJ 37.45.
Ma nu fact ur ed br Air sane (1931) Limited, C amp er d own , Sydney , /V.S.F.
A I R Z 0 N E
RADIO


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.-
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Baehflat, Lesquare, London.
The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
■
1937
Hand. Forged
by craftsmen
•with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALI, BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, lin., fin., 2in., Black Handle 12/6
„ „ „ „ Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Servive Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to bell or To Let’.’ notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man (38) wants opening for self and son
in country; £2OO, or will provide heavy-duty
truck. Open any proposition anywhere.—l6s6.
Exp. teacher (40), Blackfriars Correspondence
Course, available New Year.—l 637.
A copy of second instalment of Pollock’s
Course of Time. —1638.
To buy second-hand typewriter, portable
preferred.—l 644.
To buy words and music of “English You
Know” and “M-O-N-E-Y,” songs sung in
London music-halls over 50 years ag0. —1642.
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Mrs.
Charlotte Alice McGregor please communi-
cate with Boulton, Lane, Rex and Co., solici-
tors, 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Information Sought.
Exports and imports between N.S.W. and
(1) Germany, (2) Italy and (3) Czechoslovakia ?
—1670.
1936-37: (1) Imports of German origin
totalled £1,587,567. Principal items were
apparel, textiles and yarns, £196,693; oils, fats
and waxes, £16,139; paints and varnishes,
£25,358; machinery and metal manufactures,
£533,974; earthenware, glassware, etc.,
£100,907; paper, stationery and paper manu-
factures, '£118,719; jewellery and fancy goods,
£70,709; optical and scientific instruments,
£116,329; drugs and chemicals, £230,437. Ex-
ports to Germany (including re-exports, £15,678)
totalled £2,015,443. Chief item wool, £1,761,883.
(2) Imports of Italian origin totalled £147,432.
Principal items were apparel, textiles and yarns,
£55,390; drugs and chemicals, £26,204. Ex-
ports to Italy (including re-exports, £11,494)
amounted to £2,388,776. Main items were
wool, £1,116,255; hides and skins, £29,640;
and wheat, £1,229,525. (3) Total imports from
Czechoslovakia amounted to £201,362. Main
items were apparel and textiles, £58,328;
machinery and metal manufactures, £26,334;
eathenware, glassware, etc., £53,472; jewellery,
timepieces, etc., £31,917. Exports to Czecho-
slovakia (including re-exports, £337) totalled
£592,293. Main item was wool, £591,690.
* # sH *
Is there a trade agreement between M.L.
and S. Africa? What goods are mainly
affected ? —1665.
Yes, in 1907 a reciprocal arrangement was
inaugurated with British S. Africa whereby pro-
ducts of that country, when imported direct,
were admitted to M.L. at reduced rates of duty,
in return for similar concessions granted by
S. Africa in respect of M.L. products. The
agreement was revised in 1922, the duties on
wines being increased and tobacco being de-
leted from the list. A further alteration where-
by maize and dried apples were deleted was
made in 1925. Dried fruits formerly came
under the agreement, being admitted free when
the general tariff was 4d. per pound and the
British preferential rate 2d. On January 1,
1934, the general tariff was reduced to 2d.
and the British rate made free. The main
item of import benefited by the arrangement
is wine. Sparkling wine is admitted at 9s. 6d.
per gallon as against 15s. under the general
and 10s. under the British preferential rates.
On still wine the rate is 3s. 6d. per ,gallon,
as against 6s. under the general and 4s. under
the British preferential tariff. Other items
specially provided for are feathers, fish, fresh
fruit and tea; while in the case of all other
dutiable goods, excepting spirits and tobacco,
a reduction of 3 p.c. of the duty payable is
made.
*■ * * *
What restrictions govern the immigration of
aliens into N.S.W. ? —1657.
The jV.iS.IK. Year-Book states: “At common
law aliens have no legal right to admission to
any British country, and migration to and from
N.S.W. is regulated principally by statutes
of the Federal Parliament. Any person may
be refused admission to Australia who fails
to write from dictation by any officer not less
than 50 words in any prescribed European
language; or any person who has not the pre-
scribed certificate of health; any feeble-minded
person; any person suffering from serious
transmissible disease or defect, tuberculosis or
certain other serious diseases; any prostitute
living by prostitution; any advocate of revolu-
tion, assassination or the unlawful destruction
of property; any Turk or Ottoman; or any
person 16 years of age or over not possessed
of a passport as prescribed. Should such per-
sons gain admission they may be deported.
Usually persons formerly domiciled in the State
cannot be excluded from return after temporary
absence.”
* * * *
(1) Opening dates of the railway line (in
sections ) from Sydney to Bathurst? (2) Par-
ticulars about the Lithgow zigzag? —l494.
(1) Sydney to Granville, Sept. 26, 1855;
Granville to Blacktown, July 4, 1860; to Rooty
Hill, Dec. 12, 1861; St. Mary’s, May 1, 1862;
Kingswood, July 7, 1862; Penrith, Jan. 18,
1863; Wentworth Falls, Jan. 11, 1867; Mt.
Victoria, May 1, 1868; Bowenfels, Oct. 18,
1869; Wallerawang, March 1, 1870; Rydal,
July 1, 1870; Locksley, April 22, 1872; Bre-
wongle, July 1, 1872; Raglan, March 4, 1873 ;
Kelso, Feb. 4, 1875; Bathurst, April 4, 1876.
(2) Cost of the Lithgow zigzag up to 1871 was
£328,285, excluding station buildings, rails and
other ironwork. Since then the line from
Bowenfels to Zigzag has been duplicated (1880),
the Lapstone zigzag has been replaced by a
tunnel (1892), and wings at the top and bottom
portions of the zigzag have been lengthened and
duplicated (1908). In 1910 a deviation involving
the cutting of 10 tunnels and reducing the
stiffest grade to 1 in 90 was opened. Work
on the Lithgow zigzag was commenced in May,
1866, and the section from Mt. Victoria to
Bowenfels was officially opened on Oct. 8,
1869.
* * * *
(1) Difference in cost between the 1936-37
model FD I-16 and FD 3-62 Fargo, chassis
only? (2) Chief points of difference between
them ? (3) Name and address of distributors ?
—1486.
(1) FDI-16 £265, FD3-62 £339. The equiva-
lent models to-day are FGII-16, £285, and
the FG3-59, £372, sales tax additional in all
cases. (2) The FDI-16 is a 18cwt. light utility
chassis, whereas the FD3-62 is a two-ton
chassis usually on dual rear wheels. (3) York
Motors, 146 Parramatta-road, Caniperdown,
N.S.W.
* * * *
Does a miner’s right entitle a prospector to
enter on to property? —l4o3.
Presume you refer to prospecting for gold.
Under the Mining on Private Lands Acts (Q.)a
person wishing to enter on private land for
mining purposes must first apply to the nearest
warden for a permit to enter (period, 30
days). A deposit of £1 is payable, but is re-
funded if no damage is done to the private
land. During the currency of the permit the
holder may peg out claims or mining leases,
but is not entitled to carry out actual mining
operations until the matter of compensation
for surface area and right-of-way has been
settled. A miner’s right is necessary to
found a title to a claim on Crown or private
land.
* * * *
I am building on a N.S.W. suburban allot-
ment and purpose fencing with a five-wire
fence. I am informed that I cannot claim a
contribution from my neighbor towards cost of
fence unless it is a paling fence. Please advise.
—1654.
Not necessarily a “paling fence.” The Act
requires it to be a “sufficient” fence. If the
matter went into court the sufficiency would
no doubt be determined by such factors as
locality, the class of residences in that locality,
whether back or side fence and so on. The
wisest course would be to come to an agree-
ment with the adjoining owner on the matter.
* * * *
What is the difference between the ordinary
Nazi salute with the arm straight and raised
above the shoulder-level and that sometimes
used by Hitler in which the elbow is fully
flexed? —1496.
The ordinary German salute is with the arm
straight and raised above shoulder-level. It
is used by those in uniform in greeting the
flag during the singing of the German National
Anthem, or to superiors. The salute in which
the elbow is fully flexed is often used by the
Leader and Chancellor and other high State
officials, and generally by the man in the street.
* * * *
(1) Have deaths from Bright’s disease in
N.S.W. increased during the last 50 years?
(2) Rates for the last five, years? —l6s9.
(1) Yes. From 1884 to 1913 the number
of deaths due to this disease gradually in-
creased, and the rate of mortality doubled. A
temporary check was followed after 1918 by a
decrease, and the average annual rate for the
next five years fell from 501 per million persons
for 1914-18 to 456. From 1928 onwards the
rates exceeded 500, reaching a maximum of 584
per million in 1934 and declining in each
succeeding year to 570 in 1937. (2) 1933, 5.36
deaths per 10,000 persons living; 1934, 5.84;
1935, 5.81 ; 1936, 5.81; 1937, 5.70.
* * * *
(1) What is the meaning of refractive index?
(2) Polenske number? (3) Saponification
value? (4) Hanus iodine number of butter-
fat ? —1339.
(1) Refractive index is the ratio of the
velocity of light in a given medium compared
with its velocity in air under the same physical
conditions. From the estimation, an indica-
tion of oils and fats —especially of butterfat —•
may be gained. (2) The Polenske number is
the number of cubic centimetres of decinormal
caustic soda needed to neutralise an alcoholic
solution of various water-insoluble fatty acids
derived from fats and oils, and is of great use
in distinguishing different fats and oils. (3)
Most fats and oils on treatment with an alkali
such as caustic soda split into fatty acids and
glycerol (glycerine). The process is called
saponification, and the saponification value is
expressed in the number of milligrams of potas-
sium hydroxide necessary to saponify one
gramme of a fat or oil. (4) Different oils
absorb different amounts of iodine, and the
Hanus iodine number is a measure of the
amount in any particular case. The oil, dis-
solved in chloroform, is treated with excess
iodine, and the amount of unabsorbed iodine
is determined by titration with sodium thio-
sulphate. The amount actually absorbed can
thus be determined by £ simple calculation.
* * * *
Brief biography of John Stocked Dodds, Tas-
manian Attorney-General in the Crowther
Ministry ? —1669.
He was born at Durham, England, in 1848,
and came to Tasmania as a boy. He studied
law, and was called to the Tasmanian Bar in
1872. Entering politics in 1878 as member for
East Hobart, he took office in December as
Attorney-General in the Crowther Ministry,
and retained the position for two years in the
Giblin Ministry that followed it. On December
1, 1881, he exchanged offices with Giblin and
became Treasurer, and when W. R. Giblin went
to the Supreme Court in 1884 he reverted to his
old position under Adye Douglas, and retained
it under J. W. Agnew until February 15, 1887,
when on Giblin’s death he took the vacant
Judgeship. He represented Tasmania on the
Federal Council in 1886 and at the Colonial
Conference of 1887. In 1894 he acted as Chief
Justice during the absence of W. L. Dobson,
and succeeded to that post on Dobson’s death
in 1898, becoming Lieut.-Governor in 1903.
From 1907 to 1914 he was Chancellor of the
University of Tasmania. Died June 23, 1914.
* * * *
Some information regarding Sabadilla seeds ?
1660.
Sabadilla or cevadilla seeds are non-official
8.P., and at present unobtainable locally. The
seed is obtained from a tall herbaceous plant
indigenous to Mexico; it contains several alka-
loids, of which the principal is cevadine or
crystalline veratrine. With a suitable base the
latter may be prepared as an ointment (1 in
50) or as a lotion (1 in 10) for external use.
It is a powerful irritant used for destruction
of vermin, etc., and is rarely given internally.
Locally its general effects resemble those of
aconite in fevers and acute inflammations.
Doubt if it is obtainable anywhere in Aus-
tralia, and it would be sold only under a
doctor’s permit.
* * * *
Recipe for hard, non-shiny icing? —1658.
Beat the whites of two eggs and
of lemon-juice and stir in gradually lib. of
crushed, finely-sifted icing sugar. Add one tea-
spoon of glucose (previously warmed by stand-
ing container in hot water). Mix until very
smooth and pipe or spread over cake.
* * * *
Particulars of the M.L. wood tanekaha ?
1666.
The tree grows in limited numbers in the
North Island and in the South Island in
northern Marlborough and Nelson, extending
southwards to near Karamea. It reaches froiu
50ft. to 70ft. in height and Ift. to 2ft. in
thickness. Its timber is yellowish white,
free from knots, close-grained, dense, heavy,
very strong and shrinks very little in seasoning,
for which reason it is used in the manufacture
of fittings in greenhouses. Tanekaha is the
strongest of M.L. softwoods. It is of uncer-
tain durability below but very durable above the
ground. It was used for sleepers, bridge-build-
ing and mine props, and is now used in rail-
way-carriage construction. Its bark contains
as much as 28 p.c. tannin.
* * * *
Are fig-birds peculiar to Australia? Any
other particulars ? —1661.
They are peculiar to northern and eastern
Australia, and to New Guinea, the Papuan
islands and the Timor. They are about the
size of the thrush and are usually included in
the oriole family, but sometimes considered to
be more closely related to the cuckoo-shrike.
The male is yellowish-green above, with black
head, tail and wings and yellowish underparts;
the female is brown above and white below,
streaked with brown. Both sexes have a patch
of bare skin round the eye and extending for-
ward to the bill, colored bright scarlet in males
and purplish-grey in females. They are forest
birds, and feed on scrub fruits, especially figs.
They are generally found in small flocks, and
utter loud and strange calls when feeding.
Their nests are scanty twig structures, and
their eggs vary from light green to brown,
with varied reddish markings.
* * * *
Complete list of Melbourne Cup winners?
—1628.
From 1861 to 1938 inclusive, Archer, Archer,
Banker, Lantern, Toryboy, The Barb, Tim
Whiffler, Glencoe, Warrior, Nimblefoot, The
Pear], The Quack, Don Juan, Harricot, Wol-
lombi, Briseis, Chester, Calamia, Darriwell,
Grand Flaneur, Zulu, The Assyrian, Martini
Henry, Malua, Sheet Anchor, Arsenal, Dunlop,
Mentor, Bravo, Carbine, Malvolio, Glenloth,
Tarcoola, Patron, Auraria, Newhaven,
Gaulus, The Grafter, Merriwee, Clean
Sweep, Revenue, The Victory, Lord Car-
digan, Acrasia, Blue Spec, Poseidon, Apo-
logue, Lord Nolan, Prince Foote, Comedy
King, The Parisian, Piastre, Posinatus, Kings-
burgh, Patrobus, Sasanof, Westcourt, Night-
watch, Artilleryman, Poitrel, Sister Olive, King
Ingoda, Bitalli, Backwood, Windbag, Spearfelt,
Trivalve, Statesman, Nightmarch, Phar Lap,
White Nose, Peter Pan, Hall Mark, Peter Pan,
Marabou, Wotan, The Trump, Catalogue.
* * * *
Under Rugby Union rules, what is de-
fined as “foul play,” and what is the penalty
therefor ? —1341.
Law 34 defines foul play as (1) wilful hack-
ing, tripping or striking, (2) wilfully holding a
player not in possession of the ball, (3) illegal
tackling, pushing, charging or obstructing. The
penalty: referee shall award a penalty kick at
the place of infringement, and for the first
offence shall either caution the player or order
him off the playing enclosure; for the second
offence he must be ordered off.
* * * *
After the umpire has called “over” can an
appeal be effectively made against a batsman ?
What is the cricket law on the question? —llo6.
Yes. Law 50 says: “After the umpire has
called ‘over’ the ball is ‘dead,’ but an appeal
can be made as to whether a batsman is out.
Such appeal, however, shall not be made after
the delivery of the next ball, nor after any
cessation of play.” The latter part of this law
refers to when umpires have called “time”
and removed the bails.
* * * *
(1) How would Griffo and George Seale
compare? (2) Did they ever spar with each
other? —1619.
(1) Griffo was considered the cleverest pro-
fessional boxer Australia ever produced, Seale
the best amateur. General opinion of old-
time experts is that Griffo was cleverer than
Seale; but he was a featherweight, Seale a
middleweight. (2) As far as is known, Griffo
(who trained at Larry Foley's school) and Seale
(who taught boxing at the Sydney Amateur
Gymnastic Club) never sparred with each other.
Brief Answers.
A.M.E.: (1) The Natffinal Insurance Act
provides for sickness, disablement, medical
and pension benefits. The sickness and dis-
ablement benefits will be paid through the
approved society with which you enrol. (2)
Insured persons employed on seagoing vessels
cannot avail themselves of benefits under
national insurance while at sea, but are en-
titled to them while in port or on shore. (3)
An insured person travelling from State to
State within the Commonwealth would be en-
titled to benefits under national health in-
surance. (4) Friendly societies in Australia have
done good work in providing sickness, medical,
funeral and other benefits on a voluntary
mutual basis. (5) At present there are nearly
600,000 friendly society members who have
made voluntary provision against sickness and
death; but the National Insurance Act is esti-
mated to apply to nearly two million persons.
....T.W.F.: Business Handwriting, by William
Burton (25.), obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .J.S.: A sale netting
“100 p.c. profit” is one in which the article
cost nothing and no expenses were incurred
in selling. A “profit of 100 p.c.” means that
selling price was double cost price... .T.P.R.:
About 54,000 full-bloods and 23,000 half-
castes. Approximately 31,000 are nomadic, while
most of the remainder are in Government
supervised camps or employed on sheep and
cattle stations... .K.L.: in 1936-37 there were
16 gasworks in Queensland, worth £754,010.
They employed 229 workers, used 87,629 tons
of coal, and sold 1,190,811 cubic feet of gas.
Number of consumers supplied in 1935-36
totalled 62,387... .G.8.R.: In 1937 in N.S.W.
23 persons signed the marriage register with
marks. In 1860 the proportion of such signa-
tures was as high as 264.7 per 1000 persons
married... .A.8.R.: Gruybre cheese is named
after a small town in the canton of Freiburg,
Switzerland, where it originated. It is now
made in other parts of Switzerland and France.
. ...U.N.: (1) No. (2) and (3) Yes. (4) The
matter is out of your hands. (5) Consult a
solicitor... .N.G.R.: (1) One hotel is to be
rebuilt at a cost of £40,000. Two recent appli-
cations for licenses were recommended by the
Licensing Board and refused by the Minister
for the Interior. (2) Only one; it was com-
pleted about two months ago. Custom would
be limited, and boats could be used only when
the tides were favorable. (3) It might be
worth your while to investigate the possibili-
ties of a small steam-laundry... .P.T.D.: Ordi-
nary furniture glue should be suitable
F.G.8.: Audel’s Masons and Builders’ Guide,
335., post Is., from Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .1.D.: The Ad-
ministrator’s residence at Darwin is styled
“Government House,” and residents therein
may use notepaper with that letterhead
D.S.: Number of officers in the Division of
Economic Entomology at Canberra is 18,
salaries £8237 p.a.; in the Division of Plant
Industry 19, salaries £9847... .R.W.: (1) Im-
possible to forecast at what price such a device
would sell. (2) An idea is not saleable, but
a patent embodying an idea is an industrial
property and saleable at a price arranged be-
tween patentee and buyer or licensee. (3)
Send a rough sketch or model of the device
to one of the patent attorneys whose adver-
tisements appear in this paper. If it is useful
and novel a patent can be obtained. (4)
Should the inventor not feel disposed to go
to the expense (about £25) of a full patent
application at the early stage, he can obtain
a provisional protection which will cover him
for nine months at a cost of £5 ss. A pro-
visional protection can be converted to a full
patent at any time during the period of pro-
tection... .X.Y.Z.: Horse is receiving too high
a protein ration. Give half lucerne chaff and
half straw chaff and good grass hay chaff with
31b. of good-quality, finely-ground maize (21b.
bran as a substitute) in summer and 61b. in
winter. Give loz. Calphos and loz. Epsom
salts thrice weekly, and a rock-salt lick and
drink always before but never after feed.
Keep his stall clean and brush him at least once
daily for about 10 minutes; clip him trace-
high about April and do not rug him. If you
wish to turn him out give two bran mashes
six hours apart, and the same when you
bring him in after a spell in a paddock
A. 8.: On your own showing you are not en-
titled to the prize, it having been expressly
provided that “five entries were to be re-
ceived or no prize.” Only three entries were
received. Apparently no stipulation was made
as to the right of the local organisation to
publish non-prize-winning essays, and you would
therefore appear to be entitled to payment for
your contribution, it having been published
without your consent G.K.: Value of frozen
mutton and lamb exported from Australia in
1936-37 to the United Kingdom was £5,137,000,
to Ceylon £15,000, Gibraltar £lOOO, Hong
Kong £lO,OOO, British Malaya £33,000, Malta
£lO,OOO, Pacific Islands £7OOO, other British
countries £lOOO, Egypt £9OOO, Japan £lOOO,
Panama £lOOO, Philippine Islands £7OOO, other
foreign countries £2OOO R.8.T.: Karri grows
in limited areas in s.-w. W.A. It is not the
same as M.L. kauri J.C.McP.: In poker,
exactly equal hands divide the stake. (2) Ques-
tion not clear. If “seen” the player must show
his cards; if not “seen” it’s nobody’s business
what they are A.T.S.: Cup tips for 15 years:
1924, Spearfelt (third); 1925, Windbag (first,
5 to 1); 1926, Naos (second, 33 to 1); 1927,
Silvius (second); 1928, Statesman (first, 4 to
1); 1929, Phar Lap (third); 1930, Phar Lap
or Tregilla (Phar Lap first); 1931, Phar Lap
(unplaced) ; 1932, Middle Watch (unplaced);
1933, Nord (unplaced); 1934, Hall Mark (un-
placed) ; 1935, Feldspar (unplaced); 1936, Young
Crusader (unplaced); 1937, Bristol (unplaced);
1938, Bourbon (second) D.C.: A list of
Australian regiments, their affiliated British
regiments and their regimental marches will be
forwarded if you send your address.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
SO FAT SHE HAD TO
SELL HER BUSINESS
New Health at 50—Thanks to
Kruschen.
“Two years ago,” writes a woman, “I was
running a very successful business. It was
strenuous, but the chance of a lifetime. At
the time X weighed 18 st. 10 lbs. —but I was
exceptionally strong. Then I began to feel
tired, in fact, always tired. My feet and legs
began to swell, and my eyesight began to fail.
Eventually I had to sell my business and go
into a nursing home.
“One day a friend said: ‘Get your fat down.
Start taking Kruschen.’ In desperation I took
her advice. To-day I weigh only 12 stone
8 lbs. I feel perfectly fit, and yesterday 1
walked 7 miles. I am 50 years of age, and
have been passed for life insurance. 1 am start-
ing a new business, and with renewed health
I shall make good again.”-—(Mfs.) B.E.
Kruschen is an ideal blend of mineral salts
found in those European spas which have been
resorted to from time immemorial by the
over-stout. Before the first bottle of Kruschen
is finished, fat begins to go. And it continues
to go, until there is no more superfluous flesh
to burden the body and endanger the health.
THE PERFECT XMAS GIFT
FOR YOUR SON.
ĵ
THE
"YOUNG
SHOW-
MAN"
CHILD’S
SADDLE
£6/6/-
(MOUNTKD)
Hog3kin seat, kip leather
flaps and skirt.
N.S. IV. Kail Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
t»OYS’ STOCKWHIPS.
No. 5 4ft. thong, fall and cracker,
for boys about 10 years old, 9/-.
Postage 9d.
No. 6—sft. thong, for boys about
12 years old, 10/6. Postage 9d.
Etc.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM ZZI:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY .
PRESENT-IMENT!
Here is a warning which I send
To every relative and friend
No mittens please, no kittens please
No jokes or trick cigars
No china cats, no Turkish mats
And not a single vase!
No fretwork frames, no gambling games
No home-knit socks or ties
No Christmas pudd. however good
Not even a ‘surprise.*
But if you want to make me happy
Send a Gillette ( —and make it snappy!)
You can buy complete Gillette Sets from as
little as 1/9 up to 45/- each packed in a
special, gaily-coloured “ Christmas-gift ” container
BRITISH MADE— OF ALL DEALERS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.F.: A mess... .H.N.: Attempt to rhyme
“rumpus” and “contemptuous” roused a con-
temptuous rumpus... .A.A.8.: “Note its re-
jection in your next number, will you?” Right-
Others were acknowledged... .F.McD.: No-
thing new there... .8.J.R.: Flat M.H.C.
and M.F.: Try a women’s paper G.M.K.:
Nothing in “The Fortune-teller”... .M.L.G.:
A fair statement, but it’s npt poetry G.D.S.:
Keep at it, but there isn’t any Triton at
Ohawe P.F.F.: Mere description
W.E.C.: It’s all very muddled L.W.L.:
Canute beat you to it... .L.R.8.: A glimmer.
T.L.M.: Hackneyed E.R.1.: Preserve
us from “scintillant montage”... .C.N.:
“Hamstrung” is not the word you want.
R.O.C.: Most things grow “old with age.”
I.D.C.: It’s a thought, but it’s not very
funny H.W.: Too admonishing E.H.W.:
It still wants polishing... .G.A.L.: Call again.
. ...E.J.D.: Well-worn themes, those....
W. 0.0.: Give the ending a twist and re-submit.
E.V.B.: Not quite P.H.: A bit flighty.
... .R.G.8.: Has drama, but the rhymes are
careless.... M. W.: Try it elsewhere.... Exess:
Doesn’t break any new ground... .W.D.F.:
N 0... .A.F.S.: Not up....H.5.: You can’t
dump young Bill here... .H.O’D.K.: Close
.... A.V.H.: Labored... .Z.V.W.: Just failed.
K.P.T.: Don’t like people “wandering in
a fog of despair” T.R.S.: Nor gum-chewing
racing racketeers... .R.C.8.: Don’t use the
Thesaurus quite so much.... J.H.: It can’t
happen here... .G.J.G.: Hopeless... .R.N.D.:
Not that one, but try again... .J.K.: Very
little to it K.C.D.: Lose it 8.F.R.:
No fatted calf for that “Prodigal”... .N.L.: For-
warding purple certificate from Tiny Tots’ page.
.. .J.D.S.: They trail off too weakly at the finish.
. ...8.F.N.: What is it all about? ... .L.F.E.:
“Veteran” resting peacefully in the w.p.b
F. : Occupying a slab in the office morgue..
G. See you later... .T.W.S.: Nothing in
that batch P.C.N.: Characters fair, yarn
p00r... .J.L.R.: It’s been doing the rounds for
the last 50 years... .M.R.H.: We had hoped
that we’d never see that masterpiece’ again
L.F.P.: “These Contributors.” Exactly....
P.D.8.: Next time you do it we’ll be really
annoyed D.C.: Personally, we don’t give a
hoot what anyone thinks about us in 2000
years’ time V.F.: The idea is not bad, but
you’ll have to dress it better than that....
Y.R.P.: Sorry, we don’t like it either....
R.V.: What’s this? Prospector snaffling his
mate’s gold and dying of thirst in the desert!
Be off! R.P.T.: Not very interested in your
flappers H.J.R.: Have another guess
D.S.C.: Send it in P.R.H.: Completely
mystified by (1) purple monkeys, (2) three of
the six moiders, (3) detective who wears top-
hat and (4) how he solves the mystery
B. They’re all pretty blunt weapons to
carve out a career... .L.R.S.: With a new plot
and written differently it might stand a chance.
L.R.P.: You’ve made ’em worse than be-
fore... .L.C.: Your logic is leaky... .P.8.C.:
Well, to be “perfectly frank,” dreadful
W.W.C.: Not for us G.L.8.: Nor any of
those H.C.D.: As much reading and writing
as he can manage... .L.T.F., P.S., G.N.O’D.,
F. F.M.H., J.D. and M.N.T.: Try them
elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
0.J.N.: Like neither miniatures nor sil-
houettes —microscopic silhouettes send us into
a rage... .C.R.: Wash is too muddy....
C. You can draw hats all right, but
you don’t make much of a fist of the faces
underneath them H.McD.: Couldn’t decide
whether it was a kilted Scot or a bow-legged
flapper J.R.G.: Gags arc relics N. 8.:
Yes, a slight improvement, but you’ve a long
road to travel J.M.: Stick to autograph
albums L.P.: Scorfield did it better
G. What is it—a map of the Chinese war
zone? W.M.: Faint pencillings on writing-
pad paper baffled us A.E.: Keep studying.
T.M.R.: Stick to line, and make the gags
brighter J.G.H.: There are stranger things
—but not many D.W.A.V.: Liked the sig-
nature R.G.: That swaggie still has the same
old patches in his pants... .J.N.8.: Get hold of
a style of your own... .E.L.K.: No, we don’t
want colored-crayon drawings... .W.E.P. :
Now learn to draw.... A. 8.: Once again, cari-
catures must be of people of some importance.
J.F.I.: Afraid not K.A.S.: The same
blowsy female hurling the same rolling-pin at
the same inebriate, and still missing R.H.C.:
Well, now you know how to draw a house
try doing something with the people who live
in it....L.H.: Your friends have been pulling
your leg D.R.P.: This week’s worst
A.R.W.: That poster-size flapper is occupying
a corner (her face turned to the wall); come
and take her home.
A MIXED GRILL.
Objecting to cash-order concerns being
included in Dunstan’s Moneylenders Bill,
ten Victorian Labor Assemblymen helped
the U.A.P. to defeat vital clauses of it.
Dunstan and Cain, the Labor leader,
were both nettled: “The bill must pass,”
said the minority Premier, and Cain
muttered something to the effect that
Caucus would give the Labor rebels their
orders. If Dunstan and Cain go on like
this the alliance they object to may be
formed again to pass one-vote-one-value.
* * * *
While heaps of American and British
politicians, Gentiles all, were denounc-
ing Germany, each with one eye on his
electorate, one David Goldblatt, a Lon-
doner, came out with a most pertinent
suggestion:
Mr. Chamberlain flew to Germany to
save the peace of the world. Why
shouldn’t our leading Jews fly to Ger-
many to save the Jews and the conscience
of the world?
He named Hore-Belisha, the War Minis-
ter, and Lords Reading, Samuel, Roths-
child and Hirst. Such a mission, if
proposed by the parties mentioned, would
place the Nazi Government in such a
position that it could scarcely be rejected.
If Monash were alive and were invited to
become a member of it, he would go
like a shot.
* * * *
“Ming”: When the boss arrived at the
office on Monday morning he was flat-
tered to discover that a lady in a garden
suburb had sent him flowers. The typist
had arranged them artistically on his
desk by the window, and the boss settled
down to work beside the tribute. Shortly
after, through the open door, we noticed
him performing what appeared to be a
new type of daily dozen. Then he stood
up and gyrated wildly. Finally he
shouted for the accountant. A large
and aggressive bee had arrived to pay her
respects to the blossoms, and energetically
resented the boss’s presence. With much
flicking of dusters the staff drove off the
intruder, but not for long. She was back
in a few seconds with a gang of un-
pleasant relatives, and they took posses-
sion of the office and drove the rightful
tenant out. The boss took an interest
in the route of the intruders, and was
astonished to find they were arriving
from above. An apologetic junior clerk
ran a two-hive bee-farm on the roof.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Mt. Bold reservoir, Adel-
aide’s fourth and latest water-supply, has
at last been officially “opened”—it has
long since been full. Damming the Onka-
paringa, about 20 miles from the city,
with a 150 ft. wall, over 700 ft. across, it
cost £480,000 and holds nearly seven
thousand million gallons. It is expected
to suffice for all metropolitan needs for
at least half a century to come ; after
that there seems to be only the distant
Murray to be drawn upon.
* * * *
“Ploto”: Prolonged study of sporting
pages which show a seven-year-old horse
as “aged” will convey the image of totter-
ing senility to the untutored mind, so
there is some excuse for “The 0.D.” (B.
9/11/’3B) when he expresses astonish-
ment that his 23-year-old film nag came
prancing home from the Civil War.
Catalogue is rising nine. A 12-year-old
has won the hardest horserace in the
world, the English Grand National;
whilst the photograph of an officer’s
charger used for the frontispiece of the
British army textbook on horse manage-
ment shows a 20-year-old as the choicest
specimen that the compiler could dig up.
There are thousands of older horses doing
their daily jobs in Australia. Horses
have been known to attain the age of
60 years and more, so the next time “The
0.D.” wants a good horse he won’t have
to go all the way to Hollywood. The
Waler is probably better known there
than it is in Sydney.


/
,4€km
¥ ft
« ffj^
/ j-; '■ T 22.
•c;
- O.jj
\
,v-
-* 4sft£
; v- -
s^.
n
:■■. ■*
How shall I Invest?
WEALTHY people are not the only ones faced with
the problem of how to invest. The man or woman
of average means has equal or greater reason to invest
money wisely.
In choosing a sound investment, satisfy yourself that
the security is good and* the interest rate reasonable.
Both these essentials are inherent in a Rural Bank Fixed
Deposit.
You can invest any amount from £5 upwards on Fixed
Deposit at the Rural Bank for periods of 3,6, 12 or 24
months and you will receive interest regularly at current
banking rates.
Investing on interest-bearing Fixed Deposit at the Rural
Bank is a simple matter which will take you only
a few moments. You will be personally assisted by
experienced, friendly Bank officers.
RjUJUllHcuik-
°F • NEW ’fsIIUTH • WALES
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
H«ad Office:
KOSCIUSKO
for Xmas—New Year
Golf at 5000 ft.—Tennis—Trout Fishing
Alpine Lakes Riding Trail
Motor Trips to the Summit
WMwm
,
V
'
■
mm
m
HOTEL KOSCIUSKO.
Special Christmas Holiday Tour
Leave Sydney Dec. 23—Arrive back New Year’s Day
Inclusive Cost covering
Fares, a Full Week at
Hotel Kosciusko, Seasonal
Festivities and a Motor
Trip to the Summit.
£9'13
Information and Reservations at
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House 8 Martin Place Sydney.
Tel.: BW4471.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“L.H.P.: Tyrone Power, the good-
looking young actor who made such a
hit in “Lloyd’s of London” and other
more recent films, is a sprig of an old
theatrical family which has had a
Tyrone Power on the boards for the last
116 and which has had links with
Australia.' Tyrone Power the first, born
in Ireland in 1797, played Irish charac-
ter parts in England and the U.S.A.
from 1822 till 1841, when he perished
in the wreck of the steamer President.
His son, T.P. the second, was also an
actor. Australia well knew Tyrone
Power the third (son of T.P. the second),
who brought the Crane-Power co. to
Australia in 1899 —“Crane” was Edith,
his wife. They played “Tcss of the
D’Urbervilles,” “The Only Way” and
other dramas. It is their son who figures
on the silver screen.
/ * * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The world's most
remarkably specialised ship is H.M.
Research, now building at Dartmouth for
the Admiralty. Her job will be to con-
tinue the investigations into terrestrial
magnetism and atmospheric electricity
conducted by the American yacht Car-
negie until her loss by fire in Fiji. She
will carry 12,000 sq. ft. of sail on a
brigantine rig, over a hull of 142 ft. 6in.
waterline and 34ft. moulded width,
loaded displacement 770 tons. Her pur-
pose requiring that all possible mag-
netic material must be eliminated, her
hull is of teak on brass frames, copper-
sheathed and lead-ballasted. Anchors,
cables and wire standing rigging are alu-
minium bronze, and her water tanks are
teak. Four Diesel engines for propul-
sion and winches are mostly of bronze
alloy. Where steel has to be used, as in
the crankshaft, it is of non-magnelic
quality: even razor blades, cooking and
table gear and typewriters are non-mag-
netic. To launch in February, she should
be sailing for her first survey this time
next year.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: “T.” got those Mataura
(M.L.) election figures reversed (B.
26/10/’3B). MacDonald, not McDougall,
won. David’s song was a Salv’army chorus
(“There Are Shadows in the Valleys, but
There’s Sunshine on the Hills”). He also
recited a Bobby Burns poem at the meet-
ing “T.” mentions, but it was all in vain.
* * * *
Perth Museum recently took delivery
of a consignment of ancient pottery —a
present from London’s Guildhall
Museum. Other State curators will be
asking: “Why pick Perth?” Well, for
one thing, erstwhile newspaper proprietor
McCallum Smith interested himself in the
matter, and, for another, W.A. has a
friend at Court. London’s recently retired
Lord Mayor (Sir Harry Twyford) mar-
ried an Adelaide girl whose sister has
been a resident of Bunbury, W.A., for
30 years.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: “Whizzcr' Brown,
an American football idol, has won a
Rhodes scholarship and hopes to pick up
the “English style of football” when he
reaches Oxford. As the “Whizzcr”
admits having received £3OOO in cash for
playing with Pittsburg Pirates, he has
very little hope of ever donning an
Oxford blue for Rugby or Soccer, One
of the professional Rugby League sides
might give him a gallop, but their game
is not played at Oxford or Cambridge or,
indeed, at any university in the Empire
save the Queensland foundation.
• * * *
“Third Base”: If the smackers can be
garnered at this end we shall see a base-
ball team from Santa Barbara Uni. in
Australia next year. We have had suc-
cessful visits in the past from two Cali-
fornian teams, Stanford Uni. and Mult-
nomah A.C.C., and both did the game
a lot of good. The visitors ask for return
fares and touring and accommodation
expenses. These should not present any
great obstacle, and the local baseballers
arc already on the hunt for guarantees.
* * * *
“Everton”: People controlling football
—especially the Soccer variety—in Britain
understand what is meant by discipline.
Brighton City F.C. has been wheeled up
on a charge of paying its amateur players
and fined £lOO. The manager was sus-
pended till the end of the season, direc-
tors were severely censured, and four
amateurs were declared professionals,
while 14 others were cautioned.
TOONGABBIE
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
WHEN Parramatta wentqoyful over
the fact that it had been settled
by white men for a century and a
half and, next to Sydney, was the
oldest town in all Australia, one of the
present suburbs of the newly-declared
city was hardly given as much promi-
nence as it deserves. For Toongabbie
is the site of the first serious agricultural
undertakings made in Australia, and the
meaning of the aboriginal name is “near
the water,” which might well have been,
in 1789, water of bitterness.
Governor Phillip had tried unsuccess-
fully to do a little farming close to Sydney
Cove, but it was never a success, and not
until the Parramatta land came under
cultivation did the new colony begin in
any sense to be self-supporting. It was
nearly two years after the settlement had
been planted on Port Jackson that the
first harvest reaped in New South Wales
was garnered close to the district now
called Wentworthville, but at that time
part of the country known under its
native name of Toongabbie.
The first Government farm, exclusive
of the Governor’s garden at “The
Crescent,” just below Government House,
consisted of 134 acres between the present
railway line and the Parramatta River,
west of the old Hawkesbury-road.
Captain Tench, of the Marines, took a
look at it on December 5, 1791, six weeks
after it had been virgin forest, and found
13 bark huts there for the accommodation
of the convicts, 500 of whom—there were
only a little over 700 in N.S.W. —had
cleared and burnt off the area mentioned.
Next year Phillip records that 1000 acres
were under cultivation —800 in maize and
the rest in wheat and barley.
But it was the most terrible farm that
ever existed in this or any other country,
and maybe the Parramatta of to-day
doesn’t like to remember it. George
Thompson came out in the Royal
Admiral in May, 1792, and has left one
of the most valuable records extant of the
infant colony at that time. Here is what
he says of the Toongabbie farm and its
unfortunate hands.
“They are allowed no breakfast hour,
because they seldom have anything to eat.
Their labor is felling trees, digging up the
stumps, rooting up the shrubs and grass,
turning up the ground with spades or
hoes, and carrying the timber to con-
venient places. From the heat of the sun,
the short allowance of provisions and the
ill-treatment they receive from a set of
merciless wretches (most of their own
description) who are the superintendents,
their lives are truly miserable.
“At night they are placed in a hut, four-
teen, sixteen or eighteen together (with a
woman, whose duty it is to keep it clean,
and to provide victuals for the men when
at work), without the comfort of either
beds or blankets, unless they take them
from the ship they came out in, or are
rich enough to purchase them when they
come on shore. They have neither bowl,
plate, spoon nor knife, but what they can
make of the green wood of the country,
only one small iron pot being allowed to
dress their poor allowance of meat, rice,
etc.; in short, all the necessary con-
veniences of life they arc strangers to, and
suffer everything they could dread in their
sentence of transportation. Some time
ago it was not uncommon for seven or
eight to die in one day, and very often
while at work, they being kept in the
field till the last moment, and frequently
while being carried to the hospital. Many
a one has died standing at the door of
the storehouse, while waiting for his
allowance of provisions, merely for
want of sustenance and necessary food.”
For ten years, at least, Toongabbie
farm was like that, for Joseph Holt in
1800 gives a description of it almost
identical with Thompson’s.
, “Ace”: An unusual happening is
reported from England, where Amr Bey,
the Egyptian holder of the amateur and
open squash racket titles, has given up
appearing in competition squash. Since
1931, when he first won the amateur title,
no one has been found to stay with Amr
Bey; as a result players and followers of
squash are fed up with appearing in or
watching games which are nothing but
a foregone conclusion. The Egyptian
will still take part in club competitions.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Queensland again gets the First Prize of £3 3s. offered for the weekly Other
Fellow’s Mind Competition.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Look West, Mr. Street!
That the Defence Department concen-
trates on the city-dweller in making the
future Digger is doubtless connected with
the fact that the majority of Australians
swarm among the big buildings. It is sub-
mitted, however, and with strong backing,
that Australia finds its best storm-
troopers far from the milling throng.
And some of its best citizens, too.
For example, take Winton, the C.Q.
wool and cattle district. Winton had a
population of 2350 in 1914, and 20 p.c.
went on active service. Nearly every
available man enlisted. The deaths in
action were about 20 p.c. Those who
returned settled down to work, and a
very big percentage of the station
managers and selectors are ex-Diggers.
There was a drive through Queensland
to collect a fund for limbless soldiers,
and Winton gave more than Brisbane.
Unfortunate returned soldiers jumping
the rattler through the west are sure
of a handout from the Winton Diggers.
If the Minister for Defence wants to
find men willing to defend his native
land, let him shade his eyes and look
west, and among the flies and duststorms
he’ll find ’em —plenty of ’em!” — Verb.
Sap. (Q.).
“Verb. Sap.” the winner—he is Mr. A.
T. Weedon, of Winton. He gets a cheque
for £3 3s. plus 2|d. a line.
Is It Dictatorship?
For a prime piece of dictatorship in
Australia just have a look at the activi-
ties of the Returned Soldiers’ Preference
Board, appointed under the Returned
Soldiers’ Employment Act of 1919. This
Act provides, inter alia, for preference to
every soldier who was a member of the
A.I.F. regardless of whether he went
abroad or not; but the board permits
preference only to those who went
abroad.
Many men disabled in training camps
made a greater sacrifice than those who
turned back from the Cape at the close
of war. The latter get preference, the
former none, though both are equally
entitled, according to the Act. — Enermus
(N.S.W.).
Arbitration and Awards
In many States it seems that values in
regard to work differ, as also do compu-
tations for “skill” in various trades. From
the age of 14 or 15 rates rise under
“wage-for-age clauses,” and these cease
at 21.
What is the logic of it? We must
assume that:
1. A man’s needs do not increase after 21.
2. A man’s skill does not increase after 21.
3. A man’s knowledge keeps stationary
after 21.
And with all due regard to legislators
and legislation, also to arbitrators and
arbitration, there appears to be rpuch
that is radically wrong with the compu-
tation or reasoning basis.
Under the Acts it would appear that
the minimum rate has also become the
maximum rate, so where has that great
human incentive “hope” been sent? —
Observer (W.A.).
The Kids Need It
Is it not time modern parenthood re-
awakened to the need of children for
Sunday-school attendance? Young people
at kindergarten age should be sent for
religious instruction each Sunday, and
they would, by reason of high principles
instilled within them, continue attend-
ance for some years. But the child who
goes car trips every Sunday, or who is
taken to see mother and father playing
tennis or golf, comes to regard the Sab-
bath as a day of holiday enjoyment. At
a more mature age there may or may
not be harm morally in such actions, but
the fact remains that the child sent to
Sunday school and church worship is
far better off and better-equipped for
life’s journey.— Passun (Victoria).
When to Use the Boot
There’d be less use for the divorce
courts if husbands would recognise and
use the boot on potential co-res. early.
But frequently hubby doesn’t suspect,
because lovemaking is a different thing
when the subject is a married woman.
Frequently affairs that end in the
divorce courts begin in “fun.” Many a
woman who would rebuff advances made
seriously accept them as “harmless fun.”
Beware, therefore, of the chap that
constantly jokes with your wife espe-
cially if he is your friend! It’s serious
when this joker gets to the stage where
“Now you’ll feel better!"
he romps with her as he jokes ; he’s play-
ing with her now, he’ll be kissing her
next.
And in no circumstances stand by
while the other chap pays your wife the
little attentions that should be your privi-
lege. If you allow him to help her into
her coat now, in your presence, the time
may come when she will allow him to
help her out of it when you are not
present.
I know something about it, because
I’ve been through the mill.—A. S.
(N.S.W.).
A National Characteristic
The North has no monopoly; there
are also some friendly people in the
southern States (B. 9/11/ ’3B). 1 landed
in Sydney from Mauritius 15 years ago
as a distressed British sailor—-not a
penny in my pocket. The skipper of the
ship asked the wharf manager where we
tied up if he would give me a few days’
work to get me on my feet. I started
that day as a wool storeman, with good
wages and plenty of overtime. Within
a month I had £l5 in the bank. From
casual work I rose to a permanent job
with the firm. I have travelled all over
Australia since then, but I have never
worked with better cobbers, and have
never struck better bosses than the one
I had in Sydney. It’s not the clothes or
the lack of them that makes for that
warm friendliness; it’s the Australian’s
natural gift, that hail-fellow-well-met
attitude, which I have found on every
track where I have humped the curse. —
Restoration (Q.).
In Defence of Teachers
The old fallacy that the teacher’s life
is an easy one has been resurrected by
“Burr” (B. 9/11/’3B), who wants to pile
on his (and her) already overburdened
shoulders the task of taking a census
of transport and supply facilities for
defence purposes.
Though I am not a teacher myself,
six of my family are or were in that
profession, and I know that teachers
thoroughly earn their pay.
Their hours may seem short to a
casual observer, but actually a teacher s
work has by no means ended when the
children go home. The after-hours work
is considerable. Teaching alone is
strenuous enough, either with the huge
classes in town schools or the assorted
and sometimes unruly mobs found in
country places. Many other duties are
added to it, such as organising sports,
running school libraries and savings
banks, selling books, supervising grounds
and gardens and sometimes school build-
ings (especially in the country, where
long negotiations with officialdom are
needed to secure necessary repairs).
And many young teachers are studying
for a University degree, a necessary con-
dition for advancement.
If teachers undertake outside work
on Saturdays it is probably because of
shortage of cash. — Buzzy (Tas.).
Suppression of News
A. H. Robinson (B. 16/11/’3B) must
have a short memory if he thinks that
the daily press of the British Empire
does not combine, sometimes under
Governmental inspiration, to suppress
news of vital importance.
There were two notable instances of
this within the past three years.
About the middle of 1935 the Home
Fleet was suddenly rushed to the Medi-
terranean in the hope that this action
would intimidate Mussolini into accept-
ing the solution of the Italo-Abyssinian
dispute desired by the British Govern-
ment. As Cabinet wished the public to
remain ignorant of the move, not a word
about it appeared in any British or
Dominion newspaper (except, perhaps,
in Canada, where U.S.A. newspapers
regularly circulate, and concealment
would be futile) until it was an accom-
plished fact. The Continental and
American press featured the affair from
the beginning.
Again, the whole British press and
most of the Dominion papers preserved
a close silence about the matrimonial
intentions of Edward VIII. until silence
could be kept no longer.
What essential difference is there
between such conduct and that of Hitler
in keeping from the German people the
possibility that an attack on Czecho-
slovakia might lead to war with other
countries? — Den (N.S.W.).
That “Land”!
This “go on the land, young man!”
tosh makes me sick. What is the use of
more men going on the land when those
already on it can’t dispose of their
produce except at near-starvation rates,
or at prices bolstered up by Government
subsidies and so forth?
I have observed that most of the nitwits
who adjure young men to “go on the
land” hold down white-collar jobs them-
selves. Why not take all these white-
collared gentry and put them on the
land they are so constantly harping
about? Maybe after a few seasons like
the present one their eyes will be opened
to the facts. If not, they will at least
have done some work. — Carlo (W.A.).
Wool in Clothing
The arguments against wearing
woollen clothing (B. 16/11/*3B) are
neither bulk nor laundering. Our preju-
dice lies in their prickliness. Even the
more expensive kinds irritate the skin
for some considerable time, necessitating
the wearing of a silken garment under-
neath. That is where bulk comes in.
As for woollen stockings, they neither
look nor feel well, however finely made,
and, to add to our irritation, they have
the annoying habit of making one’s skirt
creep up.
In our sub-tropical country woollen
undergarments are not a necessity. If
more home consumption of wool is
needed, stop the importation of cheap
so-called woollen goods, such as jumpers
and socks, and give us an article at a
moderate price which will not fall to
pieces after the first wash. —A. R. Young
(0.).
Junk—But Worth Money
As a young Aussie I have travelled for
years in the back country, and the haunt-
ing impression is of waste. Not waste
country or uneconomical management,
but idle or obsolete material everywhere.
Steam plants, engines and cars are on
the list. A station at Charleville and
another at Cunnamulla have complete
inoperative scouring plants with thou-
sands of pounds of brass- and ironwork
lying idle. An Adavale station refused
£l5OO for its scrapheap.
No one realises better than myself that
it would cost money to gather this stuff
in, but it would represent a tiny problem
to Germany, Japan or Italy. Central
treatment dumps could be erected, and
empty station utilities and trucks going
to town could carry material, allowances
being credited to meet taxation.
A man who owns a fleet of trucks
bought the first of his fleet with solder
and lead melted down from week-end
trips to the local dump.. Perhaps it seems
like tempting disaster to allow steam
plants to go on the scrapheap. Only
last week I met a man who had unsuc-
cessfully approached a financial institu-
tion to borrow enough money to deepen
a diminishing bore-flow. There are hun-
dreds of pounds’ worth of “waste”
around him. There are thousands of
idle portable boilers in the country. And
who can estimate how much rotting wood
fuel? In fact, nearly everything neces-
sary to do his job.— Fergus (Q.).
At Last—Aerial Strangulation
It’s come at last. The South Aus.
Transport Commission recommends that
aeroplanes operating solely within the
State shall be registered and licensed. Air-
craft in S.A. have" been taking quite a few
bites out of railway-passenger revenue,
and one station in the north now shifts
its wool to market with the aid of ’planes.
It found that because of bad roads and
the high cost of rail freight it was cheaper
to keep off the ground. The measure is
to come up next session, and it will make
some interesting listening, especially if
the legislators try to deal with someone
operating from just over the border, as
can happen with Broken Hill. — Seal Tee
(S.A.).
Making Criminals
In my opinion, the greatest martyrs in
respect of liability to prosecution under
various regulations are farmers. Forget-
fulness in registering an orchard ; failure
to renew license for small shotgun used
to prevent parrots destroying fruit; any


infringement of a hopelessly impossible
Fire Control Act; the infringement
(sometimes unavoidable) of various Acts
in relation to straying stock ; failure to
license a dog; failure to register a bull.
That’s only a beginning, as witness
other “crimes”: the finding of a tick on
a sheep, although said sheep may have
had to pass through foul railway yards
and travel in dirty railway trucks before
examination; failure to comply with
Health Act, although said Act is so am-
biguously worded that its practical work-
ing depends virtually upon the ideas of
a usually quite unqualified inspector.
The farmer, of course, has all the other
crimes common to the rest of the com-
munity hanging over his head. But the
essential feature of this kind of bureau-
cratic form of government is that con-
viction and penalty automatically follow
prosecution. No extenuating circum-
stances are considered. No evidence is
usually accepted other than the in-
spector’s. Consequently no defence is
usually made. If I commit a burglary
I shall get off as a first offender. If I
failed to license a dog I shall certainly
be fined and penalised with costs,
although I may have regularly licensed
a dog for half a lifetime.—C. S. (W.A.).
Examine Both!
1 owned a 14-year-old motor-car of
which T was rather proud, and I got very
hot under the Collar when I read of sug-
gestions to send old cars from the road.
My brakes were in good order, and I
swept along with the traffic in the peak
hours as well as any of them —or so I
thought.
But while I was driving through a
quiet suburb one night, the steering-wheel
spun loose in my hand, and I had
mounted the footpath before I could pull
up. The rod connecting the steering-
wheel with the front wheels had worn
through and dropped off. I felt a bit
sick when I visualised its dropping off in
the crowded streets I had just left.
I drive a much less ancient car now
and advocate examination of the car as
well as the driver. —Burr (Q.).
Scaring Business ,
Scare headlines and the general fea-
turing of items of a sensational character
indulged in by the daily press must exer-
cise a heavy drain on the nervous forces
of the people of this country. The press
of Westralia is quick to seize on any
melancholy detail of news in the stock
market or pessimistic utterances of poli-
ticians. The leader of the Federal Oppo-
sition, influenced no doubt by the chaotic
state of the Labor forces, would appear
to move around in a world of gloom
akin to Edgar Allan Poe’s. A more
dreary statement than the one he re-
cently made in W.A. on the trade out-
look is difficult to conceive. This was
greedily lapped up by the local press,
and no doubt had its evil repercussions
on business.
The fact is that the major industry of the
State is goldmining, and the employment
and output of this industry at the present
time are in a highly buoyant condition. —
G S. M. (W.A.).
All-party Committees
I am for extending the all-party com-
mittee method of prior consideration of
proposed legislation. This was done with
excellent results on the Victorian Com-
panies Bill. The all-party (joint) com-
mittee considered the views of all groups
interested in the measure, and agreed,
as a committee, on the form of each
clause. When the measure came before
the House, 90 p.c. of the usual wrangle
was eliminated and clauses were passed
in batches of thirty and forty at a time,
the members accepting in the main the
joint committee’s recommendation. Mem-
bers were free to debate any clause, but
only isolated highly contentious issues
were raised.
The system has this beneficial effect:
It compels at least a few private mem-
bers to get a thorough grip of the pro-
posed measure and saves a lot of bark-
ing up the wrong tree. — Murray Downs
(N.S.W.).
Wake Up and Advertise
On every bale of wool sold in Aus-
tralia a wool tax of sixpence is paid
for research and advertising.
Little appears to be known how this
money is used. Yet there are hundreds
of ways in which the product might be
advertised.
Far too much publicity is given to
German and other synthetic wool and
its ever-increasing uses. Why advertise
such achievements to a public which
should be reading what our superior
wool can be and is manufactured into?
Merino wool has dozens of uses.
Every publicity avenue should be ex-
plored and a continuous campaign set
going. For instance, a postage stamp
valued at 2d. or 3d. could depict a
merino sheep with Australia as a back-
ground. Stamps go all over the world,
and there are millions of collectors.
Exhibits might be arranged attractively
and housed in every capital city of Aus-
tralia, the exhibits to be included in
all tours so that tourists, both overseas
and Australian, may learn to know and
see the uses to which wool is put. I
doubt whether such a place exists any-
where in Australia.
Large and small shops should be en-
couraged to make attractive displays of
their woollen products to tempt the buy-
ing public, and the. mills could co-operate
with wholesale buyers in every way.
The woollen industry is one of the
very few industries not subsidised by the
Governments, but instead is taxed to the
very utmost, and it is up to Governments
to wake up and advertise the thing that
represents our financial backbone. —
D. Fanning (Q.).
A Native Defence Corps
“R.McL.” (B. 2/11 /’3B) is right about
the part aboriginals and half-castes could
and do play in developing the North.
But wouldn’t they be invaluable in de-
fending it? The Australian native isn’t
lacking in courage or initiative ; he’s as
amenable to discipline as any native race
in the Empire ; and accounts of endur-
ance and devotion to duty and affection
are as common among his people as
among our own.
Native regiments, drilled and trained in
the use ,ot suitable arms and equipment,
would offer serious resistance to any
enemy force landing in the north. Their
system of signalling, their knowledge of
the country and their endurance would
give them a mobility and striking force
which no white troops could ever hope
to acquire. They’d train easily, because
they’d be interested, and eventually it
would give them a sense of importance
and citizenship which would do more
than anything else to arrest their rapid
drift towards extinction. The cost would
be negligible.— Salmon Gums (W.A.).
Training for Parliamentarians
To-day in Australia we have seven
Parliaments ; not one politician in ten is
trained for his responsible position. He
often gains his seat by political string-
pulling and party propaganda, often
beating the better man. Sometimes he
will be selected by his party for the seat
because he is a fool —all the more easily
led by the “inner group.”
Yet he and others like him are expected
by the electors to manage competently
a complicated business. Of course, they
bungle it, and to cover up their bunglings,
and so as to show a surplus, they borrow.
The taxpayer grumbles and groans and
pays the interest bill. The next genera-
tion can manage the repayments —per-
haps. No effort is made by the electors
to change things, however, outside of
changing the party in power every few
years. That is only making matters
worse.
If we are to remain under demo-
cratic government it is obvious that we
must replace the often-patched sails of
the ship of State with modern machinery.
Throw out this collection of misfits we
call our Parliament, and have professors
(properly trained!), economists, doctors,
statisticians, etc., in their place. My
suggestion is for one Parliament of two
Houses for all Australia, with the States
split up into counties run by councils. —
Victor Johnson (Q.).
Country Medicoes and Teachers
Medicoes, fresh from studies, start out
to gain experience in the country. Such
experience gained, they go off to Europe
for a post-graduate course, then' set up
as specialists of one sort or another in
the city. Their practice in the country
is usually taken over by another beginner.
The same thing holds good in the
teaching profession. The least-experi-
enced teachers are drafted to country
schools. As they gain in experience they
take a place in city or large-town schools.
There seems no way to remedy the
position, yet it is no wonder people fight
shy of rearing a family in the country
while things remain as they are. —E.
Cole (W.A.).
Training for Defence
Australia’s defence efforts will always
be farcical until every able-bodied man
gets some military training. A lot of
them at present would not be able to use
a rifle. If it became necessary to mobil-
ise the country’s manpower in an emer-
gency under present conditions, the army
organisation would be hopelessly
tangled, as it has had no practice in
handling large bodies of men since the
A.I.F. was demobilised. A general
mobilisation now would break down of
its own weight.
Give every youth, when he turns 18,
at least three months in camp with the
battalion to which he w'ould be attached
in the event of mobilisation. Give him
six weeks’ camp training the following
year, and a month the year after. Then
keep him in a unit based on the Boer
commandoes for home-training until he
is 45. The commandoes could be built
up now with men older than 18, who
could at least be given some rudimentary
training. The discipline would do every
man jack of us the world of good. Ill-
health should be the only reason for no
military training. With an army built
on the scheme outlined, with the tradi-
tions of the A.I.F. behind it, and an
adequate Navy and Air Force, Australia
need have no fear of invasion.— James
Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Overmuch Brainwork
Parents and others are silly about the
assumption of added social status in a
soft-collar job, but the matter goes
deeper. Everyone works with his brain,
and the man who is capable of using
brain plus muscle has an advantage over
one too socially superior to use his
hands.
My own experience—l am a chalk-and-
talker —is that congenial manual work,
and here every man to his taste, is the
natural antidote to overmuch brain work.
After a hard bout of cramming I want
to use my hands (to make something)—
and I’m the perfect botch —to potter
round the garden or the like. But when
on long holidays I’ve often been roped
in to help in the family business where
muscle was needed. Then at the close
of a heavy day I. turned to reading,
music, etc., for relaxation. Does every-
one else find this hankering after the
opposite type of activity in his spare
time?—G. M. Parker (W.A.).
Sydney Crowds
As a newcomer to this, country I have
just one adverse criticism to make. I
travelled in many lands and seen
many large cities, and in my opinion
Sydney people, admirable as they are in
most ways, have the worst “pavement
manners” in the world.
On a Friday evening it is impossible
to make one’s-way through the crowded
pavements without being shoved and
banged and pushed aside by the crowds
of fierce shoppers. Women dash out of
shops regardless of the passers-by and
force their way across the pavement to
cross the streets at any place but the
recognised crossings.
Instead of walking on the left side
of the footpath the crowds straggle all
over the place.
Groups of friends meeting who stop to
discuss their affairs just where the crowd
is thickest, women dragging fretful little
children, people who suddenly stop to
gaze in shop windows —these things make
a nightmare of the one day when most
people are able to do their shopping.
Women are not the only offenders. If
you happen to be trying to emerge, from
Wynyard station at a time when most
people are entering it you may be almost
knocked down by the rush of men who
do not seem to care if they knock you
out as long as they reach the train first.
I quite realise that crowds are hard
to cope with, but my contention is that
there is no effort made in Sydney to cope
with crowds. —M. B. (N.S.W.).
The Neglected Port
Westralia’s eastern goldfields produce
over half of the State’s wealth in gold.
Yet although Kalgoorlie is connected by
rail to an excellent harbor at Esperance,
only 200 miles away, practically all goods
are railed from Perth. One exception
may be quoted in the case of fuel oil
landed at Esperance by the Lake View
and Star Co.
Except for the recent attempt by the
Associated Steamship companies to
establish regular monthly berthings, little
progress has been made at the natural
port of the goldfields—Esperance Bay.
The surrounding districts are practi-
cally unexploited, although good land is
available in areas where average rainfall
exceeds 20in. Two examples may be
mentioned—the Dalyrup River district
and the Esperance sandplain. A busy
port would also induce expansion in out-
lying districts suitable for woolgrowing,
if not for farming.
It would seem that if trade were
diverted this way it would bring cheaper
freight-rates to goldfield areas. Stimu-
lated trade would cause the formation
of a progressive town and would bring
a train of settlers to near-by districts.
Thus at least a portion of the present
wealth being won in gold would serve
to establish a new primary - pro-
ducers’ community and be a blow struck
in the cause of one of our national prob-
lems—decentralisation.
The port of Esperance should be
fostered in every way possible, even to
the extent of subsidising inter-State
vessels to make regular calls.—Prospec-
tor (W.A.).
Why the Red Army Retreated
Listening to a woman speaker at a
rather unenthusiastic rally to commemo-
rate the iwenty-first anniversary of the
Socialist Fatherland, I found she was an
authority on the Red Army. She assured
us it had never been beaten. As proof
she cited the campaign in Poland.
Deluded by bourjoice propaganda, we
ignorant Australians had believed that
the R.A. took a first-rate hiding from
Pilsudski and co. Nothing of the kind,
the lady explained. The R.A., having
driven presumptuous intruders and in-
terventionists off Red territory, chased
them as far as Warsaw and then decided
to go back home. As the speaker put it,
“the Red Army retreated because the
Soviet had decided not to stay on to
oppress the Polish people.” So the Reds
had their hands full oppressing their own
people.—Joe (Vic.).
Progressing Too Fast
What is the cause of the universal un-
rest which afflicts our modern world?
Modern unrest, I think, is due to the
rate of. change of the rate of progress.
By that I mean the enormous accelera-
tion in the pace of material and mechani-
cal advance. Years ago things changed
very little in the lifetime of an individual.
And if he could have returned twenty
or thirty years after his death a man
would still have found very little change.
Contrast that with the life of to-day!
Think of the changes that have taken
place in our own time! The trouble is
that the rate of progress is too fast for
us. We can’t keep up with it and assimi-
late it. Instead of being the masters of
our scientific achievements we are their
slaves.
Commander King-Hall says: ‘lt is the
application of the second differential cal-
culus to human existence.” To me that
theory simply means that the world is
going past us so fast that it has made us
dizzy. We try to absorb so much in a
little time.— Enid I. Tucker (Q.).
‘ ‘Cross-section”
A daily has been offering prizes for
lists of things calculated to be revealed
to future generations as a typical crpss-
section of the age in which we live.
Many and varied are the things sug-
gested.
I suggest that the contemporary news-
papers will be regarded by our great-
grandchildren as the most typical indi-
cation of our mode of life.
War scares, comic strips, serials, com-
petitions, film sections, fashion supple-
ments, race supplements and ad-
vertisements for anything from a wife or
a Persian cat to a Rolls-Royce. What
will posterity think of those comic strips
and the others, equally comic but so
desperately serious? —A. W. F. (N.S.W.).
Negotiation—Our Style
Simply because Hitler got something
out of the Munich pact, the critics ramp
against Chamberlain. All of them agree
that settlement by negotiation is prefer-
able to war, but they’re not prepared to
yield the other fellow anything, though
it’s impossible to have successful nego-
tiation unless each side loses something
in order to gain something else. There
is a curious parallel in Australia, where
industrial unions, having agreed to nego-
tiate with employers and submit the dis-
pute to an arbitration court, refuse to
accept the arbitrator’s verdict unless it
is all in their favor, and take violent
means to express their disapproval and
try to force an acceptance of their
terms. That’s as stout an attempt at dic-
tation as one could seek, and, witnessing
such displays, one readily understands
the condemnation of Chamberlain.
Are we lovers of fair play? I’ve held
the view for years that this country is too
dashed good for some of its inhabitants,
who’ve had their own way, regardless of
the rights of the community, so much
that they believe that nothing short of
their every demand, reasonable or other-
wise, is their inalienable right. And
they’re not all industrial unionists, either.
—MB (N.S.W.).


Pfhis masterpiece is (Perfection
{he spirit he always serves.
(lo§* •
/Ojstqn) S)o3g
■c3^3^%?
somtPM)
Buuuvmtrnmiir
rY^^^rrrtmitiMSimmTrricm-^rt-TTirrv^nv^^VYri
%
a
At”*
m
s^^
&
h
KS
fH?\
•£
1
0
/CrJ.
S s
V-
Si
Wo
%^=
\
(P c Calluro"s
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
GIVE AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR XMAS
A STOCKTAKING BARGAIN
ORIGINALLY PRICED AT 5/- & 6/- EACH
NOW ANY FOUR FOR 5/-
Giving Amber Her Chance
The World Is Yours
Stories by “Kodak"
Pearls of Papua
Blue North
Jungfrau
Karangi
y,
■^y
&<\\\*
\V
$r
:■&
.• ■ a 9 e
.-‘ A^V 6 «° VV^0t
. ?*ei
\o 'V^S’T^


¥
0
Here’s a range of really sensible gifts that
will earn the appreciation of the whole
family. Every Weldon line is guaranteed
for long and efficient service, whilst the low
prices asked make them the best value that
money can buy.
□
REFRIGERATORS
A new range of gleaming white, modernly streamlined
Refrigerators, silent and economical. Equipped with
every modern device with which a refrigerator can be
improved, these models give more storage space per £l
of initial cost than any other refrigerator.
Model 371, Capacity 3.5 cub, ft . £57/10/-
Model 461, Capacity cub. ft . £66/10/-
Model 681, Capacity 6.7 cub. ft £B9/10/-
Model 911, Capacity 9 cub. ft £llO/10/-
Weldon Radio
MOFFA
/&' *&.£ £mfefcfeff* <
I
£p
..../•
4*
xxW<:
PRESTCOLD REFRIGERATORS.
Made in England.
ty'wx'xr ,r y
f< f ‘s
gif]
’<</ I *
■
fei»;
. '■' / 1/
■ i §fe .. .
HB f -- : , ' ,
- .■«: fife MSia.vfe:
HP*!*
|W--
Patents applied for in
all parts of the world.
oppn door
tuning controls;.
Weldon Radioclocks
Take your choice. Mantel or Grandfather styles. They
are attractive and efficient models, with a reliable eight-
day clock for greater convenience. Glorious tone . . .
ample power ... a veritable gem among radio.
MANTEL RANGE
MODEL 2/38A, broadcast,
5-valve 17 gns.
MODEL 2/38D, dual-wave,
5-valve . 20 gns.
MODEL 2/38V, battery-
operated (no B or C bat-
teries), 5-valve .... 25 gns.
GRANDFATHER CLOCK
RANGE.
MODEL 2/38G, broadcast,
5-valve 25 gns.
MODEL 2/38DG, dual-wave,
5-valve 28 gns.
MODEL 2/38VG, battery
operated (no B or C bat-
teries), 5-valve .... 31 gns.
ĵ
The best that money can buy!
m
Weldon Console Models.
(Illustration depicts two glorious new
1939 Battery-operated Models.)
Weldon Immersion Heater.
For rapid heating of a small volume of
water. Price 4/11
Weldon Radiator. An econo-
mical room heater of very sturdy con-
struction. Price 14/6
A comprehensive range available.
Manufactured in Canada, thousands of Moffat Electric
Refrigerators are giving dependable, uninterrupted service all
over the world An exclusive device is the new Speed-O-Rator
Chilling Unit for exceptionally fast, freezing. Designed to
accommodate a surprising amount of food, such features as the
swinging basket shelf, door rack and others all contribute
to larger capacity. Furthermore, the thermometer control offers
every desired freezing speed.
Model M-37, Capacity 3.6 cub. ft £59/15/-
Model S-46, Capacity 4.5 cub. ft £66/10/-
Model S-68, Capacity 6.5 cub. ft £88/10/-
-
Remington Electric Shaver
Tbe sbaver that will give a clean close shave at the
very first attempt. No resistance cord. No step-up
transformer required-—plug straight in to 240-volt A.C.
or D.C. power point. 100% satisfaction guaranteed.
Price £5/19/6
Traders and Merchants are invited to make early appli-
cation for excellent franchise
j
Weldon Iron, a proven
favourite of sterling quality.
Price 14/6
Weldon Bicycle. For road
or track. A splendid range.
Guaranteed for 10 years.
Prices, £6/7/6 to £10/15/-
4'<
Weldon Washing Machine.
Of Canadian manufacture. Here’s the
work-saver you have been waiting for.
Soundly-designed and of sturdy structure,
the WELDON makes washing day a
pleasure. Price £32/10/-
Weldon Toaster.
A High-class Toaster of
exceptional value.
Price 13/6
All other Radio
and Electrical
lines available.
"Duperite" Mikado
No. 1456.
This lamp, embodying both efficiency in
lighting and beauty in design, is the out-
standing lamp of the season. Finished with
chromium-plated band, black base and
onyx white shade, with the body obtain-
able in colours: Red, blue, black, primrose,
white. Price 40/6
Other styles of reading lamps available.
Weldon Hot
Water Jug.
In cream, or in a range
of attractive colourings.
Price 1 8/6
>
Bik
ft
Weldon Vacuum
Cleaner. Complete with all
necessary attachments for all
cleaning purposes; of British
manufacture throughout.
Price £5/10/-
You can pay more, but you’ll
never buy better value !
Enquire from your local Radio Electrical Dealer,
or direct from the manufacturers and distributors.
BLOCH & GERBER LTD.
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO..
46-48 YORK STREET, SYDNEY - - 'Phone: MA6291 (9 lines)
