

dfdfd
This great holiday season
emphasises the fact that you
will want to make your own
personal picture records of all
that you will see and do.
Bring your picture-making up
to date! Let us demonstrate
the new KODAKS.
Six-20 Popular Brownie, 7/6.
Six-20 Brownie Juniors from 14/6.
Six-20 Kodak Juniors from 39/9.
Six-20 Kodak Seniors from 97/6 (as illustrated).
Cine-Kodak Eight from £ll/19/6.
Write or call for your copy of the Kodak Amateur Booklet.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (A/sia) PTY., Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney,; 124 Hunter Street,
. Newcastle; 252 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
(also entrance from Howie Place); 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 93 Brisbane Street,
Launceston; 662 Hay Street. Perth (also entrance 28 Plaza Arcade) ; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND, LTD., 162 Queen Street. Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo
Street. Christchurch
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3034.
Wednesday, April 6, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
KING'S CROSS AND BLOOMSBURY.
If I took my typewriter I couldn’t take my boots,
that was certain. And, of course, dress shirts were an
utter impossibility. Nobody has ever been able to
find room for a dress shirt except by cutting it up
into small squares and pasting it on the outside of
the trunk, where the cuffs make good labels.
I sat on the lid of the suitcase and brooded.
Maybe I wouldn’t go back to England after all.
But as F. Rhodes Farmer pictured it (B. 30/3/’3B>
it was a tempting island. Authors were “recognised
and encouraged” ; for serious work they were paid
“anything from three to 300 guineas per thousand
words” ; they could live cheaply on the Continent
or in the country.
And it was all true, I knew. There was A. J.
Cronin making fabulous money writing fatuous
articles on Hollywood for the dailies. There was my
poet-novelist friend getting £3O a month for one
article in a New York paper. There was the adorable
old man who wrote such naughty novels about rustics
and who lived in a thatched cottage of the sort for
which the statutory rent varies from 3s. to 6s. 6d. a
week. There was the friend who had been to Spain,
where wine was a penny a glass and where fares were
so cheap you could live in a taxi, if you happened
to think that a good idea. There was the pleasant
seven guineas a time for my short political articles
for the daily that illustrated the story about the M.L.
dairy-farmer with a photograph of an Australian
sheep-farmer.
But then, I reflected, as I wondered if the best
way to transport coat-hangers was to swallow them,
that poet-novelist was a very well-known personage,
and £3O a month was no fortune. And Spain, apart
from the temporary inconvenience of an aerial bomb
occasionally dropping into your soup, had no such
overwhelming attractions that one would want to live
there permanently. And the adorable old man couldn’t
live by his deliciously naughty novels, but subsisted
on the Government bounty for authors who were
adequately distinguished and impoverished.
I remembered him saying: “I’d like to go out and
live in Australia. You should be safe from air-raids
out there.”
And I remembered the poet-novelist saying: “You
colonials are mad to come over here. We’re desperate,
vicious, fighting all the time. We’re all treading on
one another’s necks to get to the top.”
Which reminded me of the poetess in the dingy
London boarding-house who stayed in bed all day
and drank whisky. Of Bloomsbury geniuses literally
by the score. “My son, the artist” ; “My aunt, the
novelist”; “Mr. Wemyss, he wrote Worms, you
know.”
The point, I decided, resolving to beat the coat-
hanger into a ploughshare and present it to Gilbert
Murray, was that for every Cronin there are a thou-
sand Bloomsbury geniuses; and that for the ordinary
good writer the rewards aren’t anything like so lavish
as Mr. Fanner seemed to indicate. An essayist, by
no means an obscure one, once told me with a certain
sad pride that he made £2OO a year out of the type
of literary journalism Mr. Farmer refers to.
I remembered, recalling the extremely bad books
some of my other friends had had published, that
England’s great advantage was that anyone could get
to know a publisher and make two or three hundred
a year out of him. But that was hardly anything to
leave home for, and until your best-seller was written
you might as well be in Sydney as in Nether Wallop.
A little sadly, for I agreed with Mr. Farmer that
the author in Australia gets a deal so raw that if it
was rump steak you’d expect to hear, it moo protest-
ingly as you ate it, I unpacked my bag and began to
glue my dress shirt together again.
S.
Knight-errant in Pink.
If the word “libertine” could be shorn of its
Byronic associations to indicate knight-errantry with-
out undue emphasis on the “errant,” it would be a
much more appropriate label to paste on a Chesterton
or a Lynd than the pale word “liberal.” “Libertine”
has a dash, a swagger to it, eminently suitable for
men who have the courage to stand up for freedom
and beer, but “liberal” droops with a sort of night-
shirted melancholy, and it’s no wonder that, associat-
ing the term with “pinkness,” Chesterton thundered
at it:
Pink suggests nothing but the horrible and blas-
phemous idea of wine with too much water in it.
But Chesterton, a large pink person even in
appearance, was certainly pink in politics, according
to Robert Lynd’s definition of the term in In Defence
of Fink (Dent), his latest collection of essays:
If I love pink, it is probably because it is the
color of compromise, and so the color of hope. It is
not for nothing that nature brings in spring with the
almond blossom. That is why my whole political
philosophy may be summed up in the phrase: “Strike
me pink.”
That phrase, with its wit and its implication of
gently satirical tolerance, is the keynote of a wholly
delightful book. For instance, in offering the residents
of Durand Gardens, who objected to the renumbering
of their homes, the consolation that their protest will
at least not be regarded as an act of Trotskyite
Fascism, he reflects:
So far as I can see, unhappily, about the only freedom
that is left to the modem Englishman is the freedom
to possess a cat without telling the police about it.
That applies pretty tellingly to Australia, and to
Labor-regimented Maoriland, where, if present tax-
payer’s memory serves him correctly, even the gentle
gooseberry, along with chooks and poodles, has to
be declared to the State as a possible menace to the
community.
Equally stinging is his attack on the attackers
of “escapism” in literature:
This, I think, is a peculiarly modern view. Before
the invention of gas, the word “escape” was in most
cases used in a good sense.
Many things, perhaps most things, were meant
to be escaped from. Freud tries to persuade us to
escape from our repressions; Lady Astor tries to
persuade us to escape from beer.
Mr. Lynd contrives to write pleasingly about any-
thing at all that displeases him. He twits the carriers
of umbrellas—not the utilitarian gamp so much as
the object carried around Piccadilly by Anthony
Edenish young men as “a sort of silk-trousered walk-
ing-stick.” Pondering the invention of the printing
press, he makes the excellent observation that, though
it was thought that reading would enable men to think
for themselves, it has turned out to be a means of
preventing them from thinking for themselves.
Lynd has a holiday in the Rocky Mountains, and,
longing to see a bear, has his solitude invaded by a
horde of Shriners—Freemasons who wear brilliant red
fezzes and make brilliant red fusses in the American
manner.
I may have missed a bear, he comments, but it has
been some compensation to see a Shriner during the
migration season.
No less entertaining are his literary travels, in
which, inspired by a professorial pronouncement that
Lewis Carroll suffered from “preponderant oral
sadistic tendencies of a cannibalistic character,” he
discovers the shocking sadism of the nursery rhyme.
Carroll, he submits, is surely cleaner reading than
the horrid ballad about the maid who was hanging
out the clothes when
Down came a blackbird
And pecked off her nose.
Then, he recalls, there is the “Telltale tit, your tongue
shall be slit,” the disappointed dog in “Mother Hub-
bard,” Miss Muffet with her spider-complex and the
Farmer’s Wife who was definitely blind-mice-minded.
Temperance songs appeal to him as well as
nursery rhymes, and in a collection of them he found
a classic about the excellent example set us by birds:
How enchanting a picture the song-book gives us of
those little teetotallers of the trees:
The merry birds in wood and grove
They sing a Temp’rance lay,
And water makes the richest flowers
So beautiful and gay.
In his Canadian travels he found the admirable
word “meatateria,” which beats Australia’s (imported)
“morticians” and “fruitoriums” hollow. And there’s
one last touch with significance for these parts:
Even to-day, how few are the parents who have the
courage to give a son the beautiful name Hyacinth!
How rare again is the noble name Aloysius!
It may console Mr. Lyons to reflect that Lynd
himself, if less sonorously named, is addicted to the
curious hobby of bird-watching.
Reconditioning a Spinster.
In the latest work to be entitled Jane Austen
(Michael Joseph, Ltd.) Beatrice Kean Seymour
pitches previous portraits of Jane into the literary
washtub and pins out one remoulded nearer to her
heart’s desire. Especially she can’t abide the effigy
handed on by Mary Mitford, who headed Jane
towards posterity with the label “Essential Spinster”
pinned to her best brocades.
Miss Seymour feels that Miss Mitford’s report
on the younger Jane—“Mamma says she was then
the prettiest, silliest, most affected husband-hunting
butterfly she ever remembers”—“need not detain us,”
since Jane at the time “Mamma” knew her was
little more than seven years old: but a more elaborate
piece of gossip retailed by Miss Mitford detains Miss
Seymour happily at the mangle for quite a while.
This was the report of yet another lady the back
fence is getting a bit crowded —that the “husband-
hunting butterfly” had
stiffened into the most perpendicular, precise, taciturn
piece of single-blessedness that ever existed, and that,
until Pride and Prejudice showed what a precious gem
was hidden in that unbending case, she was no more
regarded in society than a poker or a firescreen or any
other thin upright piece of wood or iron that fills its
corner in peace and quietness. The case is very different
now; she is a poker, but a poker of whom everyone
is afraid. It must be confessed that this silent observa-
tion from such an observer is rather formidable. Most
writers are good-humored chatterers —neither very serious
nor very witty; but nine times out of ten (at least in
the few I have known) unaffected and pleasant, and
quite removing by their conversation any fear that may
have been excited by their works. But a wit, a
delineator of character who does not talk, is terrific
indeed!
The lady who leaned over the fence with those
few friendly remarks was vouched for by Miss Mit-
ford as “truth itself,” though Miss Mitford did
mention that the lady was the sister-in-law of the
man who was bringing a lawsuit against Jane’s
brother. “Malignant gossip from an interested
quarter” Miss Seymour very promptly calls it, but
she lingers to deal with two issues it raises the
Essential Spinster charge and the equally familiar
one that Jane used her friends and acquaintances as
raw material for her books.
On this second charge Miss Seymour admits that
no doubt, since all writers worth the name go to life
for their work, Jane took and transmuted through
her art characteristics of an acquaintance or relative,
and that beyond doubt Jane “extracted copy” from
her neighbors, “since that is only another way of
saying sne extracted it from life” ; but she won’t
have it that Jane merely “met all her characters in
the flesh, and was clever enough to get them amusingly
on to paper.” “It is too easy,” she says, “and it
reduces Jane’s genius to something little distinguish-
able from clever photography... .Like all other really
creative writers, she went to life for material, but it
wasn’t a camera she held up to it.” Good novels,
Miss Seymour reminds people who think it’s as easy
as all that, aren’t written that way at all, and she
calls G. K. Chesterton to the back fence to put into
a nutshell the way character-drawing is really done:
“A work of fiction often consists in combining a pair
of whiskers seen in one street with a crime in
another.”
As for the Essential Spinster, Miss Seymour finds
this charge negatived by, among other characteristics,
Jane’s sympathy with youth, for evidence of which —
and much other interesting light besides—she goes to
Jane’s letters, quoting from them graceful little
references to youngsters to show that Jane could not
have been the “starched and sharp-tongued spinster,
the unyielding poker her detractors allege.” “It is
men, not women,” she adds, “who are sentimental
about children, and I have often been amazed to
notice how often this charge that they do not like
them is brought against women-writers.” She
adduces evidence to prove that, unlike Charlotte
Bronte, who “loved children so much she was afraid
of them,” Jane got on capitally with the many
youngsters of her acquaintance, and they with her.
Her first charm to children, we are told, was her
sweetness of manner. “She seemed to love them and
. they loved her in return.” They were “amused by her
cleverness” and there was the “delight of her playful
talk.” It seems a commonplace, too, to assert that her
delightful sense of fun, of nonsense, must have endeared
her to very young people—who love Alice and the
ridiculous. And nobody ever had a keener sense not
alone of fun and humor but of the ridiculous than Jane.
Put that way—and there is plenty more evidence
of a like sprt in the handful of Jane’s letters which
Jane’s sister Cassandra refrained from destroying—it
clearly softens down a good deal Miss Mitford’s
angular picture ; and the picture isn’t hardened but
has simply added to it the humanising quality of
commonsense when Miss Seymour adds of Jane:
“But her utter lack of sentimentalism or hypocrisy
comes out in her attitude to children as in that to
all else.”
Another component of the common picture of
Jane which Miss Seymour assails is that of Jane’s
detachment. This was reiterated by, among others,
even G. K. Chesterton, who wound up a stout essay
on Jane with the back-fence remark that “she wrote
a story as domestic as a diary in the intervals of pies
and puddings, without so much as looking out of
the window to notice the French Revolution.” To
this specific criticism Miss Seymour retorts that the
story G.K. was talking about was written when Jane
was seventeen, “an age when even the direst world
happenings are apt to loom much less largely upon
our horizon than many other far less important
things going on all around us.” To assail the more
general charge of Jane’s detachment from the world
at large throughout her works Miss Seymour goes
once more, and very profitably, to the letters.
Only a highly intelligent woman could have written
the novels, and I submit that her detachment is more
apparent than real. If her novels are empty of allusion
to contemporary events of significance, that in itself is
of significance—for her letters are not.
Scraps produced from the letters show that Jane
was fairly well aware of the war and other matters
of her day, and Miss Seymour takes it that her
“refusal to admit the world into her novels is
deliberate.”
Jane could have given us war from the non-com-
batants’ side had she wanted. The simple truth is that
she didn’t want. She would have none of the war in
her novels. It had to be endured, but she would admit
to her work nothing of its folly and waste.
The conclusion of which is, of course, pure
surmise; and it’s simply eloquence or volubility
running away with the case when Miss Seymour
adds: —
She turned from war to uphold the sanities of peace,
to preserve in a war-ridden world (which threatened
continual danger to her own nearest and dearest) that
sense of the personal and individual which then, as
now, in a war-ridden world, must have seemed the only
thing left to men and women.
A pretty line of thought; but it might be getting
nearer to Jane —and in no way subtracting from the
picture of her as an intelligent and a human woman —
to accept that she had the wisdom to realise that her
knowledge of the war and suchlike affairs of the world
was wholly superficial, and the rare good sense to
accept that a whole world in little, of which her
knowledge and understanding were the complete
opposite of superficial, was there at her hand.
Exodus from Poland.
The Jewish novelist on a domestic theme has a
flavor as distinctive as an Italian tenor in grand opera.
He is doing something native to his spirit. The
Mother, by Sholem Asch (Routledge), is a fair speci-
men, a solid job of novel-writing that leaves the reader
with the feeling of knowing more about the characters
than the characters knew about themselves.
The setting is divided between a smalt village in
Poland and a basement dwelling in New York. Both
are pictures of poverty, relieved by the feeling of hope
and by the author’s whimsical insight. The uncon-
scious cruelty of the dreamy father is offset by his
very real tenderness toward his family. The mother’s
(Continued on page 8.)


/
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
?&*■*-
m
r L
mw. mam
mm
•'■■s.yr '
r
89'e
MEN’S TAILORED SAC SUITS
It is easy for Anthony Horderns’ to fit you perfectly with a Ready-tailored
Suit, whether you’re tall, short, stout or thin. The Business Sac Suit is cut in
sizes to fit men from 9to 1 6 stone. All Wool Suitings tailored in the latest
English styles. Greys and an interesting assortment of new patterns in Blue.
Price 89/6
THE BUSHMAN’S
TROUSER
12 7 9
For all-round service, you’ll make no mistake if you choose these husky
Bushman’s Trousers. Made of a smooth-faced, strong Cotton Venetian
with Khaki drill pockets and trimmings. Fawn, Olive or Dark Grey.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price 12/9
Anthony Hordern
and Sons Limited,
Sydney
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SefMi
I93S<
1823
WHILE I LIVE
KLL CROW
English Made
Aquatite
Raincoats
95-
A most practical Coat for all
weather. A coat that keeps
you dry when it rains, dresses
you smartly when it shines. A
slip-on Raglan “Aquatite” in
Fawn Gabardine. At
Anthony Hordern s’.
Price 95/-
MEN'S
MACINTOSHES
19 6
So waterproof that not even a
heavy shower of rain can wet
you. A Raglan style in com-
fortable proportions with all-
round belt. Grey, Putty,
Cream, Brown or Navy.
At Anthony Horderns’.
Price , 19/6
USE
THE
D.P.S.
63'-
Aust. Tweed
OVERCOATS
55-
A sound fabric, tailored in
single or double breasted styles
to our high standards. Popular
Grey tonings and finished Art.
Silk linings. At Anthony
Horderns’. Regular Price,
63/-. Special Price . . 55/-
Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
£
X
\
1/
> l
7\
%
6 /e <\x
t
V'k
£3
/<)•
m
0 o
Cj
o a
-i


A Woman and Two Men —and 'Planes
CRASH PILOT
BY ANDREW STEWART
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
fitt”T"HUNDER in the air,” old “Pop” Goodwin
said, fanning himself with the typewritten
| weather-report. “An’ as hot as the top of a
stove.”
Young Gregory, the Skyways under-manager,
who was up in the port on transport business, and
waiting for the weather to cool off before he began
it apparently, removed his legs from the table and
lit a cigarette:' “And I’m stuck in this pestilential hole
for a week, Pop.”
“A year, more like, at the rate you’re goin’ now.”
“Heaven forbid!”
The sudden sound of D-49’s motors being started
for the warming-up stirred Goodwin into activity.
He scrawled his report, sealed it in a Skyways envelope
and rang the bell. Mary Conroy came in.
“Just nip across an’ give this to Crossman before
he leaves, will you, Miss Conroy?”
Gregory went to the window and stood watching
the girl as she crossed to the big ’plane. He turned.
“You old scoundrel, Pop! And you never even men-
tioned her. Where’d you get her?”
Goodwin grinned. “You needn’t get hot and
bothered, Greg. She’s booked—Crossman.”
“But who is she?”
“Old Doc. Conroy’s kid. She came to me shortly
after he died ; wanted a job as air-hostess. It didn’t
suit her, so I found her work on the ground.”
“You would, Pop!”
“She’s a good secretary,” Goodwin said heatedly,
“and if”
“You know I don’t mean a damn’ thing, old-
timer.”
The shattering roar of D-49’s engines filled the
room, rattled the window-panes, as she took off.
T'HEY were flying blind, and Crossman knew he
* was lost, hopelessly off his course. As he battled
the threshing controls he could only strive to keep
some altitude under her and hope that the wind would
not take his wings.
The rain was like a million spears stabbing at
the cockpit glass. A bolt of lightning cut the night
in two and seemed to burst on the whirling blades.
The wildly-pitching airliner crashed into a “wind-
shift” and shuddered at the impact. The propellers
protested shrilly, like circular-saws in hardwood. Bill
Crossman, the sweat streaming down from beneath
the visor of his cap, fought a losing battle for altitude.
Back in the passengers’ compartment a woman
screamed, screamed again.
“Get back,” Crossman snapped at the co-pilot
without turning his head, “before she starts a panic.
Tell ’em we’re coming through! Tell ’em —anything!”
Another deluge of water blotted out everything,
even the darkness. They crashed through, and the
twin exhaust-fires blazed out again.
“Look out, Bill! ”he yelled. “Altitude’s dropping
clean out of the gauge. Zero! ”...
Crossman cursed hoarsely. “Can’t... Some-
thing’s wrong. Can’t get her nose up!”
He snatched back the throttles. The cockpit glass
burst above them and the water came through like a
mill-race. The propellers sawed themselves to
splinters. The liner struck, buckled.
Halliday, cursing hoarsely, tried to drag Cross-
man from under the starboard engine.
“Never mind me I’m jambed!” Crossman
yelled. “The passengers... Get back an’ batter the
doors out —before they’re all burned to cinders”...
DOP GOODWIN radioed his report to head-
* quarters:
D-49 still missing. Reported radio signals
proved to be those of another ’plane. Combing
the country east and west of the Roper River.
Inland Airways assisting in search. Operations
severely hampered by fog.
“Damn this fog!” Gregory said. “If it would
only lift we might get some results.”
“That’s the trouble,” Goodwin agreed. “Search
’planes might be right over her an’ they wouldn’t
know. Taking hellish risks, too, but we’ve got to
do something, Greg.”
“There’s this in it,” Gregory said. “If Bill Cross-
man couldn’t get her down safely no one else could.”
Mary Conroy came in with the weather-report
from Fitzroy. Both men noticed the pallor in her
face, and Goodwin looked away. Gregory touched
her arm, sympathy in his eyes. “I wouldn’t worry
too much, Miss Conroy. ’Planes have gone missing
before and things have turned out all right. And, as
I was just telling Pop, Bill’s the best pilot we have.
I’m pinning my faith to him.”
She smiled her thanks.
“That girl’s got more than mere good looks,”
Gregory said when she went out.
Goodwin lit his pipe and puffed thoughtfully.
“If Bill had only given us some indication by radio —
a bearing, something ... I can’t understand that.”
“There was a lot of lightning on the night of that
storm. Quite likely it queered their set.”
Goodwin walked to the window. “As thick as
ever! God, it’s this waiting for something to turn up! ”
p ROSSMAN drank at the lagoon, forced his tortured
limbs into action again and staggered on through
the eerie half-light under the trees.
The fog came again, trailing wisps for ever on
the move, twining and intertwining into grotesque
shapes. He tried to brush it away from his eyes,
cursed it hoarsely. And that burn which extended
from shoulder to elbow was giving him hell now.
He wondered how long it was since he had left
that smouldering ruin. Two or three days, perhaps,
but it seemed like weeks. He was almost naked, his
clothes, where they had not been burned, torn to
shreds by the vines. He stopped, panting, then stag-
gered on, fighting to retain his sanity.
He cursed the fog and the jungle again—hoarse,
hysterical curses. The fog-wraiths mocked him,
reached at him; they formed a woman’s face a
familiar face—and there was nothing but contempt in
the eyes.
“The controls gave out on me, I tell you!” he
yelled. “I didn’t lose my nerve! Damn you, that’s
what you’re all saying, but I didn’t —didn’t! ”...
But while he protested the thought kept beating
away in his brain: “You crashed your ’plane! You
killed three men!”
He stopped, swaying, looking stupidly at the
damp earth, wondering if his eyes were playing him
false again, staring at the cattle-pad. Then he broke
into a half-run, half-stumble along the pad.
‘(TOUGH luck, Bill —the very worst,” Goodwin
' said. “But I want you to know that I believed
your story of the faulty control—every word of it.
And in spite of the Court’s verdict I’ll still say that
you’re the finest pilot the Skyways ever had.”
Crossman’s lean,
wind - burned face
puckered into a grim
smile. “Thanks, Pop.
That’ll mean a lot to
me when I have to fight
this thing alone. It’s
not the damned ticket
—my job but the
thought of those people
I killed.”
“I wouldn’t brood
on it, Bill; that won’t get you anywhere. Try an’
forget.”
Crossman laughed harshly. “You think it’s as
easy as that, eh? I can’t forget. I haven’t had a
decent night’s sleep in weeks.”
“You damn’ fool!” Goodwin growled. “You’re
only torturing yourself. You couldn’t help it.”
“You’re about the only one I can talk to, Pop.
Listen! They made a lot of fuss about what they
called my heroism in going for help—patted my back
an’ condemned me. I’ll tell you why I went . . .
because I couldn’t stay there and look at what I’d
done. I ran like a mongrel dog—to hide. Just luck
that I got through. This is what I’m asking myself:
Could I have avoided the accident if I’d tried a regular
landing instead of gunning her to bring the nose up?
The faulty control—l didn’t lie about that.”
Goodwin handed Crossman an envelope bearing
the familiar Skyways wings. Crossman read the letter
through. “From Gregory. Asking me to stay on.
Air-mechanic up in the port. For them I’m only a
black mark on a clean sheet. I wonder why they
did it?”
“Well, you were an engineer before you became
a pilot, Bill. An’ didn’t you help to build the Sky-
ways? Blazed their sky-routes. Their first pilot.
They owe you something.”
Crossman looked away. “Scavenging engines!
I’ll take it, because there’s not much else I can do.
But I know what they’re all thinking, an’ I’ll never
be able to look a decent, honest-to-God pilot squarely
in the eyes again.”
ROSS MAN cleared the sticking valve in No. 7
cylinder of the big airliner that had come up from
Fitzroy. The machine took off. Crossman stood
there watching the sky long after the ’plane had been
swallowed in the sun-blaze.
Goodwin stood by at the set until the Waters
had established radio communication with D-37, then
he went out and walked across to the hangars. He
borrowed a match from Crossman and lit his pipe.
“Seen Mary lately?” he asked.
Crossman’s eyes hardened. “No.”
“She was looking for you this morning before
she left for Fitzroy.”
“I didn’t see her.”
“You wouldn’t. You always take care of that.”
“That’s my own business, isn’t it?”
“Yes, an’ I don’t want to butt into any man’s
private affairs ; but don’t you think you’ve handed
her rather a dirty deal?”
“How?” Crossman flung at him.
“She believed in you, stuck to you through it all,
yet you dropped her. She still smiles, but I happen
to know you knocked her pretty badly.”
“Got things a bit mixed, haven’t you?” Cross-
man snarled. “I know what she is, an’ I know what
I am —a rotten crash-pilot, the single dirty mark on
the line’s clean record. Do you think I’d let her tie
herself to that ?”
“Well, I just thought I’d drop you the wink, Bill,
or you mightn’t have much to worry about on that
score. Gregory’s pushing his claim.”
Crossman tried not to look startled. “Gregory,
eh? Fine! Under-manager. Some day he’ll run this
concern. Doin’ pretty well for herself.”
“Remember you’re talking about Mary Conroy,”
Goodwin said. “And, coming from you, it’s a rotten
thing to say.”
“Yes, I reckon you’re right, Pop.”
“I’m beginning to see another side to you,” Good-
win said. “Your sort of self-pity can be a beastly
thing—an’ that’s all that’s wrong with you.”
“I didn’t ask for your blasted concern,” Crossman
growled.
“No, but I always thought there was something
in you worth while, that you were too good to go to
the pack.”


REGORY flew the first of the new four-motored
transport ’planes out from England. Crossman
was top-overhauling her engines when Gregory came
up. A fierce animosity blazed up in Crossman as he
looked at him. Gregory walked round the machine
whistling, then he stopped and said “How’d you like
to fly her, Bill?”
Crossman’s fingers tightened on the wrench. He
turned quickly, suspecting a gibe. But that was not
Gregory’s way. “Fine —if flying wasn’t a bit out of
my line now.”
“Well, we’re in heavy transport now, Bill. That’s
my idea. Been pushing it for over a year. And
there’s nothing to keep you out of that line of flying.
I’ve made it O.K. with the company. You’re in the
air again.”
“Why?” Crossman asked sourly.
“Because I want you for this job.”
Crossman looked at him. Gregory lowered his
eyes before the older man’s gaze. “There’s—there’s
something else, Bill. May as well be honest about it.
I want to meet you on even terms. You’ll make a
success of this job — I’m quite confident about that.
And then . . . and then I’m going to ask Mary Conroy
to choose between us.”
Crossman pulled savagely on his spanner. “So
that’s it? Your conscience won’t let you steal from a
blind man, eh? But you won’t be stealing, Greg.
And I don’t want the job.”
“I want you to know,” Gregory said heatedly,
“that I’d have made you the offer just the same with
the girl out of it.”
“Perhaps!” Crossman sneered.
Gregory took a step forward, clenched his hands,
then swung away.
“Greg!” Crossman called sharply.
Gregory, still flushed and angry, turned. “If that
offer’s still open I’ll take it.”
“It is! They’ve struck it rich—you’ve heard—to
hell-an’-gone, at the back of the Balranald — gold.
They need mining machinery — about seven hundred
tons of it. I’ve got the contract to deliver it by air.
But you know the sort of country that lies between
the coast and there — the worst flying stretch in the
whole of the continent. It’s a job that’s going to
make or break this scheme. It won’t be easy.”
Gregory warmed to his subject. “I’ve got a place
in mind, a couple of hundred miles down the coast.
Tranship the stuff at sea—machinery and gas for the
’plane. Luggers will take it up to the head of the
estuary, where we’ll have to prepare some sort of
landing-ground. Heads reckon I’m mad, of course,
but they’re afraid of the Inland concern getting it. It’s
mostly up to you, Bill.”
P OR the first time in many months Crossman saw
* Mary Conroy again when, after delivering the last
of the machinery, he brought his ’plane into the port
for overhaul. They had dinner together that night at
O’Keefe’s.
She glanced at him curiously. He looked
different, much older. Tales of him had come up to
the port —his relentless determination to carry on in
spite of all obstacles, the risks he took to complete
the work in the stipulated time. The name they had
given him on the ’fields —“Iron Crossman.”
“So you’ve been appointed transport superin-
tendent,” she said. “Congratulations, Bill.”
“I’m not taking it.”
“Why?”
“I’m going back down the coast, where there’s
work to do —hard work ; tons of it—so that I’ve no
time to think of anything but the job.”
“But it can’t go on, Bill —this driving yourself.
I’ve heard about you. Couldn’t there be
something else?”
“I — I don’t know. I’ve often
wondered.”
“Bill . . . Jack Gregory
asked me to marry
him.”
He laughed
jerkily. “Congratu-
lations in order,
eh?”
•“No.”
“That’s what
I’ve been wondering,
Mary. But it seems
like asking you to
take a hell of a
risk.”
“I shouldn’t
mind the risk,
Bill ... if that were
all.”
“Don’t quite get you,
Mary, but”- He thrust his
hand into his pocket. “I’ve always
carried this, Mary, thinking . . . hop-
ing .. . Could —you take it back?”
She looked at the ring. “I’m sorry, Bill. No.”
“Neither of us, eh?”
“N 0... Both of you—that’s the trouble.”
“But you can only marry one of us,” he grinned.
“Yes . . . only one.”
“Look at me,” he said, “and I’ll tell you the
answer.”
They both laughed.
'T'HERE was wind in that cloudbank, and rain. Cross-
* man turned the nose of the old survey-’bus, fed
her the gas and beat the storm home by a whisker.
Pop Goodwin was across the field and beside
the ’plane before the prop, bumped back on compres-
sion. The first crash of wind came, the first deluge
of rain.
“God!... This is ghastly, Bill!” Goodwin
yelled. “D-37 is down in the Timor!”
Crossman stopped with one leg out of the cockpit.
“What?... But she can’t be!”
MARY
CONROY.
“Yes! C’mon—l’ll tell you!”
They ran for shelter.
“What happened, Pop?”
“Port engine gave out —a split intake manifold.
Ice on the wings stole their altitude. Wind a hurri-
cane. Saw the Trepang Shoal just in time an’ managed
to get down at low tide. Transmitting" messages on
power from one engine.”
They went in to where the radio operator sat
tense and anxious-eyed, hammering away on the key.
He swung round. “Only ship anywhere near is the
Dutch freighter Kopang. Altering course, but can’t
possibly get there before the tide rises.”
“God!” Goodwin groaned. “The crew, seven
passengers an’ Gregory on his way to England.”
Crossman recited the words unconsciously. “Low
tide! Split intake manifold!”
“You know that shoal, Bill,” Goodwin grated.
“Will she float when the tide rises?”
“No. Breaks over in rough weather. Better off
floating on empty tanks on deep water. In the
absence of shipping, seaplane’s the only
thing; but it couldn’t carry ’em any-
way —not a naval seaplane, even if
there was one handy.”
Crossman brought the chart and glanced over the
typewritten messages. “Liner not damaged in landing,
eh? Might manage a take-off if they had two motors.”
Goodwin nodded.
“Listen, Pop! Do you reckon I could fly the old
survey-’bus out there —she’s the only thing we’ve got—
take another manifold out to them, fit it an’ take off
before the tide rises?”
“No.”
“Neither do I; but I’ll give it a go.”
“Even if you got there, how would you get down?
It’s long odds against. Hit a soft patch and you’d be
finished.”
“Wouldn’t try to land —too risky. I’ll crash her
an’ bail out with a ’chute. Never jumped before, but
it doesn’t look hard. Worrying about the extra weight
of the manifold, though.”
“Suicide!” Goodwin said.
Crossman nodded. “Quite likely. But if I did
manage to pull it off it’d wipe out the other. It’ll
mean more than that, too a pardon from my own
conscience.”
CROSSMAN leaned from the open cockpit. “Ham-
mer away at that message, Pop. Everything might
depend on your getting it through. Tell ’em to get
that manifold off—to be ready for me.”
He took off from the wet field, the water spraying
out from the wheels. Goodwin, bareheaded in the
torrential rain, watched him go ; watched until the
tiny ’plane was engulfed in the storm-clouds over the
sea.
As the machine, its exhaust note vicious and true,
bored into the storm Crossman visualised every
mechanical detail of the engine to which he would
have to fit the manifold. He planned it carefully,
stud by stud, bolt by bolt.
His eyes flickered automatically over altimeter,
air-speed indicator, clock and compass. He tuned his
ears to the tone of the exhaust, listening for a faltering
note, but it was crisp and clear and clean.
Wild exultation shot through him as he burst
through the enveloping clouds and the rain ceased its
monotonous drumming. In the courts they’d ques-
tioned his ability as a navigator. Now he’d show them
something! Two hours before nightfall, or not long
after, straight through the propeller arc he would see
the white line that marked the shoal. He went right
up to the ceiling.
“I’ll hit her dead!” he told himself. “I’ll hit her
dead! ”
~F HE shoal was about half a mile long, varying in
* width to a quarter at the widest, though it had
lessened considerably in the past few hours. The
sand was firm in the centre, where the crippled liner
rested, but soft along the edges and a trap for any
pilot who might attempt to make the most of the
space in landing.
The work of removing the manifold completed
and the runway cleared of seaweed, they sheltered
from the icy wind in the lee of the stranded liner.
Gregory looked up at the passengers’ compart-
ment. He had done the best he could for the two
women —told them that Crossman’s arrival was almost
a certainty and lied about the Kopang. But the men
knew. Their eyes moved ceaselessly from sand to
sky —an ever-shortening stretch of sand, an empty
sky.
“Depends on whether he got through the storm,”
Gregory said. “But perhaps he hasn’t had time yet.”
“Could he manage it,” someone asked, “even if
he came now?”
('Continued on next page.)


s. n. prior
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
JL2OO
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
“We’ve got to face this thing,” Gregory said
grimly ; “face it squarely and as gamely as we can.
I doubt it.”
They looked away, avoiding one another’s eyes.
Gregory removed the cloth that fluttered on the wing,
deciding that Crossman might take the wind signal
as an indication from them that it was safe to land.
His lips tightened. That was if Crossman came!
“Listen!” he heard Jennings, the co-pilot, say as
he climbed down from the wing. “Listen!”
Gregory, too, had heard the drone of Crossman’s
motor —heard it a hundred times.
They turned hopeless eyes from the sky, seemed
to look at Jennings reproachfully for the spark of
hope he had lit.
“I hear it, I tell you!” Jennings yelled. “Still
hear it”...
“That’ll do, Jennings!” Gregory said curtly.
Don’t By God, I believe you’re right!”
Crossman came out over the far cloudbank ;
only a speck yet, but heading as true as a die for the
shoal. He came down, closer, until they could see
his helmeted head. The tearing racket from the
exhaust as he swept low over the shoal was a grand,
sweet song of salvation.
“Somehow I knew you’d do it, Bill!” Gregory
breathed.
They watched breathlessly, knowing that Cross-
man had the most difficult part yet to do.
Crossman climbed steeply, banked into the wind
and disappeared into low-hanging cloud. The
drone from the motor died with startling suddenness.
Then the ’plane reappeared, spinning down out of
control. It struck the sea. Then Crossman, his ’chute
open, the wind bringing him in, but coming down
dangerously fast.. .
They heard the impact as he struck the sand at
the water’s edge. The wind filled the ’chute, dragging
him. Gregory was there first, hacking through the
shroud-lines. Crossman staggered up, bleeding from
nose, mouth and ears.
worked, one eye on the engine, the
other on the invading water, while something like
a bayonet kept turning in his vitals.
The last bolt was tightened. The last retaining
stud home. The starboard engine was warming. The
port motor coughed twice, then caught. By common
consent Crossman took the controls.
That queer burning inside him —he couldn’t
understand it. He wondered at the redness on the
back of his hand where he had wiped his mouth. He
looked at the stretch of sand ... so short. Three men
who knew told themselves it couldn’t be done. Cross-
man opened the throttles wide. The exhausts blasted
back. He wiped his mouth again, set himself...
The ’plane moved . . . faster. The sea came leap-
ing at them through the cockpit-glass. She lifted,
bumped into the shallow water, struggled to rise again,
tore her wheels free from the sand.
“\WE won’t know until after the examination, of
* * course,” Gregory said in reply to the girl’s
anxious question. “But don’t worry, Mary. Bill’s
tough—as tough as they make ’em.”
He looked at her searchingly. “I want to know,
Mary. You must know by now. Tell—tell me it’s
Bill.”
He saw that her eyes were wet. “I’ve known for
months, Jack. I’ve always wanted it to be Bill; tried
to convince myself that it was Bill. It —it’s you.”
“I’m glad,” he said. “Glad . . . and as sorry as
hell! ”
~T HEY rushed a specialist up from Sydney by special
1 ’plane. His verdict was the same. “Fractured
ribs cut the lungs to pieces. Hopeless.”
Goodwin, Gregory and Mary waited, leaned down
to catch Grossman’s whisper: “Good luck . . . old-
timer! Happy . . . happy landings . . . you two!”
SEA-COWS
BY FREEMAN SAN DOM.
GOSSIP was the cream of life to Tubby Morton.
A relief-worker by profession, his leisure was
ample, and he spent it generally dangling a
line over the edge of the wharf and swapping
yarns with all-comers. He was sitting tight in his
customary place one morning when I drew alongside.
“Flallo, Bill!” greeted Tubby as I killed the
engine. “How’s the fish?”
“Fair,” I replied. “The heavy rain’s bringing
’em into the traps. You catching anything?”
“Not a bite!” The correct degree of disgust was
in his voice, and I saw him throw an old coat over
a bulky sack by his side.
I smiled inwardly: these were signs of a bargain
to be struck. Tubby always gave (to use the Latin
tag he had picked up somewhere and loved) quid pro
quo, so I opened the deal promptly. “A couple of
good crabs here,” I said, “if you can use ’em.”
“Betcha life I can! And here is a quid pro quo,
Bill. You know a joker name of Wingy Flekker?”
To my reply in the negative he explained: “Cane-
cutter bloke from Nelsonvale, coming to camp for
a few weeks of the slack on Dugong.”
“Yes?” I said, waiting.
“Reckons you Dugong Islanders are woofies.
Made a bet last night with Slick Martin to pull the
leg of one of youse proper. Two quid’s the bet.”
“Yes,” I said, waiting. There was more to come
if I knew Tubby rightly—and Slick Martin.
“Slick’ll split his win with you. He told me to
tell you he’s playing safe.”
“Yes?” I said, still waiting.
“How about splitting your split with me? You’re
rolling in dough, Bill.”
I laughed. “With your nose for bargains you’re
wasted at relief work, Tubby! Why don’t you go in
for high finance?”
“No capital!” said Tubby shortly.
“Rockefeller started with half a crown,” I con-
tended.
“And finished with no digestion,” scored Tubby
“Relief work’ll do me.”
INGY FLEKKER turned up the following day,
“ * sailing out in a flattie. I helped him to land his
gear and rig his tent. Afterwards we swam. Old
Peter Holzkopf strolled up to inspect the new arrival
as we lay sunbaking on the wet sand. Wingy had
been holding forth, voluble and cocksure, on many
subjects. Now, there was a pause in his flow of
words. I could see he was sizing Peter up.
“You blokes out here are too slow,” said Wingy,
evidently satisfied with the inspection. “All you think
about is catching fish, so you get no for’arder. Now,
if I lived here” He paused, and his sharp, black
eyes bored into Peter. “Ever heard of sea-cow
dairying?”
“Vot’s dot?”
“I said, did you ever hear of a bloke running
a dairy of sea-cows?”
The old man snorted contemptuously. “Milging
dugongs? Dell dot to der schtoopid vools!”
“Wot’s funny about that?” Wingy’s voice con-
veyed that he was hurt to the quick. “You get shoe
leather from sharkskin, don’t you? You eat eggs
from fish, get ink from inkfish, iodine from seaweed.
Why not milk from sea-cows?”
“Begause” began Peter.
“Look here,” interrupted Wingy, “I’ll prove it
to you. You know where Boathook Island is? Ever
been there?”
“I haf nod so.”
“Pity. That’s where I kept my herd of sea-cows.
You c’n see the remains of my bails between tide-
marks still. And the separating-room’s still up on
the beach. Ain’t that proof enough?”
“Verdammter lies!” said Peter, but his voice
showed he was a little less sure of his end of the
argument.
I thought it was time to draw Wingy’s fire.
“Truth is stranger than fiction,” I quoted.
He turned to me with the pleasure of one who
receives the backing of an unexpected ally. “You’ve
got sense, Bill Flowers! D’rectly I saw you I knew
you were nobody’s fool.”
“Thanks,” I acknowledged. “I’d like to hear
more about your sea-cows later. Peter and I’ve got
to fish our traps before the tide gets too low.”
INGY returned to the attack that evening. We
“ * were lying in the sand again outside my shanty,
smoking. After a long day’s work the soft lapping
of waves on the beach made me drowsy. I was
content to watch the stars and let the rest slide. But
Wingy was razor-sharp to get on with his game.
“Coming back to them sea-cows,” he began, “see-
ing you was interested in the critters, I’ll tell you all
about it. There’s a forchun in that racket!”
“Canecutting’s got it beat, I reckon?”
“Hey?” said Wingy. “Oh, I see! I was short
of capital, that’s why. And Boathook Island was too
far from the market—the cream used to go sour on
me.”
“I’ve heard of stranger things than milking
dugongs,” I acknowledged. “But is it practicable —
commercially, I mean?”
“It’s a moral certainty!” said Wingy with con-
viction. “First of all, you build your bails half-way
between tide-marks. You yard ’em on high tide and
milk ’em on low, see?”
“I see. How did you round ’em up?”
“Motor-boat,” he came back glibly. “Chugged
back and forth in half-circles inwards, starting from
the horns of the bay. Noise of the exhaust did the
trick.”
I shook my head doubtfully. “Too expensive,
I reckon. Ever see porpoises drive a school of sea-
mullet into a bay? That’s the line: train a couple
of porpoise pups to heel your dugongs.”
“There’s something in that,” he admitted in-
stantly. “Cheaper and quicker —if you c’n get the
right breed of pups.” He slapped his skinny thigh
enthusiastically. “It’s an idea. You’re a genius, Bill
Flowers! I only wish you had been my partner over
on Boathook Island.”
“Thanks, Wingy. Sea-cows good milkers com-
pared with the land breed?”
“Coupla gallons a head,” he replied. “On an
average, that is. Course, some gave less. A few
a Jerseylike kind of dugong they were —gave as much
as four gallons.”
“That’s good going! Did you feed ’em? Chopped
dugong-grass mixed with fish-oil cake would increase
the yield, I reckon.”
“Scored again!” He sat up and tapped me on
the chest approvingly. “What a team we would have
made. But, as I said, Boathook Island was too far
away. Here we’ve everything in our favor: close to
the market, plenty of dugongs, good bay, everything! ”
“Seems good,” I admitted. “You proposing a
partnership, Wingy?”
“That wouldn’t be fair,” he said hastily. “You’ve
got all the capital, site, boat ’n’ everything—a wages
job would do me for a start.”
I took time for reflection, Wingy hanging on
my answer with obvious anxiety.
“All right,” I said at last, getting up. “You
ready to start at once?”
“First thing to-morrer!” He jumped up and
began to work my hand as if it was a pump-handle
with the suction of the pump temporarily lost. “You’ve
got spunk, Bill. We start building the bails, I
suppose?”
“The shed, I think,” I contradicted. “It’s the
biggest job. Besides, I have the iron already. Sup-
. pose you start cutting mangrove sticks for the frame-
work to begin with.”
He was taken aback. “In the mangrove swamp?
Hell of a place to work, ain’t it? Why not use third-
class timber from the mill? It’s cheap enough.”
I shook my head. “Cartage in town, freighting
out, unloading and humping it here —the cost is
prohibitive. Mangrove sticks are just as good, and
the cutting-cost is the only cost.”
He opened his lips to speak, then snapped them
shut and nodded. “I’m game,” said he.
A S Wingy had said, a mangrove swamp is “a hell
of a place to work.” Few men will tackle it at
ordinary basic award rates of payment. Slippery
mud and slush over your ankles, spiky, rotten stumps
waiting to impale you if you fall. Possibility of a
crocodile gathering you in if you come near a deep
hole. Millions of mosquitoes pouncing on you eager
for blood. And, worse, the sandflies, thick clouds of
them ; small beings, almost invisible, but each owning
so concentrated a venom that each sting raises a lump
that itches and irritates one almost to the verge of
madness.
I showed Wingy how to make a smudge fire on
a knoll of sand so that when the sandflies became
unendurable he could gain a few minutes’ respite by
standing over the smoke. I also brought him a liberal
supply of sump-oil, which affords a measure of pro-
tection against the pest.
Wingy stuck it all out to the end of the day.
When he returned to the camp I could swear to it
that his own mother would have failed to recognise
him —even after the sump-oil was removed by the
use of kerosene, hot water and sandsoap. For the
effect of thousands of small lumps in the aggregate
was to distort his features and provide an impene-
trable disguise.
He was tight-lipped and grim-eyed, but did not
complain in the manner of red-blooded manual
workers. I reckoned that his faculty for obtaining
relief by the use of obscene and violent language had
been deadened by overuse in the swamp. I was satis-
fied that he was a good toiler, and that he would see
the job out to the bitter end.
At the end of four days I judged a sufficient
number of sticks were cut. We were well ahead with
the construction of the shed when one morning Peter
Holzkopf strolled along to see what was in the wind.
The old man had been kingfishing for a week around
the Barrier Reef with Charlie Thompson, I looking
after their traps in their absence.
Wingy took it upon himself to explain.
“We’re building a dairy,” he said, “a separating
shed.” He eyed the old man with eager, bright eyes.
“Bill is going in for sea-cows.”
(Continued on next page .)


For a minute the purport of the statement eluded
my old cobber.
“Vot’s dot you say?” he asked stupidly.
Gleefully Wingy repeated his words. As soon
as the peppery old fellow had grasped his meaning
he sprang into instantaneous action.
“Vot!” he bawled at me. “Dummkopf! Vool!
Loonadig!” Then almost tearfully: “Haf you vrom
your head altogedder gone, Pill Vlowers?”
When Wingy had recovered from a severe attack
of enjoyment we continued our interrupted labor, and
two days later I hammered the last nail into the com-
pleted shed.
YkJ HEN he came along for his usual yarn that night
I was busy with some accounts at a table.
Peter mooched along presently, sat down with
his back to us, charged and lit his corncob and began
to smoke in sulky silence. This proceeding afforded
Wingy considerable amusement, judging by his
muscular efforts to keep his glee inaudible.
“I’m going to town to-morrow to order timber
for a boat,” I announced presently, blotting a cheque.
“I’ve made up your wages to date, Wingy, thinking
you might want to come along.”
“Good-oh,” said he, “I will. No hurry with the
cheque, though. You building another flattie?”
“No, a twenty-five footer. For the kingfishing.
Now I’ve got a boatshed I can”
“A boatshed?” He sat up with a jerk. “You
mean —the dairy?”
Old Peter jerked upright, too, and swung his
chair partly around.
“What’s in a name?” I quoted. “I’ve been want-
ing to build a big boat for a long time, and the
shed”
Wingy was standing up now. “Wait a minute!”
he interrupted. “Tell me this, Bill Flowers, are you
interested in the sea-cow scheme or ain’t you?”
“Of course I’m interested,” I assured him. “It’s
been very interesting all along. But the kingfish
season”— 1 —
“Damn the kingfish season!” said Wingy rudely.
“Stop that cackling!” he said fiercely to Peter,
who was making noises resembling the popping of
corks and, at times, the gurgle and hiss of escaping
sodawater.
He turned on me with accusing eyes. “You’ve
bin pulling me leg, Bill Flowers!” And before I
could deny the accusation: “And me like a blasted
fool sweating and —and swelling in that God-forsaken,
sandfly-infested, mosquito-ridden mudhole of a flam-
‘ ing mangrove swamp! ”
“But you’re getting paid for it,” I expostulated.
“Here’s the cheque, basic wage”
“Paid!” he blazed. “I wouldn’t work in that
swamp for ten times the money!”
“Neither would I,” I admitted. “But you offered
to do it, Wingy.”
He eyed me speechlessly. The sounds of popping
corks, etc., were renewed from Peter’s corner.
But Wingy’s spirit seemed broken. “I’m here for
a spell after cutting,” he moaned, “and if it hadn’t
bin for the joke” He stopped abruptly and looked
embarrassed.
“Well, you enjoyed your joke for a week or
more,” I pointed out.
“Only der yoke on you iss, Vingy,” contributed
Peter.
The next morning, however, Wingy had forgotten
our little falling-out, and we went to town together
as happy as Larry. We had a drink at Mac’s, and
in time for the second pot Slick Martin sidled up
as if he expected something. I saw Wingy surrep-
titiously hand him something which could have been
a couple of folded banknotes. When I turned to ask
Slick the brand of his drink he was gone.
It was Tubby Morton who suggested a reason
for his hurry later.
“Slick?” said Tubby. “He had to catch a train.
He’s got a job cutting cane plants at Wolfe’s Pocket.
Say, Bill, did you put up a shed recently?”
“I did.”
Tubby groaned. “A milking shed?”
“What’s in a name?” I laughed. “I meant it for
a boatshed myself, but”
“What!” shouted Tubby. “And Slick told
me” He broke off, then continued bitterly:
“What’s in a name? you asked! Slick! Hell!”
“Never mind,” I consoled him, “you helped me
to get that boatshed up quickly, cheaply—and pain-
lessly. So here’s your lost split.”
“A quid pro quo,” said Tubby quickly, bolstering
his pride with the tag as he pocketed the half-note.
Melbourne’s Motto Was "Get Money”
A MATTER OF POUNDAGE
BY CON DREW
VOU birds have heard me speak of Melbourne
Harry. His national anthem was the merry
rattle of tatts inside a dice box and his motto
was “Get money.” He could be mighty generous
at times. When things were cornin’ his way he’d give
you the shirt off another man’s back, so to speak.
In the summer of ’9B me and Melbourne was
in Western Queensland makin’ a book at the country
race meetin’s. Things were good for a bit. Then
old Dame Fortune started to deal from the bottom
of the pack, and we could do nothin’ right. At a
two days’ meetin’ in Roma we lost all the money
we’d won. In Muckadilla, four deuces at poker cost
Melbourne thirty-odd quid, and we lost another slice
a week or so later at the Mitchell Cup. We wound
up at a little town about fifteen frogskins strong.
There was a meetin’ set down for the following
day, so next mornin’ we were out at the course bright
and early. It was a rum-lookin’ joint all right, about
half a mile round ; and there wasn’t no Leger or
nothin’. For a weighing enclosure there was a bit
of a place roped off, with a set of grocer’s scales
plonked down in the middle of it.
Our fifteen frogskins didn’t last long. A grey
called Nazzo won the first, and we just broke even.
The next two winners cost us a tenner, and the horse
that won the fourth was a red-hot favorite. When the
fifth race came along we hadn’t a deener in the bag.
“You can shut the satchel,” I says, to Melbourne.
“That’s the end of the section.”
“No it ain’t,” says Melbourne. “I ain’t fired me
second barrel yet.”
“You can’t fire nothin’ without ammunition,”
says I.
“Well, we’ll see if we can get some,” he come
back. “Just hang on a minute,” and he jumped down
off the box and dived into the crowd.
In about five minutes he was back with a grin
as wide as Sydney Heads.
“I borrered a fiver off a bloke I know,” he
;ays. “Now we can continue the business.”
He jumped on the box and gave tongue. “Six to
four the field,” he yells. “Six to four the field.”
A horse called Donald was a pretty warm
favorite, and a crowd soon gathered round. “Come
■■ on,” yells Melbourne, lookin’ the punters over. “Faint
heart never won a fat turkey. Six tb four the field.”
The punters didn’t rise to the bait, so Melbourne
hoisted the odds a fraction.
“Well, seven to four the field,” he yells. “There
ain’t much time if you want to get set. Who wants
seven to four the field?”
But they still dug their toes into the ground, and
Melbourne rose his voice to a beller.
“Two to one the field,” he hollers. “Two to
one the field.”
A bloke with a nose like an inverted fish-hook
got in quick with a fiver, and others followed him
in. Soon Melbourne was writin’ tickets so fast it
took me all me time to plonk down the wagers in the
book. When Donald was taking out thirty quid I
slipped Melbourne the slow-up sign, but he shook his
head.
“It’s all right,” he says ; “Donald ain’t got a
chance.”
“I hope you’re right,” says I. “We’re only a
fiver strong.”
“We’ll be more than a fiver strong when the race
is over,” says Melbourne, and went on bettin’ as if
there was no settling.
Donald was taking out over seventy-five quid
when Melbourne left off layin’ him, and I didn’t feel
none too good. “I s’pose you know what you’re
doin’,” I says,
“Yes, T know what I’m doin’. Donald ain’t got
a chance, I tell yer.”
“All right,” says I. “Get busy on the others.”
"*P HERE were three or four fairly low-priced nags
*■ in the market, and Melbourne got some money
out of them. But when he tried to graft in the out-
siders the punters wouldn’t nibble. A fresh rush had
come for the favorite, and all they wanted was Donald.
Melbourne worked mighty hard on the roughies for
another quarter of an hour, but he might as well have
saved his breath. It was like tryin’ to peddle diamonds
in the poorhouse.
By that time the horses had lined up. They
caused the starter some trouble for a bit, but at last
he sent them on their journey, and as
they got away a little chestnut dashed
to the front, and streaked along like a
scalded cat.
“That’s Spitfire,’’ says Melbourne.
“We’ve only laid a tenner agin him.”
“He’ll come back to ’em,” says I.
“He’s one of them hoppy, short-movin’
crocks. Where’s Donald?”
“There he is,” says Melbourne —“in
the middle of that second bunch.”
The field spread like a Japanese fan
as it swept along the back of the course.
The chestnut was still leading, but
Donald had improved his position. In
the course of half a furlong they grabbed
the chestnut and he dropped back to
where he belonged.
Next a big brown horse took the
lead, but the course was too small for
him and he galloped out wide. Then
comes a bloke that looks like a race-
horse. He’s one of them long-striding
bays and is movin’ as free as the air.
“Whatever beats him will win,” I says to myself.
And I was right.
Around the home turn and into the straight he
led them, a good five lengths in front of anything else,
and I’m thinking that the race is as good as over.
Then suddenly there’s a deafening yell from the crowd
and I looked back along the field to see what was
happening.
Donald was coming; and, cripes, did he fly?
Like a ship in full sail at the head of a squall he tore
through the field and went after the leaders. In
the course of fifty yards he was third, and was gain-
ing pace as he went. Twenty yards from the judge
he run up to the bay, and they hung together for a
stride. Then the boy pulls his whip on Donald and
he wins.
FOR a full half-minute I was too flamin’ savage
to speak. Then I opened out on Melbourne.
“Grab hold of yourself,” says Melbourne. “We
ain’t lost our money yet.”
“Ain’t lost?” I says. “I know we ain’t won.”
“All right,” says Melbourne. “Come on over to
the weighing enclosure and I’ll show you something.”
We went over and joined the crowd that was
waitin’ to see the"jockeys weigh in. After a bit
Donald’s rider mounted the scales with the saddle on
his arm. Everyone watched the lever bar to see it
rise, but there wasn’t a movement.
The jockey stepped down off the scales, inspected
his saddle and hopped on again, but the bar didn’t
move a fraction of an inch. They sent for the bridle,
but it made no difference, and the jockey was declared
short weight.
Then the fun started. Donald’s backers reckoned
they’d been taken down and set up a yell that could
have been heard in Coorparoo. People who had
backed the second horse and had thrown their tickets
away raced around in hopes of finding them again.
The news spread to the others who were interested,
and they made a corn-beef rush to the weighing
enclosure. Melbourne and me hadn’t laid a deener
against the winner, so we went to a quiet corner to
share the spoils.
As we were dividing it Mejbourne put a pony
aside. “That’s for the bloke who lent us the fiver,”
says he.
“That’s all right,” I says. “Who was he, by the
way?”
“The clerk of the scales,” says Melbourne. “Me
and him was pals in Brisbane.”


■TOVHt
■r
5
fl
K
m
m
x
N
M
&
r
\S
7?a/ne is
(D c Caliuros
3k U/Jhis/iy Js-
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Macfarlanc Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E.j
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
anxieties as to how to feed her brood are offset by
her pride in her husband’s scripture reading in the
local synagogue.
Schloime, the eldest son, toils in a back room at
his shoe-mending, dreaming of America and saving his
passage money groat by groat. He is his mother’s last
resort in a domestic extremity. There is always a
fierce fight, with shrill protestations on both sides,
before she can get a coin out of him ; that is his way
of making sure it is really needed before parting up.
Deborah dreams of love as she bends above her inter-
minable stitching.
Moishele —the embryo American businessman—
is turning an honest penny for himself before he is
fairly out of school. He can always see room for him-
self between seller and buyer. He haunts the local
markets. While a peasant wagon is drawing in he
scrambles aboard, rummages among the straw to find
out what there is for sale, makes a shrewd guess as
to a likely buyer and is off as hard as his legs can go
to earn a small commission.
In the New World the youngsters swim off like
little fish that have been changed over from a small
tank to a larger one. It is the old ones who are
bewildered. In Poland their dignity was not affected
by their poverty; all were poor. Here their poverty
is naked and ashamed. Immigrants of an earlier year
come around to air their prosperity and their sophisti-
cation before the greenhorns in their humble basemenf.
And scripture readers on even a small stipend are not
wanted in America ; the father whose rolling syllables
had thrilled the congregation has to go to work in a
shirt factory. There is heartbreak when Deborah for-
sakes ancient custom and has a registry marriage with
the young Jewish artist who captures her fancy.
There is the feeling that these are the sort of
experiences from which the victims themselves derive
amusement in the backward view. The mother does
not live to see that day, and here a really tragic note
is struck, in the picture of the solitary man following
her coffin through the streets of modern New York.
If the book has a fault it is in the representation
of the mother. If Asch had endowed her with one
or two faults of character, or shown her in relation to
something beyond her beloved family, she would have
seemed more real. But this is a small blemish in an
otherwise excellent book.
Study of Somerset Maugham.
In his W. Somerset Maugham (Nelson), Richard
A. Cordell has kept the biographical matter down to
the minimum, giving two-thirds of the work to critical
discussions of Maugham’s plays, novels, short stories
and travel books.
After beginning badly in the vein of the gossip
writer the book settles down to a workmanlike
analysis. We first meet Maugham —little Willie in
those days—as a small boy in Paris going daily to
the British Embassy for lessons in English. His tutor,
a parson, adopted the novel method of making him
real aloud the police court news in the “Standard.”
This, Cordell thinks, laid the first plank of the future
literary career.
The man who emerges from these pages is what
you might call a militant onlooker. 111-health, a bad
stammer, the isolation of life with an eccentric clergy-
man —his uncle—-who undertook his upbringing when
he was left an orphan at the age of eight, an unhappy
school career, all helped to divide the boy from his
fellows and drive him into his shell. In his youth he
was positively swaddled in the old school tie and was
hedged around with gentility.
Twice in his life he was brought violently face
to face with reality. First in the outpatients’ ward
of St. Thomas’s Hospital, where he was a medical
student. There he met life in it's crudest and most
heroic terms in the poverty and sufferings of London
slum-dwellers. After graduation he never practised
medicine. The second time was when he served as
dresser with the Red Cross in the early part of the
war. But for these two experiences his life has been
—on its outward showing—-easy, protected and
detached.
His works —he is one of-those writers who change
their experiences into literary coin, sometimes to the
chagrin of friends —show repeated flights to and away
from reality. He is both a realist and an escapist.
His first novel, Liza of Lambeth, is a grim picture of
slum life founded on his experiences at St. Thomas’s.
From that venture in realism he recoiled to a his-
torical novel, The Making of a Saint. He then
changed his medium to the drama, wherein he made
his reputation and a big fortune in fashionable high
comedy, or, as he calls it himself, “artificial comedy,”
tart, smart plays like “The Circle.” He reverted agarn
to realism in the black tragedies of his later period,
such as “For Services Rendered,” and ends his drama-
tic career to date in another escape, this time into the
mysticism of “Sheppey.”
In the short story he follows a like path, swinging
between the detachment of the onlooker in far lands
and the brilliant and sincere realism of such stories
as “Rain.” His detachment is responsible for his
characteristic attitude to his subject-matter. “He is
more concerned,” writes Cordell, “with what people
do than what they should do, with what happens
rather than what should happen.” He neither com-
ments nor evaluates ; he states.
The chapter on the short story is the most illu-
minating in the book. Cordell puts his finger on the
truth when he points out that Maugham’s stories
belong in the same class with De Maupassant’s—“the
story of incident with an unanticipated denouement’'
—but that Maugham “often substitutes a surprising
ethical point of view for the unexpected incident.”
Readers get a shock from discovering that murderers
can live happily ever after, and so on.
The rather slow and methodical way in which
this book takes Maugham’s works in their order,
describing and evaluating each, at least gives the reader
a very good idea of the man’s amazing range and
versatility. He is a humorist of the most hilarious
kind or a black tragedian ; he can be delicately subtle
or blatantly melodramatic. Eminently successful in
whatever branch of literature he has handled, he
always writes with competence and vigor.
Maugham Sums Up.
Somerset Maugham’s latest book conies on the
heels of the biography of him by Richard Cordell.
Maugham goes to some pains to tell why he wrote
The Summing Up (Heinemann). It rounds out the
pattern of his life, helps him straighten up his philo-
sophy of life and literature, puts his intellectual affairs
in order.
It is not quite an autobiography. Beyond a cluster
of childhood memories, a brief description of his stu-
dent days at St. Thomas’s Hospital and some refer-
ences to his war work, he has little to say about the
events of his life. He describes himself minutely in
his capacity as a writer —no nonsense about the
amateur status here.
The book is nearly a manual on how to succeed
as a writer. At times it is heavy with literary plati-
tudes and conscientiously labors the obvious. It turns
a flood of daylight in on writing. To Maugham this is
neither a cult nor a mystery, but a very interesting
way of making a comfortable living and attaining the
good things of life.
It was fortunate for me that I suddenly achieved
popularity as a dramatist and so was relieved of the
necessity of writing a novel once a year to earn my
living. I found plays easy to write; the notoriety they
brought me was not unpleasing; and they earned, for
me enough money to enable me to live less straitly than
I had been obliged to. I have never had the Bohemian
trait of being unconcerned for the morrow. I have never
liked to borrow money. I have hated to be in debt.
Nor has the squalid life any attraction for me. I was
not born in squalid circumstances. As soon as I
could afford it I bought a house in Mayfair.
He tells candidly and without any gilding how he
came to write his various books. One of them:
I was at the time much taken with a young person
of extravagant tastes, and the gratification of my desire
was frustrated by the attentions of more opulent admirers
who were able to provide the luxuries that her frivolous
soul hankered after. 1 had nothing much to offer
but a serious disposition and a sense of humor.
1 determined to write a book that would enable me
to earn three or four hundred pounds with which I
could hold my own with my rivals.
But by the time the book was published his affec-
tions had cooled, so he gave himself a holiday in
Egypt. He has never known, he casually remarks, the
“bliss of requited love.”
Now and again Maugham drops a bomb in a
conventionally holy place:
To my mind King James’s Bible has been a very
harmful influence on English prose. I am not so stupid
as to deny its great beauty. It is majestical. But the
Bible is an oriental book. Its alien imagery is nothing
to do with us. Those hyperboles, those luscious meta-
phors, are foreign to our genius. I cannot but think
that not the least of the misfortunes that the Seces-
sion from Rome brought upon the spiritual life of
country is that this work for so long a period became
the daily, and, with many, the only, reading of our
people.
There is plenty of variety in the book. As novel-
ist, playwright and short-story writer Maugham has
always given his readers their money’s worth. His
books are consistently well made, he gives what he
promises to give and never disappoints legitimate
expectation. The Summing Up is no exception. The
only criticism that can be levelled at it is that it does
sum up ; it leaves nothing further to be said. The
volume ends with a quotation from Fray Luis de Leon
that carries aptness to the nth degree. “The beauty of
life is nothing but this, that each should act in con-
formity with his nature and his business.”


roved
ds
dfs
Atlantic Ethyl, the greatest super fuel ever introduced to Australia, now sets a
new record in knock elimination! Necessitated by advancing engine compres-
sions, this increase in anti-knock content puts the quality of Atlantic Ethyl actu-
ally ahead of present requirements! It gives a margin of power which, even in
the most advanced 1938 car, guarantees positively the greatest possible perform-
ance and the longest distance per gallon. Start to-day— test the new
improved Atlantic Ethyl in your own car! 11111 l
ATLANTIC PETROL
Atlantic Petrol too, has advanced in anti-knock value—to such an extent that
no other fuel in the same price class can equal its performance qualities! In
all except high compression cars and trucks the extra power of Atlantic Petrol
must give the finest power out-put and maximum economy! Test this new im-
proved Atlantic Petrol for yourself, to-day!
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD., Incorporated in N.S.W.
A.(F.P.)48.38


*
ROYAL
PURPLE,
PARA
• HI J
nmilMMi hill
m
i
I m
m
m
m
ill Sifcl
■ ■ '
i§si
VC**
, :: ;
... y.
B H
1
m
■
m
99
*
Im”
iA
■
Hi
m
"Z v 4, «p§
*-- 4 •:< ■*■..■.. i
■
' \v
• *< \
m
m
m
r :%sr
**
m
mm
iki
f
:
9
11 ■
te
yf
SMS
s
sra
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard.
v Mie


NO TARIFF WALL IN THIS CASE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aws.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THIS IMPENITENT PAPER.
By its attitude to affairs in which Australia and
Maoriland have been involved, and to other affairs in
which enthusiasts have sought to involve them, these
last three years, The Bulletin has risked unpopularity
not for the first or the second time.
On the other hand, The Bulletin has never
been obliged To hedge or to twist, as the Sydney
Sun” has twisted (that paper discovered, only
two or three weeks after its Sunday issue’s exposure
. of Mussolini’s Plot to Sink the British Navy,
that an agreement with the “friendly and amiable
Italian people” will “please everybody” except
fanatics), or been reduced to giving exhibitions of
baffled rage in the manner of the “S. M. Herald,”
which in its wildest paroxysm suggested a drunken old
harridan shrieking for somebody to come and hit Bill
over the head with a bottle. And it has at no time been
guilty of scaremongering or warmongering, being bent
on doing what it can to keep these countries out of
war, not only in these times but in times to come.
It would have been easy to accept the conven-
tional conception of the League as an irresistible force
for good, and to swallow highly-spiced press-cable
stories of the state of affairs in Abyssinia, Spain, China,
Austria, Czechoslovakia, Germany and Italy, and to
echo the assurances of Left Wing writers that their
proteges were sure to win the wars. Other newspapers
have done so, no doubt in all sincerity, and it has
brought to them the comfortable feeling that they were
shouting with the larger crowd. This paper has
preferred, as always, to examine the evidence and give
the public its own opinions, for what they may have
been worth; and, as always, in its consideration of
foreign affairs the interests of Australia and Maori-
land, as members of the British Commonwealth of
Nations, have come first;
So The Bulletin refused to believe that the
Abyssinians were a noble race who had mobilised
750,000 fighting men in defence of their ancient liber-
ties. It thought them a bad lot, a collection of black
and brown barbarians, ruling over conquered terri-
tories into which they had carried their ferocious
practices of massacre, mutilation and slavery, who
deserved no better fate than we had meted out to
the Zulus. It was decidedly against war with Italy to
preserve this unspeakable “empire.” It considered
“sanctions” a most dangerous experiment which
couldn’t possibly succeed without bringing on a general
war, a war in which our allies would be few and
dubious, and at least one rotten. It predicted that the
Abyssinians would be beaten in jig-time, and that
“sanctions” wouldn’t work.
Similarly, The Bulletin refused to regard the
Red Spaniards as spotless Lincolnian democrats, fight-
ing for freedom against a ruthless Fascist alliance.
It held rather that they had brought their troubles
upon themselves and their unhappy country by accept-
ing the patronage and imitating the excesses of the
Russian Bolshevists. And after the successful defence
of the Alcazar, in which Franco’s soldiers fought
with a desperation never found in mere military
revolters, it became distrustful of newspaper
prophecies of an early victory for “the Government.”
Nor has The Bulletin believed that all Franco’s
victories have been won for him by foreigners, or
that the other faction has had to rely upon
Spaniards almost exclusively, or that atrocities have
been systematically perpetrated by the Franeoists and
nobly eschewed by the Reds. It is convinced instead
that, because of the land connection and the active
support of the French Popular Front, there are in
Spain more Frenchmen than Italians ; that the war
has been waged on both sides with the ruthlessness
characteristic of previous Spanish civil wars, and that
in respect of the bombing of cities and towns —indig-
nant as good people feel when the “News-Chronicle”
or the “Daily Herald” lets itself go —it is six of one
and half a dozen of the other.
As for the war in China, The Bulletin has not
forgotten that China has had other wars to which our
own Empire was a party. It has become the fashion
to talk as if 1919 had changed everything, and as if
countries bursting with population pressure should be
satisfied for all time to be guided by what we say now
and not by what we did ; but unfortunately they won’t
look at it in that light. Human needs and human
nature interpose. To millions of English-speaking
people, particularly Americans, it seems monstrous
that the Japanese should have invaded China,
particularly without a declaration of war; but is it
so certain that, placed in the same situation, the
Americans would have behaved any differently?
It is conceivable that the Japanese consider that their
invasion of China had more justification than the
invasion of their waters by Commodore Perry, with
an ultimatum to which they had to yield. That hap-
pened 84 years ago, but in the life of an Asiatic people
four and eighty years are “a mist that blows away.”
In China were, and are, whole provinces
controlled by Communists and infested with their
armies—armies inspired and equipped by Moscow.
The war broke out after Chiang Kai-shek, the Kuomin-
tang leader, had been mysteriously captured by a
Red general, and had made an agreement with the
Communists, whom he had been fighting after the
Chinese fashion. With the Russians in the Chinese
territories of Outer Mongolia and Sin-Kiang, Japanese
who are not militarists may have quite sincerely
regarded that agreement as a threat to their nation
and institutions.
Be that as it may, the war is going against the
Chinese, as the Spanish war is going against the Reds,
and as the Ethiopian war went against the Abyssinians.
Into all these struggles interventionists would have
dragged our Empire; and what fine allies we would
have had! And British Laborites and British
“Liberals” and Reds in our own countries are still for
intervention in China and in Spain—and in Central
Europe, too, if Austrians or Czechs demand to be
“freed,”
It is a bad and mad policy; and it would be
mad and bad if the Japanese, the Franeoists and the
Italians—and the Germans, too —were guilty of all
the crimes imputed to them, and if the Empire were
fully prepared for the consequences, instead of having
been left unprepared—by interventionists.
No nation, however strong, can afford to go in
for foreign crusades. The British Commonwealth of
Nations is capable of protecting itself against any
possible enemy or possible combination of enemies ;
but alone, or in association with any other crusading
Power or Powers, it is not capable of settling the
affairs of foreign peoples by armed force. For one
thing, it could not put forth its whole strength in such
a cause. Neither, very obviously, could either of the
“allies” cast by the interventionist gentry for crusad-
ing parts: faction-ridden France or fear-haunted
Russia. And after a lost interventionist war the curse
of Bolshevism might come home to roost among us.
Certainly a lost war in a quarrel that was none of
their business would shake the loyalty of the Canadian
French and the South African Dutch.
When Mr. Woodrow Wilson returned to Wash-
ington with the League Covenant in his pocket, one
of his predecessors, Mr. Taft—soon to be Chief Jus-
tice—drily remarked that it was “drafted in the diplo-
matic dialect.” The Republican Senator Knox said,
with prophetic insight:
The result of excluding the Central Powers will be to
unite them more closely for their mutual protection
We shall see two Leagues of Nations, two opposing
camps, preparing for a further and still more terrible
war.
And the Senate rejected the Covenant on the
ground that it was loaded with dynamite, using these
terms:
The United States do not assume any obligation to
preserve the territorial integrity or the political indepen-
dence of any other country whatsoever, or to intervene in
controversies between nations who are members of the
League or otherwise, or to make use of the military
or naval forces of the United States in accordance with
any article whatsoever for any object whatsoever.
Since that resolution was adopted the Americans
have most emphatically refused to go crusading. Neither
is crusading ever expected of Swiss, Dutch, Belgians,
Swedes, Danes, Norwegians, Finns, Poles, Bulgars,
Rumanians, Yugoslavs or Portuguese. After all, there
are only about 45,000,000 British (nearly 23,000,000
are females), 11,000,000 Canadians, 6,750,000 Aus-
tralians, 1,600,000 Maorilanders and 1,900,000 white
South Africans. Why should we be “the mugs”?
In the course of 850 years England has taken
part in many European wars. Has it ever been a party
to a post-war settlement that lasted, in the form in
which the settlement was made?
The British Government owes it to the Dominions
as well as its homelands and its moral responsi-
bility to the people of the Dominions is even greater
than its moral responsibility to its own people—
to keep them out of wars in which British and
Dominion interests are not involved, and, regard-
less of forms of government, to maintain and
restore friendships with countries which want to be
friends, and which could make things very uncom-
fortable if they were baited into enmity. Mr. Cham-
berlain, it is clear, has a lively sense of these duties,
and has resolutely returned to the policy of non-
intervention which helped so materially to make
Britain great, powerful and respected throughout the
world.
These Professors.
Australian university professors figure so frequently
as writers of newspaper articles and broadcasters of
talks that the uninstructed must wonder whether they
are employed in our education system or by such public
and private concerns as A.B.C. and sundry news-
papers. A number of them have regular engagements
as microphone oracles; some thump the tub as regu-
larly in dailies or weeklies. Between whiles, let there
be an occurrence of note in no matter how remote a
corner of the globe—especially a political occurrence
of international import—and one or another of them
will be roped in, not to give anything so unremunera-
tive as an interview, but as a hired Argus, to air an
opinionated commentary at so much a line.
Professors notoriously having plenty of time on
their hands, any suggestion that all this extra employ-
ment might interfere with their educating job can
be dismissed. They are probably so conversant with
the topics they write and talk about—or know how
to become rapidly conversant —that they can no doubt
dash off the kind of articles they write and the kind of
talks they give with a minimum of effort. But there
are other aspects of the professorial barrage that
merit looking into.
One is the reason for the run on their willing
services. The ready answer to this is that they are
authorities ; the answer to this again is that they are
not. The fact that they occupy university chairs does
not make them authorities on the topics to which they
are most frequently called to address themselves —
occurrences in world affairs such as, in recent weeks,
the eclipse of Anthony Eden or the eclipse of Austria.
Occurrences of this kind demand original, unbiased
and sane thinking, and thinking of this sort is neither
peculiarly nor noticeably an attribute of professors.
Nor are they better informed on such happenings
than anybody else. Overnight news comes to Australia
of an occurrence such as the Austrian affair; next
morning there is a piping-hot professor for breakfast.
His hasty views have been belted out on such news
as is available to all, and no more. He has no cipher
messages letting him privately into the know for his
oracular purposes. He is a colossus with one foot
on the adjoining cable columns and the other on a
cheque.
In these circumstances that the oracular pro-
nouncements are more often than not puerile or
ridiculous is not extraordinary. Nor does it reflect
much discredit on the oracle’s professorial ability.
To put aside altogether the personal bias and prejudice
that is in professors as in everybody else —especially
when the occurrences are both remote and politically
controversial —the oracle is still left with the handicap
of cabled “news.”
To speak of much of the misinformation thus
purveyed as lies is to cheapen the word. Colored for
the purposes of ordinary journalistic sensation-
mongering, loaded with propaganda for the more
obscure purposes of newspaper “policy,” it provides
the strangest light with which a hack Diogenes ever
sought out the truth. That more often than not the
groper never gets within coo-ee of Truth’s address is
certainly not remarkable.
But the oracle has the appearance of authority,
which is quite another matter. This is all that is
required by those who employ him to do his little
turn beside the morning toast. That sounder, less
prejudiced and more original thought could be turned
on at the same notice by any of a hundred trained
journalists would not interest the hirer. The appear-
ance of authority is what he wants to hire, and
Barkis is more than willing. It is of no account —to
either party, apparently—that this hiring of profes-
sorial oracles means increased unemployment for
journalists. Trade-union ethics —the principle of one
man one job—is evidently not rated very high in
Australian universities.
That professors have certain rights to exploit
these fields need not be disputed. The employment
of their spare time is up to a point their own busi-
ness. It ceases to be their own business when their
utterance, or the nature of their appearances in such
public places as sensation-trucking or “policy”-pushing
newspapers, brings the universities they also some-
times serve into contempt.
However able the man —and some of them are
able enough—or however good the intentions, this
regular appearing in the role of hired oracle in the
hurly-burly of gabbling journalism takes dignity from
his professorial position. Whatever he may be in fact,
he looks a common hack, all the cheaper because to
journalists he seems to be employed, not because of
any singular ability, but simply because he happens
to occupy a position that lends his name the air of
authority.
When, on top of all this, he only succeeds in
sounding an ill-bred and overbearing ass —which he
does too often—the claim that he is appearing as a
private individual evades the issue. Whether he likes
it or wants it, he is hired because he is a professor,
and it is as a professor that he figures. He cannot
be prised away from the university that employs him :
he is hired because that institution of learning engages
him, and it is generally accepted that it backs him.
When he cheapens himself he cheapens it also.
That is the worst aspect of this common appear-
ance of university professors in the role of hired
oracles. The mere frequency of their appearance in
newspaper columns and at the microphone is cheapen-
ing to the institutions which provide their spring-
boards into hack journalism or radio babbling. That
they frequently write and babbie absurdities is no
great credit to them individually, but this is of com-
paratively little account. The contempt into which
these appearances are bringing Australian university
education goes beyond the individual. It is of public
interest.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
In Again.
What trusted leadership means to Labor was shown
once more in Queensland on Saturday. What the lack
of it means to Labor had been shown once more on
the previous Saturday in New South Wales.
Like Mr. Stevens, of Sydney, Mr. Forgan Smith
has led his party to victory at three successive general
elections. But, unlike Mr. Stevens, he had no Mr.
Lang to win them for him. It was fortunate for him
and his followers that Mr. Moore was Premier when
the depression fell on Queensland, and for two years
afterwards; certainly, the Moore economies settled
the Moore Government, and the memory of them
still tells against the Opposition, the predominant
partner in which is now led by Mr. Maher. But
neither Mr. Moore nor Mr. Maher is unpopular in the
sense in which Mr. Lang is, and always will be while
he cumbers the political stage.
There are 62 seats in Queensland’s one House,
and in the last Parliament Labor held 46 ; so Mr.
Forgan Smith could have carried on if he had lost 14.
Though the party vote declined because of dissatis-
faction with the maintenance of depression rates of
unemployed-relief tax and the advent of the Protes-
tant Labor group, he has lost only three or four.
The Premier handled the Protestant Labor agita-
tion very skilfully. In the result Protestant Labor
took nearly as many votes from the Opposition parties
as from the party in office, and is unlikely to have
more than one member. Its leaders declare that it
has come to stay, but the probabilities are that it
will disappear as did the similar movement led
by Mr. Skelton in N. S. Wales. For one thing, the
Digger influence—strong in Queensland as elsewhere
—is against it. The Diggers remember that there was
no sectarianism in the A.1.F., and that no thought
of it occurred to the Protestants Lloyd George and
Woodrow Wilson or the agnostic Clemenceau when,
in a dark hour just 20 years ago, they placed the
allied armies under the control of a Catholic named
Foch.
Tinpot Tyranny in Victoria.
Because he. joined the Lyons-Page Ministry as a
representative of the Page group, Mr. McEwen, the
member for Indi, was expelled from the Victorian
Country party by ten members of its central council,
headed by Mr. Skeat, who was a badly-defeated candi-
date at the elections which saw Mr. McEwen returned
by a great majority. Mr. Skeat’s principal associate in
the expulsion (seven were against it) was a Mr. Hock-
ing, another gentleman to whom political obscurity
is an unwelcome guest.
“The daily press,” said Mr. McEwen, “conveyed
to me the first intimation of my expulsion. A party
rule stipulated that there should be an inquiry before
an expulsion ; no inquiry was conducted, nor was any
specific charge laid.” He contended that, although
there was a party rule forbidding members to join
any State composite Ministry, there was no such pro-
hibition in respect of Commonwealth Ministries. He
wound up by saying that, if it was the will of the
annual conference that the Federal Country party
“should never take part in the government of Australia
without first obtaining the consent of an outside execu-
tive on which no member of Parliament may cast a
vote,” it could consider him out of the party.
Mr. McEwen’s friends rallied, and hundreds of
them were at the annual conference at Ballarat. There
Mr. J. G. B. McDonald, M.L.A., referred to a resolu-
tion of the North-east District Council, “that confer-
ence be asked to readmit Mr. McEwen,” and suggested
that it should be discussed at once. Mr. Paterson,
M.H.R., said it was the practice that “contentious
matters should be discussed first.”
Discussion there was none. Mr. Skeat accepted and
put an amendment designed to discharge the North-
east District Council’s motion from the notice paper,
and declared it carried —as no doubt it was. Then he
unctuously “thanked the conference on behalf of the
central council” ; he had previously secured the adop-
tion of the annual report, which contained references
to the McEwen affair, undertaking that “adoption
would not prejudice any subsequent discussion” or be
taken to “mean that the expulsion was endorsed.”
“Next business!” said this extraordinary chair-
man. Then Mr. Paterson rose and said, “After 22
years’ service to this organisation, I beg with much
regret to tender my resignation.” He tried to say
more, but, in the words of the sympathetic “Age,”
“Mr. Skeat called the next business, declaring that it
was the will of conference that Mr. Paterson should
be no longer heard.”
Thereupon the member for Gippsland walked
out of the hall, followed by a considerable number of
delegates. On the following day, these gentlemen and
other recruits from the general conference, with Mr.
McEwen, set up a Liberal Country party organisation.
This substantial secession was followed by a
demand by Mr. Skeat that candidates for office in his
show should sign a written pledge that they would
remain “loyal.” He received a hostile reception on
putting this ultimatum to the women of the party when
they were about to elect their office-bearers. Some of
the ladies started to count him out. “Rising again,”
according to the “Age,” he “said he was glad they
had not counted up to ten, because it would have been
an everlasting blot on this conference to count out
the chief president.”
Premier Dunstan cut a very sorry figure in sup-
porting and trying to justify this petty despotism.
Australians have shown that they are not in the mood
to tolerate the insolence of party machines, and this
“party’s” ticket for the Senate could muster no more
than 55,000 votes. The intolerance and impudence
shown by the Skeat-Hocking clique at Ballarat will
remind Victorians very forcibly that their affairs are
being controlled by a “party” which has only 20 of
the 65 seats in the Assembly, and wouldn’t have a
dozen if the Federal distribution or the equivalent
were in force in the State. Indeed it is questionable
whether persons willing to submit to the Skeat-Hock-
ing-Dunstan brand of tinpot tyranny could poll an
absolute majority over Labor and U.A.P. candidates
in two Victorian electorates.
At the Producers 1 Conference.
From a back seat:
Addressing delegates to the Empire Producers’ Conference at
Sydney as “we businessmen,” Sir Reginald Dorman-Smith, M.P.,
head of the British, delegation, delivered a speech which rather
startled the Australians. He described Britain as a country with
a top-heavy superstructure of industrialism on an all-too-narrow
basis of industrial life. It had sunk into the minds of the
British people that a flourishing rural population is an essen-
tial insurance against depression and a safeguard in war.
To that all the people of the Dominions would agree. But
the gentleman went on to say that Britain’s absorptive capacity
would soon be reduced, since it was anticipated that by
1950 the population would have diminished by 2,000,000.
Therefore, he asked his hearers not to look for an unlimited
expansion of the U.K. market for agricultural produce.
Moreover, there were resistance-factors. The British
farmer felt that his “Dominion brothers” had got all the
benefits of the Ottawa agreements. The last Labor Minister
for Agriculture had told them that British land production
could be increased 50 p.c. But business with Denmark, Hol-
land and Argentina could not be allowed to lapse, because
those countries provided outlets for British coal and manu-
factured articles. Britain as a produce import market was
near saturation-point. In respect of sugar-beet, wheat, barley,
oats and milk farmers already had production restricted by
statute, while beef import was limited by bonus restriction.
British producers, therefore, “will not sit down indefinitely
under the restrictions placed on them if price-levels are knocked
to blazes by overloading their market with competing imports.”
Australian delegates could not see John Bull reconciling
himself to a steady decline in population and buying power.
It has never been John Bull’s way.
Sir Reginald Dorman-Smith proposed the setting up of
Empire commodity councils with which farmers from inter-
ested foreign countries should be asked to collaborate. But
when he asked the conference to register the opinion that
“supplies coming on U.K. markets from all sources should be
regulated,” T. H. Bath, who leads the co-operative movement
in Westralia, said “You are asking us to take the wrong road.”
At the end of the week delegates were still discussing
the British proposals, and the conference was expected to
go on for another week. Farmers used to more expeditious
proceedings at their conferences are frankly astonished.
A speech that greatly impressed delegates was made
by R. F. Boyer, of Queensland, who speaks as well as he
writes. Putting the case for the woolgrower, he said that
the closing of foreign markets for Australian wool dated
from the Ottawa agreements, which had resulted in the diver-
sion of Dominion, goods, by tariff action, from their natural
markets to Britain. The only road out, he said, was through
international trade. Foodstuffs and raw materials must find
their way by the most economical paths to the millions who
sorely needed them and who were prepared to exchange goods
for them.
But markets are not to be obtained by mere collective
bargaining. The Australian farmer’s opportunity lies in keep-
ing quality up and prices down so as to be able to compete with
other sellers. And let us have no claptrap about sentiment on
the consumer’s part. If Australia produces something that it
will pay the British consumer to take he will take it. Nothing
conferences can do will help very much. Speeches, pools and
agreements solve npthing. /
"Bestial and Sadistic."
With sixpence to spend, any youngster in Sydney
—or any other Australian city—can pick up a
magazine which, purporting to be an exposure
of criminals’ methods, is actually a manual of instruc-
tion in everything from organising a petty racket to
cracking a safe.
Possibly it is too technical to interest any but
the more knowing youngsters, but the danger of such
publications was demonstrated pretty clearly in Maori-
land recently when it was stated in court that six
young watersiders got their scheme for an insurance
racket from an American magazine.
Less advanced children, and the mentally under-
developed of all ages, can get a grounding in crime, as
a Westralian magistrate has pointed out, from any of
a hundred cheap Yankee magazines on the bookstalls.
It need not be straightforward racketeering and
murder, which the gangster-story publications present
so excitingly. Besides the spicy sex magazines, per-
haps masquerading as health, nudist or film jour-
nals, there are scores of magazines devoted to horror
with a basis of sexual bestiality, from the lurid
front covers, usually of a naked or semi-naked girl
being subjected to torture or terror, to the dubious
advertisements at the back. The influence that reading
matter of this type has on subnormal mentalities has
disturbed other minds than those of the Westralian
magistrate.
If the stories were not apt to be taken seriously,
as unfortunately they are, there would be humor in
stuff such as this blurb from a magazine now on sale:
What was the sin-steeped fascination of that horrible
nightclub which nightly lured Marcia Roberts to indul-
gence in frightful orgies which, before she had first
gone there, would have dyed her cheeks with shame and
stopped her heart with terror?
Of this from the same publication:
The murders were horrible enough in themselves —
bloody, hacked corpses which bespoke a killer whose
joy was in sheer butchery.
But it is not so funny when a youngster takes to
crime because he has learned from beastly magazines
that it is clever, or when some miserable pervert makes
front-page news with filthy magazine-ideas translated
into action.
Booksellers, who themselves are disgusted with the
trash, say that there is a growing demand for it; and
it is time that the dumping of magazine offal into
Australia was stopped. Censorship of books is another
matter, but there can be no two opinions about maga-
zine filth. Maoriland, which is subject to the same
flood of Yankee pulp, has recently put 15 more maga-
zines on its banned list, but in Australia, though the
Customs keeps a vague eye open for obscenity and
sedition, practically any sort of dangerous rubbish
finds its way to the bookstalls. As the law stands,
there is no way of stopping the entry either of the
gangster literature or the far worse matter which the
Westralian magistrate accurately described as “bestial
and sadistic.”
All Behind.
British civil aviation has had a bad shaking up from
the Cadman Committee. Imperial Airways has largely
been a Government affair —it received £381,000 in
subsidies last year, and the British Government has
a shareholding control. But it has been competing
with concerns very much more heavily supported by
foreign Governments. Air France has had three times
the subvention and the German Lufthansa nearly as
much.
Nevertheless, there has been little excuse for a
condition of affairs which The Bulletin began to
point, out four years before the Cadman Committee
went’into action. Incredible as it may seem, some
of Imperial Airways’s services have been carried on
by land biplanes hung all over with struts and landing
wires. Douglases on the Javanese run have for years
had easy competition with these relics. Only with
the advent of the Short flying-boats has there been
anything like real modernity in British craft in respect
of size and speed.
The Dominions —Australia, in particular —have
tried to do all in their power to help Britain to retain
an Imperial air monopoly. Until the last couple of
years American commercial aircraft were barred in
Australia. Since the Government issued certificates
for American machines there has been a greater
revolution in Australian air travel in a year than there
was in the previous five years. It would have been
impossible to secure from Britain within a couple of
years modern machines capable of carrying 20 pas-
sengers. There has been no difficulty in getting them
from U.S.A., and at present Adelaide-Darwin and all
the inter-capital and main provincial routes are served
by U.S.A. machines.
Before long the New Guinea mail service will be
added to the list—U.S.A. machines again, in keeping
with the necessity which has forced the gold towns
of New Guinea to go to Germany and U.S.A. for
their aeroplanes.
Lord Cadman and his colleagues remark that
“far-reaching changes in organisation and outlook”
and “more virility in initiation of policy and forward
planning” are “called for.” The British Government
has taken the warning to heart. It has added Lord
Winterton, a soldier whom many Australians in Pales-
tine knew —he was associated with Lawrence for a
time—to the Civil Aviation Control body, and it is
steering Imperial Airways towards a policy of concen-
trating on organisation of Empire routes, leaving Con-
tinental travel to private companies.
In the meantime, Australia, the country which
most needs fast and modern aircraft, has no civil air-
craft constructional policy. It is still in the position
of having to take what British and foreign manufac-
turers several thousand miles away can spare. There
is no reason in the world why specialised Australian
types should not be developed.
It is a grim joke that, while Australia has virtu-
ally no civil aeroplane industry, the fastest warplanes
in the world —Hawker Hurricanes—and the best
record-breaking light ’planes—Percivals—are named
after Australians who were unable to make a living
at aeroplane manufacture in their own country.
Aldermanie Qualifications.
Sydney’s Civic Reform Association is asking for an
amendment of the Civic Corporation Act to modify
the conditions under which aldermen are barred from
trading with their council. Some of these are salutary,
but some are absurd.
A candidate for Parliament may owe thousands
to a Government department or to the taxation
authorities. The citizen who owes a council over ss.
at the end of the month before nomination-day is dis-
qualified from standing as an alderman or councillor.
He is also disqualified if, while a member, he
accepts any advantage of pecuniary value from the
council, or if he has any direct or indirect pecuniary
interest in any agreement or trading with a council.
There are exceptions—as when an alderman is a share-
holder (but not a director) of a company with more
than 25 members, when he buys gas or electricity
at normal fates or when he owns a newspaper, in
which case he may take council advertisements.
But if, after he has been elected, some council
official buys a shilling’s worth of tacks from the
store of which he happens to be a director or owner
or part-owner, an offence has been committed.
An alderman caught in such a trap, though the
event has been accidental, must be haled before
a Court when the “offence” is discovered. If
convicted, he is liable to a fine of up to £5O.
He cannot recover the cost of the purchased
goods from the council, though if the council has paid
him it can recover. And he is automatically disquali-
fied from sitting in any council for a period of from
one to seven years. Furthermore, no alderman or
councillor may vote or discuss in council any matter
of pecuniary interest to even a distant relative.
The exaction of a high standard of morality in
civic affairs is proper; but the disparity in standards
between those demanded of Ms.P. —paid—and aider-
men and councillors —unpaid—calls for rectification,
in N. S. Wales particularly. Members of Parliament
may benefit from Government business through
dozens of avenues without infringing the rule which
debars them from holding an office of profit under
the Crown. Ministers may sit on boards of com-
panies which supply goods to Government depart-
ments, and one Commonwealth Minister has done so.
Ministers may speak and vote on any matter, whether
it affects them or their relatives personally or not.
But the alderman is in another box. The
result is that in many small towns citizens cannot
afford to give their services to the community. It
should be possible to ease the position, especially
for those who offend unwittingly—as a few do every
year, with the resultant loss of their seats —without
leaving the way open for corruption.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lay Brother”: Our Anglican priest
caused a mild sensation when he told the
history of a new set of cloth-of-gold vest-
ments, given him as an Easter present
by a globetrotting parishioner. He
went to the steamer to meet the devout
lady, who managed to get through the
Customs with expedition. When in the
padre’s car, she asked to be taken
quickly to the rectory; “I smuggled
your vestments through the Customs,
I’m wearing the blessed things at this
moment, and it’s too beastly hot to keep
them on any longer!” Sure enough, she
had managed to swathe herself in chas-
uble and stole and to hide the manipie
somewhere about her person. We didn’t
press the question as to what was done
about rendering unto Caesar.
“Xo”: A Melbourne fire-wagon, com-
plete with helmeted fighters, dashed up
to a broken alarm. “Where is it?” yelled
the driver at the man by the post.
“Aw, I just wanted to see if you loafers
were on the job,” was the reply. His
curiosity cost him a cut hand, a court
fine of £7 for the false alarm and another
£2 for having assaulted the constable
who jugged him. According to his age,
he should have been on the electoral roll
for six years, too.
* * *
“Kiwit”: A dry season and late Easter
have added to the usual worries in the
Vic. marriage market; florists and
parental cynics are busy convincing irra-
tional near-brides that flowers like
gladioli are as suitable for the altar trip
as conventional lily-gardenia herbage.
Last year there were more than 150
Easter brides in Melbourne city and
suburbs, and the traffic promises to be
thicker this year. Without the weather
handicap and time factor to contend with,
lily-of-the-valley, orchids and gardenias
were in heavy 1937 demand, and ration-
ing by florists, with consequent high
charges, gave many a ’groom an early
indication of his financial future. After
all, it’s the upkeep, not the first cost.
❖ * * *
“Mak”: According to Canberra mes-
sages an “appropriate degree” is to be
one of the qualifications of the Defence
Department’s new officer —a publicity
man. It is to be hoped the Defence
authorities are more familiar with de-
fence than they appear to be with the
essentials of the successful Australian
newspapermen ; very few of these have
any sort of degree. Lack of professorial
approval doesn’t seem to have kept them
down, nor do they appear any less edu-
cated in public affairs and private in-
terests than the graduates they number
among their friends. Westralia has a
classic case. A journalist successful
in Australia and overseas and now the
head of one of its largest newspapers
didn’t even matriculate. He failed in
English! Anyhow, it would take' nearly
twice the salary offered by Defence to
interest dozens of other able journalists
occupying newspaper posts much more
slightly paid than sub-editorial ones.
=i : * *
“T. 0.”: Ragged for publishing the
truth, is it (B. 23/3 /’38)? Years ago
when Australian tin companies to work
Malayan deposits were popping up like
mushrooms writer sent a brief par. to
the “Wild Cat” giving the tin-ore con-
tent of a series of bores just put down
on its Malayan property by a Sydney
co. As the item was an official notifica-
tion from the secretary and had been
sent to the Sydney dailies I did not
bother to consult him first. Next day in
the street he bailed me up looking like
a beardless Ned Kelly. To his impas-
sioned questions I pleaded that I had
seen his official tip with his name under
it and had taken it as O.K. Also I asked
why the “Cat” should keep silence. He
replied wrathfully that no one in the
Malay States ever read the Sydney dailies,
while few had ever heard of them, but
The Bulletin was in every club and
hotel smoking-room in Singapore and
other Malayan centres. “We haven’t yet
completed our deal for the property with
the Chinese owners, and if they see that
par. first up will go their prices,” de-
clared the secretary. With that he de-
parted sorrowfuly, for he was a man of
many possessions and always eager to
acquire more.
j \i %
“Idee”: Stalin’s latest clean-up of 18
of his former cronies in the Lubianka
prison will mean a small job for Soviet
painters on the bows and stern of a ship.
“ Quick , the putter !”
Alexi Rykov, who got a bullet in the
back, was once well enough thought of to
have a steamer named after him. Thou-
sands of British tourists and investi-
gators have been carried from Hay’s
Wharf, London, to Leningrad in the
Alexi Rykov. On the return trip
hundreds of tons of Soviet butter
were brought back to masquerade as
an Empire product. A curious thing
about the Alexi Rykov and other Soviet
ships is that passengers were not pro-
vided with lifebelts. If the ship sank it
was a case of “Nichevo.”
* * *
“K.E.W.”: A day or so after it was
announced per newspaper cable that
Hitler had banned all music by Franz
Lehar, of “Merry Widow” fame, I heard
several of his; compositions broadcast
from the Berlin short-wave station. Each
time the name, Franz Lehar, was clearly
given.
* * *
“Ebor”: Cleveland, a seaside resort
near Brisbane, which once hoped to be
the port of southern Queensland, re-
ports a queer find. Rooting in an old
rubbish-heap someone found a pair of
silver nutcrackers of artistic design and
embossed with the arms of the Arch-
bishop of York. Many years ago a
number of British Younger Sons, headed
by the Hon. Louis Hope, set in to make
their fortunes by growing sugar at Cleve-
land. All that remains of their efforts
are the stretches of land, now under
cultivation for pines and strawberries,
which still show the ridge and furrow of
the canefields. It is thought that one of
these pioneers might have brought the
crackers to Australia, but there is no
record of any of them being connected
with the Church. The things are un-
doubtedly from the plate chest of some
former incumbent of Bishopsthorpe, and
the silversmith’s mark should make it
possible to identify him.
* * * *
“Goss”: Prowled round Sydney with
a sub-editor the other day, and after we
had spotted a quaint notice saying “Short
cut to George-street through Blank’s
Hotel,” he took an interest in the city’s
signs and wanted to wade into all the
official ones with a blue pencil. “The
parking of motor vehicles is forbidden”
was subbed to “Parking forbidden”;
“Hours of attendance for ladies” lost its
useless “of attendance” ; and the Domain
by-laws were tossed out completely, as
of no public interest whatever. Agreed
with him that long-winded and pompous
notices could go, but I’d have hated to
see a sub. hoe into a needlessly long
London sign I used to admire ; “City of
Westminster Gentlemen” had such a fine
medieval ring about it.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A sturdy partisan of J. T.
Lang, writing to the “S. M. Herald,”
assures the world in general that the
Opposition leader can still rely on the
undivided support of the great bulk of
Laborites. “Until such time as he de-
cides to stand down, or the party itself
decides to change the leadership, he need
not fear that the rank and file will let
him down.” Which sort of recalls a
remark of Macaulay’s when he is citing
the history of Monmouth as a proof that
the masses are not only no more in-
constant than the classes, but more often
less so.
The charge which may with justice be
brought agairist them is, not that they are
inconstant, but that they almost invari-
ably choose their favorite so ill that their
constancy is a vice and not a virtue.
It’s a long, long way from Sedgemoor
to Auburn, but there seems a parallel.
# * * *
“S.T.S.”: A smash with some marvel-
lous escapes happened on the P. and O.
Peshawur at a Port Adelaide quay. A
derrick was lifting out two tons of steel
plate for motor-bodies when the main-
mast bent and everybody rushed for
shelter. Down fell the metal; down fell
some five tons of steel mast, snapped off
12ft. from the deck ; and down after it
came three 30ft. steel derricks. x ßut
everybody was missed by inches and
the ship’s sailing was delayed only half a
day.
* * * *
“El V.”: Queer crowd, these Britons,
and it is easy to understand why more
civilised Continental nations scarcely
know what to make of them. Take their
long-memoried respect for their leaders.
There was an instance of it the other
day when the Royal Dragoons suddenly
recollected the birthday of a pre-war
colonel-in-chief of whom an oil paint-
ing still hangs in their mess, with, below
it, the trophies which he presented to the
regiment. The old gentleman being 79
and unable to visit them, it occurred
to the gallant officers that he might like
to have a copy of his portrait; so they
had one made and sent it along to him
with birthday greetings. Some general
whose name has become permanently
enshrined in British story.? Oh, dear,
no! Just the man that Lloyd George
and the flapper press of 20 years ago
couldn’t hang—Wilhelm Hohenzollern
of Doom.
* s’: sf:
“Sixenate”: One of the numerous
litigious ladies who haunt the N.S.W.
courts has been curbed by Court action.
It has been ordered that, before she can
start another legal process against the
medico she has been worrying for some
years with vexatious actions, she must
obtain the permission of a Judge in
chambers, which is most unlikely to be
given. The other party to the cases has
been told officially to take no notice of
any summons to attend court issued by
her unless it is backed by a Judge’s order.
The Law had to go back to a British
authority of 1894 for its unusual action.
* * * *
“No Bid”: Just when the card-play-
ing world had got used to the mixture of
boston and whist called auction bridge
and was able to remember to lead out
trumps and not to call without an out-
side trick, some fiend discovered that the
game was altogether too easy and in-
vented contract bridge, to play which
with perfection would require an Ein-
stein, a Morphy and a clairvoyant all
rolled into one. Now some other fiend
claims that contract is kindergartenish.
He would make it brighter and merrier
by adding a fifth suit —pack of 65 cards ;
16 to each player and one left turned
up on the table. “Leading experts,” say
the London newspapers, “approve of the
innovation.” They would, because most
of them make a living out of playing the
game, teaching it, or writing about it.
For my part I stand with the old-
fashioned brigade who say that if a game
can’t be played with the ordinary 52-
card pack it’s not cards, and who there-
fore rule out 500. The combinations
capable with the 52-card pack in sets of
13 run into millions. Thirteen more cards
would bring ’em close to billions. It’s
all very well for geometrists such as
Minkowski to go one better than Euclid
and stick in a fourth dimension ; that
facilitates such frivolous pastimes as
relativity computations and the quest of
the quantum. But cards are serious.
Money is bet on ’em.
* # * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The flapper
press has been curdling our blood lately
about what it calls harikari among de-
moted Japanese officers and their wives.
The proper word is seppuku, and it isn’t
done by ladies —they cut their throats
instead, a more modest but equally effec-
tive proceeding. In feudal days every
daimio’s castle had a special room for
the convenience of samurai who had
incurred the serious displeasure of their
lord. It was sporting on the daimio’s
part, because, if the erring retainer was
executed, all his property reverted to the
daimio. The chief performer sat on a
pile of cushions, with his best friend to
his left rear and the official witnesses in
front. He was handed his lOin. dirk,
Waki-zashi, with grave politeness, on a
tray, and thrust it into his abdomen. As
he leaned forward with the pain, his
friend lopped off his head with one
sword-stroke.
PRE-SESSIONAL.
“Premier Stevens was at his office at 8.15 on the
morning after the elections. He said that these
were the days for hard work, not boastful rejoicings.”
Election brothers, known of old
As trusty friends of me and mine,
By grace of whom once more we hold
Dominion all along the line,
Take note how quick to work we set,
Lest you forget, lest you forget.
The roar from hall and hustings dies;
Again the Outs are in the cart,
But, raising no exultant cries,
Curbing the gladness in my heart,
I’m at my desk on schedule yet,
Lest you forget, lest you forget.
Lang’s hopes of comeback melt away
Like snowballs tossed into the fire;
With every electoral fray
He’s landed deeper in the mire,
A circumstance you won’t be let,
I think, to readily forget.
Not ours, though back in power, to loose
Assertive tongue or iron jaw
To brag of having cooked the goose
Of those to whom his word is law.
But think what fate we might have met;
Recall his past, lest you forget.
From plastic dupes who put their trust
In him with utter disregard
Of ways whereby a bank is bust
And ev’ry road to progress barred,
From frantic boasts and foolish words
You’ve helped to save the State, you birds.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: It will be a lasting regret to
me that I never saw the Labor Day pro-
cession in Melbourne. It must have been
a thriller. “With the co-operation of the
Chinese community” (meaning, I sup-
pose, a few brisk young Kuomintang poli-
ticians), there was a float showing “a
school wrecked by a Japanese bomb”
and a “teacher giving first aid to wounded
children sprawled over tumbled blood-
stained desks, and another float ex-
hibiting “a bombed Chinese home, with
smoke coming from the shattered roof—
the father lying dead and the mother,
mortally wounded, holding her baby, and
surrounded by her stricken children.” As
if these weren’t enough, there was “The
Blood Step, a loud poster showing three
Dictators stamping on a wounded
Chinese baby”—which seems a gross
economic waste of Dictators. Then our
own Reds and Pinks weighed in with
a series of six floats :
No. 1 indicated a troubled world, with
the dove of peace lying stabbed in the
breast. Then came Fascism in Italy with
the iron heel on the gagged worker. Next,
Fascism in Germany, with a blonde worker
under the knout.
The knout; and I always thought knouts
went out with the Czars !
~ ~
Then, in order were Abyssinia, with
massed hanging; Spain, with an orphan
baby lying beside its dead mother ; China
under Japanese machine-gunners, and Aus-
tria threatened by German cannon.
And all to make a happy Melbourne
holiday!
V * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s claim to
be the largest city of the Empire, at any
“The chief IS a nark. Wont let us eat the bishop till Lent's over."
rate in area, is supported by a recent
risky experience of one of its citizens. He
left his suburban home at Yeerongpilly
one morning to get some firewood.
When he did not return by evening his
alarmed wife enlisted the aid of the
police. With a blacktracker, parties
searched the densely-timbered ranges
about Tarragindi, finding traces but not
the missing man. Seven days after his
departure from home, he was discovered
lying in a small cave, so weakened by
hunger and exhaustion that he had to be
carried down the hillside. A pencilled
diary told of the awful loneliness and
despairing sense of being doomed to
death from starvation. His only food
for a week had been a biscuit, two
bananas, grass and gum-leaves. But in
the whole dangerous bush adventure he
had never been outside the municipal
boundaries which Ludmayor Jones and
his colleagues rule from the £975,000
City Hall.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: H. F. Broadbent’s real
luck in his dramatic experience in the
Dutch Indies lay in the fact that his
sudden exhaustion and “giddy fits” did
not develop into a faint. Many things
point to the sudden failure of the human
mechanism controlling the machine as the
most likely cause of mysterious air-
disasters, including that of Kingsford
Smith. Sudden loss of consciousness, a
body slumped down on to the controls
in a cramped cockpit, and it is a matter
of seconds only for the machine to be-
come hopelessly out of control even if
there is a co-pilot. The vetting of
air-pilots is becoming a special
branch of medicine in England,
and several other countries as well,
with a literature and technique of.
its own. Learning the job in- !
volves a thorough air-training for the
doctor himself.
* * * *
“Grocer’s Laborer”: Strike me fat! I’m
all wore out, even though it’s over a week
since Steevo did the ’at trick. It’s the same
every election day in Noo South, with
the rubby-dubs shut. That’s the worst of
workin’ for a bloke with a beer license,
though it’s ’andy at other times. Talk
about yakka! Lined up four deep, they
was ; the boss was thinkin’ of callin’ in
a cop to regulate the traffic, but thought
again an’ didn’t. I’m flat out from the
time the poll opens till dinner-time in
the shop and till dark at the side door.
O’ corse, the boss’s license is to sell be
the dozen. That sorta makes it dignified
an’ stops booze artists cornin’ in for a
couple at a time. But it’s marvellous
’ow many coves —an’ sheilahs, too —came
in fer vinegar an’ cordials. Funny, too,
they all seemed to wink when they
ordered ’em. To see ’ulkin’ big navvies
arskin’ for rarspberry syrup would’ve
made the W.C.T.U. dead pleased. I’ve
’ad a marcel wave in me back ever
since through stoopin’ to pick up bottles.
But it was worth it, for I won me bet:
I reckons we’d do over the ’undred
dozen fer the mornin’. I guarantee that
Murphy over at the Royal didn’t do
much better ’imself.
“Oran”: A school-inspector friend
relates that at a wayback school the
children arose to sing the National
Anthem. Apart from standing, the
august visitor was not taking much
notice of the singing, but when the
youngsters began the second verse, known
for some obscure reason as “The Prayer,”
he pricked up his ears. At the conclu-
sion he asked them to sing that verse
again, just to assure himself they were
saying “Confound their navies’ tricks,”
instead of “knavish tricks.” Inquiry re-
vealed they had learnt it that way from
“Any of youse know how to Work this damn thing?"
teacher. Inspector remarked he rather
liked the revised version, and let it go at
that.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Electoral officials have their
diversions. At the late show in N.S.W.
an old lady, after receiving her
voting paper, emerged from the voting
niche at a Ryde booth and complained
she had been given the wrong paper. To
the puzzled authorities she explained that
her candidate’s name did not appear
thereon. She had, she asserted, come
there to vote for a Mr. Ryde. Then en-
sued a lengthy argument, the voter main-
the old pioneer families in the district
she remembers. I never heard of any
murders of abos., wholesale or retail. My
father, who was a station manager in the
early days, used to say that he had only
seen one really wild black all the years
he spent in the Riverina. There were
blacks’ camps on the outskirts of Wagga
taming that her son-in-law had expressly
informed her she was to vote for Ryde,
and she did Pot mean to vote for any-
one else. She was finally induced to re-
tire with her paper, but it was evident
she did so harboring dark suspicions.
%
“W.D.McC.”:, Dame Mary Gilmore’s
reminiscences of abo. massacres interest
me because I was a classmate of her
brother, John Cameron, and knew all
and at Narrandera when I was a lad, but
the blacks were all harmless. The heaps
of bones mentioned by Dame Gilmore
were probably from an old tribal bury-
ing ground, of which there are numbers
in N.S.W. and Vic. There was a bit of
shooting at Dockers Plains in the Wan-
garatta district in the ’forties ; but I never
heard of any at Yea (Vic.).
* * * *
“Selma”: News that U.S.A. schools
have discovered that geography taught by
means of jigsaw maps makes much more
impression and proves more interesting
to youngsters than when driven in by any
other method reminds me I can add a
word of endorsement to those claims. In
my youth our family had a large map
of England and Wales, jigsawed along
the county boundaries, and so expert did
we become in putting it together, upside
down as well as right way up, that we
could reconstruct the Old Dart in a jiffy.
And, though that’s umpteen years ago,
the mention of any county will even yet
bring its shape, position and relation to
neighboring counties to my mind’s eye
with undiminished clearness. When the
map of the world is stabilised once more
it should be available in all schools in
jigsaw form.
& * * *
“Dhas”: I’ve squatted on the for’ard
hatch often with a bucket of
water to do my “dhobi,” but none of the
seamen on the Australia-England run,
among whom the word is always used
to denote washing clothes, could tell me
how it was spelt, or that it was the Hindu
word for laundry, as I lately discovered
in a book. The word “gup,” in common
use in Maoriland for describing election
promises or foreign “news,” I always
took to be American, but it’s another
one that Gandhi would use, and means
“bazaar gossip.” The writer of the book
points out a connection between the
Hindu “bilati,” meaning “foreign,” and
the familiar “Blighty.”
* * * *
“Ming”: The plight of the S.A. candi-
date who lost his £25 deposit will arouse
the sympathy of one M.L. aspirant to
political honors. The S.A. man polled
one-fifth of . the votes required, but the
law says inexorably “over one-fifth,” and
he had to pay for a one-vote deficiency.
The M.L. man also lost his deposit by a
single vote, but his grievance went
further, in that the votes he got were
less than half the number of names
appended to the petition asking him to
stand for Parliament.
GRENFELL WORTHIES.
“At the Grenfell (N.S.W.) celebrations, it was
claimed that the district had produced Henry Lawson
the poet, Stan McCabe the cricketer, and ‘Ben Hall,
an early’ squatter who had shot his way to fame/ ”
, '
Grenfell, be proud of those three sons of thine
From thy productive nursery who came
In wider and more spacious fields to shine
And cut their names upon the scroll of fame,
A bard, a batsman and a bushranger!
To schedule them arow seems quaint enough,
Still we may all concede, without demur,
Each in his time and day was front-page stuff
For feats their countryside may well recall.
Stanley McCabe and Lawson and Ben Hall.
One trained his pen to build the ringing rhyme,
And trained it to some purpose, you’ll allow ;
Up steep Parnassus’ slopes ’twas his to climb
And wear the poet’s bays about his brow.
Another thrills appreciative throngs
On many a crowded stand and hill and flat *
With all the rare distinction that belongs
To masters in the strife of ball and bat.
But ’twas a leaden, not a leather, ball
(Powder behind it) made the name of Hall.
There’s many a means whereby a man ensures
Being remembered by his fellow-men ;
Your way’s not mine, maybe, nor my way yours,
And that’s as true of Henry, Stan and Ben.
Yet each has helped to put upon the map
The place where each in turn arrived, a babe,
Lawson, our foremost library chap,
AiWSB?23E r <JSSS , -ffl enthral,
Like Turpin’s or Duval’s—highwayman Hall!
n.s.w.
MIDFORD.


C:^Av
A
9' 1
10/
or
16
20/
or
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
;
OF THIS GENERATI
THE
R K
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
POLITICAL POINTS
In the last Queensland Parliament
Labor had 46 members, the Country
party 13 and the U.A.P. three. In the
next, Labor may have 43, the C.P. 14, the
U.A.P. four and Protestant Labor one.
Preferences may cost Labor two or three
more seats, but it is assured of a substan-
tial majority.
Protestant Labor ran 24 candidates in
Queensland and its campaign led to
about 124 fights. Nowhere did it get an
absolute majority, though on Monday
it seemed likely that its Kelvin Grove
man would scrape in on preferences.
Even enthusiasts are asking whether it
was worth while going through so much
to gain so little.
A Melbourne “Age” man saw Dun-
stan before he left for the Cockies’ hulla-
baloo at Ballarat, and testified that he
was “looking forward to this conference
with the same zest of perennial youthful
enthusiasm that he has put into politics
for more than 20 years.” But he didn't
look a bit like a Perennially Youthful
Enthusiast when Paterson and his sup-
porters walked out of the Ballarat hall.
N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mackay
is asking for more salary. He gets £l5OO
a year, and his newspaper friends say it
is ridiculous considering that the Road
Transport Commissioner and the Assis-
tant Commissioner of Railways and the
Water Board man draw £2500. How
about paying him by results in murder
cases?
Cain, the Victorian Labor leader, has
been driven to admit that “the present
political alignment is not entirely satis-
factory.”
There are some things the Country-party
Government will not do because it is
opposed to them.
The chief of them is the introduction of
electoral reform on a one-vote-one-value
basis, or with 20 p.c. margins as in the
Commonwealth. But although Cain's
party can never hope to win a majority of
seats without such a measure, and
although the present arrangement gives
the Cockies grotesque over-representation
and office, Cain humbly acquiesces.
Lang and the president of his organisa-
tion, Paddy Keller, would make a good
subject for a statue to be called “The In-
extinguishables.” Beaten for the third
time in six years, and with less than a
third of the Assembly seats still, Paddy
bounced up and, wiping the dust out of
his mouth, mumbled that “the odds are
heavily in favor of the Government party
ending in disruption before the three
years have expired, and it is to meet that
probability that we must shape our
course.” But “we” can’t “shape” Lang
over again, and before the three years
are up the old gentleman will have
turned 64.
From the standpoint of expediency—
principle was, of course, left out of the
case—endorsing more than one U.A.P.
candidate for “safe” N.S.W. Assembly
seats proved very successful. No “safe”
seat was lost, and the contests were, with-
out exception, interesting. Re-elected
members growled that the new rule com-
pelled them to spend a bit of money ; but,
seeing that the job is worth £670 a year
and privileges, why shouldn’t they?
Douglas Credit ran a ticket in Queens-
land on Saturday, with the usual result.
The N.S.W. brotherhood failed so hor-
ribly at the Commonwealth elections that
it gave the State elections a miss, but it
issued vague prophecies as to the suc-
cess that would crown its efforts in three
years’ time. By comparison, Single-tax
makes a respectable showing. It got
Craigie in again in S.A.
Contemplation of the civil war which
the faction it backed has nearly lost gave
“S. M. Herald” hysterics again. “Lerida,”
it shrieked, “is the key to Catalonia”
and “the new Roman Imperialists are at
its gate” (actually Franco is inside).
Ruthless massed air attacks make General
Franco’s undertakings as worthless as
though they had been given by a Mahdi’s
dervishes or the Pathans of the Khyber.
... .All over save for the final massacres
by aeroplanes or execution squads!
An old girl in hysterics is a painful scene ;
but if “Granny” didn’t take sides in
“Mr. Forgan Smith’s Labor party (Queensland) will once more have two-thirds of the
seats, while Mr. Lang’s Labor party (N.S.W.) has one-third.”
"Brithers, it’s a safe and happy landing when ye know hoo!”
foreign quarrels of which she knows no-
thing she wouldn’t have ’em so often.
Rescued from the obscurity of a back-
page column:
Japan regrets that force of circumstances
has made it impossible to import 800,000
bales of Australian wool in the current
season.
No remarks have been heard from trade-
diversionists, boycotters or flapper-papers
of the positive - action - against - Japan
school; but they are principally to blame.
At the Ballarat hullabaloo, even
when the split in his own party had be-
come evident, Dunstan, who claims to
be Country party, sneered at Country
parties in other States, saying of the
Westralian Cockies that they were likely
to remain in opposition. They are much
jnore likely to become the ruling group
after the next State election, with
Latham, their leader, as Premier. As
for the N.S.W. Agrarians, who were in-
eluded in the sneer, they retain their 22
seats in the Macquarie-street Assembly,
though for days it looked touch and go
with Hankinson in Murrumbidgee. Even
with Labor support, Dunstan’s crowd
won only 20 at the October polls, and
it is doubtful whether they represent half
as many farmers as the N.S.W. C.P.
represents.
Butler has been re-elected leader of
his dismembered party and authorised to
negotiate with Independents willing to
let him remain Premier. Considering
that his Libs, have been reduced from
28 in the last S.A. Assembly to 15 in the
next (certainly there will be 39 seats in-
stead of 46), he must be regarded as a
very lucky Butler.
The silliest Labor party in the Empire
is running a lady doctor for the West
Fulham by-election. She is described as
“tall, blue-eyed and chestnut-haired,
with a dazzling smile,” and she demands
that Britain should “stand by the League
Covenant and take the lead in organis-
ing the peaceful nations” —Russia, of
course, included —for war. The silliest
Labor party in the Empire expects this
foolish woman to win ; and she may.
Professor Roberts, of Sydney Univer-
sity and the “S. M. Herald” office, has
discovered that “Australians will not
tolerate even constructive criticism.”
But when do they ever get any from
Professor Roberts?
Lyons has vexed an interventionist
paper by refusing to come out as an in-
terventionist. It would help if he gave
these ladies and gentlemen a dose of their
own medicine. British interventionists
never mention the Dominions in their
writings or ravings; they take it for
granted that the people of Greater
Britain will be meek parties to any war
interventionists choose to start. A word
in season from our Prime Minister might
shatter this fond delusion. And all Aus-
tralia, the Communist fringe excepted—
but that, of course, is not Australian —
would applaud him if he spoke the word.
Nowadays the bones of departed
“S. M. Herald” editors must often rattle
in their coffins. While still down on
Australian Labor, the funny old paper
merely repeats the rant of British Labor
about foreign politics. The articles on
Lang and Curtin read as if Stevens wrote
them; the articles on Germany, Italy,
Spain, Austria and Czechoslovakia are
just what “Sir” Walter Citrine would
dash off.
In N. S. Wales, voting and exercise of
preferences are compulsory; and in
Ryde on March 26 there was a 97 p.c.
poll. So Minister Spooner, who was re-
turned with an absolute majority of
1445, can claim to be a thoroughly repre-
sentative member, though the “Daily
Telegraph,” acting on its fatuous belief
that it had given the people “leadership,”
demanded his rejection in one of its
slashing articles printed the day before
the poll. In S.A. preferentialism is com-
pulsory but voting is not, so on March
19 vast masses of electors stayed away.
In Queensland, marking of preferences
is optional, the Labor idea being that if
it were obligatory it could help the other
side.
Dunstan again:
In my more charitable moments, I be-.
lieve the U.A.P. blundered into Opposi-
tion, but they showed themselves in their
true colors.
Even in his thinking, Dunstan’s charity
begins at home. Dunstan was satisfied
to be lieutenant to a U.A.P. Premier, and
went to the country as such. It was
discovered after the election that Labor
would support a Dunstan Government.
Uncle Sam is teaching the Mexican
Government that “expropriation” ( i.e
theft) doesn’t pay. Since the Reds stole
the oil-wells, they have discovered to their
astonishment that there is no market for
their oil or their silver, of which the
U.S.A. was the chief buyer. The result
in the latter case is that the price of
silver has tumbled, and the fall affects
Broken Hill; but better that in the long
run than that expropriation should be-
come fashionable. There are expro-
priators everywhere, though when they
expropriate singly instead of by “mass
action” the police go after them.
These Amazons, whom the flapper
press exalts as heroines in puff pars, and
photographs, seem to be very much alike,
whether they do their Amazoning in
Abyssinia or Spain. Of the ladies who
saved Madrid, Knoblaugh, the American
correspondent, writes that “most of rhe
young women who donned pistols were
volunteers, from the capital’s 30,000
registered prostitutes.” And a flapper-
paper printed it without a blush.
A representative of the Wheatgrowers’
Federation told the Empire Producers’
Conference at Sydney—in a year in
which towards the end of the season
wheat has never been below 4s. and has
been up over 4s. 7d. per bushel —that
“the economic condition of the industry
in Australia may be described as bank-
rupt.” A clear case of overdoing it.
From a Collins-street farmer:
Victoria’s Country party has staged its annual
brawl, with results embarrassing to Premier
Dunstan, disappointing to farmers who want
results without wrangles and inconsequential
to the vast majority of Victorians. About 20
p.c. of the delegates to the conference left
with Paterson, M.H.R.,and formed another party.
Nearly all the business done consisted of the
washing of dirty linen. Farmers in general
would have liked to hear some discussion of
continued Agriculture Department defections
and of rule by transport and marketing boards;
but there was none; shabby domesticity was
the order of the week. So out go Paterson
and McEwen, and there remain central-council
arrogance and a political outlook so limited
that it can’t achieve a vision of Victoria,
let alone the Commonwealth.


DOING HIS DUTY.
"Believing that training in citizenship will reduce crime, N.S. Wales police have adopted the slogan ‘Attack crime from the cradle."


LETS ALL
ENJOY LIFE!
n
/V
all have a
S'*' good time ALL
the time! Why not!
Whoopee! No grouchy
ers no shirkers. Dance
merrily through life
feeling as fit as a fiddle
and ready to blow our
trumpets wtyh the best!
Paint the old town red
if we wisl/... with never
a bad Jiend or a touch of indigestion
to follow. For Yeaston
Tablets will keep us
up to the mark . . .
Get ’em at any
pharmacy in V- or
4'6 bottles.
Yeaston
tablets
long ENGINE LIFE
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
r JZ
£
fA:
O
-YOU CAN DEPEND ON
Champions
Experience shows that an engine kept free from faulty
ignition is sure to last longer and give better and more
economical service. Profit from the experience of
others install new Champions every year.
An Empire product made in Windsor, Canada
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
34
PERSONAL ITEMS
The theory that the individual withers
in the tropics received another knock-
back from the award in the N. S. Wales
sesqui. novel competition. The £250
prize went to Xavier Herbert, who was
born in Port Hedland (W.A.) and lives in
Darwin for preference. And he has tried
Perth, Melbourne and Sydney.
George Hastie, second manager of the
14-year-old Melbourne Capitol, has been
in the Yarraside picture business for 18
years, the last four of them being with
J. L. Thornley, who has just resigned the
Capitol management to concentrate on
his own theatres in Hobart, Launceston,
Warrnambool and Bendigo. George is
a local lad, Caulfield being his original
home. He has three brothers, interested
in more serious things of life than
entertainment; Oliver is connected with
the Sydney management of the engineer
McPhersons, Harold is with the same
firm in Melbourne and Bert is accountant
to another Melbourne house.
For 29 years guns from Donald Mack-
intosh have been going to Australia’s
outback stations and camps; many of
the buyers know the Mackintosh only
by his copperplate handwriting, so Frank
Lee caught him in Melbourne, and here’s
DONALD MACKINTOSH.
what he looks like at 72. He was born
on a farm at Rockbank, within 20 miles
of Melbourne, and there he learned to
down crows, hawks, magpies and ducks
with a minimum ammunition cost. As
a country lad of 23 he scooped the pool
down at North Brighton, and a man he
met that day, the late J. L. Purves, of
legal and amateur gunshot fame, ad-
vised him in 1900, after many more Aus-
tralian successes, to go for the high-
shooting stakes offering at European
clubs. The Mackintosh stayed abroad
nearly 10 years on the proceeds he won,
and European critics named the Aus-
tralian as the best gunshot of his time.
He deserted the competitive field only
a few years ago, and he still has a keen
enough eye to down more than his share
of the bag on Vic. quail-shooting trips.
What isn’t as well known as his shooting
is the fact that he’s a keen Kipling man,
and possesses personal letters from the
late poet; he’s now hon. sec. of Mel-
bourne’s brand-new Kipling Society.
Presidency of the Australian Institu-
tion of Engineers this year goes in the
direction of the building trade branch of
the game, the new head being F. P. Knee-
shaw, general manager of Portland Cement
and of Kandos Cement and Colliery Cos.
As he is also acting-president of the Asso-
ciated Chamber of Manufactures and a
member of the council of the Standards
Association, he should not suffer from
ennui during the next 12 months.
Control of Maoriland’s State monopoly
steel industry has been vested in G. A.
Pascoe, of the Industries and Commerce
Department. Before he became a civil
servant Pascoe was a member of the
Christchurch firm of Andersons, Ltd.,
ironfounders, and is a very highly-quali-
fied engineer, for many years a member
of the Dominion’s Engineering Standards
Committee. Although he’s a leading
member of the Canterbury Employers’
Association, and as such on the em-
ployers’ side in frequent industrial dis-
putes affecting his trade, it was the Labor
Government which appointed him to the
Commerce Department. His fairness and
good temper in industrial proceedings
had made him friends in an unsuspected
quarter.
Captain John Ronald Mackay, who
died recently in Brisbane at 79, must
have been about the last survivor among
the genuine dyed-in-the-wool skippers of
Kanaka recruiting days. Skye Isle-born,
he had the soft Gaelic on and in his
tongue, the only soft thing about a
Skye man. Square-rigger sail at 15 de-
veloped the man who in after years was
made a genuine chief on Malaita, and
thereafter exercised his chiefly rights to
the marked benefit of recruiting for his
owners and the personal safety of his
ship’s company. “Cappie Shon’s” name
was one to conjure with. His last spell
of sea-service was in command of the
Bingera mail steamer from Brisbane to
Townsville and back each week, 1500
sea-miles through some of the trickiest
waters of the world.
Colonel Edward House, whose career
ended in New York the other day at the
79th milestone, was one of the reasons
why Woodrow Wilson’s schemes for
world-regeneration were frigidly regarded
by Congress. From the outbreak of the
Great War till 1919, House was much
in the public eye as the President’s “per-
sonal representative.” He had no other
official status, and his supersession of
ambassadors and other accredited
U.S.A. diplomats in Europe right
through the war and even at the Peace
Conference constituted a precedent that
Americans regarded as undesirable, par-
ticularly as this “undercover” gentleman
was suspected of having a hand in vari-
ous pies that weren’t cooked on the
recipe of the first of the Fourteen Points —
“Open covenants, openly arrived at. Diplo-
macy always in the public view.” House’s
career as a plenipotentiary ended at the
same time as Wilson’s Presidential term.
He sat on the Mandates Commission in
1919, and thenceforward faded from
sight.
Few Melbourne and Sydney people
recently introduced to Frank Gunning
realised that he is Westralia’s most
widely-known Anglican parson, or that
his slight appearance is belied by a skill
with his mitts that long ago assured his
popularity among such hard-knuckled
coves as enginedrivers, shearers and
working graziers. When he reached
Moora (W.A.) as a fresh-faced curate
from the Old Country he ran boxing
classes as counter-attractions to the
gambling joints of the Midland railway
construction camps. Now 52, he has
completed a book on the pioneer charac-
ters whose western trails he crossed and
recrossed —and his authorship will not
surprise those who know the ownership
of various unparsonical pen-names
over lively “West Australian” articles
that have appeared through the years.
In Sydney to deliver a paper at the
Uni. during the World Radio Conven-
J.L. BAIRD, High Priest of Television.
tion is John Logie Baird, G.O.M. of
British television. The present Alex-
andra Palace system in London, although
operated by rival interests, represents a
culmination of Baird’s efforts. He started
in Frith-street, Soho, in 1924, with appara-
tus that was crude but on the right track.
Sections of the radio press belittled his
efforts openly, but step by step, until his
modern high-definition apparatus went
into Alexandra Palace a year or so ago,
he has moved ahead, despite such set-
backs as losing several hundred thou-
sand pounds’ worth of valuable equip-
ment when his laboratory was gutted in
the Crystal Palace fire. A recent achieve-
ment was an unexpected public demon-
stration of large-screen television in
natural color, flashed on the screen of a
London theatre before the audience.
Recently-cabled accounts of “tons of
equipment” with him in the Strath-
aird and of an intention to “start a
station without delay in Sydney,” he dis-
misses with a modest smile as being
completely untrue. He is in Australia
as a guest, and for a very short stay at
that.
Dr. H. L. Updegraff, of Hollywood,
U.S.A., who came to Sydney for the
annual meeting of the Royal Austral-
asian College of Surgeons, is one of
America’s foremost exponents of plas-
tic surgery—senior surgeon of that
department at Cedars of Lebanon
Hospital, Hollywood, and head of
the plastic surgery staff at Los Angeles
Orthopaedic Hospital. In addition he has
naval rank as a lieut.-commander, and is
in the plastic surgery unit of the U.S.
Navy. A Fellow of the American College
of Surgeons, Dr. Updegraff’s interest in
Australasian affairs comes through his
membership of the Pan-Pacific Surgical
Association. He represented the U.S.
Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery at
the Svdnev conference, and two years ago
was one of the bigwigs of the Pan-Pacific
Surgical Congress at Honolulu.
Dead in London, Mortimer Menpes,
born in Australia and, according to
Who’s Who, “nominally educated at a
grammar school in Port Adelaide, but
really on a life scheme of his own.” His
career as a painter, according to himself,
began when he was a year old. Some-
what of an eccentric, Menpes was
a traveller who boasted in 1902 that he
was about the only man who had beaten
Jules Verne’s imaginary record of Round
the World in Eighty Days. He produced
pictures of many countries, and dabbled in
fine printing and the editing of editions
of the great masters of painting. His
native Australians knew little of him
except, perhaps, during the S’African
War. Then as a “Black and White” man
he showed the world how genteelly hor-
rible war could be.
“II Vecchio” on a general:
British military writers might well feel it some-
thing of a sensation that Edmund Ironside,
whom many Australians knew as the com-
mander of the Archangel Force in 1919, should
find himself relegated to Gibraltar at 56. Iron-
side, the son of an Aberdeenshire laird, born
in a village of his own name, has an appear-
ance which lives up to his moniker. He
entered the army at 19. At 34 when the war
broke out he was a major, in 1919 a major-
general, specially promoted for distinguished
service, with a K.C.8., D.S.O. and C.M.G.
and a long string of foreign decorations. He
was in charge at Ismid, the Turkish naval base,
in 1920, after the Russian affair, and then had
a spell in Persia before returning to command
the Staff College at Camberley. Then he took
a turn in command of a division at Aldershot,
and had a couple of years as C.O. at Meerut,
India—the starting-point of the Indian Mutiny.
He became a full general a couple of years
ago. Harington, whom he succeeds, was his
C.O. during the Turkish business. There was
some public astonishment when he was sent
to take charge of the Indian Western Command
in 1927, but what the public did not know
was that there was an aggregation of 48,000
men round Quetta, which made it the biggest
military centre in the British Empire. There
may be some equally good reason for Iron-
side’s being sent to Gib., more especially as he
is an artilleryman, and artillery is the root
of the Rock’s safety.
George Sutherland, pictured here by
Counihan, is co-managing director of
Allans, the Collins-street musical house
which dates back to establishment in
1850 by J. W. Wilkie. The Sutherland
name has been on Allans’ payroll since
1891, when its bearer tired of life as a
telegraph messenger. Director of a city
commercial radio station and a country
one, he has also experienced the man-
agement of a picture-theatre ; this was
in the early days of the picture business,
GEORGE SUTHERLAND.
and the boom did not come till after
shortage of capital and films had forced
the sale of his suburban show. He’s
also a director of the Australasian Per-
forming Rights Association, which
watches the Tasman Sea copyright in-
terests of composers.


NEW GOI I f EAR
SURPRISE TYRE
THE NEW
OUTVALUES
ALL OTHER
TTRES IN ITS
PRICE CLASS
Never before has the thrifty motorist been
able to buy so much tyre quality at such a
low price.
The new R-l, champion of its class, is a
worthy companion to the famous G-3.
Goodyear Dealers everywhere are ready
now to show you the outstanding features of
this new Goodyear tyre sensation. See the
R-l to-day.
THE NEW R-l
GIVES YOU THESE
NINE GREAT FEATURES
1. Flat, wide, long-wearing tread.
2. High, non-skid, diamond blocks.
3. Thick Centre-Traction tread.
4. High, broad shoulders.
5. Supertwist Cord in every ply.
6. Full size in all dimensions.
7. Long, trouble-free, non-skid service.
8. Handsome, streamlined side walls.
9. Famous Goodyear quality.
Available in all popular sizes for motor cars,
including 5 NEW SIZES.
5.25-17
6.00-16
5.50-17
6.25-16
6.50-16
3 cve*V^ Se
A
Dtttv
G-3
G-3
Beg" 3
Hoo v ”
OotV
14-Cl-3S
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: “One-bottle Joe” carried
his swag into Murray Bridge (S.A.) one
summer night, and camped in the show-
ground. Late though the hour, he pros-
pected the town for free beer, but in
vain. Back in camp he did some hard
thinking, for he was resolute against an-
other dry day. When day dawned it
observed a large Ayrshire cow blissfully
chewing up the garden in a pretentious
guest-house. Later the chatelaine of the
place discovered the cow and hysterically
ordered it out. But that Ayrshire was
used to women. Fortunately, “One-
bottle” was standing idly in the street
a few yards away, and he yielded to the
tearful plea to save the garden. He
drove the cow down the street, then
returned, had breakfast in the kitchen,
pitched his tale, and departed with 5/-
in his .pocket—to find the cow and drive
her back to where he got her from before
entering upon his well-earned liquid
reward.
# * * =!=
“Spino”: “Yairs,” remarked Mulga
Bill, “there’s some people’d pinch any
thing. But the toughest rags I ever
struck was the gins up around Onslow
—they useter pinch the grease outa me
waggon-wheels and use it for face
cream.”
s[c % ❖
“Valencia Creek”: One of the Council
recently boasted that he had spent a
score of years in the bush without ever
hearing anyone recite “The Man from
Snowy River” or meeting a station cook
that wasn’t a good one. I won’t say any-
thing about his wonderful run in
babblers, as our food-spoiler knows my
pen-name, but if he hasn’t heard
“Banjo’s” classic beefed out a hundred
times in hut and mustering camp he
must have spent most of his time in the
mulga with back-country curates and the
more highbrow type of station governess.
Queenslanders are particularly keen on
bush ballads —when I drifted into one
far-out district and the local cattle-
chasers found out that I knew most of
Paterson’s and Ogilvie’s stuff I got
almost as much free beer as the town-
ship copper.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: Though there are
constant moans about the possible speedy
extinction of the Murray cod, one of
the world’s finest food fishes, no one has
made any attempt to stay the rot beyond
instituting close seasons of which no one
takes heed. At the same time some of
the States have spent, and are spending,
thousands on the acclimatisation of com-
paratively worthless fish like the trout
because it is considered to be a “sport-
ing” attraction. It is gratifying then to
quote the report of W. J. Hill, of the
Wagga (N.S.W.) district, who has in-
formed the Vic. Fisheries Dept, that for
many years he successfully bred Murray
cod and its cousin the golden perch in
his private hatchery. Australian fisheries
officials who permitted the introduction
of the worthless and destructive Euro-
pean carp and have for years coddled
at great expense the imported trout
would seem to have in Hill’s success an
opportunity for justifying their existence.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: Line-fishing in over
100 ft. of water, we were bringing up
snapper and occasional trumpeter. The
snapper went into the fish-box, but the
trumpeter, being worthless, went over
the side. Up from such a depth they
found it impossible to get down again,
and so floundered along the surface an
easy meal for the gulls. Presently the
skipper brought up an extra-big one,
too big for the gulls to handle. Tena-
cious of life, the trump, fluttered along
the water, dodging the persevering beaks
aimed at him. He looked like filling his
sinking tank and getting below again
when a fresh candidate for a meal broke
surface. It might have been a duck-
billed platypus—only that its bill was the
size of a cricket-bat. It was not over-
skilful either; its first shot missed. Then
with deliberation it opened the bill wide
—and the trump, disappeared. What was
it? I’ve seen most creatures of the sea,
in life and in museums, but never such
“This place is a swindle! I've been here three weeks and never seen a kangaroo .”
“Aw, they must be about. Me grandad reckons Vs seen one.”
a bill as that. And there was no tangle-
foot on board either —the market price
of our average catch didn’t run to it.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Took the visitor from
the city out for a drive in the ancient
buggy we use for occasional work round
the farm, and half-way down a rather
steep hill the swinglebar parted from
its moorings. We finished the slope at
a wild gallop, with the traces flogging
the horse’s heels, missing stumps and
trees by inches ; on pulling up, the old
mare added to the excitement by splinter-
ing the frontboard with a few well-placed
kicks. Apparently unaware that anything
out of the ordinary was happening, the
visitor watched with a bored air until I
had straightened things out and then
remarked, “These horse affairs are all
right in their way, but, personally, I
prefer cars.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: No backache, sore hands
and jarred muscles for me when log-
splitting—l use a little gadget called a
“splitting-gun.” Looking something like
a miniature muzzle-loading cannon, with
a bore of about lin. and with a sharp
edge like that of a wad-cutter around
the muzzle, it is loaded with half a
handful of blasting powder. The sharp
end is then placed against the end-grain
of the log where the split is required,
driven firmly home with a few blows
of the maul on the butt end, and fired
by a short length of fuse in the touch-
hole. When the gun goes off it drives
a wad of wood into the log with such
force that it splits it apart. The only
drawback is walking anything up to 50ft.
after each shot to find and pick up the
gun. Still and all, I wouldn’t part with
the device for quids.
* * * *
“C.G.8.”: Among the 26 men one
...... , , , - ~ f
Victorian cocky employed in the course of
taking off 6000 bags was a cheerful choom.
Viewing his microscopic issue of mutton,
the lad ' remarked to the boss that his
eyesight must be failing as he could not
see his meat. The hint was taken and
he received more. Next day Mrs. Cocky
sliced the mutton to tissue-paper thick-
ness and covered Choom’s plate. On
taking his place at the table Choom
cheerfully observed that his eyesight had
greatly improved overnight—he could
now see his plate through the meat.
* * * *
“Western”: With the first touch of
dawn comes the spreading of wings. Like
a cloud of aeroplanes they take off,
mostly into the eye of the rising sun.
Terns, noddy and sooty, in their mil-
lions. More and more until the struggling
sunrise seems almost to be eclipsed again.
The air whirs with the flutter of wings,
Minute by minute they rise, squadron
by squadron. Half an hour passes before
the last straggler has bestirred himself,
leaving the low-lying coral beaches
empty. Whither do they go? Whence
comes the abundance of fish necessary to
feed such millions of hungry mouths?
A week or two later, and there will be
millions more—even hungrier—when the
young hatch out in the vast rookeries,
At evening they return. First in casual
ones and twos, then in clouds that seem
to hasten the sunset with the darkening
of wings. Clamor, boisterousness, ill-
temper, squabbling for the better places
on the crowded mangroves until dark-
ness falls and brings peace. But not
silence—away to the westward, where
the sturdy barrier reef fends the Abro-
holos, the long rollers of the Indian
Ocean pound and break with a thunder
that never ceases even on the calmest
day.
* * * *
“Tham”: Struck real collective security
when I scared some young stilts on an
island in Lake Rotorua (M.L.) at a
breeding-ground shared by stilts and
dotterels in a most uneasy armed truce.
Baby stilt, when in danger, is supposed
to “freeze” ; older, he gets cocky and
makes a run for cover. The ones I
frightened were about half-grown and
bolted recklessly across the open. There
was a swish of wings, and the youngsters,
as a bird made a warning dive at them,
froze into a stillness that made them/ in-
distinguishable from the ground. It
wasn’t Ma, but a disapproving dotterel,
rendered neighborly by the common
danger, who did the good deed.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: The other week-end
we celebrated the arrival of the bunya-
nut season with a children’s picnic to the
range scrub, where some fine trees yet
remain. The oldest kid was Old Joe at
83, the others ranged down to six, and a
good time was had by all. We ate the
nuts raw, roasted in the ashes, run
through the mincer, made into johnny-
cakes, and, best of all, boiled in the
water from the corned beef. It’s not one
° £ three-year bumper crops but i£
you know your nuts you can always get
> go£)d bl( / wout in an off season . That
iSj if the b l ac k cockatoos don’t get in
ahead of you. Possums used to be first
at the feast, but headlights and cyanide
have eliminated Peter from these parts
of S.Q. Flavor? “Bill,” said Old Joe as
we loaded up for home, “if them city
blokes was to taste bunya-nuts, cripes,
we’d never get a look-in with all them
cars they’ve got nowadays!”
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Despite gross exaggerations,
there are mountainous areas where sheep
regularly escape muster. The Speck’s
Brown Mountain, a habitat of tiger- and
native-cats, is one. Here shepherds boast
of dogs that can “round ’em up” in the
timber. The musterer (on foot) is greeted
by a wild-eyed, upflung head ; two quick
stamps of a sturdy leg and a loud snort,
an< i the shaggy wether descends like a
mountain goat into the obscurity of a
dense musk gully,
* * * *
“Trevdee”: It is a surprising fact that
the huge mobs of cattle which graze out
the summer months in Victoria’s alpine
country are a particularly quiet lot. They
get a craving for salt in these parts and
will follow a stockman as he calls “Salt,
salt!” like school-kids chasing an ice-
cream man. In saleyards, however, these
mountain-bred cattle (mostly Herefords)
are spoken of as man-eaters; but the
only reason for their excitable behavior
is the fear of their strange surroundings,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: So “Old-timer ’
napped granite with the pebbles between
his feet as he sat on the heap! He omits
to state, however, if the boss supplied
the cushions and what the morning-tea
was like. Where I swung the beetle in
the Westralian wheatbelt we stood up
to lumps measuring up to 2ft. across
and half as thick, and we swung a 71b.
hammer till our hands pulped. Of course,
each stone had a grain—with the excep-
tion of an occasional piece of diorite,
which flaked off in rings like a lolly-bail
—and there was a lot in knowing where
to hit. But our mentor—sorry, ganger—
wasn’t like “Old-timer’s.” He said: “Hit
the blankard, an’ if he doesn’t give hit
him a blanky sight harder.” It has just
occurred to me that I may have misled
“0.-t.” with my use of the term. Prob-
ably we were “spalling” the rocks, but we
called it “napping.”
* * * *
“leak”: Probably the world’s largest
truck to be used for shifting sheep from
far outback areas has recently been
built by an Adelaide firm for use in
Broken Hill. A Leyland Diesel-engined
job, it can safely take 350 sheep in its
three decks. It is 58ft. overall, 13ft.
high and 10ft. wide.
A CLOSE THING.
“Wot! Married? Me?” said “Walrus” Dan,
as on the fire he tossed a log.
“No, mate, I ain’t a family man; there’s just
me and, o’ course, the dog.
“Once, though, I ’ad a narrer squeak. Yair,
I went close to gittin’ stung.
I ’ad a farm at Blowfly Creek. At that time
I was pretty young—
“No more’n forty-five, I s’pose; an’ bein’ some-
what of a lad
For fun I sits down to compose an answer to
a view-mat. ad.
“That sheilah swung a handy pen, for she re-
plied, dead keen on biz,
An’ kept on writin’ even when I sent a phota
of me phiz.
“She reckons that we oughter meet, an’ pesters
me to come to town;
It’s not quite time to sow me wheat, so like a
goat I toddles down.
“A dumpy little piece I met. No more than
thirteen ’ands she’d go.
Was she romantic? Well, you bet! for when l
tells ’er of me dough
“She kissed me. Then she asked me why I
grew steel-wool instead of ’air.
Well, me bein’ easygoin’, I chops orf me face
scrub then an’ there.
“But after that, d’ya know, 1 found me nous
I simply couldn’t use.
I felt reel dopy gettin’ round, just like as if
I’m on the booze!
“Now, ’abit’s somethin’ queer, you know. It
grows on yer, without a doubt,
Whether it’s ’ow y’ wield a hoe or take y’r
grog or scratch y’r snout.
“I wakes up then to what is wrong. For years
(it’s just me little kink)
I always used to chew me long an’ droopin’
mo—it ’elped me think!
“I sees that, with this tab me wife, and me
without a mo to chew,
I’d lead a devil of a life; so 1 ducks out before
she knew.
“I choked ’er orf, then, pretty fast, though,
strike me! it was touch an’ go—
An’ wasn’t I damn’ glad at last to see me
flamin’ whiskers grow!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“The 0.D.”: The agricultural expert,
who had a Yiddish cast of countenance,
was welcomed by the cocky. “Just the
bloke I’m lookin’ for,” he said. “You
oughter be able to get me some seeds
of passover grass.” “Passover grass!”
echoed the expert blankly. “Yairs, grass
that won’t grow till the grasshoppers
have passed over.”
* * * *
> “Valerin”: Shep, our black kelpie,
specialises in fly-blown sheep; going
through a paddock he will pick out and
hold a sheep that is struck until I
come along to clip and dress —and he
never makes a mistake. Should he dis-
cover a ram, he stands in front and barks,
which enables me to sneak up behind and
grab. Shep knows that an injured dog
can’t give service.
=l= * * *
“C. Coral”: Jimmy Susu, of Torres
Strait islands, has his own method of
taming young wild pigs. The sucker is
taken home to Jimmy’s own island, where
it is placed in a small enclosure and fed.
After it has been given several sea swims
a torch of coconut leaf is lighted and
placed under its nose, so that the smoke
may go up the nostrils. Next, the fore-
head of the young porker is anointed
with coconut oil, and the top of the
head gently tapped with the knuckles.
“He come proper good now,” Jimmy
told me; “he forget the place where he
come from, only he savee this place now.
When he smell that coconuts oil, he
smell that same kind oil along my body,
and he follow me everywhere quiet.”
The plan seems to be effective. Jimmy
is now going in for the pigs of “white-
man breed,” however ; the Government
has arranged for boars of good type to
be supplied to the various islands, and
as booroom figures very conspicuously in
island domestic life, especially when wed-
ding feasts and other celebrations are on
the list, this has been hailed with much
satisfaction.
* * * *
“Balanus”: It is a pretty general belief
that frogs will take only living food. In-
vestigated a big commotion made by a
couple of kingfishers near their nest the
other day and found the cause of it was
a green Queensland tree-frog. Mentioned
the incident to an old hand, who swore
“I told 'im if 'e done it again I'd box 'is ears."
the frog makes a habit of feeding on
birds’ eggs. Any support?
* * * *
“Puffinus”: March and earliest April
are times of stir and assembling among
innumerable birds which have spent a
leisurely summer on Australian beaches.
They are unobtrusive folk, quietly
dressed in browns or mottlings, not a
songbird among them, or an egg, or a
nest, and no visitors to the bush or in-
land. But they are amazing travellers.
Each year every one of them, except a
few stragglers, makes the flight from
somewhere near the Arctic Circle and
back. Sea curlews, snipe, knots, god-
wits* whimbrels, stints, are none of them
familiar Australian birds, and soon they
will be gone until next
spring. It is in the Arctic
summer that they enjoy life.
The Quakerish garb is
changed for brighter colors;
gallant plumes and ruffs ap-
pear ; they court, mate, nest
and bring up families. Then,
as the Arctic autumn closes
in, they shed romance and
glory, to make the long south
passage for another quiet,
unattached half-year of re-
cuperation.
* * *
“Si.T.S.”: An unusual cen-
tenary is that of Lake
Bonney in S.A. Close to the
northern bank of the Mur-
ray, it was discovered in
1838 by Bonney and Haw-
don, who were overlanding
stock from N.S.W. to Adel-
aide. It was a capricious
sheet of water till recently,
but now, with the locking of
the Murray, it has become y
permanent; and at its side is
growing up Barmera, striving
to rank with Renmark, Berri
and the other S.A. irrigation
towns.
* * *
“Bufo”: What is the larg-
est giant-clam shell of which
there is a reliable record?
Not any of those efforts of
Barrier Reef blurb-scribes, “the size of
a ship’s dinghy”—whatever sort of craft
that is—and just longing to close upon
a human foot and hold its owner in a re-
lentless grip until the rising tide drowns
him. I mean dead ones, measured by re-
liable people with instruments —and con-
sciences—which will not stretch in the
telling. The biggest in such scientific
records as I have so far searched is, or
was, used as a christening font at Notre
Dame Cathedral in Paris. There for over
a century, though how it got there is un-
known, it is some inches under 4ft. total
length. The largest among many that I
have measured was a raincatcher under
a palm on Coconut Island (T.S.), and evi-
dently very old. It went 3ft. 4|in. over-
all. Come on, Australia’s North —but
provable figures only!
***:)!
“Flight”: I watched a male peewee
resting on the bough of a tree. After
preening himself he flew to the ground.
He took a look about him, heaved a
sigh or two, lay on his side and was still.
There seemed to be nothing wrong with
him; his preening of his feathers was as
orderly and exact as one would expect
from a clean-living fowl; there was no-
thing hurried about any of his actions.
After he had lain there for some time I
went over to have a look at him. The
little fellow’s eyes were glazed and he
was stiff and cold. After seeing that
gentleman arrange his own shroud and
go to his end without fuss, I’m satisfied
that on the rare occasions when they
escape violent ends birds can cross the
bridge with greater dignity than some
humans.
“Dave forgot to bring his music , but he'll make up something as he goes
along and that'll be just as good."
“Colon”: A firm manufacturing con-
centrated stock-foods wrote to a grazier
in expectation of a testimonial: “What in
your opinion, is the best food for starv-
ing stock?” His brief and unexpected
reply was: “Green grass.”
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Any Aboliar know a
reliable method of distinguishing hard-
woods from softwoods? I mean when
growing, of course. Scaly, flaky bark
generally covers a softwood trunk, but
the most widely accepted rule of dis-
tinction, broad foliage for hardwoods,
needlelike for softwoods, doesn’t always
hold good. Wild cherry and some of
the acacias, for instance. Not many who
have tried to work them after they have
been dried out for a few months would
class them as softwoods, yet their foliage
fits the bill.
* • * * *
“Nordbo”: The hardy N.Q. bushman
’•eckons rum —plenty of it —the best
remedy for all bodily disorders. One
of them was laid up with double-
pneumonia in the general hospital
in Mareeba (N.Q.), but got tired of
staying in bed. After a heated de-
bate, which nearly ended up in a
fight with the entire staff, he had his
way. To safeguard himself
the doctor furnished him with
a written statement —retaining
a copy for the hospital records
—which pointed out that Mr.
So-and-so had left in the teeth
of medical advice and was
practically a dead man. With
this “death certificate” in his
pocket the hardy one repaired
to the pub and hit the rum-remedy with
a will. Before he could sober up he was
dead.
* * * *
“Notaden”: I know seven trapdoor-
spider burrows in the garden, and prob-
ably there are 50 that I haven’t located.
Most are dug into a slope or bank, with
the door-hinge at the top to make the
door shut by its own weight and yet be
easy to open from inside. Six are the
plug pattern of door, thick, solid affairs
with bevelled edges fitted accurately to
the entrance of the silk-lined burrow and
made of earth between layers of silk.
The outside is camouflaged with earth
and odd scraps of surrounding rubbish,
making it extremely difficult to locate.
The other one builds a simple flap of
silk and earth, hinged over the entrance
and poorly concealed outside. All are
night-feeders, and evening is the best
time to locate them. Then they lift the
door enough to watch for any unwary
insect, pounce on it and take it back into
the burrow for eating. Two ladies have
quite extensive families who will later
leave and make burrows of their own,
enlarging as necessary. «,
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Any Aboliar ever heard
of foxes including walnuts on their bill of
fare? Our walnut tree is patrolled
nightly by most of our local Reynards,
and although we have trapped several
the visitors seem ready to brave anything
for their nightly issue.
* * * *
“Granova”: The new hand was told
to tether an obstreperous cow on the cab-
bage-patch. “Make sure you make a
good job of it and put several knots in
the chain,” said the boss. The new hand
went off to follow instructions. An hour
later the boss saw the cow up to her
back in his best wheat crop. Investiga-
tion disclosed that Choom had tied
the cow to a cabbage stalk and had put
four knots in the heavy chain.
**• * *
“Two Mile”: Some time ago there was
an Abo. argument as to whether the Aus-
tralian native in his attacks on white
settlers ever used fire on his or
other weapons to drive the besieged out
of their shelter. Just tumbled on an old
newspaper record of such an attack being
made on Strathleven station on the
Palmer River (N.Q.) as recently as 1888.
The attackers threw flaming “torches” on
the bark roofs of the buildings, but were
beaten off. This is the first case of the
kind which I have heard of. Anyone
else supply another —giving time and
place, of course?
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: “Cripes, I reckon the kan-
garoos out in the N.S.W. nor’-west are
getting bigger and gamer than ever they
were,” said Mick. “I was taking a mob
from Narrabri to Moree and was giving
them a spell on a little green flat when
some big ’roos come from the low scrub
and fed near the cattle. Movin’ off again
I cracked the whip, an’, blime, if one
huge doe ’roo don’t grab a twelvemonth-
old calf, pop it in her pouch and hop
away. Must’ve been a bit shortsighted,
I suppose.”
4* H* H*
“Ymar”: The Australian abo. was a
realist; aware that hard knocks in plenty
would fall to women in later life, he
shaped their early education so that the
skulls which must bear the blows were
protectively hardened in anticipation.
Girls, from the age of three onwards, had
their heads tapped with sticks, the blows
increasing in severity as the bones
ioughened under treatment. Perhaps
there would be less divorce among us
if girls went through a similar toughen-
ing process to fit them for married life.
THE MOPOKE.
Mopoke, night-bird, taunt again,
Though under this suburban moon
1 'alone of city men
Comprehend your wordless rune,
Radiant with the mysteries
Of the tribes of ragged trees,
Bending over sleeping lakes
Up the River Murray way,
Where the gentle moonlight makes
Night a little golden day.
S.A.
REX INGAMELLS.


Are yon a PERSON of
INDEPENDENT MEANS?
if so, then you may wish to travel, or to lead
your life free from the care and responsibility
of attending to your investments. By appoint-
ing The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited as Attorney or Agent, you can
be relieved of this worry. The Company safe-
guards its clients’ interests, remits income
and dividends regularly, collects rents, pre-
pares land and income tax returns, advises
upon and attends to the investment of money
and the payment of rates, taxes, etc.
Call upon or write the Company for full de-
tails as to how it can serve you.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
S. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria, June 14, 1878)
(Registered in New South Wales, 1907)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA, NOW IN ITS 60th YEAR
OF SERVICE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £955,806
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE • 1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman).
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D. 5.0.,
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman).
W. D. Stewart. R - T - Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,261 t Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil ' — 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 169,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit- „„
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 124 „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12* „ „ 79,646 904 8,607
‘Eight months.
•[lncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ord9. t3} p.c.
§ Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
Early in the last term Henry L. Spring,
who had been chairman and/or manag-
ing director of the business for nearly
30 years, died. He joined Fred Metters
as a clerk at Perth in the early nineties
of last century, and soon became the
driving force of the business, having
bought Mr. Metters’s interest in 1908.
R. A. Spring, who has been partly re-
sponsible for the policy and progress of
the co., has taken his brother’s place at
the head of the highly-efficient organisa-
tion, now the largest thing of its kind in
Australia.
The two subsidiaries, Metters and
K.F.B. Pty., turn out stoves (the line on
which the business grew up), baths, gas-
heaters, radiators, enamel goods and
other builders’ hardware, and the busi-
ness is well-established throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland, where a
factory is operated by a subsidiary of
Metters'. Being one of the heavy indus-
tries, dependent largely upon activity in
the building trade, earnings suffered
severely during the slump, the sub-
sidiaries registering losses aggregating
£163,185 during the three years to the
end of 1933. However, with the first
signs of a definite turn in the tide, the
deadwood was promptly pruned out of
the accounts, the holding co. jettisoning
£319,077 (= 7s. 6d. per share) of its
ord. capital, reducing the share-register
total to £935,041 (£297,874 of it carries
a cumulative 7 p.c.) and making pos-
sible payment of a better rate of div.
on the balance. Earnings have since re-
sponded handsomely to the quick and
continued growth in building activity,
and, after a five years’ wait, the ords. got
into the picture again with 10 p.c. in
1936, followed by \2\ p.c. for each of
the two succeeding years. Also, the
position is better than the introductory
table, which relates to the holding co. s
accounts only, suggests.
Consider these figures, which show the
net earnings of the two subsidiaries com-
bined :
To
Dec., Profit. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 83,926 83,398 528 235,113
Loss.
1930.. 77,381 6,300 151,432
1931.. 68,466 Nil 82,966
1932.. 17,348 Nil 65,618
Profit.
1933.. 6,470 Nil 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
The spring of £10,592 in last year’s
profit was due largely to competition
in the flat business, especially in Sydney.
The £142,269 was enough to cover the
holding co.’s pref. div. and show 19 p.c.
on its ord. capital. Actually the operat-
ing cos. distributed £100,347, of which
£100,321 belonged to the holding co.,
which also netted £1054 on its own ac-
count, making its total available profit
for the year £101,375, or enough to pay
its pref. div. and show 12.6 p.c. on its
ord. capital.
The financial position improved:
1929. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £904,531 £722,170 £792,170 £792,170
Sundry creditors 227,483 159,682 226,306 257,253
Freehold .. 400,665 303,128 349,312 341,625
Plant etc. . . 350,453 288,524 368,165 384,693
Stocks .. 420,039 306,946 374,751 412,767
Book debts . . 232,184 178,864 175,786 201,123
Shares other cos. 35,723 27,350 27,631 27,631
Cash.. .. 576 580 564 753
The net addition of £16,528 to plant,
£38,016 to stocks and £25,337 to debtors'
balances reflects the year’s brisker trad-
ing and purchase of the business of
James Ward, Ltd., Sydney. To meet
the outlay £10,458 was added to
the overdraft (£116,472) and £20,489 to
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£140,782). Stocks, which are diffi-
cult to move quickly with a change
of sentiment in this class of business,
appear less an unspecified provision for
contingencies. Including stocks but not
shares in other cos., the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£357,390) was £32,594.
Mindful of the risks in this class of
business, the market prices the fully-paid.
12s. 6d. ords. at 19s. 9d. as against 21s.
3d. a year ago. The return at 19s. 9d.
is 7.9 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div. basis, or 6.4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. At 255. 6d.
the prefs. yield 5.4 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £3 9s. Id. prefs. and 14s. 7d.
ords., mostly in fixed assets, worth what
they can earn.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends-^Writ-
Pref. Ord. ten To Re— Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
12} p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,870
1931.. 3,406 9000. Nil 731 97,551
5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
35 P.c.
1934.. 17.311 9000 7,500 769 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
7} p.c.
1936.. 29,912 9000 15,000 987 4.925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 31,012 9000 20,000 968 1,044 95,903
1938.. 33,962 9000 20,000 1001 3,961 99,864
Last year there was more money about,
thanks to a big cheque for exports and
the steady lengthening of local payrolls,
and the turnover of Melbourne re-
tailers continued to expand, despite the
infantile-paralysis epidemic, which is
said to have interfered with trade to
some extent. This co., which buys and
sells mostly on a cash basis, specialises
largely in men’s wear, and its big and
attractive store is at the corner of
Bourke and Elizabeth streets, opposite
the G.P.0., and round which the shop-
ping crowd flows. After providing for
taxation and other contingencies, in-
cluding £lOOl for depreciation (shown as
written off in the table), the board
figured net earnings at £32,961, or £2917
better than the previous year’s and the
best since 1930. The £32,961 was enough
to pay the prefs. their 9 p.c. (£9000) and
show nearly 12 p.c. on the £200,000 of
ord. capital, compared with 10.5, 9.9, 5.4,
3.7 and 5 p.c. back to 1933. The div., to
which 2\ points had been added in the
previous term, was kept at 10 p.c.
The comparatively narrow margin be-
tween net earnings and distributions sug-
gests that the dividend rate will be very
sensitive to fluctuations in trading con-
ditions. In this connection, the imme-
diate outlook favors maintenance of the
10 p.c. At the moment, retail turn-
overs generally in Melbourne are re-
ported to be ahead of what they were
this time last year, while clothing manu-
facturers are working to capacity and
report substantial orders for the winter
trade. Still, the recent fall in the price
of wool and wheat, the coming conver-
sion and new loan issues, the upward
trend of costs, and the possibility of a
slight increase in taxation may cause a
halt, or even slight retreat, in business
activity later on, unless, of course, new
developments alter the trend. There is
always a lag between the time at which
prices fall and that at which the fall
begins to affect business generally.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —
1920. 1931. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . 36,100 139,391 105,052 105,774
Property, etc. 40,199 385,086 412,253 412,253
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 5,306 7,036 7,637
Shares in other
cos . . . . 5,767 5,804 5,804
Stocks .. 98,819 103,168 79,278 85,676
Book debts .. 5,054 6,075 5,492 4,979
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 35,040 16,091 14,289
Stocks (up £6398 last year), the most
vulnerable point in the business, appear
at or under cost, and, more important
still, the history of the business suggests
that they are of the right type. Of the
outside debt, £99,000 is secured by mort-
gage on the freehold. So more or less
liquids, including stocks, exceeded the
floating debt (£6774) by £98,170 when
the books closed, an improvement of
£3361 over the twelvemonth. The free-
hold and building have remained un-
altered at £412,637 for the last five years,
and over the same period there has
been little alteration in the book value of
plant, despite additions.
For many years the co. had nothing
invested in bricks and mortar, and was
able to get along with a handful of capi-
tal (£70,000) and pay handsome divs. (an
average of 18 \ p.c. for the five years to
the close of accounts in 1925). Then
shareholders put up £lOO,OOO of pref.
money and £129,000 was raised on mort-
gage to buy the present freehold and
erect a new 11-storeyed building. Mean-
while, £lOO,OOO of bonus scrip was
handed to the ords., lifting paid capital
to its present figure.
On the market the ords.„ which fell
back from 345. a year ago to 30s. at the
beginning of 1938, now fetch 335. 3d.,
at which figure they yield a satisfactory
6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Each
variation of 1 p.c. in the div. would
affect the yield by approximately 0.6 p.c.
The prefs. at 335. return 5.6 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £3 19s. lid. prefs.
and 295. lid. ords.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
' To Re- Re —
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 14,653 10 p.c. = 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ „ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187 Nil 187 9,769
Renovations charged to reserves, £2191.. 7,578
1934.. 940 ' Nil 940 8.518
1935.. 2.854 2} p.c. ;= 3,250 8.122
1936.. 5,856 4 „ „ 5,200 656 8,778
1937.. 7,033 5 „ „ 6,500 533 9,311
This co.’s leasehold premises in Hay-
street face the Central railway station
across Belmore Park. It was extension
of the railway into the city, discontinuance
of suburban bus services (most of which
used to stop at the co.’s door or there-
abouts) and slump that interrupted the
flow of 10 p.c. divs. eight years ago.
There has since been a partial restora-
tion of the bus services, and complete
restoration of economic activity, but the
railway still carries large and growing
numbers past the co.’s premises into the
heart of the city. The four years’
drought for shareholders was broken in
1935 with a 2\ p.c. distribution, fol-
lowed by 4 p.c. and then 5 p.c. for 1937.
Last year was a particularly good one
for hotels. The stream of country visitors
increased, and so did wages and the
length of city payrolls, while a long, hot
summer further helped the bar trade.
The Sydney’s gross earnings sprang
£4236, reaching £37,812 (they were
£56,580 in 1927). Including £4451 set
aside partly as a sinking fund against
the lease and partly for depreciation of
plant, etc., exes. (£30,779) took £3059 of
the increase. That left the net result
£1177 better at £7033, or 5.4 p.c. on
capital as against 4.5 p.c. and 2.2 p.c.
for the two preceding terms.
As for the current term, takings for
January were the best for any month
during the last nine years, and receipts
for the two months to the end of Feb-
ruary were £4364 ahead of those for the
corresponding period of 1937, thanks
partly to the fillip given to business by
the sesquicentenary celebrations and con-
tinued reduction of unemployment, while
special Easter and Anzac Day celebra-
tions should help to keep takings at a
high level. The possibilities are that the
current term will pan out better than the
average to be expected of this co. in the
future. Much will depend upon the
trend of business during the last half of
the term. Costs are on the up-grade.
On the market the fully-paid pound
shares, which touched 17s. early last year,
are now at 15s. 3d. The return at the
lower figure is 6.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The book value of the cover is
21s. sd. in net tangibles, all represented
by the lease, etc.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1938.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. 45,334 26,037 19,218 15,969
Creditors .. 4,858 4,054 5,479 5,120
Leasehold .. 164,349 150,254 147,042 143,670
Furniture, etc. 26,288 17,048 14,359 14,305
Stocks .. 3,674 2,706 3,188 4,286
Book debts, etc. 3,329 2,096 3,512 5,907
When the books closed, outside liabili-
ties exceeded liquids by £10,896, or
£7lOl less than the figure a year ago.
The lease runs out in 1960, but the board
has not yet been able to invest any of the
sinking-fund money outside the business.
(“Wild Cat" continued on page 24.)


The Answer to the Traveller’s Prayer
BARLOGAN
£350,000 MODERN HOTEL SOON TO SUPPLY
A LONG-FELT WANT IN MELBOURNE
Think of ALL the improvements to Hotel
Accommodation, Facilities, Service, Situation
and Atmosphere you would institute had
you limitless power to do so —and they
"would all be summed up in a single word,
“Barlogan.”
•
Ye who are Travel-Weary—who know only
too well the Hotel Bedroom that seems to
say “Better go out for the evening,” the
furniture that appears to frown, the bed
that almost begrudges you your rest, the
atmosphere that creates the feeling, when
you do retire, of being “locked up for the
night”—rejoice, for deliverance is at hand!
BARLOGAN is in very truth the answer to the Traveller’s
Prayer. Its conception epitomises the desirable features of the
world’s most famous hostelries. It will embody the ideas of
widely experienced travellers who have co-operated in its
planning.
In its combination of the aesthetic and the practical, it will
provide something hitherto unknown to hotel guests in Australia.
Whether it be a de luxe suite or a modest bachelor apartment,
entry to it will give the sense of coming home. The closing
of the door will shut out the world of noise and striving
humanity, and the occupants will feel that they are indeed in a
building that “belongs.” The effect will be of desirable privacy
without any suggestion of loneliness.
The unostentatious luxury of the appointments, the perfect
taste apparent in every detail, the utter completeness of the
facilities provided, plus the knowledge that pressing a button
will bring any needed service instantly, all will induce that
sense of absolute relaxation which is one of the greatest (and
rarest) boons of civilised existence.
Think of the occupant of a modest bachelor apartment being
able to enjoy a game of squash rackets or a work-out in the
gymnasium, a swim in the conditioned water of the magnificent
pool, followed by an invigorating rub-down; then a rest in
the flower-decked lounge before preparing to do justice to a
meal prepared by a chef who would hold his own with the best
in London, Paris, or New York. . . . And the bachelor apart-
ments are “apartments”—all of ample size, with wall to wall
carpets, landscape windows extending almost from ceiling to
floor, and with private entrance hall and bathroom. There is
no evidence of the bedroom apparent. The bed is a divan.
The dressing table is a desk. When the time comes to retire,
a member of the Barlogan staff converts the divan into a bed,
the desk into a dressing table, and so comes a perfect ending
to the day.
Think, too, of the many thoughtful services extended to business
girls and women residents at the Barlogan. From the finely-fitted
beauty salon to the provision of completely-equipped laundries
where those delicate and dainty things that many women do
not care to entrust to the tender mercies of a public laundry
may be safely washed, all speak of careful consideration of
the needs of the feminine guests at the Barlogan. Children, too,
will be happy at Barlogan. Free to romp in the spacious third-
floor nursery under the care of a fully-trained nurse, they will
be surrounded with all the toys and devices so dear to the
childish heart.
As the attitude of the staff may be said to reflect the character
of the hotel, guests at the Barlogan will speedily conclude that
they are in no atmosphere of servile or grudging service, but
are surrounded by helpful, courteous people whose manner
betokens their sincere desire to make each guest feel truly
“at home.’'
WHY BARLOGAN WILL BE A NON-
LICENSED HOTEL.
There is a very definite reason why a license will not be sought
for Barlogan, and it is one that most men of the world will
heartily endorse: The purpose of Barlogan is not only to make
guests feel at home, but to provide flawless home surroundings.
And just as a Public Bar would be out of place in a private
residence, so it would be equally unfitting in association with
Barlogan. Guests may entertain their friends in the privacy of
their own suites or apartments, without any need for the
übiquitous Drink-waiter hovering in the offing.
MODERATE TARIFF—AND NO EXTRAS. At Barlogan
the moderate tariff will be really inclusive. That item of extras
usually so annoying to travellers will be conspicuous by its
absence. Guests will be able to enjoy every luxury provided by
Barlogan without any addition to the printed tariff.
BARLOGAN FROM THE INVESTMENT
VIEWPOINT.
The crying need for truly modern accommodation in Melbourne
constitutes a guarantee that Barlogan will become its most
popular rendezvous. It will be the Mecca of the ever-growing
number of travellers from overseas and will command the
preference of visitors from all parts of Australia. To young
professional and business men, no less than to bachelor girls, it
will be an absolute boon, providing, as it does, living conditions
that are frankly not available in Australia to-day. The carefully-
prepared plan of management and the employment of the very
latest labour-saving facilities will ensure the efficient and
relatively economical operation of Barlogan. In short, every
condition will exist to make Barlogan a highly remunerative
proposition from the viewpoint of those who are financially
interested in it.
The Barlogan prospectus will be completed at an early date,
and anyone desirous of sharing in a sound and profitable invest-
ment should certainly obtain a copy. For your convenience
a coupon is provided below.
To Frank O. Foster,
Suite 26, sth Floor,
“Temple Court,”
422 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
I am interested in your proposal to
erect a non-licensed hotel in Claren-
don Street, East Melbourne, and
would be glad to receive a copy of
your illustrated prospectus.
Name
C MrMrs. or Miss.)
Address
In every sense Barlogan will usher in a new era
in Australian Private Hotels. Architecturally it
will be the most perfect Hotel-building in the
Commonwealth. Its outlook , embracing the Fitz-
roy Gardens, the parks of East Melbourne and the
city skyline, will extend in a magnificent sweep
from Port Phillip Bay to the distant Dandenongs.
Air-conditioned throughout, its fortunate guests
will be sheltered from Summer's heat and Winter’s
cold. Suites of two or more rooms will have a
view extending half-way round the compass. All
apartments will have ceiling-to-floor landscape
windows and wall-to-wall carpets.
agHaroc-' ft?®
r ysgB&&^
■vemr*#
f*
BA
r^H
ll
l!
m
m
>mz
m*
M
J*\
Barlogan, Melbourne’s Projected 12-
storey Private Hotel, will be ideally situ-
ated in Clarendon Street, East Mel-
bourne, within easy walking distance of
the heart of the city.


■
i
Jr
For
long, hard
wear
The HIGHLANDER” Shirt
Made from a fine Cotton Twill,
with two breast pockets and avail-
able in smart check designs in
Grey, Brown and Fawn grounds.
Colours guaranteed.
Price, 9/6; or three for 27/-.
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
Queen Street .... Brisbane
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m,).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Be fair to your friend
Carrying: out the terms of a Will calls for attention to highly technical matters abounding
in pitfalls to the inexperienced. It is not fair to appoint a friend. Appoint Perpetual
Trustee Company, Limited, which has the necessary experience, and ensure that your wishes
will be faithfully carried out. You might care to discuss the matter with a Senior Officer
of the Company. Make an appointment and call; or write if you prefer.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope.
H. V. Douglass. Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £52,000,000.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and 00. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tir.'.berlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * 4s
■ ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout Che
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (’Brisbane!
—-Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 . . . . 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. =11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£ll,OOO 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2i p.c. =4,651 952
1935.. 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,383 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ „ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1§38.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
Mindful of the co.’s history and other
things, including the size of the outside
debt, the comparatively slender prop for
capital, the upward trend of costs and
the downward trend of wool and wheat
prices, etc., the market prices this co.’s
fully-paid pound ords. at a substantial
discount, and has done so for many
years. At 14s. 6d. the scrip returns 6.9
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. (there are only 9000 of them
in a paid capital of £181,027) have a
buyer at par. The net tangible backing
is £2l 6s. sd. prefs. and 21s. 3d. ords.
When the present co. took over the
then 19-year-old business of McDonnell
and East in 1920 it looked like becoming
a steady 8 percenter. But stock values
had to be twice readjusted following the
early but sharp post-war slump. This
misadventure past, the board decided to
build the co. a home worthy of what
it hoped the future would be ; and it
went outside for most of the money.
Meanwhile, drought laid a heavy hand
on the west of Queensland, narrowing
city merchants’ margins, and the co. got
little out of its bigger trading. The ords.
averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930. There was
a dry spell for the next three years, owing
to slump, and for the five years to the
close of last accounts the average was 4.1
p.c., making the average over the last 18
years 3.6 p.c.
Although the revival of Finneys and
the appearance of Woolworths and Coles
brought a lot of trade back to the George-
street end of the city, for McDonnell and
East it has meant increased competition.
During the last term, trade generally was
brisker, and the co.’s gross earnings
(£97,778) moved up £6418. Excluding
£2OOO (half the previous year’s allowance)
set aside for the taxgatherer, and £2OOO
(up £500) reserved for doubtful debts,
exes. (£78,318) took £4272 of the increase.
Allowing for an unexplained reduction
of £996 in reserves, the net result showed
an apparent increase of £2649, reaching
£14,463, or enough to pay the prefs. their
£720 and show 7.9 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 6.4, 5, 5.7 and 1.8 p.c. back to
1934. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., and it
is difficult to say when anything better
need be expected.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 53,000 49,500 48,000 47.250
Overdraft . . 77,343 41,259 48,013 47,901
Sundry creditors 38,336 14,964 14,399 17,903
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 131,730 128,091 128,101 127,539
Stocks.. .. 120,079 90,398 110,542 107,682
Book debts . . 110,795 64,994 57,375 60,680
Cash, etc. . . 6,422 14,629 18,627 20,923
Including stocks (down £2860), reported
in sound condition and valued at cost or
market price, whichever is the lower,
more or less liquids exceeded the outside
debt by £76,231 when the books closed,
there being little change in the figure
over the twelvemonth.
Kuala Lumpur Tin, N.L.
t — —Profit-.— v —Dividends--,
Sept., Revenue. Exes.* Net. Share. Amt. Share.
1935.. £43,971 £23,041 £20,930 2/1 £20,040 2/-
1936. f 45 * 643 24,829 20,814 2/1 20,040 2/-
l Dredge reconditioning exes., £4210.
1937.. 1 93,118 38,197 54,921 5/6 25,050 2/6
" *t Dredge reconditioning exes.. £2507.
* Includes depreciation—l93s, £307 ; 1936, £133;
1937, £6226.
The best showing yet, and up £34,107
net on the ’36 figure. That was after
allowing £6093 more for depreciation, but
before taking into account a further
£2507 expended on reconditioning No. 1
(smaller) dredge, which set in again in
Feb., 1937. The 2s. 6d. per share distri-
buted took less than half the year’s pro-
fits, the balance swelling net liquid re-
sources at Sept. 30 to £72,619 —7s. 6d. per
share. Since, £20,040 has been paid away
in two Is. disbursements.
Starting-up of No. 1 unit, increased
quotas and better metal prices all con-
tributed to the record showing:
1935.* 1936.* 1937.
Treated, c.y 908,005 1,304,672 2,285,64 S
Yield, t. 0., tons . . 285.3 326.9 525.7
Recovery c.y., lb. . . 0.70 0.56 0.51
Assay, p.c. .. . . 75.9 75.8 75.8
Mine costs, c.y. .. 6.08 d. 4.57 d. 3.35 d.
Oxide sale price, ton £l5l/11/9 £136/7/5 £174
* No. 2 dredge only operating.
Reduced costs, almost halved since 1935,
thanks to increased turnover and effi-
ciency, helped, too. No. 1 dredge dug
at the rate of 88,700 c.y. per month ; No.
2, 131,300, giving a total monthly capa-
city around 220,000 c.y. Both plants are
steam-operated.
The property is at Kalumpang.
Selangor, Malaya. Measured dredging
reserves comprise some 32,500,000 c.y.,
expected to yield “average profitable re-
turns,” giving the co. a nominal life of
15 years, working to capacity. That
excludes 252 acres of low-grade ground
which may also be turned to profitable
account. Over the last decade, the mean
recovery per c.y. has been 0.6281 b.
Standard assessment is 703 tons t.o.
p.a., which gives a permissible output
for the first half of 1938 of 175 tons. For
the first five months of the current finan-
cial term 0.531 b. ground has been encoun-
tered and 178 y tons t.o. produced, but
mine profit is down to £9821. No. 2
(larger) unit was shut down in Nov. and
Dec. for rearrangement and installation
of two more jigs and minor adjustments.
There are 200,400 £1 shares to distri-
bute profits over —113,400 fully-paid,
87,000 paid to 45., all priced around 245.
6d. each in the market. The div. flow
has been uninterrupted since 1925.
From lib. ground, Peninsula Tin, a
Siam performer, produced 170 tons
t.o. for a mine profit of £12,800 over the
three months ended March, lifting work-
ing surplus for the current year, which
has one month still to run, to £42,278.
Divs. of 4s. per share (£53,170) have so
far been declared. That rate is unlikely
to be maintained on present restricted
outputs, but with a rich property, efficient
plant and handy assessment Peninsula is
better fitted to win profits under existing
conditions than many other producers.
Continuance of restriction will fall less
heavily on Siam, guaranteed a minimum
quota of 60 p.c. of its increased (1936)
assessment under the control scheme,
than on Malayan producers.
Boulder Perseverance paid 25 p.c. on
its Is. shares in 1936. Since, issued capi-
tal has been increased from £149,820 to
£224,820, while the profit-sharing notes,
which involved a charge of £21,079 for
interest and redemption against the 1936
profits, have been redeemed. This sav-
ing alone more than covers a 25 p.c. div.
on the £75,000 of additional capital.
Also there has been a sharp advance in
published monthly profits during 1937
from £A114,439 to £A174,105, following
extension of the treatment plant, which
enabled output to be stepped up from
97,726 to 110,069 tons. An interim div.
of 20 p.c. has already been paid, and a
similar final is expected. One reason
why the co.’s shares are not at a higher
level in the market is that Perseverance’s
own ore reserves amounted to little
more than a year’s supply at the end of
1936.* However, the co. has since ac-
quired the adjacent Enterprise group,
estimated to contain 450,000 tons of ore,
including 180,000 tons of proved stuff,
averaging 7.4dwt. On an annual output
of 60,000 tons, profits are computed at
£48,000. Crushing will begin next month.
Recent developments in the Perseverance
mine suggest that many more years of
production still lie ahead.
* * * *
Consoliated Gold Areas, which used to
be the old White Hope, Hampton Plains
(W.A.), added £14,518 to its p. and 1. debit
last year, making the figure £146,742. At
the end of Dec. cash, etc., totalled
£33,700-odd, and there was only £156
coming to outsiders. Operations were
suspended on Nov. 15 owing to dis-
appointing development underground,
and the board has not yet decided
exactly what its future policy will be.
It is proposed' to buy a small plant to
suit immediate needs and provide
revenue for further development. Much
will depend upon how the 450 ft. level
opens up (shaft now down 413 ft.). Over
650 ft. of diamond-drilling failed to dis-
close any payable ore outside the main
channel. Resampling of Nos. 1 and 2
levels showed that the grade previously
reported would not be realised without
selective mining. J. J. Lynch, one of the
directors, estimates that there is 50,000
tons of 6dwt. ore available above the
450 ft. level, and there is 7000 tons of
.approximately sdwt. stuff at grass. This
cuts the previous estimate of payable
ore by more than half.
* :]: * *
Last October Southern Cross Develop-
ment’s scrip slumped to 3d. in the market
on announcement that trial crushings
were yielding less gold than had been
expected. Resampling was ordered, and
a circular containing three summarised
reports from the management has now
been issued. The first report, dated Jan.
12, states: “If values don’t improve by
further abandonment of lower-grade
stopes the position will be serious.” The
second, dated Jan. 26, concludes: “The
average value of ore supplied to the mill
for the four days ended Jan. 21 was only
I.B7dwt. It has been decided to shut
down the mine and make a general clean-
up of the plant. Results of diamond-
drill boreholes put out at the bottom
level indicate that the lode at this point
is practically valueless. Our engineers
consider the mine unpayable.” The third
report, dated Feb. 24, says: “No im-
provement in the position has occurred.”
The board proposes to get an indepen-
dent geological report on the property
before making its final recommendation
to shareholders. One of De Bernales’s
Westralian group, the co. was floated
under the auspices of Gt. Boulder Prop,
in 1934. Nearly a million ss. shares
were issued, and at one time these were
quoted at about 12s. in the market; now
they are at 2d. or thereabouts.
'!” 4 sfc
Compared with the full previous term,
Norseman (W.A.) has cut mine costs
back Is. 6d. a ton for the first quarter
of its current year; recoveries have been
well maintained. New plant is to be in-
stalled to handle 5000 tons monthly from
the Iron King block, where ore reserves
are conservatively estimated at 400,000
short tons of 2£-3dwt. stuff ; costs here
aren’t expected to exceed On the
main (old Golden Butterfly) leases,
204,000 short tons averaging 7.2dwt. is
available. On No. 8 level in the South
drive crosscutting has exposed 13ft. of
Bdwt. stone.
H* ❖ H*
Presiding for the thirty-seventh con-
secutive time at the Westralian Chamber
of Mines’ annual roll-up, octogenarian
Dick Hamilton said that compared with
1936 the number of men employed in
the industry throughout the State had
increased by nearly 1000 during 1937.
Dividends and return of capital at
£1,213,529 were up £111,562. Wages ab-
sorbed approximately £4,500,000, direct
taxation £210,000, and employers’ liabil-
ity, workers’ compensation insurance,
etc., £260,000. Golden Mile cos. alone
paid the Government £117,000 for water.
Since the amended Arbitration award
came into operation last May, the indus-
try has been free from industrial dis-
putes.
H= * * *
Principal contributors to Westralia’s
gold yield for 1937 were Lake View,
167,271 fine ounces ; Wiluna, 113,3760 z. ;
Great Boulder, 72,4780 z.; North Kal-
gurli, 55,1730 z.; Sons of Gwalia,
45,6870 z.; Boulder Perseverance,
42,2210 z. ; Yellowdine, 40,0610 z. ; Lance-
field, 34,3770 z.; Norseman, 30,77 loz. ;
Moonlight Wiluna, 26,3750 z. ; Triton,
25,9170 z. ; South Kalgurli, 21,1290 z. ;
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, 16,97 loz. ;
Golden Horse Shoe (extracted wholly
from old residues), 15,8900 z.; Cox’s
Find, 14,0420 z.; Central Norseman,
12,7850 z. ; Youanmi, 11,1530 z.; Big
Bell (about three months), 10,1400 z.
* * * »
London “Sunday Express” lists the fol-
lowing Westralian flotations to which
John Bull has subscribed in the last four
years:—
Original
Issue Divs.
Company. to Public. Paid.
Anglo-Australian Gold .. .. £130,000 Nil
Beryl Gold 250,000 Nil
Commonwealth Mining . . . . 450,000 Nil
Edjudina Cons. .. . . .. 180,000 Nil
Gold Exploration . . . . 900,000 Nil
Gold Mines of lvalgoorli • .. 600,000 £23,000
Great Boulder Mining . . . . 700,000 Nil
Meekatharra Gold . . 176,000 Nil
Murchison Gold . . . . . . 200,000 Nil
North Kalgurli United . . . . 120,000 Nil
Ora Banda United . . . . 175',000 Nil
Southern Cross Gold . . . . 165,000 Nil
Tindals Gold . . . . . . 250,000 Nil
Youanmi Gold . . . . .. 300,000 Nil
Total £4,596,000 £23,000
The list is not exhaustive. It takes no
account of subsequent capital increases
or issue of option shares, etc. But it
does show that on a minimum invest-
ment of nearly £4,600,000 J.B. and others
have so far received only £23,000 in divi-
dend. Certainly a mine cannot be
brought into production overnight, and
mining is a hazardous business; but the
disparity between promoters’ optimism
and results so far achieved by most of
the cos. needs mpre explanation.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Joyce: (1) Just fair, even at present price.
Prefer low-priced industrials. (2) A pure spec.
Co. used to be interested in an unsuccessful
Westralian gold show.... Dobbin: (1) As a
gamble, perhaps. (2) Values, costs and margins
seem very narrow, with little allowance for
error. (3) Landslides hampered operations of
the previous co. (4) and (5) Not probable..'..
Gay: Suggest Australasian Paper, Melbourne
Steam and Holeproof ords W. 8.: (1) Until
actual earning capacity is demonstrated, the
venture remains a speculation. (2) Impossible
to say at the moment what return bondholders
will ultimately get.


BOWRAL
MAGNIFICENT RESIDENCE standing on an ISLAND BLOCK of 31|
acres.
The Residence is of brick, having SPACIOUS VERANDAHS, comprising about 10 ROOMS
and MAIDS’ ACCOMMODATION, well-equipped BILLIARD ROOM, all other usual offices.
HOT WATER SERVICE. SEPTIC SEWERAGE. ELECTRICITY. GARDENER’S COTTAGE
Of 3 rooms and offices at the MAIN ENTRANCE. OUTBUILDINGS include STABLING,
BARNS, TOOLSHEDS, GARAGES, etc. The whole is in first-class order; a well-kept GARDEN
surrounds the house. There are also VEGETABLE GARDEN and large ORCHARD. The
balance of the land is admirably suitable for grazing purposes.
For full particulars, price, apply
RAINE & HORNE, LTD., 70 Pitt Street. 86644.
An Engagement
J? _
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE.™
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
SMOKE-OH!
“There is no age for idealism,” declares
author.
It’s certainly a bad time to build castles
in Spain!
4* 4* 4* T*
“The law has become heavy and unwieldy,”
declares a prominent barrister.
Possibly this accounts for the force
with which some people lay it down.
❖ 4* 4* •b
“There are kitchen secrets no wise wife
ever reveals to her husband,” says a women's
paper.
Such as how she turns self-raising flour
into cement, for instance.
•b 4*
“Winter very soon stops people indulging in
any nude business,” says a lecturer.
He must take his hot baths in an over-
coat then.
•g. .j. .g. •!«
“English author believes his second wife
has soul of first.”
Once-stung widowers should absorb
this.
•f* 4* 4* *4*
“Bankrupt, a bookmaker, said that owing
to a continued bad run his finances were in a
hopeless position.”
Couldn’t see any weigh out, in short.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Walking Corpses.
“Among books on sale to children in Perth
are The Carnival of Crawling Doom, The
Dead Tongues of Terror, The Blood Vendor
and The Little Walking Corpses.”
Pah ! you little walking corpse, you,
Ere I send you to your room
Hand to me the tome that warps you,
“Carnival of Crawling Doom.”
You’re much too young to read such
follies
And —/ am tired of Edgar Wallace!
S.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Travel Bustle Foremost.”
—“Free Lance” ( M.L .) heading.
But that would be a retrograde move-
ment, surely.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Many a cashier staged a successful
overseas flight long before aeroplanes
were invented.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The modern girl can face any situation.”
—Sydney feminist.
Because, no doubt, she does not believe
in an inferiority complexion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Government intends to establish a
school of cooking for men.”— “Sun.”
With the idea of turning out dough-
knuts?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Mo to non Perpetuo.
“A sympnonic composition descriptive of the
life of a motor-car has been performed by a
jazz orchestra.”
The symphony opens with a triumphant
entry for the brass, indicating that the
deposit has been paid on the car. Ac-
companying this is a fanfare of trumpets
to show that the neighbors know all
about it, then it fades to a low
moan by muted ’cellos, signifying arrears
of payments.
Development of the main theme ensues
until a series of screeches from the bas-
soons conveys that the badly-worn tyres
are protesting at taking corners above 15
m.p.h. This rises to a climax of caco-
phonous insistence with the saxophones
howling and squeaking, symbolising
failure to fill the sump with oil. An in-
sistent motif for the fiddles expresses the
Saturday afternoon efforts of the owner
to take the heads off the cylinders with-
out breaking at least five bolts.
Tumultuous storm passages are fol-
lowed by several dirgelike, sonorous
chords, an allusion to the hours spent
polishing the car and the deluge which
follows shortly after the Sunday trip has
begun. At the close of this section a sus-
tained and grinding shriek represents the
wife changing gears. A heavy clash of
cymbals, indicating that the towing ser-
vice is needed, brings the work to a close.
Running through each movement
occur vigorous and almost continuous
passages for the high-pitched horns and
“ Pleeze , Senor, Private Pedro 'e swallow pineapple bomb.”
"Caramba! Take im up and drop 'im over da enemy's lines!”
clarinets. This suggests the wife’s mother
in the back seat giving warnings that a
car three blocks ahead is approaching and
to keep well over.
80.
Cads in the Garden.
“There are no flowers for the sesqui. flood-
lights in Sydney’s Hyde Park to illuminate.
Turned on for the second intensive period of
celebration, they flood over spindly snapdragon
plants that are being forced by powerful fer-
tilisers to grow at a terrific pace.”
Timely indeed is this reminder to the
vegetable creation that when periods of
intensive happiness are decreed its co-
operation will be insisted upon, even at
the cost of brute force. 1 hope they
twist the tails of those snapdragons till
they roar for quarter.
The patriotic horticulturist will find
that ruthlessness is the only policy these
cads of the garden understand.
Well do I remember the struggle I had
with my aspidistra to get it to burst into
blossom even for the first period of cele-
bration. For weeks beforehand I forced
it to grow at a terrifying speed by the
use of blood-and-bone, Peruvian guano,
cigarette ash and heeltaps from glasses
the morning after.
Potbound and mutinous, it refused to
evince the slightest enthusiasm for any-
thing except the heeltaps. I gave it beans,
But even that failed to do any good, and,
waking up one morning to find it reach-
ing out its roots into the decanter on the
sideboard, I throttled it with my bare
bands -
Yo hoe hoe!
Stoo.
* * +
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
VT „ _ „
XlFirst Rural Pursuits.
Phillip’s most urgent task on arrival
at Port Jackson was the easing of the
pressing food problem ; consequently he
subordinated all else to agriculture.
On the voyage out the fleet had called
in to Rio de Janiero and the Cape and
acquired a big stock of various seeds.
The seed merchants had assured Phillip,
after learning that he was bound for Aus-
tralia, that they would germinate in prac-
tically any kind of soil, and that if they
failed to give really phenomenal results
he could bring them back and the money
would gladly be refunded.
There having been no expert horticul-
turist included in the Fleet’s complement,
the seeds were thrown haphazardly
into the Q.M.’s store. The forage ser-
geant who was responsible for the feed-
ing of the officers’ canaries apparently
wasn’t able to differentiate between cereal
seed and canary seed, for on arrival no
wheat or maize could be found, whereas
there was birdseed to burn. At the ser-
geant’s subsequent court-martial the
prosecution adduced that the canaries
had since been permanently dyspeptic
and that they had even broken out in
boils, proof that they had enjoyed food
richer than that to which they were
accustomed. The sergeant was found
guilty and was promoted to ensign.
The Governor immediately got the con-
victs to work making Farm Cove into a
garden. It was only sandstone and rock,
but Phillip, bearing in mind the seeds-
men’s promise, decided to give it a fly
there. The experiment might even have
succeeded had not the convicts, with
more enthusiasm than skill, kept pulling
the young plants up every few days to
examine the roots to see how they were
growing.
At the end of a couple of months the
food position was getting desperate. The
only things that had grown at all were
the prickly-pear, esparto grass, jalap and
ipecacuanha. Everybody, including the
Governor himself, went on short rations.
No one was affected by this hardship
more than Majah Ross; the Lieutenant-
Governor, once large and robust, had
shrunk so much that he was compelled
to wear corsets to prevent the “slack” of
his once-pronounced embonpoint from
flapping against his backbone as he
walked.
This semi-starvation diet saddened
Phillip, especially when he thought of
the convicts, for his solution of the capi-
tal-punishment problem he had already
set out in his famous aphorism: “I would
wish to confine the criminal till an oppor-
tunity offered of delivering him to the
natives of New Zealand and let them
eat him. The dread of this will operate
much stronger than the fear of death.”
The thought of the bitter disappoint-
ment awaiting the unfortunate Maoris
after having doubtless sharpened up their
teeth on the communal grindstone in
eager anticipation of hopping into some
well-nourished if rather toughish convicts
aroused true compassion in Phillip’s
heart.
But there was nothing to be gained by
sitting around wringing his teeth and
gnashing his hands. The only result of
his agricultural efforts so far had been a
crop of cochineal from the prickly pear,
the fruit from which, as the majah com-
plained, was “ballay rough on the
mouth, what?” The monotony of
esparto-grass puddings for three meals a
day was beginning to make even the
marines restless, so Phillip in desperation
ordered expeditions out right and left to
discover arable lands, while the marines
were compelled, much against their wills,
to go out and shoot kangaroos. That
they were so successful as to bag three in
three weeks speaks volumes for their
im proved marksmanship.
One of the expeditions, led by Tench
and Dawes, came back and reported suc-
cess, the site being “14,759 paces due
west from Parramatta.” Owing to the
fact that there was not one carpenter’s
rule in the colony, this method of pac-
ing distances had to be adopted. Dawes,
who evolved this method, was created
hon. pacer-in-chief for the colony.
S. W. K.
Brighter Elections.
“A Sydney election speech was delivered with
a background of incidental music provided by
a harp and two violins.”
The politician bald and fat
Leaves me cold, and that is flat,
Yet the news of this “sharp practice”
Stirs my fancy, for the fact is
I’d like to hear the “Lang, Lang Trail”
Sung in a soprano wail;
I would not jeer, I would not carp
If Tubby wooed me with a harp ;
I’d hark the words of even Spooner
If he should blossom as a crooner.
STOO.
Honesty.
“It is really up to some girls to be more
honest in their love-making.”— Woman’s paper.
“Your hair,” he cried, “reminds me of
rich wheat, all gold and sunny.’’
She snapped, “And so it should; that dye
cost me a lot of money.”
“Your cheeks,” he sighed, “are like young
buds touched by the morning sun.”
“Because,” she laughed, “my paint is on
the way it should be done.”
He moaned, “Be mine and still the pain
that ravages my heart.”
She answered: “Why, you mug, I meant
to land you from the start!”
D.McM.


Railway Concessions
in April
Australia’s 150th Anniversary
(Final Celebrations).
R.A.S. Show, Easter Holidays, A.J.C. Races,
City of Sydney Eisteddfod,
Anzac Day Commemoration.
EXCURSIONS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
City Residents
Inquire at any station, or at Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
for handbills containing full particulars of Excursions to the
Country prior to and during Easter, and continuing until Saturday,
April 23.
Country Residents
The local Stationmaster will supply information regarding
Excursion trains to Sydney for Easter, and also opportunities for
travel to any part of New South Wales at Excursion fares from
now until Saturday, April 23.
INTERSTATE EXCURSIONS
Holiday Excursion fares will be charged between the principal
New South Wales stations and the principal stations in other
Mainland States, from Monday, April 4, until Saturday, April 23.
W. H. Newman, Secretary for Railways (11).
Australasian Paper.
The ords. in this co. still looked
one' of the cheapest things in a de-
pressed market at 30s. last week.
Yield is above £5 6s. per cent. It
is the lowest price for several years.
Patents.
PROCESS OF TREATING PYRITES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
22112/35 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth; of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from ; Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
MINERAL FLOTATION.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
1019/36 is prepared to negotiate, for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
. 3
f
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.'
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors- 1 - James Love/ Esq. (Chairman) ; W; H. Hart, Esq.,; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
'.) l; :A : F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm; A. Jolly, Esq., C.M;G.
: General Manager — D. , S. FORBES. ,
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne. Sydney, and 99
branches throughout. Queensland and Northern Rivers. New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia .and the World,
this Rank offers'the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Barrier Mines
Sharemarket support for Barrier silver-
lead shares has been weak as water for
some time. On Wednesday of last week
there was a notable fading in confidence,
Norths slumping about 25., to 465., in
the morning, Souths receding less
markedly to 30s. These were the lowest
prices recorded since the £1 shares of
both cos. were split into ss. counters
about two years ago.
The last interim divs. paid by both
North and South were at the rate of 9d.
a share, or 60 p.c. p.a. In respect of
1936-37 North earned 130 p.c. and paid
120 p.c.; South earned 96 p.c. and dis-
tributed 95 p.c.
Ore throughputs and net earnings of
these two leading Barrier mines over the
five years to June 30 last have been as
follows:
Profits —-
Lead, Spelter, North, South,
’32-33 .. llffl g /6 14/ S 'ls*/8 16+565 24+674
(Jons crudes, ’32-33 .. 313,782 360,280 )
’33-34 .. 11/16/7 15/12/- 273,355 220,214
C Tons crudes, ’33-34 .. 395,577 345,630 )
’34-35 .. 11/6/- 12/16/7 390,684 342,510
(Tons crudes, ’34-35 .. 396,175 366,660 )
’35-36 .. 16/4/5 15/3/11 636,940 486,197
(Tons crudes, ’35-36 .. 402,097 386,100 )
’36-37 .. 23/2/8 20/2/1 910,628 768,316
(Tons crudes, ’36-37 .. 434,865 369,790 )
Since June 30 metals have realised in
London prices a little better than those
seen in 1935-36: —
Lead, Spelter, Profit, Profit,
Ton, Stg. Ton, Stg. N.B.H. South.
Year, £ s. d. £ s. d. £A. £A.
1935- 16 4 5 15 3 11 636,940 486,197
1936- 23 2 8 20 2 1 910,628 768,316
9mths., July-
Mar. 18 9 1 17 17 2
Last week lead was down to £l5 12s. 6d.,
spelter to £l3 12s. 6d. Silver weakened
because of the U.S.A.’s action against
Mexican metal.
For some time following the collapse
in metal prices in 1930 and later the Bar-
rier mines stored up lead (as well as the
less-important item silver). The follow-
ing table shows additions to (+ ) and
sales from (—) stocks over the last five
completed years:
Additions to (+) and Sales from (—) Lead
Stocks.
North. South.
Tons Lead. Tons Lead.
’32-33 +3,672 +839
’33-34 +10,253 +9,399
’34-35 -10,458 -8,514
’35-36 -10,502 -11,078
’36-37 -7,846 -7,596
On hand, June
30, 1937 .... 13,192 11,221
Obviously the lead sold from stocks
from 1934-35 up to 1936-37 helped to
swell profits in those terms. What prac-
tice is being followed this term in respect
of accumulated lead isn’t known. On
June 30 last North had 13,192 tons,
South 11,221 tons, It is likely that
the current term will receive somewhat
less help from the stored production of
previous years.
North during the 35 weeks to Feb-
ruary 26 last had produced concentrates
containing the following quantities of
metals (compared with the same period
of 1936-37):
North B.H.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1937 (35 weeks) ... 39,315 2,201,759 25,753
1938 (35 weeks) .. 40,251 2,242,285 27,085
* Exclusive of lead and silver in zinc concen-
trates and zinc in lead cons.
Including zinc from the lead concentrates,
and lead and silver from the zinc cons.,
the figures for both periods are slightly
bigger.
The South mine’s production on the
same basis is as follows:
B.H. South.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1937 (36 weeks) .. 33,820 1,155,471 23,872
1938 (37 weeks) .. 36,072 1,401,304 27,789
* Exclusive of lead and silver in zinc concen-
trates and zinc in lead cons.
In spite of a week’s strike early in March,
South’s figures are noticeably up, even if
the extra week in the period is taken into
account.
The import of all the foregoing seems
to be that, if lead and zinc stick around
last week’s average price until June 30,
profits from current production of both
the North and South mines should be as
good as for 1935-36 —the year before
last. Sales from stocks aren’t likely to
be as high—South would have to make
almost a complete clearance to reach
’35-36 total sales. The basic wage for
miners has been lifted slightly, but the
lead bonus fluctuates with metal prices.
From this distance, and from a finan-
cial viewpoint, Roosevelt’s country seems
to be acting crazily. It is no satisfac-
tion to anyone to say “We told you so,”
but the borrow-and-spend policy of re-
habilitating things in the U.S.A. did
seem almost childish to people in coun-
tries where the experiment had been tried
on a smaller scale and heartily con-
demned. Hoover, whom Roosevelt
ousted and who had lived in Australia,
had a slogan: “.You can’t squander your
way back to prosperity.” Hoover was
ditched in favor of Santa Claus; and
Santa, now in his second term, has, God
willing, to the end of 1940 to go.
Industrials on Wall-street, have lost
about a quarter of their value over the
past month or six weeks. Trade within
the States is sick again, steel production
being down to a fraction of early-1937
figures. Last April Roosevelt was
frightened of a boom! There seemed to
be a real danger of such a thing in Aus-
tralia and Britain about that time, but
what has happened in the U.S.A. since
is no swing of the pendulum from high
to low. It is mainly lack of confidence.
Many Australian industrials were
marked down sharply last Wednesday
and Thursday. London has also suffered
a setback, of a minor nature when com-
pared with N’York. London jobbers a
year ago were reputed to have all the bad
“margin” accounts about the place, Wall-
street being comparatively pure by
reason of new regulations concerning
“cover.” It is to be hoped that purity is
its own reward, because U.S.A. brokers
at the moment must be having a rotten
time otherwise.
G. J. Coles ords. felt the touch of a
heavy selling hand in Melbourne and
faded to below 795. for a while. Aus-
tralian Glass slipped to 915., but this
stock is masterly in its recbveries. Broken
Hill Prop, weakened to near 605., but
with Props, lately that might happen any
day. No front-ranker is more subject
to moods than this one. Associated
Newspapers (Sydney) receded to 21s. 3d.,
and in view of the growing difficulties
of newspaper publishers may take some
time before showing substantial recov-
ery. Melb. “Herald” at 595. 6d. was
lowest for two or three years. Tobaccos,
ejt div., were scarcely more than
easier, but a certain amount of
slaughter was evident in the price of
Kandos Cement (Sydney), the fully-
paids coming back to around 235. 6d.,
and representing very fair buying. For
once in a way the contribs. were more
favored than the paids. Australian
Cement and Goliath in Melbourne Were
firm, indicating, when compared with
Kandos, the erratic nature of the market.
Textile cos., especially hosiery, con-
tinued weak. Overproduction is said to
be threatening, but Holeproof (Vic.) is
still faring excellently.
It is nearly a year to the day since the
“gold-price” scare from New York
started a slide in commodities and
shares that hasn’t stopped yet. Possibly
a fear of unhappy returns of the day had
something to do with the recent debacle.
Australians know this time of the year
to be always trying on ’Change.
* * * *
Among ord. share issues to strengthen
last week were North Coast Steam,
which lifted to 375. 6d. (after sales at
365. 3d.) a short time back, Yarra Falls
(up 6d., to 375. 6d., cum Is. div.), and
Adelaide Steam, which recovered to
335. 6d.: Australasian Paper scrip was
still changing hands at 30s. or slightly
better, and the return of over £5 6s. per
cent, offering was very attractive. The
newsprint. case before the Tariff Board
is no concern of this co., which is in-
terested only in Kraft paper and card-
board. Henry Jones ords. withstood the
marke* “shakes” very firmly.
H: ❖ $ He
The low-grade plant of the Emperor
(Fiji) has now three crushings to its credit.
In the 14 weeks 35,603 tons assaying
6.Bdwt. has gone through for 10,6550 z.,
recoveries being a shade under 6dwt.
The last clean-up panned out at 6.3dwt.;
absorption and losses were naturally
heaviest during the preliminary run.
Scheduled plant capacity was reached in
the second run. The claimed average
grade of ore reserves has not yet been
reached in millings, however.
* * * *
Loloma’s last crushing averaged
26.36dwt. In the first half-year’s opera-
tion of the mine, 10,118 tons has been
treated for 11,7500 z. gold (average
23.22dwt.) as well as some silver. Mining
and milling costs, estimated or otherwise,
aren’t published. Last month the plant
operated to capacity for the first time.
Yes ; .lead has been as low as £9 2s. 6d.
(1932), spelter £9 13s. 9d. (1931), electro-
lytic copper £27 15s. (1932) and tin £lOO
6s. 3d. (1931). Sterling prices, they oc-
curred before or just after Britain left
gold. The 1937 “highs” were lead £36
7s. 6d., spelter £37, electro, copper £BO
ss. and tin £3ll ss. Last week lead
brought £l5 12s. 6d., spelter £l3 12s. 6d.,
copper £42 and tin (down heavily) £l7l.
* * _* . *
Copra shows still further weakness in
London, South Seas sun-dried selling at
£lO 15s;, which compares with £l3 10s.
three months ago and over £2O a year
back. Morris, Hedstrom ords. have
fallen from 315.. 3d. to 255. Earn-
ings during the term to March 31, 1937,
ran out at 11 p.c. on ord. capital, and a
5£ p.c.. div. was paid. This year’s interim,
declared last December, was 6 p.c. It
is not unlikely that the. financial year
just closed has been a good one, because
the average price of copra spread over
the 12 months may not work out a great
deal lower than the average for the pre-
ceding term, high peaks notwithstanding.
There would be some danger, however,
in stocks. Morris, Hedstrom’s final div.
is due in June. Nobody can guess accu-
rately what the 1938-39 term is going to
be like.
ijs ❖ £
The chairman of Howard Smith, Ltd.,
announced that Brisbane Wharves Pty.,
in which H.S. has a controlling interest,
was not appealing against the Queensland
Government’s action in resuming the
wharves previously controlled by the pup.
The settlement was regarded as satisfac-
tory, considering that “Australian Steam-
ships Pty. had not been dispossessed of
its berthage site in Brisbane River.”
Brisbane Wharves Pty. has gone into
liquidation, as mentioned in B. 23/3/’3B.
* * * . *
In Melbourne last week:
Consols were decidedly weaker. The banking
and export-price position, as pointed out here
many times, tends towards higher interest rates.
Under influence of the crazy American share-
market, which caused a setback in all metal
prices, Mr. Lyell scrip receded to 275. 3d., the
iowest price since August, 1936. Electrolytic
copper was down to £42 in London, but still
above the average price (£4O 14s. Bd.) realised
in Lyell’s 1936 term, when a 10 p.c. div. was
paid comfortably. Meanwhile costs have risen
somewhat.
Lancefield shares were dealt in at 6s. 2d.,
then 6s. 6d. Great Boulders kept around
7s. 9d., and North Kalgurlis were steady
at 225.
Emperor scrip ■ changed hands at 12s. 7d. —
slightly weaker. Option over the 70,000 shares
earmarked up to 18/3 /’3B has been exercised.
There are 140,000 more under option up to
18/10/ ’3B. Lolomas kept near 225. 6d.
United Provisions ords. kept in the dol-
drums at 6s. or thereabouts. The enterprise
has been earning more than enough to keep
the prefs. satisfied, and though the bacon trade
is full of: disappointments these days there
are ord. shares on the lists with less apparent
merit valued higher.
Carlton Brewery scrip held well, selling
at 655. 6d. on Thursday.


\v# t A
v v \
40W ipi DJD M BE6I
.1 <3NVIAI3<3
ij sjsijoiouj ueijej^snyi/b oj djCjBjjBAB
A AJ9A9 Uj J9ft9Cj AjjBUOIJBSU9S SJj
aiXoMMTTmHxiQ
/WHO S !MJ J° s J so:) SuijDJsdo
I jd papunojso aq iiim no^
-uoi4o||i4S|p pjjed
3pUD4S l|6ll] \S9\D\ OL|4
AOJduj|— |U!ds JO4OVY
AI3JLINIJ3Q
- - d sj HVIVWM
a H 4 4Di|4
Aoq noA
ittfi
111
:
I®I® :
T
f
The probability has been mentioned
here several times ; now it is officially
„ , t j , -ii than
acknowledged that it will take more tnan
“ A .. T
£2,000,000 to liquidate Australian Iron
and Steel’s debt to Broken Hill Prop.
A.I. and S. suggests that B.H.P. will take
a couple of million ords. and call it nearly
square. All the Steel co.’s ord. shares
are now held by 8.H.P., so the position
is approximately as broad as it is long,
The cost price of B.H.P.’s equity in A.I.
and S. now runs to beyond £2,750,000, not
yet turning in a cracker, except perhaps
a nominal rate of interest' on loans.
Nevertheless the Port Kembla works are
doing much better ; a profit of £145,379
is shown in the latest term, as against
a trading loss of £29,733 in 1936. Before
striking a profit in 1937, £201,001 was
allowed for depreciation, against £83,500
in 1936. The million prefs. are being
paid £58,125 out of the year’s earnings,
representing 12 months’ div. to May,
1934. There is now nearly four years’
arrears accrued. The scrip is popular,
selling at 275. 9d., which works out at
about 235. 3d. net. Allowing for interest-
reduction, present div. rate is 5.8 p.c.
...... ...
There is a right of participation with the
or(Js up tQ c
„. 2 * * *
Tsland Scheelite shares 4s naid
lslan Y T cheellte s «ares, 4s. paid
and Is uncalled, are making a market
m Melbourne around 3s. 9d. Althougn
capitalisation seemed high (200,000 con-
tribs. and 50,000 vendors’ shares), at the
outset prospects appeared quite fair, es-
pecially as wolfram was then well above
£5 per unit in London, following uncer-
tainty regarding the future of Chinese
production. The property on King
Island (in Bass Strait) had been profit-
ably worked until metals slumped
shortly after the war, but there still
seemed to be a reasonable life ahead of
it. Now the proposition has reached the
stage of having overburden removed
from the lode by steam shovel, and
crushing and concentrating plant is going
up. Chinese wolfram is around 68s. in
London. On a throughput of 15,000
tons ore a year and wolfram at 60s. the
co.’s prospectus estimated profits at
£17,850 p.a., rising to £29,100, £40,350
or £51,600 if the metal averaged £4, £5
or £6 sterling per unit respectively.
:]i % * i'fi
Davies, Coop and Co., Melbourne (the
compositors in the dailies insist that there
is no such name as Coop, and usually
spell it Co-op.), bought a big new fac-
tory-site at Collingwood, and on part of
it a plant to make yarn for motor-tyres
is going up. About £500,000 is to be
spent altogether on the new factory. At
present the co. is paying 7 p.c. ord. divs.
from the manufacture of cotton cloths
and the making-up of men’s clothing. At
present tyre-cord is admitted duty-free,
but a tariff will operate as soon as Aus-
tralian production starts. A new share
issue may come later on.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber and the
affiliated Barnet Glass co., in association
with other Australian tyre-makers, pro-
pose manufacturing their own cotton
cord in a £250,000 factory, which will
probably be set up near the Barnet Glass
tyre-works at Footscray, Melbourne.
* * * *
During the first 12 weeks of 1938 Mt.
Kasi, on Viti Levu, Fiji, treated 8400
tons for 18600 z., average recovery being
4.43dwt. Tonnage is up slightly on the
level maintained during the 1937 term,
and grade is o.2dwt. better, though well
below that for 1936, when mining was
more selective. Throughputs each four
weeks are rather erratic in volume. Ac-
counts for 1937 are expected shortly,
and they should show a profit.
# * *
South Australian Brewing Co. over
50 years has succeeded in quench-
ing the greater part of a State’s thirst
and handing its shareholders something
more than a million in divs., to the satis-
faction of all concerned. Profit for the
year to Feb. 28 was the highest on
record ; the div. was lifted to 10 p.c.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Last of an Empire.
[The German union with Austria —the final dis-
appearance of a once-great Empire—was brought about
m circumstances without parallel in history. Disapproval
of and alarm over the method employed were well
expressed by Mr. Chamberlain in strongly protesting to
Germany, but the evidence is that Austria wanted union
Below are given some proofs of this from various
sources, followed by condensations of comment in
London press articles received by air-mail.]
(From London “Times,” March 14.)
Few conqueiors in history have had such a recep-
tion. No adjective suffices to describe the jubilation
which greeted Herr Hitler in Linz, or that which
awaited him in Vienna, where he learned the political
doctrine now called National-Socialism.
This triumphant welcome was shared by the
army he had sent into Austria ; flowers were strewn
in the path of the rumbling tractors and armored cars.
If any Austrians were against him previously they
either hid their faces or had been completely con-
verted. Austria has not known such scenes since
Imperial days; and few Austrian Emperors ever
roused the people to such rejoicing.
Herr Hitler crossed the Austrian frontier at a
spot near his birthplace, Braunau, which was in a
state of frantic excitement. He was preceded by
German troops, and by his S.S. bodyguard, and was
received with indescribable enthusiasm everywhere
on the route.
His arrival in Linz, which had never seen such
crowds, was unforgettable. Standing in the great
open car which could scarcely make its way through
the masses of people he repeatedly acknowledged the
welcome of his countrymen.
Troops of the vanguard of the German Army
which was already moving into Austria in several
columns to guarantee, as Herr Hitler had said, a real
referendum were welcomed wherever they appeared.
The armored cars were pelted with flowers.
(London “Evening News,” March 14.)
As Hitler left his hotel all Linz swarmed around
him shouting “Auf Wiedersehen.” The procession
moved at a snail’s pace—it was cheering, cheering all
the way. In all the towns and villages between Linz
and Vienna people are hanging out flags, putting up
triumphal arches, carpeting the conqueror’s path with
flowers.
(London “Sunday Express,” March 13.)
Vienna streets to-night echoed to the tread of
five hundred thousand people carrying Nazi emblems.
Vienna celebrated with frenzy. Every motor-car,
tramcar and taxi was decked with swastikas.
The Inner History
[Compare this digest of J. L. Garvin’s searching
analysis in London “Observer” with the recent spate of
professorial and other twaddle.]
In 24 hours a larger German Empire has been
established before our eyes. Its links have been
clinched by a hammerstroke, but not only by invading
force. Partly the thing has been done with the consent
of a large proportion of the Austrian people.
To judge this historic event in its right propor-
tion and significance we must remember the sweep of
ages since legendary times and take their shadowy
pageant for our background.
By the Versailles Treaties the Germans of the
Reich, Austria and Bohemia, who form one continu-
ous racial body in Central Europe, were sorted into
three divisions more completely separated than they
ever had been before through more than a thousand
years. The thing was a work of artificial statecraft.
It was against nature, history, geography and econo-
mics. It could not last.
Let us see to the heart of things.
There was a truce between Berlin and Vienna
by the agreement of July, 1936. Herr Hitler recog-
nised Austrian independence. Dr. Schuschnigg recog-
nised Austria to be “a Germanic State,” a formula
implying some sort of fraternity, especially in foreign
affairs.
The compromise collapsed because of a total in-
compatibility of temperaments, purposes, passions
between the two sides. Dr. Schuschnigg hated his
Austrian Nazis. They repaid the antipathy. He had
no intention of admitting them to “share political
responsibility.” When the Chancellor remained obdu-
rate the Nazis determined to rise.
Viennese police raided Nazi quarters in the Tein-
'faltstrasse. There they seized documents revealing
arrangements for a putsch with the support of the
Reich. In case of a rising Herr Hitler’s troops were
to cross the frontier just as has happened. They were
to “forbid bloodshed between Germans and Ger-
mans.” Instead, an Austrian plebiscite on the ques-
tion of closer union was to be held, and the Powers
were to be notified in this sense.
The chief Nazi leaders were arrested. The sequel
was to be a trial for high treason —one of the causes
celebres in the political annals of Europe. Dr.
Schuschnigg thought he held all the cards in his hands
and that publicity would be his triumph. He failed
to reckon with Herr Hitler, who did not think of
holding cards. He held the “iron dice.” He was
prepared to cast them rather than accept open dis-
comfiture, as the Austrian Chancellor counted.
In the endeavor to avert the violent clash that has
now happened, an interview between the Ftihrer and
the Austrian Chancellor took place at Berchtesgaden
four weeks ago. It was a stormy meeting. It was at
first thought that Dr. Schuschnigg had surrendered
when he returned exhausted. He had no such inten-
tion. He, too, was a dictator, and a high-mettled one.
He entered into negotiation with the Socialists, banned
since the terrible battle and siege in Vienna four
years ago. Their spokesmen vowed to stand by him
on terms against a Nazi regime. His reports convinced
him that the Austrian Nazis were weak.
He determined to stake all with a suddenness and
in a manner that took the world’s breath away. He
resolved to tear from the Nazis their own chief poli-
tical weapon—the challenge to a plebiscite—and to
turn it against them before they could recover from
their amazement.
But how? Wholly on his own terms. They were
unprecedented and fatal. It was to be a rushed plebis-
cite to take place at three days’ notice. The voting
age was raised to 24 to nullify the exceptional propor-
tion of Nazis among the younger people. The ballot
was to be so contrived that “Yes” in' the counting
would have various advantages over “No.” The terms
of reference were confined to the independence of
Austria and excluded the question of closer union
between “the two Germanic States.” That the Oppo-
sition could accept these conditions was out of the
question. The method of referendum was turned into
a coup d’etat which could settle nothing, but only
imperil everything.
Every realistic witness in Europe who has given
cool study to this question felt that Dr. Schuschnigg
had doomed his cause by the rashness of his method.
They felt that something would happen to prevent
the rushed plebiscite from taking place. Something
did happen and in a way that all history will remem-
ber. The defiance of Herr Hitler could not have been
more direct, resounding and irreparable.
So the independence and separateness of Austria
on the Versailles basis has come to an end. The one
thing certain is that war itself could not reverse what
has taken place. It could not restore the state of
things in Central Europe to what they were before.
“In No Way Surprised”
[This, condensed from London “Daily Mail,” puts
the reality of the position, and Britain’s regarding it,
in a nutshell.]
Those who have kept a close watch upon Euro-
pean politics are in no way surprised by the events
in Austria. There has always been a strong move-
ment for fusion with Germany.
Twice since the war Austria has actually an-
nounced her identity with the Reich, once in 1919
and again in 1931, when a Customs union was
declared. On both occasions the union was objected
to by other Powers.
This inclination has become even stronger since
the advent of Herr Hitler, who from the first an-
nounced that his aim was to reunite these two Ger-
manic States. That mission is now fulfilled, and it
is remarkable that it has been accomplished without
any opposition, without so much as the firing of a
shot.
The methods adopted may call, as Mr. Chamber-
lain said, for the “severest condemnation.” They have
“administered a profound shock to all who are inter-
ested in the preservation of European But
they stress the warning that in many countries “Speed
and “Action” have become the master words of powet
politics.
Britain’s part is to lend her might neither to one
nor the other of groups whose rivalry may lead
to war. She must concentrate upon building up her
strength, ready to exert it if her direct interests are
threatened.
No Entanglements for U.S.A.
[lnstead-of the U.S.A. being eager to take “positive
action against Japan” (a childish Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” faux pas; the “D.T.” belligerently urged Aus-
tralia to “fall in” behind the President), the real position
in the U.S.A. regarding this and other entanglements is
that clearly stated by new American Ambassador
Kennedy in his first speech in London (March 18). The
full essentials of this important official pronouncement
on American foreign policy (meagrely dealt with in the
cables) are given in this condensing of the Ambassador’s
speech as reported in London “Times.”]
The average American has little interest in the
details of foreign affairs. One reason for that is the
racial and geographical peculiarities of their country.
Over here men’s minds inevitably incline toward
their neighbors’ affairs. In America that is not true.
The average American has two principal worries. He
fears that he might lose his job and he fears that his
country might get into a war. Most Americans do
not see how they could usefully participate in some
of the adjustments of international relations now
taking place in various parts of the world.
We are careful and wary—rightly so —in the
relationships we establish with foreign countries. It
would be better if this traditional American attitude
were more clearly understood. Nothing constructive
can be built on false hopes and false fears. We
believe it is wise to make clear that any stand the
American people take will be based primarily on the
firm ground of national interest.
With that sort of public opinion behind them,
President Roosevelt and Secretary Hull and other
officials of the Government have lately been trying
to make the country’s position clear. They very much
hope that no misapprehension will arise as to the role
they are expected to play, as contrasted with the part
in which they have cast themselves.
It must be realised that the great majority of
Americans oppose any entangling alliances. Most of
our people insist that their country retain its inde-
pendent and unmortgaged judgment as to the merits
of world crises as they arise. This viewpoint has domi-
nated the whole foreign policy of the United States,
and it endures to this day. My country is unwilling
to bind itself to any course of action in the future
without an opportunity to examine the situation in
the light which then envelops it. To judge from
reports which reach us from abroad, this attitude of
the United States is not well understood.
In some quarters it has been interpreted to mean
that our country would not fight under any circum-
stances short of actual invasion. That is not accurate,
and it is a dangerous misunderstanding to be current
just now. Others seem to imagine that the United
States could never remain neutral in a general war.
That is just as dangerously conceived a misapprehen-
sion as the other.
Where the present interests of Great Britain and
the United States meet is in the prevention of the
generally feared world war. In our country we refuse
as yet to believe that war is inevitable. We prefer
to believe that the commonsense of the peoples of the
world will prevent it. Therefore we do not approach
world affairs in a spirit of fatalism. Nevertheless, if
the nations should again become engulfed in war, we
should make ourselves very strong and then pursue
whatever course we considered best for the United
States. That is the policy we have followed in the
past. It will undoubtedly be our policy in the future.
The American people are appalled by the pros-
pect of war as it is now waged. As all see now, there
certainly was no winner in the World War. Economic
peace seems to offer hope of achieving a solution.
Great Britain and the United States are trying to
take a step together in that direction. America regards
more friendly commercial relations as imperative.
The foreign relations of the United States are
based on the Good Neighbor policy. That policy
merely applies to international relationships the ordi-
nary decent principles which men employ in their
dealings with each other as individuals.
The decline in international morality has alarmed
our people in recent years. My country has decided
that it must stand on its own feet, at least until regard
for treaty obligations has again become fashionable.
Loosening the Trade Sliprails.
[Mr. Lyons, to Empire Primary Producers in Sydney:
“Trade barriers prevent the distribution of food to
people in need of it and might be one of the causes of
war.” Sir Reginald Dprman-Smith (Britain) in reply:
“We must give primary producers of the world a reason-
able remuneration, or the world will not see any great
improvement in conditions.” Which is how some Aus-
tralian primary producers feel about the pending Anglo-
American trade agreement. “Sacrifices” are cheerfully
advocated by those who won’t have to make them.
Meanwhile, this is the proposed agreement in its
broadest and most favorable light, as seen by the
“City” editor of London “Telegraph’s” “Financial and
Industrial Review.”]
This trade treaty will mean a remarkable swing-,
back by the United States from high to lower tariffs
1½d. Colored.
“Reporting” Franco’s advance last week (29/3/’3B)
Sydney “Daily Telegrajjh’s” “independent cable
service” mentioned no less than five times in 6Jin. of
space German or Italian troops, or both together,
flgliting on the Franco side.
German and Italian tanks broke through the
Republican lines ....
Ceaselessly, German and Italian aeroplanes
in the service of General Franco are diving low,
machine-gunning Republican troops....
While Italian tanks, ’planes and troops forge
ahead....
Germans, Italians and M00r5....
Once the river Ebro had been crossed,
Italian and German troops were on a clear
plain ....
That inside 6£in. of space. Nowhere in the report
any mention of Spaniards fighting on Franco’s side;
nowhere, either, any indication of the troops on
the other side being any but Spanish. Nobody un-
acquainted with the actual circumstances could
gather any other idea than that it isn’t a civil war
which is going on in Spain, but a war in which
Germans and Italians are being led against
Spaniards by one General Franco, who is the only
Spaniard on his side. There is no mention anywhere
in the report of the French (in enormous numbers),
Russian, Belgian and other foreign troops fighting
on the Red Government side.
This is carrying lid. colored journalism to the
extremes of propaganda. Even cable-“news” is not
usually quite so crudely one-sided. It is clumsy
because by now even the worst-informed must be
aware that such reporting gives a distorted picture
of the real state of affairs in Spain.
Quite as clumsy, though not so crudely loaded,
was the Able from Paris which appeared the same
day in the “S. M. Herald,” after having had an airing
in the previous day’s “Sun”:—
The Popular Front is making a gigantic
effort to supply the Spanish Loyalists with food,
clothes, medicines and fruit. Dozens of heavy
motor-lorries are speeding across France to the
frontier, and a few from Belgium are joining
them.
The purpose served by this thoroughly nice little
news item is to leave the impression that “heavy
motor lorries,” “speeding across France to the
frontier,” could never contain anything but food,
medicines and suchlike humanitarian things.
This sort of cable service has certainly been
no service to Australia. Through Australia’s being
isolated as it is no country in the world is more at
the mercy of propaganda; no country is so vitally
in need of uncolored information on world affairs.
These “Uncabled Additions” aim to correct this by-
bringing to BUEEETIN readers in digest form
opinions of authorities on world affairs —such as Sir
Charles Petrie’s accompanying calm reasoning on the
Spanish position—and general views and information
from overseas that should help Australians to clear
thinking.


fO^
AUfllSl
I**
bm
o*
&\H G
T'«' es r%,
nece^
c hon9'
,ed-
r4o
it
\o«9 e, _!! t o
the
trio"
the
\ond
the
v,\th l "” aecu*" cVt o n<i
-"*»«*_ ?S*£
O*
hH
**~"" ca » n the j *\th
on
Just
the co
«hete
nven>
e« ce ?! - Jed.
ote
s\W« v
•A-BATrERV
» CIU MCIWtM
AS
EVEREADY
Air
Cell
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY., LTD., Sydney.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in t)ie utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
H
tMO
mm)
1
t
vm
¥:
Mm
9 l
i
Wlfißi
m
! miimnfffi i
mm
tin ,
n w
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
—a movement which a few years ago would have been
considered politically impossible in the United States.
Its importance can be realised only by those who
appreciate the extent to which prohibitive American
tariffs contributed towards the world economic depres-
sion.
Here is a reversal of policy of profound import-
ance to the world. That such a change has been
possible reveals the compelling bigness of the project.
If it were not big in its possibilities, it would never
have gripped the imagination of the American busi-
ness community, which is, on general principles, hos-
tile to the policies of the present American Govern-
ment.
Equally, the bigness of the project has been recog-
nised by the willingness of leaders of Britain and
British Dominions to agree to a modification of the
Ottawa agreements, into which they were driven by
the. persistent high-tariff policies of other countries,
including the United States.
The project is one which, in the present disordered
state of the world, probably offers more promise than
any other development at present on the international
horizon.
The two greatest democratic groups in the world
are rearming, not for aggression but for the defence
of world law and order, and now, in conjunction, they
are laying plans for the economic appeasement of
nations.
They are approaching co-operation, not merely
through the pressure of Far Eastern events, but
through a mutual recognition of the extensive interests
in economics and finance which they share, and of
the beneficent leadership which they can exercise.
The Future of Spain.
[ln one respect victory has never been on General
Franco’s side —the Red Government’s propaganda fac-
tory has won all along the line. It has been ably
abetted by such dangerous meddlers as England’s Labor
leader Attlee, after whom a Red Government battalion
was named; by skirted meddlers from London; by the
usual performances of foolish professors; and, above
all, as far as Australian opinion is concerned, by the
anti-Franco bias of cables. In this digest of an article
by Sir Charles Petrie in the “National Review” emphasis
is given to the importance to Britain of an independent
Spain.]
To-day, when the victory of General Franco
seems assured, there is an inclination to regard Spain
as a part of Europe in which Great Britain can safely
cease to interest herself. Nothing could be more
dangerous. • .
Spain has long been the happy hunting-ground
of Bolshevist agitators ; there is no reason to suppose
they will cease their activities. Bolshevism breeds
Fascism, and as the Communists carry on their agita-
tion great pressure will be put upon the rulers of the
new Spain to create a Fascist State. In these days
of an ideological interpretation of the international
situation the distinction between domestic and foreign
politics is often one without a difference, and it is
of the utmost importance to Great Britain that Spain
should not be added to the list of countries where
such a state of affairs prevails.
The main British interest is that Spain should be
prosperous and independent. Prior to the civil war
the United Kingdom was the best customer of Spain,
while Spain bought more from us than from any
other foreign country except the United States.
A hostile Power in possession of the Spanish ports
could threaten the route to the East through the Medi-
terranean and that round the Cape of Good Hope.
Gibraltar is practically defenceless against air attrack,
but it would only be exposed if the enemy were France
or Spain: the former contingency is happily out of
the question; it is the business of British diplomacy
to see that the latter does not arise. We want a
Spain stronger and more prosperous than she has
been for many a long year, but we also want one that
can stand on her own feet amid the conflict of political
creeds.
A great deal of water, and no little blood, has
flowed under the bridges of late, and there is a general
revulsion of feeling in favor of the one country —
Great Britain —which has not sought to profit by the
difficulties of Spain. A situation is developing which
is capable of being turned to extremely good account.
By nature the Spanish Nationalist —that is to say,
the ruler of the Spain of to-morrow —is neither a Fascist
nor a Nazi, but a traditionalist. General Franco’s
followers want to rebuild on the foundations of the
past greatness of Spain. There is nothing in this that
need alarm English susceptibilities, for it will mean
that Spain will become less, not more, subject to
foreign influences.
The events of the past 18 months have shown how
serious a threat to the British Empire would be an
unfriendly Spain.
Spain has land frontiers with two Powers alone,
Portugal and France, with both of which we are on
the best of terms. So far as the former is concerned,
the morrow of General Franco’s victory will be an
admirable moment for British good offices to be used
finally to bury the hatchet between Madrid and
Lisbon. The integrity of Portugal has been the con-
cern of England for centuries, and it can best be
secured by friendship with Spain, by whom alone it
can be seriously threatened.
In respect of France, the obstacles are more
considerable, for the Nationalists will not readily
forget the help given by the French Left to their
opponents. Happily, the pendulum of public opinion
in France is swinging back to the Centre, and with this
should come an improvement of relations with the
Spanish Nationalists. It is a vital British interest that
in the event of war France should not have to com
cern herself with the Pyrenean frontier. British diplo-
macy has the duty imposed upon it of seeing that the
relations of France and Spain remain what they have
been, save at rare intervals, since the Treaty of
Utrecht.
Empire Air Defence.
o Condensed from Captain Norman Macmillan’s '‘The
Chosen Instrument.”) *
[A feature of Australia’s defence programme broad-
cast by Mr. Lyons on March 24 was the provision of
£8,800,000 to be spent on air defence within the next
three years, increasing first-line aircraft strength to 198,
with stations at Darwin, Brisbane, Canberra and a
site on the N.S.W. coast. None of these ’planes will
be of the type considered necessary by Captain Mac-
millan, though they represent movement on the lines
he envisages.]
To-day we need a man who is prepared to sweep
the skies as Nelson swept the seas: a man who can
show to the British and other peoples that air war
need not threaten our security. Air defence must hit
out, as Nelson did, far from the British shores, and
chase and harry the foe, not over the heads of the
British people, but over the heads of their enemy,
where the enemy people will see the result.
Hitherto the weakness of the Empire has been
held to lie in its scattered nature. The great distances
meant that a considerable time factor had to be con-
sidered in relation to the reinforcement of any threat-
ened point. That time factor can be reduced by the
employment of the right types of aircraft. Air defence
can make the Empire safer.
There is only one way to restore to the British
Empire its former prestige—that is, for the British
Commonwealth of peoples to regard themselves as one
defence unit in the air. If this is done before any
trouble arises which might involve war, the scattered
units of the Empire, to-day a source of weakness,
can be converted into the strongest defence power in
the world. But it must be done quickly. Not one of
the Dominions yet possesses an adequate air force.
The types of aircraft required for Empire defence
should possess a range of not less than 300 Q miles.
Their top speed should be in, the order of 300 m.p.h.,
and their bomb-load carrying capacity at full range
not less than two tons. Equipped with such aircraft,
the strength of the Empire would rest on the ability
of its forces simultaneously to close every waterway
of the world (with the exception of the Pacific Ocean)
by a world-wide combination of air and sea power.
The shaded portion of the accompanying map shows
the world area that can be covered from bases within
the Empire by aircraft possessing a radius of action
of 1500 miles.
The Empire as a unit is the only power that can
create an aerial defence area that would dominate
the seaways of the world. But not the seaways only
—great tracts of land also fall within the orbit of
defence aircraft based in accordance with an Empire
plan those tracts of land include the most densely-
populated parts of the world, with the exception of
Japan. But Japanese forces could not penetrate
Empire defence zones so protected.
The map shows that Empire aircraft of the right
type could patrol all vital areas to a great distance
from each unit. British sea communications would
be safeguarded, enemy sea communications cut. Con-
centration of air strength could be effected quickly.
Each separate unit links up with its neighbor to form
a complete world bloc that could deal with any threat
of attack upon any area of the Empire. No nation
would dare attack the Empire at any point.
All Empire units should combine in an Imperial
Defence Council with a concerted plan for equip-
ment, bases and regions of supply, worked out on a
definite scheme for the complete defence of the Empire
as one unit. Such restoration of the strength of
Britain might well produce that real world peace which
everyone so earnestly desires.


f dsf
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
n
r /j
Rouse your liver with the pill of the century.
Banish Constipation, Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and figor with the
pill without' the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Box
1182MH, G.P.0., Sydney.
EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
A SEEF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM.
NO WATER SURREY REQUIRED.
APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH.
ds
No stench, flies,
germs, or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Over 650
in private
homes, schools,
theatres, etc.
Shell Oil Co. 60
repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Can be in-
stalled where septic tanks are impracticable.
Cheap to run. Automatic. Price, £l5/10/-
F. 0.8. Sydney. Write for Free Pamphlet.
See it at Everyday Products >Co., Stand 108.
R.A.S., opposite new concrete stand.
Hygeia Sanitary Co., 30 Bridge St., Sydn<”’
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It seems improbable that the Doncaster
winner was seen at Rosehill on Saturday,
but if their outings did Allunga, Mestor-
avon and Cathartes no harm it is very
likely that the Sydney Cup winner was.
Unfortunately there are doubts about
Mestoravon and Allunga. In the Autumn
Handicap, Mestoravon proved himself
far and away the best stayer among the
handicap horses now in the business in
N.S.W. It was a treat to see him gather
up his field —he went from last to first
in a furlong or so —and sail into the
straight with the race won. “The old
fellow is better than he was in the last
Sydney Cup,” was the general verdict;
and he has only 101 b. more this time.
And it is not to be forgotten that, if the
handicapper could have done his work
over again after Mestoravon’s successes
in the Autumn Handicap at Rosehill and
the Autumn Cup at Warwick Farm 12
months ago, the nag would have got con-
siderably more than his Cup weight of
7st. 31b.
As it happened, though he pulled up
well enough, he developed lameness after
his effort on Saturday. “Trouble in the
suspensory ligament of the near foreleg,”
said the vet., who had been consulted
before. It may yield to the swimming
which it is intended to give him —and in
like circumstances many a horse has
picked up a good race on a swimming
regimen, plus walking and cantering on
the beach—but at the present time any-
one backing Mestoravon straight out for
the Sydney Cup or entering doubles with
him is taking a risk. However, he is in
perfect condition at the moment, and
will need little more work if the lameness
disappears.
In a letter received on Saturday a cor-
respondent who says he won £2OO on the
Epsom-Metrop. double when The Bul-
letin picked Capris and Young Crusader
questioned its choice of Allunga for the
Sydney Cup. “What’s the use of going
on such an old stager?” he grumbled.
But Allunga is only a five-year-old, like
The Trump, and he never galloped better
than he has done this season. His track
work has been outstanding, and, coming
out for the Rawson Stakes at Rosehill,
he looked a picture. Unfortunately, when
going to the post, he cannoned against
Billy Boy, who moved out sharply in a
panic when Allunga came alongside him.
Down went the favorite, and the jockey,
Shean, took what looked like a nasty
fall. However, he was up smartly, and
as there seemed nothing wrong with the
horse he was allowed to start.
There must have been something
wrong, for during the race Allunga began
to bleed at the nose. The bleeding was
visible to the crowd as the horse, gallop-
ing with no dash, passed the crowd in
the Leger and the paddock; and in the
circumstances he did well to get third.
Ten minutes after the race, Allunga was
still bleeding, but an after-examination
revealed no organic trouble, and the stal-
lion cleaned out his manger as usual.
He is to be galloped on Thursday, and
then it may be known whether the Rose-
hill experience has left damaging effects.
In the circumstances, Sarcherie’s task
in the Rawson Stakes was greatly light-
ened, for the horses that finished behind
her, other than Allunga, are not
reckoned in the weight-for-age class.
Cathartes ran promisingly, considering
that he was receiving only 131 b. from the
old mare. In the Sydney Cup thefe is
261 b. between. them. Bristol, who was
giving Cathartes 51b. and getting only
81b. from Sarcherie, was finishing faster
than either, and will be no mean oppo-
nent for John Wilkes in the St. Leger.
He is out of the Cup. One thing against
him is that he hasn’t been up very long.
Extraordinary measures were adopted
to enable Sir Regent to get away with
the field in the Autumn Handicap. He
started on the outside, between two
hurdles. When the barrier went up the
jockey, McCarten, gave him a few cuts
with his whip, and behind the erratic
animal the clerk of the course was belt-
ing him with the stockwhip. Thus per-
suaded, Sir Regent condescended to get
on with the job, and he was always near
enough to the leaders —first Florida and
then Mestoravon—to win if he had been
good enough. He. is owned by a Sydney
alderman who has substantial moving-
picture interests. It may, presumably, be
taken for granted that he would have
received the same care and attention on
Saturday had he been a battler’s horse.
Sal Volatile’s showing in the Railway
Handicap was impressive. With only
half a mile to go, she was second-last in
a strung-out field of 15, but she galloped
so strongly in the straight that she would
have been a clear third in another stride.
And Brazandt saw to it that there was no
loafing on the journey, the seven fur-
longs taking lmin. 25sec. The little
mare has only 7st. 31b. in the Doncaster
—she carried 7st. 71b. on Saturday.
* * * *
Carrying three pounds more than his
Doncaster Handicap weight, Bst. 111 b.,
Mohican did a capital trial for that race
when he won the Railway at Rosehiil
at 7 to 2. A long way out of his ground
in the early stages, he put in a well-
sustained run from the half-mile pole,
and beat Bodley Head in the last stride.
Hamurah, always prominent, ran a dead-
heat for third with Sal Volatile, whose
whirlwind finish was one of the high-
lights of the day. Hammerhead and
Blinky Bill had every chance, but were
not good enough, while Brazandt
stopped to nothing in the last furlong.
Bodley Head always had his measure
for speed.
“Five to two Sir Regent, threes Mes-
toravon” was the betting on the Autumn
Handicap. Mestoravon outstayed his
opponents, and at the finish made Sir
Regent and After Six look very cheap.
A fast pace was set by Florida ; it suited
Mestoravon and resulted in half a second
being clipped off the track record for a
mile and a half; 2min. 32sec. Five fur-
longs from home Mestoravon was last,
but turning into the straight he had the
race at his mercy.
The mishap to Allunga robbed the
Rawson Stakes of a good deal of in-
terest. It made the race a good thing
for Sarcherie (5 to 4), especially as the
slow pace set by Silver Standard suited
J. J. Leahy’s mare. At the end she was
an easy winner from Cathartes and
Allunga; but Cathartes, who has 7st.
31b. in the Sydney Cup, ran soundly
throughout. He can be improved, and is
a real possibility for the long race on
Easter Monday.
Pastoralist Harry Taylor has a promis-
ing colt in Loombah, by Melfort-Yul-
lundry. Loombah had to overcome
many difficulties in the first division of
the Nursery, but surmounted them all
and won, at 9to 4. McCarten rode him ;
he was also on Adios in the second divi-
sion. Adios is owned by a Sydney wool-
broker, “W. Staplemore” ; backed from
fours to 5 to 2 he outclassed his oppo-
nents. Jim Pike’s pair, The Nineteenth
and Grand Hotel, filled the places.
Adios is by Excitement-Tinkledell.
St. Constant, sold by the too-impul-
sive Alan Cooper to Joe Cook for a
pound, has since won three good races.
The third was the Three-year-old Han-
dicap at Rosehill, and St. Constant, well
in the market at eights, just cut Panaster
out of first place. Denis was third,
ahead of Moaveil, who lost ground at
the start. St. Constant has 7st. 91b. in
the Doncaster, a stone less than on
Saturday.
Stuart M. (12 to 1) had the rails posi-
tion in the Parramatta Mile, and it
proved decisive: the mare —she is a
daughter of The Buzzard—had pace
enough to get to the front and stay there.
Royal Step and Red Rosebud filled the
places. Soft Step came from last at the
half-mile to finish fourth ; and Golden
Chance (fifth) made a fast run from the
rear near the home turn. He went wide
and almost got into the Leger fence.
Shakespeare and Forestage, both heavily
backed, chased the field home. Shakes-
peare looked well enough for anything,
and th? stable has a high opinion of
him ; But nowadays, apparently, he won’t
do his best.
Rosehill people have a high opinion
of Royal Step, and the money that came
for him was chiefly from Parramatta and
district. He made a sturdy effort to
land it, but was too far back at the
home turn to have a real chance of
catching Stuart M. When his racing
days are over, Royal Step should be use-
ful for farm work. He is certainly sub-
stantial enough for ploughing.
* * * *
Bradford, The Bulletin’s fancy for
the Doncaster, was taken out of the Rail-
way Handicap at Rosehill, a race at New-
castle on Thursday being chosen for him
instead. It was only a five-furlongs affair,
and the son of Rossendale and Prince’s
Delight is not at his best over that squibs’
distance, but he chased the speedy
Shackleton, cut him down and won by
half a head in course-record time—lmin.
lsec. Behind Shackleton were other
smart sprinters in Some Boy and Anchor.
Bradford is now bracketed with Arabia
on the second line of the Doncaster bet-
ting chart, Evening Mist and Valbeau
being on the first line. There are more
unlikely things than that he will go out
favorite. He is in the Cabramatta Handi-
cap on Saturday. It is a mile race with
a 7st. 71b. minimum, and Bradford has
Bst. 111 b.
* ,* * *
Soltoi, the Irish-bred stallion which ex-
footballer Dave McNamara trains for
John Wren, revived memories of Gar-
lin by his showing in the Eclipse Han-
dicap at Ascot (Vic.). Galloping
smoothly and finishing with fine courage,
he won by nearly a length from Trimer-
cian, who was half a neck in front of
Sweet Memories.
Ever since he ran second to Amiable
in the Standish Handicap on New Year’s
Day patrons of Melbourne meetings had
been waiting to have a dash at Soltoi in
some sprint race. The handsome chest-
nut, however, isn’t the soundest of ned-
dies, and on several occasions had to be
withdrawn after acceptance.
Saddled up for the Bourke Handicap
at the V.R.C. autumn meeting, Soltoi
was seized with a mysterious physical
ailment and couldn’t be taken to the
post. In his absence Evening Mist firmed
to practically no offer and duly won, to
the hot indignation of bookmakers, who
had to return all the money—aggregating
thousands of pounds—staked on Soltoi.
Ascot fielders opened Soltoi at 5 to 2
in a field of 11, which included Regular
Bachelor and Amiable, who had been
first and second respectively in the
V.R.C. Leonard Stakes. Meeting Ami-
able only a pound better than on the
occasion of their New Year’s Day en-
counter, Soltoi wasn’t at all thrown in.
Because of uncertainty concerning his
soundness, Soltoi drifted to 7 to 2 at
barrier-rise, the candidate most inquired
for then being Regular Bachelor, who
firmed from sixes to 9 to 2. Finch ended
up at fives, Amiable at 11 to 2 and
Trimercian (a most consistent mare) at
sixes.
Ridden by Savage, who claimed a 71b.
apprentice allowance, Regular Bachelor
shaped even worse than in the Quality
Handicap at Moonee Valley on the previ-
ous Monday. Together with Amiable, he
never looked to have a winning chance.
Improving vastly on her last previous
display, Sweet Memories, the 1936 Mari-
byrnong Plate winner, led into the
straight, where Trimercian secured her
measure. Ray Wilson handled Trimer-
cian admirably, but his mount was no
match for Soltoi.
Soltoi is by Soldennis, sire of Denis
Boy, who captured the Caulfield Cup of
1931. His owner landed the Doncaster
of 1915 with Garlin and ran second (to
Beauford) in the Epsom of 1921 with
Dunwil. But Soltoi is not to run on
Easter Saturday.
Tom Bradfield, who hopes to win the
Doncaster with Evening Mist, experi-
enced ill-luck at Ascot. In Chic
(Kichaka-Tirrita), he supplied the favor-
ite for the youngsters’ race. Chic extin-
guished his chance by swerving round
when the tapes lifted.
Adherent (Curialis-Devotee), winner of
this event, was the medium, of a spec-
tacular betting coup, having been backed
from 20 to 1 down to a fourth of those
odds. He belongs to Mick Crossey, who
did so well with Burlesque for Gerald
Coffey a few years ago. Adherent
squeezed home by a head from Sir
Robin, with Nomin a moderate third.
Divisions of the Kilmorey Trial went
to Haughty Stare (10 to 1) and the 5-to-
4-on favorite, Comic March, respectively.
John Wren’s Pantheon gelding Theo-
dore set the pace in Haughty Stare’s
race and finished third. He is due for an
early win Sarcendale, the favorite, lost
by more than a length, but was some-
what unlucky.
After Comic March, a three-year-old
by March Along, had romped home in
the second division, with Saveloy and
Relight nearest, there was an angry
demonstration against the stewards for
allowing Miracle to start after bolting
l{ miles with his apprentice jockey.
Miracle had been heavily supported
against Comic March. He trailed the
field throughout.
Pantoon, a stablemate of Elanage, gave
an inglorious display in the Belhaven
Handicap, for which he started at the
cramped price of 7 to 4. Apparently
the galloping conditions did not suit
Fryer’s colt.
Dignitary, not long since bought by
Bill Burke on behalf of knight Alan
Currie, is proving a moneyspinner for
the V.R.C. chairman. Quoted at twelves,
he won the race in which Pantoon failed.
Minor honors went to The Wizard (who
is worth following) and Rhodes Scholar.
Last-named, a brother to Charles Fox,
broke down badly.
His fourth success in a row was regis-
tered by Baryta (The Night Patrol-
Bareema) in the Grafton Welter. Best
price was twos ; he started at evens. The
win was comfortable. Tom Bradfield’s
Maluno, a chestnut by Heroic from
Desert Song, deprived Riddle of second
money.
M.L. sportsman W. R. Kemball appro-
priated the Trial Hurdle with Masterton
(Cape Horn-Lady Fingers). Moderately
supported at tens this young gelding de-
feated the 5-to-2 favorite, Jangler, by
half a head, while Peerie (12 to 1) was
only a head farther off. Some of the
novice jumpers in Melbourne are very
promising. Masterton may be a Grand
National proposition.
(<Sporting Notions continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Liverpool Handicap: Bodley
Head ; next, Beechwood.
Autumn Cup: Bristol; next,
Cathartes.
Fairfield Handicap: For colts
and geldings, Nuffield ; for fillies,
Politesse.
Cabramatta Handicap: Brad-
ford ; next, Sal Volatile.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Glen Huntly Handicap: Counter
Patrol; next, Somerset or Dignitary.
Brighton Welter: Somerset or
Riddle ; next, Sweet Memories.


MANNIE
MCCARTHY
CHAMPION AXEMAN
■
SS:
mm
am:
World's 18 inch
underhand chop
record . . .
Commonwealth
standing block
champidn . . .
N.S.W. underhand
champion . . .
/ ,
1
M
m
■
s
jxunchimyj pfvoy
xnois IV3NIVO
SA3HOOJL
uo vnw/r
HERE'S T O' E E — "
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ER
Lf 4
ar\d
STILL
M
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAIRFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don't let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the 15
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
LOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
s
sift
u
5/- Each.
PVR OX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
M.Q. and Rafferty
Enter the Gladiators
The chap who declared in these pages
that Australians get their sport cheaper
than any other people in the world
would have been in his element at Rufe
Naylor’s Sydney Sports Arena the other
night. The congregation gathered in the
surrounding pews —many of these leather
spring affairs dug out of the innards
of some lost theatre—were there to
see a bout of the buffoonery for
which the season, here and elsewhere,
has just opened. Tom Lurich, who must
by now be at least old enough to vote
twice, was billed to meet Lou some-
body-or-other. That was the drawcard.
At 8 o’clock a score of youngsters
armed with racing bikes and decked out
in gay colors, stout headgear and other
impedimenta of the treadmill sport lined
up on the boarded saucer track at the
starting-point. Bells were rung a few
times, whistles were blown, the boun-
dary-rider’s discarded gramophone up in
Rufe’s eyrie started to leather out
“Enter the Gladiators,” and the chap
with the starting pistol let bang at a
flying-fox estimated to be then cruising
over Rockhampton.
Off went the nippers on the bikes —
the youngsters, 12 years old and a bit
more —and out broke the loudspeakered
voice of the Arena’s Mr. Baker (a bike-
shover from W.A.) describing the event.
(Judged by the nature of remarks
towards the eyrie, it seems possible that
Mr. Baker conducts a hamburger joint
in his spare time.)
At first the nippers, wafted along in
the momentum of Rufe’s dismounted
postilions who shove ’em off, went
along in good style. But this bike-racing
isn’t all a matter of pedalling like fury
from go to whoa. The champs, all
play cat-and-mouse tricks at it. They
wait on each other, force the other bloke
to the front and ease in behind him, and
suchlike.
The embryo champs, had a shot at this
game, too. They tried it out at the end
where the boarded saucer steeps up pre-
cipitously. Alas! their bikes slid from
under, and there was a devil of a tangled
boyslide.
After they’d been untangled, back to
the starting post; more bells, more
whistle, and the welkin cracked with
another pistol shot. This time, more
sense —and a rattling good race! They
can ride like mechanised Skuthorpes. In
fact, the baker’s boy, the telegraph boy,
the grocer’s boy and the rest of them
these days seen belting their grids along
the suburban streets are all riding in
the style of Lennie Rogers, Francis
Faure or some other Arena light. And
now three or four races in this class on
end ; then another among more grown-
up pedallers ; and then a great go be-
tween the aforesaid Lennie and Francis
for a purse said to contain the equiva-
lent of 50 sovs. This ends in a dead-
heat, a rare occurrence at this sport—
the first seen at the Arena in 26 meet-
ings, with up to 20 races at each.
Next item in the money’s worth is a
four-round fight (nothing out of the
way), then another four-rounder (a shade
better), then another (pretty good), and
then a six-rounder (a jolly good go).
Between one Jackie Baker and one
Mickey Walker (round about the lOst.
mark), with ex-stousher Jack Haines in
charge, this is a fight that it’s a pleasure
to be out under the open night looking
at. Baker is a solid, blocky chap;
Walker a shade more rangy. Baker hits
clean and very hard to the body ; Walker
has a fairly good defence, a nice left
lead and a useful right cross. So they
fight it out solidly through every second
of the six rounds, with nothing between
’em at the end, though the ref. awards
the points to Baker.
This fight, too, had a novel touch and
an interest-making one: at the end of
each round the ref. gives his points
award to a runner, and presently they’re
over the loudspeaker. So the pugs as
well as the onlookers know how the
fight’s shaping from round to round.
And now, though there’s already been
an overcrowded night’s sport for the five
bob down to one bob, into the ring
clamber the buffoons, to poke faces at
each other, bite each other’s flanks, make
a show of gouging each other’s eyes
out, with occasional grappling for the
best part of eight eight-minute rounds,
what time the ladies, who are present in
”I've got a dollar on Dave!”
large numbers in the congregation, en-
liven the open night with suchlike re-
fined comment as “Garn, y’ big stiff!”
“Garn, y’ great big ciss!” “Ugh, y’
dirty fat toad!” The wrestling season
is upon us.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Palmer Whacks the Deacon
Both Fred Henneberry ana Ambrose
Palmer have fought in great fettle since
lately returning to the ring after 12
months’ or more rest. When they went
out —Fred after collapsing in a scrap and
Ambrose with very bady damaged eyes
—it looked as if they were out for good.
Whoever they practised on in the mean-
while, it now looks as if there’s heaps
of good stoush in both of them.
Palmer’s retirement followed a disas-
trous encounter at Rushcutter Bay
Stadium with Leo (Deacon) Kelly. At
that time this blocky negro was fighting
like an armor-plated donkey-engine, and
it was a tough go up to the 12th, in
which the coon’s head laid the Victorian’s
left eye wide open as a pub door.
Palmer got his own back with accumu-
lated interest in their Melbourne en-
counter last week.
It should be said for the Deacon that
he was only about a week off the boat.
Against that, however, it wasn’t lack of
condition that licked him. In the first
few minutes he flicked from Palmer’s
eyebrow the piece of sticking plaster
covering the old wound; almost
instantly Palmer laid the negro’s eye
open with a clinking left. Kelly at his
best had a poor defence against the left
lead, but hitherto most of the locals had
darted it into his face with nothing better
than nuisance value. Palmer sent it over
with 12st. 9flb. (heavy for him) back-
ing it.
The Deacon’s dial one time used to
look indestructible. Palmer, scoring in
every round with splendid clean punches,
cut it about pretty well as easily as Jack
Carroll’s used to cut up. By the end of
the fifth he had the negro bleeding from
the mouth also, and, throwing at him
left rips and uppercuts, with his power-
ful right cross for variety, he had Kelly
so rocky at the conclusion of the eighth
that the ref., at the instance of Kelly’s
bottle-holders, called it a night.
Kelly tipped the beam at 12st. 3|lb.
Unless, like the other negro, Jones, he
has gone off altogether, he will fight
better than this before those round about
his weight see the last of him. But he
will do his fighting in the U.S.A.
Palmer risked a fair amount on the
fight. He is booked to try scalping the
title off Ron Richards at Sydney Sports
Ground on the 12th, and the gate they’d
have collected had Kelly won wouldn’t
have needed more than a van to cart it
away.*
Ins and Outs
The Australians gave their usual exhi-
bition in a one-day go at Colombo. The
tourists totalled 367 for nine, Badcock
and Hassett each scoring 116. Pereira’s
five for 106 was the best performance for
the Cingalese, who had made 117 when
rain ended the match.
* * * *
“Gabba”: The Queensland club pre-
miership has been won by the Colts team.
Rogers and D. Tallon, both prominent
in Sheffield cricket, led the batting honors
with averages of 49.92 and 42.75 respec-
tively. Rogers made two centuries and
Tallon one. The star of the side, though,
seems to have been Bill Tallon, brother
to Don. In his first season in senior
cricket he took 49 wickets at 13.22 —
more than twice the tally of any other
Colts bowler. He should be in the
Queensland team next season.
* * * *
“Brekfuss C.”: Queensland C.A. is talk-
ing of cutting down the number of senior
clubs from eight to six, Colts and Uni.
being suggested as the victims. While
realising that a University side is a desir-
able thing the C.A. considers that the
practice of roping in school-teachers and
anyone with the remotest connection with
education does not constitute one. The
C.A. is right. Uni. athletes should be
drawn from players within the Univer-
sity only.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The feud between the Vic-
torian F.A. and its serpent-toothed off-
spring the V.F. League has grown to
such proportions that Association players
have been forbidden to practise with
League clubs. The reason given is that
in such practices the V.F.A. players
would not have a chance to accustom
themselves to the new rules adopted by
the Association but scouted by the
League. This is regarded in some circles
as what our American cousins call
“boloney,” the real reason being the fear
that contact with League players may
lead to the kidnapping of guileless Asso-
ciation lads and • their impressment in
League ranks.
* * * *
“Preston”: The new V.F.A. rules have
not been accepted by the clubs without
an occasional growl. That relating to
free kicks for foul play will probably be
altered to admit of the player nearest the
fall of the ball taking the kick instead
of the fouled player. There was at first
some objection to the adoption of the
Rugby two-handed underhand pass, but
actual practice has convinced all and
sundry that it is far superior to the old


FOR COMRADESHIP
AMD FUN—FORM A
MOUTH ORGAN BAND
No. 100/40 (red So!?
The craze of
England and
America has come to
Australia! Be in the fashion,
be popular, gather your
tnends and form a mouth
organ band. There’s no
easier instrument to play—
you and your friends will be
playing familiar tunes after
only a few hours— and no
musical knowledge is required.
HOHNER
AUTO ■ VALVE ■ HARP
MOUTH ORGAN
See the new HOHNER AUTO-
VALVE-VAMPER at all music and
fancy goods stores.
Price
3-
FREE INSTRUCTION.
Send 3d. in stamps for FREE MOUTH
ORGAN TUTOR—so simple that even
a child can follow it. SEND YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS TO Dept.
5.8.7, Box 855 K, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Personal and Missing Friends.
THE next-of-kin or anyone knowing the where-
abouts of ALFRED or ARTHUR CALON are
requested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN DENIS McCarthy ask him to com-
municate urgently with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand?
fds
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 18/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/0 extra. Fits # and i blades.
p IU
m
M
n
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
%
ti
Smash • •
Cut..•
Drive • • »
Bowl•.•
In comfort!
T\ O you belong to the scores of
thousands of Tennis Players,
Golfers, Cricketers, Bowlers who
do just this? If not, you are punish-
ing yourself and your game unnec-
essarily.
And, on the score of appearance!
You’ve often wished, in the past,
that your shirt wouldn’t pull out —
whenever you stretched or reached
out. Wearers of Elasta-Strap PLUS
models don’t have trouble with un-
sightly, bulging shirts. The New
Tauttex Shirt-controlling Feature
in the Plus Models keeps the shirt
neat yet quite free and comfortable
at all times.
Available in Greys, Creams,
Fancies, ejc. (the largest range
ever offered in Australia).
The Elasta-Strap Patent is ob-
tainable also in Shorts and Suits.
PRICES s
Plus M ode Is, 14/6 to 28/6
Regular Models, 17/6 to 55/-
( according to type and quality
of material)
“Swing High, Swing Low” at
Golf! In Elasta - Straps,
you’ll always be quite happy
Here’s where Elasta-Strap
Plus Models with the Taut-
tex Feature prove their un-
matched service.
BOWLS
Supreme Comfort
for the Bowler,
even when his fig-
ure has become
much more ‘robust’
than hitherto.
i
SELF
TING TROU SERS
'TAUTTEX'
CRICKET
Don Bradman and
all members of the
1938 Team in Eng-
land wear Elasta-
Straps. That’s fur-
ther proof!
one-handed flick or tip pass over which
there was so much wrangling in the past.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.A. seems
to have builded better than it knew when
it introduced the Rugby two-handed pass
into its game. It has proved most popu-
lar with players and public alike during
the trial games, and, best of all, numbers
of League supporters who came to scoff
have remained to acknowledge its advan-
tages. This has driven the Association
to hope that a great many confirmed
League barrackers will flock to its open-
ing games to size up the experiment and,
perhaps, be converted.
* * * *
“Divvy Snatcher”: Victorian Football
Association, not content with making
new rules for the game, is changing the
method of allotting gate receipts.
Hitherto the home club has divided with
the visiting team after the game; in
future it takes the lot. The F.A. insists
that the change is desirable.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The report of the com-
mittees appointed by the M.L. Rugby
Union to inquire into the falling off of
All-Black football has been released. The
most important recommendation is the
heaving overboard of League rules and
an immediate return to real Rugby. The
All-Blacks will play to the international
rules when they come to Australia, and
the locals will have to follow suit. The
sooner they jettison League rules the
better for Australian Rugby.
# * * *
“Old Q.”: N.S.W. Rugby League is
trying some alterations in methods of
play before the season proper starts.
Most important is the experiment of
making the referee put the ball in the
scrum. In the ’nineties the Queensland
R.U. had a local rule under which the
referee put the ball in, and when Maori-
land or N.S.W. came to Queensland they
played under it. The thing made for clean
play, and gave universal satisfaction.
Even in those days of one ball there was
no more delay than under the half-back
or wing-forward system, and nowadays,
with three balls available, play should
hardly be stopped for more than a second
or two. Of course, the half-back who
puts the ball in, with an off or leg break
that would make Fleetwood-Smith green
with envy will object.
* * * *
“North End”: Australia has made a
start with the transfer-fee system for
Soccer players. Cessnock Caledonia
League club—the League is an openly
professional body—has offered Adams-
town club £350 for Coolahan, a star in
the matches against the English. Both
clubs are made up of miners from the
Newcastle coalfields, and command a
good following, which means satisfactory
funds. The price is a record for this
country, the previous highest being a
modest £l5 or so. Coolahan goes only
if he chooses. This contrasts with the Eng-
lish practice where a player is bought
and sold without reference to his own
wishes.
# * * *
“Outside Right”: It looks as if the
visit of an Indian Soccer team to this
country is assured. Seventeen players
and a manager are suggested, and if all
goes well the team should be here by
the middle of June. On present plans
the tourists would start play in Westralia
and work their passage across the con-
tinent to Sydney. Tests will be played in
Sydney, and a trip to the N.S.W. northern
coal centres and to Queensland is likely.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: Queensland tennis heads are
rubbing their hands in anticipation of a
fat divvy when the A.L.T.A. distributes
among the State Associations the funds
exceeding its £15,000 reserve. The L.T.A.
made boggins of brass out of the Ger-
man and American players, and Banana-
land expects ,to have the best part of a
thousand goblins to play with. The
money, when it comes to hand, will be
devoted to reconditioning the stands and
pavilion at the Q.L.T.A. ground at
Milton ; and high time, too.
* * * *
“Bournemouth”: In spite of losses of
personnel (B. 30/3/’3B) England is to do
the best possible by the team chosen to
practice for the Davis Cup. An ortho-
paedic surgeon will supervise the lads’
training and go with them to big matches,
repairing injuries and inspecting feet
generally. It recalls the old days when
infantry subalterns were given the new
job of inspecting the feet of their men
after every march. In those days on
active service Thomas A. preferred
greased rags to socks, and at the end of
a long hot march over dusty roads the
gilded youth fresh from Sandhurst felt
he had earned his 6s. 4d. a day.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Helen Wills-
Moody no longer by the grace of Reno
—announced recently that when she went
to Wimbledon this year it would be as
a freelance. Now comes news that Helen
has joined the American Wightman Cup
team, which suggests that her long feud
with the Yankee tennis towkays is over
and the hatchet buried.
* * * *
“Milton”: Queensland has put up an
Australian tennis record by declaring
Kelly, one of its leading amateurs, a
professional. The tennis chiefs say Kelly
took money for coaching. Kelly replies
that the brass was out-of-pocket ex-
penses for coaching six school teams on
six days a week. It is tough luck on
Kelly to be spreadeagled like this when
raw and unashamed professionalism is
rampant.
Miscellaneous
“Hawthorn”: The Victorian eight for
the King’s Cup is a mixture of experi-
enced age and youth. Hutton, at bow,
has rowed for years with Richmond, as
has Pitcher for Albert Park. James, of
Preston, came back to rowing thi< year
after three years away from the game.
On the other hand, Jacobsen, of Banks,
was unheard of until he stroked the junior
fours at Ballarat a few weeks ago, and
Mills was until recently also a Ballarat
junior. The others are Gaskin and Elder,
of Albert Park, and Anderson, of Mer-
cantile. Jacobsen is stroke, and Calnin,
of Richmond, will cox.
Jk sjc S£ JfC
“Shell”: Pearce has accepted Paddon’s
challenge to row for the world’s sculling
title in Canada for £5OO a side. Paddon
will have his dad, a former world’s
champion, to look after him, and already
a good proportion of the money needed
for the stake and expenses has been
raised. Pearce undertakes that if he
beats Paddon he will come to Australia
for another go.
* * * *
“Bung”: Allegedly candescent and
torrid Australia has cottoned on to sports
supposed to be peculiar to sub-Arctic
lands. Ski-racing has become a recog-
nised institution, and ice-hockey is tak-
ing hold fast. This year Sydney is to
have an additional ice rink. Canada is
being asked to send over a team, and it
is likely that professional skaters will be
brought from Europe to give exhibitions.
The drawback to ice-hockey in England
and the U.S.A. is that it is now entirely
in the hands of professional promoters.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Rufe Naylor, my es-
teemed contemporary of other days, told
a meeting of professional cyclists in Syd-
ney that he was afraid certain riders did
not do their best for reasons reflected in
the betting. No one should know better
than Rufe that this sort of thing always
takes hold of professional sport on
which betting is allowed and strangles it
in the end. It killed professional pedes-
trianism all over the world and ended
the cycling boom which took Australia
by the lugs 40 years ago. Rufe should
follow my example and retire from all
racing events the competitors for which
can talk.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“They Won f t Forget.”
Notwithstanding a certain vagueness
about the plot, this arresting drama at
Sydney Mayfair is a very interesting film,
though its interest would be somewhat
more live in America than here.
Its general statement is that the passions
of hate and prejudice lit between North
and South in America’s Civil War still
smoulder strongly enough to blaze into
fury at a puff. The murder, the trial, the
lynching and the rest of it become simply
a means- of getting that statement made.
The crime, to begin with, is com-
mitted on the day which, it is stated, is
one of celebration in the North and to
this day one of mourning in the South.
They do their mourning with brass bands
and bunting and marching veterans;
while it is going on, a girl student in this
Southern town’s business college is mur-
dered—apparently for no reason at all.
The college runs to a cullud janitor,
but it isn’t the white-black problem the
film is airing. The college also has a
teacher who hails from the North, and
he may have been there when the deed
was done.
In the working out a tense and ex-
citing dramatic situation is created. Also
sundry American institutions are shown
oddly at work.
Politics: The district attorney will be-
come a Senator if he brings off a spec-
tacular conviction ; he makes the teacher
his mark and gets him all right.
The press: Much more credible in
its general working methods than in
most films, it is shown making a pay-
ing sensation out of exploiting the
North-South-prejudice angle of the
crime; it practically prejudges the
accused, whipping up feeling with no
other interest than its sales ; one of
its minions is shown as working in
with the district attorney, remaining
cheerfully unmoved though appar-
ently aware that a miscarriage of jus-
tice is going on.
The courts: The Judge smokes on
the Bench ; prosecuting district attor-
ney gives in his shirtsleeves a per-
formance that would be considered
professionally unethical by a Yarra-
bank or Sydney Domain orator;
spectators in court interrupt with
threats and hysterics; in the jury
room a juryman who is holding out
finds a threatening letter in his pocket
and is made to understand that it will
pay him to help make the verdict
“Guilty”; prejudice plus stump oratory
beats evidence hollow.
Through all that runs the North-South-
hate theme, and even the lynching (when
the State Governor has commuted the
sentence) seems to be part of that theme.
It is a good .story, and it is splendidly
acted, in particular by Claude Rains as
the attorney and Allyn Joslyn as the re-
porter. It should be said that it is not'
in any degree a morbid or depressing
film ; the action is kept a remove away
from the crimes. And certainly it is an
agreeable change from the froth and
piffle which makes 99\ p.c. of talkie
entertainment.
“First Lady.”
Making, with “They Won’t Forget,”
a tiptop bill at Sydney Mayfair, this
American comedy gets in its best work
exploiting feminine cattishness.
It kicks off purporting to show the
big part women play behind the scenes
in U.S.A. politics, but instead it mostly
shows them scoring off each other in
that arena. It is uncommonly rich in
the clawed oral exchanges with which
the ladies enjoy cutting each other to
jibbons. Plentifully supplied with general
comedy as well, it has pretty good male
appeal, but it’s the ladies who will relish
it most.
Kay Francis has a fairly congenial
role, but as her more stupid blonde-
headed social-climbing rival Verree Teas-
dale takes the acting honors in a canter.
Louise Fazenda gives a capital portrayal
of a type of female to be found in all the
more earnest women’s organisations.
“Happy Landing”
Sonja Henie, Don Ameche, Cesar Romero.
Sonja Henie’s first picture consisted
mainly of her clinking ice-work, with
light heart-interest tenuously holding the
piece together, and it made topnotch en-
tertainment. In her second show skating
was still predominant, but lurv and other
things took up a bit more footage.
Her third fillum —Sydney Regent’s
current offering—is thoroughly Amurri-
canised. Most of the action takes place
in N’Yark, lurv is well in the foreground,
night clubs figure prominently, and there
are ladles of the kind of blither that can
be seen in any second-rate songandance.
“Swing,” for instance, and —worse—
yawping of the horrible high-pitched
“’E been preachm fifty year, Tummas."
“Well, I ’ope un don’t keep on much longer, I’m ’ungry."
nasal variety take up at least 20 minutes
of the running time. For those who like
it, such stuff is probably bearable in the
right place, but 20 minutes of it while
Miss Henie’s shapely supports are dang-
ling in idleness seem like eight hours too
much.
The first of three real helpings of her
skating is by far and away the best.
(It is also the best she has done to date.)
Supposedly set somewhpre in Norway,
the rink has surroundings of trees and
snow, and against such a background the
Henie lady in action must be one of the
loveliest things on the screen.
By way of contrast, and providing an
example of poor showmanship, her third
performance is on a small slab of ice in a
N’Yark night club. The music is suited
to a hip-snaker, and so are some of the
steps. Her costume consists mainly of
black stockings, a tight-fitting coat of
similar color, a bow tie and a top-hat.
The effect is disastrous.
Excuse for it all begins with a dance-
band leader (Cesar Romero) flying the
Atlantic and landing by misadventure in
Norway to meet and trifle with the Sonja
lass. She follows fickle Romero back to
N’Yark, but, finding his attention en-
gaged by another bundle of fluff, wilts
badly and so softens the steely heart of
his woman-hating manager (Dahn, of
course). He has her name in three-foot
illuminations in next-to-no-time, and the
rest is simple.
Although the film is disappointing it
makes an f.a.q. timekiller. Romero is
another addition to the list of crooks, he-
men and others who have gone humor-
ous. On this exhibition of a romantic
opportunist whose inspirations (feminine)
vary with the hours, he shows as a very
entertaining comedian.
Miss Henie, whose acting has improved
wonderfully, has her skating, an inter-
esting accent, a happy personality and a
'°ir of pins ; and Dahn is—waal,
jest Dahn.
“Crashing Hollywood.”
Lee Tracy.
Once it struggles past its dull opening
this support at Sydney Regent is and was
meant to be a length of preposterous
piffle pared down to the bare essentials
to make a fast-moving and first-rate
farce.
With an aspiring screen writer team-
ing with an erstwhile bank robber and
becoming successful overnight in produc-
ing stories of gangsterdom, the makers
of the film poke broad fun at many
angles of the flicks and their manufac-
ture.
Laughs assume rib-damaging propor-
tions when the ex-crook’s inspirations
turn out to be actual experience and the
chief gangster of the fictional creations
appears in person to eliminate the un-
wanted publicity he is getting on the
screen.
Tracy, as the writer, is of small
account; the two funniest caricatures are
those of Paul Guilfoyle and Richard
Lane. Guilfoyle’s duck-worshipping re-
formed gangster should settle the hash
of any future retired gangster with
chicken-farming aspirations, and Lane’s
characterisation should have similar
effect on monarch-of-all-they-survey pro-
ducers.
“Between Two Women .”
Virginia Bruce, Maureen O’Sullivan,
Franc hot Tone.
A good deal of this offering is almost
identical with patches of “Green Light”
and “Wife, Doctor and Nurse.” A bit
better than either of those in some parts
and a little worse in others, it weighs in
at Sydney Capitol as a pleasant enter-
tainer suffering mainly from its famil-
iarity.
Sassiety charmer Virginia Bruce (she
was the last part of “Wife, Doctor and
Nurse”) and rising but penurious young
interne are spliced on the rich-wife-poor-
husband arrangement. He has to struggle
between pleasing her by gadding about
at social doings and attending to duty,
and becomes a little fed up.
With wife also becoming intolerant of
his divided attention and suspicious of
Miss O’Sullivan, who is always in the
offing as sympathetic and understanding
nurse, the set-up is complete.
Each corner of the triangle is a like-
able and more or less understandable
character, and much could be said for
any one of them. The answer to the
problem, however, is plain, and that for
once the obvious course is followed
makes the story reasonably credible and
satisfactory.
Occasionally the film is slow-moving,
and the end is needlessly drawn out.
Apart from that, it’s a well-constructed
and well-directed production. Acting is
sound, with first place to Miss Bruce,
and Tone and Miss O’Sullivan, whose
parts offer less, not far behind her.
“Wise Girl:”
Miriam Hopkins, Ray Milland
This touching if rather elusive bubble
of mother-love was witnessed at Sydney
Plaza on Saturday • night, and during the
week-end its point, if bubbles have point,
has floated pleasantly from memory.
The maternal passions pulsed strongest
in Ray Milland’s bosom; he was a
bohemian artist supporting two bright
youngsters, children of a deceased
relative ; Miriam, motherly, too, was the
rich goil who tried to take them from
him. Some harmless fooling, and then
everyone clinched over the telephone.
Supports included Nino Martini in a
singing cocktail. The Martini was good,
but they put some dreadfully frothy stuff
into it and not even a suspicion of An-
gostura.
Alexander Kipnis.
Bassos seem to be very much rarer
birds than tenors these days, and Sydney,
which has not heard an imported deep-
toned singer since the last opera season,
gave Alexander Kipnis, a Russian, a
tumultuously enthusiastic welcome at the
Town Hall on Saturday night.
Kipnis is not a basso prof undo by pro-
fession. If he has any phenomenally low
notes he didn’t trot them out on Satur-
day night, seldom dipping much below
the ordinary baritone range. But he has
a rich, full voice, a pleasant manner, and
a sense of drama and of humor. His
Russian songs he sang in Russian—“ The
Red Sarafan” ; an encore piece, Mous-
sorgsky’s “Song of the Flea,” and an
excerpt from “Boris Godounov” were
the only familiar ones.
Wagner, Schubert and Verdi, with an
English ballad, also figured in his pro-
gramme. He enunciates English well,
his legato is as smooth as velvet and he
can manage a barely audible pianissimo.
Accompaniments were by Raymond
Lambert, of Melbourne, who also con-
tributed a group of pianoforte solos —
Debussy in his most incoherent and ob-
scure mood.
China in Adelaide.
The amateur “Little Theatre” in Adel-
aide has produced Tretiakov’s play trans-
lated as “Roar, China!”
It is pure Moscow, showing Chinese
coolies bullied by Western traders on the
Yangtze till one of the oppressors is
dumped in the river ; then an American
demand that, the guilty man having got
away, two other boatmen shall pay the
penalty or the town be shelled by a
gunboat. So to a revolt against foreign
domination.
There was some good acting, but it is
a play of mass handling rather than in-
dividual opportunity. Brian Hocking, as
producer, had to struggle against a stage
inadequate for the surging of crowds.
Borgioli in Melbourne.
Signor Borgioli’s swansong to Mel-
bourne was sung to a large audience at
the Town Hall last week.
The robust Italian with the lovely lyric
tenor sang with a superb artistry that
made no cheap bid for popularity.
Many of his numbers were totally un-
known to the local music-lover until


“You want a good yield
but—YOU CANT
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people
like you with only £22, or a few
hundred pounds at the most. How-
ever,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
f*
r
HOW OLD IS AN
OLD BLADE . . ?
Once over the face and most blades think of
retirement, and in a week they’re sharp
enough for almost anything but shaving.
The Wilkinson Blade keeps going for 2 to
3 months even when the going’s rough be-
cause it is a full hollow ground blade—a blade
that has enough good steel in it to permit
of constant stropping—and the mekanized
self-stropping it gets in the Wilkinson
Razor is just right to renew that perfect edge
and give you a unique shaving comfort.
RAZOR
Oak Case
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
with
two
Hollow
Ground
Blades
and
14/6
Strop
Nickel-
plated Case
1 8/6
*7-DA Y* set
with a blade
for every
day of
the
week
37/6
WILKINSON
i g^PAZOß'>f^
Made in England by
THE WILKINSON CUTLERY CO. LTD.
Obtainable from all Stores ★
HIGHER
ANTI-KNOCK ETHYL
AVAILABLE NOW
GUARANTEES USERS
EVEN GREATER MILEAGE
STILL SMOOTHER OPERATION
AND ABSOLUTELY
KNOCKLESS PQWERI
inserted on BEH J Ef „
ethyl EXPORT CORPORATION
LONDON AND NEW YORK
Dino brought them into notice a few
weeks ago. Now they figure among the
request items. But his rendering of
Handel’s “Where’er You Walk” remains
this commentator’s favorite.
Margaret Sutherland’s Works
Performed .
Assisted by Kathleen Castles, soprano,
Elise Steele, violinist, Howard Andrews,
baritone, Marston Bates, ’cello, and T.
White, clarinetist, Australian composer
Margaret Sutherland presented an as-
tonishingly long and varied list of her
own compositions to a crowded As-
sembly Hall in Melbourne.
Her art found expression in a sonata
for ’cello and piano whose two moods
were cleverly contrasted but nicely
reconciled ; a rhapsody and a cavatina
for violin, the latter a melodious item ;
and a trio for violin, clarinet and piano.
In addition there were a round dozen
of graceful songs, most of them set to the
poetry of John Shaw Neilson. The best
of these was “The Orange Tree,” in
“The Restless Waves,” by W. Lister-Lister, in his show at
Anthony Horderns’ galleries, Sydney.
which the baritone of Howard Andrews
was richly harmonised with Mr. White’s
clarinet.
Three other charming items combined
the voice of Kathleen Castles and Miss
Steele’s violin.
Lister-Lister*s Show.
Lister-Lister has his annual show this
year, as usual, at Anthony Horderns’
galleries, and, save that his style seems to
be getting just a little broader and just a
little surer with the years, the current
collection might serve as an epitome of
all the Lister-Lister shows in the last 10
years.
The painter has given up experiment-
ing. He has found out for himself how
to express the most engaging and jolly
aspects of the Australian bushland, river-
side and coast, and, though nowadays he
may be said to paint to formulae, they
are very sound and satisfactory formulae.
His biggest canvas this year is “The
Honeysuckle Tree,” warm and sunny,
and essentially Australian. “King’s
School, Parramatta,” gives a glimpse
across the river and makes another very
pleasant picture. A characteristic sea-
piece is “The Restless Waves,” repro-
duced here.
Clear early-morning and late-evening
skies are eschewed by most artists of
these times, who fear chocolate-box-lid
aspersions, but Lister-Lister has no such
inhibitions, and 'in “Morning,” “Even-
ing” and “Evening, Alringdon Creek,” in
oils, and “The Shades of Evening Are
Falling Fast,” in water-colors, he shows
both his sturdy courage and the skill
garnered in long years of experience.
The water-color is a seapiece, all gor-
geous gloomy reds. It looks like an oil,
as do all the best
of the Lister-
Lister water-
colors. The quali-
ties of strength
and geniality in
which this artist
excels are never
transferred by him
to his water-colo.
drawings save
when he lays on
color heavily. One
is tempted to
wonder why he
bothers with the
lesser medium at
all; but such pic
tures as “A Ho.
Day,” positively
vibrant with
sultry heat, cer-
tainly couldn’t
have been done in
oils. Also, the
water-colors are
perfectly satisfactory save when shown in
the same room with a galaxy of the oils.
“F.S.’.’: It says something for the im-
portance of the Felton Bequest collec-
tion of Old Masters that the Trustees of
Melbourne Gallery have had a request
from the Rembrandt Tentoonstelling
Ryksmuseum in Amsterdam for a loan of
one of the latest purchases—the great
Dutch painter’s study of “The Two
Philosophers,” which cost the Bequest
£17,000. The trustees have acceded, with
the proviso that their legal advisers shall
be asked whether they are within their
rights in returning the picture to its home-
land. The Hollanders want the work for
an exhibition to celebrate Queen Wil-
helmina’s fortieth year of sovereignty.


Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added and
a 24-hour hot water service.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
PLAN NOW FOR
COMFORT WHEN
IN LONDON.
In the very centre of
London. Unrivalled
comfort. 100 bedrooms,
each with bathroom
and ’phone. Restaurant
open 8 a.m.-12 p.m.
Send for details.
• Special Rates fo:
Overseas Visitors.
mapleton
HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET,
PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bacliflat,
Lesquare, London,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Empress of Britain made her
stately way into Port Jackson last Satur-
day. After seeing her bulk lying along
Woolloomooloo wharves it was easy to
believe all the figures we had read con-
cerning her. She is 758 ft. long and 97ft.
6in. in the beam. Along the 26,000 feet
of promenade-deck space the guests at
the one cocktail party given while the
ship was here seemed as sparse as the
currants in the hot cross bun. This port
has seen so many luxury liners that the
Empress staggers only with the extra
size, the extra magnificence of its murals.
Frank Brangwyn has had his way in
the dining-room that will accommodate
416. Heath Robinson’s story of the cock-
tail decorates the bar. The dignity of a
time when empresses were almost as
plentiful on land as they are now on sea
has been caught in the ballroom designed
by Sir John Lavery. Its color tones are
coral, blue and silver. It has polished
mirrors and growing plants. There’s a
Mayfair lounge, rich blues and reds and
opulence, done by Sir Charles Allom.
Edmund Dulac’s imagination gets loose
in the Cathay room.
There’s a full-size tennis court; an
Olympic pool, blue mosaic pillars and
a great blue turtle here. There are chefs,
pastrycooks, bakers and a special fish
cook to see that the traveller replenishes
tissues lost maybe with too much exercise
at squash, gymnastics and golf. If you
start the voyage overweight there are
Turkish baths and masseurs to knock off
the extra bulge. In short, the owners
supply everything wanted on the voyage
except the passage money.
Who says there isn’t a velvet hand in
the iron glove? At their Conference Ball
last week, the engineers presented the
wife of each visiting delegate with a
spray of roses. The ball was at the
Wentworth, and was a great success. In
case anyone was still unknown to any-
one else—an unlikely thing after the
whirlwind of hospitality that had already
raged—each dancer went ticketed with
name clearly printed. This was a pro-
gramme dance —the programme a replica
of the circular white seal, with its un-
broken chain, of the Engineering Insti-
tute.
A model of the Namoi Bridge at the
entrance of the ballroom and pink
dahlias and great spears of gladioli were
the special features of the decorations.
The presidential Crawfords—her frock
was of black lace, her little bolero of
silver sequins—president-elect Kneeshaw
Mrs. Oswald Neale, and the L. H.
Nutter couple received the 500 guests.
The Malcolm MacCormicks had given
a dinner party, and came on with
a company all engineers and their
wives. Knight George Julius was there
with his lady. Her frock was of
deep-blue satin. The great merry-go-
round of the conference was the week-
end at the Hotel Ranelagh, when over
200 golfed and walked, played tennis and
danced to the glory of iron and steel.
The Musical Association of N. S.
Wales is doing its bit towards celebrat-
ing our 150th birthday in the right way.
The association has announced a com-
petition for Australian compositions, and
secretary Edna Andrews is looking for-
ward to quite a lot of extra work in
connection with entries. Closing date is
May 31, 1938. The competition is in
furtherance of a scheme which the asso-
ciation started some years ago for the
encouragement of our own composers.
At least one of the winning works will
be published. Edna Andrews will be
glad to supply all particulars.
Jean Mackay, a bright-faced daughter
of Cranbrook’s headmaster, Brigadier-
General Mackay. Not satisfied to be just
a butterfly, Jean has decided, like the bee,
to lay in a store of treasure. Her par-
ticular sweet is science, Sydney Univer-
sity her garden. Other things, like
basketball and tennis, are not neglected.
She’s a topnotcher at both, and has made
the inter-State grade with the Uni. team.
She goes off with them to play in Bris-
bane in May. Photograph from Dayne.
The Town Hall, looking as if it had
had its face lifted, and positively blaz-
ing with electrics, welcomed a full house
on Saturday night. Basso Alexander
Kipnis was giving his first Sydney con-
cert, and Sydney, to whom he is already
an old record acquaintance, flocked along
with the applause it always has for • the
stranger within our gates. Not that Mr.
Kipnis doesn’t deserve it. He sang Verdi,
Gounod, Schubert, Moussorgsky with
drama, emotion, tenderness, and thor-
oughly deserved the native bear handed
up to him at the end of the concert. The
singer was very amused, a little touched,
too, perhaps, by the significance of the
Antipodean bear.
The audience was very fashionable.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst were there
with daughter Henrietta. Lady Wake-
hurst’s slimness was frocked in pale-pink
satin and cloaked in black velvet. The
Hon. Henrietta was in daffodil tones.
With them sat Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Cleary.
Her black chiffons had an accompanying
gold-and-rose lame coat. The singer’s
wife wore a really beautiful frock of
white ninon, hand-painted in pink and
black roses. Its hem was of deep black
Chantilly lace. Nina and Nan Garvan
were among the listeners. Ruby Adams
and Mrs. Feakes were distinctive look-
ing. The Basil Kirkes were there. He's
N.S.W. manager for the A.B.C. The
Cleary girls were hand-clappers ; so was
Mrs. A. Talbot, one of the night’s attrac-
tive, in turquoise.
The Officers’ Mess at George’s Heights
is set in sylvan scenes ; and in the late
afternoon of Friday it was like taking a
breath of bushland air to pause on the
wide verandahs. Within doors the Lieut.-
Col. Meredith couple were throwing a
cocktail party. This was their first since
his appointment, and all the military big
guns were among the white lady and
sidecar sippers. With her ankle-length
black satin frock Mrs. Meredith wore a
short turquoise jacket. This party was
notable for the number of tall men,
starting with the host, who is well over
six foot. Through the windows into the
long rooms blazing with chrysanthe-
mums and dahlias came the music of
the military band.
Some nice bits of old silver reflected
the lights. People wandered about the
verandahs or danced in a room giddy
with flags and bunting. The wife of Col.
Ridley was a bright smile in black frock-
ing. Col. and Mrs. Lennox brought
daughter Pat, who wore a white hat with
her flowered crepes. All the Bonds were
there. Blue satins patterned in pink roses
were Mrs. Bond’s choice, and Leonie
wore a long black skirt and a waist-
length coat of hammered satin, heady
with flowers. Brother “Bruff” shep-
herded the group. The Brigadier Hardies
were there ; so were the Col. Lorenzo
couple. Her beret was grass-green. Col.
and Mrs. Whiston-Walsh and the
Brigadier-General Lloyds were among the
guests ; so was the hostess’s mother, Mrs.
Nicklin, in sapphire-blue crepe.
Phyllis McCloskey (Bobbie to her
friends) is a Goulburn girl whose singing
and acting in the part of Orpheus in the
Conservatorium production of Gluck’s
opera made a deep impression. This was
one of the Conservatorium’s special
efforts for our 150th birthday, and again
that intrepid trio Hilda Mulligan, who
produced, Guenda Bainton, who was the
scenic artist, and Roland Foster, as
general organiser, scored a success. Miss
McCloskey’s contralto has great beauty.
Another girl from Goulburn, and from
the same school as Phyllis, is Marie
Ryan, who sang the part of Amor.
Photograph from Freeman.
Daisy Richards of the singing bow
was the important person at the Queen
Victoria Music Club’s party last Mon-
day. The afternoon was a testimonial to
this clever and generous violinist, and
attracted the musicianly, such as the
Con. Director Bainton couple and the
Alexander Gordon lady. President Mrs.
Percy White did the honors. There was
an all-star programme. Red roses were
presented to the guests. Secretary Thelma
Houston can notch up another success.
Another big white toy of the ship-
builder’s skill towered alongside the Quay
during the week-end. It was the Ham-
burg-Amerika Reliance, which, like the
Empress of Britain, had brought a cargo
of tourists to our shores. Glittering with
lights it meditated on Friday and Satur-
day nights on the plucky little ferries, the
blaze of birthday illuminations from the
buildings near by. The Reliance pas-
sengers were gleaned from all over
Europe and America. The notable event
on board was the forming of a Bachelors'
Club—so members in it —its badge a
safety-pin, under the lapel.
Did you know that there are over 1000
new silver foxes running riot already
in this city? The first wind of autumn
(where was it?) brought them in, also
chunky and box coats in all the fashion-
able colors and skins. If you want to
prove that you are on the spot when the
cuckoo strikes the hour, you will swagger
in natural blue fox, dyed blue fox or
Arctic red fox. If you turn up your nose
at these, what about sable, mink or
ermine? Always willing to oblige the
long purse, the furrier of fashion has
chucked in a cargo of Indian and Persian
lamb and dyed squirrel. Be brave! If
your husband is feeling that the upset
in Europe mightn’t be so good for his
bank balance, show him you trust the
Navy, the Air Force and the British
Army.
At the Red Gross Ball in the Narkunda
last week everything was red and white.
Lights, flowers and bunting were in these
bright hues, and most of the women had
fallen in with the committee’s wishes
and were frocked in red or white. A
prize offered for the most attractive red-
and-white outfit was won by Mrs. Dick
Osborne, in hibiscus velvet with gardenias
at each shoulder-strap. The wives of
two Consuls-General were in the list of
near-winners ; Mrs. Elink Schuurman, in
red and white brocades, and Mrs. Pao,
whose frock was white, whose gloves were
red. Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, another
runner-up, worked a touch of red into
her gloves. White chiffon her frock.
A lei of red and white carnations was
attractive against the silvered white worn
by Mrs. Norman Nock. With Mrs.
Roper, she judged the dance of the red-
and-white ladies (nearly said “queens,”
thinking of Alice). Red or white carna-
tions were worn by every man. These
were sold at the top of the gangway.to
aid the fund. Many of these had been
culled in the gardens of Admiralty House,
and literally hundreds of the bloom with
the hygienic fragrance were sold among
the 800 or so dancers. Lieutenant-
Governor Street’s lady was the active
president of the ball, and she flew the
Red Cross colors in the posy of red and
white carnations she carried with her
deep-blue satins.
Lord Wakehurst came to the ball, but
Lady Wakehurst was not well enough.
Hermione Llewellyn and Blake Pelly
were in the G.H. group. Miss K. Egan’s
white frock had a red chiffon scarf, and
another tireless worker for the soldier,
Miss Rosa Piper, was at the revels. The
C. J. Jordans, knight Tom Bavin and
his lady, Admiral Lane-Poole, young
workers for the Cause, the Deputy
Premier and Mrs. Bruxner, and a com-
pany of Consular entities were in the
official group. So, of course, were Fair-
faxes and the Alexander Gordon lady.
To her and to Mrs. Penfold Hyland go
much of the credit for the artistic flower
arrangements.
Women Writers farewelled popular
member Vinia de Loitte last week. A
lunch at the Carlton surrounded the
speechmaking when the sparkling little
Comtesse de Vilme-Hautmont was sped
on her way. At the end of the week
she leaves for Europe as cicerone of a
group of tourists who are intent on a
menu that includes the Pyramids, Greece,
Austria, a snack of France and a three-
course meal of England. There was a
splendid roll-up, and Blanche D’Alpuget
struck just the right note in her speech.
In her nicely rounded sentences were
Gallic wit and insight, Vinia, light-
hearted as a sunlit brook, made response.
Her place was piled with flowers. Gar-
denias, lily-of-the-valley and roses spoke
the sentiments of the many guests.
The Industrial Arts and Arts and Crafts
Societies, the C.W.A. and the Technical
Colleges are joining in what should be
one of the finest exhibitions of needle-
work and crafts ever seen at the R.A.S.
This will be housed in the new Com-
memoration building, and will include
petit-point, embroideries, lacework;
coarse linen made into hangings, sheer
linen into baby robes ; pottery, applied
arts and hand-made jewellery. There
will also be demonstrations of weaving,
spinning, leatherwork and pottery. The
Technical College exhibit will include
figures dressed from shoes to hat in
college-made garments.
An engagement with a Bulletin flavor
is that of Audrey Macleod, younger
daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Macleod, of Mosman. The
young man in the case is Robert Alex-
ander, of Cremorne, an accountant on
the staff of David Fell.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. ,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 498 of 1938.
BETWEEN HILDA VIOLET NEALE Peti-
tioner
And ROBERT NORMAN NEALE Re-
spondent.
TO ROBERT NORMAN NEALE late of
Rhodes Avenue Naremburn in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA
VIOLET NEALE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse and that you have during three years
and upwards been a habitual drunkard and
habitually left her without the means of sup-
port AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
10 the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce..
FRED M. DODD, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
When
a Woman
tells you:
that people often take
her for years
younger than she
is owing to her
white teeth,
that she’s used no-
thing but Calvert’s
since she left
school-
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth 1
t
d
ti<
Co**
J <
a
N
Melbourne
Chatter
Wing-Commander Lloyd, of the visit-
ing flying-boat squadron, was on duty at
the door of Menzies reception-room last
week, the occasion being his good-bye
cocktail party to Melbourne friends. He
did his receiving unassisted, and managed
somehow to get round the room several
times, having a word with practically
everybody on the way, which, consider-
ing the crowd, was a pretty fair effort.
Air-Commodore Goble, who flew out
from England with the squadron, called
in to pay his respects. Among others
there were Colonel and Mrs. Dave Blake,
the Jim Fairbairns, the Fred Knights,
Mrs. Knight in black, with a woollen lace
coat over her frock. Jovial Larry
Hartnett was there, and a fleeting glimpse
was caught of his wife’s fairy-tale hat,
rolled brim, floating veil and crown with
medieval point. On the table among
drinks, savories and electric-eyed lobsters
was an aeroplane with twinkling port
and starboard lights.
More people than ever are going
abroad this year. The fact that several
larger ships are on the run and that the
Empress of Britain is gathering unto
itself more passengers in Australian ports
may account for the increase. Mailboat
days are hot and bothered affairs at
Prince’s Pier at any time, and flowers
are so extravagantly bestowed that
wreath-throwing through the portholes
starts as soon as the ship clears the
heads. But in some cases it has come to
pass that the actual distribution starts
even earlier, before the final gong and
casting off of moorings. It happens in
bursts of excitement or generosity when
those being farewelled start to hand
round flowers to their friends, and the
friends in their turn make flustered exits
to spare their blushes at the awful
chance of being presented with their own
gifts back again.
Among those who sailed in the
Orcades were the Hugh Divine family,
who had a bunch of golfers and school-
girls in their cabins wishing bon voyage
to Mary and Joan. The Buffer Allens
went off; also Mrs. Rupert Wertheim,
who said her good-byes in navy blue and
silver foxes and something very dash-
ing in hats. The George Ellsworths found
their cabin so fuff of flowers that they
could scarcely get into it, but there were
other presents as well, such as powders,
soaps and perfumes, from folk who be-
lieve in a balance of the useful and the
ornamental. Many golfing women came
down to wish good luck upon Mrs.
Douglas Stewart, a matron with an envi-
able youthful figure which she clad on
this occasion with black frock and silver
foxes, garnished with a posy of red rose-
buds. Among her gifts were several
tokens of friendship in the form of
bottles of sherry.
There was only one discordant note at
Margaret Sutherland’s concert. The audi-
ence was large and appreciative, the lights
were dimmed, the platform with its
Easter lilies and soft-green lamp was a
pleasant enough place to look upon, the
artists sang and played with skiff and the
one-composer programme was versatile
and well chosen. The discord was the
work of an electric crane outside. After
the opening number a diplomatic mission
approached the all-night workers and,
whether it was the result of their tact or
the job was ended, a restful quiet de-
scended upon all concerned.
Miss Sutherland, who composed the
entire programme and also acted as piano
collaborator, wore sapphire-blue lace and
received a heap of flowers from friends
and admirers. Violinist Elise Steele
wrapped herself in a gracefully-flowing
gown of pastel satin. Singer Kathleen
Castles, who goes abroad this year to
study, wore figured honey-colored crepe.
Dr. Norman Albiston, with Mark and
Jennifer, was in the audience, the doctor
looking proud to be the husband of the
evening’s leading lady, the children very
interested in proceedings generally.
At the International Club’s Polish even-
ing Madame Targzynska so arranged
her informative talk that there were
breaks of Polish music between such sub-
jects as Polish history, Polish culture
(this country spends 16 per cent, of its
national income on education) and the
outstanding work of some Polish women.
Among them was mentioned Madame
Curie, famous for her research into radio-
activity.
Politics were not mentioned right
through the evening, which concluded
with a friendly mixing of the nations
over a Polish supper of a variety of sweet
pastries, hot morsels which looked like,
but were not, sausage rolls, cucumber
dipped in a kind of brine, and herring
and onions upon thin slices of bread.
Three young women present who all
seemed to be of the same height and slim-
ness were Dorothy Mattingley, in ashes-
of-roses taffeta, who turned the pages
for Edward Goll’s musical items ; Mar-
garet Swinburne, whose white organza
frock had narrow pipings of green, red
and orange upon its yoke, and Alma
Pederson, whose gown was of jade-green
cloque.
In the Broothorn photograph is Mrs.
Howard Buchanan, wife of the superin-
tendent of the E., S. and A. Bank, who
has recently arrived with her husband
and three youngest daughters to live in
Melbourne. During the last ten years
the family has done some moving around
from Perth to Hobart and, four years
ago, from Hobart to Sydney. Mr. and.
Mrs. Buchanan went to England for the
Coronation. Their two eldest daughters
are married and living in Tasmania.
Margaret’s husband is Allan Knight, a
very fine tennis-player as well as a clever
engineer; his design has been chosen for
the new bridge over the Derwent. He
has to wait a year or two until he turns
30 and can take his degree of Doctor
of Engineering, for which he has already
passed the exams. Second daughter Jean
and her husband, Stuart Pixley, have a
charming country home down near the
Channel, 40 miles from Hobart.
Bowls of pears and apples reflected in
the mirror of the walnut sideboard and
a pool of golden-gleam nasturtiums re-
peated in the polished surface of the
table were part of the decorations used
by Mrs. C. N. Mackenzie at her cock-
tail party last week. Other splashes of
color were bowls of flowers and foliage
at the entrance to the room and the
hostess’s own frock of soft sage-green
with a spray of gardenias upon the
shoulder. As the complement of savories,
hot and cold, were drinks of several
colors and beer in earthenware mugs for
those who had a preference for swallows
rather than sips.
Among legal folk received by the
courtly host and his gracious wife were
Judge Piper from S.A., Judge Stretton
and Arthur Phillips, affable host of many
a week-end Lilydale luncheon party.
Mrs. Stretton wore black and a quaint
and very old necklace of silver filigree.
Representing the flying-boat squadron
which leaves for England this week were
Wing-Commander Lloyd and Squadron-
leader Feather, the latter wearing his
usual jovial smile, which isn’t just kept
for parties but is apt to be bestowed
upon anybody at any moment.
In spite of a bad night on the heels of
a bad day, with the sort of fierce north
wind that blows grit in your eye and
scudding autumn-leaves down your
throat, there was a very satisfactory audi-
ence for Borgioli’s concert. As only
that morning the engagement had been
made public of Borgioli’s accompanist,
Marshall Sumner, musical figure and up-
to-that-date confirmed bachelor, there
were plenty of thumps on the back wait-
ing for him in the foyer after the con-
cert. His fiancee, Elizabeth Halkyard,
had a cluster of pearl grapes in her hair
and a sapphire velvet cloak wrapped
about her youthful self. She’s such a
talented pianist that Percy Grainger
asked Mr. Sumner (at that time in
America, where he spent five years) “to
look her up and hear her play” on his
return to Melbourne. Eventually he did
hear her play, but it wasn’t until a couple
of years later that she became his pupil,
and now in a few months’ time she’s to
become his wife.
Also in the Town Hall audience were
Madame Borgioli, who wore beige lace
mingled with the same tone in chiffon,
her sisters, Miss Mort and Mrs. H. P.
Willis, and Mrs. Willis’s brunette daugh-
ter Elinor, distinctive in gown and little
coatee of floral-patterned white satin.
Marjorie Clarke wore a frock of green
and raspberry figurings upon white
cloque crepe. Mrs. D. M. Oliphant’s
mist-grey chiffon gown had the protec-
tion of a white tulle wrap, pseudo-pro-
tection in the sudden cold change going
home, but charming nevertheless. After
the show the scuffle started after cars.
Mrs. W. S. Kent Hughes was among the
lucky folk who stayed high and dry, for
her husband walked off into the storm to
snap a taxi and drive up in it to the
portico. Noticed among men who are
not seen regularly at musical functions
were Boydie Wallace Smith and Harold
Brockhoff.
In the Eve Ray photograph is Betty
Henry, who played Henrietta in Flor-
ence English’s production of “Quality
Street” for a two nights’ charity season
at Christ Church Memorial Hall last
week. Betty has had experience at the
Little Theatre in both Terence Crisp’s
and Brett Randall’s productions, and did
remarkably well as the young queen in
“Woman Proposes,” the first of the “Vic-
toria Regina” excerpts to be played in
Melbourne. Betty is the only child of
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Henry, of Dande-
nong-road.
When opening Margaret PestelPs
exhibition at Riddell’s Galleries Major-
General Bruche had considerable com-
petition from an electric drill doing its
noisy job on the foundations of what will
eventually be a new building on the op-
posite side of Little Collins-street. The
drill won easily; being a machine it
didn’t have to pause for breath. But
General Bruche, like any good soldier
tried and true, wouldn’t give in without
putting up some sort of fight, and said
what he wanted to say before hauling
down his colors.
A number of Miss Pestell’s oils and
water-colors were painted in Sydney on
Sundays, for she found that Sydney’s
traffic is greater in speed and density- than
that of Melbourne. On the first after-
noon of the show so many spectators
arrived at the same time that Roy Frost
and Reg Riddell, in their arty-crafty
premises below, thought they had better
look to their girders in case something
gave way. Amongst those who climbed
the narrow staircase were the artist’s
mother (her father, Dr. J. H. Pestell, was
absent through illness) and Colonel and
Mrs. W. Pestell, with their daughter, Mrs.
A. L. Leckie, who wore a black coat and
a black pulled-forward tarn. Mrs. T. J.
Marsden, of Launceston, was shown the
way round by Mrs. lan Macfarlan.
A couple of tweed-suited artists present
were Jessie Mackintosh and Marjorie
Rankin.
Spending a holiday regaining health
in Melbourne and Macedon is the
Groom lady, of Brisbane, who hasn’t
been in these parts since the death of her
husband, whose long political career in-
cluded several terms as Minister. Little-
ton Groom always had help and en-
couragement from his wife, who took a
fifty-fifty interest in social and political
walks of life, and who during her hus-
band’s period in office made innumerable
journeys backwards and forwards be-
tween Canberra and her home in Too-
woomba. She likes Canberra so much
that she has decided to settle there even-
tually. Her sister is Mrs. C. W. Grant,
wife of Senator Grant, of Tasmania.
Their daughter Nancy, who is a solicitor,
was quietly married last week to Keith
Miller.
Having acquired a perfect coat of sun-
tan Mrs. Jim Moore is home from her
19 days’ stay in Honolulu. She had what
she calls a “wife-and-mother’s perfect
holiday,” which means that she went
alone, and deserted for the time being
home, husband, Roma, Pat and Mickey,
the property at Sunbury, the chooks, and
even the cows and the brand-new milk-
ing machine. Mrs. Moore stayed at the
Royal Hawaiian Hotel, but didn’t hob-
nob with film stars, for she spent all her
time surfing at Waikiki. She got on
pretty well and learnt to balance on a
board standing up.
The most magnificent figure present at
the gala night of ‘TOO Men and a Girl”
was “Here” Mclntyre, of Sydney. His
parents took a terrible risk when they
christened him Hercules, but backed a
winner after all, for their small pink
baby eventually grew large enough to
justify a challenge to the gods. Instead
of coming to Melbourne last week with
her husband, Mrs. “Here” chose a coun-
try holiday on the family property in the
New England district.
The gala night and comeback for the
State Theatre was celebrated with a
crowded house, special guests, enormous
wreaths of flowers in the foyer (from
which some of the hosts plucked an oc-
casional frangipanni for women friends)
and supper after the show. In the in-
terval Maurice Sloman and Harold Holt
were seen scaling the stairs in the direc-
tion of an area for lighting up cigarettes.
Mrs. Sloman wore orchids and a
geranium-velvet coat. Dorothy Dunckley
swathed her stately form in a cloak of
oatmeal-colored velvet. Mrs. Raymond
Lambert had a twofold responsibility in
her black gown with its all-over sequined
skirt and train of just the most danger-
ous length for getting caught under un-
wary feet.
In a reference to “No, No, Nanette”
last week credit was given, by a slip of
the pen, to Nellie Barnes, when Lois
Green was meant.


m
wmm
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
wmmmm
wmm
1111
mmm
■X':*
it*.
k *
9 for 6d., 18 for I/-
Cork Tipped or Plain
Q inhale 0- Q’m conoinceb
Slack & White
aie sc much uettei ...
ft
BWIO2-24
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Mrs. Forgan Smith handed £350 to
Mrs. J. W. Greene, president of the com-
mittee which looks after the interests of
the Montrose Home for Crippled
Children, now housed in old Ardoyne,
the result of the fete held at the new
home early in March. The cheque
changed hands at Finney s, where the
fete committee was entertained at after-
noon-tea
Mrs. Bill Winterflood, Mrs. Gordon
Gow and Mrs. R. Adams were joint
hostesses at a farewell supper dance in
honoi of the Wyndham Pikes, the night
before the Pikes left for England. The
husbands of the first two ladies and the
nephew of the third, young Miles
Hunter, helped to look after the guests.
„ .' , . . * ... ,
Barristei Jim Real is going to Fiji at
the end of June to work for the Fijian
Government. The Fijian land laws are
being altered, the Queensland Land Acts
serving as a model.
Ula, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Moncrieff Scott, of Warwick, and
J. C. Mathison, of Rockhampton, son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Mathison, Bona Vista,
Vic., were married at the Ann-street kirk.
A veil of Venetian point once worn by
her great-grandmother and a gown of
lace formed the bride’s trappings, and
sparkling in her ears were ancient
diamond earrings, family heirlooms. May
Hourston, in pink, ’maided. The recep-
tion was at Atcherley.
Knight Leslie Wilson and his lady went
to Toowoomba for the Show, and after
the official luncheon were the guests of the
Ag. Soc. for afternoon-tea. Toowoomba
was very gay, in spite of the rain, and
the 25th Battalion and 11th Light Horse
Regimental Ball, held in the Masonic
Hall at night, was a huge success. Lieut.-
Colonel and Mrs. Neville Hatton and
Major and Mrs. Campbell were the
official hosts and hostesses.
Just as the band burst into the National
Anthem and the 11th Field Brigade of
the R.A.A. fired its salute of 19 guns,
the skies burst into tears, and the G.-G.
and Lady Gowrie, who were stationed
on the bridge of the Nieuw Zeeland, had
to dash to cover. Lieut-Colonel Hoad
was the first on board to greet them when
the liner arrived, after which they went
to Government House and lunched with
the Leslie Wilsons. There was also a
family gathering at which De Burgh
Persses and Delpratts predominated,
Norman Mighell was given a wonder-
fuj welcome by the members of the
r.5.5.1.L.A., many of whom knew him
well before he became chairman of the
Repatriation Commission. In Innisfail
and i a ter in Brisbane, he practised as a
solicitor, and in both centres he worked
hard for the League. This was his first
o ffi C i a l visit as chairman, and the Diggers
gave a dinner in his honor .
„ . ,
„ Marl f ® )e,ke . ? eter “ n , ha \.“*? e °
Queensland, and is going to Mt. Isa to
s t ud y the mining industry with a view
to writing yet another novel. Before
s h e goes to the mines she will get some
f oundat ion knowledge from the Mines
Department.
v c „ . . .
. Yornig folk are discovering picnic
delights, and there have been several
P artie * latel >\ K OI JS at s
Crossing was hostessed by Sheliah White,
> n £ on ? r Pam Huybers, who is going
to England- First the Y°nng things went
swimming, then cooked their chops and
bollecl the billy,
WESTRALIA.
Ivory triple ninons mounted on deep
cream taffetas made the bridal garb of
the Percy Birchleys’ elder daughter Beryl
when she kept a matrimonial tryst with
Campbell Wansborough at the altar of
St. George’s Cathedral. Cloudy showers
of tulle fell from a Juliet cap of gold
mesh studded with pearls and edged with
miniature sprays of lily-of-the-valley. In
picture frocks of lilac ninon beshirred
and Empire-waisted followed matron of
honor Mrs. Kevin Kelly and bridesmaid
Joan Birchley. Circular veils of lilac
tulle fell from topknots of palest pink
and mauve asters, which mingled with
deeper pink gladioli in their bouquets,
Claremont’s Mayor Mengler paced the
aisle of Christ Church with daughter
Betty to hand her over to Edgar Chittle-
borough, of Mt. Lawley. Draped cream-
embossed French crepe flowed into a
tapering train ’neath tiers of cream tulle
veiling, held with a coronet of orange-
blossom buds and tiny mother-of-pearl
leaves. Norma Morgan ’maided in
Parma violet ninons cut Empire fashion.
Matching tulle, topknotted with violet
dahlias, fell to her shoulders.
The advent of a Perth squadron of the
R.A.A.F., in many cases complete with
wives, has been the excuse for numerous
welcome parties. The Naval and Mili-
tary Club threw open its doors at the
cocktail hour in honor of its brother-
service. Col. Margolin did the welcom-
ing, with his other half at hand, in gold-
belted navy crepes topped with beveiled
French beret, and Wing-Commander
Brownell brought along his wife, in
diminutive blue cap to match patterned
sheer pleatings.
During the stay of their ship in port,
Earle Page’s lady, Mrs. R. G. Menzies
and Mrs. T. W. White were entertained
at luncheon at the Embassy by women
members of the United party. Mrs.
Cardell-Oliver, M.L.A., did the honors,
and presided over the after-luncheon
speechifying. The male other-halves of
the guests of honor called in after a
luncheon at Anzac House and contri-
buted their few words.
Another of the Willie Saws’ brood of
daughters is to leave her Bellevue-ter-
race nest for a matrimonial flight to
N.S.W. Pat has announced her engage-
ment to Trevor Gartrell Heath, of Potts
Point, Sydney.
The C. H. Guy couple’s daughter
Dorothy acquired a vote and said “Yes”
to Peter Hayward, of Harvey, all on the
same day.
The Arthur Stowes’ son and heir Bob
has slipped a set of diamonds on Phillipa
Cotterell’s fourth finger. Wedding bells
tuning up.
Petite Beryl Lockwood, of Mt. Lawley,
packed trousseau and occupied the box-
seat at a round of farewell parties before
departing with her mother, Mrs. Leslie
Lockwood, for Melbourne. Her mar-
riage to Garth Bailey, who hails from
the Speck, will take place as soon as she
lands.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The polo tournament ended with a
gymkhana at Birkalla. The Lieut.-
Governor presented the trophies, and was
also present at the afternoon-tea. The
visiting teams were entertained at a dance
at the Mount Osmond Country Club
before they departed for their homes.
The lounge was decorated with bowls of
mixed flowers, and refreshments were
served on the spacious balcony.
Mrs. V. Gilbert Boase, of Torrensville,
gave a dinner party in honor of Mrs.
E. L. Soong and Mrs. Fabian Chow.
Wing Wah, a Chinese cook, prepared the
menu, which included bird’s-nest soup,
duck roasted in oil and stuffed with
ginger, and chop suey, besides other
Chinese delicacies. At the welcome tea
given in the visitors’ honor at Willard
Hall, Chinese residents lent silken hang-
ings, canopies and banners, and the
guests were welcomed by Mr. Wah Toy.
At Victor Harbor the visitors were
guests of William Sowden and his lady
at Castlemaine.
Although it was a hot night there was
a good attendance at the National Gal-
lery when Lord Mayor Barrett opened
the loan exhibition of Dutch and Flem-
ish pictures. Gallery director Louis
McCubbin, Prof. G. V. Portus and Mrs.
W. T. Mortlock were in the representa-
tive gathering.
Three performances of “The Aston-
ished Ostrich” by our Repertorians drew
crowded houses. The performance of
the butler, Charles, was much praised,
and it was only discovered afterwards
that he really is a butler —at Government
House.
Appearing with the A.B.C. Orchestra
at the Town Hall, Gladys Moncrieff was
smothered with great sheaves of pink
gladioli and baskets of mixed flowers.
She looked very handsome. Everyone
was shocked later to hear of her acci-
dent.
The A. E. V. Richardsons have been
living in an atmosphere of farewell par-
ties before their departure for Mel-
bourne. Mrs. M. Newbould entertained
them at her charming home, Rosebank,
Glenunga, the party being given to en-
able the members of the Alliance
Fran?aise to say farewell to Mrs.
Richardson, who has been their president
for several years. On behalf of the
members Mrs. Newbould presented the
guest of honor with a parting gift.
A cabaret entertainment in aid of the
Distressed Sailors and Soldiers’ Fund was
held in the Town Hall. Tables were
arranged round the dance floor, and
decorated with dahlias. The Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, the State
president of the R.S.L. (Mr. Hosking)
and his wife, Mr. Cudmore (president of
the sub-branch) and Mrs. Cudmore were
there.
TASMANIA.
His Ex. opened the Art Society’s ex-
hibition, remarking that it was just- over
the 100 years since the inception of such
a society in the Speck. It was a good
show on the whole ; the “modern-art”
youngsters held aloof this time. Presi-
dent A. Pedder welcomed the Governor,
and a very good attendance marked the
first day.
The Queen Mary Club summoned a
big crowd of guests and country mem-
bers to its evening party. Flowers were
as usual a dream. Lady Clark brought
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Winkfield, who is
staying with her at Government House.
Her husband is a former Judge of the
High Court in West Africa. Bridge was
played in three rooms, and the big draw-
ing-room was devoted to other amuse-
ments.
The Commandant and Mrs. Durrant
gave a jolly farewell party for the A. E.
Sharpes at their own quarters at Angle-
sea Barracks in the late afternoon. About
80 guests were bidden. Mrs. Durrant’s
black frock was brightened by a gold belt
and collar.
Betty Sale and Betty Perry farewelled
the Len Nettlefolds at a dinner party at
the Kingston Beach Golf Club before the
Nettlefolds sailed for England.
Mrs. Fabian Chow, lecturing on the
plight of the Chinese refugees in the
war, was given a reception by the Tas
League of Nations Union at Hadley’s
during her short stay. W. F. D. Butler,
State president of the Union, received
the guests and presented them to Mrs.
Chow, who was delighted with a beauti-
fully-arranged basket of the Speck’s best
fruit, given her instead of a bouquet by
Mrs. D. C. McLaren. Mrs. Chow was
also entertained at an at-home given by
the Lady Mayoress, and was taken by
car to see many of our beauty spots.
Pre-wedding parties for Bessie Crisp,
who is to be married to lan Maxwell
this month, have begun. The Page girls,
Alison and Peggy, were first in the field
with a bridge party at their own home.


HOTSPOTS FROM HISTORY
THE REAL REASON
WHY ALFRED
v BURN ED THE CAKES
1
'm
r'
m
&as]
HE WAS
LISTENING
TO ONE
OF THE
NEW
AUDIOSCOPIC
PHI
m
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO. SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE.
MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
ALSO SEND 8-PAGE STATION BOOK
Somebody's buying
a Better Radio now!
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices from £l2 / t9 / (i.
dsf
If your radio set is out of
tune, the trouble may be just
one valve. Have your valves
tested by modern equipment
and remember to . . .
B E-VAIVE W| T(
I
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL Hi ELECTRIC
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
S. ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
THE VELETRON MICROPHONE.
The experimenter is continually in search of simply-constructed
high quality microphones. Popular types have been the Reisz and
Velocity ribbon, which can be madfe up from readily-accessible
materials. From N.Z.A.R.T.’s amateur magazine “Break-In” come
details of a new development in home-made microphones, described as
the Veletron. Construction is simple and two methods are shown.
Probably because so many M.L. trans-
mitter-experimenters are using Veletron
microphones, speech quality from these
stations is mostly in the high-fidelity
class. ZL4BW is responsible for the first
of these designs, and summarises the ad-
vantages as simplicity of construction,
low cost, good quality, directional re-
sponse, high output ( —4sdb.) and ab-
sence of magnetic field or microphone
transformer to accentuate hum.
Principle of Operation.
The Veletron consists of a perforated
back plate, insulated on one side by a
very thin coat of insulating material, with
a set of ribbons fixed in such a manner
that they lie against the insulated side.
A voltage difference is maintained be-
tween .the ribbons and the plate by means
of the D.C. supply circuit, as in Fig. 1.
Sound moves the ribbons proportionally
to the velocity component, and the move-
ment changes the capacity between the
ribbons and plate. This varies the charg-
Fig. 1.—lnput circuit.
Rl, five to ten megohms; R2,
one to five megohms; C1, I to
Smfd. (paper); C2, 006mfd.
(mica).
ing current through R 1 and sets up a
voltage drop proportional to the move-
ment. Voltage variation across the re-
sistance is thus an electrical translation
of the sound, and may be applied to the
grid of an amplifier valve.
Components.
The back plate should be of non-
resonant metal, such as zinc, perforated
with holes of about l-16in. diameter. It
Fig. 2. —How the ribbons are
made.
is important that the side of the back
plate against which the ribbons lie be
smooth, as a rough surface may lead to
insulation breakdown. The dimensions
of the plate appear to have no great
effect on the quality and output of the
microphone, and good results have been
obtained with plates as small as 2in. by
2in. or as large as 6in. by 3in.
Insulation.
Construction of the Veletron is re-
markably easy, but the insulation of the
back plate calls for care. Good quality
insulating varnish is baked on so that the
surface is hard and gives lasting insulat-
ing qualities regardless of weather con-
ditions. About three coats will be needed,
baking each between 500 and 600 de-
grees for about ten minutes.
Ribbons.
These may be made from any of
several kinds of foil. The piece of foil
is doubled over and the cuts made with
a pair of scissors so that they do not go
right through the material at the end.
When the material is flattened out to its
original shape the cuts appear as shown
in Fig. 2. The fact that the cuts do not
go through at either end tends to keep
the ribbons from curling and eliminates
the necessity for clamping the ribbons
to the plate at both ends.
A clamp used to attach the ribbons
to the plate consists of a metal strip about
wide, fin. thick, and long enough to
go across the back plate. A piece of
Fig. 3. —The clamp.
ebonite of similar dimensions forms the
other side, the clamp being held together
by a bolt at each end, as shown in Fig. 3.
Two holes about |in. diameter are
drilled in the back plate before it is insu-
lated. Care must be taken to see that
the inside surface of these holes has a
good coat of insulation in order to pre-
vent breakdown between the plate and
ribbons, which are in contact with the
metal strip, and with the bolts passing
through the holes in the plates. As an
alternative larger holes could be drilled
and insulating bushings fitted.
Assembly.
A hole drilled near the bottom of the
back plate serves for a terminal fixture,
and an extra nut on one of the bolts
securing the clamp provides a terminal f
for the ribbons. Holes are also drilled '
in the bottom end
of the plate so that
a bracket may be
used to hold the
plate on a block of
wood forming the
base. The plate is
then insulated and
the ribbons cut to
shape.
To assemble
properly, a piece of
oiled silk or mica
about iin. wide is
laid across the top
end of the plate.
The ribbons are
then placed in posi-
Fig. 4. —Microphone
with ribbons in place
(cover removed),
tion, with the metal clamping piece over
them. The ebonite piece is then fixed
in position and the clamp secured with
the bolts. A box form shield can be
made to fit over a wooden base, with
perforations of about diameter.
The completed microphone should be
connected to the input circuit and pre-
amplifier by means of a shielded lead.
In use it is found that the low fre-
quency of the Veletron can be restricted
to a predetermined minimum by increas-
ing the polarising voltage. Thus almost
Fig. 5: —Alternative method of con-
struction.
A. copper U-piece bent over, clamp-
ing diaphragm in place; B, oiled silk
bent over back plate; C, perforated
back plate; D, diaphragm; E, strip
of oiled silk; F, hole for terminal
screw.
any degree of “highs” can be obtained.
Increasing the voltage also increases the
output. It may be found that experiment
with tension of the ribons may improve
quality, but best results appear to be
obtained when the ribbons are under
their own tension, so do not clamp them
at both ends.
One ZL transmitter finds the output
of a home-made Veletron to be about
five times that of the condenser-type
microphone. Fig. 4 shows the completed
assembly minus the shield, and Fig. 5
is another design for this kind of micro-
phone by ZL3HU.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
Latest Sydney station to appear with
modern equipment on 56mc. is VK2WJ.
After three years with the usual modu-
lated-oscillator type of transmitter, the
difference was noticeable when this
station was heard on 27/ 3 / ’3B. The new
transmitter starts with a 40-metre crystal
with a 6A6 oscillator, doubling to 20,
followed by 802 doubler to 10, further
802 doubler to five, and push-pull 6L6Gs
in the final. Although quite low power
is applied to the final, the vast improve-
ment in transmission makes the station
readable on speech over much greater
distances with full intelligibility, further
proof that it pays to make a start with
a stable transmitter on 56mc. even with
low power.
The W/VE ’phone contest has just
finished. No doubt some people do enjoy
DX contests, but it is doubtful whether
any useful purpose is served. The W
’phone channel slap in the middle of
14mc. might be a useful thing in some
respects —-for Ws; but it serves uncon-
sciously as a barrier for the station not
in U.S.A. seeking DX either at the high
or low side of the band. Much answer-
ing DX may go unnoticed. DX is still
workable, but only for long enough to
exchange a couple of serial numbers.
Conditions on 14mc. in the early
mornings are very different from those
two weeks ago. Then, European signals
appeared with sunrise, and reached good
strength until around 7 a.m. Sydney time.
Now Europeans are strong around 4
a.m., and fall off with the dawn. It is
refreshing to find that one can attract
the attention of Gs and other Europeans,
DX contests notwithstanding.
Gladesville, N.S.W., has a newly-
formed radio club which is making good
progress. Classes for A.O.P.C. students
are handled by F. Warren, VK2LY ; and
C. Fryar, VK2NP, is in charge of Morse
classes. Permanent quarters are being
sought for clubrooms, and when these
are found the club will establish its own
transmitting equipment. Prospective
members should get in touch with the
secretary, R. Ellis, 180 Morrison-road,
Ryde.
At the annual general meeting of
W.1.A., N.S.W. Division, the new council
was elected—H. Peterson (VK2HP), F.
Goyen (VK2UX), M. Lusby (VK2WN),
H. Ackland (VK2PX), F. Carruthers
(VK2PF), W. G. Ryan (VK2TI) and R.
A. Priddle (VK2RA).
Latest issue of “T. and R. Bulletin”
from England contains an interesting de-
scription of the Old-timers’ Dinner held
by R.S.G.B. -in London recently. Some
prominent pioneers were present, includ-
ing Gerald Marcuse (G2NM), E. J. Sim-
monds (G2OD), W. E. Corsham (G2UV),
R. L. Royle (G2WJ), A. H. S. Walker
(G2OM) and L. McMichael (G2FG).
Something of this nature should be
worthy of the attention of the W.I.A.
Krenkel, radio operator of the U.S.S.R.
Polar expedition, stated that his distance
record for radio communication was with
a station in South Australia. The station
referred to was a VKS amateur, which
was in direct communication on 20
metres with Krenkel. The Soviet station
signed UPOL.
Television man Baird denies that he
has any intention of even discussing any
commercial television project for Aus-
tralia. He is here to deliver his paper at
Sydney Uni. during the I.R.E. World
Convention, and expects to be in Sydney
no longer than two weeks.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: Radio enthusiasts of recent
years who might like to review radio
from the earliest beginnings should not
fail to obtain a copy of the Gernsback
publication “Radio-Craft” for March,


Hf
COR
SUPER
r
ETHYL
a&stifwsfe fMe /
fOM HIGHER
ANTI-KNOCK
ENSURING MAXIMUM TOP GEAR PERFORMANCE
TOLP
ITS
f
you so
SUPER
Pm
V ETHYL/
guarantee
C.O.R Modern Petrols
ire guaranteed to con-
form to the World’*
highest standard
k of anility .
rw
ETHYI GASOLINE
CORPORATION
Ml
MW*
THE CO
S C <• m
livettrporated in
MM O N W E A 1; T H O II RE FIN EH IE S I. I
m;« n\>ca 1 t t» t* <> "v crnin « n t «St AnsiO- I r a i> iart Oil Co, Lid
Victoria with Branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE nrui
MITE D
v)
BRISBANE
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is tbe ONIiY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONI.Y STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
1938. For several years this U.S.A.
monthly has been devoted to the needs
of the radio-serviceman, and it is prob-
ably the world’s most useful publication
in this respect. This is a jubilee issue of
656 pages, and it traces in diagrammati-
cal and pictorial form the story of radio
from the earliest conception. The present-
day radio experimenter will wonder at
the collection of old-time gadgets that
went to make up the radio receivers of
early days, and will marvel that results
were obtained at all in many instances.
An interesting feature of this issue of
“Radio-Craft” is a display of ancient
radio advertisements. One finds oneself
reading about some new development,
only to discover, that at the foot of the
page appears an announcement to the
effect that “this advertisement appeared
in 1921” or some other year. On the
opposite page appears the 1938 version,
probably by the same advertiser. Com-
parison in prices is interesting and
emphasises the value for money given in
modern radio.
# * # $
“Medico”: Amateurs with experience
only of lower power R.F. gear should
beware of playing around with oscillators
capable of generating a kw. or so for
diathermy purposes. An amateur of
many years’ standing was recently making
tests with an induction cable instead of
pads, using an oscillator giving 500 watts
output. The cable under test was coiled
around his leg and blew the insulation,
burning a hole an inch deep in his thigh.
It is easy to find cable to carry high volt-
age D.C. or A.C., but 10 amperes of R.F.
is another matter.
“Enno”: Just when some measure of
standardisation in valve bases seemed to
have been achieved, England produced a
new octal base, similar in appearance
and design to the now well-established
American, but radically different. The
English octal base has a larger diameter
spigot and the angle of the pins is greater.
Thus the English glass valves with these
new octal bases cannot be interchanged
with American valves. This does not
apply to well-known makes of English
valves of which American replicas are
sold in Australia, but the new English
octal will be usable only in receivers
made in England. Technical reasons have
been given for the difference, but that
doesn’t make it any the less unwelcome.
What's What in Radio.
All details for the television service
to commence in Bombay are completed,
and the station will be working a month
hence.
* * * *
The new 50kw. short-wave broadcast-
ing station at the Vatican in Rome can
operate on any wave-length between 15
and 60 metres. It has directional aerials
for South, Central and North America,
also East and South Asia.
* * * *
Co-operating with the A.R.R.L. the
Radio Corporation of America recently
held an exhibition at Radio City in New
York. Reception of the 441 line tele-
vision transmissions from the Empire
State Building was demonstrated on 14
receivers, and in this way the city of New
York was given its first taste of practical
television. R.C.A. is enlisting the aid of
amateur transmitters in taking field
strength measurements on television
transmissions.
* * * *
Run on similar lines to Australian B-
class stations, Belgium has a number of
small privately-owned broadcasting sta-
tions. They are on low power, the maxi-
mum allowable being 125 watts, and,
owing to the scarcity of frequencies in
crowded Europe, time is divided between
stations. Revenue is derived entirely from
advertising.
Latest in the Trade.
The Amplion Co. has introduced a
new B-type genemoter for heavy output.
It is only double the size of the well-
known A-type genemoter but has three
times the output. It will deliver 600
volts for A.C. or D.C. output, and can
be supplied for any output desired within
the wattage and voltage limitations. A
useful feature is that it can also be sup-
plied with any input up to 240 volts D.C.
Experimental transmitters in 240-volt
D.C. equipped localities should find such
power units a boon. They can be used
for public-address amplification and for
operating standard 240-volt A.C. broad-
cast receivers from 32-volt D.C. home-
lighting plants, or for 240-volt A.C. re-
ceivers from supplies of 110 or 240
volts D.C. These new machines are
entirely Australia!! in design and manu-
facture.
Clyde "Plugg-in" Radio
Battery.
The ordinary form of accumulator can
be a nuisance when applied to radio.
Exposed terminals may be accidentally
shorted, and there is the difficulty of cor-
rosion where the accumulator is allowed
to discharge to a low limit. A new
accumulator introduced by the Clyde
Engineering Co., Ltd., of Sydney, de-
signed specially for radio work, does
away with terminal troubles. As illus-
trated, it is fitted into a moulded hard
rubber container with a two-pin non-
reversible socket.
Connection to the positive and nega-
tive terminals is made by means of lead-
coated brass straps, moulded into the
cover with lugs at each end to fit over
the battery terminals. At these two
points a recessed hole is provided in
the cover, which is fitted and held
securely to the battery by screwing down
the red and black positive and negative
terminal nuts. Reverse connections are
impossible, as the provision of moulded
bosses prevents the cover being fitted to
the battery in any but the correct posi-
tion. The leads from a radio receiver
are connected to the battery by means
of a non-reversible adaptor which plugs
into the cover socket.
For recharging, provision is made for
connection to any ordinary radio or car
battery by means of an adaptor with
leads and clips. Further provision is
made for an adaptor connecting to flex
wire, terminating in a light socket. Ad-
vantages are that the accumulator is
totally enclosed and cannot collect dust
deposit. Acid cannot be splashed about,
and shorting of the terminals cannot
occur accidentally. Most important point
is that no clips are needed for connect-
ing the battery to a receiver.
This “Plugg-in” accumulator is a use-
ful type for portable lighting, and should
appeal to yachtsmen, campers and motor-
ists. It is a compact, foolproof unit.
Particulars can be obtained from Clyde
Engineering Co., Ltd., Sydney, and
branches.
The Question Box.
(1) In B. 16/3/’3B reference is made in
Amateur Chatter to the Jones single-wire-feed
multiband antenna. What are the dimensions,
etc. ? (2) Is this system described in the
“Jones Antenna Handbook” ?■ —666.
(1) If intended for use on 80, 40, 20 and
10 metres, length is 134 ft., with the feeder
tapped 22ft. from the centre. If for 40, 20
and 10 metres, length is 67ft., with feeder tapped
lift, off centre. Feeder length for the 134 ft.
type should be 66ft., and 33ft. or 66ft. for the
67ft. type. Best method of coupling is by link
to a separate antenna coil and condenser. The
feeder is connected to this coil at a point deter-
mined by trial, and one side of the coil is
earthed. It is a compromise system and prob-
ably more effective on 20 metres than the 80-
and 40-metre bands. (2) Yes.
* t- * *
As electrical power is to be installed locally,
I am wondering if it would be worth while
to have a five-valve battery receiver {named)
converted for use on A.C. ? —667.
No. Results are likely to be disappointing.
Cost would be about the same as if you traded
the set in as part-payment for a modern dual-
waver.


11 1 : / GREATEST
I OVEMENyon :
FINEST RADIO
BATTERY
i Provision is made with these
auxiliary positive and neg-
ative leads for connection
to any ordinary battery ter-
minals , while your PLUGG-
IN is being re-charged.
■
■
■H
..V V
H
The world is introduced to Clyde's feattery ... the great feature of a plug in,
mm
1 ' ®l|
iMslMlillsii
| ■ : ixil: ; -ilil x;::-. ;:l:.xi:
V ' ' ■ .' "■ ■■ 1: : ■ ■ ' ■
|>
foolproof biftery top is exclusive to Clyde Plugg-m Radio batteries. No radio batteries,
■ ■
I
iilllliixi!
ill llili
superior to . Clyde, are made . . . Clyde Bafteries doly are used for control in
>:XXX"'
the Royal Australian Navy . . . the Postmaster-General's Department and many other
public services. Insist on Clyde Batteries and. get the utmost In service and value.
s.w
a* ■ wb%9P
XX
RADIO BATTERIES
Patent Pending
The Clyde Engineering Company Ltd., Granville, N.S.W.
SALES & SERVICE DIVISIONS.
SYDNEY: 61-65 Wentworth Avenue.
MELBOURNE: 566 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE: Albert and Charlotte Streets.
ADELAIDE: 155-57 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., William Street.
TASMANIA: Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant, Launceston.


MTS
LYS
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
TTT—'”^
■
,v
K
«*:
s*
'
8
IS
Ri I
■A
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Autumn Lamb Drop.
“Corriedale”: “Kyamba” (B. 23 /3 / ’3B)
overlooks the essential thing in lamb-
raising—to buy as little extra feed as
possible.
Lucerne offers the most complete
solution to the early autumn lamb dif-
ficulty. There are few lamb properties
that won’t grow lucerne. The plots can
be left ungrazed for six weeks before
lambing, when the autumn is dry and
usually enough green picking is avail-
able for individual ewes as they lamb.
Lucerne paddocks mean, too, that
good feed is possible a fortnight after
rain, when grass shoots are just coming
through the ground, and this gives
lucerne a start of three weeks on the
normal grass season. A lucerne man can
mate his ewes three weeks or a month
earlier in the driest, of seasons.
Even if the weather is so bad that
there is no summer growth, good leafy
hay made the spring before will get
over the difficulty. About to 21b. a
day, chaffed and fed in bag troughs, will
keep a good-sized ewe milking well if
she is grazing dry stubble or grass.
Shearing Teams.
“Bungaree”: Practically all three- and
four-stand sheds (B. 23/3/’3B) nowadays
need one man as overseer-classer-expert,
and often he has to keep the shed books
as well. In a three-stand shed the only
shedhands may be a picker-up, one adult
to wool-roll and pick pieces, with a shed-
hand-presser to help pick pieces. The
overseer usually has to give a hand in
penning-up, wool-rolling or piece-pick-
ing.
In a four-stand shed he has less time
for these odd jobs, and if the team is
fast a picker-up, a wool-roller, a piece-
picker and a shedhand-presser to pen-up
and extra help wherever necessary would
be required.
Even in five- and six-stand sheds, the
demand is for an overseer acting as ex-
pert and classer. Unless the machinery
and handpieces are in good condition,
this man will have little time for shed
work.
Classing the Small Clips.
“Geelong”: Small growers should
avoid overclassing and try for at least
one large lot. Odd fleeces that cannot
be matched and ail fadges should be
sent to a bulk-classing store.
In a merino clip of about 500 sheep
three lines of fleece should suffice. The
first line should accommodate all the
long, bright, fine fleeces. Short, tender
and shabby fleeces should make the
second line, while the third should take
all strong-quality wool.
Two lines of pieces should be made,
and one each of bellies, locks and stains.
Pick two lines of lambs, keeping out
stain. Odd, very heavy or discolored
fleeces should be bagged or pressed in
top of bale and the broker advised.
In a merino clip of 500-1000 sheep
the first line may be divided into two,
keeping the top lot light-conditioned.
In larger clips a first and second of
the strong line may be made, and
where wool is good enough a Sup Com
and a Sup Lms if large lots can be
obtained.
In comeback clips fleece-wool may be
treated similarly, except that all lines
would be broader and an extra line of
coarse wool would be necessary and
perhaps an extra-fine line separating
64’s from the bulk line of 58’s-60’s.
The two lines of pieces should be made
for quality, not brightness as in merino,
and an additional line of strong-quality
lambs should be picked.
Crossbred clips are more difficult, and
lines should be made for quality alone,
except for odd cast fleeces. Where the
clip is mixed, a comeback, fine cross-
bred, medium crossbred, crossbred and
coarse crossbred should be made.
With up to 500 sheep, make two lines
of pieces; comeback and fine crossbred
branded XB Pcs, and all coarser pieces
“Cant you brand them where the marks wont show ?”
branded XB Pcs. Treat lambs similarly,
throwing out very short and stained.
With 500-1000 sheep make three
lines of pieces and three of lambs,
branded FXB, MXB and CXB. Two
lines of bellies, FXB and MXB, should
be sorted.
In larger crossbred clips these may be
second-fleece lines, if necessary mixing
seconds of FXB and MXB and XB and
CXB.
Use paper divisions when packing
several classes in one bale.
Why Meet the Market?
“K.Mc.”: A glutted market means a
falling one, so why should growers of
unperishable goods sell on such a market,
as “Granova” (B. 23 /3 / ’3B) advises?
If growers retain the surplus they—not
the speculators—get the benefit when the
market lifts.
Nine times put of ten reserves on my
wool come out winners—sometimes Id.
per pound being gained. The whole
trouble with wool is that half the growers
do not put on reserves, and there is no
uniformity among those who do. Lack
of market stability is inevitable. Reserves,
of course, must conform to existing
market levels.
Fixing Wool Prices.
“Inter-State”: Let woolgrowers be-
ware of proposals to fix wool prices
unless they are prepared to start on a
minimum average of less than 12d. per
pound.
Prices must compete with those for
cheap artificials, and it must be remem-
bered that the working man and his
family are the staple consumers of
woollen goods, and that prices are de-
termined by their standard of wages.
The thing that would help more than
any price-fixing would be 4 an all-round
writing-down of land values to pre-war
levels, if it could be done. Too abundant
credit to buy land at a price out of pro-
portion to the average return over
reasonable periods has been the greatest
curse of the wool industry.
So soon as prices rise optimistic buyers
are willing to take on new commitments
on land, stock and improvements at the
inflated prices which happen to be rul-
ing in that particular, boom year.
And every time this happens the cost
of production creeps up, to. plague the
industry next time there is even a shadow
of a slump.
Still Another Preventive.
“B-gar”: A new method has been
evolved by a Queensland stock inspector
for rendering sheep less susceptible to
blowfly strike. The wool about the
crutch is shorn and a solution of caustic
soda applied to the skin. The solu-
tion sears and hardens the skin. In ex-
periments carried out over two years no
wool grew on the parts treated, nor did
any strikes occur.
As with the Mules method, the new
idea is more or less a temporary palliative.
Neither is likely to be universally adopted.
In abnormal times, blowflies are apt to
strike anywhere from the head to the
crutch, and the removal of crutch
wrinkles or skin searing with caustic soda
won’t solve the blowfly problem.
The pests are so well established that
the out-breeding of wrinkles or external
operations are not likely to give full
immunity to merino sheep.
A Word for Albany.
“Albany”: “S.B.’s” remarks (B.
26/1/’3B) have aroused interest here in
Albany (W.A.). A fair average value of
land per cow in this district is probably
not above £25, representing five six
acres, including the “hospital area” of
natural vegetation for preventing stock
diseases so liable to occur on highly
“improved” lands. *
Yearly interest on land and equipment
thus drops to £2 10s. per cow. For
30 cows this means an extra £75
per year, or nearly 30s. per week, for
the farmer’s own labor.
If these cheap but good W.A. coastal
lands with their mild climate and
assured rainfall throughout the year
were more widely known in Eastern
States dairying districts, sons of ex-
perienced farmers might be encouraged
to “give it a go” with a few hundreds
of capital.
Such men, accustomed to herds aver-
aging up to »4001 b. butterfat per cow,
could get a flying start on local men in-
clined to believe it takes about 25 years
to breed up from acclimatised
“scrubbers” to an average of 4001 b.
Better management of feed produced on
the farm has already lifted it a good
way.
As a potential sideline, it is worth
mention that prime export lambs raised
on very cheap coastal lands (with freez-
ing works and direct deep-water shipping
only a few miles away) recently took the
prize from those raised on relatively
dearer inland areas.
Pig-breeding and -feeding*
“Pappamosca”: For a month before
farrowing, feed is all-important to a
breeding sow. Give her from one to
two pounds of meatmeal, according to
size and appetite; add three to five
gallons of skim every day during the
last three weeks she is carrying, except
for the last four days, during which the
ration should be gradually reduced.
After the youngsters arrive give her
water only for 24 hours. When she shows
signs of hunger give skim milk and a
{“Land” continued on page 44.)


Many Happy Returns
;
wm
~ iv V,
v " lTt3;
%*> -i■ ...,s«SELi... Ia
:
i i
i
■ ■ v ' .. ■ ...ii - : ”
I
■I
*
ii
>■
% % JSErt *:
«l n aIBMI
■i
H
«aKsi^sl
.. ... PITT, SON & BADGERY Ltd.
1* YPICAL of the outstanding
selling facilities we offer for
your consignments are our
Flemington Saleyards, illustrated
above, for Sheep; a well-lighted
show floor, expert lotting and
correct valuing, for Wool; and a
fine concrete cattle bath at Flem-
ington for Cattle.
These facilities enable us to obtain
the highest ruling market values,
and pass them on to our clients in
the shape of consistently happy,
PROFITABLE RETURNS.
aanpojij moj^
mox
daai|g anoj^
I°°M 4no A
iNSVOV QN3S
Ij 4 noX pun
iIONO UN3S
# Write for Free Market Reports and Waybills to
PITT, SON &BADGERY Ltd.
4 O'Conneßt Street, Sydney.
VISITORS^
TO THE
EASTER SHOW
are invited to call at Our
Office, 5 Macquarie Place,
Sydney, or at Our Show-
ground Office, No. 163,
behind the Members’ Stand,
to
Confer with us about yqur
WOOL CLIP
The improvement and sale of your
STOCK
Your next order for
STATION SUPPLIES
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT
& Co. Ltd., Sydney
Incorporated in Victoria.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. BOX 484 AA, G.P.0., Sydney
n
OUR CITY RECEPTION ROOM FOR THE
CONVENIENCE OF OUR COUNTRY CLIENTS.
We extend a cordial invitation
to all who will be in Sydney
during the Royal Easter Show.
A Great Country Organisation
and Leading Sellers of Wool
and Stock.
THE FARMERS & GRAZIERS
GO-OPERATIVE GRAIN INSURANCE AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
SYDNEY
) (
X
Ay-
//
1 \ m£R caHTIL^,
vA-i-Tc* i;r e te : ;/
•:^
"It Sold Well
and is Well Sold ”
"The High
Average is
Outstanding”
Such remarks are frequently heard after all
our auction sales, be it
WOOL and PRODUCE.
FAT STOCK.
STORE STOCK.
TRY US WITH YOUR NEXT CONSIGNMENT
YOU WILL BE PLEASED WITH RESULT
PROPERTIES, Etc.
Prompt attention given to requirements of
either buyers or sellers.
We extend a hearty invitation to our Clients and intending Clients
to visit our Office whilst at the Show.
Office Situate Commemoration Avenue.
CONSIGN TO
A.M.L. & F. Go. Ltd., Sydney
(Incorporated in England, a.d. 1863.)
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
ADVANCES MADE AT LOWEST RATE OF INTEREST


4038.
Here’s a boot that will
keep pace with you
No matter how
hard you work.
2716
There’s strength in every line of this Abbey Riding Boot. It’s made
to stand the strain of hard, solid wear without losing shape or comfort.
Its uppers are made from high-grade Black or Brown Calf skirt, and
they are full leather-lined.
Price, Black or Brown, 27/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it's a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, ' 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves tlie State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon : K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
mm*
g@
"~k\
iCHm
x
/{
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRALIA
e
» a
Abel Tasman .
In 1642, Anthony Van Diemen, Governor of the Dutch East indies,
commissioned Ahel Tasman, a sea Captain employed by the Dutch
East India Company, to undertake a voyage to the unknown
south seas.
Leaving Batavia in August, 1642, Tasman first set a course
towards Mauritius, then sailing southwards, and later easterly,
he reached, in November, 1642, the west coast of Tasmania.-
which he named Van Diemen’s Land. The names of his ships
—Heemskirck and Zeehaen—he gave to two mountains, the first
land he sighted.
Two years later, on another voyage, Tasman sailed along the
northern coast of Australia from Cape York in Queensland, to
North West Cape in Western Australia.
Following Tasman’s voyage, the continent of Australia
was known as New Holland, even for many years after
Captain Cook had named the eastern portion of it New
South Wales. The name Australia was not officially
recognised until some years after the establishment of
the Bank of NeCv South Wales in 1817.
ofTs cm/
ESTABLISHED 1817
331C.1938
TTie'^-allelz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODUCER’S ACCOUNT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
bran mash, with a little molasses to flavor
it, for four days. Then return to the
meatmeal and skim-milk diet, starting
with about two-thirds the original
measure and working up to a full feed
when the new-born pigs are 10 days old.
By that time a sow with 10 piglets
should be receiving 21b. meal and 10 to
12 gallons of skim. It should be remem-
bered that a gallon of skim milk is
equal in feed value to about lib. meal.
In Maoriland, which is getting seri-
ously into the world’s bdcon trade, it
has been calculated that the cost of con-
centrates to bring a piglet to weaning
stage through sow-feeding is 35., and the
average of skim milk about 89 gallons
per youngster.
With this system of pig husbandry a
good sow should produce a couple of
litters of six to seven healthy pigs a
year—say 20001 b. of bacon, worth from
£45 to £5O gross. Considering the small
areas needed for pig-raising, it is worth
while spending money on concentrates.
“E.O’N.”: Although turkey-raising
(B. 16/2/’3B) as a sole source of income
is not profitable, I know from practical
experience in S.Q. that as a sideline it is
well worth while. At eight months the
birds should be fit to sell. At present
there is a keen demand for turkeys, and
it is likely to last for many months.
Good gobblers of 151 b. to 181 b. live-
weight are bringing not less than 15s.
now and hens Bs. each. If the buyers
require the birds dressed they are always
prepared to give not less than Is. per
pound. In the grasshopper areas turkeys
do well and need less hand-feeding. A
good mob of turkeys gets through a tidy
lot of ’hoppers.
“Ek Dum”: In Macquarie’s day the
caterpillar blight descended on the
Hawkesbury, clearing out both maize
and wheat, and the “Sydney Gazette”
promptly weighed in with a poison de-
signed by a Frenchman. First ljlb. of
“black soap of the best quality” was dis-
solved in 7igals. water, to which 21b. of
bruised mushrooms was added. Then
l|lb. of flowers of sulphur was boiled
in a bag in another 74gals. of water for
20 minutes. Finally, the two infusions
were mixed and left in a closed barrel
for several days till the mixture became
“foetid or nauseous.” It was guaranteed
that a single dose applied with a spray
would fix all grubs, caterpillars and
beetles, except those with hard shells,
which would need “several repetitions.”
Anybody tried it?
“Mulyan”: Experiments were carried
out recently on the Lower Macquarie
(N.S.W.) to test the value and effect of
Noogoora burr as sheep feed. Flocks
were shepherded on thickly-infested
parts, primarily to get rid of the weed.
The sheep ate the burr readily, prefer-
ring the stalks to the leaves and eating
them to the ground. When unchecked
the burr spreads rapidly, reaching a
height of Bft. and growing as thickly as
wheat. By putting sheep on it before it
seeds it can be cleaned out in a season
or two.
“Bundalinga”: Eight years’ topdressing
has enabled J. J. Gibson, of John’s
River (N.S.W.), to increase the yield of
his 50 cows from 7001 b. of butter a
month to 17001 b. Cost of super, and
its application to 50 acres last year was
£34.
“Walliew”: U.K. butter imports last
year totalled 470,818 tons, valued at
£47,350,297, a decrease of 16,219 tons
on 1936 figures, but an increase of
£2,974,149 in prices. Maoriland leads
with 147,548 tons, followed by Denmark
with 112,824 tons and Australia with
74,956 tons —12 p.c. lower than last year.
Cheese exports to U.K. went up 31 p.c.
from Australia, 3 p.c. from M.L. The
latter still leads with 86,538 tons —more
than half the total. Canada comes next,
Australia third with only 5979 tons.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to rob a beehive which has not been
touched for years? Must the comb be very
carefully handled ? —58740.
A veil, an old chisel or screwdriver to loosen
and lever up the frames of honey, a bee-
smoker and a long-biaded carving knife are
necessary. Charge the smoker with pieces of
chaffbag, dry chips or anything that will make
a good smoke and puff the smoke into the
entrance of the hive. After a minute prise the
cover up and puff some smoke in from the top.
In a neglected hive the combs will probably
be found stuck together with struts and bridges
of wax, and will have to be sliced with the
knife, lifted out in pieces and placed in an
empty dish or empty kerosene-tin. The honey
may then be strained through a loose-meshed
bag and bottled for use.
» * * *
(1) Can almonds be planted in mass forma-
tion like an orchard ? (2) Distance apart ?
(3) The best varieties for 15 in. rainfall? . (4)
How long before trees come into bearing ? (5)
Is there any likelihood of overproduction ?
58951.
(1) Yes. (2) Usually 22ft.-24ft. (3) Consult
your district horticultural adviser. (4) Under
good conditions trees will bear appreciable
crops at five years and gradually increase in
cropping up to the age of about 10 years. (5)
Although there is no immediate likelihood,
some discretion is necessary in regard to new
plantings. Since 1932 practically no almonds
in shell have been imported from overseas, and
annual imports of kernels and paste fell from
approximately 620 tons in 1925-26 to 370 tons
in 1935-36. It is estimated that over 100,000
young almond-trees have yet to commence bear-
ing in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A., and new plantings
are continuing. Whether the gradually-increas-
ing production of recent plantings will be offset
by decline of old trees and by increased con-
sumption of almonds is difficult to forecast.
* * * *
The chances of making a living at squab-
raising, and capital needed ? —58964.
Squab-raising has not so far proved profit-
able in Australia.
* * *
(1) The symptoms of mammitis in cows?
(2) Treatment needed? (3) Is the milk from
mammitis-affected animals fit for home use ?
—58932.
(1) Mammitis is an inflammatory condition
of the cow’s udder. Symptoms vary greatly
according to whether the disease is mild chronic
or very acute. The former condition may
be evidenced only by the presence of lumps and
cords in the udder and tiny dots in the milk.
In acute mammitis the udder becomes en-
larged, hot, tense and painful. Fluid may be
expressed from the udder with difficulty. This
fluid may vary from a watery consistency con-
taining clots to a thick pus-like mass. When
the case is serious it is dirty brown. Blood
may issue on milking. The rarest form
is the very acute,* when the cow will be
“hunched,” obviously very sick. There will be
rapid breathing, muscle tremors, a hot, dry
muzzle and, owing to the swollen, painful
udder, a straddling gait. The animal may
die from blood poisoning in a couple of
days. Mammitis may exist without the
owner being aware of it, but the milk will be
noticed to have poor keeping qualities
and may have a bad smell. (2) Treatment
must be carried out regularly and thoroughly.
It consists of isolating the cow, foment-
ing, stripping and massaging the udder.
An affected cow should be separated and
milked last, as the disease spreads rapidly
through a herd. Milk into a bucket containing
disinfectant. If possible it is advisable to use
a separate bail for diseased stock. Strip the
udder every two hours and foment it by placing
a woollen cloth or clean bag in a bucket of
hot water, wringing it out and placing it on the
udder ; repeat when cool. This should be done
for 20 minutes four times each day. After
fomenting massage and kneed the udder with
the fingers, aided by a lather of soap. Dry the
skin and strip again after massaging. (3) No.


THE
PRODUCERS’ BUYING SERVICE
NOT TO SELL—
BUT TO SAVE BY BUYING
ORGANISE /
ALL LABOUR IS ORGANISED!
SHEARERS ARE ORGANISED!
RURAL WORKERS ARE ORGANISED!
WOOL BUYERS ARE ORGANISED!
WHEAT BUYERS ARE ORGANISED!
ALL BUSINESS IS ORGANISED!
Why Not The Primary Producers?
THEY WILL BE IF THEY
MAKE
The Producers’ Buying Service
The Organisation for
Co-operative Buying
THE
PRODUCERS BUYING SERVICE
HEAD OFFICES, ALBERT BUILDINGS,
6 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ifII II 3 II
mm
m lisw®!
i» v«' i Mil i 4:
B'l lift Sf S m m m
iff m m\' mi
m m m ill hi
* r
* t m * .i || '®l-m m
m -** P » s « m m
|.> ..
. *M
{«
*» I
if
n
f*< 't s «
4 * » ,$ *y
HI IS*
||S yj»»
P
:< >: .. ..fc* "
v * i
%iakickZ ' : : : : • .':• »:• • • • •.. >&:
mmmiM
■
III!!
lIP^
•;•' .• ’■y&v-jjJt.’!
WGsm
We can place
at your disposal
every facility at
Homebush for
the handling of
your Fat Stock.
KEEPING PACE
WITH BUSINESS
Increased business demanded more space—so it
has been found necessary to extend our premises.
This progress is due to our excellent system of
co-operation with our clients and our strict atten-
tion to their affairs.
No matter whether your next clip is large or
small—send it to us. Remember, our slogan is
Giving Better Service Getting Better Averages.
AUSTRALIAN WOOLBROKERS
& PRODUCE CO. LTD.
56-58 Young Street (next Hotel Metropole), Sydney.
Telegrams: “Auswool,” Sydney.
’Phone: 87268.
I
m
' <
’r'.T'tf
mm
'
*
>
,;.v-
-| W I
WAi-J !
■ ..rj
m
m
:: •
*
Arf
$ rv ;
M
■i A? Jf
DALGETY & COMPANY
LUVTITFD
(Incorporated in England)
Place their services at the disposal of all
clients and friends visiting Sydney for
Easter, and extend a cordial invitation
to them to call at their
Head Office, 15 Bent St., Sydney
or their various Show Ground pavilions.
Stock, Wool and Insurance, No. 161.
Merchandise and Shipping, No. 137.
Motors, No. 29.
Dalgety’s sales of wool for the season 1936-37
were 367,449 bales —approximately one-sixth
of the total quantity sold in Australasia.
STOCK OWNERS
READ THIS
We have been established
for over 70 years and have
never been FINANCIALLY
interested in any stock or
property we sell other than
as AGENTS ONLY, con-
sequently it is to our interest
as well as yours to get you
the very best returns possible
and enables us to give you
UNEQUALLED SERVICE.
WILKINSON & LAVENDER
PTY. LTD.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS—FAT STOCK AND
PROPERTY SALESMEN.
Suppliers of Ail Station Requisites.
SYDNEY, HAY AND COONAMBLE.


Every Razor
Fully Guaranteed.
BEN GALL” RAZORS
Will Last
for Years.
The Barber’s Friend.
Full Hollow-ground Blade.
NEARLY 200 YEARS OLD.
Obtainable from All Wholesale
and Retail Stores. '
Specially File-cut and
Combining
an tne latest improvements,
gimpted for Ann handling.
© SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
© RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Lcdrn and Earn the most thorough and practical
ill Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
now to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I*C.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Our Service Department
readers set a P art f° r the service of Bulletin
tr. u s^u V ’ ce ls en tirely free. All you have to do is
tacb u co . u P on from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
t c ip- flection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to sen or lo Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (24), artificial leg, can’t stand very
long, finds walking difficult, unlikely to marry,
wants job in W.A., able to type a little, will-
ing worker. —9095.
Returned soldier, Q’land, middle-aged, profes-
sional teacher (music excepted), would give
services as tutor with remotely-situated family
anywhere in return for travelling expenses and
pocket money.—9l4l.
University student, Sydney, wants position
in country as tutor, bookkeeper, jackeroo or
anything, anywhere.—9l3o.
Boy (15), Sydney, some office exp., seeks
position.—9ll7.
Steno-typist (18), Q’land, seeks position.
Refs.—9l3l.
Single man (34) wants job on sheep station,
Qjd. or N.S.W. Exp. with concrete work,
dips, windmills, engines, truck and car, car-
pentering (own tools), and all station work.
Available in about a month’s time. —9142.
Translations made from German, French,
Italian, Spanish, Russian, Danish, Swedish and
Norwegian. (Reply to F. Villner, 5 King Wil-
liam-street, Adelaide, S.A.)
Unusual photographs of Australian birds,
animals and aborigines.—9ll4.
Reader who asked recently for full details
concerning Rapa Island can obtain same by
writing to William Austin, Woodside (S.A.).
To buy or borrow instruction book for
1925-26 model Lincoln car—9l33.
To buy good second-hand copy Marriage,
Past, Present and Future, by Ralph de Pomerai,
9146 “"d Character, by Otto Weininger.—
Words of the song “Down Went McGinty.”
—9147.
Information Sought.
(1) Where and when was George Mendies,
former flyweight champion of Australia, born?
(2) Where and when did he die? (3) Weight,
height and reach? —9l4s.
(1) Pyrmont (N.S.W.) on June 14, 1899. (2)
Died at St. Vincent’s Hospital on May 5, 1924,
following fight at Sydney Stadium on May 3.
(3) Weight 7st. 101 b., height sft. 3in., reach 68in.
* * * *
(1) Does Ron Richards hold the middle-
weight, light-heavy and heavyweight cham-
pionships of Australia? (2) If so, how did he
win them? (3) How many times has Richards
fought Fred Henneberry, and what were the
results? —9110.
(1) Yes. (2) He won the middleweight title
from Fred Henneberry at the Sydney Stadium
on December 21, 1936, when Henneberry col-
lapsed in the 10th round, and became the light-
heavy and heavyweight champion when
Ambrose Palmer, who held these champion-
ships, retired after his contest with Leo
Kelly on April 6, 1936. (3) Seven times. Their
first contest was a draw; Henneberry won
three of the others on points, Richards two
on fouls. Their last fight was when Richards
won the list. 61b. title from Henneberry in
1936.
* * * *
(1) I understand that a former Australian
boxing champion has compiled a complete list
of Australian boxers’ (past and present) records,
together with records of world’s champions.
Particulars, please? (2) A few lines about the
author ? —9llB.
(1) Mick Simmons’ Australian Boxing Annual,
compiled by Jack Read; price Is. 6d., obtain-
able leading booksellers. (2) A Tasmanian, he
was amateur featherweight champion of Aus-
tralasia in 1910; turning to professional boxing,
he won the lightweight championship in 1913.
sic sjs
Do spectacles improve or weaken the sight,
and can shortsightedness be improved without
wearing spectacles ? Also, do people ever lose
their sight because of shortsightedness ? —8687.
Properly-fitted spectacles, by correcting errors
of refraction in the eye, are an aid to vision
and do not weaken the sight. Certain visual
defects are now treated by courses of exercises
designed to strengthen the ocular muscles, but
these methods are unlikely to supersede the use
of glasses. Simple errors of refraction pro-
ducing the condition known as “shortsighted-
ness” are not of themselves a cause of blind-
ness.
' 4
(1) Assuming there are five species of Aus-
tralian snakes deadly to man—tiger, brown,
death adder, copperhead and black—why can-
not some arrangement be made whereby a
suitable anti-serum can be produced and dis-
tributed to districts where snakes are most
prevalent ? (2) Are there specific sera for the
tiger, death adder and copperhead? (3) What
is the annual deathrate in Australia due to
snakebite ? (4) From whom could full infor-
mation on the subject be obtained? —9058.
(1) Differences in composition found among
the venoms of Australian snakes have so far
rendered unsuccessful attempts to make a
general snakebite antidote. (2) At present there
is a specific anti-venene for the tiger-snake only.
(3) Exact figures not available, but probably
not more than six or eight per season for the
Commonwealth. (4) From Dr. C. H. Kellevvay,
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, Melbourne,
who is conducting research on venom problems.
* -1= * *
A few details concerning Paul Robeson,
the negro actor and singer? —9ls4
Eighth child of a Princeton (U.S.A.) minis-
tei, he was the third negro to enter Rutger’s
University. Proceeded to Columbia University
as a law student. He appeared in 1924 with
the Provmcetown Players in Eugene O’Neill’s
plays, making immediate success in “The Em-
peror Jones.” He appeared in “Show Boat”
in London, and has given many vocal recitals.
He played the role of Othello in London
in May, 1930. Age 39.
* * * *
(1) Is the electoral system in Germany by
secret ballot as in New South Wales? (2)
What was the number of votes at last elec-
tion in favor of the Hitler regime, and what
the number against it? —B9l9.
(1) Yes. (2) Total votes, 45,002,702; in favor
o* Hrtler, 44,462,458 ; against, and invalid votes,
544,244.
* * * if.
Names of the 32 points on a marine com-
pass ? —9lOB.
North, North by East, N.N.E., N.E. by N ,
N.E., N.E. by E., E.N.E., E. by N„ E„ E. by
S., E.S.E., S.E. by E„ S.E., S. by E.S., E.S.S.,
E. by S., S., S. by W., S.S.W., S.W. by S.,
S.W., S.W. by W., W.S.W., W. by S., W„
W. by N., W.N.W., N.W. by W., N.W., N W
by N., N.N.W., N. by W.
* * * *
(1) On what legend is Debussy’s “La Cathe-
drale engloutie” based ? (2) Is there any legend
or story connected with “Gardens Under
Rain” ? —9lOO.
(1) On a story told in Brittany and other
parts of Europe of a city long submerged in
the sea, the bells of whose cathedral sound
faintly when agitated by a storm. Possibly
derives from the story of Atlantis. (2) Haven’t
heard of any. The piece, one of the Etampes
series, is in toccata form, and based on two
old French folk songs.
* * * *
(1) The number of inmates in N. S. Wales
mental hospitals? (2) Percentage of cases of
insanity due to venereal diseases. (3) Cost per
head to the State ? —8502.
(1) The number of certified patients as at
June 30, 1937, was 10,343. (2) Information
not available; out of 1443 patients admitted
in a year the number so affected was 56. (3)
£52 12s. 6d. p.a.
* * * *
How can patent rights for an invention be
secured, and the cost for temporary and out-
right patents? Does an Australian patent
cover overseas rights? —9o23.
There are two methods of making an appli-
cation for a patent: («) An application accom-
panied by a provisional specification in the first
instance, to be followed (if found likely
to be valuable) within nine months by a com-
plete specification • with drawings and definite
claiming clauses; (6) a complete specification
without a previous provisional. Either a pro-
visional or complete application gives the appli-
cant 12 months’ priority over other applicants
in overseas countries under the provisions of
the International Convention. During the nine-
months period of the provisional protection
the inventor can make, use and vend the in-
vention without endangering the validity of
his patent when subsequently granted. The
charges by a reputable attorney (inclusive of
Government fees) are £5 ss. for provisional
application and from £22 to £3O for completing
it, or for a full patent in the first instance
from £24 to £32. Names of highly-reputable
attorneys appear in The Bulletin’s advertising
columns.
* Hs * s*:
(1) Pronunciation of San Michele? (2) Is
St. Michael the patron saint of any craft or
profession ? (3) Who is the patron saint of the
medical profession ? (4) Pronunciation of Axel
Munthe? (5) Brief biography? —9o4s.
(1) “San Mish-shay-lay” is pretty close to it.
(2) No; but he was originally regarded as the
patron saint of the Jews. (3) St. Luke.' (4)
“Ahksell Moonther.” (5) Born in Sweden,
1857. Studied medicine at Montpellier (1877),
and in Paris (1877-80). Appointed Physician-
in-Ordinary to King of Sweden (1903) and to
Queen (1908). Holds degree of M.D. (Paris)
and the decoration of C.V.O. Has now re-
tired from practice, and lives at Torre di
Materita, Island of Capri. Chief publications:
The Story of San Michele, Red Cross and Iron
Cross, Memories and Vagaries and Letters
from a Mourning City.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of Willis’s impetago ?•
—8654.
This infectious disease is caused by an organ-
ism known as the streptococcus, while in the
crusts which cover the lesions the common
germ of the skin, the staphylococcus, is abun-
dantly present; The scabs should be removed
by poulticing with starch paste on lint, and
the affected parts then dressed with an oint-
ment containing 1 p.c. of ammoniated mercury
in vaseline or zinc paste. In long-continued
cases the administration of a streptococcal
vaccine is sometimes advisable.
* * * *
How can l cure a red nose ? It is slightly
worse after meals and very sensitive to the sun.
Can you suggest external and digestive treat-
ment for it? —8915.
As a local application, the following is useful:
Calamine }oz., zinc oxide boric acid
1 drachm, glycerine 2 drachms, water 6oz.
Avoid all forms of alcohol, tea, coffee, spiced
meats and condiments. Probably curries are
more harmful than alcohol. Vegetarianism is
worth a trial in obstinate cases. Violent exer-
cise is undesirable, and undue exposure to the
sun always aggravates the disease.
$ * * ' $
(1) Is there a Government department in
Sydney where a child can be examined for
t.b. ? (2) Address ? (3) Is it free ? (4) Is
treatment given; if so, where, and is it free?
(5) If a patient examined was found not to be
suffering from t.b. but some catarrhal chest
and lung trouble or trouble known as cavities,
would treatment be arranged for same ? (6)
What hospital would patient likely be sent
to ?— 8622.
(1) and (2) Yes. T.B. division of the Health
Department, 93 Macquarie-street, Sydney. (3)
Yes. (4) Treatment is given free of charge,
or in accordance with patient’s means, at
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Royal North
Shore Hospital, St. Vincent’s Hospital and other
institutions in touch with the Health Depart-
ment. (5) The treatment of chest conditions,
not only of pulmonary tuberculosis, is under-
taken by specialists at the hospitals named.
(6) If anything more than outpatient
treatment is required, the choice of a suitable
hospital depends upon the decision of the ex-
amining authorities, upon the age and sex of
the patient and upon the accommodation avail-
able.
* * * *
(1) What is the cause of thick growth of
hairs on arms and legs particularly? (2) Can
growth be removed, or reduced, by medical
treatment ? —BBl6.
(1) In most cases it is not possible to dis-
cover any apparent cause for the growth, but
there is no doubt that applications,
such as vaseline or cold cream, strengthen the
growth of downy hair, as does the possession of
a morbidly greasy skin. (2) If the hairs are
few in number, and especially if they are grow-
ing from moles, electrolysis is the most satis-
factory means of treatment. If they are
numerous, the treatment will be prolonged
and the results will at first seem disappointing;
quite a number of hairs reappear, and the
operation has to be repeated again and again.
The use of X-rays is not generally considered
desirable, as they may produce unpleasant
changes in the skin. Mechanical removal by
means of the safety razor or by means of
soaped pumice stone is a safe and satisfactory
method, but must be repeated periodically.
Depilatory remedies which contain the sul-
phides of barium or calcium mixed with oxide
of zinc and starch may be spread on the
affected parts. These applications dry in about
10 minutes, and when washed off bring the dis-
solved hair with them. Here, again, the effects
are.only temporary.
* * * *
(1) How can I keep a bedridden invalid’s
room deodorised and maintain a faint aromatic
atmosphere? (2) Any solid slowly-evaporative
deodorants known, and where obtainable ? (3)
Any hints on keeping invalid’s room in sweet
condition without being too ‘much like a hos-
pital ? —8649.
(1) One of the best preparations is that
called “Ribbon of Bruges”; this is put up in
the form of tape in a cardboard container.
A small strip, when ignited, gives off a pleasant
aromatic odor. (2) Naphthaline blockettes, ob-
tainable at any chemist. (3) Patient should be
completely washed at least once daily, using
a non-irritant soap. The skin should be dried
very thoroughly with a soft towel and the body
surfaces dusted with liberal supplies of toilet
powder. An air-cushion or a water-bed helps
to prevent bed-sores. The mouth should be
kept clean with good dentifrices, and a prepara-
tion of glycerine, boracic acid and myrrh used
as a mouthwash. Eau de Cologne is very use-
ful in the sick room.
* =!< * Jjs
/] few details concerning Ralph Bates? —
8955.
He was a railway mechanic. After serving in
the war he returned to work as an apprentice in
the G.W.R. works at Swindon, England. Later
he went to Spain, where, he writes, “he walked
the length and breadth of the country.” Work-
ing as a docker in Barcelona he engaged in
politics. In 1933 he wrote Sierra, which was
followed by Lean Men. The Olive Field (a
study of northern Spain written from personal
experience) was written in a fishing village on
the Spanish coast, where he took part in
sardine fishing. Since the outbreak of the Civil
War he has been working for the Valencia Gov-
ernment, first in the hospitals and lately with
the International Brigade.
* * * *
How to get rid of cockroaches ?— 9002.
Find out what the cockroaches are feeding
on and remove it. Leave no scraps anywhere;
burn everything quickly; cover all food; keep
no dark corners. Spray heavily with kerosene
or turpentine all likely spots which offer har-
borage. If they collect round a fireplace make
up cement mortar and fill all cracks and holes;
block up similar places round the sink with
white-lead. Put kerosene down behind skirtings.
* * % H=
Where is Macquarie Island? Who dis-
covered it, and what industries, if any, does it
support ? —B9BB.
One of a group in the South Pacific, lat.
54 south, long. 159 east, about 600 miles south-
west of Maoriland; discovered in 1811 by seal-
fishers from N.S.W. The island is 18 miles
long by five miles broad; it is low-lying and
destitute of timber. For many years the group
was worked as a birding and sealing ground
under the Maoriland jurisdiction; in recent years
licenses have been granted by Tasmania.
* * * *
(1) What play won the 150 th Anniversary
full-length-play competition? (2) Will it be
produced in Sydney? —9l4B.
(1) “Men Without Wives,” by Henrietta Drake
Brockman. (2) Yes, by the Sydney Players’
Club at St. James Hall on April 30.
Brief Answers.
S J.D.: Write chairman, Employment Council
of N.S.W., 9th Floor, Savings Bank Building,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .A.J.: Cannot
trace any books on the subject. Miss Kibble,
Research Officer, N.S.W. Public Library, Syd-
ney, may be able to supply list of articles which
have appeared on the subject in the technical
press... .T.C.L.: Molasses contain 20 p.c. of
water, 60 p.c. of different forms of sugar and
5 p.c. of mineral material. The remaining solid
content is a complex mixture containing little,
if any, oil. It is not suitable for lubrication....
E. : Complete sets are worth about 20s.
There are many thousands in existence....
F. : British subjects desirous of landing in
the United Kingdom are not required to be
in possession of capital C.T.: Write Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T.....
L.A.S.: H. H. Styants represents Kalgoorlie in
the W.A. Leg. Assembly... .FJ.: Write Director,
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
... .T.G.A.: Cannot make comparisons of that
nature T.A.T.: Christie’s, Ltd., 11 Strand-
arcade, Sydney... .J. 0.5.: (1) Write Under-
secretary, Department’ of Mines, Sydney. (2)
Write Under-Secretary, Department of Agri-
culture, Brisbane... .G.D.: Impossible to place
a valuation on the books listed without inspect-
ing them. As an instance, the date of 1854
given as the first edition of Plain or Ringlets
is incorrect, the first edition being in 1859,
and other discrepancies in dates occur in your
list... .E.J.S.: The origin of playing cards is
not definitely known; there is a theory that
they came from China; reason for the number
of cards and the various characters—ace, king,
queen and jack—is also merely a matter for
conjecture. The design of the picture cards
is rigidly governed by very old convention and
is never varied. One of these conventions is to
use the ace of spades to carry the maker’s
name, duty stamp (in countries where cards are
dutiable) and other data necessary to the
purposes of the manufacturer. This may
account for the more elaborate design of this
ace....E.5.: Write District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
....F.S.S.: Persons signing on the articles of
a vessel in Australia for a voyage overseas are
exempted from the provisions of the Passports
Act and do not require passports when leaving
Australia... .N.G.: Garden Island, Port Jack-
son, belongs to the N.S.W. Government....
G. : Know of no dealers in mineral
specimens in Australia. Overseas dealers
who could quote for specimens of linarite
include Ward’s Natural Science Establish-
ment, Box 24, Beechwood Station, Roches-
ter, New York, U.S.A.; Foote Mineral
Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; and R. M. Wilke,
Box 312, Palo Alto, California, U.S.A
J.A.: Write Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brick-
field Hill, Sydney... .M.D.: Get in touch with
the secretary, Royal Agricultural Society, En-
deavor House, 33 Macquarie-place, Sydney....
R. 8.: The Bible: Designed to Be Read as
Literature (145.)... .A.E.B. : Chamber of Manu-
factures, 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney, may be
able to help... .H.C.8.: Curtis Brown, 6 Hen-
rietta-street, Covent Garden, London... .W.A.
and M.J.M.: Write the R.S.P.C.A., 61 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .E.H.M.: Complete Opera
Book, by Kobbe (135.) and Standard Stories
from the Opera, by Davidson (12s. 6d.)....
V.A.K.: Cannot see the lessor’s contention.
Reading clauses 1 and 2 together you would
appear to be entitled to a renewal at a rental
“to be mutually decided upon,” but not to ex-
ceed £3 10s. a week... .J.C.: Yes. Every
partner is liable jointly with the other partners
for all debts incurred while he was a partner.
. ...M.R.8.: Like all narcotics, it has that
effect if used to excess P.D.X.: In the early
acute stages, the disease can be cured by
modern methods of treatment. If neglected and
allowed to progress to the chronic stage it may
cause irreparable damage in both sexes, par-
ticularly to the pelvic organs of women, to the
eyes, to the joints and to the genito-urinary
organs of the male... .J.K.: The deformity has
frequently been relieved by carefully-planned
operations performed by specialists in cos-
metic surgery. Not all cases are suitable for
operation, and each must be decided as an
individual problem. None of the appliances
recommended for keeping the ears in normal
position is of much use in adult life S.T.M.:
You are probably thinking of the Hay diet;
no diet prescribed by a Dr. Hall is available.
Consult Health via Food (10s. 6d.), Weight
Control (4s. 6d.) and the Hay System of
Cookery (Bs.), by William Howard Hay, M.D.
All from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
D. : Use the following lotion: Salicyclic
acid 10 parts, castor oil 6 parts, spirits of rose-
mary 50 parts and methylated spirit 150 parts.
This application should be well rubbed into the
scalp three or four times weekly. The head
should not be washed more than two or three
times a week, and the scalp should be well
dried and thoroughly massaged after each
washing... .J.H.: Write H. W. Eastwood,
Senior Fruit Instructor, Box 23, Post Office,
Murwillumbah, N.S.W., who will be able to
give first-hand information in relation to the
purchase of a banana plantation L.W.:
Write to W. Scott Worthington, F'.R.S.A.,
Peto Scott Co., Ltd., 77 City Road, London,
E. or to Vernon-Spencer Hearing Aids, 120
Wigmore Street, London, W 1 G.W.T.: As
a rule from six to eight months must elapse
before the gums are in such a condition that
the permanent plate can be worn satisfactorily.
The work can be done at the Dental Hospital,
Sydney. Write to the superintendent for par-
ticulars. Fees are in accordance with patient’s
means R.C.: Impossible to hazard an
opinion on the cause of your trouble; you
state neither your age nor your sex. Medical
examination is advised... .C.V.S.: (1) They are
merely collections of tiny veins in the super-
ficial layers of the skin. (2) No. (3) They are
sometimes treated with carbon dioxide snow,
which causes shrinkage but frequently leaves
a small white scar. As a rule no treatment is
necessary L.D.: (1) You will have to make
private arrangements for the preparation of the
remedy. To undertake this on any large scale
will require considerable expenditure on plant.
(2) You incur no liability so long as the
preparation contains no irritant or poisonous
substance. (3) Consult an advertising agent.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
■
m
m
%
C7&ereomcfeß/ick
Sudden braking
takes a lot out of tyres
— don’t speed to excess
in traffic.
dft\
Barnet Glass
CheckskidTyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
W 8930 37 Barnet Glass Rubber Company Limited (Incorporated in Victoria )
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“F.S>.”: A soda-water siphon in a
desert flanked by a fried egg, a ten-franc
piece and a peanut (B. 16/3/’38)? Since I
was last in Paris French Surrealism has
evidently lost its punch. The sensation
of such an exhibition 15 years ago was a
frame within which was a real bucket
of real whitewash, not a mere
trumpery representation in pigment. But
it was outmoded a few years later by a
piece of statuary representing a matador
on a disembowelled horse. Rider and
steed were executed in drainpipes, and
the extruded entrails were tubes from
bicycle tyres. The author had done it for
a jest, and for a joke an Australian artist-
friend suggested he should send it to the
show. He woke up next morning to find
himself famous. His fame spread to
other European capitals. Meeting the
sculptor subsequently, the Australian re-
minded him of the joke. “True,” said
the genius, looking at him solemnly. “But
it was actually the inspired work of my
subconscious ego. It was merely my
conscious mind which regarded it as a
joke.”
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: The camera is a danger-
ous weapon, always apt to backfire, as
even the sedate “Listener,” the 8.8. C.
print, has been learning to its cost. Eager
to join its fellow-press in illustrating the
habits of war, the opulent-looking jour-
nal recently devoted the whole of its
front page to a picture of a well-groomed
“Loyalist” Spanish rifleman potting the
dastardly Franconians from behind cover.
Forthwith appeared a ribald correspon-
dent with the remark that “there are, of
course, left-handed rifle shots, but a man
shooting from the right shoulder with
right hand foremost and left hand on the
trigger must be unique.” Acidly admit-
ting that the attitude was “unusual,” the
8.8. C. added that “conditions in the fir-
ing line did not admit of studio poses.”
Next week, it turned to machine-guns.
Out of the front page stared a horror in
a gas mask pointing a late-type Vickers
straight at the startled reader. Immedi-
ately up popped another correspondent:
He is trying to scare your readers with
a machine-gun whose muzzle attachment is
suitable only for blank ammunition, and
he has even forgotten to open the belt
box and load the gun.
Muttering that that picture was “taken on
manoeuvres,” the “Listener” retired to
safer fields when preparing its next issue.
* * * *
“Ardrigh”: One of the most curious
social changes of the last few years has
been the steady disappearance of the
great untitled chiefs of the Highland
clans. The last veteran to hold undis-
puted chieftainship over the Macleans
died last year and left a young girl of
17, head of the Ardgour cadet house, as
the apparent senior member of Clan Gil-
lean. She has been in Australia within
the last few weeks. Macleod of Macleod
dying, his clan is now headed by a woman
for the first time in many centuries of
Dunvegan history. The head of Clan
Mackay is a Dutchman. And now even
Lochiel, whose ancestor, Black Ewan,
was the only man in his regiment to own
a pair of shoes at Killiecrankie, and who
is the grandson of a Duke of Buccleuch,
is faced with “economic circumstances
which may prevail in connection with the
Lochiel estates.” A move is being made
by clansmen to secure Achnacarry, which
has been held by the Lochiel Camerons
since the sixteenth century, and vest it in
a trust so that it can never be anything
but Cameronian.
* * * *
“N.M.”: To talk to cheerful a«nd
knowledgable Gertrude Vaile, of Min-
neapolis, is to feel that the millennium is
just around the corner. Director of the
School of Social Work in the University
of Minnesota, the lady was in confer-
ence with some of the heads at
Washington before her departure for our
shores. The subject was the minimum
State assistance (relief to us) to be given
to each American family stricken by
environment or by the depression.
Believe it or not, in that allowance is
tucked a trifle for entertainment. There
are 32 schools of social work in
the U.S.A. The graduates of these, in
addition to their specialised angle of
social welfare, must study psychology,
political science, economics and preven-
tive medicine. The Federal authorities
are so awake to the importance of this
work that they grant many scholarships
—6O to the University of Minnesota
alone last year. Services to children rank
high in the American scheme. Another
cheer goes to Uncle Sam for his help
to the artist, the writer and the actor
when depression stalked. Murals for
public buildings were commissioned, and
unemployed actors were employed to
entertain other unemployed in open-air
theatres.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
1.M.: What’s the point? G.N.: Blowing
the cloud and its glowing “multitudinous iri-
descent rays” back whence it came... .P.S.:
Nothing new there... .S.E.P.: Don’t want
“clouds of death” K.A.S.: Nor “ravished
roses” Enmac: Very considerate of lips to
“press on lips” while “kindly age looks on and
smiles full knowingly”; it used to be done in
the dark W.D.W.: “Outposts of Beyond”
get posted to us every day... .E.L.F.: Since
you “fear our ungentle criticism” we won’t
say what we were going to . ...E.S.W.: “Give
me the road, the open road”; apply Transport
Dept 8.H.P.: Slight E.E.: A song but
not a poem C.H.: Sugar’s your weakness.
E.M.: “Blinkers, the one-eyed horse,”
is going home at a gallop... .M.S.: Flames win.
J.E.O’L.: Tramp sank E.S.C.: Manu-
script’s mouse-nibbled edges were unusual;
poem not... .N.M.: Not far off... .O.B.: Seen
worse hats T.E.McC.: “Damn your eyes,
editor, can you beat it?” No, damn your eyes,
we can’t:
Oh, you should see her dance the can-can,
And hear the boys all shout,
Hoop-la, hoop-la, hoop-la!
I say baby
I’d like to take you out.
Oh, she has me nearly crazy,
You bet she’s just a daisy,
For when she does the can-car.
My eyes they just pop out.
N.McK.: Rambling M.G.: Rough
country E.M.E.: “Good Company” pleasant
but not impressive... .J.G.W.: Satirical stuff
the best O.McM.: Try a woman’s paper.
F.J.: Sooner see it in prose M.P.:
“Vexing’s” hardly the word for international
problems M.K.8.: Last few a bit light, but
send in some more M.C.: It fluttered away.
J.H.H.: Sonnets walk; yours gallops
L. Nothing new enough in it....R.W.:
One kindly thought:
You’re staying too late,
And shut the damned gate,
And don’t come again.
S.G.: Too ragged for riches G.W.:
Snakes and hawks, yes; moralisings, no
T.D.: Labored R.1.G.: Hard-labored
M. “Perused” it, but it’s only hope is
the parish mag R.A.McC.: Doesn’t get
there... .M.K.: Too slight and off our beat.
C.J.R.: It’s very nearly the same as you
wrote before M.P.: Not for us J.F.8.:
Running onions to Spain is a little out of date.
E.E.P.: Sickly sentiment N.R.: Dunno
what you could do with that V.R.: Not
very interested in Zulus R.T.W.: You’ll
have to do a great deal better.. . .W.R.G.:
Nicely done, but the bones of it have been
worn thin M.C.: We’re still wondering what
you’re talking about R.J.: Possibly “They
Are All Great,” but your yarn doesn’t do them
much credit A.M.: Nothing much to it.
... .G.N.: Pointless... .R.M.: Might do some-
thing with it elsewhere... .H.C.S.: Try a daily.
....A.W.S.: Might make a par A.C.:
Piffle R.E.D.: Can’t use that sort of article.
. ...M.MacD.: Try writing about ordinary
life J.M.P.: Same for you R.T.: No
use to us S.G.D.: Your reasoning is a bit
beyond us G.F.C.: That sort of thing will
not get you anywhere.. . .J.A.: Possibilities,
but you don’t make very much of them
G.H.C.: Read two pages and then let the
“plot hatch out” in the basket... .L.T.S.: “I
have ideas” —haven’t we all? ... .P.V.: Nicely
done, but too shadowy E.D.S.: Came close,
but it’s much too long for what’s in it H. 8.5.:
Same yarn appeared about six weeks ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.R.: Gent, appears to have been con-
structed from a few stray clothesprops
A.M.L.: It will take you three or four years
to get anywhere near standard... .S.R.: We
took a fancy to the bunyip, but the wheeze
is pointless P.A.J.: The same gag saw print
only a few weeks ag0....H.W.: Drawing is
stiff and crude; gag a regular Easter chestnut.
....A.D.8.: Foreshortening is clumsily done,
and the background is ugly... .J.R.: We had
to pay 4d. in deficient postage before we could
gaze at that horror... .W.M.: Good idea badly
drawn... .K. 8.: No market here for colored-
crayon sketches S.T.C.: Drawings are too
microscopic for successful reproduction....
E.J.D.: Boundary-rider has just stepped out of
a Wild West story... .P.M.W.: The pug went
down for ten in the first round E.L.: It
wasn’t hard to say no to that batch of misfits.
. ...C.J.: The lines flow smoothly, . but the
figures are badly placed... .T.M.: Since five
of the jokes were stale we naturally suspected
the sixth R.G.: Suggest you present that
highly-colored sketch of the Pyramids to your
mother-in-law... .D.S.: Drawings need to be
bolder and gags not so tame... .S.S.: The
rooster would be expelled from any self-respect-
ing barnyard... .C.G.E.: Wooden drawings
and stilted jests... .W. 8.: Style gives the hor-
rible effect of everything being covered with
fur....M.H.: Burnt-offerings gag is a familiar
friend... .E.P.C.: Our eyes are still recovering
from the shock.... R.J.L.: Some idea of com-
position, but linework is harsh and ugly....
S.W.: You seem to have built your characters
out of a bundle of swags... .D.S. (Rockdale):
Scratchy, ill-shaped figures . and a poor joke.
J.A.L.: Shows promise; linework needs to
be more definite H.P.: The gent, at the gate
has hockey sticks for arms... .J.C.W.: You’re
all right so long as you keep to drawing front
fences... .H.L.: Gag may have had some point
25 years ago, but not to-day P.T.; Two
mudheaps masquerading as humans... .P.P.:
What has he on the leash —a toy dog or an
outsize trained flea? ... .H.H.P.: Gag too long-
winded. .


All roads lead to
o
EE
uS*.
m
-
lr
r*
\!<i
Ft
n
i
J&e
No tour of Europe is complete without a visit
to the “Eternal City.’’
The forums where Julius Caesar, Augustus
and Tiberius made public speeches, the Baths
of Caracalla where patrician ladies (and men)
gossiped whilst slimming, the Colosseum, the
Markets of Trajan . . . these, and scores of
other monumental ruins, reveal “life” of
twenty centuries ago. In those days Christians
worshipped in secret; now the massive cupola
of St. Peter’s stands high above the skyline.
Indeed, ALL roads lead to Rome!
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS at 5/- to 18/- (sterling)
a day, absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
50% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY
FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets, apply to: —
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret St., Sydney
or ANY TRAVEL AGENCY.
ilifiwt • • o
lTmrra
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD,
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(3
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS
VIII.
Before Mac Sherry set out on his
travels there had been changes in the
central Government. The Scottish Prime
Minister had appointed himself High
Commissioner in London, and had been
succeeded by a Welsh Prime Minister.
According to Labor custom positions
in the new Cabinet were put to a party
vote and two elderly gentlemen were
balloted out and two gentlemen not quite
so elderly were balloted in. One was a
Canadian who was considered a “charac-
ter” ; the other, a Liverpool man, had
established an enduring reputation by
speaking for eight hours apropos des
bottes.
There were to have been changes in
the Constitution also. Measures em-
bodying them were bludgeoned through
Parliament preliminary to a popular
referendum—the required procedure. But
the State Premiers having agreed to cede
to the Commonwealth some of the
powers sought—for the duration of the
war and for 12 months afterwards—the
Welsh Prime Minister, Mr. Pew incon-
tinently dropped enabling bills and
referendum. For this he was bitterly
attacked by one of the party newspapers,
the “Labor Call,” which denounced him
as a “doddering Tory ’ who had returneu
to “the political and administrative ideals
°f the Stone Age.
Warming to its work the “Labor Call”
discovered in its leader attributes men-
tioned in the Scriptures—“the blushless
impudence of Iscariot,” and “all the
vacuous blatancy of the sounding brass
of Holy Writ.” Mr. Pew and his friends
maintained that this was only dis-
appointed ambition barking; the critic
was Mr. Clancy, M.H.R., who had been
left out of the Ministry.
Addressing the nation, Mr. Pew said
that his policy was to win the war: “We
must beat Germany to her knees ; there
is no safety for civilisation otherwise.”
A reinforcement quota of 9500 a month
had been fixed. It wasn’t enough ; the
Government needed urgently 50,000 men
plus reinforcements for the 50,000, as
well as the 9500 a month. It got 22,101
in January, 1916, 18,508 in February and
15,997 in March ; but after that there
was a slump, and the total for six months
to the end of June was 83,320.
Conscription began to be suggested —
and opposed. Some of the opponents
drew comfort from Mr. Pew’s declara-
tion in Parliament: “In no circumstances
would I agree to send men out of this
country to fight against their will.” Mr.
Clancy and his friends were not among
them.
A letter from Mr. Mac Sherry to Mr.
Minogue:
“Kalgoorlie, March 14, 1916.
“Well, Mr. Minogue, I’ve been here
for two days and I can’t report that
prospects are good. So many sports
have gone to the war, and there is so
little dough about for that reason, and
because things have been onkus on the
Golden Mile, that I don’t think it would
pay to let Kling and Carrie box here.
“I’ll give it another day, but if I don’t
hear of anything to our advantage in
that time I’ll push on to Perth.
“There are a lot of old Sydney pugs
here ; and Mick Dooley, Pat O’Toole and
Billy Williams asked to be remembered
to you. Naturally they would like to see
the Game come back on the fields ; but,
as O’Toole said, ‘lf there’s nothing in it
for anyone, what’s the use?’
“These old pugs are a study. Their
faces light up when you mention Larry
Foley, and they’ll talk by the hour about
Jackson, Fitzsimmons, Goddard, Jim
Hall, Billy Murphy and ‘Griffo,’ and the
fights they had themselves, and the ones
they saw in the White Horse cellar, with
its cement floor.
“I know you’ve a soft spot in your
heart for old fighting men, and you'd
love to hear their yarns.
“Did you ever see George Seale, the
amateur? O’Toole says Seale was the
best middleweight he ever saw, and would
have beaten Fitz. if they had met in
Sydney. He beat all the others., except
Jim Hall—they were never matched—
and beat heavyweights like Steve
O’Donnell and Jack Burke, the Irish Lad.
Yet O’Toole says he wouldn’t be called
a middleweight to-day: he never weighed
more than ten-stone-ten and could easily
have got down to our welterweight limit.
“One of the men Seale whipped was
Billy McCarthy. McCarthy gave Jack
Dempsey a great fight in ’Frisco before
Fitz. took the championship from Demp-
sey, and Billy stopped La Blanche, who
knocked out Dempsey with that punch
of his. O’Toole tells me the best scrap
he ever saw was one between this
McCarthy and Billy Smith—the fellow
they call ‘Australian’ Billy Smith in Cali-
fornia, who taught Sharkey all he knew.
McCarthy and Smith battled for 11 fear-
ful rounds at the White Horse, until
Mac slugged Billy out with a body punch.
It was a private fight, arranged by Foley
for the benefit of his patrons, and the
pugs, when reassembled, divided a tenner.
What would Durkin and Rafferty say to
that?
“Do you remember ‘Smiler’ Hales?
You’ve heard of him, anyway. He was
boxing editor of the ‘Referee’ when he
fell out with Mr. Foley, and he said to
Mr. Foley, waving a pen at him, ‘That’s
your master,’ and Mr. Foley said ‘That’s
yours,’ cracking him on the chin. Well,
these old fighters came to Coolgardie
when ‘Smiler’ was running a paper there,
and ‘Smiler’ took a fatherly interest in
them and wrote up all their matches. The
Game went big in those days, and went
bigger still at Kalgoorlie fourteen or fif-
teen years ago, when fellows like Bob
Turner and Jack McGowan were there.
Things are very different now.
“I almost forgot to mention I’ve been
introduced to ‘Possum’ Ward, who had
that famous field-fight in Queensland.
He promised his father to wire the result,
and this was the wire: ‘Won easy;
seventy-five rounds.’ ‘Possum’ is a
talented old gentleman—he can wag his
ears.
“To hear these old-timers talk of Syd-
ney in the White Horse days you’d think
they were longing to go back. But they’re
not —that’s the strange part. Though you
can’t compare Kalgoorlie with Sydney,
they like it better. They’ve been here for
so many years that the place has grown
on them. They’ll tell you there’s no life
like the life *of the fields, and there’s
always the chance that a fellow will strike
it rich somewhere, and there’ll be a rush
and they’ll be in it; and then the good
old days of Coolgardie will come again.”
Another letter from Mac Sherry at Kal-
goorlie—to Miss Molly Finucane:
“It’s a queer town I’ve been in these
last two days. There’s nothing quite like
it on our side of the continent. Very
wide streets, and substantial brick build-
ings in the centre, and in the suburbs a
few nice houses where the nobs live ; but
the rest all wooden shacks and hessian
humpies.
“Water is pumped 350 miles and laid
on everywhere. And the people need it,
for the red ground is nearly as hard as
cement, and there is no river for hun-
dreds of miles. There are some fine
gardens and parks and beautiful race-
courses: it must take a power of water
and attention to keep them in the state
they are, for it is a thirsty land.
“One thing in which they beat us is
lighting. Kalgoorlie and Boulder are
better lighted than any of our Sydney
suburbs. And at night the Golden Mile
is an electrician’s dream.
“The Irish are very highly thought of
here. They pioneered most of the gold-
fields and left a great name for pluck
and for readiness to share their last drink
of water with a fellow-creature.
“I met one of them to-day—Jerry
McDonough, who discovered gold in some


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Antwerp Wool Futures and Australian Growers
Will N.Z. Steel Project Succeed?
»
Survey of Base-metal Markets
Outlook for Wheatgrowers
Stocks Worth Consideration
PRICE 21 - PER COPY . OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
KNOCKED TEN YEARS
OFF HIS AGE
When He Got Rid of
35 lbs. of Fat
This man found he was carrying far too
much weight. As is usually the case —with
women as well as with men —his overweight
made him appear older than his years. When
he eventually got rid of 2\ stone of fat, he
looked ten years younger. His letter tells you
how he achieved this result:
“I am 33 years of age and weighed 14 stone
10 lbs., yet my height was only 5 ft. 6 ins.
I was looking older than my age. For about
five months I kept up the ‘daily dose’ of
Kruschen and I could see each week a gradual
improvement all round. My friends, unaware
of what I was doing, noticed this alteration
of form, and in time it became quite a mys-
tery that I should lose some 2\ stone so per-
fectly. My appearance and body form have
improved so much that I look 10 years younger.
I did not diet at all, nor did I do any special
exercises.”—A.A.D.
Kruschen is based on scientific principles—
it is an ideal blend of mineral salts found in
the aperient waters of European Spas resorted
to by the wealthy for the reduction of excess
weight.
WALTHER & STEVEHSOH EW:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
FOR
COWBOY SADDLERY.
I
> / I
L
£l 6/10/-
K
(COMPLETE).
Built for roping and
fitted with leather
breast collar. Is
double-rigged with one
and one leather cincha.
stamped leather. The
woolly sheepskin lined.
Is same pattern as saddle used by
Johnny Schneider, famous American
roughrider.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
Üb»
cord cincha
Brown basket
bastos are
\
\
/
\
111
IP
s'!s<J
i! !«
S'.'!*
sdsrJi
The best blades ever made!
Electrically Tempered
BLUE GILLETTES
• have stronger edges
• have harder edges
• have keener edges
• they last longer
• they shave better
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETTE
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
GILLETTE RAZORS
AND BLADES are
made for each other
arid spot. He showed me a photo, of
himself taken in the Roaring Days, as he
calls them —a fine young fellow indeed.
But now he’s fat and a martyr to the
rheumatics, though still cheerful.
“He says Kalgoorlie isn’t what it used
to be. The newspapers have gone to pot.
Once you could buy a goldfields journal
and be sure of reading something meaty,
such as an editor’s parting salute to the
Mayor, who was going to London: ‘Ta,
ta, Sniveller! A rough voyage, un 7
pleasant meals and plenty of sea-sick-
ness!’ Or another’s statement that the
rival sheet must be inked with cart-
grease and printed on a mangle.
“There was an editor who started a
paper of his own to get even with the
bosses who had sacked him. In the
manner of Junius and John Norton he
addressed weekly Open Letters to them,
one to Arthur Harem Rigg and the other
to Brigham Young Snooks.
“A sympathiser got a job running a
small paper in another goldfields district.
He republished the Open Letters to
Arthur Harem Rigg when that gentle-
man was standing for Parliament, ex-
plaining that he did it ‘to assist Mr. Rigg’s
candidature for the South Province.’
“It was nothing in those days, Mr.
McDonough said, for an indignant reader
of the ‘Sunday Moon’ to burst into the
office on Monday morning and try to
clean it up. One gentleman who arrived
with a revolver in one pocket and a toma-
hawk in the other was interrupted by the
police. He drew the constable’s attention
to a cutting of an article referring to
his business transactions, and read out
the closing words: ‘Are there no feathers
in Boulder? Is there no tar?’
“But the most rousing fight in the his-
tory of the ‘Sunday Moon’ occurred after
the appearance of a report of polo-pony
races in which two sons of a noted Aus-
tralian author were principals. The report
was headed ‘ROBBERY UNDER ARMS
—HOW THE ELITE RACE.’ One of
the noted author’s sons gave the sporting
reporter the option of apologising or hav-
ing the article rammed down his throat.
The other went fourteen hard rounds
with Mr. Rigg, who could fight a bit and
was full of pluck. After that they all
shook hands.
“And Twelfth of July celebrations,
Mr. McDonough went on, are not what
they were once ; nor is that fine game
hurley played any more. ‘We used to
have some grand hurley matches on the
field,’ he said ; ‘but the grandest of all
never took place.’ Then, laughing all
over, he took a piece of paper out of his
pocketbook and bade me read. The
paper was the Kalgoorlie ‘Miner,’ the
time fifteen years ago, and there were two
small advertisements, one printed directly
under the other. I’ll try to copy them
for you, as near as I can remember”:
Loyal Orange Lodge.
The Twelfth of July Service will be held
To-morrow (Sunday)
At the Town Hall, Burt-street, Boulder.
Brethren will Assemble outside the Town Hall
at 2.45 p.m.
Affer the Meeting there will be a March.
Hurley! Hurley! !
The Last and Finest Match of the Season.
Wicklow v. Clonmel.
And the Funeral’s To-morrow (Sunday).
Players are expected to be at the Town Hall,
Burt-street, Boulder, at 2.45 p.m.
BRING YOUR STICKS.
“ ‘The police spoiled it, of course,’
Mr. McDonough said. ‘They were there
in overpowerin’ numbers. If they had
been otherwise engaged, it would have
been a great occasion ; for, between you
and me, Terry, I never saw a finer or
grimmer-looking lot of men than those
Orangies who marched that day. It made
me proud to think they were Irish.’
“But I was sorry for the boss of the
paper, a good friend of mine. He had
to explain his innocence to a dour L.O.L.
deputation and him the Federal mem-
ber, and a Galway man. No ; he never
got in again.”
Perth impressed Terry as being a
smaller edition of Sydney. Though the
foreshores were lower the river reminded
him very much of parts of Port Jack-
son. And, walking in King’s Park, with
its noble avenues of flowering gums,
scarlet and crimson, turning now and
then to look at the city beyond Perth
Water, and at the wider expanse of Mel-
ville Water, he had to acknowledge that
it was far superior to any park that Syd-
ney could show.
The people he found very hospitable
and sporting. But it was plain that they
were taking the war seriously. Hospital
steamers calling at Fremantle had
brought many wounded soldiers from
Gallipoli, and they knew from the lips
of those who were their own lads and
from the casualty lists which were never
intermitted for a day how their West
Australian battalions, the 11th, 16th and
28th and the 10th Light Horse, had suf-
fered. They learned also that their bat-
talions were excelled by none, and that
for daring and straight shooting the
machine-gunners of the 16th were the
most famous in the army.
Moreover, their poets had risen to the
occasion and written war verses which
were decidedly more stirring than the
Jameson Raid rhymes of Mr. Alfred
Austin (“There are girls in the gold-reef
city, There are women and children,
too”), or the corned-beef lyric of Mr.
William Watson (“We bit them in the
Bight, The Bight of Helgoland”). “Dry-
blower’s” “My Son” was quoted every-
where :
They have gone in their thousands lusty,
But the gaps still cry for more.
They have come from the bushland lonely,
From the scrub and the sounding shore:
From out of the desert dreaming,
From out of the rolling range,
From the distant placid pastures,
From the hills that never change.
Out of the alleys squalid,
Where the days are drear and dun,
With pride I heard their footsteps ring:
And . so I have sent to serve the King
My son,
My son.
And if he must prove an Abel,
Killed by another Cain,
Give him, O Lord, at passing,
No portion of Calvary’s pain!
Let us write over his slumbers
The glorious words “Well done!”
For, whether our Flag shall wilt or wave,
Let us remember He also gave
His Son,
His Son.
Terry met “Dryblower” and found him
a lively, sandy-haired fellow who must
have his joke. In Perth it was consid-
ered odd that so incorrigible a jester
should have struck so deep a note.
Terry also made the acquaintance of
Lieutenant Thro'ssell, who had brought
to his native State a Gallipoli V.C. He
was the son of its second Premier ; and
he confided to Terry that he had done a
bit of boxing when he found things dull
on his farm, which was at “a place
called Cowcowing.” “As an amateur, of
course,” he explained, “and against
fellows you could have sewn up in a
round or two.” But he was obviously
rather proud of his deeds with the gloves.
Terry was told that, provided every-
thing was all right, Kling and Carrie
would “draw,” but he would need to
have them in Perth at least a fortnight
before the fight, so that the “sports”
might “see for themselves there would be
no funny business.” Perth would take
no Sydney boxer on trust —it had “had
enough of feather-pillow pugs who
trained on Swan beer and oysters.”
Thus advised, Mac Sherry matched
Kling and Carrie for an Easter-Monday-
morning mill on a football ground which
was fairly convenient for those who
wanted to go to the races afterwards, as
most of the crowd did. And Mick and
Jimmy boxed a 20-round draw', and
spectators and newspapermen voted it an
interesting show, and nearly £6OO was
taken at the gates, which would mean
that a return match would be worth
another £4OO at least. Sq everyone was
satisfied.
(To be continued .)


Farmers Steele Rudd Never Knew
BY HAROLD HAYSEED.
EVERYBODY knows what a farmer
ought to look like. Steele Rudd
and the caricaturists have seen to
that. There should be two kinds
of farmers—Dads and Daves.
Dad looks as if he were a mix-up of
Henry Parkes and a Hairy Ainu. As
seen by our national- artists, he is
always engaged in waking an imbecile,
called Choom, at 2 a.m. ; or he is being
kicked Ijy a cow called Strorberry or
standing in a doltish attitude in a hotel
bar or bedroom, or in an art gallery,
with Dave, before a nude. His whiskers
are like the original Jasper’s Brush.
Dave, on the other hand, looks like
Henry Lawson would have looked if he
had been a half-wit and had been reared
at Doodlakine. He is usually repre-
sented as wondering whether his best
girl can milk. Otherwise, he is to be
seen standing in a doltish attitude in a
hotel bar or bedroom or, with Dad, in
an art gallery before a nude.
This —the farmer, not the nude—re-
minds me that Australia is failing to pro-
vide Frith with a plenitude of material.
To watch Frith fossicking among the
plain, Gilletted faces of the Australian
population gives one the same sensation
as comes from observing a shipwrecked
earl, cast ashore without his vintage port
and caviare, as he fossicks round the
coral for a feed of shellfish.
When Frith first arrived, of course,
there still were a few visages in the
Commonwealth with which a respectable
humorist might dally for a moment. But
the claim has since been almost entirely
worked out.
Gradually the stock of models has dis-
appeared ; and the time arrived after the
last Commonwealth elections, at which
cartoonists suffered some especially sad
bereavements, when his friends became
alarmed at the appalling change in Frith.
He was to be seen wandering vaguely
round with his shipwrecked air intensi-
fied, as if he had found the last shellfish
on the atoll.
Just as all were in despair about him
and had begun to take up a subscription
to send him on a health trip to the
Punjab, where every inhabitant hangs his
face with a different sort of mistletoe,
the patient was one afternoon discovered
in George-street in a state of consider-
able excitement.
He was waving a copy of “Granny”
“Herald.” “Listen,” he said. “They’re
going to have an Empire Farmers’ Con-
ference. That’s the stuff, laddie . . .
whiskers . . . whoops . . . alfalfa!
Farmers from all over the blooming
Empire . . . lucerne from the ears down,
my boy.”
Somebody took him away deliriously
singing “What will the harvest be?” and
from that time there was no peace.
Sometimes he speculated whether it
was too much to expect that the Scots
would have red whiskers and wear tam-
o’-shanters.
He became docile. He drew people
like Mr. Thorby and Mick Bruxner as
willingly as if they had been Disraeli or
Aristide Briand.
“Never mind,” he would say as he
sketched some countenance like the
bottom of a threepenny soup-plate,
“farmers, next week, laddie, farmers . . .
lots of farmers . . . real faces . . . whiskers
. . . facial alfalfa.”
At last the great day arrived. Shortly
after dawn, Frith was discovered in the
office sharpening a couple of carpenters'
lead pencils and looking as Ben Hall
used to look when he heard the musical
jangle of the approaching gold coach.
He spent the morning conning the
names of the delegates.
“I bet,” he would hazard gloatingly,
“that a feller with a moniker like this
FAUNA THAT FLOORED FRITH.
Paul Bredt (Canada); D.T. Jones (Tas.); G.E. Humphreys (Q.) ; chairman
M.P. Dunlop, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), seated; G.A. Dobbin (Rhodesia) ; T.H. Bath
(W.A.); W.W. Mulholland (M.L.) ; J. S. Teasdale (W.A.); R. Mayberry (Canada);
W.E. Hale (M.L.).
would win a beauty competition for
chimpanzees.”
At lunchtime, he changed his order
from mutton to underdone beef, and used
the interval while he waited for it to
limber up his forearm muscles. On the
way to the Rural Bank, where the con-
ference was held, we were nearly run
over twice because he thought he had
seen a delegate.
In the end, we reached the bank safely.
We went up in the lift, which contained,
besides ourselves, only a couple of
persons, who looked like prosperous
solicitors.
The lift-keeper said: “Empire Farmers’
Conference, gentlemen! ”
We all got out.
Our companions preceded us into a
large room, and in the room, at long
tables and arranged by delegations, was
the conference.
Frith’s face became dead white, his
pulse was fluttering at an irregular 47.
He showed marked symptoms of cerebral
lesion, tinia, angina pectoris, coronary
thrombosis and strangles.
Now and then, as his stunned gaze
swept the hall, a wave of agony seemed
to pass through his shuddering frame.
On a large and luxurious platform, in
a large and luxurious armchair, lolled a
chairman smiling down benignly on the
assemblage. His face was smooth-shaven,
his modest features were such as we
could have found without moving ten
feet from The Bulletin office.
Below him was the leader of the
British delegation dressed in the best
that Savile Row could offer, moustached
and countenanced like Anthony Eden,
whom he much resembled.
And the Scotsman who was to wear
a tam-o’-shanter and whiskers like
matted kelp, where was he?
He came —in conformation, smooth as
a duck egg. Not a wart, not a lovelock,
not a knob or caricaturable protuber-
ance about him. Just a pleasant human
body conventional enough to become a
successful State assistant Minister.
It is true that when the Canadian dele-
gate took the rostrum Frith stiffened
slightly ; and when he caught sight of
a Tasmanian, who owned the only hir-
sute adornment in the gathering which
looked as if it had been grown in a high-
rainfall belt and treated with a reason-
able topdressing of superphosphate, his
pulse rate went up 20 beats.
Generally speaking, however, while a
a British delegate in polished House-of-
Commons periods admitted us to the
great comity which is embraced under
the proud name of “we businessmen” and
a Canadian delegate told us how many
hens there were in Saskatchewan, Frith
sat limply in his seat like one who has
been socked on the coconut with a royal
commission report.
All the energy seemed to have been
drained out of him when he caught the
first glimpse of that smoothly-rolling
Imperial harvest, a field, as it were, un-
blemished by erosion, showing not an
inch of rebellious skeleton weed or
riotous thistle, a crop of ordered faces
which seemed to have been subjected to
intensive pasture improvement and skil-
ful rotational grazing since the days of
Adam.
Eventually, sympathetic hands reached
for Frith and conducted him gently into
the street, where he stood on the pave-
ment wearing a stunned expression and
faintly murmuring:
“They call that lot farmers!”
Hastily all tried to think of the address
of a suitable politician to fling to him,
but there was none worthy of the
moment. Even Archdale Parkhill would
have done at a pinch. But for carica-
turists, alas! even Archdale Parkhill is
no more.
“Verri”: A family in a N.S.W. up-
country town who grow their own vege-
tables produced a freak cabbage recently,
in size outdistancing anything seen in the
district before. They decided it would be
a worthy gesture if the monster were
exhibited in the window of Green, the
seedsman, as an advertisement for his
seeds, and duly delivered it to him, while
from over the road the rival seedsman,
Brown, gazed enviously at the exhibit.
The head of the house returned at the
week-end and was told of the fate of the
cabbage. “Green’s, did you say?” he
bellowed. “It was old Brown who gave
me that seed for nothing just to try it.
That cabbage should be in his window.”
It was a delicate situation but after
a lengthy family consultation it was
decided to let record-breaking cab-
bages lie.


are
uou
iveris
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less from
Liver Complaint. Those feelings of “No energy’’ and “Not
too well’’ are but symptoms of a weak and disordered
system. Weak because the whole vitality is absorbed,
inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
5^
•i-s
iX3P
When buying be sure and
get DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PIUS
which are packed in this
familiar wrapper printed
in blue.
most important organs in the
human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source
of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged
by the inactivity of the Kidneys
and Bowels it becomes torpid,
and fails to filter the bile from
the blood, thus producing Bili-
ousness and a general impair-
ment of the digestive system.
There is little use in treat-
ing the Liver separately, as it
can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels are
made active in removing the waste matter from the blood.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching, cleansing
remedy. They put a move in your Bowels, life into the
Liver, and tone the Stomach—thus bracing up the
System generally.
Dr Morses
:
Jk
r
MAKE
FEEL BRIGHTER
WORMS
A MENACE TO HEALTH
HOW TO TREAT
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain or
uneasiness in the Abdomen, sometimes
spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and biting,
and not infrequently of a vague, inde-
scribable character, and yet very distress-
ing. Sympathetic with this is a sensation
of itching at the nostrils, producing a
disposition to pick the nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The Bowels
are often disordered, sometimes relaxed,
as in Dysentery. The appetite is exceed-
ingly variable; in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving, or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The Abdomen is often hard and
swollen, the breath heavy and foetid, and
tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva; swelling of
the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend beyond
the Alimentary Canal, and various de-
rangements of health are experienced in
consequence, either of the direct irritation
of the worms or of the disordered diges-
tion which they occasion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
have worms, are suffering intense pain and
distress, and are practically irresponsible
for the outbursts of temper, restlessness,
and peevishness, and, until some more
serious symptoms appear, nothing is done
to alleviate the distress. The symptoms
of this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and, if the
general conduct of the child is such as to
give the slightest suspicion, a careful watch
will afford ample proof.
Comstock s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion, compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the Intestines. They contain specific pro-
perties which destroy the worms, but
cause no injury to the Stomach or Bowels,
and do not weaken the system. The pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection,
or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or
smell, but, on the contrary, inspire
children to take them as they would an
ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores,
or direct from The W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney; or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price, 2/- per
box (6 boxes 11/6), post free.
If writing, please mention “The
Bulletin.”
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
£
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
5 '
V' rf*
f&r 1 '
Ae-
ll NV v e
*9^
Vt< s
«*&
J>*
*<V
rt <3 °
*«
<?
0° ,
. r e tp l
S® ( (4»“
*»0
l\0 V ft\*' .
.*•
,
IS '
.«•)
• ..••■ *%>&*&■


STANDARD
STRENGTH
GILBEY
QUALITY
ENGLAND—CANADA—
AMERICA-AUSTRALIA
From great cities in these widely scattered
nations comes Gilbey’s Gin to soothe and
stimulate and allay the thirsts of countless
thousands of patrons throughout the world.
No matter where you get your Gilbey’s, it is
identical in quality and purity, distilled from
the same high standard of ingredients and by
exactly the same process . . . Peerless product
of the largest Wine and Spirit Merchants in
the World, Gilbey’ s is Gilbey’s the world over.
Gilbey’s now costs no
more than ordinary gins
THE GIN OF
GENERATIONS
