

M
A
W
\\
m
v..
r/
/ S'' -v': "A. \
. y
/
r^ s .
✓c
y t'/i
m
y -
*
\v ' >\r v
rr>
X
■
9
mM-
-A\ x
[:«,?; n.
Xllh *‘
m ; '
to
yr ‘
. ?
il
**.-
>:;
m
/ray
'/
k
—jc A WMI
K/ • _0
I,
7
v\ .
'Mig
X-
Y#
W
e? <£fo -
s^'ou*.
The Waning Season
Sounds a Warning Note
npHE falling leaves of Autumn....
-®- the birds leaving for warmer
climes. In these, and in a thousand
other ways Nature is providing
against seasonal changes. To man-
kind the warning is clear —the
system must be on guard against
any ills and ailments that the
change of seasons may provoke.
“Have Wolfe*B Schnapps every
day tor your health’s sake,” is a
cardinal rule at any time of the
year, which assumes a still greater
significance at the change of
seasons. Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
potent diuretic that aids the system
to function freely by cleansing the
blood-stream of impurities. Just
now, at the fall of the year, when
a general toning up is necessary
you will find Wolfe’s Schnapps in
moderation an unquestionable bene-
fit. With hot water and lemon it
is the greatest “ night-cap ” of all .
Wolfe's Schnapps is obtain-
able in Quarter bottles as
well as in the familiar Half
and Large sizes.
WOLF^S^MAPPS
“As Good for Women as for Men ”
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3038.
Thursday, May 5, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
VISITOR TO AUSTRALIA.
Francis Ratcliffe’s Flying Fox and Drifting Sand
(Chatto and Windus; Moore’s Bookshop) imme-
diately challenges comparison with Fred Blakeley’s
Hard Liberty —recently reviewed on the Red Page—
because with similar subject-matter they are so utterly
different.
Blakeley writes of Australia from within, out of
the maturity of a lifelong knowledge, with accept-
ance, and all that he has to say is informed with a
deep natural rhythm. Ratcliffe writes from without.
He is the accomplished onlooker. In him wonder
replaces acceptance, and a brilliant virtuosity of style
replaces Blakeley’s indigenous rhythms. He makes a
good job of it, however.
Ratcliffe is an economic biologist, a pupil of
Professor Julian Huxley, who writes a foreword to
the book. He was commissioned by the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research to make two inves-
tigations, the first, in 1929-1931, into the habits of the
flying-fox with a view to controlling its depredations
on Queensland orchards, and the second, seven years
later, into the problem of soil erosion and drifting
sand in Centralia.
From his travels and experiences he has written
two books, here bound in one volume. Tropical
Queensland and the arid interior; like strophe and
antistrophe they answer one another with dramatic
contrast. Flying Fox exhibits a rich and varied sur-
face thickly garlanded with birds, fruit and flowers.
Drifting Sand is a vast monotone.
One of the interesting things about this dual book
is its increasingly Australian flavor. Flying Fox was
written in Scotland and has the air of a bright picture
projected at a distance, touched with nostalgia for
sunshine and the romance of novelty. It is, in fact,
presented as a novelty, and at moments bristles with
the author’s self-assurance. Drifting Sand was
written in Australia and exhibits an approach to
reality. In it Ratcliffe’s vocabulary has undergone a
subtle change. The imported word would sit
strangely on the inland scene. And he no longer
believes that he has Australia pinned down in his
notebooks.
Neither book has much continuity. Each is
composed of a long series of sketches, incidents,
pictures loosely strung together. There are everyday
scenes viewed with the freshness of unaccustomed
eyes — bullock teams at work, tree-felling, bird
portraits, tree portraits, descriptions of men and
women of the bush. 'Here is one little gem that
brings to life a bush picture-show: —
The cinema at Mount Larcomb was the courtyard
behind the grocer’s shop; a row or two of deep canvas
chairs, three walls —behind and on two sides —and the
sky above. I was held up for two shillings as I entered
through the archway from the street and dropped into
one of the chairs. The others were soon filled up with
Mount Larcombians, suitably paired off. I have never
seen a screen look so ridiculous, so bare and forlorn.
It had no stage, no curtains, seemingly no support. It
just stuck up there in the middle of the open side of the
yard. To its right stood two round water tanks —and I
remember that their curves made satisfying patterns
with the sloping line of the tin roof above them.
Between the screen and the left-hand wall there was
nothing—just the branches of a distant gum-tree sil-
houetted against the rising moon. Music came from a
window on the left, where a comfortable-looking
woman sat knitting in the intervals between tending an
old-fashioned trumpet gramophone. Somewhere behind
the wall on my right an unseen engine throbbed, making
the electricity for the lantern presumably. Then on to
the screen walked the shade of Bdbd Daniels.
With these everyday scenes are blended touches
of wonder: —
Walking through the open forest I was stopped by a
rustling in my tracks, my torch picked out the retreating
forms of two kangaroo-rats. But that was not all. At the
moment that I pressed the switch the ground became
studded with a myriad points of golden light. They
sprang into being wherever the beam fell, only to fade
out as it moved away. The whole forest floor was
spangled. The things could not be glow-worms, as I
had at first thought, or they would not have needed
my torch to make them shine. I was completely
mystified until I knelt down to investigate, and found
that they were spiders’ eyes! A host of wolf spiders were
on the hunt, not in scores, but in thousands. The insect
population of that area was certainly in for a harrow-
ing time.
Beauty he found in the “great spectacle” of the
galahs’ sunset flight; one moment flying down the
light, “grey ghosts barely visible against the eastern
sky” ; then wheeling with rose-tinted breasts toward
the sun, “as though solid bird bodies had been created
out of nothing but thin air and the sunset colours.”
Interwoven, too, are many anecdotes with a tang,
as that of the dog, trained to kill a sheep now and then
for his owner’s tucker-bag, who got above himself
one day and killed a dozen just when two of the
station hands came riding up. His owner shot him,
whipped off his collar and collected the station’s
reward of £20 for a killer, receiving the carcasses of
the sheep as a further donation. Or a tale from the
duststorm country about a man who at shearing-time
had to cart a number of his sheep to the woolshed in
a lorry. To free them of some of their sand-load he
took them one by one and bounced them upside-down
on a wire spring mattress which he rigged up for the
purpose. . . .
Of the scientific side of his expeditions Ratclirte
has little to say beyond a resume of his conclusions
at the end of the book. He agrees with Fred Blakeley
that “the advancing desert was nothing but a bogey
and a myth,” and that the only hope of rehabilitating
the outback country that had been eaten out by rabbits
and sheep and thus exposing the soil to erosion is in
the return to large-scale properties, each holder having
sufficient country to allow the eaten-out areas to
recover.
The book is mainly concerned with the human
aspect of the scene, and it is sympathetic in its dealings
both with man and Nature. With regard to Aus-
tralians, Ratcliffe comes to the conclusion that “it is
a strange thing, but the more desolate and cruel is the
land, the finer in their simple way are the people.”
Racial Hatred.
“Each man kills the thing he loves” might
have been taken as the text of Lena, by Roger Vercel
(Allen and Unwin; translated from the French by
Warre Bradley Wells), a novel that rises to a telling
climax, and is set down in prose as clear as running
water.
It opens with an official report of the death of
Lieutenant de Queslain in a duel, written by a brother-
officer. It then returns to the night before the duel,
when Queslain relates to his friend, who was with
him in Odessa after the war, the story of his experi-
ences as a prisoner of war in the Balkans.
It is the story of love between Queslain and Dr,
Lena Apostolova, who was in charge of the convoy
of wounded with which Queslain was sent after his
capture across the mountains. Their regard for each
other developed in spite of intense, almost insane
racial antagonism on Lena’s side. It was unrecognised
and unacknowledged until the hour when Queslain
killed her in the fury of an inverted passion during
a dreadful night of murder, pillage and rape when the
Bulgarian front crumples.
The description of that night and the few days
leading up to it must rank as a masterpiece of orderly
presentation of complete human confusion. Behind
it all is the story of isolated racial minorities, Serbian
villages in Bulgarian territory, Serbs, Bulgarians and
Dalmatians in Macedonia, sly tyrannies, open brutali-
ties, lives dedicated to revenge, swift and terrible raids,
events that achieve perhaps an, inch of space in
western European newspapers but involve the whole
of the lives of the participants.
On the night in question Queslain, having escaped
from his captors in a peasant’s dress, is hiding in a
barn in a village. Lena appears. In her girlhood she
suffered terribly at the hands of these people, and
now, with the breakdown of discipline, comes the
chance for revenge. She is party to a plot for their
wholesale destruction and is inflamed beyond reason-
ing with. The massacre takes place by the light of
the burning houses, and as horror succeeds horror
she and Queslain are caught up by the general frenzy
and destroyed.
The duel takes place in Sofia with a Bulgarian
officer who was interested in Lena and who recognised
the uniform of the French officer under the peasant’s
dress. The duel might have been averted, but Ques-
lain, seeking death, prevents that, and the mantle of
his remorse falls on another.
No sides are taken in this book. Its pity is as
wide as the world. The writer obviously knows his
locale. Its peculiarities have given him the means of
showing the poison that is racial antipathy at its
concentrated worst.
Island of Spinsters.
Dealing with a narrow field and restricted lives,
Ruth Adam manages to cast her net far and wide.
I’m Not Complaining (Chapman and Hall) is primarily
the story of a group of teachers in the Junior National
School in the slum area of Bronton, a provincial
factory town in England, during the depression.
It exploits the horrors of a little world inhabited
entirely by women and children, its undercurrents of
frustration, its molehill crises that look like mountains,
its defensiveness, and its acute realisation that it is a
barren island in a sea of life.
The story is told in the first person by Miss
Brigson, thirty years old, sensible and strong-minded
or so she imagines who, after enduring all the
deadly monotony of her profession, chooses to con-
tinue in it rather than marry the man she loves.
Despite this rather unconvincing end, the novel is
lively and intelligent.
It has the usual fault of the group novel in that
it is too symmetrical, forcing a symbolic role like a
wedge of artificiality into the otherwise natural
characterisation. Among the teachers there is Miss
Thornby, a good-natured busybody and gossip-
monger, scrupulously honest in her work, but making
her private life exciting by buying things on the hire-
purchase system. She has a “past.” She had given
up a previous appointment to be married —an event
which had occurred only in her imagination. Then
there is Miss Simpson, who solaces herself with lost
causes till they work her downfall; Miss Jones, who,
in her fifties, marries a retired sea-captain and is
thoroughly browbeaten by him; and Mrs. Lee, who
is so proud of being married, even though her husband
has deserted her, that she can think of little else.
Last, and perhaps most important, there is Jenny
Lambert, twenty-four and beautiful, who is embar-
rassed with too many instead of too few admirers
and whose problems are objective instead of subjective.
Her character is layered in vulgarity and respectability.
The closed world was not watertight. Bill Gregory,
the fighting curate —for whose affection three teachers
were silently and genteelly contending—dragged them
into the arena of local politics, where the unemployed
were fighting against a reduction of Is. 6d. in the
Government relief and where he wrestled with the
powers for the reopening of some of the factories
under Government subsidy, only to get his wish in
a way he least wanted it when they were taken over
for armament manufacture.
The world also breaks in upon them through the
very real responsibility they feel, under all the surface
irritations, for their pupils. The children are well-
drawn, without sentimentality yet with a sense of
their value buried under their endless failings. The
seven little Hunts, unteachable, predatory, dominate
the school. Behind them is the world of their parents,
sordid, struggling, hopeless yet thoroughly alive. It
is innate and unconscious cruelty that outfaces this
world of women.
What Is a Panda?
The large blonde lady plonked herself on
top of the nervous Hindu and the formal young Nazi
whom people kept mistaking for the guide, and
exclaimed: “Goldurn it, I didn’t reckon I needed
three seats! ” What she said when, faithful to the glitter-
ing advertisement “See the Night Life of Paris,” the
charabanc erupted the tourists into the cabaret where
the dancers wore a feather need not be repeated here,
but at the Apache Cafe she was beautiful.
“The company,” said the guide, “will not be
responsible for the safety of anything left in the
charabanc.”
“Waal,” she drawled, “I guess I’d betta get outa
here! ”
The lady typified the wisecracking Yankee globe-
trotter, and though she, in real life, was a pure delight,
the breed sandwiched between book-covers is usually
pretty repulsive, managing to combine the tedious
“emancipation” of the English Ethel Mannin with the
publicity-mongering of Aimee Semple MacPherson
and the sheer blatherskite of Richard Halliburton,
who calls himself (with pride!) “the American Bever-
ley Nicholls.”
Halliburton, unlike Beverley Nicholls, has done
things; and, unlike either Halliburton or the usual
female literary athlete, Ruth Harkness, who has
written The Lady and the Panda (Nicholson and
Watson), has done things and doesn’t skite about
them.
Her husband, who went into remotest China to
capture a panda, died on the job, so Ruth simply
slipped away from N’Yark, drank a couple of cock-
tails in pre-Jap Shanghai, sailed up the unshelled
Yangtze, marched to Chengtu and Wenchuan, up
Tibet way, and there herself captured the panda.
Zoologists, who presumably know what a panda is,
had been after the beast for years without success,
and Ruth’s baby one, which she fed on tinned milk,
is the only one ever to be captured alive.
She tells it all so quietly and pleasantly that she
gives you the impression that the lovable China of
The Good Earth or of Waley’s translations breeds
good and gentle writing as naturally as it grows rice
and millet. For example:
Only the road and an occasional motor existed to
make* one realise that this was the twentieth century.
The flooded rice paddies reflected lazily-floating clouds,
or were muddy from the slow-moving water buffalo
that, nose-deep in the water, dragged their wooden
ploughs through the mire. Little villages dozed in the
sunshine, and tiny farms, beautifully terraced, clung to
the hillsides. Every turn and bend in the road pre-
sented a new picture of peace and beauty; and it was
hard to believe that only a year before this same
country had been overrun by hungry Communist
hordes.
In the mountain country where the panda was
captured she describes the snow lying on the green
bamboos; and she paints people as well as she does
landscapes. For variety there are fleas and bandits,
accepted with equal lack of fuss; and if she doesn’t
wisecrack she has plenty of wit. In the States, she
had a pet cat; so when she saw one shot in China
she nearly wept; but the next day she contemplated
unmoved the bullet-riddled corpse of a bandit on the
roadside. Pondering as to why she should weep for
a cat but not for a bandit, she decides: “The only
answer I could think of at the moment was that I
had never kept bandits as pets.”
Average tramtracker should not only find the
book a very pleasant escape, but should derive some
satisfaction from knowing at last exactly what a
panda is.
Drama of the Suez.
Paul Morand’s lively Road to India (Hodder and
Stoughton) is a travel book, a history of the Suez
Canal, an economic history of Europe and Asia and
a treatise on human nature. In it geography and
history are shown as two aspects of the same thing.
Morand is a Frenchman educated in England and
fluent in the languages of both countries. He writes
from a Frenchman’s standpoint, his attitude to
England being friendly, with a touch of acid humor,
as of an admirer who does not believe everything he
is told. His description of Ferdinand de Lesseps’s
struggle to build the canal, his labors, his sacrifices,
his idyllic friendship with Mohammed Said, the
opposition of England, ending with England as
principal shareholder, policing the canal, while France
administers it and Italy and Greece supply the labor,
is a masterpiece of sardonic humor.
The story ends with, a scintillating but ironic
description of the opening of the canal, with Euro-
pean royalty present in Egyptian garb, chewing sticky
sweetmeats and smoking rose-scented tobacco from
hookahs. De Lesseps is the most famous man in the
world —at last. But at Marseilles, where he is a
{Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Here is a selection of up-to-date and thoroughly reliable
Electrical Appliances that should hold a prominent posi-
tion in every modern home. Buy now at our famous
low prices.
h
ELECTRICAL &pp£tasyicjib
U Nl5
vJ Z£o^e
ĥ
Tune in to local, interstate and overseas reception with the “Uni
5-valve Dual Wave Electric Radio Receiver. Intelligently calibrated
dial. Quality and tone unsurpassed. This set is in a beautiful
veneered cabinet. Guaranteed and serviced 12 months free in
metropolitan area. Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price . . £l7/17/-
Progress Sale Price £l5/15/-
Also Battery-operated Receivers from 20 guineas.
EASY TERMS ARRANGED.
Here is a handy little electric appliance for
your kitchen. “Uni” Immersion Heater for
boiling small quantities of water. Shockproof
handle and fully guaranteed. Anthony
Horderns’ Regular Price 3/11
Progress Sale Price 3/3
*
■
m:
w
A basket full of ironing suggests tatigue to
some housewives but not to those who
own a “Uni" Streamline Electric Iron.
Domestic weight. Fitted thumb and heel
rest. Complete with flex and plug. Guaran-
teed 1 2 months. Anthony Horderns’ Regular
Price, 16/6. Progress Sale Price .... 13/9
Save time in the morning by having an
electric toaster at your elbow on the break
fast table. This is the turnover type, heavily
nickel-plated. The Uni is complete with
flex and 'plug. Guaranteed 12 months.
Anthony Horderns’ Regular Price .... 15/6
Progress Sale Price 13/9
ft '
' ts
m
m i
a
m
m
iS':
■H
■
: H
m■
m
ij§
.
m
I
V--'.
m
%
m
r ■
a
11
■
/
H
/
j. --;
ħ
THE MIXMASTER
The “Sunbeam" “Mixmaster” mixes, whips,
beats, mashes, stirs and does many more jobs
with the attachments that go to complete the
set. Use the “Mixmaster,” it is more
powerful and more convenient than hand
beating . . . much quicker, too.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... £B/11/6
Easy Terms: 17/3 deposit, 3 monthly
payments of 52/1 or 6 monthly
payments of 26/4.
0 Electrical New Ground
Floor, Pitt - street. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs
only.
■
; ■
■} ; -
>*&
■
JL
us& ' *s&&*
«£/*- i ■ •"••:, / A :i 'Ss|pV:'4
fßri.in n *..»
■ ' ' tif ■ fSgsgglF SSJllsif' --"**«■
f liimn mrm— **
-
“EUREKA” VACUUM CLEANER
The “Eureka” Electric Vacuum Cleaner is easy to operate,
sweeps clean, vibrates the carpets and rugs and removes all
dirt and lint quickly and thoroughly without impairing
durability of carpets. Complete with a full set of attachments,
is fully guaranteed and serviced. Anthony Horderns’ are the
sole distributors in N.S.W. for the “Eureka,” and spare parts
are always available. Price . .. . £lB/18/-
Easy Terms: £3/15/6 deposit, 12 monthly payments of 25/3.
BOX 2712 G, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Rumpelmayer Again
MUSIC
MEANS
MATHEMATICS
by
J. B. Blair
ILLUSTRATIONS BY UNK WHITE.
OPTIMISM is a pretty handy commodity, and
I suppose I’ve got as much of it as the next
man, but I must admit that after the knock-
back Eddie Rumpelmayer and I got over that
Reverser of his I parted company with all rosy expec-
tations of amassing wealth through the medium of
gramophone records; but not so Rumpy. Before a
week had passed he was trying to get me to co-operate
in a scheme that would make us both millionaires and
at the same time avenge our treatment at the hands
of the gramophone companies. t
“There’s millions in it,” he gloated ; “we’ll flood
the market with records —marvellous records—superb
records—perfect records of unchallengeable quality.
Records they won’t be able to hold a candle to, no
matter what artists they get. We’ll”
“Wait a bit,” I said. “Isn’t that just what we’ve
been doing? And isn’t that just why we got it in
the neck?”
“Oh, that!” he sniffed. “That was nothing. That
was just a clumsy makeshift idea. I’m rather ashamed
of it now. I thought it clever at the time, but what
was there in it?”
Even though it had ruined us I still thought (and
still do think) it not a bad idea, and I said so.
“Bunk!” he replied. “It was infantile. Just run-
ning a record backwards doesn’t give you a new
tune.”
“Well, you said”
“Of course, on the surface it does, but in reality
no. Take an analogy. Look at this picture.” He
pointed to a Lindsay cartoon in The Bulletin. “Sup-
pose I make a copy of this picture, drawing it back-
wards, going from right to left when the artist went
from left to right and up where he went down. Would
that be a new picture? No, it’d be just a darn bad
copy of the old one. And that’s all our BACTA
records were. Cheap, shoddy imitations.”
I maintained that the comparison was not a fair
one, but he held his ground. It was a new experi-
ence to be talked to a standstill by Rumpy, but it
seemed I had to accept it.
“What’s your big idea, anyway?” I asked.
He picked up a record and pulled a magnifying-
glass out of his pocket.
“Have a look at the sound track,” he said.
I did so. As you probably know, any given
section of a gramophone-record sound track looks
like a neat copy of the hospital temperature chart of
a patient who has had a very critical week.
“See those crests and depressions,” said Rumpel-
mayer.
“Yes—and the little wobbles and quivers, too,”
I replied, trying to be technical.
“Well, that’s a Frothini record of Tosti’s ‘Good-
bye.’ Now look at this one. This is the same piece,
sung by Caruso. Very similar, you see, except that
the peaks are higher, the lines are much more distinct.
More decisive, more exact. Nearer perfection.” He
paused and put the record down. “I intend to attain
that perfection.”
“Yes,” I agreed. “A half-dozen singing lessons
and you ought to be able to beat Caruso hollow.
While you’re about it, why not take a full course and
knock Melba off her pedestal, too? They’re both dead,
They can’t hit back.”
“I’m not taking any singing lessons, and I’m not
going to sing.”
“Then who’s your singer?”
“There isn’t -going to be one.”
“Oh, I see —‘The Silent Songster.’ That will be
a hit. We ought to make a fortune on that idea. I
suppose you’ll run a full opera company with a
tongue-tied tenor and a dumb prima donna.”
Rumpy simply didn’t hear me. He was talking
on. “Look at those sound tracks, those identations.
Caruso’s dead. Frothini’s probably eating spaghetti
in Milan. Yet if I put this on a machine I can repro-
duce their voices. What produces that sound? Not
Caruso. Not Frothini. The sound track does it. They
were only the means of producing the sound track.
Well, I’m going to
get that sound track
on to a record with-
out using a singer.”
I stared at him.
“How? Well,
I’ll tell you how.
Music’s only a matter of mathe-
matics. That sound track
mathematically is nothing more
than a graph, a curve the
mathematical expression of the
song Tosti wrote. It is not
mathematically correct, mind
you, not perfect; but in the case
of Caruso it is as near perfection
as the human voice can hope to
make it.”
“Then how”
“You’ll notice I said the human voice, not the
human brain, not the human hand. I maintain it
should be possible for the human brain to calculate
the exact curve and for the human hand to draw it
exactly. Then we should have the song rendered
perfectly, surpassing even Caruso.”
I could feel myself becoming convinced.
“But,” I said, “that sounds all right in theory,
but who is going to calculate it and”
“I am going to calculate it. In the case of that
particular song I have already done so.”
“But who’s going to draw it? Can you do that?”
He looked a trifle worried.
“No,” he admitted. “I can’t do it. It requires
not only a very keen eye and an exceedingly steady
hand but also an expert engraver. That’s going to
be the hardest part of it, to find our engraver. But
I am confident such a man exists. We’ll find him.”
“Find him? We’ve got him!” I found myself
saying, convinced against my will by his eloquence.
“I know just the man. Saw him last week. He’s
just finished doing ten years’ for forging Common-
wealth banknotes. At the time he went up they
reckoned his notes were the best jobs ever turned
out in Australia. It took the experts all their time to
tell ’em from the real thing, and then they weren’t
sure which was which.”
“Do you know where to find him?” Rumpy asked
eagerly.
“That shouldn’t be hard,” I told him. “But wait
a bit. I’m not convinced that this stunt of yours’ll
work.”
“Course it’ll work. That is, provided your pal
can deliver the goods.”
OPPERPLATE, when found, didn’t seem very
' s - > anxious to deliver the goods. At first he thought
we were plainclothesmen checking up on him.
“What’s the idea?” he said. “A man gets ten
years’ for doing a job any artist in the world could
be proud of, and before he’s out five minutes you’re
after him again, before he’s had time to get his fingers
loosened up and a decent kit of tools together.”
“Never mind the kit of tools,” I reassured him.
“We’ll fix that. It’s those fingers of yours we want.”
And I went on to explain that we wanted him to do
a job for us.
“Good,” he said, when he realised we were in
earnest. “Now, look, I know just why they caught me
last time. It was that curly bit alongside the kan-
garoo’s tail. They were perfect but for that. This
time I’ll”
We explained that it wasn’t banknotes we needed
him for, and told him our real plan. His enthusiasm
vanished.
“There doesn’t seem much in that,” he said dis-
appointedly. “Why don’t you get someone to sing
’em for you?”
Rumpy patiently explained the whole thing to
him. He asked a few questions, then seemed to grasp
the idea.
“I still don’t see why you want to do it, though,”
he said.
“Why, to make money, of course.”
“Make money! Well, if that’s all you want, I’m
your man. I’ll make you as much money as you
like, without worrying about those old records.”
“Meaning banknotes?”
“Of course.”
“But you can’t do that. It’s forgery.”
“Certainly. And so is your scheme.”
“Not at all,” defended Rumpy. “We’re out to
give perfect renderings of musical masterpieces. We’re
not cheating the singers. We’re merely doing some-
thing better than they can do it themselves. As to the
composers—well, we’ll be rendering their works better
than anyone has ever done before. No cheating about
that, is there? We’ll be doing them a service!”
“But”
“The position is,” I butted in, “we’re offering you
a job. Will you take it or won’t you?”
“All right,” he grumbled, “I’ll take it. Beggars
can’t be choosers. But I still think it’s a roundabout
way of making money.”
WE soon had Copperplate installed in a workroom
at 26 Polly-street. Rumpy was against the place,
but I still had a sentimental regard for it. We put
back our recording machine and the Reverser to make
it seem homely, and a heap of blank records for
Copperplate to work on.
Rumpy dug up some funds from somewhere and
bought him some equipment, or rather paid for what
Copperplate ordered.
But Copperplate soon revealed that he possessed
all the shortcomings of genius. We noticed it the first
day. He sat at his bench alternately studying the large-
scale sketch Rumpy had given him and making sudden
stabs at a blank record with his graver. Rumpy had
calculated the sound track mathematically, and had
drawn the curve accurately but greatly enlarged.
Copperplate’s delicate touch was needed to reduce it
to the actual size required on the record.
So far Rumpy had only completed the one song,
Tosti’s “Good-bye,” but as soon as he handed his
graphs over to Copperplate he commenced work on
a second with the intention of out-Robesing Robeson’s
version of “Ole Man River.”
Even now I’m not too clear about his methods,
but he used to sit at the end of the room surrounded
by records and pieces of music. He would place the
record on a gramophone, play a couple of bars over
half a dozen times, then seize a huge magnifying-
glass and study the record intently. A bout of
scribbling on scraps of paper would follow ; some
juggling with a slide rule ; a bit of compass and set-
square work ; more figuring ; then on with the gramo-
phone again, his eye keenly scrutinising a piece of
music the while; more pencilling ; the magnifying-
glass doing its stuff again ; then a portion of the curve
would be drawn on squared paper.
It was quite impressive to watch him. At least,
7 found it so. Copperplate apparently didn’t. After
a quarter of an hour’s work he flung the record on
which he was working across the room, smashing it
to pieces.
“This noise! This din!” he shouted. “How do
you expect me to work with this racket going on —with
a crazy idiot kicking up Bedlam in the corner and
a grinning ape conducting an orchestra right along-
side me!”
I had unconsciously been tapping a pencil on my
desk in time with the record, so I assumed I was the
grinning ape referred to. This made Rumpy a crazy


idiot, so I wasn’t as hurt as I might have been in
other circumstances.
“You’ll have to put up with it,” replied Rumpy.
“Hang it all, we’ve given you a job. You can’t object
to us working in our own workshop.”
“You can work where you like as long as it’s
not in the same room as me,” roared Copperplate,
throwing down two more records. “I won’t have it.
I must have peace, solitude. I can’t work with all
that din going on. I’m quitting!”
“You’ll have to get used to it,” Rumpy began,
but I interrupted.
“Leave it to me,” I said to him. Then to Copper-
plate: “0.K., Copperplate. We’ll leave you on your
own for a while to see how you get on. Come on,
Eddie. We’ll go out for a cup of coffee.”
In the street I said to Rumpy, “Don’t you sec
what it is? The man’s been in quod for ten years.
He’s used to solitude. That noise’ll drive him mad.”
“Just stupid artistic temperament, that’s all it is,”
Rumpy complained. “How am I to get the next
record ready if I can’t go into the joint while he’s
there?”
We argued for some time, but at last I convinced
him that it was wiser to defer the preparation of
further curves until Copperplate had proved his ability
to cope with Tosti.
“Let him have the joint for the present,” I urged.
“Fix a time for him to deliver the job and don’t inter-
rupt him until he’s finished. He’s entitled to a fair
tryout.”
“All right,” agreed Rumpy. “Since he’s the only
man with any chance of delivering the goods.”
So we went back to Polly-street and gave Copper-
plate our verdict. He had made a fresh start and
seemed in a better mood.
“Well, when do you reckon you can finish it?”
I asked him.
He thought a while and then said: “Give me four
or five days. Suppose you come along on Saturday
morning.”
“Good, we told him. “We’ll be along at ten
o’clock.”
COR the next few days I had the devil’s own job
1 to keep Rumpy from breaking our compact with
Copperplate. He was eager to get on with his own
part of the job, and he’d shifted most of his apparatus
to Polly-street. But I kept him away, and it was sharp
at ten on Saturday morning we next walked into the
Polly-street workshop.
“I feel a bit nervous,” Rumpy confided as we
neared the place. “It needs to be such an exact job,
you know. The least carelessness on Copperplate’s
part and the curve slips from the perfection level
down to the ordinary, or even becomes a discord.”
“We’ll have to hope for the best,” I told him.
“And, at any rate, if Copperplate can’t do it, nobody
can.”
“Oh, good-day,” Copperplate greeted us. “Yes,
it’s finished.”
He handed Rumpy a record. Rumpy’s hands
were trembling as he approached the gramophone.
“Have you tried it?” he asked.
“Yes.”
“How does it go?”
“Oh, I think you’ll like it.”
There was a certain ring of confidence, almost
of pride, in Copperplate’s voice. The record began
to revolve. We listened intently.
Hooray! The idea had worked. Forth came the
song: —•
‘‘Falling leaf and fading tree.”
But I wasn’t think of falling leaves. My thoughts
were on “The Silent Songster” and a rapidly mounting
bank balance.
‘‘Lines of light on a summer sea.”
I looked at Rumpy. He didn’t seem to be shar-
ing my rosy dreams. He was scowling.
“It’s not good enough,”
he said to Copperplate.
“You’ve run off the lines.”
Copperplate looked
sulky. “What do you
mean?” he asked. “It
sounds all right to me.”
‘‘Shadows falling ’twixt you
and me.”
‘‘All right! Listen to
that. Flat as a pancake.”
“ Good - bye, Summer.
Good-bye, good-bye.”
As everyone knows, I’m
not much when it comes to
music, and up to that stage
I had been prepared to pass
the record, but when that
“good-bye” zoomed forth on
a note like unto that of an
earnest and conscientious
cow trying to inform its
owner that milking-time is
four hours overdue and
what is he going to do about
it, I realised that this record,
at any rate, was not going to
solve our financial problems.
Rumpy shuddered. “It’s awful,” he said as he
stopped the machine. “Couldn’t have been worse if
I’d sung it myself.”
Then, deciding apparently that the comparison
was not sufficient condemnation of Copperplate’s
effort, “Couldn’t have been worse if youd sung it.”
This to me.
Copperplate went all temperamental. “What’s
wrong with it, anyway?” he asked. “I’ve been work-
ing on that for a week and there’s no one in Australia
could have done it better.”
“No one in Australia could have done it worse,
you mean,” returned Eddie, “except perhaps One-
fingered Pete or Jessie the Elephant.”
“Well, perhaps you’d better try them,” said Copper-
plate, reaching for his hat. “I don’t want your job.
It’s a stupid idea, anyway. Why you can’t make
money straight out I don’t know.”
“Wait a bit,” I chipped in. “Cool down, you
two.”
“Oh, let him go,” growled Rumpy.
“No, look here. We can’t dump the man for one
failure. And is it a failure? It’s a success! Certainly
the record isn’t perfect, but it does at least prove your
theory. The tune’s recognisable, isn’t it?”
Rumpy pondered. “Well, you can tell it’s meant
for Tosti’s ‘Good-bye.’ But what of that? The noise
that comes out of the corner pub at ten past six is
recognisable as ‘Mother Machree,’ but it wouldn’t
make John McCormack jealous if he happened to be
passing.”
“Perhaps not, but you must admit Copperplate
has achieved something. Let him have another shot
at it. A lot more shots. We’ll have to be patient.
It’s a matter of trial and error until he gets the
perfect curve.”
Rumpy gradually calmed down and recovered his
optimism, but it took me a long time to persuade
Copperplate to stay on the job. His pride seemed to
be hurt. At last, however, he agreed to try again.
Rumpy played the record right through a few
times, making notes as he did so. Then he brought
his magnifying-glass into play, and he and Copperplate
spent some time comparing the record with the large-
scale curve Rumpy had prepared. Finally we left
Copperplate to it, with a promise not to disturb him
for four days.
\\J HEN we went back Copperplate was not looking
* * quite so pleased with himself as on the first
occasion.
“Try this one,” he said. “I think you’ll find it
better.”
There is no necessity to go into full details about
the second recital. It is sufficient to say that although
fours days , had passed the cow had still apparently
not been milked, and was still endeavoring to inform
its owner of the fact, if anything a little more desper-
ately than before.
A third attempt four days later met with similar
results. Tempers were by this time getting rather
frayed. Rumpy told Copperplate that he couldn’t
engrave for nuts, and that it was no wonder he got
caught over those banknotes.
This touched Copperplate on the raw. “I am
the finest engraver in Australia,” he shouted. “They
would never have caught me but for that curly bit
alongside the kangaroo’s tail—a slip anyone might
make.”
Copperplate accused Eddie of being out in his
calculations. With very bad grace Rumpy agreed
to check his figures. He did so and could find no
mistake.
“My curves are perfect,” he said. “It’s just that
that idiot can’t copy accurately.”
We decided to have one more try before consign-
ing Copperplate, our hopes and the scheme to the
scrapheap or further. The following Thursday we
again turned into Polly-street. Our approach lacked
the light, springy step that had characterised our walk
when we went to the first audition. We were prepared
for the worst, or thought we were.
“If he gives us any more lowing of oxen I’ll
break the thing over his head,” threatened Rumpy.
We entered. Copperplate had visitors, it seemed.
Two uniformed policemen and a plainclothesman.
“These your partners?” asked the detective.
“Yes,” said Copperplate, “but”
“Shut up! I’ll do the talking. You two guys
had better come along.”
“What for?”
“What for! I suppose you’ll tell us you don’t
know what’s been going on here? I suppose you’ll
say you’ve never seen these before?” He opened a
tin deedbox full of five-pound notes. “Or this ?” He
pointed to a small printing press in the corner.
We both began to talk at once, and Copperplate
joined in to make a trio of it.
“Never mind,” said the detective. “I haven’t got
time for reminiscences. Save ’em for the jury.”
“Sorry, boys,” said Copperplate. “My own fault.
That little curly bit alongside the kangaroo’s tail
again.”
Things certainly looked pretty black against us,
but Copperplate, showing an unexpected streak of
decency, managed to clear our characters. In doing
so he also contrived to make us look a pair of prize
idiots, but fortunately they don’t gaol you for that.
Copperplate himself went up for another long stretch.
ON the first visiting day at the gaol I persuaded
Rumpy to go with me to thank Copperplate for
doing the right thing by us at the trial. He took a
bit of persuading, too.
“What makes me wild,” he said, “is the thought
of a perfectly good scheme being ruined by that man’s
greed. I think now that he was quite capable of doing
that job if he had taken his time, but, no, he’d rather
rush it through, scamping the work so as to get time
to go on with his rotten banknotes. If a man’s going
to be a forger he might at least be honest about it.”
Nevertheless, he agreed to visit the gaol.
The warder led us down the long corridor.
“He’s right at the end,” he said.
Suddenly a strange sound assailed our ears.
“ Good-bye, Summer. Good-bye, good-bye.”
We looked at each other. It was for all the world
like the cow-lowing record.
“That’s your friend Copperplate,” the warder
informed us. “Always was one to sing. Before he left
here last time his favorite was ‘Drink to me only,’
but since he got back he doesn’t sing anything but
Tosti’s ‘Good-bye.’ ”
“The swine,” said Rumpy, turning back.
I followed him.
“The double-crossing swine,” he repeated. “That
was his voice on the records. He didn’t engrave a
line. He just sang on to the records in that infernal
cow-bellow of his.”
“This way, gents,” called the warder. “Don’t
you want to see your friend?”
Rumpy paused a moment. “Yes, we want to see
him, all right, but not here. Tell him we’ll be waiting
for him when he comes out.”
He flung the record across the room.


Skinny Hazlitt Taken Down
By
A.C.HEADLEY
ILLUSTRA TION
BY
LOCK
SKINNY chalked
his cue, lined the
black ball into the
' top pocket and shoved
the stick back into the rack.
“Scut,” he said, “something
has got to be done.”
“And quick,” said I, chalking
up for the next game. “There ain’t
no rattle in the purse, and that
wouldn’t be because we’ve changed all
our silver into notes.”
Skinny broke the balls. “Listen,
Scut, something has got to be done.”
“Which is, for instance?” said I.
But right then it looked as though we’d
both forgotten what an idea really was. If we’d
had any money at all there was the chance that we
could have improved on it, but making up a bank from
the no-capital stage is a thing that only millionaires
talk about in books on their boyhood.
Skinny scratched the thin patch at the top of
his head.
“Scut,” he said, “it looks as though you and me
will be back in the stud-selling profession.”
It was just at that moment that Winky Green
poked his head into the billiard-room, and before I
could say a word Skinny had shoved the cue into my
hand and was holding him by the lapels. I followed.
“Honest, Skinny,” Winky was saying, “I ain’t got
it. You know me ; if I ’ad it the first thing I’d do
would be to pay me honerable debts. For the last
free months I been sayin’ to m’self, ‘Winky, you owe
Skinny ten quid,’ an’ I been answering m’self an’
sayin’, ‘Winky, as soon as you git it you go straight
to Skinny.’ ” He shrugged his shoulders. “But I
ain’t got it.”
“You ain’t been telling yourself,” said Skinny,
“that you’ve got a watch or a pair of gold sleeve-links
that could act as an instalment?”
“You can have the watch,” said Winky, diving
into his pocket and fishing out a pawnticket. “The
interest is a shilling a month.”
Skinny changed his tone. “Listen, Winky, we’re
on the rocks so bad that the jagged pieces are catching
at the seats of our trousers. Isn’t there a spare five-
quid note in your pocket that you might have forgot?”
Winky’s answer was simple. He pulled out his
pockets, and there wasn’t any scramble for the coins
that fell out.
Skinny let go the lapels.
“Orright,” he said, “there ain’t no use tryin’ to
get blood out of a brick.”
“Ain’t it a pity,” said Winky, “that you ain’t got
no coin? I was only sayin’ to m’self to-day that this
was a proposition that would int’rest Skinny. I was
sayin’ but what I’d sooner let Skinny in on it rather
than anyone.” He shrugged his shoulders. “But if
you ain’t got no money, what’s the use?”
“What’s the proposition?” said Skinny.
Winky scratched his nose. “A matrimonia?
agency.”
“A what?” said Skinny and I together.
“A matrimonial agency,” said Winky. “Listen,,
Skinny, it’s a soft cop, and all you need is enough
dough to cover a few newspaper ads. This is the
way it goes: ‘Gentleman, £5OO p.a., wishes meet lady,
view mat.,’ and underneath you have in big letters
‘Hazlitt’s Agency.’ ”
“And what happens then?” said Skinny.
Winky grinned and fixed the lapels of his coat.
“It’s easy. Women always answer ads. like that, and
when you get an answer you put another ad. in:
‘Beautiful, cultured lady, ind. means, wishes meet gent,
in good pos.’ The gent, answers, and you charge a
guinea to introduce them to each other. That’s two
guineas a time, and the ad. might bring you a dozen
answers. That’s the idea, Skinny ; all you do is pair
them off and collect the guineas.”
Skinny looked thoughtful.
“Scut,” he said, “it sounds all right, and I dare-
say we could rake up a few quid if we were pushed.”
Winky grabbed him by the sleeve. “Hones’, you
oughter, Skinny. It’s a gift, an’ I said to m’self,
‘Winky, if Skinny takes it on he’s sure to let you ’ave
ten per cent, commission for the idea.’ ”
“You’ll get your share,” said Skinny. “I’ll take
it out of the ten quid you were telling yourself that
you owed me.”
“If we take it on,” said I.
“We’re taking it on,” said Skinny.
THE next day we started diving around for the
necessary dough, and our interest account went
up by so many sixpences for pounds lent. We had
to roll our sleeves and learn to tell the time by the
sun. In the finish we managed to rake up nine quid
odd, and we went round to see Winky.
“Sure,” said Winky, “that’s enough; but if I was
you I’d have a bit in reserve just in case.”
“In case of what?” said Skinny.
“In case of expenses,” said Winky.
Skinny polished his shoe on the back of his
trouser-leg.
“Winky,” he said, “when the expenses come we’ll
attend to them.”
“All right,” said Winky, “the first thing we need
is an office.”
“An office,” said Skinny. “What for?”
“Because,” said Winky, “it’s a city address that
brings in the replies.”
Well, that was that. We decided to leave all the
arrangements to Winky, and a couple of days later
he took us along to the office. It was a poky little
room, and it had a calendar on the wall that might
have been useful if we’d started out in business four
years before. There wasn’t any ’phone, so that knocked
Skinny’s idea that we start an s.p. business in our
spare time on the head. Then we got to work and
knocked out the first ad.
Gent., tall, ed., £5OO p.a., wishes meet cul. lady,
view mat. —Hazlitt’s Happiness Agency, Pitt Street,
Sydney.
We closed up the office, took the ad. down to
the corner shop and knocked off for the day.
It began to look as though the business was
beginning to show a profit pretty early. Two morn-
ings later when we strolled down to the office, there
was a letter waiting for us from a Miss Hepzebah
Edwards who wished for an introduction to the “gent.,
tall, ed,, £5OO p.a.”
“Didn’ I tell yer?” said Winky.
“Yeah,” said I, “but where’s the ‘gent., tall, ed.,
£5OO p.a.’?”
“Listen,” said Winky, “it’s just like I told yer;
all we gotter do now is advertise for him, and there’s
two guineas for a start.”
“It may be all right,” said I, “but what do we
do if we don’t get no answers?”
Winky grinned. “We’ll get ’em all right. I was
only tellin’ m’self yes’d’y that this was what would
happen. There’s a fortune in it, Scut. ’
Right away we got to work on the other ad. We
read Miss Edwards’s letter, took out the best bits and
used them. The ad. read:
Beautiful, well ed. lady, means, wishes meet gent.,
tall, ed., £5OO p.a., view mat.
We made another visit to the newsagents, and took
the day off to wait for the replies to roll in.
But three days’ waiting didn’t bring any, and
Winky was beginning to look doubtful. We had
another letter from Miss Hepzebah Edwards, who
seemed to think that the first one had been lost in
the mail.
“Well,” said Skinny, “what’s to be done?”
“Listen,” said Winky, “I got an idea. Suppose
one of us takes the part of the ‘gent., tall, ed. We
could give the intro, and collect the guinea, then when
the ‘gent., tall, ed.,’ comes along you could do some-
thing to break her heart, and we could introduce her
to the new feller for another guinea. It’s easy.”
“All right, Winky,” said Skinny, “you can be
the ‘tall, ed. gent.’ ”
“I ain’t tall,” said Winky.
“Neither am I,” I said pretty quick.
“Listen, Skinny,” said Winky, “it’s up to you ;
you’re the only tall gent. There ain’t nothin’ in it.
All you do is to string her along until we get a
prospect.”
“What about me name?” said Skinny. “She’ll
think it’s funny getting an introduction to a feller
named Hazlitt when she’s written in to Hazlitt’s
Agency.”
“Don’t let that worry you,” said Winky. “You
can call yourself something else. Call yourself Smith
or Jones or Backhouse —anything.”
“Backhouse’ll do,” said I.
So we brought out a couple of the new letter-
heads we’d bought and fixed up the letter asking Miss
Edwards to come to the office the following day for
the introduction. All day and half the night Skinny
was hoping for a letter indicating the arrival of tall
gent. But there was no mail the following morning,
and at eleven sharp in bowled Miss Edwards.
THE first thing you could say was that she was
good to look at. Hair like gold, and when she
smiled it took your attention off the photo, of your
favorite racehorse, and even if she had been bad-
looking her figure would have made up for a snub
nose and a harelip and lots of other things.
I was handling the head of the agency part of
the business, and I led her to the only chair. Skinny
wasn’t due to arrive until a quarter-past, and we
talked of a lot of things before I brought up the
matter of the guinea.
- All she did was fish the one-pound-one out of
her bag and pass it over. While she was doing it
I could see the roll of notes in her bag.
“I’m so lonely,” she said, “and I feel as if I
need the love of a good man. No matter what it
costs, it would be worth it.”
“That,” said I, “is the aim of the Hazlitt Happi-
ness Agency. To bring the joy of happiness into the
souls of lonely people. I feel sure that Mr. Back-
house, to whom I will introduce you in a few minutes,
will measure up to your requirements.”
There was a tap on the door. It was Skinny, all
dressed qp in his best suit.
“Miss Edwards,” I said, “Mr. Backhouse.”
I saw Skinny’s face light up as he got an eyeful
of the lady, and then I left the office and left them
alone. When I came back Skinny was doing pretty
well, and the lady looked as though she wanted to
thank me with tears in her eyes.
Well, to cut the yarn down a bit, a week passed
and the “tall, ed. gent.” hadn’t put in an appear-
ance. By that time Skinny had begun to take a liking
for his part of the job. He’d taken Miss Edwards
to the pictures twice, and he didn’t seem at all anxious
for the “tall, ed. gent.” to show up.
In another week, however, he was beginning to
get worried.
“She’s getting serious, Scut,” he said, “talking
about love an’ marriage and a house with roses.”
“That’s what she’s payin’ the guinea for,” said I.
A few days later he came back again.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “I didn’t see her for a
couple of days, and now she’s gone and writ me a
letter. D’yer think I oughter answer it?”
Winky was there.
“Sure,” he said, “she’s our only client, ain’t she?
We oughter keep her encouraged.”
Skinny answered it, and that was the beginning
of our troubles. When Winky said encouragement
Skinny attended to the matter thoroughly. A little
bit later he came in to say that this Edwards woman
had written him a letter of proposal.
“What’m I gointer do?” said Skinny.*
“Easy,” said Winky, “just break it orf. Say
your affections ‘has been misplaced.’ ”
Skinny did it, and the next thing we had from
her was a letter talking about breach of promise, and
referring to the letter that Skinny had written to her,
mentioning a few of the terms.
Things were looking tough.
“Something,” said Skinny, “has got to be done.”
“What? v said I.
“I’ve been thinkin’,” said Winky, “maybe we
oughter tell her everything and give her her guinea
back.”
We finished up by deciding that that was the
only thing we could do. So we appointed Skinny the
job of waking her up to the facts of life.


When he came back to the office later on in the
day I could see by the look on his face that Hazlitt’s
Happiness Agency was going to have bad news
broke to it.
Skinny didn t waste time.
Scut, he said, were in the rushes. Shes
decided to sue me for breach of promise, and the
Agency for money under false pretences.
Were sunk.
I stared at him, and 1 staled at Winky, but I
couldn t say anything because I cou dn t think of
anything.
Skinny broke the silence. She settle for a
hundred fluid.
I laughed a hollow laugh. Couldn t she have
made it a million? ltd be just as easy.
“Scut,” said Skinny, “we’ve goiter get it. It’s
either that or the iron bars.”
“I was only tellin’ m’self,” said Winky, “that
that was about the only way.”
There was nothing else for it. We begged, we
borrowed and we lost a lot of friends. But the main
thing was that we managed to rake up the dough.
The rest you could call simple. Skinny took the
dough, brought back the letter, and the Hazlitt Happi-
ness Agency went into liquidation.
R UT it wasn’t until a couple of weeks later that
the iron got into our soul. We were walking
down George-street wondering who we could borrow
a couple of bob from when Skinny dug his elbow'
into my ribs and pointed across the street.
“Take a peep at our hundred quid,” he said,
Across the road from us, standing outside a shop,
was Miss Edwards. I started to say something, and
then I gave a jump. A feller had come out of the
shop, and she shoved her arm through his.
“Look!” I said,
But Skinny was staring, and seeing the same thing
as me.
The feller she was with was Winky Green.
Skinny didn’t speak for a long while, and when
he j}j s vo j ce j iac j tired-of-life tone,
“Scut,” he said, “it was Winky who put the idea
into our heads. It was Winky that suggested that I
oughter take the part of ed. gent. It was Winky”
“Yes,” said I, feeling as bad as Skinny, “it was
Winky.”
Brief Sketch
BY MARGARET
TRIST
DRAWING BY RICE
MRS. HETHERINGTON had sweat on her
brow. Mrs. Hetherington didn’t call it sweat.
She was the wife of the town clerk, so she
called it perspiration, but it was all the same
thing. It was very stuffy in the Parish Hall. The
windows had to be kept shut because of the hot wind
outside. Still, Mrs. Hetherington was willing to put
up with any discomfort for the sake of Charity and
having her name in the “Western Chronicle.”
Mrs. Hetherington’s stall was the fancy goods,
which meant anything from a packet of needles begged
from the local drapery store and marked at twice their
retail price to extensively embroidered cushion-covers
and tablecloths which had been occupying the old
ladies at Guild meetings for months. The stall was
decorated in pink and blue with a dash of white.
At each end of the framework there was blue lattice
with pink roses creeping methodically up it. At regu-
lar intervals there were large white bows.
In front of the stall blue, pink and white
streamers hung from the top to half-way down, and
all the woodwork was bound with the colored paper
to give a striped effect. Finishing the last of the bind-
ing, Mrs. Hetherington wiped her forehead and
stepped out to the front of the stall to get the effect.
“Doesn’t it look nice?” said Mrs. Rose, coming
from the back of the stall, where she had been putting
price tickets on the babies’ bootees. “You’d hardly
know that they weren’t real roses.”
Mrs. Rose was Mrs. Hetherington’s chief helper.
She was a large woman with pale eyes and a mournful
droop to her mouth. Members of her family had a
habit of dying, so she kept religiously to mourning
clothes. To-day, however, she* had allowed herself
the levity of a plain white frock with black collar
and belt. With it she wore black shoes and stockings,
and her handkerchief was white with a black border,
“because of poor Alf,” whose demise had been many
months ago—so many that she expected to hear of
some further bereavement any day now. Alf was
only a fourth cousin, but he had been as dear to her
as a brother, and her one regret was that she hadn’t
made it her business to see him in the sixteen years
before his death.
“It looks real nice,” said Mrs. Robinson, coming
across from the flower stall. “I suppose you’re all
set? It’s twenty-five to eleven.”
“Good gracious! Where has the morning got
to?” demanded Mrs. Hetherington.
“Search me,” said Mrs. Rose vaguely, and
waddled back behind the stall.
HT HE doors of the hall were to be open at eleven,
■* but the official opening was not till three o’clock
in the afternoon, when the Mayor’s wife would do
the honors.
There was great flurry in
the hall while final touches
were put on stalls. Mrs.
Hetherington and Mrs. Rose,
assisted by Mrs. Rose’s
daughter Alice and Miss Dawson, who lived
out of town and was frightfully dull but had
plenty of money, worked agitatedly till all the
bootees and tablecloths and fancy goods were dis-
played to advantage and there remained nothing else
to do but to wait behind their counter for buyers to
come along.
Mrs. Robinson dashed madly around the hall
searching for a small basket of maidenhair which she
had mislaid somewhere.
“She’s a jack-in-the-box, that one,” said Mrs.
Hetherington, watching her.
“Won’t live to see old age, I’ll warrant, the way
she rushes about,” remarked Mrs. Rose hopefully.
“Oh, the poor thing,” said Mrs. Dawson, goggling
her eyes.
On the same side of the hall as the fancy
goods and flower stalls there was the sweet stall,
hectic in bindings of red, royal blue and yellow. It
had been intended to have white instead of yellow,
but Mrs. Hetherington had bought out all the white
paper before Mrs. Jamieson, of the sweet stall, had
a chance to get hers. However, the yellow made it
nice and bright and “different.”
A N the other side of the hall were the houpla,
the home-made jams and the children’s stalls.
Near the children’s stall were the lucky-dips, and
across the end of the hall was a latticed-in part
reserved for the refreshment stall. The lattice was
covered with “almost-real” wistaria, and inside the
lattice small tables were set waiting. The helpers of the
refreshment stall were very busy. They were dis-
tinguished by caps of frilled mauve paper and mauve
paper aprons. They ran about the hall gathering up
cakes that other stallholders had brought in, and
several of them stood about the door waiting anxiously
for the arrival of eatables which outside people had
promised to send. Just before eleven they brought
round tea in thick cups and slabs of cake for each
stallholder.
Mrs. Hetherington drank the tea thankfully. She
had been at the hall since before eight o’clock, besides
which the weeks that had gone before had been a
strain on her. First, there had been the persuading of
people to make things for her, and then there had
been the bridge afternoons and social evenings so neces-
sary to get funds for the running of a stall. It was
no use trying to run a stall without funds. The
twelve pounds she had raised previously had all been
eaten up in decorating and buying articles which she
could not get given. It had meant hard work, but
looking at her stall now she felt it had been quite
worth it; besides, there had been a certain amount of
entertainment at the functions, to say nothing of
the paragraphs in the paper.
Soon after eleven people started to straggle in.
The first-comers were mostly country people who had
promised goods and brought them with them, and a
few of the hardier townspeople who came with the
object of staying till the doors closed at nine o’clock
in the evening so as to get their money’s worth. There
was a row of benches down the middle of
the hall, and they settled themselves there.
Mrs. Hetherington did not look that way.
It embarrassed her even to know that there
were people with so little taste in the
world.
Children were admitted free, so during
the lunch hour kiddies from the neighbor-
ing school came in. They ran from stall
to stall examining everything and dragging
at decorations with their hot, grubby
hands. A few who had pennies bought
lumps of coconut-ice from the sweet stall,
and the very, very few who had threepence
expended it on a dip, then trotted away in
disgust wishing they had taken coconut-ice
instead. When the afternoon school bell
rang Mrs. Hetherington sighed with
relief.
“You’re awful sweaty,” said a small
girl who had straggled behind the rest.
She smiled at Mrs. Hetherington, exposing
in friendly fashion her little pink, toothless
gums. “You want to rub yourself well with a towel—
that’s what my mother does.”
The child had untidy dark hair crowned with a
last summer’s drooping organdie hat. Her father was
the sanitary man. Mrs. Hetherington gasped in horror
and turned to her companions. “What a dreadful
child! To think she is the kind of child we work our-
selves to the bone to assist!”
The little girl took herself off cheerfully, feeling
glad that although she was so little she had been able
to give advice to a great lady like Mrs. Hetherington.
D USINESS was not particularly brisk. By two
' —* o’clock Mrs. Hetherington had only sold half a
dozen milkjug covers, and by half-past two only a
pair of bootees had been added to them. The bootees
had been bought by a woman who would obviously
have a use for them very soon.
“Dreadful!” said Mrs. Hetherington. “Getting
around in that state.”
“She actually went to church the other morning,”
supplemented Mrs. Rose.
After that things brightened considerably, and
by the time of the official opening at three o’clock
Mrs. Rose and Mrs. Hetherington and Miss Dawson
and Alice were nearly run off their feet.
The Mayoress was a gaunt, uncertain woman who
had been quite happy minding her children at home
till her husband had thrust greatness upon her. She
trembled as she stood at the wistaria-wreathed entrance
to the refreshment stall and in a high-pitched, cracked
voice read out the speech her husband had prepared
for her. Everyone clapped loudly when she had
finished, and the smallest Jamieson, a little plump girl
with a large .pink bow on her dark head, was shoved
forward holding a bouquet of pink carnations and
maidenhair fern. The child was shy and kept her
eyes fixed on the floor. She took a few steps, then
stopped, and whoever was nearest gave her another
shove till she at last arrived at the trembling Mayoress,
who affected complete surprise at seeing her.
An elaborate speech on the part of the little girl
was to have accompanied the flowers, but she merely
said “Here, take it,” and retired hastily. The Mayoress
clutched the flowers, and was relieved to discover that
all she had to do now was drink a cup of tea, then
buy something from each stall. After that escape
would be possible.
The bazaar was a great success. There was a
lot of noise, and everyone found out a great deal
about their fellow-townspeople which otherwise they
wouldn’t have had a chance to do. By closing-time
the stalls had sold most of their goods. There only
remained the things which had been kept at the back
to divide among the stallholders.
The night was to be rounded off by a dance for
the young people. Willing hands pulled down the
bedraggled stalls and threw sawdust on the floor prior
to sweeping it. Mrs. Hetherington felt very tired but
very happy as she counted the money in her cashbox.
After all the weeks of activity and hard work it felt
good to have made a tidy sum to hand to charity.
She listened to the hammering and shouts about her
almost benignly, and when a group of children slip-
ping up and down the sawdusted floor nearly tripped
her up she still smiled.
Then, bathed in the glow that only the satisfac-
tory carrying-out of duty can give, Mrs. Hetherington
took her plump, perspiring body off to find the
treasurer of the bazaar and hand over the five one-
pound notes and three two-shilling pieces that the
fancy goods stall had yielded.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “ The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
a.
m
m
r
ft 17
¥
mi
1111 l
wn i
if
m?
f
mi
/
iiummii
▲
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
political candidate, the electors choose a politician
called Gambetta instead of the man who has realised
for them their ancient dream.
In style Morand is a romantic, but he is an
intellectual, not an emotional, romantic. He sees the
color and the splendor of the surface, but he is not
blinded to the cold facts underneath. Fine writing
—and few have a greater gift for bravura and the
phrase —never carries him beyond the saving influence
of his humor. Sharp images fill the book as with a
shower of sparks. “Jiddah is as white against the
low reddish coast as a tooth piercing a gum.” Oil-
tankers “carry along their tanks filled with precious
liquid just as the capitalist parades his stomach,”
The pyramids are “that large family of three-
dimensional geometry which extends as far as the
Sudan and surrounds Cairo with implacable land-
marks.”
If he is a romantic in style, Morand is a realist
in politics, and attacks the questions he raises with
characteristic French incisiveness. This on foreign
occupation of Egypt:
The British occupation consists of two thousand
officers who bring in more than they cost, whereas
French occupation would have consisted of a hundred
thousand civil servants. Italian occupation would mean
two million Calabrian peasants and Sicilian workmen.
The Road to India is not the diary of a single
journey. It is the accumulated impressions of many
journeys by every route available and of much
delving into history. Impressions are passed on from
the artist’s eye to the scholar’s mind without losing
their freshness. The last section is devoted to the air
route to India —and description of aerial travel is a
field that Morand has made peculiarly his own.
The subject, though not the book, ends with
this paragraph:
The Mediterranean is smaller than we thought: the
speed of our age drinks it up with an overwhelming
thirst and soon the road to India will be like a little
lane in a country parish.
Demand for Australian Ballads.
Every week the Service Page is asked for the
words of various old or new Bulletin verses. The
requests come from places as far apart as Johannes-
burg and Geraldton (W.A.), Buenos Ayres and Cook-
town (Q.). A Cornstalk who has taken remounts to
India will want the words of “Boko,” or some chap
who has done some mining round Bendigo will write
from Alaska for “The Silence of Mullock Creek.”
The piece is always required for some concert,
smoke-oh or eisteddfod, so many Australians must
prefer home-grown ballads to canned torch-songs and
crooning cowboys.
The inquirers are usually referred to books which
contain the verses wanted, and booksellers all over
the Commonwealth must reap a respectable annual
harvest from such a work as The Old Bush Songs :
Composed and Sung in the Bushranging, Digging and
Overlanding Days, edited by “Banjo” Paterson ;
“Banjo’s” Collected Verse and the writings of HeMry
Lawson, Brady, Dennis, Ogilvie, Will Lawson, Boake.
Goodge and other popular rhyme-makers, and the
anthologies compiled by A. G. Stephens, Bertram
Stevens, George Mackaness, Walter Murdoch, Percival
Serle, M. P. Hansen and Donald McLachlan.
Two valuable anthologies are the Bulletin
Reciters, both published in inexpensive editions by
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. The first was
originally a Bulletin publication—it was published
in 1901 —and was edited by A. G. Stephens. It ran
into about twenty editions, and, after it was taken
over by the Bookstall people, was enlarged by the
addition of several verses by W. T. Goodge, among
them “The Great Australian Adjective.”
The second— The Bulletin Book of Humorous
Verses and Recitations —was edited by Bertram
Stevens and published in 1920. It has run into several
editions.
Pride of place—the opening verse —in the Bulletin
Reciter was given to Edmund Fisher’s “The Billiard
Marker’s Yarn.” Another by Fisher that has lasted
is “The Sick Cab Driver.” It was asked for only the
other day by one of the few remaining cabbies in
Sydney. Fisher’s verse smacks strongly of the club
and sporting jargon of the ’nineties, and he was prob-
ably one of the best rhyming tipsters ever seen.
Many a Melbourne Cup winner he tipped in rhyme
between his selection of Mentor in 1888 and Artillery-
man in 1919.
It is typical of the Australian’s love of horses
and horseracing that a large proportion of verses in
the Bulletin Reciter should be concerned with the
gees —“The Brumby’s Death,” “Bucked Off Its
Brand,” “The Winner of the Squatter’s Cup,” “The
Confidential Jockey,” “How We Won the Ribbon,”
“Father Riley’s Horse,” and so on. Harry Morant’s
“Who’s Riding Old Harlequin Now?” is in the second
volume, along with “How Flyblow Won the Cup” and
other turf classics.
When A. G. Stephens compiled The Bulletin
Reciter he unearthed from the files of twenty years
many pieces signed merely with a nom de plume. I
wonder where the authors are to-day. “P. Luftig”
and “Quilp N.” are still on deck, but what has
become of “Alone,” “Curlew,” “Bendee,” “Magnet”
and “Tom Freeman,” who wrote “The Hairy Man
of Koorawatha”?
In their days they were probably as familiar to
Bulletin readers as “Ellenvale,” “Paul Cupid,” “Jim
Grahame,” “T. the R.,” “Albatross” and “Gerardy”
are to present-day readers.
If someone gathered together the most popular
humorous verses which have appeared in The
Bulletin since the publication of Bertram Stevens’s
volume in 1920, the volume should find plenty of
readers. Among verses that should click are Oscar
Walters’s “The Drink Before You Go,” Edward Har-
rington’s “Cats on the Roof,” a piece called “Bottle
Queen” and a more recent one entitled “Fish and
Chips”; also a Cannibal Island verse by Harold
Mercer, and verses by H. Cripps Clark, Walter
Snadden, H. C. McKay and others. The compiler
could save himself a lot of wearisome plodding
through files by sending out an appeal for readers to
nominate their favorite pieces.
W. E. F.
Australian Women Novelists.
Going through the list of prize-winners of the
Australian Literary Society’s gold medal for the best
novel of the year, from the time of its inception in
1928 to the award made a few months ago for 1936,
one finds that the prize has gone to a woman five
times during the nine years. In the first five years
only one woman, Henry Handel Richardson, won the
award, but for the last four years all the winning
novels have been by women G. B. Lancaster’s
Pageant (1933), Eleanor Dark’s Prelude to Christopher
(1934) and her Return to Coolami (1936), and Wini-
fred Birkett’s Earth’s Quality (1935).
Of the 57 novels mentioned in the combined
list of prize-winning novels and other notable novels
of each year, published in the Red Page at the time
of the last award, 32 were by women. In only two
years, 1928 and 1931, did the number of notable
novels by men exceed that of those by women. In
the first five years 15 by women were mentioned and
14 by men. In the last four years the numbers have
been 17 and 10 respectively.
Australian men may be too practical (or too
active, the two terms not being synonymous) to be
outstanding novelists ; but, then, would that not mean
that women would also lead in our poetry? There
may be greater sex-equality in Australia than in other
countries, thus allowing the women, with more time
at their disposal, to beat the men at the novel-writing
game. .
A possible clue to the solution may be found in
Best Australian One-act Plays, selected by T. Inghs
Moore and the late William Moore, published last
year.
In this volume 10 of the stage plays are by men,
seven are by women, while all four of the radio plays
are by men. But of the four plays in which the
Australian bush may be said to come near to being
an actual character in the play, although not men-
tioned in the cast, three —“Pioneers,” by Katharine
Susannah Prichard, “Morning,” by Betty Roland, and
“At Dusk,” by Millicent Armstrong —are by women.
The fourth, “Stampede,” is by Bernard Cronin.
Perhaps while men have been too occupied with
earning a living, the women of Australia have been
able to gather an understanding of the spirit of the
continent and let it sink down into them so deep that
it wells up easily into print.
Even that answer, however, seems a little thin.
One cannot completely accept it without holding that
women are incapable of lasting poetry, for men still
hold their own in our national poetry, so much of
which has been concerned with the bush. To use
Nettie Palmer’s Modern Australian Literature, 1900-
1923, as a rough standard, some 40 male poets
are mentioned in that volume as against about 14
poetesses.
IAN MUDIE.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Restless Heart: Denise Robins (Nicholson and
Watson). A bored wife’s flutter with an attractive
man. The blurb says “The cry of Julia’s restless
heart will find an echo in the hearts of a thousand
women.”
Gold Moon of Africa: Hermina Black (Robert
Hale). Problem of whether a white girl can ever
conform to the ideas of an Oriental gentleman.
The Narrow Room: Shirley Darbyshire (Nichol-
son and Watson). Unpleasant husband found
murdered. His wife’s lover suspected. Lover’s wife
fights successfully for his life and her own happiness.
And Then Good-bye: Barbara Hedworth
(Robert Hale). Triangle. Michael, who loved
Martha but “didn’t believe in marriage,” returns
somewhat repentantly from India after she has
married Philip out of gratitude for his friendship.
Where the Rowan Blows: Joan Kennedy (Robert
Hale). Love in the Highlands. After adventures the
lass is caught and carried to safety by the only possible
man.
General . . .
Plays for Earth and Air: Lord Dunsany (Heine-
mann). Ten stage and radio one-acters. Fantasy
and romance, with an occasional touch of light
satire.
The Healing Knife: George Sava (Faber). He
began by operating on a fellow-soldier on a Russian
battlefield, and is now one of the leading consulting
surgeons of England. Under a pen-name he tells the
story of the years between. A readable yarn.
Verse ...
Here’s Fun for You : Ella McFadyen (Dymock’s,
Sydney). Children’s verse of real charm and unusual
merit, for recitation and group speaking, by an Aus-
tralian journalist. Some good stuff Australian in
tone; the fairy-pieces, sensibly, derive from
Shakspeare:—
Hear me, warriors, ye who wield
Hornet’s dagger, beetle’s shield,
Ye who ride the heavens afar
On the meteor’s flaming car,
Yet so apt, so fairy-born,
Fold within a barleycorn.


p-~ m
OfeAtf
,* ' v '' '? i '; ! '# > v\ \- piv \ Jjr 5 "" ''<-
■ : '.- ■■■ iC?p®B .
u,; .
JJ»«T-' • ■«'... __ -J
i' \' •
iisiiii pfl
P,li|i ;p
“ N <»v' s - ' N ;\
il Ml 111
lipi
:
/;
■ IP
P;
i : i.l
- >*
"ylx./JX
iittli
ill
Y 'h
ill iiil
IP#
><•• :
iiiitt
"*"* * rm ruu ” eveH
a i m Sss
xP 5 , PPssSJSS:
■III | *>.
55»«
Hi
- X: V: i'! ■s•: :•■ s :
1
m
<
■
«
I : '■
lIS
'-'■ i
J
m
P
m
\ v< :
r
M
// M
!'■' i
ip- •'••-•;
H l
#• *
■
i
Never before have you seen such distinctively new
outside style or such superbly new inside luxury as in
these new Hudsons .. . Hudson Terraplane, Hudson
Six and Hudson Eight. Drive ... and you’ll find per-
formance definitely greater than you have known
before. You’ll discover the world’s safest stopping
with Hudson’s Exclusive Safety Brakes. You’ll
enjoy 1938’s greatest driving feature ... Selective
Automatic Gear Change (optional extra) ... now
in its fourth year, greater than ever. And with all
this you get built-in long life and lower upkeep cost.
Drive Hudson .. . see how much more your money
can buy.
Pe J n style
p ERFQEj
long
'MaNce
LIFE
HUDSON
HUDSON Ter rap lane HUDSON Six
HUDSON
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated In Englandi
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:*
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide]
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
R C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Streep Brisbane Street.
HOBART LAUNCESTON
2X-NI-60,
isroawa: t* m ZEEE g
*


9
.
■hbk
b * .
yjr^
1
H ..£ t ;
i
IB 11
3:->
i a
r.v 4.^
11
■ ■■
■L
" •>. 'Ji® Is Wzmsm&ii^mm
W § 1
kl
a
?•« j
I w
* tmmm
.
i M ■ BH
■
.
■
■
■ <
'• V.
■
,-Ai
iiliSßSifii
i ■.
m-^ : '
MBSi
b
i m
■
M Wm
'3
f J
Iflppi
.
mmmm
i M
:;>;V'.;
V . ;■
i
SI
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO, LTD,


MARTYR IO PRINCIPLE.
“At the P r e-sessional meet ing of Government supporters, Mr. Gullett made an uncompromising demand for the reintroduction of compulsory training. Mr. Lyons, hy
interjection, pointed out that there might be some difficulty.”
“No, Henry, I promised my public I’d stay here; and it might be still more uncomfortable down there.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch {Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
STATESMANSHIP MADE EASY.
After all, the war-scare industry has not been an
unmitigated curse. Pushed for all it was worth by
limelighters, radio babblers, film propagandists and
others, it brought an attack of jitters to many. When
Hitler resorted to a display of armed force, jitters
turned to panic.
Daily newspapers which trade in this sort of
thing sold handsomely. Oracles arose to assert that
we were tottering on the verge of another 1914.
Though it should be patent even to the most rabbit-
minded scaremonger that Germany has nothing like
its 1914 war strength, and would be committing
national suicide if it launched a world war now, people
were scared into seeing the grey hosts marching again,
and into hearing, even here in Australia and Maori-
land, the bombs dropping on their roofs.
A shocking state of affairs altogether, but it has
done some good. The last Prime Minister found it
good political business to “suspend” national service,
and when his Government had to economise it was the
A.M.F. warrant-officers who suffered first. And as
late as October last defence was such a chancy poli-
tical undertaking that the present Prime Minister com-
mitted himself to opposing the reintroduction of
national service. He must be regretting it. Whether
he is or not, it was a piece of political expediency
which is no longer valid, especially with statesman-
ship consisting in cocking an ear to popular clamor.
Either national service—the training and shaping
of Australian manhood to defend this country—must
be reintroduced, or for all the £43,000,000 to be spent
—and, for a beginning, £10,000,000 is to be borrowed
—Australia will be no more adequately defended three
years hence than it is to-day.
Two considerations chiefly operate against our
politicians rising to this necessary act of statesman-
ship. One is the at-present invalid consideration that
votes might thereby be lost. The other is the obsession
—to which the leader of the Opposition is even more
attached than the P.M. —that machines are enough.
Mr. Curtin would love to see the sky glittering with
’planes. He would then feel secure —as secure as
Mr. Lyons and Thorby and co. feel in replying to
popular clamor with an array of Inspectors-General,
“500 additional men for permanent coastal defences”
and millions of pounds set out in tables of intended
expenditure.
Australia’s Air Force certainly needs improving ;
but it is no use telling the Diggers that machines are
everything. They know, if the party leaders don’t,
that if it comes to actually defending this country
against invasion—which is what- the party leaders
purport to consider urgent —it will be the fighting men
behind the machines who will have to do the job.
Without the fighting men this country will remain
defenceless if ten times the proposed defence expendi-
ture is spent on machines.
Our politicians cannot face this issue. Mr. Curtin
feels secure in his political dream of ’planes beating
off any aggressor; Mr. Lyons, tied to his vote-chasing
pronouncement against national service, feels com-
placently satisfied in bringing forward a defence
scheme which in other respects is welcome
enough. As to the men who would have to do the
fighting, Mr. Curtin says nothing at all. Mr. Lyons’s
conception is summed up in one phrase from his
defence plans: “Extension of the annual training
from 12 to 13 days.”
Nothing could be plainer than that the bulk of
the men who would be called upon to do the bulk
of the fighting would be the rawest recruits. They
would be the most tragic sort of cannon-fodder. Un-
trained, they would be rushed into it like stock to the
slaughter; and politicians, adept at blaming anybody
but themselves, would ask what had happened to the
grand old Anzac spirit.
It. is questionable whether too much is not being
made of that fine quality. The Anzacs have become
our greatest tradition, and such a tradition is a good
thing to have about the place. But it is not a good
thing to forget that the Anzacs needed the best part
of six months’ intensive training to put them into
fighting shape, and even then went on to Gallipoli raw
troops. At that they were well equipped for the job
they did compared with what would be the state of
the bulk of the fighting men that would be called upon
to defend this country against any invasion. It is
very well to feel that Australians are great natural
fighters —they and Maorilanders undoubtedly are that
—but it would be a shameful herding to the slaughter
to send them untrained against trained troops.
That is what our weathercock politicians’ loudly
trumpeted defence plans hold out for the men who
would do the fighting.
Mr, Lyons last week brought forward his defence
proposals on a note of urgency that must have made
many already scared folk think that war was going
to burst on us at any moment. The truth is that war
was actually closer three years back than it is to-day.
But the defence of this country is none the less neces-
sary ; Mr. Lyons’s defence measures are urgent only
in the sense that they—and the one thing more —are
long overdue. Though the fact that the scaremonger-
ing has made it politically expedient to be now doing
something about defence detracts from the perform-
ance as statesmanship, Mr. Lyons and his Government
are, at any rate, helping in the greatest peace move-
ment possible in the world to-day—the reclaiming,
from where pacifists who, are now war-crusaders,
League of Nations Unionists and other cranks had
misled it, of a strong, independent British Empire.
This does not let them off the unanswerable charge
of shirking the one thing more that is necessary to this
country’s adequate defence —national service. While
they dodge this issue they cut a sorry figure, pretend-
ing that what is a somewhat shabby colt, by Political
Expediency out of War Scare, is a noble animal by
Statesmanship out of National Urgency.
Give the Boys a Chance!
One of the last features of the 150th Anniversary
celebrations was a mass exhibition at Richmond
(N.S.W.) by the Royal Australian Air Force. As a
display of skilled flying and as a museum exhibition
the pageant was a success ; as a reassurance as to
Australia’s aerial might it was a failure.
Those who witnessed it—many were too late
because the N. S. Wales Railway Department got the
traffic on its single line into a tangle, and because
road transport was held up by repairs—saw things to
make them shiver. They found the approach to what
will soon be Australia’s mother aerodrome served by
a railway .station with just enough siding accommo-
dation to sidetrack an odd racehorse float. The line
which serves the station is a light-railed single stretch
much exposed. It does not run into the aerodrome
itself. A few yards from the railway and parallel
to it runs the main road, the only other heavy-traffic
artery which links the aerodrome with Sydney. One
hostile bomb might, at some points, destroy both road
and railway.
The aerodrome itself is in a large, exposed field.
Its buildings, including hangars, are grouped together
in the open. There is no underground protection for
’planes. A single heavy aircraft could make a mess
of the whole outfit with a couple of decent-sized
bombs. Its crew might be guided by two wireless
masts, which on a clear day would be visible from
the coast or near it.
From the station the eye turned to the machines.
At least two-thirds were obsolete, the rest obsolescent.
Some were of pre-depression vintages.
It is safe to say that in the British, German,
French, Italian and U.S.A. front-line services few
strutted biplanes, no fabric-body machines and no
craft with top speeds of less than 230 miles per hour
exist. Modern air navies go in for all-metal stream-
lined monoplanes, with the multiple-engined machine
and the medium-to-heavy bomber as the staple. The
fighters are ultra-fast, short-distance machines.
In the R.A.A.F. there is no ’plane, fighter or
otherwise, which approaches nearer than within 20
m.p.h. of the minimum first-rank speeds of European
and U.S.A. air forces. The bulk of our front-line
fighters are partly fabric biplanes, well hung with
struts and landing wires. Only a handful of Avro
Ansons have two engines. The only machines capable
of speeds above 200 m.p.h. are the new and tiny
short-range NAl6’s —a type evolved in 1935.
The fastest British machines could give our fastest
machines 40 per cent, start and come in ahead. To
the Hawker Demons a normal British fighter could
give well over 50 per cent, start and a beating.
Our Australian machines have old-fashioned non-
chemical cooling systems. Most of them were never
built for the high-altitude work which is a feature of
modern air fighting. The older ones are not only
slow to fly but slow in manoeuvre, and they lack the
amplitude of fighting field which distinguishes the
clean-lined modern low-wing monoplane. Many are
without direction-finding apparatus, and some cannot
stand up to moderately-rough weather conditions.
There were 85 machines at Richmond. After the
chapter of accidents which befell the Hawker Demons
on their 2000-mile routine tour four months ago,
people hoped that the R.A.A.F. would not suffer
again. As it happened, the day before the mock
battle a 23-year-old pilot officer was attempting
an upward roll in a Bristol Bulldog when he crashed
and was killed. The Bulldog waS obsolete when the
Hawker Demons were developed eight years ago.
Stunting in it is about as valuable from a martial
point of view as doing acrobatics in a packing-case.
At the pageant itself an Avro Anson bomber, one
of the new machines—it predates all the first-line
British machines, though not by much went through
a fence or two, wiped out a fowlhouse and ended up
with a propeller through the side of a cottage. Those
in the machine and those in the way fortunately
escaped with their lives. It was said that the cause
was “shortage of oil-”
After that the Victorian section of the contingent
started to fly home. A Westland Wapiti encountered
a duststorm. To high-speed, low-wing monoplanes,
duststorms are all in the day’s work, but a fabric,
non-streamlined, wired-and-strutted machine may be
torn to pieces by a wind through which an all-metal,
stressed-skin aeroplane would fly without effort or
danger.
The ancient Wapiti was compelled to come down
low to get compass bearings and then to follow the
railway—this in an age when U.S.A. passenger
machines have begun to be flown and landed with an
automatic pilot! Eventually, the pilot in charge was
compelled to make a forced landing near Whittlesea.
Another fine young Australian, 23 years old, died
instantly; his observer, 25 years old, suffered a frac-
ture of the base of the skull.
Australia can ill afford to lose such lads. The
pageant demonstrated that the men of the R.A.A.F.
are a type to be proud of. They represent
everything that is best in young Australian man-
hood, and their flying would do credit to any air force
in the world. Moreover, their keenness and enthusi-
asm and pride in their work were something to give
the watcher a thrill. And they are officered by men
whose war records and experience in battle are unsur-
passed.
In contrast to the miserable, inadequacy of aerial
defence, too, public interest was amazing. In spite
of the Railway Department muddle 50,000 people at
least travelled the 38 miles from Sydney to Richmond
to see the show. Had the facilities made it possible,
and had the display been more thoroughly advertised,
the numbers would have been doubled.
Public interest in aerial development is universal
in Australia. It has compelled new standards in civil
aviation, with the result that the capitals are now
served with airlines which, in speed and comfort and
safety, are equal to those anywhere in the world. Only
on routes in which the Government has a substantial
interest do slow machines linger.
Most of the modern inter-capital mail and pas-
senger machines are convertible into bombers and
heavy fighters. There is not a machine in the
R.A.A.F. which could catch the fastest of them;
scarcely one which could catch the slowest of them, or
meet it on equal terms under rough-weather condi-
tions or at a high altitude. Only the Avro Ansons
would have a chance with some of them fully armed.
To the slowest machines in the R.A.A.F., the new
14-passenger Lockheeds for the Darwin run could
concede an 80 m.p.h. handicap in a race.
Weight of public opinion on aerial matters should
be concentrated on the R.A.A.F. to give the fine
human material which it contains a chance to turn
it into a modern and effective defensive unit.
General Motors in Two Lands.
When the “business recession” arrived in Mr. Roose-
velt’s America (his critics’ name for it is “another
depression”), General Motors put off 30,000 men.
Interrogated by a committee of politicians, the manag-
ing director said he was sorry, but he couldn’t go on
employing the 30,000 to make cars which he saw no
prospect of selling. During the same 12 months
General Motors-Holden’s, in which the parent concern
holds nearly all the capital, made Australian profits
amounting to £1,005,773.
Excessive? There ai*e people who will say so ;
but it has to be remembered that General Motors-
Holden’s had a gruelling time during the depression.
Its losses for 2\ years to December 31, 1932, exceeded
£860,000. It has made so a recovery that
by 1935 it had paid off arrears on preference shares
and declared 20 per cent, on ordinary shares (the first
ord. div. in 5\ years). In 1936, 6 per cent, on prefs.
and 65 per cent, on ords. went out. Last year, holders
of prefs. got their 6 per cent.; holders of ords., instead
of receiving a cash dividend, took up 784,300 £1
shares, paid capital being increased to £2,311,600.
The company not only assembles motor vehicles
and makes bodies, but it is substantially interested in
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, which is to
manufacture ’planes. And its expanding staff is almost
wholly Australian.
There is a lesson to both countries in this fruitful
combination of American capital and Australian labor.
Australia needs more capital and more people, and
if America can spare both both will be welcomed —
provided the immigrants can take care of themselves.
The Commonwealth can never carry as many people
as the Republic accommodates, but within the limits
set by nature it has as bright a future —a brighter one,
perhaps, for there are in Australia no huge groups
of unassimilated aliens or unassimilable negroes.
In the General Motors-Holden’s case, as in a
hundred others, Australians have proved that they
can do things. If they suppress the borrowing poli-
tician, transform their weak Federal partnership into
a union on British lines (one Parliament is enough)
and keep out of foreign quarrels, while being always
ready to give a good account of themselves should
quarrels be forced upon them, they will be reasonably
assured of a happy destiny and an honorable place in
the world.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Appeasement."
A Prime Minister who has set his heart on noble
accomplishments has to work fast when he is rising
70. Mr f Chamberlain realises this, and his worst
enemies cannot deny, if they are honest, that, short
as his period of office has been, he has done things
which have brightened the outlook for the British
Empire and the human family.
In space of a month the new Prime Minister,
who is so old in years, has concluded friendly agree-
ments with the Governments of Italy and Ireland.
Each immediately improves a situation which has
been difficult for years, and both may establish rela-
tions from which not only the present generation will
benefit.
In each case the Chamberlain Government has
been accused of giving too much away. For example,
Eire is to have concessions which were denied to it
at Ottawa, and it is to secure exemption from the land
for a payment of £10,000,000. Moreover,
its Government is to enter into possession of naval
depots retained by the British under the Treaty of
1921.
But in this instance, as in that of Italy, Britain
can afford to be magnanimous. Indeed, now,
as when the Government that had fought Napoleon
refused to exact an indemnity from the French and
returned Java to the Dutch, magnanimity is the right
policy.
In London last week, the unwearied Prime Min-
ister was negotiating with the French. Their M. Dala-
dier and M. Bonnet had visited London for the
purpose, and some of their Paris newspapers
“expressed anxiety less the talks should lead to over-
tures to Germany”—which explains in, part why
France has lost its predominant position and so much
of its influence on the Continent.
However unpalatable it may be to the French,
the British conversations with Germany, interrupted
by the march into an Austria that was at least 90 per
cent, enthusiastic, will be resumed. And Associated
Press, recently so anti-Chamberlain, has discovered
that “Mr. Chamberlain is as anxious for appeasement
in the Far East as in Europe, and is prepared to tackle
that problem as boldly as he tackled the Anglo-
Italian impasse.”
Why shouldn’t our Mr. Lyons relieve the cool-
headed and warm-hearted old man of that part of his
labors, or at least actively second his efforts? Not
by merely repeating the proposal for a non-aggression
pact in the Pacific, which events immediately made
ridiculous, but by intimating to the countries engaged
in the war that, as a friend of both, his services as a
pacificator will be available if wanted. At a favor-
able moment the first Roosevelt performed this office
in 1905, and both combatants and the world were
grateful. Mr. Lyons’s fine personal qualities would
make him an admirable/negotiator.
It would be necessary first to put an end to the
boycott which a parcel of wharf-laborers, egged on by
Communists, have declared at Australian ports, in an
impudent effort to take foreign policy out of the hands
of the duly-elected representatives of the people—in
Sydney they have added tallow to tin clippings—but
that should be done in any event.
The Complete Somersault.
Since the latest Oriental war began, the Chinese have
had a good press in Empire countries, and the Japa-
nese have had a very bad press. Japanese leaders
are always “militarists” ; Chinese leaders are “heroes”
and “patriots”—never “war-lords.” Newspapers that
laud them employed very different language in 1927.
Now, as then, Chiang Kai-shek was the leader
of the Kuomintang. An Oxford University publi-
cation, “Survey of International Affairs, 1927,” gives
a long list of cases in which British warships "and
merchantmen were fired on and Britons, Americans
and Japanese were attacked by Kuomintang troops.
At Nanking these Kuomintang ruffians murdered
Dr. Williams and Dr. Smith (Americans), Mr. Huber
and Able Seaman Knox (British), a French priest and
an Italian priest. They wounded the British Consul-
General, Captain Spear, of the Shanghai Defence
Force, an American and several Japanese. And “a
number of foreign women were subjected to outrage-
ous treatment, not stopping short of attempts to rape
them,” while “the American, British and Japanese Con-
suls and the British Consul’s wife were all shot at
with intent to kill. Their consulates were all looted.”
At Shanghai “Communist gunmen” killed three
Punjabi soldiers of the British Defence Force,
wounded three English soldiers and a Punjabi. Chinese
troops broke into the International Settlement and
started looting; they were driven out by machine-
gun fire at the dost of four British wounded. Another
attempt being made, “British troops on the spot were
unable to stop them without opening fire ; and about
60 of them were killed and a thousand disarmed.”
Britain sent reinforcements, and presently had
19 battalions of infantry, “with ancillary troops,” and
14,000 naval men in China, there being five cruisers
and one gunboat at Shanghai. It is mentioned by
the writer of the “Survey” that “there was close co-
operation between the Japanese and the British
authorities,” and that the Britons’ relations with the
Chinese population were “remarkably good.”
And what did our newspapers say? Well, the
Sydney “Morning Herald” said this:
Rather than appear to be in the least degree aggres-
sive, Britain has accepted almost without protest a
series of insults and injuries Even if the Canton
Government, which really represents the powerful
Kuomintang party, had not unhappily become the tool
of the Moscow Bolshevists, the desired end might have
been obtained. But with the advent of the “Reds”
the matter became hopeless, for it has been the avowed
policy of the Soviet Government to strike at Britain—
its greatest enemy—through her foreign relationships in
general, and her relations with China in particular.
And this:
At a recent Communist party conference at Moscow
Bukharin is reported to have said, “The fact of the
Chinese revolution and the victorious march of the
united forces are of the greatest importance. We all
remember that Comrade Lenin told us to draw the
masses in Eastern countries, and especially in China,
into the revolutionary flood. We look upon the events
China as a heavy blow to capitalist civilisation.”
And that in the jaundiced eyes of Bolshevism Britain is
the great exemplar of capitalist civilisation a score of
incidents give proof.
And it quoted H. G. Woodhead, still its contri-
butor, who quoted General Sutton:
“Take the map of China and you will see that one
half has already been painted red.” And in that never-
ceasing and insidious advance lies the secret of the
present trouble and a savage threat against the future,
not only of the foreigners in China, but of the civilised
world.
Finally it said this:
Whether the Kuomintang was originally a national
movement, or whether it has now become so, it is clear
that it has adopted the Bolshevik Government of
Moscow as its guide and helper. As a result of that
adoption it is following a course of action that almost
compels interference.
In 1937, with the blessing of Moscow, the
Kuomintang and the Communists joined forces, and
after a repetition of the 1927 murders the Japanese
went in for “interference.” The “Herald’s” most
recent words for it were “cruelties,” “atrocities,” “out-
rages” and “this barbarous mass foray.” It suggested
that “the Chinese armies’ gallant spirit” would pre-
vail, and invited the Powers “to insist that Japan shall
suffer some penalty for abuse of the laws of war.”
"Men Wanted."
“Q.M.T.M.” differs from “Louis Mattil ” (B.
21 / 4/’38):
Stopping to watch a militia battalion on parade, I
received an unpleasant surprise when I realised that prac-
tically all the rank and file were boys too young to have a
vote. I recalled the shock members of the A.I.F. received
{? April, 1918, when they were relieved in the Messines area
by British troops of about the same age—war babies in very
truth—who had been rushed across to France from training
camps to fill the gaps in shattered Fifth and Third Army
Divisions.
We thought Britain must be in a bad way when she had
to employ children in the firing line. We little dreamed that
we should live to see the day when Australia would be relying
for military defence upon immature lads of 18 to 20, many
of whom obviously would not be able to stand up to the
rigors of a hard-fought campaign.
Anyone who served in the A.I.F. in a fighting unit
knows that comparatively few lads under 21 were of much
value as soldiers. The best troops in every respect were
those between 25 and 45. There were, of course, some excel-
lent men both below and above those ages; but, speaking
generally, the soldiers who stood up best to the hardest con-
ditions and were the most reliable in a tough corner were
neither the youngest nor the oldest in the battalion.
The uniforms of many members of the A.M.F. to-day
are noticeably too big for them —a striking proof that they
have not yet reached a physical standard equal to that of
the average man, for whom the stock sizes of uniforms are
intended.
Discussing the undeveloped appearance of the youths with
one of the company commanders after the parade, I remarked
upon the scarcity of men of mature age in the battalion, even
among the n.c.os., and asked him the reason. He said that
comparatively few men remained with the battalion for the
whole three years for which they enlisted, and that very
few indeed re-enlisted for a second term. He attributed that
to the fact that the tactical training they received with skeleton
units—his company was only 87 strong and he seldom had
more than 70 on parade—was so unreal and uninteresting that
they quickly got fed up with it.
“I am for reintroducing universal training among the older
quotas—those between 21 and 25,” he said. “If the Federal
Government is not prepared to do that, existing battalions
should be amalgamated to provide units at approximately war
strength, so that proper tactical training could be carried out.
As things are, we are very little better than an army of kids.”
Where Are the Police?
At the beginning of last week the N. S. Wales public
was again informed that the Police Commissioner had
asked for a rise, and the press mentioned how much
he gets and how much better off he is than Police
Commissioners in other States. During the same week
public attention was drawn to N. S. Wales police
methods.
In the Quarter Sessions Appeal Court Judge
Thomson quashed the conviction of a grocer
who had been fined £3O for selling six bottles of beer
when his license prescribed a minimum of 12 bottles.
This, in substance, was the evidence for the Crown:
A plainclothes constable accompanied by a young
woman called at White’s shop, in which one of the
young Whites was serving. The woman asked to see
another son, and when he came she said, “Jimmy Dare
asked me to come along, as we are having a party.”
“They are friends of mine; will you oblige them?” said
the second son to the youth behind the counter, and
he served them with the six bottles.
It was admitted that the grocer had held a license
for 30 years and never been convicted before.
“The police have no right to use methods to trap a
man of good character into committing an offence,”
said Judge Thomson; people familiar with the
fact that thousands of breaches of the absurd six
o’clock closing law are openly committed every night
in Sydney hotels will agree with him.
The inquiry into the murder, by bombing, of
the Alfred Smiths, of Lidcombe, was brought to a
conclusion. Clouds of witnesses were called, and
“the coroner complimented the detectives engaged
upon the wonderful work they had done” ; but they
have failed to trace the murderer or murderers. Yet
in early press reports it was given out that the authori-
ties were so confident on that score that it was un-
necessary to offer a reward. After a few days a reward
of £lOOO was offered, but it led to nothing.
The collection of evidence is no doubt an edify-
ing proof of industry ; but people who don’t like to
think that some fiend or fiends concerned in the bomb-
ing of sleeping people are at large look for something
more.
The affair of the church-school kitchenmaid who
was destroyed by some unspeakable ruffian at New-
castle next engaged attention. Here also the public
had been promised an arrest by a newspaper profess-
ing to be in the confidence of the police. No arrest
was made till subsequent to the inquest, at which an
open verdict was returned; then another church-
school employee, the houseman, was placed on trial.
On a previous occasion the young woman had
been attacked in the street near the school —by a
stranger, she said. The houseman was no stranger.
The body was found in the school grounds, and near
it was the print of a man’s shoe. No impression
of this was taken for comparison with the print of
the houseman’s shoe. The girl had been savagely
bitten, and a dental expert, shown a photograph of
the marks, said at first that they must have been made
by a person with two natural teeth in the upper jaw.
Accused has no natural teeth ; he had an upper set of
shopteeth, but none in the lower jaw. At the inquest
the officer summoned to the school after the body had
been discovered admitted that he could not positively
identify a man he saw standing near it. It was the
houseman.
The verdict, very properly, was not guilty.
Such police methods call for decided improve-
ment, and this should be made a condition precedent
to any increase of salary.
Open-sea Fish Investigation.
The commissioning of the Warreen, the Diesel-
engined, steel-hulled vessel designed for the open-sea
fish researches to be carried out under the direction
of Dr. Thompson, from Newfoundland, may lead to
a sinfully neglected industry coming into its own.
Everyone will wish the Warreen a happier lot
than that of the steam trawler Endeavor, which, after
five years’ useful work, was lost in the Tasman with
all hands in 1914.
Only bottom fish, such as flathead, were investi-
gated by the Endeavor, but as the result of her
voyages especially valuable trawling grounds were
discovered along Australia’s south-eastern coast and
in the Great Australian Bight. Those on the south-
east coast are now being exploited by a Sydney trawl-
ing fleet.
Of different design, Warreen is fitted for the
investigation of pelagic or surface-swimming fish like
pilchard, mackerel and tuna, but she is also equipped
for some work on bottom species. Gear includes
purse-seine and Danish seine nets ; long, trolling and
hand lines ; dredges for shellfish ; an echometer for
automatically recording sea-depths ; a radio receiver
and transmitter ; searchlight, rangefinder and scientific
apparatus for recording water temperatures and the
minute life of the sea. She is also capable of using
gear similar to that employed in commercial fisheries.
Her skipper and crew of eight have been drawn
from the fishing industry, and her cruising comple-
ment will include the fisheries officer of the C.S. and
I.R. and two scientific observers.
The first voyage from Melbourne to Tasmania
and on to Sydney will pay special attention to the
occurrences of tuna. This fish was observed from
the air in large shoals in 1937, and has been caught
this year during co-operative boat investigations under-
taken by the C.S. and I.R. and the Tasmanian
Government.
Americans know the tuna as “chicken of the sea”
because its flesh is similar in appearance and flavor
to that of the barnyard fowl. It is the basis of thriving
industries in Western America and in Japan.
N. S. Wales Traffic Laws.
Five months’ experience of the traffic laws now in
force in N. S. Wales has satisfied everybody that they
are a failure. Though figures have not been issued,
the ambulance chief says accidents have increased.
It was laid down that
any person who drives a motor vehicle at a speed
exceeding 30 m.p.h. upon any public street in a built-up
area shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
The result has been congestion. In busy hours
cars of every make go waddling to the suburbs, each
driver keeping a fascinated eye on the car a few feet
in front of his nose. Under such conditions driving
—especially behind an ancient vehicle with uncertain
brakes —is dangerous.
There is no option or qualification in the Act.
But the Transport Department now announces that
drivers will not be prosecuted if they pass slow-moving
vehicles at more than 30 miles an hour in a safe
manner. It drafted the measure and put up its Min-
ister to say that the 30-mile-an-hour limit was definite ;
and now the thing is amended'without reference to
Parliament. In effect, police constables have been
made legislators on individual cases.
The law regarding drunken drivers is also coming
under fire. Arnold, S.M., remarked in the case
of a man who had taken “two small glasses of whisky
and milk for medicinal purposes” that automatic sus-
pension of the license seemed too drastic. The defen-
dant was said by the police to have been slightly
“under the influence.” He “had been very much
upset because his wife had died about two weeks
previously.” Suspension of his license would deprive
him of his living. On the other hand, a carousing
cub who drives his father’s car up the wrong side of
a main street at high speed suffers little when his
license is taken away.
Traffic laws need revising, not only in N. S.
Wales but in other States. It is a pity that the Com-
monwealth cannot take control of the whole system
and make uniform laws. It is more difficult to travel
in a car between Australian States and to meet their
various requirements than it is to travel in the welter
of European countries, where the triptique system
rules.


Society
“Pelsart”: Discovery by school-
children in the bush west of Gingin
(W.A.) of a cache of pieces-of-eight bear-
ing the figure of Philip of Spain recalls
that in bygone years treasure ship after
treasure ship piled up along the West-
ralian coast: the Chamber of the Knights
of Holland, the Golden Dragon and the
Seamew are but some of the gallant East
Indiamen which spread their spices and
gold along those lonely beaches. Relics
of these ancient tragedies may be seen
in the Victoria Library, Perth—just a
few coins, pipes, bottles, rosaries and
skulls. Some people believe that hidden
beneath a cairn somewhere on the West-
ralian coast lies a great treasure of gold
saved from the Golden Dragon three
centuries ago. Several expeditions have
attempted unsuccessfully to find it.
H: H* sfc
“S.T.S.”: Glenelg (S.A.) has had a
quaint ’plane “rescue.” Two men saw it
nosedive into the sea, and ran for the
police, who found it about 200yds. from
shore, with a man holding on to it. But
he explained that he had merely gone
in to rescue it, it being the champion
model of the local club. With a |-h.p.
engine and a wingspan of over Bft., it had
flown about three miles before diving.
% * . % Hs
“Jacky Roo”: Sydney’s advertising
blurbs describing darts as the “latest
craze in England and America” will
make Englishmen chortle. Darts was the
national game in English pubs and coun-
try inns for upwards of a century until
pin-tables arrived. Many a dartboard
has been hauled down in face of the
modern gadget, because darts merely
attract customers, whereas there’s a
revenue for Bung out of the pennies from
the pin game.
* * * *
“Coif”: Some weeks ago Judge Cur-
lewis, of N.S.W., remarked a propos de
bottes that he did not expect the legal
profession to read Acts of Parliament
for themselves. This aroused an outcry,
and his Honor has apologised by saying
that he withdrew his first statement and
now put it on record that he did expect
the profession to read the Acts.
It reminds me of the counsel who in-
formed Jhe Bench that it was not fit to
carry guts to a bear. After the storm
had blown itself out he thought better
of it, and, withdrawing his first asser-
tion, handsomely declared his conviction
that the Bench was well qualified for the
job.
* * * *
“Spenton”: In the not-so-early days
when Newcastle (N.S.W.) was a Mecca
for shipping in quest of coal, Stockton,
the peninsular suburb with the famous
mine of that name, used to be lined on
the harborside with four-masters two and
three deep waiting sometimes months at
a time for their turn at the coal gantry.
These ships came heavy with ballast,
which was unloaded on to the foreshore
during the long wait. The thousands of
tons so dumped have been used for
reclamation works, and the one-time
mangrove mudflats along the Hunter
River have vanished. To-day Stockton’s
main sports area is known and marked
on the maps as the “Ballast Ground,” and
not a little of it is composed of bricks
and mortar from the ’quake ruins of
’Frisco, a useful method of disposing of
the ruins of a great city.
* * * *
“Dave”: Opportunity knocks in
strange ways. A utility truck in St.
Kilda-road, Melbourne, shed a back
wheel after breaking the axle. The wheel
picked out its goal and rolled straight as
an arrow, dodging trams, cars and a
rockery, into the open door of a garage
200 yards away. Proprietor used his
brains and was on the job with a jack
two minutes later.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane’s Town
Clerk has evolved the brilliant idea of
replacing dreary suburban street names
with melodious substitutes drawn from
trees and plants. There certainly is a
sort of attractiveness in the notion of
converting Bloggs-street into Acacia-
lane ; but drawbacks are the scarcity of
admissible popular names and the defects
of those conferred by botanists on the
rest. And civic jealousies might operate
to the extent of foisting upon opposition
strongholds such totally undesirable
addresses as Prickly Moses-street, Catnip-
avenue or even Stinking Roger-crescent.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The war in China has its
repercussions even in the Victoria
Markets, Melbourne. A suburban house-
wife, making her weekly purchases,
“Cot any axle-grease, Joe? We've nothing to fry the sossidges in.”
observed an aged Chinese market-
gardener viciously chopping the heads
off some turnips. As each head fell into
his basket he shouted “That’s one of
them ... and that’s another! ” “One of
whom?” asked the lady. “The Japs!”
snorted the usually stolid Celestial, flour-
ishing his knife and grabbing a fresh
bundle of the vegetables.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: Will Lawson’s Assistant-
Surveyor James Mcßrian, who found
gold in Australia in 1823 (B. 21/4/’3B),
should have been spelt Macßrien —unless
the family have changed their name since.
Sir James Macßrien, lately-dead chief of
the Canadian “Mounties,” was a grand-
son of the gold-discoverer. A couple
of years ago in Ottawa Sir James sur-
prised me by saying that his grandfather
was the first man to find gold in Aus-
tralia. I always thought it was Har-
graves, but apparently Sir James was
right, although Will Lawson places the
grandsire second in the race.
b * * * *
“Xtie”: At the Holdsworthy camp
near Liverpool (N.S.W.) there is an old
Irish sergeant-major of the permanent
forces who is 'given the new lads for
drill. His best bull to date is: “The com-
pany will now dismiss. You will parade
again at two o’clock precisely ; and when
I say two o’clock I don’t mean five past
—I mean five to.” *
“Fisher”: “Fi. fa.” (B. 21/4/’3B) over-
looks the important ground of divorce
that turns the Ma State into Australia s
Reno —restitution actions. Beside this,
the 19 others he mentions are like the
reasons a man gives for going to wmL
every day. Any reasonably intelligent
couple can arrange for one partner to
clear out and refuse to return on demand
while the other keeps the happy home
open and requests the errant one to put
in an appearance.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Touching artificial starva-
tion as a cure-all (B. 21/4/’3B), a friend
in Melbourne decided to engage on it as
a remedy for half a dozen ailments, most
of them imaginary, but as he did not
wish to alarm his family he embarked
on it in secret. He announced that he
had decided to give up eating breakfast
but would have a good lunch every day
in the city; and every night he got him-
self an ostensible invitation to dine out.
By these means he succeeded in living
the life of a lost explorer for five days,
losing a great deal of weight in the pro-
cess and becoming so weak that his
family began to speculate as to whether
he had been jilted by a girl or was suf-
fering from some frightful internal ail-
ment. On the sixth day he spread terror
through the household by fainting in his
bedroom. When the family doctor told
him that if he had continued fasting
much longer he would have started con-
suming the lining of his stomach he de-
cided to seek more orthodox methods
of treatment.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A down-at-heels
man entered a Sydney suburban police
station and demanded to be locked up.
He was told to go home. “That’s what a
cop out in the street told me. I ain’t got
a home. I told the cop I’d put a brick
through a window and he’d have to lock
me up. But I don’t want to injure any-
one’s property.” He was advised of a
hostel for deadbeats, but said he’d
sooner go to gaol. “I’ll force you to lock
me up!” he said desperately. “’Ere, take
this!” He heaved a right at the nearest
cop, and while he struggled with him and
others gave a libellous account of their
ancestry. Subdued, he subsided into
tears. “Now you’ll ’ave to lock me up, ’
he sobbed triumphantly. But the kindly
cops didn’t They made a tarpaulin
muster, put the resultant coins into his
hand “S-firmly pushed him out into the
night. Would that the story could end
there. But six days later the deadbeat
was gaoled without a qualm. It appeared
he had been working the same game all
the way down from Queensland, and at
lust struck a cop who had been present
at a previous performance.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Australia’s most his-
toric bathtub is treasured at Segenhoe,
tsnthnHttntorßivprlNSWl Thisold
on the Hunter River (N.b.W.j. inis 01
station was a land grant to Ihomas
Potter Macqueen, a Bedford man, who
arrived there in 1824. The bath, which
was cut from a solid block of marble, he
brought with him from England. In it
Mrs. Macqueen used to have a daily
immersion in fresh milk, a special herd
being kept for the purpose. After the
lady’s ablutions the milk was sent to the
kitchen for the assigned servants. Later
on Macqueen got into financial difficul-
ties, and since the early 1870’s Segenhoe
has passed through many hands. Now
Segehhoe and the bathtub are the prop-
erty of Alan Cooper, of racing fame.
“Dhas”: Use “oot” with the subjunc-
tive and pronounce ne sutor ultra crepi-
dam any crepidam way you like, but
for the love of Mike don’t pronounce
dulce et decorum est pro patria mori
either as spelt or as the foul “doolchey
ate daycorarm ast” that was quoted in
B. 28/4/’3B. However a legionary may
have said it before his gall was divided
into three parts, Horace meant it as a
line of dactyllic verse, and as such it
has to go “dulcet decorumst pro patria
mori.”
“Stoo”: This discussion about the
pronounciation of Latin prompts me to
confess why I threw my French master
into the Te Roti town baths on returning
to M.L. from Paris. Half-way up the
Eiffel Tower two lassies tried to sell me
photographs, and when I dodged with
a “Je ne parle pas Frangais” their
shrill mimicking of my accent, accom-
panied by hysterical laughtqr, followed
me right up to the crow’s-nest. After
that there was the taxi-map who just
looked baffled when a friend told him
our hotel was in “Roo Hyacinth” and,
on my explaining it was “Ree Eeasang, ’
drove off with the greatest goodwill to
the wrong pub. Caesar’s lingo isn’t the
only one they don’t pronounce too well
in some schools hereabouts.
* * * *
“D.E.”: In the pre-depression days it
was recognised among Sydney news-
papermen that the easiest way to make
money at the game was to start a paper
—or threaten to start one —and sell out
to the “Sun.” A distant but charming
echo of that halcyon period was heard
in the High Court the other day when
Associated Newspapers and Sun News-
papers appealed against Commonwealth
income-tax assessments for 1933-34.
Granny “Herald,” always obliging—and
a more obliging old lady never got hys-
terics —came out with a full and par-
ticular account of the evidence of Hugh
Robert Denison, knight:
Mr. R. C. Packer was appointed man-
aging editor of his newspaper company.
One day Mr. Packer informed him that
Mr. Theodore and Mr. Frank Packer, his
son, were about to launch an evening
newspaper in Sydney. He also pointed
out that this would be a serious rival to
the “Sun,” as he had been informed it was
proposed to charge only a penny for it.
Witness authorised his managing editor
to negotiate with Mr. Theodore and Mr.
Frank Packer, with a view to preventing
the new paper from being launched.
One day, while out on the golf links,
he received a telephone message from Mr.
R. C. Packer that he had signed an agree-
ment with the promoters which provided,
among other things, that for the payment
of £80,500 the new evening newspaper
would not be launched. Witness was very
annoyed when he received this message, as
he expected to have been consulted.
Legal advice was to the effect that the
agreement was binding. The board, there-
fore, carried it out. His company now
sought to have the portion of the £80,500
paid deducted from the Federal taxation
assessment.
I begin to understand why the “Sun” is sc
interested in astrology, and how it came
to publish the story of the Black Bo?
in which Mussolini hid the details of his
Plot to Sink the British Navy, and which
was found in the wreck of an Italian
’plane Somewhere-in-Africa.
THE MERRY MONTH OF MAY.
Brothers, the month of May is here,
The one our forebears christened merry;
Each nippy morn the lure of beer
Is less than that of Tom and Jerry.
It ushers in long summer days
The other side the earth, no doubt,
But here our job is finding ways
Of keeping old man Winter out.
The golden fringes of our seas
Where surf-queens romped and sand-sheiks
flirted
In those intriguing neck-to-knees
Will very shortly be deserted.
Brisk, strenuous games and ev’n the spin
Known as a hike seem, sooth to say,
More suitable diversions in
Our merry Austral month of May.
The dosser in the bleak Domain
Finds, I suspect, his sleep imperilled,
Lacking a quilt or counterpane
Except the Sydney “Morning Herald.”
The copper on his midnight beat
Feels gingerly his ears and snout,
And smartly stamps his massive feet
To keep the chill of winter out.
These age-old adjectives are rocks
One cannot shift with blocks and pulleys.
The time has come for thicker socks
And pullovers and winter woollies
And blazing fires and curries hot
And warming beverages, eh?
In what the poets, quite a lot,
Have styled the merry month of May.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Selma”: It takes a bright typist to
juggle with some of the stuff the boss is
liable to toss off to the dictaphone, as
witness the lass who holds the fort in
the office next to mine. The boss has a
habit of arriving at night and reeling off
reams of dictation, which Miss Smith
resurrects in the morning long before he
appears. I found her busy the other
morning apparently retyping - all her
work. “It’s the way he dictates it,” she
explained. “Everything goes in. He
must have come in last night with a
few choice pals, and I have to weed
out the actual matter from a welter of
argument. Listen to this: ‘Dear Sirs, —
In reply to your keep, quiet Bill how
can I work while you’re making that
damn’ row in reply to your letter of
even date no I didn’t back him wish I
had in reply to your letter we have
pleasure in advising shut up you two
pleasure in advising confound it go out-
side if you can’t stop that noise I have
three more letters to get through pleasure
in advising....’ They must have gone
just here,” she concluded cheerfully. “The
rest is sense. But the first two I did
were like the ramblings of someone with
the d.ts.”
* * H= *
“ Dick Tafone ”: The Bulletin's
opinion that any honest, healthy white
man is a good immigrant to Australia,
British or not, is borne out by the career
"Save yourself IF you like, Basil, but I’M going down with my ship!”
of Peter Modrak, a Pole who reached
Brisbane soon after the war. Getting
a job as a laborer in the Botanical
Gardens, he began by learning English
to pass the entrance examinations for
the University of Queensland. Thereafter
he worked and paid his way through to
degrees in both science and engineering,
an extraordinary example of grit and
ability.. Leaving Australia in 1923, he
did a post-graduate course in radio
engineering at Harvard and collected the
Master of Science degree, with distinc-
tion. He is now engineer-in-charge at
the Telecommunication Bureau at War-
saw, and has been awarded high civil
honors for useful work in electrical
communications. The only bad point
about it is that Australia couldn’t
or didn’t give him a sufficiently
good job to keep him here.
* * *
“Tassy”: A juicy item
for a History of Banking in
Australia would be the final
flutter of the Bank of Van
Diemen’s Land, Ltd., which
went into liquidation in
1893. The directors, a
sporting crowd, decided that
the best use it could put its
assets to was to raffle ’em
so they got up a lottery—
-300,000 tickets at £1 each ;
first prize, a block of land
and building, known as
Miller’s Corner, Hobart;
second prize, Hadley’s
Orient Hotel; and a long
list of further real-estate
prizes. Tickets were fully
taken up. This lottery, the
first in Tasmania, was con-
ducted by George Adams,
subsequently promoter of a
business which nowadays
must be referred to deli-
cately as “a certain consul-
tation.”
“Fi. fa.”: It is not with me that
“Torts” (B. 21/4/’3B) joins issue over
trespass, per se, as a cause for action,
but with that eminent and crotchety
English Judge the late Sir Henry Haw-
kins. His view was that the fine, frothy
Camden ruling was landlordism, not law,
and in direct contravention of the basic
principle de minimis non curat lex.
Mere unobstructive bodily presence upon
a large property he regarded as one of
such trifles. Damage, as “Torts” says,
was another matter, hence the sixpence
in full settlement and the request to be
carried to the nearest highway in order
that no further claim might accrue in
transit. A cartoon of the ’nineties repre-
sented the learned Judge floating just
clear of the ground-level, suspended from
a balloon, and refusing the sixpence to
the enraged shade of Lord Camden, with
the remark: “Your law’s a bit out-of-
date nowadays, old buffer.”
* * * si:
“Dickie Beech”: Bad news out of
Egypt—the demand for Australian mullet
roe has slumped almost to nothing. Last
year we sold 60,000 pounds of it at prices
well on to 2s. a pound, thereby putting
a tidy and much-needed bit into the fish
bloke’s poorly-lined pocket. The news
arrived just after most orders were placed
for net gear wherewith to repeat
the performance, and better, on the full-
roed May harvest. In Egypt they make
the roe into a good-class caviare, dis-
tributed amongst Mohammedan peoples
for consumption during the Ramadan
fasts, when fish, flesh and fowl may not
be eaten. It is a good caviare, too.
There has been a lot of talk about im-
“Captain's compliments, sir, and when do We start gunnery practice?”
proving Australian dietaries lately. Why
doesn’t someone get into the limelight
with Australian caviare?
* * * *
“Mako”: Add Maoriland in general
to the list of places where the wind takes
possession at times. That Dominion can
produce several instances of trains being
blown off the tracks, and Auckland
awoke one morning after a night’s blow
to find three yachts piled one on top
of the other on a beach at Devonport,
which is Auckland’s North Shore. Not
long ago wind arose one evening and
blew so heartily along suburban highways
that the unfortunate folk getting home
after work had to lie down or be whisked
off their feet. The equinoctial gales
always blow furiously in M.L., and
would-be travellers usually manage to
defer their journey until the twenties of
March and September are past. When
the warship New Zealand made her first
visit to M.L. for exhibition purposes she
was caught in a little blow while
anchored outside Russell. Skipper Lionel
Halsey took one apprehensive look at
the rugged M.L. coast and steered for
the open sea, taking for a joy-ride a
dozen journalists who had boarded the
ship before the wind came up. The
blow subsided as suddenly as it had
arisen, and the £2,000,000 gift from M.L.
to Britain turned and made port again.
* * Jfc i'fi
“Bogaduck”: The sudden “giddy fit”
can explain car smashes as well as air
crashes. I once had to drive a truck
continuously for three days and four
nights ; my only rest was a half-hour
doze on the seat every 12 hours or so. I
was driving along a straight stretch of
level road when suddenly the truck
began to swerve from side to side and I
found myself powerless to move a finger.
It was like a horrible nightmare. The
end came when the truck left the road
and stalled in some soft sand. It was
some time before the power to move
arms and legs came back. Next day an-
other effect of over-fatigue showed itself ;
I suddenly went stone blind. After jamb-
ing on the brake I leaned back with my
eyes closed ; a fiery pain at the back of
my eyes gradually died away, then I
found ' could e again.
* * * *
“Swtsn”: That tale of the youth whose
form-master told him he could have a
testimonial if he completed 200 lines of
Ovid he had left undone before leaving
(B. 21/4/’3B) reminds me. There is an
Eton legend that Keate, the headmaster,
had ordered a sixth-former to present
himself for a flogging. It was only a
few days before the lad was departing to
take a commission in the Household
Brigade, so he left Eton without the flog-
ging and the “book” without which no
Etonian may leave in good odor. When
he presented himself to the War Office
he was asked for his book and told that
unless he could produce it there was no
commission for him. He wrote to Keate.
and got a reply from that worthy, who
was holidaying in Switzerland, that if
he wanted the book he must come and
take his flogging before getting it. This
he did. was duly “hoisted,” and after
Keate had laid on with special zest re-
turned to London with the precious docu-
ment.
* $ # *
“Doggie”: Not only is the pressgang
still available for naval recruiting re-
quirements if needed (B. 21/4/’3B), but
flogging can be resorted to in case of
emergency. Whereas it was definitely
abolished in the army by the Cardwell
Acts, it was only suspended in the navy,
and that not until 1908. So it may be
in days tp come we may see a return to
the good old discipline of the gratings
and the gunner’s mates, the invigorating
influence of which steeled our gallant
lads to come triumphant through
Quiberon, St. Vincent, the Nile and
Trafalgar.
A LIE-DETECTOR.
M A mechanical lip—detector was :""onT the sideshow
attractions at the Sydney Royal Show.”
A thoroughly desirable invention,
And if correct (which Heaven only knows)
One that should have immediate attention
At more important gatherings than shows.
It well might cramp the style, one may
suppose,
Of the dishonest company director
To gammon hostile shareholders who rose,
If at his elbow stood a lie-detector.
It might excite some natural apprehension
Where rival fishermen their tales disclose
Touching the weight and general dimension
Of some huge victim of their artful throws.
And where Divorce Court Judges hear the
woes
Of ill-yoked pairs, and counsel snap and
hector,
It would indeed be awkward for the “co's”
If somebody installed a lie-detector.
Ah, well, ’twill be admitted sans dissension,
From tropic deserts to Antarctic snows,
That there are spots too numerous to mention
Where it would priceless be. And, stone the
crows!
I reckon Parliament the first of those.
What a grim skeleton and grisly spectre
’Twould be to those therein that prate and
prose,
A simple, swift, unerring lie-detector!
’Twould meet a need that yearly grows and
grows;
And let me voice the hope as an elector,
Ere the next spate of hustings slip-slop flows
That ev’ry candidate, where’er he goes,
Will have to spruik beside a lie-detector.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ħ
91 J0 * 03
k a 6 J 0» OX
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
K
■
■HI
: ■
H
D 383
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATION
POLITI CAL POINTS
Returning from the Loan Council
meetings with the promise of far more
than a fair share of 1938-39 borrowings,
Stevens was horrified to find that the
N.S.W. defence works, estimated to cost
£507,000, “would employ mostly highly
skilled men” —horrified because defence,
to Stevens, is a loan- and donkey-work
proposition. It is understood that the
Sydney Premier would be satisfied if the
£507,000 were spent on digging holes for.
invaders to fall into.
Defence has been debated in the House
of Representatives, largely by ill-informed
amateurs; and another ill-informed
amateur, the Minister, was absent most
of the time. The only speech of which
the House took much notice was made
by Cameron, the Acting-Minister of
Commerce, who has served in the A.I.F.
and the A.M.F. It has been suggested
that Thorby should have an Assistant-
Minister of Defence. A better plan
would be for Cameron and Thorby to
change jobs.
Answering the asses who maintain that
Parliament should have been called to-
gether when Eden disappeared, Archie
Cameron dryly pointed out that “there
was no inquiry from Britain when Mr.
W. M. Hughes resigned, nor did Canada
display any anxiety when the member
for Henty severed his connection with
the Government.” The reference to Gul-
lett was relished by Labor members,
especially as after speaking his piece on
defence he hurried out of the House.
After the very disappointing defence
debate, Curtin issued a lot of advice to
the Commonwealth, closing with the
words, “Australia should not attack an-
other nation, and her arms should never
be employed except in her own defence.”
The first sentence is superfluous and the
second is selfish. Australia has nearly
7,000,000 people, and beyond the Tas-
man —distant only a few hours by air and
only two or three days by sea —is a sister
nation with 1,600,000 people. Are Aus-
tralians never in any emergency to go
to the defence of Maoriland?
Touching the “Inspector-General of
the Military Forces” who is to be im-
ported from Britain, Thorby’s story was
that “the appointment would probably
be for two years, at the end of which
time it might be possible to fill the
vacancy by the appointment of an Aus-
tralian officer.” Lyons’s version is that
his Government is sending for a “senior
officer of the British Army to report on
matters normally covered by the functions
of the Inspector-General” when there
was an I.G.
The Lyons Government has given Aus-
tralia a lead at last. Canberra reports
that prices of Australian products mar-
keted abroad are down 27 p.c. compared
with a year ago. In the same breath it
announced that Federal members’ pay
returns to the pre-depression level—a
thousand a year.
In their swing back to pre-slump salary-
rates Parliamentarians beat other wage-
plugs and income-earners by miles.
A parcel of Sydney Trades Hall
spouters who claim to represent “250,000
trade-unionists” demands “a foreign
policy of collective security assisting the
Spanish and Chinese people and others to
resist the Fascist aggressors,” and mean-
while calls upon “the workers, farmers,
civil servants and others to resist to the
limit any reintroduction of compulsory
military training.” About the same time
Voroshilov, one of the idols of this
cheeky mob, was saying in Moscow that
“the U.S.S.R.’s sympathies are whole-
heartedly with China and Republican
Spain,” and that it “must increase its
army’s fighting capacity.” The army is,
of course, levied and trained by compul-
sion.
The Public Library in William-street,
Brisbane, a few minutes’ walk from Par-
liament House, has in no way been im-
proved since Ralph Munn, of the Car-
negie Institute, pronounced it as “not
only the worst in Australia, but the worst
in the English-speaking world.” Another
proof of Government interest in develop-
ing a love of learning among Queens-
landers is the subsidy paid to Schools of
Arts. There are 216 of them, and they
get a whole £5OO p.a. among them. A
Free Library Movement, headed by
Donald Cameron, is pestering the Gov-
ernment to bring it up to £50,000 p.a.,
and is illustrating its arguments by such
facts as the £85,000 spent annually on
free library services in Glasgow.
“The Duchess of Atholl is engaged in a controversy with the Prime Minister. Anti-
Communist once, and anti-Fascist now, the duchess has whirled herself out of the Conservative
party because it isn’t fighting Italy or something.”
“As an authority on duchesses, Billy, how would YOU handle a case like this ?”
To provide against a recurrence of the
1917 crisis, Britain has been buying
whale oil, sugar and wheat in large quan-
tities—though not the entire Canadian
crop, as was stupidly alleged by the Lon-
don “Daily Herald.” It bought more
wheat from Australia than from Canada.
J.B. got the whale oil from the Japanese,
though if Australians had been alive to
their opportunities they could have sup-
plied that too.
In the May Day procession at Mel-
bourne, “caricatures of Hitler, Mussolini,
Chamberlain and Lyons were grouped in
the Rogues’ Gallery.” In the May Day
procession at Sydney, “the Communist
Party carried huge caricatures of Lyons,
Stevens and others in their Rogues’ Gal-
lery.” The information comes from
the Sydney paper that calls itself the
“ ‘Labor’ Daily.” It is a characteristic
Red return for the dropping of the U.A.P.
anti-Communist campaigns.
The worst of rearming in a hurry is
that the cost is appalling. The British
Government thought it could do the job
for £1,500,000,000, but its Chancellor of
the Exchequer now says this amount will
be substantially exceeded. As one result,
the standard rate of income-tax is up
6d. in the £—to ss. 6d. Disarmament
cranks are largely to blame, and they
are also the fools who want to fight
Germany, Italy and Japan.
There are now two vacant Vic. Assem-
bly seats: Bussau’s and Brownbill’s.
Brownbill, dead at 74, was Geelong’s
member for many years, though he was
out of the 1932-35 Assembly, having
been defeated by Austin, of the U.A.P.
Labor isn’t likely to contest Ouyen, and
the Dunstan party is expected to regard
Geelong with similar tact and modesty.
Laski and Gollancz will be delighted
to hear that a Left Book Club has been
formed in Perth, and that Prof. Beasley,
of the Society for the Promotion of Cul-
tural Relations with the U.S.S.R., spoke
at the preliminary meeting. Like Stalin,
the prof, has a low opinion of Chamber-
lain as a negotiator, and is satisfied that
“unless a firm stand is taken soon the
inevitable result will be a German-Italian
hegemony over Europe.” Fired by his
“arguments,” the meeting “urged the
Lyons Government to call Parliament
together to discuss the Anglo-Italian
agreement, and protested against the con-
tinuance of non-intervention in Spain.”
Thereupon it adjourned to make its
arrangements for reading volumes writ-
ten by politicians as one-eyed as Beasley,
recommended by Laski and published by
Gollancz.
To show how democratic it has be-
come with Mr. Stocking and Mr. Skeeter
as bosses, Dunstan’s country group chose
its candidate for the Ouyen Assembly
by-election by hole-and-corner ballot.
Details of the voting were not announced,
but it seems that a Mr. Dodgshun won
and seven other gentlemen lost. Before
Mr. Stocking and Mr. Skeeter “democra-
tised” the party, every member of it in
good standing was free to contest a seat
and elections were interesting.
N.S.W. has an Attorney-General and
a Minister of Justice. Both are lawyers,
and both are full members of Cabinet.
In Victoria the Premier has become
Solicitor-General and his Chief Secretary
has been named Attorney-General as
well. Neither is a lawyer. It is something
for N.S.W. taxpayers to chew over.
With “minor alterations” made in the
hope of mollifying objectors, the Inter-
State Commission Bill has been reintro-
duced. One of the “minor alterations”
is that there are to be five members in-
stead of three. Before it was dropped in
the Senate last year, Pearce (said its
passage should be regarded as urgent.
Westralia rejected the old gentleman,
and he will have to leave the Senate
next month, so presumably the thing has
become more urgent still. Anyway, the
yarn is that Pearce is to be chairman.
The carking thought that defeated
members have to retire without pensions
or even gold passes unless they have
served three continuous years in a Minis-
try often disturbs the people’s slumbers.
To enable them to sleep undisturbed,
Mr. Casey has devised an insurance
scheme under which members paying in
£5O a year are to be entitled to draw
these benefits, according to their pref-
erence :
Capital payments, ranging from £135
after one year’s contribution to £BlO after
16 years or more.
Annual pensions for five years, ranging
from £29 10s. after one year to £176 18s.
after 16 years.
And the best of it is that members are
to get a rise of £5O a year, so the public
which can’t sleep for brooding on the
harrowing plight of the hoofed-out poli-
tician will be providing all the money.
Arguing for the, hiring of a British
officer to look over 35,000 militiamen —
Australians commanded far greater forces
in the field —Lyons pleads that “there
has been no authoritative report on the
Army since the conference of A.I.F. war
leaders in 1930.” One of Canberra’s
little economies, no doubt. But surely
the starving of the services hasn’t been
carried so far as to have deprived the
leaders of the A.I.F. of knowledge which
only a “senior officer of the British
Army” can impart.
The British Foreign Secretary has had
to turn from his labors for appeasement
to intercede for “a British woman Com-
munist, Rose Cohen.” Rose was for
many years foreign editor of the Moscow
“Daily News,” and the Revolution has
had the poor thing in solitary confine-
ment for eight months. Here’s a chance
for Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume, the Syd-
ney editor and radio commentator, to
demand sanctions against Russia.
Taken to task for his huge borrowings
for what he calls “autonomous bodies,”
Stevens denies that they represent tricky
politics, and suggests that “the Financial
Agreement would never have been
ratified by the States if it had been pro-
posed to bring municipal and similar
borrowings under Loan Council control.”
Another theory is that it would have been
ratified by still vaster majorities. The
voting in Stevens’s State was 754,446 for
and 415,846 against; in the six States,
2,237,391 for and 773,852 against.
“L.M., V his plea:
Commonwealth Auditor-General Brown’s
reference to the “many war pensions granted in
respect of disabilities which have no connection
with war service” has been misunderstood.
The A.-G. goes on to say in his report that
“no provision could be too liberal” for men
who came back and who are to-day in need
of a helping hand; but it is his job to see that
public funds are spent within the limits stipu-
lated by Parliament. If, as many Australians
believe, war-pension qualifications are too in-
elastic to earn assistance for all deserving and
needy Diggers, it is Parliament’s fault.


THE WAR ON CRIME.
“An ordinance giving councils greater power to control dogs will be considered by the executive of the N.S.W. Local Government Association.”


NO SOAI*
NOR WATER
NEEDED.
h
Shave Electrically
No more ‘‘raw face,” just the
cleanest, slickest shave ever
thought of. Shave in the office,
at home any place where you can
Plug in to A.C. or D.C. Over a
million and a half in daily use.
£5/10/-
Factory Representatives: E.T.C.
Industries, Etd., 470 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney. ,
mm
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
Defence Expenditure—ls It Inflationary?
What of Share and Commodity Prices Generally?
Stocks Worth Watching.
These and other things are discussed in the May Issue of
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” on Sale Saturday,
PRICE 2/- PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
Witigello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
PERJONAL ITEMS
Launceston City Council, which holds
by the old Scots principle “keep oor ain
fish guts for oor ain seamews,” has
brought a Tassie Rhodes scholar, J. Alan
Ingles, back from exile in Glasgow to be
its electrical power station superintendent.
Ingles, who is 33 and married, is Laun-
ceston-born and -bred, and got his B.E.
and B.Sc. at Hobart Uni. He graduated
B.A. with honors at Oxford, and has had
a- lot of experience since in big power
plants in Canada and Britain, in addition
to Tasmanian jobs.
The anti-liquor campaign to precede
Vic.’s No-License poll on October 8 is
being handled by the Rev. R. Ambrose
Roberts, general secretary of the Local
Option Alliance. Born in Vic. in 1875,
he comes of a church family, his father
being R. T. Roberts, eight times State
Moderator of the Welsh Presbyterian
Church. A Congregational minister of
many years’ standing, Padre Roberts is
a past president of Vic.’s Congregational
Union and the Council of Churches. He
joined the Alliance 15 years ago, and was
publicity officer for the last Vic. poll in
1930. A member of the Song Writers’
Club of Victoria, the Writers’ Cultural
Society and the Poetry Lovers’ Associa-
tion, he writes verse when he has the
time.
An accident while mustering, followed
by pneumonia, carried off George Leslie
Rutherford, one of Maoriland’s best-
known sheepbreeders and racing enthu-
siasts, at 58. Member of a family that
pioneered the pastoral development of
North Canterbury, he owned Macdonald
Downs and Mount Tirlesse stations.
From his racing stables came many good
horses, including Royal Star, a New Zea-
land Cup winner. Rutherford was a
keen polo player, captain of the Hawar-
den team. A daughter, Betty, has held
Maoriland’s women’s golf championship.
Frederick James Smith, the Sydney
accountant, has a finger in many pies,
being on the directorate of Australian
Glass, Dunlop Rubber, J. C. Williamson,
Hordern Bros., Stedman-Henderson’s
FRED J. SMITH.
Sweets, West’s Pictures and George Hud-
son, Ltd. Born in Mulgrave, N.S.W., 65
years ago, he began his business career
in the office of the N. S. Wales Official
Assignee. In partnership with E. L. Bail-
lieu, of Melbourne, he has raced a num-
ber of good horses ; and he was part-
owner with knight Sam Hordern of
Prince Cox, an Australian Cup winner.
Knight Thomas Buckland, who has
shown his interest in Australian defence
by a gift of £10,500 to buy a bombing
’plane, is best known as a banker. He
joined the ’Wales staff in 1867 as an
assayer his father was managing
director—but resigned five years later
and managed goldmines at Charters
Towers, Q. He joined the ’Wales direc-
torate in 1909, and from 1922 up till
last year was president. He is a little
wiry man, still active—he drives his own
car—and clearheaded, though he will be
90 next August. A previous benefaction
was the endowment of a splendid hos-
pital for women at Springwood, N.S.W.
Frederic Shipman, one of the best
known of the entrepreneurs who supplied
the Australasian entertainment market 20
and 30 years ago—he introduced Mischa
Elman among other celebrities —is back
FREDERIC SHIPMAN
in Australia again for the first time since
1910. On this occasion he brings Leona
Flood, violinist, but probably not in a
suitcase, as Frith’s infantile mind con-
ceives the historical event.
One of the world’s leading authorities
on the feeding of livestock, Dr. John
Hammond, F.R.S., has been brought
to these parts by the C.S. and I.R. and its
Maoriland opposite number. Hammond,
physiologist at the Animal Nutrition In-
stitute, Cambridge, has lately been study-
ing conditions in Vic. and Tas.
W. J. R. Cheeseman, dead of appen-
dicitis at 43 in Adelaide, where he had
been for the last two years as Wool-
worths’ manager, was a notable N.S.W.
commander in the war. When he took
over the 53rd at Polygon Wood he was
the youngest colonel in the army, and
he won the D.S.O. and the M.C., and
was named Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor. His ashes have been taken to
Newcastle (N.S.W.).
Skipper of the new Commonwealth
fisheries vessel Warreen, Captain A. Flett,
originally from Scotland, takes Maoriland
and Australian fishing experience to his
new job. He’s not long back from
overseas, where he was sent by the Com-
monwealth Government to become
acquainted with the handling of gear
carried by his new ship. S. Fowler,
fisheries officer of the C.S. and 1.R., and
G. Clark and M. Blackburn, scientific
observers, will do the fish-investigating.
Dead at 78, Tom Mulcahy, known
for forty years by Brisbane press rounds-
men as tactful guardian of the Home De-
partment’s Ministerial doorway. Brisbane-
born, he entered the public service in
1881 as a messenger, and ten years later
was transferred to what was then known
as the Colonial Secretary’s Office, later
the Home Department. Even the
crankiest of the many Ministers whom
Tom served so faithfully liked and
trusted him. So did the varied throng
of callers, ranging from earbiters and
prisoners’ relatives, through indignant
citizens, pensioners and job-applicants, to
alleged relatives and friends of some
newly-made Minister. To pressmen Tom’s
whispered suggestion that “you’d better
leave seeing him till after he has had
his lunch—didn’t like that last report a
bit” averted a lot of trouble.
An old-time visiting chaplain at
Pentridge (Vic.) gaol was John Mellen,
-dead at Moonta (S.A.) at 62. He was for
30 years with Ball and Welch, of Mel-
bourne, but gave his spare time equally
to music, Masonry and Methodism.
About 1924 he transferred his interest
in all three to Moonta.
High Court Justice George Rich, who
—modestly, as is his fashion —is having
a judicial silver jubilee, was born at Braid-
wood (N.S.W.) 75 years ago. He had his
education at Sydney Grammar and Syd-
ney Uni., was called to the Bar in 1887
and took silk in 1911. In the same year
he accepted appointment as an acting-
judge of the N.S.W. Supreme Court,
became a Puisne Judge the following year
and was appointed a Justice of the High
Court in 1913, serving in that capacity
ever since. In war-time he acted as
Royal Commissioner to inquire into
scandals at the Liverpool camp, and in
1922 he was one of Australia’s delegates
to the League of Nations. For a time
Challis lecturer in law at Sydney Uni.,
he was one of the little band that battled
for the establishment of evening classes.
The man chiefly responsible for the
agitation leading to the recent Dunstan
promise to reform the 96-year-old Mel-
bourne City Council charter, E. L. Mor-
ton, has to back his arguments 14 years’
experience as a councillor, during which
term he has served on most of the City
Council’s committees. Fifty-year-old
head of a city engraving firm which he
started at 21, Morton gave Harold Cohen
a good fight for the Caulfield Assembly
seat in 1935; sickness prevented him
from trying again last October. But it
is the town hall rather than the top o’
Bourke-street with which he is most
familiar.
Walter Smith, dead at 71 at Angaston,
S.A., was one of the famous Yalumba
wine firm, and for years was president
of the Vinegrowers’ Association. On
visits to India he did some big-game
hunting, and earned the pet name in
Adelaide of “Tiger” Smith. His wife
was a sister of Clem Hill, and the sons
—mostly in the family’s business—are all
called Hill Smith.
A gift that went somewhat astray from
its expressed intention was the £BOOO
donated by Herbert Brookes and George
Nicholas for the erection of a residence
for the Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne
University. The gift was made out of
pure friendship for Dr. R. E. Priestley,
for whose projected reforms the donors
had a profound admiration. But Dr.
Priestley resigned and the house has re-
mained vacant since its completion last
year. The Vice-Chancellor-elect, J, D.
G. Medley, with his wife, will probably
move in. Herbert Brookes and his wife
were both graduates of the institution on
which they have since showered numer-
ous benefactions.
With assistant-secretary Don Cameron
a Senator-elect and secretary A. E. Monk
going to be Trades Hall representative on
the Workers’ Compensation Board, Mel-
bourne’s Trades Hall Council is in for
A. E. MONK.
some reshuffling. The youngest T.H.C.
secretary in Australia, 37-year-old Monk
is also president of the Australasian
Council of Trade Unions. He first went
to Melbourne Trades Hall as a clerk
in the Carters and Drivers’ Union, and
within two years was secretary of the
federated unions. Transferring to the
T.H.C., Monk was appointed assistant
secretary in 1929 and secretary in 1934.
He was born in Essex and reached Mel-
bourne when he was 10. He gives as his
reason for being single that he’s been too
busy to think of marriage.
Dead at 60, Sir Hyde Gowan was
born in Sydney, July 4, 1878, son of a
doctor. One of those distinguished
Indian civil servants who rise to be Gov-
ernors of provinces, he quitted the gadi
of the Central Provinces in ill health in
March last. He was a capable admin-
istrator, and one of a number of Aus-
tralians who, after brilliant doings at
English universities, win places in one
or other of the civil services. He was
schooled at Rugby and Oxford.
Introducing a new President:
When the bill creating the Presidency of Eire
was debated, it was attacked as giving the
£15,000 a year incumbent “powers greater than
a king.” The job is sure to go to 78-year-old
Erse scholar, poet and writer of fairy tales
Douglas Hyde, son of an Anglican parson and
born in Roscommon. Hyde was one of the
most brilliant scholars of his time in Trinity
College, and has devoted almost all his life
to the advancement of Celtic learning. For a
time he held a job as a professor of a small
Canadian State university. Then, till a few
years ago, he was Professor of Modern Irish
in the National University of Ireland and Dean
of the Faculty of Celtic. Latterly he has lived
a more retired life in Roscommon, though sit-
ting in the Irish Senate. He has written about
50 books. Some of them sound interesting—
Leabhar Sgeuluigheachta, for instance. In
appearance he is—or was a few years ago—
a typical old-school Irishman, Celtic of coun-
tenance, with a moustache of the umbrella
variety and a broad smile which was often in
use. But nobody would ever have singled him
out as likely to become the highest-paid elected
official in the British Isles.


Immediate Popularity Greets
the Introduction of “White Label” ...
“White Label” has made its
mark from the very beginning,
for no one who appreciates good
Whisky can fail to recognise its
perfect maturity and alluring
mellowness. Therein lies the
secret of “White Label's” great
success and popularity . . . .
Try one today.
1
I AWARDED
(50 MEDALS'
V* M
Perth
50 GotJ>
anti
Pme Mebals
1 'min,,
“»nish
lo Nßon
50 Gott
anb
Pme
»MISI(Us COOKERY
BY
APPOINTMENT
MELBOURNE INTERNATIONAL
FOOD
PARIS
DUNEDIN
j|NBU rC "
|«P
168?
'1304
1888
1888
1888
M:
1888
1889 1889
1889
1889
White Label"
A Fine Scotch Whisky
OF RARE AGE
efohn Dewar & Sons I!-
distillers
l„ n son Office P A \TI)
® tol ar House Hagmarftet, S.W.I. SC OILANM
NET CONTENTS 1 PINT, 6 FL. OZS.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
Here is an actual size illustration
of the handy flat bottle.
DEWARS
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH li/fulAij


ABORIGINALITIES
“W. P. Basket”: Herb stuck to his job
in the quarry until his supply of yarns
ran out; then the boss sacked him. With
his 12-year-old kid for company he took
to the scrub and a fencing contract. Met
him at the end of the first day as fresh
as a daisy. “How many did you knock
out,'Herb?” I asked. “Twenty-eight—it’s
like doin’ nothin’. ” Later I met his
washedout-looking kid. “Well, son, and
how many posts did yon split?” “Twenty-
flamin’-eight,” he moaned, displaying
blistered hands. Herb was running true to
form.
* * * *
“Dingo”: Came across a trio of men
on the track laden with tobacco and
perishing for want of a smoke after
disasters to their pipes en route. When
I led them through a barbed-wire fence
into a paddockful of maize and cut
them a corncob pipe apiece in a matter of
10 minutes, anyone would have thought
they had encountered a specimen of the
Black Art, instead of what was once a
commonplace weekly operation among
our pioneer forebears. Incidentally,
apart from the cherrywood, the corncob
is the only pipe which smokes without
tongue-burning from the word go and
needs no breaking-in.
, * * * *
“Wings”: The scientific side of aero-
plane-construction may get a fresh im-
petus if the hopes of a member of the
British flying-boat squadron are realised.
Before leaving W.A. he inquired if it
w 7 ere possible to obtain a genuine war
boomerang. From the Perth police col-
lection a kylie that had taken a white
man’s life was presented to him. The
aerodynamics of the boomerang have
never been investigated—what peculiar
twist of wing gives the boomerang the
power to glide, then shoot upwards;
then, its impetus expended, come gliding
down a slanting lane of air right back to
the thrower’s hand, and still with such
velocity that an inexpert catcher may
easily have his palm cut to the bone.
* * * *
“Huglow”: One of the coolest pieces
of snake-work I’ve ever witnessed was
performed by firelight in the Atherton
(N.Q.) timber country. A friend and I
had been camped for some time in the
one spot, and every night were pestered
by a lizard which came hunting for
scraps. One night, hearing a rustle in
the grass, I hurled a stone at what I
thought was the lizard ; but my throw
drove a 6ft. brown snake into our clear-
ing. I was turning to get a stick when
my pal seized Joe by the tail from be-
hind ; and, dragging it swiftly towards
him, neatly stabbed it in the neck with
the breadknife he had been using.
He ' * *
“No. 1”: Sober, Big Charlie was as
amiable as he was strong ; but it usually
took six cops to arrest him after a bender
and a sergeant to drive the cab to the
station with them all fighting inside.
One day Charlie was staggering past the
saleyards in a N.S.W. North Coast town,
dead drunk. A two-year-old steer hopped
the capping of one of the pens, and set
out to empty the main street with all the
dogs and half the kids'in town after it.
Only Charlie barred its passage, and
shouts of warning were wasted on him.
He woke up to the danger with a
fathom’s clearance. There was only one
thing to do, and he did it. Up went his
number twelve and down went the steer.
Charlie staggered, but kept his feet until
long after the animal came round again.
if. ¥ * *
“Wool-o”: Contemplating the ever-
increasing invasion of Diesel and other
engines into the wool-transport business,
I cannot but feel a pang for the Dread-
nought wagons that I helped to build in
Perth just after the war. Veritable mon-
archs--Bft. wheels, 6in. tyres, and all else
in proportion. So fine and individualistic
were they that we even gave them names
—King George, Monarch of the Plains,
Wool King and others. Where are they
now, I wonder? Stranded on many an
outback station, a perch for crows, a
generous banquet for the white-ant.
Their tuart naves and felloes, their iron-
wood spokes, their magnificent jarrah and
karri bodies are slowly turning into dust
while the rubber-tyred truck whirls past,
carrying but a quarter of their load but
doing it in a tenth of the time.
* * * *
“Runa”: Add flounder, particularly
the M.L. variety, to the fish that change
flavor with locality. If the flattie is from
a clean, sandy sea-floor the flavor is de-
lightful. Those caught in a tidal creek
are larger, but have a muddy taste. As
most M.L. flounders come off a mud
floor and the supply never equals the
demand, the miry flavor is evidently not a
bar to popularity.
¥ ¥ * *
“Skiloperende”: A colt, 10 months
old, owned by a South Fremantle (W.A.)
racing man, recently presented an inter-
esting case for a vet. The colt, after
being thrown for the first time, was un-
able to regain its feet. All four legs,
every rib —in fact, practically every bone
in its body—had given way. A post-
mortem showed each supposed bone to
“Wot, NINEPENCE! For THEM? They've on'y done two thousand an' on'y been retreaded twice!"
be merely a shell of about one-tenth of
an inch in thickness, the rest being but a
fragile, honeycombed substance.
* * * *
“Diorite Puncher”: In spawling blue-
stone, diorite, or even massive limonite,
the knack counts for more than sheer
strength. Like the disabling blows given
in jiu-jitsu there must be a snap about it —
just as it takes a snap to crack a stock-
whip. The shape and hardness of the
hammer also count. A dumpy hammer
won’t spawl ’em off like a long wedge
shape. Likewise, a soft-tempered face
won’t produce the snapping ring that
sends rupture right through the stone.
Much the same applies to the breaking
of pig-iron and bulky scrap. Have, seen
“baby elephants” slop into a pulp work-
ing on the pig-heap alongside a little
nine-stoner who was hardly turning a
hair. The whole meaning can be demon-
strated in the driving of a nail. Two or
three blows with a light hammer, and an
expert can drive a nail into the hardest
wood —Something that couldn’t be done
by a 100-ton hydraulic press, because
under the press the nail would simply
bend.
* * * *
“S.W.”: “Notaden” (B. 21/4/’3B) de-
serves to be deprived of The Bulletin for
seven hard years for advocating the in-
troduction of the pestiferous European
carp to inland waters. Not only is the
beast quite uneatable, but it is prob-
ably the most destructive of all fish
to small fry, while its habit of
rooting for its tucker on the bottom
tUo finish nf enawn The
carp and its imported pal the equally-
useless perch have between them done
more to destroy Australian native fishes
like the incomparable Murray cod, which
fast koala, than any other
agency, save i m por«ed curse, ,he
rou ‘ * * * *
“Der Jong”: My compliments to the
ancient bushman who told “Gravel-
snatcher” (B. 21/4/’3B) to find his way
to a place by compass-point. The Aus-
tralian fashion of telling an inquirer to
go a mile or two to his right, some others
to his left, then straight ahead, and so
on, is slipshod and inaccurate. The man
who doesn’t know how the cardinal
points lie has no business in the bush,
Nothing struck me more about the un-
lettered Boer when I first knew South
Africa than his practice of giving direc-
tions for pathfinding in this way, for in
my day out west, at least, not one man
in a thousand followed it.
* * * *
“James W.”: My meanderings along
the Barrier Reef leave me convinced that
all this business about 4ft. giant clams
and their “man-trap” propensities is so
much blather. I’ve never seen, or met,
any reliable person who has seen a clam
exceeding 30in. in width, and I don’t
think any man has ever been trapped and
held to drown by one. That one in
Notre Dame and the one on Coconut
Island (B. 6/4/’3B) are, if not synthetic
fakes, undoubtedly relics of a pre-
historic age. Even with the outsize speci-
mens of aeons ago, trapping a human
would have been next to impossible,
While a clam is submerged, the slightest
agitation in the water or blow on the
rocks within several feet invariably
causes it to close. When it is exposed
at low water, a footfall on the reef, the
vibration of a voice, or even a shadow
falling across it means “Shut the door.”
The clam has too many natural enemies,
ranging from eels to sea-lice, to keep
open-house. Anyway, even if a giant
clam were propped in its normal open
position, no normal human hoof could
fit between its corrugated lips.
* * * *
“Weyba”: For crab-pots, the best and
cheapest bait is stingray, which, filleted
and well displayed in the trap, is guaran-
teed to tempt the most fastidious crus-
tacean. Stingray is sport for the fisher-
men around Noosa (Q.). Armed with
half a dozen spears each, they perch on
rocks overlooking the shallows where
Sam Stingray loves to sunbask. Spears
flash, and as the stricken rays start to
clear out the spearmen leap straight
from the rocks on to their victims. A
knife plunged between the eyes turns the
ray into potential lure for a couple of
hundred crabs. Dangerous sport, but so
far no one has stopped the vicious swing
of the barbed tail.
* * *
“Naturalist”: The pair of black-
backed magpies set up housekeeping
near our house. Directly the family
arrived Daddy Maggie each day would
zoom down from the tall nesting tree
with a volley of feather-raising blas-
phemy, scattering right and left the groups
of inoffensive cacklers foraging in the
house clearing. One afterno °J l . , a C aici>
on the fence was inspecting i ons
lating eye the ripening wa
Presently there was a descending
black-and-white and a very-much-hurt
header garde.
returned to his family and carolled till
he gave his offspring the earache. There-
after our melon patch was crow-tree,
* * * * H
“Mulgo” : Though the logs provioea
for chopping and sawing contests a
the Sydney Royal Show are required to
be free of knots, these terrors of the axe-
men are not always indicated on the sur-
face. One competitor retired so as to
save his axe when in a winning position.
Getting the logs is a big contract; ovei
100 tons of blackbutt was sent irom
near Wauchope (N.S.W.), and selecting
trees of exact size with clean boles wnne
the bark is on is no job for a mug.
Generally the conti actors are Show axe
men. Last year one of three was killed
while felling the trees,
* * * * . orY ,
“Murrungurry : It s funny how team
bullocks drop into the habits or tn
drivers. Old Jeff Bunkers string was
used to going to town to pick up loading
for the station. I rode with him on one
trip, and whenever he said Good ay
to anybody he met the team stopped at
once. They knew, just as well as they
understood the meaning of Stand up
and “Whoa back that Good day
meant a spell while Jeff had a yarn-
When we came to a wayside Pub Those
bullocks bent to the yokes and turned
in as if they expected a drink. But when
the team ignored a cottage close by the
roadside, though the owner was on the
verandah, I "asked who lived there. “A
dirty old crook,” said Bunker. “Took
me down for a horse once.” Which ex-
plained why the bullocks “weren’t speak-
ing” to him.
* * * *
“Pab. D.”: As I said before, I don’t
know much of birdology, but “Puffinus”
(B. 21 /4/’3B) appears to be still foggier.
When I spoke of the mopoke I was
referring to the boobook owl and not
to the tawny frogmouth, as concluded
by “P.” Most, bushmen of my acquaint-
ance know them by that classification,
and I was once enlightened when, re-
marking to an old-timer that the mopoke
(tawny frogmouth then) was a queer
cuss, I was pulled over the coals in-
stanter with “Them’s not mopokes;
them’s tawny frogmouths. Real mopokes’s
boobook owls.” Since then I’ve accepted
his designation and used it over a wide
slab of W.A. without being faulted. Inci-
dentally, a tawny frogmouth does some-
times emit a throaty call almost identical
with the “morepork” of the boobook
owl.
* * * *
“Groper”: It was a starvation group-
settlement holding in W.A.’s south-west.
Evening, and a dead-beat swaggie shoved
his head over the sliprails. “Any chance
of a feed, boss?” The groupie grinned
hospitably. “Well, we’ve just killed a big
pumpkin—you’re welcome to its in-
nards.”
THE SEASON.
Babinda and cane-knives flashing,
As, stooped o’er the ripe ratoons,
Lopping and topping and thrashing,
We toil through the blazing noons.
We cut in the windless hollow,
We load by the burning break,
But light are the feet that follow
The wheels of the loaded rake.
Then, Cairns and a sea-breeze blowing:
Cool ale from cellars of ice,
And song, where the fates are throwing
Our souls to the rolling dice.
Through days with the sunlight splashing
Her gold where the furrows lie,
Babinda for cane-knives flashing,
But Cairns when the blood runs high.
N.s.w.
FRANK McCALL.


“Christopher”: Old Andy MacStump-
jump, who is very short-sighted, used to
drive Leaping Lena, his old model T,
at its top speed ; but a couple of good
crops and he is now sporting a shiny
V8, with the result that he really moves
much faster than he is aware of. He
was taking the shire engineer out to
inspect a gate across a lane the other
day. The speedo-needle was trying to
go around the dial the second time when
there was a loud clang and the car shud-
dered slightly. “Musta picked up some
wire,” said Andy without slowing up.
“Wire be damned! ” gasped the s.-e.
“That was the gate we were going to
look at!”
* * * *
“McM.”: When the slick gent, came
along with two prads for the Boopadoop
races he offered Jacky thirty bob for a
week cleaning out stalls and doing odd
jobs. When the meeting was over and
Jacky turned up to collect his wages the
horsy one had vanished. “By cripe,”
roared Jacky, jumping about the yard
like an excited kangaroo, “I bin charge
the dirty cow double if I’d knowed ’e
do a plurry ting like dat!”
* * * *
“K.Mc.”: With a fishing party on the
Macquarie, below Warren (N.S.W.),
recently, I was surprised to see a few
head of fat cattle in that drought-stricken
area. For scores of miles around the
surface soil was churned up like fallowed
land, with dried timber scattered on it.
Not a vestige of feed —not even a root or
tussock of grass—could be seen. A couple
of hundred walking skeletons of sheep
waited avidly beneath a solitary willow
on the bank for a stray leaf to fall. In
the scramble to retrieve it some would
get stuck in the mud —we pulled out 30
that night. Owners have been hand-feed-
ing for over a year. I was still puzzled
as to how the cattle came to look so well
“This ought to fool the mosquitoes !”
when I heard a commotion in the river,
Looking over the bank I saw them with
their heads under the water, like hippos.,
searching for water-weeds.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: In a fight as a pup, he
had a tail-joint broken. Uncontrollable,
a great howler when opposed or punished,
he was several times knocked over by
cars, whose superior force he refused to
recognise. A wheat-header fell on him,
but he recovered. He ate poisoned mice,
was struck by an axe accidentally—and
survived. He always fought with his
kind, and generally won ; wasn’t worried
by snakes (which he liquidated), but
he fell to one in the end. That dog
began life with too great a handicap,
being named Lang when born in 1931.
* * * H:
Bray Rock”: The vast annual migra-
tion of the so-called deep-sea mullet has
begun along the coasts of N.S.W. and
S.Q., a year nearer to the eventual extinc-
tion of an industry of immense potential
value. Estuary fish in reality, when
spawning-time approaches they must
seek the open or the big roes will harden
and the females will die. But after a few
weeks at sea they must return to estuary
waters to spawn in water of such specific
gravity that the eggs will neither float
to the surface, to be destroyed by sun
or birds, nor sink to the bottom and be
smothered in the mud. For untold years
the breeding system has survived the
depredations of porpoises, sharks, tailer
and other predatory enemies. Only
modern man has upset the natural
balance by netting at the mouths of
rivers and sea-entrances. In the future
interests of a great sea industry, Queens-
land and N.S.W. should combine to stop
mullet-netting within at least two miles
of any bay or river entrance during the
migration season.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Had that March-April
cyclone kept 100 miles to the westward
during the first half of its three weeks’ jazz
to south, south-east and back again, many
Queensland coastal areas would have
suffered a major disaster. Pent up be-
tween subsidiary disturbances on its mar-
gins, the vast spinning mass of air re-
tained its momentum and energy to an
extent and duration unequalled for 30
years and more. Fortunately, the areas
of greatest disturbance kept well off-
shore. What that wind pressure meant
was demonstrated by the whistling
lanyard of the City of Glasgow, making
for Brisbane from the eastward. So
great was the pressure on the slender
line that it had to be unshipped in order
to stop it from continually sounding the
whistle, a job which needs a tidy tug
and strain when done by hand.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Australia’s smallest bird
is the weebill, a plump, busy mite, gaily
dressed in olive, with a fine yellow waist-
coat. He is only a bare finger-length
overall, but his lack of size doesn’t worry
him into any inferiority complex. Far
from it —he likes to sit in the tallest avail-
able treetop and whistle defiance at
everything in hearing. The “Sweet Dick”
diamond-bird is his nearest rival in the
midget line. Weebill’s nest is a neat
ball of finely-woven grass with a feather
lining, cunningly hidden away in the very
top of some tall, leafy sapling. While
Mrs. Weebill is sitting he challenges the
world to combat from some other tree, but
within her hearing, in order to delude
such egg-stealers as crows or jackies,
and to warn her to sit quiet if danger
threatens. At other seasons they join
parties of friends in constant meals
among the treetops.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The nest of the white-
winged chough is apparently a commu-
nity affair. It is evident that several birds
lay their eggs in the same nest, and they
take turn about at sitting on them. As
many as seven or eight eggs have been
found in a nest, but less than half this
muster are ever hatched. When the
young ones appear the community spirit
still prevails, several birds assisting in the
job of feeding.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A peculiar accident
robbed a Westralian cocky of 50 acres
of crop this summer. The patch was
cleared and burnt last year, and one
mallee-root smouldered underground
throughout the winter. The burning root
errierged 30ft. from the stump.
“Gor' , We're the only two 'ere, Mawther, that edden furriners.”
“Colon”: Chooks make some queer
deposits occasionally, but since abnormal
cackle-fruit forms the staple diet of
poultry-farmers they seldom reach the
public eye. I’ve seen them from half an
ounce to six ounces, round as a golf-ball
or elongated as a cigar, but the queer-
est was two perfect eggs joined by a
quarter-inch of shafting. I set it in hopes
of rearing a Siamese chicken, but it
proved infertile.
“Quareef”: Can’t
agree that “some
plants and animals
inhabiting our dry
regions have exactly
the same facility for
getting all the mois-
ture available.” Cer-
tainly they both pos-
sess the attribute of
obtaining all avail-
able moisture, but
the methods differ.
Mulga, nelia, salt-
bush, bluebush and
almost all inland
drought-resisters are
atmospheric drink-
ers. Their leaves are
coated with various
salines which attract
moisture whenever
humidify is present
in the air, the damp-
ness being immedi-
ately imbibed. They
also have a laby-
rinth of rootage that
scours subterranean
places for every ves-
tige of mpisture.
This capacity for
obtaining water
from apparently dry
earth and drier at-
mosphere is the secret of their un-
canny staying powers. On the other
hand animals, birds and reptiles which
live without water are all more or less
parasitic. When pools disappear they
obtain liquid refreshment from berries,
fruit, succulent leaves and moisture-laden
roots. Carnivorous animals like the fox,
cat and dingo are doubly parasitic, inas-
much as they subsist on fluid obtained
at kill wh?/# had been, two lives
away, absorbed from the air by a desert
plant.
*** , *
“Golden Mile”: Few things disgusted
the old-time Cousin Jack more than
“minin’ larned from books.” Sinking
with big kibbles, we used a heavy slop-
ing door, which fell across the shaft at
the brace ; to tip them, the ring on the
bottom of the kibble was hooked to a
chain, the enginedriver then giving slack,
with the result that the kibble upended
and emptied into the waiting truck. Very
simple—only that sometimes the brace-
man (myself) fumbled the hooking,
which led to profanity. Then the man-
ager got it out of a Yankee magazine.
By cutting a reinforced slot in the top
edge of the door and attaching a chain
with a handy ball at the end to the
bottom of the kibble the whole perform-
ance would be automatic. It was —for a
month. Duly the door fell over, the chain
slipped into the slot, and then, when the
driver lowered, the ball did its bit and
the kibble upended. But one night-
shift the link holding the ball snapped ;
500 feet below were Willyum and
Tummas. The ball struck the other
kibble at the bottom and went through
the three-sixteenths steel plate, Willyum
and Tummas being crouched in the farther
end of the shaft —they had heard it com-
ing. They didn’t say much when they
came up—merely asked the manager
would he mind “lendin’ they that thear
buke.” He obliged, wonderingly. Then
with great solemnity they placed it on
the stoker’s shovel and passed it into the
firebox—“tew be cremated before it made
any widders.”
* # , * *
“Gam”: While duck-shooting at Lake
George, near Beachport (S.A.), a sports-
man was surprised to see a fox splashing
about in the water. Reynard snapped up
a large fish and made for the land. The
duck-shooter fired, but only secured the
jack-salmon which the fox dropped on
his way to cover.
H= * * H=
“P.P.”: There are, depending on length
and’fullness, approximately 1400 pods in
an ordinary 4gal. tin of peas. This usually
represents from 141 b. to 201 b. weight,
or one-half to two-thirds of a bushel
respectively. The fastest picking time to
my knowledge for a 141 b. tin is smin.
This means from five to six peas per
second. May sound easy to the un-
initiated, but a rude shock will await
them at their first go in a field. Working
it out they will probably find 171 b. or
181 b. will bring them to the hour—and to
disillusionment. Of course it isn’t a bad
day's work for the “gun,” 48 bushels at
Is. per, but what about the poor boob
staggering along on two-thirds bushel per
hour?
UP TO THE NECK.
He’ll be on a selection that’s not very big,
It will either be “mixed” or just cows;
You will probably notice him nibbling twig
And cursing “them blarsted old sows.”
But you won’t find him mending the pig-pen,
because,
As he mentions to Shamus McQuirk
In a marathon spiel that’s a strain on the jaws,
He’s “up to his neck with the work!”
His eldest son, Jim, will be splitting some rails,
Young Tom will be wielding the adze,
While Ned’s got the job of repairing the bails
And the hands doing milking are Glad’s.
Dad would nail up the mailbox (he’s said so
for years),
But, cuss it, he says to Dan Burke
In a chat lasting hours over numerous beers,
He’s “up to his ears with the work!”
So while Mum and the kids go from daylight
to dark
In the homestead, the yards and the barns,
On the home paddock sliprails the old man
will park
Half the day as he smokes and he yarns.
And it’s queer that, while nobody else he’ll
deceive
With this time-honored obvious lurk,
He’s converted himself, so he’s come to believe
That he’s up to the eyelids in work!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five: public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M4OOl. .
Experience Essential in an Executor
A satisfactory Executor and Trustee must have many qualities. He must be trustworthy;
he must be impartial; he must have sound judgment; but even with these he may go
astray unless he have Experience. Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has had 50 years'
experience in administering thousands of Estates. It lias a collective wisdom born of
experience, that no private executor could have. You would be wise to appoint the
Company as YOUR Executor and Trustee. Call or write for explanatory booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, 11. Norman Pope.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. _ P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under administration exceed £52,000,000.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTING MB
a
«
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/G
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit f and f blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG h AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
Written
Off or
Provided Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ] Q , 7
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 j SJ ’
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 * 1,322,771
■15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,034,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’26.. 7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221 125,144 3,229,196
’27.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
’28.. 8,872,654 4,383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,681
’29.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 ) g m 01fi
Provision for taxation, £237,635 j ’ ’
’31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 ) , R 77 4fiß
Provision for taxation, £69,365 f ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,061 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 1 , 078 rgo
From eonting. res., £lOO,OOO .. 5 ’ ’
’37.11,197,066 5,681,864 1,291,292 60,166 f g
From eonting. reserve, £50,000 .. j*’ ' ’
Industrial Department.
Added to
Deo., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1905.. 6,123 124 19,069
1910.. 105,438 4,189 51,639 49,610
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420,270
1925.-1,397,888 227,059 362,824 1 797104
Written off, £lO,Bll )
1930.. 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 ]
Written off, £64,047 1- 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 ]
To con’t’cy fund, etc., £164,477 }■ 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635 J
1932. 796,026 536,082 ) 7f . R IRq
Written off, £3461 .. .. ) 768,1
1933. . 2.171,268 800,834 552,582 ) 810 493
Written off. £7359 .. .. $ ’
1934. . 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 ] 017 891
Written off, £5651 .. .. i
1935. . 2,460,767 964,512 582,580 ] 909395
Written off, £4280 ..- •• S
1936. . 2,679,507 1,095.085 641,792 ] 041979
Written off, £1558 .. .. (
1937. . 2,943,122 1,162 121 753.99' 1 j 011.882
Written off, £15,124 .. I
In age and size, the A.M.P. is No. 1
in the front rank of Australian life offices.
Furthermore, its accounts disclose a very
solid financial structure and pleasing
margins in all those things upon which
progress and prosperity depend. Last
year a record amount of new business
was put on the books, the figure being
£31,727,699 (up £3,748,279) for the two
departments combined, or more than
double the amount written in 1934. Total
income was the biggest yet, being
£14,140,188 (up £713,020), of which
£9,366,028 (up £443,879) was premiums,
etc., and £4,774,160 (up £260,141) in-
terest and rents. After paying all legi-
timate claims and exes., and striking
£75,290 off the book values of premises
and other assets, £5,225,626 (up £205,974)
was added to assurance funds, making
them £108,411,880. In addition, these
funds had the support and assistance of a
contingency reserve of £2,102,503 (down
£67,963, of which £50,000 was used to
write down the book value of premises),
tax reserve £lOO,OOO and fidelity fund
£5457. Total funds belonging to policy-
holders were thus £110,619,840 (up
£5,157,862, equal to 36.4 p.c. of the
year’s income).
After paying £31,381 in interim
bonuses, the amount now to be dis-
tributed among policy-holders is
£3,272,768 (up £124,324), making total
bonus distributions since the society
began 91 years ago £68,916,747 in the
Ordinary and £3,747,792 in the Indus-
trial section:
bonuses declared.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
19-20.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3.152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2.702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. J 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,798 310,646 3.148,444
1937.. 2*944.883 327,885 3,272,768
Last, year’s distribution was equal to
42.7 p.c. of premiums on participating
policies in the Ordinary branch, com-
pared with 42.8, 44.4 and 47 p.c. for the
three preceding terms. The slip is owing
to growth in the volume of new business
and the stubbornness of interest rates;
not since the beginning of this century
has the rate realised been so low.
Although there was a slight reduction
(according to duration of the policy) of
2s. p.c. in some of the rates of bonus,
reversionary additions to the sums as-
sured were very handsome, ranging on
whole-life contracts (age 30 at entry)
from 40s. p.c. on one-year-old policies
to 725. p.c.. on those 30 years in force,
and on endowment assurances (same age
at entry and same duration) maturing at
age 60 from 345. p.c. to 625. p.c. In the
Industrial section, bonuses were at the
same uniform rate of 355. 6d. p.c.
There was no change worth mention-
ing in the average gross rate of interest
realised (£4 7s. sd. p.c.) on total mean
funds belonging to policy-holders. Since
the office works on the basis of its life
funds alone earning only 3 p.c., there
is a healthy margin for bonuses here.
In the Ordinary department dqath
claims were only 52 p.c. of the amount
expected under the mortality tables used.
Commissions, expenses of management
and taxes absorbed respectively 6.47 p.c.,
7.64 p.c. and 3.82 p.c. (total 17.93 p.c.)
of the year’s net premiums. The total
was only ss. 9d. p.c more than for the
previous term, despite the large amount
of new business written. The loading
allowed by the actuary for future exes,
and profits was approximately 18.5 p.c.
Lately there has been a lot of com-
plaint about the low cash surrender
value of Industrial contracts. Many
holders of these policies expect a cash
surrender value equal to at least the
amount they have paid in premiums.
Except on old policies near maturity, this
is not possible, mainly because of the
relatively high cost of conducting this
class of business, owing to the expense
of door-to-door collections of weekly
premiums. The same reason also ex-
plains the difference between bonus rates
in the two departments. Further, some
assured people die before they have paid
in enough to cover the amount of the
claim. Portion of current premiums is
required to meet these claims, and is
thus no more available for return than
the premium annually paid under a fire
policy. What an office has available is
not the total amount paid in premiums
plus interest, but the balance of such an
amount after allowing both for tempo-
rary assurance and expenses. What the
Industrial policy-holder needs to realise
is that it will pay handsomely to trans-
fer to the Ordinary department so soon
as such a move can be made.
. In the Industrial section of the A.M.P.,
commissions, expenses of management
and taxation made off with 18.87 p.c.,
10.99 p.c. and 1.69 p.c. respectively, or
a total of 31.55 p.c., which is very
moderate considering the amount of new
business written.
The society’s investment portfolio
totals £112,037,147, made up as follows:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Public securities. £61,440,328 57.5 £65.285,147 58.3
Mortgages . . 24,838.104 23.3 26,228.904 23.4
Loans on policies 16,299,207 15.3 16,309.061 14.6
Premises.. .. 1,950,732 1.8 2,002.939 1.8
Other assets . . 2,274,213 2.1 2,211.096 1.9
Chief movements in the figures last year
were the addition of £3,844,819 to public
securities and of £1,390,800 to mort-
gages.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
r Dividends
Jail., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.
££ ' £
1928.. 214,479 10 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 ~ 6& 7 ~ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 ~ 6&7 „ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „ 6& 7 „ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 ~ 6& 7 ~ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 151,967 8. „ 6& 7 ~, 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 ~ 6& 7 ~ 110,208 898,172
1935 86,740 6t „ 6&7 „ 91,410 893,502
1930.-119,541 t\ „ 6& 7 „ 103,942 909,101
Insurance reserve, £lOOO . . . . 910,101
1937.. 182,863 7* p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,942 989,022
1938.. 153,870 7i ~ 6&7 „ 103,942 1,038,950
New legislation has placed electrical
undertakings in Queensland under the
control of a commission (four members),
which is the price-fixing authority for
current, subject to the supplier’s right to
appeal to the Industrial Court. Further,
the commission proposes, through this
Brisbane co., to co-ordinate and extend
the supply of current throughout the
south-east portion (it contains nearly
half the population) of the State. For
this purpose the co. is to amalgamate
with the Ipswich Electric Supply Co.,
and purchase (presumably by an ex-
change of scrip) the electricity undertak-
ings at Gympie, Southport, Coolangatta,
Beaudesert and Maroochy at prices to
be approved by the commission. When
this has been done, the co. will sur-
render the 19 Orders-in-Council under
which it now operates, and receive a con-
solidating order covering the whole of the
south-east of the State. The Crown has
the right to take over, in exchange for
State-guaranteed debentures, the whole
business at the end of 10 or 15 years,
or such later date as may be subse-
quently agreed upon. Consumers out-
side the co.’s present areas should bene-
fit by “a substantial reduction” in the
price of current, while, the chairman
says, the agreement now under consid-
eration with the commission should pro-
tect the interests of shareholders.
Legislation passed in 1934 aims at
keeping earnings on shareholders’ ac-
count at not more than 7 p.c. on actual
capital invested in assets used for elec-
tric supply, actual capital being the value
of assets after allowing for deprecia-
tion. The position as balance-sheet
figures show it is as follows:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. . . £1,398,226 £1,398,226 £1.398,226
Sundry creditors. . 58,978 91,107 71,627
Property, plant,
mains, etc. . . 1,850.223 1,979,551 2,075,825
Stock . . . . 63,784 70,163 105,401
Cash, public securities,
etc. . . . . 454,703 397.817 241,647
Book debts, etc... 50,566 82,796 137,541
Fixed assets (up £96,274) appear at cost.
How much of the £865,186 (up £61,934
net) set aside for renewals, replacements
and contingencies—it is 41.6 p.c. of the
book value of fixed assets—is intended
to cover depreciation is not clear from
the published accounts. Much depends
on what was spent out of earnings on
repairs, etc., and charged as working
exes. After deducting cash, public secu-
rities, etc., 7 p.c. of the book value
of the undertaking at the end of
January would be sufficient to pay the
pref. divs. (£10,550) and show 12 p.c.
on the £1,253,226 of ord. capital. If the
£865,186 is deducted, the balance would
cover the pref. divs. and show 7.2 p.c.
on ord. capital.
Last year a lot more current was sold,
and the price per unit was reduced.
Declared net earnings were put at
£98,253 (up £8268), or £5689 less than
the pref. divs. and 7y p.c. to the ords.
called for. But that leaves out of the
reckoning a net addition of £55,617 to
various reserves which is included with
profits in the introductory table. Appear-
ances are that the 1\ p.c. to the ords.
and more besides was actually earned,
which makes prospects of a bit better
than 74 p.c. later on encouraging.
No hint is given as to what capital
outlay is likely to be involved in con-
nection with the new extension scheme ;
but when the books closed the co. had
£241,647 (down £156,170) in public
securities and cash. The amount com-
ing to outsiders was nearly twice
covered by book debts alone.
At 28s. 6d. and 245. 6d. the 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and the 6 p.c. non-cumula-
tives each return 4.9 p.c. The ords. at
295. 9d. return 5 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis. All shares rank equally in a
wind-up, the net tangible cover (book
value) being 345. 10d., including the tax
reserve (£106,421).
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends — : Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928 .. 48,207 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 27,681 20,526 61.349
S’hare premiums, £15,767 . . • • 80,117
1929 .. 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,14125.616 105,733
1930 . . 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 .. 25,911 8 ~ 10 ~ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 ~ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 ~ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 . . 126,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 488 126,636
1935 .. 30,193 8 ~ 10 „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Sharp premiums, £12,556 . . . . 144,35 S
1936 .. 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 ...34,940 8 ~ 10 ~ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 . . 42,265 8 ~ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
The management seems to have a flair
for the medium-priced drapery goods,
etc., in which the co. specialises, and
turnover is further helped by the position
of the store, which is in the busy G.P.O.
block, and by the cash-order and lay-by
sections of the business. Over the last
15 years outstanding features have been
expansion, including the addition of new
departments, and an uninterrupted" flow
of attractive divs. Paid capital, which
was £88,309 in 1924, is now £302,726,
and for the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1930 divs. averaged 13.5 p.c.,
while for the eight mostly difficult years
since the average has been 9.7 p.c.
During the last couple of years, a lot
of money has been spent on remodel-
ling the premises, thus providing better
display and shopping facilities, which
counts for much in these days when com-
petition largely takes the form of service
of one kind and another, including care
for the comfort and convenience of cus-
tomers. Despite a certain amount of
dislocation, owing to the construction
work involved, turnover has kept on ex-
panding, thanks to the continued rise in
the economic barometer, to which Syd-
ney’s sesquicentenary celebrations gave
an extra lift. The growth in last year’s
gross earnings (£218,128) was £42,101. In-
cluding provision for depreciation and
taxation, exes. (£175,863) were up
£34,719. Allowing for a minor reserve
adjustment in ’37, the net result bene-
fited by £7325, reaching £42,265, or
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£800)
and show 14.1 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 11.6, 13.2, 12.1, 10.2, 10.1, 7.1,
10.3 and 20.8 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c.
Although turnover has been maintained
at a high level since the close of ac-
counts, the fall in the price of wool and
wheat, the dryness in parts of the back-
country and the big Government loan
conversion and new borrowing pro-
gramme may result in some slackening
of trade activity as the year advances.
Still, the wide margin between last year’s
net earnings and distribution gives the 10
p.c. div. a steady look.
In the market the pound ords., which
fetched 465. 6d. a year or so ago, are
now priced a f 425. 7d., at which figure
the return is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The net tangible cover is 31s. 7d.
The well-protected prefs. (there are only
10,000 of them) seldom come on to the
market.
Chief movements in balance-sheet
figures were a net addition of £10,959 to
the book value of fixed assets, a growth
{“Wild. Cat” continued on page 24.)


The First Car Battery
In December, 1910, the
first car ever equipped with
electric starting, lighting
and ignition, used an Exide
Battery. This car was a
1911-model Cadillac.
h
The First “ S.O.S
Back in January, 1909, the
s.s. Republic sent the first
S.O.S. call by wireless. All
lives were saved. The bat-
tery used was an Exide.
hh
R.M.S. “Queen Mary ”
The most palatial liner ever
built uses Exide Batteries for
telephones, emergency radio
and starting auxiliary en-
gines. Nine out of ten
British ships are Exide-
equipped.
ĥ
Great Aeroplane Flights
Great flights on which
Exides were used: Sir Charles
Kingsford Smith (trans-
Atlantic and England to
Australia), Byrd (Arctic
and Antarctic), Sir Hubert
Wilkins (Arctic), Lieuten-
ant Hill (England to Aus-
tralia) .
/
Polar Exploration
Exide batteries were used by
Sir Douglas Mawson for
Kinema apparatus, wireless
and emergency lighting dur-
ing voyages on the Dis-
covery. Byrd, Amundsen,
Wilkins and MacMillan also
used Exides.
ĥ
Historic Broadcasts
World-wide broadcasts of
the Coronation of King
George VI and Queen Eliza-
beth by the British Broad-
casting Corporation were
only made possible by the
use of ten tons of Exide
Batteries. Exides are stand-
ard equipment in most
broadcasting stations.
;d&
ST'
0
n
Automatic Telephones
In all parts of the world,
Exide Batteries, because of
their reliability, have been
chosen as standard equip-
ment in automatic telephone
exchanges. Most Australian
Automatic Telephone Ex-
changes use Exide Batteries.
ft
V
I
m
i*
m
S\
nP'B
10
i
i
m 3
m
:> *■;,
m
m
i
ssa
v
-
:\
»
-
*2
jsag ai|i s; apjxg
aAOJd siuaA3 pijom
PINCE 1888, Exide has been making battery history. Behind this battery
now stands one of the most powerful manufacturing organisations in
the world ... by far the largest and oldest where batteries are concerned.
Apart from controlling factories in England, America, Canada and Italy,
this huge Company also operates the foremost battery factory in Australia.
Only an organisation of this size and scope could command the machinery,
the brains—the intensive research and technical knowledge—which make
every type of Exide the ultimate ill battery construction.
This is no idle claim. It is amply proved by the exclusive instances depicted
in this advertisement ... a few only from the many, indelibly inscribed
on Exide’s scroll of fame. When, therefore, you require a battery for
your car, radio, motor cycle or even for home-lighting . . . demand Exide.
Only in Exide will you obtain that "something extra” in length of life,
efficiency and trouble-free service which transforms an ordinary purchase
into a sound investment.
♦
t BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


NOBEC
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
ATTSTRALASTAN AGENTS:
PERTH. XV.A. : Elder. Smith & Company, limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLI).: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: <T. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * :]e
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Go. (Meib.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
STA\ BRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
cable and ‘telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
of £7712 in stocks and a reduction of
£9686 in the overdraft:
1925. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £88,309 £252,272 £802,726 £302,726
Mortgages . . 75,000 75.000 75,000
Overdraft . . 30,111 30,892 21,206
Sundry creditors 456 18,091 26,788 28,'500
Freeholds, fit- <
tings, etc... 11.583 r 400,888 372,613 383,572
Investments . . 17,292 } ’
Stocks . . 58,800 94,488 99,605 107,317
Book debts . . 23.07 S 14.082 52.801 44,178
Cash, etc. .. 14,754 20,511 3,091 4.408
Shares in .sub-
sidiary .. 90,903 90,903
Including the mortgage and stocks, the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£31,197) was £B3BO. The
floating debt is well covered. The co.
is now putting in new show-windows on
its King-street frontage, where an extra
storey is to be added to the premises to
provide more room for the growing
lay-by section of the business.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928 .. 24,693 124 p.c. = 17,578 7115 98,940
1929 .. 19,732 12| „ „ 19,531 201 99,141
1930 .. 17,949 10' „ „ 15,625 2324 101,465
Loss.
1931 . . 2,735 4 „ „ 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO .. 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB .. .. 86,562
1932 .. 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .. 81,773
1933 . . 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund. £B3l 80,576
Written off, £9OOO 71,576
Profit.
1934 .. 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 . . 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 . . 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl . . . . 78,761
1937 . . 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lo,ooo’ . . . 96,826
1938 .. 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
During the last few years, rapid ex-
pansion, by absorption and otherwise,
has been the outstanding feature of this
carrying, station supply, produce and
agency business, which is well scattered
throughout the back-country in Vic. and
N. S. Wales. Four years ago, when the
country districts were still struggling in
the backwash of the slump, the board
feared that it would be unable to keep
all the capital in the business fully em-
ployed ; so ss. per share (£31,250) was
returned, and the outside debt was re-
duced to £38,025. At the end of January
last paid capital was £175,000, and the
amount coming to outsiders £218,142.
The next table shows what was done
with the extra money and more be-
sides :
1920. 1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 50,000 125,000 125,000 125,000 175,000
Liabilities . . 79,212 38,025 80,267 174,315*218,142
Plant and
property . . 47,193 66,093 79,714 97,798 118,621
Book debts. . 90,583 103,646 119,886 175,442 226,089
Merchandise 32,883 58,490 71,499 102,400 141,626
Shares other
cos. .. 6,900 11,899' 11,899 11,899
Cash, etc. . . 5,834 6,528 9,480 10,133 16,192
* Includes £23,508 share and premium money held
in suspense.
Last term over £103,000 of new money
was invested in the business. The £50,000
of fresh capital, which brought with it
£lO,OOO of share premiums, which was
added to reserves, was not enough, and
the board went outside for a further
£43,827. The addition to property and
plant was £20,823, book debts were up
£50,647, and £39,226 was added to the
merchandise item. The expansion of
the figures reflects the opening of three
new branches in N. S. Wales and one in
Vic. (making total number of branches
40—21 Vic. and 19 N.S.W.), together with
continued growth of the remainder of
the business. When the books closed,
more or less liquids, excluding shares in
other cos., exceeded liabilities by
£165,765, up £52,105 over the twelve-
month.
To reduce the outside debt and pro-
vide for yet further expansion of the
business, 25,000 new £1 shares were
offered those on the register at April 30,
one for seven, at a premium of 4s. each.
When all the money is in, paid capital
will be £200,000, and reserves will benefit
by £5OOO of share premiums.
Turnover went up with a leap, the
spring in gross earnings (£143,590) being
£32,788. Including provision for depre-
ciation and taxation, exes. (£121,210) took
£28,472 of the increase, leaving the net
result £4316 better at 14.9 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 14.4, 10.8, 7.2 and
4.8 p.c. for the four preceding terms.
A couple of points were added to the
div., making it 10 p.c. For 11 years to
the close of accounts in 1930 the aver-
age distribution was 11.4 p.c. The next
three years were the worst experienced
since the beginning of this century, and
shareholders were passed by for the last
two of them. The revival since has been
very marked, as the introductory table
shows.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is less favorable than it was a
year ago, and the price of wool and wheat
is down. Still, provided drought con-
ditions do not develop, a 10 p.c. div.
may not prove to be out of reach.
At 30s. 6d. ex rights the pound shares
return 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
or 5.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution. In-
cluding the new issue, the cover is 30s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Tongkah Compound No. 2, N.L.
Last term’s ss. a share handout (25 p.c.
= £25,000) broke a ten years’ drought
for shareholders. Profits, after solid
writing-down of property and plant, were
by far the best yet:
, —Net Profit— v—Dividends—
Dec., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935. . £13,936 £7,404 £6,532 1/34 Nil Nil
1936.. 39,130 38,400 730 -/if Nil Nil
1937.. 88,550 50,367 38,183 7/7J 5/-£25,000
* Includes depreciation—l93s, nil; 1936, £23,000 ;
1937, £22,000.
With a further Is. a share sent out on
March 25 total distributions to share-
holders now amount to £107,342.
The property, at Seremban (F.M.S.), is
divided into two parts by the Kuala-Pilah
road. First, Ampangan, has been worked
out since the close of the accounts and
the dredge, capacity 100,000 c.y. monthly,
reported still in fair condition but for
the pontoon, docked. In the second
(Rahang) area, there is something like
11,000,000 c.y. of 0.411 b. wash available,
giving the co. a nominal life of seven
years, which is likely to be increased by
purchase; a small but rich (21b.) area
was added last term. To handle this
second area a plant was bought from
Tongkah Compound, N.L., in 1935 for
£35,000 stg. and modernised, increasing
its rated capacity to 140,000 c.y. monthly.
Dredging was discontinued during the
industry’s sick years, 1930-33. A small
yardage was handled in 1934, since when
these results have been won:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards. . . . 524,500 786,000 1,882,000
Recovery t. 0., tons. . 92.0 298.4 512.8
Av. per c.y., lb. . . 0.39' 0.85 0.61
All-in costs, c.y.. . 3.39 d. 4.70 d. 3.62 d.
Net real’n t. 0., ton £149/15/- £l3O/7/- £172/7/-
Last term’s good showing reflects start-
ing up of the second unit, consequent re-
duction in unit costs, better metal prices
and a virtually unlimited quota. The
Ampangan plant dug 1,003,000 c.y. for
348 tons t. 0.; the Rahang unit, in six
months, 879,000 c.y. for 164 tons t.o. For
the first quarter of the current term
676,000 c.y., averaging 0.461 b. t. 0., has
been turned over for a declared mine
profit of £ASIBO. Recoveries from
Rahang are expected to be a bit better
than bore values.
With its small assessment (205 tons
t.o. p.a.) restriction falls heavily on the
co. In March alone the co. produced
its permissible output (28| tons) for the
first quarter of the current term twice
over, bringing production for the current
year up to 144 tons t. 0., or more than a
full year’s existing quota.
Issued capital is £lOO,OOO (40 p.c.
owned by Tongkah Compound, N.L.) in
£1 shares, of which 25,000 are fully paid
and the rest paid to 15s. Thanks to
liberal depreciation allowance, finances
are in good shape. At balance date liquids
totalled £42,199, or Bs. sd. a share.
Liabilities amounted to £32,899, of which
£31,250, repayable in five equal annual
instalments, represents outstanding pur-
chase balance of No. 2 plant.
At Cuthbert’s Misima, Misima Island,
Papua, the unknown quantity is the
width, depth and value of the sulphide
zone, which underlies the entire length
of 6100 ft. of oxide lode. Geologists have
told the co. that enrichments might be
met with in the sulphides, but acting-
chairman G. H. Carter says there is no
evidence to support the claim, and there
is not likely to be until something is done
to test and explore the harder ore. It
may be some time before anything is
done in this direction, partly because of
the problems involved in increasing pro-
duction of oxides, and partly because the
sulphides are below present mine drain-
age level. Further, it may be at least 15
months before any considerable quantity
of oxides is available from the northern
section, and the opening up of branch
lodes promises to make available more
oxide ore than the mill treats over the
next few years. Thus far the average
grade of oxides is 6|dwt., and it looks
like continuing around that figure.
* 4c He *
Koroere shareholders rushed the op-
portunity to sell the co.’s mine on the
Tavua field, Fiji, to the neighboring
Emperor Co. for £25,000 in scrip, one
for six. The purchaser will presently
commence treatment of the 35,000 tons
of 9.2dwt. stuff which can be mined by
opencut in the vendor’s Cardigan lode ;
and there is a further 9000 tons of l'ldwt.
ore awaiting treatment in the West Cardi-
gan. Although values on the Cardigan
have not persisted at the 100 ft. level,
there is a chance that they might
revive at depth. Here exploitation wiil
depend upon what happens in the Em-
peror down to, say, 600 ft., from which
point the deeper zone in the Koroere area
could be economically explored. There
is about 100,000 tons of ore avail-
able in Koroere Hill, but it is doubtful
whether treatment of this would cover
costs.
He * He *
“O.B.” has his say about Yampi (W.A.)
iron ore: These deposits are claimed to
compare favorably with the world’s
richest iron ores, and are within two
weeks’ steaming of Japan. The late A.
Montgomery, a former State mining
engineer, estimated that there was nearly
100,000,000 tons in sight. Deep water
comes to the edge of the ore, thus facili-
tating handling and shipping problems.
A few years ago an attempt was made
by Australian Iron and Steel to exploit
these deposits ; and in 1929 it erected
a manager’s bungalow and a wireless
station. The depression smothered the
effort, and the first message the wire-
less operator received recalled him to
Sydney. Japanese interest in Yampi
dates from 1928, but it was not until
1934 that negotiations, which led up to
the present position, were commenced.
In that year Japanese mining engineers,
businessmen and representatives of ship-
ping companies inspected the de-
posits. Subsequent discussions with the
Westralian Government regarding the
granting of mining leases to Japanese in-
terests proved abortive. Later H. A.
Brassert and Co., a London iron and
steel firm, became interested in the ven-
ture. The deposits are now being de-
veloped under leases granted by the State
Government to an Australian co., which
in turn is controlled by the Brassert Co.
The agreement for exploiting the de-
posits is between the Australian co. and
the Japan Milling Co., which holds no
direct rights in the deposits but receives
the full benefit of the exploitation, actu-
ally in double measure, as Jap ships are
to be used for transporting the ore.
* * * *
Backed by New York, Big Bell co.
has become interested in Westralian
molybdenum as well as gold. Options
have been taken over the Mt. Mulgine
deposits, which were worked in a small
way some years ago by the late A. E.
Morgans. Thousands of tons of rock,
assaying from two to five per cent, apd
suitable for concentration by oil flotation,
are stated to be visible,' or partly so.
Mount Mulgine is near Warriedar, on
the Yalgoo goldfield.
* * * v
A Perth syndicate reckons it has a
good thing in a tantalite-bearing for-
mation near the old Londonderry mine,
Coolgardie (W.A.). The formation is
stated to be 6Tft. wide, 1000 ft. long and
high-grade. London will probably be
asked to come in.
* * * *
“Borehole”: A method of applying
boarts in reef- and other rock-cutting
tools comes from South Africa. Boarts
are impregnated in a metallic matrix suffi-
ciently hard and strong to retain the
diamond grains until they become
blunted, when they are released and new
grains exposed. For the matrix cobalt
and ferrous metals have been found most
successful. One cobalt crown attained
the enormous footage of 240 without
requiring attention. As the core barrels
are 30ft. long there is a great time-
saving compared with the drawing and
lowering of the drill-rods under the exist-
ing system. A possible application is
developing faces underground. A steady
Bin. to lOin. advance per minute at 6001 b.
pressure and 3000 revolutions per minute
is considered possible. They require
only three h.p. to drive.
* * * *
From Johannesburg: P. M. Anderson,
retiring president of the Transvaal
Chamber of Mines, was eloquent at the
Chamber’s annual meeting about how
mining assisted a country. The special
advantage, he said, lay in the rapidity
with which mining enabled national
wealth to be accumulated. Successful
exploitation of the Rand gold reefs over
the last 50 years had made available
enormous sums of capital, which enabled
development problems of the country to
be dealt with rapidly and on a large scale.
Until recently this had been accom-
plished without special taxation.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.M.: (1) For long-term investment, past
experience is that a group of sound industrials
shows a better average return than Govern-
ment securities, though allowance needs to be
made for taxation where large sums are in-
volved. (2) The co. undertakes to repurchase
sub-units at not more than 3d. below propor-
tionate Stock Exchange price of underlying
securities Small Investor: (1) A member of
a recognised Stock Exchange is the best channel
through which to do business. (2) If you
cannot afford to lose, keep out E.C.8.:
Prospects appear encouraging, but you have
missed the bus. Issue has closed oversub-
scribed... .J.A.C.: Cannot say exactly, but
chiefly the mine, which looks like petering out
any day now. On April 8, 1937, the co. had
£41,890 in the bank, and also held 50,000 4s.
shares in Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.)....
8.T.L.: A very solid concern which first came
to Australia in 1883.


EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: BW6II-5.
The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
ĥ
ħ
A Creation of
Scientific Heat
Treatment . . .
Unique and attractive in appearance, perfect in
construction, it gives better and longer service
than any Razor you have ever used.
Sold with a definite Guarantee of Satisfaction.
Sizes, Jin. fin., tin., Black Handle 12/6
Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Where
Overseas
Visitors
Fare Best.
In the heart of London. 100
bedrooms, each with bathroom
arid ’phone. Restaurant open
8 a.m.-12 p.m. Special rates
for Overseas visitors. Write
for full details.
mapleton hotel,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
SMOKE-OH!
“A man should always put his wife before
his car.” —Home magazine.
The trouble is that a jury mightn’t
believe it was an accident.
i* 4* + +
“Wanted, a young man with a brilliant per-
sonality.”—Advt.
Brilliantine ones are much more plenti-
ful.
4* 4> 4> 4*
“A businessman declares he would never
marry a typist as they are all exactly the same
type.”
No machine-maid wife for him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Movie comedian Laurel’s third wife is '
through with him.” — "World’s News."
No doubt he’ll “crack” Hardy over it.
4* 4 1 4* 4'
“A vegetarian is usually a peaceable neigh-
bor.”—Pure food journal.
Naturally; he’s not the sort of man
to have a bone to pick with you.
4* 4 1 4* 4 1
“Wanted, trotting spider, cheap.”
—“ Telegraph ’’ (Brisbane).
Black with a red stripe preferred.
4* *J* 4* 4*
“He worked in a city bank where he had
a reputation for bragging about his conquests
of women.” —Magazine story.
A teller, evidently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“English cricketers feel optimistic about get-
ting the Ashes.”
Well, they will have to lay the wood
on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“London is constructing bomb- and gas-
proof shelters to house thousands of people in
time of war.”
Now they’re singing “Masses in da col’,
col’ groun’.”
The Strategist.
“Thoroughly trained regiments of Chinese
women are now in the trenches.” —War news.
Being the thorough little gentleman,
General Omakrikee peered disgustedly
through his periscope at the powder-
puffs, lipsticks and bobbie-pins that were
getting whaffor in the trenches opposite.
No hon. gent, fired on hon. ladies.
Suddenly he let out a whoop and
ordered his printing presses into action.
Next morning millions of leaflets flut-
tered on hon. ladies’ heads from aero-
planes.
The leaflet read:
“Hon. husbands of hon. Chinese lady-
soldiers having very detestable whoopee
time with hon. atrocious blondes during
absence of most alarmingly beautiful wives.
“Hon. P.S. —Fuji silk now selling for
Is. llfd. per yard down in Wahoo pro-
vince.”
Before he knew where he was, the
general couldn’t even find a bobbie-pin
within 50 miles.
McM.
•F *F *F *F
Many men when they come home late
at night don’t know what they are letting
themselves in for.
“ ’Sail right, boys — it's only an old pair!”
“Roving bands of Kharots which have been
terrorising villages in the North-west Frontier
have been bombed and machine-gunned by
R.A.F. ’planes.”
Those Kharots are in a bit of a stew.
t
“He dragged me up to the attic, locked me
in, and wouldn’t even leave me a drink of
water.” —Wife in divorce suit.
Left her high and dry, so to speak.
•b •b •b
Modern Mothercraft.
If baby’s dummy is lost, substitute
your cigarette holder, but don’t encour-
age him to smoke. The habit is too ex-
pensive.
When nursing baby to sleep, it is inad-
visable to dance the rumba or practise
roller gliding. As a lullaby, select a jazz
song that will not frighten. To wake
baby, place next to radio and turn on
volume full.
See that your husband knows all about
fathercraft, mothercraft, etc. Insist on
his not neglecting your duties.
Remember it’s no use trying to teach
baby to swear before he can speak. And
never mix cocktails in his bottle —it
doesn’t hold enough.
Matron T. W. N.
•b •b <b •b
“In his memoirs a London head-waiter tells
of an impecunious French count who sat down
and ordered an expensive meal. Although the
restaurant had previously been one of his vic-
tims the waiter deferentially took the order and
departed. After waiting vainly for almost an
hour the count left with a laugh, gaily acknow-
ledging that he had been tricked.”
It was probably one of those hollow
laughs, though.
T rouble-makers.
Outlaws.
In-laws.
By-laws.
W. P. T.
4 1 4* 4*
“Constable said that when he got his
promotion he intended to marry.”— "Sun.”
A cop for some girl!
+ + 4 1
Officially Confirmed.
“Leather made of fish-skin is the latest Ger-
man invention.” —News item.
Time marches on : now one can send
One’s “crabs,” for cobbling chaps to
mend,
By the unerring knowledge steeled
They’ll really come back "soled and
eeled.’’
Dougal.
4* 4*
How to Stop a Cold.
Two fingers of rum taken with red
pepper, anchovy sauce, garlic and honey
will pull any cold up in its own length.
The disease, horror-stricken at seeing
rum tumbling over the tonsils in massed
formation, grabs gas-mask, dives for the
basement of left lung, takes the wrong
turning, becomes lost and dies of night-
starvation. Spray throat with iodine and
ether four times daily for four weeks to
extinguish pepper.
P. O. M. C.
Some Little*known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
XV. —Two Testy Gents.
The opening of the nineteenth century
saw the colony being administered by
Captain John Macarthur, a gentleman
who, in the little time left to him in be-
tween multitudinous quarrels with all
and sundry, started the sheep industry.
His unofficial and able running of the
settlement is the more meritorious when
it is remembered that he got no whit of
support from any of the Governors that
came and went in quick succession. In-
deed, not only did they fail to assist him
or register gratitude for the work and
worry of which his efforts were relieving
them, but they even resented his intru-
sion, taking the unreasonable view that,
as they had been appointed as vice-
regal representatives, they should be in
charge of the place! But what drove
the hobnails deeper into the fiery Mac’s
already heavily-studded liver was the
humiliation he suffered at being tossed
into clink among the drunks and being
brought to trial for offences ranging from
pinking his O.C. in a duel to importing
rum stills.
During the regimes of Hunter and King
Mac had a reasonably peaceful time,
never being in danger of apoplexy more
than half a dozen times a day. With the
arrival of Bligh, however, the peppery
pastoralist had a rival who for temper
made Mac appear as gentle by compari-
son as the hero of Eric, or Little by
Little. Whereas Mac in an argument
could only go the color of a turnip-
rooted cabbage, Bligh could maintain the
hue of a lassiandra for hours.
William Bligh, who bore a remarkable
resemblance to Charles Laughton, had
been in the navy since he was eight. The
years of strict discipline under which he
toiled before receiving promotion had an
effect on him which lasted throughout his
life ; this was manifested by his peculiar
manner of addressing those under him as
“sir.”
Thus, once, when John Macarthur bad-
temperedly announced that he was going
to help himself to a few thousand more
acres of the best grazing land in the
colony and grow bigger and better sheep,
Bligh irascibly roared: “What have I to
do with your sheep, sir? Are you to
have such coveys of whadyamacallits as
no man ever heard of before? No, sir!
Blast me, sir!” This given with that
contemptuous curl of the heavy lip, a
difficult feat which was confined to the
characters of popular novelists until
Bligh performed it on the silver screen.
In his stormy career Will had plenty
of opportunities to give
both his temper and nau-
tical vocabularies much
practice. His language at
the Battle of Copenhagen,
when one of his shots
missed an enemy ship by
a few yards, set the tar
bubbling between th e
cracks in the deck plank-
ing and was distinctly
heard by Nelson nearly a
mile away as it soared
stentorianly above the din
of the fight. So fascinated
was the great admiral by
the marvellous vocal flow
that he unconsciously put
his telescope to his blind
eye, thereby failed to pick
up Hyde Parker’s signal to
retire, and tore straight in
and cleaned up the Danes,
receiving stout help from
his captain. Later, after
the victory, Horatio had
Bligh over for a game of
deck quoits, at which the
admiral was adept. It was
after the game, during
which Will, mucked of a
month’s pay, had given a
fine running exposition of
choice epithets without once repeating
himself, that Nelson spoke the well-
known words: “Bligh, I thank you ; you
have sported me nobly.”
To the sport-loving Aussies Bligh’s
appointment as Governor was at first
immensely popular, for, in addition to
being a champion swearer, he also held
the record for long-distance navigation
in an open boat. Moreover, during his
first weeks, two-up (then known as
“Flinging the Browns”) was established
as the national sport, and the seed of
nationhood began to stir in earnest. But
the bright augury did not last. Scarcely
had he settled down than trouble arose
with the Scottish Martyrs, the Irish Exiles,
the Corps, convicts, emancipists and the
weather.
The Scottish Martyrs were so named
because, hearing that a Free Kirk had
been established in the colony, they had
owed their fares from Glasga’, only to
find on their arrival that collections were
taken up during services the same as in
Scotland. Bitterly disillusioned, they
petitioned Bligh for a refund of what
they owed on their passage money. Bligh
scorchingly refused, and. only the fact
that, being solid churchmen, they didn’t
recognise the words the Governor used
saved them from collapsing forthwith.
The Irish Exiles, happy at the oppor-
tunity to “get agin the Government,”
joined their co-Celts, and from the awful
effects of the combined linguistic bar-
rage Bligh fled to sanctuary at Parra-
matta. But floods on the Nepean and
Hawkesbury compelled Will to return,
and when, to appease the distressed
settlers, he distributed slaughtered Gov-
ernment cattle among them the Rum
Corps, Ltd., finding this interfered with
their profits, came at him in the full flush
of a righteous anger.
S. W. K.
On the Hoof.
“The value of the component parts of the
average human body is, according to a
scientist, just over two shillings.”
Whether dishwasher, monarch or scholar,
Our value is equally low,
For we’re not even worth half a dollar
Except the fat man at the show.
As for flappers who, aping Bette Davis,
Have figures like doorposts, I’ll bet
They’re worth to the scientist, save us !
So little they’re almost in debt!
BO.
Nifty Fits.
Any day now it will happen, and I’ll
be pinched for shoplifting. In the old
days when the wife told a man to get a
packet of hairpins on the way home, he
could slink into the old-fashioned
suburban draper, plough his way through
festoons of stockings and hairnets
dangling from rods all over the place,
mutter “Hairpins . . . packet . . . one,”
plonk down tuppence and sneak out.
Now that hairpins have waltzed down
the corridor of time with chivalry, it’s
bobbie pins. But you can’t just demand
bobbie pins. Not just like that. It’s
“Hollywood Night” or “Perfecto Per-
fectus,” or “Curlytop Crinklers” that
you’ve got to ask for.
But, worst of all, this sort of thing has
spread to men’s clothes. If a man asks
for underwear, he can’t get it. Some
effeminate nitwit croons: “Yes, sir; do
you prefer Snuggle Pants or Nifty Fits?
Squibbies are selling well just now.”
Can a man go in and ask, in cold
blood, for a pair of Nifty Fits?
I’m down to my last pair of under-
pants, but I’m damned if I’m going in to
ask for a pair of Snuggle Pants. I’ll
have to lift a pair. I’ll get six months, I
suppose, from a Beak who is probably
wearing a pair of Squibbies.
TEGDUB.
Proof.
She said she loved Jim more than life
When they were joined as man and wife.
Now socks all full of holes tell Jim
She doesn’t care a darn for him !
McM.


ESTABLISHED
1834
THF
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP. . .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
(pre-war strength)
m
m
m
e*
m
j
H
4
SssS
K
Si
ft
sm
m
f*n
!3SK<
THE PERFECT
WHISKY .....
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Broken Hill Prop.
The Newcastle and Port Kembla steel-
works are the only ones of importance
in the Commonwealth that turn iron-
stone into pig-iron and steel. They are
very efficient, and improving in efficiency
and scope. Broken Hill Prop, owns the
Newcastle works, and it owns all the
ord. shares in Australian Iron and Steel,
which controls the Kembla plant. The
ironstone comes from Iron Knob (S.A.),
freighted from Whyalla largely in B.H.P.
steamers.
Broken Hill Prop, itself has 6,971,652
£1 shares issued. One out of every four
of them at present is paid to only
6s. Bd., and half of them, issued since
1935, carried 10s. a share premium. There
were premiums also on some earlier
issues.
B.H.P. works its old silver-lead mine
at the Barrier, putting through about
10,000 tons of ore a month. In 1925 it
sold its interest in B.H. Associated Smel-
ters, Port Pirie.
From time to time the co. has acquired
interests in the following concerns:
Aust. Iron & Steel B.H.P. By-Products
Rylands Bros. Aust. Wire Ropes
Lysaght Bros. Stewarts & Lloyds
Commonwealth Steel Commonwealth Aircraft
Structural Eng.(W.A.) Imperial Chem. Industries
Titan Nail & Wire Pty.
The whole of the 2,700,000 A.I. and S.
ords. are in B.H.P.’s name. Of the
299,160 shares issued in Rylands, the
wire manufacturers, 299,115 belong to
BiH.P. Lysaght Bros, and Co. (wire-
netting) has an issued capital of £500,000,
B.H.P.’s whack being 373,250 fully-paid
£1 shares. Sulphide Corp., incidentally,
owns 24,668 Lysaght ords. This co. isn’t
to be confused with John Lysaght (Aust.)
Pty., in which B.H.P.’s sole interest is as
supplier of sheet bar for making gal-
vanised iron.
Commonwealth Steel, B.H.P. By-
Products and Aust. Wire Ropes are sub-
sidiaries. A Glasgow firm of the same
name is jointly interested in Stewarts
and Lloyds. The holding in Common-
wealth Aircraft is 33 1-3 p.c., while
there is an interest in Chemical Indus-
tries (Aust. and M.L.) to “enable freer
exchange of technical information.”
B.H.P. also has goldmining interests,
chief being a substantial shareholding in
Wellington Alluvials (N.S.W.). Hannan’s
North mine (W.A.) was expected to show
a profit this year, and the co. has been
looking at a couple of small shows in
N. S. Wales.
Steel, sold at a price comparing favor-
ably with other countries, is the product
on which the co.’s recent fortunes have
risen. Its Barrier mine might make a
nice contribution to profits if metals lifted
in price, but at present metals are very
low. Goldmining operations, though
useful in keeping the co. closely in touch
with the industry, may or may not give
much help to profit-earning at some
future date.
Meanwhile the steelworks carry the
babies —there are several in the nursing
stage, some already earmarked to do their
bit in a handsome way later on.
Rylands Bros., Lysaght Bros., Aust.
Wire Ropes and Commonwealth Steel
are hardly babies, and have been doing
satisfactorily for some years. The By-
Products co. doesn’t show much expan-
sion. Stewarts and Lloyds is going
strongly in making welded- and drawn-
steel tubes, and is erecting a new ware-
house and office near St. Leonards (Syd-
ney)—incidentally giving an advertise-
ment to tubular building construction.
Rylands Bros., being a proprietary,
doesn’t file or publish accounts. Lysaght
Bros., however, is doing very well. Last
balance day its finances were in this
shape:—
Lysaght Bros., 30/6/’37.
Capital . . £500,000 | Land . . . . £208,086
Tax Reserve . . 29,273 | Plant . . . . 301,440
Creditors . . 72,109 | Fittings . . 500
P. & L. .. 107,349 I
£570,632
| Deprn. Res. . . 295,882
£274,750
Consols . . 133,500
B.H.P. Trust. . 65,000
W. Alluvials . . 1.200
Bank .. .. 63,611
Debtors . . 52,586
Stocks . . 117,931
P. Cash .. 153
£708,731 £708,731
Lysaght’s profits for the year, after
providing £20,000 for depreciation and
£22,500 for income tax, were stated at
£93,186, equal to 18.6 p.c. on capital.
A 12} p.c. div. was paid, as in the pre-
ceding year, and £12,812 was written off
investments, reducing 4 p.c. Consols to
£95 13s. per cent., the 3} p.c. issue to
£94 per cent, in the books, and the
B.H.P. Trust certificates (apparently por-
tion of a joint shareholding) to 435. 4d.
per B.H.P. share. Altogether, B.H.P.’s
interest in Lysaghts represents a very
fine investment.
B.H.P. is still studying the possibilities
of making tinplate in the Commonwealth,
and the operations of Armco (Aust.),
offshoot of the American Roller Milling
Co. (sheet-steel) should eventually assist
profits.
Last balance day B.H.P. had £3,774,557
(“at or under cost”) in shares in other
cos., up £2,414,652 in two years. Of
that lift, £750,000 would be on account
of the A.I. and S. purchase, and £200,000
Commonwealth Aircraft. The Imperial
Chemical Industries interest and Stewarts
and Lloyds investment wouldn’t account
in full for the balance. It is proposed
to convert approximately £2,000,000 ad-
vanced by B.H.P. to A.I. and S. into
ords. in the latter co. A.I. and S., after
providing more substantially for depre-
ciation, showed profits equal to 3.2 p.c.
on ord. capital after providing one year's
pref. div. There is still 3| years’ pref.
arrears to be wiped out.
B.H.P. added just on £2,000,000 (66
p.c.) to its capital account between May,
1935, and May, 1937, and steel output
rose by 40 p.c. in the same period.
Debtors lifted by £1,752,772. Obviously
the vast new investments outside the
steelworks proper are in many cases a
drag at present; notwithstanding this,
B.H.P. disclosed 26.4 p.c. on capital in
its last term. Since then a new issue of
1,740,123 shares has been taken up.
Newcastle steel production for the first
44 weeks of the year that will close on
May 31 next is up 10 p.c. on the cor-
responding period of 1936-37. Operations
at the Barrier will be less profitable
owing to lower metal prices, but the 12}
p.c. will not be in danger. At 60s. the £1
fully-paids are yielding 4.1 p.c.
North Coast Steam shares are sell-
ing at 40s. 6d., a rise of 4s. a share
since recommended in B. 9/3/’38 —less
than two months ago. If it does nothing
else, this case demonstrates the soundness
of buying high-class shares when, for
some reason or other, they are tempor-
arily depressed.
* * * *
In respect of its last monthly milling
(to April 20) Mt. Morgan blames heavy
rains for affecting, both tonnage and
grade in the 'opencut. Sulphides
(27,000 tons) dropped 3000 tons ; oxides
(21,681 tons) were down 542 tons. Gold
recovery (41500 z.) was 885 oz. lighter,
and copper (173 tons) eight tons lower.
In the 41 weeks, of the current term
296,200 tons sulphides and 249,221 tons
oxides have produced 47,2220 z. gold
and 1778 tons copper. Shareholders
are waiting to find out (1) whether the
oxide-plant recoveries and costs are now
on the basis predicted, (2) whether
shipments of concentrates to Tacoma
(U.S.A.) have been satisfactorily
resumed, (3) whether the opencut-
mining problem is any nearer solution,
and (4) whether the Smelters and other
capital outlay can be financed without
encroaching on-more than' say, 50 p.c.
of current earnings. Gold is certainly
flowing out of the plant now; the
sooner shareholders’ minds are put at
rest about the other problems the better
it will be for the market. Sales of the
2s. 6d. shares are going through at 9s.
* * * *
Wool sold last week in Sydney averaged
11.2 d. a pound. The leavings of the
market are now coming to light, although
selling of better-class stuff has been pro-
longed owing to slow sales. After a rally
last December, there was an almost steady
decline until mid-April, when a better
tone was reported.
* * * *
The extent of the fall in London share
quotes is seen in this comparison of
prices and yields relating to some
leading issues:
A
Present Year
Price, A Year Yield, Ago,
April 9. Before, p.c. p.c.
Imperial Chemical 31s. Od. 40s. 5.5 3.7
Turner & Newall 81s. 3d. 112 s. 5.0 3.1
Distillers .. .. 955. Od. 120 s. 4.7 3.1
Imp. Tobacco .. 1375. Od. 183 s. 4.5 3.2
Courtaulds .. 41s. 3d. 58s. 5.5 3.4
Coats .. •• 365. 9d. 555. 5.7 3.7
General Electric . 725. 9d. 965. 4.7 3.7
All of the cos. except Imp. Tobacco and
Coats have slightly lifted their divs.
Commenting on the so much lower prices
for such high-class ord. shares, the
financial editor of London “Observer”
has said, “Some day the present prices
will look absurd, just as those which
prevailed in the dark days of 1930 and
1931. look to-day.
* * * *
The latest result of Mt. Kasi (Fiji),
6470 z. from 2,870 tons, represents a
return of 4.5dwt., an improvement on
the preceding month, though volume
wasn’t quite as high. During the first 16
weeks of 1938 11,270 tons has yielded
25070 z., average a shade over 4.4dw1.
In 1937 4.23dwt. was the overall
recovery. Accounts are expected shortly,
and the 3s. shares have improved slightly,
now selling at 4s.
* 4= * *
The £1 scrip in Neon Signs, Sydney,
has slipped to a low level of 15s. (seller)
on ’Change, as against i6s. 6d. in Feb-
ruary and a ; “high” of 225. in 1937.
A year' or so before that 305., cum
rights,., was; paid. . In-the-cb.’s'.last term
10 p.c. was distributed, but it called for
most of the profit, and the, difficult
nature of neon-sign finance was appar-
ent in _ the balance sheet. , An interim
distribution was paid in 1937 on April
30. - No" interim has been declared so far
this term, hence weakness in the shares.
* - . # ‘ > *
In Melbourne last week:
Australasian Paper ords. recovered to
30s. 9d., after being- down to 295. 3d. They
still returned over 5.2 p.c.
National Bank £5 shares were, a trifle
stronger at £6 19s.
Emperor shares kept around 12s. 3d.,
Lolomas were steady at 235., and Koroeres
changed hands at Is. 9d.
Austin Distributors scrip (B. 13/4/’3B)
lifted, to. 38s/, compared .with ,3.45. less than a
month ago.
Buyers offered 15s. for Prestige ords., but
no sellers .appeared. Holeproof ~ords. were
sought unavailingly at 255. 6d., after sales
at 265. ~


l-v-
TO THE LUXURY CLASS THIS YEAR
mm ms/mk /stv-cssr m/m vs
Big in appearance, big in interior
roominess, the new Ford V-8 De
Luxe Sedan belongs.to the higher
style field in appeal, but not in
price. It provides a new kind of
value for Owners who have been
paying far more than De Luxe
Ford V-8 costs to buy and oper-
ate —gives greater size and real
luxury at a lower price. Eight new
body colours and a choice of four
new exclusively designed interior
ensembles are available. Powered
with Ford’s famous V-typeengine,
THE DE LUXE CLUB COUPE— The convenient car. More massive
and more handsome, than the highly successful Club Coupe intro-
duced by Ford - last year. Five or even six passengers can ride
inside, all under the all-steel roof. Either side of the divided front
seat back tilts forward for easy access to the rear seat which is
removable to give extra luggage carrying accommodation. Club
Roadster is also available in the De Luxe Series.
proved by more than 4,000,000
owners to give greater all-round
economy than the conventional
"six,” this great new 8-cylinder
sedan has set a standard in appear-
ance, luxury, and operating
economy plus V-8 performance
previously unobtainable in any
other car, irrespective of price.
Compare features and price of the
new Ford V-8 De Luxe Sedan.
Your nearby Ford Dealer will
gladly place a car at your disposal
to test at any time convenient to
you. Easy terms are available.
FORD V'B
FOR 1938
FORD
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
„ F256-27V
Mick Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
■imtm
LIONEL 111 IS BY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged ' authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
h
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight';
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; ney / ~
weight, about 3-^lb.
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short', long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front • _ j->
sight; weight, about ttZ/D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, MODEL
52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front
and ladder rear sight; .
weight, about 4§lb. . . 47/0
Postage, 2/- ; Other States,. 3/6.
No. 32—BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
t 22in. round steel barrel;
la handles 22 short, long
Sjjft or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open
front sights; length overall,
‘39in.; weight, 4 Jib £5/7/0
Carriage Paid.
Famous D. B.
SHOT GUNS
No. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrel's, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
iw , 7 "': £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever crossbolt, walnut
stock, pistol grip, nitro proof; weight,
Price. ''l*. £ll/11/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever
crossbolt, steel barrels, both choke,
matted rib, barrels and lug one piece,
32in. barrels, walnut stock, pistol grip,
tested for nitro powders; jceilie\l
weight, about 81b. £O/10/“
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
Since a particularly rich parcel of
selected ore went through in December
and January, Golden Plateau (Q.) has
shown a steady falling-off in the grade
of stuff milled. In a 17-day period to
Dec. 21 the recoveries averaged 10.8dwt.
(a rise from B.Bdwt.); then followed
10.4, 9.3, 8.86 and 8.72 dwt. up to the
latest milling (to April 26). In the 44
weeks of the co.’s current term now
run, 47,629 tons has returned 21,7180 z.,
average 9. ldwt. In the whole of the
preceding term 48,453 tons milled
returned 25,8340 z., average 10.66dwt.
The lower grade will be reflected in
increasing costs of winning the metal; in
other words, if last year’s outgo of 30s.
a ton of ore, including depreciation,
remains unaltered, the co. will very likely
show about £137,500 net profit for
1937-38, as against £155,663 in 1936-37.
Divs. of 3s. a share call for £126,000 p»a.
The scrip has lately slipped from 14s. to
10s. 9d.
* * * *
Boots the Chemists (Eng.) haven’t yet
put in an active, ostensible trading
appearance in Australia, yet shares in
Washington H. Soul, with which, a cer-
tain section of the sharemarket hopes,
Boots may link up, recently sold at the
high figure of 875., yielding less than
3 p.c. Scrip in Drug Houses, the co.
which another section of the market
fears may be affected by an entry of
Boots into the Australian market, has
kept weak around 255. 3d. ex div., return-
ing above 5 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
Drug Houses’ share of its operating cos.’
profits in 1936-37 was equal to 7.1 p.c.
on its capital. For the current term
Drug Houses has declared an interim
of 3 p.c., the same as last year. When
profits are disclosed next October they
should show an increase. Finances have
shown great improvement of recent
years.
* * * *
United Provisions ord. shares, of re-
cent Bulletin mention at lower prices,
have firmed to 7s. 3d. They have
averaged around 6s. for some months.
The interim on the prefs. was paid just
recently, and that encouraged the mar-
ket to think that profits can’t be so bad,
even if there have been astonishing dif-
ficulties in the bacon trade. The ord.
shares have been a rock on which many
punters have fallen during the several
years of sharemarket recovery. Of all
Australian industries, bacon-curing, etc.,
has been one of the last to recover.
U.P. ords. went without a div. in 1937,
but earnings of the Hutton and Fog-
gitt-Jones operating cos. were £lO,OOO
in excess of the holding co.’s pref. div.
requirements. Adequate provision seems
to have been made for depreciation, and
finances are in very fair shape even if
earning-power for the time being is weak.
* * * *
Koroere’s property (Fiji) goes to
Emperor for 50,000 f.-p. Emperor shares
of 10s. The consideration, at par,
represents Is. 9d. per Koroere share.
Lack of developed ore and funds
induced Koroere to sell; contiguity of
properties and hopes of development at
depth influenced Emperor in buying.
* * * *
Australian mills in 1936-37 bought
389,090 bales of wool for turning into
cloth worth about £20,000,000. Most of
the output was good stuff, too. Competi-
tion within the Commonwealth has pro-
duced a much higher standard of quality,
especially in worsteds and the like, over
the past 10 years.
* * * *
Kandos Cement paids are selling at
255. They sold at 235. 6d. during the
worst dips in the New York (and there-
fore Australian) markets. Australian
Cement in Melbourne hasn’t moved from
325. 6d. for months. Kandos would re-
turn 6.4 p.c. at 255., while A.C. yields
6.1 p.c.
* * * *
London Stock Exchange this month
reduced its div. from 41.7 p.c. to 38.9 p.c.
On April 6 the £36 shares (carrying un-
limited liability), which had seen £296
15s. in 1937, fell from £220 to £205.
Nominations for membership, which in
March, 1937, were quoted at £1650, and
which five weeks ago stood at £BOO, had
fallen to £650 three weeks back.
* * * *
London Metal Exchange continues to
be the premier metal market of the
world, despite challenges in the past from
New York, Havre, Hamburg and Berlin,
in 1937 London’s turnover in copper
was 631,825 tons, tin 93,480 tons, lead
453,450 tons, and spelter 521,275 tons.
* * * *
South Australian factories provided
employment for the record number of
42,500 people last year. Now that
Broken Hill Prop, proposes establishing
a blast-furnace at Whyalla, Iron Knob’s
port, further increases are expected ; and
there are hopes that a brown-paper, card-
board and building-board factory will
start functioning within the next few
months. Straw will be the raw material
for these products ; J. C. Heerdt, a paper-
making engineer from Germany, has
made an investigation on behalf of a
South Aus. co., and has returned to the
Reich in order to select the plant. It is
a patented process.
Drug Houses.
At 255. 3d. the shares in Drug
Houses of Australia look very fair
buying, in spite of the Boots bogey
They return just over 5 p.c. Drug
Houses has had a flying start on
any competitors, and is well en-
trenched.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
This Forgotten Empire.
[The tendency to put the Empire last —particularly
in being eager to risk it in wars that are no concern
of ours—is not, of course, confined to Britain. It has
been a familiar phenomenon to Australia and Maori-
land ever since rash avowals to support the League of
Nations and “collective security” put newspaper, poli-
tical, professorial and other oracles on the track along
which a dwindling few of them still hawk their recipes
for certain war. Others — The Bulletin among them—
who have held throughout that a sound British Com-
monwealth of Nations and the democracy it upholds
are more important to world peace than the whole
boiling of “policies” advocated by League of Nations
Unionists, silly radio babblers and newspaper scare-
. mongers, have been astonished by this Empire-last atti-
tude on which Beverley Baxter, M.P., comments in his
article here condensed from London “Sunday
Graphic.”]
We are so full of Fascism and Nazism and Com-
munism and idealism just now, so steeped in the
problems of Europe and the future of internationalism,
that no one has any thought for the British Common-
wealth of Nations. If a visitor from Mars arrived in
Britain, read our newspapers and attended our Parlia-
mentary debates he would have no reason to believe
we were other than a small European State.
I can hardly remember when we had our last
Empire debate in the House of Commons. It was
certainly months ago. I can remember, however, that
it was stopped to permit a special debate on Spain.
And need I state that the House was practically empty
for the Empire discussion and packed for the other?
The attitude of the Labor party is particularly
puzzling. The British Dominions are strongholds of
personal liberty. They are essentially democracies
where there is nothing like the class distinctions of
older countries. And, above all, they are peace-
loving. But has anyone ever heard Sir Stafford Cripps
speak of the Empire? With two or three honorable
exceptions has anyone ever heard any of the Socialist
leaders speak with enthusiasm of building up our
neglected Empire?
Instead, there is actually a school of thought on
the extreme left, headed by Mr. Pritt, K.C., which
seems to want to believe that the Dominions are
plague spots of human misery, where hungry hordes
wander ravenously from town to town only to be met
with a charge of mounted police. If you think those
words exaggerated, may I say that I have heard them
practically in that form in the House of Commons.
There is nothing artificial about the British Labor
party’s passion for the rights and advancement of the
workers. Their attitude towards their kinsmen in
the Dominions is one of apparent indifference.
It is not less true of the little band of Liberal
survivors led by Sir Archibald Sinclair. The term
fellow-creatures means to Sir Archibald Sinclair the
inhabitants of these islands, plus Spaniards, Czechs,
Chinese, Hungarians and Austrians. These are his
flock. These are his human family, whose sufferings
find an echo in his breast. The Empire does not
come within the aura of Sinclairian benevolence.
Turn from the Liberal and Socialist benches to
the Conservative party. There is hardly a Minister on
the front bench to whom we can point with the feel-
ing that he has a determination to make of the British
Commonwealth of Nations a structure that will stand
like a rock.
The whole world needs a strong and prosperous
British Empire. Let it break up, let it decline below
the safety level and you have the source of a thou-
sand feuds and a dozen wars.
We should draw strength from the genius and the
character of our Dominions. There are great human
experiments going on there. What were once regarded
as outposts are becoming the very citadels of democ-
racy. We need a new vision of Empire. We should
utilise the gifts of science that are drawing us closer.
The aeroplane and the wireless are annihilating dis-
tance. Yet our thoughts still travel by sail.
I have not mentioned our colonies and our depen-
dencies because there may come a time after civilisa-
tion returns to Europe when the development of terri-
tories involving native races will be a matter of inter-
national mandate. We can hold our territory against
a threat, but we could not hold it against the needs
of a peace-minded Europe.
But our Dominions are self-governing nations
impregnated with British tradition and British
standards of justice. There should be a plan of
,Empire development that would thrill the minds of
youth and open up a new era of human opportunity.
War and Ruin in China.
[Condensed from an article by London “Times”
Shanghai correspondent .]
Two adversaries fiercely fighting over a big basket
of eggs—and, between blows at each other, beating
the eggs into a pulp. That is just about what the
Chinese and Japanese are doing to this distracted
country, regardless of the precious thing it is, the
home of one adversary and the place regarded by
the other as the stepping-stone to complete domination
of East Asia. A frenzied business from all points
of view.
This will be the classic example of when a war
is not a war. Under international law, once a guide
for the nations, there is no war in China: only an
incidental struggle into which Japan has thrown
1,000,000 men and China 3,000,000, with killed and
wounded already 1,000,000. In the sense that it is
a struggle in which the two nations have staked their
all, it is a war on the grand scale, yet not an orthodox
war, for it ignores the precedents of the past in not
ending when the armies of one side are beaten, the
capital taken, the Government dispersed, a great
expanse of territory occupied. There is no sign of
its ending, for the beaten armies are still in the field,
the key department of the Government, the Military
Council, still functions at a distant city, and there is
scarcely a part of the territory occupied where the
powerful Japanese machinery of war is not clogged
by bands of Chinese soldiers playing guerrilla and
hindering the Japanese in the process of consolidating
the gains of their armies.
Besides the paralysis of productive activities the
damage is beyond computation. After the bombing
and shelling by the Japanese followed the burning by
the Chinese of everything being left behind.
Cities, towns and villages by the thousand in all
the war areas have suffered. All farm animals have
been destroyed. In huge areas no winter seeds were
sown, wherefore no spring crops will be reaped. Where
there are no spring sowings, for lack of seed or owing
to disturbed conditions, there will be no autumn
harvesting. Famines are an unavoidable consequence.
During the fighting many of the dykes which
save the country from the rampageousness of the
rivers have been destroyed in order to drown or
incommode invading troops. Floods therefore will
be inevitable; and but for the intervention of Provi-
dence there will be pestilences in due course.
Such is the inheritance which the Japanese will
have on their hands when they have done with the
war, a white elephant without flesh, whose restoration
to health will take years, and the getting of which
will have repercussions which no prophet can predict.
Yet the Japanese mean to go on; the Chinese are
equally determined; and when fatalists think that
way there is no turning them away from it. If there
is to be any change in the outlook it could be caused
by the Chinese soldier, who is risking his life to carry
out orders given by officials who care so little for
him individually that they do not furnish him even
with doctors or bandages when he is wounded. He
is little else but pannon fodder, to be fed to the
invaders by the thousand in order to delay their
advance and keep alive the hopes of his superiors.
If he were a calculating self-seeker he would stay at
home and fight no more. But he also is a fatalist, and
keeps in the furrow made for him, and in the process
shows the streak of heroism that is surely in him. So
long as he toes the line the War can go on.
What the Japanese think about the war needs no
examination; in budgeting for £300,000,000 they
presumably foresee a prolonged struggle. Mr. Hirota
has said that they will not give up an inch of what
they have already got. It is plainly indicated that'
they intend to get more, probably Hankow next and
then Canton —though they might first try to get the
five northern provinces to function before attempting
to go farther.
Background to Spain’s War.
[Cables last week made the extraordinary admission
that there are Spaniards fighting on Franco’s side:
“Castilians broke the Government lines in three places
and advanced to a depth of 13 miles.” Hitherto the
impression conveyed was that Spain’s war was not a
civil war, but an invasion by Italy and Germany. This
digest of an article by Professor E. Allison Peers in
London “Observer” gives the authentic background.]
The first Spanish Republic (1873-75) lasted less
than two years, and in one year alone had four Presi-
dents : it ended in a Restoration of the monarchy and
a civil war. The Second Spanish Republic (1931-36)
lasted for just over five years, had only two Presidents,
but no fewer than 29 Governments, and also ended
in a civil war, which may well be followed by a new
Restoration.
The seven Republican anniversaries trace the
passage from the order of 1931 to the chaos df 1936,
the rebellion and civil war.
1932. —On the first anniversary rejoicings were
tremendous. Only a month after the Republic’s advent
there had been riots and church-burnings ; in October
had come a serious political crisis; in January, mur-
ders and atrocities had been committed in the villages
of Castilblanco and Arnedo and a Communist revolu-
tion had taken place in Catalonia. But the regime was
standing firm. Revolutionary strikes occurred daily, but
revolts had been ruthlessly suppressed. The Republi-
can Constitution had been promulgated ; the Left-
Wing extremists were placated by the expulsion from
Spain of the Cardinal Primate and the dissolution of
the Jesuits; an advanced Government, predominantly
Socialist, under the “strong man,” Senor Azana, was in
power.
1933. —“Republic Day” fell on Good Friday—
but there was no nonsense about that sort of thing.
Flags were flying high and theatres open, by order —
except where the theatres had refused to open. Social-
ism was still in power, and had passed an Agricul-
tural Reform Bill after its own heart. Catalonia had
been given Home Rule. Schools were being rapidly
built and reform of the civil service had been
attempted. But there were clouds on the horizon.
Bigger and better revolutionary strikes were in pro-
gress. A Monarchist rising in Madrid and Seville
had taken place in August; a Communist rising in
September; a series of Anarchist revolts in January.
Ugly rumors about the repression of a revolt at Casas
Viejas had added to the Government’s unpopu-
larity, and by-elections to be held in a week’s time
were thought likely to prelude its fall.
1934. —lt fell—in November, 1933 —and a Centre-
party Government came into power. The result was
stagnation.
1935. —Disorder was now rapidly becoming chaos.
Catalonia and the Basque provinces had been at open
variance with the Government. In October, the in-
clusion of three Right-Wing Ministers in the Cabinet
had brought a revolution in Barcelona and in the
province of Asturias. The violence of the latter and
the ferocity of its repression had raised the political
temperature alarmingly. Men were actually talking
of another civil war, or, alternatively, of a dictator-
ship under Strong-man Azana, whose popularity, for
some time very low, was returning.
1936. —Chaos now reigned. For just two months
the Left had been back in office, in the form of a
“Popular Front” Government, supported by the Com-
munists, Syndicalists and Anarchists, who ever since
1931 had been proclaiming that the Republic was for
them but a half-way house to the Proletarian Revolu-
tion. Senor Azana was again in power —but the word
“power” was a mockery. Prisons had been opened
by mob-force ; political prisoners freed ; land seized
by peasants; churches, convents, clubs and newspaper
offices set on fire ; prominent politicians murdered.
Revolutionary strikes were being declared at an aver-
age rate of nearly three daily. The President of the
Republic had just been deposed by vote of the Cortes.
In Madrid the very celebration of this fifth anniver-
sary of the Republic’s advent was marred by bomb-
throwing, fighting in the streets and bloodshed. All
control of the people seemed to have been lost.
1937. —The end came three months later. On the
one side, an army rising and the creation of a new
Spain, in which law, order and tradition were to be
respected above all else. On the other side, the Pro-
letarian Revolution functioning nominally as the
Second Republic. General Franco, the Nationalist
leader, was in possession of 60 p.c. of Spanish terri-
tory. The chief strength of the “Popular Front” was
in Madrid —for six months partially invested but not
taken—and in Barcelona.
1938. —The war is now nearing its end. Franco
holds almost 80 p.c. of Spain.
How long can the war last now? Will its end
bring peace? And when it ends, will the Second
Republic be so much as remembered?
Inside Nazi Germany.
[Condensed from two articles by Major F. Yeats-Brown
in London “Observer.”]
“Certainly there is discontent with the censorship
of news,” said my friend in the train, air Englishman
with wide experience in Europe. “But not so much
as you might think. The average German is content
to be led, provided he trusts the leader. And 99 per
cent, of Germans trust Hitler. Some of the others are
unpopular, especially Goebbels. But the fac,t is that
the Nazi regime has restored to Germans their self-
respect: they like the bands and the ballyhoo and
the marching men.”
“My criticism,” I said, “is that they don’t com-
plain enough about their Government. Not as much
Coming “Bulletin” Serial.
“PROMENADE”
BY
G. B. LANCASTER
AUTHOR OF “PAGEANT.”
First long instalment in next week’s
“Bulletin.”
“Promenade” does for New Zealand
what “Pageant” did for Tasmania.
It is a magnificent historical romance,
set before, during and after the Maori wars.
It is not a saga, but a big-canvas story
of New Zealand’s colorful beginnings—
altogether different from those of either
Australia or Tasmania.
In ‘.‘Promenade” the author of “Pageant”
breaks entirely new ground. Her charac-
ters are as splendidly drawn, as diverse
and as picturesque as those of “Pageant.”
They appear in a setting even more crowded
and colorful.
It is a grand story ; a magnificent pattern
of picturesque, constantly-changing life.
It makes fine, rich beading.
This month “Promenade” is being pub-
lished in America, and it will subsequently
be published by Angus and Robertson for
Australia and Maoriland.
To retain the quality of size and great-
ness of its canvas, it will appear in The
Bulletin in extensive instalments, begin-
ning
In Next Week’s “Bulletin.”
This New Serial is as Big and'
Great a Story as “Pageant.”


RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
ĥ
FLOORING
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
1139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
Baker’s Quality Cutlery!
“Gloucester” Cabinet of Cutlery, 41
pieces best quality stain- . .
less knives and silverware £9/15/6
“Voyager” Manicure Set,
fitted with Nail Clipper.
Nail Scissor,
Tweezer and File /6
SEND FOB NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, POST FREE.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY.
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
1888-1938, our 50th Year .
as a free people would. There is an atmosphere of
repression.”
“Only before strangers. The businessmen, shop-
keepers and so on are definitely discontented with
aspects of the regime. The middle classes suffer in
any upheaval, and this revolution, you must remem-
ber, is definitely to the Left. The workers are better-
off, and the very poor incomparably better off.
Everyone feels a new sense of security in his
. work. I would put that second to the new sense of
pride in Germany, for the Germans are a mystical
people; still, it is an important factor.”
“Do the Germans want war?”
“Everyone asks that! One can’t say what will
happen after Hitler. Before the Great War, they
dreamed of world dominion ; and they might do so
again. But I doubt it. Hitler has changed the direc-
tion of German policy. He has vast schemes of
internal reconstruction, which would be upset by war.
I believe him to be a great constructive genius, bent
on works of peace. His whole policy has been one of
friendship with England. English methods are being
copied in the Adolf Hitler schools for training leaders.
English is the first foreign language taught throughout
Germany, instead of French, as formerly. If we go
on distrusting him, and lecturing the Nazis on their
affairs, there can be no settlement of Europe.”
“If we do trust him,” I said, “there are still obvi-
ous risks.”
“Certainly, but risks there must be in any policy.
The Eden method has failed miserably. Now we
must try to understand Germany.”
Whether or not Hitler is bent on peace is difficult
to judge. Great emphasis is laid on the Army and
the Air Force throughout Germany. But below the
pageantry there is a vast social regeneration in
progress.
A million German girls attend the Mutterschule,
for instance, which teach the essentially woman
crafts. Again, in welfare work there is a far
more personal concern for the poor than there is
with us. A new sense of brotherhood is instilled into
all classes in Germany.
Every German boy must join the Hitler Youth
at the age of ten. At 14 he may have finished his
schooling and be apprenticed to a trade. The party
stilt claims him on Wednesday and Saturday after-
noons ; and through the Reichsberufweitkampf
(National Competition for Apprentices) it keeps a tally
on his technical skill. At 18 he goes to a labor camp
for six months. At 19 the army claims him for two
years. From childhood until he returns to his' work
at the age of 21 or 22, he is organised, weighed,
measured, card-indexed, drilled.
But young Germans are not being militarised ;
indeed, the opposite is true. War is regarded as a
necessity only if the German race is threatened.
In the labor camps every boy of 18, of Aryan
parentage, must serve for six months. Each year
150,000 pass through the training. No exceptions
are made, except for severe physical disability.
The boys rise at five in summer and six in winter,
do half an hour’s “gym,” tidy their room, wash, break-
fast. There follows five hours’ manual labor ; say an
hour is spent in bicycling to their work and an hour
back, they are away seven hours.
In summer there is one hour’s compulsory rest
after dinner. Great care is taken to develop the boys
evenly. Special squads are formed for the weak.
On Wednesdays and Sundays there is no manual
labor, but lectures and sports ; sometimes the boys
go to a local museum, or assist at some festival of the
countryside. On the afternoon of working days there
is instruction in games and one or two hours of lec-
tures. Supper is at seven and “lights out” at ten.
Boys are free to attend church on Sundays, and can
use the Government bicycles for that purpose, but
there are no religious facilities in the camps.
Each boy costs the State nearly two shillings a
day ; he receives a day pocket money, and all
clothes and food ; his own clothes are sent home im-
mediately on arrival, and to prevent class distinctions
no boy is allowed to receive more than ss. a week
from his parents.
Anyone who sees these boys, as motorists through
Germany can hardly fail to do, bicycling back to
their camps, thickly-coated and gloved in winter, half-
naked and bronzed in summer, singing as only Ger-
mans can, will recognise that here is joyous youth,
proud of its tasks, and believing in their motto:
“Work ennobles.”
At the university being built at Sonthofen the
Nazis plan to separate the cream of the nation’s
personality, educating it to the higher tasks of leader-
ship. The men 600 of them, between the ages of
21 and 26 are at present at Vogelsang, in the Rhine-
land, having already studied for a year at Crossensee,
in Pomeiania. This autumn they will arrive at Son-
thofen, in the Bavarian Alps. During the coming
winter they will pass a good part of their time in
ski-ing camps, and next summer they will live in
mountain huts.
Rooms in the schools are furnished as in no
school or university I have ever seen or imagined.
The explanation given me of this luxury is that the
majority of these future leaders come from poor
homes, where the graces and amenities of life are
unknown. By surrounding them with comfort, and
accustoming them to beauty, they will be able to raise
the general standard of life in Germany. Nor, I was
told, under Nazi discipline, is there any danger of
their becoming “soft.” This I can well believe. The
emphasis is laid heavily on character and courage.
The future will show what these experiments pro-
duce in leadership. In physical fitness the results are
already evident in the splendid boys and girls one
sees everywhere, able-bodied, bright-eyed, self-
reliant. The more we know of young Germany, its
enthusiasm, its trust, its immense capacity for hard
work, the more we shall find it sane and likeable.
Remembering Villers-Bretonneux.
[ln this condensed London “Observer” special article
is given a picture of the Australian memorial at what
the Diggers call Villers-Bret. The memorial, marking
one of Australia’s finest war achievements, is being
unveiled at a time when an Australian Government is
importing a British military officer for the job of In-
spector-General of Military Services. Meanwhile,
William Glasgow, the A.I.F. General who directed the
Diggers’ Villers-Bret. operations, is in Queensland —a
proved soldier who knows the Australian manhood and
the Australian terrain, and who is still about five years
short of the age at which Foch was made Generalis-
simo.]
On July 1 the King will unveil the Australian
National War Memorial at Villers-Bretonneux. Eleven
thousand Australians fell in the fighting around this
village, and have no known graves.
The link between the French village and Aus-
tralia is strong. After the war Villers-Bretonneux was
“adopted” by Melbourne, and the school was rebuilt
largely by funds from Victoria. On commemorative
occasions the children of the school sing that stirring
song so well known in France during .the war, “Aus-
tralia Will Be There.”
Australia most certainly was there in those early
spring months when the fortunes of war fluctuated
so terribly and then so triumphantly for the Allies.
The Australians, at great cost, broke the Germans.
“After this severe defeat,” wrote General Ludendorff
years after, “I gave up the last vestige of hope.”
This striking and unusual memorial commemor-
ates the “missing” among the Australians in this and
other fighting in the neighborhood. Some critics
assert that Sir Edwin Lutyens has designed nothing
finer or simpler than this memorial on the top of a
little hill by the historic village. It flanks a war
cemetery where long lines of crosses mark the graves
of identified soldiers, and its main feature —a massive
wall —marks the old battle line held by the Diggers.
On this wall, in ashlar formation forming three sides
of a courtyard, are engraved the names of the miss-
ing, “known unto God,” with Kipling’s words carved
above, “Their name liveth for evermore.”
In the centre is a tower 103 feet high, within
which is a staircase leading up to an exit to an out-
side platform at a level of 64 feet'. From this plat-
form there are stairways leading to an observation-
room, 75 feet from the ground, from the large win-
dows of which are fine views of the surrounding
battlefields.
The side walls are terminated by loggias, giving
dignity to the central tower. From the observation-
room, which is a new and a peculiarly appropriate
idea, the visitor looks towards Amiens, 12 kilometres
away. To the east lies Peronne ; to the north, Corbie
—names writ large in the Australian war history.
Mexico’s Oil Grab.
[When London “Times” published this (condensed)
article by a Mexico correspondent Britain had most
strongly protested against the Communist Mexican Gov-
ernment’s “expropriation” of British-owned oil proper-
ties and Mexico had rejected Britain’s representations,
promising compensation. Since the article was printed
(11/4/’3B) Britain has sent Mexico another strongly-
worded Note concluding: “His Majesty’s Government
see no way in which this situation can be remedied
but by restoration of its properties to the company
itself.”]
With expropriation of the properties of the foreign
oil companies an accomplished fact, Mexico has
abandoned a moderate programme of social progress,
aided oy foreign capital, in favor of out-and-out
economic nationalism.
A desire for economic liberty is not hard to under-
stand .in a country in which for centuries foreigners
have been dominant in industry and commerce. But
it is difficult to justify the drastic course just taken.
Economic liberty was rapidly becoming a reality in
Mexico without the need of expropriation.
Why, then, this sudden dangerous plunge? The
explanation lies in the ambition of a certain political
clique, and in particular of Lombardo Toledano, secre-
tary of the powerful C.T.M. Labor organisation. It
was largely through his influence that a purely indus-
trial dispute became a burning national issue. The
attitude of the companies has simply been that they
could not put into force a Court decision estimated
to cost them 40,000,000 pesos annually. More im-
portant than the financial aspect was the impossibility
of accepting a labor contract which took away
from the companies the most elementary rights of
administrative control over employees.
To maintain the industry on its present scale will
tax to the limit the resources and ingenuity of the
Mexican Government. There will be a large drop in
production. With a comparatively small home field,
export markets have to be found, and adequate tanker
tonnage, no easy task. The Government will be
handicapped by lack of experienced staff.
Yet the oil problem fades into insignificance
when compared with the financial crisis now sweeping
the country. A depreciating peso may possibly assist
oil sales, but with such staples as maize being imported
it can only result in a rapid rise in the cost of living,
affecting chiefly the working classes. Poverty and
labor unrest will be the inevitable consequence.
Internally, President Cardenas’s success depends
upon the degree to which the Mexican people is pre -
pared to sacrifice itself in the pursuit of an y ideal.
Before expropriation was decreed there was tremen-
dous propaganda urging the people to tighten belts for
the glory of the nation. Such propaganda has its
effect on a credulous and half-educated public. But
at least 80 p.c. of the workmen are alarmed by the
Government’s action, though, kept under the heel of
the Labor leaders, they dare not protest.
External interest now centres in the manner in
which the Mexican Government proposes to indem-
nify the companies for their expropriated properties.
It can be questioned whether under any law the
seizure of property of.the value involved in the present
case can be justified unless the expropriating party
is in a position to pay for it'. The Mexican Govern-
ment is already defaulting upon a huge external debt,
and it is difficult to see how a satisfactory indemnity
can be arranged.
The ultimate justification of the whole revolu-
tionary programme is the abject poverty of the Indian
masses. It remains to be seen whether the President
will find in the oil industry the fabulous profits which
his experts say exist, and whether these profits, when
found, will be applied towards the betterment of social
conditions. Everything indicates that the immediate
result of the expropriation will be a lowering of the
standard of life. Meanwhile the President’s future
is staked upon the degree to which his people is pre-
pared to suffer for the sake of “economic liberty.”


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
i£/£/Z
ROYAL SYDNEY SHOW, April, 1938
M
450 AXES ON THE GROUND-
-415 WERE PLUMB AXES
PLUMB AXES WON 10 FINALS OUT OF 12
FREE
SAMPLES
SENT.
of AMAZING RE-NU LIQUID
NU-METAL. Just deposit thru
Plug openings on Pistons.
Reconditions while-u-drive.
Saves REBORE, ENDS PISTON
SLAP, RATTLES, NOISES,
OIL, PETROL WASTE, RE-
ħ
h
STORES NEW POWER, COMPRESSION, TOP
SPEED, ZIP, etc. GUARANTEED GOOD for 10,000
MILES. HARMLESS FINEST ENGINES. Send for
Trial Tube. Price, 6/6, or we send C.O.D. Anyone
can use it; 20 other lines. Free Samples. Agents
required.
RE-NU LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Station, Melbourne.
(Est. 1932.)
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It continues to be a wonderful racing
season for mares. At Randwick on
Saturday representatives of the sex won
the two principal races.
A.J.C. committeeman Reg Allen bred
El Senorita, who is by El Cacique-Secret
Wedding. Naturally he was delighted
with her success in City Tatt.’s Cup,
and were he a betting man he would
have profited substantially, for the little
mare went out at 12 to 1. Bartle rode
her, and drove her along in the early
stages to get to the front. A mile from
home Barak joined her, but El Senorita
shook him off, and when Barak dropped
out at the home turn there was no other
challenger. So El Senorita won by four
lengths from Silver Standard, with
Allunga—doing rather well at the finish
—a neck away third.
El Senorita ran the 11 furlongs in
fast time, 2min. 18isec. —only quarter
of a second outside of the track record,
held by Mr. Kerry.
Of the unplaced lot .Bourbon did best.
Gay Knight was fifth, just ahead of
Bristol, who found the journey too short.
Royal Step failed to stay, and Sal Vola-
tile was never in the hunt.
The other mare who distinguished her-
self was Brown Baroness, in the Den-
man Stakes. She started from the out-
side, but her smartness enabled her to
secure a handy position in the early
scramble, and Harold Zensky let her
run along with the leaders. Though
forced wide on the home turn, she rushed
past the pacemaker, Bonnie Legion, but
Moonray and Manilla’s Pride—both
were unlucky at different stages —were
making her go her hardest at the finish.
She was one of the outsiders —16 to 1.
Silver Rose came from last to run
fourth—her first glimpse of form for a
twelvemonth. Might Not was fifth, and
next to Might Not was the Doncaster
winner Hamurah, whose weight must
have stopped her. She looked nice and
bright, but was never dangerous. Dis-
alto went well until his condition gave
out.
“What about the Metrop. for this fel-
low?” punters said when Hedonic, by
The Buzzard-Idamere, had won his
fourth race since January, the last three
in succession. Saturday’s race was the
Trial Handicap, and the gelding—he is
a four-year-old—was favorite at 4 to 1.
He was ridden out of the barrier and
forced to travel on the outside for five
furlongs, and turning into the straight
he went wide. All the same he settled
his opponents easily, Bachelor King and
Vestal being the best of them.
Bought for 85 guineas at auction,
Hedonic was a cheap horse. His condi-
tion is a credit to Cridland, formerly, of
Newcastle but now domiciled at Ken-
sington.
Trainer J. T. Jamieson saddled up
Respirator and Activity for the Youth-
ful Stakes, and, though not confident
about either, gave Respirator the prefer-
ence. The unbacked Activity drifted to
20 to 1. Yet he had the race won two
furlongs from home ; there he shook off
Shipley, and Geebung and Cragite could
never get near him. Activity’s div. for
ss. s.o. was £24. He is by Excitement-
Ritual. Respirator was sixth, a long way
from his stablemate.
Favorite and topweight was Adios. He
started from No. 18 barrier position, and
dropped back when the pace was clapped
on. His owner, a Sydney woolbroker,
was present to see him run —previously
“W. Staplemore” relied on radio descrip-
tions of his colt’s races.
“G. Lightford,” who is in the shipping
trade, showed good judgment when he
decided to scratch Denis for the Den-
man Stakes and concentrate on the
Club Welter. Denis, backed at 8 to 1,
won narrowly from Cooranga and Mor-
dent, who just beat the pacemaker,
Heroic Faith, and Red Thespian for
minor positions; it was an interesting
finish. Rival Hit, bought in M.L. by
F. W. Hughes, was favorite. Darby
Munro hopped him out well, but he was
soon in the rear, and was only eighth
at the end. The boom should go off
him now.
* * * *
The appeal in the Nightguard case was
successful. Colt, owner (Morrow), trainer
(Tindall) and jockey (Breasley) were dis-
qualified for 12 months after the running
of the Cabramatta Handicap at Rand-
wick on April 9. When the appeal came
on, the parties brought evidence to the
effect that the three-year-old had been
treated in Melbourne for muscle sore-
ness. On the vet. testifying that this
would come against the animal if he were
squeezed at the barrier—as other wit-
nesses said he was —the A.J.C. committee
set down in its report that “it was decided
to uphold the appeals.”
* * * *
One of the things that have brought
Sydney people back to the racecourse is
the posting of all barrier positions on
the course before the first race. The
A.J.C. committee has been asked in vari-
ous quarters to give them out in time
for inclusion in racebooks. If it does,
it will defeat its own purpose, for the
information is sure to be passed on to
the s.p. gentry. Give those persons an
inch and they will take a mile.
* * * *
Alan Cooper and other Sydney racing
men who took horses up to Brisbane
for the meetings at Eagle Farm found
the form too good, especially that of
the three-year-olds. Thurles Lad hadn’t
raced since February, and had been off-
color in Sydney ; so there were doubts
as to his condition. Punters felt them
so strongly that they let him go out
at 11 to 2 for the Stradbroke Handicap.
J. J. Doyle’s chestnut won brilliantly in
a tick less than twelve to the furlong.
Lord Bine and Cashman chased him
home ; and behind the pair were, among
others, Buzalong, Joan Darling and
Shackleton.
Cooper thought Mananui sure to win
the King’s Plate, and so did a multitude
of others. He didn’t even get a place,
old Brown Force (12 to 1) bobbing up,
with Ribbleson and Ardon’s Pride in
the places. Brownfelt, heavily backed,
was one of the beaten lot.
Brownfelt’s brother, Spear Chief, re-
deemed the family reputation in the St.
Leger. He came home cantering, though,
he cut the Queensland record for the dis-
tance (mile, six furlongs and 132 yards)
to 3.6|sec. An outsider, Millie’s Hope,
was second ; Cathartes, who came in on
three legs, was third.
Spear Chief’s St. Leger price was 10
to 9 on. The colt’s performance made
such an impression on the ringmen that
many of them were reluctant to take
Spear Chief wagers for the Brisbane
Cup on the Monday. Finally they made
it 5 to 4 Spear Chief, 11 to 2 Mananui,
6 Spearbleu, 7 Princess Rivoli. With Me-
Carten up this time (Conquest rode hint
in the St. Leger), the son of Spearfelt-
Serevale won again, almost as easily as
on Saturday; Princess Rivoli was second
and Spearbleu third, the time being
3.2BJsec. If he winters well, W. A.
Tucker’s horse will provide formidable
opposition for southern horses in the
spring.
* * * *
“Durdans”: The first of the English
classics, the Two Thousand Guineas, run
over the straight mile at Newmarket,
went to Pasch, the 5-to-2 favorite. Pasch
is by Blandford from a Manna mare. He
did not race as a two-year-old. It is
the fashion nowadays in Britain to make
the Two Thousand winner favorite for
the Derby. Why, it is hard to say. A
sprinter who can unwind a fast run on
the Rowley Mile at Newmarket faces a
different job on the Epsom gradients
pver a mile and a half with that punish-
ing uphill pinch before the turn into the
straight is reached. Of the many horses
who have won at Newmarket only 27
have scored again at Epsom.
* ■ * * *
Burlesque, twice winner of the valu-
able Consolation Stakes at Caulfield, put
Mick Crossey on the map as a trainer
in Melbourne. Crossey’s team is small,
but he bobs up at regular intervals. At
Ascot (Vic.) on Saturday Mick misfired
with his own colt Adherent in the Tor-
rington Handicap. He won later in the
afternoon with Parodier.
Backed from fives to half those odds,
Adherent went out next in demand to
Lord Windburra (6 to 4), from whom he
received 101 b. When Adherent sup-
planted Bother ’Em in control at the
home bend his supporters began to get
their betting briefs ready for presentation,
but Ray Wilson brought Lord Windburra
from far back with an overwhelming run,
to win by a long head.
Three lengths off, Bankshaw (10 to 1)
ran third for W. R. Kemball, finishing
strongly. Stamina should be the forte
of this Siegfried gelding. Bother ’Em
tired badly, but Lambent (Thracian-
Black Powder) came home exceptionally
well. Lambent is recapturing the form
that enabled him to inflict an unexpected
defeat on Jim Scobie’s Liana at Ascot
some months ago.
D. J. Price, whose stable was repre-
sented by Bother ’Em in the youngsters’
event, will shortly hand in his V.R.C.
license because of protracted ill-health.
Price has been a Victorian turf identity
for 40 years. Noted performers that he
trained included Machine Gun, Pink ’Un,
Subterranean, Ataahua, Ballista, Wim-
mera, Midnight Sun, Motoa, Beresina,
Royal Scotch, Balmerino, Stephanotis
and —in recent times —Charles Fox and
John Wilkes.
George Jones, formerly private trainer
for W. R. Kemball, saddled up Star Leaf
and Eurasia for the first division of the
Murchison Trial. Star Leaf belongs to
Mrs. T. Confoy, while Eurasia carries
the livery of Alan Currie, the V.R.C.
chairman.
In track gallops Eurasia is too good
for Star Leaf; yet she started at twelves,
whereas Star Leaf was a red-hot favor-
ite at 9 to 4. Star Leaf had every chance,
but could finish only sixth, just in ad-
vance of her stablemate, who showed a
lot of pace but—as Jones remarked —
needs racing experience.
The event in which- Star Leaf dis-
appointed his backers resulted in a dead-
heat between Brimboal (sixes) and Shin-
ing Star (tens), third * money going to
Glodomar, who was allowed to run
loose at 33 to 1. Pastry, the dam of
Shining Star, runs back to Dumpling, a
half-sister to Cider and also to Apple
Pie.
In the season of 1910-11 Apple Pie
ran second (to Flavinius) in the Caulfield
Cup, third (to Comedy King and Trafal-
gar) in the Melbourne Cup and second
(to The Parisian) in the Australian Cup.
She also was third in the Epsom and
Doncaster. Tom Pay ten trained her for
Agar Wynne, who bred Pastry.
Leading throughout, Poldean, an aged
gelding by Chrysolaus from Consent, by
Carbine’s son Bundook, landed the
second division of the Murchison Trial.
Well backed at sixes, the grey romped
home 3y lengths in advance of Grail
Girl (tens), who had a great tussle with
Rambler (tens) for second honors.
Grail Girl, a Burnewang mare, belongs
to Bill Burke. It was by the irony of
fate that she struck her colors to Pol-
dean, as the latter started his turf career
under Burke’s charge. Bill sold Poldean
to Eddie O’Brien, the paddock book-
maker, and Steve Murphy made an un-
successful trip to Queensland with the
gelding, who eventually came into the
possession of T. Garland, his present
trainer. James Chirnside, of Bombala
(N.S.W.), has the credit of breeding Pol-
dean, who, despite advancing years, is a
decent galloper.
Parodier (Heroic-Digalla) registered
his second win on" end for G. J. Coffey
and the elder Jim Hackett by annexing
the Wokingham Handicap. He went
out at fives, the same as Somerset, in
a good betting race, Baryta being at
threes and Sweet Memories at 9 to 2.
With ordinary luck, Baryta would have
been first, instead of losing by a neck.
Last after travelling a furlong, Baryta
made a lightning rush along the rails
but couldn’t get through, and had to
shift his ground at a critical stage. His
achievement was on a par with that of
Sarcendale, who came from last at the
turn, wide out, to finish a close fifth in
Poldean’s race.
There was a rainbow round the
shoulder of A. Dewhurst. After scoring
so luckily on Parodier, he had the good
fortune to get Beau Roi home by a neck
from Dignitary (favorite at fours) in the
middle-distance Aylesford Handicap.
Dignitary dead-heated with Haughty
Stare (15 to 1) for second. Quote of
Beau Roi was sevens.
The muddling pace set by Haughty
Stare at the outset did not suit Dignitary.
It took 2min. to cover the 1{
miles and 40 yards. Course record is
2min. Bsec. Dignitary is trained by
W. Burke, who certainly wasn’t on the
right leg. Beau Roi hails from Geelong,
and is in the stable of F. Laherty, who
has Shining Star.
Turoa Webster shared riding honors
in the Murchison Trial, first division, with
A. Breasley, who had hurried back from
Sydney after successfully appealing
against disqualification by the A.J.C.
stewards. At the close of the day Web-
ster gave another fine exhibition of'rid-
ing by annexing the Plymouth Welter
on Riddle (twos), the only prime fancy
to win at the meeting. Riddle won splen-
didly, Gold Token (sixes) beating Tes-
tudo (7 to 2) by half a head for second.
Testudo may soon atone.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Flying Handicap: Silver Rose ;
next, Might Not.
James Barnes Plate: Bourbon;
next, Billy Boy.
Welter: Mordent; next, Sedu-
num.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Nonga Handicap: Dignitary ;
next, Desert Chief or Somerset.
Keera Welter: Parodier; next,
Somerset or Silver Reign.


h
85,000 NEW HAIRS
GROWN!
IN JUST TWO MONTHS
Marvellous Success of
Remarkable New Treatment
WAS BALD FOR i 6 YEARS!
“Hair has started to grow over parts which
have been bald for 16 years.”
(Signed) G. L. Horton, 0., S.A.
ANOTHER 1500
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO
“BULLETIN” READERS.
Great Distribution of Hair Treatments!
WHAT I DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR.
It does not matter if your hair is falling
out, if you are fast going bald—or wliat
you have tried! I know you have not used
the BIGHT method! My own hair felt out
in handfuls until I fast began to go bald.
I tried everything; but now I have a thick,
lustrous growth of hair thanks to the im-
portant discovery that—
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
They never have—because it is impossible!
There is one underlying principle that
stimulates New Hair Growth—that prin-
ciple is involved in the new Kelso Murchi-
son Treatment ! It's a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new
angle. With it you can stop your hair
troubles overnight! Don’t waste more time
and money on worthless “tonics” and
“hair restorers”; but accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this special
offer coupon in the post to-day!
NOW YOU CAN TEST IT
YOURSELF!
VTOW, you car. test it yourself—try this
* ’ famous treatment in your own home
—under any' condition you like, and if it
doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of dandruff
or any other hair trouble you suffer from
within HO days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
—not one penny! But you must hurry;
this offer may never he repeated, it places
you under no obligation; all you have to
do is to post that coupon NOW!
ACT AT ONCE !
This is your great
OPPORTUNITY.
NEW HAIR CAN BE GROWN.
AFTER 15 years the Murchison Method has
established a sound reputation in the special
sphere of work of banishing and Preventing
Baldness and the accompanying hair maladies.
The many hundreds of voluntary testimonials
from' grateful users of this treatment sent from
all parts of the globe are more than adequate
proof of the efficacy of the Murchison Method.
IN one case treated recently, it was estimated
that the treatment had grown fully 85,000 new
hairs in less than two months. The average head
of dark hair contains approximately 110,000 hairs,
the average head of fair hair 150,000 —according
to European Baldness Specialists. In this case
the person using the treatment was
practically totally bald. In less than
two months he had a head of strong
healthy hair—after being bald for 10
years! It will be seen therefore that
the estimate is well within the mark.
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Read this PROOF!
“You asked me to report in one month on your
treatment for the hair. The month isn’t quite up
yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait that long. I
could have told you after one application that
your treatment would certainly grow hair. I have
used a lot of different ‘restorers’ in my time,
but yours is the only one that I ever used that
I have had any faith in. You said it would cure
dandruff in one week. Well, I can beat that
easily, as it cured my dandruff in one night.
It has completely changed the colour of my hair.
It has turned it from its dry, dead, straw-looking
colour back to its original shade of brown, and
now, after about three weeks’ use, I have a lot
of new hair growing all over my head. It’s
growing like wildfire. I might mention that I
never gave your treatment a very fair go, either.”
E. J. REYNOLDS, M„ Vic.
WONDERFUL RESULTS.
“I have been using your hair treatment for one
month, with wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It has stopped falling
out. and all the dandruff has disappeared, also
the itchy scalp. Where it used to be short and
thin, it has grown much longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it has new life in it, thanks
to you. i think your course wonderful, and so
easy to do.”
MISS M. DATJMANN, M., N.S.W.
Rip This out-and POST/
/
r
/
s
F
R
E
E
J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
5/5/’3B.
s AMAZING TRIAL Offer!
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast held it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
• How to Draw Figures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• Ho.w to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
• How to Develop Eatent Ability.
• How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature.
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY!
Make Money in Your Spare Time.
FOR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-white artist, i:
ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,’
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination to draw.
offer-
to all
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in’' on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist—then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not born famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is YOUR
opportunity—are you going to pass it by?
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment. NOW!
This Book
is Free to
YOU!
“HOW TO BE AN FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw—develop your talent —
how to cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now —at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, “How To
Be An Artist.” 1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
5 / 5 / ’3B
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.


SIX-GANG “SPINNER TUNING”
Exclusive to
ULTIMATE
1 T LTIMATE always a step ahead of the radio parade now introduces a
six-gang tuning condenser into radio-set design to give Bandspread
Tuning. To country users this confers an inestimable boon and enables the
tuning-in of overseas short-wave programmes with the same ease as the strongest
local!
1938 EXCLUSIVE
FEATURES:
All-wave reception 1 3 to 100
metres on short waves.
New Type Iron Core I.F.
T ransf ormers.
New Type Iron Core Tuning
Coils.
Higher Gain and Greater
Selectivity.
Six-gang Tuning Condenser.
Planetary Motion Spinner
Tuning.
320 Degree Dial Scale.
Separate Logging Hand
Pointer.
m
■
wm
m
m
W-
Hi
■
■l
i ■
■
■
m i
mm
■
■
:
i
EI
■
1938 EXCLUSIVE
FEATURES:
Improved Volume Control
Indicator.
Battery Economiser Switch.
Wave-band Indicators.
Unexcelled Reproduction
with full 1 Oin. Rola Iso-
core Speakers.
Unparalleled Economy in
Operation—up to and
often over 15 months on
a set of dry batteries.
Two-volt A Batteries only
needed.
Switches incorporated on
volume control.
BE FAIR TO YOURSELF SEE AND HEAR ULTIMATE
BEFORE YOU BUY.
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEO. BROWN AND CO. PTY. LTD.,
’Phones: M 2544
(3 lines).
Electrical aind Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telegrams, Radiograms, Cables:
“Brownlock.”
Post
Direct.
Please send me information on the new electric/battery Ultimates.
NAME
ADDRESS
Personal and Missing Friends.
LYONS, Kingsley, son of Mrs. Elizabeth Kate
Lyons, of Mirboo North, Gippsland, Victoria.
Left home address 11 years ago. The above is
requested to communicate with EXECUTOR,
TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF S.A., LTD.,
of 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, when he will
hear of something to his advantage. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts, or whether he is dead,
is requested to communicate with the above
company.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
Lo.ndon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agepcies in all Australian States and throughout the
' world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. - Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
The “SERIES”
Delightfully Soft Light Weight
Pure Fur Felt. Shades: Drab,
Steel or Fawn. Silk lined. Made
by Christy’s, London .. 25/-
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
Brisbane.
If Cash with Order, post free.
Under the Whip
St. Valorey won his second Brisbane
Cup as a seven-year-old. Now rising 12,
the gelded -son of Valais-La Neive is
back among the winners—he annexed
the Compensation Handicap at Moonee
Valley, beating Yeoford by a length.
His Melbourne history is interesting. A
patron of Frank Godby’s Caulfield stable
bought him at a big figure, hoping to
win one of the Cups. Though persevered
with, the old fellow lost all form, and
eventually went under the hammer of
a Melbourne auctioneer for unreserved
sale. Burke, who prepared Marauder for
his Australian Cup victory, got St.
Valorey for 30 guineas. He found that
the horse was muscle-bound in the
shoulders and would require a long
spell in good grazing country.
At this juncture Hughie Bourke, of
Pakenham, called at Burke’s Pascoe Vale
property to inspect some poll heifers
with a view to purchase. After some
friendly bargaining the heifers changed
hands conditionally on Bourke buying
St. Valorey from Burke for £5O.
Monomeith Park, the property of H.
and M. Bourke, is only 2500 acres in
extent, yet it carries 2500 head of cattle
and 100 horses. Even at that the feed
is so luxuriant that it cannot be kept
down. Turned loose there, St. Valorey
acquired a new lease of life.
Bill Burke declares that St. Valorey is
the best-looking thoroughbred on the
Flemington tracks. The Bourke brothers
bought him for show-ring purposes, but
resolved to give him another chance
with colors up, and in the last year or
so the gelding has won a number of
races for them —three at Moonee Valley.
It seems a pity that he was ever added
to “the list.” A full brother, Monash
Valley, is doing well at the Queensland
stud conducted by Andy McGuire, a
former Melbourne bookmaker. St.
Valorey is the last of the progeny of
Valais now in racing commission.
Eaton Lad was a great sire of jumpers.
Four of his progeny won the Onkapa-
ringa Steeple. Few of the tribe are left.
One of them, Roist, won the Trial
Hurdle at Moonee Valley purely by
superior jumping ability. Backed from
20 to 1 down to eights, he scored from
the 7-to-4 favorite, Masterton, who
made several bad blunders. Roist
belongs to Mrs. R. Hughes, whose hus-
band did so well with Loch Eaton over
fences a few seasons ago. The horse
was bred by the Harris brothers at their
Kerrabee stud in N.S.W., where Sand-
hurst, Palbi and other famous timber-
toppers first saw the light of day.
Heroic Chief, for whom Archie Crofts,
the South Melbourne football patron,
paid 900 guineas as a yearling, distin-
guished himself over hurdles at Wil-
liamstown on Easter Monday, and may
be in line for Grand National honors.
Heroic Star (Heroic-Lady Zelteers), an
800-guineas purchase, credited Crofts
with the first division of the Three-year-
old Handicap at Moonee Valley. Moder-
ately supported at sevens, Heroic Star
vanquished the 13-to-8 favorite, Ply-
mouth Hoe, by a length, fighting out the
six furlongs with more courage than had
been anticipated. Ray Wilson, who was
in the saddle, stated that Heroic Star
needs an opening straight run in order
to gain balance. Asked whether Heroic
Star, like Heroic Chief, would have his
attention turned to hurdling, Fred Hoy-
sted, the trainer, replied that this would
be considered later on. “Heroic Star,”
he added, “could jump round Fleming-
ton now. I ‘schooled’ him myself, and
he is a natural jumper.”
John Wren attended the Valley meet-
ing to see his Pantheon four-year-old,
Theodore, compete in the Fund Welter.
Opening at 3 to 1, Theodore touched
twos, but eased a trifle. He failed to
get a place, but Bailey said he was
almost knocked down at the start.
* * * *
Horsetraining is a healthy calling and
trainers are usually steady-going men ;
so they are apt to last longer than men
engaged in other occupations. Harry
England, who is handing in his A.J.C.
license, has been 58 years at the game. In
recent years he prepared High, who ran
second to Hall Mark in the Doncaster
of 1935, and was unlucky not to win.
* * * *
“R.”: Restford (B. 28/4/’3B) was bred
by L. O. Menck at his Kelvin Park stud,
Longwarry, and, being by Frilford from
Soporific, is a full brother to Frill Prince,
the 1937 Moonee Valley Cup hero. His
half-brother, Yarramba, also landed a
Moonee Valley Cup (1932), besides being
runner-up to Peter Pan in the Melbourne
Cup and winner of the Williamstown
Clip. J. H. Flannagan imported Frilford,
who, trained by Holt, finished second to
Sea Money in the Australian Cup of
1928. There were far more imposing
thoroughbreds than Frilford on the turf,
but all his progeny have the galloping
gift.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Harry Cohen (Bst. 101 b.) disposed of
Jim West (9st. 21b.) in the fourth of
their eight-round engagement at Sydney
Stadium on Monday night. A neat right
uppercut to the point did the job, with
Cohen so far ahead on points that Jim
would have had to knock him to take the
money. There was a good deal of lucre
in the house, too, but it wasn’t the glove-
slingers that attracted it. Even to good
fights this year the crowd has been ex-
tremely hard to gather in, but the grap-
plers are drawing a bigger house each
night as the season progresses. Explana-
tion probably is that they give the crowd
some color for its money, Whereas the
present lot of scrappers are about as ex-
citing as a choir. The wild men are live
entertainment in comparison.
The pair on Monday were Leo Numa
(16st.) and Rudy la Ditzi (16st. 31b.), and
occurrence was Leo, Rudy and the
ref. taking a header over the top rope
down on to the spot until most recently
occupied by present scribe. In that ava-
lanche of beef first head to touch bottom
was the ref.’s. It landed on the press board
with a horrible crunch, whereupon fef.
sagged in the middle and went below.
There he remained while the wild men
clambered back into the ring and carried
on without him. He being still out to
it when the bell went, the bottle-holders
leapt in and collared their men, what
time the mob pelted the ring with an
assortment of missiles, including an
electric-light globe and full tins of cigar-
ettes. Earlier Rudy had got a fall on Leo
and Leo had got a fall on Rudy, and
while the ref. was hors de combat Rudy
pinned Leo well and truly. However, no
ref.; whereupon Mr. Miller braved the
barrage, grabbed a microphone and de-
clared the brawl a draw.
Ins and Outs
On his third tour of England, Bradman
for the third time made a double century
in the opening match 258 against
Worcester. It was just as well, for no-
body else did much: though Badcock
reached 67 he left the impression that
without Bradman at the other end he
would have gone cheaply. Hassett (43),
Fingleton (41), McCabe (34) and White
(26) were Bradman’s other helpers,
Sundries contributing 32 to the total of
541. The South African Crisp (4 for
170) and Perks (4 for 147) did the bulk
of the bowling.
The county replied with 268 (Cooper
61, Lyttleton 50, Bull 37 n. 0.). Fleet-
wood Smith took 8 for 98. That also
was fortunate, for O’Reilly did not come
off (he took 1 for 77) and McCormick
made a dismal showing. He not only
failed to take a wicket (44 runs were
knocked off his erratic stuff), but bowled
16 no-balls in the first innings.
Lyttleton, the Worcester captain, had
won the toss. “To make the match less
of a fiasco,” as he put it, and also to
help the “gate,” he put the tourists in.
The Englishmen won’t win many matches
if they approach them in that spirit. Yet
there is a strong suspicion in Australia
that if the travellers had to take the field
without Bradman, McCabe and O’Reilly
they would prove themselves the weak-
est side since 1912.
* *. * *
Tenth Slip”: Sydney’s yelper press
was plunged in gloom when the fateful
news was flashed round the earth that
cricketer Barnes had fallen and broken
a bone in a wrist. “Tragedy” was how
one rag described it, and another de-
voted half a column to speculations as to
whether Barnes would be able to play in
any Test. Australian teams have been
singularly free from troubles of the kind,
about the worst being Sammy Jones’s
spell of smallpox in England long ago.
The Englishmen, on the other hand, can
report a long list of casualties, ranging
from the accidents that put Morley and
Bates permanently out of cricket during
the ’eighties to the sickness of Ames and
the accidents to Duckworth and Robins
in our own day. Bradman asked for a
seventeenth man to play instead of
Barnes. The Board said no.


A
E
for
k
IA
'fejfcuflditi
{SE®
ss
By G.
Author of “Pageant ”
Commences next week. See announcement, page 28.
Footbrawl
Four surprises marked Saturday’s six
V.F.L. games. Geelong, which flies the
1937 premiership flag, was downed again,
this time by St. Kilda, 13-16 to 8-17.
North Melbourne beat South in every
department, and was ahead in every
quarter, finishing 9-10 to 6-8. Hawthorn,
third of the previous Saturday’s beaten
teams to show a reversal of form, staged
a rattling final quarter against Melbourne
to win, 16-15 to 14-8. Footscray, 13-17,
had a handy margin over Fitzroy, 10-5.
The only first-Saturday winners to
repeat their performances were Colling-
wood and Carlton. ’Wood beat Essen-
don, 18-19 to 9-20, but Carlton had only
a point to spare against Richmond, 12-23
to 14-10.
Prahran, the leading Association team
last year, is having as bad a time as Gee-
long. It lost again on Saturday—by two
points to Brunswick, scores being 16-11
to 15-15.
Queensland forwards routed N.S.W. in
the first inter-State Rugby Union game in
Brisbane, the Maroons winning 17-9 (4
tries, 1 converted, and a p.g. to 2 tries
and a p.g.). N. S. Wales led 6-5 at half-
time, but did no more scoring till just on
the final whistle, when Gilleland went
over. The veteran Bonis hooked splen-
didly for Queensland, and two new men,
Macnamara (half) and Walker (centre),
more than made good. Rankin was the
best of the N.S.W. backs, with the Hut-
chinson brothers shining in the forwards.
They turned out again on Monday
with a few alterations on both sides,
and this time the thing was reversed. The
N.S.W. forwards went into it with more
devil, had somewhat the better of things
in the lineouts and cut even from the
scrum ; and at the finish the Light Blues
had a two-point lead—-11-9 (2 tries, 1
converted, and a p.g. to 2 tries and a
P-g.).
In Sydney the two -States played
Soccer, N.S.W. winning by 8 goals to 2.
* * #
With four premiership rounds chalked
off, University—on top last year—and
Drummoyne are the only unbeaten Syd-
ney Rugby Union teams. ’Varsity’s great-
est asset is its fine pack of forwards, and
although for Saturday’s game it had four
and a winger away with the State team
it still managed to topple Parramatta,
12-8, one try each. Randwick suffered
most in gathering the men for Brisbane,
and couldn’t hold Drummoyne 22-9.
The drain on the grade teams was, too,
largely responsible for giving Gordon
and East their first wins; Gordon, 13-9,
over West (three tries to two), and East,
14- against St. George (three tries to
one). The big disappointment is Manly.
Kelaher still runs up and down the wing
without getting a fair share of the ball.
On Saturday, given one chance, he ran
the length of the field to score a clinking
try, but it wasn’t enough ; North won
15- two tries each.
iJC 5}C
Close scoring characterised the Vic.
Rugby Union’s opening games. Power
House turned a 3-3 draw into a 9-3 win
by crossing St. Kilda’s line twice in the
last five minutes. Navy—stronger this
year—beat Kiwis, 6-3, the margin being
a penalty. Old Boys won, 11-3, against
Air Force ; Melbourne accounted for Uni-
versity ; and Footscray beat Harlequins.
* * V *
“Everton”: The North of England
emptied itself into Wembley stadium at
the week-end to see Preston North End
play Huddersfield for the Association
Cup. The Lancashiremen won by a goal
to nil; the goal came from a penalty
kick at the last moment. When the same
Lancashire and Yorkshire clubs last met
in a final in 1922, a p.g. gave Hudders-
field the victory. Only twice has North
End carried off “t’ Coop,” the first occa-
sion being just 50 years ago.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Maryborough, once
a notable Rugby Union centre in Queens-
land but of late years addicted to Rugby
League, has returned to the amateur code,
and opened the season amid much re-
joicing, with appropriate accompani-
ments. The district used to field a
tough team, the nucleus of which was
usually a contingent from the Walker
iron foundries, with a few cane-farmers
in for makeweight.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland golfers are
making preparations for their cham-
pionship meeting, which will run from
May 16 to May 21 inclusive. T!he
Bananalanders have condensed the pro-
gramme to give southern players a chance
to show with as little waste of time as
possible, and they are putting up good
money for the open—the best that any
State has offered—while generous purses
in minor events are available for the
professionals.
Racquet and Bawl
Considering that she can’t possibly be
at her top, Miss Wynne did well to reach
the final of the hardcourt singles in
Britain, and to win the mixed doubles
with Boussus. Miss Scriven beat the
Melbourne girl, 7-5, 6-2 ; Miss Wynne
had defeated the Chilean girl, Anita
Lizana, 6-1, 7-5.
* * *. *
Showing form that promises well for
his Davis Cup performance, John Brom-
wich played all over Viv McGrath in the
City of Sydney championship: 6-1, 6-3,
6-1. Crawford and McGrath downed
Bromwich and Pails in the doubles, and
the women’s singles title was taken by
Miss Blick.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: Perry is to coach the
Canadian Davis Cup team, which opens
the ball in the American zone with a
match against the Nipponese at Van-
couver in August. Perry has a pretty
good idea of Quist’s peculiarities, and
should give the Canucks some valuable
tips in this regard, but both Bromwich
and Schwartz have trained on a lot
since he last saw them.
England has picked its team to open
its Davis Cup trot, likely to be a short
one, against Rumania: Butler, Jones,
Shayes and Wilde. It looks second-class.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Schwartz, of the Davis Cup
team, and Gar Hone, the best of three
tennis-playing brothers (the fourth
played cricket for S.A. and then cap-
tained Oxford), have gone through the
Adelaide club-season as an unbeaten
pair, and with the very young Mates,
unbeaten in his singles, put West Tor-
rens top of the clubs. In the final
round, Schwartz beat Turnbull nearly
pointless.
% ♦ ♦ ;fc
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Germany has
enlisted the services of Metaxa and
Redl, late of Austria, for its Davis Cup
team. The pair will partner Henkel, but
will hardly make up for the absence of
Cramm, who, at last advices, was still
in the cooler.
Miscellaneous
Two crews stood out from the eights
entered for Sydney’s G.P.S. Head of the
River: Sydney High, which had topped
off its preparation with a couple of wins
against club crews in open races, and
the titleholders from North Shore
Grammar. “Shore” hadn’t raced before
the Nepean event, and its lighter eight—
the boys averaged list. lib. —wasn’t
greatly fancied against the High crew,
with its 81b. per man advantage.
High got away at a cracking pace,
rating something over 40, and kept it
at that for the first half-mile. It was
grand rowing, and the others were floun-
dering to keep with them, but “Shore”
stuck at it, and the pair soon opened up
a gap. They see-sawed in front down to
the finish, High having slightly the better
of things ; then, a half-mile from home,
“Shore” lifted its rating again, and went
a length ahead. It still seemed as though
the weight in the High boat could hold
“Shore,” and the one flaw in the rowing,
when “Shore” “crabbed” just before the
end, did bring High closer, but “Shore”
recovered, and was three feet in front at
the gun. A magnificent race ; but, then,
all the Head-of-the-River races on the
Nepean have been magnificent.
Newington was third, two lengths
behind High, and St. Ignatius was handy.
The others found the pace too solid.
“Shore” has now had 17 wins ; Syd-
ney Grammar, with 13 wins, its nearest
rival.
The positions were reversed in the
First Fours race, High winning by a
quarter of a length from “Shore.” High
was second also in the Second Fours,
but was a length and a quarter behind
St. Joseph’s.
* * * *
“Toowong”: The English women
rowers had a good time in Brisbane.
Not only did they win easily, but they
gave the local beer a pat on the back,
declaring it the best they had mopped
up in Australia. These very pleasant
and capable young women drink beer
daily with their meals as part of their
training, and have not been afraid to
say they' like it. On them has fallen a
sort of typhoon of enraged femininity
organised in a temperance association, or
something to that effect. The immediate
disciplining of the hussies is demanded
of the Government or somebody. Mean-
while the visitors say of the Brisbane
brew, in the words of the Yorkshireman
who had swamped a preliminary quart,
“it taastes like aale, it is aale an’ daamned
if Aa doant ’ave soom.”


N
-V
When
a Woman
tells you:
that perhaps she
should not boast,
but her teeth ' are
very white,
and she has used
nothing but
Calvert’s since she
was twelve,
Well, don’t you think it it
worth trying for your teeth S
%*AR k
o 5
u e
d
ti<
Coi#
lit)
J (
a
ĥ
WfAK MfN AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
BX9 George St., Sydney
821
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Tibbett Takes Sydney.
Not by storm ; the gates were down
and the populace had laurel weaths ready.
At 7.20 on Tibbett’s opening night in
Sydney “House Full” signs were hoisted
at the Town Hall, and the ticket-sellers
sat back and let the world roll by. All
Tibbett had to do was to cash in on the
ready-made fame his talkie and gramo-
phone recordings have secured him.
He gave a darned good entertainment
—something for everyone. He’s the
cleverest showman in the concert busi-
ness, and adds to that complete musician-
ship, lingual versatility, and a voice that
is a joy in all registers.
Most importantly, when he climbs to
a climax town halls tremble and ceilings
lift themselves an inch or two till the
pressure eases off.
Any style is grist to the Tibbett mill.
He kicked off with Lully and Scarlatti,
pretty-pretty stuff, and then came a
majestic declamation of Handel’s “Hear
Me! Ye Winds and Waves.” The Richard
Strauss “Morgen” and some Brahms
lieder in German were a sop to the high-
brows, sung well enough to delight the
lowbrows.
Highlights of an extraordinarily-mixed
programme were “Largo A 1 Factotum,”
rattled off at a speed Ivan Menzies might
envy ; Loewe’s juicily melodramatic set-
ting of the old Scottish ballad “Edward,”
“De Glory Road,” the Prologue from
“Pagliacci,” the song to the evening star
from “Tannhauser,” Hely-Hutchinson's
Handel-oratorio burlesque on “Old
Mother Hubbard” and “On the Road to
Mandalay.”
Tibbett was kind to the three-hundred-
or-so occupants of the choir benches,
singing them a verse or two of all his
longer songs. The tremendously pro-
longed final note of the Handel aria he
delivered slowly turning in a circle.
His humor is sometimes of the Mark
Twain brand, deliberate and impassive,
but his prevailing note is cheery good
humor, which makes his excursions into
tragedy blacker by contrast.
Pianist Stewart Wille is, of course, an
excellent accompanist. Also, as every
good accompanist must be, a very re-
sourceful musician. He proved this in
one of his solo offerings, Myra Hess’s
transcription of the Bach cantata “Jesu,
Joy of Man’s Desiring.” In the middle
Wille’s memory temporarily failed him,
he got on the wrong tack and worked his
way back to solid ground with several
bars of very nice pseudo-Bach.
Ruth Draper.
This extraordinary event is occurring
at Sydney Royal.
For a fortnight’s season Miss Draper
is appearing there on her own, without
any assistance from anybody. The stage
is just lighted as a room might be, is
walled in with plain brown curtains and
mostly has on it only a chair.
On top of that Miss Draper does
without make-up. She wears the same
dress all evening (at all events, she did
on the opening night). In one act she
adds a hat and brolly ; in the others some-
thing drawn round her shoulders a
shawl, an artist’s coat or an evening
wrap. That’s all she employs, or needs,
in the way of wardrobe.
She is the complete apostle of No
Compromise. When the first-night cur-
TIBBETT AT SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
tain went up, the Crowded and sar-
torially lavish audience was confronted
by the brown-walled stage, bare, except
for an ordinary breakfast-room chair. It
would be safe punting that, whatever
feelings most of them had brought along
to the show, their hearts sank at that
forbidding sight. Before the night was
out Miss Draper had won ’em to the
last confirmed hater of elocution, charac-
ter sketches and all suchlike things
usually painful even to think about.
Miss Draper bids good-bye to all that.
She doesn’t elocute, and she doesn’t do
character sketches as these have hitherto
been known. In each of her appear-
ances she plays leading part in a play
in which she peoples the stage with in-
visible presences, giving as much care
to projecting the reality of each of those
others as to the one she is actually
representing.
Sometimes she fairly crowds the stage ;
as in her first appearance, for instance.
She entered on that bare stage with the
somewhat shuffling gait and slightly bent
shoulders of an oldish lady. A scraggy
fur, a lorgnette and some other odd-
ments hung round her neck, a handbag
on her left wrist. She began by greeting
one after another the sundry visitors to
the bazaar she was just about to open,
which function she presently performed
in a speech which, apart from shaking
gusts of laughter out of a quickly un-
bended audience, also at times might
have shaken the apples off the surround-
ing trees and the goods off the stalls.
And this wasn’t the best of her, either.
She was cleverest in a piece in which
she was a secretary, a wife, and then the
other woman. The section of this in
which she was the wife chattering home
in a car was a masterpiece.
The most extraordinary thing about
Miss Draper’s performance is the
actuality she gives to her unseen people.
She goes about that stage shaking hands
and saying a few words to each, and the
people of the countryside and village
are there, from the ancient who carried
her when she was a little girl to the
troop of Boy Scouts who have just done
such a splendid job mending the church-
hall gutter.
Words like “gutter” are food and
drink to her. She can drop them into
the audience in a manner warranted to
startle mummies into laughter. She is an
extraordinarily gifted comedy actress.
Sesqui. Prize Play.
“Men Without Wives,” the sesqui.
play competition prize-winner, put on
at St. James Hall, Sydney, was limited
by appealing chiefly to patriotic fervor.
Its story was simply a tribute to the
women of the outback, and, though it
lacked the essentials of drama, its humor
and pathos were brought splendidly to
life by Doris Williams’s Ma Bates.
However much life was infused into
the part, Ma could never be much
more than a sentimentalised monument,
and the play’s success with the audience
was assured by the more human por-
trayals of the minor characters. Clara, her
silly daughter, and Lulu, her dutiful one,
were vividly depicted by Valerie Scanlon
and Eila Langton, and Valerie Ball accu-
rately interpreted a weakling from the
city. Two completely unimportant
characters, Joe Bates and Channa,
the house-gin, played by William State
and Molly Ramsay, were the most
appealing of the lot. Walter Wright, as
a “Dave” type, ran them close.
Mrs. Drake-Brockman deals much
more successfully with women than with
men. The pure young bookkeeper and
the rakish ex-Oxford stockman were
fiction-types, and their speech was im-
probable. But the women were con-
vincing.
Kipnis in Melbourne .
Alexander Kipnis began his first
concert at Melb. Town Hall with a panel
of Schubert songs. Accustomed to have
their Schubert decked in gay tenor dress,
the audience surveyed the sable hues in
which the Russian garbed him without
excessive enthusiasm.
The audience warmed up, however, to
the magnificent series of “Serious Songs”
by Brahms, based on biblical passages
and sung without intermission, like parts
of the “Messiah.” Kipnis’s voice rolled
out these solemn periods with the same
effect as the hidden basses intone the
responses in Russian churches.
Hugo Wolf’s songs, which followed
the interval, were delightful, the some-
what confined range of the singer’s voice
acting as no detriment. Everybody
became extraordinarily jolly when Kipnis
reverted to his native tongue for the
purposes of four lovely Russian folk
songs, and by the time he reached the
“Volga Boat Song” he had the house
on his side.
Encores descended progressively down
the musical ladder to an item about a
millionaire with a fifty-cent cigar, sung
in the American language.
“The Student Prince.”
This by Mosman Musical Society last
week was a very pleasant exhibition of
amateur theatrics. The society has been
running for something like 38 years, and
present standard is reason enough to dis-
place flicks for three nights at Cremorne
Orpheum.
Acting and stage manners were a bit
shaky in spots, but with the delightful
singing of Sally Whitehurst (Kathie),
Bryson Taylor (Karl Franz) responding
manfully and .an excellent male chorus
minor histrionic slips were easily over-
looked. Bonnie Judd (Princess Mar-
garet) and Don McMichael (Tarnitz)
fitted comfortably into their roles and
supplemented that with a measure of
tuneful warbling.
The society’s stock funnyman, Harry
Nott (Lutz), added a quota of gags
that Romberg never thought of. He has
a natural bent for comedy and seems to
invent half his wisecracks a split second
before their delivery. Extra laughs were
well supplied by Zanita Cannis, Mary
Hosking and Mick Orr.
Credit also to a sound supporting cast,
including Mervyn Anstey, William Keep,
Ron Weaver and Clive Hayter, to pro-
ducer John Radford, conductor Ivan
Rixon and Mavis Sykes and her ballet.
“Topper”
Cary Grant, Constance Bennett, Roland Young,
Billie Burke, Alan Mowbray.
Grant and the Bennett are the featured
stars in this diverting stretch of absur-
dity at Sydney State, but the other three
give the more sterling performances.
That isn’t the fault of the principals.
Their parts are really the minor ones.
They are creatures of the author’s con-
venience ; puppets who help in the work-
ing out of a fantastic idea.
Thorne Smith wrote the absurdity ; he
is—or was —one of the authors who have
had the distinction of being banned in
Australia. To read, he is always a
richly-laughable humorist.
The two characters of his fantastic
creation which Grant and the Bennett
have to play are literally ghosts. High-
living young persons, they wake up —as
ghosts—after wrecking their car. Perched
on a log, their transformation dawns
on them ; also the fact that neither of
them has done a really good deed in
life. To rectify this, they set about
showing the over-middle-aged and
severely-sat-upon Mr. Young, most re-
spectable of bankers, how to live. That
and their ability to appear fully dressed
and vanish at will indicate the possi-
bilities for laugh-raising.
Grant and the Bennett, ably aided by
whatever form of trick photography is
employed in making them disappear
before the audience’s eyes, do their ghost
jobs well enough. For Grant—whose
merit as a comedy actor can be better
seen in another current film, “Bringing
Up Baby,” at Sydney Regent—the part
is a very light one. He is quite agreeable,
and so is the Bennett, and that’s about
all they amount to.
Young has the real comedy part, and
he makes a capital thing of it. As his
wife, Billie Burke does every bit as well
with much less opportunity. Mowbray
appears, gorgeously, as a butler —as noble
a specimen of the kind as present film-
taster has ever sampled.
It all makes uproarious entertainment.
“Mannequin.”
Spencer Tracy, Joan Crawford.
Under this wholly misleading title
(Miss Crawford makes only a brief ap-
pearance as a mannequin), M.-G.-M.
have constructed an uncommonly taking


“You want a good yield
but—Y O U CANT
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people like
you with only £22, or a few hun-
dred pounds at' the most. However,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
B*l4 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
mu
wm
858888888
V' . .' v Of
Mi
Plii;
■
m
m
m
m
m
m
Hi
m.
t\gy>
mmm
mm
Pleade tjourieff
PLAIN or CORK TIPS
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY MR. RICHARD CROOKS
S3*:*
Ate If
Virginia $
m
v\e
<•o**. \v
9 for 6d
IB for
human comedy. Seen at Sydney St.
James, it was first-rate entertainment and
a bit more.
The strength of the story is its unusual
naturalness. There is scarcely a single
false note in the narrative. It unfolds
as a simple, direct stretch of life, with-
out resort to fictional devices. There
is a very slight plot, and there are cer-
tain slight twists in the yarn ; but it holds
interest almost wholly by exploiting
familiar human values.
It gains enormously by the excellence
of the acting. Both the principals get in-
side their parts and act them superbly.
They are just about perfectly cast. The
Crawford is always at her best in the
part of a child of poverty trying to get
outside and above her environment. Here
she is a slum-dwelling factory-girl who
marries to get away from her surround-
ings, is disillusioned when the chap turns
out to be merely a flash saloon lounger,
and then meets a man who at first has
the money and throughout has the qual-
ity to help her get away from her hated
circumstances.
As that kind of man Tracy, of course,
has a job right into his hands. He in-
vests it with a strong masculinity and a
rich sense of humor. He is always
Tracy, just as Joan is always distinctly
Joan ; but both of them stamp the parts
not only with their own familiar indi-
viduality, but with the individuality
rightly belonging to the characters. Their
acting is sure; pretty well faultless.
Mainly the film is a comedy of human
affairs ; the old, well-tried triangle. The
mistaken marriage; the other man ; the
happy ending. It proves, if needed, that
this is still as good as any other struc-
ture in which to set up an appealing
human comedy. No doubt it will never
be worked out. It itself is as much a
familiar part of life as are the characters
Tracy and the Crawford project.
The principals are helped by generally
excellent minor support, which perhaps
goes without saying in an American film
of M.-G.-M. manufacture. The people
from whom Joan seeks to break away
are especially a well-cast and well-por-
trayed lot. The home is extraordinarily
real, and, kept up by the fine acting and
the naturalness of the life depicted, that
reality stays with the film throughout.
“Second Honeymoon”
Loretta Young, Tyrone Power.
Current entertainer at Sydney May-
fair, this snaps into action with a clinch
between the Young-Power combination.
Miss Young, divorced, remarried and
very frivolous, meets again with equally
frivolous ex-husband Power, and the film
patters along in a pleasurable froth of
light romantic comedy with the pair of
them bickering at each other until re-
alignment of their affections is settled.
Adding to the general jollification is
a fair ration of agreeable stock humor,
such as E. J. Bromberg and Claire Trevor
hunting a solitary offending mosquito in
the ungodly hours of the dawn, or the
same couple disposing of large junks
of watermelon in their luxurious lounge.
Also two or three husbands floundering
in ready support of another’s makeshift
alibi, pleasant exchange of repartee
throughout, and Lyle Talbot and Stuart
Irwin turning in their different brands
of humor.
There is, too, a useful element of satire
about the whole film —Hollywood seems
to be using this to advantage lately. In
contrast to the idle extravagance and
parasitic existences of most of the cast,
the occurrence of a perky little cigarette-
counter girl (Marjorie Weaver) and her
practical philosophy leaves small doubt
as to qualities and the worth of two
distinct planes of living.
The Weaver lass, by the way, is a
delightful newcomer to roles of any
prominence. She shows more than
favorably.
The film is set in the luxurious arti-
ficiality of an Amurrican holiday resort,
is peopled with the leisured wealthy, their
palatial homes, their recreations and their
whims of the moment.
All that, of course, lends itself to back-
ground for Miss Young and Mr. Power,
who, apart from giving to their roles
what pleasant meaning the story de-
mands, are photographed in clothes and
postures calculated to raise tumult in the
feminine frame. It must be said that
the photographer (Ernest Palmer) has
done a topnotch piece of work.
“Hawaii Calls.”
Bobby Breen, Ned Sparks.
Breen addicts will doubtless wallow in
this wash of slops at Sydney Lyceum.
Young Master Robert yawps to any
person or object that happens to be
convenient, moves a rugged ship’s cap-
tain (Irvin Cobb) almost to tears and
sends a dog all soulful. Between times
he stows away from San Francisco to
Hawaii, evades efforts of the police to
capture him and finally puts the kibosh
on the pernicious activities of a bunch
of spies, and so saves the Amurrican
nation from disaster.
Take Ned Sparks out and the opus
would be sheer punishment. Ned plays
a guitar in a ship’s orchestra and writes
Hawaiian melodies, but by riveting his
eyebrows in their customary position and
gripping a cigar at 45 degrees he weathers
the Breen influence almost to the fade-
out, and there wilts badly by relapsing
into a moving monologue on Hawaii.
“Every Day’s a Holiday
Mae West.
As seen in her latest at Sydney Capitol,
Mae is a clever actress who, knowing her
worth as a definite type, has developed
a character along those lines to an ex-
cellent exponent of the hard-headed, wise-
cracking female of the species, and,
better still, who never lets up on her
representation for a moment.
Mae avoids comparison with other
charmers by almost completely excluding
them from the film. She makes up for
her shortcomings as a songandance mer-
chant by a display of amazing gowns and
lavish stage decorations.
Also, she adds considerably to the en-
tertainment value of her film by includ-
ing a couple of sound actors (Edmund
Lowe and Lloyd Nolan) and a trio of
topnotch funnymen (Charles Winninger,
Walter Catlett and Charles Butterworth).
Unchanged China.
Well advertised by J.C.W., Miss
Frances Hotham drew a fair attendance
to Melbourne Comedy on Saturday night
for her first Australian lecture, “Life in
China,” which is illustrated by moving
pictures, natural-colored and otherwise,
obtained last year in China.
Miss Hotham’s China is largely the
China of Marco Polo, plus a few more
tombs, temples, memorials, a factory or
two and such other Western innovations
as railways ; there is also the verbal in-
timation that its smells have probably
multiplied somewhat since the visit of
the first European. In short, it is the
picture-postcard China, and her descrip-
tion carries an accent and occasional
touches of English exasperation that the
East and its people should remain so
un-English.
Photography improves as the lecture
proceeds. There are some excellent shots
and some deplorable ones that should be
scissored out of respect for the eyesight
and humor of audiences accustomed to
the near-perfection of professional news-
reel and travelogue offerings.
A Neville Cayley Show.
The most popular name in the lexicon
of Australian Art is surely Neville Cay-
ley. The two bearers of the name, father
and son, seem to have been able to put
at least one of their bird drawings into
pretty well every dwelling in Sydney (not
forgetting hotels) where there’s some
feeling for art.
Neville Cayley the younger is showing
60 of his water-colors and a couple of
pencil sketches at Sydney’s Blaxland Gal-
leries. With the exception of three land-
scapes, two studies of butterflies, one of
koalas and one of the flying-squirrel, the
pictures are of birds, painted with some-
thing of the sharp precision Japanese
masters apply to this subject.
Probably there isn’t any other way of
painting creatures so trim and dainty.
Anyway, the Cayley pictures have a
further slice of a Japanese virtue in their
graceful composition.
Most ambitious of the offerings is a
fine study of black swans in flight.
Country Homes in Water-
color.
That indefatigably industrious artist
E. Warner has temporarily deserted
needle, plate and acid and gone back to
an earlier love, water-color.
At Anthony Horderns’ art gallery, Syd-
ney, he shows the harvest of a long trek
among the historic old farmhouses, wool-
sheds, barns and mansions of N. S.
Wales.
The show is not very interesting artisti-
cally—Warner has been at little pains to
make pretty pictures—but historically it
is rich. Some of those old houses look
very comfortable and peaceful, and bring
a regret that the old Australian style of
station house, liberally supplied with
verandahs, has made no lasting impres-
sion on architecture.
Perhaps the ideas of the pioneers will
re-recommend themselves when the
present craze for Spanish—or rather
Californian-Spanish bungalows has
abated.


3 NEW FLOORS
BEDROOMS...
with BATHROOMS
. . . AND 24-HOUR
HOT WATER
SERVICE .
In
Sydney
Stay
at the
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms have just been added
and a 24-hour hot water service.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, tor
A'CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inco^?/ enc ®f
Corns are killed while you sleep— a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Saturday was Boatrace Day, and per-
fect as far as blue sky and bright sun-
shine could make it. Youth and its
father, mother, brother and sister rushed
to the Nepean. Used as it now must
be to the barracking, the megaphone
yells, the jungle-like yowls of joy or dis-
appointment of the phalanxes of G.P.S.
schoolboys, the old river nearly threw
a tidal wave at Saturday’s excitement.
The grounds of Ravenspur, the Fred
Jones home, which are right on the spot
for the finish of the races, provided the
official enclosure. And these grounds,
with their sloping lawns and trees and
hedges, presented as gay and animated
a scene as do such spots as Phyllis Court
on Henley regatta days.
The Log Cabin was also a great meet-
ing-place. But personalities don’t matter
at the G.P.S. regatta. It’s only the row-
ing—the ecstasy of “Shore” supporters,
the heart contraction of High urgers
when Shore finally snatched victory by
three feet or so in the Eights. The even-
ing’s celebrations were the annual ball
of the G.P.S. Old Boys’ Unions, which
crowded out David Jones’s ballroom,
and the Regatta Ball, in the Blaxland
Galleries, organised, as it has been
for seven previous years, by the Women’s
Association of Sydney Grammar
This Letter had heard Ruth Draper in
London, and was almost afraid to go to
hear her on Saturday for fear she might
not be quite the miracle of perfection
enshrined in memory. But from the
moment Ruth stepped on to the stage of
the Royal right to every detail of fur tip-
pet, lorgnette, umbrella —the old lady of
title opening the flower show—she was,
if possible, better than ever. Subtlest
of all, from a woman’s point of view,
was “Three Women and Mr. Clifford.”
Any boss who sees that, and who knows
his secretary has also seen it, may begin
to wonder if he is quite the master of
circumstances he had imagined.
Well, anyway, the house was brilliant.
It was quite the thing to get into your
most glossy garment and go to Ruth
Draper. Everybody trooped into the
Royal. Lady Wakehurst came with
daughter Henrietta. Ruth is her guest
at Government House. Lady Wakehurst
passed, a flash of silver lame and black
velvet. The Hon. Henrietta’s long white
coat was worn over a frock of her favor-
ite blue. Ermine and white lapin (it’s
the after-8-p.m. full dress for bunny)
rubbed shoulders so often that the
wearers of the former could only adopt
that “Excelsior!” expression, and hope
for the best. Among the crowds milling
into stalls and circle were seen the Mc-
Kelvey lady, in her snow-white fox cape,
below her frock flashed cornelian,
the A. C. Godhards and neighbor Mrs.
Henriques, Ruth and Sylvia Bedford,
Mrs. Searight and Miss Nellie Veitch,
Mrs. E. J. Tait, the C. L. Jones couple,
Nedra Ryrie and Mrs. Sep Levy, dia-
mente shoulder straps on her black satin
frock. Sequins glittered on every second
woman.
Not even Boatrace Night could keep
the crowds away from Lawrence Tibbett.
Saturday saw the Town Hall so packed
that a sardine-tin is roomy by compari-
son. The stage was thick with humans,
so that the singer had almost to wriggle
his way on and off. One thing might
have been a disappointment to the lads
in the front stalls. There was a sort
of scalloped fence edging the front
of the stage. While this gave to the
little pot-plants that border the stage the
surer look of one who has found a pro-
tector, it also broke the knee-to-ankle
view of many pretty legs fringing the
gallery.
Gay was Mrs. Tibbett’s frock. On
a background of black marquisette
flowers of every hue rioted. The frock
was sheathlike till just above the knees,
when it blossomed into a series of tulle
frills, each bordered with a flower de-
sign. The blue fox coat of every woman’s
envy was carried on the arm. The
Consul-General for the U.S.A. had a
smart party, the knightly Tom Bavin
couple and the Bertie Kellys among them.
Leona Flood, the nineteen-year-old
violinist from Los Angeles who has given
recitals in London, Paris, and other
capitals of Europe, is making acquain-
tance with Sydney before her Conser-
vatorium concert on the 19th. America,
too, has listened to her singing bow. Two
features of her playing commented on
by critics in Europe and America are
her tone and her bowing. The artist’s
mother, Mrs. Flood, is good-looking, and
upholds the American woman’s tradition
for good grooming. Both visitors talk
well, and know half the cities of the
world intimately. Every day they are
to be seen lunching or drinking tea with
Sydney’s music-lovers. At a tea in their
honor last week were gathered Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. A. C. Godhard, Mrs.
Rupert Scammell (she is a noted violinist
herself) and Mrs. Harold Bott. Their
invitations even include breakfast parties.
They find our shops excellent and our
hospitality heart-warming.
Sydney Uni. graduates, like The
Bulletin, find their way everywhere,
so when this copy reaches any one ol
them somewhere in the windblown fast-
ness of Tibet, or down by the River
Plate, it will carry the good news that
the ball for the University Settlement
was a success. Anyone with or without
a degree knows the kindly work of the
Settlement, especially among the chil-
dren of the unprivileged fathers and
mothers. Last week all the lights blazed
in the Great Hall, and hoods for the
most notable heads showed their gaudy
linings for the prelude to the actual
dancing. Here were gathered the Chan-
cellor, Justice Halse Rogers, Deputy
Chancellor Dr. Mills and Mrs. Mills,
Miss Isobel Fidler and a confetti shower
of other academic notables.
These took their places on the dais
to a spirited fanfare of trumpets, and
then Mrs. Harold Dew led thirteen debs,
forward to make their curtsies to the
Chancellor and to Dr. and Mrs. Mills.
Mrs. Harold Dew’s satin frock was bright
with flowers; Mrs. Mills’s ivory laces
were of cobweb quality and bouffant.
Blue and silver stiimmered in Miss I.
Fidler’s lame; sapphire-blue moire was
worn by Mrs. H. F. Benning, lacquered
black satin by Mrs. W. J. Hull. Helen
Taylor came in sweeping black velvet.
The dancing was done in the Union
Refectory, and had for beginning a debs.’
waltz.
Edinburgh artist Stirling Paterson is
holding a show in the Lodestar Gal-
leries. The opening of this was an
unconventional affair, and reflected
credit on Milner Stephen, who got away
from the usual banalities. There were
moments when the listener wondered if
he were about to open a case for the
defence or for the prosecution, but it
was neither—just a neat summing up for
art and beauty. Stirling, an alert, lean
man in grey, had the height and breadth
of Percy Higgins for friendly support.
Mrs. Higgins and Doreen were also in
the company. With her black ensemble
Mrs. Paterson wore pearls and a bright
red felt hat. Mrs. Clive Teece, who was
Mrs. Paterson’s bridesmaid, was among
the admirers; so was sculptor John
Elischer from Melbourne. Oswald Cheeke
brought a party.
Pretty Elaine Bakker is making her
second visit to Europe. She sails with
her parents in the Strathallan on May
14. She was born in Penang, and lives
with father and mother at Pymble, so
she has fair claim to the title of
cosmopolitan. When not travelling,
Elaine’s amusements are riding and
tennis. Montgomery Dunn photograph.
Sydney remembers Mrs. Douglas Duff,
the pretty Englishwoman who looked
always like a French fashion-plate at
dances or the theatre. But Mrs. Duff
could rough it. She went from Australia
to England by sailing vessel, taking her
turn at jobs before the mast. Later, let-
ters received in Sydney told of her jour-
ney to Greenland. Now she is deter-
mined to outdo Peter Fleming, and is
off to Tibet. Mrs. Duff will start her
trek from the India side, and will be
uncompanioned in her journey. A com-
pany of carriers will be her only escort
on this strange journey. She hopes
to penetrate into unknown deeps of a
land which to most of us seems more
a legend than a reality. When not ad-
venturing (she is a competent flier, in-
cidentally) Mrs. Duff lives at Folkestone.
The old Congregational Church in
Pitt-street is piling up birthdays, and on
May 2 scored a centenary and three
years more. To celebrate, the Rev. Ruth
gave a lecture recital, “Sons and Songs
of Dorset”; Virginia Bassetti, Elsie Find-
lay, Norman Wright, Harry Schofield
and the choir uplifted voices in honor
of the occasion, and director of music
Lilian Frost took her usual seat at the
organ. David Jones, of South Wales
(and N.S.W.), memorialised “by his chil-
dren” (he was one of the first members
of the old church), and a contemporary,
John Fairfax, M.L.C., are amongst the
silent witnesses on marble tablets.
The Frank Nixon pair, a harmonious
duet, motored from Brisbane for a camp-
ing tour through N.S.W. and came to a
holiday anchorage in Sydney, out Mar-
oubra way. Their Easter egg was a
roomy tent-de-luxe which they packed
into their big car. A glorious burst of
fine weather hatched the picnic chicken.
Mr. Nixon has been something solid,
now retired, in the Banana State s timbei
trade, and his wife, as Julia Brand Nixon,
is a well-known composer of such music
as “Barron Waters,” “The Butterfly
Dance” and “Irtspiration.”
Something new in stage effects was
thought of and carried out by Mrs. Hope
Gibson, of Killara. For the local music
club’s reception last week, she stitched a
few thousand persimmon leaves together,
and made a curtain that transformed the
stage. These leaves weren’t just stitched
flat to one another ; the maker had so
designed the whole that it almost seemed
that the autumn winds were rustling
through. The party was the success it
deserved to be.
There are gongs and cymbals and
’cellos in Lawrence Tibbett’s voice. Some-
times he uncorks the instruments one
by one; sometimes, as in “De Glory
Road,” he plays variations on all three.
The Town Hall has not been so packed
and tumultuous for years. There were
over 8000 requests long before the pref-
erential booking opened. From just
after half past seven last Wednesday
night the Town Hall steps were solid
with ascending throngs. Men came in
tails and dinner jackets, in old tweeds,
in one case at least in a pullover. Women
came lustrous in satin, sleek and pros-
perous in furs. They came in thin little
woollen dresses, knee length, above the
proverbially pretty leg of Miss Sydney.
They came, a diamond glittering in their
hair ; they came with a beret pulled on,
or maybe with a topknot of flowers.
One fair girl in blue wore her hair
brushed up and into a topknot, like the
Dana Gibson girl of the ’nineties.
The momentous happening at the
C.W.A. conference was the resignation
of Mrs. Matt Sawyer from the office of
State president. Mrs. Matt has done her
job well and thoroughly for ten years.
Her organising ability, her friendly man-
ner and tireless energy (she has travelled
over 17,000 miles this last year) in the
cause is one of the greatest testimonials
to the work of the C.W.A. Only one
knowing her cause just could have been
such a fervent crusader. She is followed,
unopposed, by Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge,
of Gundagai. Mrs. Beveridge’s long and
honorable service is recorded in C.W.A.
annals. Like Mrs. Matt Sawyer, she has
the easy friendliness that is necessary to
this office.
The green grass and the flowers in the
Government House gardens brought re-
freshment to the eyes of delegates from
drought-stricken districts when the Gov-
ernor and Lady Wakehurst invited them
to tea. This was a morning snack.
It was informal, and guests included
C.W.A. devotees from all over N. S.
Wales and Mrs. Graham Mylne, the
State ■ president for Queensland. Mrs.
Mylne is editor of the Queensland
C.W.A. journal. Sister editor Mrs.
Mac Smith, of Boree Cabonne, Orange,
brought her tranquil gaze to the gather-
ing. The wife of Premier Stevens, Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax and Mrs. Colin Venn
were others. The Hon. Henrietta Loder
helped father and mother entertain. Lady
Wakehurst was her usual trig self in
navy and white.
This Letter points to the record of the
association to prove its assertion that,
as finance wizards, women leave the
men beaten at the post. In its lifetime,
which is just entering its second decade,
the association has amassed assets valued
at £95,000 and has given away £105,000.
It controls 80 baby-health centres, 48
libraries, 14 hospitals, eight holiday
homes, over 120 rest-rooms and a
sprinkling of hostels. Last year there
was an increase of £5OOO in the assets.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is again the secre-
tary, and Ruby Board became the
treasurer, as Mrs. Rupert Tucker, of
Camden, resigned. All offices are
honorary.


t
T U
WINTER CRUISES
EARLY JUNE (No. 34) "ORONSAy" FIJI
EARLY JULY (No. 35) "ORONTES" PAPUA
Via Great Barrier Reef
LATE JULY (No. 36) "ORAMA" NOUMEA
Via Great Barrier Reef
LATE AUG. (No. 37) "OTRANTO" FIJI
SUMMARY
* Commencing from Brisbane and ending at Sydney. Fares include steamer or rail passage Sydney-Brisbane after cruise. f "Orontes" only.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
V 73
Perfect non-drip
Easy to fit
Long life
lIP Hil
Registered No.
9425.
1
Slightest pressure cuts off
water supply
6d.
per card containing two washers
If unobtainable locally, two washers on a card, giving instructions, will
be mailed on receipt of six penny stamps. State size of tap, fin. or fin.
HOLDTITE, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney, N.S.W


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor ... Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy-.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS ... used successfully the world
over by millions of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
tm
(SSCgnQP-
(Germany)
THE WORLD’S SHOPPING CENTRE
No other cosmopolitan market can compare with Leipzig in size, international attendance, or volume of
business transacted. You owe it to youtr business to investigate its profitable advantages.
AUTUMN FAIR commences AUGUST 28th
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office Equipment, Eurniture, Photographic, Sports
Goods, Engineering and Building Pairs.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) available of Lars G. Brundahl,
Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis Hbuse, Martin Place,
G.P.O. Box 3127 P, Sydney, C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. J. M. Beiers,
305 Queen Street, Brisbane. H. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO ROBERT JOHN McMEEKIN formerly of
Brisbane in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons
numbered 529 of 1936 by DOROTHY
McMEEKIN your 'wife in which she claims
a dissolution of her marriage with you and
by her Petition filed herein she alleges that in
or about the. month of March One thousand
nine hundred and twenty-eight at Brisbane
aforesaid you deserted her without cause and
have continuously so deserted her for five years
and upwards AND IT HAS BEEN
ORDERED that service of the said Writ and
of the said Petition on you be effected by the
publication of this Notice twice in a news-
paper or in newspapers circulating in the
Southern Districts of this Court once in a
newspaper circulating in this Central District
of the said Court once in a newspaper circu-
lating in the Northern District of the said
Court twice in the “Sydney Morning Herald”
and once in the Sydney “Bulletin” If you
desire to defend this action you must within
forty-four days (44) from the date of the last
act done in pursuance of the said order enter
an appearance at the said Registry and in
default of your so doing the Plaintiff may pro-
ceed therein and Judgment may be given in
your absence.
DATED at Brisbane this Third day of
December, 1937.
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
WILLIAM JOHN GRANT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 356 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Melbourne
Chatter
Opening the Vic. artists’ autumn ex-
hibition, the Lieut.-Governor said all the
right things in his cultured voice, adding
that, as the finest poets never write poetry
(only think it) and the best pictures
are those that are going to be painted
some day, there is always hope and en-
couragement for people like himself. In
attendance was Squadron-Leader Freddie
Thomas, resplendent in his A.D.C. re-
galia, who was led forth on an educative
tour of inspection by Harry Fern.
Among guests present that evening
were the Fred Gambles, Mrs. Gamble in
white cloque scattered with Garden of
Eden apple-trees. Present also was
Harry McClelland, well known for his
wattlebark houses at Frankston, his
passion for kilts and bagpipes, and his
enormous canvases, which are recently
shrinking to a more conventional size,
to the relief of other artists. Another
exhibitor present was Jean Mclnnes, who
is carrying her brushes in the wake of
both parents. Mrs. J. B. Bellair brought
along the latest news of Barbara, who
married Edmund Kurtz, has been living
in Chicago and this month is accompany-
ing her husband to England, where he
and his ’cello have engagements to make
records.
Late arrivals were Dr. and Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, Mrs. Stephens wearing
a trained gown of black satin and a
devastating silver fox cape. Jim Govett
was there with Prue Timmins, the sub-
ject of his exhibited portrait. Among
Jim’s other sitters have been Greta Har-
rison, Jule Kiddle, Winkie Murray,
Rosemary and Valerie Downes, and
Peggy and Peter Tronson —but he doesn’t
stick rigidly to the debutante set; he has
painted Major-General Downes and is
now working on a portrait of Dr.
Deborah Buffer Murphy. “Regulars”
who were missed from the Vic. Artists'
opening were Mrs. Ethel Barnes and
Kitty Sleight, who made up their minds
to go to the U.S.A., had their passports
vised, settled Mr. Chenoweth’s income-
tax demands and got themselves and their
luggage on board the Mariposa all in
four days. They will stay with. Mrs.
Barnes’s daughter, Mrs. Henry Malval,
at her new home in Connecticut.
Horses with histories ran in the
Peninsula Polo Club’s picnic meeting on
the Mornington racecourse, for the
Mornington Peninsula is the stronghold
of the horse. To the picnic races come
hacks, hunters, polo ponies, cunning
veterans of past race meetings and stock
horses of unknown breeding but skilled
at their own jobs of work, of all shapes
and sizes and values and ages. Adding
reflected glory to the Peninsula Hack
Race was Gringo, the winner. Gringo
was ridden by Hugh Swift, but ridden
also in imagination by his owner, Micky
Syme, who nearly pulled down the rails
of the grandstand in his excitement. The
name of F. Couper Smith’s Naos lent
tone to the event though he was scratched.
And there was Dr. W. H. Ward’s Stage
Door, who, although he’s never been able
to gallop very fast, once belonged to a
movie star. Leon Gordon bought him
for £l2OO, and afterwards gave him as
a present, with a coursing dog, to Dr.
Ward.
Jack Edgar won the Polo Cup on
his stockhorse Caesar, and was so over-
whelmed with the glamor of the occasion
that he dropped the lid off the silver
trophy three times on the way from the
presentation arena to the riders’ dressing*
room. x In the last race Rita Ross and
Glowanna had a misadventure on the
way to the start, so that Glowanna was
scratched ; all bets were called off and
placed somewhere else in a scurry during
the quarter-of-an-hour’s delay. Among
those who collected trophies were Mrs.
Ken Moore, Lynette Dunstan, Ken
Guest, who received large beer mugs,
Tom Guest, smaller beer mugs, Mervyn
Stubbs, presented with a handsome cigar-
ette case, and E. Doran, who carried his
fragile china coffee service with the same
scared concentration with which young
men assent when invited to hold very
new babies.
Among punters and picnickers were
Mrs. Percy Alderton and Nancy. In the
Ladies’ Polo Handicap Nancy rode Tom
Guest’s heroic Sid, who carried Tom’s
17st. 71b. to victory last year in the
Polo Cup. He ran this year also, with
J. Coglan as rider, but had no hope
with his big handicap of 100 yards behind
in four-and-a-half furlongs. The Ginner
Greys were at the Peninsula meeting;
also Mrs. Claude Plumer, in pine-green
tweeds, and Mrs. Charlie Lane and Mrs.
John Fell, who both wore plain tweed
skirts with check coats. Mrs. E. War-
burton was tall and slim in her grey
suit. Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie and Edith
Anderson had their big excitement on the
way home in an encounter with two car
thieves, one of whom they caught. The
other got away, but not because he could
run fast. He just refused to come back
when requested.
“Nuts in May,” with the Big Apple
instead of raisins and old port, may be
had for the picking at the King’s from
May 10 to 14. It’s the University’s
annual revue, and proceeds will be
divided between the Union fund and the
Crippled Children’s League.
June Phillipson, whose photograph is
by Broothorn, is one of the leading ladies
and a scholarship student at the Con-
servatorium ; Terence Crisp is the pro-
ducer, and the organising secretaries are
Sandy Ferguson and George Lindon, a
couple of medical sparks from. Trinity
who will have a lot of extra swot to
make up as soon as this show is over.
Recently they were producers of Medi-
cal Medleys in the Caulfield Town Hall,
with songs and ballets and genial
gyrations by med. students. The Medical
Medley idea was started during the war,
so that the most recent production was
twenty-fourth in line of succession. Others
who have a hand in the harvesting of
“Nuts in May” are Fred McNaughton,
whose last year’s big moment was “Swim-
ming under Water with the Lord Mayor's
Daughter.” This time he’s mixed up
with “Dramas in Pyjamas.” lan Braid
and Glen Marks will perform rumbas
and take other liberties with a couple
of grand pianos. Elspeth Barker is pro-
ducing the ballets of 24 girls and lads,
and she’s making them work. Rehear-
sals are every day and all day Sunday.
H. W. Allen made the speech of the
afternoon at the wedding of Rosemary
Downes and Jim Campbell. Mr. Allen,
who is the Vice-Master of Ormond Col-
lege, is not only a lifelong friend of the
bride’s father, Major-General Downes,
but was well known to a large number
of the guests. He had not only played
cricket with several generations of the
men but had demonstrated the art of
demon bowling to some of the women
present (that, of course, being in their
gym. tunic days before they ever thought
of becoming the mothers of large families
and eventually grandmothers). For his
grace and agility as an ice-skater Mr.
Allen can even now give these grand-
children something to think about.
Among wedding guests who had been
at school with the bridegroom was the
officiating padre, Rev. John McKie, of
Trinity College.
Peggy and Joan Leitch are newly en-
rolled workers for the Legacy Club, but
quite important ones, for they are ticket
secretaries for the Legacy Ball to be
held at the Palais on Boatrace Eve,
May 12. Peggy’s photograph by Antoine.
Mrs. H. M. Gulliver was up with the
cold misty dawn one morning last week
to find that during the previous 24 hours
leaves had turned crimson in her Sassafras
garden. The leaves, mixed with golden
chrysanthemums and branches heavy with
medlars and pomegranates, went down
before the garden shears and later in the
day filled tall vases at the Athenaeum
Gallery, where the walls were covered
with sunshine and shadow in paintings
by the four exhibiting artists. Another
color impression was of the dewy blue
delphiniums in the hands of Mrs. Swin-
burne, who opened the show, and of
Annie Gates, -M. Holgate, Mrs. H. N.
Gulliver and Mrs. Glover-Fleay. It being
an all-feminine exhibition, most of the
spectators were of kindred sex, and many
thought alike in the matter of furs for
a nippy afternoon. Silver foxes were
worn by Mrs. Arnold Henderson and
Mrs. Bill Cook, Mrs. Henderson’s pelts
being fashioned into a hip-length cape
of super-magnificence. Mrs. Glover-Fleay
(who is the mother of the curator of the
,Colin Mackenzie sanctuary) wore a very
dashing brown hat with a sudden and
steep tip-tilted brim.
Lecturer Frances Hotham is a surprise,
for she’s neither middle-aged nor high-
brow —in short, though independent, she
shows little sign of being an emancipated
woman. While Miss Hotham explores
the interior of China and other wild
places she travels light, with only her
camera, projector, tripod and suitcase ;
but in large cities she collects her party
frocks sent on ahead, for she likes a
social time as well as any other young
woman. Miss Hotham has had her ad-
ventures, such as in Formosa, where she
used a camera in a fortified area, and
in central China, where she travelled
third-class on the railways, an experience
that was safe but so unpleasant (for the
train was crowded) that she almost would
have preferred an encounter with brig-
ands in the fresh air of the great open
spaces. Miss Hotham has a large num-
ber of letters of introduction to people
in Australia and a specially friendly feel-
ing about Victoria, for she’s a descendant
of Sir Charles Hotham, Governor of this
State in 1856, and her grandfather on
her mother’s side, Admiral Sir Algernon
de Horsey, was a first cousin of Lord
Stradbroke.
To help with the maintenance of two
beds, available for any sick nurse from
any hospital, St. Vincent’s Nurses’ Asso-
ciation held a very successful dinner-
dance at Scott’s on Saturday. Furniture
was moved around and about, the dinner
was served in the large dining-room, and
dancing took place in part of the lounge
where earlier in the evening the hotel’s
casuals and habitues had dined. Among
those present at the party were Mrs. W.
R, Burston and Mrs. W. D. Richards,
who both wore black and were accom-
panied by their husbands. The Tony
Darvalls were there, and Mrs. Les Kimp-
ton, whose gown was in two shades of
cyclamen. Mrs. Darvall’s frock of black-
spotted net went with a present from
China, a black satin coat embroidered in
white. Visitors from Sydney were Dr.
and Mrs. J. C. Eccles ; the doctor was
a Rhodes scholar, and his wife used to
be a nurse at St. Vincent’s, The John
O’Sullivans received congratulations
from friends who were seeing the wed-
ding-ring for the first time; for this
couple went off and got married six
weeks ago with the minimum of publicity.
Mrs. O’Sullivan was Sarita Gras-y-Fort.
In the interval of the Kipnis concert
on Saturday night Mrs. Kipnis was first
off the mark to get round behind the
stage for a friendly word with her hus-
band. She wore a lovely frock of whits
chiffon, low at the back, full in the skirt,
patterned with enormous bunches of
flowers. She sat with the Lieut.-Gover-
nor-A.B.C. party, which occupied a
special row of isolated seats in the middle
of the hall. It looks as though A.D.C.
Freddie Thomas is in for a term of
higher education. Between art shows and
classical concerts he’s been working hard
lately and spending more time than usual
in his glamorous full uniform.
This year the committee of the Glou-
cester Ball drew in its horns in the matter
of locality and booked Ormond Hall in-
stead of the Palais —a wise decision, par-
ticularly financially, for nearly 300 folk
(average age, 18 to 20) came along and
enjoyed themselves very well with swing
music and an ingenue supper of coffee
and lemonade. There were no head-
mistresses present, but matrons of the
Prince Henry’s and the Women’s Hospi-
tal, Miss Morgan and Miss McDonald,
gave the approval of their presence, as
did Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, Mrs. T. Wood
and Colonel Wallis. The guest of honor
was Kathleen Lascelles, just returned
from abroad with some dancing news,
an English accent and class assistant for
the season, Pauline Grille. Committee
members, for whom work didn’t cease
when the party got under way, were
Kathleen Wilson, who wore a green frock
and little bolero jacket, with lapels faced
with gold lame, and Alyson Wellman,
in tea-rose crepe, with an arrangement of
raspberry-red crossed shoulder straps
falling into long sash ends.


mm
i." '. i
Jo prevent
Strained Nerves
Qdrink delicious
OVALTIN E
—ii is supremely rich in
nerve-restoring nutriment
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “ Ovaltine”,
sufficient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps, to cover cost of packing and postage. See address below.
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. At all Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
015-18-38
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
The English rowing girls had a good
time here, and seemed sorry to leave us,
in spite of the bungling which allowed
them to go home empty-handed after
winning their race, the trophies not being
ready for them.
The proceeds of the Centenary Ball,
which commemorated the landing of the
first free settlers in Brisbane, are to be
devoted to a memorial scholarship fund.
There were two debs, at the ball, Ena
Annand and Ruth Williams, who were
presented to James Blair and his lady
by the Lady Mayoress. They supped
with Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Dolby’s party.
Colored lights, flags and masses of
flowers decked the Mooltan for the Boy
Scouts’ Ball, but the finest effect of all
was provided by the moon, on which
the committee was so congratulated that
one would have thought it personally
invented it. Bridge occupied the lounges
and supper the saloon. Sir Leslie and
Lady Wilson went along. Rodney
Macdonald and Mrs. A. V. Logan
helped Commander C. B. Roche to re-
ceive, and Society turned up in hundreds
to help swell the funds.
Mary, only daughter of the E. F.
Sunners couple, of Clayfield, and Dr.
Garth Mervyn May, son of the
S. L. Mays, of Ipswich, were mar-
ried at St. John’s Cathedral, with
a large crowd of friends and rela-
tives to wish them good luck. Sydney
May was at the organ, and Bishop
Dixon tied the knot. Bride was all
in white, wearing a gold brooch set
with white sapphires which had been
brought from Ireland by her great-grand-
mother. The two ’maids, Leonie May
and Katharine Boackburne, were in blue.
There was a reception in Rowe’s banquet
hall afterwards.
The Commem. procession was about
three-quarters of an hour late, but large
crowds lined Adelaide-street and waited
patiently until it came along. Herr
Hitler and the Sino-Japanese War pro-
vided the motifs for most of the floats,
but Minister for Health and Home
Affairs E. M. Hanlon also was a source
of inspiration. The students enjoyed the
procession rather more than the watch-
ing crowd, but then they are younger
than most of the citizens who assembled
to look at them.
Mrs. W. Forgan Smith was hostess at
a tea party at Parliament House, with
bowls of dahlias and young palm-trees
providing decor. Navy with a touch of
cerise was favored by the Premier’s wife,
whose guests included wives of Ministers
of the Crown and other prominent citi-
zens. There was music, and Berenice
Montgomery was one of the soloists.
When Betty Ross Fletcher and Adam
Balcombe Boazman were married at St.
Paul’s, Roma, two of Queensland’s best-
known pastoral families were united.
Bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Donald Fletcher, Kureenya, and ’groom
the son of the late Dr. W. H. Boazman,
of Parkes, N.S.W., and of Mrs. Boaz-
man, Roma. The bride, in filmy white
chiffon over satin, wore a veil that has
been used by brides in the Boazman
family for over 150 years. Margaret
Fletcher, in pink, Phillipa Hoskin, in
mauve, Lorna Pack, in blue, and Nina
Cameron, in yellow, ’maided.
Another recent bride, Mary, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Thynne, of Nam-
bour, and granddaughter of the late
A. J. Thynne, also chose St. John’s
Cathedral for her wedding with Neil
Cochrane, of Ilfracombe. Dorothy Rowe
was bridesmaid.
WESTRALIA.
The highlight of University Commence-
ment Week was the grad, ball in Win-
throp Hall. A novel element this year
was the presentation of a dozen debs.,
all Uni. students, to the Lieut.-Gov. and
his lady. Prof. Ross is Vice-Chancellor
during the absence abroad of Prof. Whit-
field, so Mrs. Ross shepherded the social
fledglings towards the v.r. dais. Among
them was daughter Verna, in goldleaf-
patterned white taffeta fripperies. The
Mitchell lady clasped presentation roses
to her favorite violet georgettes sashed
with deeper-toned velvet, and Mrs. A. D.
Ross outlined the embossed floral design
of her romany crepes with gold thread.
Sou’-west folk packed glad rags for a
week-end in town to include the Bostock-
Phillips nuptials. Canon Henn tied the
knot at St. Mary’s, West Perth, for
Pauline, only lass of the Tarlton Phillips
couple, of Balingup, and George Bostock,
who has woolly interests at Pingelly. A
wide pearl-embroidered belt clasped the
deep-cream satins of the Empire bridal
girdings. Matron of honor Mrs. John
Fitzhardinge, one of the attractive
Brazier sisters of Kirup, and Josephine
Dobson paced the aisle in be-trained
Nile green luminous velvet, sashed with
folded gold lame which matched the
apricot-and-gold rosebud and leaf circlets
on their sleek dark tresses. Champagne
flowed afterwards at the Karrakatta Club,
where town and country cheerily mingled.
Transformed by a blaze of floral color,
the Cottesloe Golf Club was chartered by
the A. W. Jacobys to mark son Peter’s
attainment of voting age, and to farewell
him on the eve of his departure for
Melbourne. Hanging baskets of blooms
and huge bowls of dahlias, roses and
zinnias made a gay setting for tables
groaning with savories, and embowered
the orchestra to whose tunes guests
tripped between sips. Mrs. Jacoby car-
ried out the hostessing a-glint with
silver paillettes sprinkled over white
crepe swathings.
Invitations devised by architect John
Fitzhardinge in the form of a newspaper
“minute mystery” added a spice of in-
terest to a cocktail party given by Her-
bert Craven and Bob Holmes. The
hosts were kept guessing as to who was
really coming by answers couched in
terms as mysterious as the invitations.
However, crowds turned up at the Karra-
katta Club at the appointed hour to do
a spot of dancing, with rests between at
the savory-laden tables arranged cabaret
fashion round the ballroom.
Early violets bloomed in the topknots
and bouquets of Rua Christoe’s brace of
’maids, Lesley Robertson and Grace King,
of Melbourne. Their frocks of draped
turquoise chiffon, inset with sunray-
pleated panels of cyclamen and violet,
were topped with turquoise tulle veils
held by violet topknots. The bridal garb
carried out the floral note in the em-
bossed white chrysanthemums gleaming
in the folds of silver lame. Froths of
tulle cascaded from a topknot of white
cactus dahlias. Bridegroom John Hun-
ter Robertson is the elder son of the
J. S. Robertsons, of Peppermint Grove.
The Bill MacDonalds are finishing off
their honeymoon at the Adelphi before
trekking north 1500 miles or so to their
home, Fossil Downs, the grandfather
cattle station of the Commonwealth —
over a million acres for Bill to keep an
eye on. Mrs. Bill was Maxine Darrow,
of Sydney, until a few weeks ago.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. H. F. Alderman and Mrs. A. S.
Richards were hostesses of a dance at
Glenana, the lovely old home of Mrs. G.
Fowler Stewart, with whom her daughter,
Mrs. Alderman, and her granddaughter
Eugenie reside. The party was in honor
of Eugenie and Mrs. Richards’s son
Norman. It was an ideal setting, on
the seafront at Glenelg, witfi the beauti-
ful garden, lawns and fountains. The
reception-rooms were massed with
flowers. Dancing was in the billiard-
room and on the enclosed verandah, to
which the music was passed on by ampli-
fiers. Supper was served in a large mar-
quee decorated with scarlet and white
balloons, the tables set with unique floral
candlesticks in wee pale-pink flowers,
with mauve blossoms to form the
handles.
Christ Church, North Adelaide, was
decked with gladioli, carnations and roses
for the wedding of Mary, only child of
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Steele, of Glen-
elg, and George Fowle Ingersoll. of
Philadelphia. The bride, one of last
year’s debs., was in white chiffon, the
bodice embroidered in tiny white beads.
The tulle bridal veil was held in place
by a coronet of beaded tulle, into which
a spray of orange-blossom was intro-
duced. Bridesmaids Moorna Darby,
Peggy Letcher, Sheila Young and Pat-
ricia Ryan followed, frocked alike in
powder-blue lace embossed in velvet over
cyclamen-pink silk net. Their lace toques
had bluebird motifs. There was a recep-
tion at the South Australian afterwards.
Lilian Lovick, Gwennyth Woodger,
Seca Anderson and Joyce Coates ar-
ranged a luncheon party at the Lyceum
Club to celebrate the admission to the
Bar of Mrs. J. Wight, Nancy Newland
and Joan Athins. Women law practi-
tioners and students to the number of
about 30 were present. There was a
floral spray for every guest.
Lance, fourth son of Mrs. N. J. Power,
North Adelaide, exchanged vows with
Ada, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T.
S. Harvey, at St. Lawrence’s, North Adel-
aide. The bride’s pervenche-blue georg-
ette was trimmed with sequins, and her
blue velvet bolero and sash were most
becoming. Her halo hat to match had
a shoulder-length veil. Bridegroom’s
sister, Mrs. Hilda Knuckey, was matron
of honor, wearing a chiffon frock in
pastel shades. Her little daughter Judith
Knuckey was flowergirl, in a pale-pink
georgette picture frock, with a poke
bonnet. Bridesmaid Selma Fiebig wore
a crinkled-pink georgette with coatee
effect and a matching felt hat. A recep-
tion was held afterwards at the South
Australian.
The opening of the Queen Mary wing
and Lord Nuffield Nursery at the Queen’s
Home by Lady Dugan was largely at-
tended. The official party included the
Chancellor of the University, knight
George Murray, Public Works Commis-
sioner Mclntosh and Brigadier-General
G. H. Dean. Lady Dugan was received
by Dr. T. G. Wilson (president of the
committee). The foundation-stone for
the Home was laid in 1901 by the Duke
of York, later George V. Lady Dugan
said that the Queen-Mother’s interest had
never waned, and she was pleased that
the new wing was to be named after her.
TASMANIA.
A fair crowd mustered at the Com-
mandant’s quarters at Anglesea Barracks
to attend the farewell given to Lady
Clark by Mrs. Durrant. Dahlias and
brilliant berries made the rooms gay.
Mrs. Winkfield came with Lady Clark.
The hostess’s white tunic, patterned in
red and black, was worn over an ankle-
length black satin skirt.
Mrs. C. Harrisson, who has been sec.
to the Arts and Crafts Society for years
past, has resigned, and is going to Mel-
bourne. Members of the society fare-
welled her at the Gum Leaf tearoom,
and presented her with a leather hand-
bag.
Mary Nicholls has come home from
the North, having resigned her job there
to get ready all her whatnots for her
wedding. She is marrying Arnold Smith,
St. Leonard’s, about the middle of May.
Merle Weaver has been recommended
by the University Council for the British
passenger scheme for Uni. graduates, so
she will presently be off for a two years
trip, most of which will be spent at Lon-
don University.
The Maxwell-Crisp wedding at the
Cathedral caused widespread interest, as
both families form large clans in the
Hobart community. The bride (Bessie)
is the only daughter of the Vernon
Crisps, Sandy Bay, and the ’groom (lan)
the eldest son of the Allan Maxwells.
The bride looked a picture in her wed-
ding gown of heavy magnolia satin, made
with very full skirt, long rucked sleeves
and flowing embroidered net veil. The
’maids, Nora Scott-Power, Jean Max-
well and Joan Chandler, were in ivory
chiffon velvet frocks, fitted closely in
the bodice, with long sleeves and very
full skirts. Their headdresses—designed,
as were all the costumes, by the bride —
were dainty caps of the same material,
folded closely in pleats, with no crown,
but with a border of hand-made single
roses, which sat on the hair with par-
ticularly good effect.
Nell Edgell and John Gray were mar-
ried from the bride’s own country home,
Dennistown, on a lovely day and in a
charming setting. The little church of
St. Michael and All Angels was ablaze
with autumn flowers. The bride’s dress,
of lace over 100 years old, was a mod-
ernised version, having been originally
worn by her grandmother. The lace was
Limerick, mounted on deep-cream net,
and made with short puffed sleeves and
square neck. The veil of tulle was in
the same deep shade of cream, falling
from a little band of orange-blossoms.
Mrs. Angus Bethune, Cluny, was matron
of honor, and tall Rose Courthope
bridesmaid. Their dresses were of
spotted cream net mounted on cream
taffeta, with very full skirts banded at
the hem with the taffeta. Their large-
brimmed crownless hats were of stiff-
ened net, and trimmed with ostrich
feathers ; they’re coming in again.


WHY BOTHER RECHARGING
RADIO ACCUMULATORS WHEN
AN "AIR CELL RECEIVER GIVES
YOU THESE ADVANTAGES...
Practically every radio
set manufacturer in
Australia produces Air
Cell operated models.
See them at your usual
radio dealers to-day.
An advertisement issued by
THE EVER READY CO.
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY
1. With normal use good for 12
months' trouble-free "A" bat-
tery operation.
2. No recharging.
3. Level power, as strong the
thousandth hour as at the first.
4. Unusual sensitivity and selec-
tivity.
5. More economical operation —
for best results use with Ever
Ready "B" Superdyne Bat-
teries.
EVEREADY AIR CELL BATTERY
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s hew power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city,.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers %
6AM
Prince’s Chmnbcrßj
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
Dual-range Crystal Receiver.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Question Box inquiries show that there
are still some who like to play around
with the humble crystal detector receiver.
Main attraction, no doubt, is that no-
thing in the way of battery or other
power is needed, and, if the user is con-
tent with quiet headphone reception of
one or two stations only, satisfaction can
be obtained.
Many designs for crystal receivers
have appeared, and in some it has been
possible to get a degree of selectivity
from circuits, as distinct from the
notoriously broad characteristics of the
ordinary crystal hook-up.
In looking through descriptions of
crystal receivers of bygone days the
writer ran across one in which two plug-
in coils are used, and the tuning range
thus covers from below 40 metres to
the broadcast band. The originator
claimed (in 1934) that the job easily out-
performed all others on the broadcast
band, and that at his location in Oregon
(U.S.A.) reception on the short waves in-
cluded aviation stations as far afield as
California, .Wyoming, Utah and
Colorado. Amateur radio-telephone sta-
tions half-way across U.S.A. were heard,
presumably on the 80-metre band, and
even W3XL, in Bound Brook, N.J.,
2500 miles distant, was reported heard
understandably.
That may sound like a tall story, but
it is possible. As far back as 1913 the
writer used crystal receivers in England
to copy stations, spark transmitters, as
far as 3000 miles distant. But —and this
is a big but —the aerial used for recep-
tion was an aerial in the true sense of the
word. Height, length and capacity were
all there, and something of this nature
would be necessary to duplicate the
results claimed by the originator of this
crystal receiver design.
There are country experimenters with
ample ground space who might be
tempted to erect an aerial of the two-
wire flat-top variety, at least 50ft. high
and 150 ft. long, with a multi-wire fan
counterpoise underneath. With this, plus
a sensitive crystal and a good pair of
sensitive headphones, it should be pos-
sible to hear short-wave stations.
One thing that will be obvious in
using a crystal receiver on short waves is
that the relative broadness of tuning
should be an advantage in station find-
ing.
The circuit arrangement and the
method of coil construction are shown
in the diagrams. Six-pin valve bases
could be used for plug-in coil mount-
ings instead of the arrangement shown,
but the old idea of well-spaced pins is
probably the best from a low-loss point
of view, especially if good insulation
such as W.T./22 is used. The coils can
be wound on 3in. diameter celluloid or
bakelite formers. If the latter is used,
make sure it is bakelite and not moulded
mud or cardboard.
The tuning condenser Cl is a .0005mfd.
variable, and the coil to cover the broad-
cast range will need No. 20 gauge D.S.C.
wire with turns spaced 18 to the inch.
The coil will have 54 turns in all, tapped
from the earth end at the 6th, 15th,
27th and 40th turns. Two single-pole
switches are needed, one with six points
and one with five, connected as shown.
The smaller coil is made like the larger,
but with a total of 15 turns, tapped at
the 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th turns. A 10-
or 11-turn coil is wound on a former of
slightly smaller diameter than the others,
to slip inside them as required at the
earth end. This is for aerial coupling
and is not tuned. It is used only where
better selectivity is wanted on the broad-
cast range, variable coupling being pro-
vided by sliding the coil in or out of
the tuned broadcast coil. Condenser C 2
is a fixed mica of .00lmfd. or .002mfd.
capacity.
In tuning, the same stations will be
heard on several taps, but the one that
takes the lowest capacity setting of the
tuning condenser should be used because
of better L/C ratio. To tune to the
higher frequencies, the switch of the right
is moved one to three points before mov-
ing the left-hand switch.
Crystal detectors can still be bought,
and many readers might like to try such
a receiver.
D. B. K.
Radiotips.
“Ex-G.”: In constructional radio work
there is often a need for a turn counter
when winding multi-turn coils. Such a
counter can easily be provided by mak-
ing use of one of the small synchronous
electric clocks obtainable for a few shil-
lings. The illustration shows how it is
done. The coil-winder is linked to the
starter handle of the clock, and if a flex-
ible coupling is used the clock can be
facing the operator for ready observation,
For each revolution of the coil winder the
second hand of the clock will register one
second. One minute therefore takes 60
turns, and 3600 turns will take up an
hour’s indication. If a flexible coupling
is not convenient a mirror can be placed
so that the clock face can be watched
whilst winding.
* * * *
“Amp”: Illustrated is a simple method
of temporarily repairing an amplifier
where the primary of a push-pull input
transformer is burned out. The wires
are broken at the points marked X and
reconnected to the secondary. Included
in the secondary leads are two .lmfd.
condensers (C) and two .smeg. resistors
(R). The secondary of the transformer
will function as an auto-transformer with
a two-to-one step-up ratio.
* * * #
“Enno”: Adjustments have often to
be made to radio receivers when in opera-
tion, and if an ordinary screwdriver is
used for the purpose there is always a
danger that the long metal shaft may
short over to some live part of the cir-
cuit. With battery receivers and directly-
heated valves, the result is likely to be
disastrous. A safeguard is the simple
precaution of slipping a length of rubber
tubing over the driver shaft, as illustrated.
B.B.C. Cricket Broadcasts.
The Australian team’s more important
matches will be covered from the short-
wave station at Daventry. Two or three
hours after a game an eyewitness’s
account will be broadcast in the first
part of Transmission 4, and direct com-
mentaries from the ground will be heard
frequently in Transmission 3.
Amateur Chatter.
The recent W.I.A. Convention in Syd-
ney should have considerable bearing on
the future of amateur radio in this coun-
try.
People of note present on the platform
on the opening evening were John Logie
Baird, of television fame, E. T. Fisk, of
A.W.A., and General Harbord, of
U.S.A.’s R.C.A. Baird and the R.C.A.
chairman both stressed the possible value
of the amateur in helping to develop tele-
vision, -and E. T. Fisk suggested that ama-
teurs should get busy on facsimile pic-
ture transmission, which should be pos-
sible between Australian and American
amateurs —it should not be difficult, even
on the lines of the. old Fultograph of
many years ago.
General Harbord struck a strong note
in the matter of defence co-operation.
The U.S.A. has 50,000 or so amateurs,
and recently Uncle Sam decided to find
out how many would enrol voluntarily
for defence and emergency work if
needed. More than 40,000 responded to
the call.
Petrie (ZL2OV), N.Z.A.R.T.L.’s visit-
ing representative, said he considered that
the standard of five-metre activity on this
side of the Tasman is higher than in
M.L. Actually, the VKs seriously active
on the band can be counted on one hand,
but there are many that are “thinking
of” or “about to get busy” on five. The
actual position regarding 56mc. activity
in VK2 is contained in the records of
this page since 1934.
It appears certain that the five-metre
C.W. signal logged at VK2NO at 10.5
a.m. on Good Friday originated from
VKSZU, who was calling on schedule.
Reason for this decision is that the
instability in the signal has since
been determined to have been due
to feeder swing of the 600-ohm line
on the writer’s two half-wave dipole
array. The receiver is the T.R.F.
described recently, with 956 input and
aerial matching network. The load
imposed on the R.F. stage grid is fairly
heavy, and feeder swing with wind is
fatal to C.W. signals. In order to over-
come this trouble a new Bruce array will
be erected with 72-ohm twisted pair
feed, and the constant impedance of this
line will eliminate the undesirable
feature. Further schedules are to be kept
with the South Australian.
On 21/5/’3B, during the 24-hour test,
the 20-metre beam to UiK. will be
handled by VKs 3KU and 3ZB. On the
20-metre beam to U.S.A. will be VKs
3NP and 3XD. On the 10-metre beam
to U.K. will be VK3ZX and a station
to be appointed. Stations are not yet
allotted to the 10-metre beam for U.S.A.


Tlf#
EMPIRES MILLIONS
&
I
V
&
\+
e
*
*
%
WiiM■
m
Wmsm
■xmsm
t ,>' A v s ®W \
/V o' / « ' '
'..'A '«- \
o^2
su
are the safest equipment for your
radio set. A regular overhaul of your
radio will give better and brighter
programmes. See your local radio
supplier ...
apd be sure to Re-valve with micro-sensitive
RADIOTRONS
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.),
On five metres, VK3DH will be working
on the beam to U.S.A., and the beam to
U.K. is not yet allotted.
VK3KU, who has taken the lead in
organisation of 56mc. DX tests in Vic-
toria, sends along these details of the
stations for the network of May 21-22.
Both vertical and horizontal polarisation
will be used with aerials, changing to
each in turn during each hour of 56mc.
operation.
It is probable that both C.W. and
phone will be used alternately, and
VK3KU is preparing recordings for the
speech so that complete details of the ex-
periment will be given clearly and con-
cisely. Each station will have at least
two pressings of the recording on hand.
All 56mc. receivers will be equipped to
copy C.W.
This scheme is the most thorough of
its kind ever undertaken in Australia,
and word has been flashed by 20 metres
to both A.R.R.L. and R.5.G.8., so that
U.S.A. and Great Britain are well advised
in advance. VK2 might have organised a
similar network around Sydney to coin-
cide with the Victorian effort; evidently
VK3 is more progressive.
Examination of the writer’s 56mc. log
reveals that on the day that VKSZU was
heard by ZL4DQ (13/3/’3B) a message
had been received at VK2NO from
VK2GU Canberra to the effect that
Mount Stromlo reported F 2 layer activity
over eastern Australia. VK2GU advised
VK2NO to try to make contact with
VK3’s or VKs’s on 56mc. Accordingly,
the vertically polarised beam array was
aifned south-west, and C.W. transmissions
were radiated for some time. At the same
time the VKSZU was heard in M.L.
VK2NO was on the air, but with S.W.
directivity. If direction had been S.E.
there would have been every chance of
getting across the Tasman. The sharp
nature of the array used at the writer’s
station would effectively block any but
very , low signals from the ends of the
array. Further schedules were kept with
VKSZU on 23/5/’3B, but nothing indi-
cating the presence of DX signals was
noted at this end.
“T. and R. Bulletin” (England) reports
an experiment between GBMA and the
well-known station of Dot Hall in New
York, W2IXY. On 26/2/’3B the Eng-
lishman was in communication with
W2IX.Y on 20-metre ’phone, and his
transmission was relayed to another New
Yorker, W2DKJ, who was at the time in
an aeroplane flying at 7400 ft. above the
city of New York. W2DKJ spoke back
on 56mc. via W2IXY, who in turn re-
layed the transmission to the English sta-
tion on 14mc. Contact was 100 p.c.
This is the first time a QSO has taken
place between England and an aeroplane
flying over U.S.A. using amateur radio
frequencies.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Quilpie, s.-w. Queensland;
receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver.
The 49-metre band is now good most
mornings, the South African on 49.9
metres being the star performer. The
station is almost equal to the 31-metre
champions. Up to 7 a.m. on the 31-
metre band the
Danish station is
outstanding, fol-
’ lowed by OLR4A
and GSB. GSB
is better later,
with W3XAU,
WIXK and
W2XAF all doing
good work. I
have heard all
these at 10 a.m.';
DJA is then the
. best.
The 25-metre
band is not nearly
so good as a few
months ago, GSD
being the best
station, with
WIXAL, DJ D
and TPA3 run-
ners-up. WIXAL
is the strongest
jater in the morn-
ings, but appears
to close down at
9.30 a.m. W2XE
is heard at times,
and is at the best
at 10 a.m., when
TPA4, GSD and
DJD are failing
rapidly. On 19
metres GSO and
GSF are the best
in the early morn-
ings, and DJL
and the three
Americans,
W2XAD, W2XE
and WBXK, can
still be heard. When Berlin opens near
8 a.m. DJR is easily the best and rivals
GSO. Later in the mornings DJR is out-
standing, and can be frequently heard
until closing at 2 p.m. GSF has been
heard at times, but DJB and DJQ are
both better.
During the afternoons the three Nazis
on 19 metres open nicely soon after 3
p.m., but both GSO and GSF outshine
them from 4 p.m. Normally, DJE is
stronger that GSG. The Berlin stations
are now poor on 25 and 31 metres,
whereas GSD is very fine from 4 p.m. to
6.15 p.m. This is easily the most power-
ful overseas station at present, day or
night. VLR does excellently here in the
afternoons, and is very powerful at night.
XEWW is from fair to good most after-
noons. On Sunday afternoons VK2ME
cannot be classed' with GSD or VLR.
All the 31-metre stations are good at
night-time, with VLR leading. VK3ME
is much better here than VK2ME, and
the latter does not seem to have the
signal of a few months ago.
On 25 metres RNE is swamped by
noise. TPA3 was heard around 9 p.m.
on 24/4/’3B on 25.23 metres, being quite
clear with good volume. At 9 p.m. the
station closed, apparently to change to
19.68 metres.
No others are heard on this band at
night. The 19-metre band is fairly dead
until 9.30 p.m. or later, GSF never being
up to the form of the Berlin stations.
Best station later is GSO, and GSG takes
time to build up. The star night station
of the higher frequencies is GSJ, which
puts up a remarkable performance night
after night. GSA is very poor now, and
without GSJ there would be no recep-
tion of Daventry until GSG about 9.30
p.m. Most of my time is spent on
Daventry stations —they always have so
much of interest that time is begrudged
for other stations. The mythical “Black
Dog” pub meeting, with Howard Mar-
shall presiding, is one of the most popu-
lar of the Daventry sessions, and alone
is worth using a short-wave receiver for.
K. B. G.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers' products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Weldon Radioclock.
A modern dual-wave superhet of the
mantel cabinet type is especially handy
where portableness has to be considered.
It has added value when it embodies a
handsome mantel clock.
The Radioclock is one of the Weldon
line of radio receivers manufactured by
Bloch, and Gerber, Ltd., 46-48 York-
street, Sydney. The model illustrated has
been under test by this Page.
First examination gives no indication
that contained in this mantel cabinet is
a powerful five-valve A.C. dual-wave
superhet, for only the clock face is nor-
mally visible. The clock is an eight-day
timepiece with bold relief chromium time
indications and dial overall 6in. in
diameter. Movement is of Swiss make
and spring-driven, to preclude interfer-
ence with radio reception, as might be
the case with an electrical clock.
The receiver, although naturally tak-
ing up the bulk of space in the cabinet, is
cleverly concealed. The right-hand side
of the cabinet swings open on a ball
catch, and there are the tuning dial with
volume and wave-change controls. It is
not essential to face the right side of the
cabinet to tune the receiver, for the hinge
lid contains a mirror reflector through
which the dial and controls may be ob-
served when looking at the cabinet from
the front.
The receiver is a dual-waver covering
the broadcast band and short waves from
19 to 80 metres. Valves are 6A7 mixer,
6D6 1.F., 75 second detector, A.V.C. and
first audio, 42 output pentode and 80
rectifier. The midget dynamic speaker
projects through the base of the cabinet,
and the clearance provided by the end-
pieces gives the necessary air-space for
proper speaker operation.
With volume control flat out, repro-
duction is remarkably good. Only a short
indoor aerial is necessary to play stations
far and wide on both bands. Even in a
dimly-lighted room the dial is easily read-
able, as it reflects a clear green illumina-
tion in the mirror. The dial itself is
oblong, with all stations and short-wave
channels clearly marked.
Price of model 2/38D, as tested, is 20
guineas. The instrument is covered by
patents in Australia, M.L., South Africa,
England, U.S.A., Germany, India,
Canada, France, Belgium, Holland and
Switzerland—proof that the design is
radically new. Other Radioclock models
include plain broadcast, vibrator and an
impressive grandfather clock assembly.
Particulars of these can be had from the
manufacturers.
New Trade Items.
The advanced radio constructor must
be well equipped with hand tools, and
may enter on projects for the execution
of which small machine tools are neces-
sary. The equipping of a radio work-
shop, whether power-equipped or not, is
facilitated by examination of the latest
tool catalogue issued by Nock and Kirby,
Ltd., Sydney. There are 60 pages illus-
trating everything, from pliers to screw-
cutting lathes. The catalogue is free on
application. Postal address is Box
4250 Y, Sydney G.P.O.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Is it possible to connect a number of
receivers to one aerial system located on the
roof of a block of flats ? If. so, how ? —663.
The diagram shows a coupling scheme which
has been used with success to supply four
receivers from one aerial. The coils are wound
on a ljin. former wiin the number of turns
of almost any gauge of small insulated wire as
specified. The coupling condensers are
.OOOlmfd. mica types. The whole arrangement
is mounted inside a metal shield and the leads
to the receivers taken through the side.
Spanish Nationalist Short-wave Stations.
Users of dual-wave receivers in Australia may often
hear a large number of Spanish short-wave stations operat-
ing on various frequencies. This list of stations is the
latest from Europe:
Call* Station. Frequencies. Waves. Power.
EA9JB Alcazarquivir .. 7.121 kc. .. 42.12 m. .. 350 w.
Espafia ......Bilbao .. .. 7.246 kc. .. 41.40 m. .. 200 w.
FETS Burgos .. 7.350 kc. .. 40.81 m. .. 300 w.
Cadiz .. .. 7.142 kc. .. 42m. .. 40w.
!IET2I Ceuta .. .. 7.134 kc. .. 42.05 m. .. IOOw.
EA7SB Cordoba .. 7.117 kc. .. 42.14 m. .. 85w.
RadioFerrol Ferrol .. .. 7.177 kc. .. 41.8 m. .. 150 w.
EET2O Huelva .. 7.142 kc. .. 42m. .. 65W.
EA2BH Jaca .. ... 7.177 kc. .. 41.8 m. .. 200 w.
Radio Malaga Malaga .. 14.000 kc. .. 21.42 m.
„ 7.000 kc. .. 42.65 m.
Radio Nacional
A/Z Madrid (Frente) 6.750 kc. .. 44.4 m. .. 500 w.
Radio Espana Madrid (Frente) 7.060 kc. .. 42.4 m. .. 260 w.
FETB Melilla .. .. 7.202 kc. .. 41.65 m. .. 85w.
EA9ME Melilla.. .. 7.200 kc .. 41.66 m. .. 20w.
EABAE Las Palmas .. 7.200 kc. .. 41.66 m. .. IOOw.
FeT Las Palmas .. 7.147 kc. .. 41.97 m. .. 40w.
7.003 kc. .. 42.83 m.
FET22 Oviedo.. .. 7.240 kc. .. 41.43 m. .. 50w.
FET7 Tenerife .. 7.474 kc. .. 40.14 m. .. IOOw.
EA9AH Tetuan .. .. 13.992 kc. .. 21.75 m. .. 500 w.
FETI Valladolid .. 7.006 kc. .. 42.82 m. .. 400 w.
FETIO Vitoria.. .. 7.027 kc. .. 42.69 m. .. 160 w.
e A2AA ..Zaragoza .. 7.002 kc. .. 42.84 m. .. 150 w.
FET6 Palma de
Mallorca .. 7.125 kc. .. 42.10 m. .. 145 w.
4 7.168 kc. .. 41.85 m.
EAIBL Pontevedra .. 7.212 kc. .. 41.59 m. .. 75w.
EAIBH Pontevedra .. 7.500 kc. .. 40m. .. 6w
Radio Espana San Sebastian .. 7.203 kc. .. 41.65 m. .. lkw.
Radio Pizarrales ...Salamanca .. 7.500 kc. .. 40m. .. I.skw.
Radio Pizarrales ...Salamanca .. 6.676 kc. .. 44.93 m. .. 500 w!
EAIBO Salamanca .. 7.070 kc. .. 42.43 m. .. 74w!
Radio Tenerife Tenerife “El
T , AOi „ Tablero” .. 10.370 kc. .. 28.93 m. .. 23kw.
EABAS Tenerife .. 7.230 kc. .. 41.40 m. .. 210 w.


ms
LYS
PROOF
WUMM m*M
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
; s-~i
****** . :~ ~,;
•'
4 Sjgft'WgM-
2&gCi
:r-
K'~-
mk&tms
'**■* ->.*U*n
‘"il-'t''''^-W,
SW
0
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Drought Shearings.
dry weather many N.S.W. graziers are
being forced to shear out of season and
under difficulties. In many cases, the bulk’
of their sheep may be away on agistment,
the balance being hand-fed at home,
while some may be on the road travel-
ling for feed.
In extreme instances, the grazier is
faced with the option of shearing weak
sheep carrying eight-nine months’ wool
or of skinning them. Where it is not
possible to travel them to shearing, it
may be necessary to use a small port-
able plant and shear them in the pad-
dock.
Again, where sheep can be shorn in
the shed their reduced numbers call
for only a small team of shearers to
handle them, and in both cases the make-
shift nature of the job is often reflected
in careless handling.
These early-shorn wools, besides being
short in staple, qre thin and dusty, and
the present state of the wool market
makes their careful preparation essential.
If a competent classer is npt available,
or if paddock conditions are against
thorough handling, the clip should be
forwarded to some firm which specialises
in classing, preferably one which has a
pooling system, so that oddments which
are not large enough to be sold in the
Big Lots under the station brand may
still have the benefit of full competition.
Fleeces should be skirted free of burr,
stains and fribs, provided they are not
burry all over. If it is not possible to
skirt properly, stains should be removed
and fleeces should be carefully rolled
and pressed.
Tender Wool. .
“C.V.S.”: The chances are that much
of the new season’s wool from N.S.W.
will be thinly-grown and tender.
When testing for tensile strength take
a natural-size staple, hold at extreme ends
and exert a steady, strong pull without
straining hard or jerking.
Separation of tender from sound wool
is important, particularly in fine, stylish
wools. Tender wool is faulty, and should,
not be placed with good short wool if
avoidable ; thinly-grown “webby” fleeces
may be put with tender if they stand the
test.
In handling clips almost entirely tender
this fault should be ignored, classing for
quality, length and condition and throw-
ing out only fleeces in which you see a
definite break.
Good, shafty spinners’ wool is likely
to be at a premium next season, and clips
of this type should be carefully classed.
Fleeces inclined to thinness should be
kept out of the top line even if bright,
long and light. All fine, well-grown
deep wool should go into the top line, if
necessgry making a slight sacrifice of
yield.
“Foot and Mouth” in Britain.
“Zedo”: Since the year one, vigorous
efforts have been made to stamp out
foot and mouth disease in Britairt
and the Argentine, but every year or so
there is an epidemic, despite quarantined
areas, slaughtering, burning of bodies
and a hundred other stern measures.
The 1922 outbreak shut off stock im-
port to Australia for some years. Now
another nearly as bad is raging—one in
which stock movements are restricted in
all but six counties in England and 1000
vets, are trying to cope with the epi-
demic.
Stock cannot be taken across ihe road
in some places in Britain without official
inspection, and no animal, sheep or o*.,
can be sent off its home farm without
carrying a stencilled police brand. Roads
and paths leading, to infected farms' arfe
closed to humans.
Usually, the source of the disease
seems to be the Continent, whence it is
brought in litter and in other ways. The
Continental —apart from countries on the
North Sea border—does not understand
the word drastic when it comes to stock-
disease control, though that is not always
his own fault. The community village
system, the common field and compul-
‘Think of it, Ma—a two-undred per cent, lambin'! ”
sory shed housing of stock through, the-
snpw months all make it difficult to con-
fine infection. Bavaria and Prussia early
this year had 23,000 infected farms.
Australia is, the only great cattle and
sheep country in the world free of foot
.and mouth, and if it got among our big
sheep mobs, so difficult to control, the-
cost would be enormous. Drought rav-
ages would be a circumstance to its <toil.
Classing Small Clips. J
“Albarmount”: Using “C.V.S.’s”,
figures (B. 9/3/’3B) the total charge for;
90001 b. of fleece and 60001 b. oddments:
would be £29 13s. 9d. At present wool
rates, it would cost small growers two!
bales of wool to follow “C.V.S.’s” advice
and have their clips store-classed.
N. S. Wales growers who are unable
to attend classes could learn wool-class-
ing for quarter this amount by taking a
correspondence course from Sydney
Tech. College. Such instruction would
also enable them to cull their own flocks.
Feeding Growing Stock.
“Kyamba”: Milk is the natural food
of all. young animals.- Suckling animals
on dams which, are naturally good
mothers will not suffer .from any 'of the
forms of malnutrition, which occur- in
stock reared on milk substitutes or skim.
Substitutes, if used, should approach
the composition and balance of milk.
The milk secreted by the dam immedi-
ately after birth' of her young—“colos-
trum” milk —is laxative and clears the
digestive tract of the new-born. There-
fore, all young stock should be allowed
to suckle without restraint immediately
after birth. #
The following table shows the approxi-
mate composition of colostrum and nor-
mal milk: — ° •
Colostrum- Milk,
•Nutrient ’
. ~ Water, Matter, Protein, Sugar, Fat,
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. . p:c.
Cow .. 74.5 1.6 . 17.6 2.7 • 3.6
Sow .. 70.2 0.9 15.6 3.8 9.5
Ewe- .. 61.8 7 1.2 17.2 3.6 • 16.2
Normal Milk. . ' ; :
Cow .'. 80.2 0.7 - 3.5. 4.9 - 3.7
Sow .. 81.0 1.0 5.9 5.4 6.7
Ewe. .. 80.8 0.9 , 6.5 _ 4.9. 6.9
Note the higher protein , content of
colostrum milk. Both milks are relatively
high in protein and minerals in compari-
son with cereals. \
Maize has a nutrient ratio of 1: 10 (10
parts of fats and carbohydrates to every
part of protein), while normal cow’s milk
has a-nutrient ratio of 1:3.
Maize has a mineral content of 1.5
p.c., while the m.c. of milk is 5.5 p.c.
Rations incorporating good legume
hay, green grass or forage crops will
supply ample nutrient and mineral matter
for young animals'if whole milk is not
available.
Mastitis in Maoriland.
“Akaroa”: Maoriland Agricultural
Department has begun a major war
against mastitis, the artillery in which is
to be indicator sets which are being sold
at ss. a set.
With the help of these, farmers are
able to divide their herds into reacting
and non-reacting cows. This means' that
milk'from clean cows can be got safely
out of. the way before affected animals
are milked and the indicator system is
a great help in culling.
j t s j m pi e to work. , The plant con-
sjsts f our gi ass test tubes and a bottle
brom thymol blue. The chemical
turns no rmal milk a pale, yellowy green,
According to the severity of a mastitis
at tack- it turns it darker and darker, up
to a fairly dark blue-green,
with the use of this simple outfit, it
is possible to assure that no mastitis
cows will come into the herd,
The rules" which have" been advised by
the M.L. department might be hung up
in all Australian dairies. Heifers should
always be milked first, and all animals
well stripped. Cows should not be fuil
fed for 10 days before and after calv-
mg. Machines should not be applied to
affected quarters. Sheds and utensns
should be kept clean. Machine teat cups
should be good fits and smooth, and if
there is a general tendency "to swollen
Quarters the vacuum of cups should be
tooted
~ Care should be taken not to spill in-
fected milk on shed floors. It should
be stripped into buckets partly filled with
disinfectant."
After milking, teats should be dipped
j n SO me form of hypochlorite disinfec-
tant.
Cases of cowpox should be immedi-
ately quarantined, and hands should be
washed in disinfectant after milking
every cow. • .
Taking Horses to Water.
“Stump Jump”: If horses are watered
before their midday feed is given, and
know they won’t get more water before
they go to work again, they fill them-
selves so heavily that appetite vanishes.
This leads to slow, poor feeding.
. If horses know they can secure water
easily during feeding, they drink lightly
when first in, and help themselves later
at will, often two or three times. Since
most animals have to be stalled or tied-
in because of bossing, it may be neces-
sary to break lunch-hour to free them
for a. few moments.
Horses lose condition fast if deprived
of a decent midday feed through wrong
watering methods. The ideal is a small,
low-capacity (to prevent overfast drink-
ing), constant-level bowl in each feeder,
coupled to the tank direct by piping.
Hot horses drinking quantities of
cold water get spasmodic colic readily ;
(Continued on page 44.)


WELDON RADIO
--- -
***%**ss
■'••>• tefett&tiSgW
■
© *>»
The Weldon Radio Clock
(Mantel Model).
Pat. Appl.
Aust. 3351/37.
Gt. Brit. 34771/37.
N. Zealand 78955/37.
Foreign Pat. pending.
Whether you live in the crowded city areas or in a remote rural district,
you owe it to yourself to inspect the 1938 Weldon range. See for your-
self the magnificent cabinet designs and hear for yourself the glorious
tonal qualities. If there is no Weldon dealer in your district write for
full particulars direct to the manufacturers and distributors, BLOCH &
GERBER, Ltd., with which is associated Weldon Electric Supply Co., 46-48
York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6291 (9 Lines).
The increasingly popular Weldon Radio Clock
range is EFFICIENT, ELEGANT and MODERN
an article of unquestionable utility and beauty
combining two of the most widely-used house-
hold commodities, an efficient and reliable radio
receiver and an equally ■ reliable 8-day clock.
Could you imagine anything more useful and
modern?
You will be proud to own and prouder to
demonstrate to your friends a Weldon Radio
Clock.
Weldon Radio Clocks are protected by patent
applications in all principal countries of the
world, and are available in the following models.
Mantel Range.
MODEL 2./38A. For standard broadcast programs.
240 v. A.C. operation, 5-valve.
List Price 17 gns.
MODEL 2/38D. For Australian .and overseas recep-
tion. 240 v. A.C. operation, 5-valve.
List Price 20 gns.
MODEL 2/38V. For Australian reception. 6-volt
accumulator operation (no B or C batteries), 5-valve.
List Price 25 gns.
Grandfather Clock Range.
MODEL 2/38G. (Same description as 2/38A.)
List Price 25 gns.
MODEL 2/38DG. (Same description as 2/38D.)
List Price 28 gns.
MODEL 2/38VG. (Same description as 2/38V.)
List Price 31 gns.
Here are five other popular members of the
Weldon 1938 Range.
These models are housed in the 'conventional
console-type cbbinets. - ■ ,
Each model, is a leader of its class. Cabinet
design, is strikingly beautiful and modern. Tech-
nically they embody all the latest achievements
of radio science/
Latest Australian and overseas . developments
have been closely followed by our laboratories
and technical staff, who are constantly bn the
alert to realise new ideas and to eliminate
technical insufficiencies of former years.
The result of all this is that listening-in on any
of/the/following .Weldons has been made a still
more delightful pastime.
Australasian Reception.
MODEL. 3/38. 5-valve, 240 v. A.C. operation.
' , , . Inst Price 17 gns.'
MODEL. 4/38. 5-valve, 240 v. A.C. operation. •
List Price 19 gns.
Australasian and Overseas
Reception .j
MODEL 3/38D. 5-valve, _,240v. A.C. operation.
‘ List Price 18 gns.
MODEL 4/38D. 5-valve, 240 v. A.C. operation;
List Price 21 gns.
MODEL 5/38D. 5-valve, 240 v. A.C. operation, witli
exclusive automatic telephone type dial.
List Price 25 gns.
In addition to Weldon Radio, BLOCH & GERBER,
LTD. (which is the largest radio and electrical whole-
sale warehouse in Australia), carry comprehensive
stocks of all other radio and electrical lines, including—
Electric Refrigerators (several best-known
makes), Westclox and Hammond Electric
Clocks, Vacuum Cleaners, Household
Appliances, Lamps, Wire, Cables, Radio
Accessories, Valves, Batteries, etc. Also
Weldon Bicycles and Washing Machines,
Battery Clocks and Lighting Fixtures.
DEALERS! We guarantee to give better prices, the
best parts and the speediest and most courteous service
in Australia. •
Write for comprehensive catalogue.
Agencies are still available in districts where we are not
already represented.
WELDON RADIO, DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED AND DISTRIBUTED BY
BLOCH & GERBER Ltd
With which is associated WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.,
46-48 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: MA6291 (9 Lines)


USE COSSACKS FOR
COUNTRY WEAR ....
use ABBEY’S for quality
A fitting companion for the
man on the land is this
Abbey Working Cossack.
Strongly made with heavy
double sole and leather
lining and an upper of tough
wearing calf, it’s built to last.
The Comfort, of course, is
the same as any Abbey
Model . . . perfect.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good
Shoe.”
Abbey Shoes
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
"ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
1308.
Made in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half sizes.
Prices: Black Calf 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
Also order a tin of English Dubbin to
Working Boots soft and supple.
Price 2/6.
EXPLORERS OF AUSTRALIA
SWA
BARKER
In 1819 Captain, afterwards Admiral King, a son of
Governor King, left England to survey the north eastern
coast of Australia.
In June 1819 he anchored in the Endeavour River, after-
wards surveying the coast northwards. He named the
McArthur and Hannibal Islands and called a river at the
mouth of which his ship had been temporarily grounded,
the Escape River.
On a later voyage King sailed through Endeavour Strait
to the Western side of Cape York Peninsula, and still later,
he found that Cape Flinders, until then believed to be part
of the mainland, was the northern point of a chain of
islands which he named the Flinders Group.
The Bank of New South Wales, established two
years before King’s first voyage, recognises on
Australia’s 150 th Anniversary the debt that
Australia owes to the courageous explorers by
sea and land.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
321 C. 1938
o YEARS’ Va Vi
GUARANTEE
lilt, INVINCIBLE
INVINCIBLE ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
■•invincible”
SINCE
1906
ĥ
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—-Uon-
York Minster.
don to Edinburgh,
miles, in six hours.
392
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHIEP AND CO., LTD..
7 Bridge , Street, Sydney, apd Branches,
Agents throughout Australia.
7T)7Tslxzll£&/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODPCER’S ACCOUNT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
still, there is nothing in the old tale that
colic results from letting horses drink
freely after feeding—anyway, not in this
country, where grain and chaff are mixed.
The belief is a relic of the separate grain-
feeding practised in England.
Nut-grass in N.S.W.
“J. Want”: In coastal mixed-farming
districts nut-grass ranks as a pest in the
prickly-pear class, but in the last few
years in north-western N. S. Wales a
different story has begun to be told. On
river-channel country and flooded black-
soil flats where n.g. has established itself,
most owners look on it as a boon.
On the Namoi River country in the
last few years 50,000 acres of nut grass
have developed rapidly, some of it in
scattered patches, some of it as sward
covering hundreds of acres.
Further north, along the Gwydir, it
has also become a feature. Inland
it responds to rain more quickly than
on the coast. A few days after an inch
of downpour it is often 3in. high, and
six or seven weeks after a flood it waves
2ft. or more high.
L. W. Macintosh, of Willow Lee,
Moree, and L. W. Corliss, of Laurel
Valley, have between them 27,000 acres,
and both swear by it.
It should be worth introducing to the
Barcoo and some of the north-western
Queensland river systems. It might help
to wipe out the burr which at present
worthlessly monopolises many water-
courses.
Potato-growing Hints.
“Murphy”: One of the reasons why
potato crops average less than 2.5 tons
to the acre in the Commonwealth and
double that in Maoriland (B. 28/4/’3B)
is that, except in small areas, potato-
growing in Australia is often a game
played by amateurs.
All root crops pay for intensive and
systematic attention. Both before and
after planting deep cultivation is a vital
need with potatoes. Use a deep shear
on the ground before the seed is in and
give it plenty of mould plough Or scuffler
after. This is the only way to assure
moisture conservation and at the same
time keep down weeds. Cultivation
should go on until haulms have reached
a stage which prevents further attention.
As the tubers begin to set, of course,
the turning over of ground will be nar-
rowed considerably, so as not to risk
damaging the crop. Scufflers at this
stage should never be used without
moulding wings at the back on the main
beam to mould up loose soil and pre-
vent baring of sets.
It is wise to keep a high, steep-gabled
ridge round the plants as a shield against
late-blight spores. A wide ridge with a
hollow on top encourages late
spores being washed off the foliage into
the drain round the stems, filtering down
to the tubers.
And, of course, “preparation, rotation
and fertilisation” are key words in rais-
ing decent crops of murphies.
Wealth in Stored Fodder.
“Mulgo”: In a dry spell a few years
ago a mob of several hundred cattle
reached Wagga from Queensland in poor
condition. It had been intended to drove
them to Wodonga, then truck them to
Melbourne, but as it was evident that
they could not stand the journey they
were put in the saleyards at Wagga.
Anthony Brunskill, of Allonby, bought
the lot at about £4 a head. In the good
seasons he had stored so much fodder
that he had stacks to spare, and on this
he fed the mob for five weeks, then sold
them in Wagga and Melbourne at an
average of £l5 a head. Fodder stored in
good times, in any part of the country,
always pays big dividends.
Irrigation in Far Western N.S.W.
“K.Mc.”: After a nine months’ survey
of the Darling basin, A. R. Pursell, a
grazier with a civil-engineering training,
has brought forward a scheme to irri-
gate the dry beds of five big lakes at
Menindie (N.S.W.) by impounding water
in a series of weirs on the Darling.
It is estimated that the water so im-
pounded would probably exceed that of
Burrinjuck, and at one-fifth of the cost.
Owing to the cheapness of the land, its
level nature and freedom from timber
and root growth—enabling large areas to
be irrigated without the use of check
banks and supply channels —capital
charges would be nearly £2O per acre
lighter than in the Burrinjuck and Hume
systems.
In the Menindie lake beds 250,000
acres could be brought under irrigation,
and more lakes are available. No more
than two weirs would be needed for
each 50,000 acres of irrigation. And
when the whole of the Darling was
locked from Menindie to the Queensland
border, Pursell estimates that the annual
production would amount to half a mil-
lion tons of fodder for conservation
and over 350,000 lambs for export.
Hints for the Farm.
“Huglow”: A cheap tank stand can
be made from a ring of corrugated-iron
filled with sand. The iron should be
securely riveted, and, for further safety,
could be tied round with lengths of
strong wire. As the greatest pressure on
the tank will be on the centre of the
bottom the sand should be formed into
a slight crown to allow for settling. A
drain should be run round the stand.
“Bluey”: When lopping kurrajong,
white box and mountain oak for sheep,
start off on the oak or box. When they
get used to this cut kurrajong. If started
on the kurrajong sheep won’t eat the
others.
“Salmon Gums”: The disease of apple-
trees known locally as “wither-tip” or
“summer die-back” has been success-
fully combated in a Manjimup (W.A.)
orchard. A heavy spraying of Bordeaux
mixture for black scab checked “wither-
tip,” and experiments confirmed the
theory that a deficiency of copper was
the cause of the disease. Copper sul-
phate was supplied in soil applications,
tree injections (salt solutions) and spray-
ing with Bordeaux mixture. Annual
soil applications are recommended.
“Huglow”: Swelled head in sheep (B.
13/4/’3B) also occurs in dairy stock.
Although they may be getting enough
feed to keep them alive, animals will
develop a swelling of the glands of the
neck and underjaw when kept on very
short grazing. If they are changed to an
abundant pasture too suddenly the swell-
ing becomes more prominent, and may
take up to 12 months to disappear.


Ll\
PA If PORT
LO"
! I \Jf
TO
HEALTH
• / \
ti 1
K M
M'-:-
»».» *
** •*
C
l
•19
<sg
0
3
NAt
M
ZVOVii
%
I
mxnim,
mm smo«T
M
m
****
V
*******
B
REWED for health from the
finest quality malted oats.
“HERE'S TffEE
looheqs
OATMEAL
STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and iiarn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell or ‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, typist, own machine, used to
handling authors’ manuscripts, neat and accu-
rate work, wants typing j0b5.—9449.
Young man, Sydney, journalistic and organ-
ising ability, seeks position.—94so.
Young man (32), Sydney, would like work
on station, north or west N.S.W. preferred,
no exp. of farm work, but willing, handy with
tools and exp. car, truck and tractor driver. —
9456.
Man and wife, undertaking walk from Syd-
ney to Brisbane, seek information from persons
who have done same trip as to best route,
accommodation, etc.—944l.
Man, Sydney, some journalistic, publicity
and office exp., requires position.—944o.
To buy biography of Otto Weininger, author
of Sex and Character. —9408.
Words of “The Blind Drover.” —9433.
To borrow for fee or buy The Invert and His
Social Adjustment by Anomaly (Anon.), intro,
by R. H. Thouless, published 1929 by Bailliere.
—9414.
Information Sought.
(1) How do the present prices of meat,
butter, potatoes and bread in Melbourne com-
pare with last year’s prices? (2) How does
the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics arrive at the average prices of cer-
tain goods? —9l7l.
(1) Compared with the average prices for
1937, the prices in February, 1938, of meat,
butter and potatoes showed increases, but bread
showed a decrease. (2) The prices of definite
grades or qualities of all items are obtained
from a number of retailers in each town. These
are averaged and then multiplied by weights
representing the relative importance of each
item in the total consumption of'' the com-
munity (bread 100, tea 8, potatoes 18, butter
30, etc.). The sum of these for any period
compared with the cost at the base period
shows the relative' movement in prices over
the period under consideration.
H* * %
Populations of the 12 leading cities of the
world? —932l.
Figures are for 1931 census and are as
follows: London, 8,202,818; New York,
7,986,000'; Tokio, 6,085,800; Berlin, 4,224,874;
Moscow, 3,663,000; Shanghai, 3,565,476;
Chicago, 3,376,438; Osaka, 3,101,900; Paris,
3,000,000; Leningrad, 2,720,000; Buenos
Ayres, 2,268,137; and Philadelphia, 1,950,961.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning Vance
Palmer and a list of his published books? —
9330.
Son of Henry B. Palmer, he was born at
Bundaberg (Q.) on August 28, 1885, and edu-
cated at the Ipswich (Q.) Grammar School.
He went to London in 1906 and contributed
short stories to English magazines. He
travelled extensively in Russia and the East,
and after two years in Australia went back to
London, where he resumed freelance work.
During the war he served with the 14th Batt.,
A.1.F., in France. He returned to Australia
after the war, and has since devoted himself to
writing. His published books are: The World
of Men (sketches), 1915; The Forerunners
(verse), 1915; The Camp (verse), 1920; The
Black Horse and Other Plays, 1924; Cronulla
(novel), 1924; The Man Hamilton (novel),
1928; Men Are Human (novel), 1930; The
Passage (novel), 1930; Separate Lives (short
stories), 1931; Daybreak (novel), 1932; The
Swayne Family (novel), 1934; Sea and Spinifex
(short stories), 1934; and Legend for Sander-
son (novel), 1937.
* * * *
What is the story behind Eileen Magrath’s
sculpture “Tamerlane and Zenocrate” ? —9311.
Tamerlane and Tamburlaine are the names
under which the great Tartar conqueror Timur
(also called Timur-leng or Timur the Lame) is
immortalised in Elizabethan drama. Timur,
who had his capital at Samarkand, was ruler
of vast territories in Central Asia and a great
part of India, and died in 1405 whilst making
ready to invade China. The play “Tambur-
laine the Great,” by Christopher Marlowe, is
the first notable English poem in blank verse
that was also essentially a drama. In this
work, Zenocrate is the daughter of the Soldan
of Egypt, and is at first the captive and later
the wife of Tamburlaine.
4*
Birthplaces of men who enlisted in the A.I.F.
during the first two years of the war? —8999.
No figures are available indicating the
number of A.I.F. enlistments according to
places of birth during 1914 and 1915. The
following return of A.I.F. embarkations accord-
ing to places of birth, covering the period 1914-
18, may, however, be of interest in this con-
nection, viz., Australia 257,963, U.K. 64,221,
M.L. 4214, other British countries 2246 and
foreign countries 3137; total 331,781. The pro-
portion of Australian-born members of the
A.I.F. who embarked for active service abroad
was thus approximately 78 p.c.
Hr- * * *
(1) On a new car valued at between £250 and
£3OO bought in M.L., used there one month
and shipped to Australia, what duty would have
to be paid? (2) Would duty be less if a
used car was bought? (3) Approx, freight on
a car from Auckland to Sydney? (4) In the
case of a car bought in Sydney and driven to
Queensland within one week, would full N.S.W.
road license have to be paid? —9lB9.
(1) The duty will depend upon the type of
the car and the country of manufacture. Some-
where between £l5O and £2lO. (2) No. Duty
as stated in (1) would apply. (3) Depends on
size. On a sedan car measuring 480 cub. ft.
charges would amount to £lB ss. 9d. (4) Regis-
tration would have to be taken out in N. S.
Wales for three months, and a refund obtained
after reaching Queensland. Such refund would
oe given on each month of the unexpired taxa-
tion, less ss. cancellation fee. The registration
lee of £1 is not refundable.
* * * *
Some details concerning Henri Frederic
Amiel, Swiss philosopher, poet and critic ? Is
there a published biography of him ? —9408.
He was born at Geneva on September 27,
1821, and was descended from a Huguenot
family driven to Switzerland by the revocation
of the Edict of Nantes. Losing his parents
at an early age, he travelled widely, became
intimate with the intellectual leaders of Europe,
and made a special study of German philosophy
in Berlin. In 1849 he was appointed pro-
fessor of aesthetics at the academy of Geneva,
and in 1854 became professor of moral philo-
sophy. These appointments, conferred by the
democratic party, deprived him of the support
of the aristocratic party, which comprised
nearly all the culture of the city. This isola-
tion inspired the one book by which Amiel
lives, the Journal Intime, which, published after
his death, obtained a European reputation.
It was translated into English by Mrs.
Humphry Ward. Although second-rate as re-
gards productive power, Amiel’s mind was of
no inferior quality, and his Journal gained a
sympathy which the author had failed to obtain
in his life. In addition to the Journal, he pro-
duced several volumes of poetry and wrote
studies on Erasmus, Madame de Stael and
other writers. He died in Geneva on March 11,
1881. His chief poetical works are Grains de
mil, II penseroso, Part du Reve, Les
Etrangeres, Charles le Temeraire, Romancero
historique, Jour a jour. There is a Life of
Amiel by Mile Berthe Vadier (Paris, 1885).
* * * *
(1) Why is the policy of Nazi Germany anti-
Jewish ? Is the reason social, religious, his-
torical or racial ? (2) When did this antipathy
to Jews begin ? —9337.
(1) The policy of modern Germany is what
Hitler makes it. He objected to the strong
Jewish immigration into Germany after the
war, and he blames Jews for Bolshevism. His
father was a disciple of Von Schonerer, a
Viennese politician who called himself a
Liberal, and whose policy was compounded of
equal parts of anti-Semitism and Pan-German-
ism. (2) Anti-Semitism is no new thing in
Europe. It has been manifested all through
the ages whenever Jews have become numer-
ous and powerful in Christian communities.
Shakspeare gives a fair exposition of the preju-
dice in “The Merchant of Venice.”
* * * *
(I) What are considered the greatest operas
in the world by those who know ? (2) What
do the letters K.V. (sometimes just K.), with a
number following, stand for when on a pro-
gramme of Mozart music ? —9383.
(1) Too wide a question. There are at least
50 operas favored by the public and assured of
one or more performances a year in some part
of the world. A recent biographer of Puccini
claims that “Madam Butterfly” is the premier
all-round favorite. Verdi’s “Aida” must run
it very close. Gounod’s “Faust,” Bizet’s “Car-
men,” Verdi’s “Trovatore” and “Rigoletto” and
Donizetti’s “Lucia” are old favorites still well
to the fore ; there is always a strong demand
for the Wagnerian works, especially “Lohen-
grin” and “Valkyrie,” and no mixed opera
season is complete without “Pagliacci” and
“Cavalleria Rusticana.” These are popular
preferences. The average musical highbrow
would probably produce a list that didn’t con-
tain one of the popular works. (2) Refers to
Kochel’s catalogue of Mozart’s works, the
standard classification.
* * * *
(1) / am a carpenter's apprentice, aged 17,
and wish to become a draughtsman. Is it
better to become an engineering or an archi-
tectural draughtsman ? (2) Course necessary
to obtain diploma or degree ? (3) Cost and
time of courses ? (4) Would it be necessary to
be apprenticed to a draughtsman, and, if so,
what wages are payable to such an apprentice ?
—9290.
(1) It would be better on your experience
to endeavor to become an architectural
draughtsman. (2) To obtain registration as an
architect under the Architects’ Registration Act,
N. S. Wales, it is necessary to complete the
Technical College diploma course in architec-
ture or the University degree course in archi-
tecture, or to pass a special examination set by
the Board of Architects. (3) To enter the
Technical College architecture diploma course
students must be employed in an architect’s
office. They must also be qualified at the leav-
ing-certificate standard in English, mathematics
1 and 11, and one of physics, mechanics or
chemistry at the higher grade. The diploma
course comprises six years of evening instruc-
tion. The fees for the complete course amount
to £33. The University degree course is a day
course, extending over five years. Call at the
Sydney Technical College, Ultimo, if you
desire more detailed information relating to the
architecture diploma course. (4) There is no
scale of wages applied to employment in archi-
tects’ offices. Amount paid is settled by agree-
ment between the parties.
* * *
Names of Australian firms in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane distributing the following:
(1) Buick cars? (2) Kodak cameras? (3) Dun-
lop tyres ? (4) Wertheim pianos ?— 9257.
(1) Boyded, Ltd., 112 Hunter-street, Sydney;
Preston Motors, Ltd., 104 Russell-street, Mel-
bourne, Cl; E. G. Eager and Son, Ltd., Break-
fast Creek-road, Brisbane, Nl. (2) Kodak
(A/asia), Ltd., 379 George-street, Sydney; 252
Collins-street, Melbourne, Cl; 250 Queen-street,
Brisbane, 86. (3) Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.,
27 Wentworth-avenue, Sydney; 108 Flinders
street, Melbourne, Cl; 249 Queen-street, Bris-
bane, 810. (4) No agent. Wertheim (Hugo),
Ltd., 260 Collins-street, Melbourne, Cl, no
longer manufacture pianos.
* * * *
What is the correct method of using the
stirrup-iron when riding? Riding masters main-
tain that it is correct to ride on the ball of the
foot, but jockeys always ride with their foot
as far in the stirrup-iron as the heel will allow.
—9426.
On the ball of the foot is the only correct
way. The jockey rides with his foot home in
the stirrup because of his peculiar seat with
very short leathers and knees up to the horse’s
withers. The “monkey on a stick” seat is not
to be regarded as genuine horsemanship.
* * * *
Can you tell me something about (1) the
water-tree, (2) the weeping- or raining-tree !
9267.
(1) The large needlewood ( Hakea leucoptera),
a dry-country shrub, is known by this name
because by cutting through its roots drinkable
sap is obtained. (2) This is the Glochidion
ferdinandi, called in different localities on the
Queensland coast belt red madang, pencil
cedar or cheese-tree. Only those trees which
harbor frog-hopper or spittle-insect larvse
“weep” or “rain.” These larvae suck the tree
sap, some of which passes through them and
froths oh contact with the air. These bubbles
bursting, clear liquid falls like raindrops.
* * * *
Botanic name of the lillipilli-tree ? What are
the leaves like ? —9275.
The tree commonly known as lillipilli is a
myrtle, Eugenia smithii. The leaves are smooth
and more or less shiny, with an aromatic odor
when crushed, and if held up to the light will
be seen to be thickly studded with transparent
oil dots.
Jfc # ❖ sH
Who won the first and second prizes in the
150 th Anniversary short-story competition
conducted by a literary committee appointed by
the N. S. Wales Government ? —9312.
In the absence of any story of outstanding
merit the judges decided to divide the prize
money (£100) among the ten best entries. Prize-
winners were: Henry Brennan (Auckland,
M.L.), L. Robert Whyard (Sydney), Edward
Wright (Glenbrook, N.S.W.), Mrs. William
Moore (Galston, N.S.W.), Hal Porter (Bairns-
dale, Vic.), Colin Wills (Sydney), Katharine
Susannah Prichard (Greenmount, W.A.), Mrs.
Margaret Trist (Neutral Bay, N.S.W.), Miss
Myra Morris (Frankston, Vic.) and Will Law-
son (Sydney).
’!■ •{' -I-
How to get rid of silverfish ? —8939.
Commence with two applications of a pyre-
thrum spray at an interval of a week. Then
lay baits made up from loz. flour, l£oz. sugar,
i-pint water and }oz. barium fluosilicate or
|oz. zinc borate. The flour, sugar and water
are heated to form a warm paste to which the
poison is added, the mixture being then spread
on small strips of white cardboard.
* * H= *
Name of cream-colored substance used for
making moulds for casting in plaster of Paris,
and where obtainable in Sydney? How is it
treated for use? —9lo2.
It is a crude gelatine specially made for this
purpose, procurable from paint stores or sup-
pliers of artists’ materials. It is melted over
gentle heat with a little water to the consistency
required and used hot, setting when cold like
a table jelly. The process is to mark out on
a board or table the rough size or shape of
the model, allow an inch or so all round,
then build up on the mark a coffer mould,
rather like a small fence, slightly higher than
the model is when lying on the table; plaster
can be used for this surrounding. The floor
of this area, i.e., the table top, is then rubbed
over with soft soap; the model is laid neatly
inside, and the gelatine then poured over it.
When set, it is opened up, the model removed,
and the shape used as a mould. For articles
having merely a face, covering with gelatine
is not necessary; they can be lifted out when
.set. The model cart be soaped or oiled for
easy removal.
❖
Recipe for making diabetes bread ? —9250.
Two cups diabetic flour, 2 teaspoons bak-
ing powder, i teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons
butter, 2 eggs, milk to mix. Add
salt and baking powder to flour and mix well.
Rub butter through tips of fingers in the
flour, add eggs well beaten, then sufficient
milk to make a medium dough. Turn into
greased baking dish and bake in a moderate
oven for 25 to 30 minutes. Diabetic flour is
obtainable from all large groceries; sometimes
sold as gluten flour; cost about 3s. per 61b.
bag.
* * * *
In what matches did Jimmy McMahon and
Harry Moses play for N.S.W. in representative
Rugby Union football ? —9406.
McMahon played against Maoriland Natives
(1889), Maoriland (1894), Queensland (1889,
1890, 1892, 1894, 1896) and Victoria (1889 and
1895). Moses played against Maoriland Natives
(1889), Queensland (1889, 1890, 1892) and Vic-
toria (1889).
# H? * *
(1) Before Ambrose Palmer knocked out Ron
Richards in 13 rounds at the Sydney Sports
Ground on April 12 last, how many times had
they fought each other, and how did the con-
tests result? (2) Palmer was heavyweight
champion of Australia in 1936. Did Richards
win that title from him ? —9365.
(1) Three times —at the Sydney Stadium in
1932, when Palmer won on points; at the Bris-
bane Stadium in 1933, when Paimer scored a
technical knockout in eight rounds; and at
Leichhardt, Sydney, in 1935, when Palmer again
won on points. (2) Richards became recognised
as holder of that title when Palmer announced
his retirement in 1936.
Brief Answers.
T.M.G.: Franchot Tone commenced his
screen career in 1933 at the age of 27. He
married Joan Crawford P.F.: Jack Wilson,
the Victorian middleweight boxer, was born at
Richmond (Vic.) on September 6, 1915... .J.F.:
Pambula is a N.S.W. abo. place-name mean-
ing “two waters”.... A.R.A.: Write secretary,
A.I.S. Society, Endeavour House, 33 Macquarie-
place, Sydney... .M.F.: Consult chronological
list of events from that date in either the
Australian Encyclopedia or the Official Year-
Book of N. S. Wales.... A.W.: Prof. J. B.
Brigden, Director Bureau of Industry, Q’land,
was appointed in February last to take charge
of the organisation of the Commonwealth
National Health and Pensions scheme....
J.A.M.: Rules for Compositors and Readers,
by H. Hart (3s. 9d.), obtainable from leading
booksellers 0.L.F.: It is the policy of the
N.S.W. Transport Department to exempt the
operations of vehicles engaged in the carriage
of wool by motor-lorry from properties west
of the Darling to Broken Hill en route to
South Australia from the payment of
charges under the State Transport Act....
C.F.J.: Areas are as follows: N.S.W. 309,432
square miles, Victoria 87,884, Queensland
670,500, South Aus. 380,070, Westralia 975,920,
Tas. 26,215, Northern Territory 523,620, Federal
Capital Territory 940....C.C.: Oil of winter-
green or oil of pennyroyal 1 drachm, turpen-
tine Boz, enough kerosene to make the whole
up to one gallon. Mix thoroughly. Benzine
may be used instead of kerosene, but is much
more dangerous if you have naked lights or
fires. Citronella may be used instead of either
of the two small oils given... .J.S.: Norman
Lindsay’s illustration of “The woman I was,
the woman I am, and the woman I’ll one
day be” verse was printed in The Bulletin
of July 19, 1906... .J.E.G.: Greenhead ants
are very difficult to destroy in lawns. The
best thing to do is to locate the nest and
spray with a small quantity of carbon bisul-
phide. This will tend to destroy the colony.
Perhaps the colony may be located in a path,
and here it may be easily destroyed. The
application of carbon bisulphide may kill the
grass, but this should not cause much trouble.
J.A.C.: When the couch lawn is first of
all established the soil should be treated with
superphosphate and blood and bone, equal
parts, at the rate of 4cwt. per acre. After the
lawn has commenced growing treat with sul-
phate of ammonia at the rate of loz. per
square yard and topdress in early spring....
J.Q.: See Dr. Mees’s Fundamentals of Photo-
graphy G.R.K.: Roofing with fly wire is
not recommended as it will make the inside
very dark, and therefore will not be favor-
able for the cultivation of plants. Better to
cover the top with lin. lattice with a mesh of
l-l£in. If that does not afford sufficient pro-
tection it will be advisable to plant a hardy
climbing plant such as Tacsonia mollissima,
Loriicera sinensis, Rhynchospermum jasminoides,
Akebia quinata, Bignonia tweediana, or Gel-
se miuni sempervirens. Particulars regarding
these will be found in Arthur Yates’s nursery
catalogue, obtainable from 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney... .T.M.: Francis A. Walsh was the
first manager of the Melbourne office of the
English, Scottish and Australian Bank....
A.G.W.: (1), (2) and (3) No. (4) and (5)
Not if they can show that the goods were pur-
chased in good faith. The property in the
goods vests in the true owners. (6) Yes. The
police should be informed... .J.D.: The direc-
tors are in the position of agents for the co.
they represent, and an agent cannot delegate
his agency. The proper course would be for
the committee to report to the directors and
have its actions endorsed by them... .A.H.:
The car, you say, was not included in the
schedule of her deceased husband’s estate, it
having been purchased out of the wife’s per-
sonal allowance during his lifetime and" thus
being part of her separate estate. Being so, it
may be licensed in her name in the usual course
of procedure... .M.F.: Two-volume edition
is worth about 10s., if in perfect condition.
One-volume edition is worth about 2s. The
Alice in Wonderland is of no special value;
first edition was in 1862... .F.R.: The tax
on petrol amounts to 7d. per gallon, plus pri-
mage of 10 p.c., which totals approximately
71d. per gallon. The only tax payable on
kerosenes is primage, approximately |d. per
gallon K.D.: (1) Sal. soda is salicylate of
soda. Saleratus is bicarbonate of potash. (2)
Best results are obtained by using a fresh mix-
ture every time. A fresh mixture for every
two washings, however, works satisfactorily.
The main test is the softening of the skin
C. 5.8.: In Melbourne the prevailing winter
winds are from the north-west to north-east,
and those of the summer from south-west to
south-east... .J.C.G.: The Wide Brown Land:
A New Anthology of Australian Verse, com-
piled by J. S. and G. Mackaness (4s. 6d)....
P.A.: At December 31, 1935, it was estimated
that there were 1,764,430 horses in Australia.
F.D.: J. A. Perkins, M.H.R., is Minister
without portfolio in the Federal Cabinet, assist-
ing the Minister for Trade and Customs, and
representing the Postmaster-General in the
House of Representatives L.P.: The fran-
chise in N. S. Wales was extended to women
in 1902, and was exercised for the first time at
a State election in 1904... .J. 8.5.: “Transport
and Communication Bulletin, No. 14,” pub-
lished by the Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, contained a list of the
principal lighthouses on the coast of Aus-
tralia, giving details of the location, number,
color, character, period, candle-power and visi-
bility of each light so far as particulars were
available... .G.H.: Correct version is “Non ut
diu vivamus curandum est, sed ut satis.” It is
from Seneca, and translated reads “We ought
not to care for living a long life, but for
living a sufficient life”... .P.W.: The stanza
beginning “Take, oh, take those lips away” in
Act IV, Scene 1, of “Measure for Measure,”
with an additional one, is found in Beaumont
and Fletcher’s “Rollo,” Act V, Scene 2. The
song is possibly a ballad current in Shak-
speare’s time, but Malone and other editors
attribute it to Shakspeare E.L.F.: Larry
Foley was born at Sofala, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.), on December 24, 1847. He died of
an affected heart at St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Sydney, on July 12, 1917... .W.M.: There is
a good demand for acacia gum, and if you can
supply large quantities of clear gum a market
might be found for it. A fair average sample
should be submitted to the Curator of the Tech-
nological Museum, Sydney, for examination as
to quality in the first instance.


1
i
l
3t
■r
.
liii
§
r
i
:
Id
*
■:-v
w
f ;
■m
■!
m
/:
!l!
i
IS®
Si ?*•&*•
'''/ *
SSSSS
raMvM
1, i
:v:-: ;
w
mM
urn
*
ii
Wi
ii
&
■>• # : -r •*
M
■¥ , '
>; *
s p$
< V -„. ■ '
%( «
*
%*vP?
pa
'SSW'S'*
»Sil*«
"0
m
•m :
ps
'
m
i
ii
m
It's always fun for growing children to frolic on a Feltex
Floor.
They can run around bare-footed without fear of chills
and, better still, they won't get "sh.. ,sh ...-ed" at by
parents who object to a little noise.
Feltex is safe, silent, and inexpensive—standard width is 50 inches
—and Feltex is reversible.
For sample and descriptive folder post free, write to Dept. 5,
Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
To remove ordinary household stains from felts or carpets use
Feltex Dual Cleaner.
GUARANTEED MOTHPROOF FOR LIFE
WOMAN
WOMAN
:
mmEti
W&gt?
vlpMp. Kiw
an& ■ z&sm'
%mwm: %mrm.s
THREE VOLUMES OF
AUTHORITATIVE
INFORMATION ON
FEMININE STRUCTURE
AND SEX PROBLEMS
Amidst the mass of literature in all
languages concerning woman and
her place in civilised and savage
societies, this famous work by Drs.
Ploss and Bartels, leading German
authorities, stands out pre-eminently
in the minds of every anthropologi-
cal student. This is the authorised
English version of the original work.
These volumes comprise the most
complete guide of anthropological
literature relating to woman ever
brought together in one work. For
over a period of half a century this
work has been known and valued as
a standard and authoritative com-’
pilation of almost all that was known
of feminine structure, its function
and occupation, both normal and
abnormal. The English edition being
described here has been improved
and enlarged with more recent infor-
mation on the subject of woman,
together with additional illustrations
of surpassing interest and curiosity.
As the only authoritative monograph
in its field, "Woman” is indispen-
sable to the anthropologist who
wishes to become acquainted with
much material usually only to be
found in obscure publications buried
in foreign libraries. Write for
prospectus containing full informa-
tion of this work,
3 VOLUMES COMPRISING OVER
2000 PAGES, WITH MORE THAN
1000 ILLUSTRATIONS.
OPINIONS.
The British Medical Journal says:
"In this improved, enlarged and
abundantly illustrated form it is a
remarkable work at last available
for English readers.”
The Lancet: "An anthropologist or
ethnologist who wants to know
something about woman’s ways in
any place will find in this book
whatever may be known on the
matter.”
Aldous Huxley in The New States-
man and Nation (London) : "I am
full of an appalled admiration for
so much industry, such accumula-
tions of knowledge.”
The Times Literary Supplement: “A
standard work for half a century.”
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
LIMITED,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
FREE PROSPECTUS.
Angus & Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me a prospectus contain-
ing full information of “Woman,” by Drs.
Heinrich Ploss, Max Bartels and Paul
Bartels, 5 volumes. This places me under
no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
M.L.8.: Blinked at “Clydesdale rumps”....
R.N.C.: Close... .M.L.J.C.: You were beaten
to it... .A.M.P.: “Fall-in” falls down
A.V.: True, but thin... J.R.: Its “deficiency”
is its surplus of lurv M.C.T.: Call again.
. ...Donvab: The idea deserved better
clothes than “tempest shrieks,” “wild waves,”
“expended foam” D.C.: Not surprised that
her “eyes of fiery liquid pools” bewilder you.
S A.: Where did the “mystic leaves” blow
in from? T.E.McC.: “I say, Editor, ain’t
I coming along fine?” No S.J.C.: They
came too late for Anzac Day F.T.P.: Nice
work until it breaks up on the last page
F.T.: No room for afternoon-tea gossipers.
. ...G.F.T.: Cold shoulder for damsel with
“red-hot passions”... .8.J.5.: Hieroglyphic
expert pondering over it 8.T.R.: Oddities,
not yarns N.G.: Too long for a sketch,
too thin for anything else... .G.T.P.:
Neither atmosphere nor characters; just half
a dozen meaningless puppets H.T.R.: Easy
to read but not quite up... .H.G.8.: If you
must preach sermons get your facts accurate.
. ...H.L.P.; A matter of opinion... .L.H.M.:
Characters well drawn, but why not make
them do something? T.M.C.: Seryi along
a few more yarns and we’ll let you know.
. ...V.D.P.: Shocking... .L.D.N.: Too wordy.
.. . .H.S.T.: “Safecracker” gets nothing from
this address... .8.D.C.: Not up, but wouldn’t
mind seeing some others in lighter m00d....
F. : Try a monthly magazine that uses such
yarns... .T.P.L.: Can’t think of anyone who
might want it... .H.P.: As you say, it’s as funny
as a piece of string... .N.T.C.: If you can’t
solve your mysteries who can? 8.T.5.: Seen
’em all before... .8.R.J.: Do -something about
the finish and we might glance through it again.
....C.8.H.: No harm in trying them else-
where... .T.L.D.: Write in a bit of color and
dump it with a daily 8.T.5.: Slops
G. : Can’t use that or anything like it
N.J.: Something in “Shore Leave,” but you
don’t make a yarn of it L.J.R.: “Old
Fowl” has moulted T.H.: Doesn’t click.
•• • -OjL.G.: Slight improvement 8.N.5.:
Nothing for us in that batch 8.T.P.:
You’re shooting too high... .C.Y.: Never
heard anyone speak like that N.P.D.: Fine
writing and nothing else R. 8.: Shaky
L.N.D.: Take a rest for a while 8.T.: Pos-
sibly, if you keep at it for a year or two
Cozzo: Might trim it down and try Smoke-oh.
G.T.H., L.C. and T.D.S.: Not for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.R.: Why is Premier Stevens dancing on
the back of a whale?... .J. 8.: You are turn-
ing them out too fast—take more time over
your work... .8.L.: Those black patches and
scraggy lines look unpleasant F.T.M.: Jest
delighted our grandfathers, but drawing de-
lighted no one at 252 George-street... .P.J. :
The unshaven Digger who had no razor has
appeared too often in print C.0’8.: Sketches
neat; gags anaemic... .F.D.: A buckjumper
built along those lines deserves to be thrown.
. ...H.C.: Try stained-glass window designing;
you’re not cut out for a humorous artist....
R.A.: What fun there is in them is infantile.
....M.M.G.: Tedious art whose goal is the
w -P-b L.R.: Quite prepared to believe that
they were “just knocked together” E.A.:
Faults are numerous; a few years at an art
school wouldn’t do any harm E. 8.: Stop
imitating....J.D.F.: You’ve picked up a few
tricks, but not enough to carry you through
M.C.: Cultivate a more vigorous style and let
us have gags that are fresh C.H.: No, we
don’t want caricatures of American crooners
F.A.: The lad is still in the copying stage; he’ll
need to take lessons G.T.C.: Gag recalls
one we read in a Yankee magazine;
drawing stirs faint memories of London “Punch.”
8.8.: Maoriland Anzac contingent cartoon
arrived a week too late 5.8.: You’re much
better with the pen than the brush A.J.W.:
Earless person with deformed legs was denied
admission V.P.: All were consigned to the
nearest bottomless pit J.O’G.: Still search-
ing for the point of the joke about the curate
and the bottle-opener H. 8.: If you want to
know what originals should look like call in
and see our window and vestibule displays of
black-and-whites W.S.: Keep surf rescue
joke until next summer; by that time you may
have learned to draw a bathing beauty
0.M.F.: What is it—a set of footprints of your
kennel of cattle-dogs? J.L.: You can draw
an ankle... .G.T.: Offer to let us have it at
cost of paper and ink didn’t tempt us.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The father of the cycle and motor busi-
nesses in Maoriland, “Nicky” Oates, has
passed on at Christchurch, aged 86. Born
in Cornwall, he reached Christchurch in
his early twenties and set up in business
as a mechanic. When bicycles came, in
the late ’seventies, he repaired them, and
then, greatly daring, he assembled the
first bicycle built in Fernland —a majes-
tic 60in. “penny-farthing.” Then came
i K. Starley’s invention of the “safety,”
and Oates introduced the first of that
breed. He was one of the first to im-
port pneumatic tyres, and the very first
to import motor-cycles, and in 1899 he
brought back with him from the Paris
Exhibition the first four-wheeled motor
vehicle seen in M.L., a one-lunger Benz.
When he drove it for the first time in
Christchurch, at the frantic speed of six
m.p.h., he scared a horse, which bolted.
The Law fined Oates ten quid and costs
for driving a “traction engine” unpre-
ceded by a man with a red flag—the
Dominion’s first prosecution for speed-
ing.
* * * *
Lawrence Tibbett, whose enormous
voice, made familiar to Australia by
gramophone and screen recordings, is
now being heard straight from the Tib-
bett mouth, was born in California 41
years ago. He made his first appearance
on the -concert platform soon after he at-
tained 21, left off his just-started profes
sional career to join the Navee in 1917,
and, back in civvies, got a job, not as a
singer, but as an actor, in Tyrone Power’s
Shakspearean Co., which toured Aus-
tralasia once or twice in the long ago.
Tibbett made his debut in “Aida” (as
Amonasro) at Hollywood Bowl in 1923,
and two months later reached the summit
of his dreams as Valentino in “Faust” at
New York Metropolitan. Since then he
has been one of the fixed stars of opera.
His screen career commenced eight years
ago. Tibbett may call himself Doctor
—New York University conferred an
honorary Mus. Doc. on him in 1934.
* * * *
Chairman of the London “Daily
Mirror” speaking (April 6):
This time last year there was a fear in
the mind of every newspaper publisher in
Britain and in America that not only would
the price of newsprint be continually in-
creasing, but also that there would not be
sufficient paper to supply the requirements
of many of them. There is now little fear
of the price of newsprint paper becoming
dearer for some time to come, and the
manufacturers could easily produce 30
per cent, more than newspaper publishers
are consuming at the present time —a totally
different position from that of only 12
months ago.
Which makes the outlook for Australian
newspaper shares a little brighter.
* * * *
In 1937 Imperial Chemical Industries
ran its coal-hydrogenation plant at Bil-
lingham (Eng.) for the full year, opera-
tion being “much steadier,” and
“mechanical difficulties encountered in
the earlier years have been overcome.”
From 440,000 tons of coal, including that
used for fuel, 35,000,000 gallons of petrol
was produced—roughly 80 gallons to the
ton of coal. This yield was an improve-
ment. Throughout the Empire the Bil-
lingham hydrogenation works are re-
garded something in the light of a “pilot
plant,” much refinement in the process
still being necessary to make it an
economic competitor with the world’s
oil-gushers.
* * * *
“El V.”: There are moments when I
almost favor a press censorship. One of
those times is now, when a chorus of
Sydney journals with posters and big
black headings is calling the attention of
youth to the ease with which they can
obtain and utilise the plant which is the
source of the terrible marijuana. Addic-
tion to marijuana has become a problem
throughout the Middle West of U.S.A.
and Northern Mexico, as it has been for
ages in Asia. Anybody who has ever
seen the results of it would recoil with
horror at the idea of showing an adven-
turous young people how common the
plant is in Australia, but papers explain
clearly what the vegetable is, where
it can be found handy to Sydney,
the easy way to use it, and its cheapness.
They have not even the excuse that the
discovery of the plant—l won’t name it
—in Australia is new. It has grown here
luxuriantly for donkeys’ years, and one
would have thought that the decent thing
would have been to let it remain in
obscurity.


EXCURSION FARES
ANYWHERE TO ANYWHERE IN N.S.W.
(Except journeys wholly within the Metropolitan or Newcastle
Suburban Areas.)
Now Until Thursday, June 30
Return tickets at Single Fare plus one-third.
Minimum 2s. Bd. first-class, 2s. second-class.
These Excursion tickets are available for return within two
calendar months from date stamped thereon.
Inquire at any station, or at Challis House,
8 Martin Place, Sydney, if any further
information is desired.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways (31).
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherry wood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
and cigarette blends.
Per lb.
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/-
8/-
10/-
10/-
11/-
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
Sweet crop, mild
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium ..
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium ..
Africander, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild ..
Normandie, medium ..
Winning Post, medium
Three Bells, strong ..
Bird’s Eye, medium ..
Latakia, in pipe only ..
White Lodge, medium
White Lodge, light ..
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium ..
Union Leader, medium
Tender Leaf, medium
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra ..
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild ..
“Skipper,” medium
“Big Hit,” strong
“Three Sailors”
“Royal Navy Nuggets”
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks
“P.M.” Dark Plug ....
Zig Zags 5 for 1/-
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
CX. MERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
6/6
6/6
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XII.
The Game had suddenly fallen upon
evil days. No longer was the Coliseum
the haunt of excited “sports.” The last
of the great Australian boxers had died,
and the first of the great Australian
boxers was dying.
While Mac Sherry was at Durkin's
funeral, a telephone message had come
for him from St. Vincent’s Hospital:
“Mr. Larry Foley is very ill, and would
like to see you. Please don’t delay.”
Terry had known Foley since boyhood,
and in adolescence had put on the gloves
with him often. Foley had given up
teaching since the early ’nineties, when
the Ring became the prey of pushes of
larrikins and the authorities virtually
outlawed it for a season. But before he
grew too old he could be easily persuaded
to take an interest in a decent lad who,
as he said, “knew how to use his fists
and was Irish,” and Terry had been his
debtor for many a wrinkle.
Larry had been born on the Turon
before gold was found there, and had
grown up on the diggings. Though only
a ten-stoner, he had become the most
noted field fighter of his time, and had
whipped men stones heavier.
Then he had fallen in with Jem Mace
when that champion of England came to
Australia in quest of the fortune that
always eluded him, and the Norwich
Gipsy, taking a fancy to him and seeing
in the untaught bush scrapper the mak-
ings of a wonderful boxer, had imparted
to him all his lore.
From Mace Larry learned how to
stand in the correct position, ready to
shoot straight with the left and catch
the enemy’s blows with the right. The
importance of balance and timing, of
ducking and footwork, was impressed on
him by the old master, who showed him
also the right methods of delivering
crosses, uppercuts and swings.
Mace never had an apter pupil. He
was well repaid for his exertions when,
in a fight under London Prize Ring rules
at Echuca in 1881, Foley beat Abe
Hicken, recognised not only in England
but in the U.S.A., from which country
he had come to Australia, as one of the
greatest lightweights of the day. Mace
had backed his pupil heavily, though
the money soon ran through his fingers
—it always did.
And when his fighting days were over
Foley showed that he was a greater
teacher than Mace himself. A giant
negro who called himself Peter Jackson
came to him for lessons. A runaway
sailor from the West Indies, who got
casual jobs on Sydney hookers, but often
never knew where the next meal was
coming from, Jackson was transformed
by Foley from a clumsy novice into the
most polished heavyweight the Ring has
known.
Slavin, Fitzsimmons, Jim Hall and
“Griffo” were other great boxers who
passed through Foley’s school. He
taught them all the Jem Mace style,
which for ease, grace, economy of effort
and effectiveness has never been sur-
passed. If some of Foley’s pupils, like
Fitzsimmons and Slavin, were chiefly re-
markable for their toughness and power
of punch (though Fitzsimmons had great
reserves of science when science was
needed), others, like Jackson, Hall and
“Griffo,” dazzled opponents and spec-
tators alike with their perfect skill.
When he ceased to coach champions
in the making, Foley had been taken up
by a Cabinet Minister of the period,
“me friend, the Honorable E. W. O’Sul-
livan,” and put in the way of making a
modest fortune. Mr. O’Sullivan, who
was Minister of Works, had embarked on
what he was the first to call a “vigorous
borrowing policy” and was changing the
face of old Sydney. He gave his protege
contracts for dismantling ancient build-
ings, and Larry pulled them down as
methodically as he had knocked oppo-
nents down when he was a fighting man.
And now his days were numbered, and
the costly vault in Waverley cemetery
in which he had buried his parents—he
had thought of them always—would be
opened presently to receive their son.
“Let him talk if he wants to,” the
Sister had said before Terry was ad-
mitted. “The doctors can do nothing
for him now, poor old man, and talking
won’t do him any harm.”
Terry was familiar with the drawings
which Phil May had made of Foley when
Foley was a solid block of Australian
manhood rising forty. Gazing on the
sick old man, he conjured up an image
of Phil May’s Foley: the strong, keen,
humorous face, the “sideboards,” the
great arms and shoulders and the power-
ful frame, built alike for speed and heavy
weather. The father of Australian box-
ing was sadly changed.
But the mind had not lost its vigor, if
the body had. Foley had had little
schooling, but had been endowed with
natural intelligence, a good memory and
the gift of rough-cut speech ; and he was
a philosopher in a shrewd and homely
way.
“Well, Terry,” he said, “ye’ve come
to see the last act of the comedy called
‘Larry Foley.’ Though not quite the last
—the curtain’ll lift for another scene, an’
I’ll have a silent part, and ye’ll be one
of the audience.”
“Don’t think it, Mr. Foley! There’s
plenty of life in you yet.”
“No, lad, I’m Shakspeare’s poor player
and soon I’ll be seen no more. I’ve been
an actor in me time, as ye may have
heard. Played Charles the Wrestler in
‘As You Like It,’ and on the last night
of the season, in response to the demands
of me public, I put Orlando flat on his
back.”
“They must have been great days.”
“Great days they were! An’ wonder-
ful times I’ve seen in Sydney —good old
‘Kidney Pie,’ as ‘Griffo’ used to call it.
I’ve never been out of me native Aus-
tralia, but I’m sure the, world has no city
like it, just as it has had no boxers like
the boys who used to fight in me old
White Horse cellar and gym.”
“And you taught them all, Mr. Foley?'
“Not all of ’em, lad, but I did me share.
An’ the patrons we had too! Lord
Carrington an’ the nobs from Govern-
ment House ; and the Parlymint House
set, Dailey an’ McElhone an’ Crick —he
was young then; and the racing men,
Black Bill Forrester an’ Kelso an’ George
Hill, who owned Marvel. An’ Jack
Thompson, who was me partner for a
time —an’ he was a grand fighter him-
self —an’ his brother Joe the bookie, an’
Martin Loughlin, when they were over
from Melbourne for the races, an’ Hum-
phrey Oxenham, an’ Harry Rickards. An’
sometimes George Rignold would grace
the proceedin’s with his noble presence.
An’ the fights they saw in that old cellar
with the ciment floor!”
“Cement!’’
“Yes. No paddin’ in them days, and
no pugs with eggshell skulls either. The
White Horse was in George-street, as
ye may have heard. The day Jack Hail
knocked out Paddy Moran, the back of
Paddy’s head kissed the ciment with a
smack that could have been heard in
Pitt-street. But it didn’t do him a par-
ticle of harm.”
“Was Jack Hall any relation to Jim
Hall?”
“No, he was English, an' as smart a
lightweight as I ever saw. But he got
tangled up in the lingerin’ rimnants o’ the
Botany Bay system, and was never any
good no more.”
“Jim Hall was a middleweight?”
“Yes, an’, next to Fitzsimmons, the best
in the world. But he couldn’t keep off
the drink, and the gurruls wouldn’t let
him alone. Some of the papers called
him a larrikin, but he was as handsome
a lad as ever peeled a shirt. When a lady
heard that another lady had first place
in his rovin’ affections she brought an
action to prevent the other lady talcin'
him to America. The case was dismissed,
and that night Jim appeared in Owen
Sullivan’s corner —Sullivan, I think, went
forty-five rounds with Harry Laing, the
Maori —dressed in the heighth of fashion ;
belltopper, flogger and lavender pants.”
“He must have been as great a char-
acter as ‘Griffo’.”
“In his way, he was. But ‘Griffo’ only
became a character when he had drink
taken. He was a sober little street urchin
when he came to me first, an’ it was years
before he touched a drop. An’ he had
nothing to do with the Rocks push or
any other colliction of larrikins before
the beer got him.”
“I supppose ‘Griffo’ was your best
pupil?”
“The best among the little men. Only
a featherweight, but there wasn’t a welter-
weight who could have licked that lad if
he., had remained sober an’ attended to
his trainin’. One day in me gym. he took
on Dan Creedon, who was a middle-
weight and a very fine one —he beat them
all till he went up against Fitzsimmons,
and beat England’s champion heavy-
weight too —and Creedon couldn’t put a
glove on him. ‘Griffo’ was as shoopreme
among the lightweights as Jackson was
among the heavyweights.”
“Jackson?”
“Yes. He and J fell out, an’ he opened
a school in opposition to me ; but he was
the finest heavyweight I ever saw.”
“Wasn’t Slavin nearly as good?”
“Not nearly. They fought in me bar,
and Paddy soon found who was the better
man. I don’t think he would have
tackled Jackson at the National Sporting
Club, even though he made a wonderful
fight of it —me friend ‘Pendragon,’ of the
London ‘Sportsman,’ wrote to me sayin’


SHE WAS X-RAYED
12 TIMES
Tried Electric Treatment
for Rheumatism.
To suffer for five years with pains in the
back ... to be X-rayed 12 times . . . to
undergo electric treatment for three years . . .
and then to find that Kruschen was what she
really needed to get relief. That was this
woman’s experience. She writes:
“Five years ago I was taken ill with pains in
my back. After three weeks in bed I was sent
to hospital. At first, spine trouble was sus-
pected, but after 12 X-rays I was found to
have serious lumbar rheumatism. For over
three years I was given electrical treatment
three times a week. Last year I tried Kruschen
Salts, and it has done wonders. I have left
off hospital treatment, and last winter, the
first for five years, I was free from pain. My
friends are amazed to see me so well, and no
stick to help me along.”—(Mrs.) E.P.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschen Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid—the cause of those aches
and pains—and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.
ħ
The
'BOULIA*
BIG DIP
STOCK
SADDLE
£l4/18/6
(MOUNTED)
Has plenty of dip in
the seat and the pads
are high. It has the
popular short panel
with leather facings
at back. Built on a
best “Fouright” Tree
and the materials are first-grade
throughout.
N.S.W. Freight paid for Cash with Order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER t STEVEHSOH ET?:|
39S CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
A welcome break f "
wmmm
•r/ {
mm
. f ?•;!!i •*i' •
tmm
b #«4i>yU4)i .#*«
■
Sr
■t^trrri-i-
XjT- “r<
m
':&’*+
IS
ppgqgg
g
- -» —/
WfMw}'
,:v,.
r"1
ii
£ss
am
■isa
m.
li
»•
;l|! 11l
WWW
r
a
&
wm
'm
mm
u&z-x-i't
&C-±
■
f/fV.
wv.
m
WM
Z7A& Aizsne is -
(D c CaUun)s
JAs U/AisAy is-
Distributors for the House of McCollum •
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - -
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
Hobart
m
• • •
IM
-
V'- '- v
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.)- 59 William Street, Melbourne.
it was the greatest fight he ever saw, and
he saw Sayers and Heenan—if he hadn’t
thought loose livin’d settled Peter.”
“Rafferty and Carrie tell me a lot of
Americans call Fitzsimmons the greatest
of them all.”
Ah! He could never have beat the
lackson that we knew, an’ would never
have wanted to fight him. He hadn’t the
weight. What a queer fellow Fitz looked
in the White Horse days—the nearest
approach to a livin’ skeleton I ever saw!
His cheekbones, shoulder-blades and ribs
stood out just as if he were in a museum,
an his shinbones looked sharp enough
to cut a fellow in halves. All bone,
muscle an’ sinew; but, though he lay
down to Jim Hall, old Starlight and
Paddy Slavin’s brother Bill found that
he had a terrible clout.”
“Wasn’t Joe Goddard one of vour
boys?”
No, never. Joe didn’t start glove-
fighting till he was in the thirties, an’
he was too old to learn much then. But
he didn’t think so. ‘Blast you, Foley,’ he
said ; teach me the half o’ what you
know an’ come with me to America, an’
I’ll give you half me purses ; and they’ll
run to five figures—in dollars, anyhow—
for we’ll lick everybody.’ ”
“And you refused?”
“Yes, though at times I’ve regretted it.
He was a terribly game fellow, was Joe,
and as hard as Pyrmont freestone. I
never saw more punishment given an’
taken than in those two four-rounders
he had with Joe Choynski; an’ God-
dard won both, after looking dead to the
world each time.”
“Isn’t this talk too much for you, Mr.
Foley.”
The old warrior had spoken with ani-
mation, and had at times withdrawn his
right arm from under the bedclothes to
emphasise some point; but his voice was
growing feeble. He protested, however,
that he was enjoying the chat, which was
taking his thoughts off his troubles;
“and if ye don’t mind me slowin’ down
when I get tired, me lad,” he added, “I’d
like to ramble on.”
So he continued to discourse on
fighters he had known, some of whom
were merely names to Terry. There was
Billy McCarthy, who met the first Jack
Dempsey, called “The Nonpareil,” an’ La
Blanche an’ Jim Hall an’ ever so many
more, boxed his way round the world
an’ came home to Sydney to die. There
was Billy Smith, whose battle with
McCarthy was the most gruelling ever
seen in the White Horse cellar, an’ who
taught Sharkey, an’ who had settled
down in California an’ was keeping a
pub in the Mexican quarter of some big
city—Los Angeles, it might be.
An’ George Seale, the amateur, who was
never beaten, though he gave stones away
to professionals like Costello an’ Steve
O’Donnell and tackled all ,the best
middleweights, bar Fitz and HalL; an
Jackson always said he would have licked
them. An’ Jim Ryan, who was as pretty
a man as ever stripped till the big fellow
who outpointed Jack Johnson wasn t his
name Hart?—landed on one of his eyes
an’ destroyed the sight. An’ that dacent
man, Mick Dunn, whose dandy left was
too much for Joe Walcott, the naygur,
although he didn’t get the decision.
An’ George Muldoon, who was as wild
as a hawk, an’ whose ring appearances
were few an’ far between, because when
he had a few beers inside his belt George
would sock the first policeman he saw.
An’ that poor devil who was flogged at
the triangles, and who went out of the
Game because he was ashamed to let
people see the marks on his hide.
There was a knock at the door. “An-
other visitor for you, Mr. Foley,” said
the soft voice of the Sister.
The patient was visibly delighted.
“Good-day to you, Sandy,” he said, as a
sturdy old man strode in. “You two
know each other, of course? You don't?
Then one’s Terry Mac Sherry, the other’s
Sandy Ross.”
Sandy Ross? The other party to
Foley’s most famous scrap, the Orange
man who, 51 years before, had fought
a 71-round draw with him at Como on
Georges River. Terry could scarcely
believe his ears.
There had been a return match which
Larry won. That had been almost for-
gotten, whereas the first fight had become
part of the history of New South Wales.
It lasted two hours and forty minutes —
and it took almost as long to recite the
old ballad of which it was the theme.
Terry could remember only one verse,
and he wasn’t sure about that.
The goriest encounter
That ever yet was seen,
Was fought, old hoss, by Sandy Ross
And Foley—for the Green.
“Yes, it’s Sandy Ross,” said Foley,
looking at Terry and grinning. “We’ve
been mates for many years, though he
has never quite forgiven me for handing
him that batin’ in ’sixty-six ; an’ he has
never forgotten, close-fisted Ulsterman
that he is, that my supporters gave me a
pub while his fobbed him off with a cab.
I sold the pub long ago but he kept the
cab. They tell me he’s chucker-out at
the racecourse now —and him seventy-
five if he is a day!”
Terry left them together: the old foe-
men and friends, the Orange and the
Green.
Mac Sherry and Sandy walked side by
side behind the hearse that carried all that
was left of Foley to Waverley cemetery.
“Well, he couldn’t have picked a better
day for dying,” said Sandy sadly.
Death had come to Larry Foley on the
Twelfth of July.
(To be continued.)
THE OLD BRIGADE.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON April 25 the writer paraded
in plain clothes with a few
hundred other baldheads to take
part in Sydney’s Anzac Day
march as a veteran of the South African
War, 1899-1902, and afterwards enjoyed
himself in several places where old
soldiers gather after such an hour or so
as we had that morning in the Domain.
There were men from Bourke and
Broken Hill and the Hunter River and
Liverpool Plains and other diverse parts
of N.S.W., and sundry old tussles with
Brother Boer and many adventures by
veld and kopje and drift were recalled.
But the most vivid memory was of the
starvation we enjoyed (as Mr. Weaver,
in Mr. Stevens’s expression, enjoyed poor
health) when, often enough, a cob of
mealies or a slice of pumpkin represented
a day’s rations. And it was almost in-
credible that our experiences—though
many had been in the Big War too —
were nearly 40 years old.
There was no getting over that—but
what did it matter, anyhow? We’d had
our day, and all we regretted was that
we couldn’t have it over again. Here
is a recollection of it out of a book the
writer published 36 years ago (Tommy
Cornstalk) which perhaps he may be
forgiven for digging up as a pleasant
memory of unpleasantly hard times in
what was, compared with the modern
sort of war, a gentlemanly affair of arms
—but not gas. It is about the veld.
“You may have starved on it, shivered
in wet blankets as you lay in its clinging
mud, bled on it, buried your comrade
in it but, afterwards, when you look
back to it, and time shall have wrapped
a haze of interest round its sterner out-
lines, you will remember the charm, the
half-unconscious attractiveness, the in-
definable something that was of its very
nature.
“Sunrise with dew sparkling like
diamond points on the long, waving
grass, the fresh breeze fanning your face,
the glorious blue sky overhead boasting
of the coming day, the flat-topped purple
kopjes far away on the yellow horizon ;
a white farmhouse, with its deep-green
setting of eucalyptus and willow, in the
middle distance ; and the splendid, dry,
invigorating atmosphere about you —was
always beautiful. In the noontide, the
bright sunlight made lakes and lagoons
before you clearer and more distinct,
even, than the mirage of our western
plains.
“In the evening the sunset threw
long shadows of men and horses across
the long levels. And at night, when you
lay out on its wide bosom, tucked away
snugly into your lousy blanket the
bright stars glittering like electric points
up in their indigo setting, while the
smoke from your pipe curled lazily into
the darkness, and you thanked God for
a few hours of rest and peace—then it
was that the veld had its greatest charm.
“And if, later, you should wake when
the precious fires had dwindled down to
points of light, and only the sentries on
the horse-lines stood shivering in the
early-morning chill, you would find
something wanting in the veld-night,
something whose absence would strike
you as strangely unfamiliar in your
experience of sleeping out o’ doors.
Everything seemed to have become
quiet. There were no crickets, no frogs,
no possums scratching in the trees, no
curlews with their wailing notes —nothing
but dead, absolute silence, save the
muffled munching of an occasional
hungry horse nibbling at the grass beside
his picket-peg.”
Oh, well —labuntur annil


THE MAN FROM GUNDAGAI
BY “EL V.”
IN the days when men still drove
wagonettes and pairs, with Straw ■
berry tied behind, a little man with
humorous, birdlike eyes and a small
stand with bottles on it was to be
observed on any showground along
eastern Australia.
It might be Atherton or Cootamundra,
Wagga or Bangalow. There might be a
duststorm or a torrent in progress. It
didn’t matter. There that likeable little
man would be.
“Hullo, pal,” he would say in a soft,
well-modulated voice. “Will you have
a glass of wine?”
“Thanks, Jack,” you would answer,
knowing that it was Jack’s business to
give people glasses of wine to advertise
a great vineyard and cellar.
Then, according to the weather and
your needs, you would begin to ask him
questions. How was the grass down
Monaro way? Had he seen any agist-
ment country down the line? Did he
hear anything about that new bull of
George Grey’s at Kiama?
He could always tell you faithfully.
If a stranger, you would wonder
that the twinkling fellow seemed to be
like Kim, the friend of all the world, on
terms of intimacy with everybody.
Probably you would laugh at yourself
afterwards for not being able to get him
out of your mind. He had (and still has)
a sort of luminous air about him, as if
he had been built with a candle inside
him. As you went to the show luncheon
you would probably notice him swapping
badinage with the sideshow-men. As
you came back you might see him on
equally good terms with McTavish, the
district’s greatest sheepowner.
To each and every one, you could be
sure, he would speak with a considerate
courtesy, throwing little junks of kindly
philosophy into the fire of his conver-
sation.
If you chanced to remark that he
seemed to be pretty happy in spite of
the drought he would answer:
“Well, you swallow a lot of sunshine
going round this country. I’ve got my-
self full of it.”
Every show in those days, as now,
had its show dinner, but the fittings were
cruder trestle tables in a marquee,
pink cut-out paper decorations, a keg in
the corner, a chairman in a collar like
a hollow log and stiff white cuffs, and
a toast list a mile long. As a stranger
you might be surprised to see that little
man sitting not far from the chairman.
You would, perhaps, be even more
surprised when the announcement came
after the seventh toast, “We will now
have a recitation,” and he stood up to
the full height of his five-feet-six.
That shining smile of his would play
round the table. There would be a few
modest sentences of introduction, and
then the words would come floating out,
as if produced by a musical instrument,
effortlessly, with no obvious note of
drama, no striving for effect, no rising of
the intonation.
The rows of lean faces round the tables
would be very still. Nothing would be
moving in that marquee except the
swinging oil-lamps overhead and the
rising tobacco-smoke as the little man
recited the verses which since have been
heard round the campfires of the world:
I’ve done my share of shearing sheep,
Of droving and all that,
And bogged a bullock team as well
On a Murrumbidgee flat.
I’ve seen the bullock stretch and strain,
And blink his bleary eye,
And the dog sit on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
The last line would be whispered
round the tables as a refrain. Then out
of pause the reciter would go on:
I’ve been jilted, jarred and crossed in
love,
And sandbagged in the dark,
Till if a mountain fell on me
I’d treat it as a lark.
It’s when you’ve got your bullocks
bogged—
That’s the time you flog and cry,
And the dog sits on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
We’ve all got our little troubles
In life’s hard, thorny way.
Some strike them in a motor-car
And others in a dray.
But when your dog and bullocks strike
It ain’t no apple pie,
And the dog sat on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
Bur that’s all past and dead and gone,
And I’ve sold the team for meat,
And perhaps some day where I was
bogged
There’ll be an asphalt street.
The dog, ah ! well, he got a bait
And thought he’d like to die,
So I buried him in the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
Even in cold print there is something
about those simple verses which gets
inside the skin of an Australian. They
seem to epitomise the struggle of the
bush. But to really know all there is in
them you have to hear Jack Moses, their
author, recite them.
Other people have tried—thousands of
them, in bush camps, in halls, in Pales-
tine, behind the duckboards of Flanders,
in bars and in Y.M.CAs.—but none of
them can do it like Jack Moses himself,
who, as Frank Morton once said, is
about the best reciter of Australian bush
verse who ever lived. That is the reason,
probably, why it is only in recent years
that Jack’s verse has found its way into
book form.
Indeed, they were thinking of putting
up the monument to the dog on his
tucker-box, which now stands some
miles from Gundagai, and Jack Moses
was a personality throughout Australia
before he was tempted to put some of
his verse between covers in Beyond the
City Gates.
The bush, he said, didn’t need it in
print. And there was something in
that. When you read Jack Moses’s
verse without having heard him recite
it you have the same feeling as you often
have when you read a medieval ballad:
“What on earth do the anthologists see
in this?”
But when, say, you are of the N. S.
Wales North Coast and the country is
green about you and you come into that
show dinner after a zestful, sunny day
in the judging ring, it does something to
your inside when, the lads of the village
having shouted hoarsely for “Bangalow,”
Jack Moses gets going:
.... the ibis in the rushes
And the blue cranes at the pool,
And the kiddies on their ponies,
All coming home from school.
The corn is getting riper,
While the pigs and poddies grow ;
There’s money in the milkers
On the road to Bangalow.
If you belong to Jindalee you get the
same sort of „ feeling from Jack’s
simple: >
The fleecy clouds float into view
And roll around the ranges blue,
Then sail away, so soft and free.
Across the lands of Jindalee.
Jack Moses is probably the last of all
the troubadours and bards and senna-
chies. Born in Sydney 77 years ago,
with a father who came out from London
in Macquarie’s day to marry a merry
Irish girl, he has been wandering from
show to show for so long that he seems
ageless. \ .
He looks no older than he was when
I first saw him 30 years ago. His voice
JACK MOSES.
is not less golden. He can still get a
thrill' out of telling you how, when hq
was a small boy, he used to see William
Bede Dailey and . in awe follow him
and old Henry Parkes down the street;
of how Sir John Robertson looked like
Don Quixote being helped home of an
evening by his old Rosinante of a
horse.
There was a young Jack Moses once
who used to swim friendly races with
Larry Foley, and a younger one who used
to stand enthralled watching the fine
ladies and gentlemen come spanking in
with their pairs and fours and gleaming
carriages from Parramatta, and the long
teams of bullocks snaking it out of Syd-
ney for the Mountains. Sydney was a
city to make a man a poet in those days,
Jack Moses says. At Christmas-time
they used to decorate the verandah-posts
with wildflowers and drive fat geese from
door to door so that you might pick your
Sunday dinner.
It was in this Sydney that Jack saw
his first show, 70 years ago. For three-
score years and ten, year in and year
out, he has been travelling the shows ever
since.
And that is not his only record.
One old friend has had a five-pound
note waiting for 20 years for anybody
who has ever heard Jack Moses say an
unkind word about anybody or do any-
body a bad turn or fail to produce a bit
of philosophy or give a helping hand to
a friend in trouble.
Jack is still a hale and hearty trouba-
dour. He wandered into The Bulletin
office the other day to announce that he
had become the proud father —of a col-
lected edition of his verse (Nine Miles
from Gundagai; Angus and Robertson ;
2s. 9d.). The time is ripe for it as a
record now that all the bush knows his
works.
All the old favorites are there —“Gun-
dagai,” “Along the Castlereagh,” “Jin-
dalee,” “A Stranger from Somewhere”
and the rest that have been recited
over a thousand festive boards. And
he has topped them off with an epilogue
to Gundagai:
It’s good to keep a story green
That gives a little cheer.
There’s a smile around the tucker-box
That’s spreading year by year.
it’s fine to meet old friends again,
But I must say good-bye ;
So keep the old grin going, mate,
Nine miles from Gundagai.
Everybody in the bush will want this
little volume because Jack’s verses have
become part of Australian life.
“O. W. Waireki”: A startled yell, fol-
lowed by a loud bang, woke up the house-
hold. Along the passage at the double
came the new hand calling that he had
“bashed a big snake in the kitchen.” He
paused at Dad’s door. “I saw it eyeing
me in the moonlight when 1 was getting
a drink at the sink, so I let fly with the
poker,” he explained excitedly. Dad
grabbed a torch and went to investigate.
Harold followed at a distance. Presently
Dad’s curses rent the air, “Didn’t I finish
it off?” called the lad nervously.
“Finish!” Dad roared. “You’ve finished
me blanky chances of a show prize;
you’ve smashed up that four-foot cucum-
ber!”
.** * *
“Nor’-west”: The untouched abo. was
at times generous towards the white
stranger in trouble. In 1875 the Austrian
barque Stephano crashed on the reefs near
Point Cloates, 700 miles north from Perth.
Ten of the crew, including two youths,
got ashore—only to wander for weeks
up and down the desolate coast, watched
but not molested by the local tribes.
Finally all adults died, leaving the two
boys practically at their last gasp. The
blacks then came forward, attended to
these survivors, in their not unskilful
way and nursed them slowly back to life ;
then when they were strong enough to
be moved, though still unable to walk,
carried them 80 miles north to North
West Cape, the jutting point which all
vessels passing up or down the coast were
obliged to round. Here signal fires were
lit, which ultimately brought in the
lugger Pearl, Captain Tuckey of Man-
. durah. During the long carry north the
tribe gave their guests the pick of each
day’s hunting, lit them a separate fire
and allowed them to cook their food to
their own liking. Could hospitality go
further?
5 OH. GEORGE. 7 COME AND
VHOLD BABY WHILE I GIVE,
L HIM HIS OIL// )
THIS IS THE L/AYTO HOLD
A BABY / NOW GIVE IT TO
HIM WHILE HE'5 STEADY/ J
eve
f DONT BLAME ME / \
BLAME THE POOR LIGHT \
, FROM CHEAP INFERIOR J
\ LAMPS Hf-f'
AND GET PHI UPS COILED COIL LAMPS .
WHICH GIVE 50% MORE LIGHT THAN
CHEAP INFERIOR LAMPS AT NO EXTRA
FOR CURRENT// J


1
88
V4LI*S
fh
OtL GAJZ,
a woman.
Mirrors Tell —
If you are a woman, you
peer in the mirror often. That’s
natural. You want to look your
best at all times. But your
mirror can tell you more than
you think.
The next time you look in
your mirror, put out your
tongue. Not because you don’t
like yourself—but because you
do. Now examine your tongue.
Is it coated with a lurry, white
or yellowish substance?
A Sure Sign—
A coated tongue is an almost
positive sign of constipation.
Remember how the doctor
says, ’’Let me see your
tongue.” He knows that a
coated tongue usually means
constipation. And he knows
that constipation is the most
common cause of headaches,
dizziness, biliousness, blotched
skin, ‘‘that tired feeling,” and
many worse ailments.
Nature’s Remedy—
When a coated tongue tells
you of constipation, act at
. once. Don’t wait for something
worse to happen. Help nature
back to normal with a natural
laxative-—with a good gentle
laxative with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
You will like the way Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills act.
There is no griping pain, no
depressing sickness. Swiftly
and smoothly the herbal in-
gredients stir the intestines into
activity. Soon the poisonous
wastes that were coating your
tongue are gone. Then consti-
pation cannot endanger your
health.
For coated tongue, for any
of the symptoms of common
constipation, four generations
of women have preferred the
natural remedy—Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
r
•Jill
PILL
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a high grade preparation sold at a low price.
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are genera]
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot’’ Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1 /6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
as*-
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
’o-
/
,
JP*J?
4 <<v
' xe .<1 °^
❖
s.°
rt
B
5P
cP
<y
p
v)^
1' 5®
,^ ss
0°
¥>
d£
v0 VV
o t
»* * o# *o^
. • , ot
, </s«£ Jvd


HIGH GRADE
tfr
mr
TOOL STEELS
c 4f OH A
$
BRAND
High Speed Steels, Carbon and
Alloy Tool Steels, Drills, Files
and Rasps, Hacksaw Blades,
Circular Saws, Machine
Knives, Chaffcutter Blades.
Associated Company: Arthur Balfour & Co.,
Ltd., Sheffield, England.
SYDNEY:
379 Kent Street,
BRISBANE:
28 Charlotte Street,
South Australian Agents;
Atkins Limited, 55-57
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
THE
EAGLE
t GLOBE
STEEL
CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE:
342 Swanston Street.
PERTH:
7 1 1 Wellington Street.
Tasmanian Agents:
R. L. Milligan,
68a Collins Street, Hobart.
