

WMCmSTEk
TRADE MARK
MODEL 69.
Model 67 Junior, 20in. barrel, ,22-cal. single-shot bolt-action
rifle. Except that it is smaller and lighter, this rifle is identical
with the regular Model 67 with 2 7in. barrel.
Model 69, .22-cal. bolt-action box magazine repeating rifle.
25in. round barrel. Standard sporting rear sight or rear peep
sight. Fitted with Winchester 2 f-power or 5-power telescope
'
MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
MODEL 70
Model 70, bolt-action high-power repeating rifle, 20in.
or 24in. barrel. In calibre .22 Hornet and .220 Swift.
Open sporting rear sight or 48w Lyman receiver aperture
rear sight, 26in. barrel.
' ri ,:.r “” V %
MODEL 21.
double-barrel hammerless gun, chambered for 2 fin. cartridges.
Available in standard grade 30in. barrels and trap grade single trigger.
Selective ejection. Barrels modified and full-choke.
ķ
.22-cal. Rimfire Leader Cartridges. Short,
long and long-rifle. New brass shell and
solid lead bullet. Non-corrosive primer.
\w
c t a^
4
ĸ
k
Boys’ and Girls’ Extension Frame
Skate with double ball-bearing
steel rolls.
gUPis
.22-cal. Rimfire Super-speed Cartridges.
Short, long and long-rifle. Nickel-plated
shell and Kopper Klad bullet in both solid
and hollow point.
®|>o
Tit
£2*33
t&x
S c jv
■s.v
**Af
"A»
2?JV
Write for Catalogue and Full Particulars.
COWLES <a DUNN
’Phone: M 3388.
71 King Street
Sydney
Telegraphic Address
“CODUN,”
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3053.
Wednesday, August 17, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address orr application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
BOLD. BAD BALLADS.
In one of the few poems in which he didn’t try
to use verse as a sort of Sandow-developer, D. H.
Lawrence has a sentimental memory of a Sunday even-
ing, “the tinkling piano our guide,” his mother play-
ing, and the voices of the children filling the room.
It evokes the same nostalgic charm as the astute Mr.
Coward profited by in the procession of songs in
“Cavalcade.”
Present sentimentalist has almost tearful recol-
lections of a post-war Glee Club and a tall, bony
female (who on even more exciting occasions wore an
ear-to-ankle bathing costume striped like a zebra and
frilly in frivolous places) proclaiming with the utmost
gravity that Hoompty Doompty fell off the wall. That
was a “round.” They used to sing “Three Blind
Mice,” too, breaking it up into sections that brought
the carving-knife into odd proximity with the farmer’s
wife. No doubt, in drawing-rooms, at “community-
sings” or when hikers forgather, such delicious goings-
on still go on. But it is hard to track them down.
One strain of popular songs, however, is still
brayed as heartily as if the world hadn’t changed since
Chaucer. Those are the ballads that are sung at cheery
or beery gatherings around campfires in the bush,
radiators in King’s Cross, and even around the fur-
nace of the old school tie at reunions. Four ex-
plorers who travelled to Katoomba recently, searching
for a snowflake that was reputed to have fallen in
the Blue Mountains, concealed their chagrin with this
repertoire: “Wrap Me Up in My Stockwhip and
Blanket,” “Waltzing Matilda,” “Frankie and Johnnie,”
“Abdul Abulbul Amir,” “The Cowhand’s Last Ride,”
“There Is a Tavern in the Town,” “John Peel,” “The
Golden Vanitee” and the more interesting adventures
of the lass who was poor but honest, Samuel Hall,
and that seafarer even hardier than Popeye, Barnacle
Bill.
The songs are worth examining. Drawn from
England, Scotland aind America, they should delight
Ezra Pound by proving the international character
of Culture. At the same time, the inclusion of the two
Australian numbers should flatter local pride, not
only by indicating the growth of national conscious-
ness, but by showing that the indigenous product can
hold its own among the finest samples of overseas
genius. That, in fact, has been previously demon-
strated by Pound’s alter ego, T. S. Eliot, when he in-
cluded in “The Waste Land” a poignant interlude,
noted as Australian, about a Mrs. Porter and her
dorter who washed their feet in sodawater.
Eliot, in the programme listed above, could find
evidence to support his theory of the contemporaneity
of literature. “Frankie and Johnnie,” a giant of
modern art, co-exists with the Victorian masterpiece
“She Was Poor but She Was Honest,” with Burns’s
tavern piece, and with the tragic Mr. Hall, who,
whenever he was written, smacks unmistakably of
Falstaff, and might even have been one of the Can-
terbury pilgrims. G. B. Lancaster, in Promenade, has
Maorflanders in the year dot singing “The Golden
Vanitee,” and drawing-room tenors asked the aspidistra
if it kenned John Peel a good many years ago, too.
When so much that is written broods among the dust
in second-hand bookshops it really can be pleasing
to know that a song is still alive: no doubt the ghost
of Ben Jonson beams about the bathroom when
“Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes” rumbles to the
music of H. and C., and Tauber’s exquisite “With
everything that pretty bin, my lady sweet arise” should
have Shakspeare preening his wings.
Nothing so dainty, of course, was attempted by
the Katoomba explorers, but the ballads they sang are
not without a certain stalwart merit. Burns’s item,
with its delightful ending,
Carve a little turtle dove
To signify I died of love,
is the best of them. That it can be sung to-day, so
many miles from Glasgow, explains why the Scots love
Burns. If he had been a much worse poet than he is,
they’d still have said he is a much better poet than
he is, because he was a Scot —but apart from that he
did know the meaning of good-fellowship. There’s
an inn in Ayrshire to-day where the tourist can see a
verse of “Cornin’ through the Rye” he scratched on
the windowpane, and songs such as “There Is a Tavern
in the Town” live on just as firmly because of their
flavor of good company and comic scurrility.
“She Was Poor but She Was Honest,” a version of
which was included in Victorian Street Ballads, re-
viewed on the Red Page some time ago, has exactly
the same atmosphere, and Burns himself might have
envied the quip when, after losing her name through
Squoire’s villainy, the poor victim met an army cap-
tain and “lost her name again.”
The more recent ballads, though they tend to
respectability, are in the same vein. There’s no dif-
ference in spirit between the lamenting lady in Burns
and the deluded Frankie who found that “there ain’t
no good in men”; and there’s clearly an affinity
between Burns’s weeping willow-tree and the melan-
choly planet in:
There’s a Muscovite maiden her lone vigil keeps
’Neath the light of the pale polar star,
And the name that she murmurs so oft as she weeps
Is Ivan Skivinski Skivar.
(A musical authority approached on the spelling
of Ivan swore that his midriff is “Petrovski,” but that’s
not what they called him among the snowflake at
Katoomba.) The song, dealing tenderly with battle,
murder and sudden death, has the same tone as “The
Cowhand’s Last Ride,” except that the puncher-—in-
credibly—lacks heart-interest. He is a touching char-
acter all the same: —
He was only a Texas cowhand
But one that knew his stuff;
“LTKSdfSS Sy h ,t g h as brOW "'
Poor guy, he \ auld shoot at the wink of an eye,
but they got him in the end:
. One night during last year’s round-up
As lhe m fla t m« ,b eapt r high?r from jiis old campfire
He fell with a gun in each hand.
It’s only two bangs of a Colt’s tail from that to
the Australian songs. The bloke by the billabong
was a rustler if ever there was one. “Waltzing
Matilda” has travelled the world in song-albums, and
if “Wrap Me Up in My Stockwhip and Blanket” hasn’t
gone overseas in the form which Anon, borrowed
from Whyte-Melville it deserves to. It would be a
good quid pro quo for the cowboy ballads:
Wrap me up in my stockwhip and blanket
And bury me deep down below,
Where the dingoes and crows won’t molest me,
In the shade where the coolabahs grow.
Like all the other songs quoted here, that effort
gets its humor from the use of the mock-heroic.
Burns’s tavern friend, Squoire’s victim, Frankie and
the strong men who perish with a groan have the
same atmosphere of sardonic comedy. As Frankie
very profoundly observes, there ain’t no good in
men, but the fact that the songs they like to sing, if
improper, are nearly always humorous is, like hiking
and green vegetables, very healthy indeed. .'
Caliban in Hornrims.
Lately reviewed here, the chief of Uncle Sam’s
G-Men laid a large measure of blame for crime in
U.S.A. on the maternal footstool; the direct pamper-
ing of juvenile wrongdoers by their mothers.
The great sculptor David Edstrom, also viewing
the U.S.A. crime scene, attaches a weighty charge of
blame to the skirted sex, too ; an indictment more
generalised and abstract than the G-Chief’s dealing
with surface phenomena ; something fundamental in
the U.S.A.’s social structure, not to be eradicated by
shooting it out in any number of encounters or by
any amount of teaching Willie that he must be a good
little boy.
One of the great problems of- American civilisation
is crime. It is forbidden to mention the immediate
cause, yet many keen thinkers are aware of it. The
cause is the emancipation of woman and through that
the teaching of boys by women teachers. The rough
and hardy obstreperous male child gets a sense of hope-
lessness from being handled by illogical emotional
women teachers. Male teachers in military schools
cannot even scratch the surface of the evil. They
are themselves creatures of American sentimentalism.
A woman who is a mother is not just a female of the
species, but has become a symbol of something superior.
The animalistic savage demands of women for jewels,
rich gowns, and other creature comforts and securities
have become the ultimate good. Our schools from
kindergarten to the university have beopme disorderly
institutions to perpetuate a stupid and ' vicious matri-
archal code. It is obvious and natural that thousands
of men become criminals. They are the national over-
compensation against the gross materialism of the
feminine rdgime.
During recent years, Edstrom adds, there “has
been a growing tendency toward a saner direction, but
whether this change will move fast enough to save
America from collapse I do not know.”
Generally, as Edstrom looks back over his strange
and tormented life he sees women violently as the
Enemy. Mostly they stand out down that tem-
pestuous vista as a mural of predatory harpies.
Where he can, he speaks well of them, sometimes
fondly, but never sentimentally. His mother has much
of the quality of Miranda, but more that of Portia.
She, at any rate, did him no harm. It was his grand-
mother was Sycorax to his Caliban, in which form he
chooses to exhibit himself in his autobiography, The
Testament of Caliban (Hale).
It is in every aspect an extraordinary piece of
writing. Its single weakness is in the purely mechani-
cal business of ending. Here, nearing the end, he
explains that he has “tried as far as possible to repro-
duce the moods of childhood, youth, maturity and
middle age.” He achieves that high literary aim to an
exceptional degree, and he does it partly by means of
arresting literary modelling. His book has fine literary
form in addition to the powerful and exciting ma-
terials of which it is composed. His chapters—the
early ones particularly—are really arresting in their
pure literary quality. Each of them has the finished
composition, the completion, of a masterly short
story. A Maupassant short story might be putting it
better, for in these chapters there is very strongly
the Maupassant awareness and penetration of charac-
ter, the searching analysis of men and women, includ-
ing the author’s self, and along with it the sureness
of scene depiction, and the dark, brooding nature of
that scene.
This is outright magnificent writing. There are
reproductions of Edstrom’s powerful sculptures in the
book, and this writing is as powerful as they are. It
begins in Sweden, midnight, March 27, 1873, with a
strange trinity present. Mother : not as yet of very
much importance, apart from the incidental matter
of having borne Caliban ; she a third wife ; a fragile,
nervous woman who had hoped for a better mar-
riage ; a strange companion for her mate’s robust and
often grim vigor. Father: born in circumstances of
great hardship ; as a boy robbing the farmers’ hogs,
beating them off with a club while he ate ravenously of
their swill; now a convert to a primitive concept of
Christianity, and a preacher, too, till his open viola-
tion of marriage led to his being cast out of the church
and having to sell up his possessions and shift to
America. Grandmother : an illiterate peasant woman
of tremendous, frightening vitality, living still in the
pagan beliefs of her Viking ancestors, her dark mind
brooding on witches’ sabbaths, worshipping gods
anathema to Christianity, forcing her therefore into
shrill conflict with the convert head of the house ;
muttering darkly to the small David Edstrom when it
thundered that Thor was riding recklessly, and at a
loud clap in the sky screeching: “Now he hit a giant
on the head!”
Such people alone give the opening of his story
a stupendous fictional character, which is greatly in-
tensified, as in subsequent chapters, by the working
out of an incident as complete and final as the core
of a work of imagination. In the first chapter it is the
boy David, his mind worked upon both by his grand-
mother’s pagan stories and even more vividly still
by his father’s primitive biblical lore, looking into
a book of the Christian martyrs up in the garret and
glimpsing therein something which started his heart
beating against his breast in rapturous terror. Clutch-
ing the shut-tight book fiercely with both hands, he
ran with it to his mother, and finally managed to get
out, “Mother, I’ve caught something wicked.” His
mother took the book and opened it. “Why, David,”
she said in gentle surprise, “that’s a peacock’s feather.”
The chapter concludes :
But even as I walked away in hurt silence, grasping
the lovely thing in my hand, even with my newly-
acquired knowledge that it was but a feather after all,
taken from a bird which was neither good nor bad in
itself, but only beautiful, that which I clutched in my
hand, that which I had run down to its hiding place in
the garret, was still something deliciously wicked,
terrible, dangerous and desirable.
He is still a small boy when they cross over to
America, where they know dire poverty, in winter.
The cold is so intense that poultry of all sorts die of
it; the birds are thrown over back fences or are to
be picked up in the fields. With aliens’ fear of the law
in a strange land, the exiles sneak out in the night,
gather the birds’ bodies up in bags and lump them
back to their hut, to pluck them there and sell the
feathers as their only means to existence. Their worst
fears seem to -be realised when one night about a
dozen men come into their hut, dump down heavy
bags they carry, stand there while their spokesman
makes his speech, “We don’t aim for anyone to be
hungry or cold in Rankin,” and then file silently out.
The Edstroms were right; they had been watched
in their midnight scavenging, and this food and cloth-
ing was Rankin’s response.
All along its tortured and often ruthless way
the story bears this imprint of truth. Its vigorous nar-
rative tells how Edstrom, after one false start, even-
tually broke away from home intent on going back
to Swederi and studying art at the Royal Academy
there, adjured by his mother as he left not to turn
back. His sea crossing, as a stoker, is no ordinary
crossing, with a Dane making him the object of a
violent hatred, and his having to fight back every bit
as violently. Neither is there anything that isn’t extra-
ordinary in his subsequent experiences, from his gain-
ing entry into the Academy, through his life as a
world-famous sculptor in Italy, Paris and elsewhere
in Europe, his loves and marriages, his meetings and
acquaintanceships with a strange medley of persons
great, famous, beautiful, gifted, besotted, evil and mad,
to his ultimate return to U.S.A. —to, of all places,
Los Angeles; Hollywood, from its most gaudy boom
days onwards, with all its fantasia in shoddy super-
ficiality ; a place, it might be thought, more likely
than any other on earth to turn one of his mould and
content of mind into a stark raving madman.
But the mood on which he closes is notably that
of a clear mentality. He may have been Caliban once,
in the high fury and violence of his life of creative
effort, but there are photographs of him, wearing
hornrims, and he looks astoundingly like a represen-
tative citizen of Gahd’s Own Country.
Christina Stead's New Novel.
Christina Stead’s House of All Nations (Peter
Davies; Angus and Robertson) is something really
new ; big, and in an odd way fiercely antipathetic to
the whole course of the Anglo-Saxon novel.
It is the story of the exotic flowering and fraudu-
lent failure of a private bank, Bertillon Freres, in
Paris. The coffers are crammed with characters ;
there are well over 100 of them, great and small, not
counting a host of supernumeraries that would do
credit to a Cecil B. de Mille film.
The picture is of a machine, with the human
prerogative of madness, bolting with a cargo of
mechanised human beings. The technical aspect of
the novel, the history of international finance in 1931-
32, involving the rise of dictators, economic depres-
sion, abandonment of the gold standard, the furious
manoeuvres of institutions and individuals to cope
with these changes, the increasing unreality of money
transactions, anonymous accounts, export and import
of securities, the frenzied gambling in commodities
and currencies, is handled with superb virtuosity as
if by an expert in finance. All the details and the
documents —letters, contracts, cables —are laid before
the dazed reader. This is the hard businesslike skele-
ton. The excitement and suspense of the book arise
from the financial manipulations.
There is no so-called romantic interest, and yet
despite the cold toughness of the theme House of All
Nations is a romantic novel. It is a fairy tale, a fan-
tasy on a new theme, romanticism reorientated. Just
as once the poet was expected to choose only “poetic”
subjects —the noble, the awful, the beautiful, the
tender —so there is a general belief that the romantic
novelist must write only of “romantic” themes.
Christina Stead has draped a steel skeleton in the
exotic, lustrous, fantastic garments of the romantic.
The book glitters with aphorisms. The publisher
has selected twenty or so of the most striking and
used them as a preface, presumably to rescue them
from being lost in the crowd: “A self-made man is
one who believes in luck and sends his son to Oxford” ;
“If all the rich men in the world divided up their
money among themselves there wouldn’t be enough to
o Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERT [SlNG” — always.
THE SENIOR STORE.'
m
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
1
m
m
...
Cl".
s
, I ; : § *
V-:.
>-
I 1
) t "$■
• 5 m
r s
"S,<i
I ■
■■
* ;
•: :
■ I
111
■
■
:■
L
%i
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonweal?"!
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
JUMBUK
(REGD.)
*
tS>
UNDERWEAR
GUARANTEED AND RECOMMENDED BY
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear provides the right protection against the ravages of winter.
Its natural warmth is a safeguard to health. Made of selected long-staple pure woollen yarn
—the soft, down-like surface of the fabric is flawless, and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is Australian through and through, radiating in its native
warmth, the stored-up virtues of our country’s glorioufc sunshine.
“Jumbuk” (Reg.) Underwear is guaranteed pre-shrunk, and the wide range of sizes stocked
enables every man, woman and child to obtain a comfortable fit.
220 X— ‘ ‘ Jumbuk
Sizes, inches
Shirts, S.S •
Underpants
Trunk Drawers ......
Natural All Wool, lightweight.
330X—“Juxnbuk” Natural All Wool, medium winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 11/9 12/3 13/3 14/3 15/9 17/- 18/6 20/- 21/6
Shirts, L.S 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6 21/-
Underpants 12/9 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/9 18/- 19/6
Underpants, f leg ... 12/6 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/6 17/9
Trunk Drawers 12/3 12/9 13/9 14/9 16/3 17/6
440—“Jumbuk”
Sizes, inches
Shirts, S.S
Shirts, L.S
Underpants
Natural All Wool, heavy winter weight.
All—“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets.
In Cream All Wool, Sleeveless style, self bound neck and armholes. Sizes, 34 to 44
inch chest. Prices, each 5/6
750 —“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton, lightweight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S. .... . 7/- 7/9 8/3 9/- 10/- 11/3 12/6 13/9 15/-
Underpants 7/9 8/6 9/- 9/9 10/9 12/- 13/3 14/6
Trunk Drawers 7/3 8/- 8/6 9/3 10/3 11/6
25X —“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton, winter weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, S.S 8/6 9/- 9/3 9/9 10/9 11/9 12/9 13/9 15/-
Shirts, L.S 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6
Underpants 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/9
OTHER MAKES OF UNDERWEAR
70P4— Brown Cotton Underwear. A stout durable make in a soft (unbleached)
finish.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 48
Shirts, short sleeves 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6 66/6
Underpants . 5/6 5/9 6/- .6/3 6/6 7/- 7/6
70P5— Men’s Flannel Undershirts, in reliable quality flannel, full fitting. In Natural
and Dark Grey. Prices 5/11, 7/9, 8/6
In Cream Flannel. Prices 7/9, 8/11
In Navy Blue Flannel. Price 8/11
In Cream, Natural or Dark Grey, athletic style, no sleeves 6/11
Natural or Dark Grey. Extra O.S. fitting. Price 9/11
Natural or Dark Grey, 1.2 inch double back. Price . . 9/6
Natural, Cream or Dark Grey with long sleeves, button wrists . . . 10/6
MEN’S COMBINATIONS
In weight they are as near to perfect as you could imagine . . . light,
yet beautifully warm. Of fine quality all-wool that will wear exceptionally
well, with comfortable short sleeves and trunk legs.
Chest sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 20/9
Combinations with long legs, 6d. extra.
# Men’s Mercety—Ground Floor, George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY ’Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)


An Artful Dodger
NOT UNWARRANTED
By HAROLD MERCER
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
l< K I OBODY could help but
I like Mr. Dumpy ; he
| | was so happy-go-lucky,
so full of his spree, as
Mr. Slompack us.ed to call it,”
said Mrs. Parsley, pausing in her
work. “But he never seemed to
be completely happy unless there
was a warrant out against him.
“Of course,” Mrs. Parsley
added hastily, “they were re-
spectable warrants. They were
always to do with money he
owed his wife, which showed he
was married ; and nothing can
be more respectable than that.
But, until he explained, I was
very annoyed about policemen
coming to my flats.
“I had just been telling
those policemen, which anyone
could know them, even if they
was disguised in plain clothes,
that I wasn’t my brother’s keep-
sake, and if Mr. Dumpy wasn’t
in his flat, which was Number
19, he must be out, when Mr. Dumpy himself appeared
—out of my bedroom, if you please!
“ ‘That fooled them, Mrs. Parsley! ’ he cried. ‘I
must apologise for trespassing in your bedroom, but
the easiest way to get away was to drop from my
window down to
yours. I hope you
don’t mind.’
“I was so flap-
pergasted that be-
fore I could tell him
all I meant to say
he had told me all about it; and somehow I couldn’t
be angry when he spoke about all the escapes he had
had with them warrants, which always came out when
he owed a little money, laughing about it, poor fellow.
- “ “There’s nothing to be ashamed of, Mrs. Pars-
ley,’ he says. ‘l’m afraid I’ll have to avoid our friends
the police for a time until I get this fixed up. So I’m
going to move, Mrs. Parsley.’
“ ‘Move, Mr. Dumpy?’ I cries.
“He winked.
“ ‘Yes —into Number Seven ; you’ve got that
vacant, haven’t you? You will be able to tell the
police when they come again, quite truthfully, that
I’ve given up my flat.-’ .
“Whatever made me do it, I don’t know. It was
funny ; I found myself being just as happy as Mr.
Dumpy was himself about seeing those policemen
looking puzzled when I showed them the empty flat.
“It wasn’t only me. Even Mr. Slompack would
run along to Mr. Dumpy’s new flat and tell him to
look out; he’d seen those dees in the street below.
And Mr. Wassail would sing ‘Sailor, beware ; sailor,
take care,’ as a warning.
“You see, those policemen came back. They said
Mr. Dumpy had been seen near the flats, and they
asked me if they could have a look into my yard.
That was the time Mr. Wassail started singing ; and
it gave Mr. Dumpy, coming in the back way, the
hint to bolt for the back stairs quick. Those police-
men hung round half the evening, and several times
went up to Mr. Dumpy’s old flat and knocked, though
they knew it was empty. And all the time Mr. Dumpy
was playing bridge in Mr. Slompack’s flat.
“He seemed, really, to enjoy dashing up back
stairs and getting out of windows, even climbing over
walls, although he didn’t look as if he was built for
climbing walls. Then one day he came home laden
with bottles.
“‘I fixed that warrant up,’ he said. ‘Got the
money to-day and squared it.’
“ ‘I wouldn’t like anything like that hanging over
me,’ said Mr. Wassail. ‘Anyway, I’m glad to know
you’ve got everything square.’
“ ‘Oh, there’ll be another warrant out soon,’ says
Mr. Dumpy, almost as if he was hopeful of having
a little more fun. You see, his money came in lumps
now and again ; and he ha*d a wife who wouldn’t
wait.
“There was a reg’lar party that night. Even the
plainclothes policemen dropped in. He’d invited
them, just as if they was old friends.
“ ‘I want you to meet a couple of fine fellows—-
Bill Cumber and Jack Dorahy,’ he says. ‘They’ve
always treated me like sports, though there are times
when I don’t want to meet them.’
“ ‘Oh, you know, Harry, we’ve got to do our
duty,’ says Cumber, both of them looking quite un-
comfortable.
“ ‘Oh, don’t worry about that. Here’s hoping
you won’t catch me next time you look for me,’ laughs
Mr. Dumpy, lifting a glass of beer.
‘« R. DUMPY was quite right about there being
IVI another warrant soon. One evening Miss
Keller, who had Number 14 just near the stairs, on
the second floor, called to me to come up, and there
was that Bill Cumber and Jack Dorahy arguing with
her at the door.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, will you tell these gentlemen that
this is my flat?’ says Miss Keller, angrily.
“ ‘This certainly is Miss Keller’s flat,’ I says.
“ ‘Well, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Dorahy, ‘we had
been along to Harry’s flat and we made sure, as we
were coming away, we saw him dart in here.’
“ ‘lt’s an insult! ’ cries Miss Keller.
“ ‘Miss Keller isn’t a lady to have men in her
flat,’ I says.
“‘Have you any idea where Harry is?’ asked
Bill Cumber.
“ ‘He told me he was going to Wollongong for
a fortnight,’ says I. Which was gospel truth. It
wasn’t needful for me to tell them that Mr. Dumpy
had winked. ,
“When I had seen the policemen going down the
stairs I went back to Miss Keller’s to see whether she
was very upset.
“ ‘They’re after that poor Mr. Dumpy again,’ I
says. ‘lt does seem a shame, poor feller, that they
don’t let him alone.’
“ ‘lt’s worse than that! Fancy a woman going
on like that —trying to get her husband into prison!
What type of a woman must she be?’ says Miss Keller
hotly.
“ ‘l’m sorry for him; but if there’s going to be
this sort of upset I’ll have to ask him to go,’ I says.
“ ‘Hard-hearted Mrs. Parsley! ’ says a voice which
I knew was Mr. Dumpy’s. You could have knocked
me flat with the last straw that shows the way the
wind blows when that Mr. Dumpy stepped out from
the clothes hanging in a corner wardrobe. He was
laughing as if it was a joke.
“ ‘I saw those policemen coming up and I had
my door open to warn Mr. Dumpy,’ said Miss Keller.
‘I thought there might be something wrong.’
“ ‘lt was very lucky. Miss Keller dragged me in
just in time,’ said Mr. Dumpy. ‘Miss Keller’s a sport.’
“Mr. Dumpy changed to Number 23 after that.
When them policemen came back the door of his
old flat was wide open, with brooms and things in it
to show it was being done out; and there was a card
outside the door to say that Mr. Dumpy had gone
to Wollongong.
“There was never a tenant in this place who occu-
pied so many flats as Mr. Dumpy. He was like one
of them wandering minstrels the song is about the way
he shifted from one flat to another. But you couldn’t
but like the jolly way he took his misfortunes.
“When the party was held after Mr. Dumpy had
fixed that warrant, Miss Keller was there, looking as
if she felt she was the heroine of the story. But that
was not before there had been all sorts of excite-
ment, with them police coming back. Mr. Dumpy
seemed to have as many lives as a cat has kittens the
way he just dodged them.
“COON there was another warrant.
**-' “ ‘What a disgrace to her sect that woman is,’
said Miss Keller. ‘Anyone who couldn’t get on with
Harry Dumpy must be pretty hard to please. He’s
got a wonderful deposition.’ And shortly she was say-
ing that if Mrs. Dumpy was to die she would marry
Mr. Dumpy and show him what it was to have a real
amiable, kind wife. I don’t say that she wished any
harm to Mrs. Dumpy, but she hoped for the best.
“It’s always been my idea that that Miss Perry
who used to make nasty remarks about Mr. Dumpy
and Miss Keller carrying on must have let Mrs.
Dumpy know about it. She might have been jealous
about Mr. Dumpy never hiding in her flat.
“Mrs. Dumpy looked a rather pleasant person, but
she got the habit of coming down to the flats and
making herself unpleasant in spite of my telling her
that there was nothing wrong between Miss Keller
and her husband, as I wouldn’t
stand, not for a moment, any-
thing that wasn’t respectable.
“One night there was a tre-
mendous hullabaloo. When I
got up there was Miss Keller
and Mrs. Dumpy breathing fire
and brimstone and treacle, as
the saying is, at one another, and
them two policemen was there
and a lot of the tenants. It
appeared his wife had got out a
warrant which Mr. Dumpy
hadn’t thought could be out so
soon ; and he had been caught
in fragrant delicter, as Mr.
Slompack called it.
“ ‘Sergeant, arrest that
man!’ says Mrs. Dumpy, which
neither Mr. Will Cumber nor the
other was a sergeant, but I sup-
pose she thought it sounded
better.
“ ‘l’d sooner be dead than
try to get my husband in gaol.
If a man didn’t want me I’d let
him go,’ says Miss Keller.
“ ‘l’d sooner be dead than
carry on with another woman’s
husband,’ retorted Mrs. Dumpy.
‘Let’s get along and get it over,’ says Mr.
Dumpy to the policemen. He didn’t seem to enjoy
the argument as well as the women did.
“‘Do you mean you’ll have to go to prison?’
asked Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘They’ve got
me this time,’ smiles
Mr. Dumpy. ‘lt’ll
be a couple of
weeks before I can
get the money to pay
up.”
“Mr. Wassail wasn’t having that. He squared
the warrant and told Mr. Dumpy that he could pay
him back when he got it. While it was being settled
they gave Mrs. Dumpy, who wouldn’t go away even
when the police asked her, a bad time. Even Mr.
Slompack called her a bloodsucker.
“‘Here! Here!’ says Mr. Bill Cumber. ‘You’re
not going to speak to the lady like that while I’m
about.’
“ ‘lt’s a good thing there’s one gentleman in the
place,’ says Mrs. Dumpy.
“After that matters became a regular swelter for
poor Mr. Dumpy ; it was a case of come one, come
all, and troubles coming not in single scoops but in
battle-lions. And Mr. Dumpy actually did leave.
There were no more empty flats for him to move into.
‘ ‘ NT EITHER the police or that Mrs. Dumpy would
* believe it for some time. You would think from
the way they haunted these flats that they lived here.
Everybody missed the poor feller a lot. Mr. Slom-
pack used to say that it didn’t seem like the old place
at all without having Mr. Dumpy to warn that the
police ©r his wife were after him.
“Not that we never saw anything of Mr. Dumpy.
He came to see Miss Keller, either coming in with a
rush or entering over the wall at the back which
divides this place from Comberville Flats.
“Pore Miss Keller was very fond of him. It
was real tragercal, for Mrs. Dumpy showed no signs
of dying to let them two get married.
“ ‘She’s determined to send him to gaol. I’m
afraid I’ve made matters worse for him; she has
become more bitter now. Fancy a woman going on
like that!.’ says Miss Keller.
“Poor Mr. Dumpy was finding it more difficult to
square them warrants or keep payments going so that
there wouldn’t be warrants. He was still cheerful;
but Miss Keller used to talk, desperate-like, about not
letting him go to gaol if she had to break open a
bank.
“The time I saw that Bill Cumber and Mrs.
Dumpy going up the stairs I didn’t know how best to
give a warning, although I knew that Mr. Dumpy
had arrived only a little time before. I had a sink-
ing feeling in my heart that he was caught.
“But I went out into the yard and happened to
catch Mrs. Mason at her window in the flat next
to Miss Keller’s. ‘Tell Miss Keller that a storm’s
coming. Going up the stairs, now,’ I says.
“I was wrong; there was no storm, although the
voices were loud enough when I went upstairs won-
dering what could possibly be amiss, there being no
disturbance.
“ ‘lf you want him you can have him,’ Mrs.
Dumpy was saying. ‘I wouldn’t think of holding a
man who has ceased to care for me.’
“ ‘The only reason Mrs. Dumpy applied for war-
rants against him,’ said Mr. Bill Cumber, ‘was fer his
own good—to bring him to his census.’
“ ‘I wanted to try to make a man of him, but I
failed,’ says Mrs. Dumpy. ‘Now I am ready to
divorce him.’
“The way that Miss Keller threw her arms round
my neck when she came down to tell me all about it,
you’d have thought she had won the lottery. There’s
the merciful ways of improvidence, all working out
for good to those who love the Lor’ for yer! If Mrs.
Dumpy hadn’t have got them there warrants she
wouldn’t have met that Mr. Bill Cumber, who she
o Continued on page 7.)


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for "The Bulletin s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
THE HARE’S EAR
BY DOUGLAS STEWART.
DRAW IMG BY PHILLIPS.
DARK, and not a breath of wind, thought Fred
happily as he glanced at the coloring west
before going into the bar.
His broken teeth showed in a grin as he
leaned his shambling big body over the counter.
“Where’s the fish?” Connolly asked him.
“Didn’t go out last night. Too windy. Looks
good for to-night, though.”
The publican drew him a pint. “Well, bring us
a couple in the morning if you have any luck. There’s
people from Auckland coming to stay. Like to give
’em a bit of trout.”
Fred gulped the beer down, looked quizzically at
Connolly, and pushed the mug towards him.
“G’luck!” he said as he drank his second.
“Mud in your eye!” said Connolly. “And plenty
of mud in the cop’s!”
“Ssh!” warned one of the laborers in the bar.
“O’Rourke’s just outside. You’ll get nabbed one o’
these days, Fred, if you can’t keep your mouth shut.”
Fred guffawed. “O’Rourke’s had a go at me
often enough, and I haven’t paid any fines yet!”
“By God, that’s right!” laughed Connolly.
“Remember when old Miss Gabriel up at Ngaere
informed on you and he chased you all the way
through the bush down to Chiselhurst?”
“Never got me, though!” chuckled Fred. “That
was the night he fell in and got wet through.”
“He’s not a bad old sod,” said Connolly. “A
damn’ good fisherman, anyway.”
“Who’s a damn’ good fisherman?” said O’Rourke,
appearing in the doorway. “Hustle up you fellows ;
it’s gone six.”
“How’re they rising?” Fred greeted him.
“Pretty good,” said the constable. “Five last
night below the bacon factory, and a couple of
beauties got away. Would’ve got more if it hadn’t
been for the wind. Seen any rising down your way?
I might come down there to-night.”
“Never go near the river,” said Fred.
“Not till it’s dark, eh! Don’t suppose it could
have been you I heard about in the river with a
torch at Neale-road?”
Fred grunted scornfully. “Nobody’s ever seen
me at that caper!”
“Well, don’t let anybody, that’s all,” O’Rourke
warned him, shepherding the drinkers to the street.
HARDLY more than an hour later, when he was
just on his fourth cup of tea, Fred saw the police-
man, clumsy in his waders, making across the field
to the river.
“Blast him!” he exclaimed to his missus, “what’s
he want to come hanging around here for?”
“You look out, that’s what it means,” his wife
replied. “A fine’ll come pretty hard just now. He’s
got his eye on you.”
“Well, tell him to take it off again,” Fred grinned.
“I’ll go down and see what the old cow’s up to.”
Dusk was on the water and the rise had already
begun when he reached O’Rourke. Small fish were
leaping and splashing back into the calm silver at the
tail of the pool, and an occasional loud plop in the
swift current at the head told that a big trout was
feeding.
“Can you see where he is?” the policeman asked.
“There’s a big bloke rising somewhere up here?”
Both men watched and listened.
“Hell! There he is!” Fred exclaimed as a splash
broke the music of the water. “He does sound big.
Over behind the rock there ; you’ll never get to him.”
“Where?” O’Rourke asked. “I’ll get him all
right.”
Fred pointed out a place where a big rock, four
feet out from the further bank, broke the current.
“What’re you using?” he asked.
“Hare’s Ear. Got ’em on Coachman last night,
but I’ve got a notion that this is the fly for the big
’uns. But how the devil am I going to drop a fly in
there?”
“Go upstream a bit and let it swing round with
the current.”
“He’ll break the cast for sure that way. Still,
it’s the only thing to do, I suppose.”
Two casts fell short, but the third dropped the
fly against the far bank, so that the current brought
it circling over where the big trout had risen.
All in a flash, O’Rourke flicked his wrist, the
fish leapt high out of the water, splashed back loudly
and sped downstream while the reel screeched and
O’Rourke plunged into the water to prevent the line
getting snagged by the rock.
The trout, racing upstream again, halted at the
rock and bored deep down.
“He’s gone,” O’Rourke
said, his voice sharp with
disappointment. “Taken
the fly, too. Did you see
the brute? He felt like an
eight-pounder! ”
“Rotten luck!” com-
miserated Fred. “He
looked the biggest fish I’ve
seen in this river for a few
years.”
“Yes! You’re the one
who never sees any fish,
never goes near the
water! ” sneered the police-
man, his chagrin turning
to anger.
“Hey! Don’t blame
me when a fish gets away!
Cheer up! He’ll be there
for you to-morrow.”
“Will he, though! ”
he thought as he walked
back to the cottage, leaving the policeman to pack
up his gear. “What a bag for Connolly! A week’s
free beer in it. And what a trout to spear!”
< ‘\X/ HERE you going to-night?” the missus asked
* “ as he sharpened the spear-points with a file.
“Why don’t you give Finnerty-road another go? It’s
a long way, but it’s safe up there.”
“Just over the back to-night,” Fred answered.
“Won’t be long away. There’s one I want. O’Rourke
had him on; a beauty. Best trout I’ve seen for
years.”
“You’re mad. It’s not safe so close. How do
you know O’Rourke’s not still snooping around?”
“O’Rourke’s half way home by now. Couldn’t
be safer than going where he’s just been.”
To give the big trout a chance to settle down,
he stumbled a mile over the paddocks towards the
dairy factory, got into the stream there and began
to wade back up that profitable stretch of water
between it and the bacon factory. Curd-fed or meat-
fed, the trout there, if not so clean and sweet as
those further from town, were always the fattest in
the river.
Eels showed everywhere, writhing over the
gravelly bed as the beam of the torch broke strangely
into the water. Fred trod warily and easily upstream,
the water cold but pleasant in his boots. Three
speared trout lay in his bag, occasionally flapping
against his back, when he reached the willow-fringed
pool where O’Rourke had lost the big fish under
the rock.
Inch by inch he waded to the spot. By God,
there it was! Mottled, like agate almost, the fish lay
with its head upstream, its silver-yellow belly resting
lightly on the stones. Fred struck.
He thrilled all over as he felt the spear thrust
home, and he floundered wildly for the shore. For
a moment in his excitement he failed to realise the
significance of the torch-beam that suddenly lit up
the willows, the river, the white-pebbled bank and his
own body, gigantic in the foreground. Then he ran.
Splashed across the stream and ran and ran and
ran. Through the fence, across the paddock where
the startled cows circled madly around the policeman ;
crashed through the boxthorn hedge and stumbled,
cursing, through the strong-smelling swedes ; through
another hedge, scratched and bleeding, and on up the
hill half sobbing with fear and exhaustion ; warily
past Cochrane’s cowshed for fear the dogs would
bark ; and out on the road at last, just past the brow
of Burke’s Hill.
O’Rourke had given it up. Fred, laughing out
loud from time to time as the comedy of it all struck
him afresh, walked six miles home for safety, by
Stuart-road.
HE was into Connolly's with the trout by eight
o’clock next morning. The missus came in with
him. Neither of them had ever seen a fish like it
before. Nor had Connolly.
“My God!” he cried when he saw it. “It's
ten pounds if it’s an ounce! Get the scales! Get
the scales!”
“We’ve weighed it,” said Fred. “It’s twelve!”
The porter came in to see what all the excitement
was about. The handyman came up from the cellar.
Somehow the news got out to the street, and people
began to come in from everywhere. “Where’d you
get it, Fred? Where’d you get it?”
“Found it.” That was all they could get out of
him, apart from a sly grin.
The crowd was arguing about whether it should
be exhibited in the fish-shop or the photographer’s
window, and Connolly was protesting that it was his
fish and that he was going to show it in the bar and
nowhere else, when Constable O’Rourke, whose sin-
gular absence from a local festivity had been caused
by a quiet visit to Fred’s cottage, an investigation of
the loose board in the wash-house floor, and a sub-
sequent triumphal procession to the police station
with a three-pronged spear, made a belated and
breathless appearance.
“Where’s Fred,” he demanded.
“I’ve got you where I want you, me lad!” he
exulted, sighting the man he wanted at the bar. “I've
made a little discovery that’ll interest you.”
“Look at this, Mr. O’Rourke!” said Connolly,
showing him the fish. “Here’s something that’ll interest
you! ”
The policeman goggled. “It’s fifteen pounds!”
he said in an awed whisper. Reverently, tenderly, he
ran his hand along the sticky side. “I’ve never seen
such a fish! ”
Sharply, he looked at Fred. “Where’d you get it?”
. “Constable O’Rourke,” Fred told the crowd
solemnly, “caught this trout last night. I watched
him. Played it to a standstill and then the cast bust.
Dead beat it was. And when I went down to the
river this morning, there it was, floating belly-up. It
must’ve got drowned.”
“Congratulations, Mr. O’Rourke!” roared Con-
nolly. “By the Lord, we’ll get you photographed
with it for the newspapers!”
“Congratulations! Congratulations!” the crowd
echoed.
O’Rourke gulped.
“And here’s the fly he caught it with,” Fred
chipped in, handing the constable the little feathered
hook with the broken gut still attached.
“That’s it, all right,” said Constable O’Rourke
slowly. “A Hare’s Ear.”
After all, he’d get Fred sooner or later.
“I tell you you can’t beat Hare’s Ear for the big
fish,” he told the crowd proudly.


Skinny Hazlitt, "The Pride of the Turf”
SKINNY SHARES A HORSE
BY
A.C. HEADLEY
DRAWINGS BY LOCK.
SKINNY lifted his toe from the bed and pointed
it at the picture of Phar Lap plastered on the
wall.
“Scut,” he said, “we’re going back into the
racing game. It’s the only thing left. The day of the
yokel is gone. If you change their notes for gold you get
left with a bunch of counterfeits that they made at
the back of the dairy with ‘Uncle Joe’s Favorite Print-
ing Outfit for Children.’ It’s one of the curses of
education, Scut.”
“You were mentioning racing,” said I.
Skinny grinned and nodded his head so that the
pillow knocked his hat over his eyes.
“The sport of kings,” he said dreamily. “To hear
the thunder of hoofs pounding on the turf —that’s
the thrill, Scut.”
“Yeah,” said I, “but give me the thrill of crisp
notes crackling in the pocket.”
“The trouble with you,” said Skinny, “is you
got no soul. You got no sentiment.”
“The trouble with you,” said I, “is you’ve been
reading too many terror tales. You start with racing
and you finish up with souls. They don’t mix, Skinny.
Stick to racing if you want me to keep time.”
Skinny grinned below the brim of his hat.
“Scut,” he said, “we’re going to buy a horse.
We’ll own it, and we’ll train it.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and it’ll break us. Listen,
Skinny, there ain’t nothing in the racing game these
days except for the books. We’ve got some dough
now, and that ain’t no reason to toss it in the air.”
Skinny kicked his toe at Phar Lap.
“Scut,” he said, “this is diff’rent. This horse can
gallop. It ain’t no champion, but you could pick
plenty of races where it could take out the purse. It’s
an honest-to-goodness business proposition.”
“I ain’t interested in business propositions with
four feet,” said I.
Skinny sat up in the bed and knocked his hat
back.
“Scut,” he said, “if you ain’t got no trust in me
I ain’t gonna be the one to force you into a deal.
We’ve got plenty of dough right now. Orright, we’ll
split it up. You try to make a profit with your half
and I’ll do the same with mine.”
“It’s a bet,” said I. Right then I didn’t mind
because I had an idea for tearing the shekels off
the yokels. I’d told Skinny about it, and his only
comment had been a hollow laugh. But I still
thought the idea was sound.
“Maybe,” said Skinny, “I’ll be able to give you
the tip when she’s on the job. It might save you
from starving to death.”
“The only thing that’ll stop you,” said I, “is the
fact that you can eat horseflesh.”
Skinny grinned. “You wouldn’t like to make a
modest bet on our financial rating at the end of, say,
a couple of months?”
“My modesty,” said I, “says a tenner.”
“You’re throwing your money away,” said
Skinny.
WE split the dough, and I went searching for yokels
while Skinny became the pride of the turf. It
was a couple of days later when he told me that he
had bought the horse.
“A whole horse, Scut,” he said ; “no one ain’t
got no interest in him except me. Scut, he’s a beauty.
You might as well pay out that tenner now. He ain’t
even got to get into condition ; he’s ready for racing
right now. Scut, I feel sorry for you.”
But I wasn’t' worrying. I’d contacted a couple
of fellers that made me think that Skinny was going
to find it hard going
to win that tenner.
They were the kind
that bought you a
drink after you’d taken
their money from them.
Skinny had hired a pad-
dock about twenty miles from
Melbourne, and that was where he’d
put the horse. He took me up to have
a look at it one morning.
“Scut,” he said, “you’ll like it all right when
you see it.”
He was right about that. I liked the look of
it, all right. It was one of those big chestnuts, and
it looked as though it could cover the ground all
right. Skinny had a boy up there to help with the
training, and he legged him up just so that I could
see how good it was. The boy cantered it along for
a furlong and then let it go. It was a pleasure to
watch it stretch out, and for the first time I began
to wonder if Skinny wasn’t holding all the tricks
after all.
“There you are,” said Skinny; “what do you
think of it? Look at that action.”
“Yeah,” said I; “you might even win a race
with it.”
“Might even?” said Skinny with a grin all over
his face. “Scut, you might as well pay out that tenner
right now.”
“Don’t spend your cheque before it’s cashed,”
said I. “If my memory don’t betray me, I’ve got a
rough idea that most races have more than one horse
in them.”
Skinny climbed down from his seat on the fence.
“Not like this one.”
“What’s its name?” said I.
“Cliff Johnnie,” Skinny informed me. “You’ve
’eard of it, ain’t yer? It’s won a few races.”
“In that case,” said I, “it don’t seem like you
can have too much money left. Horses cost dough.
Then there’s the paddock to pay for, and the boy, and
nomination fees for the races. You ain’t gonna have
too much dough to back it with when it does start.
Listen, Skinny, I’ll make that bet twenty if you feel
like it.”
“It’s a deal,” said Skinny, without pausing to
think, and that was that. I went on with my business
of skinning the yokels while Skinny borrowed my
bowler hat and took to wearing his collar without
a tie.
I T was about three weeks before Skinny had any
1 chance of getting the thing entered in a race. It
was an Encourage at Werribee, but by that time he’d
got it lined up for a couple more of the provincial
meetings. Up to then I had improved about fifty quid
on my original capital, and, knowing that the prize-
money didn’t run into thousands, it looked as though
Cliff Johnnie would not only have to win, but that
Skinny would have to put a few quid on it to break
level with me.
But Skinny was confident.
“Scut,” he said, “he’s showed me a winning gallop
every day for the last week.”
“It’s the winning gallop in a race that interests
me,” said I.
“You’ll see it,” said Skinny. “He’ll be so far
in front at the finish that the photographers won’t be
able to get a picture of the second horse.”
Then, about three days before the race, Skinny
had some of the confidence knocked out of him. By
that time he was beginning to be a regular racing man.
He started mooching about the tracks trying to get a
line on a few of the nags that were in against Cliff.
He got a line on one of them all right, and it was
pitiful the way it hit him. He almost had me feeling
sorry for him.
“Scut,” he said, “this thing they got in against
me can give Cliff Johnnie half a stone, a start and a
licking. Unless somethin’ ’appens it looks like you 11
be well on your way to taking out the twenty notes.
Scut, it breaks my ’eart.”
“It breaks mine, too,” said I, “when I come to
think that maybe you’ll soon be living on my capital
and my capital will become our capital.”
Skinny looked dignified. “I still got some dough
left, an’, anyway, I can still sell the horse. Maybe
somethin’ will show up. That other thing might get
left at the post or fall over, or weigh in light.”
“Yeah,” said I, “or get struck by lightning, or
fall in an earthquake, or get off backwards from a
moving tram.”
THE day of the race came round at last, and Skinny
and I took the early train to the course. Skinny
was looking as low as dust under the carpet.
“Scut,” he said, “if they’re backin’ Lavender I
ain’t gonna back Cliff. There ain’t no sense in wastin’
money.”
They were backing this thing called Lavender
all right. The books must have got the wind of if,
because they opened it up at evens, and in about two
minutes it had backed down to odds on. Cliff opened
at fours and blew to sixes.
Skinny looked more downhearted than ever.
“Scut,” he said, “it looks a good thing for
Lavender. I’m gonna risk a tenner.”
I grinned. “That won’t help you any. I’m going
to risk a tenner myself. You ain’t going to gamble
your way out of the bet.”
We made a dive for the ring, but by this time it
was hard to get set on the favorite. We finished up
with sixteen quid to our twenty. By the time we got
out of the ring the race had just started.
Lavender had jumped well, and so had Cliff
Johnnie. It was only a six-furlong race, and at the
two they had singled out about three lengths in front
of the bunch. They raced like that to the home turn,
and I began to think that Cliff Johnnie was going to
make a bid for it. Even half-way down the straight
it was anybody’s race, and then Lavender started to
go away. He won it all right, but Cliff was only
about half a length away at the finish. It looked as
though Cliff wasn’t such a bad piece of horseflesh.
But what pleased me most was that Skinny had put
me on to a winner. Skinny had backed it too, and I
thought he might have been a bit pleased, but he
wasn’t.
“Ain’t it misery, Scut?” he said. “Seven-pound-
ten for second place. That’s all I get for Cliff.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and the eight fiddlees you pooled
in from the winner. That makes fifteen-ten.”
Skinny scowled. “It cost me a sight more than
that to get' the thing ready for the race.”
I tried to cheer him up. “It’ll win races, Skinny.
It put up a good show to-day.”
“It’ll win ’em orright,” said Skinny, “but I won’t
have the money to back it, or pay for its feed, or
pay the boy to look after it.”
“Skinny,” I said, “I’m willing to wipe that bet
off the slate and pool the dough for the good of the
party. You’ve got the horse, I’ve got the coin. We
can pool it and clean up. I’ve changed my mind
about the horseracing profession.”
Skinny stood there just taking it all in.
“Scut,” he said, “I ain’t give up yet.”
And nothing I could say would make him change
his mind. I tried to tell him how we could make
bigger profits with my dough, but he wasn’t listening.
“I’m gonna win that bet yet,” Was all he said.
We left it at that.
i DIDN’T see much of Skinny then for the next few
1 weeks. He took to boarding up at a place near
where he had the horse stabled. He came down once
or twice to find out by how much I’d improved my
stake, but the supply of yokels had fallen off con-
siderably, and I was just about breaking even.
Then one day I saw him in town with a feller
named Ocky Walker. Ocky was a pretty shrewd
feller, and I wondered why Skinny was mixing up with
him. Another time I saw him with Tiny Smith. And
when you see two hard heads like Skinny and Tiny
together that’s news. And then Skinny started scratch-
ing his horse from the races he’d entered it for. I


married directly the divorce was through; and she
and Mr. Dumpy who didn’t get on might have gone
on bein’ tied to one another.
“We gave Mr. Dumpy and Miss Keller a reg’lar
send-off party before they went off to get married.
But he seemed sort of saddened, as if he was wor-
ried about the idea of never having a warrant again,
which used to make him so jolly.
“ ‘He’s too much of a Bohemian to be married,’
says Mr. Slompack to me one day after they had left
to take a cottage at Bondi. ‘Still, I’m glad he mar-
ried Miss Keller. She stuck to him well. All his
troubles are over now.’
<< IT was only the day before yesterday that that
* Mr. Jack Dorahy —he’s a plainclothes sergeant
now —came to the flats with another feller.
“‘I suppose, Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘that you
haven’t seen our old friend Harry Dumpy, who used
to stay with you?’
‘“He’s living with his wife out at Bondi some-
where,’ I says.
“ ‘No he isn’t,’ says Mr. Dorahy, grimlike. ‘l’ve
got another warrant for him.’
“ ‘But his wife married your companion, Mr.
Bill Cumber!’ I exclaims.
“ ‘Well, this must be from another wife,’ says he
firmly.
“He had hardly gone before there was Mr.
Dumpy! He was laughing fit to kill himself.
“ ‘Well, I’m home again, Mrs. Parsley! ’ he says.
‘l’m glad you told Jack that I wasn’t here and that
you wouldn’t have me back, with the old trouble,
on any account. He probably won’t come here again,
so it will be safe for me to stay. Helen will never
think of looking for me here.’
“Talk about being flappergasted!
“ ‘Yes, there’s a warrant out against me
again,’ laughs Mr. Dumpy —it sounded just like old
times. ‘Helen and I didn’t hit it, and so I cleared out.
I’ve dropped back a bit in my payments and —any-
way, I’ll be able to square that warrant next week.’ ”
Mrs. Parsley resumed the work that had brought
her to my flat.
“You’ll be meeting Mr. Dumpy,” she said. “He’s
Number 11. I expect some night he’ll be in here with
you playing chess while them police are knocking at
his door, wondering where he’s got to.
“You’ll find him a very jolly gentleman ; full of
his spree, as Mr. Slompack says.”
didn’t understand it, and I asked him about it the
next time I saw him.
“I’m waitin’ for the right race,” he told me.
But all the time he was waiting I knew that his
money must have been running out. So I wasn’t
surprised when he came up to me with a couple of
weeks to go on the bet.
“Scut,” he said, “I’m trying to sell you a half
interest in Cliff Johnnie. It’s a business proposition.
You know it’s a pretty good horse. Orright, I know
it is, too. Right. You take a half interest and that
gives me a chance to clean up big. You have your
share and you do the same. It cuts both ways.”
“What about the bet?” said I.
Skinny considered a while.
“We’ll let it stand,” he said; “if I lose I’ll pay
up.”
I started to think then. I remembered the way
Skinny was scratching the horse from its races.
“What’s wrong with the horse?” I asked. “What’s
been making you scratch it so much? It ain’t sick
or lame or anything?”
Skinny looked offended.
“Scut,” he said, “to-morrow you can come with
me and see it work out.”
He stayed in town that night, and the next morn-
ing we got up early and took a train up to the train-
ing establishment.
The boy cantered the horse out for us to take
a peek. He looked all right, and, as far as I could
see, there didn’t seem to be anything the matter with
him. The boy exercised him for a bit, and then Skinny
gave him the word to let him go. You should have
seen the way his feet moved over the turf. There
wasn’t a thing wrong with him.
“Is it a deal?” said Skinny.
“How much?” said I.
“For fifty quid,” said Skinny, “the half of him
is yours.”
“It’s a deal,” said I.
Well, that was all right. I was holding more coin
than Skinny, and with a half interest in his horse I
didn’t see how he was going to make more out of it
than I did. I looked pretty safe for the bet. Not
that it mattered now compared with what we’d both
clean up on Cliff Johnnie. Everything in the garden
seemed roses. The horse was entered in a race the
following week that looked a set-up for us.
Then all of a sudden it happened. Skinny came
in one morning and knocked my hopes way down
past the bottom.
“Scut,” he said, looking like Misery, “Cliff
Johnnie’s gone lame. It’s terrible. He can’t run, and
when he walks he only uses three legs.”
I thought it might have been one of Skinny’s
jokes, but I wasn’t going to take any chance.
“Listen, Skinny,” I said, “it might be anything.
The horse might shake it off in a week.”
Skinny shook his head very slow.
“Scut,” he said, “if there was a chance I’d be on
it like a shot, but there ain’t. The way his leg looks
I doubt if he’s ever gonna race again. But I’ll do
all I can. I’m gonna get a vet. to look him over.”
I was still a bit suspicious, and I thought that
it might be just as well to get a vet. that I knew.
“All right,” said I, “we’ll get Harry Holliday and
take him up to give the horse the once-over.”
“Righto,” said Skinny.
As it happened, Harry wasn’t busy, and he
decided that he’d take the time off to have a look
at' our horse. When we got there he only needed one
look and shook his head.
“That horse,” he said, “will never race again.
What he wants now is a quiet paddock for the rest
of his days.”
There was nothing we could do about it, and
when Harry had gone we both sat on the fence look-
ing miserable at each other. Skinny was the first to
break the silence.
“Scut,” he said, “I ain’t so sure that Cliff Johnnie
won’t be no good again. I’ve ’eard of horses recover-
ing from nearly everything, why couldn’t Cliffy?”
“If you’re gonna wait,” said I, “I’ll visit you
sometimes and bring you some dye for your grey
hair.”
“Orright,” said Skinny, “if that’s the way you
feel I’m sorry I kidded you into taking a half share.”
“I’m sorry, too,” said I; “my half share tells me
we ought to sell the thing and cut our losses. I ain’t
interested in feeding a horse that ain’t gonna bring in
no coin.”
Skinny looked at me. “So you don’t want to
be in on it. Orright then, I’ll do it on my own. I’ll
buy your half of the horse.”
“You’ll what?” I yelped.
“A quid,” said he.
“Sold!” I couldn’t yell it quick enough.
It certainly looked as though I was going to win
the twenty quid from Skinny anyway.
WELL, I’d severed my connection with the horse,
but Skinny seemed just as interested as ever.
He started telling me how they’d nearly given The
Trump up as a bad job and how he pulled round and
won the Melbourne Cup and every other Cup. But
the only feeling it' left me with was that he was going
off his head.
The horse was supposed to race that week, and
he hadn’t even scratched it. I told him about it.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “there’s a chance it might
pull round. While there’s life there’s a chance there
might be dough.”
“Yeah,” said I, “Buckley’s.”
He hadn’t scratched it up to the day of the race.
Then he told me that he was going to let it race.
“You’re mad,” I said; “they won’t let it run.”
“It’s improved outa sight,” said Skinny. “I been
bathing its leg. Maybe it can shake it off. I seen
horses lame before they go on to a track come out
an’ win a race.”
“Some people,” said I, “have seen pink elephants.”
I went up to the course with him, and the time
of the race came round. Cliff Johnnie hadn’t been
posted as a scratching so far, and when the horses
He only needed one look and
shook his head. "That horse
will never race again.”
paraded around the barrier he paraded with them.
I stared when I saw him. There didn’t seem to be
any sign of a limp. Skinny pointed.
“He looks a bit better, don’t he?” he said.
I nodded.
“I think I’ll risk a quid on him,” said Skinny.
“It’s your money,” said I.
Skinny dived into the ring.
“I got fours,” he said when he came back.
The race started, and I couldn’t believe my eyes.
Cliff Johnnie jumped out clear of the field, and the
way he settled down you wouldn’t have thought he
knew what a limp was. Turning into the straight he
had the race sewn up. Skinny tossed his hat in the
air.
“For a man that’s on’y got a quid on his horse
when it wins, you seem happy,” I said.
“Quid?” Skinny yelped. “Look!”
Out of his pocket he fished a handful of betting
tickets. You could hear my gasp in the Leger. It
took me a long time for my pulse to become normal.
Then I said, “Skinny, I’d like to know how you
worked the miracle and the oracle.”
Skinny grinned. “I’ll give you a demonstration
to-morrow.”
That had to do, and the next day I took the trip
with him. He took me right up to the barn where
he kept the horse and told me to wait outside. A
minute later he led out, not one horse, but two. I
stared. To look at them you’d have thought they
were the same horse. They were both big chestnuts.
The only difference was that one walked on three
legs. Skinny grinned.
“Scut,” he said, “which one is Cliffy?”
I stared. “So that’s what it was ; you rung one
in for Cliff?”
Skinny winked.
“Scut,” he said, “the only time I rung one of
them in was on my partner.” He pointed at the lame
horse. “That one’s been lame all its life. And you
ain’t been the only partner. Since Cliffy made such
a good race of it to run second that time, I’ve sold
and bought six half interests in it. There was Ocky
Walker, Tiny Smith and Bumpy Soane an’ a couple
of others. Scut, it’s a gift.”
“Skinny,” I said, “I’ll give you that twenty quid
to-night.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
*1
II
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
'Phone: M 4 I 4 I (10 lines).
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/l/’3B). Policy-
holders get 90 p,c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Parinqa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
go round. Nothing is said but it is said brilliantly.
A paragraph may be expended on a single point, or
a whole story set out in a flash —“Living with Leon
was like living with a waterspout in a carafe” —but
it is always brilliant. The effect of this vast accumu-
lation of brilliance is that the outlines of the narra-
tive never get a chance to become defined.
The characters are built out of the same material
as the style. They are bizarre automatons. Jules
Bertillon, the banker, is almost entirely fantastic, a
Harlequin. He leads the ballet in a danse macabre.
They are all in fancy dress. One is described as “a
sweet ferret” ; when another smiles it is “a rock salt
cleft in the dark sand of his face, his eyes, like splendid
and voracious eagles, perched in niches in the cliff-
forehead, above which dark plumes grew.”
Behind this phantasmagoria there may be a pas-
sionate grief for martyred humanity, but the speci-
mens in the showcase are almost without exception
frauds, rascals, neurotics, sadists, fools and monsters.
Alphendery is the possible exception, a man torn be-
tween his' principles and his bread and butter—but
half the time he is lost in his fancy dress.
The technique of the book is of the “advanced”
kind borrowed from the cinema. It is a scenario
with 104 scenes flicked over quickly. This is the
medium for a novel of action, but House of All
Nations is not a novel of actions. People talk end-
lessly about what is going to happen—the collapse of
the bank—and when it happens, after the suspense, the
actuality is an anti-climax.
Built on its three paradoxes—the machine like
a living thing, the application of romance to hard
commerce, and the speeding up of a conversation-
piece with gangster-novel technique— House of All
Nations has an effect of powerful originality.
Australia for Husbands.
Alison McDougall’s new novel, Wind in the
Spring (Angus and Robertson), begins in Spain and
ends in Australia. The title is from the Chinese pro-
verb “There must be high wind in spring, if there is
to be good gentle rain in summer to nourish an abun-
dant harvest to fill the granaries for winter” —the
application being to the unrest which precedes a
happy ending.
The story is of Freda and Jeffery Arnold, who
marry after an unofficial honeymoon in Spain. Jef-
fery is a writer of genius, portrayed, as geniuses
nearly always are in novels, as selfish, egotistical and
erratic in the extreme. Freda determines to sacrifice
her life to the demands of his genius, though it means
giving up hope of children and a settled home and
putting up with endless vagaries and infidelities.
In practice she finds this painful and unsatisfac-
tory. A young actress threatens to wreck their mar-
riage, but Freda persuades her husband to come with
her to Australia for a holiday. Their emotional affairs
go from bad to worse and they part company, Freda
fears, for ever.
Jeffery wanders about the country —expensively,
of course—and visits the Barrier Reef, while Freda
receives an object lesson from her brother and his
wife in the proper way to live, and rejects a strong,
silent suitor. Gradually the country lays its spell on
Jeffery, changing his attitude toward life, and at last
brings him back to Freda in a new and deeper love.
The book closes with their decision to make their
permanent home in Australia.
The major theme of the book is a flight from the
Old World to the New, and at times it reads like an
apologia for Australia. It is rather obviously
addressed to an overseas audience, and is intent on
making out a good case for the native land. Aus-
tralia, like music, has charms to soothe the savage
breast, and is recommended as a cure for wavward
husbands.
Napoleon in Poland.
Paul Frischauer/ the Swiss novelist, has fiction-
lsed the story of Napoleon in Poland in A Great Lord
(Cassell; translated from the German by Phyllis and
Trevor Blewitt). It is a long, complex, subtle book
and a real work of creative imagination.
Pre-Napoleonic Poland was a large kingdom with
three serious weaknesses. It had no natural and easily-
defensible boundaries; its population was in two
layers nobles and serfs —-between which there was no
cohesion ; and it had rapacious neighbors. The realm
was partitioned three times—by Russia, Austria and
Pi ussia. It ceased to exist. The nobles continued
to seethe with patriotic rage, to intrigue; but they’
got nowhere because they always found it impossible
to unite. When Napoleon became the master of
Europe they looked to him to free their country. He
dallied with the idea, used it as a casus belli against
the Tsar, but when he had defeated the Russian
armies he found it more convenient to make the peace
of Tilsit with Alexander and to use the still helpless
Poland as an economical way of paying his ally,
Saxony.
The story of these intrigues, hopes and disappoint-
ments forms the background of A Great Lord. The
foreground is occupied by the story of Prince Andreas
Rasonski and his wife Dzjunka, daughter of another
patriotic Polish nobleman, Count Gladin. Rasonski
is an unpromising hero. A younger son, without for-
tune, living by his wits as a parasite, he was ugly in
person and contemptible in character. He was devious
in all his doings, a born schemer, cowardly and cruel.
Count Gladin promised his 17-year-old daughter
to this man because he believed him a patriot. Dzjunka
and Rasonski had both gone to Paris to intercede for
Poland with Napoleon. Dzjunka’s fair beauty caught
the Emperor’s eye, and he made her his mistress. Pres-
ently he found it convenient to marry her off to
Rasonski, and to reward his complaisance gave him
the rich estate of Glachowska. Six months after the
wedding Dzjunka bore Napoleon a son. Her letter
telling him of the child was sidetracked into the
archives.
When Napoleon marched through Poland
Dzjunka tried to escape to him with her boy, but her
husband kept her a prisoner. Without words, in a
hundred devious ways, husband and wife worked at
the bitter knot of their relationship. Rasonski had
attained what he wanted most, riches and indepen-
dence, at the price of humiliation. This humiliation
became the secret foundation of his life, of his in-
trigues against Napoleon, of his hidden hatred of
Dzjunka. When she is burnt to death in Vilna after
she has attempted to betray her husband to Napoleon
it is difficult to know how far Rasonski was respon-
sible for the accident; whether he was a murderer in
fact or in wish only.
This uninviting man becomes so real that it is
impossible not to feel sympathy for him. He is caught
in his own toils and does not know it. The story is
romantic, but romance has become compressed into
something hard and final. Frischauer claims that it is
not pure invention. He says that he is in possession
of the private papers of a noble Polish family, and
that he has closely followed the authentic story they
contain, changing only the names. He also promises
a sequel that will trace the further history of
Napoleon’s unacknowledged son.
Workmen of Japan.
Harry J. Greenwall is not in the first flight of
foreign correspondents—he never quite convinces that
he has the “inside” story of international situations
—but he produces a very readable book. He is an
Englishman, but his style is ultra-American—a series
of snapshots. Earlier books were Face of France and
American Scene, and now comes Pacific Scene
(Nicholson and Watson), begun before the outbreak of
the Eastern disturbance and interesting for its glimpses
of Japan.
Discussing conditions among the working people,
ne says there is a low standard of living by com-
parison with Europe, but denies that the Japanese
workpeople themselves think so. Of hours of labor
he says:—
In Europe and in the United States they are gradu-
ally reducing working hours. In Japan there is no *
question of working any hours short of 24. Factories
work three shifts, and if there were 25 hours in a day
the Japanese would work them. It is often said in
England and America that the Japanese factory workers
are slaves. I cannot honestly subscribe to that state-
ment. Although the conditions prevailing in the big
Japanese factories may be, from our point of view,
likened to slavery, to the Japanese himself, or more
particularly herself, it is not slavery; it is just work
and nothing else.
He gives some interesting pictures of the big
factories where the girl employees “live in,” includ-
ing even a sample week’s menu. The girls, according
to the standards of the country, seem to be well cared
for, with free medical attention, swimming and other
sporting facilities. Most of them are from the country
and are much better off than when on their fathers’
farms. Agriculture has been squeezed to the limit to
make manufacturing possible.
Greenwall says that in the fight to capture over-
seas markets by underselling foreign competitors a
large number of Japanese factories were running with-
out profit, content just to keep going. In a chapter
called “The Rice Line” he says there is no shortage of
food. The staple diet is fish and rice flavored with
pickles The sea yields abundantly, and one-sixth of
the land grows enough rice to feed the nation Of
comparative dietary standards he says:
The low standard of living in Japan does, of course,
account tor the acceptance of low wages, but that is
not the whole story, The Japanese is used to a diet
or fish and rice; he doesn’t want meat, and if he was
given, say, a meal of roast beef, cabbage and baked
potatoes, he wouldn’t understand it. Therefore there
is no way to compare the standards of living of, say,
Lancashire with those of Japan. All one can truthfully
say is that the two standards exist and are utterly
different.
Organisation for national existence is what im-
pressed Greenwall most in Japan. It entails a sub-
sistence fairly close to the minimum level, and
organisation doesn’t leave much over in the way of
individual liberty. On the other hand there is—as
with the factory girls—security of livelihood and the
feeling that the race is moving toward a destination.
Crossing over to Manchuria —where the -Japanese
have not quite succeeded in imposing their order —
he gives some glimpses of anarchy. He says that
despite all the precautions against outlawry it is still
dangerous to ride unescorted more than five miles
from Mukden, the capital. The Japanese claim that
there are “now but 30,000 bandits left in Manchuria,”
but he thinks this is a conservative estimate.
Most prominent among the bandits are the
Hunhuzus, a word which means red beards. The Red
Beards are really a religious sect, carrying on banditry
as a livelihood. They are considered an elite, and
Manchurian fathers put down their sons’ names for
eventual admission, just as English fathers enter their
sons for public schools.
He gives some good pictures. A coolie is jog-
trotting along with a beautiful lady sitting in state
behind him. The rickshaw stops and the shafts are
slowly lowered to rest on the ground. The coolie
straightens himself. The lady alights and hands the
coolie a copper coin, over and above her fare, as a
tip:
What does the coolie do? Does he drop the tip into
a pocket? He does not. He makes a dash and buys
a bowl of rice. He knows what it is to be hungry, and
when he has a copper or two he eats, because he never
knows when he is going to eat again.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Roosevelt : Emil Ludwig (Hamilton). A notable
subject and a notable writer, and the result a book so
wordily overwritten, so strained after literary effect,
that it succeeds in hiding rather than revealing the
U.S.A. President. On policy exposition it has merit.
The Compleat Indian Angler: John Masters
(Country Life). The fishes of India and how to
fish ’em, served up in the manner of Walton, with
excellent pen-and-ink illustrations by the author. It’s
good parody, but it might have been a better book
if the author had struck his own note, though what
he has to say is interesting enough and he most
evidently knows his Indian fish.
The Colored Counties: Charles Bradley Ford
(Batsford; from Angus and Robertson). Colored
photographs of England’s rural and other scenic
beauties, with engaging descriptive letterpress. Some of
the pictures are excellent; others somewhat blurred or,
at any rate, too indefinite. The author knows
thoroughly not only his present but his past England,
too, and draws interestingly on historical occurrence
to enrich his essays.
English Landscape: Sir William Beach-Thomas
(Country Life). Another charming book of adoration
of the English scene, pleasingly written, and illustrated
with uncommonly lovely photographs. The author
makes the point that England’s landscape, being almost
entirely man-made, is only a matter of centuries old.
He ranges over it from end to end, and captures much
of it alive on his pages.
Across the Seven Seas: Colonel R. V. K. Applin
(Chapman and Hall). The Colonel makes a gallant
effort to tell an interesting story of his lifetime of
soldiering, a good part of it in Borneo, but most out-
side his immediate personal acquaintanceship will find
much of it very small beer.
For Those Few Minutes: edited by Eric Part-
ridge (Barker). An entertaining anthology of prose
and verse extracts that make pleasant recreational
reading, got together in pocket-vol. size. Just the
thing for what its title indicates.
Winter and Rough Weather: W. G. M. Dobie
(Heinemann). Derrin’ do with grouse, gillies, etc., in
the Highlands. Some verse, some drawin’s, much
prose. 60 ducks, 40 brace of partridges, 30 pheasants,
30 hares and 150 rabbits, all very competently done
and done in.


HUDSON
m I:
■J
mim
i
.
~=i sss=sa ~ > I
" ' - ~t : m 'Q|sj
ST
llllllll®
■
lit!
Swot-
s' *
WWW
H
4: a
gyp:
:
: H
BgKgj£‘.g
ran
H
g j
FINE CAR THAT SETS THE
CLOCK OF FASHION YEARS AHEAD
For everything that makes motoring a real joy, and car ownership a lasting
satisfaction, drive a 1938 Hudson. Never before, we believe, has any car
builder achieved such a combination of brilliant new style, interior roominess
and luxury, safety and true economy. You will be delighted with its
smoothness and quietness ... its handling ease . . . the sense of safety in this
body all of steel, with the sure, short stopping of Hudson’s Exclusive Safety
Brakes. And Hudson’s Selective Automatic Gear Change (optional extra) is
a revelation in safe, easy driving. Arrange for a trial run in a luxury
Hudson . . . soon.
ZW HUDSON
HUDSON TERRAPLANE.
HUDSON SIX.
HUDSON EIGHT.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in Englandl
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
CENTRES
3X-Sl-75,
IT’S “VALUE YEAR” IN HUDSON SHOWROOMS


"
JBf
W:fVSW,.
m
- •'.’VT
SSeT
fg^atia
I ■! pMB
mm
H
;
K
1
1
K
k
• < * -■ ** 1
(*S#? . \.
fK
*s«§ iiSitiiP
II
■Hk
s W N
■.<■*,
-■ %
■ ' £'-
y|-- :
: 1
n
\
mi
i
■
.
yg
a
■
m
18
n
■
I
* k >«
; • ■•■ •- ••• '• 'I > "' ' '•••• "
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO. PTY., LTD.


NIGHT-PIECE AT BERCHTESGADEN.
“At Berchtesgaden Hitler has a bird sanctuary where the song of the nightingale can be heard."
“Ovor a beaker, full of der varm South,
Full of der true, der blushful Hippocrene,
Dat ve might dhrink and leave der vorld unseen
Und mit dee vade avay into der vorest dim!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (.Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, lls.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
A CHANCE FOR THESE REFORMERS.
Private members talk a lot about the dangerous
growth of government by regulation, but rarely do
anything. The bluff of some of the loudest talkers
in the Assembly at Sydney was called, unintentionally,
when Mr. Turner, the young member for Gordon,
proposed the appointment of standing committees
to consider legislation and “to report to the House on
all regulations framed by the departments before
such regulations become operative.”
There are 47 supporters of the Government,
Ministers excluded. Only a handful were present
when Mr. Turner unfolded his plan in a thoughtful
speech. Some of the missing members, it was
explained, were on the premises, but they were receiv-
ing importunate constituents, the average Assembly-
man having become a sort of wood-and-water-joey for
job-hunters, grievance-mongers, earbiters and cranks.
The destruction by fire of the Government Chalet
at Kosciusko gives these alleged reformers an oppor-
tunity of protecting the public against other insidious
features of bureaucratic rule—the determining of
public policy and the spending of public money (nearly
always borrowed) by jacks-in-office.
Sydney is studded with monuments to the vanity
of this and that department or this and that commis-
sioner and under-secretary. Exhibit A is the enor-
mously expensive pile in which the State Savings
Bank went bung. When the Commonwealth Bank
took over, it was found that the greater part of the
mausoleum, which had been laid out and fitted, regard-
less of cost, for the accommodation of tenants, had
never been occupied. But there are other bad ex-
amples. Even Mr. Maddocks was putting up a lordly
building for his Transport Department when disaster
overtook him.
In all such cases, the rule is for the department
to make all the arrangements for the raising of a
structure suited to its own estimate of its grandeur,
save the paying of the bill —that is handed to the
submissive so-called Government.
The Chalet at Kosciusko is supposed to have cost
£15,000. While the smoke was still rising from the
ruins, the public was informed by the Government
Railway Department that “construction of a new
building would commence as soon as the snow
cleared, probably in November.”
The public demand for a chalet in that locality has
convinced the department of the need for up-to-date
accommodation. Plans for a new building have been
considered for some time.
All without reference to the State Parliament,
although the State Parliament will be graciously per-
mitted to vote such of the money as will be
borrowed. Actually, the so-called public demand
comes from an insignificant fraction of the community
whose pleasure has, to a large extent, been paid for
out of the public purse.
For this Kosciusko show —there is a Government
hotel as well —has been a sink for public money. The
Railway Department never reports what it loses
annually in carrying trippers to and from Cooma,
the jumping-off place, but considering that the Govern-
ment railway accounts, as dissected by the Auditor-
General, show “accumulated losses” of £23,215,600 for
13 years to June 30, 1937—and the A.-G. suggests that
there ought to be thumping additions —and that the
Joppa Junction-Bombala length, on which Cooma is
one of the stations, went £84,800 to the bad in 1935
and £72,800 in 1936, the amount must be substantial.
What it has cost in tax-money to board and
lodge and minister to the entertainment of tourists at
Kosciusko itself has not been disclosed for nearly two
years; the Auditor-General’s last report on Business
and Industrial Undertakings, tabled in September, 1937,
states that “accounts have not yet been presented by
the Government Tourist Bureau.” But they were
presented after the 1935-36 year, and in that twelve-
month £4649 went west at the Hotel Kosciusko and
£lOl5 at the Chalet. The Auditor-General added in
a pithy note that “the Hotel Kosciusko” had “in-
curred a cash loss of £11,859 for the period from July
1, 1928, to June 30, 1935, exclusive of charges for
depreciation and interest on capital.”
This is where Parliament should come in. By
all means let the snow country be made increasingly
attractive, but the job should be left to people who
get their living by catering for tourists, and whose in-
come depends on how they do it. In all probability
they would do it better than a Government concern in
which screw goes on all the time; what is more, they
would pay handsomely for the privilege, and pay
State taxes as well. The Government show not only
fails to pay taxes, but eats into tax-money, part of
which the Government extorts by such oppressive
devices as charging “ordinary” income tax on the
amount of the impost deducted from salary and wages
to satisfy the so-called special income tax, and by
extorting up to tenpence in the pound, without allow-
ing deductions, on income from other States already
taxed in those States and taxed by the Commonwealth.
And when the taxpayer broods on these things he
is not compensated by newspaper photographs of
flappers skylarking at Kosciusko or by newspaper
accounts of special privileges accorded there to Aus-
trian instructors and to members of exclusive clubs.
The only hotel in the place, and nearly £12,000
dropped on it in actual cash in seven years! It could
only happen under State socialism. It may be argued
by daring adventurers in the field of controversy that
even State Governments have their uses, but every-
where in Australia —except for brief periods in thirsty
places like Gwalia, W.A.—they have been utter failures
at running pubs.
Hamilton on Hitler.
After a visit to Hitler at Berchtesgaden, Sir lan
Hamilton returned to England saying that the Ger-
mans are “strongly for peace,” and that the Fiihrer
himself desires it. He added, oddly, that at Berchtes-
gaden there is a bird sanctuary, “where Hitler has
built 8000 nests for nightingales and other birds” dis-
tinct from birds of prey and ill omen, vultures, ravens
and crows.
“Jew-baiter,” bird-lover and man of peace; and
under the same hat! It is difficult for plain people
to accept it, even if Sir lan Hamilton is the authority.
And yet Australia’s sterling old friend has proved
himself a good judge of men and a sound observer of
affairs; and no mean prophet withal.
In 1923, when the French were in the Ruhr, and
Poincare was the most powerful man in Europe, and
the cry of the Stunt Press, as it was then, was “Hats
off to France,” Sir lan was the one man of note in
Britain who said it wouldn’t last. He has lived to
see French influence on the Continent decline almost
everywhere, and French politicians fawn on Britain.
The veteran expressed his very unpopular senti-
ments in a series of lectures to the members of the
British Legion. They were collected in a book, The
•Friends of England, and some of the criticisms and
predictions are eminently worth reproducing.
The League of Nations... .an elaborately organised
dud run strictly on French lines. Hence the bitter
mockery of the Saar. We shall never be able to organise
an effective League in Europe until we are free to pursue a real
English policy.
Germany—a great nation dating only from 1866; rather
new, rather gimcrack; smashed into atoms by war. Nothing
could have united it again except the violent blows of Thor’s
hammer. Those blows are raining down upon the Ruhr, where
it so happens that the toughest chaps in the whole of Central
Europe reside; they come pretty near our own miners in
Durham. Sixty millions of Europeans will not kick the bucket
without kicking some other things over first.
We are only hugging delusion when we call the North
Americans cousins because they speak English. At the
dinner hour any day in Fifth-avenue, except for the Irish
policemen, the place might be Jerusalem. I’m not grumbling
about that —only, it is that. The Jews are pretty good friends
of ours, but as individuals, as editors, as leader-writers,
novelists, super-boosters, nobblers of public opinion on any
other question but themselves they are terrifying. So, thank
the Lord they are not unfriendly.
Wilson was thinking over the heads of the common
people and was trying to project the whole continent into a
sort of United States of Europe. He quite forgot that one
touch of human feeling was what the civilised world was
crying out for, not for any newfangled notions.
This gift to a suffering continent had to be ushered in
by a shady manoeuvre... .The 3,000,000 Germans in one bloc
on the west of Bohemia must not self-determine away from
the Czechs; otherwise they would spoil Masaryk’s scientific
frontier.
When Masaryk goes west, Benes won’t last long—nor
Czechoslovakia either. If the Czechs would be decent to the
Slovaks they might for a while continue to bully their
Germans; but the Slovaks prefer the cruelty of the Hungarian
to the contempt of Brother Czech. If only the Czechs were
wise enough to make friends with the Germans! As it is,
you must not speak German in Prague if you want a civil
answer.
I believe the Bulgarians will make friends with the Yugo-
slavs, asking them for Macedonia. If the Yugoslavs are sensible
they will agree quickly.
The soldier who said those penetrating and
prescient things 15 years ago, when the world of
politicians was living in a fools’ paradise, deserves a
respectful hearing, old as he is—he has turned 85.
Attorney-General Menzies visited Germany about
the same time as Sir lan and came to the same general
conclusion: “No German wants war.” He did not
go to Berchtesgaden, but he talked with Dr. Schacht,
found the Germans “immensely impressed with
British rearmament,” and formed the opinion that
“there is a great deal of spiritual quality in the
devotion of young Germany to the service of their
State.” Like the veteran of the house of Hamilton,
the Scotch-Australian lawyer is nobody’s fool, and it
would be a miracle if Germans could pull thf wool
over the eyes of two such men at once.
The Persecuted People.
There are upwards of 30,000 Jews in Australia;
about 3000 in Maoriland —figures that will be much
enlarged if some people, naturally sympathetic, have
their way. Of the estimated world total of about
16,300,000, some 10,000,000 belong to Europe, and
vast numbers of these, for the thousandth time in
history, are existing in a threatened or persecuted
state or are on the move.
Of Australia’s total more than half live in Sydney,
Melbourne and Perth; nearly all the rest in the
other principal cities. Almost all Maoriland’s 3000
live in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch ; more
than half in Auckland. In other parts of the world
a small percentage of Jews are farmers; Palestine,
Russia, Poland, Lithuania, even the Argentine and
Brazil, have their Jewish agricultural settlements ; there
are also some Jewish farmers in the U.S.A., Canada
and Turkey. In Australia one or two have owned
sheep stations —notably the Montefiores.
Generally, Jews have done well for themselves in
these parts, and many of them have done well for
Australia and Maoriland. One was the leader of
the A.1.F.; another has been Commonwealth Chief
Justice and Governor-General; others have been State
Premiers, Ministers and members of the Common-
wealth Parliament; a battalion have been Assembly-
men, councillors, mayors and the like.
If there is oge place on earth where Jews have
been completely nappy and unmolested, it has surely
been under the Southern Cross. A recently compiled
Jewish Encyclopaedia, however, lists even Australia
among the countries where there have been at least
attempts to start anti-Semitism. They must have
been very weak attempts, scarcely worth parading. It
is plain historical record that almost»always when
Jews have reached large or powerful numbers in
communities there has been a turning against them.
The present persecution in Germany and else-
where in Europe—beginning to have far-reaching
effects, claiming more than humanitarian interest as
distant from the scene as Australia and Maoriland —
is far from being either anything new or an aberration
peculiar to Hitler. It is one more outbreak in a
' record of pogrom, massacre, torturing, imprisonment,
degradation and expulsion stretching back over the
ages. It is not necessary to swallow whole the latest
“News-Chronicle” cable-story of 80 Jews done to
death in a Nazi concentration camp. The, “Cronk
News,” though Australian dailies go on serving up its
stories as gospel, is a notorious trafficker in that
sort of “news.” Nor is the present treatment of
Jews in Germany and other parts of Europe un-
precedented in depravity; there have been many out-
breaks immeasurably worse. Indeed, there is not a
country of the Mad Continent, or anywhere near it,
in which Jews have not at some time been persecuted.
As the parade of it can be pieced together from
under hundreds of different headings in their En-
cyclopaedia, it comes out as a one-sided, morbid war-
fare, the Jews always passive, always a minority
against oppressive odds, always maligned and innocent
victims. Invariable passivity and innocence may be
doubted. Power, which Jews have always had a
notable ability for acquiring, is rarely wholly
innocent; and Jews have at various times intrigued
and acted against the accepted administration of
places of their adoption. But it is true enough that
they have always been minorities, and as such have
suffered fearfully.
In the present European outbreak economic
reasons, as well as racial hatreds, enter into the
count; in early times causes were largely religious
or superstitious, though sometimes economic and
political. Apart from slavery and expulsion recorded
in biblical lore, Jews are historically known to have
been driven out of Rome in 139 b.c., and there was
an expulsion of them from Cyprus in a.d. 115-7.
There were wholesale expulsions from Gaul, Bur-
gundy and Lombardy in the seventh century. Next
they were driven out of Morocco and Andalusia.
England set the example for what figure in the
records as the Great Expulsions, dating from 1290.
In the next two centuries there were similar wholesale
expulsions from France, Spain, Sardinia, Sicily, Portu-
gal and South Italy. In the same period in North
Italy and Germany, instead of expulsions there were
exterminations. At the close of the fifteenth century,
except for the Marranos in Spain and Portugal,
there were no Jews at all remaining in Western
Europe. Persecutions in Poland (1648-69) drove many
of them westward again, to be from time to time
victims of outbreaks in scores of separate towns and
provinces. There was a further drive westward, when,
with the partition of Poland, Russia had become
master of the fate of the greatest number of the
world’s Jews. Hideous pogroms in 1881 set them
again on the move westward in mass emigration.
That was not Russia’s first vast-scale assault.
Jews had been banished from that country in 1739
and at other times also. Additionally, they had
there and elsewhere suffered such extremes of physical
violence and degradation as to make their mere
survival well-nigh miraculous.
To-day they are mulcted of huge sums in ironic
toll for the privilege of being allowed out of countries
where they are persecuted ; up to a century ago all
Jewish wayfarers in Central Europe had since the
Middle Ages to pay a special toll, imposed partly
for revenue, partly as payment for protection, partly
to humiliate them. In Spain, in addition to tens of
thousands massacred, many more were forcibly
baptised; in Italy they were kidnapped in large
numbers for the same purpose.
Present Jerusalem has them as victims or partici-
pants in the recurrent riotings; for centuries Jews
were not allowed to live there at all. In 1348-51,
when Europe was ravaged with plague, the common
explanation was that the Jews had poisoned the wells,
and they were treated almost throughout Europe as
if they had done so —a terrible period of widespread
and wholesale massacre. Barcelona was one of the
many places in which the entire Jewish community
was then finally exterminated.
Resembling in this the modern Ku-Klux-Klan,
which had active anti-Semitism among its planks,
organised bands of peasants, distinguished by a leather
badge, carried out exterminating massacres in more
than 100 centres in Alsace and the Rh inelands in the
fourteenth century. At various times in Austria Jews
had to wear a special hat, in France the hat or a dis-
tinguishing badge, in England the badge (England
originated it), in Spain green clothes with red crosses.
The record of persecution is endless. A con-
tributor to the Encyclopaedia advances reasons for it.
Instinctive hatred of the human being for the stranger ;
the Jew is everywhere in some respect or other


different from his surroundings, to which he is there-
fore a stranger. Nationalism ; a potent cause in
modern Germany. Hostility of the country to the
town ; Jews are and always have been townsmen.
“Prominence of Jews in liberal movements.”
It is often a liberal interpretation that is put on
“liberal movements.” In Germany, Russia and else-
where “liberal movements” stand for Communism,
and Communism, formidably established, means civil
war. Britain to-day has its Jews who are active
Left-wingers, working for the overthrow, not only
of a Government which people are now accepting as
the wisest Government Britain has had for many a
day, but of institutions which shelter and protect
their gifted race. Australia has had a specimen of the
“internationalist” Jew in Egon Kisch, and wants no
more of his kind. It is the duty of the Lyons Govern-
ment to keep Jews like Kisch out of the Common-
wealth, and it is in the interest of the Jews happily
settled here that Jews like Kisch should be kept out.
They need also to guard themselves against an influx
of more city-dwelling Jews in such numbers as to
overrun professions and trades.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Overdoing It.
Now that the improved services are in operation,
letters are being carried from Britain to Australia
and Maoriland and from Maoriland to Britain for
three-ha’pence the half-ounce; but postage on Aus-
tralia-Britain letters is fivepence, and the Australian
Post Office still charges twopence to tote a letter
across the street.
Murmurs at this amazing differentiation provoked
Mr. Thorby into opening his mouth, and nowadays
Mr. Thorby rarely does tflat without planting a hoof
in it. Mr. Thorby’s Great Thought was that Australia
was exceedingly “lucky” to have a Government which
contented itself with so modest a demand as five-
pence ; and, as if this was not enough, he encored
himself.
Mr. Thorby is Civil Aviation. Senator A. J.
McLachlan is Postmaster-General; and, evidently in
assertion of his superior authority, Senator McLach-
lan decided to be heard from. Senator McLachlan
held forth to a reporter on the wonderful things
he was doing for his public in the postal line. Per-
haps when he paused to take in a supply of air—
the Australian Post Office doesn't yet charge for air
. —the reporter put a question.
Why does it cost fivepence to send a half-ounce
letter by airmail from Australia to London and one
and nine to send the same letter to Paris, although you
could post it from London to Paris for twopence?
Did Senator McLachlan consider this a poser? He
did not.
Senator McLachlan replied that the new scheme
whereby airmail letters were carried to all Empire
countries was essentially an Imperial scheme and was
not designed to provide cheap airmail facilities to
foreign countries.
During the previous week Mr. Jones, the P.M.G.
on the other side of the Tasman, gently chided Maori-
landers for understamping letters “since the new rates
of postage took effect on July 26.” To the Wellington
“Dominion” the Minister “reiterated that the letter-
rate to Empire countries (the rate to Australia in the
meantime remaining at a penny ) is now a penny-
ha’penny each half-ounce, and to foreign countries
twopence-ha’penny for the first ounce and a penny-
ha’penny for each succeeding ounce.”
In other words, the Maoriland scale of charges is
a penny, three-ha’pence and twopence-ha’penny,
and the Australian scale twopence, fivepence and
one-and-nine.
It’s bad enough to be stung for a clumsy tax
every time an Australian posts a letter in his own
country; but to be told that he ought to be grateful
and that he is favored, specially favored, by a thought-
ful and statesmanlike Government —this is too much 1
"Who Won the Fight?"
Thursday brought a cessation of the fighting for the
debatable land south-west of Vladivostok, what the
newspapers were pleased to call an armistice having
been arranged- by the Soviet Foreign Minister and
the Japanese Ambassador at Moscow. It was agreed
in principle that the dispute as to how the boundary
line runs should be argued out with words and not
weapons ; and this is all to the good. Discussions at
a table, with maps and documents for evidence, are
infinitely better —not only for both parties, but for
other countries that might be involved—than con-
troversies carried on with rifles, machine-guns,
howitzers, tanks, ’planes and poison gas in contempt
of the old truth that force is no remedy.
Newspaper accounts of and comment on the
fighting revealed marked Russian sympathies. Some
of the stuff published in Australia might have been
taken bodily from the “Moscow News.”
To the “Labor Daily,” for example, the Russians
won, and “for the Japanese divisions a war against
the Socialist armies of the Soviet Republic would be
certain to carry even bigger defeats than that of
Changkufeng.” The “Daily Telegraph” came out with
a gloating cartoon showing ten Russian guns belch-
ing at one Japanese. It published little from Tokio,
but lots from Moscow, the copious Moscow budgets
being adorned with headlines like these:
RUSSIA’S HUGE WAR VOTE CHEERED.
DEPUTIES’ STIRRING OVATION TO STALIN.
* DEFIANT SPEECH TO SOVIET ENEMIES.
DRAMATIC SESSION OF RED PARLIAMENT.
In its editorial column, after coolly including
the U.S.S.R. among “the democracies” which are
‘peace-loving,” this pro-Russian rag ranted to the effect
that Russia shows again that the only answer to
force is force,” and that “in May Germany was on
the point of invading Czechoslovakia; Britain, France
and Russia let it be known that they would resist
such a step.” An absolute untruth, like the assertion
from the same quarter that the Poles intimated in
May that they would fight alongside Britain, France
and Russia.
The “D.T.” wound up by lamenting that Mr.
Eden was “dismissed as an idealist because he sug-
gested that the democratic powers”—Russia, of course,
included —Should use their overwhelming superiority
in arms to the nations that threaten peace”— i.e.,
threaten them with war. There was a time when
“S. M. Herald” championed Mr. Eden, but not in that
demented fashion ; and its views on foreign policy are
undergoing a decided change.
In its review of the frontier collision, the
“Herald” began with the statement that “a small
body of Soviet guards took casual possession of
Changkufeng hill, previously unoccupied,” and that,
“after protesting for some days that the Soviet guards
were trespassing, the Japanese attacked them, drove
them off and dug themselves in.”
For the past week detachments of the regular Soviet
Army, using aeroplanes, tanks, artillery and massed
infantry, sought to recover the hill. When direct assault
failed the Russians extended the line of attack until the
rival forces faced each other in entrenched lines over
four miles of front. The Japanese refrained from any
air attack, even in retaliation. The flower of the
Japanese Army is in Manchukuo, and it has shown its
mettle in the sturdy defence of Changkufeng’s bare slopes
against all attacks, even when these were assisted by
tanks and aircraft.
That is the sober truth, and in these matters it is
important that Australians should have the sober
truth. They have been fed with an appalling amount
of rubbish about the exhaustion of the Japanese, the
inferiority of the German aircraft, the poor quality of
the Italian soldier and the Might of the Soviet War
Machine, and, accompanied as it is by persistent war-
to-enforce-peace propaganda, the effect may be dan-
gerous.
Annual Blisters.
“L.M.”: The annual struggle with income-tax papers
is in progress. Some went in at the end of July ;
the rest are due this month ; then come the assess-
ments. It will then be found, as usual, that the harder
one has worked or practised thrift and self-denial,
being old, the more one must contribute to the
Treasuries presided over by Mr. Casey, Mr. Stevens,
Mr. Dunstan, Mr. Forgan Smith, Mr. Butler, Mr.
Willcock and Mr. Ogilvie.
Canberra isn’t interested, directly, in people whose
income has been less than £4 a week. However,
those over this mark paid Canberra a bit more than
nine million on 1936-37 incomes, and there are only
a few more than 250,000. For the year to June 30,
Canberra collected £69,000,000 in taxation. Sales
tax added nearly as much as income tax. Customs
and excise duties brought in £48,000,000.
State taxes —on income mostly carried the
total for the year to £108,000,000 or so. Analysing
the 1936-37 returns, the Taxpayers’ Association worked
out the average at £l5 18s. 4d. per head of popula-
tion. On people whom misfortune smote in the tax-
paying year these exactions had the effect of a capital
levy.
The State Governments in 1936-37 dragged from
the pbckets of their people four millions more than in
1935-36. Although Canberra shoulders many former
State responsibilities, State tax-revenue goes up all the
time: £34,000,000 in 1933-34, in 1934-35 £36,000,000,
in 1935-36 nearly £41,000,000, in 1936-37 upwards of
£45,000,000. But the six State Governments can’t
manage on this, and among them during 1937-38 they
used another £15,980,000 received from Common-
wealth funds.
Though the cost of government ever increases,
the national income has declined. The Common-
wealth statistician reckoned the national income for
1927-28 at £641,000,000, and the amount absorbed by
taxation at 2s. Bd. in the £. By 1935-36 the national
income was d0wn—£554,000,000 —but taxation was
up—3s. 9d. in the £.
And yet people who give any thought to the
matter know that there is tremendous waste. There
are multitudinous examples in Australia, and a sig-
nificant overseas example was reported last week.
The six Agents-General have held a protest meeting
because Whitehall won’t recognise them. Why won’t
Whitehall recognise them? Because they are unneces-
sary, superfluous.
Four More.
A week ago four more Australians of high technical
attainments and the best physical type went west with
one of Australia’s latest and largest fighting aero-
planes near Dromana (Vic.).
The machine, an Avro-Anson bomber, crashed
into a mountain and became a total wreck. Pilot-
Officer Symonds, Sergeant-Pilot Gillespie, Aircrafts-
man McKerrow and Aircraftsman Mawson were
killed, and Aircraftsman Glover was injured. There
was nothing complicated about the flight. It was an
ordinary practice flight at a medium rate of speed over
well-known territory, but visibility was bad —a man
working below the machine just before it struck could
not see it for cloud and mist.
With only nine Avro-Ansons in the air—they are
the most modern and the only two-engined machines
in the R.A.A.F. —accidents began to happen in April.
Avro-Ansons are not high-speed, and are considered
safe to handle, yet six Australians have been killed
and six injured in them since April 24. Since 1936
the R.A.A.F. has had 13 men killed and 20 injured in
22 accidents. Not in machines like the new British
Hurricanes or Spitfires, which can do 350 m.p.h. at
normal running and 408 m.p.h. when pushed, but in
machines which are not as fast as passenger transport
’planes.
Commercial aviation has no such recent record
of blood and wreckage. Companies fly their machines
daily over long and difficult routes —the longest is
Brisbane-Singapore, 4669 miles—through- all sorts
of weather and temperature with few mishaps all told.
It would not be a bad idea to let organisers of civil
aviation look the R.A.A.F. over, and make recom-
mendations if they should think recommendations
necessary.
Slaughter, Famine and Pestilence.
A China Institute man has arrived in London with
the dismal prediction that pestilence, in the form of
cholera, typhus or typhoid, will follow the war in
China. People who remember the scourge that
succeeded the Great War will agree that it is all too
probable, and if the Australian and Maoriland medical
authorities report that more funds will be needed foi
proper preventive work they should be provided with
whatever they ask for, within reason.
Typhoid is a constant unwelcome guest in Aus-
tralia, although its ravages are not nearly as great as
they used to be. Typhus and cholera, though rare,
have been known ; and there have been outbreaks of
bubonic plague. Early in the century Westralia had
an experience—fortunately, though not for the victims,
confined to Geraldton —of plague in the deadly
pneumonic form. It was supposed to have been
brought from Manchuria.
Expenditure aimed at the prevention of disease
and the saving of life must never be begrudged. In-
fluenza killed 12,000 Australians in 1919-20. And it
reached this country from war-smitten lands remoter
and less populous than and not so exposed to famine
as those in which the beating of the Death Angel's
wings is heard now.
"Where's Your License?'
“E.H.M.” collects a couple:
In London the motor license is—or was recently—a small,
stiff cardboard booklet, just large enough to fit into a waist-
coat pocket; durable and neat. On one page of the interior
is the statement that holder is entitled to drive a motor
vehicle till such and such a date. The other has a blank
space for endorsements. When the year runs out holder may
keep the document.
N. S. Wales methods are different. The N.S.W. license
is a flimsy sheet of paper which after a year of use looks
like a palimpsest dug out of a mummy’s tomb. It contains
a clear statement as to the date when its authority terminates
and a full description of holder. The back is given up to
hopeful schedules for changes of address —fine for failing to
notify, £20 —and for record of convictions. There is no space
for fingerprints. In view of the quality of the paper and the
form of the sheet, age and wear would soon obliterate them.
As the time of license expiry approaches, a new license form
is sent to holder. He must “renew the license before date of
expiry or return the old one to the Commissioner within
three days.” Failure means prosecution.
Presumably this is to prevent fraudulent use, though how
a dead license, clearly numbered and dated, could be misused
it is difficult to see—difficult, apparently, to the department
itself. Provided holder buys a new license, he “may retain
the old license till the new one is issued and then destroy it.’"
So he is not compelled, to destroy it. And destruction in his
view might consist in taking its tattered remains and dropping
them over the fence. There is no more danger in the thing
being held by somebody who has not bought a new license
than there is in somebody with a new license keeping it.
The law is no dead letter. No motor law is. And the
procedure is—er —original. Until departments like Traffic
were given a free hand by lazy Parliaments to write their own
laws, Courts were meticulous on such matters as service of
summonses. When a charge was laid, personal service
least 10 days before court action was required, service being
sworn to by the server. But the Traffic Department does not
serve a summons unless a request —from the department, not
a Court—-fails to bring the victim before a magistrate. The
mode of service is through the post, and the accused gets
nine days from date of posting. If he doesn’t turn up to
take his medicine —perhaps because he is away from home
for a fortnight’s holiday—a regular summons is issued, and
he catches it hot.
The postman cannot swear to service. In the case of
one victim, all he could swear to was that on a very wet day
he placed an envelope, of which he did not know the
contents, in a letterbox at a gate 70 feet from a house. The
door had fallen off the letterbox, and for some hours after
delivery nobody was at home.
Every now and then motor-law convictions are reviewed
in higher courts, and the number of reversals of lower-court
decisions is surprising. But this constitutes no real check
to the practice of making criminals out of decent citizens.
Young people are beginning to look at this sort of oppression
as part of the system of Parliamentary Government and to
feel that Bolshevism could be no worse.
That Wireless Case.
A naval stoker’s wife, fined for not having a wireless
license, appealed to the High Court on the ground
that control of wireless was not one of the Common-
wealth powers. After proceedings which involved
three appearances in the High Court, the appeal was
dismissed, with costs against the lady. She did not
pay them and was made bankrupt; and at the bank-
ruptcy hearing she alleged that she had been told by
her solicitor, T. F. Williams, of Sydney, that the
High Court case would cost her nothing. It was
alleged also that something had been said about her
getting a sum of money if the appeal succeeded.
These allegations have been inquired into by the
Statutory Committee of the Incorporated Law Insti-
tute of N. S. Wales. That body accepted the solicitor’s
denial that any such arrangements had been made,
and his assurance that in his relations with his client
he had acted in a normal and proper way, adding,
in dismissing the charges, that his explanation had
been substantially corroborated. It said, on the other
hand, that the woman was not a witness upon whom
it could rely.
This is very satisfactory for Mr. Williams. As
far as the appellant is concerned, however, the Com-
monwealth was put to expensive proceedings which
must have interfered to some extent with its plans
for the extension of wireless; and it is still whistling
for its costs.
In all such cases and others —notably newspaper
libel cases —Judges should have power to grant security
for costs. Such power, where it exists —as it does in
Westralia —is never abused to the detriment of a liti-
gant who, on the face of it, has suffered wrong or of
the public interest.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Are you puttin' it in or takin it out?"
“Macann”: There was a blizzard on
when the customers at the Kosciusko
Chalet were awakened with the place
already well alight. Grabbing odds and
ends of clothes, they rushed out into the
freeze and dressed there, the ladies —you
can’t beat ’em—moving in close to the
blazing building, not to get warmer, but
to get the benefit of the glare on their
mirrors for face-powdering and lip-
painting. The fire had started in the boiler-
room, where the heating and hot-water
service plant was located. When the
original Chalet went up that room was
at the back of it, outside. Additions in
the way of wings gradually encircled it,
till it was about in the middle of the
building. So when the fire got going,
with no water supply for fighting it,
there wasn’t Buckley’s of saving the
joint. Dislodged guests moved to the
Government pub, where they should
have been royally looked after, since
that taxpayers’ tribulation (it has lost
whips of their money, though you pay
£1 for a bottle of Scotch and 2s. 6d. a
bottle for beer) is royally staffed. At
less extraordinary times there’s a staff
member to each guest.
H* %
“Ming”: At a gathering of Sydney
women who did good work during the
war the company fell to reminiscences.
Most of them remembered a good-
looking young woman who came into
the depot one morning and, after in-
timating that she wanted assistance, col-
lapsed on a bench in floods of tears.
“I hope you haven’t had word that
your husband is worse,” said a sym-
pathetic bystander, recognising in the
weeping visitor a war-bride who had
recently had news that her husband had
been gassed. “Oh, it’s worse than that,”
wept the unhappy young woman. “Dear,
dear,” murmured a hushed group.
“You’ve had word that he is dead?”
“No,” was the sobbing reply. “It’s
worse, much worse than that!” While
the company was endeavoring to
imagine a more direful fate the object
of their attentions sat up suddenly. “It
couldn’t be worse!” she shrieked. “My
husbands are coming back on the same
ship next week —both of them!”
* * * *
“T ”; xhese are exciting days in Syd-
ney for members of the Junior Bar, what
with the introduction of “dock defence”
—by virtue of which barristers sit in a
row with their backs to the accused,
who picks his wig at £1 3s. 6d. a time —
and a conflict of opinion between
eminent Benchers on a judgment of
Roper, J., the latest Supreme Court Jus-
tice and the youngest in Australia —he
is 36. It was one of those three-party
divorce cases in which there was evidence
of inclination plus opportunity, and
Justice Roper found for the petitioning
husband. The wife appealed to the Full
Court, and her appeal was allowed,
Jordan, C.J., saying that, “while the
petitioner and his witness had strong
corroboration in the passion which ad-
mittedly existed between respondent and
co-respondent and the extremely com-
promising position in which they admit-
tedly placed themselves,” the Court was
not satisfied that adultery had been com-
mitted. Two learned brothers agreed.
Then the husband appealed to the High
Court, and the High Court (Latham, C.J.,
and Justices Rich, Starke, Dixon and
McTiernan) unanimously set aside the
Full Court’s decision and restored the
decree nisi pronounced by Justice Roper.
Costs will be a few hundred times
£1 3s. 6d.
* * % *
“Der Jong”: The Dutch section of
the South African Union is celebrating
the centenary of the Great Trek by a
minor duplication of it. Two of the old
ox-wagons, with Boers, vrouws and
kinder complete, is to follow the track
of the voortrekkers through the Cape,
Natal, the Free State and the Transvaal.
They are timed to reach Pretoria on
December 16, the date on which the
Boers under Pretorius avenged the mas-
sacre by the Zulus of Piet Retief’s entire
party at Weenen —“the place of weep-
ing.” A hint of the feeling that still
exists after a hundred years is seen in
the plea of Minister for Defence Pirow
that racial animosity be buried and bit-
terness discarded.
* * * *
“Mako”: One of those naval occasions
that diversify the routine of the senior
service fell to the lot of H.M.S. Leander
on a recent visit to Russell (M.L.). Three
of the ratings, returning from a con-
vivial time ashore, noticed a miscel-
laneous cargo on the wharf, and felt the
urge of boyhood’s days to see what kind
of a splash it would make. Into the
harbor went handcarts, cinema films,
corrugated iron, cream cans and vege-
tables in noisy succession, and the fun
was fast and vastly entertaining until un-
sympathetic authorities arrived and put
the jovial trio under naval arrest. The
most concerned person was the proprie-
tor of the local cinema, bereft of his
weekly screen attractions, but Leander
rose nobly to the occasion and not only
lent sufficient films to bridge the gap, but
chemically treated the others and made
them fit for presentation. The populace
of Russell had bright entertainment
watching the warship’s divers retrieving
the spoil.
* * * *
“Chemist”: “T.’s” suggestion (B.
3/8/’3B) that medicoes’ scripts should be
written in English and that doses should
be expressed in words prompts the de-
fence that scripts are written in Latin
because it is the universal language of
medicine, it lends itself to a convenient
“shorthand,” it conceals from the patient
a knowledge which to him as a layman
might be mentally injurious, and it makes
the prescription a private communication
from the doctor to the chemist, respected
by the chemist as such. And as for doses,
and the “similarity between the symbols
for drachms and ounces” mentioned by
“T.,” to the practising chemist no simi-
larity exists. To us there is as little
similarity as between the symbol for
the English £ and that for the Ameri-
can dollar.
* * =S= H*
“T.W.”: “Xo” (B. 3/ 8 / ’3B) is wrong
in crediting the U.S.A. with the innova-
tion of invisible spectacles. These lenses
have been manufactured by the German
firm of Zeiss for many years past. They
are not unbreakable, but light and fragile,
and, further, do not cover the eyeball but
fit over the cornea and portion of the
sclerotic coat. They can be worn for
comparatively short periods only ; this,
together with their high cost, has limited
the demand.
* * * )=
“Hanko”: Footscray (Melb.) has added
to the world a new wonder —a skating
rink floor that is 20,000 square feet of
burnished mirror. Concrete is the base
of it, then come tons of paper felt, re-
inforced steel bars and cement. The
surface is a mixture of ground glass,
steel filings and ironite, hand-polished to
a high sheen. The invention of a Mel-
bourne firm, the rink is claimed to be
the only one of its kind.
* * * *
From the office antiquary:
In the last three or four years of his life
The Bulletin’s James Edmond did a lot of
travelling by air. On one of his journeys in
cloudland his thoughts turned to the loss of
the Southern Cloud —still undiscovered —with
all its company; and after much pondering and
discussion with pilots and aircraftsmen he came
to this conclusion, which he expressed in a
Society par: “My idea is that she was struck
by lightning while travelling at a great height.”
Now, after all these years, I read in a Mel-
bourne “Argus” cable that 11 Hungarians
have lost their lives in a ’plane that crashed in
flames —the bodies were reduced to ashes —it
having been “struck by lightning while travel-
ling at a great height”—the old Bulletin
editor’s very words. His theory was countered
by someone with the assertion that it couldn’t
possibly happen; but it has happened.
“S.”: It’s a strange feeling to sit in a
car with a man and know for certain
that —unless he gets more than his share
of luck —he’s going to land himself in
court, hospital or morgue. I’ve travelled
with drunken drivers and speedhogs and
felt about them as Keats did about the
victim-to-be in “The Pot of Basil” —a
dead man who still happened temporarily
to be alive. I’d add to their merry ranks
all raw newchums; they are sure to have
two or three bad scares (if no worse)
before they learn sense. Struck a new
one the other day: a man who always
slipped the car into neutral going down
hills. He’d no control except the brake,
which would make him swerve or skid,
and he chose that time when he had no
control to coast very much faster than
he normally drove. That we did get
home might have been due to luck, skill
or a tombstone carried in the back seat
for ballast.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: Much interested
in the use of the expression in Town-
shend’s drawing (B. 3/8/’3B) of the ex-
pression “Jimmy O’Gobs” used to denote
money. It is the first time I have ever
heard or seen it in print in an Australian
paper. In the golden sunset of Queen
Victoria, when the Boys of the Village
used frequently to breakfast with the then
Prince of Wales at the Junior Turf Club
in Piccadilly on sausages and mashed,
the phrase was in common use. It was
coined, I fancy, by that mirror of
Edwardian England the “Pink ’Un,” and
was generally affected in the Services and
the O.S.T. Brigade, but it was always
given its full value, “Jimmy o’ Goblins.”
* * *
“Sawbones”: Tell “Topsman” (B.
3/ 8 / ’3B) that when a man is strung up
two things happen. The first and most
important is that the blood supply to
the brain is cut off and unconsciousness
results. The second is that the legs are
relieved of all weight but their own and
the stretch is taken off the tendons. The
muscles which hold the feet at right
angles to the legs relax, voluntary and
reflex nerves cut out and the feet drop
under their own weight. But if a man
hung for a year his feet would not come
right into line with the legs. They can’t,
because there are ligaments on the front
of the ankle-joint which, though long,
are not so long as to allow that.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: If you still fall for that
help-me-please female stuff, a couple of
items in one issue of a Melbourne daily
should restore your balance. One of
’em concerns a witness in a Vic. will case
who told how a daughter of the dead man
slipped off a shoe and swiped him over
the head with it when she objected to
his (witness’s) presence in the hospital
where her father was a patient. On
another page was a par. about the valor
of a young woman who was stopped in
a Yarraside park by a would-be bag-
snatcher. She charged him with her um-
brella and he fled in terror! Yet, my
boy, you give ’em your seat in trams
and trains.
* * * *
“Dhas”: I have seen wrestlers, life-
savers, statues of Apollo and pictures of
Clark Gable, but never have these eyes
seen anything that would so stir the flut-
tering heart of the flapper as a bloke who
haunts Sydney’s George-street, down to-
wards Central. Unfortunately, he’s only
a model, but even so, adorned with every
conceivable device for beauty, except a
wooden leg, he’s a magnificent specimen.
He begins with an eyeshade and glasses ;
then he wears shoulderstraps and a red
chest-protector; on his wrists are wrist-
bands ; on a finger, a finger-stall; in his
hands, bandages and rubber gloves; be-
low the simple charm of his body-belt
are kneecaps, elastic stockings, elastic
leggings and an anklet. The list, from
which delicacy has prompted me to omit
three other interesting adornments, totals
16 different items ; and, as if they weren’t
enough for any man to remember to don
in the morning, the shopkeeper has
placed an advertisement for “vitality
pills” behind his manly cranium.
* * * *
“Mak”: When Maorilander L. V.
Bryant, schoolteacher and skilled alpinist,
went to the Himalayas with the 1934
reconnaisance party, the occasion was
believed to have been Maoriland’s first
link with an Everest party. But Wan-
ganui’s public nursery has grown thou-
sands of rhododendron from seed ob-
tained in the Himalayan highlands by
members of the Brice party, two of whom
lost their lives in attempting to reach the
Everest summit on June 8, 1924. They
were Mallory and Irvine, who were
glimpsed for a moment high up on the
mountainside before the mists closed over
them. The seed went back to Maoriland
with B. P. Lethbridge, of Wanganui, who
met the survivors of the Brice party in
India after they had returned to civilisa-
tion.
THE USHERETTE.
“The lure of an attractive uniform brings scores
of applications every week for usherettes’ jobs in
Sydney theatres.”
They must be dainty girls, with all the graces
That consciousness of being comely sets
On lissome figures and engaging faces,
These all-invaluable usherettes.
And whether they be blondies or brunettes
They know there’s naught, where talkie patrons
swarm,
That such appreciative notice gets
As an ingratiating uniform.
Nimbly they flit about congested spaces,
Deftly they throw the tiny torch’s jets
That indicate to all their proper places,
What time a string of topical gazettes
The appetite for fare more filling whets,
Love’s dreamy ecstasy or passion’s storm
Personified by filmland marionettes,
Live girls in a bewitching uniform.
Hither and yon they glide and leave no traces
(Saving, perhaps, a hint of violets),
Like fairies darting through the woodland
chases,
Shakspeare’s elusive and entrancing pets
O’ summer nights. And their attire, one bets,
Is none the worse for being cut to norm.
What pull have nymphs in leafy chemisettes
On damsels in a fetching uniform?
There’s thrill, no doubt, in furbelows and laces,
And furs will keep the coldest lady warm;
But circumstances ever alter cases,
And for the usherette no lure outpaces
That of a fascinating uniform.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Brigadier Girard”: If there’s anyone
in Sydney, aliens included, who doesn’t
know exactly the location of and the
number of guns in the first of the 9.2 in.
batteries that defend the Harbor it
isn’t the fault of the Defence authorities,
who made a public ceremony of firing the
first gun, and let newspaper photo-
graphers take snapshots of the fortifica-
tions. But there was an element of
mystery about the proceedings, hinging on
an important point of military etiquette.
Some junior officers turned up at the
fort wearing spurs. “This is a fortress
area,” remarked a senior coldly. “Spurs
are not worn.” So off came the spurs.
Then everybody stood to attention while
the ultra-senior brasshats arrived on the
scene. These august gentlemen, generals
both, must have been pleased that their
boots were so brightly dubbined, for they
seemed to hypnotise the garrison. On
each of the four heels was a big, bright
spur!
* * * *
“Kerys”: These linguistic mix-ups!
The other night a woman hurrying
through a dark Darlinghurst lane was
stopped by a youth who, with a strong
foreign accent, inquired, “Will you tell
me the way to home?” “Home,” echoed
the other ; “where is home?” “I not
know,” was the reply. “I want you to
tell me.” “I’m sure I don’t know where
you live if you don’t,” said the woman
tersely, preparing to move on. The
agitated young man stopped her. “I not
live there,” he said. “I go to the party.”
Things were getting desperately mixed
when a man hove in sight. Appealed to
by the youth he stopped to listen. “Oh,
Holme,” he said airily. “That’s the big
block of flats over the road. H-o-l-m-e.”
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: What has become of
the Casey currency, issued a few months
ago with official pomp and ceremony,
also considerable adverse criticism from
artistic folk? Here in Brisbane, handling
the average amount of hard money to be
picked up along the Inky Way, I’ve never
seen among it a Casey brown, tray-bit
or bob. One pee-shilling-twoce came
back across a bar, also a strange cart-
wheel affair seemingly made of pewter,
and alleged to possess currency value of
five bob. I took the earliest opportunity
of changing it for the usual George,
Edward or Vic. brand, and it got through
all right. It was admirably designed for
wearing holes in one’s pockets. Perhaps
it was a stumer, as my mate said.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: This modern furniture!
On renewing the fancy velvet covering
my old lounge suite, I discovered that
the nice, rounded effect of the arms of
the couch had been achieved by the in-
sertion underneath the upholstery of four
beer bottles —empty!
* * * »
“Nagheer”: A chance remark set me
to analysing the reading habits of a
dozen f.a.q. Australians from 17 to 22
in this S.Q. locality. All got to secondary-
school standard, four girls and five boys
were at good boarding-schools for several
years apiece, none of their families are
anywhere near the relief line. Four had
never read any book right through ex-
cept schoolbooks. None had ever ’read
any book by Dickens, Kipling, Conan
Doyle or Conrad, although all had heard
of Kipling and Dickens as writers, most
had heard of Doyle in school history
books, and one connected Conrad with
“Fall out the guard, Prendergast—the natives seem to be friendly !”
a film she’d seen. All had. read more or
less of one or more of Shakspeare’s plays
at school, and all agreed in a strong dis-
like of such wearisome rot. Only one
had ever heard of Dennis, Paterson,
Lawson (except as an alleged Blue Moun-
tains explorer) or Boldrewood. The one
recognised Dennis and Lawson because
he always read the Radio News in dad’s
Bulletin and sometimes looked at the
other pages. I’m not criticising, just
wondering.
¥ sk * *
“Galen”: A great many of the sur-
geons in London’s Harley-street get spiky
if a patient or a brother-medico calls
’em “doctor.” They prefer to be known
as plain “mister,” possibly because
“doctor” is appropriated by so many
physicians who can’t boast a doctor’s
degree. Representatives of the non-
medical sciences in Sydney have been
agitating to have the title restricted to
holders of honest-to-goodness doctorates,
advancing as one reason the fact that out
of 2541 Bachelors of Medicine turned out.
by Sydney ’Varsity, only 93 proceeded
to qualify as M.D. Most people, if asked
the principal meaning of “doctor,” would
say physician, but Webster is against
them. The primary meaning is “one
qualified to teach” (Webster, 1874), or “a
teacher” (Webster, 1937). Furthermore,
a doctor is the sort of engine alternatively
called a donkey-engine, one of a set of
loaded dice, a cook in a lumber camp,
an alcoholic tipple, and a knife that
scrapes off superfluous ink in a printing
machine. The only derivative term in
which medicoes can claim sole rights is
“doctress,” reserved for female phy-
sicians, but never used by them.
“Costeen”: Two truckers on the 600 ft.
level of a Golden Mile mine were open-
ing up a case of fracteur in preparation
for “popping” some unmanageable-sized
rocks when they spotted pencilled
lines on the waterproof paper packing.
“Sweet sixteen and never been kissed”
was the enticing legend. It was followed
by a girl’s name and an address in Yarra-
ville (Vic.), where Nobels have a factory,
but unluckily for the enterprising lass
both truckers are safely married.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: It is a wonder to me that
Maoriland visitors to Sydney don’t more
often come to grief in crossing inter-
sections by reason of a divergence of
traffic regulations here and in the
Dominion. There, in most of the big
towns, cars are required to drive slowly
round a corner, while in Sydney the
motorist swirls round at any pace he
fancies. M.L; tourists, expecting an on-
coming car to give them ample time to
get out of its way at the corner, don’t
hurry unduly, and are apt to be found
later relating breathlessly the narrow
escape they had from a fiend of a driver
who rushed them at top speed.
* * ¥ *
“Ike Hollar”: “Mayo” (B. 10/8/’3B)
must be very innocent if he thinks that
fare-dodging on the Sydney trams is
“almost impossible.” At crowded periods
what is almost impossible is for the con-
ductor to collect all fares. In one trip
recently I saw sd. saved by passengers,
dismounting in Oxford-street, who had
cheated the service of a penny each by
overriding the sections for which they
had paid. Eightpence (dodged fares from
Bondi) left the tram at Liverpool-street;
and upon a rough calculation Is. 2d.
(mostly made up by people who had
boarded at Darlinghurst and had not yet
been asked for their fares) walked away
at the next four stops. That 2s. 3d.-worth
of lost revenue on only a portion of a
tram on one journey helped to explain
to me why Sydney trams don’t pay better.
* * * *
“Miro”: Queer things get mislaid. One
of the latest M.L. rediscoveries concerns
a memorial that for years has lurked
unseen near a public highway at Lyttel-
ton. When workmen were the other day
engaged in clearing a section they came
upon a stone obelisk about 6ft. in height
which had once apparently borne a tablet
explaining its existence. The oldest in-
habitant was called in, and he by hard
thinking called to mind that in 1863
Lyttelton determined to record the mar-
riage of Edward the Seventh in stone, and
placed a memorial at a street intersection.
Streets changed and intersections van-
ished, and the memorial ended up in an
adjacent allotment. Useless to ask what
became of the usual collection of con-
temporary coins buried beneath the little
monument.
$
“Colonel Bungstarter”: If the preven-
tion-of-cruelty people want to see
genuinely happy animals, they should
approach Australian zoos with a
few practical suggestions. No
human beer artist can gollop his
specialty with even a fraction of
the enthusiasm and enjoyment
of an elephant. In India I dis-
covered the first step in trans-
forming elephants from mere
acquaintances to warm and life-
long friends—a bucket of
country-made beer. Notice how bored
zoo tigers always look. That genial
potentate the Sultan of Johore always
saw to it that his pet tigers got their
regular allowance of valerian oil, rubbed
on a big wooden ball. They will sniff
at and play with the delightful thing
for hours of dreamy ecstasy. So will any
of the big cats, even that essence of
deviltry the black panther. Bears, from
grizzly down —though, curiously, not the
treacherous Polar kind —have an equal
passion for asafoetida. But whoever
thinks of pleasing the poor captives?
* * * *
“McGlum”: A Ballarat man, lumbered
for being unlawfully on licensed premises
after hours, told what he feared was the
damaging truth and discovered it was a
defence. He testified that he had learned
the police were about to raid the pub,
so hastened to warn the publican. The
Law made an entry just as he was putting
away a quick one. A kindhearted Beak
dismissed the case. Defendant had given
a “lawful excuse.”
* * *
“Spare Corp”: The real centre of ex-
Digger activity in the old A.I.F. camp
areas in England (B. 3/8/’3B) is Salis-
bury, where the Diggers’ Association
crowded out the dining-room of the West
End Hotel for its Anzac Night dinner
this year. There are Australian memo-
rials in half a dozen churches and grave-
yards, all of which were well-wreathed
on last Anzac Day; but the A.l.F.’s best
memorial is the rising sun, a replica of
the badge, cut in a hillside so that the
chalk is exposed. When some trouble
arose about the right of the Diggers to
deal with the landscape in this fashion
the land was bought and paid for out of
A.I.F. Canteen Funds. Subsequently
it was vested in the local government
authority as a reserve, with the responsi-
bility of keeping the badge in good con-
dition.
“ Don't hit him too hard, Clarence; remember We want to take him back alive!”
STRAIGHT TO THE POINT.
“The Dominions Office is as obsolete as a muzzle—
loader or a hansom-cab.”— W. M. Hughes.
It carries a musty odor;
It’s something as drear and drab
As an ancient muzzle-loader
Or a rickety hansom cab.
In an age that hurries and hustles
And hasn’t a minute to spare
It's out of date as the bustles
Our grannies were wont to wear.
It's a feebler force than the whitecaps
That beat on some harbor bar;
It's due for the place where nightcaps
And antimacassars are.
High time it went to the discard
Like other old-time stuff,
The practice of going whiskered
Or the habit of taking snuff.
It’s a sad survival and silly
From some dim and distant date,
Which getteth the goat of Billy
And spurs him to speaking straight.
It sticks in our William's gizzard,
And into the theme he sails
With the fire of that other wizard
Whom England got from Wales.
And you’ll notice he shares the liking
Of his fellow-Taff., “L.G.,”
For the metaphor apt and striking
And the homely simile.
It carries a musty odor;
It’s something as drear and drab
As a rusty muzzle-loader
Or a worn-out hansom-cab.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ķ
ķ
CRAVENA
nevei varies- tkeyri,,
always smcttt+fcesft!
10 for 9d 20 for I'6
o
m
m
H
E1867
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Somebody discovered the other day
that Bruxner, the N.S.W. Deputy
Premier, had had 10 years as Minister
of Transport—off and on. It was pos-
sibly by way of celebration that the
Newcastle branch of his department re-
ported losses of £22,000 on trams and
£9OOO on buses for the last year of the
10, and that Yellow Cabs announced
doubled profits and a 12 p.c. dividend.
A U.A.P. paper’s apology:
There need be no anxiety that trade for
July, reckoning commodities alone, shows
an excess of imports amounting to
£1,953,000 sterling, though the excess for
July, 1937, was £313,000. The unfavorable
balance on commodities in July, 1936, was
£3,081,000.
Yes, but that was the month in which
Gullett’s trade-diversion “policy” got
fairly into its stride.
Inquisitive people want to know why
Albanians are arriving in such numbers
in a country where people never took
to yataghans and blood feuds are not
favorite recreations. Assistant Minister
Thompson explains that it is because
Albanians “are interested in cotton-
growing.”
Inquiries indicate that they are specially
adapted to this class of work and generally
make a success of it.
The Statesman’s Year-Book gives a list of
a dozen commodities produced in
Albania. Cotton is not among them.
There has been a sharp rise in juvenile
crime statistics in Victoria, and it may be
an effect of the dumping of crime-and-
sex magazines from the other side of the
Pacific. Victorian Assemblymen have
made some feeling remarks about that
imported offal. Assistant Minister
Perkins has also been heard from. A
few more tons of printed and stitched
filth arrived by a freighter which just
crawled along, and Perkins said that, as
a bookseller himself, he felt revolted,
and he would make it his business to see
that it wouldn’t be sold. It is being sold,
with Perkins’s permission.
With £70,000,000 of maturing loans to
be converted and £43,000,000 to be raised
for defence expenditure, Stevens demands
“a substantial speeding-up of public
works of a developmental character”—
Railways, bridges, rehousing, water-
supply and sewerage [of course!], arteries of
transport for metropolitan and industrial
areas, electricity service, power and light,
a long list of irrigation schemes and many
projects for developmental roads.
The “Daily Telegraph” thoroughly
approves of Stevens’s Challenge to the
Tightwads. It must be going to wish
Theodore’s fiduciary issue on him.
Stevens, arguing for lots more borrow-
ing:—
The depression was largely caused by....
a decline in world prices and the drying up
of international lending Recovery did
not come until we expanded our public
>vorks. If it should happen again that
our income from exports falls dangerously,
public-works expenditure should be ex-
panded.
Actually “international lending”. brought
about the most dangerous and difficult
feature of the depression ; it neces-
sitated such measures as the shipping
of the gold reserve to London, an
expedient which cannot be resorted to
again. For the rest, Roosevelt talked
for years just as Stevens is doing now —-
the “international lending” part excepted
—applied Stevens’s remedy, borrowing,
in huge doses, and got his country into
another depression.
Sydney “Sun” counsels Stevens to go
on the loan drunk he dreams of, and
declares that his dream “carries us a
long way from the Premiers’ Plan in
1930, that unhappy and confused
year.” Inexactitude and ingratitude, if
you like. The Premiers’ Plan dates from
1931, and, when all is said and done,
it greatly improved a situation which
had got so bad that £1 ord. shares in
Associated Newspapers dropped to two
bob.
“A progressive and orderly-planned
system of public works and State de-
velopment” is proposed by Forgan Smith.
There are fears that it is Foggy’s way of
saying that he wants to go on a loan
jag, too.
The High Court has ruled that Vic-
toria’s Chicory Marketing Board had no
constitutional power to extort a levy—a
pound per half-acre —from a grower who
sold his produce to a buyer in N.S.W.
So the bottom has fallen out of another
State Marketing Board edict, and all
State Marketing Boards are affected. It
is a dreadful blow to State Marketing
Boards and the provincial politicians who
set them up, but the general public will
get over it.
In another series of syndicated articles,
Roberts, the Sydney professor, discovers
“How many more times will I have tell you you're only a dummy?"
a “terrible analogy between those pre-
war years and to-day”:
Both period? were dominated by an in-
exorable, and seemingly unavoidable, drift
to a European war.
The “drift” may seem “unavoidable” to
Roberts and other professors whose
jeremiads are inflicted on a public that
never harmed them. Chamberlain,
Halifax, Simon, Menzies, Mackenzie
King, Hertzog. and others with oppor-
tunities of seeing into the heart of things
don’t take that hopeless view.
“Australian methods,” so called, have
been urged by a banking commission
on the Government at Dublin, that Gov-
ernment, like others we know of, having
been guilty of extravagance. One recom-
mendation is that “local-body borrowing
should be strictly controlled.” But that
isn’t an “Australian method,” more’s the
pity!
“Hitler wants peace,” says lan Hamil-
ton. “No German wants war,” says
Bob Menzies. These reports must have
put the “Cronk-News” on its mettle;
anyway, the “Cronk-News” promptly
came to light with a persecution story —
of “more than 80 Jews” who had “died
in a concentration camp near Weimar in
July.”
Even if the report were only half-true,
it would constitute a terrific indictment of
the Nazi system.
“Only half-true” is beautiful, coming
from the “Cronk-News.”
Communists are trading on indigna-
tion justly felt at the rise in the cost of
living, which is not benefiting producers,
and the inertia of Governments is help-
ing the Reds. Canberra could do some-
thing towards frustrating their tricks by
reviewing the incidence of sales tax and
revenue duties which affect prices of
necessaries, and by removing the sense-
less embargo which prevents town-
dwelling Australians from getting
potatoes at reasonable rates and other
Australians from selling their fruit in
Maoriland. And reduction of fares as
a help to cottage building in outer
suburbs might arrest the rise in rents —
although that may have reached its limit.
After all, Sydney’s alleged County
Council didn’t give a German concern a
contract for which Britons had tendered,
and its attack on soldier preference has
been suspended indefinitely. A chilling
wind of public disapproval sprang up,
and there was a rush of cold to the feet.
At the week-end wheat was round 3s.
a bushel at Australian ports. The N.S.W.
Charmers and Fettlers are going after a
home-consumption price and suggest
4s. Bd. That would suit Cornstalks and
Victorians, but it would be of little good
to South Australians and Westralians —
the latter especially-—the bulk of whose
wheat has to be exported. The Canadian
idea of a Government-guaranteed price
at silo or siding would be fairer to all.
Windbaggery is an invariable feature
of Miners’ Federation conferences and
strikes. Miners’ Fed. delegates have
been jawing in Sydney for a fortnight
without getting perceptibly farther, unless
limitation of output, the latest proposal,
represents progress. Miners, the Com-
munist element excepted, don’t seem to
be keen on go-slow or strike—or the
Heffron group either, for that matter.
By virtue of lightning legislation aimed
at the McArthur interest, the Stevens
Government has placed two assurance
cos. —Producers and Citizens’ Co-op.
and Commonwealth General Assurance
Corp.—under the control of the N.S.W.
Public Trustee. McArthur threatens to
oppose Stevens in Croydon to expose
“the financial racket” or something ; but
that means waiting for the best part of
three years. Why not try a Maoriland
seat first?
Direct from Changkufeng by mulga
wire:
For some time before the appointed
hour not a shot rang out on the five-mile
front. —Sydney “Labor Daily.”
Although the truce provided that posi-
tions held at midnight should be retained,
fighting lasted until the last minute before
the noon armistice. —Sydney “D.T.”
As Mr. Boom might say, And That’s
How News Is Made.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council has
decided to be “neutral” on the prohibi-
tion issue, to be put to the vote in
October. Yet if the drys won the
Trades Hallers would have 23,000 work-
less persons from breweries, distilleries,
vineyards and hotels on their hands.
Their sentiments wouldn’t be neutral.
The strange Victorian arrangement
which has kept the representatives of the
smallest body of electors in office for
four years by permission of the represen-
tatives of the largest body is becoming
an embarrassment to both. Labor has
embarrassed the Cockies by insisting on
municipal alterations in Melbourne and
Geelong which must logically lead to the
electoral reform that would dish the
Agrarians, and the latter have embar-
rassed Labor by continuing the embargo
on beef from the Werribee farm, when
it is palpably making steak and sirloin
prices dearer than they need be and
disorganising Board of Works finances.
This subject was debated on Thursday,
and the Government, with a show of
magnanimity, said it “wouldn’t treat the
issue as vital.” But it won’t always be
able to avoid putting its fate to the
touch.
Billy has “gravely embarrassed the
Government” again, this time by saying
that the Dominions Office is “as obsolete
as the muzzle-loading rifle and the han-
som cab.” The Dominions Office denies
it. Denies also what Billy fired at it with
his second barrel: “Instead of functioning
like a swiftly-rushing cataract, it crawls
along like a half-baked centipede.” “Half-
baked” is not so good. As a rule, Billy’s
first ideas are best. It was the same with
Dr. Johnson, who said of a play he
disliked, “It hasn’t wit enough to keep
it sweet” ; and then, “It wants sufficient
vitality to preserve it from putrefaction.”
From Molongloside:
Redistribution of N.S.W. constituencies is on
the programme for the next House of Repre-
sentatives elections, and Ministerialists, never
keen on Ward, and wilder with him than ever
since he decided to succeed Joel Moses Gabb
as the Quorum King, are wondering how that
tribune will get on. He represents fewer elec-
tors (55,984 last October) than any other Syd-
ney member, and population is steadily shifting
out of his East Sydney strongholds, particu-
larly Glenmore and Surry Hills. On the other
hand, it is moving into flatty Darlinghurst,
where, of 9510 effective votes cast at the
October election, Ward got only 2904. At the
rate flats are going up in Darlinghurst there
may be 15,000 electors in that subdivision at
the next time of voting; and though there is
a steady infiltration of foreigners, most of whom
vote Labor when they are naturalised, the bulk
of the new Darlinghurst population is likely to
be anti-Ward. Moreover, the Four-A Senate
ticket helped the little interjector last time; and
that kind of thing is unlikely to happen twice.
East Sydney was G. H. Reid’s electorate. In
1940, or perhaps before, it will furnish a con-
test that old Dry Dog himself would have
liked to be in.


VISITING DAY.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,900,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
INVESTIGATE BEFORE
INVESTING
first
wiss
this is the logical procedure when
your money, no matter how much, is involved.
Therefore, you owe it to yourself to investigate
immediately an investment considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to be of the soundest.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
sJMfir
5 H*
U.
■p
£5
iO
Throw away your brush
and blades and shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Thirty-four years ago to-day (August
17), the first Commonwealth Labor
Ministry resigned. It was headed by
J. C. Watson, with W. M. Hughes as first
lieutenant, and, though septuagenarians,
both are still active workers and un-
and* 3
■ ““U B - l l y aS
Phaitf ?T EXt f nal M r Ste l “
nf Pv Te * nto ™ s a ?, d Vice-President
, AfT . xecut,ve . Council he was Extei-
nal Affairs only m 1904. The others were
Higgins, Batchelor, Fisher, Dawson,
Mahon and McGregor; they are long
Tom Garrett, who turned 80 a few
weeks ago, has survived all his mates of
the first (1878) Australian eleven and —
now that Hugh Trumble and Jim Kelly
have passed on —most of the members
of the tenth (1899) team. A practising
solicitor in Martin-place, Sydney, the
old man rarely absents himself from the
office, never misses big cricket, and
punts in a mild way when he gets “the
oil.” He still sports the full beard he
carried on many a cricket field when
beards were de rigger—though Murdoch,
Spofforth and the Bannermans never
wore them and 60 years have not
whitened it altogether.
F. R. Wood, manager of the Equity
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., and
head of the Vic. branch in its jubilee year,
has spent 42 of his 58 years in its service.
He succeeded the late C. T. Martin in
January, and last week attended his first
annual meeting as manager. He joined
F.R. WOOD
as an office boy at 25 bob a month. When
Joel Fox, the first manager, hired him
there were only six on the staff; to-day
there are nearly 100. Wood shifted with
the firm from its original offices in Queen-
street to the headquarters it built for
itself in the same street about 30 years
ago. He was still with it when the new
Bourke-street block was built and occu-
pied in 1931.
Harry Sunderland, who goes from the
secretaryship of the Queensland Rugby
League to a similar job in Wigan, is
probably the most energetic publicity
hound Queensland has known. Begin-
ning as a copyholder with Brisbane
“Truth,” he became a reporter, and while
on that job took on the building up of
the Queensland Rugby League. When
the war was over League had superseded
Union all over Queensland. North
Country by birth, Sunderland should
settle comfortably in Lancashire. He is
father to the able young Sunderland who
has been appointed to the chair of
anatomy in Melbourne Uni.
Percy Grainger is back in Melbourne,
his home town, after an absence of three
years. He made that last visit memorable
by playing in one of his own orchestral
pieces, not only on the keys, of the piano,
but on the wires themselves, leaping up
at intervals and tapping them with a
little mallet, while his Norwegian wife
operated on a peal of bells. His enthu-
siasm for the musically unorthodox is
as great as ever, and he pays Australia
the compliment of telling it that it is the
centre of the most interesting musical
territory in the world, inasmuch as the
best music is being written in Polynesia,
and Australian abo. music is an untapped
mine. He has 400 compositions to com-
plete, including one he started as a boy
in Brighton 40 years ago. Since his last
visit to Australia he has figured in 200
concerts in England and the U.S.A., and
has brought a fresh batch of relics of
his master, Grieg, for the musical
museum he donated to Melbourne Uni.
Louis M. Phillips, of the Moses Moss
firm, just dead, was, in a quiet way, one
of Sydney’s leading Jewish philanthro-
pists ; for 20 years, as its president, he
literally “carried” the Moses Montefiore
Home, having his hand continually in
his pocket for help the home could not
give ; his pet non-Jewish charities were
the Blind Institute and the Prisoners’ Aid
Society. Phillips was proud of his firm’s
association with The Bulletin ; it ad-
vertised in the first issue on the under-
standing that a copy of the then new
paper should be in every pub parlor in
Australia, and continued the association
for donkey’s years. The same firm was
the first to pay bonuses to cricketers for
sixes, fours, runs over a hundred and
wickets. The kindly old gentleman, who
was related to the wealthy Cohen-Levy
family, was 66 when he died.
John Rymill, of South Australia,
though only 33, has decided to give up
exploring. Born at Penola, where he
still lives, Rymill became interested in
Polar exploration while at Cambridge,
and was a member of that university’s
expedition to n.-w. Canada in 1929. In
1931 he was with the Watkins expedi-
tion to Greenland. Watkins was drowned
and Rymill took command, earning the
Polar Medal of the R.G.S. and the Mur-
chison Grant. Four years ago he com-
manded an expedition which explored
1000 miles of the coastline of Graham-
land, in the Antarctic. Like all up-to-
date explorers, Rymill is a qualified air
pilot.
James V. Fairbairn, Federal Rep. for
Flinders (Vic.), who is piloting his own
’plane on an aerial tour of New Guinea
and Papua, learned his flying with the
war-time R.F.C. Just 41 now, he was
a Vic. M.L.A. for Warrnambool before
he won the old Bruce seat in the Federal
sphere. After the war he ran the Peak
Downs station in Queensland until 1924,
when he acquired his present property,
Mt. Elephant, in Vic.’s Western District.
RE. Elford, who is accompanying Fair-
bairn on the 7000-mile flight, is a Mel-
bourne “Argus” man, son, of A. S.
Elford, deputy-chairman of the Austra-
lasian Steam Ship Owners’ Federation.
Gone west at 69, Capt. A. M. Treacy
(R.A.N., retired), for the last 16 years
secretary of the Melbourne Club. His
naval career started 44 years ago, when
he joined the Vic. naval forces. He
accompanied a Vic. contingent to China
in 1900, and during the Great War was
the R.A.N.’s Director of Naval Stores
and Victualling. For a while he served
on the Coal Board. In post-war times
he was, just prior to retirement, secretary
to the Department of the Navy. Lin-
drum’s game was his pet pastime ; he
was president of Vic. Amateur Billiards
Association.
The father of Frederick McMaster,
pictured here by Dubois, hailed from
Morven, in Scotland, and his mother
was English. He was born in N. S. Wales
65 years ago and educated at Sydney
FREDERICK McMASTER.
Grammar School. For years he’s been
one of the best-known sheepbreeders in
Australia, and is vice-president of the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Assn. He has
given good service as a member of the
State committee of the C.S. and 1.R., the
council of the R.A.S. and the Merriwa
Pastures Board, and a K.B. came his way
four years ago. Interested in tennis,
swimming and shooting, he takes an
active part in tennis administration and
is vice-patron of the R.A.C. His pastoral
stronghold is Dalkeith, Cassilis, N. S.
Wales.
The new principal of the Methodist
Ladies’ College, Hawthorn, Vic., has had
pedagogic experience in exotic surround-
ings. He is the Rev. A. H. Wood, at
present Wesleyan minister at Concord,
N. S. Wales. For 13 years he was prin-
cipal of Tubou College, Tonga, where
one of his pupils was Prince Tubouto’a,
heir to the Tongan throne. Born in
Geelong, the M.L.C.’s new head started
out as a civil servant in Sydney. He
attended evening classes at Sydney Uni.,
graduated with honors, and did two years
of the law course before offering himself
as a minister. In 1924, while in Tonga,
he married Dr. Olive O’Reilly, of
Pymble, N. S. Wales.
The selection of British boy migrants
for Australia —N. S. Wales will take 240
a year and Vic. will also ask for a quota
-—is to be in the hands of Lieut.-Col.
Humphrey Clegg, who goes to Australia
House on the nomination of the London
committee of the Big Brother movement.
He has toured the British Isles exten-
sively, giving addresses on Centralia to
schools and societies.
A man who in his time has played
many parts is James Ireland Craig, a
70-year-old Scot just now enjoying a holi-
day in Sydney. He’s now Financial
Secretary to the Government of Egypt,
and, off and on, his official connection
with Egyptian affairs goes back to 1896,
when he became an officer of the Minis-
try of Education. Before that, backed by
an M.A. degree (Edinburgh) and a Cam-
bridge wranglership, he had been a mas-
ter at Eton and at Winchester. His
Egyptian career has been diversified by
a spell as Director of Food Control in
Silesia, and he has travelled in E. Africa,
Uganda, the Sudan and Abyssinia in
connection with studies of the Nile. He
has written books on meteorology, irri-
gation, map projection and geometry, is
a master of Arabic and an experienced
statistician. He looks forward to retiring
and setting down in Australia as a date-
grower.
A. D. B. Rowley, Federal Deputy-
Commissioner of Taxation for N. S.
Wales, has retired after 42 years in the
public service, 39 of them in taxation.
Born at Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) in 1874
and educated at Parramatta and Albury,
he entered the State public service as a
youth, but in 1911 shifted to the Federal
taxation sphere, and was a Federal
Deputy-Commissioner in Queensland
prior to holding the same post in N.S.W.
He handled taxes with such considera-
tion for the victims that a lot of the sting
was removed.
Hospital chaplaincies made Father
John M. Kelly, dead at 64, widely known
in his native Sydney. Trained at St.
Patrick’s College, Manly, he was
ordained 41 years ago, and for years
was connected with St. Mary’s Cathedral
and chaplain to Sydney Hospital. Later
he was on the professorial staff at St.
Patrick’s College, administering St.
Francis’s, Albion-street, Surry Hills, and
near the end chaplain to Lewisham Hos-
pital.
A well-known identity in the top-end
of South Australia is “Dicky” Mould,
squire of Lincoln Gap station. He boasts
that he has had only one shave in his
life, and that was 60 years ago. Find-
ing that after that experience the flies
worried him, he let nature take its
course, with impressive results. He took
up his present 120-sq. m. station 43 years
ago. A few years ago Mould bought an-
RICHARD GILES MOULD.
other saltbush run, Cooyerdoo (107
sq. m.), and later still acquired Moonabie
(173 sq. m.). When he musters his flocks
there are 14,000 jumbucks to count. Son
Maynard manages Cooyerdo and Moona-
bie, and another son, Lincoln, is boss at
Emu Downs, an outstation of Lincoln
Gap. R. G. Mould is a typical Austra-
lian bushman, genial and kindly, and he
has hosts of friends.


A Winner in Any Company
C2* ,
w
b»V<-
I nil
3
>1 -
r
<»'.*
_,, y;_
If l *
i#
£m
M
is
«
a
-7
Here’s a “Sure Thing” for the
Good Health and Pleasure
Stakes—it always runs true
to form.
Pure - delightful - refreshing
m
m
A
HERE'S
t
ITO-EJE
STANDARD BREWERY
SYDNEY
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Knit Tog”: At the risk of being dis-
believed by members of the truth-loving
council, I’d like to record that I worked
for one cocky who was an almost perfect
employer. On his farm the day’s pro-
“Give us a billy of ’ot Water, mister !”
gramme started with a discreet knock
on my door about seven o’clock,
presaging the entrance of a maid with
tea and biscuits —breakfast was at eight;
the following hour was devoted to
elevating conversation, after which the
boss and I discussed the advisability of
starting work. If the weather was favor-
able we might decide on a little toil
(nothing strenuous, mind) until lunch-
time. A two-hour siesta followed, and
then, if the weather was still clement,
we would continue our work, with a
break for afternoon tea, until five. I
found dressing for dinner rather a
nuisance, but as the boss possessed a
pleasing tenor voice and his wife per-
formed brilliantly on the piano and bala-
laika the evening’s entertainment made up
for the extra trouble. Yes, he was a
wonderful boss, and I’d be working for
him still only for a little argument we
had on the respective merits of Bach and
Beethoven. It proved to me that all
farmers, even the best of them, have
their shortcomings.
* * * $
“Fumes”: We were travelling to the
Gulf country (N.Q.). As the sandflies
were bad we made smokes for the horses
at every camp. One motherless yearling
had a devil of a time. Kicked out of
the mob, chivvied if it got in, at first it
had to stand on the outskirts, away from
the smoke, and let the flies do their worst.
But after a while that colt started to use
its nut. Sneaking in where the logs were
smouldering it picked up a stick in its
teeth. When the older horses kicked it
from the favored position it took its own
fire with it and had its own protection.
* *■ * *
“Walkabout”: The life of timber in
the ground (B. 27/7/’3B) depends con-
siderably on the class of country it is
in. In the Upper Burnett (C.Q.) I’ve
seen ironbark posts in stockyards sound
after 50 years; in other districts the same
timber will be settled after less than 15
years. The daddy of all timber for
longevity in the ground in any country
is sandalwood ; instances of fencing posts
standing after 70 years are not uncom-
mon. For the world’s worst I’ll nominate
lancewood, for use either as posts or
rails; it is done for almost as soon as
the bark peels off.
“Tassie”: Timber lasting in the
ground? On Forestier’s Peninsula (Tas.)
there are peppermint posts still standing
which were erected by convicts almost
a century ago.
* * * *
“Breaker-in”: Don’t know the record
time for a horse to carry on bucking
non-stop (B. 27/7/’3B), but “Nagheer”
is a bit light in his estimate of “not
much over lOsec.” When in the pink
the late Tom Hyland’s old favorite Car-
andotta was timed to stay in action for
57sec.; I was the timekeeper. Among
grass-eaters I clocked a drover’s pack-
horse to last 39sec. before it “sunfished”
and, falling all of a heap, rewarded its
half-caste rider with a broken leg. Ad-
mittedly, the trained-and-fed prads used
in buckjumping shows mostly turn it in
under 20sec. As one who’s forked a
few bad horses, I’d say the bloke who
can remain aboard a buckjumper for a
minute isn’t a man ; he’s a marvel.
* * * V
“Bushy Park”: George tells me that
foxes are not half so cunning as they
were a few years ago. Nowadays, when
the river rises and separates them from
the township’s fowlyards, they simply
sit on the opposite bank and howl with
futile anger; but their predecessors
thought nothing of launching themselves
into the current. The old-time fox didn’t
tire himself out by swimming, either —
he simply elevated his brush to act as a
sail, and even when the wind was against
him, after a bit of yacht-like tacking,
he always managed to reach the opposite
bank. George says that one of the finest
sights in the world was to see a herd of
foxes in full sail.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: The insidious in-
fluence of the talkies may be noted even
among our bagmen on the outback
tracks. During my last knot-pushing
excursion, I heard fellow-wanderers re-
ferring to themselves as ’boes, and talk-
ing of burgs and main drags, and,
although these and the other expressions
I came upon are out of date now, out-
backers haven’t the chance of keeping
up with the latest as the city dweller has.
t suppose the swag-carrying fraternity are
to be commended for their efforts to
enrich the language, but when a bearded
svvagologist told me that a flatfoot had
kicked him off the rattler at the “dee-po”
I must admit it gave me the jitters. Yes,
sirree.
* * * *
“Williami”: If the “J. Eustace”
account of the cat-foxie scrap (B.
3/8/’3B) is true, I fancy that puss must
have been a toothless, pampered Persian.
From an even start a foxie can't kill a
healthy, active household tabby. Once
saw a foxie press a cat against a tree.
To climb up would have meant certain
defeat, for foxie would have grabbed
the cat by the loins. Puss knew that
her only course was to stand and fight.
And she did, using, her front-feet claws
like lightning. When it was over you
couldn’t tell which animal was the more
dead, but pussie recovered first, after
which she climbed the tree. A foxie
will never give in until it is k.o.’d. Saw
one fight a waterspout until it dropped
dead. From a broken main the water
shot up with terrific force. Foxie jumped
in and bit the spout. It hurled him aside.
He jumped in again, time after time. We
carried him away. He fought and bit
and always got free. Back to the battle-
ground, he threw himself into the fray
until, waterlogged, he died, still scratch-
ing for strength to make another attack.
.* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: I’ve had, and worked,
many a good sheep-dog, but even now
I’m not sure whether Jess or Ginger
really depends on me for directing the
job—ever, in fact, pays any real attention
to my signals. Out of curiosity I’ve tried
giving wrong ones, but, except for one
borrowed animal who, after staring dis-
gustedly at me, dropped the job and
went home, they made no difference.
Anyhow, there’s little in hand-signalling
which corresponds to a definite code.
Voice is a different matter, of course.
A swung arm may indicate right or left
or forward to the dog, but as often as
not he isn’t looking, although apparent
response follows. Still, there’s some link
in the mentalities of man and dog, or
“one man one dog” wouldn’t be a fun-
damental axiom among sheepmen,
borrowed dogs wouldn’t be such exas-
peratingly disappointing frauds, and lent
ones would be more politely spoken of
when returned.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad knocked on the wall
between his bedroom and the kitchen.
“Hi! Sarah,” he bellowed. “It’s about
time that young feller of yours was
gorn home.” “All right, Dad,” Sarah
answered, “he’s just goin’.” Five minutes
later Dad banged on the wall again.
“I’m jest puttin’ on me boots,” he
yelled. “We’ll see if he’ll go now.” A
few minutes later Sarah appeared at the
bedroom door with a lighted candle in
her hand. “Ha!” chortled Dad from
beneath the bedclothes, “that shifted
him.” “Yes,” replied Sarah, “he reckoned
he’d better go before you started tryin’
some other magic on him.” “Other
magic! ” echoed Dad in puzzled tones;
“whatcher mean?” “Well,” said Sarah,
grinning, “y’r boots was standin’ where
y’d taken them off before y’ went to
bed, alongside us by the kitchen fire.”
* H= * *
“C.C.”: Experts with the buggy-whip
still survive in M.L. After having missed
the service car to Horeke, North Auck-
land, I was lucky enough to score a lift
in a buggy with an old hawker. As we
passed through a Maori village at a
good lick we scattered a patch of fowls.
They weren’t quick enough, however,
for the old chap leaned over and, lashing
his whip about the neck of a young
rooster, dexterously landed it in the
buggy with a broken neck. “It never
misses 'em! ” was his comment.
* * * *
“Shorus”: The possum, though often
kept as a pet, isn’t adapted for domestic
life. Unlike the family feline, he lacks
the ability to move neatly and silently
on his nocturnal excursions. Puss can
pursue a rat or sleuth a mouse along
the pantry shelf in silence and safety,
but a possum careering round the kitchen
on his midnight revels is a devastation.
Everything he touches goes down, and
the general effect in the morning light is
like the aftermath of an earthquake.
* * * *
“Valerin”: Going my rounds I spotted
Mick Muldoon, the station rabbiter,
frantically digging a burrow. As this
wasn’t Mick’s style I decided to inves-
tigate. Getting close I saw a snake
squirming round his leg, Mick’s No. 10
being firmly planted on the tail-end. 1
shouted, “Mick, there’s a snake round
your leg.” “Hivins!” he yelled. “That’s
the blanky sarpent Oi’m diggin’ for.
Shure, it’s lucky ye came along or Oi
might have missed him.”
* * * *
“G.8.T.”: Sense of direction? After
the cut-out at Runnymede (N.Q.) two
shearers set out at 6 p.m. to walk to
Nonda siding, 15 miles distant, intending
to catch the night train for Hughenden.
The rest of us deferred our departure
till the next day, and turned in about
10 p.m., as usual. Towards midnight our
slumbers were interrupted by the return
of the two wayfarers. The wool shed
and hut were situated just inside the
eastern fence of a fair-sized paddock.
The road to Nonda was outside the
fence, and ran parallel with it. But the
two pedestrians had elected to follow a
fire-plough track running along the fence
on the inside. They followed it too
far, for it was continuous along the four
fences of the paddock, but kept a little
wide at the corners, so that the rect-
angular changes in its course at those
points were gradual, and it led them
back to their starting-point. Following
that 20-mile jaunt they are now known
as the “boundary walkers.”
* * *
“L.A.S.”: Why do some sheep coming
out of a counting-gate leap over no-
thing, some of them almost high enough
to clear the yard batten-hurdles? For
perhaps a string of 50, none will jump,
then one will and others will follow
suit until a string runs on again without
clearing the imagined obstacle. Old-time
sheepmen have it that sheep eyes revolve,
and when travelling fast, an unusual
pace, the sheep are nearly blind, and
jump for safety. Another theory is that
they leap the moving shadows of pre-
ceding sheep, but neither explanation
seems convincing.
Hi * * *
“Bogaduck”: There’s always a good
market for dead hares in Melbourne, ex-
cept on the rare occasions when the land-
owners of the Wimmera organise a
shooting drive to thin them out a bit;
then thousands of carcasses flood the
market. But there are several pitfalls
for the novice who dreams of thus grow-
ing wealthy. The first is that any car-
casses badly riddled with shot or torn
by dog teeth will be rejected ; the second
is that hares must not be gutted before
being sent, or the lot will be rejected.
Reasons vary, from the fear that they
may have been poisoned to the visiting
Englishman’s objection —he wants it hung
whole until the hair starts to fall off and
the flesh is turning green.
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: At last the perfect
mascot. I made its acquaintance on a busy
afternoon in Melbourne —a live white
cockatoo perched on a bicycle. The rider
was “sitting down running,” as Binghi
describes it, zig-zagging his machine pre-
cariously through a massed crowd oi
Friday afternoon congestion in Swan-
ston-street. Cocky sat calmly on the
cross-bar in the centre of the handles,
mumbling to 20 acres of solid humanity,
as it split into a thin passage to let the
bicycle through, continued requests for
a scratch, with an occasional flirtatious
demand for a kiss, That cyclist needed
no bell, and he didn’t have to stop once
on his dangerous journey down the long
stretches between intersections.
THE VILLAGE GROWS.
the sea still smiles. In Bushland still
Ihe bellbirds, mating, chime;
But, none the less, o’er beach and hill
There’ll run in summertime
A note discordant, out of tune,
Which, like the sting of ants,
Disturbs our peace. If some mad loon
Diana drew in pants
Or armed Apollo with a gun
The world of Art would curse;
But here the vandals have begun
A painting process worse:
They carve their names on any tree
Or write them on the rocks—
To tell the truth we’d rather see
A saint in fancy socks.
Napoleon in a bowler hat,
Eve with pyjamas on,
Or Gandhi rising from his mat
His dinner-suit to don!
The Highway came. It brought the cars,
The caravans and trucks,
That campers might enjoy the stars
And tourists shoot at ducks,
Which otherwhere discreetly fled
At last on scornful wings,
And left them, with uncertain lead,
To pepper static things,
Old hats, and signposts, empty tins,
Until —their aim is blind —
1 hey’ve shot to bits among their sins
The placid village mind.
Where once, as dreaming devotees,
We photographed a scene
Of dreamy forelands, singing seas,
And forests darkly green,
With cars and speedboats, wireless sets,
New costumes, picture shows,
Dalmatian dogs and Persian pets,
Alas—the village grows!
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


“E.E.”: Mum had been at Dad for
weeks to fell the tree with the bees’-nest
in it, but Dad is one of those unfor-
tunates, hated by bees, who swell ter-
ribly if stung. Young daughter came in
at midday dinner, an open magazine in
her hand. “Listen, Dad. This is your
lucky week. The stars say so. ‘Com-
mence new enterprises, start fresh busi-
nesses, success is yours for this week.
Be not afraid. You cannot fail in any-
thing you undertake this week.’ Isn’t
that good?” Dad murmured something
about “always did believe in the stars.”
Mum mentioned the bees’-nest, and after
dinner we set out. Dad wore gloves, a
mosquito-net veil and had his sleeves tied
at the wrists and his trousers at the
ankles. Mum carried a tin for the honey,
and the blue-bag, “just in case.” The
tree took a lot of falling, Dad being no
axeman. Smokescreens were started,
and then Dad discovered that there was
no honey in the nest. Disgusted, he
undid his veil to mop his perspiring face,
and the enraged bees found him. Dad
had to take nourishment through a straw
and couldn’t see for a week. Nobody
dares mention stars in our house now,
and a certain weekly is banned for ever.
“Would ’ee rather ’aoe one with corkscrew to un?"
“Whaler”: The reason a new billy
takes longer to boil than an old, black-
ened one (B. 3/8/’3B) is that the bright
tin outside radiates so freely the heat
being generated within that the fire has
hard work catching up with the radiation
and getting the billy to boiling-point. The
indurated crust of soot with which the
billy becomes covered after constant use
stops the excessive radiation and confines
most of the heat to where it can do most
good.
”I'm taking no chances—I got lost last year.”
“Cam Cove”: Surely Ambrose Pratt
can’t be taken seriously when he claims
in his book, The Call of the Koala, that
Black Brother doesn’t eat native bear;
he gives as a reason the strong gum-
leaf flavor. What about possum? Isn t
that just as highly seasoned? Possie will
vary its diet whenever it gets the chance,
but under natural conditions both bear
and possum take their food by the same
recipe. Binghi doesn’t hesitate to eat
possum. Is there anything he won’t eat—
wild swan, black crow or cat? My bet
is that he will lash into Joe’s caricature,
too.
# * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Coir” (B. 20/7/’38)
gets the idea wrong./ Who even sug-
gested that the baobab tree was brought
to Nor’-Westralia as a seedling? Prob-
ably it arrived half a million years ago,
the seed, a nut, being carried by ocean
currents from East Africa. And once
established on Australian soil the differ-
ent environment readily produced a tree
with sufficient variation to enable a
botanist to rightly class it as an indigen-
ous species. But that doesn t alter the
fact that the baobab came from Africa
in the first place. All the evidence is
that way. It flourishes right across the
Dark Continent’s equatorial belt, and it
is highly improbable that, working on
two widely separated land masses,
Nature, by pure evolutionary methods,
produced two trees so similar. The same
aoplies to the banyan, found flourishing
along the Daly River (N.T.). Its seed,
figlike in form, was probably carried
originally from India in the crop of
some feathered migrant.
* * * *
“Western”: I don’t know about stone-
bruise (B. 20/7/’3B), but one of the
nastiest of foot injuries is to have the
soles cut on barnacle-covered rock. The
razor-sharp edges of the barnacles break
off and remain in the wound, defying all
attempts to wash them out even under
a strong jet. And, of course, the sufferer,
being unable to get a square look at the
bottom of his feet, is helpless to do any-
thing for relief. Another person, operat-
ing with tweezers or even a needle, is
necessary. And doesn’t the extraction
tickle! Yet, strangely, one’s feet seem
to become immune. Experienced net-
fishermen working barefooted and at
night over a rock-and-barnacle-strewn
bottom will seldom suffer any foot in-
jury, whereas the newchum will cer-
tainly be crippled in the first few steps.
* * * *
“Jarrah-jerker”: Given plenty of food
to pick from, the termite can be as
fastidious as a flapper in a milk-bar.
Side by side in a big W.A. timber-shed
stood a stack of Baltic fitches
and a pigsty of morrel billets —-
the morrel, a local timber, re-
markably tough and hard, un-
dergoing seasoning with the
idea of using it to replace the
imported irdnwood previously
used for the wheel-spokes of the
big log-hauling timber whims.
Lying on light jarrah bearers
and in odd places actually
touching the ground, the deal
should have been pie to the
white-ant; but it remained un-
touched. Then one day a swing-
ing log struck the pile of morrel
and, with the exception of a
few outside billets, it crumbled
to a heap of dirt and splinters.
The termites had been right
through. And morrel previously
had been assumed to be im-
mune. In the same shed the
termites, to get to the oregon-
pine roof principals, built a tun-
nel right up the outside of a
20ft. jarrah wall standard, cun-
ningly taking advantage of a
dark corner where the lOin. x
lOin. post barely contacted with
the outer corrugated-iron. It was
only when the roof began to
sag that the depredations of the
timber-wolves were discovered.
t * * *
“James W.”: The “stopping power” of
a bullet depends almost entirely on its
shocking power. A high-powered .22
or .25-20, with its enormous velocity,
could flash clean through a ’roo, tunnel-
ling the heart en route, without even
causing the hopper to alter its course
at the moment of impact, but a few
more hops would see the end of the
chapter. If the bullet cut any major
nerve-cord or centre, it would drop the
hopper instantly. Nervous shock, not
organic injury, causes sudden death in
a gun-shot Case, and a fast bullet that
misses major nerves causes comparatively
slight shock. An ordinary low-powered
lead slug bores and crashes its way into
the victim more slowly, and the shock
is tremendous; hence the popularity ol
the soft-nosed .32 among ’roo s l au
terers. Consider also the rifle favored
of big-game hunters. Its muzzle impact
is seldom less than 50001 b., its bullet a
blunt 2oz. slug, but its velocity is less
than that of the common .303. The .303
would pierce more deeply, but the
heavier, slower bullet stops the game in
a stride. A knife-thrust illustrates clearly
the greater shock occasioned by slower
penetration. Bayonet thrusts are iai
more likely to cause instant death than
are high-velocity bullets. It must be ad-
mitted, therefore, that a bullet through
the heart won’t always stop an animal ;
but I don’t believe that yarn about the
’roo “with its heart completely shattered
by a 44 bullet.” The .44 is slow and a
fearful “shocker,” but, no matter by
what means the heart was shattered, the
incidental shock as the cardiac nerves
disintegrated would instantly paralyse
every nerve as surely as would a severed
spine. * *
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Why not an edifying
discussion touching the mistakes experi-
enced farmers make? My own tentative
effort concerns the snigging of those
hefty round pieces for the new hay-
shed. Guided by the principle embodied
in hitching the team closer to their work
to lighten the draught, your M.O.L.
hooks the chain around the heavy butt-
end of the log. Light end foremost is
correct procedure, as it clears the ground,
and Punch and Prince are not then called
upon to plough an unwanted furrow
across the paddock.
“Blue Flier”:* Let nobody cast asper-
sions on claypan water in my hearing.
Five of us were footing it down the
Georgina River (W.Q.) from a broken-
down car. The weather was red-hot, and
to make matters worse travelling cattle
had obliterated nearly all trace of the
road. Well into the second day, when
our tongues were hanging out and still
no trace of water, we wandered on to
the track of a shower. It must have
fallen a couple of days previously; but
there was still a little water in the bottom
of some deep hoof-marks, made by a
horse during an earlier and heavier rain
as it had crossed a claypan ridge.
Although it was 40 p.c. mud, and so hot
that it scalded our cracked lips,, that
moisture kept us going until we reached
a station that night.
* * * *
“Lavengro”: Once saw a couple of
trapeze artists who played their game on
the undercarriage of a species of balloon
that went up like a rocket and came down
like a rock. The men dropped in para-
chutes. They did the usual, one hanging
by his teeth and supporting his mate.
Met them later at Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
and invited them down the mine. They
backed away from me and from the
shaft-head. I reminded them that they
would go up in the air and play their
daredevil tricks, so why couldn’t they
drop in and have a look at the mine?
The leader backed away further, shaking
his head. “Not on your life, mate,” he
said. “When Igo up in the air I can
see where I’m going!”
THE COLD TRUTH.
“The Council has been arguing about whether a cat
can beat a clog.”
“Mike’s a raw-boned, ginger fummy that I
useter own,” says Rummy.
“Could he stoush? In action 'e s a whiriin
mass o’ teeth an’ claws.
’E was fight-mad, was that feline, an e d always
make a bee-line .. , „
For the sheep-dorgs, an’ they’d go like ell
before ’is snappin’ jaws.
“Yair, they got the wind up proper when they
see that bunch o’ copper-
Colored fury cornin’ at ’em. An it s just
as well they did, „ ~,
For I tell yer, on me ’onor, that I would ve
bin a goner . , , . ,
In the Noo South Alps one time I’m drovin
sheep fer Steve McQuid.
“For it snows an’ keeps on snowin’ till I can t
see where I’m goin’.
By that afternoon it fell that ’ard it’s nearly
three feet deep, .
An’ it don’t look like improving. Only by
the slowly-movin’
Mass o’ snow above their ’eads could I keep
tally on them sheep.
“In the end they’re frozen solid, sheep an’
‘ dorgs; an’ so I hollered,
An’ one pup lets out a whimper, an’ at that
me brainbox squeaks:
Now, I’m good at imitatin’, so —it’s true wot
I’m relatin’ —
1 gets up behind them dorgs an’ like a
flamin’ cat I shrieks.
“When they think they ’ear Mike spittin’ an’
they’ll soon be gettin’ bitten
Ev’ry tyke soon hits the front; an’ did them
windy tripehounds go:
With sheer terror they was seethin’, an’ so ’ot
become their breathin’
That —I’d calculated this —it melted all the
blasted snow!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. iB4 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’llote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4(101
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated ICBB to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL 11. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. VV. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
m
Si
V
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed —and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia —it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
1. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
* POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
I 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Cos. of Sydney
Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off. Reserves.
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
81 P-C.
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,226
5 i p.c.
1932.. 253,866 260.646 4,417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256,731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 263,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936.. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
63 p.c.
1937.. 342,041 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
7 p.c.
1938.. 365,975 331,730 35,000 4,418,476
The fog of proposed statutory regula-
tion still envelops the trading banks,
and this at a time when the economic
mists in Australia are beginning to
thicken. The likely effects of statutory
control, especially in relation to deposit
liabilities with the central bank, have
been frequently pointed out in these
columns, and roundly condemned by
prominent bankers and leaders of trade
and industry as well.
At last week’s annual meeting of the
C.B.S. —in size it ranks second on the list
of associated banks —the chairman (James
Ashton) said: “We have met a steady
demand for accommodation throughout
the year, and our resources are now
fully employed.” Among other things,
this means that existing liquids are not
sufficient to provide the additional cash
that would be required for compulsory
deposits ; so the only way to meet such
a demand would be to reduce advances.
Thus trade and industry might be de-
prived of some of their working capital,
and they might have to pay more for
their advances, too. It would, indeed,
be a high price for the community to
pay for the doubtful advantage of giving
the central bank more power than it
now enjoys in the control of credit, of
which the commercial banks can claim,
so far as trade and industry are con-
cerned, to have made use as judiciously
as, if not more so than, the Common-
wealth Bank. Experience has shown
anything but the need for detailed legal
control of the successful Australian
banking system, which is based upon
that of Britain ; it also shows that the
prestige of a central bank is an adequate
means of credit control. The temptation
to substitute untried theories for well-
tried practices should be resisted.
Owing to the flood of imports, fall in
the price of wool and wheat, and dry
conditions in many pastoral areas, the
C.B.S. added £4,051,163 net to its ad-
vances last term:
1932. 1937. 1938.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13.658 £13,621
Bills .. .. 1,158,933 1,198,742 1,349,094
Deposits* .. 44,466,426 53,854,165 54,659.194
Liquids . . 18,952,981 25,436,808 22,344,911
Advances . . 34,643,037 37,744,225 41,795,388
Premises, etc... 1,318,090 1,209.641 1,204,965
* Including provision for contingencies.
Liquids were drawn upon for £3,091,897,
while deposits increased by £805,029, and
bills payable by £150,352. When the
books closed advances amounted to 76.4
p.c. of deposits, as against 70 p.c. at the
previous balance, and liquids were equal
to 39.8 p.c. (46 p.c. in 1937) of the liabili-
ties to the public. Also, the bank was
holding £6 2s. 4d. of the public’s money
for every pound of its own. It is a
strong position ; yet, if the sound stand-
ards of Australian banking practice are
to be maintained, further depletion of
liquids by way of compulsory deposits
would affect the co.’s lending capacity,
which is its chief service to the com-
munity.
After paying all exes, and making
whatever provision was considered neces-
sary for contingencies, last year’s de-
clared net earnings were £23,934 better
at 7.7 p.c. on capital, as against 7.2, 6.2,
5.5, 5.4, 5.7, 5.3, 9.3 and 13.7 p.c. back to
1930. On total shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined), the year’s
profit was only 3.9 p.c. compared with
7.2 p.c. in 1929. The div., which had
been steady at 10 p.c. for 31 years to
the close of accounts in 1930, was lifted
from 6\ p.c. to 7 p.c. Prospects of a
further lift will be governed partly by
the extent to which the Government de-
cides to interfere with the business.
At £2O 19s. (£2l 7s. a year ago) the
£25 shares paid to £l2 10s. (the other
half is a reserve liability callable only in
the event of liquidation) return 4.3 p.c.
The visible cover is £24 3s. in net tan-
gibles.
New Zealand Insurance Cos.
Net To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~ 143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101.551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150.943
Written off, £20,748 .. .. .. 1,130.195
1932.. 156.761 10 p.c. = 150,000 6,761 1,136.956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 ]
To staff pension fund. £20,000 1 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £IO,OOO J
1935. . 232,809 10 p.c. = 150,000 \ 79 Rno . „ Q „ 19n
To tax reserve, £IO.OOO p2,8U9 1,393,1^0
1936. . 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630,741
1938.. 321,884 * 10 „ „ 150,000 171,884 1\802,625
Despite keen competition and the gener-
ally unsatisfactory experience in con-
nection with marine and workers’ com-
pensation and accident business —motor-
car business has been less unfavorable
since the revision of premium rates about
a year ago —last year’s earnings of this
big Auckland-controlled fire and marine
office were easily the best yet. That was
mainly because more fish than ever swam
into the co.’s nets, which it casts in all
quarters of the globe.
Net premiums sprang £174,358, reach-
ing a record £1,359,994:
Lobs Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1910.. £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1925.. 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1930.. 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932.. 1,050,351 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
1.933.. 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 61.7 33.1
1934. . 1,001,328 553,886 336,849 55.3 33.6
1935.. 1,050,792 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1936. . 1,096,569 631,809 346,414 57.6 31.6
1937.. 1,185,636 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
1938.- 1,359,994 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
The pleasing feature is that last year’s
extra premiums were gathered at approxi-
mately £2 18s. p.c. less cost, the expense
rate being the lightest for 20 years. So,
despite a lift of £1 p.c. in the loss ratio,
the underwriting surplus (£172,805)
was £45,027 stronger at 11.5 p.c. on
capital. Obviously the war in China has
not seriously affected the business ; un-
less specifically endorsed, the ordinary
fire policy does not cover war risks, and
marine losses attributable to the conflict
have not amounted to very much. In-
vestments turned in £134,869 (up £9273),
or approximately 9 p.c. on capital. In-
cluding an unexplained addition to re-
serves of £14,210 as against £35,082 in
the previous term, the net result from all
sources was £33,428 better at £321,884,
or 21.4 p.c. on capital, compared with
19.2, 16.6, 15.5, 15.2, 11.6 and 10.4 p.c.
back to 1932.
Following capitalisation of £300,000 of
reserves in 1930, the div. was dropped
from 11.9 p.c. to 10 p.c., and has re-
mained steady since, with a 2\ p.c. bonus
added in 1934 to celebrate the co.’s
diamond jubilee. Meanwhile, under-
writing surpluses have been mostly avail-
able to swell investments and returns
therefrom. At last year’s rate of expan-
sion, these returns will overtake present
10 p.c. div. requirements within the next
couple of years. Also, during the last term
the co. bought (at an unstated figure) a
controlling interest in the United Scottish
Cos., London, which writes all classes of
non-marine business. So, subject to
underwriting experiences, further benefits
to shareholders may not be very far
distant. Of the £1,500,000 of capital
£1,200,000 has come from surplus earn-
ings since 1912.
Owing partly to political developments
in Maoriland, but mostly to the general
trend of the market, the pound shares
have dropped from 655. to 565. 3d. over
the last 12 months. At the lower figure
the return is 3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, with encouraging possibilities as a
holding proposition. The backing is 445.
in net tangibles.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
££* £ £
Paid capital 1,200.000 1,600,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 360,203 226,940 329,641 364,793
Public securi-
ties .. 1,981,827 2,035,631 2,186,132 2,209,103
Mortgages.. 61,626 46,250 28,446 9,747
Shares, etc. 122,324 239.889 .40 5 969 53.' <67
Freeholds.. 425,268 446,793 489,029 549,319
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 465,710 465,497 465,817 478,721
Of the growth of £129,498 in shares, etc.,
£75,000 is in respect of the holding in a
subsidiary, which may have something
to do with the purchase already referred
to. The net addition of £60,290 to
freeholds is mainly in respect of the new
headquarters building at Wellington
(M.L.). When the books closed policy-
holders could see net tangibles equal to
242 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Cos., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 33,945 61 p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12| „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13§ „ ~ 42,969 39,377 85,513
This co., for the formation of which
F. J. E. Beaurepaire, its managing
director, was largely responsible, has
made extraordinary progress. It set up
in the Australian tyre-manufacturing
business just as the economic tide turned
and began to flood again ; and that has
meant much so far as capital, operating
and other costs and the development of
turnover are concerned. The board
bought a five-acre block in West Foot-
scray (a suburb of Melbourne), near the
railway station, and put up a factory
thereon with an annual capacity of
100,000 tyres. Selling branches were soon
opened in all the Australian States and
in Maoriland, and, with everything right
on the technical side and a rapidly-ex-
panding market, turnover bounded along.
There was no loading for goodwill, pre-
liminary exes, were soon written out of
the accounts, and the co. has traded well
within its own resources, all of which
help share capital to develop its
maximum earning-power.
To finance expanding turnover new
shares have been issued at par—7o,ooo,
January, 1936 ; 25,000 (to employees),
October, 1936; 135,000, one-for-two,
August, 1937. Paid capital has thus ad-
vanced from £173,343 at June 30, 1935,
to £387,500 when the books last closed ;
there was then £17,500 (uncalled) still to
come. The new share-money, together
with surplus earnings, etc., has gone into
stocks, debtors’ balances, plant and
premises, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
£> £* £, SI
Paid capital .. 173,343 196,000 240,500 387,500
Overdraft .. 15,692 12,109 5,125 4,244
Sundry creditors 16,560 40,780 95,190 26,004
Premises .. 18,669 25,324 39,887 47,248
Plant, etc. .. 59,248 69,447 76,841 98,940
Stocks . . 81,099 117,028 174,532 255,761
Debtors, etc. . 55.642 66,989' 124,480 142,943
During the last term £147,000 of fresh
capital was gathered, and £70,167 was
clipped off the amount coming to Out-
siders. The net addition to stocks was
£81,229, to debtors’ balances, etc..
£18,463, plant £22,099 and premises
£7361. Including stocks, the more or less
liquid surplus (£368,456) was £169,759
stronger than at the previous balance.
Technically and financially the co. is in
a healthy position.
During the 12 months to the end of
May, new motor registrations in the
Commonwealth were cars, 51,501 ; com-
mercial vehicles, 27,369 ; cycles, 7792 ;
and there was a substantial increase in
the demand for reshoeing, too. Over
the same period, the sterling price of
raw rubber, the main constituent of
tyres, dropped from 10.3 and. to 5.6 and. per
pound. Still, after providing for taxa-
tion, striking off £9870 for depreciation
and making an unspecified allowance for
doubtful debts, the co.’s declared net
earnings sprang £27,087, reaching
£82,346, or 26.3 p.c. on average capital
as against 25.3 p.c. and 18.6 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from I2j p.c. to 13| p.c., the final being
at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a. The £39,377
that remained lifted reserves to £85,513.
Although costs are on the up-grade and
the outlook is not so bright as it was a
year ago, the board looks forward to
further expansion of sales during the cur-
rent term. This and other things, in-
cluding the wide margin between last
year’s earnings and distribution, make the
shares worth consideration.
The fully-paids at 475. return 5.8 p.c.
on a 13| p.c. div. basis. The backing is
245. 2d. in net tangibles.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 18,190 lOp.e. = 16,054 2,136 52,109
1929.. 24,002 10 „ ~21,000 3,002 55,111
] 930.. 23,944 9 „ „ 18,900 5,044 60,155
1931.. 7,771 24 ~ „ 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. 8,805 3 „ „ 6,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13.522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 7§ „ „ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935.. 22,152 73'p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ ~20.161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46.487
1938.. 31,732 10 „ „ 25,201 6,531 53,018
The 12 months covered by the latest
accounts included Sydney’s sesquicen-
tenary celebrations, which brought a lot
of country and other visitors, for whom
the Metropole specially caters, to the
city. Still, owing to falling prices, the
wool and wheat men were inclined to
spend less freely, and costs, including
wages, continued to climb. Further,
there was a persistent weakening in the
price of the two staples just mentioned
up till the time when the books were
ruled off.
After paying all exes., allowing £3OOO
(down £2000) for depreciation and set-
ting aside £BOOO (down £500) for the
taxgatherer, the board figured net earn-
ings £1764 short of the previous year’s
at £31,732, or 12.5 p.c. on capital as
against 13.3, 9.9 and '8.7 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., making the average over
the last 10 difficult years 7.2 p.c., and
the 10 p.c. is worth 12 p.c. on capital as
it stood before the one-for-five gift issue
of scrip about 3i years ago.
In this class of business much de-
pends upon what is spent on repairs,
renewals and renovations and charged
against earnings. The board regularly
reports that “assets have been maintained
in every respect,” and the co.’s history
bears out the claim. Indeed, the under-
taking has proved a moneyspinner since
Sydney interests took it off the hands
of a Melbourne crowd early in this
century. Of the £252,010 of capital,
£117,001 is bonus scrip, and in addition
special cash distributions totalling £67,500
and a steady 10 p.c. p.a. were paid
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
1878 — — DIAMOND JUBILEE 1938
The Sixtieth Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, held at the Company’s Head Office, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, on Thursday, 4th August, 1938.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance
Sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1938, the Chairman,
Mr. C. C. Gale, said:
This year we are celebrating the 150th Anniversary of
the Foundation of Australia and the 60th Anniversary of
the foundation of The Mercantile Mutual Insurance Coy.,
Ltd., which commenced operations on 10th January, 1878,
with the Principal Office in this State. At that date Sydney
was the second largest City in population in Australia;
to-day Sydney is the second City in white population in the
Empire. During the sixty years, Australia’s population has
increased by approximately five millions. The progress
made during the period must be regarded as being satisfac-
tory, although we have grounds for expressing regret that in
recent years the progress has not been maintained. Various
reasons for the slow growth in the later period have been
stated; one reason given why Australia has ceased to attract
population is in connection with taxation, which continues
to grow year by year, the latest figures published being
£l5 18s. 4d. per head of population, with the possibility of
further growth. In this regard, taxation necessary for the
development of the Country and for the purpose of its
Defence cannot reasonably be objected to.
The Australian Consolidated Loan recently placed on
the market to provide means for these two necessary objects
met with success, and was over-subscribed, while the Loan
for a much smaller sum submitted to London Investors on
more favorable terms was only partially subscribed, the
balance being left for the Underwriters to take up. Our
motto should be “Keep costs down and avoid borrowing
overseas.”
For several years‘past Australia has enjoyed compara-
tive prosperity largely due to increased production, chiefly
with our manufacturing industries, accompanied by payable
prices for our primary products, thus increasing the spending
power of the community and adding to the National Income
as shown by the increase of deposits in the Savings
and Trading Banks, resulting in an enlarged turnover in
business and a further reduction in Unemployment. There
are, however, now indications that, while Australia is sound
in its general position, it is facing a condition less prosperous
than that recently enjoyed. The dry season which extended
over a considerable area, aggravated by plagues of grass-
hoppers, left much of the Country with a scarcity of feed,
resulting in serious losses in Live Stock and in a much
diminished lambing, added to which a reduction has occurred
in the market value of Wool and other Products compared
with the previous year. Happily, the droughty conditions
have changed in many parts, where in due course losses
sustained will be overtaken; the rain came in time to save
the wheat and to give encouraging prospects for the coming
Harvest.
The Manufacturing Industries referred to, which have
been expanding during recent years, continue to grow and
to give employment for increased numbers; the difficulty in
obtaining a sufficiency of skilled labour is a problem that
has to be overcome.
The Building Trade has been active here and in other
States; the demand for Residential Accommodation is being
met by the creation of Building Societies, aided by Govern-
ment guarantee, throughout the Suburbs and Country
Districts where a scarcity of houses has arisen.
Accounts: —Turning to the Balance Sheet and Profi:
and Loss Account, it is gratifying to the Directors to be in
a position to submit a satisfactory Statement which, on this
occasion, shows additions to Income and Earnings. Includ-
ing Premiums, Interest and Rents, the total income has
amounted to £643,448 6s. 7d., and the Net Premiums, afte-
deducting Re-insurances and Returned Premiums, amount
to £294,594 Bs. Bd., compared with £275,762 17s. 7d. the
previous year.
Losses paid and in process of settlement total £118,701
17s. Bd., compared with £113,759 18s. 10d. last year, and.
although larger in amount, the percentage to Premiums
is slightly lower.
Expenditure, including full provision for Taxation, has
amounted to £137,381 9s. 7d., compared with £130,824
12s. lid. the previous year; the percentage to Premium
Income in this instance also shows a small reduction.
Interest and Rents, £24,174 13s. 5d., show an
increase compared with the income from this source received
last year.
Taxation: —Although we cannot expect any reduction
in Federal Taxation owing to the increased expenditure
required for Defence, a reduction in the New South Wales
Wages and Special Tax is expected from the State Government;
the combined taxation, Federal and State, with enforced
contributions to the Fire Brigades, totals £37,918 and repre-
sents 12.87 p.c. of the net Premium Income.
Dividend: —As the Company is this year celebrating
its Diamond Jubilee, and as Australia is celebrating its 150th
Anniversary, the Directors feel justified in recommending
the payment of a Bonus of 2 p.c. in addition to the Ordi-
nary Dividend to commemorate the Double Event. This
Bonus must, however, be regarded as special to the occasion;
Shareholders will appreciate that in making future recom-
mendations the Board must, of course, be guided by
conditions then prevailing.
Reserves: —After the payment of the Dividend and
other appropriations recommended, the Reserves and Con-
tingent Fund, together with the Paid Up Capital, will amount
to £682,848, being more than 230 p.c. of the Net Premiums
without talcing the Uncalled Capital, £lOO,OOO, into con-
sideration. You will note that the Investment Reserve
Fund now stands at £25,000, the increase being due to
the transfer of the sum of £5OOO, hitherto reserved against
contingencies and no longer required. In accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act, 1 should state
that the Australian Consolidated Loan appearing in the
Balance Sheet at £167,571 18s. Od. and being the Book
Value is less than the Face Value and much less than its
Market Value.
Reserve for Unexpired Risks: —It is customary to
egard 40 p.c. of the Net Premiums as necessary for the
purpose; on this basis £117,837 is required to re-nnsure
outstanding risks, being a small percentage of the total assets.
Freehold Property: —During the period under review
r tender was settled with Concrete Constructions Pty., Ltd.,
on plans prepared by Messrs. Robertson, Marks & McCredie,
of Sydney, in association with Mr. F. G. B. Hawkins,_ of
Perth, for the erection of a Building on the site acquired
it the corner of St. George’s Terrace and Mercantile Piace,
Perth, W.A., to provide office accommodation for the
Branch in that City; the work is nearing completion, and it
is expected that possession will be given at the end of this
month; agreements have been made for leasing the greater
oortion of the space not required for our own use at
satisfactory rentals. The investment should prove advan-
tageous besides providing the Branch with accommodation
or our expanding business in a modern and well-equipped
Building.
The National Insurance Fund inaugurated by the
Federal Government to provide benefits for all Citizens whose
'ncome does not exceed £365 per annum will come into
operation on Ist January next. The cost to the Company
at this date is estimated at approximately £BOO per annum.
‘Female Staff Pension Scheme :-—Under the Officers'
Provident Fund no provision is made for the Female Staff;
it is now proposed to ask you to rectify the omission and
to provide pensions for them on retirement after long
service. It is proposed that Female Members of the Staff be
given the opportunity of contributing to‘the scheme after
The completion of 15 years’ service. From an Actuarial
calculation obtained, it will be necessary to ask you to vote
the sum of £5OOO to inaugurate the scheme, which, it is
suggested, will be administered as a separate Trust Fund.
The Board are of the opinion that the time has arrived for
the establishment of such a Fund, and they trust that then-
recommendation will appeal to the Shareholders.
Branch Directors and Agents: —l desire to express
our thanks to our Branch Directors and to our Agents, includ-
ing our Chief Agents throughout the Commonwealth and the
Receiving and Settling Agents where established, for the
valued service they continue to give, which is greatly appreci-
ated by my colleagues and by me.
The Staff: — I wish to acknowledge the loyalty of
the Staff at Head Office and at the Branches, and, in
appreciation of the valued service they continue to give, the
Board has recommended the payment of a Bonus and the
establishment of the Female Staff Pension Fund as men-
tioned in the Directors’ Report.
In conclusion I desire to repeat the appeal made from
year to year to the Shareholders to co-operate in placing
their Insurance business with their own Company and thus
add to its prestige and to the value of their own interests.
I have now pleasure in moving the adoption of the
Report and Balance Sheet.
BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria )
AT 30th JUNE, 1938.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share
4,211,735
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank)
Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in circulation
Contingencies
Government Deposits —
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
£6,594,057 16
6,188 0
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
1,587,678 10 4
14,852 17 10
1,371,804 16 0
£39,627,456 12 11
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes, Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in London .. £4,241,911 15 4
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills .. .. •• 1,770,000 0 0
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Municipal
and Other Public Stocks and Funds and Other Deben-
tures (at or under market value) .. .. .. .. 4,053,496 19 7
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in Transit .. 2,087,543 6
Notes and Bills of Other Banks • • • • 9
Balances Due from Other Banks .. • • 25,730 ,9
Stamps 18.158 10
8
9
4
3
-£12,374,630 15 11
Bills Discounted and Other Advances (less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts) •• •• 24,684,517 5 6
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises (at cost, less amounts written off) . - 1,196,503 15 6
Liabilities of Customers and Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra 1,371,804 16 0
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
£39,627,456 12 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
ķ
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and Rebate
on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Provisions for Contin-
gencies, out of which account an amount has been provided for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, fluctuations in investments, and other contingencies,
and after making provisions for Income, Land and other taxes . . .. £1,053,539 18 2
£1,053,539 18 2
By Balance from last Year
„ Net Profit for the Year
£103,337 12 7
262,383 17 3
£365,721 9 10
£226,707 16 6
By Balance
I, Percy Frederick Graham Gordon, General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund the Exchange
Adjustment Reserve and accumulated profits are used in the business and that the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
true in every pcirticulcir
Names, addresses and occunations of the nersons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Robert
Chancellor Meares, Solicitor, Melbourne • Achalen Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne; William Howell Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne; Arthur Sydney Baillieu, Investor,
Melbourne. ’
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making
a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. . . , , j * •u*
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
Before me—R. L. G. McCOY, E. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits tinder the il Evidence Act 1925.
We, John Langley Webb Arthur Sydney Baillieu and William Howell Swanton, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby certify
that in our opinion the foreeoinc Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 27th day of July, IV3S. 0n behalf of the Board
JOHN L. WEBB,
ARTHUR S. BAILLIEU
W. H. SWANTON.


NOBEL’
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEC
DI »ot,.3 IGNITE ’ dynamite,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
N (Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
rAMrc aT£! S J. LE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AO ENTS:
: EMpr - Sm«th & Comnanv. Limited.
B,r,er Smith X- Company. Limited.
fvSv R v!’iJ IC n Ualeetv * Company, Limited.
2-5-3- 8 R N - Kipk * Company.
RR?sn^ip N '«^; : T>n, ‘ retv & Comnnnv. Limited.
DARwfy E VT LI> 'v ® ,de f’ Bm,th * Company. Limited.
™ rniV™™™ • ■ f e,leral Government Administrator.
ZTBHaS TAB* T r S « : » & ° G '' n,,ers «y-
-„V“;*AN, TAS.: 3. S. Munro & Company.
TAS.: Chas. Davis. Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
niflVT^Tirv T v^ - N ' Z - : r,a, K etv & Company, Limited.
®?'« etv & Company. Limited.
™v»nrinemr H, vi Z,: Dal#ety & Company, Limited.
LKCAKGILL, N.Z.; Dalgety & Company, Limited.
and LAUTOKA, IUI: Morris, Hed&trom, Limited.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adst.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of Li. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
BMRW
»' A-tk
mm
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
during the 20 years to the close of
accounts in 1929.
Finances are comfortable, as the fol-
lowing comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
1927. 1931. 1937. 1935.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £210,007 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 8,880 30,331 11,504 11,194
Fixed assets.. 164,636 311,317 291,317 288,317
Stock.. . . 2,247 3,770 2,544 2,756
Book debts, cash,
etc 35,663 1,927 44,452 51,888
Since 1929 £27,927 more has been writ-
ten off than has been spent on fixed
assets, and over the same period the
improvement in the more or less liquid
position has amounted to £75,877 ; stocks,
debtors’ balances and cash, etc., exceeded
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £43,450 (up £7958) when the books
last closed.
Doubtful of the future, the market
prices the fully-paid pound shares,
covered by 255. 2d. in net tangibles, at
345. 9d. as against 365. a year ago. The
return at 345. 9d. is 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
Life Assurance Cos.
Last week the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment passed “rush” legislation placing
two life assurance cos. —Producers and
Citizens’ Co-op. and Commonwealth
General —under the care of the Public
Trustee. This was done at the request
of each co.’s board ; also the Premiers
of V'~ and South Aus. asked the N. S.
Wales Government “to take drastic action
to stop what they feared would happen
in their own States if something was not
done.” Further, a rabid internecine fight
was going on in the Producers and Citi-
zens’, and the directors feared it would
ultimately result in dissipation of the
remaining rights of policy-holders.
The .uea behind the new legislation is
to stop the McArthur group, operating
through a small concern known as
National Stock Exchange, Ltd., from
gaining control of the two assurance cos.
Assets belong to policy-holders (mostly
people receiving the basic wage, or little
more), the paid-up share capital in each
co., and more besides, being lost or un-
represented by tangibles.
National Stock Exchange, Ltd., was
registered in December, 1935, with a
nominal capital of £IO,OOO, of which,
according to the last return, £9909 was
paid up. Its assets comprised 55,000
f.-p. 10s. shares in McArthur Trust, Ltd.,
a Brisbane co., valued at £2406; deben-
tures, £7327 ; motor-car, £306 ; establish-
ment account, £261. National shares, or
all but a fraction of them, were held by
the Investment and Development Cor-
poration, Wellington (M.L.), the prin-
cipal directors of which were J. W. S.
McArthur and O. A. Bridgewater.
In 1934 Mr. Justice Halse Rogers,
sitting as a Royal Commissioner in N. S.
Wales to inquire into the activities of
the McArthur group at the time, said
that McArthur’s “methods of collecting
money for his own purposes amount to
an exploitation of the public in the guise
of legality.” Mr. Justice Northcroft, of
Maoriland’s Supreme Court, said in De-
cember, 1936, that Bridgewater in his
business dealings and in court was “a
smooth liar with a special flair for in-
genious misuse of half-truths.”
At their last balancing dates the two
assurance cos. concerned had net tangible
assets aggregating over a million pounds
(book value), as the following figures
show:
Producers Common-
-1 and wealth
Citizens’, General,
„ , ~ 31/8/’37. 31/12/’37.
Freeholds, etc. .. .. £265,388 £14,268
Public securities .. .. 149.600 207.138
Mortgages .. . . . . 182,691 66,350
Loans on policies . . . . 88,751 20,417
Debtors’ balances . . .. 37,730 1,952
Cash, etc. 34,529 11,327
Pre-maturities . . . . 11,780
Total ..' .. .. £758,589 £333,232
Liabilities* .. . . 4,165 3,375
Net tangibles .. .. £754,424 £329,857
Assurance funds . . .. 768,773 377,600
Paid capital .. . . 108,475 90,309
* Excluding liabilities to policy-holders.
Assuming that the assurance funds
exactly covered liabilities under policies,
book value of net tangibles was £14,349
short of the mark Producers and Citi-
zens’, and £47,743 shy Commonwealth
General. Uncalled capital in the two
cos. amounted to £154,012 and £22,762
respectively. However, if each continues
the progress it has made during the last
few years, shareholders may not be
asked for much, if any, more, and policy-
holders will have no need to fear loss
of any of their money. The best way
they can assist is to continue payment
of premiums.
Under existing conditions life assur-
ance in Australia is controlled by half
a dozen widely varying State laws, none
of which gives the policy-holder the pro-
tection he deserves. Obviously a uni-
form law for the whole of Australia is
required. If the Federal Government
fails to act in this connection (it pre-
pared a bill and then shelved it in 1929)
the N. S. Wales Government proposes
to introduce further legislation providing
for the appointment of trustee directors
(to be elected by policy-holders) of all
assurance cos. with share capital, and
for “certain classes of trust cos.” Two
features of the 1929 bill were (1)
appointment of a registrar, with
wide powers of supervision, the idea
being early protection for policy-
holders, and (2) establishment and
maintenance of statutory funds —one for
ordinary and the other for industrial
business. The purpose of these funds
is, of course, to cover liabilities under
policies, and the assets in which the
money was invested were not to be made
subject to any prior charge. While bring-
ing about desirable reforms, the Gov-
ernment at the same time needs to guard
against widue interference in domestic
affairs, as is threatened in the case of the
banks.
The Australian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy is holding its annual
conference in Sydney this week under
the presidency of L. V. Waterhouse, and
about 125 members from all over
the Commonwealth, Maoriland, India,
F.M.S. and the Philippines have rolled
up. The institute—it grew out of the
Australian Institute of Mining Engineers,
formed in 1893, thanks largely to the
efforts of Uriah Dudley, at the Barrier-
sets a high professional standard, and
its members have contributed much to
the advancement of mining and metal-
lurgical practice, in some branches of
which Australia has led the world. The
institute’s bronze medal for eminent ser-
vice in the two sciences was first awarded
in 1934 to G. D. Delprat and then to
E. W. Wainwright and Leslie Bradford.
* * #
First two returns from Victoria Gold
Dredging—44ooz. fine gold from 55,000
c.y. and 3610 z. from 26,500 c.y., repre-
senting average recoveries of 3.84 gr. and
10.2 gr. respectively—have put backers of
this Victorian gold-dredger in great heart.
The co. has 381 acres, estimated to con-
tain 15,000,000 c.y. and average 3.64 gr.,
on the Loddon River flats, near New-
stead. Average depth is 244 ft., the
goldbearing wash being overlain with
13ft. of loam and sandy clay. The gold,
in a comparatively coarse state, is con-
centrated appreciably on bedrock, which
explains.the high latest return —ground
dug so far was bored to average 4.5 gr.
Built by Thompsons, of Castlemaine,
who were responsible for the Cocks
Eldorado plant, the dredge can dig up
to 175,000 c.y. monthly, and on that
basis would work out the property in
seven years. The plant is fitted with
resoiling equipment, which, it is claimed,
will render ground dug suitable for agri-
culture within two years. The co. has
250,000 shares out, quotes for which
•have lengthened from 18s. to 295. 3d.
over the last two months. . If estimated
working profits of £70,000 p.a. are real-
ised, they will equal ss. 7d. per share.
Hopes are that an additional 4,000,000
c.y., carrying similar values to the main
area, may be acquired when the efficacy
of the resoiling apparatus has been
demonstrated.
* * * *
Working on the Nell Gwynne line of
reef on the Bendigo field, New Chum
Syncline, which formed in 1932, is the
latest Victorian producer to reach the
div. list —Is. a share, calling for £2625,
is to go out on September 6. The co. is
on a prornising-looking formation at
1020 ft. which has yielded 1600 oz. gold
from 1263 tons, a grade of 25.3dwt., and
is preparing to open out at 1100 ft. The
last crushing of 344 tons averaged only
12.7dwt., still highly payable, but the
stone was taken over a 20ft. face.
The co. lies north of and next-door to
the successful Central Nell Gwynne, the
only other active co. on the line, where
the ore-bodies have a downward
northerly pitch.
A. F. Tomes, working the Lady Annie,
his original find and the only one of
any consequence, is now the only pros-
pector left on the Paradise Valley (C.Q.)
copperfield. With Government assist-
ance, Tomes is sinking to test the be-
havior of the reef. District Govern-
ment geologist Denmead estimated
there was 50,000 tons of 10 p.c.
oxidised stuff available, but even that
isn’t likely to pay with electrolytic any-
where around present levels. Lack of
ready permanent water and the remote-
ness of the field, which is north of Isa,
are the killers.
* X 4: *
During the 12 months to the end of
May last Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, Ltd., received divs. and interest
totalling £85,972, compared with £5218
for the preceding 12 months. After
debiting a deficit of £9913 brought for-
ward from the previous term, £9282 for
exes, and Australian taxation, and
£12,627 for losses on interest in subsi-
diary and other cos., a credit balance of
£54,150 remains. Cos. owns the issued
capital of five of De Bernales’s West-
tralian Cos. Sand Queen-Gladsome,
Phoenix, Aladdin, Atlas and Hercules.
This interest figures in the books at
£330,000 (at cost) and sundry advances
at £360,352. Holding in otner cos. is
put at £586,068, of which £72,429 is in
Yellowdine Investments, from which
divs. totalling £76,051 (105 p.c.) have
been received. Two other members of the
De Bernales group interested in Yellow-
dine are Anglo-Australian and Gt.
Boulder Mining and Finance.
* * * *
At Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie’s annual
roll-up in London recently chairman
P. E. Marmion, a Westralian whose
father was a member of John Forrest’s
first Ministry, said mining and treatment
costs had come down -while revenue and
ore reserves had gone up, and the cash
position was strong—equipment and
modernisation of the old mines acquired
by the co. have been carried out well
within the original estimate. At the
present rate of treatment, ore reserves
are over 3\ years ahead of the mill
* =!=
London-controlled Youanmi (W A )
preens itself on steady expansion' of
output since the beginning of the year
The first quarter’s yield was 3121 fine
ounces, valued at £A27,117, and the
second quarter’s return 4826 fine ounces,
worth £A42,219. The June yield of 1847
fine ounces is the highest monthly return
so far, notwithstanding that the newly-
installed sulphide section of the plant
continued to absorb some of the metal.
Results from development, which appears
to have been vigorous, are described as
“wholly satisfactory.” Main shaft is
about to be deepened to No. 8 level
* * *
Summary of monthly production re-
turns of Lake View and Star (W.A.),
whose holdings embrace half Kalgcor-
lie’s Golden Mile, over the last" two
financial periods:—•
... ... Mine
t —I reated, Value, Surplus,
June, Ore. Sands. £A. £A
1937 .. 592,926 718,330 1,325,318 552 143
1938 . . 619,919 708,99G 1,404,358 604,642
For the latest 12 months revenue on mine
account was £A79,040 better, of which
£52,499 was profit. Expenditure charged
against capital in the period, mainly on
special development, was £8579 lighter
at £A97,599. There is little doubt of
last term’s 50 p.c. handout being main-
tained, with the possibilities of a bit
better in the not-so-distant future. July’s
throughput (55,504 tons of ore, which it
is hoped to maintain) was a record for
the co., being at the rate of 666,000 tons
annually. Twelve months ago ore re-
serves were some six years ahead of the
mill, and developments since have been
encouraging. Not all the co.’s mines are
yet producing, either.
* ❖ * *
Major Westralian cos. to handle record
throughputs for July were: —
Ton- Value, Surplus,
nago. £A. £A.
Great Boulder . , 30,062 72,541 25,012
Lake View and Star .. 55,504 1 n „„ ... ...
Sands .. .. 58,658 j 121)926 ol)6 ° 4
Triton 9,916 28,670 —
North Kalgurli .. 11,551. 37,759 18,137
All four have been steadily pushing up
outputs. The spring of 7983 tons in the
latest crushing of Great Boulder, which
12 months ago was treating only 18,600
tons monthly, marks the inauguration of
an increased-milling campaign which
should shortly show up in increased re-
turns to shareholders. Triton’s plant is
now handling nearly 1000 tons monthly
above its rated capacity.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
B. (Vic.): (I) and (3) No quotes for shares
on open market. (2) 9d J.E.G.: Keep up
payment of premiums; co.’s prospects of turn-
ing the corner are encouraging M.J.M.:
(1) Government, like any other spending, tends
to force up prices. (2) Wages are fixed by the
Arbitration Court on the basis of the cost of
living, which in turn is influenced by the price
level.


omm.: commit
SMOKE-OH!
“The life of the average professional cricketer
is no bed of roses.” —Neville Cardus.
It’s just an in-and-out existence.
•f* *l* *l* *•*
“Gaol for Stealing £l.” —News heading.
Quod pro quid.
♦l* *l* •£•
“A Chicago man golfed 144 holes and won
bet.... ‘Everything hurts! ’he moaned as he
holed his 687th stroke.” —“Sunday Sun.”
No doubt continually passing the 19th
hole hurt the most.
*l* ,
“Gas supplies for many suburbs will be en-
dangered if the threatened general strike
occurs.” —News item.
Then there will be another general
strike —with matches.
»S* -h *l*
It isn’t fair to say that all of our air-
hostesses are ’plane girls.
•E ►!* *!♦ *i*
T.P. Taxes.
“Income-tax may be payable on the instal-
ment plan next year.”
Dear Sir—About that tax of mine, I
find I’ve paid you two and nine since
January 1 this year (I’m somewhat in
“You naughty boy.”
arrears, 1 fear). Nevertheless, this grave
decline is not entirely fault of mine.
Life’s bare necessities are dear, especially
cigarettes and beer. Long shots have
failed to hit the mark at Rosebery and
Harold Park. The wife (you know what
women are) invited for a month her Mar.
The old girl, between you and me, can
scoff enough for two or three. Then
Johnnie got the whooping cough and —
well, instalments all went off, so, all con-
sidered, you’ll agree that things are pretty
tough with me.
I hope to square things up with you
about the spring of ’42. I can’t do more
than that, unless, of course, you wish to
repossess. If so, just send a man to get
—it’s somewhere round—your latest
threat. Trusting this explains things
clearly. I am, sir,
Yours most sincerely,
Leon.
Pursuit of Beauty.
A beauty specialist says men nowadays
spend almost as much as women on titi-
vating themselves. I’m glad our sex has
come into its own. In my time females
had to suffer in silence and red flannel-
ette, while the breadwinners squandered
the baker’s money on their appearance.
Papa drove Mamma
and us girls into the
suffragette movement
by his pursuit of
fashion. He pursued
it as far as the East
Indies a couple of
times because he would
insist on strangling his
own macassars for their
hair oil. We had to
scrape along on corn-
flour and cochineal cos-
metics.
He also had a passion for shepherds
plaid trousers, and I suppose he paid out
hundreds of pounds to shepherds he had
violently robbed of their pants to add
to his collection. We never dared go to
Scotland because Mamma was terrified
lest Papa should take a fancy to kilts.
Facial retreads and eyebrow vulcanis-
ing hadn’t been invented then, but what
with insisting on having his whiskers
ringbarked only at Lord Dundreary’s
saloon, and bribing Disraeli’s butler to
tell him what his boss mixed with his
port to make his hair curl so exotically,
Papa kept us all poor.
Many’s the time we’ve had to make
up buns out of the stuffing of a horsehair
sofa or get the ribs out of a cast-off
umbrella for corset stays because Papa
was in a nursing home having super-
phosphate injections for incipient bald-
ness*
Aggie McWhoosh.
“When is a man too old to play first-class
cricket? Some players pass their prime much
quicker than others.”
But any cricketer is only as old as he
fields.
4* 4* +
“Fifty years ago every meal was, opened with
grace, but to-day what happens?”
—Church congress speaker.
Most wives use tin-openers!
•F ❖
“The first two years of married life are the
worst.” —Judge Reed.
After that, of course, you are used to
relations staying with you.
4> + 4*
“No newspaper or magazine lives by circu-
lation alone.” —Sydney magazine.
In other words, they don’t get square
by simply getting round.
•$> 4* 4*
What some people call listening is only
waiting for someone else to stop talking.
San Fairy Ann.
“There’s a brief pause in the play,
listeners, and now here’s Mr. Enhay
Mobil to give you a few comments.”
“Hello, everybody. Well—er —so far
it’s bin-a-very interesting—a—er—very
interesting—and young Crown —we must
—er —give him credit. We ought to
realise that if he’d been bowled he might
not have —might not have —er —made
such a score, and then where would we
be? Still, that English bowling isn’t easy,
as we know, and Australia is lucky—er—
lucky to have been able to get the runs,
because, as we must understand, runs are
“This is better than jumpin' the rattler!"
not easy to get on this type of —er —
wicket, and if our men hadn't got them
we—er —we wouldn’t have so many on
the board.
“I thought Larnes’s bowling was a bit
faster —a bit faster this morning. He
seemed to get more out of the —er —-out
of the pitch, and those balls of his came
through well. Following the play—er—
play closely, I thought the bowling of
Larnes was a bit —er —a bit faster.
“Well, Australia has two hundred and
thirty on the board, in response to Eng-
land’s—er —er —h’m —five hundred. We
have two seventy to —er —to get and —er
—six wickets left. It’s er —er —bin a very
interesting morning’s cricket, and if our
men don’t make —er —h’m—two seventy
then I’m very much afraid —er —afraid
they won’t catch England’s score.”
O. D.
•f* 4* 4*
“A Texas (U.S.A.) man has invented a tree
scissors which bites through two trees a minute.”
It’s things like this that embitter the
local woodpeckers.
•i* <9f» •f*
Be Your Own Mechanic!
VII. — “Checking Over.”
Following your failure to get the
engine going again after having re-
assembled it, it is better, before pulling
the whole thing apart again and subject-
ing each bit to a minute examination to
detect the fault, to check over the spark
plugs and their connections.
You will remember you connected the
leads to the first plugs you came to. Now
take them all off and put them all on
different plugs. It will be found that
some of the leads won’t reach some of
the more distant plugs, but this can be
remedied. Get a good grip and give each
lead a hearty tug. If it snaps, it will be
proof that it was perished and wanted
replacing anyway. If, on the other hand,
it stretches, but insufficiently to reach
any given plug, bare the wires. Then
get a spare bit of wire (any old wire will
do, though, owing to its being rough on
the hands, barbed-wire is not recom-
mended) of sufficient length to reach the
required plug, and twist it on to the
bared wire of the lead. By thus treating
all the leads you will make the task of
interchanging much easier.
So that you do not waste time in put-
ting the leads on plugs in a combination
that has already proved a dud, adopt the
“chart” system. This entails the drawing
on a piece of paper of a rough outline
of the cylinder head as you see it, mark-
ing thereon the position of the plugs,
which should be identified as A, B, C and
so on. The leads should similarly be
tagged.
Now connect the leads in any combina-
tion you wish, afterwards marking your
chart accordingly ; e.g., lead A to plug F,
lead G to plug C, etc. Having done this,
go and try the self-starter.
A fresh chart will, of course, have to
be drawn with every combination tried.
You won’t get beyond about 40 combina-
tions, because by that time a low, mut-
tering cough from the self-starter will
denote that the constant drain upon the
battery has caused it to go flat.
This hit-or-miss method should make
a particular appeal to all Aussies, who are
naturally gamble-minded. After all, it is
much like a lottery. You might click
first go. Although the odds are, however,
that, like the lottery, nothing will happen,
think of the surge of pure joy if the
engine does turn over!
It will probably be at the point when
you realise that the battery has gone flat
that the wife will hurry out to tell you
to put everything back and come to
dinner at once, as Uncle Jim and Aunt
Emily have just rung up to say they’ll
be coming, and, that she’s arranged for
you to pick them up at the station.
Before going in to ring up the local
garage to see what they can do with the
mess, the question of cleaning up—that
is, yourself—arises. You will find that
there isn’t a drop of kerosene in the
house. How, then, to remove the black
grease that is all through your hair (if
you’re bald, so much the better; it’s
easier to get off), caked on your face and
thick from fingertips to elbows?
You might get a fraction of it off by
rubbing the greasy parts with a lemon,
following this up immediately with a
vigorous rubbing with lumps of earth.
After that, a bath that is nearly boiling,
and at least half of it should come off.
The rest should wear off gradually. It
will be better if, during these operations,
you ignore the constantly reiterated: “I
do wish you’d come and have your
dinner ; you know I can’t keep it hot! ”
If you are lucky, the subsequent garage
bill should not exceed the following: —
£ s. d.
Regrinding valves and replacing pistons 6 5 0
Renewing chewed-up gaskets, shims, etc. 1 15 0
Rewiring 1 7
Recharging battery 36
Total 9 11 0
There will also be the taxi-fares from
and back to the station for your ex-
pected relatives, and another four bob
for the half-gallon of oil you spilled
when you dropped the sump.
Incidentally, you might as well get the
garageman, while he’s about it, to fix
up the rattle that was the cause of all
your trouble. He’ll probably do it for
half a dollar.
S. W. K.
Knock-back.
“There’s nothing bashful about the Aus-
tralian girl,” declares lady visitor.
I fear the lady’s talking rot!
I proved her statement far from right
While taking home the lovely Dot
From tennis late the other night.
For when to kiss I gaily strove,
She grew, to my dismayed surprise,
Extremely bashful. Yes, by Jove!
You ought to see my two black eyes!
T.W.N.
Seasonal.
Spring runs in like a laughing girl;
Summer arrives like a languid lady j
Autumn sweeps with her leaves a-swirl,
A matron cool in a brown hat shady ,
Then, cold and fierce and prepared for
war,
Comes Winter, wild old mother-in-law.
H.M.


BOARDROOMS
SHOULD BE
SOUNDPROOF
Every wideawake executive realises the necessity for
absolute quiet in the boardroom. Extraneous noises
are not conducive to the concentration necessary for
important business discussions. Modern buildings are
carefully planned and built so that external noises are
minimised; but in the older buildings street noises and
traffic- noises seem to permeate the whole place and
echo and re-echo with increasing volume, preventing
concentration—jangling nerves—fraying tempers. The
minimising of noise in all types of buildings can be
achieved in several ways. For small areas such as
boardrooms or executives’ offices, Newalls “Paxtiles”
are the ideal sound insulation. Newalls “Paxtiles” are
easily fitted, wonderfully durable and may be as easily
painted as wood or plaster. Leading architects agree
that there is no finer acoustic material. Our acoustic
experts will be pleased to advise on the use of Newalls
Paxtiles” for minimising noise.
WILLIAM ADAMS L COMPANY
175 Clarence Street, Sydney
Telephone: BW4OBI (10 Lines).
Patents.
A PLUNGER FOR SHAPING GLASS
PARISONS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18874/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth ■of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Mauri Bros. Ords.
At 675. in Sydney, ords. in
Mauri Bros, and Thomson yield
4.5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
price is high, but there is great
strength behind the shares, and
benefits must come later on. Bottle-
seals, yeast, vinegar and shop
equipment are a few of the co.’s
more remunerative lines.
New Zealand Centennial, 1940.
LITERARY COMPETITIONS.
Entries are invited from New Zealanders for a
series of Literary Competitions commemorating the
Centennial in 1940. Competitions will be held for
a Novel, a Short Story, a Full Length Play, a Long
Essay and Poems. Rules and Conditions of the
Competitions may be obtained on application to the
NEW ZEALAND TRADE AND TOURIST
COMMISSIONER
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“National” Insurance—l/1/1939.
The National Insurance vapors around
Canberra solidified into an Act on July
5. It is a solid Act; it costs 2s. 3d. to
buy, its 60 pages take hours to read, and
will take years before they are properly
understood, even by our lawmakers.
The Act relates only to “employees,”
and it contemplates the creation of in-
surance funds to provide “employees”
with:
(a) medical benefits, ( b ) sickness
benefits, (c) disablement benefits, (d) “addi-
tional” benefits, (e) old-age pension, (/)
widows’ and (g) orphans’ pensions, and
(A) dependent child’s allowance.
No provision is made for unemploy-
ment relief, except by waiving payments
to the fund during periods of unemploy-
ment.
Anyone receiving more than £7 a week
is definitely ruled out of the scheme
unless ( a ) he is a manual worker with an
income liable to fluctuations, or ( b ) he
or she was receiving less than £7 a week
when joining up. Members who rise to
above £7 a week may become “volun-
tary contributors,” but have to pay the
full weekly contribution out of their own
pocket.
Under-£7-a-weekers (except Govern-
ment employees already subject to a pen-
sion scheme) must become contributors,
and the contribution (until 1944) for each
male is 3s. a week, females 2s. a week and
juveniles (under 16) Bd. a week. The em-
ployer pays half in every case of compul-
sory insurance. These rates entitle the in-
sured to full benefits. Where a person is
already entitled to a Government pen-
sion, he may insure for sickness, etc.,
benefits at a lower rate of contribution.
Contributions by employee and em-
ployer in the more general cases that will
come under the scheme are here stated
in tabular form. “Voluntary contri-
butors,” it may be worth repeating, pay
the lot themselves:
Contributions.
_ Per Week.
Employed persons—
Males .. Is. 6d.
Employer Is. 6d.
Employed persons—
Females .. Is. Od.
Employer Is. Od.
Juvenile contributors—
Males and females .; .. .. 4d.
Employer .. .. .. .. 4d.
Voluntary contributors (full benefits) —
Males 3s. Od.
Females .. 2s. Od.
Employers, however small, cannot
insure themselves under the scheme. So
far the Act applies to employees only.
Persons withdrawing from the scheme
get no surrender value. Their contribu-
tions are retained in order to provide
“free insurance” periods for the unem-
ployed, sick and disabled.
The medical benefit comes into onera-
tion immediately after April, 1939. Sick-
ness benefits (20s. a weex males, las.
females, ss. juveniles) will be granted to
sick contributors who have paid at least
26 weekly contributions. Disablement
benefits (15s. a week males, 12s. 6d.
females) don’t operate until two years’
(104) contributions have been paid. Old-
age pensions won’t be granted unless the
contributor has been in the scheme for
five years and has made 208 contri-
butions, 117 of them in the last three
“What did I tell you about banging that door back ?”
years. The o.a.p. is 20s. p.w. males
from age 65 onward, and 15s. p.w.
females from age 60. Females, by pay-
ing more per week, may later on gain a
bigger pension.
There are numerous provisions in order
to meet requirements of people in vary-
ing circumstances. Widows’ pensions
(12s. 6d. a week for life or until re-
marriage) will be payable to the relict
of a deceased contributor who put
up at least 104 weekly contributions
before he died, and an orphan’s pension
of 7s. 6d. per child will be paid in simi-
lar circumstances in respect of young-
sters under 15. During the first two
years of the Act’s operations, in which
contributors won’t have had the oppor-
tunity of paying a full 104 weekly instal-
ments, widows will get a lump-sum pay-
ment.
“Approved societies” will be granted
subsidiary powers by the Insurance Com-
mission ; and it seems that a firm with
2000 or more contributing employees may
form its own society, and existing friendly
societies of that size may also come in.
The approved societies will collect the
cards of contributors and pay out sickness
benefit, disablement benefit, etc. They will •
receive the certificates from doctors, and,
in conjunction with the Commission, will
attend to the visiting of sick people.
It will be their responsibility to see that
funds of their members are not wasted or
misused
The approved societies will have nothing
to do with pensipn benefits under the
scheme, nor with the medical benefit....
except in so far as they use the certificates
of insurance doctors for starting and stop-
ping their cash payments.
It is an expressed intention to have the
Commission work in close co-operation
with these societies.
The scheme at the moment may not
be all wool, but it is very woolly, and
yards wide. The idea of any insurance
for sickness or pensions is commendable,
but the present proposals are neither
national nor complete. Though a com-
mencement is to be made on Jan. 1, 1939,
much of the machinery of the thing, es-
pecially as regards “approved societies,”
has yet to come into being.
In connection with the present Old
Age Pensions Act, an “explanation” has
been made:
The pension now provided will not be
reduced, nor will any future eligibility for
those pensions be affected by the insurance
scheme.
It appears from this, and from calcula-
tions of future pensions given, that in-
surance pensions will be paid to those
eligible as well as pensions under the
O.A.P. Act. That, at least, is the present
intention. i
The whole thing is being clamped on
to the Australian economy after a mini-
mum of discussion. Section 189 of the
Act says that any wage tribunal taking
into account, in fixing wages, the con-
tributions made by employees out of
their wages shall also take into account
the benefits they are entitled to under
the scheme. The annotation to the sec-
tion is “Rates of wages not to be affected
by contributions and benefits.” But
many employers are afraid that the ulti-
mate result will be that will go
up so as to cover this insurance cost, and
that the employee will virtually be get-
ting the whole thing free. After the
Reddaway “prosperity” award, they feel
that that would be too much.
With wheat down to the lowest price
for nearly three years, Australian in-
vestors are beginning to take more notice
of internal conditions. Though the Dow-
Jones index lifted sharply in the U.S.A.,
Commonwealth ’Changes remained on
the inactive side, showing very little
concern when, later, Dow-Jones figures
slipped. Wool seems to be better
situated than wheat so far as supply
and demand are concerned. Now that
investors are taking note of these two
things, they should go a step further and
study cost-of-living figures. Notwith-
standing the fall in prices for land pro-
ducts, costs of production are still on the
rise, and prices of manufactured goods
are also on the way up. We certainly
won’t gain anything by these recent
trends, and may lose a good deal. Some
lift in nearly all figures was to be ex-
pected after the depression, and perhaps
the present state of affairs isn’t too bad.
But will the hot-air pump ease off now?
It rarely does stop until something goes
bung.
* * * *
British Tobacco ords. were very firm
last week, selling in Sydney and Mel-
bourne at 50s. 3d., to return 4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Though combined ac-
counts of subsidiary cos. are now pub-
lished they don’t tell a great deal, except
that the co.’s liquid position is very
strong. And that often means that fixed
assets aren’t overvalued in the books.
The most important things to consider
in B.T.’s case are its paid capital and past
and present earning power.
* * t- *
Carlton Brewery shares, cum Is. 6d.
div., were at 675. 3d. early last week.
Picked many times in these pages
when the market has been favorable
to buyers, the scrip was last men-
tioned in B. 20/7/’3B when at 665. cum
div. A historical note on the co. then
published is worth referring to, particu-
larly for its mention of the fact that
Carlton has maintained its interest in the
expanding C.U.B. enterprise without in-
creasing its share-register since 1924. In
other words, shareholders’ equity has
been growing all the while.
■f*
In Melbourne last week:
Davies, Coop ords. ran up to 285., the high-
est price on record. Activity in this stock is
spasmodic, but the co. has possibilities.
Publication of Yellow Cabs’ profits didn’t
give any strength to market support for the
stock. Quotes slipped to 10s. 3d.
United Provisions ords. were dealt in at
Bs. 2d. and Bs., the highest quotes for 12
months.
Melbourne Steam kept around 28s. 9d., little
interest being evidenced. The stock is always
worth attention on signs of recession. Profits
disclosed for the year to June 30 were slightly
lower.


Firm in Spots.
1937 ! 1938-
* Ex rights.
JSJVTY-iis
4Y APP9«HTMIHr
the Gin
s
oO N
C:
if
m
m
m
m
&
v^ v
\\&r,
mt
gv.v
i
DIST
Et*
o«°
tuSS
|V»''
I
107
rM
m
ts!
m
m
flg?
7
nSS
ills
ijcu vulua ijcnik health -bnAiit on
GEN V. INE L 0 NDO N - GI N
made as Gin
should be
made the
secret of the
House of
Cordon since
1769
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
C7 he latye&t gin dtitilkAA in the woiid
ķ
PALL MALL
BRITISH
RADIATORS
{Hot water or steam)
used with “White
Rose” Boilers,
heat average-sized
rooms for 24
hours for approxi-
mately twopence
per room.
COMFORTING HOT WATER
Wherever or whenever you want it
TWO HOT BATHS FOR ONE PENNY
3
Q
BRITISH
“WHITE ROSE” C.I.
HOT WATER BOILER
INSTALLATIONS
(Plain or rustless )
bum coke on the slow combustion prin-
ciple and generate' 48 gallons of hot
water from 91b, of coke. Simple to
operate and servant-proof. Suitable also
for glasshouse heating and for brooder-
houses for poultry-farmers. Mention num-
ber, of hot-water taps to be served when
inquiring. Write now.
For Flats,
Hotels,
Clubs,
Colleges,
Churches,
Homes,
T urkish
Baths,
and for
many trade
processes.
John Danks &.ScnP^W
( Incorporated in Victoria.')
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne.
’Phone, M 6505
’Phone, M23SI
m
m
■
British
“WHITE ROSE 1
Q.I. Boiler.
The poll asked for by shareholders
in Selfridges (A/asia), Ltd., Sydney, re-
sulted in J. W. Austin, J. A. Carpenter,
W. G. Hull and Herbert Phillips being
elected to the board. The additions
represent mostly new blood. There is a
hefty task ahead of them.
* * * *
A comparative summary of earnings to
ordinary capital, and divs. declared, from
last week’s (and the preceding year s)
balance-sheets:
Profit to Old.
Capital. Ord. Div.
37. 38. 37. 38.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Millaquin Sugar .. .. 11.5 11.9 9 11
Newbold Firebrick .. 11.7 12.6 10 10
Standard Cement ..11.2 15 8 10
Aust. Securities .. .. 11.4 13 74 7f
lllawarra Brick .. . . 12.4 14.7 8}
G. J. Coles 23.1 21.3 18} 17}
fiellambi Coal 4.4 5.3 3.9 5.1
Elder, Smith 8.5 8.4 7 7
Peters-Arctic (N.Q.) .. 9.6 8.8 7} 7}
Beau Monde .. . . 31.9 22 25 20
Yellow Cabs 7 14.5 6 12
W. R. Carpenter .. .. 14.9 15.5 9 10
F. T. Wimble .. .. 24.2 26.1 10 15
Perpetual Trustee .. 12.4 12.6 10 10
Cash Orders (Amal.) .. 22.3 23.1 15 15
Cases where earnings haven’t increased
mainly represent industries which are
having their own special difficulties. Beau
Monde (hosiery) is a case in point;
Elder, Smith is another.
* * * *
The recovery in U.S.A. Stock Ex-
change quotations had an effect on some
prices of commodities in the world’s
markets; metals came under this sway
particularly. The following table gives
a comparison of the spot London quotes
for the principal base metals (averages)
for June and July, and also last Wednes-
day’s price:
June, ■ July, Aug. 11,
Per Ton. Per Ton. Per Ton.
£ S. and. £ s. and. £ s. and.
Copper, stan. ■ , „
spot .. 35 5 6 39 15 9 41 5 0
Copper, elec- „
trolytic .. 39 16 9 44 16 9 47 0 0
. Lead, soft, for- „
eign, spot 13 19 4 14 18 5 14 7 6
S spot' 1 C 12 17 9 14 210 13 17 0
Tin, stan. , „ _
spot ..1771111 1921311 194 5 0
Copper prices, aided by restriction, have
benefited particularly, and tin is holding
the ground it has won in the market
scale.
* * * *
The guiding stars of some investors
are. breweries. So far as the accounts
disclose, this is what you buy and what
return you get:—-
Net Div.,Yld.,
Par. Tangibles. Price, p.c. p.c.
Tooth .. £1 235. 2d. 565. Od. 11 3.9
Toohey.. 16s. Od. 235. 7d. 31s. 9d. 9 4.6
Carlton £1 335. Id. 675. 3d. 15 4.5
Balia rat £1 . 375. lOd. 535. 6d. 12* 4.6
Castlemaine-
Perkins 12s. 6d. 15s. Od. 235. 6d. 8 4.2
S.A.Brew. £1 28s. 3d. 48s. 9d. 10 4.1
Cascade £1 31s. Bd. 40s. 6d. 12 6
Swan .. ss. Od. 12s. 4d. 265. 9d. 25 4.7
It is plain from the foregoing that the
sharemarket values “net tangible assets”
figures on different bases in different
cases, apparently believing that there is
more malt and hops in some than in
others.
* * * *
Cement cos. certainly had a good year
in 1937-38, though critics should bear
in mind that variations between thick and
thin years in the construction trades are
pretty extreme. Kandos’s special distri-
bution (making 12| p.c. for the year) was
covered by the portion of Australian
Portland Cement’s profit that came its
way. Adelaide Cement has paid 25 p.c.
this year, as against 12y p.c. ; Southern
Portland (N.S.W.) helped to swell
Howard Smith’s earnings last term; and
now Standard, with its works near
Kandos (N.S.W.), has shown earnings
equal to 15 p.c. on paid capital com-
pared with 11.2 p.c. in 1936-37, and the
div. goes up from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. The
16s. shares have lifted to 225., while
Kandos 165.-paids are around 275. This
page believes the last-mentioned to be
worth their premium over Standard.
* * * *
Associated Newspapers ords. in Syd-
ney have recovered to 225. 6d. again,
after being down to near par. The news-
print position overseas seems less acute
than it was, and there may be a slacken-
ing in this item of publishing cost later.
However, wages are on the increase, and
competition is growing no less acute. In
1936-37 the co.’s papers earned only a
few pounds more than in 1935-36, which
suggested that they weren’t getting the
full benefit of general business recovery.
Then this year the co. had an awkward
clash with the newsvendors. It has put a
new paper on the streets during the term
which it calls “Pix.” American papers of
a similar type had a phenomenal sale for
a short time, but their profit expecta-
tions generally haven’t been realised.
Consolidated Press 6| p.c. pi'efs. (the
co. publishes Sydney “Telegraph” and the
“Women’s Weekly”) are on offer in Syd-
ney at 18s., no buyers, after sales at that
figure. Accounts closed on March 31,
but the report hasn’t been published
yet. Last year it came to hand towards
the end of September, six months after
the books closed ; and the co. isn’t regis-
tered in Fiji, either. Sydney is the
address.
# * * *
Output of Broken Hill Prop.’s New-
castle steelworks continues at an un-
diminished rate. Earnings during the last
few years have permitted large addi-
tions to reserves after providing heavily
for depreciation, and, taking into ac-
count the co.’s many embryo sidelines
that should pull their weight later on,
the shares at 595. 6d. look attractive.
The yield on a 121 P-c. div. basis is about
£4 ss. per cent. B.H.P. is a different
proposition from overseas steelworks. It
is Australia’s largest manufacturing and
mining enterprise, and one of our largest
investment cos.
* * * *
Prefs. in George Farmer, the Ballarat
(Vic.) bacon-curing firm, are sought after
in Melbourne at 18s. 6d. Last sale was
at 19s. Accounts are due shortly ; those
for 1936-37 showed only a nominal
profit, but the pref. charge (£4800) was
met out of reserves (£11,242, allowing
38 was paid in March. The co. is well
supplied with liquid assets, including
w of cash and Consols. There are
60,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 90,000 ords
issued. The ords. have lately been around
7s.
of the extraction of 133,262
tons of ore during 1937, North Kalgurli
had reserves 102,634 tons higher at the
end of 1937 ; they then aggregated
735,054 tons assaying 7.7Bdwt. gold. In
addition, there was “probable” ore to the
extent of 202,000 tons. Plant is being
given attention now, and costs are ex-
pected to drop. It is a fine mine,


FURPHY.
The war-scar© furphies, as viewed in London
“Daily Express” leader comment (28/7/’3B): —
“War will break out on August 12,” whispers
the passenger on the 10.40 to Liverpool. He was
told it by a man who works at the War Office who
heard it from a man who dined with a Minister.
“War will break out on August 15,” said the
stockbroker to the jobber. He heard it from a man
who knows an important German from the Embassy.
And so the rumor grows and is spread.
Don’t believe it. These rumors have been spread
for three years, keeping the nation in fearful uncer-
tainty.
In the last three summers the panic-makers have
warned us to beware of what will happen when the
crops are harvested. For centuries man has filled
his granaries at this time of the year, but now that
simple process is manufactured into a preparation
for war.
In the train from Dover the Liverpool business-
man, returning from Czechoslovakia, turns first to the
financial columns of his newspaper to see how his
shares are going. Not well, apparently, for he says,
“I wish this uncertainty would end. 1 believe there
is more war fear among the citizens of London than
there is among the Czechs in Prague.”
Believe us, that is so.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Chamberlain on His Foreign Policy.
[Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” professing to give Aus-
tralia ‘leadership” gave only a 4£in. fragment of
iii- '--hamberlain’s notable speech made just before
Parliament went into recess. Other papers gave more, but
omitted much, including pretty well all such retorts to
the interventionists and war-seekers as “Although it is
good to have a giant’s strength, it is tyrannous to use
it as a giant.”]
I cannot imagine anyone who would disagree
with the main aim of the Government’s foreign policy
—the establishment and maintenance of peace and
the removal, so far as that may be practicable, of the
causes of possible conflict by the amelioration of
grievances between one country and another.
It pleases Sir Archibald Sinclair sometimes to
suggest that our attitude towards certain countries in
Europe is one of continued concession. Let not him
nor anyone, either in this country or elsewhere, for
one moment imagine that, though we seek peace, we
are willing to sacrifice even for peace British honor
and British vital interests. We are making rapid pro-
gress with our great rearmament programme. Day
by day the armed strength of this country becomes
more formidable.. But, while that tremendous power
we are accumulating remains there as a guarantee that
we can defend ourselves if we are attacked, we are
not unmindful of the fact that, although it is good
to have a giant’s strength, it is tyrannous to use it like
a giant. Our aims are not the less peaceful, but no
one can imagine that we have reason to fear any foe.
The unity which exists between France and our-
selves is the more happy because it is generally
recognised that it is not directed against any other
nation or combination of nations. It is in itself a
solid buttress of peace. That unity was strengthened
and confirmed by the recent conversations in Paris.
There has been no new undertaking, no new commit-
ment. There was discussion of all matters of common
interest to the two countries and general and complete
agreement upon them.
It is a matter of profound regret that one cannot
see the prospect of a speedy termination of that
terrible struggle which is daily destroying the best of
Spain’s life. There is no need for any appeal to
be made to this Government to take advantage of
any opportunity which may occur for mediation, an
armistice or anything that would bring that to a close.
But in all these cases there are moments when it is
not only futile but may indeed be mischievous for
third parties to try to intervene. We are convinced
that the moment has not come when we can intervene.
There is another matter which is bound up with
the situation in Spain—the Anglo-Italian Agreement.
We never regarded this agreement as simply a
bilateral arrangement between Italy and ourselves.
When we entered into negotiations we did so because
we thought then, and we are still of the same opinion,
that the restoration of the relations between Italy and
this country to their old terms of friendship and con-
fidence would bring. us appreciably nearer to our
ultimate aim*, which is a general European appease-
ment. We felt at the time that the moral justification
for our recognition of the Italian position in Ethiopia
would be the knowledge that that recognition had
brought with it a real contribution to the peace of
Europe.. We felt that while this conflict was going on
in Spain under the sort of conditions in which it
had been waged, the Spanish situation was a perpetual
menace to the peace of Europe, and it was for that
reason we said it must be removed from that category
before our agreement was brought into force.
It is not our fault and it is not the fault of the
Italian Government that that condition has not been
brought about. They have kept faith with us. I
would like to see what happens when the volunteers
are withdrawn. If his Majesty’s Government think
that Spain has ceased to be a menace to the peace of
Europe, I think we shall regard that as a settlement of
the Spanish question.
In dealing with Czechoslovakia it is very difficult
for people in this country to arrive at a just con-
clusion as to the rights and wrongs of the disputes. We
are only too conscious that there are all the materials
present for a breach of the peace with incalculable con-
sequences if the matter is not handled boldly and with
a reasonable amount of speed. In accordance with
our general policy, and in close association with
France, we have done everything that we could to
facilitate a peaceful solution. It is a problem which,
in one form or another, has existed for centuries,
and it would perhaps be unreasonable to expect that
a difficulty which has been going on so long should
be capable of solution in a few short weeks. There
is no truth in the rumor that we have been hustling
the Czech Government. Indeed, the very opposite
is the truth. Our anxiety has been rather that the
Czechoslovak Government should be too hasty.
If by any chance an agreed settlement couid be
come to between Herr Henlein and the Czechoslovak
Government before any statute was put before the
Czech Parliament obviously that would be the best
solution. But as time has gone on it has begun to
appear doubtful whether, without some assistance from
outside, such a voluntary agreement could take place.
In response to a request from the Government of
Czechoslovakia we have agreed that a person with the
necessary experience and qualities should investigate
this subject on the spot and endeavor, if need be, to
suggest means for bringing the negotiations to success.
If we could find some solution of this Czechoslovak
question I should feel that the way was open for a
further effort for general appeasement —an appease-
ment which cannot be obtained until no major cause
of difference or dispute remains unsettled.
We have already demonstrated the possibility of
a complete agreement between a democratic and a
totalitarian State. When Herr Hitler made his offer
of a naval treaty under which the German
Fleet was to be restricted to an agreed level bearing
a fixed ratio to the size of the British Fleet, he made
a notable gesture of a most practical kind in the
direction of peace—the value of which it seems to me
has never been fully appreciated, tending towards this
general appeasement. There the treaty stands, as a
demonstration that it is possible for Germany and
ourselves to agree on matters which are vital to both
of us.
In the Far East war is still being carried on
with all the horrors which seem inseparable from
modern warfare. The Brussels Conference last
November showed clearly that no proposals which
would involve intervention in the conflict on the part
of the members of the League of Nations would have
any chance of acceptance. Of course, we could not
alone undertake that great burden.
It cannot be said that we are disinterested as a
country in the position in the Far East, because for
a hundred years our interests in China have been of
great importance, and when the Japanese Govern-
ment claim that they are protecting their interests in
China I am sure they must recognise that we too have
our interests in China, and that we cannot stand by
and see them sacrificed in the process. There again,
in the Far East, we should be glad to offer our ser-
vices to bring about the cessation of hostilities if
ever and whenever we could see an opportunity which
presents a favorable prospect of success. In the
meantime we are resolved to do our utmost to see
that British interests shall not suffer in a conflict for
which we have no responsibility and in which we
have no direct concern.
In this survey, which has included a glance at
two ferocious wars and an area which is the subject
of a dispute which is a potential threat to the peace
of Europe, it is as much a matter of regret to others
as it is to his Majesty’s Government that we cannot
record any effective or active intervention by the
League of Nations. We know well enough what is
the cause of this ineffectiveness, and it is an ineffec-
tiveness which is likely to persist so long as some
of the most powerful nations in the world are out-
side the League.
In the meantime, in the critical situation in which
we find ourselves, we have to fall back upon the
ordinary methods of diplomacy. At the beginning
of this year I think that many of us must have felt
that it was likely to be critical, for good or for evil,
in the history of the world ; and now that more than
half of it has gone, I believe we all feel that the
atmosphere is lighter, and that throughout the Conti-
nent there is a relaxation of that sense of tension
which six months ago was present. To that lightening
of the atmosphere and slackening of the tension, we
believe that the policy of his Majesty’s Government
has made its contribution. We intend to pursue it,
and we believe that in the end we shall succeed in
bringing back security and confidence to Europe.
Whither the Jews?
[George Malcolm Thomson, writer of the article here
condensed from London “Evening Standard,” had an
earlier article on similar lines in that paper, after which
the “Standard” gave one of its pages daily for a week
or so to the replies—mostly hostile —which poured in.]
I have sympathy with the Jews. But I am not
prepared, because of that sympathy, to admit Jews
from Germany and Austria to practise their profes-
sions in this country. That will bring down on me
the criticism of those who think we should admit
100,000 Jewish refugees to Britain.
But is the criticism well-founded?
If I were to lay down the proposition that the
persecuted Armenians should not be allowed to settle
in this land, would I be criticised for it? Would I be
denounced as inhumane? Of course not.
Besides, in admitting Jewish refugees to this
country we are already carrying more than our just
proportion of the load.
Take the United States, for example. It has a
quota for German immigrants which, plus the Aus-
trian quota, amounts to 27,000 a year. The Ameri-
cans say that 27,000 is the total number of Germans
and Austrians they will admit. The quota will con-
tinue. It will not be increased. But the United States
is willing that the whole quota should consist of Jews
from Germany and Austria, provided those Jews have
money to support themselves.
The Americans, in short, are doing nothing. Yet
the United States has a population three times our
own. It has vast underpopulated spaces. Certainly,
we are doing more than the United States to help
the Jewish people.
And, of course, in arriving at such an estimate,
it is necessary to take account, not only of the refugees
who come in openly and legally, but also of the many
others who enter without our leave, stepping on to
our shores at those open unguarded doors on the
coast.
At the moment, too, we have only to deal with
the Jews from Germany and Austria. But there are
other producers of refugees in the background. Four
of them, all restless, all thinking about getting rid of
their Jews, all working up to a deportation. They
are Italy, Hungary, Poland and Rumania. And in
Italy alone, where we have heard little of the Jewish
population until lately, there are 50,000 Jews.
Certainly a solution of the problem created by
the persecution of the Jews must be found. A place
must be found for the wandering people. Every
humane man recognises that. Every civilised country
should be prepared to make its contribution. But
the Jews also must make a contribution.
They are, the world over, a rich people. They
have immense resources. They have enormous rami-
fications. They possess powerful political associations.
Let them then unite under the shield of David
in every land. Let them explore and mark out a new
land in the British Empire or elsewhere. Let them
afford there colonisation facilities and adequate assist-
ance to the distressed members of their faith. Let
them build up a dwelling-place for all those Jews who
are distressed.
In that project they would have the sympathy
and support of men and women of goodwill in every
land. They would assuredly have mine.
Here let me say, too, that in my resistance to the
wholesale admission of German and .Austrian Jews I
have no stronger supporters, no more devoted fol-
lowers, no more important sympathisers than the
British Jews who have lived here for generations. In
our sympathy for the persecuted foreign Jews we
should not forget the duty which we owe to the
interests and welfare of the British Jews.
Crisis in Czechoslovakia.
[J. L. Garvin, one of the best-informed of all writers
on foreign affairs, in the article here condensed from
London “Observer” comes to grips with the realities of
this turning-point of history.]
Herr Hitler regards the Sudeten Germans—living
just over the frontier of the Greater Reich—as part
of the blood and bone of the main body of their
race. He has always held this creed since his young
manhood 30 years ago, when he and the Sudeten
were fellow-subjects of the old Austrian Empire.
In the bristling issues of this composite State is
Britain to take sides almost wholly for the Czech
view and against all that is fundamental in the
German case? The answer to that question, Herr
Hitler thinks, may well mean the real turning-point
for good or ill in Anglo-German relations.
In principle he has always held that Britain and
France have no more moral right to interfere in
Czechoslovakia than Germany would have had to
interfere in Ireland on the Ulster question. In prac-
tice, Germans do not admit that British policy, though
credited with the best intentions, has been genuinely
impartial in effect. They argue that the Czechs have
been encouraged, so far, to refuse what they would
otherwise have conceded.
Herr Hitler holds that a tolerable compromise is
still feasible if the Czechs can bring themselves to
make some larger concessions to the Sudeten claim.
Otherwise, unrest and conflict within the mixed
republic might take a form on which the Reich
could not look tamely. German national feeling
might easily become too vehement to restrain.
It would be unpardonable to shuffle off war this
year only to leave it impending next year. The
psychological moment of danger, evidently, would be
in the summer of 1939—“ twenty years after” the
Treaty of Versailles.
In this Britain alone possesses a relative free-
dom. Paris is tied to Prague by an alliance to which
Britain was no party. It is an alliance shortsighted
and unwise, like the whole wretched system of Soviet
Pacts between Paris, Prague and Moscow which has
led in the old sinister way to the counter-system of
Anti-Comintern Pacts between Germany, Italy and
Japan.
We were not consulted in these vast transactions.
We had no voice in them. We must at least have our
own say in this business and leave our own stamp on
it if Britain is to be involved and to incur a tremen-
dous commitment.
Both sides in the Central European dispute must
contribute to a settlement in the old way of con-
structive commonsense by facing part at least of what
they dislike. The Germans must abate or suspend
some of their demands; Prague must make some
sort of genuine and substantial concession to the
Sudeten demand for political self-government as well
as for cultural liberties and economic equality.
This vital political condition is what the Czechs
up to the present have rejected altogether. With
respect to language, education, justice, and some other
matters they agree at long last to make large advances
in the spirit promised at Versailles. But they insist
on retaining their own racial dominance v over the
whole of the Sudeten regions, and they deny the
German claim to political equality.
After long delay, partly deliberate, the Czechs
have elaborated their plan. It is complicated and
ingenious; it is carefully framed to make the best
impression on superficial sympathies abroad ; but it
does not touch the root of the question and it cannot
supply a basis for even a temporary settlement. The
plan intends to set up provincial Diets or sub-


Parliaments in each of four regions. The mgenui y
lies in a further arrangement. Ihe members of eac
Diet will be divided again into racial comrmttees con-
trolling certain assigned subjects of particular con-
cern to their own nationalities. This marvellous jig-
saw is much too clever. It never could work.
The plan is ably constructed to keep unchanged
Czech dominance over all the Sudeten and to
deny altogether the fundamental claim of the Germans
to direct political self-government in predominantly
German regions. They asked that for this purpose
some new territorial divisions should be formed, this
is refused totally. The refusal is the very essence
of the question which has to be dealt with by Euio-
pean statesmen in general and by the British Govern-
ment in particular.
The Germans are a quarter of the whole popula-
tion of the composite State. Yet in none of the
four provincial Diets proposed could they obtain
a majority. They would still be second-class citizens
by comparison with the dominant race ; whereas their
claim is to be treated as a parallel nationality associ-
ated with the Czechs on equal terms but not sub-
ordinated to them by force in the spirit of Versailles.
The best thing would be to subdivide reasonably
the over-clever Czech scheme ; to create in Bohemia
and in Moravia with Silesia about five self-governing
divisions instead of two ; so as to give the Germans a
genuine and fair chance of obtaining a governing
majority on some part of their own ground. This
is far short of the full German claim to autonomy,
under a single Legislature, for all the Sudeten lands
which run round in a narrow but almost continuous
belt so as to envelop the Czechs on three sides and
to command the frontier mountains between the
mixed republic and the Greater Reich. For this
extraordinary physical situation which Versailles might
ignore but could not alter, nature and history are
responsible, not Nazi machinations.
The great thing is to seek a provisional settlement
making some extent of real concession to the German
claim for political self-government in predominantly
German areas. The compromise should be such as
we might expect Herr Hitler and the Reich to
guarantee for a term of years. In this way a pro-
visional settlement in Central Europe might conduce
to the permanent settlement of the world.
Mr. Chamberlain, Lord Halifax and their col-
leagues should make no mistake about one thing.
There is nothing in the world more abhorrent to the
British people than the thought of being dragged into
war now or ever for the sake of one race against
another in the racial confusion of “Czechoslovakia.”
They will not have it. Not if Herr Hitler and the
Reich continue their present policy of reasoned amend-
ment to the Czech proposals and refrain from arbitrary
attack.
Forces in U.S.A.’s Spy Case.
[Some of the forces brought into the open by
London “Times” New York correspondent in this
(condensed), article were completely overlooked in the
otherwise exceedingly abundant cables.]
When the German Government was openly
named by the United States Department of Justice as
being implicated in the alleged spying “ring,” dis-
interested observers wondered how far the case was
being influenced by political considerations.
The charges were “rubbed in” with every weight
of official authority: was this done because the
seriousness of the espionage warranted it, or because
of the political discord which has reached a point
where Joe Louis cannot fight Max Schmeling without
almost every thud of the gloves having reverberations
in Chanceries? . .
Three considerations must be borne in mind in
judging the true proportions of the case: first, the
country’s physical safety and protection of her mili-
tary secrets ; second, the drive by the Administration,
newspapers and various societies and citizens to rally
public opinion to the cause of democracy, the rule of
law in international affairs, and—growing from these
two —Pan-Americanism; third, the opportunity for
indirect retaliation the events have suddenly given to
those who have suffered in Germany —the Jews.
Judging by what is so far known the alleged spy
organisation does not seem to have been so sinister,
the methods allegedly used so artful, or the secrets
allegedly obtained so valuable as to give great cause
for alarm. But the authorities are glad the public
has been vividly reminded that siuch things can
happen here.
In the last six months, especially since the
Anschluss , American feeling has hardened against
Germany. No longer does it passively disapprove of
Fascism —or Communism —in all its branches inimi-
cal to democracy. From President Roosevelt down-
wards, every leader in the country is forcefully and
continuously speaking his mind on the subject, and
the nation is actively on the attack against any attempt
to transplant Fascism to the American continent
through propaganda or the formation of such move-
ments as the German-American Bund. The Bund,
to many Americans, bears a noxious resemblance to
the Nazi movement, although there is ground for
thinking that Herr Hitler does no.t wish true adherents
of Nazi principles to become members.
Before the spy inquiry began movements, official
and unofficial, were initiated to investigate and knee-
halter “un-American” activities, one authorised by
Congress and the other by the New York State Legis-
lature. The New York inquiry has already heard
Mr. Kuhn, leader of the German-American Bund.
He took the opportunity to say that all Jews were
enemies of America and is now being sued by a Jew
for some stupendous sum.
Patriotic organisations such as the American
Legion have been investigating the Bund on their own
account. Many of the most active members of the
Legion are Jews. Those in positions of power have
sought to turn the spy case to the greatest account
against Germany, and this is understandable; but
they owe it to themselves as much as to others not
to exceed good sense and judgment. The issue is a
delicate one in New York, where more Jews are now
concentrated than anywhere else in the world.
Japan’s China Shipping Monopoly
o Condensed from an article by a London “Times
China correspondent, 28171 Jo.)
The Japanese Navy’s spokesman in Tokio, Rear-
Admiral Kiyoshi Noda, has declared that the present
time is inopportune for the reopening of the Yangtze
to foreign commercial shipping, referring to the alleged
obstructions by floating mines and Japanese military
operations.
To Japanese commercial shipping on the
Yangtze, however, mines and military operations do
not seem to be obstructive, since for months Japanese
ships have been going up and down the river with
commercial loads even as far as Wuhu.
Shipping under the white man s flag is not only
barred from the Yangtze, but also from the Upper
Whangpoo, from Soochow Creek, and from the canal
system in the Lower Yangtze Valley. Some Italian,
German and Portuguese shipping companies, regis-
tered inland through Japanese middlemen or other-
wise, have been able to maintain some small shipping
on the inland waterways in the hinterland of Shang-
hai, and occasionally foreign oil tankers with fuel for
the Japanese are allowed to pass through. But the
bulk of the European and American shipping inter-
ests in Shanghai are refused free access.
There are no such difficulties for the Kiangsu-
Chekiang Steamship Company, a subsidiary of the
Japanese Nisshin Kisen Kaisha Company, which has
monopolised commercial shipping on the inland
waterways spreading from Shanghai. This company
operates 162 vessels, mostly confiscated property of
Chinese shipping companies, and indicates not only
(excessive) freight rates but in many cases also the
prices of goods from the interior which European
and American exporters in Shanghai desire to pur-
chase and to have brought down to the city.
The Japanese “special trade” in Shanghai, now
amounting to almost 40 per cent, of the whole of
Shanghai’s foreign trade, is monopolised by shipping
under the Japanese flag, shipping which is not paying
any of the harbor dues and fees in Shanghai which
other foreign shipping companies have to pay.
In several North China ports, and in Tsingtao in
particular, European and American ships are being
deliberately delayed for many hours, and often days,
or are refused loading and unloading at scheduled
times, or else are bothered with ever new regulations
and orders —all difficulties with which no Japanese
ship is being confronted. In several ports on the
Shantung coast Chinese business houses which have
had connections with British shipping companies for
many years have been induced through Japanese
threats to turn over their incoming and outgoing
freights to Japanese shipping interests.
In their new conquests in China the Japanese are
applying to foreign shipping merely the same prin-
ciples that they have applied to European and Ameri-
can trade generally in these territories. Their obvious
purpose is to make trade as difficult as possible for
their competitors and to intimidate the latter in every
respect while Japan completes her exploitation of
China’s internal economy. Protests are likely to avail
as little in this respect as in others in the past.
The Worst Intervention.
[ln this striking extract from an article in the July
“Nineteenth Century” a Spaniard who is one of the
greatest polemical writers living—Jos6 Ortega y Gasset
—discusses a matter which is rapidly becoming of increas-
importance to the world and especially to democratic
countries in which the principle of freedom of the press
and freedom of speech is jealously upheld.]
During the last few months there has been much
talk of intervention and non-intervention of one
country in the life of another, but we have heard
nothing, or at least not with sufficient emphasis,
about the intervention which at present the public
opinion of one nation exercises de facto upon the life
of another. This is fraught with graver consequences
than the intervention of Governments.
A Government is, after all, a relatively rationalised
organ within each society. Its interventions are de-
liberate, adjusted to right proportions, in accordance
with the will of certain responsible individuals who
cannot be entirely lacking in reflection and sense of
responsibility. But the opinion of a whole people,
or of large social groups, is an elemental power, im-
pulsive and irresponsible, which offers itself defence-
lessly to the influence of every kind of intrigue.
The English people, when they emit opinions
on the grave questions which affect England, are judg-
ing facts which have happened to themselves, which
they have experienced in their own flesh and in their
own soul, which they have “lived” and which are, in
short, part and parcel of themselves.
Exactly the opposite occurs where the opinion
of one country about the events in another are con-
cerned. It is in the highest degree probable that such
opinion will be entirely incongruous. A people A
judges the affairs of a people B, based on the inner-
most essence of its own vital experiences, which are
different from those of B. Can this lead anywhere
except to an interplay of absurdities?
Nothing is further from my mind than to limit
the exercise of the free will of Englishmen and Ameri-
cans by discussing their “right” to emit whatever
opinions they like on whatever subject they like. There
is no question of “rights,” nor of the despicable
phraseology which hides behind this word. It is simply
a question of commonsense.
I maintain that the intervention of “public
opinion” of some countries in the life of others is
a poisonous factor.
The Englishman and the American may be
entitled to emit an opinion on what has happened or
should happen in Spain, but such a right is an insult
and an injury if he does not accept the correspond-
ing obligation of being well informed as to the reality
of the Spanish civil war, of which the first and most
important part is its origin and the causes which
have brought it about.
It is here that the present means of communica-
tion produce their effects which, for the moment, are
evil. The quantity of news which one country con-
stantly receives concerning events in another is enor-
mous. Even so the reader of it is far less well in-
formed than he believes ; that vast information which
reaches him is composed of external data arranged
without careful perspective, among which that which
is authentically real escapes.
While in Madrid the Communists and their asso-
ciates forced, under grave threats, writers and Uni-
versity professors to sign manifestos, to speak on the
wireless, etc. some well-known English writers signed
another manifesto in which they guaranteed that those
Communists and their friends were the defenders of
democratic liberty.
I have busied myself during many years to point
out the frivolity and irresponsibility which are fre-
quent in the European “intellectual,” which I have
denounced as a factor of the first magnitude among
the causes of the present disorder. A short time ago
Albert Einstein thought himself possessed of the
“right” to emit an opinion on the Spanish civil war.
Einstein enjoys the most complete ignorance concern-
ing the past, the present and the future of Spain. The
spirit which moves him to this insolent intervention
is the same which has caused for a long time the
general loss of prestige of the intellectual worker.
Let me take another, more general example. The
English Labor party has refused, by 2,100,000 votes
against 300,000 to join forces with the Communists.
These numbers show that for the English Labor party
the union with Communism—in other words, the
“Popular Front” —is not an unimportant question,
but that the party would consider it a terrible disease
for the English nation. But it happens that, at the
same time, the same political group devotes itself to
cultivating this infection in other countries ’, and this
is an interventon, one might even say a warlke act,
since it has many characteristics in common with
chemical warfare. .
I am of the opinion that in the present world situa-
tion movements of public opinion in one country con-
cerning happenings in another are real incursions into
that country. This, by itself, would be already suf-
ficient to explain why, at the moment when the Euro-
pean nations seemed nearer to a superficial unifica-
tion, they have suddenly begun to shut themselves up
in themselves and to convert their frontiers into isolat-
ing diving-suits.
I believe that we have here a new problem of the
greatest importance for international discipline. In
England the individual has learned to observe a cer-
tain prudent reticence when he takes the liberty of
emitting an opinion concerning another person. In
England also the law of slander and libel is a social
reality, and we have the even more formidable dic-
tatorship of good manners. There seems to be no
reason why an international opinion should not be
similarly regulated.
Learning to Fly at 2s. 6d. an Hour.
[London “Daily Mail,” from which an appreciation
by Capt. Norman Macmillan of Britain’s new Civil Air
Guard scheme is here condensed, stated in a leader m the
same issue: “The scheme has started off with the velocity
of a high-speed ’plane. All over the country yesterday
there was a torrent of applications to the light aeroplane
clubs, and there is little doubt that Britain will rapidly
get the strong reserve of civilian pilots which will be
such a buttress to her safety.”]
The average cost of learning to fly has been from
355. to 455. an hour. The new scheme brings down
the cost on certain types of ’plane on certain days of
the week to as low as 2s. 6d. an hour.
The formation of the Civil Air Guard will pro-
vide the opportunity that formerly has been denied
to thousands. It will also make an opening for that
large number of men who are over the 25 years age
limit for the R.A.F. Volunteer Reserve. The advan-
tage of the scheme lies in its elasticity in age limits
18 to 50—and in the methods of learning to fly.
France and Germany both have flying schemes
run on a national scale, but they are not so elastic as
the new British plan.
France runs a Popular Flying movement. Aero-
planes are bought by the State and supplied free to
Popular Flying centres. Instructors, petrol and oil
are all paid for at the expense of the State directly ;
but the material and assistance given are reserved
exclusively for the training of those under 21, and
cannot be used by others. The 297 aeroplanes listed
under the Popular Flying sections at the end of 1937
were used to provide pre-military flying training for
potential pilots for the French Air Force.
In Germany special schools and centres exist for
each flying activity. The whole country is divided into
areas for flying training and practice. Early aero-
nautical training comes under the Deutschen Jungvolks
organisation for boys between 10 and 14, and under
the Hitler Youth for those from 14 to 18.
An essential difference in the British scheme from
those in operation on the Continent is the equality
of flying opportunity for men and women.
Why have there been so few women pilots in the
past? Of the total of 4694 current private pilots’
licenses at the end of 1937 only 200 were held by
women. If finance was the reason, that bar has now
been swept aside.
/ There is no doubt that women can give great
service in the air in emergency. It is suggested that
in the new Air Guard organisation they can be em-
ployed as “ferry pilots”—transporting of aeroplanes
from the makers’ aerodromes to aircraft parks, and
from the latter to squadrons. That is only one of
many possible uses that could be made of their services.
Flying an aeroplane is lighter work than driving lor-
ries, and women did much of that during 1914-18.


FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Laluma Handicap: Veiled Pro-
phet ; next, Cassio.
Glenara Handicap: Avenger;
next. King Gee.
Kiata Handicap: Manrico or
Nightguard ; next, Song of Songs.
Argyle Welter: Nightguard or
Carrarice ; next, The Egotist.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
History has a trick of repeating itself
on the turf as elsewhere. In the season
of 1926-27 Spearfelt, Naos and Pantheon
ran first, second and third in the Mel-
bourne Cup and the Australian Cup. In
1921, Fiscom and Mountain God carried
off the V.R.C. Grand National douole,
and repeated the performance a year
later. Now comes the renewal by Dress
Suit and Tongalla of their Australian
Hurdle and Steeple victories 12 months
ago.
Tongalla’s win over the brush fences
on Saturday, while full of merit, was
lucky. Nine furlongs from home Koke
King looked a certainty, but Driscoll
rushed him to the front as they
approached a fence, and the horse from
Mt. Gambier crashed into it. Up to
then Koke King had been measuring his
jumps like an old-stager.
When Pooley Bridge was withdrawn
through a wretched exhibition in a steeple
“school” at Caulfield earlier in the week
Fullarton was released to ride Turf Boy.
Turf Boy conceded Tongalla 371 b. and
lost to that rival by a length in 6min.
554-sec. —44sec. faster than the race
record which Tongalla put up for the 3y
miles in 1937. Fullarton contends that
Turf Boy would have won if he had had
one previous outing over fences; but
nothing could have prevented Koke King
from succeeding with a stand-up.
Eleven started. Koke King was a
3-to-1 favorite, with the winner at 11 to 2,
Turf Boy at sixes, Dress Suit at sevens
and Wakerife a point longer. With the
exception of Dress Suit these horses had
the race to themselves throughout. Dress
Suit has no aptitude for the crosscountry
game.
Wakerife, who finished a creditable
third, won in 1926. Like Tongalla he is
in the sere and yellow. Tongalla was to
have been pensioned off after his triumph
last season, but he finished second in a
race for ladies’ hunters at Yarra Glen
in March, and the owner, “Jos”
Abrahams, an Oaklands Hounds fol-
lower, resolved to have another crack at
the Australian Steeple.
Abrahams is a Fitzroy jute merchant.
He married a granddaughter of Denis
Fountain, who rode Musidora in one of
the earliest Melbourne Cups. Fountain
recently celebrated his ninetieth birth-
day. A close friend of the late Tom
Corrigan, he was by turns trainer, owner
and bookmaker.
Tongalla is by Seabound (son of Coil),
the horse which credited James Scobie
with the Williamstown Cup of 1918, beat-
ing Red Signal and Cetigne. Originally
Scobie trained Seabound for the late
J. N. McArthur, after whose death he
bought the horse at auction.
The Arkaringa Hurdle appeared to be
so open that, in a field of seven, Giant
Killer was a 9-to-2 favorite. His lofty
leap at the initial obstacle sent Dummett
out of the saddle. North Cape (fives)
registered his third win on end and fourth
out of six starts. He reached the judge
five lengths in advance of Dornford, who
set the pace in the Australian Hurdle,
but on this occasion was last for a great
part of the journey. Dakwood’s third
more nearly approached his National
form than several intervening displays.
Divisions of the Chatsworth Plate, for
three-year-olds, did not reveal anything
approaching the calibre of Ajax, who
succeeded last year. Percy Miller’s colt
Good Boy, a half-brother to Olympian,
who performed well in Westralia, started
at twos for the first division, but finished
half a length behind Sir Harold, who
lost to Veiled Prophet by a head. Good
Boy met with some interference. He
may soon make amends.
Lord Windburra (5 to 2, favorite) bril-
liantly beat Destiny Bay (9 to 2) and
W. R. Kemball’s 20-to-l chance Austra-
lasia in the second division. Destiny
Bay tired after leading. He needed a
run; moreover, the jockey’s saddle
slipped. Liana might have been third
with a bit of luck, but James Scobie de-
cided the form wasn’t good enough to
warrant the Melfort colt being sent over
to tackle Tempest in the Adelaide
Guineas.
Arthur Dewhurst being in the saddle
instead of an apprentice enabled Maluno
(10 to 1) to defeat Spinifex (fives) by a
head in the Malakoff Stakes. This was
the most thrilling finish of the afternoon,
Keeping Watch being only half a head
behind Spinifex. Followers of Jack
Holt’s stable piled money on Young
Idea, who firmed to threes, but couldn’t
gain a place. Manolive had fairly sub-
stantial support. Shut in on the rails
he failed to get near the leaders.
Jolly Boy (7 to 4) had a cakewalk win
in the Knowsley Steeple, making three
in succession for the Tas.-owned neddy.
Punters went nap on The K.C. for the
St. Aubin Welter, threes being the clos-
ing offer in a field of 19. Spoils went to
Dazzling Star (Gay Lothario-Tallulah),
whose dam is a half-sister to Bronze
Eagle. Quoted at 25 to 1, Dazzling Star
paid £lO 7s. 6d. for ss. on the tote. Car-
rarice and Fearless Imp filled the other
positions.
* * * *
The Findon Hunt Steeple at Moonee
Valley was full of thrills. There were
"'Ow's that?"
nine runners, and five failed to finish.
First to fall was Collier, a stablemate of
the favorite, Niello ; Niello came down
at the succeeding fence, and Liberal’s
half-brother Evasive, the second choice
of backers, crashed nine furlongs from
home. Thiocris (Ethiopian-The Christen-
ing), quoted at 10 to 1, scored by half a
furlong, with Strathbar and Blackmill in
the minor places. The gelding was ridden
by his owner-trainer, Preston, a follower
of the Oaklands Hounds, who works in
a shoe-factory office. Thiocris is credited
with having jumped a 6ft. paling fence
while being “schooled” by Fullarton—
the leap was made without intention on
Fullarton’s part.
Fullarton trains Wildwood, who started
a warm favorite for the Wollert Steeple.
His skill and daring enabled Wildwood
to make a great race of it with Cape
Lilock (Cape Horn-Lilock) up to the last
fence. Mid Acre then came with a bril-
liant rush and appeared to have Cape
Lilock settled, but the Western District
jumper Won by a length or so. Cape
Lilock belongs to W. J. T. Clarke, who
so nearly landed the G.N. Steeple of
1936 with Draconic.
Archie Crofts, the South Melbourne
sportsman, gave llOOgns. for Grand
Orator (Windbag-Lutra) as a yearling,
and lOOOgns. for Valiant Chief at the
same sales. Valiant Chief, developed into
one of the best milers in the Common-
wealth, but Grand Orator, now six years
old, had won only £5 in stake money
until he won the Trial Hurdle at Moonee
Valley ; and there 20 to 1 was laid against
him in a field of five. He firmed to half
those odds, and defeated Steel Spear after
a tight tussle. He has been equipped
with a thorough jumping education by
F. W. Hoysted.
Fresh from three wins on end in the
country Tidylus (Graculus-Fidelity) won
the Bournefield Park Handicap at the
Valley at fives. Bert Morris, who rode
Tidylus, had another winning mount —
on Morvren (Parenthesis-Moignet) in the
Epping Handicap. This mare, trained by
a brother of the late “Sugar” Lambert,
who was a most successful lightweight
jockey, has struck splendid form.
Morvren was a 7-to-2 favorite. Her suc-
cess emboldened punters to accept 6 to 4
about Fort Belvedere (Simeon’s Fort-
Tamarine) for the Woodstock Trial, after
5 to 2 had been laid. With McLauchlan,
smartest of Melbourne apprentices, in
the saddle, Fort Belvedere ran home a
length in advance of Comrade, a brother
to the 1935 Caulfield Cup winner, Pal-
fresco. In third position was Wheat
Slump—neglected at 20 to 1, but a com-
ing winner.
* * * *
Arabia seems to have turned squibby,
possibly the effect of too much pace-
making in races. The grey horse was
ridden by Darby Munro in the Rock-
dale Mile at Moorefield. First out, he
had had enough at the home turn, where
Brown Baroness, who had cut at him soon
after the start, took charge. The mare
also stopped, and Kai Tere (7 to 1),
making a run at the top of the straight,
soon had her settled. Served by his
light weight, this Siegfried gelding ran
on strongly, and beat the fast-finishing
Tuckiar, and Flamari third. Sir Regent
again refused to leave the barrier with
his field.
Tickle is a useful mare, and, shrewdly
placed, has done well for Hush. In the
-Moorefield Handicap she was backed
from 7 to 4 to 10 to 9, and she won,
but was all out at the finish to beat the
pacemaker, Grail Girl, hanging on
pluckily. Womblebank was third, but
too far away from the winner for the
form to be of any account. Televise
just plodded on, and Monogram was
another disappointment.
R. F. Pearson owns a likely sort of
galloper in the Brazen gelding Forward.
A smart beginner, Forward was always
in front of his opponents in the Kogarah
Encourage Stakes. He ran the mile right
out, whereas most of the others were
dead-tired in the straight. Fernave, who
ran her race in patches, was second,
and Gilltown third. Red Sails could not
handle the track —lost ground on the
turns and lugged badly in the straight.
Forward’s price was 7 to 2.
The Rosehill-trained June (Heroic-
Winter) gave the bookies a clean sheet in
the first division of the Three-year-old,
though her nominal price was 14 to 1.
June would have been beaten by Res-
pirator had that fine-looking Windbag
colt not run off the course at the top of
the straight. He was beaten a head after
losing lengths. The pacemaker, Manaos,
tired, but ran third. The stewards were
inquisitive in Respirator’s case, but
accepted the explanation of jockey
Bartle.
Glenone, a stylish-looking brother to
Pamelus, was always favorite for the
second division. He cost 650 guineas,
and is trained at Hawkesbury by E. F.
Walker. Glenone jumped away from
the rails, but Flaring (12 to 1) carried
him along, and the favorite had had
enough at the home turn. Billy Moon
(20 to 1) and Baralight (25 to 1) filled
the places. The winner is by Veilmond
from Sunbeam, once a good pony per-
former.
Brazandt was the medium of a suc-
cessful plunge in the first division of the
Flying Welter. The price eased to
twelves; then he was backed down to
his opening quote, fives. Jack Coutts
rode him perfectly. Lolorua came home
strongly, but was four lengths behind
the winner; Will Rogers (25 to 1) was
third. Eastern Maid, who led at the
home turn in the last Oakleigh Plate,
chased Brazandt, but failed badly from
the Leger,
The second division proved a soft
snap for Glenone’s stablemate, Enatic
(2 to 1). Samurai had a long lead in
the first half-mile, but he stopped to a
walk and was easily beaten by Enatic,
the pony Rovina being third.- Enatic
carries the colors of Mrs. C. C. Gal-
braith and is by Heroic-Desdale.
* * * *
It is time the nomination of Sir Regent
was refused. Punters have ceased to
lose money on the brute, but they still
have to put up with seeing him swipg
round at the barrier and perhaps inter-
fere with horses that behave themselves.
Authority should not permit it to be said
thrft if the animal were owned by a
battler he would have been ruled out
before this.
* # t- *
El Golea has been sold for 1000
guineas to Crofts, the owner of Valiant
Chief. Though he made a poor showing
at Randwick against Ajax and co., El
Golea’s three-year-old form in an excel-
lent year was~g6od, and he looks a cheap
horse.
*' * « *
For yet another year the winning sires’
list has made the preference for the year-
ling progeny of imported stallions ridi-
culous. Heroic, whose stud career is
over, was on top for the sixth successive
season with 56 winners, 141 races won
and £53,213 in prize-money. Ajax, Hua
and Nuffield were his best sons. Spearfelt
was second with 62 winners, 135 races
and £29,072 —a really wonderful record
considering that the great majority of
Spearfelt’s offspring did their racing in
Queensland, where prize-money, credit-
able as it is to the clubs, is naturally not
on the Melbourne or Sydney scale. Spear
Qhief, Glen Spear and Brown Lance,
Spearfelt’s principal winners, have not
yet been seen on southern courses. Third
was The Buzzard, who, as a descendant
of Carbine, may almost be claimed for
these countries ; his totals were 36, 80i
and £28,673. And thanks chiefly to The
Trump, Manfred was fourth with 50, 89
and £24,355. Yet it would be safe to
wager that at the next yearling sales sons
and daughters of English sires who have
yet to make names for themselves will
average more than Spearfelts and Man-
freds.
* * *
“0.H.”: The Adam Lindsay Gordon
spirit is not extinct in Australia. While
riding Jimmy Wilde in the amateur jump-
ing event- at Moonee Valley, C. W.
Cosgriff found after taking a few fences
that his right stirrup leather was broken.
In similar circumstances a “pro.” would
have pulled up. Cosgriff allowed both his
legs to swing free and completed the
journey, being narrowly beaten for third
place. Foolhardy, perhaps, but dead
game.
Captain R. C. Bourne, M.P. for the
Borough of Oxford, who died recently
in Scotland, held a unique record as an
oarsman. For four successive years,
1909-1912, he stroked the Oxford eight
to victory, a feat likely to stand. He was
a noted sculler to boot and a member of
the Leander club. Don’t confuse him
with his namesake, Gilbert Bourne, an
Oxford double blue for track athletics
and rowing.


Remington .22 Cai. cartridges
are again OBTAINABLE on the AUSTRALIAN MARKET
Kleanbore
For penetration plus
accuracy, speed and
punch, use Kleanbore
22’s.
re
m
Kleankote
A new transparent
Lubricant —dry in the
hand, slick as grease
in the gun.
Kleanbore Hi-speed >22’s are 25 per cent, speedier
with 50 per cent. more energy behind them.
the original non-corrosive ammunition.
ĸ
k
ķ
ASK YOUR DEALER FOR THEM.
For Full Information write to —
D. D. BRYANT,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE: BOX 686 E, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
Built to outlast your car
Built of the finest materials to Sheffield’s highest
standards, the Renrut “QUAD” Pump will stand years
of hard usage. Its patent quadruple action provides
easy, trouble-free service—“twice the pumping in half
the time.” A real investment, it pays regularly dividends
in time and labour saving.
HUP**
qU^
PUMP
Prices:
Less Gauge,
65/-.
With Gauge,
70/-.
William Turner & Bros., Ltd.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne. Victor:
/
V
/
ĸ
GOLFERS
quickly realized
the worth of
k
Elasta-Strap Trousers Plus!
THE prompt recognition that leading cricket and tennis
players accorded Elasta-Straps is being matched by golfers.
Comfort and complete freedom of action is vital to the golfer,
and Elasta-Straps, together with many other advantages, are
supreme on these points.
Now, in the new Plus Models there is yet another improve-
ment —the Tauttex Shirt-controlling Feature. This is exclusive
to Elasta-Straps and must be seen to be appreciated fully.
When the shirt is pulled up into an unsightly bulge by violent
action, the new feature works it back into its proper, comfort-
able and orderly position. . . ♦ Elasta-Straps are the greatest
* non-slip r trousers ever made.
PRICES —Elasta-Strap Sports Trousers :
PLUS MODELS— REGULAR MODELS—
from 17/6 to 55/- from 14/6 to 28/6
(according to type and quality of materials)
Available in GREYS, CREAMS, FANCIES,
etc. (the largest range ever offered in Australia.
The Elasta-Strap Patent is obtainable also in SHORTS and SUITS.
■Si/iap
INC TROUSERS
Ins and Outs
Durham had a bad year with the
second-class counties last season, but it
is the only one convenient to the Aus-
tralians making their way south lrom
Scotland, so it generally manages to catch
a match with them. There is a university
of standing which is more famed for
turning out Rugby footballers than
cricketers, but a good one or two gener-
ally pop up every season.
A conspicuous family in Durham
cricket is the Adamsons, one of whom,
“J.A.,” led the side last season. Aus-
tralia will remember his papa, “C.L.,”
who came here in 1899 with Mullineux s
British Rugby team as a stand-olf half
and stayed behind in Queensland, where
he played cricket for a season or two
and won a maroon blazer for his fielding
and bowling —slow left-hand. Ninety per
cent, of the Durham side are amateur.
The Australians, who have been beset
by thunderstorms, dew falls, mists and
plain rains, were this time handed an
old-man fog. Play did not start until
2.15 p.m., but from then on to 6 p.m.
the fog remained in greater or less
strength. At .stumps Australia had hoisted
380 for 5 wickets; McCabe —who ought
to spin the coin for the fifth Test —had
won the toss. Bradman rested himself,
Fingleton, Barnett, Chipperfield and
Ward.
McCabe and Brown made light of the
bowling, and had 60 up before slow
left-hander Grigor drove McCabe back
on his wicket for 28. Brown smacked
them heartily until a Carr-Grigor com-
bination sent him away for 48. Grigor
then caught and bowled Hassett for 18
and Carr sent White home for 7.
At this stage, the county of cattle and
colliers had made quite a good show,
but it was soon evident that some
slatherumwhack stuff by Barnes meant
runs and boggins of ’em. Waite played
a good and brief shot for 34, and then
Badcock joined the Welshman. More
slatherumwhack followed, and as night
fell Barnes had collected. 140 n.o. and
Badcock 103 n.o. It was good, bright
cricket, and it was a pity that the big
crowd which paid for admission could
only watch it as through the glass bottom
of a pint-pot, darkly.
Next morning- McCabe applied the
closure. There followed no merrie jesting
with unheard-of bowlers: the Lights of
London were calling. O’Reilly and
F.-Smith entered upon their fell work,
and in an hour and a half the proud
Palatinate which had hurled back many
an invason of the Scots was humbled
in the dust. Durham, 105 and 96;
O’Reilly 10 for 67, Smith 10 for 90.
“Brass Addler”: When Durham
wanted to insure its match against Aus-
tralia, the co. would not give cover above
£BOO unless Bradman played; in that
case it would risk £lOOO. The time is
close at hand when cricketers and foot-
ballers known to command a big fol-
lowing will demand “appearance money”
as pugs, tennis-players and golfers do
already, either for themselves or for their
teams.
* * * *
Sydney Water Board, with its restric-
tions on the use of water, would be popu-
lar in England just now. After a brief
spell of moderately fine weather the
Eleven hurried to the sunny south to
find Aquarius handling the hose with
reckless abandon. Having gloomed in
the pavilion the Australian and Surrey
captains decided to ring off by mid-after-
noon, the ground being impossible for
cricket.
When Thursday dawned bright and
fair there were high hopes of a huge
crowd and lively cricket; but pitch
and outfield had been so soaked that
play was impossible before lunch.
Holmes won the toss and sent Australia
in. There must have been a lot more
water in the ground than he thought, for
the ball declined to misbehave.
McCabe, fast qualifying for the sobri-
quet of the “Fat Boy,” captained the
side, and tried Brown and Fingleton on
the dog. As has been said, the animal
declined to bite, and the pair jogged
along easily until Fingleton was caught
in the slips by Gover, off Watts, for 27.
McCabe took Bradman’s place at “first
down” and saw Squires, a useful all-
rounder, dismiss Brown l.b.w. for 39.
Hassett for once failed to get going,
Gregory “legging” him for 11, and then
McCabe settled down with Barnes for
some characteristic wallop. The run-
out that often happens when Barnes is
about then got rid of McCabe for 67
when all hands were visualising a big
score from him. Waite then joined
Barnes, and the pair played out time ;
Barnes 47, Waite 4, and the total 4 for
204.
As was inevitable, the match was
drawn. When the gates were opened
on Friday it was found that there
could be no play until midday. Mean-
while a hot, bright sun was doing things
with the pitch.
Waite left early. At 63 Barnes, who
had batted delightfully, ran himself out.
Barnett was trapped, 1.b.w., by Parker,
who used to play with Gordon (Sydney)
first-grade and is now a useful all-round
professional in the Surrey side, for a
handy 26, and White then got as far as
14 before the hyphenated Garland-Wells
skittled him. G.-W., who took one
wicket for 56 for Surrey last season,
then disposed of another hyphener,
F.-Smith, for 7, thus coming out as the
star bowler of the innings with 2 for 25.
McCormick was caught by Gover off
Parker, leaving O’Reilly, who had made
several attempts to hit the ball through
the big gasometers at one end of the
ground, 26 n.o. There were 15 sundries,
and the total was 297.
Holmes, classed as a good captain, put
a five-ton roller on the pitch and thus
brought the sub-artesian water to upper
earth again, with the result that Surrey
batted on a real stickory-taw. If the
Surrey bowlers were in doubt what to
do on such a pitch, O’Reilly had no
qualms. At one time he had sent out
three batsmen for no runs, and when
rain stopped play had 4-25 (that with
seven Britons out for 105); F.-Smith.
3-35. The only batsman to shape con-
fidently was Parker, 26 n.o.
* * * *
Kent, which Bradman’s men encoun-
tered after Surrey, had a bad time last
year, its chief trouble being to build
up a permanent team. Freeman was a
tremendous loss to the side, and no bowler
to replace him could be found. Ames
made over 2000 runs for the county, and
the amateur Chalk proved a success
when he could play. Old Frank Woolley,
on the eve of his retirement, was still
good enough to score over 1500 runs and
take 30 wickets, and Wright did well with
the ball. As usual, a good proportion of
the team were amateurs, but these could
(Continued on next page.)


1
§BB
Back to
Radiant
Health
aqain
TRIAL SAMPLE: A
generous trial sample
of “Ovaltine,” suffi-
cient to make four
cupsful, will be sent
on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of
packing and postage.
See address below.
IN many thousands of homes “Oval-
tine” has been the means of building
up a successful resistance against
infection.
On the other hand, large numbers of
persons have experienced the wonder-
ful health-giving properties of “Oval-
tine” in restoring normal strength and
fitness after the lowering and depres-
sing effects of colds, influenza and
other ailments.
Scientifically prepared from Nature’s
finest protective and restorative foods,
“Ovaltine” contains in unequalled
abundance the vitamins and other
nutritive elements required to main-
tain perfect fitness of body, brain and
nerves.
Because of its supreme merit, “Oval-
tine” is the food beverage most widely
recommended by doctors. No other
food beverage enjoys such world-wide
popularity.
OVALTINE
Supreme for Health , Strength and Vitality .
PRICES: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-. At 9 11 Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH. SYDNEY
Ol 1-18-38
mm
iiiiiiiii
you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
A,POWER
The power that comes from
strong hot sparks takes you over
the roads and up the hills with
less effort, less fuel and less
expense. Get the greater pow-
er that a new set of Champions
will give. The fuel they save
quickly pay s their small cost. .
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada—.**#
!35,!! UUW j 11 1 m j i j jjj.
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
not be relied on for regular attendance,
with the exception of skipper Bryan.
The Australians crossed their fingers
when they walked on to the ground at
Canterbury and found nothing wrong
with ground or weather. Another near-
miracle happened when Bradman won
the toss and decided to bat. A fair
day’s work followed, the tourists staying
at the wickets till “stumps”—4so, with
two men to bat.
Brown went quickly for four, having
tried to play the ball with his leg. Tumul-
tuous approval greeted the appearance
of Bradman, who had been in smoke for
several matches. Fingleton (23) was an-
other l.b.w. victim to Watt. Bradman
and Badcock then settled down, and
when the skipper was caught by Todd off
Watt for a fast 67 the score was 3-152
and it was time for lunch.
Barnes joined Badcock, who finished
with 76, caught by J. G. W. Davies —
who at Cambridge in 1930 dismissed
Bradman for a duck —off Todd. Barnes
reached 94 before he was caught by
Todd off Frank Woolley, who is play-
ing his last first-class cricket season.
Todd bagged another victim in Barnett,
who had reached 54, and yet another in
Walker, whose tally was 42. Waite was
comparatively merciful and took only
18, the not-outs being White (36) and
Ward (2).
Watt took 4 for 99. The other Kent
bowlers were not formidable, though
Todd worked hard to get 3 for 124.
Wright proved innocuous on the easy
pitch. The big score was helped by 33
sundries, a surprise.
sfc •!> $ -1-
Death has called “Over!” to Hugh
Trumble and Jim Kelly. Members of
many Australian elevens, and of the
teams that toured England in 1896, 1899
and 1902, they died at the same age,
71, on the same day, Sunday.
They were Victorians also. Though it
has been nearly forgotten, Kelly kept
wickets for St. Kilda before coming to
Sydney to enter upon his representative
cricket career. In that St. Kilda team
was George Palmer, grown fat and pre-
maturely old, but still with the style that
distinguished the great bowlers of his
generation, and which old-timers find
wanting in present-day trundlers, good
as some of them are. Blackham was still
playing when Kelly decided to change
cities, the elder man being first choice
for Victorian and Australian teams.
Kelly went to England in 1905 as well
as in the years already mentioned;
Trumble had gone before they became
companions: in 1890 and 1893. Jim was
a very good ’keeper, apter at catching than
stumping—he was a bit heavy-footed—
and a plucky bat. In Test matches he
helped to dismiss 55 players, of whom 39
were caught, and he made 613 runs, aver-
aging 17.51. For many years he was a
figure in the members’ stand at Sydney
C.G. In his prime he was a sturdily-
built man, and a lingering illness left its
mark on his figure, but did not impair his
cheerfulness. He was on the City Coun-
cil staff till pensioned.
Hugh Trumble was one of the greatest
bowlers of his day and withal a capital
bat, very trustworthy at a pinch. In
Test matches he took 141 wickets at
20.88 ; and no bowler, present or past,
has taken more wickets. He kept a
wonderful length and was full of guile.
Ranjitsinhji he troubled more sorely than
any other bowler of his time, though it
was the period of Richardson, Lockwood
and Noble. That 1902 eleven, of which
Hugh Trumble and Kelly were mem-
bers, was perhaps the greatest of all,
though supremacy has, of course, been
claimed for the 1882 team. Trumble had
retired when the 1905 team was chosen ;
in his last Test match, at Melbourne in
1903-04, he did the hat-trick at the ex-
pense of Warner, Bosanquet and Lilley,
and took 7 for 28. For 27 years Hugh
Trumble was secretary of the Melbourne
Cricket Club. An illness supervening on
bronchitis carried him off suddenly.
Footbrawl
Collingwood gave V.F.L. fans an ex-
citing Saturday afternoon by defeating
Carlton, 19-7 to 14-17, and returning to
within striking distance of “the four.”
And Footscray, second to Carlton, put
Melbourne out again, 19-17 to 13-13.
Geelong, in third place, easily accounted
for Fitzroy, 19-12 to 13-12. Richmond
whacked Hawthorn, 19-18 to 12-11, and
stands fourth on the points table, leading
Collingwood and Melbourne only by
percentages. In the other games, North
Melbourne, 12-11, surprised St. Kilda,
7-15, and South Melbourne headed Essen-
don, 13-13 to 12-14.
In Saturday’s Vic. Association prelim-
inary final, Brighton outplayed a steady
Northcote side, 12-19 to 11-7.
* * * #
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne sport is full
of fisticuffs these days. In addition to
the Ass.-League football row, the V.C.A.
is now rolling on the mat in holts with
the Melbourne C.C. and the M.C.C.
Ground trustees. As far as can be made
out of the fog of curses and recrimina-
tions the trouble is over the charges made
to the V.C.A. for the use of the ground.
In an attempt to have these altered the
Association went to the club. The
trustees consider they were the ones to
be approached and have declined to bring
prices down. The V.C.A. in return
threatens to take its matches away from
the M.C.G.
* * * *
“Preston”: That reference to the un-
civil treatment of the touring East Fre-
mantle footballers in Melbourne (B.
3/8/’3B) reminds me of Camberwell’s
experience in S.A. The Camberwell men
had tripped from Melbourne to Adelaide
to play a couple of exhibition games
under the new Association rules, and
it was hoped that one of these would be
against a S.A. League team. This
privilege was flatly refused, and the mis-
sionaries had to be content with a match
against an Amateur Association side.
* * •+ $
“Richmond”: The latest, problem
affecting Melbourne football clubs, both
V.F.L. and V.F.A., is how national in-
surance will affect them, since many of
their players will probably be rated as
employees under it. Much will depend
on the view the N.I. Commission takes
of the matter, which is complicated by
the fact that many of the players derive
a part of their income from the clubs
and part from jobs with private em-
ployers. Further, clubs have insurance
systems of their own.
* * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Queenslanders admit
after seeing the second R.U. Test against
.he All-Blacks that all this talk about
the international rules slowing up the
is so much guff. There will be
strong support for a reversion to them if
iext season the N.S.W. crowd desire a
ontinuance of League rules. Victoria
also is strongly in favor of real Rugby.
| I !. S !: i
“Stand Off”: In their farcical engage-
uent at Canberra the All-Blacks won
57-5. That such a fixture shduld have
been arranged is another illustration of
the “Keep Melbourne Out of It” policy
of the N.S.W.R.U.
At the beginning of the week the Aus-
tralians fully expected to win the match
at Sydney; but misfortunes came so
thick and suddenly that they had to field
a scratch team. Lewis, Monti, Rankin,
Kelly and Carpenter could not play, and
Ramalli should not have been allowed
to —his nose had been broken at Bris-
bane. Hayes went back to centre, Clif-
ford came in as full, O’Brien on a wing
and Ramsay in the forwards. They
lined up that way, and soon found that
they had little hope. O’Brien could do
nothing right, and Kelaher, back on the
other wing after a long absence, was no
better —he saw little of the ball the first
half and couldn’t catch it in the second.
The margin in the Maorilanders’
favor was 14-6, two tries, one converted,
and two penalty goals to one try and a
p.g. They played a tight game, unin-
teresting really, with little of the fast,
open work shown in their first match
against N.S.W. The crowd didn’t like
the full-back’s kicking for touch, but it’s
the way to win a Test match. ’Saxton
was in everything again, diving through
a breaking scrum for one try, and Dick,
the winger, who’d been left behind with
measles, was the speediest and trickiest
of the batch. Forward, the Australians
cut even, the whole pack working hard,
and Ramalli at half was grand. The
little fellow was off the field for a while
during the second spell, went back again
but collapsed and had to be borne off
on a stretcher. • Clifford made a credit-
able debut in discouraging circumstances.
The crowd numbered 20,500.
The All-Blacks’ win in the third Test
match at Sydney set the team off for
M.L. with a clean sheet, all nine engage-
ments having been won. It is the best
showing by a Maoriland side in Australia
since 1920, though in 1884, 1903, 1914
and 1920 Maorilanders had an open trot.
This time they ran up the cricket score
of 279 points to 68.
* * * *
“T.W.J.”: Norman Rutledge (B.
10/8/’3B) played Rugby Union not with
a G.P.S. team but with North Sydney
Boys’ High.
* *
“Past Grammar”: Stoush in football
is most reprehensible, but if you cannot
be good you can be careful. In the
second Test at Brisbane the All-Blacks
were following an old practice when hard
pressed—writer has played against A.B.
teams on seven occasions and speaks with
experience—and making the pace willing.
One hefty M.L. forward thought it neces-
sary to correct the exuberance of an
opponent with a punch, and received one
in his turn which sent him to the grass
listening to the little birdies. Provocation
and retaliation were so apparent that the
referee wisely let the incident slide. The
man the Maorilander had selected for
manual admonition is heavyweight box-
ing champion of the Australian Univer-
sities.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: The Westralian R.U.
team for Ceylon leaves Fremantle on
October 3, and, after five fixtures where
every prospect pleases, will be back in
Australia by November 9. W.A. has cir-
cularised the other States asking for re-
inforcements. So far Queensland has


Co GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
6
i^.
6
(K 5
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sol* Agents: JOUBERT <5- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the; business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
■MSI
20/ LESS PETROL
with the 6-Cyl. VAUXHALL‘I4’
THE amazing increase in the
Vauxhall ‘l4’s’ petrol economy
is due in a great measure to the
new Vauxhall carburettor—not
fitted to any other make.
6-Phase Carburettor.
The ordinary carburettor gives you
only three different mixtures—one
for starting, one for idling and one
for general running. The Vaux-
hall 6-phase carburettor has six
different mixtures—one for start-
ing, one for idling and four for
general running . . . automatically
giving the engine just exactly the
right mixture for every occasion.
When the engine is not pulling
hard (you might be doing 40 or
50 miles an hour without the
engine exerting itself) a spring-
loaded diaphragm automatically un-
covers a special air-line to the
carburettor, reducing the propor-
tion of petrol and thereby saving
you money. But every driver
knows that at times—at low speeds
and high speeds emergencies
arise where a sudden burst of
acceleration is necessary. The
Vauxhall ‘l4’ leaps ahead in re-
sponse to your foot on these occa-
sions, because a petrol pump built
into the carburettor automatically
spurts more petrol into the combus-
tion chamber whenever you press
sharply on the pedal.
All these operations are automatic.
You drive in a normal way. But
what a difference you notice in
performance. The engine seems
The English R.A.C. gives the
toughest test for stock model
cars . . . . and VAUXHALL
registered 30.31 m.p.g.
Vauxhall knew ihat with the 6-
phase carburettor and other time-
proven economy features, the 6-
cylinder '14' was a money saver.
The rigorous R.A.C. test showing
30.31 m.p.g. now confirms Vaux-
hall's promise that this efficient
engine is 20 per cent, more econ-
omical. And remember, this is
one test which is of practical
value to to-day's car buyer, for
it approximates as closely as pos-
sible the normal touring of the
average owner-driver. The course
was a little more than 1000 miles
. . . which was over six different
busy highways, with a consider-
able proportion through stop-
and-go" London traffic ... six
different brands of petrol were
bought at kerbside pumps . . .
there was no coasting whatever.
Write for free booklet—“Why
Vauxhalls Save Money”—
which gives complete story
in non-technical language
of all the factors contribut-
ing toward fuel economy in
the modern car engine.
It’s post free —send now!
packed with power . . . acceleration
is swifter . . . the biggest hills are
easily surmounted without gear
changing . . . and in normal cruis-
ing you cut down petrol consump-
tion as much as 20%.
Other Economy Features.
The engine is of overhead valve
design—lo% more efficient, size
for size, than other types . . . two
entirely automatic advance and re-
tard movements, which continually
keep the engine ignition tuned to
all speeds and all conditions ... a
cooling thermostat which maintains
an efficient and economical working
temperature . . . warming of in-
going mixture by the hot exhaust
gases before it enters the engine
. . . Octane Selector, which in a
second can be turned to regulate
the basic ignition timing to suit
every grade of fuel.
Extra Value in these Features too.
Other Vauxhall ‘l4’ features in-
clude Independent Front Wheel
Springing (for a smoother, gliding
ride and increased safety, especially
on corners); Turret Top Body by
Holden (with scientific sound and
noise insulation); No - draught
Ventilation (for fresh air without
chills); Relax-o-form Seat Spring-
ing (for fatigue-free journeys);
Multi-adjustable Front Seat (to suit
every driver of every height);
Armourplate Safety Glass in wind-
screen and side windows.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
VAUXHALL tc r i. 14’
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
S 1891)
found a couple and Victoria and South
Australia a pair apiece. Ceylon asks
our fellows to pay their return lares,
but will give them the best of free travel-
ling and accommodation on the other
side. Any proceeds from the matches
will go to Australia.
* * * *
“Grammar”: The N.S.W. and Vic-
torian college football premierships ended
on the same note. In Melbourne,
Grammar won from Wesley for the
fourth successive year, and thus nicked
its fourteenth victory since the series
started in 1891. In Sydney, St. Joseph’s
overwhelmed Sydney Grammar by 67-3
(15 tries and 11 goals). A pity these
schools play under jlififcrent codes, Aus-
tralian and Rugby. How an annual game
between the Sydney and Melbourne
players would drag in the school bar-
rackers and the flappers!
* * * *
“Gup”: Sydney papers are beginning
to take an interest in the Indian Soccer
team, due shortly. One of the brightest
discoveries made about them comes
from Sydney “D.T.,” which says that
they frequently leap over the heads of
their opponents in their pursuit of the
ball. I have been raking up my long-
disused Hindustani to reply in the only
way The Bulletin would permit, but
can think of nothing quite adequate.
Nineteenth Hole
„The Australian women’s golf cham-
pionships opened in Sydney with the
mixed foursomes. The event was won by
Allerton, of Sydney, and Miss Fleming,
of M.L., with a card of 159. The lady
was a member of the M.L. team that
played in Adelaide in 1936.
* * * *
“Marino”: The South Australian golf
championships wound up in time for the
Australian title meeting at Seaton. The
singles went to W. S. Rymill—for the
fifth time—and Harvey, of Royal Adel-
aide, walked off with the professional
event.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. amateur
golfers are advised to get affidavits con-
cerning the purity of their status ready,
for the State amateur championship
opens at La Perouse on September 10—
it will run on until September 24. The
first day sees the foursomes. On Sep-
tember 17 the qualifying round of the
singles will be played over 36 holes, the
32 leaders qualifying for match play.
If more than 80 entries are received, two
qualifiers will be held on September 16
and 17.
Hi * * *
“Divot Digger”: A recent Bulletin
paragraph commented on the measly
money prize offered to the professional
winning the Australian open golf cham-
pionship and on the miserly practice of
hanging on to the money when an
amateur wins the event, instead of divid-
ing it among the professional players.
N.S.W. Golf Council, not the least con-
servative of bodies, has announced that
at the meeting of the Australian Golf
Council at Adelaide it will move for an
increase of first prize to at least £lOO,
and more if it can be raised. Also it will
urge that in the event of an amateur’s
win the cash be divided among the three
leading professionals.
Racquet and Bawl
At Montreal the Japanese, Yamagishi
and Nakano, made our Australian Davis-
Cuppers travel. Quist had to go to four
sets to down Nakano (6-3, 4-6, 9-7, 6-1),
and Bromwich, though he strove valiantly
against the clever Yamagishi, was beaten
(0-6, 6-3, 5-7, 4-6). But the Australians
won the doubles 6-2, 6-4, 6-3. Quist v.
Yamagishi was the decider, and the Aus-
tralian dropped only one set: 6-4, 6-4,
2-6, 9-7. The matches were played in a
pleasant spirit, each side courteously
complimenting the other.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: After all, the
Yug tennis-players are to tour Australia.
When they were defeated by the Ger-
mans the A.L.T.A. cancelled their invita-
tion to visit this country. The Mel-
bourne crowd repented and renewed the
invitation. To give Australian barrackers
a chance to get their tongues round the
labels of the tourists it is announced
their names are Puncec, Kukuljevick—
which sounds like water running out of a
bath —Mitic and Pallada.
Miscellaneous
The baseball tourney at Perth saw
N.S.W. retain the Claxton Shield. West-
ralia was second on the points aggre-
gate, South Australia third and Victoria
fourth.
* * * *
“Yapina”: One of Australia’s most
useful sporting bodies went oil me map
when the Brisbane 18-Footer Squadron
decided to call it a day after 43 years of
existence. The reason given is that recog-
nition of the smaller and cheaper 18ft.
class and its general adoption in N.S.W.
and Queensland have made the old
18ft. inter-State championships, which
were the club’s chief reason for existence,
impossible, and the “eighteens” have
now followed the example of their pre-
decessors, the “twenty-twos,” crowded
out in the same way. The Squadron
bred a number of skilful exponents of
open-boat sailing and many notable de-
signers and builders of the flying craft.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Owd Bob”
Will Fyffe.
This film at Sydney Mayfair has quali-
ties that might be described as peculiarly
English. It is true drama, which is a
rare commodity of films; also, it is quiet
and, great heavens, how noisy most
films manage to be! But its most Eng-
lish quality is one of leisureliness. A fine
story, based on true human values, it
moves quietly and serenely forward. It is
a most convincing film. It has complete
and positive reality.
Set in the sheep country of the Cum-
berland border, the whole of it —its
people, their motives and actions —seems
as real as the wealth of scene, beautifully
photographed, against which its story is
unfolded.
There is much in the story that is
familiar enough. The hero is an up-
standing young Englishman who arrives
in these rugged parts to run a sheep
farm, comes at once into conflict with
the tough old whisky-swilling Scot who
has hitherto ruled the roost, and who, of
course, has a pretty daughter with whom,
of course, the newcomer falls in love.
But old Adam McAdam has another
creature more prized than any daughter
Black Wull, who has carried off the
sheep-dog trials in the last two years.
Hero also, of course, has his dog—Owd
Bob, winner of numerous cups in Eng-
land.
With the present year’s trials about
d “ e , the point of increasing rivalry is
obvious. Going on its steady way, the
film introduces the folk of the country-
side, shows the sheep trials in detail—
present viewer has seen nothing to com-
pare with these trials in any such film
depictions—and then goes on working up
to a climax indicated by one of the dogs
being suspected of being a sheep-killer.
As documentary—depiction of an in-
teresting country and its local life—the
film is magnificent. It rises just as high
in character depiction. Will Fyffe’s Adam
McAdam is a great portrayal. With
such a character he has something authen-
tic and original to work on, and even in
the medium of shadow he makes a liv-
ing personality of it. Formerly known
as a music-hall comedian, he proves a
sound dramatic actor. Audiences will
remember Adam McAdam.
Support is right up to the mark. The
hero looks the right man for the job,
which is something of a miracle. The
girl is a real human being, not the usual
artificiality. The dozen or so others,
representing the countrysiders, look and
act the part convincingly.
A nice vein of comedy plays about
through the drama. Action is mostly re-
strained, but once it breaks into outright
violence: a hectic exchange of beer-
mugs and any other missiles in an all-in
go between old Adam, on the one side
of the inn counter —having scrambled
over there after starting the brawl—and
the dozen or so countrysiders on the
other.
Only once Fyffe—or probably it is the
dramatist—seems to slip. It would be
damaging to the film to explain the exact
circumstances, but it is at a point of
crisis at which old Adam talks just a
little too much to his dog. In the cir-
cumstances the old sinner would have
been overcome with emotion ; had that
been conveyed in silence it would have
been a deeply-moving climax.
Anyway, it is an outstanding film.
“We’re Going to Be Rich”
Grade Fields, Victor McLaglen.
The most excellent Gracie’s latest film
appearance opens in a Melbourne theatre
somewhere about the ’eighties, with
Grade doing her inimitable vocal won-
ders on stage and living for the near day
when she’ll be able to cart husband Mc-
Laglen and small boy back to England.
Scene shifts aboard boat, and a day
outside Cape Town the news is broken to
Gracie that once again her adored but
useless lump of a husband has done in
the family purse, this time investing it
in a half-share in a Johannesburg gold-
mine, and booking their fares thither in-
stead of to England.
So it’s off to Jo’burg we go, to find
we’ve invested in a wild cat of the wild-
est, and, instead of getting back to civili-
sation, have landed ourselves into un-
civilisation at its roughest. Here Gracie
takes to the boards again, what time
McLaglen goes into the local hatch for
a notable bit of stoushing in the street.
While he’s therein incarcerated owner
of joint where Gracie sings falls for
Gracie- with considerable thud, which
leads into bits of bother when Mac gets
out of the boob, all, of course, ending
as such films should.
McLaglen does a capital job, so do
Brian Donlevy and sundry others, but
it’s Grade's music-hall stuff that makes
it. She never does a bad job, and this
film, with “Owd Bob” at the same
address, makes the current Sydney May-
fair bill one of the most enjoyable on
offer at the moment.
“Yellow Jack. ”
Robert Montgomery.
Making this opus, witnessed at Sydney
State, the M.-G.-M. people were in two
minds —whether to make it the realistic
Lewis Stone, offering 300 dahlars to Buddy Ebsen and Robert Montgomery to
let themselves be bitten by a mossie, in “Yellow Jack,” at Sydney State.
grim drama its theme called for, or to
lighten it with comedy, prettify it, into
general entertainment film.
To say that M.-G.-M. did the more
likely thing is a general comment on
filmdom, for if this house—one of the
best of the lot —-couldn’t shut its ears to
the possible clamor of the box-office it’s
improbable that any other would.
As it is, the film is well enough as
a general entertainer, but not as an
authentic piece of drama.
To give one example. In the desperate
search for the cause of yellow fever
U.S.A. army doctors (on the job in Cuba
just after Uncle Sam’s war with Spain)
segregate three men in a dirty hut in
which bedding and so forth have all had
the closest contact with “yellow jack.”
Also, there’s a fire kept going in it to
boost the temperature up to tropic heat,
and the three men—volunteers for this
grim test —have to remain confined in
there for 21 days.
That is so presented as to be one of the
funniest parts of the film. When wit-
nessed by present film-viewer it brought
roars of mirth from the audience, and
it wasn’t the forced mirth that sometimes
breaks out when an audience, used to
lollypop, has to find some such escape
from a realistic presentation. The situa-
tion is made to be funny. The best
comedian in the film—one of the best
in filmdom, Buddy Ebsen —is included
among the three. Additionally, there are
laugh lines and scenes; even when, after
their ordeal, they come out of the filthy
dump, a bellow of mirth is called for in
the remark of one of them about not
being able to stand “that strange smell,”
which smell is the fresh air.
Save for sundry death depictions,
which, though they stop a good way
short of actuality, are apparently realistic
enough, the entire opus is lightened in
that fashion into pseudo-drama. The
ending is happiness all round, with the
gallant sergeant who leads the volunteers
getting the girl, the docs, getting “yellow
jack’s” number and all concerned due to
get medals.
Overlook the fact that it dodges being
the drama that would correctly convey
the grappling with a terrible scourge,
and it’s fairly well done. Montgomery
turns in the best job present writer has
seen him in since “Night Must Fall,” but
this isn’t a “Night Must Fall,” not by a
very long shot.
“The Girl of the Golden
Westr
Nelson Eddy, Jeanette MacDonald.
Sydney St. James has this pleasant
musical romance on a bill that’s mostly
excellent light entertainment.
As done by the M.-G.-M. people, “The
Girl” is a robustious affair, with song
resounding through rugged hills, moonlit
woods, Governor’s ballroom, church,
hard-drinking joint and other appropri-
ate scenery. Plenty of galloping horses,
wagons on trek, gold-town activity,
highly decorative and magnificently
mounted gold-robber crew.
For those who like a reasonably
feasible story with their warbling and
heart flutters it’s miles above the general
run. It begins in the familiar covered-
wagon style; crowd moving out west
on the gold trail; among them small
girl orphan under wing of honest old
prospector. Encounter with rough-neck
crew, among whom is the boy destined
to be hero later on.
From that a considerable leap to where
girl is running gold-town’s saloon, with
sheriff fallen heavily for her, and boy
now head of the gold-robbers, who enjoy
a cheery fastness in the hills illuminated
by campfires and running to a plentiful
and sinuous harem; his activities bring-
ing hero and heroine into contact, with
sheriff a cause of temporary complica-
tions.
It moves along very easily and melodi-
ously. Jeanette plays the Girl with a
nice effect of open-air vigor and fresh-
ness, moderately convincing. As a ban-
dit Eddy looks a feasible counterjumper,
but he has a good ringing voice, which is
the main requisite.
Acting honors go easily to the main
supports—Walter Pidgeon, sound as the
sheriff, Leo Carrillo and Buddy Ebsen
adding a considerable ration of comedy,
and H. B. Warner an exceptionally good
padre. There are literally scores more—
so many as to give the impression that
the entire population of the U.S.A.’s west
country of the day is present.
Nice, light, entertaining film.
“My Bill”
Kay Francis.
When bits of the A.I.F. were being
patched up in convalescent camp in
England the camp picture show used
to run a couple of performances per
evening, and the Diggers coming out
from the one performance passed along-
side the queue lined up waiting to go
in, just as can be seen on most days
and evenings at most city picture-
houses.
The Digs, in the queue invariably asked
“What sort of a show is she, Dig.?”
The Digs, coming out invariably an-
swered, She s a beaut.! ” The worse the
show was —and it was never known to
be good the more emphasis went into
declaring it “a beaut.” If it was just
about unbearable it was declared an
absolute corker ; if it was bad beyond
belief it became a “Wonderful show,
Dig. Don’t miss her on any account.”
Fellow-citizens, don’t miss “My Bill”
on any account. It’s a beaut.
Now then, don’t be shoving like that
in the queue there, please!
“Gold Diggers in Paris ”
Main offering on Sydney Regent’s cur-
rent programme, which also has “My
Bill” as support.
What a nice cosy theatre this is. What
wonderfully comfortable pews. No awful
velvet to give you gooseflesh creeps.
Lovely leather, smoothed by the occu-
pancy of countless thousands of human
beings already. Roomy enough for a
Great Dane to coil up and sleep in. None
of that wretched business of being so
crowded against the seats alongside that
most folk flop over on you, using the
arm rests to support what good living
has put on round their hips.
Nothing like that. Nor being so packed
against the seats in front that your knees
are bent up like the knee of a home-
made boat, so that all the aches and
pains the cramped flesh is heir to at
last inhabit them.
Comfort is the watchword. If you can
sleep through films—unhappily present
film-taster can’t —there is no place we
know of where you should be able to do
it so pleasurably.
Then there is the spacious lounge,
decorated with the most charming of
period-like furniture ; large paintings on
the walls; carpets that feel half a foot
deep underfoot; vases and vases of
flowers —kings have considered a tenth
as much the heights of luxury.
And the courteous staff there. Let us
talk about them, too. This, of course, is
a feature of the picture places altogether.
They do treat you decently at them;
even if you’re a chronic deadhead doing
a job, they are niceness itself.
Hang it all, it gives you a conscience
to turn round then and write about some
particular bill being dreadful. Unforgiv-
able and base ingratitude, that’s what
that would amount to.
Shakspeare in America.
Being a bit blase by now, Shakspeare
probably wasn’t wildly excited when they
made “Romeo and Juliet” into a talkie—
even though they made such a delightful
job of it. But Maxwell Anderson, who
persuaded the fillum people to tackle his
contemporary verse-play “Winterset,”
must have felt he’d achieved a miracle.
The Bodley Head thinks so, at any
rate, and is hurling this American’s
dramas at England as fast as it can print
them. A few weeks ago his “Masque
of Kings”—a “Hamlet”-ish verse-play set
in Austria—was reviewed in Sundry
Shows as a good meal for amateur
dramatic societies to tackle. Now
“Winterset”—which had a good run as a
talkie last year—is out in book form and
has been staged by Sydney Independents.
In “The Masque of Kings,” Anderson
made a “Hamlet” without really breaking
any eggs, and in “Winterset,” dealing
with revenge, he makes his “Merchant of
Venice.” It seems to lack color; but
that may be only because the ears aren’t
accustomed to hear hobos, gangsters and
such talking in blank verse. They speak
it, however, surprisingly naturally. This
is the gangster, just out of gaol, looking
at New York at night:
You roost of punks and gulls! Sleep, sleep
it off,
whateyer you had last night, get down in warm,
one big hamfat against another—sleep,
cling, sleep and rot! Rot out your pasty guts
with diddling, you had no brain to begin. If
you had
there’d be no need for us to sleep on iron,
who had too much brains for you.
A consumptive, the gangster had six
months to live. He puts it:
Six months I get,
and the rest’s dirt, six feet.
The quotations illustrate Anderson’s
two remarkable achievements: he has
trapped everyday speech into acceptable
verse—or has written verse that is accep-
table as everyday speech ; and he has
made a strong literary language of
American slang. It’ll be a horrid shock
for the purists if he gets the language
recognised, as Shakspeare persuaded
them to accept Elizabethan slang. An-
derson’s use of slang is deliberately
Shakspearean: it could easily have been
Falstaff who roared
You roost of punks and gulls! Sleep, sleep
it off!
Even “put the booby sign on the dumb
police” and the delicate salutation “son-
ofabitch” sound Elizabethan because of


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1232 of 1938.
BETWEEN LILIAN DIMOND (formerly
Lilian Hoad) Petitioner
And JAMES MAJOR DIMOND Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES MAJOR DIMOND late of
Wingham in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILIAN
DIMOND has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Second day
of November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within - the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of August, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. STACK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wingham; by N. W. Caldwell, Solicitor, E.,
S. and A. Bank Building, Cnr. King and George
Streets. Svdrvw
First
jfcuttetia
Limericß
Competition
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
This First Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date September 2.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick given at the
foot of this announcement. Write that line on
the space provided for the purpose, cut out the
whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 1,”
Box 252188,
G.P.0.,
Sydney,
not later than September 2.
Results of this First Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin’’ of Sep-
tember 7.
These details will be repeated in next
week’s “Bulletin’’ (August 24). Coupons
may be filled in from that issue or from this
present issue. Any competitor may send in as
many entries as he or she wishes, but each
entry must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
Closing date of this First Limerick Com-
petition has been advanced from that men-
tioned in earlier references in order to give
distant readers a fair chance to compete. First
Limerick Competition entries must therefore
be received on or before September 2. Also
for the convenience of readers in New Zea-
land, W.A. or Northern Territory the Second
Limerick Competition will be announced in
next week’s “Bulletin.’’
“The Bulletin’’ wants to publish the prize-
winning lines, so competitors are warned that
it will be the best publishable entries that will
collect the cash.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
Seconds are now out of the ring and the
First Limerick Competition is on.
FIRST LIMERICK COMPETITION COUPON
Name
(In block letters.)
Address
A new Father William named Hughes
Is apt with great vim to enthuse:
“Let us populate quickly
And, if possible, thickly
Other Fellow’s Mind Weekly Competition. First
awards announced next week.
their blunt humor, their uncompromis-
ing directness. From the American view-
point, Anderson is doing a genuine ser-
vice to the language ; from the Austra-
lian, it’s worth remembering that there s
an Australian idiom worth developing
for its own sake, and that, while some
Americanisms are useful, many are, oi
should be, as foreign as the gibberish of
Gobbo. .
Anderson again reveals his deliberate
campaign to give a Shakspearean flavor
to the modern scene by his use of names:
Trock, Shadow, Garth, Miriamne, Esdras,
Gaunt are patent imitations of Shallow,
Bottom, Lear, Shylock, Gobbo. Disney,
incidentally, got the same effect of sturdy
realism by his naming of the seven
dwarfs —Grumpy, Dopey and the rest.
The play has two really tremendous
scenes: where a man, supposedly killed
and dumped in the river, returns to con-
front his murderer; and where the son
of a man electrocuted for a crime he
didn’t commit is brought face to face
with the Judge who condemned the
father. The Independents made a pretty
fair job of the first, but didn’t get the
full value out of either. Apart from that,
a tendency to gabble so that no one could
guess they were speaking verse was the
only flaw in an unusually interesting per-
formance. The setting, something grim
with a gas-lamp, was exactly right,
and Henry Howlett, Terence Murphy,
Thomas Parrimore and Maxwell Osbis-
ton were convincing in the principal
roles.
Sydney Royal.
“Rose Marie” has been taken away
from the moths to hold the fort for a
week or so. Company is good, including
a bright little work of art from Broad-
way’s glittering strand, Violet Carlson.
Her vivacious presence helps to over-
come the general familiarity of both
piece and cast.
George Gee returns shortly to this
address, to revive “No, No, Nanette.”
Later in the year Australian and New
Zealand Theatres, Ltd., which is the
official moniker of the people who took
over J.C.W., brings out the Covent Gar-
den Ballet. It will be let loose at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s on October 1.
Tauber.
People who have had to listen to
Tauber broadcast instead of going along
to hear him at Sydney Town Hall in
person missed the finer points of his
technique.
No one else in the world blows his nose
with such an airy grace. Nor does any-
one else glide on to the platform pre-
ceded by a hand that scuttles around
the woodwork of the piano like a white
lizard. Nor would anyone else have
shrugged and beamed quite so charm-
ingly at the tremendous applause the
audience gave him.
But listeners probably have enjoyed
the mostly light, pretty programmes as
much as anyone in the hall. At one such
concert, the second half, after lieder by
Grieg, Franz and Hugo Wolf and a
couple of Tauber’s own graceful love-
songs, was as fluffy as lambswool, but
Tauber was there to give popular enter-
tainment, and he has exactly the voice to
make a virtue of the necessity of such
oddments as “I Know of Two Bright
Eyes,” “A Simple Little Melody,” and
the innumerable How-do-you-do-Vienna
songs.
Anyhow, present commentator and
Lord Wakehurst waited for the fifth
encore.
The matinee recital was almost wholly
“populars.” There was nothing heavier
than the lightest of German lieder, as
represented by Schubert’s “Impatience,”
“Faith in Spring” and the Serenade.
Thereafter the selection ranged from
Grieg through some delightful excerpts
from Viennese operettas to sugary
ballads.
Tauber’s voice is robust enough to
shine against the heaviest of orchestral
backgrounds, and in late years most of
his singing has been in association with
orchestras.
At Sydney Town Hall the tenor had
the co-operation of a very fair band
under the baton of the Con. director,
Dr. Edgar Bainton, and sang arias from
“Don Giovanni” and “Die Zauberflote”
gloriously. Rienzi’s Prayer was delivered
with dignity, in the broad, sweeping man-
ner the slow melody demands, and Sieg-
mund’s Love Song from “Die Walkure”
was declaimed sonorously and fluently,
the voice easily dominating the thickly-
instrumented orchestration. An aria from
Tschaikowsky’s “Eugen Onegin” and a
seldom-heard extract from Smetana’s
“Bartered Bride” were given with fervent
intensity.
Orchestra’s most ambitious offering
outside its services as accompanist was
a performance of Richard Strauss’s
“Death and Transfiguration”—a perform-
ance which in the climax failed to live
up to the promise of the opening.
“Trovatore” in Tails.
Sydney Phil., which has become opera-
minded, drew a fair house to the Town
Hall for its performance of “II Trova-
tore” (concert version).
Verdi’s opera is saddled with a plot
that in these realistic days provokes more
smiles than tears, and its libretto has
never yet been done into graceful Eng-
lish. The absence of scenery, costumes
and action removes certain distractions,
and, as in concert versions the words
matter nothing to the choir and very little
to the soloists, the music stands on its
own merits.
Curt Prerauer, the Phil.’s new conduc-
tor, had trained orchestra and choir well,
and the result was a very tasteful presen-
tation of the familiar score. The music,
always vigorous in emotion and shapely
in melodic outline, comes out of its 85
years’ bombardment by barrel-organs
very little the worse for wear. Azucena,
the gipsy mother (a peach of a part), was
sung with vim by Heather Kinnaird ; the
languishing Leonora was represented by
Rosa Gargiulo, rather too light a soprano
for heavy opera. Lionello Cecil as
Manrico, Walter Kingsley as the villain-
ous Count di Luna and Raymond Beatty
as the ebullient Ferrando were well
chosen.
Art in Adelaide.
Two shows have much in common:
Roy Parkinson’s at Bayly’s gallery and
John Goodchild’s at the Society of Arts
(Goodchild, by the way, is now on the
board of Adelaide National Gallery).
Both have fine clean color, an un-
modern appreciation of beauty, no use
for figures, human or even animal, and
an eye for good “bits” of our coastline
estuaries. Both, even, have selected
Nambucca.and Moreton Bay.
Parkinson is already represented in
the State collection. He ranges here
about Eastern Australia, Mount Buffalo
and Anglesea (Vic.) being his south-
western limit. Gum-trees on a misty
morning, or northern jacarandas, are in
a quite different vein.
Goodchild is a much-travelled man,
and breaks new ground here with a
“Sunday in Venice” and “Clovelly”
(Devonshire) seen from a most unusual
angle. The Nat. Gall, has bought his
“Windermere” (the lake seen dimly
through light-green trees) and a par-
ticularly sound manor-house from Corn-
wall.
John Rowell’s Pictures.
Melbourne painter John Rowell has a
show at David Jones’s new galleries, Syd-
ney, in which Australian landscapes are
besprinkled with travel gleanings from
Cornwall and Germany.
When Rowell paints a scene in sun-
shine, such as “Arid Hills” or “Land-
scape, Tallarook,” he gets the warm feel
of the air, and he is equally successful
in atmospheric interpretation in such
pictures as “A Crisp Morning” and
“Snow-clad.”
In against-light studies, such as “Spark-
ling Light” and “The Road Mender’s
Camp,” in his travel-piece “A Somerset
Lane” and in “Pack Horse Bridge, Boss-
ington,” Rowell seems to adopt almost
wholeheartedly Max Meldrum’s way of
seeing things.
As a colorist Rowell has a dainty taste.
“Boy with Ducks” is a really graceful
little composition.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble Is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
oyer 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed Into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufllness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Personal and M'ssins' Friends.
SEYMOUR MARTER TUCKLAN DENMAN
(also known as Seymour Marta Tuckland Den-
man), born at Tucklan Creek on or about the
18th June, 1869, a son of Seymour Denman
and Margaret Denman. The abovenamed was
last seen by his brother Beavis Marta Denman
near Craboon, New South Wales, in the month
of June, 1924. He then intended proceeding
to Katoomba, New South Wales. Will any.
person knowing his whereabouts during the past
fifteen years please communicate with the under-
signed immediately?
J. J. DOWD, Solicitor,
Bolaro Street, Dunedoo.
(And at Gulgong.)
sftr
/ , X
/'\
You’ll be full of life and energy
. . . bubbling over with fresh ac-
tivity ... if you get the daily
Golcryst habit! Golcryst keeps
you “in the pink.” At all
Chemists. 4d. . . . Sd. . . . 1/3.
GtflVtN CRYSTALS VP WITH
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lots of the audience at Saturday’s
revival of “Rose Marie” must have been
youngsters at school when the melodic
story of the Canadian Rockies was first
brought to Sydney. That was 12 years
ago, Harald Bowden reminded at the
end of the performance, while flowery
offerings were being piled before Diana
Du Cane, Gwen Browne and the
size shoes of Violet Carlson —nutshell-
size sister to Puck, with a voice that just
crinkles with laughs. Among the just-
grown-ups arriving at the theatre was
John Moreing, who was squiring mother,
Mrs. J. A. Moreing. The Salenger girls
were there, Barbara’s white satins
finished off with a gold chaplet in the
hair. Ella Shields, Mrs. Talbot, in black
velvet, Barbara Lotherington,- black velvet
from toe to chin, the Lashmars and Mrs.
Harald Bowden, her lam 6 frock all blue
and silver, were among the noted prom-
enaders. Dancer Gwen Browne twirled
her flame feathers all the more happily
because fiance J. G. Mitchell and his
father and her own father were among
the applauders.
S.C.E.G.S. (Sydney Church of Eng-
land Grammar School for Girls) has put
up its sign at Standish, Greenwich, and
in Saturday’s springlike softness Lady
Wakehurst laid the foundation-stone of
the new wing to what was the old St.
Vincent Welsh home. Headmistress Mrs.
C Arundel received Lady Wakehurst
and a number of importants, including
church dignitaries, Archbishop Mowll
and his wife among them, and members
of the school council. Morna Macken-
zie was in attendance on Lady Wake-
hurst. Official guests were entertained at
a tea-drinking in the big upstairs draw-
ing-room. Other guests, nearly 300 of
them, had tea on the wide verandahs and
in the downstairs reception rooms, with
their views over the spreading acres of
the school grounds.
Spring sunshine and new frocks on
parade! The two facts combined to
draw Sydney’s well-knowns to the Aus-
tralia. The Industrial Blind Institution
was the beneficiary. Germaine Rocher
supplied the models, many of them fresh
from their Paris tissues, and these were
displayed on the slim contours of such
as Audrey Connell, Mrs. Noel Heath,
Sheelah Lyle, Mrs. Colin Galbraith, Mrs.
Lennox Bode. Names that are as cream
and honey in the mouths of women,
Vionnet, Jean Patou, Maggy Rouff,
Chanel, were murmurous on many lips
as the smart suit and afternoon frock,
the satins, tulles and chiffons stepped
into the spotlight.
Glitter was supplied by fair-dinkum
jewellery. Hardy Brothers had lent
something like £25,000 worth. Gems
suitable for each hour of the day were
clasped on each mannequin as she was
stepping on to the stage, and unclasped
immediately she stepped behind the cur-
tains. Word went around that detec-
tives were guarding the treasures. Bright,
delicate and ephemeral, the spring and
summer dresses and hats had their
moment. One felt that winter was in-
deed past, and the vine had put forth
her tender shoot, or whatever Solomon
sang so many springs ago in Lebanon.
Pretty girls, among them Molly Brearley,
Margaret Burns and Ainslie Baker,
hovered about selling programmes at a
shilling each, and as every one of the
350 women present held one in her
well-gloved fingers that meant a packet
of lucre for the Cause.
President of the committee organising
the display was the Davidson lady, and
her official party included Mrs. Tauber.
With her soft grey and black ensemble
the tenor’s wife wore a large black hat
that careened into the stratosphere. She
managed to make it look quite effective.
In this group was Mrs. C. L. Jones,
whose hat also had the upward sweep.
She had lunched the officials, among
whom were Mayoress Nock and Morna
Mackenzie, at her Woollahra home. The
Keith Smith lady, Mrs. Rodney Dangar,
Mrs. Sep Levy, Barbara Knox and the
Thomas Gordon lady were among the
many lookers-on. Among the manne-
quins Mrs. Venour Nathan’s look of
distinction is best remembered. Begin-
ning mannequins (even if it is only in
social affairs) should remember to re-
strain that swing of the arm.
Richard Tauber continues to have
rings on his fingers and belles at his toes
when he sings in Sydney Town Hal!.
His wife appears to have even greater
variety of frocking than her husband's
varied programmes. She wears hei
clothes well, as beseems an ex-film
actress, and is a source of joy to the
eye. Nan Garvan and Strella Wilson
were two handsome listeners in last
week’s audiences. Mrs. Chapman, wear-
ing her long flowered velvet coat, was
a graceful figure. The Mark Sheldon
couple, Dame Constance D’Arcy, Mrs.
Laidley Dowling and daughter Pamela,
the Crawford Robertsons, Mrs. Fred
Merewether, Ethelwyn Kirk and Mrs.
A. G. Thomas were other ardents. This
Letter’s spray of laurel is pinned on Lady
Wakehurst for streamlined effects in
gold and white.
Ingrid Madsen is one of Sydney’s
talented students of the classic ballet.
Ingrid has already made many appear
ances at functions for charitable causes.
When the last Russian Ballet was in Syd-
ney she was one of the child dancers.
She is studying French and is a member
of the French Alliance younger set.
Recently she danced at a concert ar-
ranged by Mrs. Ivy Moore for the Alli-
ance Benevolent Fund. Raymond Sawyer
photograph.
Ella Shields goes off to the U.S.A. on
the 19th to fill a six or eight weeks’ broad-
cast engagement. But before she goes she
will be heard, to-night, in a new number
at the party in aid of the War Veterans’
Home. The party will be held in the ball-
room of the Australia, and others who
will entertain the assemblage of admirals,
generals, colonels, their wives and friends
will be Heather Kinnaird, Lilian Crisp
and Raymond Beatty. Members of
Bryant’s Playhouse will present a one-act
comedy. Fraser Coss will raise his bari-
tone, just - returned - from - Maoriland
Charles Nicis will add his tenor. Fred
Hyde will supply accompaniments, and
“Jo” Collins will add a dash of bitters in
his commentary.
You’d have to be an anchorite or a
nudist not to enjoy the spring garments
that bloom on every bough. Every store
flaunts its latest cargoes, spills out a radi-
ance of colors, shows coy wedding of
bows and pleats of flower and veil and
straw. There were, last week, two society
fashion parades, both for charity. The
first was Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s affair, and
was for the Food for Babies and the
Actors’ Benevolent Funds. Lingerie with
sprightly pink taffeta dressing-gowns,
and green and gold lounge pyjamas,
saucy continuity by Philip Lewis, and
lashings of ermine took the Theatre
Royal stage in company with svelte
frocks and the new hats that are all
brim and veil or nothing at all but tufts
of botanical specimens.
There’s one thing sure, and that is that
the fashion designers of 1938 have let no
inhibitions govern them. If you live at
Point Piper, but have always rather be-
lieved you are a gipsy changeling,
express your hidden self. Go all Gaucho.
This is how they do it at Anthony
Horderns’: a sea-blue bloused top (these
are bloused at the back as well as the
front of the waistline), a parisand (that’s
something between terra-cotta and
henna) skirt. Girdle the whole with a
sash of clover pink with long side ends.
You can have the top part in Moroccan,
Mexican or candy stripes, if your heart
has achieved that lovely cow-jumped-
over-the-moon lightness. Then in the
evening if you want a touch of poesy,
what about a chiffon frock of stained-
glass blue plus a gardenia in the hair?
(This writer has discarded her stricture
on that since she’s seen how Ella Shields
does it.) Such a frock seen last week had
a rounded neckline, and fell full and
flowing from a neatly-fitting waist
narrowly sashed in mauve.
This is talented Betty McConnell, who
is playing Miriamne in “Winterset,” the
Independents’ current show at the Con-
servatorium. This play has had a great
stage and screen success, and its heroine
is Betty’s star part. She is an amateur
in the best sense of the word. For love
of acting she has studied for four years,
and next year she goes abroad with her
parents, and will probably do a little
study there. But this Sydney girl has no
ambitions for the professional stage.
Photograph by Nanette Kuehn.
This Letter met Sumner Locke-Elliott
the other evening as he was crossing the
Quay, his head in the blue winter twi-
light. He had just had word about the
production in Hollywood of his comedy
“The Cow Jumped Over the Moon.”
This presentation was at the Call Board
Theatre, and William Rees, who was
such a successful player with the Inde-
pendents, directed it. The cast was a very
good one, and the part of the mother,
Mildred Conley, was taken by Doris
Deane, a screen actress. Aura Hoffman,
who played Grace Conley, played in
Katharine Cornell’s company last year.
When the play was seen in Sydney,
Sumner produced it and played the lead-
ing part.
To the Teachers’ College at Armi-
dale Howard Hinton, a trustee of the
National Art Gallery, has sent a gift of
another 45 paintings, oils and water-
colors. These include works by Charlie
Bryant, Sid Long, Will Ashton, H. S.
Power, J. R. Jackson, B. E. Minns,
Howard Ashton, Mary Edwards, Thea
Proctor, Tom Roberts, Lawson Balfour,
Adelaide Perry, Blamire Young, Charles
Wheeler, Nora Hey sen and Richard
Ashton. This will bring the Teachers’
College collection up to about 450 paint-
ings, mostly by Australian artists ; and
mostly, if not entirely, the gift of Howard
Hinton, who through his generous
impulses in this and many other direc-
tions has retained only a small collection
of paintings for his own private delight.
Dr. Grace Cuthbert, Director of
Maternal and Infant Welfare, is em-
phatic that Sydney needs more day nur-
series and nursery schools. She said so
at the yearly meeting of the nurseries
last week. Judging by the happy smiles
of the youngsters in their green smocks
and their green frocks who gaily waved
their little flags in greeting to visitors, no
city could have too many such institu-
tions. The meeting held at the Redfern
nursery school was a friendly affair, and
the atmosphere grew very congratulatory
when seven successful trainees stepped
forward to receive their certificates from
Lady Wakehurst. Professor Harvey
Sutton, president Mrs. McElhone,
Mayoress Nock and W. G. Layton were
among the speakers.
The Squires of Mons have received
from the burgomaster and townspeople
of Mons a box of soil taken from the
graves of British soldiers who fell at the
Battle of Mons, August 23, 1914. This
soil will be placed round the Mons oak-
tree in the Sydney Botanic Gardens by
the Consul-General of Belgium at three
o’clock on Sunday afternoon, August 21.
Ihe Mons oak is in the Inner Domain
portion of the Gardens, just inside the
gates leading to Government House, and
a few yards from its main drive.
Beach belles strolling about the Town
Hall in costumes which would have made
Sydney’s original city fathers fling up
their hands—even if they did peep
through the fingers, splashed the aus-
terity of the municipal fortress with radi-
ance last Friday. Straight legs, slim
figures, in suits of green, blue, red and
stripes, coats that flowed out heel-
length, bright with flower designs and
towelling-lined, stepped before the jade-
green of the stage screen. They paced de-
murely half the length of the hall to a
small dais, and then strolled back again.
Mrs. Brunton Gibb at the microphone
was easy and breezy. Quite a lot of the
afternoon’s success can be notched up
to her. Morning frocks, afternoon and
evening grandeur were displayed. Tea
was served at tables around the hall.
The Mayor and his lady—the show was
in aid of the Mayoress’s Clothing Fund
—entertained a long tableful, among
them tenor Tauber and his wife.
The programmes carried a new adver-
tising stunt on their pretty blue covers.
Slantwise across the lower right was a
cellophane holder, printed with the name
of a cigarette firm. Inside the cellophane
were two smokes. Black was worn by
Mrs. Norman Nock and by Mrs. Tauber,
and all the ladies in this group hob-
nobbed with spring—violets and daphne,
presented by the Mayoress, were worn
by each. Mrs. O’Malley Wood presided
at one of the longest tables; Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, very smart in black velvet and
toque with veil, was one of the many.
The Snowden lady was a trig figure in
black, with touches of primrose in her
attire. The Allard and Parker ladies,
Mrs. S. S. Crick, Mrs. Harald Bowden
and Mrs. Keith Morris were others
glimpsed in the seething hundreds.
Vice-regals in the audience and cham-
pagne after the concert with the Taubers
and Percy Kahn were two excitements
for Vaughan Hanly after his wedding in
the morning to Lorna McKean. The
tenor had been best man at the wedding,
which had taken place at Rockdale, and
Mrs. Tauber had also gone to the
nuptials and carried with her an evening
bag brilliant with rhinestones for the
bride. At the concert Mrs. Hanly wore
a frock of burgundy taffeta beneath a
coat of glittering lame. Diana Napier
Tauber wore a coat that mingled white
and blue fox over flowered silks. Mrs.
Hanly, who is studying singing, intends
to go on with her career. During the
honeymoon tour she and her husband
will give broadcasts.
Yachtsmen and -women who sail
under the Royal Prince Alfred’s burgee
were all on deck, spick and span, when
Lord and Lady Wakehurst arrived at the
club’s ball on Friday. The ball was at
the Wentworth—favor is swinging back
to the popular old ballroom on Church
Hill. The Governor is commodore of
R.P.A.Y.C., and it was a very friendly
group at the official table.
Vice-commodore F. C. Mackillop and
Mrs. Mackillop and rear-commodore
Philip Pring received the vice-regals.
Lady Wakehurst wore pearls with
her green-and-silver brocades. Mrs.
Mackillop’s chiffons were deep cyclamen.
Mrs. John Jira and Amber Bushell both
gleamed goldenly.


Age 40!
■ a
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic , Kidney, Bladder,
Acid or Associated Disorders .
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, pufflness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians—are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
" .*?■
\* .... > ±<F‘‘ t
*:■■■:*
■
V V
V
><'y •*'<••:
vX*. ' ’ •>< .’■
<w/
pi
M
. 85
<-y.fi
i
gV
IS***
An*
fli
&
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
ķ
sioishj-j poy Sun juiod-aipaaN
jo saahi'bujmoqs 'luojDDjq
ĸ
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you, and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick tune suflerers
from Kidney-Bladder-Acid Ills who have failed to get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Fills bring grateful ease.
“Unless I can end these pains and get back my strength
I feel I cant go on
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling healt
WEARY BODIES REVIVE —YOUTH Returns
as Harrison's Pills Conquer Causes o/ Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Urie Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison’s Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them —they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) 0. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson.”
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —(hanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —;(Signed) J. Taylor.”
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(£uarante
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest, chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial—if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is free! Ti»-ee
sizes: 2/-, 3/ —, 5/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated Laboratories, Baking
House, Sydney.
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Eladder and Acid Ills-With
HARRISONS PILLS


ORANGE JUICE
HEALTH TALK No. 3.
Richest in Vitamin C.
The suppression of scurvy in the British
Navy 140 years ago was due to the in-
clusion of a daily ration of lime juice in
the sailor’s diet.
Modern research has shown that it was
the vitamin C content of lime juice that
cured and prevented scurvy. It has also
shown that big numbers of the population,
because of an ill-balanced diet, are not
enjoying good health because of a lack
of this vitamin C.
Sweet oranges contain the highest pro-
portion of vitamin C of all fruits, and
.nearly three times as much as the lime
juice that served as the anti-scurvy specific
in the navy. Taken daily as a pure, fresh
drink, orange juice guarantees the system
an adequate supply of vitamin C without
adding unnecessarily to the bulk of the
foods consumed.
Oranges are now obtainable at moderate
prices. The juice of two medium-sized
oranges should give a 5-6 oz. glass of a
natural tonic beverage that will have
beneficial effects on the system.
New Recipe Books, Post Free, From
Victorian Central Citrus Association,
422 Collins St., Melb. Central, 8895.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1105 of 1938.
BETWEEN GWENETH DOREEN SHUTE
(formerly Gweneth Doreen Smith) Peti-
tioner
And IRWIN RUSSELL SHUTE Respon-
dent.
TO IRWIN RUSSELL SHUTE formerly of
Douglas Street Ryde Shearer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENETH
DOREEN SHUTE has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-sixth day of
October 1938 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had an application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of August, a.d.
1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
W. J. ENRIGHT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
467 High Street, West Maitland; whose Sydney
Agents are MESSIEURS TAYLOR & KEAR-
NEY, of City Mutual Building, Hunter and
Bligh Streets, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1172 of 1938.
BETWEEN OLIVE VICTORIA WATSON
Petitioner
And WILLIAM MACKENZIE WATSON
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM MACKENZIE WATSON
formerly of Wyong in the State of New
South Wales but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said OLIVE VIC-
TORIA WATSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
Third day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
, Clerk in Divorce.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors,
197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Lucky-dips were a great success at the
Automobile Club Ball, so much so that
Mrs. Tom Dough ton and Kitty McEwan
had developed motorists’ arms by the
time they had handed out all the lucky
envelopes available. Prizes varied from
a return ’plane fare to Sydney to packets
of seeds and tins of insect powder, from
golf balls, silk stockings and bottles of
cherry brandy to bottles of ink and
packets of clothes-pegs.
Among her dip tickets the president
of the ball committee, Mrs. Ernest
Poolman, won seats for the Stadium
and some gladioli bulbs. Mrs. Lex
Rentoul (who had her hair done in
a new way with her roll transformed
into clusters of cocktail sausages) col-
lected cigarettes and a window-cleaner.
Sharing in the ownership of many brown-
paper dip parcels at the same table were
Mrs. Boyd Graham, with lily-of-the-
valley pinned to her black-and-white
striped taffeta frock, and Mrs. Cecil
Plews, who wore blue chiffon sheltered
by a fur coat. Margaret MacLeod’s satin
gown was figured with an interlocking of
black and white leaves. Mrs. Douglas
Galbraith’s flowered frock had a halter
neck in lieu of shoulder straps.
Although no flowers were used the
committee made a decorative success
with mounds of oranges and service-
station signboards on every table. The
Lieut.-Governor’s official table was
“Melbourne” and, as the capital, had the
addition of trails of leaves and lighted
golden candles. Near by, at the end of
the dance floor, were notices “Caution,
Loose Surface.” “Take Care, Blasting in
Process” was a warning about the band,
members of which also operated a “Stop-
Go” light for each dance.
Officers at Point Cook have reason to
be proud of their mess, which was built
last year. Both architecture and furnish-
ings came in for a good deal of admira-
tion at a bridge party organised by the
Air Force Officers Wives and Mothers’
Association, held in the mess last week.
Thirty-six tables, maximum capacity,
were squeezed into the largest room, and
a buffet tea was served in another room,
which with its smooth parquet floor and
orchestra gallery is the handsome modern
version of the “cookhouse.”
With the addition of sales of
chocolates and raffle tickets profits
reached the region of £4B. The first
£3O goes to pay the A.F.O.W.M. annual
account for maintenance of a bed in
the After-Care Hospital, and the re-
mainder will be devoted to the Educa-
tional Trust Fund for the children of
deceased R.A.A.F. officers. Mrs. A.
Carr, tailored and slouch-hatted in all-
grey, had little trouble in pushing the per-
suasive powers of tickets for a hand-
knitted boudoir jacket made by Mrs.
S. E. Toomer. She’s an expert with the
clicking needles, and will be packing
several frocks as well as cardigans and
jumpers of her own creation when she
leaves with Wing-Commander Toomer to
return to England on October 4.
Doing several things at once presents
no problems to the Combined Alfred
Auxiliaries in respect to the annual
Bridge-Cafe Chantant at Myer’s. Every
table is always booked, and the majority
of those present manage to talk, play
bridge, listen to the music and enjoy
their tea all at the same time. Taking
part in the organisation of last week’s
effort were hon. secretary Mrs. J. A.
Campbell, Mrs. Abe Harris, Mrs. H.
Hawkins and Mrs. V. Lumley. Deputis-
ing for her daughter, Mrs. G. J. Coles,
was Mrs. C. M. Herbert, who made most
of the felt and leather posies for the
flower-stall, and who collected nearly all
the fruit blossom from Macedon gar-
dens.
Seldom have such frivolous ringlets
demanded admittance to portals of learn-
ing as on an evening last week when
the British Ballet Organisation gave a
recital in the University Union Theatre.
The bobbing curls tied with chocolate-
box ribbons belonged to very young
ladies indeed, who wore their flouriciest
party frocks when they flocked over the
stage to receive certificates for passing
their dancing examinations. Among them
were Dr. and Mrs. Eccles Mackay’s June,
Dr. and Mrs. John Whitaker’s Anne, the
Gerry Noalls’ Priscilla, the W. S. Kent
Hugheses’ Margaret, the Geoff Barretts’
Barbara and Jennifer, the Colin H.
Johnstons’ pair, Sheila and Judith, and
Dr. and Mrs. Corkhill’s Patricia. An
exception among the ringlets was the
Keith Fairleys’ lan, who at the age of
eight is already a heart-breaker, though
he doesn’t know it.
Espinosa and some very youthful
assistants demonstrated a number of
ballet steps, and a dancing recital was
given by pupils from eight schools.
Several items were a complete surprise,
for such proficiency of dancing has
seldom been seen off the professional
stage. Betty Pounder, who won the
8.8.0. dancing scholarship for Victoria
and leaves for England early in Septem-
ber, danced the solo that won the prize
for her. She’s 17, has personality, a
perfect figure and a pretty face; and as
there’s no doubt about her talent she
looks like returning to Melbourne a
ballerina.
To-night and to-morrow night “Short
Story,” a comedy by Robert Morley, will
be seen at the University Union Theatre.
It is an Old Lauristonians’ Dramatic Club
effort, George Falkiner is producer and
the beneficiaries are the Melbourne Hos-
pital and the District Nursing Society.
In the Ronald Esler photograph is Edna
Lowe, who has a part in the play and
is leading a busy life generally, for her
engagement to Bill Wark was recently
announced, and the marriage takes place
in October. Edna is the daughter of Mr.
Justice and Mrs. C. L. Lowe, of Haver-
brack-avenue, Malvern.
Dog ate dog when one thousand or
more people worked for the University
Union fete two years ago. Since then
that committee has more or less been
lying low, content to view its work from
a distance. But Mrs. Leif Due has the
light of battle once more in her eye.
The committee, or some of it, is being
gathered together to go on working for
the union and its requirements, with a
jumping-off effort of afternoon and even-
ing bridge on November 15. Prelimi-
naries were discussed in the Union
Theatre last week when the Town and
Gown Guild was formed. The name
comes from feudal times, when more
peaceful relations ensued after a long
guerrilla war between the universities and
the merchant guilds, when opponents did
their scrapping in taverns and got rid of
one another’s bodies in the Thames.
At the inaugural meeting of Mel-
bourne’s Town and Gown Guild Mrs.
W. E. Agar introduced the president,
Mrs. J. D. G. Medley, an efficient
speaker, all in brown, who suggested
that the Union Theatre needs a talkie
machine (projection holes are already in
the roof owing to Dr. Priestley’s fore-
thought), and that the cost will be round
about £7OO. Mrs. J. B. Tait assisted with
a secretarial pencil, and Frank Brooke
took up a stance near the exit door with
receipt-book and a cashbox for sub-
scriptions of newly-enrolled Town and
Gown members.
The Little Theatre gave a season of
“In t heatre Street” (bnglish version by
Ashley Dukes of the French by H. R.
Lenormand). In the play the film busi-
ness, a graft and a racket, encroaches
upon the legitimate stage, in which ideal-
ists persist in spite of volcanic leading
ladies. As the film magnate Fred
McMahon gave an excellent picture of a
certain type of businessman, fat, oily
and cunning, with no brain to speak of,
but successful nevertheless. H. N.
Gregory made a comical penguin, assisted
by another penguin character actress
Dorothy Cornish. In her best scenes
Nancy Summers showed real artistry as
a high-minded young actress. Loveday
Hills had to portray a caricature of a
leading lady, and she did it fortissimo.
The play was preceded by “Why I Am
a Bachelor,” a diversion of cooing doves
throwing plates at one another after two
years of marriage. Its author wasn’t
mentioned, but apparently is an Ameri-
can, for the characters eat biscuits for
breakfast and they listen to a mocking-
bird instead of a nightingale.
Golfers will have their money’s worth
in a good cause with an open mixed
four-ball at Eastern on Saturday. The
gymkhana is in aid of the Alfred Hos-
pital. There will be very good prizes, a
variety of novelty events and the com-
mittee hopes that players won’t get up
early to do their marketing, but will
carry home from the clubhouse stalls
vegetables for dinner, cakes for next
day’s tea and jams to keep as a
standby. Broothorn made this portrait
of Mrs. P. A. Jacobs, who is the presi-
dent of Eastern associates and a member
of the gymkhana committee.
Barbara Dougharty writes bright let-
ters from England with no mention of
coming home. She and her mother, Mrs.
Loxton Dougharty (whose most serious
adventure up to date was having a suit-
case containing passport and letter of
credit stolen at the Italian-French border),
have seen quite a lot of Lady St. Davids,
who was Doreen Jowett, of Melbourne.
She and her husband leave their charm-
ing home in Sloane Gardens nearly every
week-end to go barging on the Thames
in their own luxury craft containing eight
double cabins. They were planning an
August holiday roaming among the
canals of Holland. Barbara had also
met Mrs. R. G. Casey (slowly regaining
her health after her illness), Mrs. Stuart
Murray, Joan Watt (looking very smart
in several snappy new outfits), Peggy
Fraser and Mrs. Stephen Kimpton.
Barbara loved the English lakes and
Scotland, all except Balmoral and Glas-
gow. She caught a glimpse of the
mammoth vessel which, when launched,
is to be christened Queen Elizabeth. The
builders claim it will be seasick-proof,
but Barbara, knowing her own reaction
to high waves, ventures to doubt their
assertion.
The large third-floor room of the
Upper Town Hall, which many people
know as a supper-room for Mayoral
junketings, became a picture gallery last
week for the display of the A. O. Barrett
collection, subsequently offered at public
auction. The old Barrett home, Lalbert,
is in the hands of the wreckers, and the
family, now reduced by marriages to
four, is at Myoora, and there is nowhere
to keep the pictures. Only three of
the seventy-odd canvases shown were not
for sale; two by Mclnnes —one of Mrs.
Barrett, the other of Julian as a small boy
in a white suit —and a third portrait of
Mrs. Barrett’s sister, Mrs. D. Le Gal-
lienne.
The room was packed on the day
of the auction with potential buyers and
people interested in art, though they can’t
afford purchases. Mr. Barrett was seen,
also Geoff and Alfie. Louis McCubbin
(who since he was last in Melbourne has
produced a moustache, unexpectedly
ginger) was present in the interests of the
Adelaide Gallery. Although the bidding
for Streetons, Blamire Youngs and
Hilders was too high for the public gal-
leries, Louis went home a happy man, for
the famous Lambert, “The Bathers,”
passed in at 410 guineas and valued by
the owner at 650, was afterwards pre-
sented by him to the Adelaide Gallery.
Streeton’s much-talked-of “Blue Depths,”
painted at Buffalo and passed in at 710
guineas, was sold later for a figure a
good deal higher, and will hang in the
offices of Penfolds, the wine firm.
Some weeks ago this page unwittingly
falsified a lady’s age, stating that Mrs.
Jeanne F. Young, a recipient of the
0.8. E., is 78. Mrs. Young writes in a
friendly strain to say that she hopes to
be able to give many years of service lo
her pet cause, Proportional Represen-
tation, before she gets “so far, or even
any distance, beyond the allotted span.”
Last week droves of school-children
spent an evening at the University which
pleased them mightily. They swarmed
around in batches, not missing any part
of the buildings open to the public. The
occasion was a science exhibition, and
students were on duty in the various labs
demonstrating the things that happen
therein. Very popular with the boys and
girls was the machine labelled “Bigger
and Bouncier Blood Pressure.” Not far
away there was an equally tightly-wedged
crowd around a young woman and a
.number of test tubes collaborating to
recognise blood corpuscles. All the chil-
dren wanted blood tests, each one feeling
as important as the hero in a detective
story during the procedure.
Musically and socially (for he is a good
mixer) William McKie was missed when
he left to undertake the position of
organist at Magdalen College, Oxford.
Among farewells given for Mr. McKie!
the first Australian to get this par-
ticular appointment, which has been
filled by many eminent organists, was
a party with sherry and oyster titbits
at the British Music Society's rooms
The president, Dr. J. F. Rudall, passed
to the guest of honor a case contain-
ing a pair of pipes, which presentation
brought forth an unserious speech of
thanks about the McKie guardian angel
whose “don’t-smoke” hints are mode-
rately successful when the guardee owns
only one pipe, but who will be winging
his way to a hopeless landing-ground
when there are two pipes to contend with.
Among those present at the party were
the Harry Balfours (he seconded Dr.
Rudall’s words of commendation) and a
brother and sister of the guest of honor,
the Rev. McKie and Mrs. Egan Eggles-
ton.


SAVQ 01
MINIMA
HOLIDAY
£lOlOO
All-inclusive 10-day cost includes
first-class meals and accommoda-*
tion, and full line-up of attractions
including ball, theatre, matinee, day
and evening motor tours, dinners,
shopping excursions, sport outings,
etc. Additional motor tours if de-
sired from Sydney and Adelaide.
Snip this advertisement and forward
immediately for free Winter Holiday
Booklet, adding name and address,
to the 1 N
VICTORIA
PALACE
21S LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
n 111
hwii mttiFFT!
k
W£AK M£N AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONTO TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitelv
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
Sl9 George St., Sydney
Bill
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
CLIMBING TOMATO (imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis, fence,
netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3jin. x 2|in.)
red, meaty Tomatoes per plant. AMAZINGLY
PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Government
tested seed (93 per cent, germination in 7 days),
2/6 packet, posted.
PURE WHITE TOMATO! (Imported.)
“White Beauty.” Skin, flesh, juice and seeds
PURE WHITE. Amazing new 100 PER CENT.
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (non-injuri-
ous), LUSCIOUS FLAVOUR. Heavy bearer.
Large fruit x Hin.), DISEASE FREE.
Easily grown any locality. DROUGHT-
PROOF! Makes delicious jam. Government
tested seed (germination 85 per cent.), 2/6
packet, posted. SOW NOW.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemi-
sphere :
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
MILDRED ANN WOODARD, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice, England,
dated the 20th day of January, 1936, and made
in re MILDRED ANN WOODARD, deceased,
late of 90 Victoria Road, Cambridge (who died
on the 20th day of November, 1934), Squires v.
Moore, 1935, W. No. 2545. Whereby an Inquiry
was directed to ascertain who upon the death
of the said Mildred Ann Woodard became bene-
ficially entitled to any property of hers as to
which she died intestate, and, if any such persons
are since dead, who are their personal representa-
tives. Claims are to be sent by the 30th day of
November, 1938, to Thomas Christopher Yule,
of 36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, W.C.2, Eng-
land, Solicitor.
Friday, the 9th day of December 1938, at 12
o’clock noon is the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims before Master Mosse at
the Chambers of the Judge, Room No. 163,
Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the claimant can be
sent.
DATED this 25th day of July, 1938.
R. L. MOSSE,
Master.
Note: Information is wanted of:
(1) The brothers and sisters of Mildred Wood-
ard, nee Rofe, the mother of the intestate, or
their issue.
(2) Marriage, issue and death of William
Seaber Moore (said to have disappeared before
1870 from Derbyshire), a cousin of the intes-
tate.
(3) Marriage and issue of Louisa Coleman,
nee Moore, a cousin of the intestate, and par-
ticularly as to her son Frank Edgar Coleman
(last heard of in Canada).
(4) Augustus William Woodard, son of
Thomas Cotton Woodard, another cousin of the
intestate (last heard of in Sydney, Australia,
in 1909).
(5) Arthur Edward Squires, son of Henry
Squires, another cousin of the intestate, and
Harriet, believed to have gone to Ohio many
years ago and married one Mamie E. Guilde
and had issue).
FIELD ROSCOE & CO.,
36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London, W.C.2, England.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Painted Lands
“X.T.”: J. B. Priestley has been sing-
ing the praises of the desert lands of
Western America as a holiday Paradise
for the English. John Galsworthy started
• the cult. I met him years ago after one
of his first American visits, and he was
still in a state of enchantment. Now
that aerial services bring Europe and
the Australian cities within reach of
Central Australia, there is room for
Priestleys and Galsworthys to sing its
praises as a beauty spot.
Central Australia has not the scale of
the painted deserts of America. Those
tire the eye and the mind with the im-
mensity of their landscapes and the blind-
ing brilliance of their color. Our Central
Australian scene, though as colorful, is
on a quieter scale. It provides the com-
plete rest for the tired mind.
It begins, journeying northward, from
Hawker (S.A.) with salmon-colored sand-
hills which roll into immense distances.
Come the queer, magic-seeming mirages
of the salt-lake country and the eroded
hills, brilliantly colored and sharp-cut in
the clear air, which literally look as if
they had been painted on the horizon.
From then onwards there is an infinite
variety of color —mountains that turn
soft grey in the morning, bluebell blue in
the late afternoon and sombre purple at
dusk. At noonday in midwinter there is
a pleasant heat; at night there is fresh
cold, so that the ice forms on your
water drums. The sky is a new adven-
ture —millions of stars are to be seen
which are unknown to the murky cities of
the east co^st.
The air is dry and invigorating even
on a hot day.
The atmosphere is crystal-clear with
a magnifying quality. On the plain coun-
try, pebbles miles away sparkle like huge
diamonds. A crow may look over a foot
high. You may see mirage cities, some-
times perfect in general outline, on water-
less and uninhabited expanses of stony
desert. Even the wind appears to have a
different quality. As the Centre is reached
there is a new variety of country —the
deep gorges of the MacDonnells, with
their waterholes surrounded by chatter-
ing birds, palm valleys a little off the
beaten track, mining camps, teams and
always the humming O.T. line which
runs to Darwin.
Alice Springs in 1924 had not even a
hotel open, and the obvious white popu-
lation numbered 17. To-day it is a thriv-
ing township of 300. It is a delightful
spot. It needs only a first-class hotel
and a little organising of the district re-
sources, plus a passable track for motors
to Hermannsburg and Arltunga and the
Tennant, and it could be made into a
world-known tourist resort which would
bring visitors from all over Europe.
An expensive job? Well, the kind of
tourist who likes that sort of thing can
stand expense.
Salamaua
“S.” heaps praises on it:
Tell the man who wrote the article in B.
29/6/’3B that Salamaua boasts an excellent deep,
smooth-water harbor of 18 square miles, shel-
tered in all weathers. Ships enter and depart
day and night in perfect safety; H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia and Swan have used it. It is the master-
mariner’s first choice of N.G. harbors.
The tiny spit of land referred to as Sala-
maua is only part of an appendix thereto. At
one end is Cape Parsee, with a maximum alti-
tude of 1000 feet, rising in a series of ridges
and plateaux, ideal for home sites, with mag-
nificent sea and land Views. Ideal also is
Kila, on the other side of the bay, which has
elevated foothills, ridges and plateaux from
which flow fresh-water creeks, providing a natu-
ral town water supply. And there are within a
few miles of the harbor several waterfalls, any
of which would be sufficient in volume for
hydro-electrification of the locality.
Twenty miles distant from Salamaua is the
Markham valley. For the intervening land
there is keen demand.
Within If miles of the harbor of Salamaua is
the aerodrome, licensed for all types of multiple-
engined land ’planes and officially stated as
first-class. There the Australia-to-New Guinea
mail ’planes land and take off with clockwork
regularity.
So goldfields are chancy things? In the
Bulolo valley alone there is at least 30 years’
"Hey, the pot's b'ilin over , Ma!"
dredging on more than the present scale of
operations—which, by the way, are returning
to the Treasury in royalties more than
£1,000,000 a year net profit. There are other
proved-value areas of great extent. The mining
community at the back of Salamaua has paid in
royalties for the road from Salamaua to the
goldfields, and it is entitled to what it has
paid for. Two surveys of divergent road
routes have been completed, and a third survey
now is in progress. How, then, justify the
statement of impassability to the interior?
Salamaua has the lowest deathrate in the
Territory. In four years one white resident
has died.
The writer of the article, in reply:
No correction is called for. Salamaua
harbor is formed by a spit of land running out
to Cape Parsee, which shelters a bay. The
Griffiths committee says that “it is not good”
but is “capable of development into a reasonably
effective port.” Also, that there is not enough
high land available at Parsee and Kila on
which to develop a capital, and that “it would
be unwise to use any of the flat land for town
purposes.” For the rest, the Griffiths report
mentions Kila and malaria, the aerodrome,
from which “most of the goods for the gold-
fields have been transported”—not Salamaua—
and Lae, which is described as the natural
outlet for the Markham, Watut and Bulolo
areas and the tablelands further inland. The
Salamaua panegyrist should read it.
“Gain”: Residents of Daru, which
lies near the mouth of the Fly River
(Papua), had an unholy scare when 300
Kiwai workmen from the delta advanced
on the settlement in a solid mass. How-
ever, after one shot had been fired and
the police had taken a hand, the trouble-
some spirits were quieted. There are
about 40 white men around Daru, mostly
in the oil business.
* * * - *
“Eromanga”: Shire Councils along the
Western Queensland border are having it
borne in on them that the much-scorned
sandhills of northern S. Australia do
produce something beside tall tales and
spinifex. Bulloo Shire alone has paid
for 1325 dingo scalps in the last five
months. The fault lies with the rabbit.
In S.A. the drought has killed off hordes
of bunnies, so the dogs are emigrating
en masse towards the Queensland sheep
country.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: In the wilderness of
Canberra’s lawmaking efforts one brief
measure is urgently needed, but absent —
an Act to prevent further export of
aboriginal relics. Within the last few
years the unique Pulleine collection has
been sold to Copenhagen, the Black col-
lection to Buffalo, the Stehlow collection
to Frankfort and the Klaatsch collec-
tion to Heidelberg. A German expedi-
tion is now at work in the Kimberleys
with rock-cutting gear for the removal
of rock- and tree-carvings and other pro-
ducts of lost aboriginal culture for trans-
port to Germany, where the Roheim and
Eylmann expeditions took their finds.
The Davidson and Warner collections of
eight years ago went to America.
* $ $ $
“Dick Tafone”: Consternation has
been spread among Queensland local
authorities by the discovery that permis-
sion to name streets and roads is not
granted by the Local Government Act
of 1936. It was in the former Local
Authorities Act, but for some unknown
reason this essential power for commem-
morating eminent workers at the parish-
pump handle or displaying national
or parochial patriotism on occasion was,
by some unaccountable oversight, left
out of the displacing statute. It is likely
to be a burning subject at the conference
this month in Brisbane, particularly as
that overbearing metropolis possesses a
special Act of its own under which alder-
manic monikers can be perpetuated for
the admiration of posterity on street
name-plates—that is, when anything in
the way of street name-plates becomes a
Brisbane municipal habit.
“Ex-Mister”: A bit of real old-style
shipwright work was the fashioning of
a new foremast at a Brisbane shipyard
for the French island steamer Loyaute.
The raw material was a 60ft. spotted-
gum log. The marker struck a square
at each end, well inside the sapwood,
and laid off the corner lines between.
Three adzemen put in the first cuts, 6ft.
apart, and cleared away the waste be-
tween them to form the first side at the
correct taper. Working from this, they
shaped the big log to a perfectly square-
tapered section throughout. New lines
were struck, three to a side, and the
stick adzed to an octagon, still with the
correct taper. The angles were taken off
with neat strokes of what, to the ama-
teur, looks like the clumsiest and most
dangerous tool on earth, until the finished
round emerged, needing hardly a touch
to make it as shapely and tradesman-
like a job as ever came out of a Bristol
yard in the best days of sail.
* * # *
“Zedo”: Old hands who have retired
South moan when they see what a rain
of benefits they have missed by leaving
the Northern Territory since the present
kind-hearted Government took office.
Only a few years ago it used to be a real
hardship to go to gaol for not paying
your income tax —the popular Darwin
form of protest against southern tyranny.
Now people will retire far more cheer-
fully. For Darwin is to have a gaol
which is to cost £42,000, more than £l2
per head of the white and near-white
population north of the Centraiian zone.
At times as many as two men and half
a dozen blacks will be confined there.
$ ajc S£
“Nagheer”: Queensland’s far north
has some quaint tales concerning the
ways of the tin gods at Brisbane. To
Ebagoolah, well north from Cooktown,
there came, in preparation for the last
State elections, a box containing two blue-
crayon pencils, six black ditto, two pen-
holders, 50 nibs and enough pink tape
to lasso and tie up every one of the eight
electors still remaining on the old gold-
field. A little later there arrived a large
case full of winter-relief blankets and
clothing for abos. addressed to the Pro-
tector of Aborigines, care of the C.P.S.,
Town of Ebagoolah. It was returned
to Brisbane, whence it had been sent at
considerable expense, with the explana-
tion that for many years past Ebagoolah
has not possessed a Protector of Abo-
rigines, a C.P.S., any aborigines or any
right to be called a town.
* * *
“Zedo”: After a long war, petrol in-
terests in Greater Brisbane have finished
with price-cutting for the time being, and
260 sellers will adopt the principle of
one grade, one price. Super petrols re-
tail at Is. standard at Is. 9£d. But
what is most interesting is that the blend 1
with locally-produced power alcohol sells
at Is. 9d. Power alcohol, as anybody at
Canberra will explain, is too expensive
to produce ever to become popular in
fuels.


*OR Ttt e
EMPIRE’S MILLIONS
B
O
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
Stati, —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince's Chambers,
W Iliain Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Mobile Transmitter Design.
There are many uses for miniature
iadio transmitters —in connection with
aircraft, portables for expedition com-
munications and portables for amateur
field days. It is possible to make up a
transmitter with excellent frequency
stability by means of crystal control,
with only two valves; one being the
oscillator for use on the crystal funda-
mental and second harmonic, and the
other the modulator for speech purposes.
Modulation is a simple matter with an
r.f. pentode as the oscillator and with
free suppressor grid. Suppressor modu-
lation can then be applied, without any
need for pre-amplification, by the use
of a high-gain carbon microphone.
The transmitter shown in the circuit
diagram is of American design for air-
craft purposes, making use of an 802
oscillator, with suppressor modulation by
an 89 used as a pentode. The circuit
includes a vibrator pack, shown in
schematic, and without any fundamental
alterations a Radiotron 6P6 could be
used in place of the 802 for lower power,
with a 6C6 as modulator. Power supply
could then be taken from a receiver
vibrator unit such as the Radiokes V 825
type. Using an 802 with 300 volts on
the plate the power rating of such a
transmitter is in the vicinity of 10 watts,
ample in many instances for mobile pur-
poses. It is suitable for use with a
six-volt accumulator and vibrator or
genemotor high-tension supply.
The only dry batteries required are a
three-volt cell for the microphone and a
2 2^-volt battery for the suppressor-grid
bias. The crystal oscillator is used in
the familiar “tri-tet” arrangement with
the crystal between control grid and
cathode. Grid resistor Rl is the usual
50,000-ohm 1-watt type. With an 80-
metre crystal, output can be obtained at
the fundamental or at the second har-
monic according to the frequency range
of the tuned circuit L2-C3 in the plate.
Operation is thus possible with good
output at 40 metres. With a 40-metre
crystal the output can be tuned to 20
metres. The tuned circuit Ll-C2 in the
cathode is pre-set in this case, this circuit
tuning quite broadly at a higher fre-
quency than the frequency of the crystal
used.
Screen voltage is dropped to the cor-
rect amount by R 2, a resistor of 10,000
ohms at two-watt rating. With the 802
or 6P6 valve there is no need for neu-
tralisation owing to the perfect internal
screening. In the modulator circuit a
high-gain carbon microphone is fed
directly to the grid of the 89 through a
suitable microphone transformer. The
89, used thus as a pentode, will give an
audio output of 3.4 watts, ample for the
purpose.
Values of resistors and condensers
shown in the diagram are as follows:
Cl, .Olmfd.; C 2, .OOOlmfd.; C 3,
lOOmmfd. variable; C 4, .004mfd.; C 5,
.OOlmfd.; C 6, lOmfd. electrolytic ; C 7,
CB, C 9, .Olmfd.; CIO, Cll, Bmfd. elec-
trolytic ; r.f. choke, 2.5mh. ; filter choke,
20hy.; Rl, 50,000 ohms, 1 watt; R 2,
10,000 ohms, 2 watts ; R 3, 1000 ohms,
1 watt; R 4, 7000 ohms, 1 watt; R 5,
10,000 ohms, 1 watt; R 6, 60,000 ohms,
1 watt; Tl, mic.-to-grid transformer;
T 2, 2-to-l ratio audio transformer.
D. B. K.
The Daventry Array.
During the course of a day’s trans-
mission from the 8.8.C.’s station at
Daventry, one of the high-power trans-
mitters may work on several different
arrays, directional to various parts of
the world. The six feeder lines from
the distant arrays are brought through
the distribution frame, never approach-
ing nearer than 6ft. to another feeder
line, until they terminate on the six
pillars in the middle foreground of the
picture. The white boards indicate the
array number and the regions served by
it. To the right of the picture are seen
six taller pillars, carrying the feeders
from the six transmitters, these short
feeder lines being used, of course, irre-
spective of the particular array selected
at the individual switch.
Radio Comment.
“Cluny”: A radio may now be re-
garded as standard equipment in most
homes, and it is time builders made
some provision for their connection. It
might cover most of these points: Loca-
tion of power-point against exterior wall
to facilitate a short earth connection;
built-in special radio earths ; some pro-
vision for connecting an aerial; atten-
tion to the acoustics of the radio room ;
two-way switches to kitchen and bed-
room for remote control of current to
sets ; sound-proof baffling between flats,
and built-in recesses for standard cabi-
nets.
* * * *
“Enno”: During favorable reception
periods it may be possible with a re-
ceiver such as the Ultra-Searcher (B.
3/8/’3B) to hear something of the sound
transmissions from some of the Ameri-
can ultra-short-wave television stations.
Stations known to be operating between
42mc. and 56mc. and 60mc. and 86mc.
are: W2XAX (C. 8.5., New York),
W6XAO (Don Lee System, Los Angeles),
W3XPF (Farnsworth Television, Spring-
field, Pa.), W9XAL (First Nat’l Tele-
vision, Kansas City), WIXG (General
Television Corp., Boston, Mass.), W2XBS
(N.8.C., New York), W3XE (Philco Co.,
Philadelphia, Pa.), W2XDR (Radio Pic-
tures, Long Island, N.Y.), W3XEP
(R.C.A., Camden, N.J.), WIOXX
(R.C.A., Camden, N.J.), WBXAN (Sparks-
Withington Co., Jackson, Mich.), W9XUI
(University of Iowa), W2XBT (N.8.C.,
New York, portable station), W3XP
(Philco Co., Philadelphia, Pa.) and
W3XAD (R.C.A. Mfg. Co., Camden,
portable station).
* * * *
“Cluny”: Static causes little trouble
to television, since work in that direc-
tion is mostly confined to very high fre-
quencies and short distances, which
practically eliminates all possibility of
static interference from thunderstorms.
In regard to man-made static, there
seems to be an almost complete dearth
of information. Presumably interfer-
ence in the case of a vision reflector
would produce characteristic warps in
the images. Should it prove possible in
the future to span greater distances than
visible zones, natural static, one would
expect, would prove a problem of some
magnitude.
Frequency Measurement.
Experimenters with plenty of experi-
ence on lower frequencies often shy at
five metres because they “don’t know
where they are,” but the band can easily
be found in a receiver tuning range by
means of calibration by lecher wires. All
that are required are a couple of wires
about 4in. apart, supported rigidly and
parallel, and some means of coupling
them to a transmitter or receiver. For
calibration of a receiver a two-turn coil
placed near the detector coil will work
very well, and coupling to a transmitter
may be made in the same way. Where
a resonant-line tank circuit is used, the
lecher wires may be tapped on the lines
or coupled by a “hairpin” coil.
Lecher wires depend for their action
on the fact that the impedance looking
into a line an odd number of quarter-
waves in length is infinite. The im-
pedance looking into a line with an even
number of quarter-waves is zero, pro-
vided in each case that the line is
shorted at the far end. If, therefore, a
quarter-wave line,
with the far end
shorted, is coupled
to a circuit there
will be no effect.
If it is a half-wave
long, it will act like
a short circuit.
If a pair of
lecher wires are
coupled to a super-
regenerative re -
ceiver, and a short-
ing bar is moved
along, starting at
the receiver end, a
point will be found
about a half-wave from the receiver
where oscillation will stop. The distance
is not exactly a half-wave, because of the
loading of the coupling arrangement.
Coupling can be loosened until there is
one sharply defined position of the short-
ing bar which causes the receiver to stop
oscillating. This point should be marked
on the wires. The shorting bar is then
moved along until a second position is
found where oscillation ceases. The
distance between the first and second
points is a half-wave length..
The same procedure can be followed
for a transmitter, using the plate milliam-
meter as an indicator. A sharp rise in
current will indicate the positions of the
shorting bar for measurement. For
rough checks, the handy absorption meter
consisting of a midget variable condenser,
coil and lamp, connected in series, will
give excellent results. The lecher-wire
system is, of course, applicable to any
frequency, but becomes unwieldy at the
lower frequencies.
D. B. K.
"Radio," July, 1938, Issue.
Technical features of the current issue
of “Radio” (U.S.A.) are “The DX
Band-hopper” (a small band-switching
transmitter); “The Barrage Antenna,” by
W6DHG; “A Versatile Portable Re-
ceiver,” by W3AXK ; “The Mighty Mite”
(an all-band 20-watt ’phone transmitter
covering from 160 to 5 metres), by
W6KW; “Long-range DX Prediction,”
by E. H. Conklin ; “An All-wave Tuner
Panel,” by Raymond Adams ; “A 9-10-
metre Mobile Unit,” by W6VR;
“Better ’Phone Quality with Bass Sup-
pression,” by J. N. A. Hawkins ; “Acorn-
tube Five-metre Superhet,” by WBIPD;
and “Trouble-shooting in R.F. Stages,”
by W9FM. “Radio” is published 10
times yearly, including an enlarged special
annual number. August and September
issues are omitted. Subscriptions, 18s.
6d. annually, are accepted through The
Bulletin office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
New B.B.C. Foreign-language
Studios.
The new studios for the B.B.C.'s
Empire service, which now includes
broadcasts in foreign languages, are the
most up-to-date in Great Britain. The
announcer’s desk, of Australian walnut, is
curved, so that the announcer can easily
reach any part of his equipment. Imme-
diately in front is the microphone, with
a bank of mixers on each side. Those
on the left control the two microphones
and two turntables, while those on the
right enable the announcer to bring into
transmission the successive items, whether
from Empire, national or regional pro-
grammes.
The twin turntables enable records to
be played without a break. They have
the latest form of parallel tracking arm.
which, by moving the needle across the
record in a straight line instead of a
curve, gives the best possible reproduc-
tion with minimum wear. The head-
ohones below the turntables enable the
announcer to listen at will to Empire,
national, London regional or foreign-
language programmes or rehearsals.
Two keys permit listening to the record
on either turntable before switching to
transmission by means of the mixer.
The announcer works under ideal con-
ditions and has a closer control over the
transmission than has been possible pre-
viously.
E. B. S.
Amateur Chatter.
Reports of 56mc. DX overseas in
“Radio” and “Q.S.T.” are evidently hav-
ing an effect on many who have not yet
tackled 56mc. seriously, for several
VK2’s are known to be trying Super-
Gainers and similar DX band receivers
with coils for “five.” That this can be
done quite successfully was shown re-
cently by VK2CE, who, in a badly-
screened location at Bondi, N.S.W., is
able to hear the transmissions from
VK2ABC-2LZ at Wentworth Falls, Blue
Mountains, 60 miles distant. If it is in-
convenient to construct a special receiver
for 56mc., many supers can be made to
do the job by using the oscillator at 10
metres and the mixer at five. The oscil-
lator harmonic is thus used for the pur-
pose. Such a receiver, by reason of the


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
An INTERESTING and
LUCRATIVE CAREER for
Ambitious Youths.
RADIO RADIO RADIO
Complete THEORETICAL and PRACTICAL
instruction for RADIO ENGINEERS, TECH-
NICIANS (P.M.G. Broadcast Station Operators’
Certificate), OPERATORS (P.M.G. Commercial
and Aircraft Operators’ Certificate), RADIO
SERVICE MECHANICS, TALKING-PICTURE
OPERATORS.
Preliminary theoretical instruction by correspopdence,
then practical tuition on standard commercial stations
at the Marconi School of Wireless and A.W.A. Radio
Centres.
Practical instruction for all courses is available at
the Sydney School. Melbourne School trains Marine
and Aircraft Wifeless Operators only.
Write, call or ’phone for 44-page illustrated
prospectus.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF
WIRELESS,
97 Clarence Street, SYDNEY - - 8W2211
163 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - - F 4161
Conducted under the auspices of Amalgamated
\V ireless (A/sia), Ltd., Australia’s national wireless
organisation.
sharpness of the 465 kc. ii. channel will
not make much of modulated oscillator
signals, but those signals are no com-
mon nowadays. .
VK2PN, of Tumut, N.S.W., is planning
an onslaught on 56mc. A crystal-con-
trolled transmitter is nearing completion
and a 56mc. Super-Gainer is under con-
struction for this station by VK2NO.
Sydney 56mc. experimenters will miss
VK2ACB, of Epping, who is taking up
aviation-radio at Wyndham (W.A.).
Reference to the desirability of making
use of 160 metres brought the informa-
tion that VK2VN and ZL4DQ recently
worked each other on this band with
medium power and complete absence of
static. It is worth trying. G6HB in Eng-
land is very keen to get a QSO with a
VK on this band, and will arrange
schedules for any time when he is not
at sea as op. on the Blue Funnel Ulysses.
N.S.W. u.h.f. pioneer E. B. Ferguson,
one time VK2BP, is now back on the
air in Melbourne as VK3BD. At present
he is to be found on 20 metres, but plans
to get back to 56mc. in the near future.
A DX ’phone call on 20 the other night
night brought an R 8 reply from G2XY,
an old-time crony of early amateur days
in England. It was 15 years since
VK2NO last heard a signal from G2XY,
when Gs were on 45 metres and As on
32.
Eric Trebilcock (BERSI9S), of Powell
Creek, N.T., now has the Ultra-Searcher
receiver (B. 3 / 8 /’3B) in action and is pre-
pared to keep listening schedules with
any station willing to co-operate. He
reports that DX continues to roll in on
20 and 40. QSLs from new countries
are VR6AY, ZK2AA, K4ERY (Virgin
Isles) and ST6KR. This makes 126 QSLs
from 163 heard, a very good record de-
spite the fact that BERSI9S does not send
reply coupons. The secret lies in send-
ing an intelligent and detailed report of
real value to the station.
Sydney has practically no stations on
56mc. at the present time, but Brisbane
amateurs are awakening to a burst of
enthusiasm. Word from VK4MM tells of
renewed work on the band. VK4WT
has completed a crystal-controlled trans-
mitter and vertical WBJK aerial, and is
putting over a powerful signal. Contact
was established with VK4MM. VK4AW
heard the QSO and opened up with 20
watts from his Nundah location, bring-
ing VK4RY into the circuit. VK4AW
is using four half-waves in phase with re-
flectors and VK4MM three-half waves
with no reflectors. Stations reported to
be active on Sunday* evenings are VKs
A well-known Scottish amateur station — GM6QP, 17 Wellington-street, Edin-
burgh. This station has had many 20-metre phone contacts with Australians.
4AW, 4RY, 4GX, 4RT, 4WT and 4HR,
these being heard at full strength by
VK4MM at Annerley. A successful test
was run between VK4JL on his motor-
yacht Sweetheart and VK4AW, the latter
working, on 56mc. and 4JL on 7mc. The
receiver at VK4AW is a superhet with
“Got a full hand, have you? Well, so have I, and if you don't come home quick I'll make it a grand slam.
acorn valves, but super-regenerators are
in use at the other stations.
VK6AR, of Meckering, W.A., is an-
other Westralian attracted to the possi-
bilities of 56mc. His transmitter is
crystal-controlled from a 40-metre
crystal and three doublers, with push-pull
809’s in the final. A move is to be made
to a location on the crest of a hill, and
if it is at all possible to raise the east
from VK6 this station will be favorably
placed, being on the east side of the Dar-
ling Ranges. That VK6AR is enthusiastic
about 56mc. is evident, he having
scrapped his 40- and 20-metre gear
despite the fact that so far on 56mc. he
has had to “work with himself.”
Although good and satisfying results
can be obtained on 56mc. by the use of
modulated oscillators and super-regener-
ators over a few miles, such results can-
not be compared with signals from a
crystal-controlled transmitter and a
superhet. A smoothly working t.r.f.
receiver such as the Ultra-Searcher
will leave the best of super-regens,
standing when it comes to hearing
and identifying really weak signals.
During the recent ultra-DX in U.S.A. it
was noted that a signal around the R 6
level on a superhet could not be heard at
more than R 2 on the best of super-regen.
receivers. The mod.-osc. super-regen.
variety of apparatus is holding develop-
ment of the 56mc. band back, and there
is no reason, when there are so many
harmonic-generating valves for transmis-
sion and suitable receiving valves, why
apparatus should not conform to lower
frequency standards from the commence-
ment. The results of the Cairo confer-
ence indicate that the u.h.f. bands will
be essential frequencies in the near
future.
The writer was privileged to see de-
monstrated the new “talk-back” system
employed by the N.S.W. police wireless
branch for patrol cars. All cars are able
to work duplex speech with the control
station inside a wide mileage radius,
irrespective of screening in normally bad
locations. An ultra-short channel is
used for the “talk-back.” The officer
responsible for the culmination of this
excellent service is Sergeant “Wal”
Salmon, better known to amateurs as
VK2SA. The success of the system is,
in contrast to other institutional sys-
tems, hampered by static troubles at
low frequencies in the summer months.
VK2NO.
Wireless equipment manufactured at
the A.W.A. works at Ashfield, N.S.W.,
has been shipped to Wellington (M.L.)
for installation in Richardson and Co.’s
new M.V. Pakura. The apparatus com-
prises a 100-watt telephone-telegraph
transmitter, using telephony on 149
metres. Telegraphy is used on the 600-
metre marine band, with the alternative
of c.w. or i.c.w. Similar equipment was
recently sent to the U.K. to be fitted into
two vessels now building for the M.L.
coastal trade.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-wave
(B. 28/4/’37).
GSG and GSJ have been erratic re-
cently. On one evening at 8.25 p.m.
GSG was very weak and GSJ inaudible.
At 9.45 p.m. both stations were very
good. At 10.15 p.m. both stations were
good but not so strong as at 9.45 p.m.
At 10.20 p.m. the news from GSJ was
100 p.c. readable and volume quite strong
enough. By sticking to GSJ good re-
ception was had until 10.55 p.m., after
which Hong Kong was tuned to on 31.49
metres. This station was very much
stronger than either of the others, but
very noisy and not pleasant to listen to.
At 11.10 p.m. GSJ was good, and GSG
could be heard and understood clearly
in another room 36ft. away, and almost
at right angles to the loudspeaker. DJE
and W3XAL were also on the air then,
and all in fine form. GSG was possibly
the best.
Heard, too, CRJX on 25.6 metres at
4.45 p.m. It was not very strong at the
time, but, after GSI closed, from 5.15
p.m. until closing at 6 p.m. the signal
strength gradually increased. It was
announced that the regular broadcast
station is CRJ, with CRJO on 6160 kc.
and CRJX on 11,720 kc. Location is
Winnipeg, Manitoba. CRJX was about
equal to WBXAL (49.5 m.) at 5 p.m. At
this time TPA3 was also fairly strong
but rather noisy.
In the morning DJD has improved
considerably, being the best of the 25-
metre stations right through after 2RO
has closed down. TPA3 and TPA4
are very fine after midday.
Night results are still patchy on the
whole, but COCX and XTJ are a good
pair at 10 p.m. The 19-metre band is
improving. GSF can be heard faintly at
times around 9.30 p.m., whilst DJB and
DJQ are fairly good.
The new Singapore station is easily
the strongest on the short-wave bands.
RNE, TPA3, 2RO, DJD, OLR4A, GSD
and XTJ on the 25-metre band are all
very good copy before 7 a.m. There are
seven different stations in this band, all
within a few kc. of each other. RNE
is now much closer in frequency to
TPA3 than formerly.
K.B.G.
B.C. Coil-winding Table.
Often the constructor is at a loss to
know just how many turns and what
gauge of wire he should use with an odd-
sized former to make a coil to cover the
broadcast range from 1500 kc. to 500 kc.
This table takes in all coil specifications
from lin. to 3in. diameter with various
gauges of wire and variable condenser
sizes of .0005mfd. and .00035mfd. It
will serve as a handy workshop reference
and guide.
Coils for .0005mfd. Condensers.
Diam., Length,
In. In. Wire. No. Turns.
3 1 23 Enam. 42
3 1| 20 Enam. 45
3 2 19 S.C.C. 49
3 24 18 S.C.C. 55
3 3 16 Enam. 57
24 I 25 D.S.C. 46
24 14 22 Enam. 56
24 2 20 Enam. 60
24 24 19 Enam. 61
24 3 18 S.C.C. 66
2" 1 25 Enam. 53
2 14 23 Enam. 62
2 2 22 S.C.C. 70
2 24 20 Enam. 75
2 3 19 Enam. 80
14 1 28 Enam. 75
14. 14 26 Enam. 86
14 2 24 Enam. 94
14 24 23 Enam. 100
14 3 22 Enam. 108
1 I 30 Enam. 95
I If 32 D.S.C. 106
1 14 28 Enam. 112
1 2 28 D.S.C. 132
1 24 26 Enam. 140
1 3 25 Enam. 156
Coils for ,00035mfd. Condensers.
3 1 26 S.C.C. 50
3 14 24 D.S.C. 61
3 2 21 S.C.C. 60
3 24 19 Enam. 65
3 3 18 D.S.C. 68
24 1 27 D.S.C. 55
24 14 24 D.S.C. 53
24 2 22 D.S.C. 69
24 24 21 S.C.C. 75
24 3 19 Enam. 80
2' 1 29 D.S.C. 66
2 14 26 S.C.C, 75
2 2 24 D.S.C. 89
2 24 22 Enam. 92
2 3' 21 Enam. 99
14 1 32 D.S.C. 84
14 14 27 Enam. 97
14 2 25 Enam. 104
14 24 24 Enam. 115
14 3 24 S.C.C. 123
T 1 37 D.S.C. 121
1 H 35 D.S.C. 132
l 14 30 Enam. 136
l 2 32 S.C.C. 168
1 24 29 S.C.C. 165
1 3 28 S.C.C. 180


NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.'
FOR YOUR HOME
With a JOHNSON “IRON HORSE”
GENERATOR
WATTS 12 VOLTS
■ 1
• i.
mm
MM
mw-
r
y A 'K
iHHii/jai
vM;
( « +
%/
rmammm
m
i
W# ■ ::
-a
MAKES CHORES A PLEASURE
y. •: ;
mu
ilKlINII
*
siSsfc
y
1X/HY deny yourself the comfort and convenience of Electric
Light and Power for your Radio? With a Johnson “Iron
Horse” Generator Electric Light actually costs you less than the
messy, dangerous, old-fashioned Lamps- —for approximately 1/-
you can use 3 lights for 31 hours every night in the week.
Never before has it been possible to offer the man on the land
such real comfort at such small cost. You no longer need to be
inconvenienced with the old-style lighting . . . . Electric Light,
the great boon of to-day’s civilisation, is now available quickly
and economically—at the touch of a switch the Johnson “Iron
Horse” Generator makes possible economical Electric Light for
your home and buildings, and at the same time provides Power
for your Radio and Power for charging Batteries.
Here Are a Few of the More Important Features:
300 WATTS . . . \2 VOLTS . . . Lights 12, 25-Watt Globes . . .
ELECTRIC STARTING — just push a button . . . FULL
RANGE CONTROL . . . Special Built-in Generator—Johnson
Iron Horse 4-Cycle Petrol Engine . , .
AUTOMATIC CUT-OUT disconnects
when not running . , , Quiet Operation.
. Minimum Vibration. CASH PRICE
with 2 heavy-duty 6-volt batteries .
'a
Approx . cost per Point for Material Only 12/6 .
Weight when packed 1001b. Freight extra .
Approved Country Resi-
dents may obtain immediate
possession by paying a
Deposit of £ 10, and if the
balance is paid within 12
months there is no charge
for interest.
Write TO-DAY for full
particulars.
FR
om
DEPOSIT
Manager,
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
Box 4250 Y, G.1’.0., Sydney.
Please forward; me specifica-
tions -of the Iron Horse Gener-
ator, > together with particulars
of your Easy Payment System.
Name . .
Address
1
POSTAL ADDRESS, BOX 4250 Y, G.P.O
SYDNEY


Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE AND COMMODITY PRICES HOLD?
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
SURVEY OF METAL MARKETS
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.. 252 Ceorge Street. Sydney, and oil States.
PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY
AFFECTS APPETITE.
“Tri-cal”: You were right in the
argument: Phosphorus deficiency in the
feed does affect appetite—the stock does
not eat as well as it should. That’s
where a Tri-cal-os Bone Flour and salt
mixture is so useful. It stimulates
appetite and generally helps to maintain
the balanced mineral ration which (I’m
tired of telling you this) is just as impor-
tant as the balanced protein-carbohydrate
one. As you won the argument you
should act on it, Bill feeds Tri-cal-os,
and I think his stock looks much better
—better than yours as a matter of fact.
Get that Tri-cal-os folder for dairy stock
from Davis Gelatine, Sydney. It’s most
interesting.
Old Farmer.
£
Jh
3
essf,
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
The N. S. Wales Wool Clip.
“Murrawong”: On present indications,
the opening Sydney sales will be on a
slightly higher level than at the close
of the last series in June, but there is
not likely to be any immediate and
spectacular rise.
An inspection of the N.S.W. new
season’s clip bears out the forecast that
well-nourished wools and spinners’ types
will be in short supply until late in the
season, and any available should meet
keen competition.
Western wools are shorter in staple
than usual, carry very little vegetable
matter, are finer but wastier and are
exceptionally dusty. Last year, central-
western district clips were in great
condition, and the' contrast with this
year’s arrivals at Darling Harbor is
marked. North-western wools are also
shorter, but conditions have been patchier
there. On the whole, they are not so
burry as usual, but the bulk are thin-
stapled and wasty, and, like practically
all the other early-
shorn wools, very
little is sound.
Because of
drought, many
sheep were shorn
with 8-10 months’
wool; and, while
rain brought be-
lated relief over a
great part of the
State, all the
country between
the Lachlan and
the Darling which
usually shears in
July is still hav-
ing a bad time.
There, shearings
have been post-
poned in many
cases for two to
three months. It
may be difficult
to get the sheep
shorn then. Good shearers will take on the
long western leads in July when work is
scarce, but in August and September any
snagger can get a pen near his home-
town.
Comparison of over 60 July sheds in
various districts with their last year’s
sheep numbers shows a decrease of 10
p.c. On about a dozen large properties
where shearing has already finished, the
average cut per sheep compared with last
year showed a drop of nearly lib. per
head. Arrivals of wool at Darling Har-
bor are 40,000 bales fewer than at this
time last year.
In normal times, opening catalogues
would be seriously affected by the deficit,
but with the carry-over of last-season
wool brokers will have no trouble in
filling their catalogues for most classes.
Nevertheless, the presence of these carry-
over wools may mean that average prices
for early sales will not give a true indi-
cation of the value of the clip.
Private sales of good fleece wools have
recently been made at 4d. per pound
above their passed-in price of June, while
a keen demand for crutchings has re-
sulted in sales at l|d. better than the
June offer of 4pd. To-day’s levels are
still nearly 30 per cent, below the average
price of 124 d. per pound of last year, and a
rise of 10 per cent, on June closing sales is
as much as is expected in some quarters.
Well-grown wools, or any showing good
length combined with soundness, prefer-
ably free, will be scarce and dear, but
badly-prepared or unclassed clips are
likely to have a worse chance than ever
this year.
Sheep Inoculation Technique.
“Bungaree”: New methods save time
and labor in inoculating sheep, whether
for pulpy kidney or black disease. In-
stead of using a team of men to catch
and turn up sheep, the operation may
now be carried out while the sheep are
on their feet.
Fill the race as full as it can be, care
being taken to avoid smothering or in-
jury. Starting at the rear end, the
"You dirty, flamin' mongrel! I'll fix you for this!"
“’Oo? Me or the pig, sir?"
operator should hold the sheep steady
with his knees, straddling it on a level
with the loins. With the left hand, he
picks up a fold of skin on the sheep's
right shoulder, and with the syringe in
the right hand the needle should be
firmly inserted behind the fold. By hold-
■ ing the syringe almost flat against the
sheep’s side the vaccine will be injected
just under the skin. If the needle pierces
the mqscles it may temporarily lame the
animal, and in/any , case a lump will
; result which will disfigure export lambs,
i There is no need to sterilise the point
of injection as when inoculating in the
i thigh, but needles should be changed
often and boiled, while it is also sound to
keep spare needles handy in a tin of
some reliable full-strength disinfectant.
With the latest type of syringe inocu-
j lation can be carried out as fast as
drenching and two men can do the lot
unaided! Inoculating with an ordinary
hypodermic syringe means delay in re-
; filling and risk of contaminating vaccine,
but the new automatic syringes are fed
by a rubber tube leading direct from the
serum bottle which can be hung on the
operator.
Animal Standards.
“Pappamosca”: Australia is one of
the few countries which look for an ex-
port trade without developing pig stand-
ards. In some places standard depends
largely on measurement and weight
ranges.
Denmark plumps for a single crossbred
between the native Landrace and certain
types of Yorks. The Argentine has gone
further. As most countries have stand-
ards of weight and measure based on a
single article, the Argentine has estab-
lished a pig standard, irrespective of
breed, based on an actual model. The
model is constantly illustrated, agricul-
tural societies mostly have a replica in
silver, and breeders are encouraged to
know its lines through the shaping of
prize trophies in its likeness. But the
model pig wouldn’t take a prize in many
Australian show-rings where world
standards don’t count.
Teat Sores and Mastitis.
“Silky Bag”: Germs which cause mas-
titis cannot do so unless there is first
some breakdown of udder tissue. Teat
sores usually the so-called cowpox
cause a proportion of cases.
Often deep-seated, they spread through
the teat tissue and infect the lining of
the canal, or slowly spread over the outside
skin and infect the teat-duct itself. This
latter type becomes evident by the in-
creased difficulty in getting milk out of
the teat. Dilators and probes only make
the infection worse, because they become
germ-covered and also tear the tissues.
Best is to foment the end of the teat
for about five minutes and then insert
a fine-bore milk siphon, sterilised by
boiling previously and greased with a
mild antiseptic ointment (5 p.c. boracic
acid in vaseline). After the quarter is
massaged (with siphon in place) to en-
courage complete milk outflow, the teat
must be fomented again by placing it
in a cup of hot boracic water, changed
as often as it cools. Fomentation should
continue for 10 to 15 minutes.
Most “cowpox” sores are not due to
the true virus, but are set up by the
same staphylococcus that often causes
mastitis.
Erosion in Victoria.
“Zedo”: While the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment has been preparing a bill to deal
with erosion (B. 10/8/’3B), a committee
in Victoria has also been drafting a
scheme. Recommendations are similar
to those adopted in N. S. Wales. They
include safeguarding of water storage
and catchment areas, repairing and pro-
tection of stream banks, the appointment
of an educational commission to instruct
farmers and prepare a sort of general
erosion guide-book.
Also advocated is the establishment of
a Mallee research station. The committee
thinks it will be advisable to embody in
the law a provision allowing special ex-
penditure for the rehabilitation or pro-
tection of particular districts.
The report states:
In the final analysis, the real cause of
most erosion can be attributed to the mis-
treatment by man of the soil and other
natural resources in his endeavor to collect
from it the greatest return in the shortest
time.
It adds that unless silting of national
reservoirs is checked heavy expenditure
on new storages will be needed before
long, together with increased costs in
keeping open water channels, roads and
railways which become blocked with
drifting soil.
Sub. Clover in Maoriland.
“J. Want”: In the comparatively few
years since sub. clover was first exported
from its native Mt. Barker (S.A.), it has
spread over most of the world, and lately
has excited particular interest in the
S. Island of M.L. An annual and a
burier of its heavy seedings, it is in a
better position to withstand weather con-
ditions than the perennial red and white
clovers.
The M.L. Government has made a
survey in Canterbury Province of 179
sowings in all types of soil from stiff
clay loams, on which it did not do well,
to stony silts. Good results were obtained
with surprisingly low rainfalls, Dwal-
ganup in one instance doing well on
12.11 points. Heavy frosts did no good
to the plants in the seedling stage, but
once they were growing properly 30
degrees did not injure them, except when
flowering. This shows the need for early
sowing to beat late autumn cold snaps.
Sometimes seed was put in with a
cover crop of oats and sometimes with
various other pasture and mixtures
ranging from 21b. to 81b. per acre. It
was decided that 31b. to 41b. was ideal.
Spring sowing did not pan out well. The
best months to suit both weather and
rainfalls were found to be late December
and early January.
Sub. clover should next be tried on
the North Queensland coast. Once estab-
lish a suitable variety there, and the
beef-fattening industry will be well on its
feet.
Coolah Grass.
“Mulyan”: Coolah, which has been
cultivated for some years for seed har-
vesting, is a hardy and vigorous native.
In the dry western parts of N.S.W. it
grows to a couple of feet high, and
under cultivation attains a height of sft.
and a stand spread of 3ft. It is relished
by stock, and stands severe grazing. It
retains its green throughout the hot
months, even into autumn, when other
herbage is dry and disappearing.
It is one of the few interior grasses
that grow under cultivation on the east-
ern side of the range, where it can be
cut for green feed, for chaffing or for
ensilage. The stems are rather too stiff
for hay, but the leaves are long, broad
and soft. It can be grown from either
seed or roots.
(Continued on next page.)


3998.
ķ
WILLOW CALF AND ABBEY WORKMANSHIP.
A combination which would be very hard to equal is used in the making
ot this Elastic-side Boot. The Sole is made of the best quality Australian
Sole Leather, strong and tough, and the Boot is leather-lined throughout,
btocked in full and half sizes, and medium fittings. Price, 39/6, Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST
WOOL.
selling of your CLIP on the
organisation for the sale of
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. Box 484aa, G.P.0., Sydney.
m
Pm
m
m
m
m
Mi
cm
w
I
«v
ANNOUNCING
c
TE
THE WHITE ANT PROOFED 100% CANE
FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
In the modern building, insulation is as im-
portant as plumbing, ventilation or electric
wiring. The demand for a strong, economical,
easily worked insulating board, capable of
resisting heat in summer, cold in winter and
noise at all times, has been met by the per-
fection of CANE-ITE . . . one of the most
highly efficient materials for structural insula-
tion yet evolved.
Ask the nearest branch of the Building Materials
Division of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
for samples and descriptive literature.
IMPORTANT
NEWS!
MASONITE, "The
Wonder Board of 1,000
Uses,” is now avail-
able in Australia.
Masonite PRESD-
WOOD, the world-
famous manufactured
hardboard, Masonite
QUARTRBOARD, for
walls _ and ceilings
in varied treatments,
Masonite Tempered
PRESDWOOD, for
durable flooring, and
TEMPRTILE for kit-
chens and bathrooms
of rare beauty . . .
all these are now for
immediate delivery.
C 7-8
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
ĸ
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is. not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
k
• A BLACKSTONE for Every Pur-
pose. Models from 3 h.p. up-
wards.
• TOTALLY ENCLOSED. Fully
protected from dust, etc.
• LISTARD ( Van de Horst Patent)
cylinder liners give 400% longer
life.
• Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Q’LAND:
Norman Bell Pty., Ltd.,
403 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
Box 580, Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD. Stamford, Eng.
Living Area ?
“Oxley”: A Taree (N.S.W.) farmer
claims that in the last 12 months he has
sold produce and stock from his 33|-
acre farm for £42o—cream cheque (14
ows) £228, porkers £59, maize and pump-
kins £73, young stock, mostly registered
Jerseys, £53, and fruit £6. He finished
with reserves of hay and corn. The
season on the Manning has been moder-
ate.
The result could be achieved only on
river alluvium or irrigation land. Such
small-holder earnings recall the Mait-
land farmers of the old days who brought
up families on 12- to 20-acre blocks on
Bolwarra.
The Taree man contends that most
farmers have more land than they can
farm properly. All depends, of course.
In his district, he argues, a man might
give £5 an acre for 200 acres and have a
very insecure income, while another
could pay up to £80 an acre for 25
acres and have more work than he could
handle. In his own case, he could not
work more land without hired labor.
Soil Survey in W.A.
“X.T.”: The C.S. and I.R. and the
Westralian Agricultural Department
have together made an exhaustive soil
survey of the land round Denmark
(W.A.). It has shown the association of
Denmark wasting disease due to cobalt
deficiency with one type of soil from a
parent gneissic granite unusually short
of minerals.
The area surveyed covered 25 sq.
miles, and in that district the disease
should shortly be controlled through the
use of cobalt drenches and limonite
licks. The data provided are invaluable
for those farmers who take the trouble
to use them in the development of farm
pasturage and grazing.
More Ringbarking Points.
“Bluey”: I won’t have it that timber
should be rung when about to bloom.
The sap is certainly well up then, but
once rung, the trees quickly blossom.
The seed ripens and falls just when
there’s a fine mulch of leaves off the
dying treetops on the ground. Rains will
soon make the seedlings shoot. Ring-
barking gums, stringybark and apple-
tree heavy in bud and growing on high
country is only asking for work.
As trees bloom at different times,
“Cockyson” (B. 22/6/’38) advises going
over a paddock several times to ring dif-
ferent trees in season. That may be
sound for small patches, but does not
pay on large areas of rough country.
A good fall of rain always sends the
sap up uniformly in a paddock of mixed
timber whether in bud or not. The
wetter the season is when ringbarking,
the less suckers you get. I’ve seen thick
scrubs, rung when the ground was boggy,
die without a sucker.
Light ringbarking kills the tops slowly,
but is followed by the least suckers.
Trees rung deeply sucker most. Young
timber suckers badly irrespective of treat-
ment.
Ringing most kinds of wattles is waste
of time. Hundreds of suckers shoot from
even the smallest roots. They should
be poisoned with arsenic pentoxide—
lib. to a gallon of water.
Explosives on the Land.
“Ghanam”: Why aren’t explosives
more widely used for clearing land? It
is surprising how little explosive will
shift a stump several feet in diameter
and with a taproot finishing in Hades.
Most of the failures come from using too
much explosive or using the wrong ex-
plosive. Quarry monobel has its advan-
tages, though it is not easy to make a
primer tor it; its percentage of explosive
is not high, it has a slow action, and,
being bulky, it gives as full a length of
fracture as is possible. Wet spoils its
action ; still, for stump work in which a
slow heave and plenty of distribution of
force is required, it is good. But for all-
round handling gelignite is hard to beat.
There are many types of stumps fairly
easily grubbed which it does not pay to
tackle with explosives—it is cheaper to
put the winch or jack on them. And
there are few big stumps which it pays
to blow completely out. The art in the
thing is to raise your roots from their
holdings far enough to get a burn under-
neath them. If possible split them suf-
ficiently to make a chimney if they are
solid. With trees, here and there, an
odd plug, too, will help the winch con-
siderably.
Explosives are safe to handle if you
are careful. Accidents are few these days.
Half an hour of actual demonstration in
preparing and fitting detonators and fuses
and in the handling of electrical gear is
good insurance. In most places the shire
engineer knows how or has somebody
else who does on the staff. Incidentally,
there ought to be a good living for a few
explosives men round the near-coastal
N. S. Wales districts which are going in
for fat lambs.
Lucerne in W.A.
“Alf”: Lucerne should be worth try-
ing more extensively in the West in dis-
tricts where there is a reasonable chance
of a spring temperature suitable to ger-
mination —round about 80 degrees at
midday.
With careful cultivation—fine tilth well
harrowed and then rolled, seed drilled in
at about 2£lb. to the acre, deep,
with super., and a second rolling after-
wards—there should be good summer
feed from the crop: one thing, of
course, provided for —inoculation, for
which bacteria can be obtained.
How Old Is Australian Lucerne?
“Bringa”: Does anybody really know
how long lucerne has been in Australia
and where it was first planted? Certainly
it had been used before 1820, because
m that year Gregory Blaxland, giving
evidence before the Bigge Commission,
said that “except for lucerne, climate
and soil were not as favorable in N.S.W.
as in England.”
The extent to which the pioneers con-
sidered pasture improvement is amazing.
Bligh rejoiced that rye grass and clover
grew well for him at the bottom of
Government House garden in Bridge-
street, Sydney, and some grows on the
site now, probably in direct descent from
his planting.
Blaxland was all for white clover, and
he added that if Guinea grass and its
kind could be imported and could be
made to stand the winter it would be
most profitable. Also, he thought that
rye and winter barley, fed off or cut,
would do well, and he favored sugar-
cane cut green in summer. These feed
items he adopted himself. Among native
grasses he picked out the oat grass, but
found that as soon as it was grazed it
disappeared.
The Blaxlands, Gregory and John,
have been claimed as the first importers
of purebred cattle, but the honor be-
longs to George Palmer, once superinten-
dent of stock. In 1801 he brought in a
purebred Alderney. Before that, unless
the Cape and Bengal animals be reckoned
purebreds, there were none in Australia.
Even up to 1820 I can find no record
of any animals of other breeds which
would have got into a herdbook unless
a couple of Suffolk Polls brought out by
Samuel Marsden in 1810 would have
made the grade. Neither the “English
breed” animals of Macarthur nor the
Sussex cattle of the Blaxlands would have
done so if evidence can be trusted.
“D.A.”: The N.S.W. railway rebate
to millers on wheat gristed en route from
the country and reconsigned as flour,
bran or pollard during 1937-38 amounted
to £104,000. Any farmer remember
sharing in this?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Has there been any inquiry into the inci-
dence of N.S.W. grasshopper plagues? (2)
Is anything known of the breeding-grounds ?
(3) Is there any literature which would enable
a person with no knowledge of entomology to
identify the different species ? (4) Is there any
genetic relationship between the grasshopper and
the locust of Syria ? —S423.
(1) N.S.W. Agricultural Department has re-
corded the incidence of swarms for 30 years,
and certain central-western division Pastures
Protection Boards districts and Upper Hunter
districts have proved to yield initial swarms
whch may lead to widespread outbreaks. Steps
have been taken to watch and record these
initial outbreaks. (2) Certain light soils in
central-western districts give conditions which
favor breeding. This has been confirmed by
the C.S. and I.R. recently. Breeding-grounds
are approximately known. (3) Leaflets and
articles in the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette”
figure the principal species. Chortoicetes termi-
nifera, the Australian plague locust, and Aus-
troicetes cruciata, the small plague grasshopper,
are the chief swarming species. (4) Our two
swarming species are of different genera from
those of Africa and Syria.


FlOOO TRIAL
Great Distribution
o
TREATMENTS This Mont h/
COUPON BELOW
USE
Stupendous Success of
Marvellous New Treatment
“Hair Growing Like Wildfire”
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the
hair. The month isn’t quite up yet, hut it isn’t necessary to wait
that long. I could have told you after one application that your
treatment would certainly grow hair. 1 have used a lot of different
‘restorers’ in my time, hut yours is the only one that I ever used
that I have had any faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in
one week. Well, I can heat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in
one night. It lias completely changed the color of my hair. It
has turned it from dry, dead, straw-looking color back to its
original shade of brown, and now, after about three weeks’ use, I
have a lot of new hair growing all over my head. It’s growing
like wildfire. I might mention that I never gave your treatment
a very fair go, either.” 13. J. REYNOLiDS, M., N. S. \Y.
Test It Yourself —NOW !
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in
your own home—under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t
grow new hair, rid you of dandruff or any other hair trouble
you suffer from within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING! —not
a penny. But you must hurry; this offer may never be repeated;
it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post
that coupon NOW!
Great Distribution of Hair Treatments!
What I Discovered About Hair
IT does not matter if your hair is falling out, if you are fast
going bald—or what you have fried! I know you have not
used the RIGHT method! My own hair fell out in handfuls
until I fast began to go bald. I tried everything; but now I
have a thick, lustrous growth of hair—thanks to the important
discovery that—
Hair “Seeds” Still Live in Bald Heads
T HAVE proved as in actual cases quoted opposite that the
*■ hair “seeds” frequently remain alive in bald heads for a
number of years. In the greater majority of such cases new
hair can be grown, provided that the real causes of the trouble
are known, and the correct scientific treatment applied.
Hundreds of men and women from all over Australasia have
grown new hair this wonderful new way. Just read the
letters opposite received from these grateful people—surely
this is proof enough.
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
’ I ’HEY never have—because it is impossible! There is one
underlying principle that stimulates New Hair Growth—
that principle is involved in the new Kelso Murchison Treat-
ment! It’s a new way—entirely different, and successful. It
approaches baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new angle.
With it you can stop your hair troubles overnight.
Don’t waste more time and money on worthless “tonics”
and “hair restorers”; but accept my great offer and watch
your hair grow! Get this special offer coupon in the post
to-day!
It Does Not Matter
IT does not matter how long-standing your hair or scalp
* trouble may be; it does not matter what you have tried
J. Kelso Murchison is prepared to PROVE to you beyond all
doubt, and without you risking one penny, that YOU CAN
DEFINITELY GROW NEW HAlR—if you send the coupon
below NOW!
The ageing effect of
baldness upon one’s
appearance could not
be more strikingly de-
picted tlian in these
pictures.
*ll
i®
/
i i r
Read This Convincing PROOF from
Grateful MEN and WOMEN!
WAS PRACTICALLY BALD-HEAD NOW
COMPLETELY COVERED WITH YOUNG
HAIR. — “I have been applying your hair
culture course for thirty days with splendid
results. 1 was absolutely bald on the crown
of the head, and no hair on the temples—
just a very thin streak across the head be-
tween the temples and the crown. Since I
have been using your course my head is
completely covered with young hair. I
have tried every known method of
hair growing without the slightest
result until I tried yours. I can
recommend your course to anyone,
for my hair was in a very bad state.”
George Morrow, O., N.Z.
No matter what your hair
trouble may be you can
test this method yourself
for 30 days.
Send Coupon Now!
m
’m
MRS. ANNITA BURGESS, BEAUMARIS,
VIC., SAYS:—“COURSE A BLESSING!” “I
am writing to thank you for the wonderful
results received from your
hair treatment. I was in
despair—my hair had been
falling out and had got very
thin, and no life in it at all,
and was full of dandruff
decided to try your course. Well, I can
really say it has been a blessing to me,
as my hair now looks really better than
1 have ever known it to be. You will
agree that the photograph speaks for
itself.”
ķ
HAIR GETTING THICKER AND STRONGER EACH DAY.
"I have been using your treatment for the past five weeks, with
wonderful results. lam pleased to say that the dandruff has
entirely gone, and my hair has taken on new life again, getting
thicker and stronger each day.”—G. Lord, G., S.A.
J. KELSO MURCHISON
Dept. L, Lombardi Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Davs AMAZING TRIAL Offer!
L. PHILLIPS, OF DUNOON,
SAYS—“HAIR HAS GROWN
TWICE AS THICK!” “After the
first night’s treatment the dandruff
began to disappear; at the end oi
three days was completely gone.
New hair was growing at the temples
and on crown of the head at the end
of 30 days, and in a very short
period all my hair and scalp troubles
were over for good. My hair has also grown
twice as thick. Anybody suffering from any
of the hair disorders I have had and desiring
to get rid of them for all time, and obtain
a good head of hair, just write to J. Kelso
Murchison.” L. Phillips, D., N.S.W.
BALD PATCHES GROWING HAIR.
“Before I started to use your hair treatment
my hair was falling out that much that I
thought I would be bald in a short time.
Thanks to your wonderful treatment, the bald
patches on my scalp are growing hair very
rapidly, and I would recommend your hair
treatment as the best in the world. It has
cured my dandruff, and my hair is 100 per
cent, better.”—W. A. PEARSON, 8., N.S.W.
WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS—HAIR NOW GROWING
“Hair has started to grow over the bald parts, which
have been bald for 16 years.” G. L. Horton, 0., S-A-
ĸ
£lOOO GUARANTEE.
I guarantee that all testimonials published in this
announcement are all genuine letters or extracts
from reports received by grateful men and
women who have used the Murchison Method
successfully. These letters, together with
hundreds more, are open for inspection at our
offices at any time.
This OFFer Expires Shortly! 1
SEND this COUPONS
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept. L, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Enclose Slump to Defrag Postage.)
1


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
“^ ry : is hardly the word > for
A CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
• P? r packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdms, Ltd., Melbourne.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written I
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how lo write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I«C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
k
t/ILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying: and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
*■ Bankers: The Union.
Our Service Department
PQSe * S Set apart or the service of Bulletin
to Se tL V i Ce is ent T ely fr f e - AII you have to do is
Bulletin m hand UP ° n fr ° m the mside back cover of last
mnct T H» aV °* t fi co l nfusion in hling and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
. ri & h J ° f s s lec 'ti°n and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to ell or To Let notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Bookkeeping done and income-tax returns
prepared by Sydney accountant. —540.
Second-hand copy of Beckett’s Racing
Records; price must be well reduced—s 66.
Suggestions for a comic “art” show, such as
two candles representing “Pillars of Greece.”
etc. (To T. W. Ferrington, 74-76 John street,
Singleton, N.S.W.)
To buy x Grafiex roll-film
holder.—sB2.
To buy Hound of the Road, by Mary Gil-
more, and a book of poems by Enid Derham.
—544.
Camera bellows, from old or discarded
quarter-plate or 5 x 4 camera. Need not be
lightproof.—sl7.
Words of monologue in which an Australian
soldier demonstrates that a pack of cards is
his Bible. —557.
Words of poem containing the line “Sweet
music filled his soul and gentleness his heart ”
—513.
Whereabouts of Maria and Sarah Payne, who
came to Australia about 1885. Cousin in M.L.
inquiring.—553.
Information Sought.
Dates and titles of first poems printed in
The Bulletin written by the following
authors: (1) Victor J. Daley, (2) John Farrell,
(3) Banjo” Paterson and (4) Henry Lawson ?
—583.
(1) “In Memoriam—H. W. Longfellow,”
April 1, 1882. (2) “How He Died,” July 21,
1883. (3) “The Bush Fire,” June 12, 1886.
(4) “A Song of the Republic,” October 1, 1887.
* * =l= *
Brief particulars of the life and writings of
(U G. B. Lancaster and (2) Kylie Tennant? —
(1) Edith Lyttleton (pen-name G. B. Lancaster)
was born in Tasmania of pioneer stock; her
grandparents came to Australia in 1830. Her
great-great-grandmother, who was lady-in-
waiting to Marie Antoinette, was guillotined on
the same day as the Queen. Spent her youth
mainly in M.L. on a sheep station, and has
travelled extensively to ensure the strictest
accuracy of her books; her home is now in
England Her first novel, A Spur to Smith,
was published in 1904; other novels include
The Law-bringers (filmed as “The Eternal
Struggle”), Pageant, a historical romance of
Tasmania, The World Is Yours and Promenade.
(2) Kylie Tennant (Mrs. R. C. Rodd), author
of Tiburon, winner 1935 Prior Memorial Prize,
is daughter of T. W. Tennant, Manly (N.S.W.).
Educated Brighton College, Manly, and Sydney
University; asst, publicity officer 2FC (A.8.C.)
1929-30. She is engaged in journalism and
fiction-writing.
* * * *
(1) Could a person able to fly a glider take
a motor-driven ’plane into the air and fly it suc-
cessfully without having had previous experi-
ence in handling power aircraft? (2) Would
a glider pilot have to undergo a very elaborate
course of training before he would be compe-
tent to handle power-driven aircraft? (3) Cost
of such a training course, taking into account
the shorter period of instruction needed owing
to previous training on the glider? (4) Does
the Australian Government issue gliding
licenses? (5) Would the American Stearman-
Hammond all-metal monoplane be granted an
aii wot thiness certificate by the Australian
authorities ? —507.
(1) It is possible but most unlikely that a
person able to fly a glider would be able to
fly a power-driven aircraft without any previous
experience. (2) A competent glider pilot should
be capable of flying a power-driven aeroplane
a ‘ ei^ pproximatel y six to 10 hours’ instruction.
(3) The cost of a course of instruction to be
undertaken by such a glider pilot would be
from £2 10s. to £3 per hour. (4) No. (5) An
approved type certificate has been issued by
* ® ureau °f Air Commerce in respect
ot the Stearman-Hammond all-metal monoplane
Subject to compliance with the Customs (Pro-
hibited Imports) Regulations (Item 1) regard-
ing the importation of foreign aircraft, an Aus-
tralian certificate of airworthiness would be
granted in'respect of an aircraft of this type
* * * *
Average annual rainfall and average annual
hours of sunshine of London, Melbourne
Sydney and Condobolin (N.S.W.) ?— 4OB.
Average Annual Average
Rainfall Annual Hours
T , (inches). of Sunshine.
London 23.80 1469
Melbourne .. .. 25.65 2235
Sydney 47.10 2482
Condobolin .. .. 16.88
Records of hours of sunshine at Condobolin
are not available.
* * * *
/ am an invalid pensioner. - If / won £lOOO
in a lottery could the pension authorities claim
a refund of the money they paid me? —380
The Pensions Department does not now make
any claim on a pensioner’s property or money
unless an overpayment of pension money has
occurred.
* * %
(1) Who was the first free white woman to
f uu ; ' n Australia ? (2) What part did Eliza-
inok w ,'J e J°h' l Macarthur, who landed in
1789 {Second Fleet), play in early Sydney
society ? What books deal with her life and
times ? —512.
(1) Impossible to say that any one free white
woman was the first to land in Australia. In
the First Fleet there were several wives of
marines, and also the wife of the chaplain, the
R e Y- Richard Johnson. It is not on record
which of these was the first to set foot on Aus-
tralian soil. They must be regarded as arriving
simultaneously. (2) See Some Early Records of
the Macarthurs of Camden (Angus and Robert-
son, 1914), which covers Mrs. Macarthur's life
very fully.
* * * *
Some aboriginal names suitable for naming of
motor-launch ? —284.
»„ Y V ngoin ’ Yun §oot, “canoe”; Berale, Benalla,
Marlunk, “musk duck”; Buralyang, Killowill,
‘black duck”; Conargo, Karangi, “duck”;
Connewarre, Goonawarra, Dunedoo, Gunyuck,
Kultoo, “black swan”; Gillbull, “little water-
hen ’; Collendrina, “swirling water”; Dooloo-
mooteal, Baringbah, Millimarn, Yirribin,
swallow”; Koonya, “seagull”; Kumba,
boat”; Waughwee, “nymph of the waves”;
Bermagui, “canoe with paddles”; Kooraloo,
Jswan”; Apalie, “of the water”; Arnurna,
blue waterlily”; Acqaie, “pink waterlily”;
Bigoonbah, “swift”; Bilda, “rings on water”;
Boocarna, “to swim”; Kilkie, Booringal, “black
waterhen”; Bril Bril, “fish resembling white-
bait” ; Boondi, “waves breaking on shore”;
Bernmbillak, “kingfisher.”
* * * *
(1) Name of a Sydney wigmaker? (2) What
type of wig is generally worn by a baldheaded
man? (3) Approximate prices of wigs?— sBs.
Craig and Aitken, Ltd., 654 George-street,
Sydney. (2) In the case of a young man suffer-
ing from baldness all over the head, a full wig
is usual, but if it is a case of baldness only on
top of the head a toupee should suit. This fits
on the bald patch, the hair of the toupee
being brushed into sides and back of the' hair
of the head, giving a natural effect. (3) Full
wig £8 Bs., with hair-lace parting £9 9s. Toupee
£6 65., with hair-lace parting £7 7s.
* * * sic
Information as to the monkey-gland treat-
ment? Is it successful?—2ll.
The so-called “monkey-gland treatment,” an
alleged method of rejuvenating the elderly, first
attracted popular attention about the year 1920
through the work of Voronoff and Steinach.
Results show that there is nothing in it. Old
age cannot be deferred by the transplantation
ot glands, either human or animal, into a
senescent person, nor by any operation upon the
individual himself. Although charlatans have
capitalised public interest by offering elderly
people youthfulness and longevity, the fact
is our tissues are built to run a cycle of about
70 years—2o of growth, 30 of maturity and a
final 20 of decay and degeneration. To attempt
to alter this is to fly in the face of biological
laws.
* * * *
(1) Where can I buy a sleeping bag suit-
able for a man 6ft. high? (2) Cost? (3)
Weight? (4) Are these bags suitable for
cyclists? (5) Are they waterproof? —so2.
(1) From F. A. Pallin, 327 George-street,
Sydney. (2) 48s. (3) 31b. (4) Yes. (5) They
are carried in a waterproof bag measuring 7in.
by 12in. The sleeping bag is not waterproof,
as this would render it unhealthy for sleep-
ing in.
* * * *
Particulars of the Dean murder case?— 963l.
In March, 1895, George Dean, a young
Sydney Harbor ferrymaster, was charged with
administering poison to his wife with intent to
murder, found guilty and sentenced to death —
a sentence later commuted to imprisonment
for life. Strong agitation, owing to a large
body of public opinion being dissatisfied with
the verdict, led to the appointment of a Royal
Commission, which reversed the decision and
ireed Dean, who was granted a free pardon.
Dean’s counsel, R. D. Meagher, of the firm of
Crick and Meagher, was, together with his
partner, a member of Parliament, and a little
later a further sensation was caused when
Julian Salomon made a statement in the House
to the effect that Meagher had informed him
that Dean had admitted his guilt to him
[Meagher], This was emphatically denied by
both Meagher and Dean, the latter making a
statutory declaration to this effect. Later
Meagher resigned his seat. Crick, Meagher
and Dean were charged with conspiracy, and
the last with perjury also; Crick was acquitted,
Meagher found guilty and sentenced, but dis-
charged shortly afterwards, and Dean, who had
withdrawn his confession, sentenced to 14
years’ imprisonment. In after years Meagher
became Lord Mayor of Sydney, and later
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.
* * * *
When and where was Billy Grime born?
Give a short resume of his boxing career, and
state his present whereabouts and occupation?
—442.
Grime was born on April 27, 1902, at Young,
N.S.W., and began boxing at Sydney early in
1920. A somewhat unorthodox boxer, his speed
won for him continuously, and he was feather-,
light- and welterweight champion of Australia
on his departure for the U.S.A. in March, 1927.
Of the 14 fights Grime had in the U.S.A. and
Panama, eight were lost, four drawn and two
won. Since returning to Australia in 1929 up
to the end of 1932 —his last year of boxing—
Grime had 50 fights for 19 wins, 28 losses and
three draws. He was last heard of in Wagga
about three months ago ; employment not stated.
h= * * *
(1) Where and when was Young Griffo born,
and where and when did he die ? (2) What was
Griffo’s real name? (3) Did he ever win the
world’s featherweight championship ? —562.
(1) Born Sofala, N.S.W., on March 21, 1871,
and died in New York City on December 6,
1927. (2) Albert Griffiths. (3) Griffo really
won the world’s featherweight championship
when he defeated Billy Murphy at the Darling-
hurst (N.S.W.) Skating Rink in 1891. Murphy
had knocked out Ike O’Neil Weir in 14 rounds
at San Francisco on January 13, 1890, and was
presented with the Richard K. Fox diamond
belt, emblematic of the world’s featherweight
championship. Murphy still held this belt
when Griffo beat him, but the American authori-
ties refused to recognise Griffo as champion.
* * * *
We are silo-makers, rather disturbed by a
letter from a client who is bothered by water
inside the silo, due, he believes, to condensation
of frost from the rafters. Any method of pre-
venting this ? —426.
Mix sufficient asbestos fibre with hot tar to
make a thick paste and apply while still
hot, with a trowel, on the outside of the
silo cover, about iin. to |in. thick. This will
serve as an insulation against action of frost.
Alternatively, insulate the inside of the cover
with a coconut fibre or similar type of very
absorbent lining board. This should retard the
condensation, and also absorb any moisture
which may drip from the iron. Either of these
treatments may prove effective, but it is a matter
for experiment.
* * * *
How are mirrors made? —4B2.
Ordinary glass mirrors are made by depositing
silver upon plate glass by means of a solu-
tion of silver nitrate and ammonia to which
a reducing agent has been added. Dissolve
lOgrm. “of silver nitrate in 80 c.c. of water, and
add ammonia very carefully until the precipi-
tate at first formed is nearly dissolved; make up
to 960 c.c. Make a second solution of lOgrm.
of silver nitrate in 80 c.c. of water, and pour
this into a vigorously-boiling solution of Bgrm.
of Rochelle salt in 3840 c.c. of water; allow
to cool and filter. For use, take equal volumes
of the two solutions, mix them, and immediately
flood the clean glass with the mixture. Silver
will be deposited on it in the form of a brilliant
mirror. The silver coating thus produced is
protected by shellac varnish, the surface next
to the glass being used for reflection.
* * * *
Directions for tarring rope with Stockholm
tar ? —477.
Heat the tar in a tub and when hot apply
by running the rope slowly through the tub.
Rope that has been tarred after manufacture is
not as satisfactory as rope that has been tarred
during the process of manufacture, where the tar
impregnates each individual yarn instead of
merely covering the outer surface.
* * * *
(1) What were the match and Test figures of
the 1905-06 “All Blacks” (M.L.) in U.K. and
France? (2) How many points did W. J. Wal-
lace score on that tour? —108.
(1) “All Blacks” won 32 matches and lost 1,
scoring 868 points against 47. In the Tests they
defeated Scotland 12 to 7, Ireland 15 to nil,
England 15 to nil, France 38 to 8, but lost to
Wales 3 to nil. (2) Wallace scored 227 points
—22 tries, 72 converted goals, three penalty
goals and two field goals.
* * * *
What is the Rugby Union rule concerning
misconduct or foul play? Is the referee en-
titled to stand offending players on the sideline
for such infringements? —3s9.
Law 34 says: “The referee shall award a
penalty kick at the place of infringement, and
at the first offence shall either caution the player
or order him off the playing enclosure. For
the second offence he must be ordered off ” It
is the privilege used by the referee, but there
is no R.U. law to support it. Certainly in
many cases Ihe “standing on the line” is suffi-
cient admonition.
* * * *
(1) What were the figures and scorers in the
Rugby Union Test matches between Australia
and M.L. in 1936? (2) Who were the captains
and in what positions did they play? —346
(1) Maoriland won the first Test by 11 points
to 6; scorers were Hart, Watt, Hadley (tries),
Pollock (goal) for M.L., and McLaughlin (try),
Rankin (penalty goal) for Australia. The
second Test also went to M.L. by 38 to 13 •
-scorers were Mitchell 2, Hart 2, Reid 2, Rankin
Watt (tries), Pollock (4 goals and a penalty
goal) for M.L., and McLaughlin, Bridle (tries),
Rankin (2 goals and a penalty goal) for Aus-
tralia. (2) R. Walden (forward) captained Aus-
tralia in both matches; and Griffiths (five-
eight) led M.L. in both victories.
* * * *
(1) Which Maoriland Rugby Union team has
the best tour record in Australia ? (2) Names of
players in that team? (3) Result of the Test
match v. Australia on that tour?— 33s.
(1) The 1903 team which played 10 matches
without defeat and scored 276 points to 13.
(2) Wallace (full-back), Asher, R. McGregorj
D. McGregor, Stalker (three-quarters), Wood,
Stead, Duncan (five-eights), Kiernan, Humphries
(half-backs), Armstrong, H. Porteus (wing-
forwards), Gallaher, Long, Nicholson, Tyler,
McMinn, Udy, Spencer, Fanning, Given and
Cooke (forwards). (3) M.L. won the Test by
22 points to 3.
* * * t
(1) Prior to present series, what are the results
of M.L. R.U. matches v. Australia and N.S.W.,
and where played? (2) In what year was the
drawn game played without score? —slo.
(1) Against Australia M.L. has played 25
matches, won 16, lost 7, drawn 2, scoring 391
points against 226; 18 matches were played in
Australia, 7 in M.L. . Against N.S.W., 51
matches have been played, M.L. winning 39,
N.S.W. 10, drawn 2; 41 games were played
in Sydney and 10 in M.L. (2) At Sydney
Cricket Ground, June 29, 1929.
What were Spofforth’s bowling figures with
Australian Elevens in England? 497.
1878 Over S . Maidens. Runs. Wickets. Aver.
* 878 • • 1705 644 2675 357 1 49
1880 .. 1559.3 669 2018 39 516
1882 .. 1594.3 699 2282 188 12 13
1884 .. 1586 656 2642 216 223
1886 .. 929.3 371 1527 89 17.15
Brief Answers.
A is I ° okin e at a Portrait of his son.
•.. .M.M.K.: Canvas manufacturers of simi-
lar preparations who may be interested in
yours..; .T.C.8.: (1) Drawings intended for
publication in a newspaper are always drawn
several times larger than the size they will
occupy in print. (2) Draw on Bristol board
or any good-quality paper with Indian ink...
A. 8.: Much depends on the quality of the
leather and the make of the boot \ no process
will improve a poorly-made article. Dry the
boots thoroughly, brush clean and paint well
with several coats of neatsfoot oil; if the boots
are new, do this before wearing. Repeat the
process now and again when the leather appears
to have become too dry S.G.: Symptoms
point to a severe infestation of scale or aphis.
The most likely species to affect vines is the
vine scale (Lecanium cymbiform). This may
be successfully controlled by spraying the vines
in the winter months with lime sulphur at the
rate of one part to twenty parts of water. All
infested prunings should be burnt H.C.: “The
Shepherd Kings of Canterbury” and the “By
Rail and Semaphore” series of short stories
which appeared in The Bulletin about 30
years ago were written by the late C. A. Jef-
feries. They have not appeared in book form.
J.M.: Write District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff L.P.: The
Bible: Designed to Be Read as Literature, pub-
lished by William Heinemann, London; obtain-
able leading booksellers H.M.P.: The
initials “F.C.1.5.” stand for Fellow of the Char-
tered Institute of Secretaries P.G.8.: Infor-
mation may be obtainable by writing to the
Agricultural Departments in the various States.
. ...G.W.: George Wallace acts under his
own name. He was born at Brisbane
V.M.R.: (1) There are two Queensland Gov-
ernment depts. issuing engineers’ certificates;
the Queensland Marine Board issues marine
engineers’ certificates of local validity only,
and the Queensland Machinery Dept, issues
various steam, Diesel and gas certificates for
stationary, portable or winding engines and for
refrigerating plants for land purposes only. (2)
You do not indicate the certificates held by
you, but it would appear they are for land
machinery only and do not entitle you to take
charge of machinery on a coastal vessel. (3)
Apply either to the Harbor Master, Cairns, or
to the secretary, Queensland Marine Board,
Edward-street, Brisbane H.V.8.: Lord
Wakehurst was a Conservative M.P. for East
Leicester in the House of Commons from 1924
to 1929 R.G.L.: Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Syd-
ney... .F.H.M.: (1) There are no second, bids
in five hundred. A bid once made must stand,
both as to number of tricks and suit. If you
play the auction principle, the bridge rule that
a bid cannot be increased if there is no inter-
vening bid should naturally apply. (2) In
mlsere (properly nullo, in five hundred), as in
no-trump, the holder of the joker is not bound
to play it if he cannot follow suit. He plays
it when he pleases R.R.W.: Difficult to
obtain averages owing to difference in fleece
weights of rams and ewes and the fact that
many British-breed rams are shorn twice a
year. Following values are based on present
market levels, but these fluctuate considerably:
Border-Leicester, 9-121 b. (rams heavier), fleece
value ss. to 75.; Dorset Horn, about 61b.,
3s. 6d.; Southdown, about 41b., 35.; Suffolk,
41b. to 51b., 3s. 6d J.K.: Write Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney
R.H.D.: Platinum alloy scrap is bought by
Garrett and Davidson, Ltd., Regent-street, and
Harringtons, Ltd., 383 George-street—both
Sydney. Price paid depends on the actual
platinum content of the alloy and ruling price
of platinum, and is generally about £7 per
ounce. The refining process is complicated,
involving chemical treatment followed by smelt-
ing C.8.W.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) It is not
uniform in all respects in all the States, as each
State attaches its own conditions. These varia-
tions do not, however, affect the essential prin-
ciple. (4) In some States, yes, but not in
N. S. Wales... .C.M.: Henry Kendall was liv-
ing in Swan-street, Richmond, Melbourne, when
his infant daughter Araluen died on February
2, 1870. He had at that time reached a stage
of deep poverty, his migration to the southern
capital the previous year having been an un-
fortunate one, and the child was buried in the
“poor” section —then known as “No Man’s
Land” —of Melbourne General Cemetery, in
the north-east corner, near the corner of
Lygon and Macpherson streets. In recent
years a headstone has been erected over the
grave by the Australian Literature Society.
Araluen had been named after the N.S.W.
stream of that name F.P.: The nearest
seems to be Murrumbung—also given as
“good” or “pretty”—or Murrumbegah, mean-
ing “river”; Murrum is given as “water,” or
alternatively “good.” There is also Murribullen,
“to burn.” Bulkira or Bulkara means “mountain,”
Bulka meaning “back” —of hand or body—or
“hill” A.A.: (1) During the year ended June,
1938, the quantity of matches upon which excise
duty was paid (local production) amounted to
3,260,806 gross of boxes. (2) Imports totalled
66,021 gross of boxes. (3) Exports totalled
15,122 gross of boxes J.P.L.: The Invalid
and Old-age Pensions Act provides that a pen-
sioner’s income, including pension, shall not ex-
ceed £B4 10s. p.a. It also provides that in the
case of husband and wife, except where they
are living apart pursuant to any decree, judg-
ment, order or deed of separation, the income
of each shall be deemed to be half the com-
bined income of both. If the husband is em-
ployed at the rate of 30s. per week and keep
and the wife is receiving the pension, provided
neither the husband nor wife has any other
income and property, a pension at the rate
of £29 ss. per annum (11s. 3d. per week)
would be payable.


«Mu
■lf
mm
H
"PULL ~
the Rubber
Band to
Open. J
All in the patent
Everfresh 2~oz. tins at 2f6.
Don’t think of changing
If you have found a Tobacco
which takes the place of true and
trusted friends, and sometimes (if
need be) even of food or drink —
be thankful ♦ ♦ ♦ don't think of
changing*
But, if you are still seeking such
a Tobacco, one that you want to
discover for yourself and forever
after cleave to ♦ . ♦ try one of the
cheery, chummy, fully satisfying
Barney blends*
There are three: Punchbowle,
a full strength Barneys; Barneys,
the ideal medium strength; and
Parson’s Pleasure, the mild blend*
All are equally good, differing
only in strength to suit the palate
of the discerning pipe smoker*
oAt all good tobacconists . . . ask for
Jftartiejjs
The Ideal Tobacco
v\m
A MIXED GRILL.
“Kaloa”: Whatever its drawbacks
there are some things in which New
Guinea can lick Australia hollow. The
Administration’s report last year says
naively that “the supply or sale of liquor
to natives is prohibited.” But it isn t pro-
hibited to whites, as witness the fact that
to serve a population of under 6000, of
all ages, including 1525 Chinese, 1812
females and 700 missionaries, 148,000
gallons of beer, ale, stout and cider,
11,000 gallons of spirits and 15,000-odd
gallons of wine were imported. Beer im-
ports alone worked out at 24 gallons a
head, infants in arms and missionaries
included, and the spirit duty amounted to
over £6 per head.
* j;-. # *
Dead in England, W. B. Maxwell,
formerly chairman of the Society of
Authors. Maxwell, who began writing
in 1901, interrupted his output to serve
with the Royal Fusiliers during the war,
yet produced over 40 books, many of
serial vintage and mainly based on the
study of human character. Privately, he
was a kindly fellow, as many wandering
young Australians had good reason to
know.
* *
Though Melbourne-born, J. B. Cond-
liffe is better known in Maoriland and
England than in Australia. Now a com-
merce professor at London University—he
was a Canterbury College (M.L.) student
and 'had three years’ war service as an
N.Z.E.F. man, returning to the Christ-
church university as its economics prof.—
he recently warned the Empire Summer
School at Cambridge that it would
be “unwise to open Pacific areas
to the indiscriminate and uncontrolled
movements of the people of Asia.”
Maoriland schoolchildren are familiar
with Condliffe’s Short History of New
Zealand. He’s not yet 47.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Reference to the “crowning”
of that statue at Oxford (B. 3/ 8/ ’3B)
reminds me that Cunnamulla (Q.) had a
similar experience. It was the end of
race-week, and some of the boys, taking
advantage of the attendance of most of
the population at a wind-up ball, sneaked
alt the earthenware out of the numerous
bedrooms in Christy Miller’s pub and
hung it on a flagstaff. The halyards
were rove through all the handles of the
jars and the whole hauled chock-a-block
to the truck, Then someone climbed up
the staff, made the halyards fast close
below the truck, and cut the loose ends
away. Next morning the china waved,
clanking, in the breeze, and every
now and then a handle gave up
the ghost and spectators were covered
with bursts of china shrapnel. A pub
handyman, still bemused with last night’s
rum, was hauled out, given a tomahawk
and told to climb the staff and cut the
halyard. This he did, with the result that
the whole collection fell on him, bore
him to the ground and covered him deep
in shards.
* * * *
“Bovril”: Tell “Bufo” (B. 20/7/’3B)
that Epsom salts won’t stop silverfish
from troubling. Tested it by keeping a
few in a glass bowl for some days re-
cently and limiting them to an E.S. diet.
So far from curling up they appeared
to be delighted.
* * f i-
Britain has an oil-from-coal turnout,
Low Temperature Carbonisation, that
on paid capital of £1,601,250 has paid
a 4 p.c. dividend. It seems, however, that
profits largely depend on the marketing
of a by-product fuel called “Coalite,”
probably one of the many smokeless fuels.
With the low-temperature carbonisation
process, which always leaves a big
residue of by-products, commercial suc-
cess hangs on the marketing of such
residue. The more expensive hydro-
genation process aims at producing a
maximum of petrol and a minimum of
by-products by adding hydrogen to the
oil elements already in the coal. But
hydrogenation calls for an enormous
capital outlay—witness the 1.C.1. works
at Billingham—and the petrol is still ex-
pensive.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.B.: Padlocked our doors against that pair
of petty crooks.... .J.D.: Dead... .D.W.H.:
Too fragmentary... .A.E.W.: Found mine-
murder yarn confusing and crude... .C.W.C.:
A paragraph beaten out to a thin story....
J.W.: Too morbid, and the threads are tied
badly. ...D.H.G.: Send it to a flappers’
weekly D.E.C.C.: Suspense very labored,
and '.he end was visible pages ahead....
T.W.N.: Faintly amusing... .L.M.R.: Central
character not well enough presented... .O.T.W. :
Detected hero as being a copper quite early in
the story S.W.: The mixing was inexpertly
done W.O’M.: Coincidences, perhaps, but
D.G.A.: Not here T.L.M.: Couldn’t
stand “the deadly dull monotony, the inces-
sant pattering”... .B.C.: You’ve an old one
there M.M.: Can’t hide your convict here.
... .C.H.B.: You’re roaming round Con Drew’s
paddock E.G.R.: Those gum-chewing pool
players have wandered a long way from home.
S.H.M.: Not for us “the unequalled de-
light of playing with Death”... .H.H.G.:
Nearly, but it doesn’t stick... .B.W.Q.: So your
friends tell you you should be making a for-
tune from writing your reminiscences. We’ve
heard that tale before J.H.: Can’t pay for
“Flossie’s Little Foray”... .C.J.L.: You haven’t
improved it....A.P.: Couldn’t see through
our tears to find how it finished... .J.C.C.:
Another borderliner with nothing outstanding
enough to carry it over....J.M.: Now wasn’t
that nice? R.A.I.: Then what? W.T.L.:
Resigned to your threat that you’ll be sending
us “another dozen or so in the same manner.”
W.A.H.: No cheque for con. man
W.M.M.: A wise exit M.L.L.: Excellent—
for a woman’s paper... .E.B.: Likewise....
D.R.B.: Not “warbly,” wobbly R.B.H.:
Outed E.L.M.: “Quite gay” and “quite
ugly” keep it quite gay and quite im-
possible C.W.G.: Alas, “lingering with
the Muse alway” is a delight that’s out
of fashion... .L.R.L.: Even if builder
rhymes with “blinkin’ old ’llda, name ana
“brain” won’t d0....G.R.: Distrust l?w
breezes,” especially when they ‘ whisper in-
dolent fun” P.V.: Acute perception, any-
how—“‘Write! ’ they said. ‘Why?’ sez I.
A.E.L.: It might make a song, but its
heartrending verse... .D.C.C.: A faint, sad
smile... .A.M.M.: “Love’s dart, eh? And
did the old tramp skip like Pan down the
Mudgee-road? ... .C.F.R.: That opening coup et
is likely to be misconstrued H.K.: Take
away that bauble... .N.O.McK.: But they re
not Limericks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.T.M.: Stork Derby cartoon didn’t finish
the course... .A.J.: We laughed at that 35
years ago... .L.P. \ So frail we re returning
them packed in cotton-wool D.R.: Figures
badly formed, and you know nothing of per-
spective A.T.: Might have passed with a
stronger gag....H.8.: Youngster shows ability
at copying, but we want original work.
V.J.: That joke’s had its day E.F.:
Call and collect those angular monstrosities.
RJ.: Lock beat you to that idea months
ago W.H.H.: Yes, we are always prepared
to consider original gags apart from drawings.
H.S.-J.: You might as well have turned
in some little thing you dashed off on a tram
ticket M.F.: Can’t see you squeezing out any
of our regular contributors 8.P.: That chest-
nut is always a sure sign of the near approach
of spring E. 8.: Apart from giving the gent.
two right hands, a head twice the normal size
and stovepipes for legs you haven’t done so
badly 0.L.: One of the best remembered
of “Hop’s” “The Heathen in His Blindness”
series T.T.: The pattern of the border is
its best feature J.M.: Good idea, but you
failed to bring it out N.J.: Heard it over
the air 36 hours before receiving your sketch.
L.S.: It’s not encouragement you need.
P.D.S.: After counting 17 queer little men
carrying banners with undecipherable inscrip-
tions we threw in the towel... .R.J.8.: Quite
promising for a youngster—a few years’ lessons
should do the trick 8.J.: Dynamite picture
much too grisly for our taste W.J.C.:
Among the non-starters R.K.: Full of
errors.
“D.B.K.”: Have just finished reading
Pastor Niemoller’s U-Boat to Pulpit,
wherein he describes (from memory)
his Mediterranean war service as
watch-keeping officer on U73. Niemol-
ler relates an attack in the Gulf of
Orfano off the Macedonian coast as
being on an early morning in 1916.
“The periscope was raised, and a
quick examination showed a British
cruiser, a monitor with large tripod mast,
and sundry small craft in the harbor.
Hutments and aircraft hangars could be
seen near the shore.” They got the
cruise# with a torpedo, dived, and made
cut to sea, heavily shelled. My war
diary relates this episode, as I was
stationed at the R.N.A.S. squadron at
Stavros at the time. The date was
August 30, 1918: —
Extra-hot day customary swim and
few of us disporting in 4ft. of water over
sandbank in bay when terrific explosion
startles us. Steel plates career skywards
from port side of H.M.S. Endymion. She
slowly heels over as blister hull fills.
Monitor Abercrombie opens fire with 9.5’s
at point near our sandbank. Just catch
sight of periscope as sub. dives off out to
sea. Beat my own record in dash for shore.
Niemoller evidently never heard what
happened to his second torpedo. Fired
at Abercrombie, it finished up on the
beach outside the Y.M.C.A. marquee
without exploding, and the sight of
khaki vanishing in all directions to the
clatter of crockery must have been
funny. To get into Stavros harbor at
that time the sub. would have to dive
under a heavily-mined boom defence.
Niemoller and his compatriots deserved
to get away for their sheer nerve.


Perfected
bu the
MELLOW HAND OF TIME
IF age in whisky means anything to you (and
it must if you appreciate a really fine spirit)
you’ll be delighted to make the acquaintance
of Old Court First Quality.
It’s a great whisky. Every drop has been aged
in oak from 8 to 12 years—blended with care
and skill to produce a finer whisky than you
ever thought possible at the price.
Old Court
FIRST QUALITY
AUSTRALIA'S OLDEST, FINEST, SMOOTHEST WHISKY
mm
f ' ”
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service,
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD,
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
XXIV.
The Turks had been driven out of
Palestine and Syria. Bulgaria had
cracked up. Austrians, Hungarians,
Croats and Bosnians, beaten at Vittoria
Veneto, were going home as fast as few
trains and many legs would carry them.
The German lines still held, but the
German people’s resolution had been
shaken by the crumbling of the southern
front, the defeats in the west, the Four-
teen Points, Northcliffe’s propaganda,
and fond thoughts of square meals. And
the Hohenzollerns were preparing to cut
and run.
“It’s the last lap,” said Mr. Minogue.
“Terry, I want you to go to the West
again and fix up a few fights between
some of the boys that’s bobbin’ up
there. The soldiers’ll be cornin’ back,
and they’ll be blue-mouldy for lack of
opportunities of seein’ other fellows
gettin’ walloped. They and their
friends’ll rush any sort of boxin’ that’s
served up to them.”
Mr. Minogue’s calculations proved to
be wrong, for nearly all the soldiers
returned intent on quiet family reunions,
jobs and recreations of a wholly peace-
ful character. But thus it was that Terry
found himself in Perth on Armistice
p a
J; „ .
Fellow-passers ,n the steamer that
voyaged to Fremantle were the members
of a French mission which had been
sent to Australia to stimulate recruiting,
rhe leader was a little old one-armed
bushy-moustached general, a veteran of
870 who had shared the misfortunes of
Joffre s first offensive, and had been
spared the punishment meted out to
Lanaerac and a score of other v.ctims
Of mistaken strategy.
General Pau had little English, but the
female passengers voted him thrilling.
The word had gone round that he
methodically kissed the hand of every
lady introduced to him, and he was
called upon to perform that ceremony
so often that, as a scornful steward put
it the first day out from Port Adelaide,
“Blime, there isn’t a skirt on board whose
paw hasn’t been mugged by the ole pot.”
Only the consequences of a bad night
in the Bight saved the gallant ancient
from having to do it all over again.
One of the general’s companions did
not share his popularity,
Youngest and tallest of the missioners
—though they were all small men—this
gentleman sported a black pointed beard
and spoke pretty good English, and he had
a voice that carried. So all the habitues
of the smoking-room heard him hold
forth one night on the marvellous
material prosperity that peace would
bring to France—the tremendous expan-
sion in trade and commerce that would
begin immediately, especially as tourists
would throng from every allied country
1° see tb e battlefields, and the dizzy
wealth that would descend on concerns
like the Comite des Forges when the ruin
of industrial Germany had been accom-
plished.
“What about labor?” someone said,
“Poof!” the missioner replied. “Labor
be attended to. There vi 11 be plenty,
m friend, and cheap—ah. So many
m| H lo n s poilus will be discharged
lbe Republic that ve
sball be able ’ as Y™ t 0 P lck a « d
c h° ose - Hon-e.« and competent vork-
men vill be glad to take employment
for five or six francs a day.”
.. wha ,, s f , A b ’ b isn . ( it? „
„ A bob , Yo ’ mean vun
shiui , ’ N J sir; \ franc is _ kt rac
Vpenny in your money.”
„ c „.* £ pf ve > are flf ,
f and two £ ence . Follr and twope Le
d f engine-drivers and liiters!
q oc j almiehtv! ”
Conscio g s y that , he temperature had
d d suddenly> the gentleman fingered
his beard and said if was time for him
to r e ti re to his cdb-in
In Perth Terry met Father Lahey, the
fighting padre of one of the original
A.I.F. battalions. Father Lahey was
from Wicklow: a determined-looking
man of athletic build, reticent among
strangers, but voted excellent company
by his friends.
"What do you think of him?” asked
Peter Best, the sporting reporter who
had introduced them at a Barrack-street
corner, when Father Lahey was out of
hearing.
“Looks a fighter from Fightville,” said
Terry.
“That’s just what he is. He'll never
tell you what he did on that first day
“Switch it on when I say Right' —
I'm goin' to patent it if it
Works."
in Gallipoli, but the Diggers will. When
his unit had lost all its officers he took
command. ‘Follow me, byes,’ he said,
and when they were rushing at the
Turks he shouted ‘lmshallah, you black
bastards’ louder than any of them.”
Lance-Corporal Muldoon, V.C., had
returned from France that week, and him
also Terry met. The lance-corporal was
a solid block of a man with a broad
humorous face who had come from
the bush beyond Kalgoorlie and was
“breakin’ me neck to get back to it,”
he told Terry. He had won the V.C.
for fierce bayonet work, and he had
been made so much of in Perth that,
wilting under the strain of delivering
platform speeches, he had felt obliged
to mention that Perth was overdoing it.
He said to a mixed audience, “This
is the tenth bl — bloomin’ speech I’ve
made to-day. Wish to God they’d given
the V.C. to somebody else!”
In anticipation of the German sur-
render, there was an improvised proces-
sion through the streets of Perth on the
afternoon of November 10—bands, re-
turned soldiers, trainees and rejected
volunteers, the last proudly sporting their
badges.
Terry watched it from a hotel balcony
which projected so far from the brick-
work into the narrow street that liquid
refreshment could have been passed
down to the marchers on the end of a
crooked stick.
After one of the bands came a tall,
elderly priest, who was followed at a
respectful distance by three stout,
middle-aged men carrying pipes. They
were blowing energetically into their in-
struments, but the sounds that issued
therefrom, if any, were drowned by the
brazen music ahead.
“It’s Father Cowling and his Irish
pipe band,” someone said.
“Three pipers!” said Terry with a
grin.
“Oh, but there were a lot more four
years ago,” he was told. “Father Cowling
sent all the rest to the war.”
“He’s a great old sport,” another by-
stander said. “Saw him at the races
one day when he was having a bad
trot. The horse he backed in ‘the last’
to get square ran second, and there was
a protest, and we waited for them to put
the flags up —green over yellow, protest
dismissed ; yellow over green, protest up-
held. ‘Bless me soul,’ I heard the
Father say, ‘I never thought a day’d
come when I'd want to see that yellow
flag on top.’ ”
“Hooray for Cowling!” The cry came
from another priest who was standing on
the balcony—Father Maloney, they said.
Father Cowling must have heard, but
all he did was to look round at his pipers
and beckon them to come closer.
Diggers marched by. The crowd
seemed strangely apathetic — there was
a little handclapping, but shouting there
was none.
“Hooray for the byes!” cried Father
Maloney, putting his hands together vigor-
ously at the same time. “Cheer thim,
why don’t ye? I niver saw such a
tor-rpid lot in me loife. Good on ye,
byes, and God bless ye! Cheer thim,
people—is it dead men ye are?”
At this there was audible marvelling
on the balcony, for Father Maloney was
said to be “a bit of a Sinn Feiner.”
The enthusiasm that had been re-
pressed on November 10 overflowed on
November 11. No business was done
that day, and at night all Perth surged
into the streets, where sounds of revelry
were heard everywhere.
At an open window in St. George’s-
terrace little General Pau bowed to the
people as they frolicked by. A choir
serenaded him, singing “D’ye Ken John
Peel?” spiritedly, victoriously.
A message was carried to the con-
ductor, a tall pale man, that General
Pau would like the choir to sing it again.
“Ah, ’ow Eengleesh! ” said the general
of France when the last strains of the
old hunting ditty had died away. “Scot-
teesh, you say? Ah, eet does not mattaire
—zey are ze zame zings.”
(To be continued.)


WIFE WHO WAS
CROSS AND TOUCHY
Put Herself Right with
Kruschen.
“I am 39 years of age,” a woman writes,
“Yet some days I have been feeling and look-
ing 100 years old. I would get fits of exhaus-
tion for no good reason at all. I was not fit to
live with because I would be so cross and
touchy. I did not seem to have any ambition
to do my housework, and I was tired all the
time.
“Two years ago I had sciatica all down my
left side from the hip. My doctor says all this
is caused through my nerves. I took Kruschen
and found it helped me very much. Since I
started taking it I am a different person. I am
beginning to find life is worth living. My
work seems a lot easier and I have a lot more
energy.”—(Mrs.) G.M.
The “little daily dose” of Kruschen puts an
end to tiredness and depression, because it
restores the eliminating organs to proper
activity by providing them with the daily re-
minder and daily aid that they require. Cleansed
and invigorated blood is sent circulating all
over the system, carrying new vitality to every
nerve and new vigour to every limb.
HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
& CO. LID.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
s
MM
m
m
m
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
A WHISKY WITH
MANY QUALITIES
&
Bv Appointment
tzw,
"Wa
■u
, *"S <MH«S*V **
ft. m ‘ ARST^CTH)
"'ellowr,
’"<% Of ,T- <°ttne, s
° nl V On S VC'A- , SS
Bn-tU n d!st! "*d o !
;; : 0 d : *•
SCer "inQ „ ; °PPeai ,
Co no ,- 9 Po/ ote. to th e
b ptt, ed ° n ci ub
oZ: >
c osk s . years Q ,. be ' n 9
AI *hou g h , ° Qt
r C °*ts n Q ° Pre 'W 0 ,
COfc/l bro T*'* **On s, ngth
Is it * ° nd '- For
Une 9u Q H ed e coc*.
'*°hn vv^
386 OS.* V'*.
I,e6 t Sy* e „
Whisky
(M
DUtilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd.,
Walkerville. Ontario, Canada.
Since 1858.
Everest Uprooted
r IT this evening’s service in the Rush-
cutter Bay temple Arjan Das (17st.
( I 51b.) looks even more Everestine
1 than when previously inspected. By
comparison Ray Steele (16st. 21b.) looks
merely like the lump they lifted out to
make the Grand Canyon.
Ray, this evening, has on red woollen
tights, with leather kneepads. He tells the
microphone that the match is not of his
seeking, but he will do his best. He had
earlier been credited in the press with
declaring that “these Indians eat a large
amount of butter, which makes them slip-
pery as the wrestle proceeds.” The
amount of butter allegedly consumed by
Arjan had been put at 41b. a day. ' He
“Shay, boss, wantin' any shkilled labor?”
certainly looks well nourished, im-
patiently bracing forward with the full
power of the overhead lights now bur-
nishing his copper pelt.
Ref. Norman has them into the centre
of the ring, feeling them over to see that
no blocks of granite, grand pianos and
suchlike are concealed under their arm-
pits. After feeling down Arjan’s calves
he sniffs his hands thoughtfully, what
time Steele’s expression registers, “Well,
what did I tell you —butter! ” Mr.
Norman then delivers his set piece of
sailing directions, with Steele wearing the
bored look of one who knows them back-
wards already, and Arjan’s expression in-
dicating that as far as he’s concerned it’s
all as clear as mud.
This ritual over, they go back to their
corners, turn and forthwith surge into
action with the grace and dignity of a
couple of battering rams. The struggle
is on.
Very shortly Arjan has Steele in the
sort of head-grip a lumper gets on a
sack of maize. He backs Steele into the
ropes, half-turns, heaves stupendously
and throws. Well named the Giant
Throw, this prodigious effort sends Steele
flat on his back more than half-way
across the ring, bouncing 2ft. into the
air and bouncing a couple more times
before he stops. Up again, Steele exe-
cutes a delicate gavotte which makes the
whole arena shake like a jelly, after
which he lets loose a forearm jolt that
takes Arjan full in the brisket and lifts
even that Himalayan bulk a full foot
off the canvas. Arjan responds in kind,
bringing a grunt out of Steele that makes
the place feel draughty. On these lines,
with mountainous grappling on the way,
they strain and struggle through the
round, which closes very much in favor
of Arjan.
The next closes suddenly in favor of
Steele. Wading in with the vim of one
inspired to forestall any impending
avalanche of butter, he trips up Arjan
and holds him pinned with a remarkable
leg-grip, bending the member sideways
and up over the floored Arjan’s brisket,
at once a notable feat of strong-man stuff
and a neat bit of wrestling.
It’s a deeply-dejected lump of India
that now plods back to the corner, and
all through the next round he s still
clearly not himself. He looks chastened
and discouraged, as if, after such an m-
dignity, he’d never be able to hold up
his head in Karachi again,
After this round, obviously feeling
that he has a grievance against some-
body, Arjan goes over to the ref. and
seeks to impress something or other on
him; gesticulating; getting a grip of
Mr. Norman’s hair in both hands and
shaking Mr. Norman’s top-piece. Steele,
clearly satisfied to see the feeling of
grievance transferred to somebody else,
sits hunched under his dressing-robe,
grinning discreetly.
Even through the succeeding round
Arjan doesn’t recover his mana, though
he has much the better of the round, in-
cluding an application of the Indian
deathlock, which, most overrated of all
grappling holds, for once looks perilous.
Under it Steele, as Mr. Stevens would say,
enjoys a thoroughly bad time, threshing
about like a harpooned porpoise and
grunting like a netted gorilla. Arjan’s
mana rises a bit at this, but it takes an
incidental occurrence to bring it right
to its top again.
In the course of some grappling on
the mat, a boot shoots out and catches
ref. Norman at the side of the right eye,
setting a stream of blood coursing down
his cheek. This flow goes on for nearly
half the round, with Mr. Norman’s face
looking a worse and worse result, but it
isn’t until Arjan is back in his corner
for nearly a minute, still apparently de-
pressed by his grievance, that he happens
to look across to where Mr. Norman is
resting.
The change in Arjan’s demeanor is
nothing short of miraculous. He beams,
he laughs, he clenches his fist and
holds it aloft happily; indicates to all
present that perhaps it was that noble
implement that did it! He is trans-
ported into a seventh heaven of joy. He
dances a monumental fandango about his
corner, bends over the ropes and shouts
the glad tidings down to his interpreter.
This will be a legend in Delhi. The
Ganges will chuckle on it down to the
delta. Mountain goats will pass it on
from precipice to precipice ; the sacred
monkeys will chatter it over till dooms-
day.
On the crest of its inspiration, out
now barges Arjan to grapple with the
enemy. Whoosh, whang, wallop, crash!
Whack! The floorboards holding, Steele
is securely pinned. The ref. having patted
him on the back, Arjan leaps 4ft. into
the air, unwitting that already the train
is laid that will lead to his uprooting
and undoing.
It happens in the next round, when,
still on the crest of his exultation, Arjan
is giving the enemy a choice issue of
finest Indian curry. He has Steele as
good as pinned, when Steele resorts to
one of the most hackneyed tricks in the
game, giving Arjan those three ref. pats
on the back which not a minute ago had
been genuine. Overjoyed, Arjan in-
stantly leaps heavenward, and in a
twinkling the astute Steele has him,
tripped, down and pinned —as it must
seem to Arjan, at the very bottom of the
Well of Iniquity.
And now there’s the devil and all to
pay. It’s Arjan and Steele and Arjan’s
interpreter and Steele’s bottleholder all
going for their lives in a grand scrim-
mage. They capture Arjan at last —an
infuriated and a flabbergasted Arjan,
who, with his dressing-gown crumpled
up in one hand like a pocket-handker-
chief, now bounds down out of the ring
to where a detachment of police have
gathered to give him, or somebody, the
benefit of their protective escort.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
i “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Enthralling Serial.
Delightful Short Stories.
Kitchen Craft and
Tested Recipes.
Mothercraft Service.
Patterns in Color and
How to Make Them.
Between Ourselves
Women Writers Ex-
press Opinions.
Published Weekly- Price 3d.
"The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
TENNANT CREEK
Tennant creek (N.t.) is about
1160 miles north of Adelaide —fur-
ther from other capitals—but even
at that distance, or because of it,
many hopeful but careless fingers have
been burned.
The field was known to be auriferous
nearly 40 years ago ; in 1933 it really
boomed. Rich ore was found about a
mile from the present township, and
with its discovery elastic vision con-
siderably magnified the possibilities of
the field ; the public rushed in with its
ears back.
But speculative hopes were quickly
dashed. The capacity of the field had
been considerably overestimated, and
matters were not improved when the ore-
bodies seemed to turn deliberately can-
tankerous and erratic. So the horse kicked
once and went down, and the very sec-
tion that had ridden it to breaking point
classed it an outlaw and pretty near
stamped it to extinction.
The field is- climbing to its feet again
and proving, mainly by pick and shovel,
that figures are the best argument. Here
is the output of several mines since their
commencement until June 30, 1938:
Tons. Ounces.
Black Angel 470 395
Moonlight Rockhole (alluvial) 250
Great Western 378 169
Queen of Sheba 154 153
Mount Samuel 992 2,782
Westward Ho 300 611
Eldorado 10,129 5,107
Hammerjack 1,047
Wheal Doria 292 943
Rising Sun 6,268 5,838
Enterprise 210 212
Lone Star Hill 2,484 1,988
Black Cat 674 388
Blue Moon 248 271
Burnt Shirt 644 1,162
Two Blues 414 607
Golden Mile 124 112
Kathleen 324 263
Leichhardt 318 322
Northern Star 478 497
Pinnacles 863 890
Total production to the time of writing
is 33,659.35 tons of ore for 30,038.27
ounces. Not an imposing figure beside
a year’s production of even one large
Westralian mine, but only a few shows
have been worked to a depth of 100 ft.
and fewer to 200 ft. Most have- been
worked intermittently during the past
four or five years by prospectors who
have been handicapped by heavy carting
expenses, water shortage, unsatisfactory
and inconveniently - located treatment
plants, lack of ready cash for primary
development, mining laws made by S.A.
in 1903, and —here and there —personal
idiosyncrasies. Added to which there
have been the isolation of the field and
the usual strangulation by red-tape from
Canberra, which has no mines depart-
ment.
There are some interesting shows. Take
the Rising Sun. A blind cattleman from
the Kimberleys (W.A.), name of Weaber,
came to the field, financed prospectors and
discovered gold on the Rising Sun leases.
The first parcel of ore was so rich that
it was sent to Peterborough (S.A.), and
went 12 ounces to the ton. Weaber put
most of the capital won into develop-
ment, and to-day he has a fine crushing
unit and cyanide plant, while the value
of gold taken out to date totals nearly
£70,000, and there are several thousand
tons of ore in sight. Weaber is at present
in Sydney frying to recover his sight, and
every man on the field wishes him luck.
The Black Angel shows possibilities of
developing along the lines of the Rising
Sun. So far it has only been scratched
on the surface, but crushings have been
rich and there is plenty of ore in view.
A recent find, Metallic Hill, has put
through a first and very rich crushing.
It’s an interesting show, and worth
watching.
What are the prospects of the field?
On present evidence its development by
deep large-scale mining is a contentious
proposition. As already mentioned, ore-
bodies are irregular and likely to cut out
at any unexpected moment. This, to-
gether with the fact that what little
diamond-drilling so far carried out has
proved difficult owing to the nature of
the ground, seems to indicate that Ten-
nant Creek, more so than anywhere else
in Australia, is not at present a field
for speculative mining.
There are, of course, possibilities
offered by a company working several
mines and treating the ore at a central
plant. E. V. Barton, of Placer Develop-
ment, is casting an investigatory eye over
the field. Barton is regarded as a sound
man, and his conclusions should be a
pretty fair indication of what the field
is worth.
The sanest and safest method of de-
veloping Tennant Creek is by encourag-
ing and supervising small mining. This
has not been done to date. The field
covers over 1000 square miles, and the
most satisfactory treatment plant, No.
1 Government battery, is 25 miles west
of the town. It caters for about half
a dozen mines, but east and south of
the town there are more than double
that number of shows. Ore-carting costs
ss. a ton per mile for the first mile, and
Is. a ton per mile for the rest. Treat-
ment costs 12s. 6d. a ton over the plates'
and 12s. 6d. for cyaniding ; and added
to the reckoning are I.Bdwt. per ton of
ore treated for losses through incomplete
cyanide plant (this could be made effi-
cient for less than the cost of a Minis-
terial jaunt), 2| p.c. royalty on net profits,
and 2s. per ounce for the bank to handle
the gold. Those are heavy costs, and the
result is that gougers are tearing after
20-30dwt. ore and neglecting anything
under lOdwt. In W.A. 5-6dwt. is a pay-
able proposition.
On the eastern side of the field, about
15 miles from the town, is No. 2 Govern-
ment battery, a hangover from a foolish
loan by Canberra to assist a company
which folded its tents after the first crush-
ing. There is little to be said in favor of
this battery. It has no cyaniding plant, so
miners have been compelled to take what
they can get from the plates at 15s. per
ton, and either leave their sands to be
treated when a cyanide plant is installed
or cart them elsewhere. The situation is
best indicated by the fact that miners,
despite heavy carting costs, are hauling
their ore 25-27 miles to No. 1 battery,
although No. 2 is less than half that
distance from their shows.
In face of all that, prospects for the
field are definitely brighter. Minister Me-
Ewen has promised to clean up a deal of
the mess. Promises from Ministerial jaunts
in the N.T. have had a bad habit of
vanishing with the dust of the cars, and
if the latest lot hold good Mr. McEwen’s
values will go up with those on the
field.
. Better still, W. A. Hughes, a crack
mining man from Kalgoorlie, has arrived
to take over as Director of N.T. Mining,
He is investigating the field, and sweep-
in § changes are sure to result; Minister
McEwen has promised to allow him as
many plenary powers as possible. This
should hack away a few thousand miles
of red-tape, an operation drastically
needed in all parts of the N.T.
The development of Tennant Creek
calls for the services of every technical
and practical mining man available, and
Collins-street % and Pitt-street miners
should be kept out. In view of the
erratic nature of the gold, maximum de-
velopment at minimum cost is the safest
working plan, and it is good to see a
few men who follow that creed arriving
on the field. Like the Rising Sun, there
are small mines which could be built up
with £5OOO-£lO,OOO backing, and if the
gold holds good to any depth they will
be the nucleus of another goldfield.
MESSMATES
BY LES ROBINSON
RESIDENCE at the seaside and
visits to inland pleasure resorts
and other places used for purposes
of relaxation have convinced me
that I am a mere dilettante as messmaker
compared with millions of my fellow-
men.
The flagrant extent to which all such
notices as “Park Your Rubbish Here,”
“Keep Your Suburb Tidy”
and “Deposit Lunch Papers
in Bins” are ignored must
be seen and smelt to be be-
lieved. One begins to sus-
pect that there is a secret
rubbish-strewing society, its
aim being to make the world
so distasteful to the fas-
tidious and tidy that they
will vacate it, thus leaving more room
for the scatterbrained and slovenly.
Persons who roam about our suburb,
ostensibly for the purpose of distributing
circulars and other advertisement matter,
are, though quite rational-looking, sus-
pected of belonging to it, for one fre-
quently comes across piles of their leaf-
lets in the thicker shrubberies of the park,
and also in the jungles described as “De-
sirable Building Sites” and “The Dress
Circle of the District.”
These dense and infuriating thickets
are well nourished by garbage-dumpers.
j F you venture into out back lane
1 when there is a high wind blowing
somebody’s worn-out and discarded
undergarment is likely to pounce upon
you and wrap itself round your
face. The whirling and swirling about
you, the hurtling hither and thither and
at* you of vegetable peelings, egg-shells
and fruit-skins, of mummified rats, mice
and fowls’ heads, of defunct parrots,
pigeons, chickens and canaries, of seg-
ments of lobster and fragments of fish,
of ancient newspapers, bacon and cheese
rinds, of rags galore and last year’s odd-
ments in worn-out slippers, stockings
and socks, will, if you don’t happen to be
in the least garbageous and are therefore
unable to enter into the spirit of the
revel, make you wish you lived in an
often-flooded locality, in one swept by
tidal waves occasionally, or on a house-
boat.
I T is nobody’s business seemingly to
‘ keep that back lane clean or tidy.
Cleansing and tidying it would destroy
its individuality, perhaps, its distinc-
tive and, at times, overpowering odor.
Furthermore, suburbanites —very groovy
indeed for the most part are irri-
tated by anything destructive to the
familiar. So I do hope, if you are
connected with the cleansing department,
that, despite what I have said about our
back lane, you will continue to leave it
alone. And, for another thing, the blow-
flies so much enjoy its ; present and usual
condition and are, because of it, so fully
occupied that it keeps their minds off the
contents of my meatsafe.
Strewn where week-enders congregate,
I counted, while out for a breath of fresh
air the other morning, seventeen fish-,
fourteen meat- and eleven soup-tins, and
twenty-three jars that still contained a
certain amount of beef and vegetable ex-
tract, salad dressing, jam, chutney, cheese,
ketchup and pickles. There were also, in
an advanced stage of decomposition, one
parcel of prawns, one of pigs’ trotters,
one of cungevoi and crabs and another
of cabbage.
Messmaking as a gesture symptomatic
of the always present if somewhat sup-
pressed desire to subvert, to flout, to con-
travene rules and regulations formulated
by cheerless bureaucrats reaches its peak
always on days of high festival and
national rejoicing.
Never have I seen a mess of greater
magnitude than that achieved on the last
occasion of the kind.
THE ocean is a persistent, an inde-
fatigable cleanser, yet only when
storm-lashed and aided by exceptional
tides is it able to cope with
the achievements of even
week-end messmakers.
Often, regarding arte as a
blemish, doubtless, and re-
senting as well my pains-
taking attempts to filch a
few of its inhabitants for
my tea, it has endeavored
to effect my removal from
the rocks. I have so far, by leaping and
bounding, by sudden side and backward
scramblings similar to those of crabs,
frustrated its removalistic zeal.
Waves, although if unacquainted with
their vagaries you mightn’t think so,
are very deceptive indeed, and, as I
have discovered on sundry occasions,
they can be and are very deceitful, too.
When a storm is raging the whole vast
bulk of the mighty ocean seems con-
vulsed with movement, to be in a fer-
ment. Such, however, is by no means —
fortunately, no doubt, for its in-
habitants —the case. The ocean stays in
the same place really. Only its motion
is turbulent, or, while tempests refrain
from disturbing its equanimity, quiescent,
heaving and rolling instead.
Waves in wild weather sometimes
attain to a height of forty feet and travel
at the rate of fifty miles an hour, and
the force with which they thump the
shore has been estimated (though not by
me) at seventeen tons to the square
yard.. As the base of a wave, by which is
meant the distance from valley to valley
at the bottom, is, according to amphibi-
ous arithmeticians, fifteen times the
height, we discover, by holding the fish-
ing line in the left hand, using a rock-
ledge for a desk, the back of a tide-card
for computation purposes, and being very
careful indeed, whilst doing so, that we
don’t get drenched to the skin, that an
ordinary wave, twenty-five feet high, say,
has a base of three hundred and seventy-
five feet. .Yet old ocean’s dumpers are
tested to the limit by the dumpers who
infest our suburb.
The sea-coast is sometimes termed the
littoral, but parts of it, after week-ends
and public holidays, would be better de-
scribed as the litteral. Is it any wonder
then that the sea roars so at times?


Writing for
Publication
By BERNARD CRONIN
WRITING for publication has its pains as
well as its pleasures. The creative effort
involved is often both pain and pleasure, and it
is sometimes difficult to say whether the ulti-
mate achievement, the completed MS., is a
reward, a compensation or a purge. There is
no doubt about rejection or acceptance. Especi-
ally to the beginner, one is sheer joy; the other
is defeat and disaster.
And yet my own experience in editing thou-
sands of MSS. shows that many MSS., per-
haps fifty or sixty per cent., fail to make the
grade only because of minor faults or defects
in construction or treatment, the mishandling
of a good plot, poor phrasing, faulty emphasis
here and there, or merely because the theme
or subject is not suitable for the publication to
which it is offered.
An expert .opinion on a MS., if it has
the virtue of frankness —and no opinion is oi
value unless it is both expert and frank —will
often point the way to a speedy removal ol
faults. This, however, though valuable, is the
negative side of criticism. To be completely
helpful, criticism should be constructive; it
should be positive, not only pointing out errors
and faults, but also showing ways, some of
them perhaps not pursued by the writer, by
which his object can be attained more effec-
tively. Genuine criticism should, in fact, add
as well as subtract, bring good material to
the construction as well as take away rubbish.
It is with these considerations in mind that
I approach the criticism of any MS., short
story, novel, article or play, submitted to me,
It has happened more than once that 1
have discovered in a MS. evidence of a talent
for literary effort in a direction different from
that followed by the writer. The first work
submitted by one of my pupils was a novel,
mid-Victorian in treatment, although modern
in subject. In asking him to write short
stories, I pointed out that twenty short stories
can be written in the number of words required
for a novel, and yet each story is complete in
itself, and is thus a proper subject of criticism,
the substance of which can be used in produc-
ing the next short story. The Bulletin
accepted a number of these stories. Other
acceptances in Australia and abroad followed.
Then experiments in radio plays disclosed a
talent that quickly brought him many com-
missions.
Any honest effort to tell a story, express a
thought or show a dramatic situation is a fit
subject for criticism. First principles are un-
covered and mastered. Their useful application
in any direction for which the writer has a
special talent will, with persistent effort under
wise direction, sooner or later come about.
I am sure that many young writers are dis-
couraged because of a feeling of frustration.
They have done their best. Because they do
not know first principles their own analysis
and reflection do not disclose the faults that
are at once apparent to the craftsman’s eye.
Such writers are invited to communicate with
me. In doing so they are asked to make then-
letters an exercise in writing. Be precise, be
brief, but say all that is essential.
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
MSS. of Novels : A novel reconstructed
in parts on the advice of Mr. Cronin is
shortly to be serialised in a leading
metropolitan daily.
Hfi
oent
Mind
4 *»-, « ,,, ,
' WrfK ~ <*<*
Copies
are free.
Pelmanism is an all-round training.
It develops agreeably, smoothly and
without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the fol-
lowing are outstanding:
Observation
Concentration
Decisiveness
Will-Power
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Initiative
Social Ease
and a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The Pelrnan Institute is a world-
wide organization of 40 years’ stand-
ing. Its headquarters are in London.
The Institute in Melbourne has been
established for 30 years. There are
over half a million world Pelmanists,
of whom over 40,000 have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
Pelmanism has been granted a
number of International Awards, in-
cluding —
Liege . . 1930 Nancy . . 1932
Geneva. 1933 Paris .. . 1933
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is both realistic
and constructive
Pelmanism is realistic, inasmuch as
it frankly and openly examines causes
and conditions, seeing them as they
really are. But it is constructive, too,
on the one hand removing barriers and
bridging gaps, on the other hand digging
channels of easy communication between
the outside world and the brain, forming
habits of quick perception and close
attention, of individual thinking, wise
decision and appropriate action.
Pelmanism is the most comprehensive
system of scientific Mind-Training and Personal
Development in existence. It has won the
unqualified endorsement of many of the most
brilliant men and women of the day, and has
been successfully adopted by over half a million
men and women of every type, occupation and
station in life. 40,000 of these are in Australia
and New Zealand.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will find a full
explanation of the Pelman Course and much
interesting information on the subject of Mental
Training. Copies are free on application to the
Pelman Institute , 3 Gloucester House , 396
Flinders Lane , Melbourne. Write for it to-day.
All correspondence is regarded as confidential.
We have no outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the scientific development of
Mind, Memory and Personality,
Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telenhone: MU23SS.
“Efficient
Mind,”
Please.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Name .
Address
80
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual -subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.„
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
n \s
cr#
\o
<4
cPyS
/
*0 V
\ty
* *«y *\o a %\’'
.t'V' tie v \i'
\s s
#•’
<*•
.-** n° v '
• t *>£?s 0
oi: v° V s HtV 6-
(V ,*sN ,\ v


TASMA TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS, No. 3.
ĸ
There is nothing “variable" in
the “selectivity” of the builders
of Packard, Hudson, Standard
and Ford cars when it comes to
the choice of auto radio for
1938 models. Each of these
famous cars has standardised
on Tasma Auto Radio.
Flirtatious Frank, depicted here, obviously believes in variable selectivity.
So (from another point of view) does Tasma. So does Sir Noel Ashbridge,
Chief Engineer of the 8.8. C. And so will you when you have heard what
a wonderful difference perfect Variable Selectivity makes to the new Tasma
Receivers. Ashbridge insists that no radio can extract FULL musical value
from a programme unless it has Variable Selectivity. Ashbridge knows what
he is talking about. You’re not interested in the technicalities of Variable
Selectivity—but you’ll be interested to the point of enthusiasm when you hear
its action in '.he new Tasma.
HERE ARE SOME OTHER FEATURES WHICH ACCOUNT FOR TASMA’S LEADERSHIP
INSTANTANEOUS TUNING: Enabling any one of the 125 Stations calibrated
on the Tasma dial to be tuned at the flick of a finger and thumb with hair-
line accuracy.
OVERSIZE DIAL: 20 inches of tuning space floodlit in green, with pointer
and stations covering the full circle. Even a deaf man can tune a Tasma
perfectly.
EXTENDED TUNING RANGE: Both above and below the normal limits, pro-
viding for the addition of new broadcasting stations as they come on the air.
(AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL: All A.C. models incorporate Audio
A.V.C., permitting weak stations to be played louder and precluding annoying
variations,
| AIR TRIMMERS: Ensure permanent retention of factory adjustment over all
variations of temperature and humidity encountered in different parts of
Australia.
} INBUILT MAGIC EYE: The Magic Eye of the Tasma is built INTO the dial
to ensure immediate visual indication of exact tuning.
|OCTAL VALVES: The new Tasma Receivers are equipped with Octal-type
tubes and include the sensational “Beam” power output valve.
k
ķ
ĸ
k
THE TASMA “BALLERINA"
“A tribute to the designer’s
art . . . looks arid performs
like an expensive set. Its
presence in the low-price field
comes as a happy surprise”
. . . that is how a famous
radio critic describes the
Tasma “Ballerina.”
Model “505” —5-valve Broad-
cast A.C. receiver. 22 Gns.
Model “510” —5-valve Dual-
wave A.O. model. 25 Guineas.
Model “575” —4-valve Broad-
cast receiver, battery-operated.
25 Guineas. i
ķ
THE TASMA “BABY”
The compact design of the new
Tasma “Baby” in its strong,
stylish Bakelite cabinet renders
.this set particularly attractive to
those who desire to take their
music with them from room to
room or from house to house.
Model “505” —5-valve Broadcast
receiver, A.C. operated. 16 Gns.
Model “510” —5-valve Dual-wave
A.C. model. 19 Guineas.
Model “575” —4-valve, Broadcast
battery-operated receiver. 19 Gns.
ĸ
THE TASMA “PRINCESS"
The most luxurious receiver in
the medium-price field of to-day.
A dual-wave set which, in the
opinion of experts, has never
been equalled in the same price
class. It possesses every refine-
ment known to radio science.
Model “530” —6-valve, dual-
wave A.C. model. 35 Guineas.
Model “585” —A-valve, Dual-
wave Battery operated. 35 Gns.
Air Cell operated. 37 Guineas.
Vibrator operated. 40 Guineas.
(Prices slightly higher
in West Australia .)
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
k
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
