

■
.
'
.
p
' '
aaHMHMMe
"4 ? » * 5 m
:
i i
H ll a——l
*s*•4 <' t ii
WM
f*/slU* T- -c% *' '”£i?JSI
./>/*£ Vj£s
• ■
V
rr- ••
.
4 ~r
■
P|: 4-.
jf v ;
life «
Bjp
life ; w&sm
m
t %i dsri p
1
m 1 ‘
* ■ \
\
■ :
mm
■....
>-•
. * :'
mmamm
%&&> s3&m.
m
mm
: : :'. •* ;■ •;■;
4 '
V-yS-^:^o
■
mmmmmmm
'
• # *
h fnr Tpr
BEST BATTERV BUY
for CARS, MOTOR CYCLES,
RADIO and HOME - LIGHTING
Sales and Service from Garages and Radio Dealers
throughout Australia, New Zealand and the East
The Bulletin
Vol. 59—No. 3032.
Wednesday, March 23, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is -now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
UNDER THE ASPIDISTRA.
Though Florence White’s A Fire in the Kitchen
(Dent) is described as the autobiography of a cook,
it has the flavor of the aspidistra rather than the pot.
True, she founded the English Folk Cookery
Association and the allied House of Studies (“The
house is conducted on undenominational non-sectarian
lines, but we took possession of it on the 27th of
April, 1936, the Feast of St. Zita of Lucca, the Patron
Saint of Domestic Servants”), and the earlier pages
are gemmed with recollections of the few occasions
in her childhood when she was able to make a
thorough pig of herself at the table, but most of the
volume is devoted to genteel poverty in boarding-
houses.
In spirit, the book is a sort of cook-a-
doodle-do for English foods and the Victorian
parent, both of which, despite a life of starvation,
Miss White admires intensely. From her infancy,
when dear papa lifted her from her cot and whipped
her, to her bedridden old age in the basement of a
London boarding-house, scratching a living from
hack journalism, her life is a series of disasters; but
her indomitable and almost intolerable patience sur-
vives even the loss of an eye, and the menace of
total blindness through her parents’ neglect, and the
vindictiveness of her spinster friend in Edinburgh
who lost her a job by spreading the rumor that she
drank and took drugs.
Through her self-revelations—pitiful, but full of
unconscious humor —she achieves a gem of portraiture
as thorough as The Compleat Angler. Nothing could
be more typical of the aged spinster than that the
faintly boring monologue can’t bear to finish at the
end of the book, but clings desperately to the reader’s
company by adding first a totally unnecessary epilogue,
and then an equally needless postscript.
Her Victorian England is the burlesque England
of Augustus Carp, taken seriously:
The thing that strikes me [she says] is what fun the
Victorian girls and women got out of their homely,
housewifely tasks. Talk about imagination! They had
it,, and no mistake. And they never seemed to think
the work drudgery!
My mother did not care for jewellery, and, I
suspect, never had a dinner dress in her life; certainly
not after she was married.
My father was always consistently kind and just to
me. On Sundays, I was allowed to have fish, or egg
and bacon, or sausages, whatever the others had, if I
knew my collect and catechism. If I didn’t, there
was nothing for me but bread and butter.
Family prayers had been given up. Poverty and
religious observances do not go together. If they did,
I don’t believe there would be so much poverty.
My stepmother told me one day I was to go to Fare-
ham to help nurse my father’s old sisters. Aunt Harriet
was suffering from an internal tumor, and Aunt Louie
was ill with creeping paralysis.
As I was ill I had to have a doctor, and was lucky
enough to be recommended to Dr. Leonard Robinson,
C.B.E. 1920, M. 8., C.M. 1893, M.D. 1898 (Edinburgh)
and M.D. 1899 (Paris); now also Knight of Grace of
the Order of Jerusalem in England and Chevalier of
the Legion d’Honneur; and I am proud to say that he
is still my friend.
Besides being a dutiful child, a governess, and
“the first journalist to specialise in cooking,” Miss
White has been very much a social worker in the
Victorian slumming tradition, and one of her most
typical anecdotes tells of the time when three bad
girls escaped from the Rescue Home over the garden
walk The matron left in a huff, the remaining girls
were securely locked in the building, and Miss White
was called in to keep them “amused.” “The poor,
poor souls, they had nothing to do but sit around a
large room and twiddle their thumbs.”
While she was sitting there, amusing them with
improving stories, there must have been in the streets
outside a seething of crude, rich, earthy life, which
to her would be completely foreign and repulsive, but
which, as depicted in W. Henderson’s beautifully-
produced Victorian Street Ballads (Country Life), gave
the times nearly an Elizabethan vigor and oddity.
Miss White was reading Charlotte Yonge’s
Womanhood, but out in the streets they were hawking
the ballad:
The wretches’ names were Burke and Hare,
Both from the sister Isle,
Their plan was to take the stranger in
And him of life beguile.
The first was Margaret Patterson,
Whom drink had led astray,
She fell into their wicked hands,
Who choked her as she lay.
Next was a wife who came to town
In search of her dear son,
Was by these wicked wretches dogg’d
And barbarously undone.
Last Burke had seized an infant dear,
Oh! horrible disgrace,
Who while he choked it on his knee
Did smile up in his face.
If Fire in the Kitchen is a classic of Victorian
gentility, these rhymes have an equally authentic
flavor of the rascality of the period, and the ballad-
makers, unlike Miss White, who is never consciously
funny, touched their most pathetic creations with
comedy, and their most improving pieces with an
audible chuckle for the benefit of their tavern audi-
ences :
Sarah Collins is my name, most dreadful is my fate,
My father reared me tenderly, the truth I do relate,
Till enticed by bad company, along with many more,
It led to my discovery, upon my native shore.
We labor hard from morn to night, until our bones do ache,
Then everyone they must obey, their mouldy beds must make;
You girls I pray be ruled by me, your wicked ways give o’er,
For fear like us you spend your days upon Van Diemen’s shore.
The verses are in the direct tradition of popular
poetry, deriving from the “Chevy Chase” type of
ballad, the mediaeval troubadours and the ancient
bards; and their survival until Victorian times shows
that, though Tennysonian gentility or Browning meta-
physics were ignored as unreal, the common man, if
not actually lisping in numbers, was always prepared
to snigger in them. Chaucer, Shakspeare and Burns,
and, in modern times, Masefield and Kipling, all drew
sustenance from this rich field of popular poetry ; and
it’s possible, without particularly approving of Kipling
and Masefield as poets, to wish that other contemporary
writers of verse would adopt their methods and come
out of the clouds where Shelley left them. Mr. Hen-
derson’s introduction, incidentally, points out a ballad
which was the source of W. B. Yeats’s “Down by
the Sally Gardens.”
The ballads cover every phase of Victorian life,
bowing, of course, as the dailies do to-day, to the
popular preference for crime and sex. Crime, as
exemplified in the Burke and Hare ballad quoted, gets
a notable hearing; but among “Shocking Rape and
Murder,” “Penal Servitude for Mrs. Maybrick,”
“Ladies Don’t Go Thieving” and “The Execution of
Alice Holt” there is room for “The Oyster Man,”
“The Death of Gen. Gordon,” “Strike of the London
Cabmen” and even the “Address to Ten Thousand
Fleas”:
Well, take your fill, ye thirsty elves,
You have my leave, though to my sorrow;
Drink, scoundrels, drink, and burst yourselves,
That I may have some sleep to-morrow.
Villon as Hero.
Not so gorgeously as in the musical comedy in
which he was represented by a handsome actor laddie
singing
Come on, you beggars of low degree,
You lousy rebels of Paris town,
but still very much on the picturesque and colorful
side, the poet that Stevenson described as “certainly
the sorriest figure on the rolls of fame” swaggers,
loves, thieves, blackmails, laughs and, oddly enough,
weeps a bit in John Erskine’s The Brief Hour of
Frangois Villon (Joseph, Ltd; Dymock’s).
As lively entertainment, the novel is excellent.
It stands out like a glasshouse in the sun from the
current spate of dull studies of domestic discord and
duller contributions to the world’s lasting obsession
of hate. It is continuously bright, witty, amusing.
Though definitely in the romantic vein, there is an
astringent quality in the writing which holds a strong
enough brake against sentimental falsity to enable
it to be read for most of the way as robust comedy.
If a distortion of the actual life of Villon, it is still
a sound representation of what is known of Villon’s
character —a mixture of rascality, cynicism and senti-
mentalism.
In the poetry of Villon there is support for having
each of those characteristics in a fictitious represen-
tation of him, though it might be felt that the author
has the proportions a bit out of shape in his hero’s
interest. Also, it seems to be carrying the sentimental
side of the character a bit far in having Villon,
after his life of rascality in Paris, his Boccaccian
affairs with women and his noose-attended encounters
with men, carry on (from the point where history loses
him) as a reformed rake, bringing up his daughter in
a little village. A more unlikely ending for Villon
would take some inventing, but it makes a pretty
story, consistent and feasible in the fictional narrative.
Mostly it runs in dialogue, with only brief patches
of direct narrative between ; which is to say, of course,
that mostly Villon —or what the author puts forward
as Villon —has company on the page. The company
is usually feminine, but some of the best-handled
scenes are those in which there are only men present
—in the house of the chaplain of Saint Benoit-le-
Betourne, between Villon and this holy man whom
Villon himself called his “more than father” and
whom Mr. Erskine represents as Villon’s father in
fact as well as spiritually; or in some dive where
a bit of villainy was being plotted, with Villon, as
this author has it, somewhat reluctantly involved.
There are also finely-turned scenes between Villon and
his protector the Duke of Orleans, or some enemy
or other.
Mr. Erskine has one considerable trouble on his
hands, as anyone must who sets out to represent Villon
as a fiction hero —that is, the personal appearance of
the poet. All right for musical comedy to have him
represented by the most handsome available young
actor capable of singing “Only a Rose,” but Mr.
Erskine, while* prepared to translate Villon into a
Parisian Dick Turpin and fit him out with a priestly
parent, is well above that level of sentimentality. Still,
there remains the poet’s appearance. Scarecrow-thin,
hook-beaked, unkempt, dirty and bald —it isn’t the
most promising material. Mr. Erskine does not alto-
gether shirk the issue. He admits his hero is no
Adonis —and, in fact, frankly sketches his appearance
more than once —but he submits that there are other
kinds of charm besides the Adonis variety.
He hangs other, less perceptible, veils between
the reader and hero. The general romantic trend of
the story is one. Another is the death-defying bravery
of his Villon —time after time he has Villon walking
deliberately into situations the Scarlet Pimpernel might
have balked at. Yet another is Villon’s (represented)
capacity for spiritual reformation under the influence
of a purely innocent love affair.
In other little ways, too, the author transforms
Villon into an acceptable hero. He is up with the
times in realising that propaganda achieves its results
not only by what is said but by what is left unsaid.
He makes no mention of the whole summer Villon
spent in the bottom of a foul well, down which he
had been lowered in a basket, to live on crusts and
in filth, with plenty of time to turn over a past of
thievery and blackmail and affairs with dirty drabs.
Realism— particularly dirty realism—not being to Mr.
Erskine’s purpose, he replaces that horrifying stretch
with a brief bit of torture by water, not at all pleasant,
but soon over. (Mr. Erskine has a nice touch with
torture, and seems to enjoy describing it.)
Villon, too, comes through this little experience
with his better qualities enhanced. The torture is
interrupted by the entry of the new king, Louis XI.,
who is represented in this story as completely conver-
sant with Villon’s vicious past. Instead of Villon
being hauled up out of the pit and given a pardon as
part of the formal freeing of prisoners when the new
king entered the town, Mr. Erskine has a personal
encounter between Villon and the king, in which the
king tests the poet to see whether that worthy is
capable of telling the truth, and Villon, telling the
truth nobly, gets the king’s signed pardon—a nice
fairy story.
As for such matters as Villon’s shameless spong-
ing on the chaplain whose name, among other things,
he took, Mr. Erskine gets over these by treating them
lightly. Also, Villon’s stocks rise in this romantic
mart through his very accomplished management of
his love affairs —calculated to win the admiration of
men for the display of talent, and of women for the
display of discretion. Then, completing the subtly
roseate screen which author rigs between reader and
hero, there is the poet’s poetry. This, for the benefit
of those who can’t abide poetry, is sensibly on parade
on a spare leaf in front of each chapter. Thus pre-
sented, it need not be read unless the reader has an
inclination that way, but whether read or not is there
on show, enhancing the mana of the hero, despite
what damage may be done to the repute of the trans-
lator by hanging on the poet’s nib such a line as
Bone-breaker, muscle-rearranger!
It is, in fact, really a demonstration of the abiding
potency of poetry that even so competent a novelist
as Mr. Erskine has been able to make such an enter-
taining romantic novel with such a hero. Few, it is
true, read poetry, but most hold it in some regard,
and, after this, any poet stands a chance of the hero’s
role in romantic fiction. That is, provided he did
not make the mistake, like Wordsworth, of sublimat-
ing his passions in daffodils and contemplation, and
provided, also, that he has been long enough dead.
Oxford in the Arctic.
Anybody lacking a reasonable excuse for staying
away from the Arctic may now plead that the jolly
old polar star or aurora borealis might make him
write like this:
My contentment ripened, and I inwardly warmed
to the congratulations of my self-esteem. The day had
been a fitting accompaniment to our satisfaction. The
crude grey light of morning had held no seduction; if
the snow slopes had beauty, then so have ices and
cream meringues.
It is a pretty bad but, alas! not a singular
example of the writing in A. R. Glen’s Under the
Pole Star (Methuen), an account of the Oxford Uni-
versity 1935-36 Arctic expedition. Worse than that
is the mass of trivial detail that has to be ploughed
through. It. is a plod-by-plod account of the expedi-
tion.
Nevertheless, once caught up in its flood of
trivialities, most readers will find it an interesting
book. The remoteness and strangeness of the scene —
for all the books that have been written about it —
no doubt mainly account for that attraction, but the
book also has qualities of its own which hold the
interest. It seems to miss being a better book for
two inherent reasons. One is that the author, though
evidently a rattling good expedition leader, is not so
strong in graphic writing. He would inspire confi-
dence leading an expedition in search of lost Atlantis,
and his account of it would be about as stirring as
a ledger.
It should be said that he does not pretend to be
a writer. He apologises by quoting Dr. Johnson, “If
only those who travel could write, and those who
write would travel,” and, like most apologies, it is
justified. Despite this, he does build up a picture of
an expedition which has at least the interest of having
been different from any other Arctic expedition.
The other reason fqr the book not being livelier
reading springs from that difference —one of personnel
—which happens, also, to be a tribute to the author’s
qualities as a leader. He picked his men so carefully
that, apart from petty clashes in such a minor key
that mention of them only adds to the trivialities, they
rubbed along together in complete harmony. Com-
pliment to leadership could not go higher, but in the
narrative it increases the monotony. With experience
of three expeditions he knew the type he required:
This was not the bogusly clever young man, eager
to establish notoriety, whether by writing an alcoholic
novel, by wearing a self-conscious monocle, or by going
on an expedition. Nor was it the overgrown schoolboy,
who insists on walking London badly dressed and without
a hat; such, invariably, are simple-minded boors. High-
brow, priggish youths or boisterously jolly fellows
were equally unsuited; still worse the grinding bore, his
mind filled with but one interest, academic, lavatorial
or athletic. It was certainly not the explorer of fiction.
Hearties, often the dim satellites of “blues,” can become
tedious at the shortest acquaintance. Nor did I set
much store by exaggerated physical toughness, or an
(Continued on page 8.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE ”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
NEW!
Ski - Jacks
Colourful overchecks for
gaiety against snowy
landscapes. And since
All Wool spells warmth,
they’re made in an extra
stout quality. Roll-back
collars can be buttoned
up to neck. Medium and
outsizes.
At Anthony
Horderns’.
Price
DF
“Hordura”
(Regd.)
Half Hose
Pure Wool Cashmere
(except ornament). New
range of designs in Grey,
Blue, Brown or Navy
effects.
Sizes, ins., 10 to 1 1
At Anthony
Horderns’.
Price
2/11
Sizes, ins., 12 and 13.
At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 3/6
Size, in., 14.
At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 3/11
/
m
m
W
mm
*****
,'»/„ n Of p
4>'«^ e I*' l "*
**a\ fi >tJ -,
.
ss4
am.
m
m
ft
m
DRESSING GOWNS
Double-woven Tweed in
colourful overchecks of Blue,
Brown, Marone or Grey. Con-
trast collar and cuffs. Silk cord,
girdle and tassel.
At Anthony
Horderns’. Price,
45/-
COSY PYJAMAS
Soft and warm. Pyjamas of
Horrockses’ Cloth. Made in
our own workrooms. Small,
medium and outsize.
At Anthony
Horderns’. Price,
126
0 Aden's Mercery Ground
George Street. Freight paid to
way stations in N.S.W. and
in the Commonwealth.
Floor,
all rail-
seaports
CARDIGANS
New designs in All Pure
Wool Cardigans. Grey
tonings. Made with V-neck.
Medium and outsizes. A
cosy style for the first cool
days.
A t Anthony
Horderns’.
Price
D.P.S.
Do you know that you can
secure any of these goods
by merely placing a deposit
of 4/- in the £ on the item
you are needing, and con-
tinuing to pay for it in easy
monthly instalments? When
the final payment' has been
made, you take possession.
A simple arrangement when
it is inconvenient for you to
pay the total price immedi-
ately. We invite you to
use it.
22/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS, SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY. 'PHONE: M 2401, Day or Night.


The Story That Earned M ary Gurney Second Prize in "The BulletinCompetition
QUIET LIES THE
LAND
by E.MARY GURNEY
DRAWING BY M. LYNN GURNEY.
y~| S Pops Petulengro
f \ steadied his plough down
L I the steep face of the hill he
sensed rather than saw that a
car had stopped on the bend above the
valley. His mind preoccupied with the job
in hand, he yet was conscious of a vague feeling
of annoyance, for a spell of dry weather had dried
things up considerably, and he did not relish the
notion of some fool motorist lighting a fire in the
scrub on his boundary.
Here Kate, the off leader, plunged into her collar
and broke into a trot, crowding over on Darkie, who
was stolid but, lacking weight, was pushed out of the
furrow. Pops attempted to swing her .back, but, in
thoroughly cantankerous mood, she refused to come,
so Pops jerked the rein. Kate stood on her hind
legs, plunged twice and then jibbed. Lass and Lady
surged on to her heels, got their legs over the chains
and had to stop, but the plough, jerked forward by
Kate’s plunges, skidded forward and ran over the
tree.
“Blast!” said Pops.
He said a whole lot more. The face of the hill
was really too steep for ploughing ; much too steep
for turning the plough on it to set it back in the
furrow. Nobody but Pops would have attempted it.
Certainly no one but a man of his singularly equable
temperament could have succeeded with a horse like
Kate in the team.
Another man would have quitted her long ago,
but Pops could not bear to think of what might
happen to Kate if he sold her, so he told her a
few untruths concerning her mother, who had been
as good as she was bad, and had just started to
unhitch things preparatory to pulling the swingle-
trees clear when he became aware of the fat man in
the dirty dustcoat on the hillside above him.
Pops straightened and eyed him with disfavor.
A pot-belly may be more or less an accident of
nature, but a pot-hat is a deliberate vice.
Pops bent his back to his task.
“Brother,” said the fat man unctuously, “I envy
you! ”
■ Now, for all his gipsy name, Pops Petulengro was
a fastidious old man. Yet he spat —deliberately and
with malicious intent.
But the fat man was unmoved. Where he stood
his pot-belly and his pot-hat were silhouetted against
the sky. Beyond him a cabbage-tree, with the hot
noonday sun glinting on its sword-shaped leaves, bowed
infinitesimally in the little wind and was also
silhouetted against the sky.
“Brother,” he repeated lusciously, “I envy you!”
“Gar!” said Pops, and tugged at the swingle-
'tree, which, resisting him at first, yielded suddenly,
so that he knocked his hand on the mouldboard ;
but it was not the pain that made him swear lustily
and with an astounding foulness.
The fat man removed his pot-hat and dusted
it upon his sleeve. He was bald. He said: “From
the bottom of my heart I envy you! Your life
spent here in the vast open spaces, between the
infinity of the sky and the unshaken quietness of the
land.”
Pops straightened slowly and looked from the
fat man, standing straddled among the seeding
grasses, to the narrow green valley below them ; and
as he looked his mind travelled back over a span of
years to another day when, between the infinity of
the sky and the quiet of the land, he had driven his
plough down this very slope.
“The peace! ” bleated the fat man. “The balm of
the unvarying days!”
Pops ignored him.
LOOKING down on the narrow valley, Pops
remembered that other day as though it were
yesterday. A queer morning, that. Hot and hazy,
with streaked, murky clouds lying along the horizon.
The sun had a redness, as though seen through smoke,
and the stillness could be felt. The very sparrows
forgot to chirrup.
Pops, coming up from feeding his team, felt
vaguely depressed. It looked, he thought, as though
they might be in for a big blow —one of those howling
gales that tore the trees out by the roots or snapped
them off like rotten
twigs, that lifted
whole ploughed fields
away and parched the
pastures desert-bare. He
wondered where his twenty acres
of grass-seed would be by nightfall.
“Don’t you go ploughing that slope
above the gully!” his daughter warned,
cutting thick slices of bread and plastering
them with butter. “You’ve got enough broken
in without that. Are Dick’s shoulders right yet?”
Pops helped himself to eggs and bacon. “Nor
won’t be for some days yet; but Farm Acre’s pulling
his weight and giving no trouble. He’s the docilest
entire I’ve ever handled.”
“Stallions,” countered Verna, “are all right as
long as everything’s all right. But they’re like bulls—
you can’t trust ’em. And you keep off that slope!”
“Yes’m!” said Pops. He grinned. “I don’t
think! Faces east and north. Best bit in the whole
farm. Well, I’ll be getting along” ...
Verna put his lunch and a bottle of tea in a
sugar-bag and stood in the doorway to watch him
go down to the stable, where Farm Acre was
definitely irritable. He resented collar and hames
and nipped at old Judy.
Going out over the hills he alternately sulked
and showed temper, yet he was amenable to the
man’s coaxing. Once in the chains he settled to
work, but instead of going quietly into the collar
he flung his head about, with the spume flying from
the bit, and Pops, walking contentedly behind the
plough, saw when the stallion tossed his head round
that the whites of his rolling eyes were bloodshot.
As the morning wore on his uneasiness seemed
to communicate itself to the rest of the team. Old
Judy began to fling her head about and to lag, and
Bonny and her mate, a big Clydesdale filly full of
quality that Pops had recently purchased to mate
with Farm Acre, twitched their ears back and forth
and pulled spasmodically, half-stopping, then start-
ing forward with a jerky jump and breaking out into
a dark, unhealthy sweat.
At ten o’clock Pops started the strike out on the
steep slope of the gully. The first furrow beggared
description. The horses ran about, erratic as fleas,
their eyes starting out of their heads, the sweat
purling off them in great beads.
That was on the up-grade. Pops had a shrewd
idea that coming down would be suicidal, but he
decided to give it a go.
Half-way down the team all but got away from
him. He had to let go the plough, which hit a
rock, bounced out of the furrow and turned over.
The horses plunged forward, swinging down the
hill, and were not ten yards from the lip of the gully
before Pops managed to turn them again ; but they
were nearly back to the crest of the hill before he
could stop them. All messed up with the chains as
they were, it was a job to make them stand, and the
filly showed signs of panicking.
Pops called to her and she stood, but Farm
Acre seemed to have gone to bits completely, pawing
and snorting and making wicked lunges at old Judy,
who stood to him heroically.
As Pops ran forward, shortening the lines as
he went, five cock pheasants whirled up out of the
scrub in the gully and winged across the hills,
screeching their heads off. Farm Acre whistled, and
the whole team plunged forward again, absolutely
out of control.
Under his feet Pops felt the earth tremble. For
the space of a heart’s beat it shivered like a sick
beast. “’Quake!” thought Pops, hanging grimly to
the reins and waiting for it to pass. Then the reins
whistled through his hands and he was flung upon
his knees as, with a roar like mighty wind, the earth
heaved and twisted and writhed. As the horses
leaped a great rent gaped where they
had been standing, and closed again
as the plough was snatched over it.
Pops knew fear as man should never be called
upon to know it. Fear soul-shaking and abject in
its utter helplessness. Voicelessly he prayed, deep
within him, “God! O God!” His earth, the
earth to which he had turned in all times of tribu-
lation, was risen up against him and there was no-
where he might turn.
He saw the black stallion rear, thrashing the air
with his hoofs, and then topple over as an ornament
might be thrown from a shelf.
The terrified mares plunged on, dragging fallen
horse and plough; the violence of the earth
subsided and Pops got to his feet and ran forward
shakily, endeavoring to call to them, but no sound
came.
Farm Acre half regained his feet and was
dragged down again, and the filly blundered into
him and fell also. Their combined weight checked
the other two, bringing them to their knees, and Pops
heard the brittle, metallic snap of breaking chains.
Then the earth shook again, a great rift yawned
along the crest of the hill and the whole face of
the slope began to slide towards the gully.
Fear went out of Pops, leaving him purged and
empty as a vessel that has but that moment left the
potter’s hands. Hurtling towards the unknown
adventure that lies on the other side of death, a great
calm enveloped his spirit. Even in those seconds,
crouched upon the heaving breast of the earth that
had betrayed him, he knew that, since it had betrayed
him, life was an emptiness that were better passed
away.
To the right and below him the horses struggled
in a dreadful mass, Farm Acre, Bonny and the filly
down and screaming, old Judy miraculously keeping
her feet, her brave old head flailing, her eyeballs
starting from their sockets.
Before the face of the slope began to move the
walls of the gully must have collapsed upon them-
selves, closing it up ; and the face of the earth, moving
from the hillside, rushed across it like the waves of
the sea, piling up against the slope of the opposite hill
in great serrated ridges that subsided one upon the
other with the long shudderings of the earth.
For a space Pops stayed where he was, dazed,
incredulous, wondering whether he had died without
knowing that he had died ; but the terrified, pain-
racked screaming of a horse urged upon him the
assurance of living.
From where the riven earth had deposited him
it fell away in a narrow depression into which the
glare of the sun beat down redly. On the opposite
slope Judy and the stallion, stripped of all their gear,
plunged desperately, seeking firm foothold in the
crumbling mass beneath their feet.
In the centre of the depression the head and
shoulders and one foreleg of the filly protruded from
the earth. From the spot where her quarters were
buried the tail of the plough reared perpendicularly.
Bonny was gone.
The filly thrashed her head about, moaning and
sobbing like a human thing. From between her
{Continued on next page.)


clenched teeth, from which the lips were drawn back
in a hideous grin, bloody saliva drooled. As Pops
hesitated she screamed. In a shower of loose earth
and stones he slid down into the depression. A crazy
thing to do —a mad thing ; but then the whole earth
had gone mad, and he with it.
As he landed he felt the sick earth quiver again
in great jarring shudders, like a sentient thing. Out
of sight, far, far above the stricken earth, a lark sang.
Knee-deep in the loose mould, Pops staggered towards
the filly. Keeping out of reach of the flailing head,
he leaned over, reaching for the spanner dangling
from the framework of the plough.
T" HE fat man’s soulful bleatings recalled Pops to
* the present.
“I could,” orated the fat man, waving his pot-hat,
“live for ever with the quiet heart of the earth!
What it can do for a man!”
Pops laughed aloud as he hitched the chains back
to the swingletrees.
“It can do for you all right!” he agreed drily.
“Gid up, Kate!”
Kate, her mood of the minute over, got up
meekly; but above the rattle and clank of chains
dragged suddenly taut the fat man’s voice rose petu-
lantly. “Say, mister! A tractor would’ve saved you
all that bother. Say, I wanna sell you a tractor!”
Dogs
STEADY,
FINE CUT
by A-C.HEADLEY
DRAWING BY LOCK.
QKINNY sat on the side of the bed and manipu-
lated the three cards.
“This time, Scut,” he said, “I’ll prove that
the speed of the nut is deceptive to the eyeball.
Now you see it, now you don’t. Find the lady and
the drinks are on me.”
“I’ll take in a schooner,” said I, twisting the
queen. “Life ain’t long enough for the practice you’ll
need to deceive me, and I’m not in any danger of
losing my eyesight. And you were saying something
about Arty Vaughan and a dog.”
“Oh,” said Skinny, “the dog. Listen, Scut, it’s
a sweet cop. Arty’s got a dog, see? It ain’t no
champion, but if it’s entered in the right races it’s
likely to make the books clear the cobwebs away
from their payin’-out bags.” He nodded at the cards.
“I defy you to find the lady.”
“Forget the cards,” said I. “The way I look at
it is that Arty and his dog could do with a little
concentrating on. For instance, how much it’s going
to cost and what it’s all about and how much it’s
going to cost.”
Skinny took the two end questions first. “Listen,
Scut; for the trifling sum of one hundred quid Arty
is willing to part out one-half interest in one dog.”
“Since when,” said I, “has one hundred fiddlees
been a trifle?”
“Listen, Scut,” he said ; “for a proposition like
this it’s chicken-feed.”
“For a dog that hasn’t even won a maiden,” said
I, “the feed seems to be on Arty’s side.’!
“What you need,” said Skinny, “is vision. It
ain’t the dog we’re payin’ for ; it’s the trainin’.”
“What training?”
“This,” said Skinny, “is very extra-special
trainin’. Arty’s been trainin’ this dog specially.”
“For a hundred quid,” said I, “he’d have to.
For that amount I’d train Arty to chase a tin hare
himself.”
“All right,” said Skinny, polishing shoe on
the sheet. “Arty’s been trainin’ this dog so that it
doesn’t leave the box. It took him the best part
of a year.”
“ That,” I said, “is one of the best propositions
I’ve ever heard. For a hundred quid we get a half-
interest in a dog that gets left in the box while the
rest of the field has a race. Listen, Skinny, could
I interest you in the Harbor Bridge or a sundial or
change a few of your notes for gold? You can
take your pick of the three for a hundred quid.”
“Sometimes,” said Skinny, “you make me wonder
how tall your little sister was when she dropped you
on your head when you were a baby. Listen, stupid,
this dog don’t always stay in the box. It’s only when
Arty tells it to. Any other time it jumps out like
an Olympic Games kangaroo.”
“I’m beginning to see what you meant by the
hundred quid,” said I.
Skinny grinned. “There’s hope for you yet.
You see what a cop it is. We shove the dog
in a couple of races and Arty words it. The
result is it don’t leave the box and runs about
last. It ain’t long then before the books start calling
any old price, and that’s the place where we step in
and make a clean-up. Scut, there’s a fortune in it.”
“I’d like a test case first,” said I. “When can
we see the dog in action?”
“Is to-morrow soon enough?” said Skinny.
Hr HE following evening we finished up in the pub,
* and I was buying drinks for Arty and patting him
on the back. Arty was ' such a small feller that I
had to reach down to do it, but the effort was worth
it after seeing this dog of his. It was a big black-
and-white called Fine Cut, and we’d given it a trial
that morning, and it was all that Arty and Skinny
had said about it. Arty used a couple of other dogs
in the trial, and when he gave the word this Fine
Cut would give them half-way start. When he did
let it run free it cleared out and won by lengths. And
there wasn’t anything about the way Arty did it,
either. All he said when he wanted the dog to stay
in the box was “Steady, Fine Cut,” and every time
he said it it lost twenty lengths at the start.
“Well,” said Skinny, “are we in or ain’t we?”
“In,” said I, giving Arty another slap on the
back.
“Y’ un’erstan’,” said Arty, “all ’rangements has
got to be left to me.”
He was a funny-looking little bloke, and if you
remembered things you’d heard about him you
wouldn’t trust him further than a broken bootlace ;
but when you looked at his baby face all you thought
of was what horrible lies they were and you wanted
to punch your best friend for telling you.
“Y’ un’erstan’?” he said.
“Sure,” said Skinny.
Well, even though the hundred made a hole in
the bank we were pretty well cashed-up at the time,
and, the way it looked, we were only lending the
money. Arty reckoned that the bush tracks were
the best places for finding the kind of dogs that Fine
Cut could toss, so we entered it for a meeting down
the line.
In the first three weeks we were in the place
Fine Cut got left in the box for three races. Each
time in the betting his price was climbing higher and
higher. Before his fourth race tens were quoted in
most places, and Skinny was beginning to suggest
to Arty that we hop in for our cut. But Arty
wasn’t having any.
“Wait a while,” he said, “and we’ll get twenties.”
We couldn’t do anything else, considering that
Arty was the one who put Fine Cut into the box
and gave the instructions. But he seemed to be
putting it off a bit too long. We’d been in the place
nearly a month, and Skinny and I were just about
full to the teeth of it.
Anyway, Fine Cut got left again, and when the
next meeting came round we got the hound entered
in a three-hundred-yard maiden. This time, according
to Arty, he was going to let the thing go.
“But,” he warned us, “don’t go in too heavy on
it. Just a couple of quid here and there. We don’t
want the books to wake up to us. There’ll be plenty
more opportunities.”
After Skinny and I had talked it over we decided
that a tenner distributed among the bag-boys at twenty
to one was a reasonable investment, and, as Arty
had said, there’d be plenty more opportunities.
But the night before the meeting Arty tossed the
spanner into the works.
“Skinny,” he said, “you needn’t waste no dough
on Fine Cut to-morrow ; she ain’t goin’ t’ be tryin’.
The time ain’t ripe.”
Skinny looked at him.
“Why?” he demanded. “Why ain’t it?”
Arty perked his head on one side and looked
wise.
“Because why,” he said. “Because I’ve got an
idea that someone’s got in on us, and if they see you
backin’ it they’re likely to crowd our dough out.”
Well, what could we do about it? Arty was
boss.
“If you ask me,” said I when he’d gone, “there’s
something fishy about the whole affair.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “you’re one of two men
thinking along the same lines. Somehow I’ve got a
feeling that this is the time we should back Fine Cut.
Maybe Arty’s going to be struck tongue-tied when he’s
putting the dog into the box, and it ain’t so intelligent
that it can read his thoughts.”
“There must be something wrong with my mind,”
said I; “it’s thinking the same thing.”
Skinny picked up his hat.
“Scut,” he said, “I’m going to do a piece of
investigating.”
OKINNY came back about midnight with a grin all
over his face. “We was right,” he said. “Arty’s
in with the gang of local toughs.”
“Yeah?” I said. “And I suppose that’s the best
excuse you’ve got for the hearty laugh.”
“Scut,” grinned Skinny, “we’re follering Arty’s
advice. We ain’t shovin’ a penny on the dog to-
morrow.”
“But,” said I, “if Arty’s trying to trick us we
ought to do the opposite to what he tells us.”
“Not this time,” said Skinny. “I got it fixed.”
I couldn’t get any more out of him, and the
next morning came round and so did Arty.
“You ain’t forgot,” he said, “what I tol’ you
yes’d’y? She won’t be tryin’.”
Skinny grinned. “0.k., Arty—we ain’t riskin’ a
penny.”
“And now,” said I, when Arty had vanished, “do
you think you could stand the strain of telling me
what it’s all about?”
Skinny tilted his hat on the back of his head.
“Scut,” he said, “I’ll unburden my soul in the
three-act drama entitled ‘The Triumph of Right Over
Wrong.’ The dog that’s racing as Fine Cut to-day
ain’t the same dog that raced at the last meetings.”
“If that’s the curtain,” said I, “I don’t get you.
Maybe it’s one of those problem plays.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “does it convey anything
if I tell you that I used a bit of black paint on a
white dog and rung the changes with Fine Cut?”
“It could be clearer,” said I. “Where did you get
the dog, anyway?”
“From a feller named Donnelly,” said Skinny.
"He’s got a string of them.”
“Buy it, hire it or what?” said I.
Skinny spat thoughtfully. “I had to cut him in
on the deal. There wasn’t nothin’ else for it. But
he’s 0.K., and he’s in with us against Arty. Listen,
Scut—l had to safeguard our interests, didn’t I?”
“All right,” said I, “but where’s the real Fine
Cut?”
“He’s mindin’ it,” said Skinny.
“What about the other dog?”
Skinny grinned. “You could race it yourself.”
T” HE meeting was set down for the afternoon, and
* about one o’clock we were headed for the local
course. The dog was entered in the one-thirty race,
but we had plenty of time, because it was only about
five minutes’ walk to the course. Arty had gone off
about twelve, taking the faked Fine Cut with him.
The betting had begun when we reached the
course, and as we got close to the ring we heard Fine
Cut being quoted at twenties.
“They must be leaving the commission till later,”
said Skinny.
“Yeah,” said I, “or Arty was telling the truth.”
(Continued on page 7.)


There’s M any a Slip
BEARS
AND BULLS
By S.H. COUZTIER
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
THE overwhelming debacle in which the well-
known stockbroking firm of Trike and Crib,
together with its large clientele, was involved
is so recent that the event must be fresh in your
mind. As it happens that I am the Crib of the
unfortunate combination I find it particularly fresh
in mine, and unless a complete loss of memory on
the part of our creditors intervenes it is likely to
remain so.
The trouble was that Trike Henry to his
intimates —and I were blazing a trail into unknown,
seas, where no man’s foot had previously trod, so to
speak, plus the incredible fact that in these
days of modern education it is possible for a man to
leave school, get married, etc., become a captain of
industry, amass a huge fortune and grow old without
being able to spell a word even once in the correct
way.
Passing a butcher’s shop one afternoon it
occurred to me that my wife had said something
about my obtaining provision for tea. Having a
profound respect for Mrs. Crib and an equally pro-
found regard for my inner man, I entered the shop.
When I set eyes upon the smart butcherly figure
behind the chopping-block I was seeing Henry for
the first time. But I did not even then realise what
a momentous occasion this was.
A strange thing happened. Without direction
from me of any kind Henry stepped to the rail
supporting the array of meat, cut off a pound of
chops, three-penn’orth of cat’s-meat and a soup-bone,
wrapped them all up and handed me the parcel.
“One-and-five the lot, sir.”
I was so impressed by this staggering feat that
1 didn’t notice till much later that Henry had
returned me only 7s. 7d. change out of half a note,
and by then a shilling was a small matter to the
junior partner of Trike and Crib.
I would have immediately inquired how the devil
Henry knew what I wanted, but a file of customers
had come in after me. I watched, fascinated. Henry
said not a word to them nor they to him. Silently
and efficiently he sliced steak, skewered rounds of
corned, clipped strings of sausages, ladled out mince-
meat and wrapped it in paper as required. And not
once did he make a mistake.
When the rush was over I approached Henry
again. There was an urgent question in my mind.
It stayed there. Before I had a chance to voice it
Henry had given me the answer. Immediately I was
aware of other questions demanding to be uttered.
Their fate was no different from that of the first.
The conversation, consequently, was maintained on
the following lines:
‘ ‘ W-w-w-w” ——
“Easy, old man. I’m a thought-reader.”
“B-b-b-b”
“Dinkum, I really read thoughts.”
“You”
“No, I’m not mad, as
far as I know.”
“H-how”
“All me life. Born like
it, I suppose.”
“Gr-r-r”
“Quite simple. I just
look into your mind and see
what’s there. Doesn’t take
me long as a rule.”
You’ll admit it was a bit startling. As I’d never
had any contact with telepathy before I couldn’t
stand too much of this one-sided talking, and at last
I managed to get a word in edgeways.
“Hold on,” I said. “Give us a chance to hear
myself. I haven’t time to collect my thoughts.”
“I’ll collect ’em for you,” said Henry. “But
have it your own way, though it is a waste of time.”
Already it had been borne upon me that Henry
was what I had been looking for in my long search
for an easy and simple means of rising to wealth
and position. To make certain, I determined to
submit Henry to a few tests. I accordingly asked
if he was willing to accompany me down the street.
“I want you to read the thoughts of the people
we pass,” I said.
As it was closing-time Henry was agreeable. He,
of course, saw what was in my mind and already was
interested in something promising to turn out to his
advantage.
THAT little stroll was a remarkable experience. In
the circumstances Henry could not hope to reveal
all the passing thoughts. For one ( thing, there were
too many people. Still, those he did unveil were
sufficiently astounding. Thoughts good, bad, indif-
ferent ; the thoughts of an elderly gent, eyeing a
neat pair of ankles ; the thoughts of a sad-eyed man,
laden with parcels, waiting outside a shop; the
thoughts of a lady whose husband, Henry gathered,
was pleasantly engaged in a pub ; big thoughts, little
thoughts, no thought at all.
Nevertheless that walk was not all unalloyed
pleasure. Henry showed a want of tact at times.
Once, for instance, he nudged me and said: “That
girl there the pretty one you’re looking at she
doesn’t mind you looking at her at all, but she thinks
you’ve got a wart of a face. No offence, mind you.”
Again, a minute or so after, a rude individual
pushing through the throng bumped me violently.
Henry began to laugh.
“What’s the joke?” I asked.
“That fellow you knocked against,” he grinned.
“He’s just calling you—mentally—a gory and clumsy
fool.”
That annoyed me, for the collision was in no way
my fault. However, it was soon my turn to laugh.
Henry trod on a set of toes. Their owner retaliated
with a ferocious glare. I then discovered that Henry
was of a sensitive nature. Tearing off his coat, he
rushed at his victim with murder in his eyes.
“Come on,” he yelled, “put ’em up! Nobody
calls me that and gets away with it!”
' “Calls you what?” the other demanded. “I
never called you anything. I never spoke”
“Yes, you did,” Henry snarled, his fists whirling.
“And I don’t stand it from any man.”
I had great difficulty in preventing a riot, and
just managed to get Henry away before the Johns
arrived on the scene.
I suppose we went the length of a block before
Henry cooled down. And then he displayed another
side to his complex temperament. He suddenly
clutched my arm with every sign of alarm. I wanted
to know what was wrong.
“Good Lord!” Henry quavered. “Let’s get out
of this. There’s a madman loose.”
I stared up and down the street without seeing
anyone corresponding to the description of an escaped
lunatic.
“There —look!” Henry pointed. “That’s the
man. Come on —we’ve got to make a break. He s
absolutely mad.”
When I examined the man I could find nothing
to warrant any excitement. To test Henry’s assertions
I breasted up to the suspect and asked him the time.
“Moi, non compris I’Aussie,” the supposed lunatic
ejaculated —anyway, it was something like that.
“A Frenchman,” I told Henry. “What you
thought was the gibberish of a lunatic was merely
his thoughts expressed
in French. That’s the
way they think in
France, you know.”
We passed on,
and Henry wiped the
sweat from his brow.
So far Henry had
come up to expecta-
tions. There re-
mained a further and
final test to impose.
I wished to know how
Henry would respond
to a crisis. That night,
after a sharp inter-
view with Mrs. Crib
re the late arrival of
chops, I took him off
to the Town Hall,
where a soiree was being held in honor of a Cabinet
Minister who was departing overseas on affairs of
international importance.
Knowing the chairman, I was able to arrange
for Henry to say a few words of appreciation on
behalf of the general pttblic. His was the most
brilliant speech of the night. And no wonder. All
his wit, his noble language, his beautiful sentiments,
rousing that vast audience to a mighty pitch of enthu-
siasm, were filched from the minds of the long row
of eminent persons who were later to hold the stage.
Henry, as it were, picked the eyes out of their
speeches. Their expressions of frustrated rage as
Henry poached on their preserves were good to see.
After Henry had sat down there followed as woeful
and stammering a set of orations, including that of
the guest himself, as anything I’ve heard. Still, as
far as I was concerned, it was a most successful
evening. Henry was everything I desired.
Walking home, I reflected upon Henry’s un-
doubted possibilities. Detective, reporter, barrister,
blackmailer —I could have named a dozen careers in
any of which he could have risen to the highest peak.
But there was one for which, I decided, he was
particularly cut out.
“I reckon it’s a jolly good idea, too,” said Henry,
breaking in on my thoughts. “I’m with you all the
way, Tom.”
And that was the genesis of Trike and Crib,
Stock and Share Brokers. Tel. UP2O (10 lines).
WE discovered on inquiry that obtaining a seat
on the Exchange was not as simple as it sounded.
It appears that one has to possess a certain financial
standing, then be nominated by the members of the
institution itself sitting in conclave. Fortunately,
having Henry as my partner, I saw our way clearly
to overcome the first obstacle, which, when achieved,
would naturally ensure the surmounting of the
second.
“Henry,” I said, “do you play poker?”
I was astonished to learn that Henry did not
even know what poker was.
“Poker,” I explained, “is one of the ways in
which men endeavor to win money from each other.
You are a born poker-player, Henry, and I’m going to
instruct you in the art as our first step towards the
Stock Exchange.”
We started at once. Within a week Henry had
a fair grip of the great pastime, and by the end of
a month we had evolved a code by which I knew
almost as soon as he did what cards were held by
our opponents.
We were thus fitted to enter any poker-school,
and we did so, attended by complete success. By
the time we had exhausted all the worth-while poker-
schools in our city we were ready to embark on
the next stage of our progress towards high finance.
In our spare time I had managed to give Henry
a grounding in contract law, and he quickly mastered
such terms as “vulnerable,” “finesse,” “slam”—both
grand and small and “ruffing.” At length I felt
safe in introducing him to a tony bridge club where,
besides building up our capital, we would make those
contacts necessary for our harmonious election
to the Exchange. On our first appearance at the
tables Henry worked with the smooth ease charac-
terising his poker play. All the same he caused some
amusement.
“Who,” he asked, after a couple of hands had
been played, “carries the baby?”
“Baby?” repeated North. Henry and I were
East and West respectively.


“I’ll believe anything else,” said Skinny.
But right up to race-time there weren’t any signs
of anyone popping a roll on Fine Cut. I was begin-
ning to look doubtful. Maybe Arty had been telling
the truth after all.
“Anyway,” said Skinny, “seeing that the dog
won’t run "decent, it won’t affect the price for the next
time.”
Along the course they were putting the dogs into
the boxes. I took a look through the glasses, and as
Arty shoved Fine Cut in you could make out his lips
forming the words “Steady, Fine Cut.”
“He was on the level,” I told Skinny.
But just as I said it the books changed their tune.
“Fifteen to one Fine Cut.”
“Twelve to one Fine Cut.”
Skinny took a dive for the ring.
“Tens Fine Cut.”
I followed Skinny. Suddenly he swung round
and grabbed me.
“Look!” he yelped.
He was pointing at a sleek-looking gent, who was
in the middle of placing a bet.
“What am I looking at?” said I.
“It’s Donnelly—the bloke I got the dog orf.”
He dived after his finger, and just at that moment
the race started. I swung around. And there out
in front by about five lengths was Fine Cut. The
further they went the further he went away. The
only chance the other dogs had was to jump on a
high-powered car. Fine Cut won by about ten
lengths.
I started after Skinny. By the time I reached
him he was in the middle of a heated argument with
this Donnelly. But it didn’t seem to worry Donnelly
any, and when Skinny had said his piece he filled
out the grin on his face and started.
“Listen,” he said ; “you don’t think I was going
to pass up a chance like that. One of the best dogs
in the district, and rung in in a maiden without any
risk. Maybe you’re goin’ t’ tell the stewards.”
Skinny spluttered, but Donnelly went on.
“No,” he said, “you ain’t goin’t’ tell no stewards.
Your pal was the feller who put the dog in the box,
and if he don’t mind you doing the dirty on him
once he might if you did it twice. Besides, you
wouldn’t have no chance of getting any money back
if he and the dog was outed.”
“He’s right,” I said ; “we ain’t got a chance.”
“Sure I’m right,” said Donnelly; “and you’d
better see that you bring my dog back to-night. He’d
get better attention from me —and besides I’ve got
some black stain to clean off.”
With that he vanished into the ring to collect
his money.
But it was Arty that made us feel worse than
ever.
“Skinny,” he said when we saw him, “I don’t
know what happened. I give the dog the office to
stay in the box —honest I did —but it didn’ stay.”
You could see him mumbling those words over
and over —“But it didn’ stay.”
Skinny coughed.
“Arty,” he said, “there’s people who’d think you
double-crossed ’em. But not us, Arty. We trust
you, Arty. We trust you.”
It dawned on me that Henry was still a bit
flummoxed with his nomenclature, and I took the
first opportunity to whisper to him that, while we
might be dummy occasionally, we would see that
somebody else always carried the baby.
Henry, however, speedily emerged from the
novice class, and then the cash began to roll in. In
fact, so great was our renown as bridge exponents
that we were called on to represent the State in the
annual inter-State tourney, and the “Ague” invited
me to write their weekly bridge notes at a very
satisfactory figure. Henry and I also collaborated
in a book entitled Contract Bridge; Notes on the
Famous Trike-Crib Conventions. This book sold in
thousands. It contained everything we knew about
bridge save one thing Henry’s own and unique
method of assessing card distribution.
T~ HE day came when, after making an examination
* of our banking account, I realised we were now
ready for the final step. We accordingly secured
Henry’s election to the Stock Exchange, and Trike
and Crib made their debut.
As you would expect by now, Henry’s methods
of getting first-hand and authentic information were
used to the best advantage. Armed always with the
latest dope, we were able to hop in for the first
cut. If the bulls were abroad we were in the position
to gratify their desires ; if the bears, we never failed
to give them a flying start. Whatever happened,
Trike and Crib were certain to be on the winning
side.
Our rise was meteoric, and we became known
as the most expert brokers operating. As a result
there were dozens of investors fairly bursting to
entrust us with their stock. So you will not be sur-
prised to learn that, three months after we began
broking, one of the sights of the city was that
of Henry and myself strolling along, cigars in mouth,
deep in financial discussion.
Such was the profitable state of our affairs when
we encountered old Joshua Stug. Joshua was a
millionaire who spent his years of retirement in play-,
ing the stockmarket. He was an illiterate person,
but we didn’t worry about that; his money was good.
Joshua regarded himself as the Great Australian
Bull. As such he was a godsend to Trike and Crib.
Henry made a point of saying good-day to Josh
every morning so that we knew what he was after
and saw that he got it—at our price. If we had
only known, we’d have thrown Joshua into the river
and poured prussic acid over him.
I’ll never forget the morning Henry rushed into
the office in the grip of terrific emotion.
“Tom,” he panted, “I’ve just been talking to old
Josh. He’s going mad on Bryton Gold.”
“Are you sure?” I demanded.
“Too right. The old coot told me he was in-
terested in Foxlight Silver, but I knew what he was
thinking. He’s hanging off a couple of days to give
Bryton a chance to drop.”
“How do they stand?” I asked.
“One-and-threepence. And not worth three-
pence,” said Henry.
It was, to us, the great, golden opportunity.
Carefully and secretly we bought up all the Bryton
Gold we could lay our hands on. Despite our caution
the market firmed and they rose to two bob. Still
we bought. They jumped to 3s. 6d.
“We’ll keep going,” Henry said. “The rise’ll be
like a red rag to Josh.”
Soon we were out of our depth and I began to
look around for something to lay off on.
“It doesn’t matter,” Henry said. “We’ll be set
when Josh starts.”
We continued to absorb Bryton till the Exchange
sat up and took notice. We were called on to show
our cover. We were in a hole till Henry thought of
putting up the Industrials we held on behalf of our
clients. As Henry remarked, everything would be
O.K. as soon as Joshua took the bit between his teeth.
So we plunged on. When we finished we held all
but a few thousand of the million Bryton scares, with
the market closing at 15s.
“Now for to-morrow,” Henry said as we left
the office that night. “When Joshua gets going we’re
set to clear a quarter of a million.”
I fully concurred.
T” HE morrow dawned bright and fair. Henry and
1 I, in the best of spirits, were early on the scene.
Old Joshua came in, exuding c'ash and resolution.
Henry glanced at him and whispered: “We’re on the
bull’s back, Tom. He’s all-out for Bryton.”
Thus we waited confidently for Joshua’s first
move. When it came I stared at the board unbeliev-
ingly, and my stomach felt like a bunch of seasick
eels.
Old Joshua had lashed out on Brighton Gold!
In a flash of horror I saw what had happened.
The uneducated old swine couldn’t spell. Henry,
looking into his mind, had seen “Bryton,” whereas
Josh had really meant “Brighton.”
The old swindler!
Henry and I crawled off to the office, where
we sat in deepest gloom, dumbly reflecting that, instead
of being the richer by £250,000, we now owed close
on half a million. There is no need to dwell on the
sorry scene.
We were still sitting there when our attention was
drawn to a policeman. Happily Henry’s telepathic
powers were still in working order. As the John
came in the front door with the warrant for our
arrest we were sneaking out the back door.
We managed to make a safe getaway and are, in
fact, still at large ; but we are finished as brokers.
For all that, I don’t suppose anybody could be broker.
"Tom,” he panted, “he’s going mad on Bryton Gold.”


&
rC
SP
osv
cr^
When a Woman
tells yon
that it is nearly fifty years
since she bought her first
tin of Calvert’s Tooth
Powder,
that she doesn’t want to
boast, but her teeth are
very white still,
that nothing but Calvert’s
Tooth Powder has been
used on them since she
Well, don’t you think it is was
worth trying for your teeth!
. ,-M.VERT & CO..
inra
• • 9
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(3 omdimQijdtML
equally exaggerated athleticism, the legacy of many
of the smaller public schools. There is something infi-
nitely more valuable; and that is mental stability, which
is often found in company with sophistication, distinct,
incidentally, from blaseness.
The person he wanted was an “unassuming but
self-possessed type,” and he gathered men of this
type to such purpose that he is able to write that
theirs “must have been one of the happiest parties
of any expedition.” The quality of that party which
the account does very clearly convey is that of youth.
Pictures show the party to have been, with one excep-
tion, all young men, and the spirit of their general
youthfulness—especially when it bubbles over and
sends Mussolini a message deprecating the Abyssinian
War, or goes adventuring after seals for the fun of
it, or gets down to preparing a slap-up Christmas
dinner—gives the book a curiously attractive character.
On the other hand, the only old-timer in the party,
a Norwegian trapper, though not much exploited by
the author, is the only character of real color.
For the rest, the author, with occasional help from
other members of the party, gives a solid account of
the expedition’s adventures and scientific operations in
the Arctic, and a grand lot of photographs add greatly
to the interest.
Ludwig's "Cleopatra."
Emil Ludwig’s Cleopatra: The Story of a Queen
(Allen and Unwin, translated from the German by
Bernard Miall), is written somewhat in the style of
a novel, flexibly, intimately, with frequent recourse
to dramatic dialogue. The complex story is expertly
woven.
Cleopatra’s life is taken from when, a child of
ten, without apparent future, her life in peril, her
drunken father—“the Flute-player”—a prisoner in
Rome, her libertine sister, Berenice, op the throne
of Egypt, she watched ships sailing for Rome from
the window of her palace in Alexandria. The story
goes on to her death from the poison of an asp in
her royal mausoleum less than 30 years later.
For background she has the history of the Roman
Empire from the battle of Pharsalia—Pompey’s defeat
—to the battle of Actium ; that is, from the moment
of Caesar’s maximum power, through three civil wars
to the fall of Anthony. This historic background,
troubled, crowded, chaotic though it appears, has
really the compactness of one great episode. Caesar
was master of the world. His assassination divided
and dissipated the Roman power. The consequences
of that deed were worked out in blood with the pre-
cision of a Greek tragedy until, with the defeat and
suicide of Anthony, Caesar’s last friend, the world
was united again under Caesar’s heir, Octavian—the
Emperor Augustus.
The stormy petrel Cleopatra, with her “huntress
eyes,” her “cynical innocence,” her beauty and ability,
could have had no more effective setting. Her influ-
ence on the lives of her two Roman lovers Caesar
and Anthony, went deeper than her charm. She was
the descendant of Macedonian Alexander, 300 years
dead, whose legend still troubled the Roman world.
It was the most sacred moment in Caesar’s life when
he stood beside Alexander’s tomb in Alexandria and
looked upon his embalmed body. Anthony, too, was
to come to Alexander’s tomb and, laying his hand
upon the body, to his horror break away a part,
accepted as a sinister omen.
At the time of his death Caesar was preparing
to follow in Alexander’s footsteps, planning the
conquest of Persia. Anthony felt the same
inspiration. He flung away a great army, his
reputation and his future on this dream. And Cleo-
patra, beside the Nile, still kept up Alexander’s state
—“the Macedonian guard which surrounded her car-
riage wore white felt hats and carried huge lances
that were used in the days of Alexander, when
throughout the Eastern world they were as dreaded
as the Cretan bow.” The glamor of Cleopatra and
the dream of conquest beyond conquest to which the
masters of the world had given themselves were bound
together.
One thing stands out in this picture of the Roman
world—excess. Caesar was insatiable; so was Anthony;
so were Fulvia, his second wife, Servilia, Octavian.
Their history and their conquests had screwed the
Roman temperament so high that it was incapable
of anything but excess. Of the excess Cleopatra, the
most beautiful, the most powerful, the richest woman
in the world, was the very symbol.
It is a wild and fleering picture that Ludwig
draws, enhanced by his strong prejudices. Of
Octavian he can speak no good—“the moneylender’s
grandson”—of Caesar no ill. It was Caesar —whom
Shakspeare relegates to her “salad days”—who was
the power in Cleopatra’s life.
Weils Has His Doubts.
H. G. Wells has written yet another short book
or long pamphlet, The Brothers (Chatto and Windus).
To encourage readers tired of being pamphleteered it
bears the sub-title “A Story.” There is a story, too,
but it is harnessed to an idea twice as big as itself.
The idea, of course, is a bright one, cleverly executed,
brilliantly expressed, but not as blandly optimistic as
the world ideas of Wells usually are.
The scene is some unspecified South American
State in the throes of civil war, Fascist against Com-
munist. Richard Bolaris is the dictator, Robert Ratzel
the Communist leader. One day Bolaris receives a
message from his mistress, Catherine Farness, to
come to her villa at once ; something very important
has happened. Bolaris takes his five armored-cars
and pays her a secret visit.
He finds Ratzel there, a prisoner, and Ratzel is
his own double. They discover that they are tw.in
brothers separated as babies by a flood on the Missis-
sippi in which Richard was thought to have drowned.
He was, instead, rescued and adopted by General
Bolaris. They compare their lives and find that they
have run on parallel lines.
This is all very much in the vein of The Prisoner
of Zenda , but now Wells gets down to the job. The
two men discuss their political philosophies, and dis-
cover that at bottom they are identical. Each is dis-
gusted by the injustice of things as they are. Each
wants to clean up the mess, and each has come to
the conclusion that force must be applied to make a
beginning. Bolaris explains how he came to go into
the dictator business.
What hit me was not indignation at oppression but
indignation at presumption and pretentious meanness
and muddle. You thought these people of the Right, as
you would call them, were cruel and hard; I knew they
were—fatuous.
Communism comes in for some bashes:
Your Red jargon, dictatorship of the proletariat,
and so forth, is about as sloppy a lingo, forgive me, as
the human mind ever slipped up upon —not a classifica-
tion in it that is sound, not a term that isn’t like a thin
paper bag full of broken eggs.... dogmas made by
exasperated refugees with chronic indigestion.
They decide, each having unshipped his own
peculiar dogmas, that there is something vital in
which they share.
What is really happening is the birth of a new world,
out of mankind, almost in spite of mankind. Our job,
his as well as mine, is to liquidate things outworn.
They agree, in true Wellsian fashion, that “the
real forces that are shaping human life to-day and
driving us all before them are neither in politics nor
business. They are in drawing-offices and laboratories
on the one hand and on the other in the forces of
the earth, the dust before the wind, the blaze of the
sun, the festering germs in the dirt.”
The brothers agree to join forces to bring in the
millennium. An escape is to be engineered for Ratzel.
He is to go back to his command, both are to work
for peace, to send away their foreign allies to begin
the task of government sanely and competently.
Bolaris has to face his followers with a change of
front—Handon, who makes uo for being stupid by
being loyal; the Duke whose “chin was not an ordi-
nary chin ; it was an heirloom” ; Istom, who stood tor
Big Business; Fayle, the rebellious fanatic, and so
on. In true dictatorial style he impounds all who
are against him. There is a boyish interlude in which
Ratzel’s escape is arranged, and then when all seems
fairly set for the millennium Bolaris finds himself
trapped by a surprise attack in Catherine’s villa at
the very moment when Ratzel is escaping by an under-
ground passage.
The loyal Handon sees and recognises Ratzel
running among the olive-trees. He snatches up a
rifle and picks him off. Bolaris leaps to stop him, and
in the struggle Handon shoots the dictator through
the heart. So perishes the future at the hands of the
loyal but stupid man. A bitter ending if ever there
was one.
Convicts with Trimmings.
Through throwing a romantic light on material
that obviously calls for realistic treatment, Commander
Geoffrey Rawson, in The Strange Case of Mary
Bryant (Hale ; Angus and Robertson), misses a good
chance. He deals with a party of First-Fleeters,
among whom was Mary Bryant, who escaped from
Port Jackson in the early days and made their way
by sea to Timor, a voyage almost equalling Bligh’s
open-boat journey a year or two earlier.
Coming out to Australia, Mary, whose maiden
name was Braund, gave birth to a child whose reputed
father was a young convict named Bryant, in another
ship of the fleet. The couple were married in Sydney
and subsequently had another child. Bryant—he had
been transported for smuggling —was in charge of the
settlement’s fishing-boat, and it was in this vessel that
he, with his family and half a dozen men, made their
escape.
Rawson makes Mary the originator of the plan.
There is doubt about this; other researchers have
noted that the company planned to leave her behind.
Five died as a result of the rigors of the journey—
Bryant, (he two children and two others. The escapees
had bad luck. Picked up in Coupang by Captain
Edwards, R.N., who put in to Timor on his way back
to England after an investigation of the Bounty
mutiny, they were returned to England in custody,
and most of them were retransported. Mary, getting
the benefit of the admiration which their feat of
daring and hardihood aroused, was pardoned.
A legend grew up that she had originally been
transported for assisting her lover to escape from
gaol. Rawson —though there is evidence in the book
that he knows differently—makes this the keynote of
the yarn. His prologue describes her alleged rescue
of her lover, and the fiction of the fair, distressed and
virtuous heroine is afterwards maintained, even to
the extent of introducing an apocryphal episode
between her and surgeon John White.
In the appendix Rawson reproduces the Western
Circuit Assizes record relevant to Mary, and the
reader gets his first glimpse of her true character from
authentic sources. She was sentenced to transportation
with two other women for assault and robbery on the
King’s Highway. Mary, whatever she may have lacked
in the way of the gentler attributes, was a stout girl.
A realistic study of her should have been entertaining.
In the Dickens Tradition.
Frank Swinnerton’s Harvest Comedy (Hutchin-
son) is not as gay as the name suggests. The quota-
tion on the title-page, “We are betrayed by what is
false in us,” gives another complexion to it. The char-
acters are shown reaping what they sowed, the good
man rewarded, the evildoers punished. It is the inter-
woven life stories of three men, the youngest and
pleasantest of whom is called William Harvest.
It is in the Dickens tradition—bulky and tells a
good meaty tale. There are a great many characters, all
neatly and firmly bound together, the action is plenti-


AUSTRALIA'S FIRST-CHOICE CAR FLASHES AHEAD
WITH THIS DAZZLING NEW MODEL - ■
mm
**•»
l or 938
NOW ON DfSPLAV
D
THE ONLY FULL-SIZED CAR TO
GtVE YOU ALL THESE FEATURES
AT AN ECONOMICAL PRICE.
HIGH-COMPRESSION 6-CYLINDER OVER-
HEAD VALVE ENGINE.
HOLDEN “UNISTEEL TURRETOP” BODY.
THE STRONGEST, QUIETEST, SAFEST ALL-
STEEL BODY MADE.
INDEPENDENT FRONT WHEEL SPRING-
ING ON MASTER DE LUXE MODELS.
PERFECTED “FULL CONTACT”
HYDRAULIC BRAKES.
NEW DIAPHRAGM SPRING CLUTCH - AN
EXCLUSIVE CHEVROLET FEATURE.
SILENT SYNCHRO-MESH GEARS.
BOX-GIRDER FRAME . . . STRONGEST
KNOWN TO ENGINEERING. ANOTHER
EXCLUSIVE CHEVROLET FEATURE.
THE GREATEST VALUE EVER OFFERED AT THE PRICE
AGAIN for 1938 Chevrolet maintains its leadership
with a superb new range of Standard and Master
de Luxe models which bring you modern-mode
styling . . . built-in safety and economy and every fine-
car feature, including an exclusive New-design Clutch,
giving smoother, more positive engagement with greatly
reduced pedal pressure.
STYLE AND LUXURY are the keynotes of 1938 design—
the spacious Holden “Unisteel Turretop” bodies on closed
models have every feature to give you extra feomfort and
convenience, including “Relax-o-form” Upholstery, Ad-
justable Front Seat; and an Extra-Roomy Trunk on Sedans,
with separate compartment for spare wheel, available with-
out disturbing luggage.
CHEVROLET—THE SALES LEADER—In 6 of the last
7 years, Chevrolet has led every other car in world sales
because Chevrolet gives greatest value-for-money. Test
the 1938 Chevrolet yourself—take it out on the road —
Read the list of features at right. Investigate
eompetitive prices and you will find that
CHEVROLET SAVES YOU MORE
THAN £5O ON FIRST • COST ALONE.
Check running costs and you'll find that this
beautiful full-sized “ Go-anywhere ” Chevrolet
costs only about £6 - £7 a year more for petrol
than the smallest cars.
experience its exhilarating performance, its delightful
comfort, its amazing ease of control . . . Accept our
invitation to have a free 5-mile drive- and learn how true
it is that You’ll Be Ahead With Chevrolet 1
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN’S LIMITED
The New Chevrolet Range Includes
OPEN BODY MODELS FROM - - £304
CLOSED BODY MODELS FROM - - £339
STANDARD CHEVROLET MODELS:
Commercial Roadster £304 Business Coupe - £339
Sports Roadster - £319 Sports Coupe - - £349
Tourer ... £329 Sedan - - - £359
(All Prices Plus Sales Tax)
MASTER DE LUXE MODELS are available with
Sedan, Coupe and Sports Roadster bodies.
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
Tour Money Goes Farther in a General Motors’ Car,
AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
Provision has been made in Chev-
rolet to accommodate radio and a
special "Air Chief” model has been
developed for this installation. The
controls match the other furnish-
ings of the instrument panel—the
Speaker (an eight inch dynamic
type) fits flush with the roof lining
and the Receiver which gives
9-valve performance, fits out of the
way under the Dash panel. The
"Acoustinator” is an additional
feature which provides the best
possible reproduction. Ask your
dealer for a demonstration.
IF YOU ARE
VISITING ENG-
LAND, you may
buy your Chevrolet
before you leave and
find your new car
waiting for you in
England. See your
Chevrolet Dealer
about this special
service.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
C 603-44
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers all over Australia
ful and vigorous—two murders, several seductions,
a libel action, a divorce, marriages and deaths —and
there is a good deal of dramatic bric-a-brac in the way
of illegitimate children and last wills and testaments.
The characters are drawn briskly, without much
subtlety, but with a broad individuality that suits the
large canvas. There are two villains, a slimy one and
a robust one, and two enigmatic women, Mrs. Whistler
the murderess, who “gave the impression of being an
outstanding mouser,” and Julie Bouchard, the French
girl whose wits outwit herself. There is the gruff
old man with a passion for helping people and the
equally gruff old Scots doctor. We’ve met them all
before, but that doesn’t necessarily make them un-
welcome. The hero is much more convincing than
the villains.
The book is good light entertainment, and is
honest in not pretending to be anything more. It is
adroitly stage-managed, and has the sparkle of wit,
the apt phrase, the neat image, the right piece of by-
play. Swinnerton knows how to use suspense and
whet curiosity. If he takes his time spinning his story
out to what seems an unconscionable length, that will
not offend the true devotee of this type of novel.
Dorothy Dix in A.D. 1150.
Admirers of Dorothy Dix columns would have
been at home at the Court of Henry 11., or so it
appears from Melrich V. Rosenberg’s rather earnest
history, Eleanor of Aquitaine (Hamilton).
Eleanor, who married Henry after she had
divorced the prudish Louis Floras of France (he was
soft enough to instruct a Governor of Orleans to
“cease annoying the inhabitants by punishing the non-
payment of taxes by the lopping off of a finger”),
presided at the fantastic Courts of Love where trou-
badours debated the very problems of lurv on which
newspapers make their curious pronouncements:
There were two knights who were equal in each and
every respect, and who began to devote themselves
equally to a certain lady in every way. Then both
demanded with great vehemence that they be loved.
Wherefore the question arises: Who should be pre-
ferred in this love?
Eleanor and her ladies used to get hours of fun
arguing out that sort of thing.
There appears to be a touch of similar fatuity
in the first of the 31 Rules of Love the Court drew
up: “Marriage is not a just excuse for not loving.”
But Eleanor’s ladies were somewhat uncertain quan-
tities, and probably the rule had a different meaning
from the one Dorothy would attach to it.
Besides demonstrating the immemorial silliness
in which the modern flapper-fodder is rooted, Eleanor
of Aquitaine is interesting for its sidelights on the trou-
badours —Ezra Pound’s friend, Bertrand de Born,
among them—but too little is told of them.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Man’s Estate: M. E. Ince (Dent). Occupational,
love and family interests of a gentleman farmer in
Norfolk who is well content with a quiet mode of
life. A pleasant, well-written tale.
The Wreck of the Grosvenor: Jonathan Lee
(Methuen). Fictionised account of the cross-country
journey of the survivors of a historic wreck on the
South African coast. A good adventure tale.
Daphne’s Fishing: George A. Birmingham
(Methuen). Light romance with well-drawn characters
and a leaven of wit. A return to the scene —Irish west
coast —of the same author’s popular Spanish Gold.
The Gold Train: Walter Duranty (Hamish
Hamilton). A venture into short-story writing by a
man whose seventeen years as Moscow correspondent
of the New York “Times” have given him a wealth
of interesting material. His vigorous style frequently
runs over into the merely slapdash.
General . . .
Success to the Mayor: R. H. Mottram (Hale).
History of local government in Norwich from pre-
Roman times, with moral that modern democratic
institutions grew naturally from British conditions and
British character, and are still the best form of gov-
ernment for the race. A plodder.
Australian XI English Tour. Small boys, male
and female of all ages, please note —the Orient line
people have produced the handsome little brochure
with which it is their custom to mark the aforesaid
recurrent invasion of England. Moreover, “copies
will be available to applicants at any branch or agency
of the Orient line throughout Australia.” The man-
agement says so, so there’s no reason to be bashful.
The brochure contains photographs and biographical
details of all members of this expeditionary force
and an itinerary of the warfare ahead.


FD
MARK TWAIN, in his
book “Following the Equa-
tor,’’ on Page 233, writes
regarding the GREAT
WESTERN VINEYARDS:
“It yields a choice cham-
pagne .... The champagne
is kept in a maze of pas-
sages underground, cut in
the rock, to secure it an
even temperature during
the three-year term re-
quired to perfect it.
'
*
MBs*.:
,' -#a
wsi fflk fflm ram
* i*
/
-*-v*fcv ;**•. * .. ■ ygik
/' /
,
■ •• j
V
’Of I®®
■■■ ,
,/ •*■ 8
■
HHH^
sBf&
. Hf|;
«■ ■
»»
,_ T .HHamHHI
vj i v £& 'fit
' ~'...
* M
Hi
, M
r
11
s
SHH
IBS
.>, • &; -‘'.
I
' 1 »
.
.. 4
•. / • •'
L ■’ TJ H
V*
i .*. *:V .••
i
.
:
■
M
' ,'■: ■
M
■
■f
w
i
s
HM
' • .
;>" : 1
m
m
■HI
-V
wm
'mm is
wmm
> ■■.:
' - fT& , ' >
mm
Ď


“LITTLE MAN, WHAT NOW?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
PASSING J.B. THE BUCK.
Warmongers would be losing their punch if events
of the past two weeks had failed to stir them to frenzy.
For once they have had something real to get excited
about. Granting a number of their suppositions, they
have at least had more excuse for their dervish dancing
than usual. Their proposals are still carrots for
donkeys, but their hysteria is understandable.
They suppose, for one thing, that the German
intrusion into Austria is an imposition that German
Austrians resent, or should resent. Taking up the
same set of cudgels, the fusty old lady of N. S. Wales
journalism has described that intrusion as “rape.” A
week earlier “Granny” discovered Circular Quay
undergoing this same shocking indignity. No word
in the language has baser associations, and it would
be well kept to them.
On the surface, the German march on Austria
does bear the appearance of armed coercion. It was
strong-arm action, a display of might to bring about
an end desired. But to speak of it as “expansion by
ruthless aggression,” to describe the non-Nazi
elements in Austria as “the majority of the Austrian
people” and to say there “is no proof that the majority
of Austrians have ever wanted union with the Ger-
many of Hitler” is simply to reject the very plainest
of facts.
Sensational enough even for times which would
seem to require a sensation for breakfast every morn-
ing, and carried through with a speed remarkable
even in an age which takes its greatest pride in having
speeded up everything, the change wrought in Austria
overnight is even more remarkable for the Austrian
people’s acceptance of it. Side by side with the
representation of it as another example of “undeclared
warfare,” there have appeared descriptions of the whole
affair which leave no doubt whatever about how Aus-
trians have regarded the intrusion.
Hitler’s personal visit to Vienna can be described
only as a triumphal progress. He was acclaimed
everywhere as a hero —one who had not conquered
but freed Austria. “Vast crowds were waving flags
and shouting on both sides of the route” ; “a hundred
thousand people roared their greeting in the square” ;
at the tomb of the Austrian Unknown Warrior
“German and Austrian soldiers formed up together.”
“The people cheered incessantly; the church bells
rang” ; at the conclusion of the Fiihrer’s address the
crowd shouted in unison “We thank our leader, Adolf
Hitler.” •
The Fiihrer himself has said that “Dr. Schusch-
nigg’s plebiscite plan was a swindle from beginning
to end.”
Schuschnigg desired a mandate for a further and still
more brutal oppression of the overwhelming majority of
the German Austrian people. It would have led to a
new and terrible shedding of blood.
He claims to have “saved Austria from the fate
of Spain.”
Be this as it may, to speak of the “rape of
Austria” is pathetically funny. Allies in the war which
left many so punch-drunk that they have seen nothing
but war, portents of war and excuses for war ever
since; dismembered by the peacemakers of Ver-
sailles ; belonging to the one race, their leader given
by the one to the other —that Germany and Austria
should merge and fuse together is as natural as that
the States of Australia should be formed together in
a Commonwealth. To say it “constitutes a direct and
menacing threat to the future existence, no less than
to the influence and prestige,” of the British Empire
is folly decked out in cap and bells and a tin sword.
The “argument” that Britain acted shamefully
in not declaring war at once is even worse nonsense.
It is true that this natural occurrence enlarges
Germany’s power, but it also enlarges Germany’s
responsibilities. In its treatment of minorities Ger-
many cannot afford to shock the conscience of the
world.
Another supposition which has helped stir the
sabre-rattlers to frenzy in these exciting two weeks
is that a victory for Franco in Spain would be another
menace to the future existence of the Empire. This
representation arises from Franco’s forces having
succeeded in a drive which made the position of the
Red Government side look precarious. In six days
2000 square miles of territory were occupied, includ-
ing four towns and 60 villages. Though this again
is represented as “a rape,” the pitiful truth of the
matter is contained in the admission: “What remains
of the population is enthusiastically greeting the
victors.”
As has been increasingly evident for some time,
the only hope left for the Red side in Spain lies in
the enlargement of the civil war into an international
conflict. This is a fading hope, but not only Spain’s
Reds are clinging to it. In a now-desperate effort to
realise it, the Red Government’s lie-factory is work-
ing overtime. The most fantastic of its manufactures
has been that “Germany has dispatched 30,000 Storm
Troops, trained in infantry and artillery technique,”
to assist Franco. This Germany flatly denied, but that
could not prevent Sydney “Sun” putting up the
screaming headlines “Hitler and Mussolini Strike
Again” and opening its account of Franco’s drive with
“The Dictators have struck again—this time in Spain.”
Also swallowing—or pretending to swallow —this
vicious lying whole, Britain’s Labor-leader Attlee
demanded British intervention —that is, war —on
behalf of the Spanish side which has the honor to
have a battalion named after him. This precious
lunacy received from Mr. Chamberlain the rebuke it
deserved. There was, said Mr. Chamberlain, no trust-
worthy evidence that either Germany or Italy had
sent additional forces to Franco.
The Opposition assumes that the success of General
Franco will mean that Spain will pass under the com-
plete control of Italy and Germany, and that such has
been the intention of Italy and Germany all along. The
British Government has never taken that view and does
not take it to-day.
In short, the probable victory of Franco no more
constitutes a menace to the existence of the British
Empire than does the fusion effected between Ger-
many and Austria. That is, unless the war-wishers in
Britain should manage to break down the policy of
non-intervention with which Mr. Chamberlain is keep-
ing the Empire out of war.
And those are only two of the fronts on which
a “craven Government” can have the war Mr. Attlee
and others of his kind are itching for. There is another
waiting front in Czechoslovakia and still another in
China —at least, there was one in China until the
warmongers were provided with excuses nearer at hand.
It must strike all thinking Australians as extraordinarily
significant that it has so suddenly ceased to be a matter
of urgency for us to go to war with Japan on behalf
of China. The position in China has not altered,
except that it has worsened, but the whole war there
—keeping the world in a state of “tension” up to a
few weeks ago —has been swept from the front page.
It will crop up again, more sensational than ever, to
serve its purpose if the other prospects fail.
The least the canvassers of those prospects
demand is that Great Britain shall take the responsi-
bility for plunging the world into a repetition of 1914.
They pass the buck on to John Bull alone. It is not
suggested that France should blot itself with that fear-
ful guilt, nor Russia, nor America, nor any other
country. The role of policing.the world is reserved
as a privilege for Britain. The preposterous presump-
tion —supported here, as in Britain, by a sensation-
crazed press —is that Britain and Britain alone shall
have the dishonor of leading the world to war. On
behalf of Britain Mr. Chamberlain declines. He
stands for sanity in the midst of clamorous war-
madness.
The Last of Lang?
South Australia had a State election last Saturday
and New South Wales is to have one next Saturday.
South Australia is the only State other than New
South Wales in which Langism got a footing. Lang
Labor members arrived in the Adelaide Assembly,
and Lang Labor parties shot up, the original “party”
splitting into two or more. They did not last long,
but the feeling they introduced survived them, and
on Saturday it contributed to the defeat of the Labor
party led by Mr. Lacey, which claimed to have been
“reunited,” though the electors were palpably
incredulous.
In New South Wales, Langism, rejected at the
State elections of 1932 and 1935 and at the Common-
wealth elections of 1931, 1934 and 1937, is offered to
the people once more. Not, of course, in the crazy
appearance which it presented in 1931-32, when
default became its principle, and the old Savings Bank
went bung, and the State accounts were £14,000,000
to the bad, and salaries and pensions couldn’t be paid,
and capital, incomes, Commonwealth Constitution
and the solvency, credit and peace of Australia were
threatened in a succession of mad measures; but in
the 1930 form.
In 1938, as in 1930, Mr. Lang is promising every-
thing to everybody, except the “capitalists.” He rarely
mentions the past except to represent himself as a
persecuted victim of the Money Power and of Traitors
to the Movement.
The Traitors, it seems, began their nefarious
operations in 1926, when they tried to make Mr.
Loughlin Premier and party leader. In May, 1927,
having got rid of Mr. Loughlin, by resignation, Mr.
Lang expelled a set ofvTraitors from his Ministry,
among them Messrs. Mutch, C. C. Lazzarini and Coates.
In the reconstructed Ministry were Mr. Gosling and
Mr. Horsington, as well as Mr. Willis, who was in
both improvisations. All three have since become
Traitors, as also have Mr. Davidson, a 1930-32 Lang
Minister, ex-Senator Dunn and Mr. Heffron, who, as
a Lang candidate for Botany, unseated Mr. Mutch in
1930. Mr. Heffron is now leading a party composed
of the latest lot of Traitors, who, by paying off Mr.
Lang’s mortgage on the “Labor Daily,” “when ‘the
big fellow’ put the bailiff in” —in the last phase it had
reached £17,889 —have gained control of that news-
paper. The “party’s” appeal to the electors is, funda-
mentally, that it will rid them of “the Lang Blight.”
Though no Heffron candidate is a Red, Reds
are supporting the group, and their support has done
it harm. However, people who don’t want chaos to
come again are not, of course, reduced to a choice
between the Heffron brand of Labor and the Lang
brand. They can do on Saturday what they did three
years ago—vote to keep in office the U.A.P.-Country-
party Government that was commissioned to clean up
the Lang mess. It is only a fair average specimen of
a State Government —f.a.q. in a domain where the
standard has rarely been high. It is borrowing and
taxing too much, and is too fond of letting boards and
commissions run things it ought to be running itself.
It seems to have forgotten that it promised reduction of
members, and when it dilates on how much it has spent
and how much more it proposes to spend in the elec-
torate of this or that hard-pressed Minister it cuts
no edifying spectacle. But, at the worst, its Mr.
Stevens can be trusted not to go off his political head
and drive the country to distraction, as Mr. Lang did
and is capable of doing again.
For, as the public should have learned from the
pipeworks inquiry and the wrangle with the Heffrons
and Davidsons, Mr. Lang is as reckless, quarrelsome
and wrongheaded as ever. He hasn’t changed a bit.
The Filipinos.
“What will happen when this American country,
already quasi-independent, reverts entirely to the Fili-
pinos?” is a question being asked in Hong Kong about
the Philippines. The answer is that the Philippines
will become debatable ground, as Siam has been for
the past century.
A buffer State with powerful neighbors has its
own peculiar problems. When a State is in this posi-
tion it usually becomes inventive, if it has any powers
of resistance whatever.
The rival foreign Powers naturally grow con-
cerned about their frontiers. Ignorant peasantry and
ignorant and arrogant local officials manufacture “inci-
dents.” The more active of the two Powers sets out
to liquidate the situation, and if one is more terri-
torially hungry than the other it will turn the incident
into an excuse for invasion.
The other Power at once becomes solicitous
about the independence of its weaker neighbor and
lodges diplomatic protests, or may even make a
demonstration. The Government of the buffer State
has to manipulate the situation somehow, and as it
has little force to use it must start thinking or go
under. If it sides with the non-aggressive Power it
tends to lose prestige with its patriotic subjects, and
if it loses prestige it plays into the hands of its
political opponents.
The Siamese became inventive along lines which
Oriental despotism does not usually travel. There
were immense improvements in administration, and
it became difficult -to pick a quarrel with such an
efficient Government. It is doubtful, however,
whether the Filipino has been prepared by his
American well-wishers to be anything but a poor
relation to some more powerful neighbor.
When Admiral Dewey steamed' in,to Manila Bay
and the ten thousand islands fell into Uncle Sam’s
lap, the first principle of colonial expansion was
violated. Uncle found himself the possessor of an
embarrassingly large dominion which was strategically
out of focus. It was not out of focus when the
Spaniards made their conquest, because at the time
they made it they had the commarid of the seas which
intervened between the Filipinos and the Spanish
homeland. This was not the case when Admiral
Dewey staged his celebrated walkover, but nobody
else wanted the Philippines at the moment. It is not
the case to-day, and this explains the anxiety of most
American politicians to believe that the Filipino has
inalienable rights to independence. They would not
think quite the same about the rights of the Califor-
nians and the Texans.
The Filipinos have been prepared for their free-
dom by being turned into politicians. The Malay
has taken to the Parliamentary game like a duck to
water —a passionate love of rhetoric is a Malay char-
acteristic. But those Filipinos who are not com-
pletely blinded by fanatic nationalism look on “free-
dom” with decidedly mixed feelings.
The Filipino has had no education in real inde-
pendence. He was physically enslaved by the Spaniard
and easily converted to the Christian religion. The
Americans converted him as easily to the ideals of
democracy, and he is sentimentally enslaved to the
notion that somehow or other right will rule in an
environment where other nations are slowly building-
vast fortifications nearer and nearer to one another.
In the Philippines there are 20,000 Japanese, and
the less active Filipino regards them with disfavor. The
Spaniards had a short way with alien minorities when
they thought them undesirable; and the darkest pages
of Manila’s history concern the turning of the native
population on the Chinese community. These are
some of the factors in the situation which make the
Filipino’s love of liberty and his ability to maintain
it two very different propositions.
Most. Americans implicitly believe that they will
grant the Philippines complete independence in 1946
—in other words, that they will be able to wash their
hands of an embarrassing problem without the
slightest difficulty. They will no more be able to do
so than a husband can drop a wife simply because
she has become a nuisance to him. Most people
believe that they would not rush the boats in a ship-
wreck ; but when the crisis occurs some do rush the
boats, so their belief is actually a menace to them.
When the crisis occurs in their Philippines relations
the Americans will be extraordinary people if they
don’t rush the boats and act like any other imperial
nation when one of its acquirements is threatened.
The only solution of the problem of the Philip-
pines is an agreement among the nations to pool their
interests. Such an agreement will probably be forth-
coming. But international idealists are much in the
position of the people who believe that in no circum-
stances whatever would they rush the boats in a
shipwreck.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let Us Keep Out!
In an effort to end the civil war in a few weeks, the
Spanish Nationalists are driving hard towards the
Mediterranean coast, their design being to separate
Aragon from Catalonia ; and they have repeatedly
bombed Barcelona, the main source of Red resistance.
It is not necessary to believe Left Wing newspaper
accounts of bodies being collected in shovels to realise
that these raids are dreadful things. Mr. Chamberlain
has expressed “the horror and disgust” which they
inspire in all men of goodwill.
But war is horrible altogether, and no form is
more horrible than civil war of the new Bolshevist sort,
in which hate breeds hate and the deadly weapons of
modern invention are placed at the service of both
sides. Such a war is raging in Spain.
It is false to describe this war as a struggle between
a democratic Government and military revolters. Men
don’t fight as the Spanish Nationalists have done, the
human spirit will not endure the terrors of a siege
such as the defenders of the Alcazar endured, merely
to gratify the vulgar ambitions of brasshats.
These Spanish Nationalists see themselves
fighting to deliver their country, their race and their
religion from a merciless Oriental superstition. From
this belief they derive moral strength. Fear and
hatred of Bolshevism have likewise added strength to
the new systems in Germany and Italy. We may
be sure that millions of steady-going Germans and
Italians have little more liking for these systems
than English-speaking people have, and regard them
as temporary expedients. But they have gone in
deadly peril of Communist civil war within their own
territories ; they have seen Communism at work in
the neighboring country of Hungary; they have had
before their eyes the appalling example of Spain.
Above all, they have observed the accumulated horrors
heaped for 20 years upon Russia, from the butchery
of the middle class and the Romanoffs to the butchery
of the Old Bolsheviks, from the famine which suc-
ceeded the civil war to the famine caused by the
“liquidation” of the kulaks, and they have determined
to have none of the frightful thing.
The Japanese also see in Bolshevism and in the
existence of Communist armies in China, probably paid
and certainly armed by the Red Republic, the greatest
threat that has been levelled at them since the days of
Kublai Khan.
That Communist excesses have bred anti-Com-
munist excesses is only too true. We subjects of King
George deplore them, but at the moment we cannot
stop them, and it would be madness to try to avenge
them by launching interventionist wars. We can best
serve the interests of oppressed minorities as well
as our own by keeping cool, by refusing to meddle, by
rejecting the plain and fancy lies of warmongers, by
realising that “world revolution” and the mistakes made
at Versailles have given the dissatisfied nations real
grievances which are deeply felt, and by remembering
that even the dissatisfied nations have a great respect
for British justice, fair dealing, truthfulness, tolerance
and good temper and yes for the good fortune
which has always smiled on the British Empire at
the close of a quarrel when its cause was just.
The Revolt Against the Machine.
** »
In recent months shock after shock has been admin-
istered to the controllers of party machines, and the
voting in South Australia has set them gloomily
wondering what has come over the people.
Single electorates, with preferential voting, had
been introduced in South Australia for the first time.
The Liberal and Country party held a series of local
ballots to pick its “official” candidates. Labor at
first declared for an “open go,” but this decision was
reversed at a special conference, and a few-score
delegates put the names on the ticket. In each case
disappointed aspirants were embittered, and it was
plain that they had many sympathisers ; nevertheless,
both organisations fatuously warned the electors that
the Parliamentary system might topple unless they
elected the candidate with the party brand.
Vast masses of electors ignored these warnings
and voted for the man they preferred, regardless of
labels. In the result, the Butler Government has lost
its majority and there may be more Independents than
pledged Laborites. Allowing for country boxes to
be counted, and preferences to be distributed in many
electorates, the direct A.L.P. vote may be the smallest
on record.
Deputy-Premier Bruxner has suggested five-year
Parliaments for N. S. Wales. He will get little sup-
port from his associates now that South Australia has
spoken. Five-year Parliaments, as well as betting
shops, were issues in the Central State, and it is clear
that the electors have pronounced against both. And
the indications are that many would like to get rid of
their State Parliament altogether.
Problems of Producers.
On March 26 an Empire producers’ conference will
open in Sydney. Delegates are “to review the agri-
cultural position and consider the disposal of surplus
produce and the development of intra-Dominion trade
as a key to Dominion development.” Establishment
of “a liaison and consultative committee to review
Empire policy” is also to be discussed.
Mr. Cleveland Fyfe, secretary of the British dele-
gation, is frank as to the aims of his delegation. He says
the Ottawa conference secured for producers within
the Empire the right of first place in their own home
markets, and “the Dominions at once honored that
right in practice as well as in theory.” Actually, it
did not need an Ottawa conference to settle that
matter in Australia. But in the United Kingdom
“producers found themselves let down because the
Government neglected to follow the Dominions’
example.”
So Mr. Fyfe and his colleagues wish to found
“an Empire farmers’ organisation which will agree
to establish the right order of preference in the British
market: first, to the home producer; second, to the
Dominion producer; and, third, to the foreigner,”
without losing sight of the British farmers’ interests.
He finds that “sentiment is moving rapidly and solidly
in favor of an effort being made to bring about co-
ordination in the interests of Empire farmers and to
prevent gluts.”
Australian organisations of producers will enthusi-
astically agree to these schemes. The Australian
Governments will also agree. The only snag is that
the British consumer will go on buying the best,
whether the best is Dominion or not. Especially from
foreign countries like Argentina, in which the
meat industry and transport have been built up with
British capital and are mainly under British control.
There is one thing far more important than the
fixing of quotas which may not be filled or legislative
protection which is supposed to make raising of
standards of quality and reduction of cost of produc-
tion unnecessary: the maximum possible 'production
of the choicest grades of suitable produce at the lowest
possible cost consistent with the maintenance of
accepted Australian standards. In no industry have
these ideal conditions been achieved. For example,
the Australian dairy cow produces roughly 1801 b.
butter per annum, and needs more acres per beast
than the cattle of our greatest rivals in the overseas
markets.
Yet every year there are moans about the state
of the dairy industry. Every few years the country
pays in heavy losses of dairy stock and actual income'
for the unlearned lessons of previous droughts, because
provision for drought fodder is lacking.
No Empire agreement can help woolgrowers,
since the United Kingdom buys only a little more than
one-third of the output. The N. S. Wales Graziers
have appointed a committee to consider proposals by
the Farmers and Settlers for “stabilising the market
and fixing a minimum reserve.” But suppose existing
customers won’t buy at the “minimum reserve”? Ger-
many and Japan have shown what countries normally
needing a great deal of wool can do in the way of
going without, and the Americans have proved them-
selves able to retire behind a high tariff on imported
wool when it suits them.
The Australian wool cheque for the past four
years has averaged about 9s. per sheep. There is a
tendency to treat woolgrowing as unpayable if the
price per pound falls below a shilling.
If means could be found to put more and better
wool on the merino’s back and to cut drought and
other losses which have to be written out of the wool
cheque, the present price would suffice. The first
essential with wool, as with wheat, is to lower pro-
duction costs to enable growers to meet slumps, com-
pete with artificial fibres and permit hard-up overseas
countries to buy all they want.
All that regulative interference is likely to do is
to frighten off buyers.
Meeting Tourist Expectations.
Australia and Maoriland are learning that there are
kicks as well as ha’pence in catering for increasing
numbers of tourists from overseas. For nearly every
tourist is also a critic, and those from America are
devilish frank. Their remarks about hotels have
been heard in Melbourne, and some people have
evidently pondered on them. At all events, two
important hotel projects are under way: the Aus-
tralia in Collins-street is being rebuilt, and plans
have been completed for building Barlogan, a £350,000
air-conditioned private hotel, on the East Melbourne
edge of the Fitzroy Gardens.
Like other Australian places, Melbourne has been
well served by the solid sort of family pub regularly
frequented by country people ; but it has only recently
recognised that there is more than one type of
traveller.
The accommodation outlook is the same in
Maoriland, but there the proprietors have additional
worries occasioned by a 40-hour week for staffs. If
the latest Melbourne and Brisbane developments set
a new standard for other Tasman Sea tourist towns,
the people whose job it is to attract and counsel the
tourist will have more to talk about and less to
skip.
Courts-martiaS.
“King’s Regs.”: The War Office is to revise the
court-martial system. Alterations proposed include
giving a convicted man the right to appeal to a civil
Court. I had a fair experience of courts-martial dur-
ing the South African War and the Great War. Taking
the system by and large it impressed me as having
some decided advantages over the ordinary civil and
criminal law procedure.
The accused’s interests were well looked after.
He had an officer, usually a senior and often an
experienced one, to defend him, and, in addition, the
official known as Judge Advocate was supposed to
bring forward and stress every point in his favor.
If he was convicted, finding and sentence were re-
viewed by the higher commands, which often can-
celled the conviction or ordered a new trial.
The chief objection to the system, as it struck me,
was the constitution of the Court. This usually con-
sisted of a senior officer as president, a not-so-senior
member and a junior. The junior was apt to be over-
impressed with the president’s attitude towards the
accused, and though called upon to give his decision
first—the idea being that the opinions of his seniors
should not sway his judgment—he was often painfully
anxious to avoid disagreeing with the man higher up.
On the other hand, there were no blackguards of the
Old Bailey type to bullyrag witnesses and bulldoze
thick-headed juries. Contrary to general belief, the
Courts readily took cognisance of purely legal points—
I once secured the acquittal of an officer charged with
larceny on the sheer legal definition of what consti-
tuted the crime—and the rules of evidence, as set out
in great detail in the Army Act, were carefully
observed.
At the same time there will be general agreement
with the proposal to grant a convicted man the right
of appeal to a civil tribunal. There are several
varieties of courts-martial. In the case of those held
in the field on active service an appeal would entail
the transfer of convicted man, witnesses and even the
personnel of the court-martial itself perhaps to an-
other country at great trouble and inconvenience.
Perhaps this difficulty may be solved by the establish-
ment of some kind of special civil judicial tribunal
attached to the forces on active service.
Women at War.
“Bombardess” greets them:
Since it appeared only in an early edition of a Sydney
newspaper and was then jettisoned—of course, by some male
member of the editorial staff —I beg space to describe
a photograph which conclusively proved the increasingly
forward part that women are taking in modern warfare.
A group of about half a dozen Chinese girls appeared
in this picture, labelled in a spirited caption as members
of the Legion of Death. Cosmetics, it was stated, were
barred in the Legion, the members of which were chosen
for their ability to shoot. They had marched more than
600 miles to fight for their country, carrying packs of over
601 b. weight, as well as rifles and machine-guns; and, more-
over, they looked like it.
True, no other details of this force have been made
public, either in newspapers or in the rapidly-growing library
of books written by experts on China, but the reason is
not far to seek. Newspapers and book publication—and the
whole world, too, for that matter —are controlled by men,
and it is obviously in their interests to suppress anything
which goes to show woman’s advance in her fight for equality.
That men have made a complete mess of controlling the world
even they are prepared to admit. They are not, however,
prepared to abdicate their control of it, or even share that
control, and holding and controlling, as they do, all the posi-
tions of power and influence, as well as the instruments
of publicity, it is only natural that they will keep women
in the background as long as they are able to do so.
Women, of course, have made tremendous advances
towards absolute equality, in spite of that handicap. In the
field of literature theirs has been a prodigious achievement in
recent years. In politics and commerce they at least stand on an
equal footing with men—in our British countries, at any rate
—and in time to come they will share equally in the political
and commercial control of our Empire. If men continue to
fight against them as they do now, we shall yet see a complete
alteration of political parties, with the United Women’s party
in office and the men’s party in opposition. Equal pay for
equal work is, of course, as good as achieved; Mr. Heffron,
• for one, has promised it.
There is, however, one jealously-held preserve that men
are certain to cling to, even when women have attained to
sharing equality in all other things. That is, to do the actual
fighting when war occurs.
It is because of this that we hear so little of the Chinese
Legion of Death. These women are breaking in on man’s
most jealously-held prerogative, and naturally this is resented.
It will be recalled that this was similarly resented in the
Abyssinian War. Though the well-authenticated Amazon Bat-
talion of Danakil women rode cheering to the front in lorries
to repulse the invaders in hand-to-hand engagement—full
descriptions and many pictures of them were published at
the time —the foul libel has since been published that they
were, in fact, only a drunken party of Addis Ababa street-
walkers rigged out with uniforms and rifles by journalists
and newspaper photographers.
There is no depth to which men will not go in keeping
up the pretence that even to-day it is they who do all the
actual front-line fighting. What is true of the war in China
and the Abyssinian War is equally true of the fighting in
Spain. There the Amazon Brigade has time and time again
taken part in front-line fighting, with such effect, too, that,
though the Amazons have held the line against desperate attack
or taken the offensive and driven back the enemy, they have,
so far, suffered no casualties. On one occasion, also, un-
armed fishwives beat off a powerful force of armed Italians.
Despite such evidence that women make the finest of
front-line soldiers, men go on keeping up the pretence that
only they are suitable for such an occupation. Moreover,
they hold that, as wars have been fought by men in the past,
so will men fight them in the future. One result of this
outlook is that when, as recently happened, the Australian
Federation of Women Voters telegraphed Mr. Lyons and
leading members of his Cabinet deploring the shelving of
League of Nations policy, there were men ready to point out
that by this change we had avoided otherwise inevitable war,
and to suggest that, as women would take no part in the actual
fighting if a war happened, they cut a pretty figure supporting
an inevitable-war policy.
Another result of the of-course fallacious idea that if
war does come it will be left to men to do the fighting is
to be seen in the arrangements of our fighting forces. Hold-
ing the control of power, men see to it that there is no
women’s battalion in our standing army or militia, no troop
of women Light Horse, no women’s battery. Though women
have proved to be splendid fliers, there is no women’s Air
Force squadron, and no ship in the Navy has a complement
of women.
It is, I suggest, up to women to alter all this. They
should make it clear that in the next war they are going to
take an equal part with men in the actual fighting. The
Legion of Death in China and the Amazons and fishwives
of Abyssinia and Spain have pointed the way. It is my
firm belief that only when women —as well as politicians,
newspaper-owners and old men —have to go • automatically
into the front line will a halt be called to war. Until then,
women—and those others as well—surely leave themselves
open to the sneer that support of inevitable-war policies and
all utterances and acts provocative of war should be left to
those who will have to do the fighting.


“AND IT'S PRINTEO
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“El V.”: Austrians won’t feel very
different after their change of govern-
ment. There is little variation in the
atmosphere of the big towns just across
the border from those in Germany. Ger-
man is the universal language, but the
local dialects are softer and less guttural
than further north. Also, there are words
in Austrian German which must not be
used in German German, and vice
versa, though the Austrian German is
more polite officially than the Prussian.
The common German soldier who has
never seen Austria will, for instance, be
astonished to find that in the railway car-
riages the Austrian railways say “Please
do not put your dirty boots on the seats:
You would not do it at home” ; whereas
the German railways merely say “It is
forbidden to put your dirty boots on the
seats.” At the same time, he will be
shocked to see that, whereas the German
uses the word schmutzig for “dirty,”
the Austrian uses kotig, a term which
certainly could not be used in polite
society in North Germany, though in
Austria it has a milder meaning. How-
ever, he will feel thoroughly at home
when he comes to grips with Austrian
officialdom. Underneath the courteous
note is the firm Teutonic hand. A decade
or so ago a British diplomatist and I were
buying railway tickets at an Austrian
station after a good Austrian dinner.
When we heard the price I said, “That’s
a swindle, that is! ” intending to be
humorous. It took us a quarter of an
hour to persuade the station authorities
that I should not be arrested for “libel
on a State facility.”
❖ * * $
“Uramao”: ’Sonah at Hamilton (M.L.)
looked over his spectacles at the medico
who said the plaintiff was suffering from
“traumatic neurasthenia and litigation
neurosis.” Asked to reduce the terms so
that they might be understood by a
Judge witness said the first was mental
disorder caused by a motor collision;
the second a nervous condition set up
by the badgering of doctors and lawyers.
Probably “funk” went down in his
Honor’s notes.
* * * *
“T” ; Tq fhe re ii e f G f politicians at
Canberra, James, the dried-fruits man,
has lost a case at last. He was the de-
fendant in a slander action brought by
a Victorian fruit inspector, being ac-
cused of having said at Mildura, while
a minor dried-fruits charge was being
heard, “When you are giving evidence
on oath again, be careful and don’t com-
mit perjury.” He admitted the conver-
sation, though his version differed some-
what from that of the inspector, and the
latter was awarded £5O damages—and, of
course, costs. In opening the case for
the inspector, E. R. Reynolds, who has
a dry wit, described James as “a well-
known litigant and fruit-packer whose
affairs have been before the Courts for
many years.”
“Stoo”: That rule of not publishing
the names of first-offending drunks (B.
16/3/’3B) is observed by most news-
papers in M.L., and in debt claims only
judgments by default are normally pub-
lished. Names are often left out in
affiliation cases, and the names of wit-
nesses are withheld in illegal operation
charges. The only time I’ve ever pub-
lished a drunk’s name was when a nasty-
looking bird bailed me up outside the
court and said “I’ll give yer a bob if
yer don’t, mister.” Court reporters meet
that sort of request quite frequently in
divorce cases ; I had one topsy-turvy sort
of instance when a vindictive petitioner,
who herself wasn’t any better than she
might have been, offered me a bribe to
publish photographs of her husband and
the co-re.
<• ;s $ #
“Deadwood Dick”: Cronulia, the sea-
side resort to the south of Sydney that
had a previous thrill over the murder
of a man whose arm was subse-
quently disgorged by a shark, has been
in the public eye again through the per-
formances of an escapee from Wollon-
gong lockup who had been burgling un-
occupied cottages. One owner gave .chase,
and the man made for the beach, thronged
with holiday-makers on a Sunday after-
noon. A policeman who took up the
running on a motor-cycle had got almost
within reach when the fugitive produced
a revolver and started a bombard-
ment, to which the constable, similarly
armed, replied. Neither was hit, and
“ it you bring ’im back in a sweat, lady, I'll charge y’ five bob extra.”
the man got away. The following night
a couple of detectives ran the gun-
man to earth in a fisherman’s hut. He
fired point-blank at one of them and
missed. A shot from a detective’s re-
volver struck him near the heart, and he
lived only a few hours. A large force of
police, watching all exits, had prevented
the desperate man’s escape from the dis-
trict, and Alsatian dogs were diligently
sniffing trails all over the place, but the
gunman might have kept his liberty for
a month in the dense bush around Port
Hacking. All the same the incident isn’t
encouraging to Australian imitators of
the late-lamented Mr. Dillinger.
* * * *
“Tham”: Crews of ships visiting Aus-
tralia are allowed only one bottle of
spirits out of bond while they’re in Aus-
tralian waters, and there’s often an
attempt to beat the Customs. Sparks on
a liner which recently left the coast was
friendly with a Customs officer who used
to come aboard each voyage, swallow
one neat gin, hurriedly search the cabin
and depart. This year Sparks wanted to
secrete an extra bottle of gin, and, know-
ing that the shore man took his tipple
neat, emptied the spare bottle into the
water-bottle. Of course, that day the
official took it into his head to take water
with it, and a horrified Sparks watched
him flood a generous tot with more gin
from the water-bottle. He swallowed it
like a gentleman, and, like a gentleman,
said nothing.
“Xo”: With Yarrasiders clearing their
throats for the football season and sharp-
ening their pencils for the usual winter
cut at the newspaper prizes invariably
offering for placing the League teams in
their correct end-of-season order, a
Mathematical Society speaker has stated
their chances of failing to collect. With
12 teams in the coupon field and discard-
ing the possibility of equal points, he says
there are 474,969,600 possible different
arrangements; if the coupon-floating
newspaper published 240,000 daily copies,
the total issue for six years would be
required to collect the necessary number
of coupons to cover all possibilities; if
lists were written at the rate of one every
five seconds for 15 hours a day it would
take 120 years to fill them all in. But
who takes any notice of mathematicians
when the topic is football?
* * * *
“Koura”: Like the M.L. pressman
who was publicly slathered by the
Borough Council for writing up roman-
tically the mudflats and the local odors
(B. 16/3/’3B), an inkslinger I knew in a
North Island town was denounced by
the Mayor before a full council for hav-
ing given undue publicity to the Gov-
ernor-General. Having a quiet beer with
one of the aides, when he had been sent
out to pick up some flapper-fodder, he
discovered that his Ex. carried his own
private stock of whisky with him and
always had it served at table in prefer-
ence to the common brew as he toured
the country. The consequent story,
headed “The Vice-Regal Palate,” out-
raged the Mayor, the councillors and all
the burgesses.
“D.E.”: “Not guilty”‘was the "verdict
in the case of Dudley Lorraine O'Brien,
charged with having murdered his wife
at Liverpool (N.S.W.) and thrown the
body into the bush near Parramatta
Lake. The Crown case was that the
woman had been strangled ; the defence
—as a daily paper was at pains to explain
in a separate addition to its report—
was that not strangulation but “an inhi-
bition of the heart, caused by shock,
emotion or a slight pressure on the
neck,” brought about death. It was a
boy-and-girl marriage, the husband being
20 and the wife 17, and the evidence
brought out queer modern touches. The
couple parted, and the girl went to
work in a Sydney office, took a flat and
had affairs with men. She didn’t trouble
to keep them from her husband, whom
she met occasionally. On the fatal night
he took her out in a car and, according
to his statement from the dock, she made
him so furious by saying that she “loved”
one of her gentlemen friends that “I
clean lost control of myself and swung
my hand: she went limp and fell back
in my arms.” Two gentlemen friends
were among the witnesses. One said he
hadn’t been “intimate” with the girl;
the other said he had, but didn’t know
she was married. The latter “smiled
broadly” in the box; the former, con-
fronted with a letter in which he had
■asked the woman to meet him at nine
o’clock instead of ten o’clock ori a cer-
tain Sunday, on the ground that ‘ my eyes
are entitled to a feast at least once a
week,” said “It is pretty true, too. iNo
doubt the demeanor of the gentlemen
friends was noted by the jury.
* * * *
“Mak”: A Melbourne man of my
acquaintance reasons in an original way.
He owns a string of slum houses—-not
just one or two, but dozens. When
repairs are at long last forced upon him
by extremely angry and forthright tenants,
they usually look as though they have
been done with junk salvaged from muni-
cipal rubbish-tips. Does the owner of
these profitable mansions regard thern as
civic eyesores or a human disgrace? No,
no, Miss Social-worker. “I’m sure the
tenants are grateful to me,” he says, in
effect. “If it wasn’t for me they’d find
it hard to get houses they could afford!
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The Dutch in the East
Indies must be rather jittery ; they see
in the increasing numbers of young
Japanese women taking positions as
housekeepers to Eurasian colonists in
New Guinea a subtle plot against theii
security. Not only Eurasians have dis-
covered the advantages of having a
Japanese housekeeper to darn socks and
supervise cooking; the lonely white
planter has added such amenities to his
bachelor existence since time immemorial,
and has not troubled overmuch about
the nationality of his nyahi. In
British portions of the vast archi-
pelago the same custom appertained
?. v „ en f” on # ofHcials LoI ; do "
f Spe ? at ° r ; “ sor , e of a stunt
found that it threatened the prestige of
*he w hhe an d endangered the safety oi
the Empire; whereupon the Colonial
Office issued an order that no bachelor
official could have a skirt about the
premises. Strong attachments are often
formed between planters and their native
housemates. I knew an Englishman in
British Borneo so completely under
the thumb of his Kadayan mistress, a
lady of advanced age and not particularly
propossessing appearance, but of strong
character and intelligence, that he
wouldn’t have dreamt of inviting a friend
to his bungalow without her approval,
* * * *
“Danos”: Mention of a Greek gentle -
man who proposes to bring life more
abundantly to Lennon’s Hotel, Brisbane
(B. 3 / 3 / ’3B), may serve as a reminder that
Greeks in Australia were the pioneers of
the grape industry. John Macarthur at
Camden made the first really successful
experiment with vines at a time when he
had assigned to him certain Greek
prisoners who were transported for piracy
in the lonian Islands. They cultivated
Macarthur’s vineyard after the Greek
manner. ,When their time had expired
Mac. imported Germans from the Rhine-
land.
EUPHEMISMS.
I like that rough and homely phrase
Precisians sometimes kick at
Which comprehensively conveys
There’s little funny biz (in A’s
Opinion) B would stick at.
The heights or depths a man may reach,
The role for which you’d cast him,
A.re hammered home for all and each
J n that expressive scrap of speech
“I wouldn’t put it past him.”
It isn’t always lack of princ-
iple’s required to win it.
Besides suggesting moral squints
I fancy there are often hints
Of sneaking envy in it.
Nor is it aimed at man alone,
The maker and the master;
How oft you’ll hear in dulcet tone
Of some delightful dame you’ve known
“I wouldn’t put it past her.”
You have it harped upon apace
In various hustings bellows
Re perils that the land will face
Should it the ruling crowd replace
With less deserving fellows.
Their records, you’ll be told, should rise
From bygone days to blast them;
They’d sock the State between the eyes
And bring Depression back likewise —
“You couldn’t put it past them.”
Regarding what the “it” may be,
It’s clear that this may vary
From games with thimble and with pea
To positive depravity,
Black crime to hari-kari.
And, reader, if of this rondel
You’ve had enough to last you,
And reckon you could ring the bell
With lines of lilting doggerel
As good or even better —well,
I wouldn’t put it past you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Old Crome”: Ever try to argue with
one of these new-art coves? It’s hard,
because their minds don’t follow the
common grooves. They tell you their
work has a spiritual significance that
can’t be grasped save by the spiritual eye.
If you can’t appreciate it —well, so much
the worse for you. But sometimes they
run up against something as inflexible
as their art convictions. At one of these
surrealist shows I listened to a painter
who had depicted a lady with three
eyes and no mouth, an arm three feet
thick and one hip twice the size of the
other defending his creation to an
elderly Scot. I thought the old man
was beaten after half an hour of it, but
he had a final shot in his locker, that
silenced the enemy’s guns. “She may be
all you say, laddie,” he conceded, “but
would you marry her ?”
* * * *
“Noise & Smells”: My Sydney paper-
seller was indignant. Above the blare of
a loudspeaker 50 yards away at Wynyard
exhorting people to “use the subway,
please,” he tried to explain. “The p’lice
’ve told that boy of mine near the station
there t’ stop singin’ out when he’s sellin’
his papers or they’ll summons him.
Stoppin’ a kid singin’ out, mind y’! Just
listen to the blasted noise they’re makin’!
Gawd, I reckon it’s worth a par. in The
Bully.” Here it is.
“ Therefore, if THAT angle equals THAT angle , and THAT angle equals THAT angle , the answer is an
isosceles triangle. Q.E.D.”
“S.T.S.”: Decided by an Adelaide
Court that to call a policeman a “bird
of prey” can be insulting. Defendant,
who is clerk to a district council, said
that he had been stopped on the road
on an allegation that he was driving
dangerously, which he wasn’t, and so
an argument began. He quoted authori-
ties from Shakspeare to Wodehouse for
calling people birds, and suggested that
the policeman might have accepted the
comparison with an eagle as a compli-
ment. However, it was adjudged as
worth a small fine. He then promised
to take the officer before the Commis-
sioner of Police ; but the S.M. remarked,
in the Queen Victoria tradition, “In
that I am not interested.”
* * * *
“Civicus”: The belated fuss that is
being made about the muddlesome con-
dition of Sydney’s Cir-
cular Quay, which was
turned into something
resembling a coalmine
five years ago and has
stayed that way, draws
attention to only
one aspect of
the untidiness
of the “Second
City of the Em-
pire.” The city
railway has kept
the place in
deshabille for
close on 20
years. For years
Hyde Park was
disfigured with
builders’ shacks
and board fences; f&
years the space in front
of the Town Hall was
similarly adorned ; for
years Macquarie-street
was blighted by yet an-
other outcrop of huts
and palisades. Wynyard
station in George-street is
still an unsightly gap in the
skyline—a squat one-storey
dump of unadorned con-
crete topped by a chevaux
de frise of reinforcement
rods. The slump may ac-
count for some of the delay,
but the very general feeling
that the whole colossal en-
terprise, including the
Bridge, is more an expensive luxury than
a necessity seems to lie at the bottom of
the lassitude with which it is developed.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Somebody (B. 27/2/’3B)
wants to know why no greenstone
is being exported from M.L. Answer
is that there isn’t very much of
it and that the cost of production is tre-
mendous. The best outcrop is on the
western side of the Southern Alps, an
expensive place to get at, because of its
isolation, and the cutting of the jade is
a tedious and costly job. Labor expense
in cutting a finger ring brings it up nearly
to the price of gold. Until some cheaper
method is devised Maoriland will make
little profit out of greenstone.
* * *
“Katiti”: A suggestion that Welling-
ton (M.L.) should include a historical
pageant in its centennial celebrations re-
calls that, when Edward, P., was through
Maoriland, Petone put on such a pageant.
On the committee that arranged it was
Ivor Te Puni, a very fine Maori gentle-
man. His command of English was ex-
cellent, but he was confused at the talk
of the landing of the early settlers to-
gether with mention of the Prince of-
Wales. At last he could stand it no
longer; he rose and remarked: “Mr.
Mayor, there is one little matter I would
like to make clear. My grandfather was
present when the first settlers landed.
The Prince of Wales was not.”
* * * *
“J.W.”: Another Jap-minefield scare
has fizzled out. An object, claimed
to be a derelict mine, recentlv stranded
“Just one more turn, Prendergast, an' then YOU can have a go!”
on Bally Neal beach, some dozen miles
south of Mackay (Q.), was the cause of
wild and wide conjecture. The good
condition of the paint on it indicated
recent care, but marine growths pointed
to extensive wanderings. Some local
gents operated on it with spanner and
cold chisel. Had it been a mine it
would have shifted half the surrounding
geography. Inside were several small
steel bars, but no explosive. The theory
is advanced in the local press that the
explosive had “deteriorated.” How it
could fade into nothingness is not ex-
plained, and the shell was watertight.
The anchor chain attached to its base
appeared to have been cut. The absence
of explosive and the contact fingers,
with the marine growths, makes it
appear likely that it was laid in Asiatic
waters, was reclaimed, had its teeth
drawn, and has since done prosaic duty
as a buoy.
* * * *
“D.A.”: People who believe there is
a phonetic connection between German
and English words meaning the same
thing may be disappointed to hear that
the “Horst Wessel” song, or Lied, much
sung in Germany and Austria lately,
has nothing to do with horses or was-
sail. It isn’t a drinking-chorus, either,
even if “Wessel” is pronounced “vessel.”
Horst Wessel was a young Nazi “storm-
leader” who was shot by Communists
in January, 1930, and died of blood-
poisoning. He was a poet of parts, it
seems, and a patriotic song he wrote—
Die Fahne hoch, die Reihert dicht
geschlossen—
became the second national anthem of
the Reich. It seems now to be ousting
even “Deutschland iiber Alles.”
* * * *
“Scotia”: Melbourne clergy are a
little hipped at a circular letter from
Archbishop Head warning them that no
Lenten marriages may be performed
without express permission. Dr. Wand
dealt a similar ultimatum to his parochial
shepherds; and churchmen are waxing
indignant at such interference. Mel-
bourne’s archbishop sits in an uneasy
chair, for he has to satisfy extreme Highs
and Lows; and every time he wears a
mitre and a cope a correspondence
ensues. But there’s a tighter rein in
Sydney.
# '!• "i"
“Southron”: Australia is not the only
country outside Britain to be overcome
by the obsession for dressing its soldiers
in Highland clothing, or the lack of it.
Believe it or not, when the American
Civil War broke out a New York regi-
ment calling itself the 79th Highlanders
adopted what it fondly believed to be the
garb of old Gaul. American sense of
humor was too strong, however, and be-
fore the regiment departed for the
front after much strutting and bagpiping
it was stripped of the toggery of the
Gael and dressed more Christianlike.
* * * *
“Oamaru”: Reading the Anatomy of
Melancholy I came across what must be
the earliest talk concerning emigration
to Australia. Burton, the author, was
an English rector who lived from 1576
to 1640. He wrote: “If England had
become plethoric with inhabitants, it
might increase its strength by multiply-
ing its colonies. The greater part of the
globe is yet uninhabited, and America,
Africa and Terra Australis. Incognita
might be served by sending them our
supernumerary hands.”
LOUDSPEAKERS.
For lots of modern science’s ingenious
appliances
1 haven’t any time at all, I candidly declare;
While some indeed are brightening our lives
and burdens lightening,
Others as undeniably bring heavier loads to
bear.
Those gadgets in particular that grate upon
auricular
Perceptions I abominate as pestilential rot,
Loudspeakers with their clamorings and fierce,
discordant yammerings
A fellow has to listen to —whether he likes
or not.
No doubt the chosen votaries of Parliamen-
t’ry coteries
Find it, in snaring suffrages, an admirable aid
To have their verbal attitudes, their slogans
and their platitudes
Around defenceless neighborhoods stentori-
anly brayed.
To me it brings ferocity and growing ani-
mosity ;
I feel that I should like to put the blighters
“on the spot”
Who loose upon the atmosphere, with din the
hardiest cat must fear,
The tosh you needs must listen to —whether
you want or not.
Ulysses shov/ed his forcefulness and eminent
resourcefulness
In coping with the Sirens and their musical
attacks;
His mariners for surety of their enforced
security
He lashed to masts while, for himself, he
plugged his ears with wax.
Loudspeakers would have conquered him and
euchred him and stonkered him,
But these, unluckily for them, the ladies
hadn’t got;’
These modern-day monstrosities dispensing
rank verbosities
A fellow can’t but listen to —whether he
likes or not.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
DF
10 for
20 for 1/6
D 382
D
CRAVEN A
k
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
■I
1 ;
)
E
HHH
:
XEDQE33ED
POLITICAL POINTS
There were contests in 37 S.A.
Assembly electorates. On Monday Inde-
pendents were leading in nine electorates
and were pressing the “official” candi-
dates in several others. It was a dreadful
blow to Premier Butler, who has lost his
majority, and to Labor-leader Lacey,
who may have only nine (9) followers.
The doom of the betting shops has
been pronounced in S.A. The vote in
many constituencies was plainly a vote
against those excrescences, which are ob-
noxious to racing clubs and non-betting
men alike. And there are unlikely to be
any more, five-year Parliaments. If
Butler is pigheaded the Parliament
elected on Saturday won’t last five
months.
Lang is 12 years older than Stevens,
eight years older than Butler, 11 years
older than Forgan Smith and 14 years
older than Ogilvie. He is 24 years older
than Watson was when Watson became
the first Labor P.M., 11 years older than
Hughes was when Billy became P.M., 22
years older than Bruce was when Bruce
succeeded Billy, and 10 years older
than Lyons was when Lyons stepped into
Scullin’s shoes. Isn’t it time this angry
old gentleman gave Australia a rest?
Election reporters have discovered that
Lang and Heffron, who lead the two
N.S.W. Labor “parties,” agree in one
thing. Each addresses the meetings at
which he bogs into the other as “Friends.”
Protestant Labor is putting up candi-
dates in 24 of the 62 Queensland
Assembly seats. The,odd thing is that
it isn’t opposing the Labor Premier, who
is responsible for the education policy
associated with Protestant Labor’s fears,
or the leader of the Opposition. He
is a Catholic.
While the Parliament at Canberra re-
mains closed—and perhaps it is just as
well—the House of Commons has an
angry debate on foreign politics every
other day. In one Sir Somebody Sin-
clair, the exuberant leader of a “Liberal”
party of 21, told Britain that it could
securely rely upon the friendship of
Poland. This information wasn’t a day
old when it was reported from Eastern
Europe that the “friendly” Poles were
about to pitch into Lithuania. Lithuania
climbed down just in time to prevent the
Sydney dailies demanding that the
Empire should go to war on behalf of
the Lithuanians, as well as the Austrians,
the Czechs, the Red Spaniards and the
Red Chinese.
In a Senate debate at Prague, a repre-
sentative of the German minority said
that his people (nearly 3| millions) were
“prepared to co-operate with the Govern-
ment if Czechoslovakia’s internal struc-
ture were remodelled on the lines of
Switzerland.” At this, according to the
“Times,” “there were uproarious scenes
of dissent” ; but why should there have
been? It seems a reasonable offer. If
there were more Switzerlands on the
Mad Continent, it might become sane.
N.S.W. Minister Spooner, who has
two opponents at Ryde—a returned-
soldier Laborite and his Worship the
Mayor—is pleading for support on
the ground that “£30,000 a month is
being distributed through the Ryde elec-
torate for ‘works.’ ” On the works, it
seems, 420 men are employed full-time
“at a minimum of £4 Bs. a week,” and
a further 300 are half-timers at £2 4s.
Presumably they control 2000 votes.
Spooner goes all of a tremble with in-
dignation when he considers the vote-
catching methods of the other mob.
The comedy of the Lazzarinis may be
played out next Saturday. One brother,
the Federal member, remains at the ser-
vice of A.L.P. branches which pass fre-
quent resolutions to the effect that their
leaders, Curtin, Lang and Beasley, pos-
sess their undying confidence. The other
brother, the State member, has been
heaved out of the Movement and is
fighting for his political life against a
Lang man in Marrickville.
In a furious exchange with Lang, who
chucked him out of the Ministry in 1927
and out of the Movement in 1937, Laz-
zarini, M.L.A., denounced “the big
fellow” for “putting the bailiff in on the
‘Labor Daily.’ ” He suggested that the
bailiff’s employer would be washed
THE TOO-TOO-ANCIENT MARINER.
Ah! well a day! what evil looks
Had I from old and young!
They fumed and fussed, and the bank I bust
About my neck was hung.
away by a “wave the utmost indigna-
tion on the part of tens of thousands of
Labor supporters.”
p or we n they remember how he howled
against the mortgagees when he was pass-
ing die Moratorium Act, the provisions of
'T h * ch f he was careful to exclude from the
debenture he took over the Labor Daily.
~,. . . .
did Lazzarim denounce this pro-
ceeding and vote against it? No.
Not only does “S. M. Herald” see
Italian ogres all over the place, but it
seems to be impressing its fears on
readers. In its account of the pursuit of
an escaped criminal who took to the
bush in the Cronulla-Port Hacking dis-
trict, it related that “people who saw
the fugitive said that he was about 30
years of age, thickset and apparently an
Italian.” Potted at last, after he had
exchanged “about six shots with a con-
stable at a range of about four or five
yards” (“none took effect”), the man was
identified as Adrian William Jones.
Since Bukharin and party were
“liquidated,” Sydney “D.T.” has re-
turned to its grand plan of a Russian
alliance. It reports that the “liquidating”
Government is proposing “a special con-
ference” of the major Powers, “includ-
ing Britain and the U.S.A., but exclud-
ing Germany, Italy and Japan.” Object,
as described by Litvinov:
To check the development of further
aggression in Europe and eliminate the in-
creasing danger of a world massacre.
With a gall like Litvinov’s, the “D.T.”
described this invitation to a Bolshie war
as Russia’s Peace Gesture.
At a Trafalgar-square meeting, a
London University professor named
Haldane (subject, Genetics, though he is
also interested in gas) described the
members of the Government (not Rus-
sian, British) as “criminals” and “urged
the crowd to demonstrate outside the
German Embassy.” Demonstrate they
did until the bobbies moved them on;
and to show that they were Communists
they clenched their fists and were valiant
with their mouths. Like a lot of other
university professors, Haldane is suffer-
ing from a rush of Bolshevism to the
head.
Three London Comrades were un-
avoidably absent from the chin-music
and clenched-fist performance con-
ducted by Haldane the professor. On
the following day, one got six years,
the second four years and the third three
years for betraying Woolwich Arsenal
secrets to the Soviet. When the verdict
was brought in, a brief history of the
arch-criminal was given by a Scotland
Yard inspector:
In October, 1929, Percy Glading went to
Russia and attended a course at the Lenin
Communist School until April, 1930. Since
then he has been engaged in political
activities on behalf of the British Com-
munist party and subsidiary organisations.
But there are still papers that demand a
British Empire alliance with this traitor s
bosses —or such of them as have sur-
vived their latest carnival of slaughter.
The new housing authority in Victoria
has stepped off on the right foot; its
members have agreed to refrain from
writing articles for the newspapers. Per-
haps this will hasten the day when other
board members, professors and touring
Cabinet Ministers will leave journalism to
journalists.
Communist Mexico has “expropriated”
(i.e., stolen) British and American oil
properties valued at £112,500,000 Aus-
tralian. This, it seems, was Not Un-
expected by the Editor of Sydney’s Sun-
day “Sun” ; when in Mexico interview-
ing Trotsky, who demanded active Aus-
tralian support for the “war of liberation
by the Chinese nation against the Japa-
pese plunderers,” the Editor was informed
that it was “portion of the platform of
the Revolution.” The same Editor
ferreted out Mussolini’s Plot to Destroy
the British Navy, tracing the Evidence to
its Hiding Place, a Black Box,
The Old Girl of Hunter-street, Sydney,
has discovered that “the British public”
(it means Attlee, Churchill, the “Cronk-
News” and the “Daily Yeller”) “is over-
whelmingly of opinion that the policy of
indecision euphemistically called ‘avoid-
ing provocation’ has been tried with
disastrous results for long enough.” She
asserts that “the public in Australia”
(meaning “Granny” and her employees)
“is rapidly reaching the same conclu-
sion,” and demands “a frank statement
that Britain will stand immediately
by France.” If this means war, editors,
politicians and professors will enlist first
—no, the Old Girl doesn’t say that.
After a course of professorial blah
and Sydney daily-paper bilge, it is a
pleasure to read Melbourne “Age” on
foreign politics:
Would bellicose pacifists plunge Britain
into war for the restoration of Austrian in-
dependence, a blessing valued so lightly by
the Austrians themselves that not a blow
was struck in its defence? ... .Mr. Chamber-
lain did not mention the policing of Europe
or intervention in European quarrels. For
that discerning Australians are grateful ;
the supreme tragedy would be to be drawn
into a war over an issue that did not con-
cern us.
This also:
Australians will quietly consider the whole
grave question and will realise that a long-
cherished desire for Britain’s liberation from
European commitments and entanglements
has now become an imperative.
The “Age” doesn’t publish the provoca-
tive rubbish of Roberts.
John Curtin did a good deed for Aus-
tralia when he induced the Fremantle
wharf-laborers to remove their ban on
the loading of Japanese whalers. The
proceeding required courage, for Curtin,
as member for Fremantle, depends
on the wharfies’ vote, and Com-
munists will do their darnedest to influ-
ence it against him, but it will raise the
Labor leader in the estimation of all
good Australians.
A Special Representative reported
from Paris that “the conversations be-
tween Britain and Italy must fail,” and
a Special Representative reported from
London to the same effect, quoting the
“Economist” as witness. Intelligent stu-
dents of the cables guessed what would
follow —and did in a few hours:
Two Anglo-Italian trade agreements, one
benefiting the British coal and cotton
trades, have been completed.
Another few hours found the Rome cor-
respondent of the “Times” saying that
“much satisfactory progress” had been
made with the conversations and that
“Italy’s main desire is a renewal of the
old friendship.” The cables are like that.


COURSE RECORD.
“Beauty, a cow owned by the proprietor of the Berkshire Park Golf Links, Riverstone (N.S.W.), gave birth to triplets; all are doing well.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. AH usual
banking business transacted.
#
,jUUU
UUU^IU»)
592
rSI
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
FREEDOM FROM REPAIRS
DEPENDS ON SPARKINGPLUDS
depen d a on Champions
You are more likely to avoid engine repairs
if you install new Champions every year.
Champions allow less carbon to form. They
keep engine power steady, reducing strain
wear. And they save fuel.
An Empire product - 1 -
made in Windsor, Canada
s»
PERSONAL ITEMS
Flying-Officer A. E. Clouston, who
with Englishman Victor Ricketts is en-
gaged in establishing a London-to-Maori-
land-and-back record, can claim that he
returned to his own land from Blighty
(he’s a Maorilander) faster than any exile
known to history—Bo hours 59min. to
Sydney ; 6 hours 58min. Sydney to Blen-
heim. Clouston, whose folk live in the
South Island, found them waiting for
him at Blenheim, and there was a brief
family reunion before he winged his way
westwards again. Clouston’s D.H.
Comet is no stranger to these parts.
C. W. A. Scott and Campbell Black won
the London-Melbourne race with it in
1934.
One of the first Sydney notabilities Phil
May saw when he was “out without his
N. W. MONTAGU.
~ i- •. -ii -Kr
lWnntno ! C1 tin , evi J e ,Montagu. It
was Montagu who drafted the contract
*th The Bulletin * an f d
recently made the paper a present of the
document. A son of journalist J. N.
Montagu, The Bulletin’s first musical
and dramatic critic, Neville was born in
Woolloomooloo 76 years ago, and made
a name for himself at Grammar by get-
ting ads. for the “Sydneian” when he
was editor. Qualified as a solicitor at
Sydney Uni., and has been in practice for
half a century. Was associated with
B. R. Wise and George Rich in the agita-
tion for evening lectures at Sydney Uni.,
and has been hon. solicitor for the Hos-
pital Saturday Fund since its inception,
Also, he’s one of the pillars of Free-
masonry in the Ma State.
“Grace Brothers” has been a house-
hold word in Sydney for at least two
generations. The second of the two
brothers who founded the well-known
department store, A. E. Grace, passed
over on Sunday, aged 75. He and his
elder brother, J. N. Grace, started a
fn Sh ° P at onn Ge ° r B e '^ * n
1885—floor space, 900 sq. ft.; staff two.
To-day the firms premises boast a floor-
space of 30 acres, and the staff is num-
bered in hundreds. J. N. Grace died in
1931, and his brother carried on as gov-
erning director,
This has been a notable year for Syd-
ney composer Alfred Hill. A few weeks
ago a concert entirely made up of his
compositions went off very successfully,
and now it is announced that he has won
the A.B.C.’s £5O song competition with
“Mopoke,” words by Louis Lavater, of
Melbourne, himself a composer of music.
There were close on 300 entries.
S. W. Munsie, dead in Perth at 67,
once said that it would be a happy day
for miners When there were no more
mines. That was long ago, and, himself
a miner at one time, he lived to become
Westralian Minister for Mines and
Health, and a sound man in both depart-
ments. Born in Armidale (N.S.W.) he
went to the West at 25, was M.L.A. for
Hannans for 27 years and a member of
every Labor Ministry since 1924.
Essington Lewis, who is to be chair-
man of the advisory panel of industrial-
ists co-opted by the Commonwealth
Defence Council, has been Broken Hill
Prop.’s managing director since 1926, and
also has a big say in the control of
Lysaghts, Vickers, Rylands and Austra-
lian Wire Ropes. Born at Burra (S.A.)
57 years ago, a son of John Lewis,
M.L.C., he’s a product of Adelaide
School of Mines, and his career has been
bound up with Mt. Lyell and Broken
Hill. He became B.H.P.’s
assistant g.m. in 1918 ; g.m. in
1921. In his younger days he
represented S.A. in inter-State
football, and was northern tennis
champion; also played cricket
and polo. Nowadays his hobby
is golf. Associated with him on
the advisory panel are Electrolytic Zinc’s
chief, Colin Fraser, Metal Manufac-
turers’ director Alexander Stewart and
M. T. W. Eady, president of the Chamber
cf Manufactures and a director of
McPhersons.
Prof. Brigden’s erstwhile job as
Director of Queensland Bureau of In-
dustry and Statistics goes to an Eng-
lishman, Colin Clark, officially a lec-
turer in Statistics at Cambridge, where
he graduated. He has been on loan for
some time to Perth Uni. as lecturer in
Economics, and has lectured at Melb.
and Sydney Unis. Credited with being
one of the world’s leading authorities on
the computation of national income.
A long association with Dookie Agri-
cultural College has been ended by the
resignation of Principal A. C. Drever-
mann, well known to hundreds of young
farmers all over Australia. Drevermann
was one of Dookie’s first students, and
was dux in 1892. In 1900 he was
appointed the college’s science master.
From 1912 to 1927 he was principal of
Longerenong Ag. Coll., and returned to
take charge of his old school 11 years
ago.
Joel Moses Gabb, Canberra’s Quorum
King in other days, was one of the many
Independents who polled well in the S.A.
Assembly elections. Stern and unbend-
ing wowser though he has been called,
Joel Moses has always had a following,
and he pressed Premier Butler hard in
Light; though Butler was expected to
scrape in on preferences.
Maorilander J. R. H. Caiman, who suc-
ceeds C. W. B. Cox as manager of the
Bank of N.S.W. at Dunedin (M.L.),
joined the ’Wales staff 34 years ago, and
after a decade in M.L. went to Lautoka,
Fiji, to look after the bank’s interests
there. Following a term in the sultry
isles he crossed to Queensland as reliev-
ing manager. Next Westralia saw him as
manager at York, Katanning and Fre-
mantle. Returning to his native land he
was acting-manager at Auckland till
1935, when he returned to Australia to
manage the Melbourne branch of the
A.8.C., which was taken over by the
’Wales.
One of the many surprises in the S.A.
elections was the strong personal vote for
Bert Edwards in Adelaide. Edwards was
one of the Labor members for that city ;
then he fell on evil days. Returning to
the hotelkeeping trade, he began nursing
the part of his old electorate left by the
redistribution, and, though refused party
endorsement, he nursed it to such purpose
that he led on the first count. But there
were thousands of preferences to be
examined.
Captain Bill McKillop, passed over in
Hobart at 76, was born in Stewart
Island (M.L.), and went to sea as
a cabin boy. His first whaling voy-
age was made in the Splendid, com-
manded by Captain Anglem, with
Bill Sherburd, widely known as “Bill the
Moocher,” as navigating officer. This
ship figured in the Cruise of the Cachalot,
which Frank Bullen wrote after a voyage
in the Splendid. McKillop’s reminis-
cences, edited by Will Lawson, have been
made into a book, Harpooners Ahoy ! to
be published soon by Angus and Robert-
son.
Ranald Munro, son of William Ross
Munro, and member of one of Queens-
land’s best-known pastoral families, who
died as the result of a fall from a bal-
cony, saw war service as an aviator,
as did his two brothers. Forty-seven
years of age, fine horseman, keen polo-
player and breeder of merinos, Short-
horns and bloodstock horses, Ranald
Munro owned Oakleigh Park and was
part-owner of Whyenbah, Boombah,
Charlton and Murra Murra stations.
J. H. Russell, pictured here by Frith,
is g.m. of the Farmers’ Co-op. Whole-
sale Federation of M.L. “Farmers’
Co-ops.,” which combine stock and sta-
tion business with complete department
stores, are found everywhere in Fern-
land’s commercial landscape. The Fed-
eration helps them with their buying.
J.H. RUSSELL, Co-operator.
Russell, a Londoner by birth and an
accountant by profession, has been in
M.L. for 30 years—lB of them with the
concern he now bosses. He’s a good
mixer, belongs to innumerable clubs and
manages to satisfy farmers, some achieve-
ment in any country. Visiting Australia
on business bent.
The slightly-limping figure of Eric G.
Blackmore is familiar to frequenters of
Sydney Stock Exchange’s foyer. Quiet
and pleasant in manner, he has been a
ERIC G. BLACKMORE, Presiding
Deity of Sydney Stock Exchange.
popular president for three years. Now
around middle-age, Blackmore started off
as a clerk with G. H. Partridge and Co.,
bought a seat early and became a part-
ner.
The State secretaries of the Australian
Railways Union who came into office at
the time of the 1924 “clean up”—A. E.
Chapman in N.S.W. and F. W. Sear in
Vic—did not enjoy the long terms of
office they might have expected. Chap-
man died a couple of years ago, and Sear,
at the 56th milestone, fell dead in Mel-
bourne last week. Sear had been con-
nected with railways almost all his life.
He was one of the hardest workers in
unionism, and one of the most popular.
A quenchless spirit is that of George
Walton, one of the two Rhodes scholars
chosen by Maoriland in 1936. Reared in
the bush, and starting from scratch, he
made his way to Auckland University.
At 20 he was one of the Dominion’s
champion all-round athletes. He was all
ready to go to Oxford a year ago—a
big, handsome, cheery lad who seemed
to have the world at his feet—when in-
fantile paralysis struck him down.
Walton is quite well and healthy now —
except for one leg which, from the
hip down, is completely and permanently
useless. But clever craftsmen have made
for him a thing like a trouser-leg of steel
latticework, and this fits on to his thigh,
encasing his paralysed leg. With this and
a stick, he can walk, after a fashion. He
left Auckland Hospital in February for
Canterbury College, where he will com-
plete his B.E. degree before going on
to Oxford to take up his delayed
scholarship.
A. E. Heath, who has turned in the
N. S. Wales Agent-General job two
years before the end of his term,
was g.m. of A. C. Saxton and Sons,
a Sydney timber firm, and president
of the Sydney Timber Merchants’ Assoc,
when he was appointed A.-G. in 1934.
He returns to resume his interrupted
business career.


/
1 -'-V,-
K V*i^'‘
m
Safes
\ '
viWWMlSftjißhfc /
/
-w»MjSssa^..
livwiwft^iirifl
*mt&mmHSßr s ? /
.V n '••*■ * •',./- ;v~* !*** v *«*> >'V ••*•-*-'* ••# * ! *j '
£***-•■ ' %
AWJ JAW javjj
> Sji ~ • • » ' : -. v
AND SAIL INTO SUNSHINE ON A GREAT WHITE YACHT
BALL JAVA, SIINGAIPOB
FD
Plan now to leave behind the bleak, depressing
days of Winter’s pelting rain and fog... to exchange
dull grey skies for sun-lit sapphire seas... to renew
your zest for living on a Great White Yacht bound
for warmer lands.
m
,TS2?r
See the Barrier Reef, Whitsunday Passage,
Macassar, then Bali —unspoilt isle where Time
has stopped and left life undisturbed. Visit
strangely different Java —Sourabaya, Samarang and
picturesque Batavia; then call at Singapore at the
Cross Roads of the East. Buy tickets to glamor this
Winter.
$3l
Inexpensive Winter Rates —First-class return
fares: From Sydney, £67/10/- to Java and
£75 to Singapore; from Melbourne, £72 to Java
and £79/10/- to Singapore; from Adelaide,
£76/10/- and £B4 respectively. Fares include exchange
and call at Bali for the purpose of disembarking
passengers making a tour of the island.
KH If f V mrv
• Mri If®. • JLhi JML JHuh
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION CO. LTD.,
Paketvaart House, 255 George Street, Sydney.
(N. V. Koninklijke Paketvaart Maatschappij—lncorporated in the Netherlands.)
AGENTS ALL STATES.
n
a
I.S
UA
Nl[ U W


ABORIGINALITIES
“Nor’-west”: When De Rougemonf
spun his extraordinary yarn of Australia’s
nor’-west he omitted one creature, pos-
sibly because he considered that, had he
described it, it would have sounded too
incredible even in a narrative like his.
Drifting in a dead calm about 200 miles
north of Derby we sighted a fleet of sail.
Semi-transparent and adorned with a
number of silver spots about the size of a
florin these sails obviously belonged to
fish, though they stood out of the water
like the mainsails of model schooners. A
splash with an oar, and they were furled
instantly. With a bait of white rag we
landed one sailfish. And no minnow
either! Over 6ft. in length, the sailer
was modelled like a huge garfish, hav-
ing the same shaped beak and mouth,
the same torpedo-body tapering to a
swallowtail. Nor’-westers have it that
this fish uses its sail as a means of loco-
motion, but as Nature has also equipped
it with four orthodox fins quite in keep-
ing with its size it is doubtful if it relies
much on sail. Yet for what other pur-
pose would a sail-fin 3ft. long by a
couple of feet high be intended? When
furled it drops neatly into a long socket,
enabling its owner to speed through
shark-infested waters without encum-
brance. The flesh was edible enough,
though hardly in the snapper class.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Th’ cleverest parrit I ever
see,” said old Bob, “was a galah Tarry
Tom owned. Tarry ’ad a pub, an’ th’
bird was a fav’rit with all ’is customers.
One night, me an’ a few fellers drops in
fer a drink. ‘Sorry, boys,’ says Tarry,
‘but th’ ruddy perlice inspectorate’s
stoppin’ ’ere ter-night.’ But after some
persuadin’ ’e lets us in an’ turns th’ tap
on. Th’ John’s up in ’is room an’ won’t
suspect nothin’ as long as we keeps quiet.
After a while, one bloke starts singin’
‘Mother Machree.’ ‘That’s torn it,’ says
Tarry, dousin’ th’ light. Sure ’nough,
th’ blanky inspectorate wants ter know
what th’ ’ell’s goin’ on down there. We’re
all shot, an’ pore Tarry don’t know what
ter say. But th’ parrit saves th’ sitooation.
‘lt’s that blasted parrit,’ ’e sings out
quick as lightenin’. Til ’ave ter scrag
th’ blankard’s neck yit.’ Yer’d ’a’ sworn
it’s Tarry ’imself talkin’. ‘Parrit be
damned!’ roars th’ John, cornin’ down ter
invest th’ gate. Tarry nicks outer meet
’im, thinkin’ all’s up. But th’ parrit ain’t
beat yit. ’E starts singin’ ‘Mother
Machree’ ’ell-fer-leather. Ker-ripes! If
th’ John ain’t der-lighted! ’E reckons
that there bird’s th’ best ’e ever struck.
Th' only trouble is there’s us pore cows
’avin’ .ter ’ide in th’ bar fer more’n two
hours while th’ parrit goes through its
extensive reperchah fer ’im.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “Kerriki” (B. 9/ 3 / ’3B)
may be right about the unhygienic prop-
erties of the ridge-pole or any other
brand of tent, but where did he get the
notion that “it was originally invented for
service in cold climates”? The tent is
at least as old as civilisation, which began
in countries mostly the reverse of cold,
Egypt and Mesopotamia. It is the sub-
ject of innumerable references in ancient
literature, Biblical and otherwise. The
patriarch Abraham sat in the door of
one at Mamre ; Jael killed Sisera in an-
other of these fragile residences. Coming
to later years, St. Paul, if I am not in
error, was a tentmaker, which suggests
that there was a brisk demand for tents
in Southern Europe; not to mention
Persia, where Omar flourished a thou-
sand years or so later. The nomadic
tribes of more northern Asia doubtless
welcomed it as filling a long-felt want,
but it certainly wasn’t “invented” for
them.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Have never done a
perish (B. 9/3/’3B), but have starved once
or twice. First phenomenon appeared
“Yairs, we'll all be goin' down to the Show next month.”
half-way through the second day—a pro-
digious rattling and' rumbling in the
empty stomach. This increased with the
distance between me and the last feed.
A slow ache became apparent on the
third day, not severe, rather nagging.
Sleep became easier as physical weakness
grew. Had to clench teeth on fourth day
to fight off self-pity, and slight hysteria
took me spasmodically. Action was an
antidote, but walking became very tiring.
Was conscious of pain in both sides on
fifth day; rumblings died away ; smok-
ing made me giddy; lips refused to stay
firm —was given hot soup that night;
collapsed into tears; had eggs and
bacon; suffered intense stomach pains
and was sick all night. Breakfast put me
on my feet. That was in the city, un-
employed. Lost in the bush, it’s a dif-
ferent story.
* * * *
“Grig”: “Jindivick” (B. 9/3/’3B) is a
bit tangled with his version of the fresh-
water eel’s breeding habits. The breed-
ing takes place, not on reefs “far away
at sea,” but in the deepest holes in the
ocean. Thirty years ago two Scandi-
navian scientists traced the life history of
the European eels after years of research.
Migrating in mass from the freshwater
rivers, the European eel makes for a deep
hole on the other side of the Atlantic be-
tween the West Indies and the Bermudas,
and there spawns. The youngsters, not yet
“elvers,” as “J.” asserts, but tiny semi-
transparent things like microscopic soles
in shape, start on their long trip back
to, say, the English rivers. The journey
takes them two years, and by the time
they make landfall they have become
elvers. The ascent of these in countless
millions up the rivers, overcoming by
sheer persistence such obstacles as weirs
and dams, is a familiar sight. Australian
eels carry out an identical programme,
The eels from the eastern coast of the
U.S.A. breed in another “deep” further
north than the Europeans. Like the
latter, they head for home as soon as
they leave the egg. No one has yet dis-
covered where the Australian and M.L.
eels breed, but it is certain that both
resort in season to ocean depths lying
far off our coasts.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: There were 140 bags
of charcoal at the siding at 4.30 p.m.,
and with the idea of saving the boss de-
murrage I loaded the ton truck to well
over capacity. It didn’t look safe, so
with a borrowed rope I fastened the oad
down securely. Drew cautiously out of
the station yard as the gates were closing,
negotiated the mile and a half to the
woodyard in suspense, and drew in to be
met by an infuriated boss, a product of
the old horse-wagon school. “I've a
good mind ter sack yer,” he fumed,
“That’s the first time a load of charcoal's
come into my yard with a rope on.”
„*„ * * *
“Kulkah”: Not only Binghi cracks
granite by fire. In building races for
their hydraulic-sluicing areas on the
Cooktown (Q.) fields the tin-scratchers
flume them across gullies constructed
along hillsides, and when a granite bar is
encountered the rock is cracked and
flaked away by the lengthy process of
fire followed by water. Fracteur is use-
less ; it would open the ground and so
weaken the sides of the race that they
would not be able to carry the weight of
water from the sluice-head.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: Nothing that kicks,
crawls or somersaults out of an egg
leaves the nest until its jacket is quite dry
(B. 2/3/’3B). Further, no egg-produced
creature has full locomotive power
directly on emergence from its gestating
chamber—it has to rest for a while and
have a bit of a look round before try-
ing its legs. The quickest off the mark
is the scrub-turkey chick —and it goes in
for speed straightway.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: A breeder of thorough-
bred horses in our Vic. district has,
evolved a breaking-in process which would
horrify most studmasters. After initiating
the youngsters to the saddle, he puts
them in the sulky and drives them round
the roads for a day or two, after which
they are given a couple of hours with
the draught-horses in the harrows,
plough, binder or whatever implement
may be in use at the time. Then they
are put through their paces in a lane
along which poles are erected with pieces
of paper and rags fluttering from them
while a boy rides alongside dragging a
kerosene-tin with a handful of stones
inside it. His neighbors regard him as
a harmless lunatic, but his horses have
never been known to give any trouble on
the racecourse.
“Valencia Creek”: It strikes me thai
“The Hiltite,” who regards post-splitting
as a gentle exercise (B. 2/3/ 38), must
have gained most of his experience from
wrestling with foot blocks in his
suburban backyard. Just the same, its
a relief to a lot of us to be told that the
use of the maul is “a matter of rhythm.
For years we have slogged away undei
the impression that we had to hit hard
and often to make any impression on
ironbark and red gum, so it seems that
we have wasted a power of sweat lor
nothing. In future, we are going to
swing our mauls in jazz tempo, so if “The
H.” chances to get a few days off from
the office and wanders down our way
he needn’t be surprised to hear some of
Fats Waller’s hot numbers being tapped
out from the big timber,
* XT „ * rT ... * , 1T *
~ Harry N. : Unttl recently I was sure
lhat snakes were dumb but several times
slnce then . lve , he » riJ .! oe emit *
" o,se 80 close to barking as to suggest
,he Possession of at least rudimentary
™ C A C ?S S ' 0l ? each °“ as ‘ on 1 dls ;
'orbed the wrigglers whilst they were
ab ? ut to partake of a frog supper The
noise made was not loud but very harsh,
dlsllnct , and indescribably weirdy
“X-Sleeperslasher”: When sleeper-
chopping in the Blackall Ranges (S.Q.),
I was astonished to see a gang of about
30 seasoned timber-getters camped in a
patch of turpentines, all tents being
pitched against a well-grown tree. When
the danger of falling branches was men-
tioned, looking up at the tossing tree-
tops (a storm was brewing) one man re-
marked: “Well, they ain’t never fell
before.” And that’s the attitude taken
by not a few bush workers. Personally,
I like a nice clear spot, well away from
big timber, for a camping site, although
small timber, especially in summer, is
very welcome.
* * * *
“Palaver”: Touching “The 0.D.” (B.
9/3/”38) and his definition of a hogget,
let him not shear his young sheep till
about 10 months old and see what label
his brokers will put on the wool. Mine
always call it “hogget’s”—with a capital
“H.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: A minute, slim black ant,
less than iin. long, has been causing
trouble this summer in s.-e. coastal
Queensland by invading houses in count-
less numbers. The nesting objective of
the visitation is shown by their carrying
in pupae and depositing them in weather-
board joints and other protected places.
That wouldn’t be so bad if the commis-
sariat service didn’t forage all over the
premises, including beds. Sodium fluoride
and various patent preparations have
done no lasting good, nor has Paris green.
Best results have come from spraying
the pupa-deposits and the invading
columns with a mixture of two table-
spoons of phenyle to a pint of water.
It is a tedious job, and needs daily repeti-
tion, but the discovery of a few hundred
of the little dears in one’s pants after
one has begun to put them on—they
bite, too —is a wonderful incentive to
sustained effort.
HOUNDING THE COCKY.
“N.&.W. dairy-farmers are abandoning pig-raising
for dog-breeding. North Coast farmers have taken
to greyhound racing with great enthusiasm.”
Where the rich soil yields its plenty in that
region south of Twenty-eight, ’twas dolce
far niente (or comparatively so)
For the cocky; animation was bound up in
admiration —or, conversely, aggravation—
at the lacteal fluid’s flow.
Just a steady round of feeding, milking, separat-
ing, breeding was the usual proceeding
from the year’s start to its end.
Life was not so much a gamble as an unex-
citing ramble; there was no wild, hectic
scramble to get rich quick or to spend.
Times have changed. Now the selection is the
scene of insurrection and the farmer’s flat
rejection of the old unvaried round.
For he studies form that’s chancy or goes off
to back his fancy, while neglected Bid and
Nancy trail their udders on the ground;
And the porker, bred for profit (when the
family didn’t scoff it), now has been con-
signed to Tophet, and can roam where’er it
likes
Without fear of retribution and eventual execu-
tion, following the institution of a course
for racing tykes.
Slogging round in slush that’s freezing, and the
icy cowbails seizing as a prelude to the
squeezing of innumerable teats;
Crawling out ere Jacky’s laughter shakes the
morn, and working after dark—there's
naught, they say, that’s dafter, now they’ve
tasted of the sweets
Of living by the noddle. All they’ve got to
do is toddle to a meeting and a wad’ll be
a monte. Either that 1
Or just start a stud and breed ’em. Will the
long, lean hounds mislead ’em? Well,
what odds? It’s rustic freedom, though
they finish “on the flat”!
Possibly we’ll soon be seeing all the farmers’
greyhounds being used to round up all the
fleeing kine and —this seems guaranteed—
The suggested substitution will make useful con-
tribution to the gradual evolution of a
Strawberry with speed;
And—the thought’s demoralising—what with
daily exercising dogs it wouldn’t be sur-
prising if, despite a generous cook,
Some once-corpulent old geezer (all his life an
udder-teaser) doesn’t, like the gent, in
“Cassar,” get that “lean and hungry look”!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Old-timer”: A town on the River
Murray one burning January night, the
local (and humane) cop on leave, a mar-
tinet in his place, a disconsolate and
drought-stricken mob circulating drearily
between the two pubs in vain hope, as
though the mere sight of them was some-
thing. From the Royal emerged Bill
Peters, a lodger, with a suspicious parcel.
Parched, jealous eyes watched him drive
olf in a sulky. Time passed, the pubs were
dark and silent under the blight of the law.
Came the night-girl from the post office
to the vigilant cop. Tapalin, 17 miles
away, had rung to say Bill Peters had
quarrelled with a maid there, and blown
his head off with a shotgun. Shocked,
the mob watched the cop ride away.
Then came the rush, and the toast of
the night was, “Goo’ ole Petersh ; poor
ole Bill” ; until midnight brought a re-
turning cop, wrathful and full of ven-
geance. With him was Peters, insisting
that what he said on the ’phone was
“Cornered a snake and blew its head off.”
Telephone girl insisted on accuracy of
first message. Cop wanted to know why
Peters should ring up about killing a
snake! Bill could have said he got a
quid to do it, but didn’t, and what could
the cop do, anyhow?
* * * *
“Kelly the Mug”: California and
Gippsland aren’t the only places where
they grow super-vegetables. Here’s a
karri stick dropped the other day at
Pemberton (W.A.): Height to top of foli-
age, 265 ft.; girth at 4ft. above ground,
33ft. At 13ft., where cut was put
through, girth 28ft. 3in., diameter 9ft. 4in.
Sound to the centre, the trunk rose above
this for 122 ft. without a branch, yielding
six 20ft. logs, the topmost one of which
was still 19ft. in girth and just over 6ft.
in diameter. Branches and foliage then
accounted for the other 130 ft. Average
weight of 20ft. logs, 20 tons each. Esti-
mated super, feet in trunk, 62,200. Time
occupied in falling, nine hours (scarfing
with axe, five hours; backing down with
saw, four hours). And this wasn’t a stick
kept for show purposes, but just one that
happened to be'next on the spotter’s list.
There were half a dozen just as good in
his book,
“ Hey , mister, give me an' Dave a go with that rake.”
“Shay M—hie—gain”: Mansh got no
flamin’ chansh againsht lorrer shticky-
beakin’ liarsh writin’ in the papersh.
Norrer chansh, even after he’sh bin dead
million blanky yearsh. Look at pore ole
Chow they digsh up in P—hie—kin. Bin
there millionsh of yearsh. Now they’re
callin’ him a flamin’ cann—hie—ibal cosh
poor cow’s bonesh was cracked with an
axesh ter get the marrow out. Blanky
block cracked, too, ter get out the
brainsh. Worrer they blamin’ him about?
Shilly cootsh thinksh pore blanky ole
Chow did it himshelf, eatin’ hish own
brainsh and marrowsh. Like ter shee
’em try it. Lerrem bang an axesh on
their own legsh an’ shee how much
flamin’ marrow they getsh. Shoon get
tired lookin’ for tucker that way. Pore
old P —hie —kin Chowsh no cannibal.
Lerrum blame shome other Chow.
Norr’im. Hate ter shee any bloke mish—
hie —represhen—hie—ted, even a dead
Chow.
* * * *
“Nikko”: Periodically an argument
arises over the origin of the name Ben-
digo, some maintaining it is a native
name, while others declare it was brought
there by the colonists. In Mary Webb’s
Precious Bane, a romance of rural Eng-
land of a couple of centuries ago, the
old farm-horse is Bendigo, so the anti-
native faction seems to have scored a
point there.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: “Billy See” (B. 2/3/’3B)
is all wrong about Leichhardt’s travelling
stock. The goats he bought (from W. C.
Wentworth) for his second trip were all
ewes and wethers, and cost five bob a
head, being of Tibet ancestry. The bone-
headed “explorer” didn’t even realise the
need of a billy until somebody gave him
one in Gloucester (N.S.W.). The 108
(not 180) sheep, were gifts from squatters
while on his way to pick up the goats,
not a part of his plan. Leichhardt’s
notion was that the goats would give
meat until the 40 bullocks got used to
pioneering. Milk was an accident —
Daniel Bunce, who was one of Leich-
hardt’s victims on the trek, describes how
Wommai, an abo. “who had learned the
trick from the Spaniards at Port Stephens,”
lassoed the few milking goats when they
were all nearly dead of fever on the
Mackenzie River. Anyhow, they lost
the goats, also the sheep, within four
months from starting. And Leichhardt’s
last letter of April 3, 1848, mentions no
goats, only cattle, for his next trip.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Watched a large whistling
eagle swoop down and pick up a platypus
that was sunning itself on the bank of
Matagana Creek, on the N.S.W. South
Coast. The eagle was so quick that
even the fast-moving platypus had
neither chance of escape nor opportunity
to bring its poisonous spurs into action.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: Rarer by far than the
occasional poor type of pearl found in
river mussels in the ’Bidgee and other
streams (B. 2/3/’3B) is the coconut pearl
—probably the rarest gem in the world
and the only one which is the product of
a vegetable. Even the Crown jewels
don’t possess one. Veteran pearler Tom
Clarke, of Darwin, once owned a speci-
men, and several others were found in
the Tonga Group. The trinket consists
of lime, like its marine relation, and is
formed simply by the solidification of
the milk in the coconut, brought about by
some unknown irregularity of nature,
The few specimens found came from de-
formed nuts growing on stunted palms.
“Billy See”: Troubled by rats we suc-
ceeded in trapping a female who, by the
evidence of her mammary glands, had re-
cently added to the rodent population.
The ensuing search revealed nine off-
spring, practically hairless and still blind.
As the quickest method of extinction these
nine were thrown to our two cats. One
cat, chastely virginal, lost no time in de-
vouring five: but the other, herself with
“ I put in thirty solid year down ’n they ’ot stopes, but un killed me.”
a litter only two days old, tenderly
gathered up the other four and carried
them to her nest, where she encourag’ed
them to snuggle down along with her
kittens. What’s the explanation—over-
powering maternal instinct, or did puss
really believe that the blind, hairless rat-
lets were kittens strayed away from the
nest?
* * * *
“Big End”: No matter how severe a
drought is there is always someone who
can remember a wbrse one. I asked an
old-timer of the Barmedman (N.S.W.)
district how the present drought com-
pared with those of previous years. “It’s
nothing,” he replied. “In 1902 you could
drive a mouse from here to Young with-
out losing sight of him.”
* * * *
“Langshan”: Billy Butcher-bird is a
comedian at times. Saw one settle in a
blocdwood unnoticed by several noisy
honeyeaters busy with the blossom. After
surveying them quietly for a time he
leaned forward and gently tweaked their
tailsyin turn. This performance was re-
peated thrice before a bigger tweak than
usual made one unsuspecting victim raise
its head. Squawking wildly, they all fled,
leaving Billy to chortle till his ribs were
sore.
“Langshan”: Some birds strongly
resent mimicry. I have heard kiddies
rouse the koel cuckoo and the mopoke
almost to frenzy. The koel responds
promptly to a soft “ko-ell,” growing
louder and more excited as his imitator
answers, until finally with a last piercing
string of profanity he flies off to tell the
missus how some idiot tried to pull his
leg and got told off for his pains. Five
minutes of steady mimicry renders a
mopoke almost hysterical. He chants his
“more pork, more pork” so fast that he
eventually ends up in what appears to
be an attack of hiccups. After that no
amount of calling will induce him to
answer.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: Queer hobbies? Two
old pioneers I knew were cranks on
horses, and kept dozens of them eating
all the grass out of their paddocks for
the sheer pleasure of having equine com-
pany round the place. Occasionally one
would muster his herd and drive it over
to the other’s place for a day’s fun and
frivolity. Cursing, swearing and urging
on their dogs, they drove the combined
mob into the stockyard and left them
there without food or water for a couple
of hours, while they sat on the capping
and waited for the circus to start. The
young colts usually became restive first
and took a flying dive over the sliprails
before scattering, the mares following.
The old-timers then climbed down, let
the foals out and set off at a gallop to
round up the wanderers. The whole
performance was then repeated ad lib .
until the horses got tired of it. The men
never did.
* * * *
“Old-t.”: Survey figures issued by
N.S.W. Department of Lands should set
going some fierce arguments in the
whalers’ camps of the sou’-west. They
give the mileage of the various rivers as:
Murray (in N.S.W.) 1609, Darling 1702,
’Bidgee 981, Lachlan 922, Bogan 541,
Macquarie 590. It’s a safe bet that 80
per cent, of river roamers won’t believe
the figures.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: The small bush school in
southern N.S.W. was on a block recently
cut from the mallee. The day was op-
pressively hot as the 20 youngsters took
up their school work after six weeks
around the farms. They were a resource-
ful lot. Conditions of life demanded
many makeshifts—with fencing wire and
other things. One group was busy with
a story about the holidays. A hand shot up
to ask help of the teacher, busy else-
where. The signal went unnoticed, so
the small writer faced the problem in his
own way. A surprised teacher read later:
“I had a good holiday, but was in bed
one day with a bilyesatak.” And that’s
about as perfect a rendering as the sym-
bols will permit.
* * * •
“X-Tas.”: Coal occurs in strange
places. A party of skiers who built a
hut within a few feet of the summit of
Ben Lomond, the Speck’s highest moun-
tain, were worried about fuel till they
chanced on a small seam of good coal
on the mountain-top.
ON THE WHARF.
The old wharf drowses in the sun,
The sky is blue and clear;
For all its crumbling dream of wood
The wharf knows what to fear,
When men will yell and sweat again
And work relentlessly,
Till the black ship that loafs it now
Goes steaming out to sea.
But now there is no noise except
The water lapping round,
And the white bird’s coarse-throated screech
Is a wild, startling sound.
From far across the harbor’s gleam
A ferry toots; and then
The glass-green water softly sings
Its lonely song again.
N.S.W.
EVA L. MERRITT.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day : Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors;
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES. Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PARIS INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR
The most comprehensive exposition of manufactures the world
has yet seen. The Fair commences on May 21st, ends June 6th.
• Business magnates will visit it.
• Exhibits from all nations will be on view.
• Modern development in manufactures will be shown to full
advantage.
• Every progressive businessman should see it.
For full particulars apply
TRADE
COMMISSIONER FOR FRANCE
Bank of N.S.W. Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24.249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
£37,495 7,138
Reserves.)
1932.. 62,407 7500 171 p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 221 „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
£ £ £
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947_ 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,183
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- 9 881
explained addition reserves, £16,088; ’
added goodwill, £77,732.
12 J p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
17i p.c.
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 ( n 99 „ g 7
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j ’ ’
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 . . 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
12i p.c.
1937.. 172.341.7500 14,000 105,492 ), 9 o 4q ipo o fio
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO J 198 ’ bU
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
15 p.c.
1938. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 ) 155 378 106
Staff fund and charities, £5500 ( 6d ’ 1&5
t Excluding depreciation reserve, £170,887 at Jan. 31.
This highly-prosperous chain-store con-
cern, operating in every mainland State
and Maoriland, has its headquarters in
N S. Wales. From an individual share-
holder’s point of view, it has been one
of the greatest moneyspinners of all time
in this country. Someone who had access
to the figures relating to the time before
the co. became public computed that
£lOO invested at the beginning now had
a market value of approximately £25,000.
There was a three-for-one capitalisation
in 1928. The “Wild Cat’s” records show
that since 1929, including the one-for-five
issue to be made shortly, £944,712 of
the £1,113,998 of ord. capital is repre-
sented by bonus scrip. On cash issues
during that time £199,977 was charged in
share-premiums, which makes the posi-
tion look only a little less gorgeous.
At the beginning there was quite a
struggle before the business got on its
feet. Depression helped to popularise
chain-stores.
Everyday articles of a quick-selling
kind, bought keenly and sold in vast
quantities in a standardised chain of
shops, are what Woolworths spin their
money out of. Turnover is so speedy
that storage, finance, etc., are minor
items. Buying is of paramount import-
ance, and specialisation in lines that are
low in price and small in bulk seems to
be an essential to continued success. A
large street-level floor appears to be an-
other necessity in the shops.
Woolworths last term (to Jan. 31)
showed net profit, before providing for
taxation, at £247,717, compared with
£237,341 and £227,550 in the two preced-
ing years. Last year’s taxation allowance
was £30,000; 1937, £65,000; 1936,
£BO,OOO. Apparently in recent years
greater provision has been made by the
subsidiaries for taxation, of which more
anon. Net, the parent’s showing (as per
table) was up £45,376, and equal to 21.1
p.c. on ord. capital as it stood at the
close of accounts, as against 17.7 p.c. in
the preceding term. A 15 p.c. div. (up
2\ p.c.) went out, and claimed reserves,
out of which the £185,667 of bonus scrip
is to come, lifted to £378,106 (deducting
goodwill).
The parent’s balance-sheet figures
represent the N. S. Wales trading and
financial position in comparative detail,
with the inter-State and trans-Tasman
sections in one item —shares in other cos.,
£1,113,764:
1929. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital £93,764 £342,788 £1,118,938 £1,203,332
Liabilities.. 127,525 272,188 306,662 234,583
Freeholds,etc. 51,667 340,989 417,585 404,735
Leaseholds . 6,095 86,421 87,016 91,158
Plant . . 37,196 130,903 239,571 191,414
Shares other
cos., etc. 9,450 116,651 847,326 1,113,764
Stocks .. 100,551 190,968 349,439 249,830
Debtors . . 4,159 26,710 *64,359 *109,110
Cash . . 929 1,186 4,749 52,567
* Includes advances to associated cos.— £58,291,
1937; £100,002, 1938.
Last term the new capital (£84,394) and
premiums (£126,591) raised went mostly
towards reducing the outside debt by
£82,079, adding £266,438 to sharehold-
ings in subsidiaries, handing the pups
£41,711 more on advance account, and
increasing the credit at the bank by
£47,818. Plant dropped £48,157 and
stocks were valued at £99,607 lower; the
Queensland business was separated and
passed to a subsidiary during the year.
The subsidiaries, their paid capitals and
the parent’s holdings are as follows:
Parent’s Latest Ord.
Paid Ord. Profits, Div.,
Capital. Holding. p.c. p.c.
Woolworths (N.Z.) £660, j £309,622 26.7 15
Woolworths (Vic.) go’ooo* } 60,007 18 '° 10
Woolworths (W.A.) 94,890 # j 47>523 28 0 20
Woolworths (Q’ld) 175,566 175,566
Woolworths (S.A.) 25,000 25,000
A/sian Chain Stores 1,000 1,000
* Pref.
The Vic. and S.A. cos. balance on Sept.
30, the M.L. one on Oct. 1, the others
on Jan. 31. In their last respective terms
profits totalled £342,661, subject to taxa-
tion (£121,000), leaving £221,661 net,
equal to 22.7 p.c. on their combined ord.
capitals (£921,462). The Queensland co.
is evidently a big contributor. Its sepa-
rate figures, or those of the S.A. co.,
aren’t available. Australasian Chain
Stores represents the London buying end.
The pups paid £75,108 in ord. divs.
during their respective terms, and had
£152,839 in p. and 1. balance. Other
items in aggregate are shown as follows:
SUBSIDIARIES’ COMBINED FIGURES.
Paid capital.. £1,071,462 | Freeholds ..£404,326
Undiv. profits 324,770 Leaseholds .. 66,956
Deprec. reserve 134,297 Fittings’, etc. 326,622
Tax provision 179,334 Stocks.. .. 710,887
Staff fund .. 1,000 Debtors .. 14,205
Sundry cred. 197,077 Cash, etc. .. 129,924
Mortgages .. 158,500 .Goodwill, etc. 413,520
£2,066,440 £2,066,440
Of the £921,462 of trading subsidiaries’
ord. capital, the parent owns £617,718, the
public having direct equities as well as
pref. shares in the Maoriland and West-
ralian offshoots. The parent’s equity in
-the book value of the pups’ goodwill
would be about £200,000, but total
reserves (£459,067, excluding the taxation
lay-by) more than offset total good-
will (£413,520, including establishment
charges).
Assuming that the subsidiaries’ ords.
are backed by 20s. each in net tangibles,
then the parent’s valuation of its holding
(£1,113,654) includes an intangible item
of £494,936. The parent’s own goodwill
is in the books at £165,227. Its total
visible reserves at balance-day were
£714,220, including depreciation account
(£170,887). Out of these the forthcoming
bonus is to come.
It is the organisation’s earning-power
that chiefly attracts the market. Oppor-
tunities of expansion appear to be get-
ting fewer, and bonus issues have to be
sprinkled over a larger area. In the
market price of 275., cum rights, for the
ss. shares, the market pays something like
225. for goodwill and whatever undis-
closed strength there is in book values.
Assuming that the 15 p.c. ord. div. is
maintained, the immediate return offering
is £3 6s. Bd. p.c. If income to share-
holders is lifted by half as much again as
15 p.c. on their increased shareholdings
will now bring in, then the return will
be £5 p.c. Such a yield seems to be
some way off yet, though over the past
two years ord. distributions have nearly
doubled.
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1916 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 .. 1,223,364 516,262 126,903 53,351 526.848
1929 .. 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 .. 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 7 234 127
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 ) ’
1932 .. 1,316,891 767,756 163,556 762 l 284 817
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO 5 ’
1933 . . 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 7 99R fi6B
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO ) “ ’
1934 . . 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 .. 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596]
From bonus equalisation account, ) 579,467
£30,000 1
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 11,289' 7 ,„ r
To staff fund, £5OOO ) 56a,88
Bonuses, which are what interest policy-
holders, have been maintained at last
year’s level, comparing favorably with
the other large offices. On young poli-
cies and young lives the City Mutual
makes its biggest hit; and, after all, life
assurance should make its greatest appeal
to the young man. But, in practice, does
it? It can probably be said truly that
nowadays young people, from the ex-
perience of their parents, are more life-
assurance-conscious than those of even a
generation ago. The preference may be
for endowment assurance, but whatever
kind it is, so long as it is taken out in
a good office, it is a start in the right
direction.
Australian life offices were put to a
hard test during the depression, and it
was natural that, with interest-reduction
in force generally, bonuses should suffer.
The rates of every office were brought
down in varying degrees. But increases
may be expected in the near future, even
though gilt-edged securities still give a
low return. The City Mutual trimmed its
sails to the low-interest wind by reducing
the anticipated rate of interest to 3i p.c.,
making the future of policy-holders more
secure.
New business put on the books lifted
again last year:
1934. 1936. 1937.
Policies 4,737 6,825 6,771
Assuring .. . . £1,657,050 £2',448,102 £2,592,507
First premiums .. 54,387 83,410 87,566
Renewal .premiums 636,701 684,980 731,569
Annuities .. .. 24,895 61,866 33,220
Interest, etc. . . 323,552 409,797 438,285
Income, except in respect of annuities,
made an all-round forward movement.
New policies put on the books totalled
6771, down 54, but the average sum
assured lifted by £25 to £383. First-year
premiums (£87,566) rose £4156, renewals
(£731,569) lifted £46,389, while considera-
tion for annuities (£33,220) dropped
£28,646. Since the sharemarkets became
attractive to investors again the popu-
larity of annuities has waned.
Total premium income (£852,356) was
£22,101 higher. Gross interest (£438,285)
lifted £28,488, making the society’s entire
revenue (£1,290,641) £50,589 greater.
Claims and surrenders (£543,115) were
up £24,017, principally owing to a large
crop of endowments maturing. Sur-
renders showed only slight increase, and
death and accident claims were actually
down £37,250. Favorable mortality is
always a help as regards bonuses.
Expenses (£165,354) were up £14,462,
of which £9Oll was in respect of taxa-
tion (£28,059). Management items rose
only £5451. The ratio (excluding taxes)
to net premium income was 16.6 p.c.,
as against 16.9 p.c., assuming annuities
cost 3 p.c.
Actual excess of income over outgo,
after transferring £5OOO to the staff
fund and openly depreciating sundry-
assets by £11,289, was, at £565,883,
£16,416 better than in the preceding year,
and the life fund lifted to £8,789,531. In
addition, there were contingency, etc.,
reserves totalling £522,950 (unchanged) to
further back policies and earning-power
at balance day.
Net interest earnings represented 4.92
p.c. on the mean life fund, compared
with 5.05 p.c. in the preceding
year. The office still scores heavily
from this source, though a swing
towards Consols (lower interest has been
offered on recent loan flotations) in in-
vesting the funds last year influenced a
reduction. The fine new head-office
premises are let, and give a net return
above the average yield of the society’s
funds.
This table shows exactly how the funds
are placed:
1936. p.c. 1937. p.c.
Govt, secui'ities. . £1,994,630 22.5 £2,188,110 23.2
Mortgages . . 3,009.436 34.0 3,035,088 32.1
Loans on policies 1,239,734 14.0 1.315,880 13.9
Properties.. .. 1,807,490 20.4 1,970,400 20.9'
Shares and
debentures, etc. 723,835 8.2 764,890 8.1
Cash and sundries 84,275 0.9 168,734 1.8
The addition to the book value of Gov-
ernment securities last term was £193,480.
Freeholds lifted by £162,910, and loans
on policies by £76,146. At 13.9 p.c. of
the assets the latter aren’t o,ut of the
ordinary.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
t Dividends N
Pref., Ord., To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
7i p.c.
1928.. 161,348 11,780 150,000 289,400
24 p.c.
1929.. 75,874 15,000 50,000 10,874 300,274
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
11 p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
24 p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3f p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
Prom contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937. . 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
Buoyant trading conditions during 1937
squeezed in some degree into nearly every
kind of industry in the Commonwealth.
Shipping earnings were better, the con-
struction trades were active, and there
was greater output of coal at slightly
higher prices. Howard Smith, Ltd., is
interested in these avenues of trade as an
agent and investor. Its principal invest-
ments at one stage during 1937 were as
follows:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849,990
„ , , . 1 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian Collieries. . j i;028,599'0rd. 869,542 ord.
Invincible Colliery . . 104,000 65,791
B.H.P 5,231,562 217.509
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
„ ~ r> * 1 210,004 pref. 138,299 pref.
Southern Port. Gem... } 639 ; 886 £rd. 250;001ord.
Southern Blue Metal .. 248,000 50,000
There was also a controlling interest in
Brisbane Wharves Pty.
Shares in these and other cos. repre-
sent just under 90 p.c. of the book value
of Howard Smith’s assets. They are a
mixed lot, both as regards nature and
earning power. Most important is the
Steamships co., which owns the Can-
berra and some large-size and smaller
inter-State cargo vessels. The Saros was
wrecked last term (it was insured) and
a new 5450-tonner has been ordered.
What Steamships pays the parent isn’t
known; it must be a moderate, but
handy, rate. The holding in Broken Hill
Prop, has been increased following new
capital issues, and something like £27,500
a year comes in from there. Australian
Sugar (Q.) paid a regular 12 p.c. for the
eight years to 1932 ; figures haven’t since
been disclosed. Southern Portland
Cement paid 11.8 p.c. pref. div. arrears
(about £11,400 to H.S.) from 1936
profits, and from the 1937 showing has


To-day, Elasta-Strap Sports
Trousers are even better!
D
Always celebrated for the Comfort,
Ease and Freedom of Action so
essential to the vigorous player, Elasta-
Straps have added yet another advan-
tage. The inclusion of the New
Tauttex Shirt-Controlling Feature in
the Plus Models means that your
old bogey the "bulging shirt” is fin-
ished. When even a silk shirt is
pulled out by violent action, Tauttex
works it back into snug and com-
fortable position.
TNTRODUCED only a few years
ago, Elasta-Strap Self-Supporting
Trousers quickly proved themselves
the greatest modern improvement in
men’s wear. Don Bradman wears and
recommends only Elasta-Straps. All
the leading players at Tennis, Cricket,
Golf and Bowls are enthusiastic sup-
porters of Elasta-Straps. What more
does any player want ?
FD
F
PRICES:
Elasta-Strap Plus Models .. from ij/6 to 55/-
Elasta-Strap Regular Models , from 14/6 to 28/6
(according to type and quality of material)
Available in GREYS, CREAMS, FANCIES, etc. —the largest range ever offered
in Australia. . . . The Elasta-Strap Patent is obtainable in Shorts and Suits.
1
SELF
St/ia/o
TING TROUSERS
'TAUTTEX'
(This advertisement, being an abridgment of a full prospectus dated twenty-second day
of March, 1938, a copy of which has been filed in the office of the Registrar-General,
does not fully comply with the requirements of the Companies Act.)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
“ROMANY ROAD”
CARAVAN COMPANY
LIMITED
(To be incorporated under the Companies Act 1928 of the State of Victoria.)
Nominal Capital - - - - £lOO,OOO
Divided into 100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each
45,500 Shares are now offered to the public for subscription, subject to
the terms set out below:
The above shares offered for subscription are payable—
-2/6 per share on application.
2/6 per share on allotment.
The Balance in calls of 2/6 per share at intervals of not less
than one month.
14,700 Shares to be issued as fully paid up to “Romany Road” Caravan Co.
Proprietary, Limited, as part consideration for purchase of the
Assets and Goodwill of the Company.
2,800 Shares to be issued as fully paid up to Wilsons Holiday Caravans
Proprietary, Limited, as part consideration for purchase of the
Assets and Goodwill of the Company.
37,000 Shares are held in reserve.
100,000
DIRECTORS:
EVELYN DUDLEY WILSON, “Ascog,” Southey Street, St. Kilda, Gentleman.
JOHN ARTHUR COLLISTER, 16 Hensman Street, South Perth, Retired
Deputy Superintendent East India Railway.
JAMES KEIR LEITCH, ‘‘Hotel Ritz,” Fitzroy Street, St. Kilda, Manager.
ALLAN GILES, 34 Fitzroy Street, St. Kilda, Manager.
GEORGE HUXLEY SWAN, “Kafore,” High Street, Windsor, Manager.
And one other Director to be appointed.
BANKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, 337 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITOR:
James A. C. Coulter, 368 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
Harry V. Sampson, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 440 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Alfred E. Solomon (Secretary “Romany Road” Caravan Co. Proprietary,
Limited), 361 Collins Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
BROKERS:
E. Dudley Wilson & Company Proprietary, Limited, 361 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C. 1.
OBJECTS.
The objects for which the proposed Company is being formed are as set
forth in the Memorandum of Association and are particularly as under:—
(1) To acquire and take over the assets of the businesses of Caravan
Manufacturers and Dealers carried on respectively by Wilsons
Holiday Caravans Proprietary, Limited, and “Romany Road”
Caravan Co. Proprietary, Limited, both of 361 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C. 1.
(2) To lease, purchase or otherwise acquire suitable real property for
the building of a factory for the carrying on of the said businesses.
(3) To conduct' parking areas, provide conveniences and generally cater
for caravan owners and hirers.
(4) To extend the present business operations to the various States in
the Commonwealth, with distribution in all principal centres.
PREVIEW.
Caravanning in Australia has come to stay. To-day the Caravan is
established as a factor in community life as definitely as the motor-car. To
question the possibilities of the one would necessarily mean doubting the
future of the other, for caravanning is as successfully linked up with the
development of modern motoring as is the caravan itself with the car which
draws it.
In fact, it is no exaggeration to say that the caravan has invested car
ownership with a fresh significance and greatly enhanced value. So it is
that public enthusiasm for caravanning is giving indirectly an outstanding
stimulus to the great motor industry.
It is obvious, therefore, that just as huge fortunes were made in other
countries from motor-car manufacture, once the car became a practical
proposition for the average person, so, too, exceptional profits await judicious
investment in caravan manufacture in Australia at the present time.
It should be kept well in mind that shareholders in “Romany Road”
Caravan Company, Limited, will be favoured by the all-important circumstance
that they will not be called on to stand relative waste of time and capital
normally inseparable from the establishment of an entirely new enterprise.
The new Company is being formed merely to develop the established and
highly successful existing businesses, for the Vendor Companies have advanced
far beyond the experimental stage, and have accomplished much more than
purely ground work. “Romany Road” Caravans already enjoy, in outstanding
measure, the goodwill of both motor trade and public through sheer superiority
of design and construction. Backed by excellent after-sales service, they have
won through to clear-cut leadership in the field of Australian caravan
manufacture.
As the Prospectus makes obvious, “Romany Road” Caravan Company,
Limited, meets the three prime requirements of a sound and entirely attractive
investment:
(1 ) There is a proven and rapidly growing market for the product and
service being offered to the public.
(2) That product and service are proven to be saleable at prices that
provide ample margin for an unusually high return to shareholders.
(3) The sound policy and rapid progress evidenced in the record of the
Vendor Companies constitute a guarantee of highly competent
direction and management for the new Company.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
It is the intention of the Directors to apply for listment on the Stock
Exchange
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allot-
ment is 5000 shares, with the sum of 2/6 per share paid to or received on
behalf of the proposed Company.
The requirements of the Companies Act have not been fully complied
with in this abridged Prospectus.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained
from the Brokers, E. Dudley Wilson & Company Proprietary, Limited, 361
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Applications from the general public shall be made on the form
accompanying the Prospectus.
All applications must be accompanied by an amount of 2/6 per share
on the number of shares applied for.
wiped out remaining arrears (six years,
aggregating £78,353), of which Howard
Smith’s proportion would be about
£36,000. .
Nothing was received in divs. from
the co.’s colliery investments, though
earnings as agent should have been
better. Without any definite information
as to where the increase came from, but
helped substantially by cement divs., H.S.
has declared profits for 1937 £48,424
higher at £146,073, a lift of about 50
p.c. Allowing for pref. requirements,
earnings were equal to slightly more than
6.5 p.c. on the two millions of ord. capi-
tal, as against 4.1 p.c. in the preceding
term. The ord. div. was lifted by 3d.
a share, to 5 p.c. for the year, and re-
serves received the largest addition
(£31,073) from profits that has been
made for over 20 years. That is apart
from £lO,OOO brought in from contin-
gency account.
Some rebuilding of the finances seems
to have been going on since depression
times. Even before slump hit us, Howard
Smith’s were feeling a sharp pinch,
largely because of the trouble on the
Maitland coalfields. Australian Iron
and Steel, in which the co. held about
700,000 ords., never paid an ord. div.,
and the swapping of these for 194,444
f.-p. B.H. Prop. ords. was of immediate
benefit to earnings. Coal is still the big-
gest dead spot in the investment port-
folio. Caledonian hasn’t paid a div., pref.
or ord., for 10 years, and present out-
look is hardly promising. Southern Blue
Metal is a straggler. Howard Smith
ords. averaged 11.5 p.c. for 13 years to
the end of 1927 ; during the 10 years
since the average has been 2.5 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1932. 1936. 1937.
Pref. capital . . £250,006 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits . . . . 61,000 35,275 11,770
Other liabilities.. 838,409 935,624 853,818
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 154,300 190,977 184,697
Shares other cos.. . 3,094,476 3,257,155 3,159,511
Plant . . . . 30,352 19,200 18.487
Stocks, etc. . . 22,604 27,626 25,213
Debtors . . . . 154,811 129,026 113,023
Public securities
and cash . . 3,277 5,700 64,508
Most important movements are a drop
of £97,644 in the book value of invest-
ments and a reduction of £105,311 in
the amount of liabilities —£865,588, in-
cluding £763,675 due to associated cos.
Whether these movements have partly
to do with the liquidation of Brisbane
Wharves Pty. during the year it is hard
to say.
Howard Smith ords., backed by book
values equal to 235. lid. a share, are
selling at 225. 3d. The yield on a 5 p.c.
div. basis is about £4 11s. per cent.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1927.. 130,616 14 p.c.= 114,379 16,237 178,279
ly-sa.. 131,188 14 „ ~ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ „ 114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 10£ „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 70,900 8 „ „ 65,359 5,541 241,075
1933.. 73,798 8 ~ „ 65,359 8,439 249,514
1934.. 75,314 9 ~ „ 73,530 1,784 251,298
1935.. 87,880 10 „ „ 81,699 6,181 257,479
10q 6.. 106,787 12 ~ ~ 98,038 8,749 266,228
1937.. 135,090 15 „ „ 122.549 12.541 278,769
The best result yet, and £3902 up on the
1928 figure, when Victorian beer con-
sumption amounted to 12 gallons per
head. The position is even more attrac-
tive than the last line in the table alone
suggests. No account has been taken of
the undistributed profits of the operating
co., Carlton and United Breweries, which
in its last term passed on only 80 p.c.
of its declared net earnings ; Carlton’s
share (£28,546) of the amount visibly
retained was 3.5 p.c. on its own capital.
Controlling, with its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Victoria Brewery, 32 p.c. of
the issued capital, Carlton is chief of a
half-dozen holding cos. through which
the public is interested in C.U.B. Besides
supplying Melbourne’s State with most
of its amber beverage, C.U.B. ministers to
thirsts in North Queensland, where it is
tightening its grip, and in the Riverina
(N.S.W.) and Tas. as well.
In Victoria beer consumption has re-
sponded to increased employment and
the lengthening of payrolls in this way
—sales include inter-State business:
1 Consumption N
Year to Sales, Gallons
June 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,631,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10.6
1937.. 24,837,399 20,750,800 11.2
Recent substantial outlay on hotels has
benefited C.U.B.’s takings, too. Thus
the co.’s net earnings for the year ended
June 30 soared to the record high level
of £453,997 ; the div. was lifted from
10 p.c. to 12| p.c., and an interim at the
higher rate has been declared in respect
of the current term.
To the Carlton and Victoria cos. the
p.c. was equal to £116,037, or 14.2
p.c. on Carlton’s, own share-register;
interest and rents contributed another 3.6
p.c., while exes, absorbed 1.5 p.c.:
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1927.. £106,336 £26,985 £5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1934.. 63,120 22,113 180
1935.. 73,344 24,521 2455
1936.. 90,930 25,770 2186
1937.. 111,788 29,481 6583
In total, gross takings from all sources
o Continued on next page.)


Love and Affection
NOT ENOUGH
THE love of a lad for a lass is not enough for married happiness.
It is the perfect foundation, but it must be buttressed with some
financial security. Financial security for the future smooths the
road of life and gives men and women a sense of well-being.
A young husband is wise when he becomes a member of the
A.M.P. and assures his life so that his wife may be protected should
he die before her. He will also have a policy to provide for both his
and her old age for as long as they live.
Security and an adequate income in old age can be bought from
the A.M.P. on easy terms. Any man in health and work can afford
to buy them; can afford to invest a little out of his income to make
his wife and himself secure against the day when he can no longer
work.
The A.M.P. is the Mutual Life Office in the Empire. It
has over £1 10,000,000 of assets with which it backs every policy. Use
it to the full! Get in touch with this office, either by ’phone or letter,
and say that you want an experienced man sent to you to explain
how the Society can help you with your plans for the future. If you
prefer, send for a copy of “Investing in Happiness.”
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman of the Principal Board.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Canadian Pacific make a
fetish of service and com-
fort on their Trains and
Steamers. That’s why so
many • people travel this
way to and from Europe.
&MaJkaM.(jhcifcc
247 Qeorge Street, Sydney **
59 William Street, Melbourne
fir Phi n Ttir sinstslsl
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc.; and Collison and Co. (Meib.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— -Advt.
* * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab/’ Melbourne.
advanced £28,967 to £147,852. At
£12,319, exes, were £220 heavier, leav-
ing the net balance £28,303 stronger at
16.6 p.c. on Carlton’s share-register,
allowing for a minor reserve movement.
The div. went up to 15 p.c. Considering
the margins between both operating and
holding cos.’ earnings and distributions,
the 15 p.c. has a comfortable look.
At the last three accounting periods,
combined funds of Carlton and its sub-
sidiary were spread this way:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . . . . £816,992 £816,992 £816,992
Creditors .. • • 15,787 16,849 18,776
Suspense account . . 15,374 15,644 14,630
Hotels 119,062 119,062 117,418
Breweries . . . . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Furniture .. . . 137 126 115
Shares C.U.B 631,704 631,704 631,704
Mortgages, etc. . . • • 237,881 252',513 266,038
Cash, etc 7,698 11,326 25,164
Outstanding movements last year were
the addition of £13,525 to mortgages,
etc., and £11,838 to the cash item. The
holding in C.U.B. (928,295 £1 shares) is
in at £631,704, no account having been
taken in the books of the one-for-two
gift issue of 1934. Among other com-
forting things, this means the existence
of a tidy inner reserve, and makes dis-
tributions by the working co. worth more
than the declared rate on Carlton’s
£816,992 of capital.
At 655. 6d. the market buys the solid
yield of 4.6 p.c. from Carlton scrip on
the basis of existing divs. Taking in the
United co.’s undistributed earnings, 17£
p.c. was well within reach last year.
Trade since last June appears to have
been more than maintained.
Lekmek (Australasia), Ltd.
At Dec. 31 there were 1,006,745 regis-
tered broadcast receivers in the Com-
monwealth —one for every seven of the
total population. This is evidence of the
popularity of radio, as well as of the fact
that manufacturers in the future will have
to cater for replacement of sets as much
as for brand-new customers. With the
cricket Tests approaching there should
be a fillip to the trade.
Besides making receivers, the six-year-
old Lekmek Radio Laboratories has sup-
plied “high-fidelity audio” and other
specialised broadcast equipment to both
A- and B-class stations and the P.M.G.
Having outgrown its capital resources,
the business is being handed over to a
public co. —Lekmek (Australasia), Ltd.,
nominal capital £lOO,OOO in 85,000 £1
ordinaries and 60,000 ss. deferreds.
For engineering data, goodwill and
trade-marks, etc., Norman Gilmour as
vendor is getting £7500 in deferred
shares and £5BOO in cash for plant and
stocks. Public is asked to become in-
terested in 50,000 ords., and 20,000 de-
ferreds at par are reserved for directors,
employees and distributors.
The deferreds have one vote for each
two shares, as against one-for-one for
the ords., in any year they are entitled
to half divisible profits after the ords.
have had p.c., and rank after ords.
for return of capital.
The new money is wanted, as to
£26,000, for factory and plant, and £9OOO
for stocks, leaving £20,000 for working
funds —the co. intends discounting por-
tion of its own hire-purchase paper. On
a turnover four times as great as at
present net annual earnings of £8750
are looked for, after earmarking £9300
for taxation and reserves and deferring
£5OOO interest under h.-p. agreements.
The £8750 would be divisible £6250 (12!
p.c.) among ord.-holders and £2500 (20
p.c.) among deferreds, assuming full sub-
scription of the present issue.
Losses of £1550 and £173, possibly
partly reflecting undercapitalisation,
showed up in the private co.’s accounts
for ’36 and ’37 respectively, but “very
considerable (non-recurring)” develop-
ment expenditure has been charged
against earnings.
There is intense competition in the
radio field, which expansion of opera-
tions, however, should strengthen the co.
to meet. Those in the trade have a good
word for Lekmek products, and Norman
Gilmour, who has a five-year contract
with the co. as managing director at
£lOOO p.a., has had extensive radio-engi-
neering experience. Others on the board
are H. C. Parish, A.M.1.R.E., and S. C.
McCrum.
Tongkah Compound, N.L.
Latest accounts of this old Malayan
producer make the best reading since
1929, when a surplus of £92,799 was
exhibited. At £56,177, profit is up £21,195
on the 1935-36 figure, and equal to 4s.
6d. per share. In view of the uncertain
outlook, div. was cut back to 2s. a share ;
including a further Is. sent out since
the close of accounts, that brings total
distributions to shareholders to £523,138.
Recent results:
Net , —Dividends— N
Sept., Revenue. Outgo. Surplus. Share. Amt.
1935.. £66,150 £28,222 £37,928 3/- £37,280
1936 1 60,223 25,241 34,982 3/- 37,280
■' (Loss sale dredge, £5185.
937 S 79,239 23,062 56,177 2/- 24,853
'•'(“Balance received sale of dredge, £7500.”
Last term’s profit included £1564 in in-
terest and £6103 from divs. from Tong-
kah Compound No. 2, but excludes
£7500, “balance of sale of dredge,” posted
to credit of p. and 1. The last item is not
clear, but appears to represent an adjust-
ment for exchange, apparently not taken
into account last year, on sale of the
Setul dredge to Tongkah Compound
No. 2 for £35,000 stg. —£5000 down
and the balance in annual instalments
of like amount. Depreciation provision
was £622.
Poorer ground caused a substantial
reduction in last term’s output; it was
the lift in prices that put the spring in
earnings:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards .. 1,629,000 1,777,000 1,651,000
Tin oxide, tons . . 425.4 403.4 348.3
Recovery, lb. per c.y. 0.58 0.51 0.47
Production c<3st . . 4.1 d. 3.4 d. 3.2 d.
At Sept. 30 virgin dredging reserves at
Mantin amounted to seven years’ full-
time digging, “which may be somewhat
increased,” for the remaining dredge. In
addition, with tin at present prices, there
is an estimated three years’ profitable
work in Setul tailings.
With an annual assessment of 1071
tons t.o. —equivalent to a permissible
production of 460 tons on the present
reduced 43 p.c. quota—the co. should
be able to maintain full-time working—
for the present, at any rate. In the first
five months of the current term, however,
poorer wash (av. 0.381 b.) and lower metal
prices have reduced the declared mine
profit to £7292.
The co. is a large shareholder in four
subsidiary enterprises, returns from most
of which are in the future. Details:
Parent’s Holding
r A ■\
Issued , —Proved Reserves—,, Paid
Co. Capital. C.y. Av. t.o. Shares, to.
No. 2. . £lOO,OOO 12,000,000 0.421 b. | u/-
No. 3.. 150,000 21,000,000 0.621 b. se’ooo 8/-
No. 4.. 150,000 13,000,000 0.9'11b. 81,875 4/-
No. 5.. 130,000 15,000,000 1.021 b. 97,999 5/-
The lot figures in the parent’s books at
£88,240. After a lapse of 10 years No.
2 co., handicapped by a small assess-
ment, is again contributing to the pool
—monthly returns indicate a mine sur-
plus of £40,436 for the 12 months to
Dec. 31 last—while No. 3 has procured
an assessment and bought itself a plant.
Reimposition of restriction has dimmed
immediate prospects of Nos. 4 and 5 cos.
securing quotas.
The parent’s share-register totals
£207,113 in 248,536 £1 shares paid to
16s. Bd. Market price is 245. apiece, of
which 6s. 3d. was represented by Con-
sols and cash (£77,265) at Sept. 30 and
3s. Bd. by debtors (£45,483). Liabilities
were negligible.
Chairman C. A. Whitfield has just
paid another annual visit to North Kal-
gurli, and hopes to be back in London
a month or so before the annual meet-
ing, which this year will probably be held
earlier than usual. The production and
mine-profit figures were given here last
week. During 1937 2s. a share (100 p.c.)
went out in divs., and it is likely that the
full payment will show an increase. The
technical position at the mine is sound.
Ore reserves have expanded progressively
for several years, and at last balance day
constituted nearly five years’ supply.
Reserves have risen further since then.
* * * *
A. W. Winzar, senior inspector of
mines (W.A.), praises the skill and effi-
ciency of the Lake View management
in his annual report, and has something
to say about the appearance of the mines
under its control. Here are a couple
of extracts: Chaffers shaft is now down
3758 ft. vertical. On the No. 2 lode in
Chaffers and Horseshoe the levels from 21
to 31 have a shoot of solid ore for 1500 ft.
in length. In the Associated the principal
developments are on Tetley’s lode from
the fourth to the tenth level. The shoot is
over 300 ft. in length, the width big and
values good. Putting in a good word for
the Boulder Perseverance, Winzar says
that operations are progressing satisfac-
torily. He adds that a safety committee
composed of manager, underground-man-
ager, shiftbosses, timbermen, machine
men and truckers has been formed on
this mine. The committee meets regu-
larly, and deals with matters affecting the
health and safety of employees.
* * *
London reports that the necessary has
been found to develop the old Hannan’s
Reward and Mt. Charlotte mines, which
begin where the east section of Han-
nan’s Street, Kalgoorlie, ends. During
the last year or two 25 diamond-drill
holes, totalling nearly 14,000 ft. in aggre-
gate and costing approximately £200,000,
have been bored in the properties. Two
mineralised ore-bodies were stabbed.
One is estimated to contain 1,122,000
tons going 5.36dwt., the other 538,000
tons going 4.2dwt.
* * * *
As shareholders can’t or won’t find
the money, English-controlled Tindals,
operating at Coolgardie, is sounding an
Australian machinery concern about pos-
sibilities of installing a treatment plant
on time-payment. About £lOO,OOO has
already been spent on equipment and
mining. On the strength of this the
Westralian Government recently offered
to lend £30,000 to supplement £30,000-
odd which the co. has still in hand, con-
ditionally on the lot being spent on de-
velopment and enough money being
raised to erect a plant capable of hand-
ling 10,000 tons a month.
* * * *
Cox’s Find (W.A.) has proved a prize
packet to Western Mining Corp., which
has a three-quarter interest, and for Cen-
tral Gold, which holds the other quarter.
So far £150,000 has been taken out of
the mine. The show is one of the most
promising recent finds on the Westralian
goldfields.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.M.: Australasian Paper and Melbourne
Steam ords. should turn out better; 100 of
each would about cut out your money
2-4-6: Sell first favorable market. Regular
divs. nowhere in sight P.M.8.: Sound
enough; write managers, 8-14 Bond-street, Syd-
ney, for explanatory booklet and record to
date... .W.A.: In Sydney, brokerage is paid by
seller only of listed industrials; by both parties
in respect of unlisted and mining stocks....
W.C.L.: (.1) Cuthberts 300,000, Loloma 825,000,
Emperor 1,640,000, Mt. Kasi 396,008. (2) Big
Bell is owned by Premier Gold 29 p.c., Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining Corp. 51 p.c., Terra
Nova Properties 15 p.c. and Mining Trust 5
P-c A.F.: Co. appears to be going right
way about things, but estimates as to the ulti-
mate returns are at this stage pure guesswork.
Early plantings will not reach maturity till
about three years; hence no move has yet
been made as regards realisation R.D.M.:
(1) No recent information on Australasian
Forestry Bondholders’ Trust Co. (2) Pacific
Forests, Ltd., is a well-conducted co. of its
type, but dividends seem a good way off yet.
Some idea of the possibilities of Pinus insignis
for wood-pulp purposes should be gathered
when the Whakatane mills in the same district
get going. (3) Think oil co. has fizzled out.
Policyholder: Regular bonuses are a long
way off.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets. Sydney
ft W
Swifiiiil
. ■
iiiiii
m n
iiiiif
11
&
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
ONE ;
COMPANY?
£JX
£
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the “spread” over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry” session each Wednesday night at 9.30 jrom ZVE.
SMOKE-OH!
“Snakeskin ties are now being worn.”
The latest invention is a device which
automatically unloops a red-bellied
black tie when the bibulous wearer is
approaching the “horrors” stage.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A doctor says a holiday should be a com-
plete relaxation from the hurry of the work-
aday life. Anything done should be slow and
deliberate.”
Apparently he’s never stopped at a
guest-house when hot scones have been
put on for afternoon-tea.
•j* *2#
“WONDAI CATTLE FOR N.S.W. FARMS
“First Since Amy Johnson.”
— “Courier-Mail” heading.
Which explains why N.S.W. cockies
are anxious to give this type of cattle a
fly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The prospective bride and the bridegroom
are both in the million.. class.”
—...w York cable.
So they can have a golden wedding
without waiting 50 years for it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Electricity suppliers and traders discussed
the State’s policy in regard to trading by public
bodies in electrical appliances. The assistant
g.m. of Sydney County Council suggested that
a Fair rading Committee should be estab-
lished.” — “Sun.”
Another shock for the consumer.
4 4 4 4
“Garbo to marry musical conductor Stokow-
ski, already divorced by two wives for extreme
cruelty.”— News item.
Greta may soon “want to be alone”
again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s play tells of men without wives.”
—Woman’s paper.
What a silent film it would make!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The first member for Hartley was elected
June 6, 1959.”— “5un.”
All Australian politicians’ salaries
should begin on that date to commemo-
rate the historic event.
4* 4* 4* 4
The “Labor Daily” hopes for a swing
to Labor and a right Hooke to Lang at
Auburn on N.S.W. election day.
4 4 4 4
“New French marriage law ordains that
women need not now promise to obey.”
Which means that Pop will still do as
he’s told as heretofore.
4* 4* 4 4*
“Three-birth caravan for hire.” — Advt.
Trip-Lets.
“He went up to his room, washed and
brushed his suit.” — Short story.
Dry cleaned?
T T T T
Hollywooden Habits.
“Stuart Erwin learned to be ambidextrous by
milking a cow with two hands.”
— “World’s News.”
Feats and freakishness such as this
have influenced the future of many in
the film colony.
Clark Gable, for instance, first won
fame in a he-man role faf from the whirr
of cameras. Determined to prove that
the biggest jungle beast could be taken
alive without the use of the many com-
plicated snares such as Frank Buck and
other big-game hunters used, he went to
“Okay, boss—shell be ready early this arvo!"
Africa and without fuss captured an
elephant with a trunk.
Oliver Hardy might never have got his
opportunity to team up with Stan Laurel
had not a talent-scout seen his agonised
facial contortions after he had kicked a
studio cat with an ingrowing toenail.
Few are aware that it was Bing
Crosby’s willingness to croon a song over
and over again before a director without
resentment that gave him his first big
chance.
It is said that the plot for one of Holly-
wood’s greatest box-office successes was
conceived by a script-writer on coming
to after an argument during which he
became nasty and made a swing at a pug
with a terrific left hook.
The late Sol Snaggleshank, famous
lion-tamer who doubled for many stars
in circus sequences, performed his last
act after a bender. He went into
the cage to train a lion with a bad
temper.
80.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Chairs thrown at politcal meeting.”
—News item.
You couldn’t call them “safe” seats!
4* 'i* 4* 4*
“Raw milk is milk which has not been sub-
jected to any process or treatment, other than
cleansing and cooling, and contains not more
than 500,000 micro-organisms per cubic centi-
metre, and no bacillus coli in one-hundredth
part of a cubic centimetre.” — “Herald.”
Now there’s no excuse for any house-
holder having any other kind foisted on
him!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lions recently appeared on a golf course
in East Africa.”
One golfer, in the hope of gaining im-
munity by camouflage, is even going to
wear a pullover that his wife knitted
him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
IX. — The First Fleet.
When Cap’n Cook arrived back in
England he was hailed as a national hero
and, with Banks and Solander, became
an immediate success in Mayfair. The
irrepressible Hawksworth describes Joe
and Dan as “Social butterflies, flitting
from hag to hag.” But the navigator
was more concerned with his discoveries
than soaking up weak tea while
dowagers gushed, and, anyway, he was
always nervous about sitting on the ex-
treme edge of drawing-room sofas.
George 111., however, couldn’t be
bothered, he said, with the new isthmus
—or was it an archipelago?—that had
just been discovered in the Eastern Hemi-
sphere or somewhere. He had enough
worries of his own, what with having 15
kids, and you know how hard they are
on boots and pants, and his missus “ex-
pecting” again, she having a horror of
odd numbers, and him only on the bare
£300,000 p.a. Then there were those
demned American colonists with their
Boston tea party, and why couldn’t they
drink port like English gentlemen?
So it was that there was no immediate
move to make use of Australia. How-
ever, there was no need to worry, as the
term “have-not nations” hadn’t yet been
coined, and, in any case, as Lord North
said, “The place won’t go bad while some-
body’s making up our minds about it.”
It was therefore not until the next
decade, when, elated at his own brilliant
success in ridding England of the incubus
m the New World, George 111. was de-
veloping the habit of fishing off the royal
lawns, that the question of the settlement
of the new possession arose. George
swore that if anybody could settle Aus-
tralia he could! Bill Pitt, Jr., the then
P.M., thinking of what happened to
America, fervently agreed and, soothingly
informing the king that he’d find bigger
sardines swimming under the elm trees
on the lower terrace, nicked off while his
luck was in and consulted Lord Sydney
about the project.
It was agreed that a convict settlement
be started at Botany Bay. Intensive
rabbit-breeding by the landed gentry had
resulted in the increase in convictions of
other “landed” gentry, and the hulks
were getting overcrowded. Lord Nitnous-
Wogglebosh sought to relieve the conges-
tion by demanding in the Lords the
death penalty for rabbit-pinchers, but the
humanitarian Bishop of Little Stoggle-
worth pleaded for, and succeeded in hav-
ing adopted, transportation for life
instead.
When the appointment of a leader foi
the expedition was considered, the name
of Captain Arthur Phillip came up.
Captain Phillip had recently fought
with the Porkanbeans navy, but after
some argument it was agreed not to let
this fact weigh against his many other
sterling qualities. Besides, he was at that
time (1786) back in England on half-pay,
and would doubtless be glad of the
extra few bob. The two politicians,
having fixed that, cut cards to see
whom the settlement would be
named after, and the Home Secre-
tary won.
The chosen leader at once threw
himself wholeheartedly into the
task of organising the fleet, but
progress was deadly slow owing to
the multiplicity of Government de-
partments he had to deal with and
the voluminous corre-
spondence he was com-
pelled to enter into.
For instance, three
months were lost over
a minor matter relating
to H.IvLS. Sirius. Phillip
had mentioned in his
requisition of stores
that the flagship was
“of 520 tons burthen.”
The Acting Temporary
Assistant Under-Comp-
troller of Naval Sup-
plies questioned the
word “burthen,” con-
tending that it should
have been “burden,”
and that it should
appear in front of, and
not after, the stated
tonnage.
The opinions of
various Governmental
authorities —most of which conflicted —
were obtained, and after 10 weeks, just
when a solution of the problem appeared
imminent, the official files of papers deal-
ing with this important question were
lost when, being taken out for Phillip’s
perusal on the Sirius lying off Spithead,
the lighter carrying them sank under the
tremendous weight of paper and red-tape.
By the time copies were obtained three
more weeks elapsed ; finally Boswell was
appealed to, and he upheld Phillip’s word
as being philologically the purer.
No detail was too small nor any idea
put up to him too fantastic to escape
Phillip’s close attention. The Supply even
carried as ballast 32 tons of topdressing
for grindstones. Among other items he
included hundreds of lion traps, snow-
shoes and spare nose-rings and special
left-handed spears as gifts for the abos.
S. W. K.
“Whoops!”
“Perched high on the front seat of a Daimler
at the company’s works, the King, as the car
moved off, exclaimed : ‘Whoops! We’re off!' ”
— “Sun.”
I’ve never heard a king say “Whoops!”
So I shall haste and pack my grip
And hie to England on a ship.
I’ve heard the bleat of Civic Groups
By waist-nude workmen sore afflicted,
And the more tuneful brands of soups
To which my ma-in-law’s addicted;
I’ve heard the crooner’s boop-a-doops.
I fear the papers pull my leg,
Yet Londonwards I’ll hie, and beg
“Pray let me hear a king say 'Whoops !’ ”
STOO.
Chest Complaint.
“Mosman (Sydney) Women’s Civic Group
has asked that council road-workers ‘discon-
tinue working with no covering on the upper
part of their bodies.’ ”
In Civic Groups the bather’s chest
Inspires an utter lack of zest,
And at the workman’s large, stark torso
They’re moved to shudder even more so.
Scaring ladies down the street,
And toiling in the dust and heat,
The workers whom they comment curt
on
May well retort “Well, keep your shirt
on!’’
STOO.


W'.
77
ww
w
A
*3&SS&
m&'s/AvFpr
m
r£
£/>£■ 't-y'/pfr^fa
<eM
*
w
/VV
VA
:Amm
w&
m
?;w.
mm
ME
■. '<' 1
2ara
?«fn
»Sn
*v<?
A^ r O--'Sr-
!*W
»W
5?^
I
fcr$?
a'
# v “f
AN
i
famZ
/.
/
4
■a
x$
S A «■**!
k!
£
*mv
A
m
■ Si
<*te
<?*
i
&
*
v v
3
?3Wtfjs®ai
K*r
m*
AH
V
3=r.;j
W?
IP
8M/
>4»
5
Wit
tr
m
TNViftn
TfnV V5*-'
PEOPLE I
( UNDER GOOD C
1930-1932
Unemployment & J)espair
In six years, the people of Ne
shoulder behind the hardest
constructive Government the
a truly remarkable economic
happier or more prosperou
Experience . . . Plain Facts
Onward to still greater happ
Retain the Stevens Goverm
1932-193:
Steady Reeoeei
FOR PROSPERIT
detain the Steve
Authorised by H. W. I


DF
outh Wales, standing shoulder to
rising, most efficient, and most
ave ever elected, have achieved
overy. No place in the world is
tan New South Wales to-day.
. clearly point the road ahead.
;s and prosperity!
r
'fit
*
>
&
v
x
1
m
T\i
%
n?- .t. .
\
/
*
4^
*
•m
s»
n
&
/.
<J
i
&
&K
V*
1%)
Rt
V
*s
3*
o
*
N-
%
x
*\
a
x
>*
1935-1938
ns Government
30 Ash Street, Sydney
U.A.P.5.D.5.


••UNCABLED ADDITIONS••
The Fall of Eden.
(J. L. GARVIN, IN LONDON ‘“OBSERVER.”)
[ln cable accounts Mr. Chamberlain was represented
as a lone wolf, imposing his will against general opinion.
One cable: “Mr. Chamberlain’s action is regarded in
many respects as parallel with Herr Hitler’s. Mr. Cham-
berlain has established himself at least as a temporary
‘dictator.’ ” Here is the pith of a long article by an
outstanding thinker and writer on British and world
politics.]
The final balance of decision in the Cabinet was
20 to 1. Is it presumable that the weight of wisdom
and judgment was on the side of the one and not of
the 20? Could this be reasonably presumed in a
historic crisis of foreign affairs? If so, what becomes
of the democratic theory of the Cabinet as against
one-man systems?
The essential issues involve the whole complex
of world-policy and all the realities of the choice
between peace and war.
The Prime Minister’s action was determined by
the courage and straight resolution that stamp his
character. His action has been prompted not by fear,
but by hope. It is to that temper that the country
will rally. The nation knows that it has a man at
its head.
Mr. Eden himself has admitted that the only
ground whereon peace can be assured is that of prac-
tical compromise between the democracies and the
dictatorships. When relations between great Powers,
and, above all, between rival groups of great Powers,
are acutely strained, and not only that but the tension
of danger is increasing and extending every day—
when in such a case was there any alternative but
negotiation or war?
On the eve of Herr Hitler’s dictate to Austria
Signor Mussolini expressed his wish that the British
Government should enter into thorough discussion of
all matters in dispute and all possibilities of adjust-
ment. He did not attempt to tie the hands of our
Government or to extract any preliminary stipulation.
The Cabinet were no more constrained than before
to accept any proposal. They were as free as before
to raise any point or to decline any article. What
better conditions could we have suggested ourselves
had we taken the initiative?
If Signor Mussolini pointed to the growing hazard
of the general situation ; if, in view of the Austrian
crisis and all its implications, he expressed the convic-
tion that remaining opportunities for perhaps saving
discussion might be the last —if he said this, and said
it with some urgency, his usual emphasis stressed in
this case the notorious truth of European and other
facts. Only a rooted hostility of mind on this side
could regard his representations at such a moment as
partly a threat to the British Government and partly
a confession of weakness.
In circumstances so momentous and fateful, a stiff
rebuff to the request of a great Power would have
been unprecedented. It would have been a grave and
gratuitous disservice to every chance of better feeling
and every interest of peace. The self-righteous flout
would have been regarded by the Italy of to-day as
a supercilious insult. It would have made Anglo-
Italian relations hopeless.
The Prime Minister and the entire Cabinet but
one decided that the rebuff was unthinkable. How
could they have decided otherwise? From the date of
his accession to office and his closer inquiries into an
unexampled and worsening situation in foreign affairs
the Prime Minister was determined upon exhausting
every effort to reach a settlement with Italy, and to
restore, if possible, the old friendship, so long un-
shaken and invaluable to both countries.
This was known and accepted by all his col-
leagues, including the late Foreign Secretary. Mr.
Chamberlain meant from the first to introduce into
the conduct of foreign affairs a more clear-headed
and practical temper ; more realistic in method but
as high in aim ; less challenging in accent but far from
less strong in essence. Any Minister who objected at
very heart to this characteristic and inherited spirit—
a saving spirit, as we think it —ought to have resigned
months ago.
Were we to turn an offer of parley into a cause
for more inflamed recrimination? Would that not
have been the diplomatic equivalent of firing upon a
flag of truce? Were we to say that we must set
examination-papers to candidates among great Powers
for admission to British friendship?
This sort of reason for delay could not mean
peace but explosion. In the present state of the world
the principle would destroy all diplomatic intercourse
between the democracies and the dictatorships and
would leave them no alternative whatever but war.
The Prime Minister has made an end of this
furious nonsense. The more his action is understood
the more it will prevail over all abuse and misrepre-
sentation, and the more he will be backed by the solid
weight of a country which he has delivered from
vaporing and led back to the historic tradition of its
saving commonsense.
Whatever else happens, the Prime Minister’s
hands will be strengthened by his present effort. We
believe that Mr. Neville Chamberlain, like no other
man living, stands now between the world and war ;
and that if these issues are forced by the Oppositions
or by events to a general election next autumn or
after, he will be upheld by an overwhelming majority
of the people in the gravest vote they ever gave.
Germany Economises.
(“TIMES,” LONDON, “TRADE AND ENGINEERING.”)
The sacrifices which the German people are being
called upon to make in the cause of economic inde-
pendence increase in number and variety.
Ingenuity of technicians and chemists is being
applied to squeezing the pips and skins of grapes for
oil; to replacing metal tubes for toothpaste by tubes
made ot a composition of rayon, varnish and cellu-
loid ; to crowning teeth with artificial resin instead of
porcelain and to converting fish-albumen into syn-
thetic wool.
Butter and edible fats have been more severely
rationed ; meat, especially pork, is growing scarcer ;
and bread is deteriorating in quality. Two national
institutions —beer and sausage—are being assailed. The
former is threatened with a reduction in quality,
while the sausage, proverbially wrapped in mystery,
is now being encased in something having the appear-
ance of artificial silk, and may consist largely of fish.
Durable clothing is a rarity, as a result of the
compulsory admixture of substitutes derived mainly
from wood, and men’s shirts, already sadly shortened
in life, have now to be attenuated by two inches in
the tail. It is reported that a man watching tree-felling
operations recently was cheered by the thought that
suits might consequently be cheaper.
The apparently trivial nature of some of the
restrictions on the use of food and raw materials is
striking testimony to the importance attached by the
authorities to every possible economy in import trade.
Woolwich Arsenal Espionage.
[Pleading guilty to charges under the Official Secrets
Act, Percy Glading, formerly employed at Woolwich
Arsenal, Albert Williams, an armaments examiner
at Woolwich, and George Whomack, assistant foreman
in the Woolwich Naval Ordnance Department, were on
March 14 at the Old Bailey sentenced to six years’ penal
servitude, four years’ and three years’ respectively.
Charges included obtaining the plan of a naval gun,
obtaining part of an anti-tank mine pistol, plans of an
anti-submarine bomb fuse and information from a book
on explosives. Chief instrument in bringing about the
arrests was a Miss X, in the service of the War Office
Intelligence Department. She got employed by Glading,
and took a flat, where the plans were photographed.
Most significant details, in addition to those cabled, are
revealed in London “Evening News” reports of the Bow-
street trial.]
Prosecuting counsel said that Glading persuaded
the others to bring from the Arsenal documents of
a confidential and secret nature in order that he, with
most elaborate apparatus which he had prepared,
might take copies of them by means of photographs.
There was evidence of contact with a foreign Power.
As long ago as 1931 Miss X was approached by
the Intelligence Department of the War Office, in order
that she might keep casual observations upon certain
persons and movements which that department con-
sidered merited every attention. In fact, she joined
a body called the Friends of the Soviet Union, intend-
ing from the very beginning to act under the instruc-
tions of and in contact with the Intelligence Depart-
ment of the War Office.
In the next year she became a typist in connec-
tion with a concern called the Anti-War Movement,
which had its office in Gray’s Inn-road, where another
organisation also had an office. Glading, an official
of that body, interviewed Miss X in 1934. She was
entrusted to travel abroad, taking with her certain
moneys to hand over to certain persons —not in
Europe.
In February, 1937, she was approached by Glad-
ing, and asked if she would be prepared to be the
nominal person renting a flat.
Later a man was brought to the flat and intro-
duced as “Mr. Peters.” Glading referred to him as
an Austrian officer who had served in the Russian
cavalry. Some time after a man and woman were
brought to the flat and introduced as Mr. and Mrs.
Stephens. They were obviously foreigners.
The plans were brought to the flat and photo-
graphed. One plan had been identified as that of a
14-inch naval gun of the newest type. It was a secret
and confidential matter, and the secrecy of other things
involved was of the greatest importance.
Miss X kept in constant touch with the War Office
Intelligence, the suspected persons were watched and
were carrying blue prints of the plans when arrested.
After their arrest a search was made at Glading’s
address. The police found two cameras, a piece of
paper containing part of an anti-tank pistol and four
spools of films on which the whole of a book on
explosives had been copied.
Most important of all the finds were five photo-
graphic plates and a number of memoranda relating
to the design of aircraft. The Army, the Navy
and the Air Force and their munitions were all the
subject of interested inquiry by Glading.
In her evidence, in which she detailed the photo-
graphing of the plans, Miss X stated that in 1931
she agreed to come to London and act under the in-
structions of the Intelligence Department of the War
Office. She began to do certain voluntary work tot
a body called Friends of the Soviet Union.
In 1934 she came across Glading, who was em-
ployed by an organisation in the same building. In
May, 1934, she undertook what was called a special
mission abroad. Glading was one of the people who
interviewed her with relation to the mission, and he
met her in Paris.
After she had taken the flat for Glading the first
person who came there with Glading was a Mr. Peters.
He spoke broken English, and although she did not
know his nationality at the time she knew he was a
foreigner of some sort. In subsequent conversation
Glading told her that Peters was an Austrian who
had fought for Russia in the war.
She said Mr. and Mrs. Stephens were not British.
Glading told her that Mr. and Mrs. Stephens were
going home because their daughter was ill. On another
occasion he had told her that their home was in
Moscow.
War Office Intelligence detectives who worked in
with Miss X gave evidence of day-by-day watching
and following of the accused.
At the Old Bailey trial Chief Inspector Thomp-
son, of Scotland Yard, said that Glading in October,
1929, went to Russia and attended a course at the
Lenin Communist School until April, 1930. Since
then he had been engaged in political activities on
behalf of the British Communist party and subsidiary
organisations.
Mr. Justice Hawke said Miss X had done a great
service to her country and must be possessed of extra-
ordinary courage.
Case for National Service.
(SIR EDWARD GRIGG, M.P., IN LONDON “OBSERVER.”)
[Side by side with insistence that we should now be
fighting for Red Spain and Red China and an Austria
that doesn’t want our “help” and a Czechoslovakia that
looks to Moscow stands the fact that even our home
defences are ridiculously inadequate. With such a
nursery array arrogance from our paid newspaper,
professorial and other windbags is a Gilbertian joke,
but that doesn’t lessen their belligerence. Mr. Lyons
holds out against reintroducing the training Mr. Scullin
stopped—votes are involved —but Tasmanian Premier
Ogilvie has come out for it and convinced Labor in the
Speck that it must come. Graziers’ Association and
Chamber of Commerce conferences have passed similar
resolutions.]
Democracies have perished again and again for
the same reason —that the character or capacity of the
people fell below the level which the successful prac-
tice of democracy demands. History has repeated
itself thrice in that respect before our living eyes. It
is idle to suppose that democracy can be preserved by-
mere enthusiasm about its blessings. It must main-
tain that discipline of mind in leaders and people
which alone prevents human beings and societies from
burking unpleasant realities.
Britain enjoys the distinction of being the only
free nation in Europe which demands no form of
national service from its young men before they obtain
and use the'franchise. Hungary and Bulgaria are, it
is true, in the same case —not, however, because they
desire it, but because they are still bound by the mili-
tary clauses of the Treaties of Peace. Germany flung
the restriction to the winds when Hitler came into
power; Turkey had already done so years before ;
Austria has followed suit; Hungary and Bulgaria
murmur and await their chance.
Many people in this country still seem to think
that conscription, as they call it, is a mark of aggres-
sive militarism, natural to dictatorships, but incon-
sistent with the democratic faith. In democratic
France the period of military service is now two years,
and conscripts, if needed, are bound to three years’
immediate further service after that. The duty of
military service is universal and compulsory in all the
remaining democracies —Scandinavia, Denmark, Hol-
land, Belgium, Switzerland, the Republic of San
Marino and the smaller Baltic States. The only States
which do not impose it are Luxemburg, the Vatican
City, Liechtenstein and Monaco.
Let us then dismiss the idea that compulsory
military service is inconsistent with freedom and the
love of peace. There is not a pacifically minded
country in Europe where the adoption of universal
military service by us would not be hailed as a
heartening reinforcement of peace.
The strength thus given to the State is not a
preparation for war, though—as Belgium showed in
1914 —the greatest Powers cannot with impunity
ignore it. Far greater than any. military worth is
the recognition that in democracies no less than dic-
tatorships some duty and service are due from youth
to the State. Without some practical acceptance of
that principle we shall not deserve to long enjoy our
present power and peace.
It cannot lie beyond us to forge such a bond
between our commonwealth and our youth without
militarising them both. Th 6 form is not of primary
importance, and there is no need to make a universal
duty of military service without regard to individual
faith and feeling. Apply it as you will, it is the prin-
ciple that counts. The ultimate test of every system
of democratic government is the relation which it
teaches between the individual and the commonwealth.
Therein lies the case for the institution in all
democracies of some period of national service. The
THESE PAGES
Foreign affairs cables have become notorious.
Much of the stuff thus published—drawn from
sensational, biased or untrustworthy sources—has
been bowled out time after time.
The Italian-German plot to openly invade Spain
during Coronation Week, the Italian plot to sink
the British Navy, Franco’s Spaniards’ schemes to
take Gibraltar are only a few examples of a shocking
record of misreporting. By this means feeling has
been whipped up to the point of hatred against
countries with which it is our interest and the
interest of the whole British Empire to be friends.
Hence this new BULLETIN feature. A con-
densing of articles, reports and responsible state-
ments in overseas papers and brought to Australia
by air-mail, these pages will give to BULLETIN
readers more complete accounts than appear in
cables of matters of real importance, as well as
expressed points of view and aspects of affairs which
do not, for one reason and another, appear in
cables at all.
In this first instalment the arresting article by
,J. L. Garvin, giving a very different interpretation
of Mr. Eden’s fall and Mr. Chamberlain’s stand for
peace; the text of Mr. Chamberlain’s attitude to the
League of Nations; what Herr Hitler really said
about colonies, and details of the Woolwich Arsenal
case—these should, help thoughtful readers to reach
a clearer idea of foreign affairs.
These compressions from week to week will also
include digests of authoritative overseas views on
topics of general or special interest to Australians.


m
£
£
&
TRAVELLERS
-
: m
»**
&
<»*•
Hl*
o vt
S* e
|H>
Bf\
■c**
>■
M
\# a
Ai»SS
#«»■
CS®
vti°
0»*
p.®;
HO®
t o'l'
CHEQUES
WHEN you go abroad, carry your money in a safe, convenient
form by using Bank of Australasia Travellers’ Cheques.
These may be purchased through any of the numerous Branches
of the Bank throughout Australia and New Zealand, and are
readily negotiable wherever you go. Issued in amounts of £2,
£5 and £lO.
Travellers’ Cheques in Italian Tourist Lire are also available
at The Bank of Australasia at special concession rates to travellers
visiting Italy or Italian possessions.
Bank of
Australasia
•The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted
(The liability of the members is limited.)
WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING t°h f e ROAD"
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*'
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
other European democracies are ahead of us without
exception in associating duty with freedom, service
with privilege ; and we are, at last, beginning to ask
ourselves whether we or they are the truer idealists.
After Teruel.
[General Franco’s offensive towards the Mediter-
ranean last week, with the taking of a huge slice of
territory and many towns and villages, “long files of
infantry and cavalry pouring across the countryside,”
c hapter” forecast in this London “Times”
(24/2/ 38) account of the fall of Teruel. Though
Sydney Sun,” on the strength of a preposterous story
or 30,000 storm troops dispatched to Spain by
Germany,’ represented the latest offensive as “Hitler
and Mussolini strike again,” no mention is made of any
other than Spanish forces in the Teruel victory. When
the Red side took Teruel a Sydney “Sun” man
drivelled over the air that that was the turning-point
of the war m Spain.]
The battle for Teruel is over, and with it another
stage in the civil war. It is unlikely that the National-
ists will again give their opponents time to rest and
recuperate, and a new chapter must begin soon.
Early in the day two Republican deputations
approached the Nationalist lines round Teruel at
different points to treat for terms of surrender. In
each case the Nationalist commanders replied that,
in the absence of instructions from the Supreme Com-
mand, they could not discuss conditions. The Repub-
licans might choose between two possible courses:
fighting and unconditional surrender.
Soon after the return of the deputations to their
own lines, white flags began to appear over the ruins
of Teruel. At 8 o’clock the Nationalists advanced
into the city, cautiously at first, though it was soon
evident that the Republicans were acting in good
faith.
By 10 o’clock the attacking force, composed of
Galicians, Navarrese and Falangist volunteers from
Castile and Leon, was in full possession. Nationalist
flags were hoisted on the main public buildings, and
later in the day a “Te Deum” was sung in the
cathedral.
German Colonies Demand. '
(HERR HITLER, REPORTED IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL.”)
[Significant in view of the happenings in Austria.
This part of the speech to the Reichstag, important as
it was to Australians and Maorilanders, was only
sketchily given in the cables.]
“The industrial situation is difficult because here
in this country there are 140 persons to a square
kilometre. There is a lack of fertile soil and no great
mineral resources. If Great Britain were dissolved
to-day and England had to rely on her own living
space, then she would have understanding of the
difficulties of our task.
“The increase of German production cannot do
away with the lack of living space, and the demand
for colonies will ring louder and louder from year
to year. Germany has never taken away colonies
from anybody. They are worthless to others but indis-
pensable for us. Nobody shall believe that our rights
to colonies can be purchased from us by credits. We
do not want credits, but a foundation to live which
enables us to secure national existence by our own
industriousness. Above all, we do not wish for naive
assurances that we shall be permitted to buy what
we need.
“You all know to what extent Geneva has failed.
It is not an institution for defending rights, but an
institution for the maintenance of the status quo. We
now hear that this is to be altered. We hear that the
English would like to return the colonies to us but
for the injustice which the return would cause to the
natives. If the noble principle that a colony should
only belong to someone provided the natives gave
their specific consent were to be extended to colonial
conquests of the past, then the colonial possessions
of our world Powers might possibly shrivel up remark-
ably.
“All those colonial empires have not come into
being through plebiscites, especially not through demo-
cratic plebiscites of the people living in them, but
through naked and brutal force.
“Germany has no differences with England apart
from her colonial wishes. However, there is no cause
for any conceivable conflict.”
Bombing Non-combatants.
(“SCRUTATOR,” IN LONDON “SUNDAY TIMES'.”)
- The distinction between combatants and non-
combatants is well founded in law, and corresponds
with the natural instincts of decent men. But it goes
back to the ages of chivalry, when combatants were
the retainers of a king or a Government fighting battles
in which the mass of the people were either not
interested or had only the opera-box interest. The
age of chivalry in war is past. Wars are the clash
of the wills of whole nations.
The wickedness is not in the weapons of war but
in going to war at all. If war is justified, those
weapons are also justified which surely abridge its
tale of suffering and bring it soonest to an end.
Base the argument for this prohibition of bomb-
ing on sentiment, and the stronger and vicious senti-
ment of war will break all prohibitions and all pro-
mises the moment the breach offers a better chance
of victory.
Base the argument for prohibition on the assump-
tion that Fascist States have an extra dose of original
sin and democratic countries a superior endowment
of humanity, and you take the surest way to defeat
any chance of prohibition by agreement. The one
imputation that is sure to alienate any nation is that
its political ideas and actions place it on a lower plane
of morality than its rivals.
The decisive argument for prohibition is that, as
between nations prepared to defend themselves and
to organise against panic, bombing civilians from the
air is sheer waste effort and a mere deduction from
the chances of victory by the more rational employ-
ment of air power. Only in so far as a nation is
either too weak or too poor-spirited to equip itself
with the means of defence or to organise nerves
against panic is the attack on civilians a decisive
operation of war.
At least four great Powers, and they are all
neighbors, have a common interest in stopping this
form of warfare—Great Britain, because London is
the largest target and because the aeroplane is a
dangerous enemy to the security of our communi-
cations at sea ; France, because, in modern conditions
of war, defence on the ground has gained such an
advantage that her chief risk of invasion is now from
the air ; Italy, because the beauty of her towns is one
of her great and irreplaceable assets, and they are all
within easy reach of attack by air from the sea ; and
Germany, because she is exposed to attack on two
fronts.
So strong is this common interest that but for
Russia, which is less vulnerable, they would probably
have reached a common agreement by now. That
Germany, France and Italy would agree with us to
ban the bombing of civilians, if it rested with them-
selves alone, there is good reason to believe. If Russia
and Japan were willing to join the agreement, no
difficulty would arise; but, apart from that, why
should not the Powers who see their interests clearly
draw a line across Europe—it might include the whole
of the Mediterranean Sea and its adjacent coasts —
and agree that, whatever might happen east of that
line, west of it there should be no bombing of
civilians? If they would also agree to make common
cause with any signatories of the agreement who might
suffer in this way east of the line, so much the better.
Given the will, it is not an insoluble problem.
“The Cornerstone of Empire.”
[Mr. Lyons’s reiterated statement that there has been
no change in British foreign policy notwithstanding, this
is what Mr. Chamberlain said about the League of
Nations and “collective security,” as reported in London
“Daily Mail.”]
“Does anybody here believe that the League of
Nations, as it is constituted to-day, can offer collec-
tive security? The situation has completely changed
since the last election. Then I believed myself that
it was perfectly possible for the League to carry out
collective security.
“We must not try to delude ourselves. We must
not try to delude small and weak nations into thinking
that they will be protected by the League against
aggression when we know that nothing of the kind
can be expected.
“The party opposite seem to me to be the worst
kind of diehards. They keep on repeating cliches and
phrases and tags which once may have had some
significance, but which have none to-day.
“You cannot expect a motor-car to win a race if
half the cylinders are out of action. You cannot
expect a League constituted originally to perform
certain functions, on the assumption that, if it did
not embrace all the nations, at least it embraced prac-
tically all the powerful nations of the world, to per-
form the functions which correspond to thfit state of
affairs, if nearly all the great Powers have left it —
if there are only two great Powers left.
“To-day you will not find anywhere in the League
any conviction that collective security can be provided
by the League.
“I still have faith that the League may be recon-
stituted. I still believe that there is important and
valuable work for the League to do. I doubt very
much whether it will ever do its best work so long
as it is nominally bound, or it is principally nominally
bound, to impose sanctions or to use force.
“I would not tear up a single article in the Cove-
nant, not even Article Sixteen [dealing with sanctions],
in the hope that some day the League might be recon-
stituted in such a form that it might be really able
to use those powers and functions which were origi-
nally given. I would have it clearly understood to-
day that the League cannot use them, cannot be
expected to use them, and that nations which remain
in the League must not be saddled with the liability
or risk which they are not prepared to undertake, or
that other nations should expect that the League would
supply that security.
“I believe that if the League will throw off the
shams —throw off the pretences which everyone sees
through and come out with a declaration of what it is
prepared to do, and use moral force as a focus of
public opinion throughout the world, it would multiply
itself as a real thing, and perhaps draw to itself again
some of those who have lost faith in it in the past.”


FLOORS BEAUTIFUL!
HUDSON'S ARTISTIC PARQUETRY FLOORS
m
I
.
mH
■
m
m
E
a
i
■
II
m
m
m
■
■1
.
■
mm
mm
■
■mm
mSSSSm
m
M
#1
H
They are practically everlasting and very easy to keep clean.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors have well earned their reputation
for utility and lasting economy.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY., LIMITED,
Glebe.
Many artistic panels on view at our Showrooms, 7 Castlereagh Street,
near Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W1451, MW2771, MW2781, MW2791 (3 lines each).
Ord. Shares Over Twelve Months.
* Ex
1938.
rights.
Yarra Falls at 365. 9d.
The return offering last week on
this front-rank textile stock was
£5 12s. per cent, at 365. 9d., cum
Is. div. payable on April 14, which
represents the lowest quote for
some years. The interim div. is
maintained at 10 p.c. p.a., and pros-
pects are promising.
Patents.
IMPROVED PROCESS AND APPARATUS
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF COLLOID
MIXTURES COMPRISING METALS AND
NON-ALLOYABLE ADDITIVE
MATERIALS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
17289/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
TREADING TYRE CASINGS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
13152/33 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney,
Business, Rollery, Etc.
.War and Shares
Again people are asking what would
happen to Australian investments if the
British Empire became involved in war.
The first time since the Great War that
they asked themselves this question seri-
ously was back in October, 1935, when
the Abyssinian affair began. There have
been two or three other notable occa-
sions since, particularly last week, when
the daily press seemed determined to
keep the European fires burning in the
absence of another Rodney disaster on
Sydney Harbor or a further “clue” to
the identity of the Albury murder victim.
The big dangers threatening invest-
ments in a war-involved country are dis-
location of trade and inflation. One
attacks trade and trading concerns, the
other currency, Consols, mortgages, bank
deposits and shares and financial con-
cerns. The first-mentioned threat is prob-
ably the less dangerous, assuming that
the Empire emerged “victorious” from a
conflict. War often brings abnormally
high industrial and trade activity, and,
however undesirable this may be in the
long run, it certainly favors equities (or
shares) in land, commodities and trade
rather than fixed-interest securities, credits
or paper-currency.
The big danger, then, is war-time in-
flation. Inflation, direct or indirect,
means higher prices for properties or
commodities, and, through these items,
higher prices for most industrial ordinary
shares.
Gold bullion could perhaps be bought
now for £8 15s. a fine ounce. It would
give no interest return, and in any case
might be “mobilised” by the Govern-
ment in an emergency just at the moment
it was beginning to perform its function
of protecting the investor’s capital. When
a country’s credit becomes bad and it
is beginning to draw on private gold
reserves is the time that inflation is well
on its way.
Governments, the custodians of most
paper-currencies, are charged with the
conduct and finance of wars. War being
a wasteful, unproductive thing, they can
borrow only at increasing interest rates,
as a rule, as war-waste goes on to make
a bigger hole in national credit. Of
course, Governments, especially in a
supreme crisis, may vest themselves with
great emergency powers, and before in-
flation went too far there would un-
doubtedly be special calls on every class
of property-owner, whether in the form
of taxation or levy. Nevertheless, be-
cause private enterprise and industry rep-
resent the backbone of economic wel-
fare, interference cannot be pushed too
far. Enterprise must be encouraged all
the time. Hence a belief here that sound
ordinary shares represent the best kind
of investment in the problematical event
of the Empire being swept into a war.
It is Worth recalling that during the
Great War Australian manufacturing in-
dustries found an unprecedented oppor-
tunity for establishing themselves. De-
spite this, share-prices, because of the
war-time complex, and perhaps because
of heavy war-loan operations at high in-
terest rates, were then comparatively weak.
People who held, however, reaped a full
reward in later years. Shipping cos. did
particularly well. Though the melon-cut-
ting was overdone in some cases and
altogether ill-advised in others, it is a
fact that the years 1919-21 produced
more bonus issues than any other period
in our financial history.
Still, here’s hoping and praying that
the ghastly waste of war doesn’t force
itself on us again.
Followers of the sharemarket were
running round in circles last Thursday.
A day or two earlier hard-boiled and
other kinds of punters thought war was
on the menu because of developments in
Austria and Spain, and metals were
pushed up sharply; then head-waiter
Chamberlain announced that, so far as
Britain was concerned, any war of inter-
ference was “off.” Metals flopped, and
Barrier stocks, which had risen strongly
on Wednesday, came back sharply. On
Thursday evening pessimism seemed to
prevail all round ; “no-war” probabilities
depressed Barriers, while war possibili-
ties knocked industrials down. Holders
of gold shares took a wide-eyed look
and a deep breath and tossed in the
sponge ; the heaviest proportional crashes
in the sharemarket were recorded among
gold stocks.
Lancefield (W.A.), shareholders in
which recently had their hopes revived
by the discovery of good values in the
lower levels after a disturbed zone had
been passed through, sold at 6s. 4d., then
ss. Id., in Adelaide on Thursday. Over
7s. had been paid. On Friday 6s. 9d.
went up again. Loloma (Fiji) shares
slumped from around 245. to 20s. 9d. in
Melbourne, Emperor receded Is., while
Mt. Morgan and Golden Plateau (Q.),
Cocks Eldorado and other Vic. shows,
as well as New Occidental and Welling-
ton Alluvials in N. S. Wales, all weak-
ened, though nearly all showed recovery
next day. Even North Kalgurli scrip
eased to 21s. 2d. in Adelaide. Oil Search
dropped to under 6s. Semi-official in-
formation concerning the outlook here
remains promising, but some punters are
weary of waiting.
Among Barrier stocks Souths fell
heaviest. Zinc Corp. ords. around 87s.
again looked excellent buying. Metals
showed a steadying in Friday’s cables,
and Barriers revived.
In industrials the marking down
on Thursday was general, though in
many cases only nominal in extent. As
a matter of fact the “ides of March” have
nearly always represented an upsetting
period on the Stock Exchanges ; last year
unusual buoyancy deferred this regular
setback until April, but in preceding
years mid-March was a depressed period.
This seasonal aberration is hard to ex-
plain, but just now there obviously are
added forces of uncertainty.
On Friday there was recovery in some
industrials (North Coast and Newcastle
Steam were both in demand), but mark-
ing-down was still evident in most others.
* * * *
The following looks a worth-while
selection for holding, with present in-
come satisfactory:
100 Yarra Falls @ 365. 9d. .. £lB3 15 0
100 North Coast Steam @ 375. .. 185 0 0
100 Australasian Paper @ 30s. 6d. 152 10 0
Total outlay .. .. .. £521 5 0
Less: Div., April 14, Yarra Falls 5 0 0
Net total cost .. .. .. £516 5 0
Yarra Falls is paying 10 p.c. p.a., the
others 8 p.c. Annual income would be
£26, and average yield on outlay just a
shade better than £5 per cent.
* * * *
Globe Worsted Mills, Sydney, has
turned itself into a proprietary co. under
the new Companies Act, and its accounts
aren’t filed. Of the 450,000 shares,
449,994 were held by Yarra Falls, Ltd.,
Melbourne, on Oct. 27 last. Directors
are R. C. Brewster, Norman Kater,
A. F. Manchee, A. C. Wilkinson and
Norman Robinson. The Globe mills
are very busy at the moment, and have
been for some time. At June 30 last
Yarra Falls valued its entire sharehold-
ings in other cos. at £446,069. These in-
clude an interest in Byfas Pty., formed
in 1937 to make silk and rayon piece-
goods. The,parent’s finances’are sound,
and the div. rate of 10 p.c. p.a. has been
maintained on the £1,000,000 of paid
capital. Average div. over the past 11
years has been a shade under 9 p.c.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank, comment-
ing on the Australian trading banks’
position, has remarked that the rise in
deposits has been somewhat less than
usual, partly because of the slow move-
ment in exports. This factor has checked
the seasonal rise in London funds, “and
has in some measure affected the liquidity
of banks, whose liquid position is, how-
ever, satisfactory.”
if * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., the pioneer
Sydney cash-order and furniture co., has
lifted its div. to \l\ p.c. for the year,
compared'with 15 p.c. in 1936. Last dis-
tribution of bonus scrip (one-for-four)
was in 1935. Net tangibles amount to
just over 40s. a share on book values.
At 555. the yield on the latest div. basis
is 6.6 p.c., allowing for the div. (25.)
payable on March 31.
General Industries, Ltd., amalgamating
Metters and K.F.B. Foundry, showed
profits of its subsidiaries £10,259 higher
at £141,126. The ord. div. has been
maintained at 12| p.c. and is well cov-
ered.
* * * *
Some people are attracted by the high
yields offering on various remote ord. and
pref. issues listed on capital-city Stock
Exchanges. They would do better, as a
rule, to stick to some of the better-known
stocks in more or less key industries that,
because of their type of business, are
bought to give a high yield also. For
some reason Holeproof Hosiery, Mel-
bourne, a very progressive and profitable
concern, can be bought into at about 275;
per ord. share for a yield of 7.4 p.c.
Hosiery manufacturers have their ups
and downs, but this one at the moment
is doing particularly well, and it has an
active market for its scrip. Meggitt,
Kandos Cement, General Industries,
Lustre Hosiery and Arthur Cocks are
other ord. issues, in the front rank of
their kind, that give a return of from
6 p.c. to 8 p.c. They are vastly more
interesting than, say, the Wun Leg Fur-
niture Co.’s 20,000 p.c. prefs., carry-
ing 3s. 6id. a share in div. arrears that
is expected soon to be paid off, selling at
21s. 6d. or something. It is possible for
market operators to play tricks with such
small issues.
* H* * *
The National Mutual Life has shown
an actuarial surplus of £3,631,835 for
the three years to Sept. 30 last. This
sum compares with £3,423,419 for the
triennium to Sept., 1934. Bonuses of
£3,362,423 have been declared on poli-
cies in respect of the latest period, an
increase of £309,349 compared with the
preceding triennium, though £215,410
below the record distribution for the
three years to 1931. Taking into account
the low-interest rates offering on gilt-
edged securities, as well as the difficult
times only recently left behind us, the
National Mutual’s results are healthy. If
all continues to go well with the Com-
monwealth during the next three years
something like a record surplus should
come to light, though meanwhile the
sums assured over which bonuses have to
be spread will have grown also. Life
assurance has never been so popular in
this country as at present. New policies
being taken out outstrip the growth in
population.
H* jH # %
In Melbourne last week:
Yellow Cabs, reviewed in B. 9/3/’3B,
figured among the active counters, the price
showing only a slight recession towards the
week-end.
Australian Paper Manufacturers’ prefs.
were steady at 265. 3d., returning about
£4 11s. per cent. This has become a very much-
favored issue.
Australasian Paper ords., already seemingly
unduly depressed, weren’t affected by the
market setback.


BRANDALER-S
P 5
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—.
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRA.NDi.CER * CO- Ltd- BIRMINGHiM, ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated, in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
THE
IIMITCn iNSURANCE
U 11 1 IC. U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
SPOTTING
MOTIONS
Under the Whip
Mohican, who has been backed for the
Doncaster, was a starter in the Windsor
Handicap at Hawkesbury. He was favor-
ite at evens, and, more intelligently
ridden, would have landed the money ;
Billy Cook’s display was below his form.
After allowing his mount to trail in
the rear, Cook dashed Mohican to the
lead when he could have waited on
Canegrass and Might Not. Then, turning
for home, Mohican ran wide ; had Cook
been patient he would have got a run
on the rails. As it was, Mohican settled
Might Not without difficulty, but the
weight (9st.) and the unnecessary exertion
caused him to wilt, and Wise Boy beat
him in the last stride. Many thought
the favorite had lasted just long enough
to win.
Harry Taylor, the Wellington pastoral-
ist and breeder, now has Soft Step, and
put a few pounds on him in the High-
weight. The son of Spearfelt had appar-
ently done a lot of work in the bush, but
because he hadn’t raced since July and
was known to have served about a dozen
mares, he was allowed to go out at 14
to 1. The Queenslander showed amaz-
ing pace in the early part of the race, and
McCarten had him in a winning position
at the turn. He battled on gamely and
outstayed Electron, who had hit the front
after strenuous efforts to get there;
Lucky Kid was third.
Soft Step won the Queensland Cup
in 1935, and was second in the Brisbane
Cup the following year with 9st. He
has 7st. 121 b. in the Sydney Cup. I. H.
Andrews gave 700 guineas for him, but
got rid of him to Taylor for less than
nalt that price.
Tf a to „ •„
have somethin a at thl finish of
the Svrlnev Tim with'fst Qih He ran
IwJffnmW. tSU,"
‘hST a
and Cool Joy after the latter had mlde
the pace solid from barrier-rise. Im-
provement was made favorite, but he was
anchored with Bst. 121 b„ though he had
the run of the race. Old Journal was
another disappointment, while Gay
Knight, who looked fit enough, would
not gallop at any stage, whipping in the
field. After Six’s price was 8 to 1.
Royal Ensign is another smart young
horse carrying the Beauford colors; he
was too speedy for 14 others in the
Juvenile. A gelded son of Royal Sun
and Reserved, he was bred by his owner,
W. H. Mackay, who was present to see
him score cleverly from The Nineteenth,
trained by Jim Pike, with Litigation, who
tried to pace it with the winner, a fair
third. Royal Ensign, who was backed
from sevens to 7 to 2, was admirably
ridden by Ted McMenamin.
A.J.C. committeeman Hunter White’s
Glen Esk has a victory over Valbeau on
his list. Three to one for the Park
Stakes, he was lucky to win; in a few
strides Edible would have scored com-
fortably. Morrence was third, ahead of
Rebel Chief, who was hampered when
Glen Esk lugged in commencing the final
furlong.
The Jilt failed in the Clarendon Handi-
cap because she was not allowed to make
her own running. Instead of being
lengths in front, her rider let Acinom,
hard ridden, join her at the “three.” The
Jilt has never been trustworthy when
challenged, and she would not stride out
when Acinom raced with her to the top
of the straight. Acinom beat Überous
by a length, with The Jilt third. Überous
is trained at Hawkesbury, but his rider
seemed all at sea on the track.
* * * *
Places in the Moonee Ponds Handicap
on Saturday were filled by Sydney Cup
candidates. Apollo (7-to-2, favorite) won
by half a length from Aitchengee, with
John Wilkes a neck farther off. At 11
to 2 Aitchengee and John Wilkes were
in half a point less demand than the
Australian Cup hero, Marauder, who
could finish only sixth in a field of 11.
Lady Mauve did not start.
Keith Voitre, back to his best form in
the saddle, rode a perfect race on
Apollo. Keeping within easy striking
distance of the pacemakers he slipped
through on the rails as they turned for
home. Meanwhile Aitchengee, from
being last at the half-mile, had put in a
staggering run on the outside.
Aitchengee actually headed Apollo at
the furlong post, but Apollo fought him
off. All things considered, John Wilkes
shaped splendidly, and might have won
if he had obtained a similar passage to
Apollo. The Baralong colt was pushed
out when The Pioneer dropped back
with two furlongs to go. John Wilkes
has raced only twice since the spring,
when he annexed the WRliamstown Cup.
He will be entitled to respect in any Syd-
ney engagement.
Charles Barden has Apollo in fine
fettle, and the Constant Son gelding
ought to be cherry-ripe by Easter Mon-
day, when the rich two-miler at Rand-
wick comes on for decision. A whole
black, Apollo is far more handsome than
was The Dimmer, with whom Barden
landed the Sydney Cup of 1931. How-
ever, The Dimmer, as a Perth Cup and
weight-for-age winner,, left Jarrahland on
his eastern pilgrimage with credentials
much superior to those of Apollo.
Frank Manning, who trains Aitchen-
gee, expressed doubt whether Aitchengee
would take on the Sydney trip. This
sounded strange, as every Moonee Valley
spectator was enthusing over what the
son of Curialis had accomplished. For
a time Aitchengee was outlawed from
metropolitan courses because of mis-
behavior at the post. His reform in that
regard is complete.
Marauder shaped disappointingly, but
he needs long stretches, and the frequent
turns at Moonee Valley wouldn’t suit a
galloper of that type. Wallace Mitchell
and his trainer, Bill Burke, still have
their eyes set on the Sydney Cup.
Ray \silson, like Keith Voitre, rode
two winners at the Valley. It caused
surprise when C. B. Kellow announced
during the afternoon that Harold Badger
had been engaged to pilot Nuffield in
juvenile races at Randwick. The esti-
mate placed by James Scobie on the skill
of Wilson as a jockey is such that, fear-
ing Ray might be wanted for Nuffield in
weight-for-age contests next season, he
retained that boy for Hua’s outings to
the close of his four-year-old career.
Wilson and Voitre shared honors in
the Maiden Two-year-old Handicap, Wil-
son capturing the first division on Swifan
(Perinthus-Swift) and Voitre taking the
next on Doriscus (Thracian-Amarelle).
These youngsters were bred by A. T.
Creswick, who sold Swifan but retained
Doriscus for his own racing purposes.
Starting at 12 to 1, Swifan vanquished
the 11-to-8 favorite, Atticus, by less than
a length, and was lucky to score, as
Atticus experienced a rocky passage.
R. D. O’Donnell trains Atticus for O.
Tyson. The association of Frank Demp-
sey with this stable as jockey has been
unbroken for many seasons.
Doriscus, a brother to Damalis,
drifted to sevens in wagering on the
second division, but firmed to 9 to 2
before the barrier lifted. As with Apollo
later in the afternoon, Voitre obtained a
winning advantage by skimming along
the rails at the entrance to the short
straight. Bureaucraft, a coming winner,
ran Doriscus to half a neck, while Dame
Swift (9 to 4 favorite), after extricating
herself from continued trouble, was only
half a length behind the Bullhead colt.
Compensation for Bureaucraft’s defeat
reached Ruwolt when Veiled Prophet, a
7-to-l pop, prevailed in the Hollymount
Handicap, another juvenile event. Bought
for 280gns. as a yearling, Veiled Prophet
inherits a lot of speed from Veilmond.
In the best finish of the day he gained
a head verdict over Rosado (sevens),
with the 2-to-l favorite, Fort Regal, an
eyebrow farther off.
Divisions of the Sherwood Highweight
went to Baryta (3-to-l favorite) and Song
of Songs (second choice at 7 to 2).
Baryta scored with a lot in hand by a
length from Trimercian, who set the
pace. Song of Songs, on whom a bet-
ting plunge was landed, donkey-licked
her opponents. At one period she
figured at sixes. Battle Song, a younger
brother of this filly, was successful at
Caulfield on March 12. Returned to
Adelaide, he appropriated the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes at Cheltenham on Saturday.
Though My Boy had struck his colors
to Bustard at Pakenham, where the oppo-
sition isn’t particularly strong, he met
with fair support in the Knoll Handicap,
ending up at 6 to 1. Establishing a long
lead, the Beau Fils gelding had enough
in reserve to beat Irving (3-to-l favorite)
by nearly a length. Somerset finished
almost on terms with Irving, and will be
worth following.
The Rothwell Steeplechase went to
Green Cape, a stable-companion of
Marauder, about whom the cramped
odds of 9 to 4 were accepted. He is new
to the game and nearly sold out at
several fences, but got round safely and
had too much pace for old-timers like
Dilpurra and El Damaroyal.
* * * *
tt Genetout has picked up a race for
Mr. Constable”—the Rosebery Handi-
6ap ll e ce Si w d r» “r °H f JV*
horse was favorite at French
all his time tn heat Vim™* 1 * to i? k him
e ;vi n „ him qiu „ nrl unga, who was
She 8 iffi Ib r!?fj T lat the ? a l f '
SSaVdS fu i was second to
same ilhSa fs af aU
than Yvnetnft f + u e l° nge *
whTch there is . CU £ m
Allnnoa >, u i' between them.
™ns never^,!“ A* ndl ~
nf them and it LTi \- ba t d rac< l
in any or them, and it may be his turn at
Easter.
Valbeau has won another race, a Fly-
ing Handicap at Newcastle; and he car-
ried lOst. The performance impressed
the Ring; and the son of Valiard is now
second favorite for the Doncaster, in
which he has Bst. 101 b. He will appre-
ciate the difference, but in the Doncaster
he will have much better horses to meet
than Miles Hawk, Merrie Miller, Nar-
bethong—now apparently a light of other
days—Anchor and Concilio, the cattle he
beat at Newcastle.
* * * *
Anticipations that Ajax would be ac-
companied to Sydney by his most for-
midable rivals among the three-year-olds
are not to be realised. The withdrawal
of Damalis from all Randwick engage-
ments has been followed by that of
Hua, who is to be reserved for a spring
campaign,” and Elanage pulled up lame
after a gallop, and is out of the Sydney
Cup, for which he was favorite. But, all
going well, John Wilkes will be there,
and there are Sydney three-year-olds that
may make him travel in the St. Leger.
* * * *
“Sefton”: What must be nearly a,
record price for a jumper has been paid
for Royal Mail, last year’s Grand
National winner and one of the favorites
for the Aintree event, to be run on
Friday. Mrs. C. Evans, known to the
racegoers of the last generation as
Camille Clifford, has given 6500 guineas
for the topweight. There are forty accep-
tors.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Judgment or luck? In a
small race at Tattersall’s meeting in
Adelaide, a solitary backer took all of
the 16 tickets that were issued on an un-
considered Pimlico by the doubles tote
on the flat. Starting at 25 to 1, it won
by a nose. This allowed him a ticket
on everything that started in the other
leg of the double. Again the favorites
failed; and for his original outlay of
£4 he collected £59 (first and first) and
£BB odd (first and second).
* * * *
Alan Cooper will have to wait a bit
longer for something off the 7000 guineas
he gave for Mala. He sent that very
expensive neddy back to Maoriland to be
trained by Russell, from whom he bought
the horse, but Mala hasn’t done well
enough to warrant bringing him over to
Sydney for Easter. So he is out of the
Doncaster and the Sydney Cup.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Helen Wills-
Moody is coming back to tennis, paint-
ing and verse-writing having evidently
palled. She has entered for Wimbledon.
Helen has won the singles title seven
times already, the last win beipg in
1935. When she divorced her husband
lately people wondered what Helen was
up to. She was evidently clearing the
decks for action.
* * * *
Scotland was unbeaten in the British
Rugby internationals, finishing with a 21-
16 win over England. Wales endowed
Eire with the wooden spoon by beating
its XV 11-5, and was too good for the
English also. The county championship
was won by Lancashire.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: The M.L. League foot-
ballers are to arrive in Sydney on June
14. They suggested no play until the
25th, but in imagining that the Austra-
lian League would allow them to eat
their heads off without earning gate-
money for that period they erred
grievously.
# $ * *
“Ump.”: The heads of one of Mel-
bourne’s junior cricket bodies has had
to decide on a matter which would have
gravelled Solomon. A composition ball,
smitten by a batsman, divided into two.
One part was caught by the ’keeper and
the other in the slips. .Alarums and ex-
cursions followed the umpire’s ruling
that the batsman was out, but the heads
rightly decided on appeal that the de-
cision was correct. They decline to say
whether the ’keeper or the slip fieldsman
should be credited with the catch.
o Continued on next page.'}
FOR ROSEHILL.
Westmead Handicap: Rod-
borough ; next, Thurles Lad.
Club Handicap*: Genetout; next,
Brazilian.
Rydalmere Mile: Shakespeare ;
next, Brazeno.
FOR EPSOM.
Waverley Handicap: Lady
Mauve ; next, Aitchengee.
Westminster Welter: Somerset;
next, My Boy.
Autumn Stakes: Song of Songs;
next, Sweet Memories.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Quality Handicap: El Golea;
next, Regular Bachelor.
Anniversary Handicap: North-
wind ; next, Prince Quex.


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
"silver
EDGE"
TRADE VMARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
FD
m ss
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with "RAYBESTOS ’ BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
US
m
The Horseman’s Choice
FD
RIDING
BOOT
Durable, comfortable and con-
venient. Easy to put on and
take off. In Full and Half
Sizes. Pair 33/9
Order your pair to-day from
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
In Queen Street Brisbane
M.Q. and Rafferty
Private Wars on Several Fronts
All of last week’s impending world
wars having let their backers down
shamefully, Sydney boxing promoters
rose to the occasion. Our special corre-
spondent with the fighting forces re-
ports hand-to-hand engagements on
three fronts, with considerable casual-
ties, including an abrasion of Brigadier-
General Henneberry’s left temple, Private
Rollo Hinton’s lip split and both pieces
of sticking plaster flicked from the eye-
brows of Sapper O’Connor.
Hostilities opened in the Sydney Sta-
dium sector. Here, after desultory skir-
mishing by parties of raw recruits, who
fought as if soured by the meagreness of
the rum issue, Corporal Dommy Ganzon
(9st. lib.), enlisted from the Philippine
Islands, engaged Sapper Mike O'Connor
(9st. lib.), who had joined the colors to
uphold the honor and glory of Victoria,
where he’s classed as a champion. Sapper
O’Connor leapt into no-man’s-land with
his eyebrows camouflaged with vast
strips of white sticking plaster, and a
wide grin giving his face the pleasant
appearance of an open estaminet.
Two things prevented the ensuing en-
gagement going
down into history as
a second Pozieres.
One was that Cor-
poral Ganzon
wouldn’t fight, the
other was that
Sapper O’Connor
couldn’t. On this ac-
count the battle had
about the ferocity of
a Chinese labor bat-
talion attacking a
day’s work.
Field-Marshal Joe
Wallis, watching the
engagement from be-
hind the splendidly-
curved facade of his
pillbox, exhorted the
contestants to “Come
on now —fight. Both
of you.” His com-
mands were ignored
by both parties and,
anyhow, were
drowned by the
near-by bivouacked
forces amusing them-
selves singing “Till
We Meet Again.”
Before the seventh
charge Field - Mar-
shal Wallis issued an
army order declar-
ing that unless the
fighting warmed up a bit he’d call the
damn’ thing off, after which it became
even deadlier than ever. However, the
Field-Marshal eventually signified that
he considered Corporal Ganzon was the
winner. The view expressed by other on-
lookers was “Both lost.”
On the Sports Ground front Brigadier-
General Henneberry (list. 3|lb.) estab-
lished a precedent unlikely to be followed
in future wars, engaging Brigadier-
General Sabatino (list. 41b.) in a hand-
to-hand affray. It was a striking object-
lesson to the rank and file. The two
generals fought with all the fierceness
of common privates around a crown-
and-anchor board. Accustomed to long
wars, it took Brigadier-General Henne-
berry a while to warm up, but when he
did he threw everything he had into the
battle, including a bit of frightfulness
equivalent to Fritz’s introduction of gas.
That is, he hit the other general where
it’s not considered good form to hit
generals—or lance-corporals either, for
that matter —and it was this in the end
which lost him the victor’s laurels. Of
the 10 separate charges each general won
three, three were even, and Brigadier-
General Henneberry lost the other as
stated.
It was a well-fought battle, but not so
extravagantly ferocious that at the end
of it both generals could not stand side
by side and have their photos, taken in
no-man’s-land. General Sabatino, mainly
by finding what few others have dis-
covered —the uppercut way through
Brig.-General Henneberry’s smother —en-
hanced his high reputation.
By next night Brigadier-General Henne-
berry had been promoted to Field-Mar-
shal rank, appearing in this role in the
new Arena sector. Here he watched
over three engagements among raw re-
cruits. In the first one of the contestants
was rendered hors de combat, and the
Field-Marshal, after only momentary
hesitation, declared that the other con-
testant had won. In the next two en-
gagements he gave decisions of which it
must be said that if all his own glorious
battles had been decided by the same
sort of reasoning he must have lost every
fight he ever won and won the others.
His place was taken by Field-Marshal
Haines for the principal engagement be-
tween Private Tiger Donnelly (7st. 131 b.)
“The missus reckons the others make me fists too unsightly .”
_ „„„ .
and Private Rollo Hinton (7st. 131 b).
Though the night’s warfare generally
was held in the interests of charity, and
was patronised accordingly this engage-
ment was for the flyweight championship.
After a gruelling engagement, Private
Donnelly was declared the winner, a de-
vision only right in the circumstances
though our special correspondent adds
that if or Pnvate
Hinton merits being described as a cham-
P/™ nrefeSblTwell
e«t Mr. Rufe Naylor, preferably well
oroitea.
~ A 7
Olid Ollts
“Aigburth”: There is a move in Eng-
land to pay amateur cricketers wages
lost while absent from their employment
playing. It is urged that this “broken-
time” system would permit amateurs
who have now to drop out to figure in
the big games. “Broken time” is a snare
and a delusion. Experience shows that
the system rapidly develops into more
or less open professionalism. The Eng-
lish Northern Football Union, now the
English Rugby League, began as a
“broken-time” show in Lancashire and
Yorkshire.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Another Victorian prob-
lem. A bit of wood flew from a player’s
bat while he was making a stroke and
dislodged a bail. The player was given
out, and in the opinion of many dele-
gates at the association meeting to
which the question was referred —they
included Ryder—this was right. How-
ever, the meeting voted for “not out” as
the correct verdict. Law 25 says that if
a batsman break his wicket with any
part of his dress he is out, and a falling
cap has been defined as part of the
dress. If a cap blown off the head can
put a man out, why not a bit of wood
flying off his bat?
_ .
Footbrawl
“pitzcray”: The quarrel between the
y ictorian Football League and the V.F.
Association continues to rage . A meet-
. of the y f .a. has put the League
weU Qn the spot? accus i ng i t 0 f endan-
gering the existence of the game by its
Concern for Melbourne League club in-
t and t j e Tbe mee ting
that the League was
| cow y which was? by j ts arbitrary
actions, lowing alien codes to plant
their doven hooves in soi i which should
be sacred to “R ldes ” football.
* * * *
„ f .
Hotham : E. M. Cowen, tor 12
years president ot the Victorian Rugby
Union, has stepped down from the
throne, which is now filled by Dr.
W. H. Ward. Dr. Ward founded the
Footscray club, which has won several
Victorian R.U. premierships.
“Xo”: Some Rugby Union administrators
still retain the refreshing amateur habit
of speaking their minds. E. M. Cowen,
who remembered a two-year-old promise
and wasn’t a starter for the 1938 presi-
dency of the Vic. R.U., dealt himself the
left-handed compliment of telling Mei-
bourne that the Union game isn t
what it was in 1934 and that its sup-
porters will have to put their backs into
an effort to raise the standard of play.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The annual meeting of
the N.S.W. Rugby Union went off peace-
ably in an atmosphere of self-congratu-
lation not entirely justified by the stan-
dard of play shown during the past two
seasons. One important contribution to
the palaver by Maughan, K.C., deserves
mention. He called attention to the in-
crease of rough and dirty play in club
games, and even in more important
matches, and the complaisant attitude of
the Union towards offenders. He spoke
no more than the truth. There was a time
when stuff of this kind was supposed to
be confined to the Rugby League, but,
in fact, some of the amateurs can give
the professionals points.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The Eastern
Rugby Union of the U.S.A. has invited
a Cambridge University team to play
five matches in its country at the end of
March and early in April—against Yale,
Harvard and Princeton Universities, All-
Metropolitan (New York) and All-East.
The 24 Cantabs include a Maorilander,
B. W. T. Ritchie, of Timaru and St.
John’s, and an Afrikander, Newton-
Thomson, also of St. John’s.
* * * *
“Queen St.”: The feud between the
Brisbane and Queensland Rugby Leagues
has blazed up, as it always does with the
start of each season. The Brisbane
League’s trouble is that of the American
colonies in the long ago and of the
Uitlanders under Kruger’s regime—taxa-
tion without representation. Though it
has to contribute to Q.R.L. funds it says
that it gets little say in football matters,
and it threatens to call on the Govern-
ment to come to its aid. The code has
always been favored by Labor politicians.
* * * *
“Putsch”: The N. S. Wales Rugby
League heresy-hunt continues. Not only
Kangaroo co-manager Savage, but last
year’s selection committee have been re-
placed by new men. The Kangaroos are
expected back this week, and everyone
fond of a good Donnybrook is eagerly
awaiting the subsequent proceedings.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League will
stage two rounds of club matches this
season, with semi-finals and a final and a
“grand” final if called for. The first
rounds in each series are down for
April 23 and June 18, the last for May
28 and August 20. Other dates have
been rearranged. Country v. City will
now be played on June 4 in Sydney, and
N.S.W. v. Queensland on June 11 and
13. The M.L. Leaguers play Sydney
on June 25 and N.S.W. on July 2 and 23.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Von Nida has been
showing great form in Sydney since his
return from Manila. In a pros.’ match,
36 holes, at Concord, the Queenslander
needed a birdie, and got it. At the 13th
and 15th, after being well behind to


Mick Simmons’
Unrivalled Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
:
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight;
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; —— . _
weight, about ZZ/D
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, about 47/0
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 15— WINCHESTER
HAMMERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cal.,
24in. round barrel, pistol grip
stock, ladder rear sight, gold
bead front sight, slide action.
Magazine handles 20 short,
16 long or 14 long-rifle
cartridges. This rifle will
handle adequately and
safely the new high-power
Super Speed 22 __
R.F. Cartridges. *7
Carriage Paid.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, 22-cal., 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine handles 20 short
6 long, or 14 long-rifle cartridges
Sc 8 * :. about . Hlb - £5/5/
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. S—HOLLIS D.R.B.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b.
Price . £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever crossbolt, walnut
stock, pistol grip, nitro proof; weight,
about 71b, „ .. „ ,
Price £ll/117-
Carriage Paid.
No. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever
crossbolt, steel barrels, both choke,
matted rib, barrels and lug one piece,
32in. barrels, walnut stock, pistol grip,
tested for nitro powders; /-t _ .
weight, about 81b. £6/ 10/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
Take the Children to
KOSCIUSKO
for the May School Vacation
CHILDREN’S FARES
TEN DAY TOURS
Under 16 —£7/7/-. Over 16—£7/17/2
Parents and Friends £9/5/-
ASK THE CHILDREN—
THEY KNOW ABOUT IT
Cost covers Fares, Meals, Motor Transport, Hotel
Accommodation at Hotel Kosciusko and the
Chalet, use of Ski-boots, Sporting Material, Trans-
port to Snow-line, Entrance Fees to all Sporting
Events and Competitions. Parties leave Sydney
May 12, 13 and 15.
GO WITH THEM AND ENJOY IT.
Ask for Tour Folder .
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
CHALLIS HOUSE, 8 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
of PLEASURE and SAFETY
C7/iere^ny~Bflck
Defective wheel
alignment causes ab-
normal tread wear —-
an overhaul saves
tyre money.
Barnet Glass
Checkskid Tyres
THE TYRES WITH THE LONGEST, NON-SKID LIFE
M. 89.14.37 Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd., (Incorporated in Victoria)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'
to the MANAGER, who will quote yoi
takes your fancy, write
price for the original
Bolger, he took two birdies, repeated the
feat at the 16th, and would have got
another at the 17th but that his putt
jumped out of the hole. At the 18th a
300-yards drive and a pitch of 80ft. left
him with a four-foot putt to win the
game and the £lB purse.
* * * *
“Green Point”: There is great tribu-
lation in South Africa, where Bobby
Locke has decided to turn professional.
Locke has been the wonder boy of
South African golf, and his backers
dropped a lot of brass on him when he
failed in the British amateur champion-
ship in which Jim Ferrier was runner-
up. This year he was entered for the
event again, and as he has been showing
dazzling form the Afrikanders were con-
vinced they had the title in the bag.
Robert will visit Britain to play in the
“open.”
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Died recently in Britain
Lady Margaret Hamilton-Russell, who,
as Lady Margaret Scott, won the British
women’s golf championship in 1893, ’94
and ’95. This record of three successive
wins has never been beaten. The lady
was a sister of Michael Scott, so well
known in Australian golf, who pre-
deceased her by a few weeks.
Racquet and Bawl
“Nark’: N.S.W. tennis brasshats have
always loathed the Australian body since
its H.Q. was shifted to a place named
Melbourne, and in everything the Aus-
tralian body does they see the cloven
hoof and the forked tail of the Old
Gentleman himself. This time the
N.S.W. delegate to the Australian body
came in for the toko. He not only
didn’t do what was expected of him,
getting a N.S.W. man on the Australian
selection committee, but actually took
a place on it himself. At last advices
Clemenger had resigned because of the
rumpus, and his cobber, Siminton, stood
out with him.
* * * #
“Top Spin”: American press critics
have been holding post-mortems on the
Budge-Mako Australian tour. One bright
lad says the U.S.A. sent Budge to the
remote Antipodes to keep him from being
tempted by the professional promoters,
though these seem to have been allowed
free use of the cables. Another alleges
that Budge was told by cable to go easy ;
hence his defeats by Bromwich and
Cramm. Yet another avers the American
heads will ban Budge from touching a
racquet until July, and that a better
partner than Mako—probably Sabin—
will be found for him in the doubles.
Miscellaneous
Spike : The Olympic Games Com-
mittee concluded its meeting at Cairo
with the decision that the Games should
be held in Tokio in 1940. A gentleman
named Pash or Bash or something like
that raised the objection that the Games
should not be controlled by a nation
engaged in hostilities. However, the
majority evidently considered that if the
Chinese and Japanese were still fighting
each other two years from now the scrap
would not be of such importance as to
make advisable the cancellation of the
1940 fixture or its transfer elsewhere.
* *
Splash”: Some of these amateur
athletes have a colorful life. Take
Walter Spence, the British Guiana
swimmer who came here for the Empire
Games. Instead of returning home, he
has been touring Queensland, where he
has put up new records all over the
place. It says much for the British
Guianaman’s sportsmanship that he can
seek release from his business cares at
home and spend his own money in pur-
suit of a sport to which he is evidently
so devoted. It will be recalled that Arne
Borg was much of the same mind when
he toured the world as an amateur.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: Evans Paddon’s backers
on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers have put
up £lOO deposit to back a challenge to
Bobby Pearce to row for the world's pro-
fessional sculling championship. Paddon
is willing to in Canada or in Aus-
tralia ; in this last case Pearce will be
offered £5OO expenses. But there is small
chance of Pearce returning to row in
this country.
* * * *
“Bridoon”: Next month’s N.S.W. polo
tourney promises to be the biggest
staged since the depresh. It will be held
at the North Brighton ground from
April 19 to 22. Eight teams are ex-
pected to compete for the Australasian
Cup trophy: one each from M.L.,
Queensland and South Australia, two
from Victoria and four from N.S.W.
Hitherto South Australians have con-
fined their visits to Melbourne.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Hurricane ”
Inspected at the Century, Sydney, this
film of steadily intensifying action work-
ing up from a tranquil beginning to the
violent upheaval of the title is based on
the Charles Nordhoff and James Hall
novel Hurricane, one of the finest pieces
of powerfully descriptive fiction of recent
years.
The producers have added a certain
amount of the fake Hollywood idea of
South Sea Island life. Nordhoff and
Hall, depicting their islanders’ happiness,
suggested it simply as abiding in the
small, palm-shaded populations’ peace
and tranquillity and natural carefree state
of mind. The film-makers, of course,
seek to express it through jollification,
dancing, singing, drapings of leis and
spirited divings into the Pacific. The
holiday-resort conception of happiness.
If recollection of it is right, Nordoff
and Hall claimed some basis of fact for
their story. Their setting was an island
in the Low Archipelago, a French-owned
group lying at little better than sea-level,
east of Tahiti and nor’-west of Pitcairn.
Their narrative —closely followed in
the film —had to do with a heroic type of
young native of the island who had risen
to the eminence of wearing a mate’s cap
on the schooner supplying the island from
Tahiti and taking thence the island-
dwellers’ copra. Married on one return —
a romantic interlude nicely exploited in
the film, with feasting and then moon-
lighted honeymoon on a near-by islet —
the young bridegroom, back in Tahiti,
gets six months’ hard for striking a white
man.
Action then shifts again to the island,
where the padre, doctor and Adminis-
trator’s wife try to induce the Adminis-
trator to work for the young fellow’s re-
lease from his imprisonment for an
offence to which he was provoked, and
the white-man “justice” of which is, any-
way, incomprehensible to his native mind.
The Administrator sticks firmly to the
upholding of the law, more and more
firmly and unfeelingly as, through re-
peated attempts to escape, the prisoner’s
term on Tahiti rises from six months to
16 years, the young fellow’s mana rising
proportionally among his fellow-islanders.
Eventually he does escape, and in an
open canoe well-nigh miraculously man-
ages the 600-miles voyage back to the
island. The plot is promising to thicken
when the Administrator begins to get on
the escapee’s scent; and then comes the
hurricane.
When it has passed the island is a
barren hump of coral in the sea. The
film, in a striking stretch of spectacle,
shows it being denuded. Palm after
palm is uprooted and carried away.
Houses and native dwellings go bit by
bit. Wind-whipped spray and spume
drive through the scene. The sea rises
and surges over the island. Boats to
which the people have taken, mooring
them to stumps on the lee shore, are over-
turned or swamped. The church, into
which most of the islanders have crowded
with the padre for refuge, is battered and
broken away, until it is finally engulfed
and obliterated, and all inside with it.
Yet when the hurricane has gone,
though the once-lovely island is now as
bare as a bald head, there are survivors.
One of the moored boats and some of
those who were in it have come through ;
moreover—a simple but, in the circum-
stances, a powerful gesture to the future
—a new mother and the child she had in
the boat while the hurricane raged are
both alive. Also, out to sea a few others
are still living, clinging in the branches of
a huge tree.
It made a sterling novel and it makes a
vivid film. The spectacle of the hurri-
cane is extraordinarily convincing. The
effects of water and wind and destruc-
tion, the sound and the fury of it, will
keep any audience interested and ex-
cited. Even on the films it is seldom
that sheer spectacle is worked up to such
a pitch.
The- acting—very soundly managed by
such as Dorothy Lamour, C. Aubrey
Smith, Mary Astor, Raymond Massey,
Thomas Mitchell and Jerome Cowan —is
most notable for Jon Hall’s virile per-
formance of the young native who is
centre of all the bother. New to present
film-taster, he is a noble-looking speci-
men of masculinity.
“T ovarich”
Claudette Colbert, Charles Boyer.
Appealing features of this pleasant en-
tertainer at Sydney Regent are its Holly-
wood polish and some originality of
the story and its treatment.
Characters are familiar enough. Im-
poverished uppah-crustahs (particularly
Russian) earning a crumb in the man-
sions of the moneyed probably became
Amurrican exports as soon as the Yanks
got wind of the Russian revolution.
Usually there is a good sprinkling of
them in fillums that go for snob-appeal;
either the poor little pantrymaid who
lurvs the wealthy young scion has to be
Princess Something-or-other, or the veins
of Miss Park Avenue’s pet head-waiter
must be positively overflowing with ultra-
Nat Mills and Bobbie, Nirska the Butterfly Dancer, and James Evans the juggler,
in the lively show, “Okay for Sound,” at Sydney Royal.
marine. And whatever they are the
general impression is that the whole
universe will tip itself asunder if two of
them don’t get together for a lasting
clinch.
Here in some ways, however, is a de-
lightful break from that kind of thing.
The Colbert-Boyer couple, both from the
very pinnacle of Russian sassiety, have
been spliced years beforehand as far as
the film is concerned, and their be-all
and end-all is simply to remain incog,
and hold down their jobs as housemaid
and butler to a Parisian banker.
Of course, the head of the house, his
wife and their two children all have to
fall heavily for one or other of the noble
pair ; but, though a little sticky here and
there, it’s not a tedious business.
Situations are, for the most part,
funny; not riotously so but light-hearted
and nearly always with an unexpected
twist. Note of grimness creeps in when
the two victims of the revolution have
to wait on a Soviet Commissar (Basil
Rathbone). That the Commissar is a
little whitewashed, that an effort is made
to justify some of his savagery and that
Boyer parts up with some 40 billion
francs for the sake of a people who
would shoot him on sight suggest that
someone has had warm feelings towards
the Soviet. This idea is strengthened
when bankers and other such people
are satirised and contrasted as fools
against the Commissar’s serious prac-
ticability.
Clinches between Miss Colbert and
Boyer take up sufficient footage to be-
come wearisome after a while. But as
the film gathers speed these and other
faults become almost imperceptible under
a fine veneer of novelty, slick direction,
excellent settings and photography, and
a fadeout that is just about perfect.
Boyer is a sound actor and particu-
larly well suited to any role with a
Continental head-waiter flavor, and he
backs that up with some comedic ability.
Miss Colbert is nearly as good. There
are laughs from Melville Cooper and
Isabel Jeans, and capable supporting cast
including Anita Louise.
Altogether, the film makes comfort-
able entertainment. At the best it is a
polished comedy and something out of
the usual run of flicks; at the worst, an
Amurricanised version of a clever stage-
play.
“Action for Slander ”
Clive Brook.
Awfullay awkward jollay old hole for a
fellow to find himself in, what! Just a
few of us —Army fellows, you know, and
all that —having a game of pokah at
some scrubby johnnie’s week-end house
partay. Of course, the stakes were high
—nothing out of the way for us chap-
pies, really; but, er, high—and, well, to
cut the ballay story shortah than it is at
Sydnay Embassay, an uttah boundah lost
his tempah, upset the jollay table and
accused me of cheating.
As Ai say, awfullay awkward, what!
Prestige of the Army, you know, and
that sort of thing. Especiallay awkward
when the accusation is supported bai a
confounded two-pippah whose waife and
Ai —well, er, you know, a gentleman
doesn’t drag a woman into a case like
this. Even so, mai own ideah was to
sue for damages for slandah —not for
the sake of the beastlay monay, of
course; but a fellow simplay can’t have
his name dragged in the stickay old mire
by a brace of uttah boundahs, what.
Ai would have gone through with it,
too, onlay for the confoundedlay bad ad-
vaice of fellow-officahs and the rest, who
got the jollay wind up properlay about
the game and the stakes and what not
getting an airing in the courts. No, no,
Claive, they said, or words to that effect;
think of us, like a good fellow. Think of
the Army, too, dear chap. You know
how it is with the Army just now —it
simplay can’t afford this sort of pub-
licitay.
Like that, you know. So Ai snapped at
them, “Well, you can save your skins!”
and next morning Ai put it to the colonel
for long leave. Ai should mention that
Anne, mai waife, had bolted off to gidday
old Monaco or somewhere ovah the
other affair, so Ai told Scrubbins to pack
and Ai put up at Black’s. Great Scott,
Ai was cut dead by everybody in the
ballay club! The tale had, of course,
got about.
Well, the upshot was that Ai went
away alone and dug in in a stuffay bed-
sitting-room, with onlay a ballay canary
for company and a set of jollay old darts.
Ai’d reached the stage of taking mai
Johnny Walkah neat bai the tumblerful,
and had just fetched out mai service re-
volvah to end everything when the ballay
door opened and in walked Anne. Ai
must, she insisted, come back and fight,
if not for mai sake, then for hers. Put
that way, Ai had no choice but to ballay
well go. That Kipling fellow was nevah
so ballay un-English as when he wrote
that laine about a woman bein’ onlay a
woman, but a good cigar’s a smoke.
Commonplaice colonial outlook, what.
Still, Ai made the condition that if Ai
lost the case Ai would then fall back
on the revolvah. But Anne —great little
woman, what —Anne roped in Sir
Marylebone Cholmondeley Buzfuz to
conduct the case. The brace of boundahs
lied to the last, but Sir Marylebone had
a positive brainwave, bai jove. He had
the jollay old game of pokah played ovah
in the court, and the boundah who had
accused me not onlay of cheating but of
having an affair with his waife —with
some justification, Ai must admit lost
his ballay nerve, and the Judge snorted
like a gidday old grampus to the juray,
“Well, after that, Ai must instruct you to
find for the plaintiff.”
That, of course, did the boundah
johnnies in the eye properlay. Anne
and Ai have taken up laife again on
the jollay old imperishable foundation of
the British home, which holds good
equallay in the Army as out of it, and any
day now Ai will have a letter of apologay
from the club, which, Ai forgot to men-
tion, passed me out when Ai was exiled
in Pimlico with the jollay old canaray
and darts.
“Smilin’ Through ”
Norma Shearer, Leslie Howard, Fredric March.
Might have been the poached eggs and
burgundy that she fancied for dinner, but
Clarice had a great night at Sydney
Lyceum. Cried the whole time.
Wept at the start when grumpy old
Leslie Howard, faithful to bride slain at
altar years before by dirty dog full of
brandy and whiskers, mooed into the
Other Side, and ghostly bride material-
ised and held hands with him in the rose
garden.
Wept again when tiny tot, ghost’s
niece, softened nunky’s heart, and they
had a birfday party with candles on the
cake.
Wept again when niece, grown up into
Norma Shearer, met Fredric March, son
of cad who shot auntie ; unc. couldn’t
possibly let ’em marry. Stern, sad unc.
Wept when Fredric went away to the
war; wept when he came back wounded
and pretended he didn’t love Norma ;
wept when they straightened it out; wept
when unc. shuffled out to keep date with
ghost; and wept buckets and buckets
when Norma warned she was going to
weep, saying first time, “Oh! I’m going
to go pooff like a doughnut”; and
second time, “Oh! I have been a prune.”
Great night for Clarice.
“Boy of the Streets”
Jackie Cooper.
What struck one commentator most
forcibly when viewing this current offer-
ing at Sydney Capitol and its audience
was that in a strongly-done propaganda
film for benefit of hardened filmgazers
the sight of juvenile gangsters and
their escapades probably does more good
than harm, but in a length of romantic
triteness, billed with accent on a juvenile
cast, the petty squabbles and aspirations
of back-street hoodlums must rope in
youthful enthusiasts wholesale.
Moral, such as it is, in films of this sort
is generally a sound enough old platitude
—99 times out of 100 right triumphs
over wrong, and all concerned see a rosy
future along the straight and narrow.
That, however, is to no great purpose.
The average youth dismisses soulful re-
formations and the like as so much senti-
mental piffle, and goes away impressed
mainly with the excitement these N’Yark
kids appear to get out of life and how
they get it.
Apart from foregoing observations it’s
a passable stretch of entertainment of its
kind, and certainly an improvement on
heavy dosages of Breens, etc.
Young Master Cooper has sprung up
a bit since his last appearance, and seems
to have outgrown some earlier irritating
habits, such as howling at the slightest
provocation and acting like a man of 30
instead of the healthy youngster he is.
Although the directors still insist on
shovelling in the sentiment he manages
to weather most of that, except for a
couple of patches with a well-nourished
goil who yawps when she shouldn-’t.
For the rest it’s a haphazard tale of an
adolescent who, developing into a prom-
ising racketeer, is disillusioned in time to


SETWISE MISS
Sctoifr-fkt/uf
FD
Good brushing isn’t
enough! To make teeth
really sparkle, you need
the right tooth paste, too
Pepsodent containing
IRIUM. It ends Scrub-
Hard disappointment, is
the complete formula for
beautiful teeth!
,iec of iwuh •
BECAUSE u floats film
PepSO<l mstead of scraping it °«-
iway— ,nstea
BECAUSE of IWUM . oa ;
pepsodent . NO
• P vifssr -Sap!
BECAUSE OF leaves
Wholesome.
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
miOM
the pepsodent CO. (aust.) pty. ltd. (incorporated in victoria)
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
MjJSB/7e
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10
0
0
0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND-
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
h
re
COMMUNICATIONS
Thousands of miles away in the towns and the
outlying parts of the Mandated Territory of
Papua and New Guinea, wireless is playing a
vital part in the development of communi-
cations.
Of recent years, Amalgamated Wireless has
erected new high-powered stations at Rabaul
and Port Moresby to serve the growing com-
munication needs of the Pacific Islands.
To-day the wireless telegraphic facilities
available to island residents enable them to
communicate with Australia and, via Aus-
tralia, with overseas countries; with ships at
sea; with outlying parts of Papua and New
Guinea; and also with Fiji and other islands
of the Pacific. Further, residents may, from
Rabaul, speak over the wireless telephone
with anyone in Australia.
AMALGAM AT ED WIRELESS
C AUSTR A LASIA) LTD.
■Quitialia ) AJation&l Witeleii OtjeLniiation
join the navy. Support includes Mar-
jorie Main, whose moaning monotone is
as effective an expression of hopeless-
ness as it was in “Dead End.”
“Change of Heart.”
Michael Whalen, Gloria Stuart.
Appears to have been made in an un-
guarded moment when some person had
the idea that lurv interest and nothing
else constituted entertainment.
Mr. Whalen and Miss Stuart are
already spliced, but break it up, get to-
gether again, break it up and get together
again as often as the running time allows.
Finally they get together again.
Outward fluctuations are due to
Whalen’s insufferable priggishness and
bad temper (he takes up golf to cure
that), which are so realistic that when
one eye is blackened by a straight right
it seems a pity that the other optic isn’t
similarly treated.
Rebounds are caused by a small boy
and a dog, which are easily the best parts
of the film. Support at Sydney Regent.
“Lancer Spy.”
George Sanders, Dolores Del Rio.
Show is boomed in Sydney Plaza’s
ads. as a “tense, timely story,” but really
it’s pleasant, light fiction.
A plot that’s not too wildly improb-
able tells how a British spy “won the
war” by impersonating a captured Ger-
man officer and discovering the plans for
the final offensive, and it’s a relief that
the producers, instead of adopting the
contemporary fiction that all foreigners
are sinister, have revived the older fic-
tion that they’re all comical. They are,
too, in this offering.
In the best detective story tradition,
the film leaves its lurv-interest agreeably
in the background, and it skilfully avoids
being “tense,” first when the War Office
leads spy’s wife to believe him to be
dead, and secondly when his accomplice,
Dolores, is executed. Dolores adds to
the picture’s general sanity by rolling her
eyes less than usual.
Supports include one of the Jones
Family series, enlivened by the addition
of Allan Dinehart as a swashbuckling
uncle, getting everyone into trouble with
impossible schemes for making money.
He swashbuckles beautifully, and the
presentation of everyday existence, in
which furniture bills are much more im-
portant than Freud, is as amusing, and as
maddeningly true, as the best of J. B.
Priestley.
“Paradise for Two.”
Jack Hulbert.
Main current offering at Sydney Em-
bassy, this is of a kind that has now been
done 9763 times, but of that kind it’s
a good specimen.
Jack is a millionaire who finds him-
self sponsoring a lass with stage ambi-
tions, and the thing just floats airily along
in a swirl of froth till Jack as well as lass
gets on stage.
Can be commended to anyone who
likes the vast-jawed Jack or who wants
something light, pleasant and amusing to
put the kibosh on an hour or so.
“ Adventure’s End.”
John Wayne.
This fillum at Sydney Capitol is a good
wholesome stretch of honest beller-
d rammer.
With a pair of pants and a fortune in
pearls, Mr. Wayne, who is quite a
pleasant person, boards a whaling
schooner and encounters the captain’s
daughter, some rivalry from the first
mate, a mutiny and a lot of other things.
It’s all as artificial as they make ’em,
but what matter when the youqgsters get
up in their seats and yell encouragement
to their hero and hurl abuse at anything
that stands in his way.
The film has one bright patch of un-
conscious humor when, for the pur-
poses of the story, the mate runs the
schooner aground during a hurricane. The
boat piles up high and dry on a moun-
tainous jagged reef, and from the sound
effects of breaking timber, etc., it would
seem that its fate is a foregone conclu-
sion. The mate, however, turns to his
offsider and says “It’s all right, she’ll
float off with the tide.”
And float she does!
“Okay” at Sydney Royal.
Sundry Shows’ Melbourne hand re-
ported favorably on this offering a few
months back. It’s now at Sydney Royal
—an entertaining, light, bright show which
can be guaranteed to kill an evening
quite painlessly.
The nature of it is really vaudeville,
the turns strung together in the prevail-
ing fashion with intervening appearances
of ballet and leading comics. The funny
men are funny without the crudeness of
the Montague crowd, and the lasses lick
the Marcus bunch by a street in shape-
liness and good looks.
Bright spots in the vaudeville are a
chap who juggles marvellously with his
feet, a party of whirling Arab tumblers,
a “butterfly dancer” and several good
duo comedy turns.
Violet Somerset’s Recital.
Contralto Violet Somerset’s recital at
Melb. Assembly Hall drew an enthusi-
astic house.
There was an artistic finish about
everything she did, particularly the panel
of Schumann’s songs.


sanwoioa
MiKMK,
r VA vrrri
}D suiSaq
As you pass
from City to
City the history
of
ITALY
Europe s most interesting country, is revealed. The world s
finest art • treasures await your inspection, and traditional
events are re-enacted for your entertainment. Visit the
Bi-millenary Augustus Exhibition in Rome (open until Sep-
temper 23) —come and see life as exemplified two thousand
years ago.
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS at 5/- to 18/- (sterling) a day
absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
30% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets apply to:
E.N.1.T., §8 Margaret St., Sydney
or Any Travel Agency.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,501,374 13 8
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 293,260 14 1
Development Fund .. .. 37,066 1 4
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 90,508,890 5 0
Bills Payable and other Lia-
bilities 5,843,841 6 10
105,184,433 0 11
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 757,508 15 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments ..105,941,941 16 6
Note Issue Department .. .. 62,594,862 14 1
£168,536,804 10 7
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 1
Australian Notes 4,
Money at Short Call in London 30,
Funds held temporarily in
London on account of
Conversion Loan .. .. 3
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 12
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including
Treasury Bills) .. .. 35
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 2
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers,
and other Assets .. .. 14
Bank Premises
& s. d.
,013,479 19 11
,405,984 0 0
,548,275 7 3
,930,000 0 0
,963,399 7 0
,028,039 15 4
,221,706 9 3
,101,609 2 10
971,938 19 4
Liabilities of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit
per Contra
105,184,433 0 11
757,508 15 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. ..105,941,941 16 6
Note Issue Department .. .. 62,594,802 14 1
.£168,536,804 10 7
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£ s. d.
General Banking Department—
To Keserve Fund 82,837 14 7
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 82,837 14 7
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 6,128 15 9
„ Development Fund .. .. 6,128 15 9
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 447,353 5 0
£625,286 5 8
£ s. d.
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1937
„ Banking Business 165,675 9 2
~ Rural Credits Department . . 12,257 11 6
„ Note Issue Department .. 447,353 5 0
£625,286 5 8
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,501,374 13 8
£2,501,374 13 8
£ s. d.
2,418,536 19 1
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business . 82,837 14 7
£2,501,374 13 8
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. RIDDLE.
Governor.
SYDNEY, 21st February, 1933.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. <3.
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. 54,034,176 10 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 19,250 0 0
Special Reserve—Premium on
Gold Sold 7,752,900 19 0
Other Liabilities 788,535 5 1
£62,594,862 14 1
ASSETS.
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve
Debentures and Other Securi-
ties
Other Assets
£ s. d.
16,007,953 15 7
45,284,339 15 7
1,302,569 2 11
£62,594,862 14 1
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. E. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. KIDDLE,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 21st February, 1938.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Sustralta
BALANCE-SHEET AT 31st DECEMBER, 1937.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 2,419,841 4 9
Depositors’
Balances . .139,191,097 17 7
With Inter-
crued A . C . 1,256,132 9 4
140,447,230 6 11
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 6,388,924 10 8
£149,315,996 2 4
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call .. 23,259,703 12 5
Australian Notes 194,401 10 0
Government Securities .. .. 90,445,314 16 1
Securities of Municipalities
and other Public Authori-
ties 31,278,482 19 6
Other Assets 3,239,623 9 0
Bank Premises 898,469 15 4
£149,315,996 2 4
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
£ s. d.
To Savings Banks Reserve Bund 70,284 18 1
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 70,284 18 1
£140,569 16 2
£ s. d.
By Profit for half-year ended
31st December, 1937, after
provision for payments
amounting to £96,041/7/9
due to State Authorities
under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements 140,569 16 2
£140,569 16 2
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
£ s. d.
To Balance 2,479,841 4 9
£2,479,841 4 9
£ s. d.
By Balance 2,409,556 6 3
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits 70,284 18 1
£2,479,841 4 9
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E B RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G - . F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 21st February, 1938.
==== Thi~isual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness
of the above accounts have been given. _
SYDNEY’S HYDE PARK BARRACKS.
Last week the Royal Australian His-
torical Society held a dinner in Sydney
to celebrate its 37th birthday and Aus-
tralia’s 150th. “The treasures of the
society,” said a speaker, cannot be
made available to public inspection be-
cause there are no rooms available in
which to display them. It remains for
some public-spirited man or for the
Government to meet that need, which
should have been filled long ago.” Said
another, “There is a splendid building
at the top of King-street which the Gov-
ernment should be glad to offer to the
society.” .
The building, of course, is F. A.
Greenway’s Hyde Park Convict Bar-
racks, which for the last 30 years has
been in danger of demolition by suc-
cessive Governments and the fate of
which is still, in spite of many protests,
a matter of uncertainty.
Its foundation stone was laid by Gov-
ernor Macquarie on April 6, 1817, and
the structure completed, with surround-
ing wall and outbuildings, in June, 1819-
In Commissioner Bigge’s report to
House of Commons, dated May 6, 1822,
some interesting details relating to its
functions are given. “Since the establish-
ment of the Convict barracks at Sydney,
in the month of June, 1819,” he says, a
considerable number of convicts, vary-
ing and gradually increasing from 600
to 1000, have been lodged there. Pre-
vious to this period, there existed no
place either of lodging or temporary
confinement for any of them. AH Govern-
ment laborers and convicts, at this period,
were allowed to leave their work at
three o’clock every day, and were en-
abled by their own labor to pay for
their weekly lodgings”
In 1844 Governor Gipps, in a dispatch
of November 28, refers briefly to its sub-
sequent history as follows: “This estab-
lishment... .is the chief depot of con-
victs in the colony. It has existed in its
present shape for many years, indeeu
for upwards of five and twenty, and so
long as convicts were continually pass-
ing out of it to the assigned service of
the settlers, it was not much complained
of as a grievance. Since the abolition
of assignment it has, however, been
gradually growing into disfavor, and
during the last few years numerous com-
plaints, some well founded, others grossly
exaggerated, have been brought against
it. It is impossible to deny that the exis-
tence, in the heart of a populous city like
Sydney, of an establishment such as
Hyde Park Barracks is a nuisance ; but
it is one which has been the growth of
circumstances, and one which circum-
stances must speedily abate.”
The prisoners were removed to
Cockatoo Island at the beginning of
1848, and for the succeeding 40 years the
Barracks’ main building was used as an
immigration depot, while the other build-
ings within the walls were occupied by
various Government departments. On
May 9, 1859, the newly-constituted
Metropolitan District Court was opened
there by Judge Cheeke, and after the
discontinuance of assisted immigration
in 1887 the central building was adjusted
to the requirements of various law
courts. „ ~ ,
Some of the story of the old build-
ing—triangles and cat-o’-nine-tails as
principal dramatic properties is grim
and ugly, but the 40 years of useful ser-
vice as an immigration centre do much
to atone for the sordidness and sorrow
of its youth. Much of the work of the
saintlike Caroline Chisholm was carried
on there to the enormous benefit of Aus-
tralia. Some good law has been dis-
pensed there. Hyde Park Barracks has
better traditions than those of felonry.
Any other Australian capital but
Sydney would jump at the chance of
preserving such a relic and handing it
over to the R.A.H.S.


For Your Easter Holidays
For Full Details
Consult the South Australian Representative at the Govern*
ment Tourist Bureaux, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, or
write direct to the South Australian Government Tourist
Bureau, Box 664 G, G.P.0., Adelaide.
ADELAIDE
Come to Adelaide at Easter and see the autumn glories of the “Garden City” and
Mount Lofty Ranges.
See, too, the famous Great Eastern Steeplechase at Australia's greatest picnic race
meeting—Onkaparinga 1
A Week’s Inclusive Tour for
Fare covers a week s hotel accommodation and
local tours, but is PLUS return fares to Adelaide
by RAIL (at Tourist Concession rates), ROAD
or AIR.
f 5 5 4
Inclusive tours by SEA from Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle,
escorted Easter Tour leaves Melbourne April 14. Five days for £B, including return rail fare.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ti After all the fury of the week’s cables,
Okay for Sound” was just the right
week-end brew. Its hilarious fun, shapely
legs, eye-blinking juggling, acrobatics,
butterfly radiance of Nirska the dancer
and daredevil skating made the women in
the audience sit up and cheer. Even
the thunder and the lightning that had
rumbled and coruscated about the early-
evening sky scurried off before the gales
of laughter, and the Royal audience
stepped out into a night that was clean-
washed but moonlit. The first-nighters
were all in place. Mrs. E. Wunderlich,
who was celebrating her birthday, did it
in platinum laces and a coat of white fur.
Cerulean-blue chiffons deeply girdled
m gold were worn by Margaret Allen.
Turquoise was Mrs. Talbot’s scheme.
c ; Y- Walker achieved smartness
whh a jacket ensemble that was checked
Mrs. F. J. Davy was there ; so were the
Dwans, of Maoriland. The Bertie Kellys
brought a party. Mary Makinson’s
chiffons were delphinium in tone.
The really swell concert audience of
the week was the one that sighed artis-
tically and applauded at Dino Borgioli’s
farewell. This was a Town Hall affair,
and the Governor-General’s lady, Lady
Wakehurst, and Lady Moira Lyttelton
put their seal of approval on the tenor’s
singing. Mrs. Sep Levy’s long black
velvet coat with its sparkle of diamente
buttons, Mrs. Borgioli’s ivory lace frock,
and Lady Moira Lyttelton’s carnation-
pink crepes were admirable. Joan Marks,
m emerald green and black, and pretty
Jessica Chard were in an audience that
was very musical in its composition.
Just as musicianly, though perhaps not
so larded with society names, was Satur-
day night s concert at the same address.
This was a symphony orchestra evening,
and was part of the Music Week fire-
works. Music Week organiser Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore made the front of the
house handsome with her erect shoulders
and black moire. Mrs. Pao’s black taf-
feta cape fell from a stiffly-square
shoulder line. Percy Code was the con-
ductor, ’cellist Lauri Kennedy the night’s
star. The latter’s wife was attractive in
black lacquered satin and crossed fox.
Mrs. Kingsford Smith, mother of the
intrepid airman, died last week, aged 81.
She survived both her husband and her
famous son, and there is not a woman
in this country who did not sympathise
deeply with her in the tragic ending to
that son’s last adventure. After a service
in St. Aidan’s Church, Longueville, Mrs.
Kingsford Smith’s body was cremated,
and her ashes, like those of her husband,
were scattered, from a ’plane, into the
sea.
There was decorum as well as good
frocking at the meeting to stir up en-
thusiasm in the Symphony Orchestra
concerts. Indeed the ladies taking part
might have been bound for York Min-
ster instead of the York Room at the
Australia. Apart from the speeches the
meeting resolved itself into the week’s
happiest party. The speeches would
have convinced the most unmusical that
without an orchestra a city could not
save its soul. As everybody present was
already convinced of that, the affair was
one smile of approval from first to last.
Lady Gowrie came to the meeting, and
spoke with the earnestness of a real lover
of music on the necessity for a perma-
nent orchestra. Not only did she speak,
but before her departure she slipped a
cheque for her own and Lord Gowrie’s
subscription into Mrs. Walter Swinson’s
hand. Mrs. Swinson and the Alexander
Gordon lady were beaming over the suc-
cessful round-up. Theirs is an all-the-
year-round brand of enthusiasm. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, concise and clear, spoke
of prices and changes in seating arrange-
ments. And, by the way, the old cane
chairs are to go in toto. “Leather-
upholstered for all” is the Town Hall’s
new boast.
A.B.C. chairman Cleary and general-
manager Moses were speakers. The deep
Burgundy tones of Mrs. Swinson’s sheer
ensemble, the brightly-flowered crepes
worn by Mrs. Crawford Robertson, the
tucked grey chiffon complete with grey
Arctic fox of Mrs. C. L. Jones, the
touches of glitter on the Gordon lady’s
black trigness caught the gaze. Philip
Street’s lady presided.
The Julius lady came late. Mrs. Hope
Gibson wore a shady hat with her dark-
blue chiffons, and handed out packets
of subscription vouchers. Mrs. Kirk and
Mrs. James, Mrs. Walter Burfitt in black
and white, and Dame Constance D’Arcy
were others.
Sydney still remembers the Vita-Finzi
couple. He was attached to Italy’s Con-
sulate in Sydney. Mrs. Vita-Finzi writes
from Rome to her friend Ida Dawson
telling how happy and well they all are.
With the letter come snapshots of the
children, one of whom was born on the
journey to Australia, the other while his)
parents were living at Point Piper. Father
and mother still remember and talk of
the charms of Australia, and she would
like to hear how all her Sydney friends
are, and what they are doing.
Here is bright-faced Jean Burns, the girl
parachutist who dives into the waves of
air as fearlessly as the seagull sits on
the rocking wave. Falk made the pic-
ture.
Honors for Friday’s R.S.P.C.A. collec-
tion went to the dogs. Four of them —
a handsome St. Bernard, Bobs from Dar-
linghurst, the Burges’ Peter from Neu-
tral Bay and an English setter from
Mosman —romped home with a harvest
of £lO or so. Kindness to Animals
Week is in full swing ; headquarters at
the old address at the corner of Rowe
and Pitt streets. Saturday’s horse parade
was a dashing sight. AH styles of nags,
from Shetlands to draughthorses, gleam-
ing and polished and ribboned, stepped
out. There was even a donkey with his
rug of ribbons. Several riding schools
were represented by companies. From
the Domain to the Showground the
cavalcade progressed. A performance of
“Lover’s Leap” by the Independents will
be one of the hay- and bone-providers.
St. James’s Hall in Phillip-street will
brighten up next Saturday when Rachel
Crothers’s comedy “When Ladies Meet”
will be presented by the Players’ Club.
Dr. Craufuird Dickey is producer, and
the ladies are Joan Preston-Stanley,
Gwen Sherwood, Jean Barlex and Zelma
Newton-Tabrett.
Very friendly and informal were the
invitations sent out by the Carlyle Green-
wells for their wedding anniversary
party: “Will you celebrate our wedding
anniversary with us?” Between 70 and
80 guests were sure they could, and when
found in the flat at Waratah House,
around about six, the whole bunch
seemed to be thoroughly enjoying them-
selves. Mrs. Greenwell, whose clothes
are always noteworthy, wore one of those
new simple-looking frocks. Its shade
was cobalt-blue. She wore no hat, there-
by imparting a feeling that she was per-
manent for the duration of the party.
Admiring the bowls of zinnias and
gladioli were the Clive Blackwells and
Dr. Grace Cuthbert. Portrait painters
ought to get busy on that fine head and
face.
One of the prettiest scenes in the Music
Week pageant was that of Sydney’s first
Government House musicale. This was
given by Governor Bourke. Gladys Hart
(of this Freeman picture) was one of the
company as Miss Logan, Sydney’s first
music-teacher. Her frock of spreading
jade-green taffeta gained dignity from
embossings in emerald-green velvet.
It was exciting, at the Music Week
pageant, to pick old friends in new dis-
guises. For instance, the necromancer in
the cornelian velvet robe and the mystic-
looking cap was none but Roland Foster.
The small brunette flash of vivacity in
blue satin hoops was pianist Margaret
Chalmers, who might justly exclaim with
Mark Twain that the report of her death
was greatly exaggerated. Another lady
of the same name having died suddenly
last week, Margaret the musician was
dragged from bed, bath and electric
toaster through one morning explaining
to telephone calls that it really was her-
self answering the inquiries. There was
Ethelwyn Kirk, all golden curls and a
cream-and-gold hooped frock, disguised
as Miss Bourke, sister to the Governor
of that name, and hostess at the first
recorded Government House music party.
Ethelwyn, incidentally, designed all the
costumes (except some from the Con.
wardrobe) in the pageant.
The stage in the Blaxland Galleries was
an arrangement of dark curtains and a
large oval frame in which the soloists
stood, dressed in the style and singing
the favorite arias <?f opera and concert
stars whom Australian audiences of 30,
40, 50 and 90 years ago thrilled to. There
was Walter Kingsley, as J. Lazar, sing-
ing “The Heart Bowed Down”; Sara
Flower, who sang in 1850 at the Victoria
Theatre, lived again when Heather Kin-
naird’s voice rose plaintive in “By the
Sad Sea Waves” ; Gladys Verona’s fluent
notes *wove the pattern of “Ah, non
Credea.” She impersonated that Cather-
ine Hayes who gave a concert for the
Randwick Asylum in 1855 and made
£lOOO for the cause.
Constance Burt, who was a pupil of
Melba, was that Nellie Armstrong
who appeared at a Melbourne concert in
1885. Raymond Beatty made a jolly
Charles Santley. Nellie Stewart lived
again in the costume actually worn by
her in “Ma Mie Rosette.” Ada Crossley,
Belle Cole, Clara Butt, Josef Kretsch-
mann (Charles Philp behind the dis-
guise) and Howard Carr, as conductor
of the Philharmonic Society of 1854,
helped in the picture. So did many
others, for the ground covered stretched
from 1788 to the work at the moment
being revived by the Con. Opera School,
which is directed by Hilda Mulligan,
Florent Hoogstoel and Roland Foster.
Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, who organised
Music Week —pageant, exhibition of
music, instruments and literature—has
done the job with her usual thoroughness
and artistry.
One of the week’s brightest and best
was the reception given by the H. S.
Dettmanns at the Queen’s Club last Thurs-
day evening. The host and hostess, whose
two daughters are in England, were re-
ceiving congratulations on Denise’s pro-
gress at Oxford. She plucked her rowing
blue the other day. The J. V. Wilsons
(he’s on the Secretariat of the League of
Nations at Geneva), who have been in
Maoriland, and have now gone off
Genevawards in the Strathmore, and the
Earle Page lady, who has also sailed in
the Strathmore, were in the spotlight.
Mrs. Dettmann’s flowered chiffons were
fresh from Parisian tissues. Her flowers
were white jasmine. The silver lame
worn by the Earle Page lady reminded
of a Morris poem, so rich with red roses
was it. Sons Donald and Iven and
daughter Mrs. Bailey Tart came with
their mother. The Lieutenant-Governor
Phillip Streets were at thi_ party; so
were the Hugh Poynters, Dr. Constance
D’Arcy and the David Maughans.
Once again the Consul-General for
Greece made his home at Elizabeth Bay
free to the music-maker and the music-
listener. The affair was in aid of the
Race Week Ball, a moneyspinner for
the Food for Babies’ Fund. Prof. Brose
gave a lecturette before the programme,
and coffee and savories rounded off the
evening, which had been arranged by
Mrs. Roos and Miss Donovan. The big,
double drawing-room of the old home
is well suited for this form of entertain-
ment, and Dr. Kocotakis will probably
be receiving a few more applications for
a loan of it. Lieut.-Commander and
Mrs. Coles were in the audience; so
were Mrs. Claude Plowman and Mrs.
Norman Lowe.
A Sydney couple who after 10 years
are still very happy about their mar-
riage were dancing together at one of
the big balls. It was the third time in
succession they had danced with each
other, and they were smiling gaily over
some shared joke. “Look at them,” ex-
claimed one of the men of the party,
“washing their clean linen in public!”
While the ink on this letter is drying
the Governor-General and Lady Gowrie
are sailing in the Nieuw Zeeland for
Singapore on their way to England. Part
of their voyage will be done by airliner.
Ivie Price, who is spending a few days
in Melbourne with Mrs. Fred Payne, is
on the wing, too. Before she went from
Australia Lady Gowrie went to the Bor-
gioli concert, with orchestra, on Friday
night, and to the meeting to whip up
interest in the Symphony Orchestra held
on Friday afternoon in the Australia.
“Brush up your French! ” is the slogan
from Vaucluse to Warrawee. Sydney,
theatres permitting, is to have a season of
French comedies. Post-war and current
Paris successes will be included in the
company’s presentations, and, of course,
four or five of the classical comedies.
Several members of the proposed com-
pany are Chevaliers of the Legion of
Honor, and one is a film and radio star.


1/
HtWOtUDS MV\V
iIWWW Vr w-r.
Cl&yto!\ Bfl|'
London . s .VeHsi
v \ / /
Nv ' ' / iSiis^J
a pleasant
and perfect
VlcK-me-up
Kola Tonic is the ideal
non-alcoholic mental
and physical stimulant.
Agents for Clayton
Bros., London.
Gollin & Company
Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Claytons
F
Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatmentanother day. When
Care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
11l
EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
Next of Kin.
TO Elizabeth Jones, sister of Lloyd Jones, who
died intestate in New Zealand on the 4th
November, 1936: to the children of the
said Elizabeth Jones: to Richard Lloyd
Jones, nephew of the deceased: and to all
persons claiming by, through or under
them or any of them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
Ist July, 1938, your claims to share in the
estate of the abovenamed Lloyd Jones, failing
which such . estate will be distributed disre-
garding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this Bth day of March,
1938.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Personal and Missing Friends.
William Ballarat Barker.
IF WILLIAM BALLARAT BARKER, a
brother of Septimus John Barker, late of
Armstrong Street North, Ballarat, in Victoria,
Investor, last heard of in Sydney, communi-
cates with the undermentioned Company he
will hear something to his advantage.
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
101 Lydiard Street North,
Ballarat, Victoria.
A. R. HAMILTON, Manager.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND—WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
Wellington Registry.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act 1908.
And IN THE MATTER of HENRY WIL-
LIAM LEVER of the City of Wellington
Retired Banker deceased.
PURSUANT to an order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
Twenty-seventh day of January 1938 NOTICE
IS EIEREBY GIVEN that all creditors and
other persons having claims against the estate
of the abovenamed deceased person who died
at Wellington on the Eighth day of September
1937 and probate of whose will was granted by
the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wel-
lington on the First day of November 1937
are hereby required to send in full particulars
in writing in duplicate of their claims to the
Executor The Guardian Trust and Executors
Company of New Zealand Limited at its regis-
tered office situate at Number 235 Lambton
Quay Wellington within thirty days of the date
of the publication of this advertisement after
which date the Executor will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the deceased among the
persons entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims and demands of which it shall then
have had notice.
DATED at Wellington this 16th day of
March, ■ 1938,
THE GUARDIAN TRUST AND EXECU-
TORS COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED.
FELL, PUTNAM AND MACANDREW,
Wellington, New Zealand, Solicitors to the ex-
ecutor of the abovenamed deceased.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 373 of 1938.
BETWEEN EDWIN SIMSON Petitioner
And AMELIA SIMSON formerly Amelia
Vaughan Respondent.
TO AMELIA SIMSON late of Number 30
Little Street, Hurstville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDWIN
SIMSON has commenced a suit against you
you in this Court and.is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixteenth day of June One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-eight and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
G. W. CONNAH, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 201 of 1938.
BETWEEN ANNIE EVELYN SHIELS Peti-
tioner
And SYLVESTER HECTOR O’MARA
SHIELS Respondent.
TO SYLVESTER HECTOR O’MARA SHIELS,
late of The George Hotel, Haymarket,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
EVELYN SHIELS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obfaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of March, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. L. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
HUMPHREY MANSFIELD, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The next best thing to winning at
Moonee Valley on Saturday would have
been getting loose with a pair of
scissors among the zinnias in the saddling
paddock. There was no wind, and the
sun shone with such pleasant warmth that
women who chose lightweight woollen
suits were more comfortable than those
in heavier winter coats. Among the
neatly-tailored was Mrs. Duncan Fraser
Smith, who has only recently returned
from England. Her race glasses were
slung over the shoulder of a check suit,
worn with brick-dust blouse and tall
black hat, even taller through the mini-
strations of its feather mount. Mrs.
Edric Henty took a peck of*color here
and there for her grey nubbly coat, small
ruby-red hat and dark blue veil. Frances
Winter-Irving’s coat was black and col-
lared in fox. Mrs. Geoffrey Cohen’s
snuff-brown woollen frock had the
accompaniment of a hat of exactly the
same shade. The battleship-grey color
of Jennie Outhwaite’s hat was appropri-
ate to its shape, rather like a turret on
a cruiser, the top storey being a little
less militant with a swathe of white
satin ribbon.
When Dr. and Mrs. L. J. Balfour gave
a late-afternoon good-bye party for
Phyllis, Beverley and John (all off to Eng-
land), the host and hostess gathered their
own friends towards the lounge on the
right, “the nursery” being on the left, for
sons and daughters and for married folk
with children not quite up to, or still .at,
school age. The flowers were perfect
and all grown by Mrs. Balfour. One
dahlia was of such magnificence that it
had a vase to itself and received enough
admiration to have turned its beautiful
head.
Among guests were noticed the Lance
Cunningham couple, Mrs. Cunningham
very striking in black, with a hat tip-
tilted over one side. The Kenneth Adam-
sons were there ; also the Layton Richard-
sons, who motored down from Berwick
way in what was technically a truck, but
from most angles looked like something
v£ry snappy in streamlined cars. Peggy
Williamson wore black and a string of
pearls, and Margaret MacLeod clapped
a black beret atop her black-and-white-
speckled dress. Betty Kelly’s hat was
high and her coat fur-trimmed. Peggy
Nankivell was there wondering between
times if this winter she’ll have a trip to
Perth or a ski-ing holiday (or perhaps
both). The E. G. Williams couple came
along, Mrs. Williams wearing a tailored
suit and saucer hat and imparting the
news that her sister, Mrs. Rex Johnson,
who, with her husband, left Shanghai just
before the bullets got plentiful, is happily
settled in her new home at Burnie, Tas-
mania.
Masses of relatives (for there is hardly
an acre of the Western District that
hasn’t an offshoot of the Beggs family
tree growing upon it) were present at
the marriage of Muriel Beggs and Jim
Carr. The bride, whom everybody calls
Mouse, looked charming in her ice-blue
gown and tulle veil, and no one would
have guessed that she’d just waged a
three-day fight with influenza and had
cough-jubes concealed in her bouquet.
The ’maids were also in pale blue. The
baby of the group, ’groom’s niece Catri-
ona MacLeod, was a very self-possessed
little figure as she walked up the aisle
of Christ Church, South Yarra, carrying
the ring upon a satin cushion and not
missing much of what went on from
under her devastatingly long eyelashes.
A compliment to the ’groom was that,
although no one expects a mere man’s
garb to be noticed at a dressy function
like a wedding, his going-away suit was
such an enormous success that everybody
wanted to know the name of his tailor.
The wedding reception was at the Em-
bassy, while the Florentino seemed to
be the general idea for dinner, with a
return to the Embassy by mutual consent
of the younger folk, who felt like con-
cluding the evening with dancing. The
newly-wedded couple have gone on a
leisurely motor trip to Southport in
Queensland. The ’groom, who is the
youngest son of the Justin Carrs of
Marne-street, South Yarra, has a
property only 50 miles away from the
bride’s old home, Bushy Creek, Glen-
thompson, so that Mrs. Frank Beggs
won’t be losing her daughter altogether.
Grace Graham and Dr. Kevin Brennan
went off quietly one afternoon last week
and married each other. Nobody was
really surprised, for the pair have been
great pals for a number of years and
they are both pretty good at keeping
secrets. Although Grace had her engage-
ment ring for several weeks she didn’t
wear it, and only a few special friends
knew it was at home in her jewel-box.
The marriage took place in the charm-
ing little church of St. Augustine’s in
Bourke-street, and the couple will live
in an equally charming little house on the
lake at Ballarat, which house was found
and furnished as quietly as the rest of
the wedding plans were hatched. The
honeymoon is a journey by motor to
Sydney.
Pictured her by Athol Shmith is Bar-
bara Smith, who is playing Catherine
Hilton in Gregan McMahon’s produc-
tion of “Call It a Day.” Barbara comes
from Sydney, and is the daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. S. A. Smith, of Araluen, Edge-
cliff. One of her sisters, whose footlights
name is Nancy O’Neil, has had several
stage and film roles in England. An-
other sister, Lorraine, is also in London,
for she, too, has the “theatre bug” and
the urge to be in the hub of things.
Dr. and Mrs. Smith are interested in their
daughter’s progress and ambitions* and
are themselves a competent pair of critics
upon things theatrical.
A couple who were receiving felicita-
tions at the party were Joan Hill and
Ronnie McNicoll. Joan, who’s a tall
brunette, was all in black with goblin
cap, gold snake chain necklace and brace-
let and, of course, her new engagement
ring. The marriage takes place about the
middle of the year, and the domicile will
probably be Sydney or Melbourne or
even further afield, depending upon
whether the Defence Department decides
to give Ronnie a transfer or lets him
stav nut.
, . . ~ . , , .. •
In the Dickmson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Norman Albiston, who as a com-
poser is known as Margaret Sutherland.
On March 29 there is to be a concert at
the Assembly Hall, when half a dozen
well-known artists will contribute a varied
programmme of her works. It is some
years since her compositions have made
up an entire programme, the previous
occasion being on her return from Europe,
whither she went to continue her studies
af ter unending both the Albert-street
and the University Conservatonums. Dr
Albiston is also musical It is too early
as yet to foretell if Jennifer, who is only
six, will inherit the family tastes and
talents, but Mark, who is nine, is making
satisfactory progress upon his small-sized
violin.
A bumper house came along to the
King’s to see Gregan McMahon’s suc-
cessful production of “Call It a Day.”
The action of this Dodie Smith money-
maker provided opportunity for Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson (whose name appeared
on the programme as Julie Cotton) and
Barbara Smith to wear delectable nighties
and negliges, a couple of walking suits
and, in Mrs. Gibson’s case, an evening
gown like an evening mist. In the stalls
was a spotlight of emerald-green which
swathed the shoulders of Mrs. Andy
Chirnside, who accompanied her mother,
Mrs. Frank Andrew, and brother Rod.
Moire, in burgundy shot with brown,
made a rustling cloak for Mrs. Jim
Buchanan. Gold lame, over which
swished black chiffon and ospreys, was
the choice of Mrs. W. B. Burston, and
ice-blue satin and orchids that of Freda
Connolly.
The Norman Lee couple from Eng-
land, a pair who are good mixers and
have made a lot of friends in Melbourne
during the eight months they have spent
here, departed for Sydney last week on
the first stage of their journey home by
way of Java and Singapore. Their final
fling for about 120 friends was a cock-
tail party at Menzies. Among good-
byes, which were all mixed up with the
packing, was a party given by the Toddy
Stewarts in their attractive flat, Coolulah-
avenue, where the walls are off-white and
Mrs. Stewart expresses her individual
taste with all-white flowers for every
occasion. On the same evening there
was another do a couple of minutes’
drive away in Mathoura-road, where a
couple of fetching brunettes, Mrs. George
Patterson and her sister Nina Robert-
son, gave what they called a “bottle
party.” Several of the same guests
popped up there once more after having
been seen earlier at the Stewarts’.
It takes a prospector or perhaps an
experienced burglar to know gold when
he sees it. The average person (if *ep-
resented by a great number ot tne people
who came on the first morning o
Coronation robes exhibited i
Queen’s Hall of Parliament House) is
wary of all that glitters, at least behind
? f lass Nobody was really sure
£ the %rowns. Some said tinsel,
, and a f ew advanced the
that was queer to have imita-
crowns the same disp i ay as the
But they are quite real, the
worn by the young princesses at
Coronation ceremony. The Queen’s
also came in for some aspersions-
£babl because it was not exactly the
Ki - i t a i so is the genuine
.t cape® worn by Queen Eliza-
A f b and the only chance
. has f ever bei worn again is at
be j) urbar


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 250 of 1938.
BETWEEN ARTHUR WILLIAM BOSTICK
Petitioner
And MARY MENA BOSTICK Respon-
dent.
TO MARY MENA BOSTICK late of Corri-
mal New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
ARTHUR WILLIAM BOSTICK has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a disolution of your
niarriage on the grounds that you have deserted
him without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the First
day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight AND in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2191 of 1937.
BETWEEN MARIE GRACE HUNT Peti-
tioner
And CLEMENT VINCENT HUNT Re-
spondent.
TO CLEMENT VINCENT HUNT formerly
of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARIE
GRACE HUNT has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness and habitual failure to
support for three years AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixth day
of June next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by 'their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 361 of -1936.
BETWEEN MICHAEL ALLAN SWEENEY
Petitioner
And JOSEPHINE MARGARET
SWEENEY Respondent.
TO JOSEPHINE MARGARET SWEENEY
late of 48 Upper Pitt Street Kirribilli.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MICHAEL
ALLAN SWEENEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the second day
of June One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
eight and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of March, a.d. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 386 of 1938.
BETWEEN MARGARET ASHLEY Peti-
tioner
And CHARLES WILLIAM ASHLEY Re-
spondent.
TO CHARLES WILLIAM ASHLEY formerly
of Mayville near Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARGARET
ASHLEY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable .Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Sixth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-eight and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of March, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; By their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors. 2 York
Street, Sydney.
A
h
a PP3
holidi
ay
wonderful weather...
mm
/a
. ' -
m
m
dL J
but the great discovery
was “OVALTINE” COLD
A REFRESHING glass of delicious “OVALTINE” cold—
what could be more welcome on a warm summer day,
and “OVALTINE” is much more than a delightful summer
drink. It is brimful of special nourishment that builds up
perfect physical health and abundant vitality. A glass of
“Ovaltine” makes even the lightest summer meal completely
sustaining and health-giving.
A trial sample of “OVALTINE,” sufficient to make four cupsful, will
be sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover cost of packing and postage.
OWILTINE'
COLD
Prices: 1/9, 2/10 and 5/-
At all Chemists and Stores
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
03-18-38
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Mrs. Campbell Brown and her
daughters Kathleen and Leslie sent to
Sydney for one of Rhoda Wager’s delight-
ful silver brooches as a parting gift for
Mrs. Brigden, whom they entertained at
their home. It was a gay party.
Gwen Hughes, president of the Bris-
bane Women’s Club, has just sent half a
pound of Queensland soil to Virginia,
U.S.A. The president of a women’s club
at Roanoke asked for it, as the members
of her club intend planting a birch-tree
in the soils of 30 different countries as
a gesture towards world peace.
Pauline Elliott on the eve of her depar-
lure for England gave a party so fhat
she could say good bye to all her friends.
Lena Hammond sang There were com-
nptitirmc an,! LL i u + y ;
other nartv oiv<» aug^. ter , yet
eight hostesses ** m au me s honor by
' , . . .
e new Women s Hospital, which is
Pait j i. at tbe General, was
opened by Minister for Health Hanlon,
Wh7 t ; fiS" n S , mitb 7 as in nav A and
" bl "fl a ° d ,be Bla ‘ r lad V ln n ? v y- Mayor-
sheer S phos ?,. the sa ™ e shad ;-- >?“ “
flower d h a y cmbroldered
A , ’ .
Mrs J. B. Brigden, who must now
make her home in Canberra, has been
attending many farewell parties arranged
in her honor. One was arranged by the
women s section of the Social Service
League, which is losing a good friend,
Ihe party was held in the workroom,
might with frangipanni and lemon-
colored tulle. Mrs. Henry Robertson
and Mrs. J. H. Hancock were hostesses,
ar *r i!9i rmer i P r ® sente( | a casket of
po ished Queensland maple which held
a silver thimble and a needle case.
Dr. and Mrs. J. Ryan (she was Beth
II iff, hon. sec. of All Hallows’ Past'
Pupils’ Association and a qualified
accountant) have a new son, who is to
be named James Barry.
~
WESTRALIA.
A quartet of Cathedral Fathers, headed
by Archbishop Prendiville, made sure
that Joyce Fuller gave the correct re-
sponses when she faced the early-morn-
ing light at St. Mary’s altar beside Philip
Jackson, who carries out secretarial
duties for the archbishop. The bride’s
white triple ninon frothed over shimmers
of silver lame, and was veiled with
Brussels lace made and presented by the
nuns at the Home of the Good Shepherd,
The ’maids, Elsie Fuller and Marie Jack-
son, did their bit in swathes of palest-
pmk French crepe topped with matching
Breton sailors bowed with velvet. Cham-
pagne flowed at Raffles Hotel ’mid
masses of dahlias and gladioli, and the
honeymoon planned is a three months’
wander ¥ ound die Eastern States and
Maonla nd.
Nor-westers, who are beginning to
think of returning to their horned and
woolly charges, invited hordes of pas-
toral and town folk to gather with them
c° c ktail time at the W.A. Club. Mrs.
Arthur Francis carried off millinery
bo ?°, rs he L dem L re b i ac J c b °r et
t,ed nea h !>er chin. Mrs Sydney Yeo,
Wh °. ls . sta y> ng ,‘°, wn antll ‘ he Wlnter >
pe . rched up,u ™ ed bal ° abov T e h ? mag ?J e
crepes, and Mrs. Guy McLeod, on the
eve °f departure for Minilya, her station
home, had an o.s. white bow on her black
headgear. Crowds stayed on to dine, and
completely changed the atmosphere of
the austere club dining-room, usually in-
habited by men
Members of the Royal Schools' Music
c|ub trans£orme d the Karrakatta Club
Hall into a garden of blooms for their
opening at-home of the year. The
Mitchell lady clasped presentation
dahlias and gladioli to her clinging black
satin and lace girdings, and president
Mrs. C. L. Mason carried a Victorian
posy in shades to match her Bayadere-
striped crepes in salmon, mauve and
green tonings. Music was followed by
an unusual one-act play, arranged by
Lily Cavanagh, based on a Chinese
legend and entitled “The Soul of the
Great Bell.”
Autumnal tones predominated when
the younger Mawley sister, Ethel, became
Mrs. Duncan Beaton at St. Mary’s, South
Perth. Brown paisley silk, cigar-toned
felt halo and bouquet of tawny roses
took the place of conventional creamy
bridal raiment. Sister Mary held the
bouquet in mustard crepes topped with
autumn-tinted felt headgear. Families and
a few intimates drank a toast at the
Mawley home across the road,
Before the departure from Australian
waters of the Italian cruiser Raimondo
Montecuccoli, Captain Alberto Da Zara
dispensed farewell coctkails to a host of
guests. The Italian Consul, Signor Con-
stantino, escorted the v.-r. party up the
gangway, and naval and military heads
had wives and daughters in tow. Sipping
and nibbling were interspersed with a
spot of dancing on the beflagged deck.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs Sidney Ayers gave a cocktail
party for friends of her son John, who
has just returned from a visit to India,
and Mrs. Ayers had also invited guests
to meet Valerie Baldock, whose home is
in the East. The hostess was unable to
be present —she had an accident while
playing tennis the previous day—but her
sister, Mrs. Sidney Reid, and aunt, Mrs.
Violet Crozier, assisted Sidney Ayers and
his son to make the party a success. It
was held in the old garden at the Kid-
man lady’s home, Eringa, where the
Ayerses are living during its chatelaine’s
absence.
At St. Matthew’s Church, Marryat-
ville, J. Carlin Williams married Audrey,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cooper,
of Leabrook. The bride was gowned in
white satin veiled in Chantilly lace, with
train effect. The bridal veil of fine
Brussels lace had been lent by the bride-
groom’s mother, and was held in place
by a coronet of orange-blossom. Brides-
maids Edna Cooper (bride’s sister), Jean
Williams (bridegroom’s sister) and Mavis
Tonkin were frocked alike in white
blister satin flowered in blue, with blue
tulle veils held in place by bluebird
feather mounts. A reception was held
afterwards at Kongorong, home of the
bride’s parents.
For her marriage at St. Peter’s chapel
to Dr. Walter Hooper Baudinet, Beth,
youngest daughter of Mrs. Lillecrapp, of
Royston Park, and the late A. E. Lille-
crapp, of Gawler, wore heavy fawn silk
crepe, the pin-tucked bodice gold em-
broidered. A small matching toque with
circular veil completed the picture.
Bride’s sister, Jean Lillecrapp, attended in
porcelain green with quilted silk Peter
Pan collar. Her smart toque had an eye-
veil.
Mayor and Mayoress Barrett gave a
cocktail party as a farewell to Prof, and
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson and their
daughter Yvonne, who are leaving Adel-
aide for their future home in Melbourne.
William Sowden and his lady came up
from Victor Harbor to attend the party.
TASMANIA.
The dance on board the Canberra was
enjoyed by 200. Red and white flags,
masses of flowers and festoons of lights
made charming effects. The night was
warm, and supper was served on deck.
Commander Esdaile and his wife re-
ceived the guests, Mrs. Esdaile in a pretty
purple-toned floral frock with little
purple bolero. All the naval wives were
there.
The R. M. Murrays (Queenstown)
sailed for England in the Orontes, and
will be away some months. The A. H. P.
Molines gave a sherry party at their
home, Comrie, Queenstown, when about
100 friends bade the travellers good-bye.
The latest crop of engagements in-
cludes Joan, only daughter of Mr. and
the late Mrs. T. A. Chandler, Union
Bank, to John Watchorn (Queenstown);
Pauline Spencer Parsons, Wincanton,
Grove, Huon, to Tom Bowling, Cressy ;
June, daughter of Mrs. and the late
Captain Piercey (Melbourne), to Dick
Clive, Old Beach ; Jean Madeline Comley
(Glenelg, S.A.) to Edgar T., fourth son
of Mrs. and the late Bradshaw Major,
Lindisfarne.
Vice-Admiral Alister Beal (Eng.) and
Mrs. Beal are staying with Mrs. Beal’s
sister, the Lewis lady, at Werndee,
Augusta-road. They have been in the
north for some months.
A cocktail party in the Canberra was
the Navy’s farewell to Hobart, and a
very gay one it was. About 500 guests
were bidden. Lovely weather made the
scene colorful. Frocks were very gay,
and hats conspicuous by their absence.
Captains and officers of H.M.A.S.
Sydney and Vendetta combined forces
for a farewell dance, held in the Ven-
detta just before sailing. Guests were
mostly young folk, and the show finished
with a crayfish supper in the wardroom.


OONTMISS
r*/E 1152
not om Your.
LIF-fe /
U-S2- M ® ®
T
a*
"All
the World
■for 24 gns.
THE Twelve Fifty Two is a new Philips
' Dual-wave Radioplayer with Audio-
scopic Reproduction, "Twilight" Dial, dis-
tinctive Lowboy console, and many other
unique features. Hear it for yourself.
Terms available.
PHILIPS
Warfif^blKM
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
, 'Xlso''sendl:pXge"statT6n’''b6ck"
HHmnm sri2 ■■■■■■■
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
Somebody’s getting
a Better Radio now!.
Milliard
MASTER RADIO
Prices fritm
DF
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Improving Short-wave
Selectivity.
In contrast with a well-designed short-
wave superhet, the tuned R.F. type of
short-wave receiver, like its broadcast
prototype, often suffers from poor selec-
tivity.
Especially is this noticeable now
that the popular 31-metre channel is
crowded with powerful stations. Recep-
tion conditions may be responsible for
a dozen or so stations all putting a very
strong signal into the receiving location
at the same time, with resulting over-
shadowing owing to the proximity of
frequencies. At other times one or more
Three selectivity improving arrange-
ments suitable for inselective short-
wave T.R.F. or super het receivers.
of these stations may be received clearly
with freedom from interference.
The “straight” or tuned R.F. type of
short-wave receiver can be materially im-
proved in this respeet by using one of the
various forms of tuned aerial coupling.
Not only may the signal strength be con-
siderably increased, but a good degree of
selectivity can be obtained by judicious
use of the extra tuning control.
The circuits illustrated show three
systems of tuned aerial coupling which
involve very little constructional diffi-
culty. Any of these will effect a material
improvement to the T.R.F. short-wave
receiver, and, for that matter, to super-
hets of the kind where no R.F. ampli-
fication or pre-selection is used ahead of
the first detector. Circuit A consists of
the addition of a coil and condenser
identical with the tuning coil and con-
denser in the input circuit of the receiver.
The new tuned circuit is shielded from
the receiver, this point being quite im-
portant, and coupling is obtained through
a lOOmmfd. midget variable or mica
compression condenser. The aerial is
either coupled to the top end of the
aerial coil through a small capacity, such
as 50mmfd., or to an alternative tapping
point somewhere down the coil. This
tapping point, if used, is ascertained by
experiment, and is determined by the
length and capacity of the receiving
aerial.
In the second circuit, B, an additional
coil and condenser are employed similarly,
but in this case the grid coil in the re-
ceiver is tapped to provide the required
degree of selectivity.
In circuit C a very effective method
is shown. Here a primary is coupled
to the receiver-grid coil, and this is linked
through a lOOmmfd. variable condenser
to the extra tuned circuit. The step-up
ratio of the aerial coil through the grid
coil and the use of a variable coupling
condenser provide the required selec-
tivity adjustment.
In any of these arrangements the extra
coil and condenser must cover the same
frequencies as the coil-and-condenser
combination in the receiver. If ithe
receiver uses plug-in coils a similar
arrangement can be conveniently em-
ployed. If the receiver uses band-switch-
ing, the pre-selector unit can be made up
in a metal box with three or four coils
switched to cover the entire short-wave
bands.
D. B. K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
wave Four, described in B. 28/4/’37.
Location, Richmond, Queensland.
Reception has been
very good lately all
over the dials. In the
mornings, Berlin has
been heard on 29 metres
at great strength, and
the 31-metre stations
are all good. GSB is
very fine, this station
being held until closing
at 9 a.m., and audible
again on reopening at
9.30 a.m. DJN can
also be heard at 9.30
a.m. and W2XAF at 9
a.m. The 49-metre
stations are all good,
with OLR2A probably
the best. The South
Africans are also very
well heard at times.
GSA is also good copy.
On 25 metres GSD
can be heard until
closing at 9 a.m., then again from about
9.22 to 10 a.m. DJD is very good until
closing around 7.20, but is only fair after
this until around 9 a.m., when strength
improves again. TPA3 is strong in the
early morning, and TPA4 is well audible
as late as 10 a.m. W2XE usually closes
at 9.5 a.m. after plenty of talks and an-
nouncements. On l/3/’3B WIXAL
closed at 9.35 a.m. with the “Star-spangled
Banner.”
The 19-metre band is improving around
8 a.m., with DJQ easily the best, being
far ahead of the Daventry stations, of
which GSO is the best. WIXK is now
better than W2XAD. These two and
DJQ are a good trio for concentration as
late as 10 a.m. During last winter DJQ
was excellent all through the mornings
wherever the receiver was used in Queens-
land> In the afternoons, TPA4 news is
use ful at 2.30 p.m., showing steady
s j gna i improvement. At 3 p.m. the
ic „„ii nri „ nf i 0+ 4 n m verv
. g htf’ the 25-tnetre band
. g< nm . , f d ’
c °? e to DJD, is very g P;_
closes at 4.55 p.m. T is lansmi
ls used for directional working to Africa.
TPA3 is very good from 5.15 p.m., but
after 7.30 p.m. signal strength is weak and
noisy; News in English is given
aD °ut /.4U p.m.
DJB, DJQ and DJL are audible in that
order from 3 p.m., and improve rapidly,
being at their best between 5 p.m. and
6 p.m. All Daventry stations start well
in the afternoon, GSD, GSB, GSF, GSO
and GSG being in that order of merit,
The change to 5 p.m. on Sunday shows an
improvement, as after 8 p.m. these sta-
tions are weaker and noisier. At night
excellent reception is had on all bands
at present. Berlin is beating Daventry
easily on 19 metres from 9 p.m., whereas
in the late afternoons GSO and GSF can
run rings around Berlin. GSG and GSJ
do very well, often being stronger than
GSO or GSF on 19 metres. There is
plenty to be heard around 31 metres,
and late at night the 49-metre band is
now very good, the best station being
WBXAL.
K. B. G.
Amateur Chatter.
It is unfortunate when, as at time of
writing, conditions are favorable for
long-distance communication on 56mc.
that it takes a station at each end to
make a contact. On Sunday, 13 /3 / ’3B, a
message was received from VK2GU
by land-line to the effect that Mt.
Stromlo reported unusual ionosphere
conditions, and that long-distance com-
munication should be possible on ultra-
shorts. The weather had changed sud-
denly from summer heat and humidity to
winterly cold. The writer lost no time
in getting the 56mc. transmitter on the
air, both on automatic C.W. and ’phone,
calling and looking for reports and con-
tacts for an hour or two. The directive
aerial system was aimed N.E. and S.W.
The array of aerial towers of the German short-wave broadcast transmitters near Berlin.
Two weak stations were heard to reply
on ’phone, calling VK2NO, but these
were unidentifiable owing to the trans-
missions being of the modulated-oscil-
lator variety. By the nature of the sig-
nals these sounded as if at some dis-
tance, but no reception report has been
received, and the possibility must be
discarded.
With unusual conditions above 28mc.
the world over, VKs are missing a golden
opportunity for interesting investigation
work on 56mc. It is so easy to make up
stable, transmitters and equally stable re-
ceivers. Probably the only way for
definite results to be obtained would be
for those who stick at the band to estab-
lish stations a few hundred miles away
and to keep schedules with the home
station. That things have been happen-
ing on 56mc. overseas is evident, judg-
ing by transmissions overheard on the
American 20-metre ’phone band. W2IXY
in New York was engaged in relaying
56mc. DX transmissions one early morn-
ing, and G6DH seemed to be working
two-way with aW. Another American
20- ’phone station was heard relay-
ing a W 2 on 56mc., apparently to Eng-
land. The Americans have a cloud of
amateur stations working on 56mc., and
do not have to seek far for co-operation.
A new 56mc. transmitter has been
completed by the writer for VK2EM.
This has an exciter similar to those used
by VK2NO and VK2AZ, namely 6L6
electron-coupled oscillator from 28mc.
to 56mc., followed by an 802 buffer. The
final stage uses two of the new 809’s in
push-pull, and the efficiency obtained is
remarkable. Enough R.F. is obtained
with 750 volts at lOOma. on the plates
to burn out wave-meter lamps Bin. away
from the aerial. VK2EM will be in
action from Gordon (N.S.W.) with this
new rig on C.W. and telephony in the
near future.
An interesting American publication
is “Ultra-high Frequency News,” run by
a group of W3’s interested in 56mc. pri-
marily. It contains reports of 56mc. DX
and activity generally. Among other
practical hints in the current number it
mentions that next to acorn valves the
6JSG appears to be the best valve for
ultra-high-frequency reception. This
valve’s low internal capacitances and high
mutual conductance make it ideal for
21- reception. It is being used
extensively in U.S.A. in television
receivers. Another tip: a simple con-
centric transmission line can be easily
made up using ordinary push-back wire
and small-diameter copper or aluminium
tubing. The dielectric qualities of the
wire insulation are far from ideal, and
the line should not be used for long
lengths. It is satisfactory for links and
short lines. Thus it is quite suitable
for a mobile-car installation.
VR6A Pitcairn Island, heard fre-
quently in ’phone QSO with U.S.A, is
an elusive contact for VKs. Either he
concentrates on the American ’phone
channel or VKs have been swamped by the
terrific C.W. QRM during the W/VE DX
contest. Perhaps when the ’phone con-
test starts the operator there will give
14,250 to 14,150 kc. a miss on his receiver
for relief. The C.W. contest provided
SUCh “ eXamP ' e ° f QRM


t
\U*
•IV
’Ttt*
‘'wss^ 55 " 5 '
tod-vo. A wtest ° nd
.'«•» i% D **»“?; «™ c«”"“:;
■»«' TTa* '•% #»'
sr^s^s^
TCjuurrwY
vn Mm ciu micftivtmt
AH
mam
Air
Cell
• THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY., LTD., SydneyT
DF
a
Rouse your liver with the pin of the century.
Banish Constipation, Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Box
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
6 <a/
«■****
p&m
N)V I * J
r
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
R E-VALVE W! T||
THE WORLD’S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (Ml) (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ® ELECTRIC)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
conditions during the forthcoming phone
contest can easily be imagined.
A new station heard on 20-metre tele-
graphy is VK9DM, Bulolo (N.G.). The
signal is strong in Eastern Australia, but
chirpy I.C.W. and not the easiest copy.
Evidently the operator is an ex-VK3, for
he spends all his time in QSO with
VK3ZZ.
A bad habit has been acquired uncon-
sciously by DX ’phone men. This is
the unnecessary 'and prolonged use of
phonetics. When making initial calls it
is quite in order, to make sure that DX
stations will make no mistake in the call-
sign, to use phonetics, such as A for
Australia, T for Tasmania. But there
is no sense in replying to a distant station
in his own phonetics. One hears replies
frequently going back to U.S.A. wherein
a VK will proceed thus: “VK So-and-so
replying to W 6 B Boston —K Kentucky
—Y Yellowstone.” Surely the American
in question knows that he is being replied
to when he is actually in contact with
the VK. Such misuse of phonetics is
merely agony to reasoning ears, but some
’phone men appear to have little faith in
their microphones, or possibly their own
pronunciation.
VK2NO.
Therapeutic Uses for Short
Waves.
Generators of radio-frequency energy
are used for other than radio purposes.
Short-wave electrical radiation may be
applied to the sterilisation of liquids, such
as water and milk, and of many other food
products; sterilisation of containers in
cases where high temperatures cannot be
used ; reduction or control of mould or
fungi, as on seeds, bulbs, foods and wall
surfaces ; treatment of certain superficial
skin diseases ; sterilisation of air in con-
nection with air-conditioning and dust
precipitation, preservation of foods
against decay, speeding up of plant
germination and characteristics, accom-
panied by electric soil or surface heating,
and sterilisation of hospital areas during
delicate operations.
VR6A—Pitcairn Island.
When Alan Eurich, radio operator of
the world-cruising yacht Yankee, looked
in on Pitcairn Island last year he found
Andrew Young, direct descendant of
Edward Young, Bounty mutineer, en-
gaged in struggling along to keep anti-
quated spark telegraphy gear signing
PITC in action to speak occasionally with
ships in the vicinity of the island.
m Eurich told his story in “Radio” and
“QST” ; American radio manufacturers
responded, and in very short order a
specially-designed up-to-date short- and
medium-wave telephony and telegraphy
station was dispatched to Pitcairn,
N.Z.S. Co.’s Rangitiki calling in on its
way to Auckland to deliver it.
It wouldn’t have been enough to hand
this gear over to Young without some
tuition, for Young had never heard a
short-wave signal in his life, let alone
seen modern radio equipment. So an
American amateur, WIBES, was sent
with the gear to instal it and instruct
Young in its operation. At the time of
writing, the station is on the air, and
audible each evening in Australia on the
amateur 20-metre band on telephony with
a strong signal. The callsign used is
VR6A, and no sooner does the station
change over after a call than Americans
can be heard calling him and working
him by the score. VKs and ZLs are in
the running also.
The equipment is almost unique in
radio design. Accumulators of ample
capacity are charged from a wind-driven
generator, which delivers eight amperes
in a 20-m.p.h. breeze, and the accumu-
lators run the entire station. The trans-
mitter plate power is taken from a 750-
volt dynamotor, and the transmitter has
been so designed as to give ample output
without imposing undue strain on the
accumulators. Crystal-controlled com-
munication is provided on 20, 40 and 600
metres. The receiver is similar to the
one used on the yacht Yankee —a Sar-
gent model 11 tuned R.F. type with con-
tinuous coverage from 10 to 3000 metres.
This operates also from a small dyna-
motor giving 200 volts at 40ma. Thus
there is no dependency on dry cells in
any form, the station running completely
from thq wind generatqr. The aerials for
each frequency are half-wave doublets
fed with 75-ohm Bassett concentric feeder
line. VR6A opens a new chapter in the
The complete radio equipment installed at Pitcairn Island
and now on the air as VR6A.
romantic history of Pitcairn Island.
“QST,” in describing the new station, says:
“May the amateur, in contacting the sta-
tion, remember that he is treading the
sanctity of 147 years of almost absolute
isolation. Largely by his conduct will
the rest of the world be judged by the
islanders.”
D. B. K.
"Radio" for February, 1938.
Latest issue of “Radio” to hand from
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) contains many
descriptions of advanced transmitter
design. Chief of these is an article on
the “Fixed Capacity Final.”
Neutralisation is by means of a
coupling link between grid and plate
circuits; inductance tuning is done by
means of a shorted rotatable loop of
silver wire, and the fixed capacity across
the plate tank is in the form of a special
high vacuum glass envelope condenser
by Eimac.
Other articles include “Improved Con-
version Exciter,” which is an excellent
answer to QSY and QRM ; “Foolproof
Dynapush Exciter” ; “Matching Antenna
Stubs with Remote Switching” ; “Keying
with Grid Controlled Rectifiers” ; “An
Amateur’s Vacuum-tube Voltmeter”;
“Five Bands —Individually Tuned,” a
clever amateur band superhet design;
“Economical ’Phone and C.W. Trans-
mitter” ; “Razor-sharp ’Phone. Selec-
tivity” ; “Push-pull 809’s Driven by the
Dynapush” ; “A Ham Band Superhet” ;
“Twenty Metre Rotary Antenna” and
“Transmitter Band-switching.”
“Radio” is a monthly publication
which both professional and amateur
radiomen need to keep abreast of de-
velopment. Annual subscription, 18s. 6d.,
acceptable through The Bulletin office,
252 George-street, Sydney.
Television and Amateurs.
The Radio Corporation of U.S.A. is
encouraging the co-operation of the ama-
teur transmitter in the development of
television.
This is shown by
the number of
R.C.A. advertise-
ments for television
components appear-
ing in magazines
read exclusively by
amateurs and ex-
perimenters. Tubes
and other com-
ponents required
have been pro-
duced in profusion.
This is in striking
contrast to the
policy adopted
elsewhere, and is
typical of Ameri-
can determination
to get ahead with
things. There can
be no surer way of
starting television
off on the right track than by letting the
experimenter in on the ground floor.
If manufacturers get together and pre-
serve a policy of secrecy, it will be much
longer before television is in general use
than if manufacturing facilities are made
available to experimenters. The experi-
menter should be encouraged to popu-
larise television in much the same way
as he did radio.
Australia is still without television
transmissions other than those of Elliott
in Brisbane, but when the time does
come the amateur radio experimenter
■u? be enc °uraged by making avail-
able to him the components to construct
his own receiving equipment.
D. B. K.
Philips 1643 Radioplayer.
Designed for country listeners, the new
Philips 1643 Radioplayer is a four-valve
superhet. with exceptionally low current
consumption and a low purchase price
to boot. Twenty-six guineas buys this
model as illustrated, and it is by no
means a job built to a price level.
Like other Radioplayers, it has auto-
matic volume control, full-sized battery
equipment, air trimmers in the I.F. trans-
formers, wide-vision Twilight dial, and
dial-light economy switch. The latter
is an ingenious combination which allows
the listener to tune to satisfaction and
then to extinguish the dial light for the
conservation of battery power.
Valves are Philips, of course, and in-
clude an octode frequency changer speci-
ally constructed to minimise battery
drain.
This instrument is purely a broadcast-
band receiver, and is housed in the well-
designed and -finished cabinet as shown.
Primarily intended for local reception,
the 1643 revealed that it is by no means
lacking in long-distance reception. The
tone is excellent, and altogether it is a
very attractive proposition for the coun-
try listener who desires reception of Aus-
tralian stations alone. Dual-wave Radio-
players are available in other models.
The Question Box.
What is meant by “man-made static”? —649.
Ihe term implies an electrical disturbance
caused by the operation of electrical apparatus.
Apparatus having a make-and-break contact, as
in the brushes of an electric motor, contains the
essentials of a spark transmitter. A loose or
dirty connection is sufficient to cause trouble.
The disturbances thus emitted may travel to
the home radio receiver through the air or
along the mains wiring in the house. They
usually arrive by both mediums.
* * * *
My home-lighting plant causes considerable
interference on the short-wave side of my dual-
wave receiver when the engine is running. How
can this be overcome ? —650.
It is only necessary to prevent the distribu-
tion along the house wiring connected to the
generator. This can be done by means of an
inductive-capacitive filter installed at the
generator, and an ignition suppressor can be
used additionally on the engine spark plug.
Details of filters can be obtained from Ducon
Condenser Pty., Bourke-street, Waterloo,
N.S.W.
* * * *
It is desired to measure some very small re-
sistances and my portable ohmmeter does not
read below 100 ohms. How can a 0-fo-l milli-
ammeter be connected to make a low-reading
ohmmeter ? —651.
The circuit diagram shows how this is done.
The 0-to-l meter is used with a 50,000-ohm
variable resistance and a 4volt battery. When
the battery switch is closed the meter reads full
scale at all times until the unknown resistance
is connected across the terminals. One advan-
tage of a low-reading ohmmeter is that it can
be used to test low-resistance coils such as
R.F. and I.F. coils. Resistances below 300
ohms can be checked with this circuit.


LYS
PROOF.
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
fV; :
FMS
Sm
I3§SIPS
*r»s*
w■, • .
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Autumn Lambs.
“Kyamba”: The unborn lamb makes
constant demands upon the pregnant
ewe. As the foetus develops, the material
need for growth must naturally be the
body-building protein. The actual food
needs of breeding ewes per 10001 b. live-
weight daily have been estimated as:
Digestible Total Digestible
Dry Matter. Protein. Nutrients.
23-271 b. 2.6-2.91 b. 18-201 b.
The natural food of the breeding ewe
is fresh green grass in its immature stage.
In spring grass is at its best.
Compare the following with the food-
needs table above:—■
1001 b. of young, green grass yields—
Digestible Total Digestible
Dry Matter. Protein. Nutrients.
29.71 b. 3.61 b. 20.11 b.
1001 b. of mature grass yields—
Digestible Total Digestible
Dry Matter. Protein. Nutrients.
30.81 b. 1.71 b. 18.31 b.
The protein content of mature grass is
too low. The low digestibility of mature
grass means that quantities have to be
consumed so that the right amount of
nutrients is assimilated. Strain on the
system results, and is the cause of the
digestive troubles common to ewes-in-
lamb pastured in paddocks of mature
grass.
These facts* should make it clear that
ewes due to lamb in autumn may need
protein-rich supplementary food. Here
is a food list with percentages of avail-
able protein:
Wheat 9.2, oats 9.7, barley 9, maize 7.5,
linseed oil cake 30, beans 20.7, peas 19,
cottonseed cake 31, bran 12.5, pollard 13.4.
The ideal food is a combination of lin-
seed oil cake and cottonseed cake, the
former being slightly laxative, which
counterbalances the latter’s costive
effects.
My experience has shown a marked
success when breeding ewes are fed with
this food, and I am convinced of its use-
fulness as a supplement to autumn grass.
Wool v. Central Heating.
“Ghanam”: Bob Willcocks, former
inter-State footballer and now a leading
grazier in the Longreach (C.Q.) district,
has returned from Europe and America
impressed by the effects of central heat-
ing and “artificial” fabrics on the wool
business.
In Europe, he says, the centrally-
heated house has become popular. In
U.S.A. he saw one of the new mammoth
“centre” buildings, which are going up in
every first-class city, in which there were
whole shopping streets centrally heated.
To this he attributes the popularity of
artificial fabrics ; and he found that in
some Continental countries in which ex-
change makes wool dear and difficult to
import the younger generation of girls
had developed a delusion that wool must
be uncomfortable. They were aston-
ished at the softness of some of the
Scottish weaves worn by his family.
But, even though central heating and
air-conditioning have developed to such
an extent that trains and the latest
motor-cars in U.S.A. are fitted with heat
control, it will be a long time before
Longreach and Willcocks are put out of
business.
Australia is selling double the wool
sold before the war and at a higher price.
The carry-over, even in an uncertain
season like the present, is negligible.
Wool is being more and more used in
large-scale manufacture. Provided prices
can be kept within reasonable limits,
there need be no fear for the future.
The best counter to modern fabrics
and modern building methods is modern
methods of wool-producing. Every
extra sheep which can be fitted on to an
acre, every sheep which can be saved in
drought, every £1 off taxes on wool-
growing, every extra pound of wool
which can be produced off a sheep helps
to reduce gross sheep-raising costs and
enable growers to make a profit at a
lower price.
And the lower the price at which wool
can be sold profitably the better the
woolgrower is able to deal with corn-
“you can't call me a fool and expect me to co-operate, sir.”
petition by cheaper fabrics and more
widespread standards of general com-
fort.
Understaffed Sheds.
“C.V.S.”: Early Queensland shearing
is already in full swing, and N. S. Wales
will soon be at it. Understaffed sheds
should be avoided. The following is a
useful guide to number of shed-hands
needed, though it should be varied ac-
cording to the pace of team: —■
Four-stand shed: One picker-up, one
woolroller-piece-picker, one classer to
help roll and pick pieces, one presser-
penner-up.
Six-stand shed: One picker-up, one
“broomey,” one woolroller, one classer-
woolroller, one piece-picker, one presser,
one penner-up and general.
Eight-stand shed: Two pickers-up, two
woolrollers, one piece-picker, one classer
to assist piece-picker, one presser, one
penner for presser.
Ten-stand shed: Two pickers-up, one
“broomey,” three woolrollers working
two tables (outside man rolling and
carrying fleeces to classer, man between
tables skirting only), one classer, two
piece-pickers, two pressers, one penner-
up, one belly-and-lock picker.
For 12 stands an additional roller would
be required. In larger sheds increases
should maintain the ratio of shed-hands
to shearers at about 100 p.c.
Two-stand plants are usually run by
shearers, but from four stands up an
expert is usually employed. He is often
“boss of the board,” but should not com-
bine other duties that interfere with his
grinding or shed supervision.
Meeting the Market.
“Granova”: A N. S. Wales trading
bank has issued figures which suggest
that it pays farmers and graziers to sell
their products as soon as they are avail-
able and not to hold them pending a
rise.
Many farmers hold their wheat as it
costs nothing to hold, can be sold any
day, and there are occasional sharp rises
when a big lot is sold abroad. Even so,
the loss of interest on a wheat cheque
for several months is considerable.
The woolgrower who sells his clip at
the same time each year will be sure of a
fair average price. If the clip has ap-
peared on the showroom floor and the
grower, not the broker, withdraws it, the
buyer may discriminate against it. Some
years back a grower was not able to
secure a higher price for a withdrawn
clip in spite of a substantial rise in the
market. Finally he rebaled the wool and
obtained the market price by selling it
under another brand.
The worst undertaking of the lot is
holding sale sheep for any length of time
in the hope of a rise. It always costs
money to graze sheep, and in bad seasons
the carrying of stock ripe for sale causes
the regular flocks to go short. Lambs
should always be sold before hot, dry
weather sets in.
This year farmers who held their lambs
have sold them for 2s. to 4s. less than
they could have secured in November. The
policy some stations adopt of selling a
certain line of sheep at the same time
each year regardless of the market has
a lot to recommend it.
Beating Blowflies.
“W.D.McC.”: I support “G.H.” (B.
2/3/’3B) re “Blowflies and the C.S. and
1.R.”
What the sheepman wants are simple,
practical measures for strike-preven-
tion. Cull all wrinkly sheep, aim at get-
ting a plain-bodied flock and get rid of
all sheep showing any sign of water-rot.
Dip thoroughly with an arsenical
powder dip when wool has grown suffi-
ciently to absorb dip. Crutch at the
proper time, and, if necessary, jet with
arsenical dip.
If these operations are carried out
properly the incidence of strike will be
reduced to a minimum—a result which
will never be reached trying to catch
blowflies.
Carbon Tetrachloride Poisoning.
“Corriedale”: To “Bungaree’s” two
forms of carbon tet. poisoning (B.
9/3/’3B) a third may be added.
A mob of 800 young ewes was dosed
by the usual gun-drench method. Next
day 114 were sick with swollen jaws,
and 65 died.
In the 114 affected, the point of the gun
had pierced the soft skin below the
tongue and between the two jawbones.
The whole of the dose went into this
tissue and set up poisoning.
Further trials showed that it is so easy
to break the under-tongue skin that in
a stubborn sheep’s mouth the penetration
goes unnoticed.
The remedy is to open the mouth of
each sheep with the disengaged hand, and
lay the tip of the gun on the tongue. In
a closed mouth no one can see where
the gun is going.
The theory of calcium shortage help-
ing to cause carb. tet. poisoning is well
proved. The liver of sheep lacking lime
is affected, usually turning an orange-
yellow, and while stock are rarely short
of lime in this country, phosphorus-lack
being the big thing, it pays to see that
they have received a bonemeal or
dicalcic lick for some weeks before
drenching with carbon tet.
Provided the drench is not squirted into
the mouth or given when a sheep is
coughing, there is little risk of the lung-
poisoning “Bungaree” mentions.
Argentina Stock Methods.
“Doddie”: In Argentina dogs, whips
and sticks for working cattle have been
abandoned in stockyards in favor of


NEW DESIGN BEDFORD
OUTLASTS OTHER TRUCKS
—and handles big loads with more economy I
Bedford brought the “new design” to
Australia. With the engine placed well
forward on the chassis, Bedford “new
design” brings all these advantages of
economy engineering to the low priced
field Better weight distribution, Easier
handling, Smaller turning circle, Reduced
dead weight, More rigid construction and
a greater ability to handle full loads. No
other competitive low priced truck gives
the haulier this combination of features—
one instance of Bedford’s superiority being
that the 2-2 J ton 120" W.B. Bedford allows
as much as 1,944 lbs. (nearly a ton) more
for body and payload.
Moreover with Bedford you are assured
that whatever capacity you want, the chassis
is engineered to do the job for there is a
different chassis to suit every rating.
The Bedford engine is engineered for
hard work and economy. It will save you
as much as 15 to 20 gallons of petrol a
week, and the heavier the work the more
sensational will be your savings. For the
Bedford engine is low revving—which
means there are less charges in the cylinders
per mile, and consequently less petrol is
used. This inherent Bedford design also
results in shorter piston travel and, of
course, less wear on cylinders—many
Bedfords are in daily use with the same
block and the same set of pistons after
hundreds of thousands of miles.
The very fact that the Bedford engine
has overhead valves is a big economy
factor. It is admitted by engineers that
the O.H.V. engine is 10% more efficient
size for size than other types. The engine
“breathes” better, it gives more horsepower
and torque for the same compression ratio,
it gives better valve seat cooling, it permits
valve adjustment while the engine is
running, it means cooler pistons and
cylinders—every point an economy point
that saves pounds in running and main-
tenance costs.
If you’re in the market for a truck don’t
miss seeing Bedford. Gome in or write
for a copy of the specifications. Then
inspect the chassis. And finally try the
job out. Don’t spare it an inch. Whatever
you’re hauling . . . Bedford will do it
better and do it for less.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
CHASSIS PRICES
UTILITIES from - - £2lB
TRUCKS from - - - W*
DIESELS from - - ibi>u |
Buy
QBS
Up
Consult your local Authorised
Bedford Dealer
electric prodders, which, in conjunction
with dehorning, obviate bruising.
Trucking and drafting are done noise-
lessly, and stock trains are give prefer-
ence over all other railway traffic en
route to the meatworks. As they await
slaughter, showers are turned on the
cattle. Showers are also used on the
river steamers.
Argentinos turn off steers at 18 months,
The lowest figure for the champion bull
at Pa |e rm° Show in modern times was
1500 guineas and the highest 14,400
guineas.
Add to this the fact that, farm labor
can be had at £2 a month and you
have some idea of the problem Australia
is up against in competing with foreign
meat at Snnthfield.
n 1 C i «« ~ ,
Bntish Show Methods.
“Mookau”: For show beef cattle in
England late-winter and spring calving
is the rule. On the turn of the summer,
usually in September when the August
warmth is over, the stock are weaned,
after having been dam-suckled.
From then onwards they go through a
regular training routine like that of an
Olympic athlete. Housing is usual, but
they are well exercised on the halter, regu-
larly washed and combed from infancy,
This makes them accustomed to handling.
From the turn of autumn their feed
is increased, and they receive up to five
meals a day, according to locality. Mash
j s a p r i me constituent—bran crushed
oats and flaked or ground maiz ’ e in {
parts a n owe d to swell for hours in warm
water. Mashes become drier in type as
the show months approach.
xhe first feed i$ usua]ly given at da
light or thereabouts, mash and turnips
be j ng followed by hay. At midday there
j s more maSb . at ' 4 p m ? near ear i y _
winter sundown, oil cake, grain and more
turnips. At 8 p.m. warm mash finishes
the day’s eating
By the time , be animals have reached
the two-year-old stage they will be get-
ting 151 b. to 181 b. concentrates per day,
apart from other foods, which may in-
elude as much as 181 b. of neaps and 151 b.
hay. Rations naturally depend on the
size, constitution and appetite of the in-
dividual beast. There is no leaning-off
or store period.
When the show season of summer
approaches, no prima donna is better
looked after. Horns and hooves have
daily attention, and the coat is brushed
and treated daily. Exercises on the lead
are carried out to promote style and car-
riage, and the ration is regulated to
assure firmness of flesh. Result is a pic-
ture to be seen nowhere else in the world,
unless perhaps at Chicago.
The English beef beast bred for show
certainly is exhibited in maximum con-
dition and at a cost which is far from
commercial. But as it is pedigreed,
almost invariably from long-set strains,
it provides an excellent buying criterion
whether in the open championship ring
or in the fatted classes. And it provides,
too, the perfect standard for farmers to
aim at -
Australia has a long way to go
towards learning exhibition technique as
practised in the Old Land, though its
pedigree-stock shows are far larger than
those of Bntain. In England and Scot-
land classes are without the tails of
poor and badly-prepared animals which
detract from the appearance of exhibi-
l * on ith m^tS * n S^°WS ' n ornmon "
wea
p . p r
rasture rreterences.
“Agro”: It is little use trying to estab-
lish perennial rye on poor interior, low-
rainfall land. It likes alluvial flats and
basalt regions. Even where these are
poor, if the rainfall is right, the grass will
grow with proper combination of other
factors. Sub. clover and super, will do a
great deal to fertilise land to suit rye.
Cocksfoot makes a good working mate
for ryes, especially on heavily-stocked
pastures and if one of the low, leafy
varieties is used.
Sub.-clover strains have been developed
for almost every type of season, early
or late, and the days have long gone
when it was believed that s.c. needed a
certain winter rainfall,
There are still hundreds of failures
with s.c., but they are mainly due to a
wrong choice of strain. Early-season
types which flower in August suit low
rainfall areas. Late strains are now being
evolved, and it should be possible, by a
combination of early, middle period and
j a te sc strains, to produce an all-the-
year-round succession of grazings,
especially in the cooler districts.
Red clovers are growing in popularity,
and the white clover in a proportion of
40 p.c. to 60 p.c. grasses has become a
standard in wide areas of s.-e. Australia,
Both red and white are suitable ma i n i y
for coastal and tableland growth,
No pasture should be without clovers
jf they will grow at all. Clover and
(Continued on next page.)


A
f
The Thrifty Man
Buys Quality.
4298.
Be sure to obtain your money’s worth when buying footwear.
The Shoe that lasts the longest is the cheapest in the end; the longer
it lasts the cheaper it becomes. . .
That is why, when buying Abbey Shoes, you are sure of obtaining your
money’s worth over and over again. . ~
A Model made in Black Box Calf and in Brown Willow Calf at 29/6.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEi
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRALIA
Captain George Grey
In 1837, Captain Grey, afterwards Sir George Grey, undertook,
with the approval of Lord Glenelg, Secretary of State for the
Colonies, the exploration of the country lying between Prince
Regent’s River in the far north-west of Western Australia and
the Swan River settlement.
Shortly after landing at Hanover Bay, the party was attacked
by natives and Grey was speared three times. This and other
misadventures caused him to abandon his original project, but
he discovered and explored the Glenelg River for a distance of
70 miles.
On later expeditions, Grey explored the area between the
Leschenault and Williams Rivers and the country between Shark
Bay and Perth. He discovered the Gascoyne, Irwin and other
rivers, the Victoria Range and a large expanse of excellent
pastoral country.
Sir George Grey was appointed Governor of South Australia in
1841, and subsequently filled similar positions in other colonies
including New Zealand. Later, he settled in New Zealand and for
some years was Premier of that country.
The Bank of /Vetc South IF ales, the oldest Bank in
Australia, pays a tribute to Sir George Grey, explorer
and statesman.
tM/ts oriy
]1 1/ ESTABLISHED 1117
'W.
iMW
a
)r%
fee?
yr *
3 >«■
HU
tip*
314C.1938
5 YEARS’
GUARANTEE
INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
im
INVINCIBLE ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
Loss of youthful vigor, vitality and pre-
mature old age are due to deficient gland
functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuvenate you
and banish weakness. Price
10/6. Call or write to-day
for particulars of this amazing
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists, 319 George St., Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Manufactured by THOS. R. CADMAN & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD.
DF
"Bengali”
Reliable Cutlery
Established 1748-1938, 190 years.
REASONABLY PRICED.
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses
superphosphate are basic factors in pas-
ture success on all but interior areas.
There is room for experiment with
them in every district from Atherton
Tableland southward along the east coast
high- to medium-rainfall strip.
What Can Be Done.
“Mookau”: The record of a Digger, J.
Bullingham, who recently won the cham-
pion farm cow test competition in Vic-
toria, helps to prove The Bulletin’s
contention that much can be done to im-
prove Australian farm land by hard
work and fertilisation.
Bullingham took up a closer-settlement
block near Tongala 16 years ago. His
entire capital was his war gratuity—£6o.
His area was 44 acres, and three previous
settlers had abandoned the farm. The
stock consisted of 11 mongrel cows, a
scrub bull, a two-roomed hut. The cows
were being kept alive by hand feeding.
There were only a border fence and one
or two straggling subdivisions.
In his first three years he replaced his
herd with 11 good grade cows yielding
an average of 2521 b. butterfat, and he
was gradually improving the shallow
loam-over-clay soil to carry heavy pas-
tures of the local wild clover, perennial
rye and prairie. He dressed heavily with
super, as soon as he had the money—up
to 4cwt. to the acre. In 1932 he secured
another 21 acres.
Now the 65 acres, which would not
carry a scrub cow with an under 2001 b.
butterfat production to four acres 15
years ago, is carrying 71 cows —Friesians
—with an average production of 4901 b.
The country will not grow lucerne, but
the owner has a 50-ton surplus of feed
for sale—more than five-sixths of a ton
per acre. Last year the gross farming
earnings were £ll4l.
Bullingham believes that the Victorian
Closer Settlement Board is making a mis-
take in increasing its areas to 100 acres,
because no man can work such an area
to its maximum effectively.
Farm Statistics.
“K.Mc.”: Returns from landholders,
as supplied by N.S.W. Statistician Waites,
show an improvement of 1,230,000 in
the number of sheep (53,166,000) for the
year ending March, 1937.
Only once (1930) since 1925 has the
sheep count been under 50,000,000, which
indicates that better provision has been
made for carrying and drought feeding.
Eradication of rabbits has contributed
largely to the improvement.
Of the ewes mated, 14,331,000 lambs,
or 67.4 p.c., were put over the rail at
marking-time—an improvement of nearly
3,000,000 on the previous year.
Since 1935 dairy cattle have slipped
by 46,000 to 1,128,000. Evidently wheat-
farmers and others who tried dairying
during the depression have given it up
for their former pursuits. Other cattle,
totalling 2,160,000, were 149,000 lighter
than in 1935. It will be to the good
if the decline is on account of culling
tc improve the quality.
The “rint-payers,” numbering 391,000,
were also down 46,000 on the previous
year, owing to very heavy slaughtering
—614,000. Horses were up 3000, totalling
545,800 —a long way behind the 1913
total of 746,200.
Permanent employees or. rural hold-
ings reached a record total of 41,963 —
compared with 26,874 in 1932 —and were
paid £6,095,000 in wages. Casual em-
ployees were paid £3,394.000. Produc-
tion at £76,000,000 was £11,500,000 better
than for the preceding twelvemonth.
Returns came from 76,239 holdings.
Skeleton Weed Poisons.
“Zedo”: Few pests have been subjected
to such a variety of experimental poisons
as skeleton weed, which continues to
spread in N. S. Wales in spite of every
effort to wipe it out.
Recently K. G. Carn, of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, and A. B.
Cashmore tried out 36 poisons in the
Riverina. After 16 months they find
that only sodium chlorate and common
salt cause a permanent reduction in plant
numbers; and where these are heavily
applied wheat yield is affected.
Outside the sod. c. and salt most of
the poisons offered under the N.S.W.
Government’s £5OOO reward scheme were
based on arsenic oxides, but the effective
treatments are too expensive to be of
economic use.
Common salt at five tons to the acre
costs £2O per acre for material alone in
the Riverina, and sodium chlorate (2001 b.
per acre) costs £5 per acre. The Gov-
ernment reward scheme stipulated for a
maximum cost of £2 per acre.
In view of this rotation and heavy
grazing seem the best treatment.
Has anybody thought of improving
skeleton weed, which is palatable to
sheep, to produce sufficient fodder per
acre to make it a highly-payable grazing
proposition? If that could be done, the
pest might be turned into a goldmine.
Specked Citrus Fruit.
“Johnno”: At the beginning of the
citrus season there is always a quantity
of specked and otherwise blemished
fruit which should be harvested as early
as possible.
Seldom will skin-blemished fruit, when
the blemishes are due to insects, hang
beyond mid-season.
It pays to go over the trees if prices
are worth while. One marked orange
in a case may affect the price for the
whole consignment. Blemished fruit
should be marked “Specked but Sound.
Householders who buy largely at sales
don’t object to marked fruit provided it
is sweet and sound.
Be careful not to pack pricked or
punctured fruit. Pack pressure will cause
decay, which might affect the whole case.
Look out for blue mould, which is
often very troublesome early in the
season, especially when conditions arc,
warm and wet.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandpatch”: The use of the mower
just before the seed-heads show out will
eliminate ergot, which only attacks the
seed. It is a lot cheaper to mow a couple
of hundred acres three or four times a
year than to plough the paspalum out
and replant with other grasses. Experi-
ments have definitely proved that regu-
larly-mowed pastures have a much
greater carrying capacity than those
grazed promiscuously. Such mowing
immediately induces fresh growth, and
paspalum is at its best when 4in. to lOin.
high
“Geelong”: Never mix wiggings and
crutchings. Wiggings are always clean
and high-yielding, while crutchings carry
stain and heavy fribs. Separation by
picking is tedious. Unless crutching is
heavy, wiggings usually realise more than
crutchings from the same sheep.
“J. 8.”: Mint weed cannot be checked
by ploughing, One Darling Downs
farmer put a heavy plough on and turned
one paddock over no fewer than 11 times
in an effort to get rid of the weed.
“Zedo”: A conference has been held at
Barellan (N.S.W.) to discuss the exten-
sion of irrigation to south-western N. S.
Wales as “the only means of saving hun-
dreds of farmers” around the Barellan-
Rankin Springs-Wyalong districts. No
definite plan has been formulated,
though some time ago it was suggested
that some of the districts might be sup-
plied with water from the Yenda canal.
Any scheme proposed will involve con-
siderable pumping difficulties, since in
some parts the flow would have to be
lifted from 100 ft. to 400 ft. The investi-
gation promised by the N. S. Wales
Agricultural Minister will need to be
made with one eye on the best average
wheat production figures of some parts
of the area.


Young Men—Middle Aged Men-
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
Each year strain on your vital organs
increases. More and more you risk Illness
and Breakdown through Kidney, Bladder,
Acid, Blood-Pressure, Rheumatic and
Urinary Ills . . .
The cause* of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid' Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills can follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk ?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS—as
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON'S PILLS.
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vital Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority *of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
DF
pifV^
d *
WeV e
jC^^-
* opp Bl t,d r»° '
AV«% t h ®
K^bin'f’ 4
C o( flb
Age
itself
means little
WHEN
mw® jm
Kidney-
Acid
Troubles
are Conquered
This Safe, Sure Way
AND
ASSOCIATED
1
END
that
ageing
Painful
BACK-
ACHE
with
HARRISON’S PILLS
HARRISON’S PIUS Restore all the
VITAL ORGANS:
The one great and undeniably
effective Remedy for thoroughly
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London,
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison’s Pills.
of ageing ills
whose signa-
Harrison’s Pills combine the most valu-
able known agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful Urination, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints, Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc. Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney. Bladder and
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons, Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head, Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OF VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors—Amalgamated Lab-
oratories. Sydney.
DF
wm&
W:
m
TDiaqram shouiinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crystals
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp—weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring; grateful ease.
m
B
mmmm
kiSi:


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (23), Sydney, wants employment.
Any capacity. Refs. —8933.
To buy books by Louis Becke.—B962.
To buy gramophone record “Night of
Old Hooligan’s Ball.” Will pay 10s. —8948.
To buy novels which trace the physical,
mental and moral deterioration of a leading
character through drunkenness or in which
drinking plays a large part.—B979.
To buy second-hand, or in exchange, Spanish
dictionary.—B99s.
Name of author and poem wherein lines occur
something like these: “I know not what a
crown of sorrows may be, but I know that it
lightens the cares of to-day to dwell on those
of long ag0.”—8935.
To hear from the descendants of George and
John Dawson, who lived in the Bega (N.S.W.)
district about 1870-80, or from anyone who can
tell me of them. (Reply to Ida Dawson, 32
Neridah-street, Chatswood, N.S.W.)
Information Sought."
What were the batting and bowling figures of
Kelleway (Australia ) in Test matches v. Eng-
land and South Africa and with the A.I.F.
Eleven ?— -8916.
Batting.
Ings. N.O. H.S. T.R. Av.
V. England 30 2 147 874 31.21
V. S. Africa 12 2 114 548 54.80
With A.I.F. 9 0 168 505 56.11
Bowling.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
V. England 499.4 112 1158 37 31.29
V. S. Africa 170.3 34 528 15 35.20
With A.I.F. 194.5 38 548 18 30.44
* * * *
(1) What were the innings totals when Mur-
doch’s Eleven ( Australia ) played England at
Kennington Oval in 1882? (2) Spoffortli’s
bowling figures in the match? (3) How old
was Spofforth at the time? —B92B.
(1) Australia, 63 and 122; England, 101 and
77. (2) Spofforth’s bowling figures: First in-
nings—36.3 overs, 18 maidens, 46 runs, 7
wickets; second innings—28 overs, 15 maidens,
44 runs, 7 wickets. (3) 28 years and 11 months.
* * * *
Which Maoriland Rugby Union teams had
the best record in Australia —the eight before
or the eight after the war? What were their
figures ? —8907.
Eight teams before the war played 65 matches,
won 59, lost 4, drew 2; points for 1442, against
316. After-the-war teams played 55 matches,
won 43, lost 10, drew 2; points for 1372,
against 563. The figures are much in favor
of the before-the-war tourists.
* * * *
(1) Are there any means of locating a battle-
ship or vessel on the surface within a radius
of 10 miles from a submarine at rest on the
seabed? (2) What are the safeguards on a
battleship against a torpedo attack ? (3) What
are the force and nature of the charge in a tor-
pedo? (4) How does it explode? —8663.
(1) Submarines are fitted with hydrophones.
(2) Large ships are fitted with double hulls
underwater. (3) High explosives, the amounts
varying according to the size of the torpedo
and their natures being similar to dynamite.
(5) A detonator is detonated by the force of
the impact of the torpedo against the hull of
a ship, and thus explodes the charge.
* * * *
Brief biographical details of “Elijah”
Dowie ?— BBB9.
He was born in Edinburgh in 1847 and was
for a time a student at Edinburgh University.
He afterwards went to South Australia as the
minister of a Congregational church. Later he
claimed the power of being able to heal people
by means of prayer, and organised the “Chris-
tian Catholic Church in Zion,” he himself
being the overseer, and at the beginning of 1900
he settled with his followers on the shore of
Lake Michigan in Zion City. In 1903 and
1904 he visited England, where he did not meet
with much encouragement, and in 1906 his
prestige over his followers was lost after the
revolt of Zion City. Dowie was popularly
known by the title of “Doctor,” and he him-
self claimed to be Elijah.
* * * *
(1) Can illegitimate children whose parents
have married after their birth be legitimated in
N. S. Wales? (2) If so, how is legitimation
affected ? —8960.
(1) Yes, provided that at the time of such
birth there did not exist any legal im-
pediment to the marriage of the parents. (2)
Legitimation is effected by the father of the
child producing to a District Registrar a
statutory declaration in the form prescribed by
the N.S.W. Legitimation Act, 1902, and a certi-
fied copy of the entry of his marriage with the
child’s mother. The Registrar then registers
such child, whether alive or dead, as the lawful
issue of such man and his wife, and the entry is
signed by the father.
* * * *
V/hat goods did Australia export to Austria
during the last four years, and their values ?
8982.
The exports to Austria are not shown in
detail. In 1932-33 they amounted to £2797
(wool, scoured, £2562); in 1933-34 to £199;
in 1934-35 to £137,231 (wool, greasy, £90,301,
wool, scoured and washed, £45,845, machinery
and appliances £609); in 1935-36 to £335,662
(wool, greasy, £230,505, wool, scoured and
washed, £103,358, and pearlshell £1325); and
in 1936-37 to £432,457 (wool, greasy, £377,204,
wool, scoured and washed, £52,062, and pearl-
shell £2791).
* * * *
What is atavism ? —8990.
The term given in biology to the reproduc-
tion in a living person or animal of the charac-
teristics of an ancestor more remote than its
parents. Loosely used, it connotes a reversion
to an earlier type. Individuals reproduce unex-
pectedly the traits of earlier ancestors, and
ethnologists and criminologists frequently ex-
plain by “atavism” the occurrence of degenerate
species of man; but the whole subject is com-
plicated by other possible explanations of such
phenomena, included in the scientific study of
normal “variation.”
* * * *
What is the commission method of publish-
ing a book? —8958.
The author agrees to bear all the costs of
production and advertising, and to pay the pub-
lisher a commission on sales. This method
can be recommended only (u) for authors who,
having failed to place their work for publica-
tion at publisher’s risk and expense, desire to
arrange publication for reasons other than
profit, or (b) authors who wish to have some
control over the form, price and advertising of
their books, and are prepared to back their
own judgment regarding their commercial pos-
sibilities., The class of books published in this
way is usually work of a special character, such
as learned works with a limited appeal and
volumes of verse.
* * * *
(1) What is the scientific name of the rosella
.parakeet of Tasmania ? (2) Taken as nestlings,
will they thrive in an aviary, would they breed
under such conditions, and will they ever talk ?
(3) Diet? (4) Name of a well-illustrated book
on Australian birds, giving general descriptions
of types and species? —8811.
(1) Platycercus eximius. (2) Under good con-
ditions nestlings could probably be reared and
bred successfully, the hardiness of the bird
making it very suitable for aviaries. With
proper training they would talk. (3) Any of
the better-class proprietary parrot mixtures.
(4) The best general work is An Australian
Bird Book, by J. A. Leath. Cayley’s What
Bird Is That ? has colored illustrations of every
Australian bird, with remarks on habits, but
the species are not described.
* * * *
What is the position regarding the taxation
of annuities in South Australia? —8963.
Annuities are expressly included as assess-
able income, but in the case of an annuity
which has been purchased the purchase price is
excluded from the assessment. Annuities are
taxable at property rate unless they are an-
nuities in the form of pensions or superannua-
tion allowances, in which case they are assessed
at personal exertion rate.
A married couple’s joint income from Aus-
tralian Commonwealth bonds held for them
jointly by a bank in Australia is £350, and from
bank fixed deposits similarly held £250. They
are not residents of Australia. What is the
total Federal and State taxation on these sums
after allowing for any exemptions to which
each is entitled? —8886.
From the information given each of the tax-
payers would be required to lodge an income
tax return for each year ended June 30. On
income of the amounts stated and from the
sources shown, each taxpayer would be assessed
for the sum of £1 Is. Id. Federal income tax
at the rates at present existing and after allow-
ing as a deduction the proportion of statutory
exemption applicable, £225. The Commonwealth
bond interest would not be subject to State
or special income taxes, but these taxes, at the
rates of Is. 6d. and lOd. in the £ respectively,
would be deductible at the source from fixed-
deposit interest. By virtue of the rebate pro-
visions of the Acts, assessments of State and
special income tax would not subsequently be
issued on returns lodged.
* * * *
What is actually meant by the “freedom of
the city” when conferred on visitors, and what
freedom, if any, is allowed? —8949.
The conferment is nowadays merely a cour-
tesy gesture and implies no rights or privileges
not available to any other visitor.
an * * 9.
Qualifications for (1) invalid pension, (2) old-
age pension ? —BB4B.
(1) Main requirements are that the claimant
must have become totally and permanently in-
capacitated for all work; he must have attained
the statutory age of 16 years; he must have
resided iu Australia for a continuous period of
at least five years. (2) Main qualifications are,
in the case of a male claimant, that he shall have
attained the age of 65; in the case of a female,
60. The claimant must have resided within the
Commonwealth of Australia for a continuous
period of at least 20 years. The Invalid and
Old-age Pensions Act provides that where a
pensioner has property other than the home
in which he permanently resides the rate of
pension otherwise payable shall be subject to a
deduction of £1 for every complete £lO by
which the net capital value of such accumu-
lated property exceeds £5O, and where the net
capital value of such accumulated property
exceeds £4OO no pension is payable. The Act
also provides that a pensioner’s income, in-
cluding pension, must not exceed the sum of
£B4 10s. per annum. In the- case of husband
and wife, except where living apart, pursuant
to any decree, order or judgment, the income
and property of each must be held to be pos-
sessed by both in equal shares.
* * * »
(1) What amount was collected for the last
Melbourne Lord Mayor’s Fund for charity ?
(2) What percentage is deducted for administra-
tive purposes, and does the sponsor receive a
percentage ?— 8927.
(1) The fund is a continuous one, and it is
difficult to interpret your question. Since
the fund was inaugurated in 1923, £1,126,714
has been raised. For the last financial year
ending June 30, 1937, £103,703 was raised —
a record for the fund. If you mean the total
amount raised during the period of office of
the last Lord Mayor (George Wales), the figure
was £370,000 for the three years, exclusive of
special public charity appeals such as flood
relief, which bumped the total up to £660,000.
(2) Under the Lord Mayor’s Fund Act, 1930,
no commissions can be paid and no paid
collectors employed. Since inauguration of the
fund, administrative costs, including those of
such special collections as those on Hospital
Saturday, Flower Day, etc., have totalled 6.4
p.c. For the last financial year administrative
costs were 3.2 p.c.
* * * *
(1) What does “compensation” mean in
“hotels for sale” advertisements in N. S. Wales,
and does this apply to all States in Australia ?
(2) In the average suburban or outer suburban
hotel, about what profit is to be expected from
(a) bar trade, (b) boarder trade? (3) About
how much turnover would one need from
a hotel in one of the medium-class
suburbs to produce a net £lOOO a year if (a)
owner (as licensee) and wife lived on premises,
(b) a nominee manageressed the hotel while
owner and wife lived away from hotel (sal.
manageress, £5 week)? (4) What requirements
have to be fulfilled by a person applying for
a license in N.S.W. if (a) in person, (b) through
a nominee who would also be manageress ?
8657.
(1) Compensation (it is termed License Fee in
N.S.W.) is a fee paid to the Government, which
amount represents 5 p.c. of the liquor pur-
chases of a hotel. Naturally, therefore, the
license fees vary considerably in N.S.W. The
lessors of a hotel pay two-fifths of the amount,
and the lessee pays three-fifths. Does not
apply to other States. (2) (a) 37 p.c. to 40 p.c.,
(b) 40 p.c. to 50 p.c. (3) (a) It would depend
on the amount invested in a lease and the length
of the lease. In the country hotels show a
greater profit than in the city. ( b ) Any hotel
showing £lOOO net profit could afford to pay
£5 a week for a manager, if required. (4)
(a) Two references stating that the purchaser
is a fit and proper person to be entrusted with
the exercise of a publican’s license, provided
that three marks, for sale of liquor after hours
or s.p. betting, etc., have not been recorded
against the intended licensee. In some instances
two marks recorded is made prohibitive by a
clause in the lease, (b) A manageress must be
a married woman, a divorcee or widow if she
holds the license of a hotel. She must be re-
garded by the police as a fit and proper person
to conduct a hotel business.
* * * *
Details of play competition being conducted
by Western Australian Drama Festivals (Inc.) ?
—8917.
Full-length plays for production at the festi-
val it is proposed to hold in October, 1938,
are required. For one performance a royalty
of £5O will be paid to the author of the selected
play. Entrants must have been bona fide resi-
dents in Australia for at least 12 months prior
to June 30, 1938. Play must be the original
work of the author, and shall not have been
performed in public, published or broadcast.
MSS. should be typewritten. Play should be
submitted under a nom de plume, and must be
accompanied by a sealed envelope containing
the name and address of the author. Entries
must be in the hands of the secretary, Western
Australian Drama Festivals (Inc.), Second
Floor, City Mutual Buildings, St. George’s-
terrace, Perth, before June 30, 1938.
* * * *
How to prepare cutting of a cypress-tree and
the pot in which to plant the cutting? —BB6l.
Use 4in. or sin. pot, fill up to about one-
third with a good drainage material, then fill
the pot with sharp sand. Use mature points
about 3in. long for cuttings. Cut away with
a sharp knife all lateral growths on the portion
of the cutting that goes in the sand; place
the cutting fairly thickly in the pot, then soak
well to firm the sand around it. Place the
pot in a cool frame and keep reasonably moist
until the plant is rooted, which takes some
time. Put the cutting in during late autumn.
* * * *
How to keep coconuts from cracking after
the husk has been taken off ? —8799.
Harvest the nuts when properly mature, and
if they are to be sold as “fresh nuts” retain
the husk until the handling agent takes over.
He can then remove the husks, provided the
nuts are sold immediately. The husk pro-
tects the nut from injury in transit.
Brief Answers.
Inquirer: Winhead started in first division
Maiden Handicap at Newcastle, Feb. 17....
A.L.S.: Must be registered as a firm, but no
separate registration necessary for the trade
you propose to carry 0n... .T.J.L.: Write Dis-
trict Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Bris-
bane... .J.T.: Write to the editor of “Le
Matin,” Paris, and of “Neues Wiener Tag-
blatt,” Vienna.... F.T.: The rubber-tyred
tractor is not yet widely favored in the cane
areas of Queensland; there has been a distinct
tendency in recent years to favor the crawler-
type for general purposes. Perhaps the objec-
tion is associated with the former’s tendency to
slip on wet soils, for the tractor is frequently em-
ployed under these conditions for hauling out
cane trucks from the field. The Queensland
Main Roads Commission has made quite ex-
tensive use of pnematic-tyred tractors, and
perhaps could advise... .P.T.O’C.: (1) The
earliest tomato suitable for the Hay district is
Intermediate, the seed of which can be pur-
chased from George Varley, Valla (N.S.W.).
(2) See pamphlet on “Tomato Culture,” obtain-
able free from N.S.W. Agricultural Dept., Syd-
ney M.F.: The standard size for ladies’ per-
sonal visiting card is x 2-g-in., and the
gentleman’s 3in. x l|in. Style of engraving
should be script N.M.: You might apply
personally at the Legal Aid Office, Queen’s-
square, Sydney, where, if you can show through
lack of means that you. are unable to secure
legal aid in your case, assistance may be given
to you... .J.M.H.: (1) and (2) The general
principle with regard to riparian rights is that
where water in its natural course flows through
an owner’s land from adjoining land the owner
of the adjoining land cannot, as against owners
below him, sensibly diminish its quantity.
Flowing water, like light and air, is public
property. This is the Common Law and ap-
plicable to N. S. Wales. The rule is that
prima facie the proprietor of each bank of a
stream is the proprietor of half the land
covered by the stream, but there is no property
in the water itself (3) No, provided that in
gaining access he does not trespass on the
owner’s land. (4) The owner has no property
in the fish caught in the river or stream flowing
through his land... .C. 8.: (1) See A Year on
the Barrier Reef, by Yonge, and Wonders of
the Barrier Reef, by Roughley. (2) See the
Royal Aust. Historical Society’s “Journal,”
Vol. XV, part VI, containing the article “Early
Visitors to Moreton Bay,” by Jackson....
J.R.R.: The total number of whales caught
in the world in 1905 was 4592; in 1910 it
was 12,301 (oil production 284,320 barrels);
in 1932-33 the catch was 28,668 (oil production
439,000 metric tons); and in 1934-35 it was
39,047 (oil production 454,000 metric tons)
D.T.: Stars of the Southern Heavens, by James
Nangle C.R.W.: (1) Cannot advise; in-
quiries should be addressed to the Commis-
sioner of Pensions, Wellington, New Zealand.
(2) Old-age pensions were taken over by the
Commonwealth from the various States on
1/7/’O9. (3) Present maximum rate per week
is 20s. (4) Consult C’wealth Statistician, Can-
berra, F.C.T. (5) Andrew Fisher Government
(Labor party) was in power when the Common-
wealth took over payment of pensions
T.P.C.: She is eligible if she is a natural-born
or naturalised British subject... .J.R.R.: (1)
Cannot advise. Inquiries should be addressed
to the Old-age Pensions Office, Dublin, Irish
Free State. (2) So long as the claimant has re-
sided for a continuous period of at least 20
years within the Commonwealth of Australia
during some period of his lifetime, he would
be eligible to apply for the old-age pension
upon his return to Australia... .J. 8.8.: The
fares on Sydney trams on Sundays were higher
by Id. per journey as compared with week
days from November 1, 1920, to February 11,
1923 M.R.: No books on either subject in
Sydney, but any leading bookseller would make
inquiries in London for y0u....R.C.: At the
time Shakspeare was associated with the Globe
Theatre the population of London, according
to recent estimates, was between 150,000 and
200,000 A.G.: No record of jump men-
tioned. M. Walker (U.S.A.) jumped 6ft. lOin.
in 1937 R.E.D.: Suggest you consult H. M.
Green’s An Outline of Australian Literature.
I.S.: From May Moore, 51 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney; price 5s N.F.P.: Carbine
won the Melbourne Cup in 1890 with lOst. 51b.
—the heaviest weight ever carried by a Mel-
bourne Cup winner—against the record number
of 39 starters and in 3min. 28jsec., the fastest
time then recorded. During his racing career
Carbine started in 43 races for 33 wins, six
seconds, three thirds and stakes amounting to
£29,626 A.S.: Imports of petroleum and
shale spirit into Australia for the years men-
tioned were as follows: 1934-35, 212,319,456
gallons, valued at £2,706,474; 1935-36,
254,509,245 gallons, valued at £3,792,950;
1936-37, 281,925,541 gallons, valued at £4,525,939.
... .J.S.: The only firm manufacturing millet
brooms in S.A. is the Royal Institution for the
Blind, Inc., North Adelaide. The Western Aus-
tralian Brushware Co., of Perth, manufactures
them in small quantities, and is the only firm
doing so in W.A J.T.: Yes, but only from
the time when the demand for payment was
made in writing with notice that interest will
be claimed until payment. The rate is usually
determined by the custom of the trade....
G.H.T.: Strychnine hydrochloride would be
satisfactory as a dingo bait L.W.: Details
too long to quote here. Full particulars will be
found in Who’s Who for 1938, available Public
Library of N. S. Wales, Sydney G.H.G.:
Cannot see that you can do anything. The use
of tractors on farms is a modern innovation
which cannot be suppressed in order to meet the
convenience of inhabitants in the vicinity of the
farms. Don’t think a Court would, in the
circumstances, grant an injunction, and to test
the question would involve considerable ex-
penditure. The Shire Council might possibly
do something with regard to silencers.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO £ LAY-
WRITING
Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
l°“ r ", st . s anc * Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I*C«S« School of Journalism
Iso Elizabeth Street, Sydney
IT WAS AGONY
TO STOOP
Backache Made Him Feel An
Old Man at 31.
This man of 31 was prematurely aged by
kidney trouble, when he should have been en-
joying the best years of his life. Here he tells
how Kruschen gave him back his health, after
months of pain:
“I was in hospital for ten weeks, owing
to kidney trouble. When 1 was discharged I
felt like an old man, although I am only 31.
If I stooped to do anything it was agony to
straighten up again. Several people advised me
to try Kruschen Salts. I tried them and found
they gave me relief from pain and I felt better
in every way. I cycle 28 miles a day to and
from work, and shall keep up the daily dose of
Kruschen because I can now do the journey
to and from work and a night’s work, and not
feel any the worse for it.” —S.V.C.
Unless the kidneys function properly, certain
acid wastes, instead of being expelled, are
allowed to pollute the bloodstream and pro-
duce troublesome symptoms: backache, rheu-
matism and excessive fatigue. Kruschen Salts
is one of the finest diuretics or kidney aperients
available for assisting the kidneys to excrete
acid impurities.
/ i'
J
¥ ,;.
1
.
i HE
, ‘LONG-
REACH”
STOCK
SADDLE
£l5/13/6
(Mounted).
One of the
most com-
fort a b 1 e
saddles we
make. It is
made on a best
“Fouright” Tree.
N.S.W. freight paid
for cash with
order.
WALTHER &
STEVENSON,
PTY., LTD.,
395 George St., Sydney.
..111' 1
,
1
Every BLUE GILLETTE
blade is
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED
GIVING . . .
® extra hardness to the cutting edge
* extra strength to the cutting edge
* extra keenness
* extra life and better shaving
Packet of Five 1/6
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
GILLETTE RAZORS
AND BLADES are
made for each other
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original,
A MIXED GRILL.
“E.M.”: A queer survival of feudalism
is the urge of every kind of society to have
a patron. Time was when patrons were
good for a few quid, but in these days
politicians have cruelled the game and
rarely ante up. But there is still a laugh
in some of the appointments—who could
not get a grin out of Edward Vlll.’s cher-
ished association with the Bill Posters’
Union, for instance? Or Joe Lyons’s
latest honor, which makes him the re-
vered protector of the United Banjo
Clubs of Australia? It seems to me that
unless the banjo clubs are careful they
will be apt to commit lese-majeste when
their patron is about. It is almost impos-
sible to hold a banjo concert without
bringing “Poor Old Joe” into it.
* * * *
Rotary’s effort to raise £40,000 for the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children is
prospering. Andrew Reid, who has
already given the Margaret Reid Home
lor the after-care of crippled youngtsers,
has dropped £lO,OOO into the hat.
* * # *
“Fezplez”: One of Sydney’s perennial
outbreaks of indignation with the tram-
way system is now in eruption, mainly
concerned with overcrowding of trams
at Wynyard station. The official view of
the matter seems to be that the people
are to blame—always in a hurry, 'and
sure to pack themselves like sardines into
the first vehicle that comes along. Also
they’re choosy, and won’t ride in an old-
fashioned tram if a new-type one is in
the offing. The remedy is obvious —
license each car to carry a fair load and
prohibit overloading. That works well
enough in the case of tramways that are
not publicly owned.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: Waikite geyser, on the
performing list again (B. 16/3/’3B), has
always been known as the most tempera-
mental geyser in the thermal regions.
Legend says that on the day Seddon
opened the Auckland-Rotorua railway
Waikite began to sulk, and continued
quiescent for years. Then one day, while
a party of tourists were gazing at the
geyser’s terraces, a rumbling began, and
the fountain soared 30ft. in the air, cas-
cading over the slopes and scattering the
astonished guide and party.
* * * *
“Tham”: One type of manual labor
in which you find Jews participating suc-
cessfully (B. 9/3/’3B) is boxing. From
Dutch Sam ’ to Barney Ross they have
made excellent scrappers, and one I knew
at Wellington (M.L.) was good enough
to get a blue in the art when he went
over to Oxford. Later he represented
British Jews in an international fisticuffs
feast in Palestine. At the time I knew
him he was in his early twenties, and had
a Master of Laws degree as well as five
novels to his credit.
* * * *
From a man who was recently there:
Canada now produces three times as much
gold as Australia and about a third as much
as Rand ores. The output has soared from
2,102,068 fine oz. in 1930 to over 4,000,0000 z.
in 1937. The industry is largely controlled by
cos. backed by Canadian money, with some as-
sistance from the United States. Three provinces,
Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia, account
for the greater part of production. Quebec has
shown the most rapid advance in recent years,
its output, estimated at round about 700,0000 z.
in 1937, contrasting with a mere 833 loz. in
1927. Yukon, the scene of the Klondike rush
of the ’nineties, is now the only producing
area where output is declining. The follow-
ing dividends paid (in dollars) by six of the
biggest Canadian mines—all in Ontario —and
those estimated for 1937 (in parentheses) are
impressive: Dome 3,893,336 (3,893,336), Hol-
linger 5,412,000 (4,228,000), Lake Shore
10,000,000 (12,000,000), Mclntyre-Porcupine
1,596,000 (1,596,000), Teck-Hughes 2,403,572
(2,163,216), Wright-Hargreaves 3,300,000
(3,300,000). To date Dome has distributed
34,000,000 dollars, Hollinger 87,000,000, Lake
Shore 65,000,000, Mclntyre-P orcupine
20,000,000, Teck-Hughes 28,000,000 and Wright-
Hargreaves 22,000,000. Much is expected from
recent developments in Ontario, where several
new mines have lately reached or will soon
reach the dividend-paying stage. The most
noteworthy developments last year were at
Larder Lake camp, which was the scene of a
lively boom 30 years ago.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
t tie addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.A.H.: That’s the name of a real horse....
C.A.0.: Liked “uninhibited fish,” but it’s not
a poem E.E.: That beggar deserves to be
run in....J.C.: Yes, but temples don’t gasp.
. ...E.8.: You dropped a stitch or two, but
they don’t quite warrant your “trepidation”....
H.A.P.: Let’s hear from you when night isn’t
“tongue-tied”... .S.E.: Muse was parched, too.
G.R.: All right of its kind, but its kind’s
dead.... Leo: Not exactly a roar.... A.E.8.:
Don’t see why you shouldn’t write “saleable
slapdash” if you study your markets
M.K.8.: Sentimentality beats y0u....J.H.:
Lame feet, especially line 12 L.R.M.:
Exile songs usually too faint R.M.A.: And
bush-memory poems stereotyped M.C.: And
harbor poems J.S.: Should place it else-
where. .. .W.H.G.: You’re waving a pocket
handkerchief, not a banner D.G.8.: Possi-
bilities, but what’s the meaning of “I suffer
no unheaving”? F.H. and G. 8.: Close
E.D.: “Pitcher” hardly an old master
H.H.: No luck here either J.D.: Bagman’s
too pedestrian T.S.D.: Suggests several
laughs but doesn’t raise one L.K.: Might
stand a chance if you cut it by more than
half S.M.L.: Unsuitable F.McK.: If he
continues along those lines and tightens up his
yarns a bit he should see print some day
8.5. C.: There are dozens of writers who in-
clude several sketches such as those in one
short story... .J.H.T.: Found a place in our
collection of psychological oddities H.S.F.:
It all boils down to goil being bumped off if
hero can’t solve newspaper crossword, which
seems a little improbable to us K.L.D.:
Pleased to note that another penurious artist
has left via the bridge without knowing he held
the winning ticket J. 5.8.: You might be
interested to learn that Perth is 12 miles from
Fremantle and that mailboats do not steam
up the Swan River W.W.N.: You’re trying
to shoot an elephant with a popgun L.T.Y.:
Doubt whether it would even make a par
P.R.A.: A story has a better chance if the MS.
is legible P.L.D.:. Suspense is false, and the
ending more so R.L.R.: Borderliners that
might find a home elsewhere K.T.N.: Nicely
done, but right off our beat J.H.F.: Story of
a pillar of the church who took to drink gives us
similar inclinations S.M.S.: And a long-
winded explanation of crooning has the same
effect P.8.J.: “‘lt’s stuff like that,’he said,
‘that drives people to early graves.’ ” He took the
words from our mouth M.E.D.: Vague,
very vague S.T.L.: “Apart from this, what
style would you prefer?” It really doesn’t
matter V.E.S.: Afraid the outlook is
gloomy... .J.T.P.: Yes, it’s an improvement
on previous efforts, but it’s still not up
L.D.: Try your hand at something lighter
G.D.N.: Fail to see the point N.O’D.:
Lengthy, heavy and rambling T.M.S.: Pos-
sibilities, but you don’t make anything of them
C.N.L.: Hang a petticoat on “The Naked
Truth” and send it along to a daily F.C P :
“We all have to break the ice.” You haven't
even cracked it L.V.: Steve Bennett does
that sort of thing much better A.D.: “Ex-
cept of a hostile character” N.8.C.: Recog-
nised a few of the characters but failed to find
any satirical qualities J.L.T.: That track
was worn out before you started on it....
C.F.R.: Hollywood forgot that yarn before the
talkies started.. ..M.G.S., T.Y., R.W.S. and
F.O’N.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: It ended, as you anticipated, in the
basket R.T.: Gag is encrusted with as fine
a crop of barnacles as we have seen for a long
time H.J.D.: The swastika on the flag is
identifiable... .R.M.: Clean and confident line-
work, but figures are out of proportion
J. : You’ll need to study the human form a
lot more A.E.: Have a heart! We pub-
lished that gag three weeks ago N.S.: You’re
still struggling fathoms below print level
P.A.: Interesting as curiosities, but no use as
humorous illustrations F.F.8.: It might win
you a purple certificate from a children’s news-
paper T.G.H.: No stable space for that
ungainly nag; also, the gag is an old ’un
C.W.: Select a broader nib and use Indian
ink and Bristol board E.M.G.: The wan-
dering drunk was headed for home N.F.:
Get more action into your pictures, and don’t
make jokes long-winded P.M.D.: Didn’t
live up to expectattions raised by letter
K. :In the absence of the joke we are puzzled
as to whether he is saying his prayers, doing his
daily dozen or searching for a collar stud....
A. 8.: Yokel and squire are strays.. .
J.M.: Linework too faint for success-
ful reproduction W.C.N.: Apart from giv-
ing the gent, two right hands and depriving
him of a neck and ears you haven’t done so
bad.... H.R.W.: About as interesting as a
batch of fingerprint records A.F.: That’s a
rum-looking pair, and where did you dig up
the wheeze7....V.N.: One of the temperance
sheets might find a spare corner for it....
W.W.: Artistic merit, nil; market value, ditto.
.. . .8.G.: Forwarding the animal to the
Museum for identification; have buried the
joke C.R.: You appear to employ a rubber
stamp for the heads of all your characters
W.M.D.: The day of the silhouette has long
passed K. 8.: Gent, seems to be clad in a
suit of corrugated-iron G.A.L.: You’re
weak on foreshortening, and you toss in
shadows anywhere J.J.: Invent your own
characters; don’t filch them from another artist
... . F.W.: Steeplejacks were cracking that joke
in the first days of aeroplanes A.C.: Not
keen on the comic strip, especially of the type
submitted.


V
9et a
bottle of
ICKERS
IN
and try this one
Watch the delight on thirsty faces
when they really get the flavour of
this:—For four people, fill the
cocktail shaker half full of broken
ice. Then add four measures Vickers
Gin, Juice of half an Orange, Juice
of half a Lemon, and a little Grena-
dine to sweeten to taste. Shake
well, strain into a tumbler and fill
up with cold soda water.
Vickers
TEXAS FIZZ
ss
35C
s-MJSi
I
Satisfying Smoking Tobaccos
Th? Empire Tobaccos with the Largest
Sales. Don’t Judge Bg the Price
ALTHOUGH you have in the past been
paying “through the nose” for your
tobaccos, you also probably intended cut-
ting down your tobacco bill. Don’t imagine
you will not buy the same quality when
you compare our prices. We know, of
course, you will repeat your tobacco orders
with us like many hundreds of satisfied
smokers. You will be readily persuaded
of our tobaccos' good smoking quality.
They satisfy you and save you pounds.
From Factory to you.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco
Pouch, Cigarette Lighter or Holder is
included with all orders over £l.
ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS
Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild 6/3
All British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium .. .. 6/3
Old Peter, medium 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium 6/9
Africander, mellow and mild .. 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild 7/3
Normandie, medium .. .. .. 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium .. .. .. 8/-
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light .. .. .. 11/-
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/-
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big Hit,” strong 7/6
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug .. .. 6/6
Zig Zags 5 for Im-
post FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROW ERS’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. I !s! .
(OMMFBOTAL T?OAD, VALLEY. BRISBANE.
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
VI.
Early in August, 1915, the military
were in a position to announce that
50,000 Australians had been inspired to
volunteer by the reports from Gallipoli.
One of them was Jimmy Minogue.
Jimmy’s business associates felt that
enlistment was a quixotic proceeding on
the part of a man with so many irons in
the fire, especially as he was some-
what stricken in years. His newspaper
friends extolled his patriotism in effusive
paragraphs which went the rounds in four
States. But he had enemies on the press,
and they availed themselves of such op-
portunities as the censorship permitted to
draw ill-natured attention to his age and
figure and ridicule his aspirations to
martial glory.
They asserted that on arrival in camp
Private Minogue was greeted by a choir
o£ several hundred fellow-soldiers bois-
terously singing “It’s all right; it’s all
right now —no need to worry any more.”
Jim joined the army yester-day,
So the army of to-day’s All Right.
It was alleged also that Private Minogue
had to be given a tent to himself, because
he had come equipped like a big-game
hunter, and had an outsize in medicine
chests. Caricaturists drew outrageous
pictures of Private Minogue engaged in
all manner of military duties. Private
Minogue guarding the sleeping camp
with well-poised bayonet was a favorite
subject, and under one of these composi-
tions a parodist dropped into ribald verse:
Came the relief. “What, sentry, ho!
How passed the night through thy long wak-
ing?” . .
“Don’t rub it in,” the warrior groaned;
“I’ve not a bone that isn’t aching.”
“And chilblains —gosh, they gave me fits;
And skeeters —say, it isn’t cricket
To concentrate on poor old Jim
All blasted things that plague a picket.”
But public opinion was favorable to
Private Minogue, as was shown the night
Les Durkin fought Eddie Rafferty, the
American champion.
Wounded soldiers had begun to return
from Gallipoli, and a dozen of them were
in ringside seats as guests of the Coliseum
management. Some of them were helped
into the ring, where, waving the hats
turned up at the side, they were madly
cheered by 16,000 spectators.
The Premier was introduced. He was
an affable individual with a musical voice
and a fine flow of words, and on any
other occasion his oratory would have
been appreciated. On this occasion he
had said only that he ventured to
permit himself the observation (he was
a florid beginner), when the crowd
counted him out.
The Premier made way for the leader
of the Opposition. Him also the crowd
refused to hear.
Then Private Minogue was assisted
into the ring. Though Private Minogue
made no effort to speak, Demosthenes
could not have got a greater reception.
The crowd cheered him as mightily as
it had cheered the men from Gallipoli;
and, like them, Private Minogue took off
his hat and waved his acknowledgments.
In his gratification, he shook hands with
everyone he could reach —referee, boxers,
seconds, announcer and newspapermen—
and retired to his chair, where he sat until
the fight was over, grinning all the time.
It was a glorious finish to his career
as a soldier. Within a few days he was
back in civilian clothing, the authorities
having pronounced him too old for active
service. They complimented him highly
on his devotion to the duties his infirmi-
ties had permitted him to perform and
said he was a high moral example to
younger men.
Sitting beside Private Minogue, Mac-
Sherry had reason to be grateful to his
patron for having saved him from an-
other taste of Durkin’s fists.
Tough fellow as Terry had found him,
the Newcastle lad was far more formid-
able now. He had learned something
from every fight, and had become a boxer
of rare skill as well as a stiff puncher
who was seemingly impervious to pun-
ishment and fatigue.
Rafferty was reckoned as dangerous a
middleweight as had ever donned gloves.
His left hook had laid bruiser after bruiser
low, often in the first round. He was a
beautifully built fellow who, it was said,
had never been knocked off his feet, and
in his three engagements in Australia he
had not only confirmed but added to the
great reputation he had made in his own
country. He was a strong favorite in the
betting.
But the Newcastle lad was as cool and
confident as if he were a veteran matched
with a novice, instead of a comparative
newcomer with a champion. He showed
in the very first round that he had a left
hook at least as good as Rafferty’s. He
ducked Rafferty’s left hook and countered
hard with his right to the body, a
manoeuvre he repeated again and again.
Then he hooked his own left to the jaw;
and Rafferty fell to his knees.
In the second round the American got
his left hook home. It landed fair on
Durkin’s jaw with list. 51b. of perfectly-
conditioned manhood behind it. It was
a blow that would have felled an average
heavyweight for much longer than 10
seconds ; but it didn’t even steady the
astonishing Durkin. He took it unflinch-
ingly, shook his head quickly, grinned
and waded in.
The astonished Rafferty was pasted on
nose and body, roughly handled at close
quarters, banged on the right eye and
smitten with another left hook on the jaw.
At the close of the round he was hanging on.
But Rafferty was game, and he took
a rare beating with stoical composure.
Bleeding from eye and nose, and with his
jaw swelling where left hooks had made
contact, he tried to batter down the Aus-
tralian with left hooks and right swings.
Again the left hook found Durkin’s jaw,
and it must have hurt, but it could not
throw the youngster out of his stride. It
seemed merely to stimulate him to fresh
exertions. He repeatedly drove the
American to the ropes, whaling away
with both fists and giving Rafferty an
appalling time.
And so it went on for 14 rounds. The
fourteenth was a very bad round for Raf-
ferty, and he was so limp at the end that
he looked as if he mightn’t come up again.
But he was not one of those boxers
who “retire.” His face bedabbled with
blood, his body all crimson smears and
red marks, he moved wearily from his
chair to take what was coming to him
like a man. He was done, and both lads
knew it; and comparatively light punches
floored him three times. Then, to
Durkin’s obvious relief, the police inter-
posed their veto.
“Remember what I said to you, Terry,
about the world-beater he’d be?” re-
marked Private Minogue. “He’s a world-
beater now. And nearly six ‘monkeys’
in the house!”
Mr. Minogue had political, as well as
pugilistic, cause for joy. In Queensland,
after many years, the Labor party had
won the State elections, and Mr. Tom
Ryan was Premier. And the Ryan Gov-
ernment’s majority was such that it could
scarcely be overturned for six years.
Mr. Ryan and his second string, Mr.
Theophilus, had great plans for Queens-
land. In a peaceful, yet practical, way
they proposed to wipe out the capitalist
and do it with his own money.
They would borrow from the capitalist
the wherewithal to establish Government
cattle stations, butchers’ shops, canneries,
cool stores, hotels, coal and metal mines,
smelters, batteries and treatment plants.
They would go down to the sea —by
deputy—and catch fish and sell it in their
own shops. And they would sell every-
thing so cheap, and yet make such profits
on all their undertakings, that private
enterprise would fade away and gradu-
ally die.
If the local capitalist showed any indis-
position to place the means of his de-
struction at their disposal they would
get it from overseas capitalists. Ameri-
cans, Mr. Theophilus suggested —Ameri-
can capitalists were rolling in money.
The same notion occurred about the
same time to Mr. J. D. Bang, M.L.A.
In Sydney it was said that Mr. J. D. Bang
regarded Mr. Theophilus as a coming
man.
Before long embittered Tories were
arguing that it took rather more to feed
and valet a beast on a Government sta-
tion in a given time than it did to main-
tain a heaithy navvy. They calculated
also that the taxpayers were losing a
penny on every leg of mutton and a half-
penny on every tin of pineapples the Gov-
ernment sold. As for fish, they morosely
suggested that the Government must be
rearing it in marble aquariums.
The animals on one Government run,
bought for a large sum out of the current
loan, were described as “looking more
like lemonade bottles on four sticks than
cattle.”
A chapter showing the losses on the
concerns that were to abolish capitalism
began to be a permanent feature of the
Auditor-General’s report. The chapter
became bulkier every year until it was
written that a cool £1,671,900 had been
dropped on the Government stations
alone. The only experiment in State
socialism that seemed to be paying was
a pub.
Apart from these spirited efforts to
extirpate capitalism, Government rail-
ways were constructed here, there and
everywhere. When the programme was
well advanced, annual expenditure on
Government railways exceeded annual
revenue by £1,500,000 as a rule, though
in one proud twelvemonth the excess
reached £1,750,000.
A time would come when Mr. Theo-
philus would leave Queensland to accept
a seat in the House of Representatives,
patriotically placed at his service by Mr.
Bill Mulvaney, who, though he had had
it for 12 years, gave it up, and a thousand
a year with it, out of sheer magnanimity.
In due season, Mr. Theophilus would be
dragged from this seat by Mr. J. D.
Bang and his friends, shouting the while
that they were “leather-lunged low-
brows.”
But all this was far in the future. For
the present, Mr. Ryan, Mr. Theophilus
and their associates were busy with their
plans for the self-eradication of the ex-
ploiter, and feeling that all would soon
be for the best in the best of all worlds.
But the war was not going well. New
Army divisions had arrived on the
Western Front for the Great Adventure,
and the guns had thundered their over-
ture to an offensive. Correspondents re-
ported that the troops were in high spirits,
and gave the text of a song they were
singing, Old Contemptibles (all that were
left of them) and Kitchener’s men alike.
We beat them on the Marne,
We beat them on the Aisne,
We gave them hell at Neuve Chapelle—
And here we are again.
The British were to attack in Artois
on the left of Foch, who was to have
Castelnau on his right. When all hands
had broken through there would ensue
“a general advance which would compel
the Germans to retreat beyond the
Meuse, and possibly end the war.” And
for the first time the British used gas.
But “one of the divisional com-
manders,” as Captain Liddell Hart puts
it in his War in Outline, “gassed his own
men.” On the right “the 15th Division
almost broke through; but whatever.
chance there was of exploiting this nar-
row penetration vanished because Sir
John French had kept the only reserves
15 miles in the rear. Also he was late
in handing them over to Haig, and their
arrival was further delayed by muddled
traffic arrangements.”
Mostly raw soldiers, “they pushed on
across country in the dark and rain.
Next morning, tired, hungry and con-
fused, they were launched without effec-
tive artillery support against defences
which had now been cemented and
strengthened. The attack broke down
and the survivors broke back.” In the
words of the Official British History, a
renewal of the operation “brought no-
thing but useless slaughter of infantry.”
This was the battle of Loos, described
to Australians as another great victory.
It cost Sir John French his position as
Commander-in-Chief. Sir Douglas Haig,
who had influential friends at Court, saw
that they were £ully informed of the
failure and of the reason he assigned for
it: “French’s initial mistake in refusing
to move up the reserves.”
A London daily which was against
Sir John published a German correspon-
dent’s report of the battle. The German
correspondent praised “the extraordinary
bravery of the English soldiers” and con-
trasted it with the imbecility of “their
senile commanders.”
Liddell Hart, referring to French in his
study of Foch, says the latter used to
pull his leg. Told by General Huguet
that French was annoyed, Foch jocularly
replied: “Bah! It is of no importance ;
you have only to tell him he has just
saved England: that will put him in a
good humor again.” “When Huguet con-
veyed the core of the message to French,
he received the gratified, if also self-satis-
fied answer: ‘But, my dear fellow, I know
it only too well. I knew it from the be-
ginning.’ ”
Anyway, French fell. He was to
have his tit-for-tat with Haig when Lloyd
George asked him to write a report on
the Passchendaele campaign.
(To ber continued.)


PI
mm
COUWT RV
1
mmws WM
£
BW| g£TT£R
WORKS
i*
QOOO
AOADS
WftTSne
X»ppu££
£CM e^es
m
*%A/
mm
?tP§e
■
¥:«¥:
mm
MM
%m
mm
%msmmmmM-
MmMMMsmM-
mmmMMMmm;
m; s®s
' 'S' 'V'* '
lllliil
c- ••:: ••• •>'
skss9s
■ 4
S XV t V* "
HI
I
MM
■IWX.;:-
m<<ms
They’ve Delivered the Goods!
Country people themselves formed the present
Country Party 18 years ago as the only means of
securing a fair deal for primary industries, and for
those living in the country towns dependent on those
industries.
The first policy speech of the leader, Colonel M. F. Bruxner
(March 10, 1922), set these out as party objectives:—
“Greater financial support to local governing bodies.”
“Improved primary and secondary education facilities in the country.”
Fa *M ,^ to men who fought, granting preference wherever
possible to ex-service men.”
“Liberal assistance for the installation of water and sewerage systems
in country districts.
“Progressive policy of developmental railways.”
Special consideration for passenger and haulage rates for the
encouragement of settlement.”
“Simplification of taxation returns and elimination of duplication as
between Federal and State departments.”
"The establishment of compulsory sinking funds for loan redemption.”
“Averaging system of taxation for producers.”
"The full encouragement of private enterprise and co-operative effort
in production and manufacture.”
NOW CHECK THEM OFF: Over Eighty per
cent, of the original objectives of the Country
People’s Own Party have been translated into
Practical Fact. The other twenty per cent, will
follow.
That is an unprecedented legislative achievement,
rendered possible only by loyal co-operation and
devotion to principle.
Compared with this what could so-called “Inde-
pendents” have done to secure redress of
country grievances?
PONT IMPERIL YOUR HARD-WON GAINS
VOTE COUNTRY PARTY
by K L Munro ’ General Secretaiy, United Country Party, Bridge Street, Sydney .)
Voting is Compulsory
Legend of the Bounty
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WHEN the ship’s company of
H.M.S. Bounty decided that they
had had enough of their com-
manding officer and set Lieu-
tenant William Bligh and 18 of their
shipmates adrift in the eastern Pacific in
the pious hope that they might perish, it
was Fletcher Christian, master’s-mate,
who was the leading spirit in the whole
affair. Of the mutineers who werg cap-
tured and tried in England, and those
who settled at Pitcairn and were after-
wards transplanted to Norfolk Island,
everything is now known, but the most
intriguing thing about the story of the
mutiny is the mystery which surrounds
the fate of Christian. To this day there
is no real certainty as to what became of
him.
It was not until 20 years after the
Bounty episode—just about the time
when Governor Bligh was enduring an-
other rebellion against his authority in
New South Wales—that those of the
Bounty’s crew who had settled with
Tahitian wives at Pitcairn Island were
discovered there by an American whal-
ing-ship, but in the meantime a London
journal, the “True Briton,” published the
following on September 13, 1796, under
the heading “Christian, Chief Mutineer
on Board His Majesty’s Ship Bounty.”
“This extraordinary nautical character
has at length transmitted to England an
account of his conduct in his mutiny on
board the Bounty, and a detail of his
subsequent proceedings after he obtained
command of the ship.... In his voyage,
etc., which he has lately published at
Cadiz, we are candidly told by this en-
terprising mutineer that the revolt which
he headed on board his Majesty’s ship
Bounty was not ascribable to dislike of
their commander, Captain Bligh, but to
the unconquerable passion which he and
the major part of the ship’s crew enter-
tained for the enjoyments which Otaheite
still held out to their voluptuous imagi-
nation ‘Our mutiny is wholly to be
ascribed to the strong predilection we
had contracted for living at Otaheite,
where, exclusive of the happy disposition
of the inhabitants, the mildness of the
climate and the fertility of the soil, we
had formed certain connections which
banished the remembrance of old Eng-
land entirely from our hearts.’ ” ■
It is not altogether unlikely that this
may have been something of a hoax on
the part of the “True Briton,” but both
Sir John Barrow, in his Mutiny of the
Bounty, and Lady Belcher, in The Muti-
neers of the Bounty, present an almost-
identically-worded tale of Christian’s
return to England. Barrow was Secre-
tary to the Admiralty, and Lady Belcher
a stepdaughter of the midshipman Hey-
wood who was tried, convicted and par-
doned for his supposed share in the
mutiny, and afterwards died a post-
captain in 1831. This is the tale they
tell:
“About 1809 a report prevailed in
Cumberland, in the neighborhood of his
native place, and was current for several
years, that Fletcher Christian had re-
turned home, made frequent visits to a
relative there, and that he was living in
concealment in some part of England—
an assumption improbable though not
impossible. In the same year, however,
a singular incident occurred. Captain
Heywood, who was fitting out at Ply-
mouth, happened one day to be passing
down Fore-street, when a man of un-
usual stature, very much muffled, and
with his hat drawn close over his eyes,
emerged suddenly from a small side
street, and walked quickly past him. The
height, athletic figure and gait so im-
pressed Heywood as being those of Chris-
tian that, quickening his pace till he
came up with the stranger, he said in a
tone of voice only loud enough to be
heard by him, ‘Fletcher Christian! ’ The
man turned quickly round and faced his
interrogator, but little of his countenance
was visible, and, darting up one of the small
streets, he vanished from the other’s sight.
Captain Heywood hesitated for a
moment, but decided on giving up the
pursuit, and on not instituting any in-
quiries. .. .Remarkable as was the occur-
rence, Captain Heywood attached no im-
portance to it, simply considering it a
singular coincidence.”
It is very improbable that Christian
could have left Pitcairn before the arrival
of the American whaler mentioned
above, and if Heywood’s notion that he
had seen his old shipmate had occurred
anywhere near the date of the “True
Briton’s” story it might perhaps be ac-
counted for on the ground that that jour-
nal was a sensational sheet, and that
Heywood had read the paragraph. But
many years lie between 1796 and 1809,
and no intelligence of the mutineers had
come to England to rekindle recollection
of the event. Moreover, the curious
ignorance of the Pitcairn Islanders of his
burial-place and the vague accounts of his
death all tend to leave the fate of
Fletcher Christian a mystery.


ELEGANT EXTRACTS
NATURAL AS BREATHING
We have this distinction from the
German Government —we do not lie on
purpose.— A us. press cable of “News-
Chronicle” (London) leader.
CALLS FOR A HITLER
The breeding of turkeys in Australia is,
literally speaking, haphazard, there being
very few who get right down to the job.
—‘ ‘Courier-Mail” (Brisbane).
LISTEN, DIG.—YOU LOAFED
The Chinese Women’s “Legion of
Death.” —These girls, aged from 16 to
23, marched 650 miles, carrying 601 b.
packs, rifles and machine-guns, to fight
for their country. — Caption to a picture
of the damsels in “Sun” (Sydney).
THE EDITOR REGRETS
The Editor is grateful for the oppor-
tunity given him of reading this MS.
and regrets his ability to use it. — “Sunday
Sun” (Sydney) rejection slip.
CLASS, ’TION!
Such limitations on consultation
appear to leave us obligations without
any effective right of influencing de-
cisions, and the whole position needs
clarification — Prof. Roberts (Sydney
Uni.), on the Eden fuss.
WHOOSH!
Ponsford in 1934 was a great master
on English wickets, always behind the
ball, or nearly always.
Occasionally he put his back to a
quick one and it became suffocated in
the depths of his being.
—Neville Cardus, in “Sun” (Sydney).
NOT WITHOUT GRIME AND SOOT
In other countries a purchaser of a
railway ticket buys service with his seat
and gets civility thrown in. My experi-
ence has been that for £7 ss. Bd. all I
have received is a ticket with no guaran-
tee of a seat behind it, abuse from a
guard and a nightly collection of grime
and soot. — Letter in “Dominion” (Wel-
lington, M.L.).
OR BOTTLES AND BLASPHEMY
Just as we got away from the station,
about eight hoodlums commenced to
smoke, drink and shout. After travelling
some distance they could not find any
other means of pulling the corks than
by placing the bottles up against the lug-
gage racks and getting them out that way.
It was lovely to find yourself getting a
beer shower and clothes destroyed. As
for their language ; if the windows of the
carriage had not been open it would
have lifted the roof off the carriage.
—Letter in “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
TWO MONTHS’ HARD
Being Lord Mayor of Sydney is no
sinecure. Ask Alderman Norman Nock.
Since he assumed office on January 1,
he has: Spent 16 hours daily on civic
duties. Shaken hands with 12,000 people.
Made 60 speeches. Lost 81b., although
he has attended 40 luncheons and
dinners, and drunk more than 250 toasts.
—“Sunday Sun” (Sydney).
WHAT, NO MUSTARD!
The historic St. John’s Church of Eng-
land at Ross has been the scene of many
Midlands weddings, and in that church
yesterday afternoon well-known Mid-
lands and Huon families were united.
About 300 persons from various parts of
the State were present.
The wedding breakfast was served in
a large marquee
An idea of the quantity of food neces-
sary to supply these gatherings can be
gained from the following orders given
by the caterer: 1 ton potatoes, 100
gallons soup, 200 doz. bread rolls, 100
double loaves, 1 ton plum pudding, 60
gallons sauce, lcwt. butter, scwt. pump-
kins, 25 bushels peas, scwt. swedes,
12cwt. meat, 10 doz. bottles soft drink,
20 gallons fruit cup, 200 gallons beer,
500 rock melons, 2500 ice creams. —
“Mercury” (Hobart), possibly mixing its
parties.
R-R-R-REVENGE
The grave-digger’s body lay huddled
upon the pavement close to the foot of
the ladder. His face was turned upwards,
but its features were quite indistinguish-
able because of spouting blood. One
arm was twisted under him, and his
head was set at a dreadful angle. Just
for a few seconds his limbs quivered and
then he lay quite still. ,
As quick as lightning Larose scrambled
down the ladder and, bending over the
prostrate man, made to lift his head.
But a touch was quite sufficient. The
grave-digger was quite dead. He had
broken his neck.
Larose straightened himself up, and,
moistening his dry lips with his tongue,
let his eyes wander round. The block
of marble had fallen upon its sculptured
end and the gloriously executed work of
the girl’s head was smashed to atoms.
The floor was strewn with the broken
pieces.
“Fate, fate,” he murmured, it was
Bernadine Warnes who killed him! He
violated her grave and, risen from the
dead in the marbled image he had made
of her, she fell upon him and crushed
him. His face is smashed to pulp.”
— “Advertiser” (Adelaide) serial. -
HEY, Y’ CAN’T DO THIS T’ ME
SAN FRANCISCO.
The “Examiner” states that A 1 Capone,
the ex-gangster prisoner at the Alcatraz
Prison, has recovered from his mental
disorder, and has started work again in
the laundry. — “Sun” (Sydney).
WRONG DIAGNOSIS
HOLLYWOOD.
Jiggs, the ape which has been
featured in recent films in Hollywood,
was given an impressive funeral, to
which screen stars sent hundreds of
wreaths. Jiggs died from pneumonia.
One of the chief mourners in the
cortege was Bing Crosby, the crooner,
who sings to Jiggs in his new film.
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
IN MOSMAN, TOO!
Mosman Women’s Civic Group has
asked that council road workers discon-
tinue working with no covering on the
upper part of their bodies.
The Mayor (Alderman W. C. Hicks)
said, “I think it is unbecoming to see
workmen unclothed above the waist.
Some of their waists are very low, too,’'
he added. “Mosman is a very respec-
table suburb, and its residents have a
keen sense of propriety. There should
be a certain amount of respectability
shown by cur workmen.”
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney).
SHORTER CORSETS
Mr. F. R. Burley, governing director
of the Berlei organisation, left Sydney by
train on Wednesday night on the first
stage of his return to London. He will
make short stays in each of the southern
•States, and will join the Nestor at Fre-
mantle on March 22, ert routs for South
Africa. — “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
STRIKING INDEED
Of a strikingly clean-cut design, the
new shillings show the left profile of
King George VI. The reverse side por-
trays a magnificent merino ram’s head.
— “Sun” (Sydney).
TYRANTS, TREMBLE!
Australians, generally a level-headed
people, will not lose their heads upon
this occasion. They will probably feel
that the time for war is not yet. — “Sun”
(Sydney) leader on Hitler’s A ustrian move.
Doings in a Diocese
CHURCHMEN would perhaps know
tjetter, but the average layman on
shy clear a tome as The History
of the Diocese of Goulburn. In his
heathen blindness he would be missing
something, for, in addition to being a
generally excellent History from a
diocesan and church point of view, Ran-
some T. Wyatt’s recently-published work
is studded with human-interest happen-
ings authentic little sidelights on both
Australian history and humanity and
neat character depictions, all of which,
with the good sense of humor alert in the
writing make it an uncommonly enter-
. • • k’. «ir fr . r nvor
taming book for picking over.
It is recorded that the “first regular
ministrations in the Goulburn district
were undertaken by the first Australian-
born priest”—Rev. Thomas Hassall,
called “the galloping parson” because
“for 41 years the saddle was his easy
chair.” Much more outstanding as a
book character, though, is tlfe first
bishop—Rt. Rev. Mesac Thomas. As re-
vealed in his letters, there was vigor in
the bishop’s make-up. Thus the bishop,
writing to one of his clergy who desired
a change, and whom the bishop was not
prepared to move: —
You, nervousness about horses, caused
or increased by excessive addiction to the
use of the noxious weed tobacco, creates a
difficulty the fear of horses creates an-
other difficulty, an increasing love of home
and of smoking, it prevents that house-to-
house Visitation which is the soul of the
parochial system _
, lone
land the bishop wrote a long goss py
letter,” extracts from which are given as
“typical of his outlook.” One had to
do With a matter which has its equally-
staunch supporters still:-
u ?fwrhin g “nt7eakiS S a a iS S the
practice of praying for rain in time of
drought; because the laws of nature are un-
varying and we cannot by prayer cause
them to be altered! ! ! ! I am amazed at
such language from a Christian bishop
after the teaching of Scripture and the
successful prayers for rain therein recorded?
To the same member of his clergy, on
a more personal affair:
We both hope that by God’s guiding
hand you will be led to choose a godly,
sensible wife —a lady—with money, if God
will —one who would be a real helpmeet
for a clergyman —and make you happy. I
suppose you will add that if she can speak
French so much the better. The more
piety, knowledge, wisdom, language and
money she may possess the better I should
be pleased.
In addition to having had such men
associated with it from time to time, the
diocese has some history which, being
less reputable, enables Mr. Wyatt to give
his book the literary value of light and
shade. Not every diocese has had any-
thing quite comparable with the curious
doings which come in under the heading
“The Cathedral Dispute.” The dispute—
it seems to have been a number of dis-
putes —caused a wide cleavage in the
diocese and stretched over 10 years. One
section of the troubles—“the dispute as to
the trusteeship”—was eventually up
before the Supreme Court for a decision,
which the Court gave, as wisely as
Solomon, by brushing aside both sets of
claimants and appointing the then bishop
sole trustee. When the disputing was all
over a newspaper wrote of it:
It was said that there was only one
person in the world that fully understood
the Schleswig-Holstein question. But it is
doubtful whether any man living ever
understood the question of the Goulburn
Cathedral.
Another press clipping suggests that
attempt to understand it had devastating
effects:
By the very redundancy of explanation,
and by the unceasing din that has sur-
rounded the dispute, the mind of man has
been thrown into that condition of obi us-
cation and bewilderment that the very men-
tion of the Goulburn Cathedral has been
followed by a state of mental collapse.
Mr. Wyatt refers to the “almost in-
credible and bizarre incidents of the dis-
pute” and makes the interesting note
that “a garbled version” of the trouble
forms part of the plot of Helen Simp-
son’s novel Boomerang. Of the incidents
“incredible and bizarre” none was more
so than that in which a Captain Rossi
was the extraordinary leading figure. Mr.
Wyatt may not have been aware of it,
but he could have had a whole page
of drawings from The Bulletin of that
day to illustrate the affair in which Cap-
tain Rossi figured:
In the old S. Saviour’s Church there was
a tablet erected by Captain Rossi to the
memory of his father and mother. In com-
pany with other memorials this had been
transferred to the temporary church. Upon
the bishop declaring that the present church
hall, and not the cathedral, was the parish
church, Captain Rossi sought permission to
re-erect his tablet in the new cathedral.
The bishop refused, whereupon Rossi
erected the tablet in the cathedral himself.
The bishop allowed it to remain there for
a while and then removed it back to the
school hall. An amazing situation de-
veloped. Rossi, still claiming to be sole
trustee of the cathedral, took possession of
the building, installed a guard of commis-
sionaires and excluded the bishop and
other authorities and, inter alia, proceeded
to re-erect the tablet. Previously he had
interrupted several of the synod services
with protests of one sort or another.
Eventually he was dispossessed by force,
and photographs are still extant of him
lying in the gutter as proof of the “assault.”
Before it was rid of them the Church
lost some £5OOO in hard cash over these
little troubles. Quite as colorful, and just
as full of troubles, is the chapter headed
“Diocesan Publications,” which included,
among other journalistic ventures, an ill-
starred sheet called the “Southern
Observer.” This had the remarkable —if
not, among church publications, the
unique—experience of being flatly ac-
cused by the Goulburn “Herald” of steal-
ing reports —plagiarism is the gentler
word for this sort of thing. The
“Herald” declared that it would be
“obliged to the conductors of the
‘Southern Observer’ ” if they would “de-
pend on their own resources and not
avail themselves of our columns in any
way whatever.” The battle being jpined,
the “Herald” later asserted that anyone
who accused it of applying the word
“rag” to the “Observer” was “guilty of
direct falsehood,” and it accused the
other sheet of having even gone “so far
as to publish comments on the personal
appearance of our publisher.”
The “Observer” was not a success;
“the plant was seized from the printer
and sold.” On the credit side of the pub-
lishing ledger can be entered one highly
successful —though, perhaps, curious
publication, the Goulburn Cookery Book.
“Over 205,000 copies have been sold at
a profit to the diocese of over £6OOO.
Of the lighter diocesan anecdotes, of
which Mr. Wyatt weighs in with good
measure, one of the brightest concerns
the bishop who, arriving at the altar on
the occasion of a harvest festival, found
that the incumbent “had so arranged
the decorations as to preclude his accus-
tomed use of the north end.” It was a
staggered incumbent who thereupon re-
ceived from the bishop the instruction,
given in perfect time and tune with the
music of “Aurelia”:
Remove those vegetables
Or I’ll not celebrate.
The impression should not be left that
this History is all or mostly in the vein
that has here been followed. This is the
layman side of it. Mr. Wyatt, of course,
is mainly intent on a sound historical
account of the diocese, and a capital job
he has made of it.


Ikis masterpiece is (Perfection
- 7 ! the spirit he always serves .
i > <
vv
55?
'V"
US
w
H
ItS***®*
R
¥
7
jA& Na/ne
r
JS
(IrCaUuro’s
y&o U/A/$AyJs- ~ .
(IFCalliims
Scots CUhisky
( rww—«t <l«Yj H*• •»• •
j/
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLBSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO, Hobart
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
FD
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o e ' r HE Bulletin every
week for one year so mat I do not miss a
single issue.
f enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
<
o o '
c ©
' *| ' 0
S6 #^'
y
&)
*
t*
tA’ s '
o*
# ss
.•* X
**
> *> e vt
vv °'
■
o \V} \0 S^’
o v
c^°


The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act have not been fully
complied with in this advertisement, which is intended for public information only.
FD
(AUSTRALASIA)
(Registered Under the Companies Act, 1936)
LIMITED
REGD. OFFICE: FIRST FLOOR, 75 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital - - - - £lOO,OOO
Divided into 85,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each £85,000
And 60,000 Deferred Shares of 5/- each £15,000
50,000 Ordinary Shares of £ 1 offered for public subscription, payable in full £ 1 with Application, or at the option of any
Shareholder payable 5/-on application, 5/- on allotment and balance in Calls not exceeding 5/- per Share at
intervals of not less than one month after allotment or the last preceding Call.
35,000 Ordinary Shares of £l to be held in reserve.
20,000 Deferred Shares of 5/- to be offered for Public Subscription, but with preference in the first instance to Directors
and Employees of the Company and to Distributors of and Dealers in the Company’s products. Payable in full 5/-
with Application-
-30,000 Deferred Shares of 5/- credited as fully paid to be allotted to the Vendor N. S. Gilmour or his nominees as con-
sideration for the transfer to the Company of all Engineering Development Data, Goodwill (including the Trade
Mark “Lekmek”) and nation-wide organisation throughout Australia and New Zealand of the business heretofore
carried on by him under the name of Lekmek Radio Laboratories,
10,000 Deferred Shares of 5/- held in reserve.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Directors:
NORMAN STANLEY GILMOUR, M.lnst.R.E., Engineer and Manufacturer,
75 William Street, Sydney.
(Director Compressed Medical and Industrial Gases (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne.)
S. C. McCRUM, Business Manager, 352 Hunter Street, West Newcastle.
HAYWARD CARROLL PARISH, A.M.1.R.E., Engineer and Merchant, 351 a
Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Director of Cinecraft Pty., Ltd., Sydney.)
Solicitors:
NORMAN C. OAKES & SAGAR, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
W. F. ALLWORTH 6c SONS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
Castlereagh House, 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Secretary:
M. G. CLAPHAM, 75 William Street, Sydney.
Bankers:
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
MANAGEMENT.
The Management of the Company will be under the Direction of Mr.
N. S. Gilmour (Proprietor of Lekmek Radio Laboratories), who has introduced
Lekmek products on the market. He has been associated with the Engineer-
ing, Design, Manufacturing and Distribution of Radio, Telephone and Elec-
trical products for more than 25 years. Mr. Gilmour is a qualified Engineer
with extensive administrative experience. He is well known to the trade in
all parts of Australia, and enjoys a high reputation and the confidence of
the Industry.
DISTRIBUTION.
Lekmek Radio Receivers are stocked and sold by hundreds of dealers
throughout Australia and New Zealand, who are supplied by the following
Lekmek Wholesale Distributors:—■
NEW SOUTH WALES—SYDNEY: Lekmek Sales Pty., Ltd.; Lawrence &
Hanson Elec. Pty., Ltd.; Swain and Graf Pty., Ltd. NEWCASTLE: S. McCrum.
VICTORIA MELBOURNE: Lawrence & Hanson Elec. Pty., Ltd.
QUEENSLAND—BRISBANE: J. D. S. Morrison. TASMANIA—HOBART
and LAUNCESTON: Lawrence & Hanson Elec. Pty., Ltd. WEST AUSTRALIA
—PERTH: L. L. Bateman. SOUTH AUSTRALIA—ADELAIDE: Lawrence
& Hanson Elec. Pty., Ltd. NEW ZEALAND—WELLINGTON: The Electric
Lamp House, Ltd. NEW GUINEA—RABAUL: Bay Loo Co.
LEKMEK ALREADY FIRMLY ESTABLISHED.
Lekmek has attained a position in the Radio World to-day which justifies
its entering on large-scale operations to secure the full benefits of five years”
intensive trading and organising, which has established the name Lekmek
(Australian Trade Mark No. throughout Australia, New Zealand and
the Islands, and has created technical goodwill, design and manufacturing pro-
cesses and data for complex Broadcast Station Apparatus and Radio Receivers,
involving considerable expenditure. Repeat orders from P.M.G.’s Department
and A- and B-class stations endorse the reputation for quality gained by
Lekmek by a consistent policy of manufacturing only first-grade materials
and equipment.
OPPORTUNE TIME FOR EXPANSION.
Distribution points available in all States awaiting facilities for profitable
exploitation.
Lekmek products are now being sought by the Public in all parts of
Australia, but' efficient service cannot be given without adequate capital
resources to establish many hundreds of additional distribution points.
National advertising with Lekmek reputation for quality ensures to it
a substantial share of the huge and ever-increasing Radio business.
OBJECTS:
To manufacture and distribute Radio Receivers, Broadcast Stations,
Telephone, Electrical and Television Equipment with other associated lines,
and for these purposes to acquire land and erect an up-to-date Factory, with
plant, stock, Engineering Data and Goodwill of Lekmek Radio Laboratories
as the nucleus.
ESTIMATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE £55,000
ESTIMATED REVENUE £130,415
ESTIMATED EXPENDITURE £112,365
Surplus • • • • • • £18,050
Less Reserve and Taxation • • • • • • • . £9,300
Available for Distribution . . • . . . . . £8,750
ESTIMATED DIVIDEND,
Ordinary Shares (12%)
Called up £50,000 (1\ %—1 st call on Profits).. ~ £3,750
(5%—50% Balance Profits) .. £2,500
Deferred Shares (50% Balance of Profits) .. .. .. £2,500
£8,750
NOTE—The above surplus does not include estimated profit of £5OOO in'crest
earned on Hire-Purchase, but not collected till following year. This amount
would be included in subsequent year’s profits.
DIVIDEND RIGHTS OF SHAREHOLDERS.
Ordinary shares shall confer on the holders thereof the following rights:—
(i) The right to a fixed non-cumulative preferential dividend at the rate
of 7 \ c /o per annum upon the capital for the time being paid up
thereon payable as regards each year out of the profits of such year
available for dividend.
(ii) The right in each year in respect of which it shall be determined
to distribute by way of dividend profits in addition to the foregoing
preferential dividend to a further dividend at such rate as will be
sufficient to absorb one-half of such additional profits on the capital
for the time being paid up thereon.
(iii) The right to rank both as regards the foregoing preferential divi-
dend and return of capital in priority to all other shares in the
. Company. Deferred shares shall confer on the holders thereof the
right in each year in respect of which it shall be determined to
distribute by way of dividend profits in addition to the said preferen-
tial dividend to ordinary shareholders to receive at such rate as
will absorb the remaining one-half of the additional profits above
referred to on the capital for the time being paid up on the deferred
shares.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The Minimum Subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allot-
ment is £9500, which has already been applied for.
■
AMAZING FIGURES OF GROWTH.
In the Radio field alone there are to-day more than 1,000,000 licensed
Radio Receivers in Australia, and it can be visualised readily the enormous
requirements of other equipment (Telephone, Broadcast Station and Elec-
trical) required to provide varied and up-to-the-minute services of news,
entertainment, and communication. On the basis of official figures, there still
remains a huge new market to be satisfied, and the yearly statistics indicate
this growth to be a steady one.
It is reliably estimated by Trade authorities that, due to progressive
developments, a Radio Receiver is replaced, on an average, every six years,
so that it is at once obvious that the replacement market alone is sufficient
to guarantee stability in the Industry for all time. Telephones also have shown
the same general replacement requirements over a priod of many years,
due to progress, i.e., Manual to Automatic; variations in types of Wall and
Table Telephones. We have recently seen many thousands of the new Bakelite
Whispering Type Table Telephones replacing the old types. Electrical appli-
ances and equipment continue to make rapid progress, due particularly to
the supply authorities having adopted a policy of encouraging the greater
use of electricity at cheaper rates. Television is an accomplished fact which
will provide in the future unlimited opportunities for all those manufacturers
who develop with the art'. Television will not replace Broadcasting, but will
be an adjunct.
TECHNICAL GOODWILL ESSENTIAL TO SUCCESS.
Due to the complex nature of the products, it is essential to the
suefcess of a manufacturer in the Radio, Telephone and Electrical Industry
to be fully qualified in experience and technique, and preferably to have
proved this over a developmental period of years. Lekmek Radio Laboratories
have fully achieved this object over the past five years, and are acknowledged
as leaders in the field. This is evident from the orders actually executed or
in hand for leading A- and B-class Broadcast Stations for complex high-
fidelity Audio Equipment, including 2CA Canberra, 2MG Mudgee, new A
stations at Canberra and Dalby.
This successful technical development was only achieved through per-
sistent effort and the expenditure of thousands of pounds.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Interested investors may obtain copies of the Prospectus and Share
Application Form on application to the registered office of the Com-
pany, First Floor, 75 William Street, Sydney, or to D. M. Evans, Con-
sulting Accountant, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Applications for shares must be made to the Company on the form
accompanying the Prospectus.
